

P irpose and
Performance
A LITTLE more than twenty-five
years ago* —on June 2, 1915—The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel
Works was officially opened. The enter-
prise was established with a definite
purpose—-to manufacture quality iron and
steel for the needs of Australian industry
and thereby supply at reasonable prices
the essential materials for the develop-
ment of the Commonwealth.
From the outset, unwavering determi-
nation and confidence in the Australian
workers’ ability to master the difficulties
of steel production were maintained. This
was backed by a courageous policy of
plant modernisation and extension, which
has culminated in Australia possessing
one of the world’s most efficient iron and
steel works.
Purpose has been backed by perform-
ance, the Newcastle Steel Works to-day
supplying great tonnages of the iron and
steel so vital to the nation’s development
and defence.
r
ŕ
::
m
P-Trt "
■ ■ V
»4
"■••jl!;''',"4" ■- ■ -ti, O 4
J L
Jv
: : "
&
-
m
’ .
i
m
5S
Illllil
-
i
ii
t'
Above is shown molten steel being teemed
from a huge ladle into ingot moulds
at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Stool Masters, Colliery Proprietors,
Mine and Ship Owners,
Head Office : 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3150.
Wednesday, June 26, 1940.
An Offer to France
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Handwriting
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
llipp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
The Red Page
A POET FINDS PRINT.
J. R. Hervey, winner of both poetry
sections in Maoriland’s centennial com-
petition, steps into print as a fully-fledged
poet, technically assured, individual in
style and approach. Readers of New
Zealand Best Poems (or of Red Page
reviews of it) have met his work from
time to time, but far too little was known
of him until his remarkable performance
in the competition made his name known
and inspired the Caxton Press (Christ-
church) to bring out his Selected Poems.
Even now it would be all the better
if a “Collected Poems” had been pub-
lished, for a “Selected Poems,” like pub-
lication in an anthology, whets the appe-
tite without satisfying it. If this selec-
tion is to be taken as an indication of
what Mr. Hervey can do, it shows, in
“Death of a Dictator,” that he can write
a dramatic poem blending emotion and
analysis in the manner of Browning ; in
“The Seven Sisters” and “The First
Snow, ’ sincere and charming landscapes ;
in “The Avengers” and “Mrs. Car-
michael,” two kinds of ballad poetry, one
grim, one light and lovely ; in “Parachute
Fatality” and “War Refugee,” “occa-
sional” poems of lasting quality; in
“Funeral” and “Decision,” the typical
“short poem” of the age—the substance
of a sonnet stated in more lyrical form.
“The Trumpeter of Cracow” is given as
a fragment from a narrative poem, and
both “Adventurers” and “The Poet” are
selections from long poems, possibly re-
sembling his prize-winning “Salute to
Youth,” which is printed in full.
It is obvious that Mr. Hervey can play
nearly all the poet’s tunes, and he plays
none of them badly. “Salute to Youth,”
written practically in the form of a series
of Horatian odes, says nothing new or
profound to hold the intellect, but has
some fine ringing lines :
The water knows their lefcping strength, the
forest
the hand that halts the terror, the air confesses
The eagle’s kin who ride the rage of speed
Spearing the heights.
And when the night shall crash upon your
comfort,
And your star of confidence be drowned in
storm,
And the elder voices desert, and the earth
faints
With the choking event,
Then shall the horn of youth trouble the cloud,
The drum of the dreamers console the huddled
city,
For their fury shall grapple the grief, their
wisdom devour
The annulling terror.
Both emotionally and intellectually, the
other prize-winner “War Refugee” is
deeper than the “Salute.” It is a good
example of Mr. Hervey’s usual style, in
which an irregular rhythm, allied to a
sonority of rhyme and language, gives a
riverlike flowing effect that is peculiarly
his own:
He has seen blood blotting out the innocence
Of pastures. He has seen
The blotch of war upon a world made clean
By rectitude, and he came
By way of fear and flame
To nakedness. This passion cured
No sin, this cross pfocured
No rapt ascension. It was for nothing
He fled upon flints, and felt the breath
Of scorching death.
Mr.'Hervey’s affection for a resound-
ing polysyllable leads him into the
murky depths of Latinity at times, and
then he writes a poetry of adjectives.
An “awful regeneration,” an “incredible
phild,” a “furious horizon” and an “in-
vincible peace” are too much for six
consecutive lines to sustain. “Prudent
leaves” and “fervent grass” were sup-
posed to have withered in the eighteenth
century. Yet Mr. Hervey does not often
slip. In “The First Snow” he gives the
enchanting picture:
And we know why the travail, why
The speeding tragedy, the baffled sky,
The frantic assemblage, the earth lost
In angry dark and crucified by frost.
For the white child is born, the daughter
Of the high tempest and long inscrutable
slaughter.
“Decision” has the same clarity:
Now who regards, who is intent
As I stand here stiffly incompetent?
None. Yet what I here decree
Will shake the world and trouble eternity.
These poems are good enough reading
to make Selected Poems
worth while in itself as a
book. In addition to those
quoted from as outstanding,
there is a “Funeral” well
worth attending, and “Mrs. Carmichael,”
who is a delight.
War Pamphlets.
Following the lead given by the Oxford
Pamphlets on World Affairs, Angus and
Robertson has published a batch of
pamphlets on the war and related subjects
as seen “through Australian eyes.” The
statement of one of the writers that “If
we spend an hour reading a pamphlet
we may decide that our time would have
been better spent in listening to the wire-
less” is possibly pessimistic.
One of the best of the batch is C. E.
W. Bean’s pamphlet on The Old A.I.F.
and the New, though he seems to stretch
his argument for effect here and there,
and has comments which suggest that the
wisest policy for historians is to write
after events. To illustrate how class-free
was the nation from which the old A.I.F.
was drawn he declares that at the time
A social inferiority complex was practi-
cally non-existent —in a railway train an
Australian laborer would not feel any hesi-
tation in exchanging his opinions or his
lunch with, say, a Judge or a Judge’s
wife who happened to be his fellow-
traveller.
The reason given for the fact that two-
up schools flourished in the old A.I.F. —
that this indicated “a grave failure of
staff and command to tackle the problem
of boredom”—might also call for a
suitable illustration by Frith. Two-up,
of course, “flourished” in the old A.I.F.
from the earliest days of 1914 to the end,
so if boredom, and not one of the most
obvious of national characteristics, ex-
plained it, the Diggers must have been
very soon bored.
As to the wisdom of historians writing
after events:
Hitler attacked Poland, offering half to
Stalin, and plunged Europe into war; but
at the same time he made folly of the
anti-Comintern Pact, estranged Italy, out-
raged Japan, and, incidentally, by so doing
almost reversed the situation for Australia
and New Zealand.
Evidently the pamphlet was written
some months back, and, as well as men-
tioning the fact which someone recently
pointed out, that there is not one writer
on current world events anywhere who
would not wish to cancel out something
he had written over the past year or so,
it needs putting to the writer’s credit that
he was thinking for Australia months
in advance of its leading statesmen:
It is certain that if the war develops as
seriously as is expected by those best
situated to know, the whole life of Aus-
tralia will have to be organised to win it.
Away from these aspects of it, the
pamphlet is an excellent serving of con-
densed history. In necessarily generalised
form the Australian Official Historian
gives an accurate analysis of the charac-
ter and some of the story of the old
A.I.F. In view of the seemingly large
force now being raised, the total enlist-
ments in the last war are worth record-
ing—4l6,Bo9, not including 5263 for the
R.A.N. That was over four years, but
it was from a population a couple of
million less than the present. As to its
quality:
In all comparisons it must of course be
borne in mind that, as a reservoir for re-
cruits, the British people was drawn upon
at least twice as deeply, in proportion to
numbers, as the Australian, and the French
people more deeply still; also that in
monetary cost per head the Australian was
the most expensive soldier. But few of
the great commanders would contend that
he was not worth his cost. The leader of
the German forces, Field-Marshal von
Hindenburg, in discussing the British army,
says that its elite were the men from the
Dominions; Professor J. B. S. Haldane
is only one of many who have stated that
“the Germans regarded the Australian
troops as, on the whole, the most for-
midable, man for man, of their opponents.”
The Commander-in-Chief of the Allies,
Marshal Foch, when questioned on pre-
cisely that point—as to what soldiers were,
man for man, the best fighters on the
Western Front —replied, “Undoubtedly the
Anzacs.” The quality of Australian and
New Zealand airmen was even more widely
recognised. The commander of the British
Air Force, Sir Hugh Trenchard, held that
the Canadians made the best airmen in the
Empire. His chief-of-staff, Sir Phillip
Game, and the British air commander in
the Near East, later Air Chief-Marshal
Sir Geoffrey Salmond, gave their opinion
that the Australians led in that capacity.
The historian also records:
It was noted that batches of Australians
constantly topped the lists at army schools
in Egypt, France and England.
Well up beside that pamphlet in the
batch is Eric Ashby’s surprisingly lively
general-interest pamphlet put out under
the very dry title Transport of Food in
War. From the opening sentence —“In
the early months of 1917 the German
people faced the trial of slow starvation”
—its information can be guaranteed to
hold any reader interested in the grim
tragedy on which these pamphlets make
their brief comment. Into the space of
his first page the writer condenses the
story of the blockade of Germany in the
last war—a grim tragedy in itself. In
normal times, he points out, Germany
produces 90 p.c. of her food within her
own borders and imports only 10 p.c.;
yet by 1917 the German people, as a
result of the then effective blockade,
were listless and apathetic, and there was
an alarming spread of rickets and tuber-
culosis. By 1918 the death rate among the
civilian population was 37 p.c. higher than
before the war, and the deathrate among
children of school age had increased by
55 p.c. The very success of Britain in that
war is a clear warning for the present.
If a nation which imports only a tenth
of its food can be brought to the verge of
starvation, a nation which has to import
more than half its food must before all
things safeguard its sea-borne trade.
Pamphlets in the batch covering fairly
familiar ground are J. A. McCallum’s
Hitler and the Trade Unions; Origins
and Issues of the War, by H. S. N icholas ;
Poland, by Margot Hentze; Great
Britain, the French and Ourselves, by
A. H. McDonald —all informative and
competently put together. The Real Costs
of War, by R. C. Mills, which is of more
specialised interest, has a significant re-
ference to imports of films from the
U.S.A., “paid for by such exports as
wool and wheat.” They may have to
be greatly reduced or cut out altogether
in favor of bombers. The writer adopts
a recently fashionable belief which may
be compared with current happenings and
with the comments from C. E. W. Bean’s
pamphlet on the old A.I.F. Thus Mr.
Mills:
It is a commonplace that modern wars
are not won simply by military strength
and heroism. It is the economic strength
behind the military effort that commands
success.
Compiled under the direction of
Kenneth Binns, Commonwealth Parlia-
mentary Librarian, the fourth (1939)
edition of the Annual Catalogue of Aus-
tralian Publications (Commonwealth
Government Printer, Canberra) reveals
that the cream of Australian fiction in
1939 was published in England. A curious
feature is the number of books about
Australia published in Germany last year.
The Kahns’ Progress: Richard Uli-
mann (Faber). Novel about Jews in
England, trying to show that good Jews
are good Jews and bad Jews have their
good points and the younger generation
is all right anyhow because it won’t go
to synagogue and wants to marry English
girls. Kahn family has relations, financial
and sentimental, with very County Eng-
lish family. Everybody either common-
place or incredible, except Kahn senior,
who talks deafeningly in capital letters.
The Torguts: W. L. River (Angus and
Robertson). Sweeping, colorful novel of
Tartar migrations. Scratch a Tartar
romance and you find the usual story of
young love’s trials, but it’s readable.
New Zealand in the World: F. L.
Wood (Dept, of Internal Affairs, Wel-
lington, N.Z.). Interesting for its story
of the days when Australia and Maori-
land wanted to co-operate in the forma-
tion of a huge island empire in the
Pacific. Otherwise it just does its job and
it doesn’t say all it should about the
ass Mr. Jordan made of himself at
Geneva.
J Can Take Care of Myself ; Rosemary
Rees (Chapman and Hall). Novel about
whether a young girl can. She survives
the perils of the boatdeck, and —“all ends
happily in a freshly-told romance which
will appeal to all lovers of a bright and
wholesome love-story.”
The Keepers of Elephant Valley:
Reginald Campbell (Heinemann). En-
tertaining jungle doings for the young.
Lads go off with the old man to catch
a white elephant in darkest Siam.
James, How Dare You J: E. V. Timms
(Angus and Robertson). More of the
frivolous Londoners from James, Don’t
Be a Fool.
SIXTH YEAR’S ENTRIES FOR
THE S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Following are the titles of the 1 1 8 MSS. and pen-names of authors competing for the
Sixth (1940) year’s award of the Prize. (Entries will now be read by the judges,
and it is expected that the result will be announced early in August.) :
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Abel Janz Tasman 777
Aftermath Marjorie McGlew
All British Born Cousin Jack
All in a Year Catherine Stewart
Always an England Taunton Vale
Anatomy of Sin, An Moppingarra
And Curtain Robin Goodfellow
Angel Blundered, An Azrael
Anniversary Sagittarius
As the Lights Go Out Sans Changer
As You Were Streak
Australian Digger at the Battle of
Agincourt, An Toxites
Australian Language, The Entnor
Australia’s Amazing Immigrant .. Te Kohanga
Australia’s Mandate France
Avea Lea llgararrie
Book of Christian Names, The .... Frensham
Bricks Without Straw J. Delargc Furness
Brown Bird Singing Ata
Brown Van, The Antiene
Cacklebuddy’s Odyssey Absalom
Captain Symers, Trader ~ Sea Gull
Cassidye and Co Scarbibee
City of Men Black Flag
Claire of Cullagulla Wombat
C oaldust Miszellen
Colonial Escapade Conway Gregory
Colonial Experience A.U.S.
Come into the Garden Eugene Dennis
Comrade Seventeen
Dark the Path Francis Wilken
December in Sunshine May
Delicate Shame, A Victoria Parkes
Desiree H. T. South
Exile Aries
Fiends in Cover Piglet
Financial History of Australia, The .. Neila
Fingerprints in Clay ■ Chelonian
For to Admire This World So Wide
Iris Delia Swift
Full-Bodied Dry Corryton
Girl of North Australia, A Woolerin
Glittering Gold Alluvial
Gold Flesh A Soldier
Gold Gets ’Em The Sixth
Golden Grotto, A Anon
Haunted Tenement Kane
Her Husband Pioneer
His Book M.W.
Homer Croft Dagwood
In Fields of Asphodel Topsy
In Our Hands A Comma
Is It True? Will
Lachlan Macquarie Kyabra
Lid, Off the Dustbin. The .. Percussus Ressurgo
Life’s Biograph Denberg
Life’s Dark Problem Mura Glen
Life’s Kaleidoscope Milduran
McAllister —The Man .... Malcolm
Man Nobody Understood, The Nimmo
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Mare Arbiter Conley Seymour
Marked Destiny Brandon
Matchmaker Matched, A Tommiax
May Display, A May
Me and My Shadow Duncan
Men of the Chock and Log .... Bushwoman
Middle Mist, The Judith Revel
Mists of Macassar, The James McCrae
Moon of Desire Loo Mum
My Children, Bless Their Hearts .... Mendex
New Regime, The Narrator
New Zealander’s Book of War and Peace
* Akaroa
Olympian Jest Toxites
Outback Men, The Saltbush
Pea Pickers, The Gippsland Overlander
Phantom of Jindera, The .... Trevor Towers
Philosophy Shop Helen Sinclair
Pilgrims All Southern Cross
Prima Donna Wairuna
Prospector’s Log Prospector
Quality Cotton Aldina
Rainbow Gold fxion
Repetition of History Warrigal
Right to Live, The An Ordinary Man
River, The Naikaroot
Road to Anywhere, The Sur Le Tapis
Round the World in Fifty Days .. Australis
Scallywags Errant ", Pegasus
Scamps and Innocents Landloper
Scapegoat, The Early Days
Shining Morning Face Fitz
Shoreless, The S. Vologodski
Small Kind, The Pucawan
So Much of Earth Figgitt Hill
Some Reminiscences of a Group of
Marked Characters in Australia ..... Will
South Sea Bubble, A Navicert
Stick of Greasepaint, A .. The Blue Elephant
Teamster, The Tip McLachlan
Testimony to Loveliness Lex
This Banquet Emgee
Title Reserved Rouseabout
Tomorrow’s Bread F. Y. Oliver
Tungethrum Leo Rand
Unplanned Road, The Henry Dracon
Unwritten Book, The Backblocker
Valley of the Boola Boola, The .. Koodardie
Valley of Wild Grapes, The .... Jacqueline
Way of the Whirlwind, The Leram
We Loved It Here Uriarra
West of the Barrier Coolibah
When 1 Strike Gold , Pat McEntee
When We Were Young Dan
While It Is Called Today .. Stanmore James
Who’d Be a Nurse? Kookaburra
Who Is Sylvia? Ruth Harwood
William Charles Wentworth .... Yarranabbe
Woman Remembers, A Jess Duff
World Will Still Go On, The Donn Raymond
Wylara Rain Forest


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —consistency from day to day.
‘‘THE SENIOR STORE'
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
HALF
YEARLY
GENUINE
r
111
*s*
7 m
>::
M
‘WSfi
9/61
aims *»!d-9 9/61/SI3
Six-piece Dining Suite, oak parchment two-
tone finish. Sideboard sft. wide, with three
drawers, one fitted for cutlery, two for linen,
ample cupboard room, and a modern mirror
back; sft. x 2ft. 9in. Table with moulded top
and rounded corners; four Chairs with lift-out
spring seats covered with fabricoid. Anthony
Horderns' regular price £l5/19/6. Sale £l4/19/6
EASY TERMS Deposit 30/-. 12 Monthly Payments of 23/7.
SEND FOR SALE CATALOGUE
£I7 / 17 / 6 Bedroom Suite
Four-piece strong-
ly-constructed Oak
Bedroom Suite,
finished a dark
mission colour.
£1615
Suite comprises a 4ft. Wardrobe, full hanging
space; 2ft. 6in. Chest of Drawers fitted with four
drawers; 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table fitted with four
drawers and rimless adjustable mirror; 4ft. bin.
Bedstead. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
£l7/17/6. SALE PRICE £l6/15/-.
EASY TERMS Deposit 33/6. 12 Monthly Payments of 26/5.
i m.
EW- OAK LOWBOY
Medium shade of
oak colour, strongly
constructed from se-
lected oak. Interior
£419 6
is fitted with three sliding trays, trouser rail and
one shelf on right hand side, balance hanging
space, mirror behind right hand door. Size:
Height sft. 3in„ width 3ft. 10in„ depth 20in.
Regular Price £5/5/-. SALE PRICE £4/19/6.
EASY TERMS: Deposit 10/-. 6 Monthly Payments of 15/4.
i?
J 0
m
Him
m :
V'vZZ.
mm SMOKER'S CHAIR
Strongly constructed
oak or maple frame
i&with pipe rack under
arm, adjustable back,
covered in excellent quality brown fabricoid.
Regular Price £7/1 7/6. SALE PRICE £7/2/
EASY TERMS: Deposit 14/3. 6 Monthly Payments of £l/1/11.
£7 / 2 / 6
mt
i
P
'PHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT.
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
nr
**!«-
£I2W- CHINA CABINET
Figured and Polished Walnut
China Cabinet at a substan-
tial reduction. It is finished
a medium brown walnut
‘/oi/£3
colour and is fitted with two adjustable plate glass
shelves; interior back, silk lined. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price £l2/15/-. SALE PRICE £7/10/-.
EASY TERMS: Deposit 15/-. - - 6 Monthly Payments of 23/1.
• Furniture Third Floor. Delivered free within our delivery area.


NO ESCAPE
By A.C. HEADLEY.
5 HE’S a thin woman, and
her hair is drawn back
so tightly on her head
that it seems to be hold-
ing her eyes wide open. Her
hands are thin, and the skin is shiny where it crosses
the bones. The clothes she wears are old and shabby.
She has a “good” dress for going out, but she doesn't
go out very often. Most of her time she spends in
the cramped space of the house. There are always kids
in the house, shouting and crying and making a
noise. She can feel the great swell of noise in her
brain, and sometimes she feels that the kids will drive
her mad. She gets up very early in the morning and
she goes to bed very late. There is never any differ-
ence ; tomorrow will be the same as today and
yesterday.
There is a cash-order collector coming tomorrow,
but there is no money. She will stay very quiet and
watch him through the curtain in the front room,
hoping that none of the kids will make a noise. She
hasn’t paid him anything for more than a month, and
his knocking is becoming very insistent. She wishes
that she could pay him something, but how can she
with her husband out of work and the few shillings
the kids earn with their newspapers going for food?
She is worried about the rent man. There isn’t a
great deal of difference between her and the woman
next door, and the woman next door to that. She is
Molly’s mother. She is everything that Molly wanted
to get away from.
I KNEW Molly when she was a kid, just the same as
* I knew the rest of the Barber kids. She was small
and pretty, and even the way she had to dress didn’t
spoil that. The house where she lived was narrow
and not big enough for the family. There were four
rooms and nine Barbers. The kids filled two of the
rooms, Mr. and Mrs. Barber took the one that was
crowded with the brass-knobbed double bed, and the
remaining room was a combination of dining-, living-,
bathroom and laundry. But the way the Barbers
lived it was lucky they had a house at all; houses were
difficult to find, especially when, as in the case of
Barber, you relied on face value and the production
of a reference from the minister.
Sometimes Molly and I used to sit on the front
step that was right in the street and talk about growing
up and what we were going to be. Along the street
the kids used to be playing under the light, but some-
how they were right away from us and all we could
see was the stars which were mixed up with talk about
a tomorrow that was years away. I remember how
Molly wanted to get away from houses and streets
like this.
“It’s like being crushed in with filth an’ dirt.
Nothin’s ever clean, Jimmy. I want to get away from
this kind of living.”
I was seventeen then and serving my time. Molly
was only thirteen, but there was a look about her as
though she was thirty. She was older than I was,
older than I’ll ever be. She was glad when she was
fourteen. “I can get a job,” she said.
She didn’t say anything else, but I knew she
meant it as a chance to get away from these streets.
It was a chance, too, to get away from the squalid
complacency of the Barbers.
Barber used to irritate me. Now that she was
fourteen he was always telling Molly that it was
about time she got out and brought some money into
the house. He was a short, thin man with a long thin
nose. For as long as I had known him he had never
worked. He went to church twice each Sunday and
reminded everyone he met about salvation. He was
a wrath-to-come Christian. At the church he was
known as poor Mr. Barber, and had the commenda-
tion that he was doing his best in a soulless world.
In some strange way he earned the title of a hard-
working but unfortunate man.
“You can’t git work,” he was always telling Mrs.
Barber, “not when there ain’t none.”
Mrs. Barber moved along compliantly, with
Barber accepting everything—or, as Barber described
it, the will of the Lord—as a justification for poverty.
Molly’s first job was one that Barber found for
her himself. He was always finding jobs for the kids
so that they could bring money “into the ’ouse.” It
was a job in a confectionery factory, and for a while
she told me she liked it. The job wasn't hard. She
didn’t make friends with any of the girls. She told
me all about them telling her dirty jokes and the day
they showed her the typewritten letter that was sup-
posed to have come from a newly-wed bride.
“It was terrible,” she said, “but I had to laugh
because they were looking at me. You gotter or they
make fun of you.”
\ WITHOUT anything being said Molly was my girl.
* * Somehow you don’t need anything to be said
about things like that. We’d just sit on the step and
talk and talk. Along the street there’d be a fight or a
woman would scream and always someone would be
swearing, but we’d just sit on the step and talk. For
me it was just the waiting for her to grow up. Then
suddenly she was sick of the factory. The fact that
it was coming on the slack part of the year might
have had something to do with it. She had a couple of
weeks off and went looking for a job.
She got a job in service. I didn’t see very much
of her for a while after that. Some nights she’d come
home, but not very often. It was a cheap boarding-
house in one of the working men’s suburbs. It was
an old house, with the rooms divided in plyboard par-
titions. There were forty boarders, and for the first
time she learned what it meant to work really hard.
The pay was fifteen shillings a week and keep. She
was paying ten shillings “into the ’ouse.”
“Five bob,” she said, “for myself. It’s more’n
I’ve ever had before.”
When she could get away we went to the pictures
or to a dance. She was my girl and we used to talk
about what we could do when I came out of my time.
“I’ll be getting over a fiver a week. We could get
married.”
We could talk like that because we were so sure
of each other. There wasn’t any step to sit on now,
but after a dance I’d take her back to the boarding-
house and we’d stand in the darkness of the side gate.
I wasn’t used to girls. They could look at me and
scare the daylights out of me, but with Molly it was
different. I didn’t stay very long when I saw her
home. She didn’t want me to. She had to get up
very early.
”We musta telegram da Duce say a sinka da
ship sava da pride!”
“Half past five, Jimmy,”
she said ; “the breakfasts
start at six.”
It was like that. Up at
half past five and serving
the breakfasts. They were still coming to breakfast
at nine o'clock. The nine-o'clockers were usually the
shift workers. When she had finished serving the
breakfasts, there were the things to be cleaned up and
after that the rooms to be dusted and cleaned and
the beds made. On Mondays and Tuesdays there was
the ironing.
“It's not right,” 1 said ; “you’re slaving yourself
to death for nothing.”
“There’s one thing,” she said, “I’m away from
the family, and the filth, and drunken fights on the
corner. It’s different, Jimmy ; it ain’t thinkin’ of kids
without shoes, and whether ’alf a loaf of bread is
enough for nine. I’m away from it, Jimmy.”
“I’ll be glad,” I said, “when I’m out of my time.”
I was glad when she left that job. There was a
row with the woman who ran the boarding-house.
Molly packed her bag, and before she went home she
came around to see me. She was scared of what
Barber would say and she wanted me to walk home
with her. I remember how pale and frightened she
looked.
“You don’t want to worry,” I said, “there's plenty
of jobs.”
Strangely enough Barber took it philosophically
and as the “will of the Lord.” He was prepared to
make himself miserable about no money coming “into
the ’ouse,” but it was a furtive protest as though he was
ready to accept the whole thing as a kind of martyr-
dom. Then Molly was back with them, sleeping with
the two girls in the bed, and the boys on the mattress
on the floor.
The trouble was that Molly wasn’t a kid any
more. “I hate it, Jimmy,” she said. “I hate it. Living
and sleeping and getting undressed with all of them
so they can see me. I’ve got to get out of it, Jimmy.”
“You’ll get a job soon,” I said.
She was sixteen then, and like all kids she was ac-
quiring a taste for the things that money could buy.
She wanted a perm, for one thing, and the cheap silk
stockings she had were abruptly shaping themselves
into ladders. In some way it made her closer to
poverty than she had even beep before. She had
started to use powder and rouge, but they were things
that you needed money to buy. I helped her as much
as I could, but I was paying most of my wages “into
the ’ouse” at home, and when that was done there
was never very much left over. It was a sudden
dead period in her life. She looked for work every
day, but at the end of a month she was still out of
work.
Barber was talking more insistently about her
bringing more money “into the ’ouse,” and one night
it flared into a row. There were a million things that
contributed to it —the drab squalor of the house, the
soul-destroying search for a job, and at the back of
it all the insistence that she bring some money “into the
’ouse.” Barber thrashed her with his belt. “I bring
her up in a good Christian ’ome, an’ that’s the thanks
I git. It ain’t good enough for the likes of ’er.”
While she told me about it, I could almost see his
razor-blade lips and the thin, malicious hook of his
nose. She told me how she had lain on the bed feel-
ing that she would like to kill him. Her back was
sore, but nothing hurt so much as the humiliation of it
and the feeling that she was sixteen. She wanted sav-
agely to get away from the place, but there was no-
where to go, and she was out of a job. It was a long
time afterwards when she started to cry, and after it
was over she got up and crept very quietly out of the
house.
She hadn’t ever known a night as long as that.
Darkness seemed to be there for ever. When morning
came she was tired, and her eyes were heavy. Most
of the night she had walked. And even when it was
morning it was so early that the day hadn’t begun.
Then abruptly the streets were filling with people. She
was conscious of a queer sense of bitterness at their
complacent security. She wondered what the family
would say when they knew she was
gone. There was no thought in her
mind of what to do except look for
a job. She wanted a job so that
she would never have to go back.
I didn’t know about this till I
saw Molly again. That night when
I went to see her it was Mrs.
Barber who told me she’d “cleared
out.” There was nothing else.
Molly had cleared out. I was sick
thinking about it. I started to walk
in the night: I was looking for her
without knowing where to look. It
made me think of all the things that could happen
to a girl. At the end of three days it was getting so
at work that I could hardly keep my eyes open. That
night she came to see me. I couldn’t do anything but


sit and look at her where she sat in the darkness. She
told me how lucky she was.
“I got a job, Jimmy.”
‘ <U/ ANTED—a waitress.” The sign was hanging
* on the corner of the window. It was a small
place. The window was painted all over in a sickly
green and carried the announcement of two courses
for sixpence. Sweets threepence extra. She could
hardly see when she stepped in from the brittle light of
the sun. She stood blinking, wondering what she could
say. Gradually she saw the tables and the men. From
the end of the shop came the clatter of dishes. She
saw a woman, watched her carry a plate and put it on
one of the tables. The smell of the food was increas-
ing her hunger. Then the woman came towards her.
“You after the job?”
It made Molly self-conscious to see the men
watching her, listening for what she was going to
say. She nodded.
“Done any waitin’?” The woman was looking
at her curiously. She wasn’t a young woman. Her
hair was grey and it hadn’t had very much atten-
tion. The ends of it were swaying across her
broad face. She was a woman who looked as
though the whole of her body had squeezed up past
her waist. She stood waiting for the answer. Molly
told her about the boarding-house.
“You can try it,” said the woman. “Twenty-five
bob and meals an’ I can let y’ ’ave a room for five
bob.”
Molly told me about them. Mrs. Cray, Cray with
his watery look, his hair parted and flat on the top of
his head. There was a boy, too —Nick Cray. He was
seventeen and the Crays were going to send him to
the university. “It’s funny,” Molly said, “the kind of
people they are. They’re send in’ ’im to the university
so that he can learn to spit on them.”
The work was hard and the hours were long,
but after the boarding-house she didn’t find that it was
so bad. There were spells between the meal hours,
and she had a chance to sit down.
It was like going back to the days when she
worked at the boarding-house. I used to go and see
her two and three times, a week and we’d go to a
dance or somewhere. Then we’d talk about what we’d
do when I was no longer an apprentice. There was a
lot of that, and then, abruptly, she started to be tired
whenever I went to see her. There were nights when
she told me not to come next time. Sometimes I
wouldn’t see her more than once in a week, and when
we were together it was somehow different.
I remember the night she told me. We were stand-
ing in the darkness of the shop’s doorway. “Jimmy,”
she said, “it’s Nick.”
It was like hearing the end of things. There was
nothing I could say. It was as though everything
inside of me had stopped.
“It’ll be better, Jimmy,” she said, “if I don’t see
you any more.”
She told me how different it was with Nick, and all
the while I was thinking about what we’d planned to
do when I came out of my time. I was looking at
her and thinking of the scooped-out step in front of
the Barbers’. Then she was gone. I could see why it
was Nick. He was going to the university, getting
ready for a job that wouldn’t let him think about
poverty. That was what Molly wanted.
| DIDN’T see Molly for nearly a year after that. I
was getting around with a few of the boys and find-
ing that you could have fun. But I couldn’t stop
thinking about Molly and I was glad when she came
to see me. It was good to see her. She was taller,
prettier and more sure of herself. We talked for a
long while and then she said; “I’ve left the Crays’
and it’s all over with Nick.”
“What are you doing?” I said.
“I’m just looking around,” she said ; “I’ve got a
bit of money saved up.”
We were talking like strangers, trying to find
things to say. „
“You oughter come and see .me,” she said, and she
told me where she was living.
“Yair,” I said, “I’d like to.”
It was like that. It wasn’t as if I’d known her all
my life. It wasn’t like talking to Molly, sitting on the
scooped-out step in front of the Barbers’. She made
me feel shy and embarrassed. I was glad when she
had gone.
But I went to see her, went to a dance or two and
she was my girl again. We’d sit in the dark again and
talk about me coming out of my time. Then one night
she told me about Nick.
“I thought I was in love with him,” she said.
I couldn’t do anything except stare into the dark-
ness and think about how much Molly wanted to get
away from dirty back streets. I wished she hadn’t
told me about Nick.
“It won’t make any difference, will it, Jimmy?”
And somehow it didn’t make much difference.
After a while I stopped thinking about it. Molly was
my girl and that was all that really mattered.
I didn’t have long to wait now before I came out
of my time. There was talk of a depression then, but
I wasn’t worried. The place where I worked had
plenty of contract jobs that were sewn up for a year
or more. After that the depression would be all over.
I knew my job was right. There wasn’t anything to
worry about and in a couple of months I’d be drawing
full money. Molly got another job about that time.
It was in a refreshment shop and it was different to
the work she had been doing. All she had to do was
“Stop actin' the fool and sweep that snow off the wings!"
serve behind the counter and mix up soft drinks.
Things were going good for us.
Then suddenly I was out of my time and, I could
hardly believe it, out of a job. I hadn’t ever thought
of it ending like that. The “Want” columns in the
papers were becoming shorter than ever. J was walk-
ing the streets and feeling the heat of the sun. The
bit of money I had saved up wasn’t lasting as long as
I thought it would. It didn’t worry me very much.
I was always thinking that there would be a job
tomorrow. But there was no job tomorrow or the
next day or the next. It’s funny how a year can slide
away.
Then I got a job again.
It took Molly a long time to make up her mind
to tell me about the manager at the refreshment shop.
I wish she hadn’t told me.
“I had to keep my job, Jimmy,” she said. “It’s
not like you. You’ve got a home and a place to eat
and sleep when you haven’t got a penny in your
pocket. I had to keep my job.”
But it wasn’t that. It was things that it might
have meant; things a lot better than waiting for me
to come out of my time. I thought of the times she
had been out with him in the car. There were things
that he bought for her. And all the while she was my
girl. Looking at her I was trying to think that she
was my girl, and all the things I’d thought when she
had told me about Nick Cray were flooding back into
my mind.
“I had to keep my job, Jimmy.” She started to
cry.
“You’re not going back there,” I said. “I’ve
got enough money to keep you going until you get
another job. I’m drawing full money.”
Then something happened and my job was gone.
The depression was something real, and it wasn’t a
thing that would be gone next year. We were both
out of a job. There was a little ihoney in my bank
account and I was using it to help Molly. She was
living in a cheap room. It was in a house that looked
across on to the park. At night, with the few lights
showing, looking at the park was like looking at the
sky. We’d sit out at the front of the house, and it was
just like sitting on the step in front of the Barbers’
again. But you can’t sit in the dark all your life.
You can’t look at the sky and talk.
K/fOLLY’S face is lined, and it isn’t the color it
**l should be. Her hands are thin, and the skin
is shiny where it crosses the bones. The clothes she
wears are old and shabby. She has a “good” dress
for going out, but she doesn’t go out very often. Most
of her time she spends in the cramped space of the
house. There are always kids in the house, shouting
and crying and making a noise. She can feel the great
swell of noise in her brain, and sometimes she feels
that the kids will drive her mad. There is never any
difference in the days. Tomorrow will be the same
as today and yesterday.
There is a cash-order collector coming tomorrow,
but there is no money. She will stay very quiet and
watch him through the curtain in the front room,
hoping that none of the kids will make a noise. She
hasn't paid him anything for more than a month, and
his knocking is becoming very insistent. She wishes
that she could pay him something, but how can she
when I’m out of work? There isn’t a great deal of dif-
ference between her and the woman next door and the
woman next door to that. She is Molly, and everything
she wanted to get away from.
Molly and I have been married a long time now.
We’ve got six kids. Renee’s the eldest. She’s just
turned fourteen. It’s about time she brought some
money into the house. I’ve been looking around to
see if I can find her a job.
Various Verse
Voyage Towords Sleep
ŗ
ř
ARNOLD WALL.
All Things.
All things by their own purposes
Urge on their weight:
By their particular endurances
Rise and are great.
The Tyrant of Fashion
Tortures the lives
Of his helot friends
Who yet love with a passion
That survives
All ineffectual ends.
The muscle-lumped wrestler scarves
His throat from the sweet sea-blow,
Yet without effort halves
A telephone book for show.
And the rose dreams mildly through
The bitter pneumonic night,
Laughs till the sun-flash on the dew
Comes diamond bright.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Noon.
Through the animal shine of the pines, the blind white butter-
flies blow,
Waving their wings’ wet manuscript abroad, and the cicadas
now,
Summer’s sibilant nerves, are shrill in the native tree’s curved
brow.
Then Maori hands begin to clap, soft and oily in the air,
And passionately sweet is the double beat of fingers round and
bare.
While out in deliberate gulfs, the guns mutter their costly
prayer.
But what is human life, I cry, beneath the insect strings?
And in the knees of the hills young knowledge trembles, but
no answer brings:
For the never-ending answer is in all unreasoning things.
Now up the weather-tortured hill that once was a flame
Walks the old woman, looking backward, and on her thin frame
Flies the thin feather of her hat, and from this house she came.
Ardently, she escapes from the devil walls in the heat;
And painfully move, in the hide of a calf, the blindness of
her feet,
And her legs, thrice-bandaged to look young and the blind
road to cheat.
Climbing in the colonial day, upward by red dust from this
pit,
And looking half-furtively behind for the devil that masters it,
While under her feeble heels roll the bald heads of the grit.
The sultry day takes hold of her shape in the white muslin
dress
And the very clouds that walk above are brethren in distress,
And I, who look from this window’s web, am the soul of
the world and no less.
The sorrow of long-lost youth will hunt her limbs to the shade
To rest in a rounded velvet chair that colonial hands have
made,
And her whitely-whiskered lip, its fruit cut by time’s blade,
Will be sipping wine and answering signs from old men in the
gloom.
Late in the dry white night she’ll come back to her little room,
And hear me singing deep and strong like a mourner at a
tomb.
And all night long to the iron crane’s song, unloading in the
bay,
I shall hear her mutter of love and debts until the morning
gray
Brings flashes of light and the strident curse of her cockerel
on the day.
maoriland.
EVE LANGLEY.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
t <4ffbll lime 4)fWie mellcumeMandlouqjiiei
PADDINGTON-TERMINUS OF THE ROYAL LINE.
Of the railways of Great Britain, the Great Western is in many respects “a thing peculiar to itself.” Today, of all the great systems
it retains its individuality, declining as other systems to be subject to schemes of amalgamation which came into effect a few years ago.
It is not alone the Royal line from its association with Windsor, but appropriately enough the aristocratic line, its terminus, Paddington, having
been described as the gate of the squires of the West Country. It has also its commercial attribute in that it reaches Birmingham, the Midlands,
South Wales and the shipping and industrial areas of Manchester and Mersey Side. Before Southampton became the entrepot for ocean
travellers, many passengers from Australia and New Zealand disembarked at Plymouth, and, covering much of the route made famous
by that notable train, “The Flying Dutchman,” were in a few hours brought into Paddington, the terminus which with the passing of the years
seems impervious to external changes. Yet Paddington stands for much of moment in railway history. The name Brunei is imperishably
associated with it. The great apostle of the “broad gauge” found in the Great Western an exemplification of his principle, and it is
only half a century ago that was witnessed the final “defeat” of the broad gauge by the more modest but more rational “narrow
gauge,” such as New South Wales enjoys. In the final result it may be found Brunei was simply before his time, as he was when his
genius produced that mighty vessel, the “Great Eastern.” One thing he accomplished with the broad gauge, creating new standards of
speed and comfort in rail travel. The Great Western has always been to the forefront in respect to both of these, a something the
“change of gauge” did not affect. No terminus in London is richer in what might be termed the records of railway travel. The form of
the station illustrated goes back to 1857.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3150.
Wednesday, June 26, 1940.
AS ONE CONQUEROR TO ANOTHER.
“So YOU’RE going to try it?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates. ,
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
OFFER TO DEFEATED FRANCE.
It goes against the grain to question the policy of a
Prime Minister whose courage, never at any time
doubted, burns with so pure a flame in a dark hour.
But courage is not the same thing as wisdom, and,
since British and Dominion newspapers have been re-
newing their savage attacks on Mr. Chamberlain,
The Bulletin may surely criticise Mr. Churchill on
the score of actions and utterances which gravely con-
cern these Dominions.
At the worst, Mr. Chamberlain gained precious
time in 1938, and if it was not fully availed of others
share the responsibility. Mr. Chamberlain’s worse
blunder was in not resigning after Hitler betrayed him
and perjured himself by grabbing Bohemia and
Moravia. Certainly the old Prime Minister was prompt
in introducing conscription, which might not have been
accepted from any other leader even in April, 1939 ;
but it would have been better for his fame, if not for
his country, if he had gone down with appeasement
or insisted on continuing it in the form of non-inter-
vention. As it was, he accepted the policy of his Con-
servative critics, Mr. Churchill, Mr. Eden, Mr. Duff
Cooper and their followers, and that of the Labor
and Liberal parties ; hence the guarantees to Poland,
Greece and Rumania and the close alliance with
France. Previously he had maintained, not only that
Britain had given no undertaking to Czechoslovakia,
but that if the Italians attacked Bizerta his Govern-
ment would not be obliged to side with France. And
in the event he showed that his capacity to direct a
world war was no greater than that of his prede-
cessor and exemplar, the second Pitt.
Inconsistent on other issues, Mr. Churchill has
always been keen on Continental alliances. It is a
family prepossession; and in recommending it to the
present generation he has used even the terminology of
Marlborough. As a freelance, his darling idea was a
Grand Alliance with ten Continental Powers to en-
circle Germany. Events have cruelly shown that this
was never possible, and the arrangements actually
made fell to pieces with startling rapidity, one after
the other. Last week the policy of Continental alli-
ances broke in Mr. Churchill’s hands, and it can never
be put together again. For the Dominions that is one
of the good things that have come out of these evil
times ; never again will they have to go to war because
the map of the Mad Continent has been altered.
In spite of its solemn obligations and “sacred
pledges” to the country which placed its expeditionary
force under a French Commander-in-Chief, the Gov-
ernment at Bordeaux sued for a separate peace. Mr.
Churchill’s agony of mind when the deadly news was
communicated to him can be understood and allowed
for, but neither his personal feelings nor the gravity
of the new situation warranted him in offering to buy
French continuance in the war with the grant of a
political union. That is what he did in the most amaz-
ing declaration ever addressed by one Government to
another.
At this most fateful moment in the history of the
modern world the Governments of the United Kingdom
and the French Republic make this declaration of indis-
soluble union.
The two Governments declare that France and
Britain are no longer two nations, but one. The French
and British Union and the constitution of the Union
will provide for joint organs of defence and of foreign
and financial and economic policies. Every citizen of
France will enjoy immediately citizenship of Britain;
every British subject in France will become a citizen
of France The two Parliaments will be formally
associated.
The nations of the British Empire are already forming
new armies. The Union will concentrate its whole
energy against the power of the enemy, no matter where
the battle shall be.
This, astounding proposal was not accepted (and
for days not even considered) by the Petain Gov-
ernment, nor was it mentioned by the author in a
speech he delivered two days later in the House of
Commons. Neither did Parliament debate it. Members
must have been itching to ask whether it was possible
to have an “indissoluble union” between a constitu-
tional kingdom and a republic, what provision would
be made for deadlocks, whether in such cases King
or President would be the ultimate authority, where
Northern Ireland would come in and a hundred other
questions; but they were all silent.
Mention of “the nations of the British Empire”
in the declaration was unauthorised. Our own Justice
Evatt has pointed out in one of his able books that
jj}%. Doi ™nions, though parts of the British Empire,
differ from the colonies, protectorates and dependen-
cies in being members of the British Commonwealth.
As such they are free to join in Britain’s wars or —as
Eire has done and South Africa very nearly did —con-
tract out of them, as they may themselves decide.
For Australia, Maoriland and Canada Dominion
status means nothing when Britain is threatened or in
actual danger. Now, as in the years when the war was
developing, they consider themselves bound by British
policy. Actually, they had no more influence on the
decisions and the course of events which led to the
war than they had in 1914 ; and, as a result of British
action, their part, if any, in the shaping of war policy
has been much less than it was in 1916-18, when they
were represented in the Imperial War Cabinet, and
had means of conveying their views to the Supreme
War Council. They have strangely tolerated this
relegation to a minor role, but neither Mr. Churchill
nor any other British politician has any right, what-
ever the emergency, to alter or propose alterations to
the terms of their partnership in the British Com-
monwealth, much less to set up a Franco-British
Union, without consulting them. Not even if France
were victorious, instead of being beaten in the field
and disgraced by its Government, would they want to
be tied to the French Empire for all time.
“Every citizen of France will enjoy immediately
citizenship of Britain.” That means, if it means any-
thing, that the Dominions would be expected to con-
cede to the French everything that they have hitherto
gladly conceded to the British. France has heaps of
Communists, and the parties which have been in the
ascendant since the Popular Front Government, of
evil memory, fell would be glad to get rid of
them, especially as they will have to reckon with the
danger of a Communist rising. Would not “indissol-
uble union” mean that emigration to the Dominions
would be demanded for a lot of these birds?
Between France and the French Empire there is
no dividing line such as exists between Britain and
the British Empire, properly so-called; and the
French draw no color line. There are large numbers
of French Africans and Asiatics in France, and depen-
dencies and colonies are directly represented in the
legislature at Paris. As the Statesman’s Year-Book
mentions, even remote colonies are so represented—
Reunion, Martinique and Guadeloupe by a senator and
two deputies, French India by a senator and a deputy,
and Senegal, Guiana and Cochin-China by a deputy
apiece. We have been told during the past few days
that the Japanese are contemplating the seizure of
Indo-China, of which Cochin-China is part. It may
be a lie, but in these matters we have learned by bitter
experience that lies constantly repeated have a ten-
dency to become truths. Anyway, if Japan did seize
Indo-China, with the “indissoluble” union in being,
Britain and the Dominions also, following their loyal
practice, would presumably have another war on their
hands.
The “indissoluble union” was the most unfortu-
nate of Mr. Churchill’s lightning improvisations. Un-
fortunate also was his reference to the aerial war on
Britain —“I believe that our countrymen will show
themselves capable of standing up to it like the brave
men of Barcelona.” Why “the brave men of Bar-
celona” and not the far braver and unspotted men of
Dunkirk? Barcelona during the Spanish civil war was
given over to Communism and Ogpu mass murder. It
was from Barcelona that the retreating Reds took the
Bishop of Teruel and a number of priests and shot
them in cold blood. It was inevitable that the col-
lapse of France should affect the attitude of Spain,
and if only because of the necessity for safeguarding
Gibraltar and the Cape route it should be one of the
main objects of British policy to keep the Spaniards
out of the war. When he read the bit about Barcelona
the new British Ambassador at Madrid must have
wrung his hands in despair.
It is even more important that Italy should not
be provoked into abandoning the inactive part which
it has hitherto chosen to play—so strangely inactive
in respect of Britain as to suggest that there is truth in
the reports of correspondents like Ward Price that
vast masses of Italians never wanted to fight the people
they had never fought before. By coming into
the war when they did, the Fascists outraged all
British notions of fair play, but if they elect to adopt
a passive and even humiliating role it is altogether to
our advantage; and that goes for Australia and
Maoriland as well as Britain. British statesmenship
and diplomacy should obviously aim at sowing dis-
cord between the unnatural allies who were enemies
22 years ago. Mr. Duff Cooper nevertheless branded
the whole Italian nation with cowardice, a taunt which
is apt to make even cowards fight. Though British news-
papers protested against this blazing indiscretion (“give
us arms,” one said, “not adjectives”), Mr. Churchill
backed up his subordinate by saying “We shall be
delighted to offer Mussolini a free and safeguarded
passage through the Straits of Gibraltar in order that
his navy may come to gain supremacy in these waters.”
This gasconading is quite out of keeping with the
tradition and practice of the Royal Navy. Surely the
Royal Navy has enough to do without having to
encounter another enemy who, goaded into fighting,
is at least capable of causing cruel losses at a time
when every seaman, as well as every ship, is precious,
and of bringing endless sorrow into the homes of
many of the fine, brave, loyal people of the ports.
In the same speech the Prime Minister struck a
deeper note. Defending Mr. Chamberlain and Sir John
Simon against their enemies, he said “If we open a
quarrel between the past and the present, we shall
find that we have lost the future.” What a pity it is
that a man capable of such generosity and such real
eloquence should descend so often to brag, rant and
bravado!
At the week-end the Prime Minister was a tragic
though not disheartened figure. All his Continental
campaigns had failed, and all his plans for the Con-
tinent had crashed. The French Government of old
men not only surrendered to Hitler but agreed to
accept terms from the non-victorious Mussolini. Talk
about “freeing Czechoslovakia” and the rest is now
out of place. The job in hand is to keep the British
Commonwealth free. Though terribly difficult, it has
been simplified on the strategical side by the necessary
abandonment of European adventures, and the spirit of
the people is such that it can be accomplished if all
the defence measures are left to the able seamen,
soldiers and airmen whom the war has thrown up.
Mr. Churchill’s task is to support them to the limit
and to inspire all hands with his eloquence, and so to
prove himself the pilot that weathered the storm. And
when it is weathered he should step down, for as a peace-
maker he would be worse than Mr. Lloyd George.
Australia, Too, All-in.
Tuning-in to Britain on a wave-length a month old
to the day—Maoriland had connected with it three
weeks earlier —Canberra last week took “unprece-
dented emergency powers for national security.” Sub-
stituting “the Commonwealth” for “the Realm,” the
main clause of the bill was a copy of that which, on
May 22, passed through Commons and Lords and
had the Royal assent affixed to it inside three hours.
The Act secures powers to
make such regulations requiring persons to place them-
selves, their services and their property at the disposal
of the Commonwealth as appear to be necessary or
expedient for securing the public safety, the defence of
the Commonwealth and the territories of the Common-
wealth, for the efficient prosecution of any war in which
his Majesty is, or may be, engaged.
A difference from measures passed in Britain and
Maoriland is the addendum:
Provided that nothing in this section shall authorise
the imposition of any form of compulsory service beyond
the limits of Australia.
Mr. Menzies, however, explained that “Australia”
covered Australian possessions.
The Canberra proceedings further confirm the
fact that the most noticeable reaction to the Statute of
Westminster in these Pacific Dominions has been a
shuddering back from it to the old Colony outlook —
a congenital inability of statesmen in these parts to
contribute one independent or original thought. But
the scope for variety in making the British Common-
wealth brand of democracy work has never been
better illustrated than in this adoption of practically
totalitarian powers by the three Governments.
The original bill was introduced by Mr. Attlee
only a matter of days after he had foregone the leader-
ship of the Labor Opposition and enlisted as a member
of the national Government for the duration. In
1935 and subsequently Mr. Attlee attacked
measures aimed at slightly increasing Britain’s then
microscopic defence expenditure. He led his party —
urged on by the united chorus of pacifist professors,
authors, Youth Movements, Left-wingers, League of
Nations supporters and cranks at large—into strong
and effectual opposition to rearmament even when the
nostrum he and the rest of them swallowed—“collective
security”—had been proved weaker than water. It was
no fault of his that a Britain and Empire practically
without arms or trained men were not dragged into
Spain’s civil war and the war in China.
The Maoriland copy of the bill was put through
by a Labor Government, with the support of an anti-
Labor Opposition. Keeping ahead of Australia in its
war-effort —not only in time but in measures —Maori-
land also followed Britain, and adopted afresh its own
practice in the last war, by resorting to all-out mili-
tary conscription, for opposing which in the 1914-18
affair—when it was introduced by an anti-Labor Gov-
ernment —some of Maoriland’s present Labor stalwarts
did terms in gaol. Many other former “pacifists”
have been turning the same sort of somersault, being
in nearly all cases 20-odd years older than they used
to be. Whatever moral may be drawn from this,
the fact stands that Maoriland Labor’s topsyturvy per-
formance is at least no less remarkable than that of
the British brand led by Mr. Attlee, and quite as
curious an illustration of how British Commonwealth
democracy is made to work.
An ungenerous mind might suggest that what all
this really illustrates is how political expediency works
democracy. However that may be, the passing of
Australia’s copy of the bill perfectly completes the pic-
ture. Here the whole defence organisation was in
1929 brought to ruins by a Labor Government. Poli-
tical Labor’s position today may be a fair reward for
that sorriest performance ever recorded in “Hansard,”
but some other facts recorded in the same weighty pages
also have their point. In this matter, the anti-Labor
Government which, with sundry reshufflings, has
reigned ever since followed Labor ; in order to ensure
its political safety it protested over and over that com-
pulsory national service—stigmatised as “conscription”
—would never be enforced ; under the catchphrase
“Tune-in with Britain,” it imposed on Australia the
soft and softening dictum that “the Covenant of the
League of Nations is the cornerstone of our foreign
policy” ; and not until the lead came from Britain and
the shadow of coming events urgently dictated did it
make the essential move to ensure the safety of the
country.
The measure of all this interpretation of demo-
cratic governing was crowded into a few touching
sentences by Mr. Menzies:
The Government has unlimited power to tax, and
will not hesitate to use it. I can promise taxation that
will have no limit set to it, except the sheer impossi-
bility of getting more taxation from the taxpayer.
In short, the taxpayer now has to find in a hurry, and
in many cases with extreme difficulty, what he
—no less to blame under recently fashionable ideas of
democracy than his Governments —could easily have
found over the spread of the past 20 years.
Mr. Curtin revealed not only his own but prac-
tically the entire political outlook on this aspect of the
function of democratic government in a sentence:
There comes, probably, a stage in the history of
every country when only one consideration must be taken
into account —that is, the consideration of assuring the
safety of the country against an imminent danger.
In this conception statesmanship comes dragging
in the wake, not leading in advance, of events. Not


the plain necessity of the country’s position but only
the compulsion of “imminent danger” is the motive
force. It has been shown here that political Labor in
Australia has not been alone in acting on this con-
ception, but it has to be said that the variegated brands
of political Labor under one leader and another per-
sisted in it in ways peculiarly their own. Up to 24
hours before the introduction of the bill at Canberra
official Labor opposed compulsory national service and
the sending of men overseas. Then, under what might
have been the compulsion of the “imminent danger”
of the bill as much as any other “imminent danger,”
official Labor joined in the great somersault show, giv-
ing one of the liveliest acrobatic performances of its
career.
Next day Mr. Curtin, on its behalf, was in a
position to give the anti-Labor coalition measure his
support and blessing, completing as perfect a picture of
British democracy being made to 'work as anyone
could wish to see. Introduced in Britain by the Labor
leader as a minority member of an overwhelmingly
Conservative Government, in Maoriland by the Labor
Government with the support of the anti-Labor Oppo-
sition, and in Australia by a U.A.P. and Country
party Government with the support of the Labor
Opposition—a few A.L.P. members and Mr. Beasley’s
“non-Communist” group excepted—the extraordinarily
sweeping measure is now law in all three countries,
with only slight variations.
There is one important point of difference —itself
a further example of the working of British democracy.
Despite a good deal of noisy urging, neither the Labor
Opposition in Australia nor the anti-Labor Opposi-
tion in Maoriland has so far followed the British
Labor example of joining in to make a “national Gov-
ernment.” They continue to uphold the democratic
principle which until only recently was upheld by
British Labor —that Parliamentary rule requires an
Opposition: Mr. Curtin’s insistence on this was one
of the best features of the Canberra debate. They
should go on upholding it. In general principle this
Emergency Act is as sound as it was imperative, but
the list of possible abuses under it would ring Aus-
tralia ten times round. A continued watching brief
held by a critical Opposition both represents the
essence of democracy and is as necessary as the Act
itself.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Alliances!
Britain has had three alliances with France in 86 years
and has been involved by the alliances in three wars.
There will be no more French alliances and no more
French wars. That is one certain consequence of the
most damnable betrayal of which Britain has ever
been the victim.
Some men are too old at 60. Gamelin, the Bazaine
of the Battle of France, is 68 ; Petain, whose Govern-
ment gave in to Hitler and Mussolini, is 84 ; Weygand
is 73; Lebrun, the President, is the same age as
Gamelin. Reynaud, who was for holding out, is much
younger, and De Gaulle, who, though deprived of his
rank of general for “inciting French subjects to dis-
obedience,” is carrying on from England as head of
a national committee, is younger still.
The old men whose nerve failed when their armies
in France were beaten have been described as Fascists.
Though among English-speaking people their names
will go stinking down the ages they are not that.
Petain, at least, can remember the hideous atrocities
committed by the Communards in 1870, and had all
too much reason to fear a Communist repetition on a
colossal scale ending in the complete ruin of his
country. This does not excuse his surrender to the
Teutons, who thrice in his lifetime have ravaged France,
a surrender carried to the point of placing the whole
resources of France at the service of the conqueror
for a ruthless war on the ally that never let France
down ; but it helps to explain why he arid his col-
leagues came to their treacherous and ignominious
decision.
Petain never liked the English. In April, 1918, he
was within an ace of leaving them in the lurch when
the Germans defeated Britain’s Fifth Army. This fact
is on record, but it was never imagined that he was
capable of selling the pass to Germany as he has done.
“Let my name be blighted,” cried Danton, “if only
France be free.” Petain’s name is blighted, but France
is not free ; through the action of Petain and his asso-
ciates it has become Hitler’s slave.
All the British parties and nearly all the British
and Australian newspapers and the entire body of
radio professors demanded alliances and guarantees,
and the cost of the guarantees alone has run into hun-
dreds of millions. The acid test has shown that not
one of them was worth two bob.
Greece, which was guaranteed, is “completing
commercial negotiations with Germany.” Rumania,
also guaranteed, is “following a policy alongside the
Axis, with ties increasingly closer to it.” Egypt is rais-
ing objections to British operations on the Libyan
frontier and would obviously like to get the British
battleships out of Alexandria Harbor. Turkey, which
was to have backed Britain in the event of a British
war with Italy, is keeping out, influenced by Russia.
And that country, with the obsequious approval of
Communists everywhere, and with German permis-
sion, has grabbed Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia.
The familiar asses started the story that “100
to 150” divisions of the Red Army had been massed
in the seized territories preparatory to a collision with
the Germans. Moscow replied that the rumors were
“absurd.” It had distributed only “18 to 20” divisions
in the seized territories, not for the purpose of “press-
ing upon Germany” but for that of “providing a
guarantee for the carrying out of the mutual-assistance
pacts”: _ ,
The good-neighbor relations between Germany ana
Russia cannot be disturbed by rumors and lies. These
relations are not motivated by ephemeral considerations,
but are rooted in the common interests of Germany
and Russia.
Leaving the French colonial empire out of reckoning,
it looks as if Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin are carving
up the continent to their liking. But wait till they
fall out!
Incredible Incredibility.
Three months ago Norway, Denmark, Holland and
Belgium were free nations, neutral in the war.
Two months ago France was a first-class Euro-
pean power, armed and panoplied for battle.
One month ago the possibility of Britain having
to fight Germany and Italy alone wasn’t even con-
sidered.
Norway, Denmark, Holland and Belgium are in
German hands. Whatever resistance they offered was
soon crushed. France, her armies scattered like chaff,
has asked for and received the invader’s terms. The
Mediterranean is a sea of peril.
And Britain is feverishly preparing against in-
vasion ; her people are dying in air raids ; she waits
grimly and courageously for terrific blows, and has
not an effective ally outside the Empire.
The German was known to be numerous, effi-
cient, courageous, well-armed and well-led. Few ex-
pected him to do what he has done in so short a time.
Nothing is more incredible than the speed with which
the scene changed between April and June.
This being evident, what in Heaven’s name is
the matter with the political mind in Australia? How
is it that a War Cabinet can appoint an Essington
Lewis as Director-General of Munitions with almost
unlimited powers and then be coolly informed by a
State Premier (Mr. Dunstan, of Victoria) that a State
War Advisory Committee has been set up to
investigate the extent to which the manufacture of
munitions and other war equipment can be accelerated
by the provision of additional workshops and factories.
Is Mr. Lewis expected to perform his enormous duty
with these political busybodies buzzing about the
premises?
But there is more. Mr. Dunstan’s S.W.A.C. or
S.M.A.C.K. will make
a complete survey of the State’s available resources
so that everything and every person possible can be
placed at the disposal of the Federal Government.
Doesn’t the bill enacted last week give that same
Federal Government power to conscript persons,
money and material without consulting Mr. Dunstan
about it? Or must these provincial pests be deferred
to before any Victorian can be called upon to give
self or wealth to his country?
But stay, we’ve forgotten Mr. Mair, of N.S.W.,
and his little gang. They’ve already appointed a Works
Co-ordinator in imitation or rivalry of the Common-
wealth.
Mr. Mair believes that his Government will build
two military camps, at a cost of £250,000 each, for
the Commonwealth. Can’t the Commonwealth build
its own camps, or is it too much to expect that single-
ness of authority necessary in national crisis?
This country has the initiative and the originality,
the labor and the material and the men to play a very
big part in the saving of the Empire ; but can we
hope ever adequately to protect ourselves or efficiently
help sorely-beset Britain while the Dunstans and the
Mairs and their useless Parliaments, War Advisory
Committees and Co-ordinators and Water Board dock-
builders go on butting into national affairs?
More incredible even than the speed of the Ger-
man conquests is the spectacle of Australia’s seven
Governments each conducting the war in its own way.
"Too Few Children."
“Too few children, too few arms, too few allies. The
spirit of pleasure prevailed over the spirit of sacrifice. After
victory in the last war the people demanded more than they
gave. They wanted to spare themselves effort. —Petain on
“the causes of our defeat.”
Grave and weighty words, and let Australians, Britons
and Americans make the most of them.
In 1914 the number of births in Australia was
137,983 or 28.05 per 1000. In 1938, the population
having in the meantime increased by two mil-
lions, the figures were 120,415 or 17.46 per 1000.
The old enemy Death, despite medical advances and
new knowledge of health rules, had been forced back
only a little —from 10.51 to 9.64 per 1000. “The spirit
of pleasure prevailed over the spirit of sacrifice.”
A vast commercial exploitation of pleasure,
marked by deliberate excitations of the senses and
cunning propaganda that freedom means license, began
in the 1920’5. It found literary expression in the
“Flaming Youth” type of novel and spread rapidly
to the stage and the film and the radio.
Then the New Journalism sprang up. It set out
to glorify what it called the New Woman. It adver-
tised all sorts of alleged aids to beauty, it undressed
every young woman it could get hold of and photo-
graphed her. In effect, it told the women, by picture
and word, that unless they could be as the brats it
publicised then their chances were even slimmer than
the attenuated females it was cashing-in on.
And the New Journalism accelerated the move-
ment of the young woman into industry. She went to
“business,” or worked in a factory to get the money
to buy “aids” and clothes. And because she was cheaper
than the male her services were in demand, and the
young men—the young men who would have mar-
ried and fathered more men —were thrown on the
scrapheap.
Of course, where such were the circumstances
there couldn’t be children. Where people did marry,
the wife was ignorant of how to run a home, of what
bearing a child meant, of how to rear it. She found
that her idea of marriage—a flat with all mod. cons.
and a smart little car —excluded any idea of children,
and because pleasure must always be first the child had
to go. In this she was aided and abetted by her hus-
band, himself fed on the claptrap of “smart” editors
and writers, and the doings of “Flash” Moron or some
equally impossible character featured day by day.
And for those who wanted to avoid the “bother”
of having children, there were ample “ways,” almost
as widely advertised as the “ways” to beauty ; some-
times side by side. Often the young husband lost
his temper when he found his wife pregnant, or
refused to allow her to become so, because it was
going to cost something or because it meant losing
her company for a while. His idea of marriage was a
flat with mod. cons, and a smart little car, and he
couldn’t have them and children, too.
This has been going on for a score of years. It’s
showing out now in the engagement notices which still
find a place in the social columns. There, with a fre-
quency vividly illustrative of the position, we read of
only sons becoming engaged to only daughters. Some-
times the bridegroom is about to go to the war.
There are, of course, Australians still producing
comparatively large families. The pity is that their
numbers are shrinking, and that concentration of the
population in flats and tenements in bloated cities is
steadily worsening the position.
One thing is certain: there will have to be a new
and sane way of life. France had no use for cradles,
and France has fallen. If “the spirit of pleasure”
finally “prevailed over the spirit of sacrifice,” what has
happened in France would happen here.
"Put Me Down For a Couple."
“0.T.”: In its treatment of the war and war’s side
issues an astonishing lack of commonsense is dis-
played by the Sydney daily press. In nothing is this
more evident than in the sudden fever of “society”
leaders to get their names in print as being willing to
adopt European children orphaned or rendered home-
less by the war.
A fair sample is the lady who hoped she could
get a French child so that her own offspring might be
enabled to learn French. Why not go the whole hog
and have the offspring learn Dutch and Belgian as
well?
Adoption of a child needs very serious thought
and careful investigation when the would-be adopters
are seeking a child of their own nationality. Its
manifest complications when the child is from the
other side of the world should make even the most
feather-brained pause.
Yet, to judge by the piffle in the press, people
are rushing in as though it were white rabbits or pet
poodles they were expecting to get. It looks as if
many of the little foreigners who come here will be
regarded as something in the nature of lapdogs. When
they begin to grow, and the combination of the Aus-
tralian environment and the foreign temperament
starts to reach a head, the lapdog attitude will fade
rapidly and there will be much pain and misunder-
standing and cussing.
Kindness of heart and a deep sympathy for the
children undoubtedly inspire most of the offers ; all
the same it must be realised that adoption isn’t a
momentary thing, like taking up mah-jongg or a visit-
ing film star. In this complicated world the acquisi-
tion of a child is a matter full of many strange be-
wilderments ; the taking of someone else’s child is a
positive risk.
And the detestable habit of making the offers in
the public prints —like sending in one’s name for a
“bob-in” fund —should be squelched promptly and
permanently by every editor worthy of his blue-pencil.
Jonah and the Fish.
The Religious Editor gets off his bike:
Let me have a go at a scientific unbeliever who dis-
credits the yarn of Jonah and the fish.
“Scientifically speaking, Jonah could never have survived
his internment [Old Testament writers never thought of that
word] in the whale. To swallow Jonah the whale would
have had to suck him so deep under the water that he would
have been drowned. If he had not been drowned he would
have been suffocated or the whale’s digestive juices would
have killed him.”
Jonah is a short story which, had it been written by O.
Henry, would have been hailed as a masterpiece. Simply to
decry it because the author is some anonymous Hebrew
reveals a narrowness of outlook not commonly found in
Australia.
About 1600 words long, it would have been just right
for the A.8.C., and would have afforded commentators a
wonderful opportunity to show how the British Empire will
survive the German sea war. Indeed, had Jonah had the
foresight to stay in the fish and land later in Sydney Cove
he could have made a good thing out of an actuality broad-
cast.
As with all good short stories its real theme is in the last
few words. Jehovah, annoyed by the antics of the citizens
of Nineveh, ordered Jonah to go and tell them off. A peace-
able sort of bloke, Jonah disliked the idea, so he stowed
away on a ship to get out of it. But Jehovah sent a big
storm, which so knocked the ship about and continued so
long without actually sinking it that the crew, a pretty super-
stitious crowd, got the idea there must be a Jonah amongst
them. There was, and they promptly heaved him overboard,
whereupon the wind died down.
Up came a great fish (note that nothing has been said
about a whale —it could have been a barracouta). Downing
Jonah in one gulp, the great fish swam to the land and dis-
gorged him. Convinced now that Nineveh would have to be
told, Jonah made for the place and did so. Whether it was
his appearance, or because they were looking for something
new, the people astounded Jonah by taking him at his
word. They renounced'two-up, swapping of wives, drinking
after hours and other evils, and stopped themselves and their
domestic animals and birds from eating and drinking.
Was Jonah pleased? He was not! He’d got the idea
that Jehovah meant to destroy the place and, like all narks,
grew wild when he saw that nothing of the kind was to
happen. He finished up by wanting to throw his own alley
in. But Jehovah reasoned with him, pointing out that there
was no sense in destroying a thing that once was crook but
had come good, and that Nineveh contained more than
120,000 people who had been previously a bit ignorant of
right and wrong, “and also much cattle.”
The italics are the author’s, and in those last four words
lies the theme. What odds if the big fish was dragged in to
blow the story out a bit? Even Gentile writers do things like
that.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.”: As if the masculine mind wasn’t
already bewildered by the fancy uni-
forms in which large numbers of ladies
get about, a lot more are to appear on
the streets, in Sydney, anyhow. An
organisation known as “the Women’s
Australian National Services” has shot
up in that city, and it is to have a “State
director, two deputy-assistant-directors,
an organising committee (with power to
appoint sub-committees), an advisory
committee, sections, platoons, companies,
battalions, section leaders, platoon
leaders, lieutenants, captains, com-
manders,” and (of course!) “a special
uniform.” Members expect to be called the
“W.A.N.5.,” and if “Sydney” is prefixed
to the title everybody should be happy—
except perhaps the Prime Minister. That
worthy in his recent broadcast on the
increase and acceleration of the war effort
never once mentioned women, and I sus-
pect that the formation of the W.A.N.S.
or S.W.A.N.S. is a measure of retalia-
tion. Meanwhile, apart from the thou-
sands of munition girls, scores of thou-
sands of housewives, shopgirls, business-
girls and factory girls are content to knit
and sew for soldiers and refugees in
ordinary frocks and obscurity.
* * * *
“C.G.”: Can you beat the professors?
A professor of literature was billed to
deliver a lecture on French literature
on the day that country capitulated to
Hitler. When the news came through
he cancelled the lecture. Why? Subse-
quent history can’t alter French litera-
ture.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Sir Thomas Beecham’s
story, told to a Melbourne interviewer,
of how he set out on Lake Lucerne in
a rowboat to learn to play the trombone
and lost his instrument when a passing
pleasure craft upset his vessel recalls the
visiting virtuoso who was invited by a
Port Phillip yachtsman to take a trip
on Hobson’s Bay on a Sunday afternoon.
To make the trip more delightful, the
host shipped a piano aboard and placed
it on the cabin-top. They set out with a
gentle following breeze, and the air and
the sea and the harmonious ripple of
the wavelets so entranced the virtuoso
that he was easily induced to sit down
at the instrument and start playing Han-
del’s appropriate “Water Music.” All
went well until a back puff caused the
mainsail to jibe, and the boom swept
piano and virtuoso overboard.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: One of the toughest sal-
vage jobs in Melbourne’s history has
been the raising of the 90-ton Dutch
excavator which slid into a grave of its
own making at the Appleton Dock site.
Of the two local divers who were given
the job one was a naval diver at Scapa
Flow in the last war and saw the sinking
of the German Navy. The divers had
to go to Deniliquin to inspect a dredge
of the same design in order to get the
feel of the monster before they started
work on their latest- salvage job. Then
they spent 10 days—in 30ft. of water and
the loosest slime in Victoria—sawing the
derrick off with an oxyacetylene cutter,
thus reducing the weight to be lifted to
73 tons. The lump was lifted to the
surface with a wire rope whose breaking
strain was just two tons ahead of the
load. E. J. Johnston, the naval diver,
knows the floor of Bass Strait better than
its surface. He has walked miles along
it repairing the Victoria-Speck cable.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Bowled out genially by
officers at Sydney’s Martin-place recruit-
ing depot who refused to accept his age
as 39, a grey-headed chap put the re-
turned soldier’s badge back in his button-
hole. “Orright,” he said defiantly, “I
was at the last war! They said then, at
first, that I was too old ; but I proved I
wasn’t. And now here’s vouse making
the same mistake.”
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: There is plenty of initia-
tive left in the rural parts of Victoria.
When the ketch Pengana ran on a reef
200 yards off Tyrendarra, near Portland,
the problem of the fishermen who
took on the job of salvage was to get a
line from the beach to the ship without
any of the regulation equipment. A
boy’s kite was requisitioned, a tuna line
tied to its tail and a balloon and sinker
attached to keep the end on the surface.
Then the kite was floated over the wreck
to the salvage party, a shark line substi-
tuted for the tuna line, manila rope for
the shark line and a steel cable for the
“Parachute troops, ger'ral! Wot's the orders?”
manila rope. The bushman’s friend, the
forest devil, was then attached to the
cable and the ketch refloated.
“S.T.S.”: “D.E.” (B. 12/6/’4O) omits
one use to which jellied eels are put in
Whitechapel theatres and boxing-rings.
They, or the remnants of them, were in
my time the recognised thing for show-
ing practical disapproval of a performer
down on the- stage. But the greasy food
was not for London East-Enders only.
In my Cambridge days the first course
set before guests at any big Sunday-
morning breakfast was nearly always
stewed eel from the neighboring fens.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne musical criti-
cisism is becoming belligerent, and
people’s feelings are being hurt in con-
sequence. Up to date, however, nobody
has reached the merciless heights of a
former critic who did a concert, the
player being a pupil of a friend of mine
who had high hopes of his protege. The
young pianist was blind of one eye, and
could take in only three notes of his
score at a time, a bit of information
which was thoughtlessly passed round the
audience. The youth played a sonata of
Beethoven, and it is safe to say his per-
formance was as good as all but a few
musicians of his age in the city could
have accomplished. The next day the
eminent critic remarked: “It is said that
this pianist can only read three notes at
a time. It would have been better if
he could not read any.” There was an
aftermath. The youth, who had placed
all his hopes on a musical career, fainted
when he read the notice and lost the
sight of his remaining eye for ever.
* * * *
“Patrie”: Died in Newcastle (N.S.W.)
the other day, Phillipe Wibart, aged 88,
a former Sydney resident, who fought
for France against the Prussians in 1870.
He is believed to have been the last sur-
vivor of that war to have been living in
Australia, though it is not unique for a
former participant to survive a war by
70 years. The record of this kind is
claimed for two veterans of Oliver Crom-
well’s “Ironsides” who died aged respec-
tively 132 and 146, having survived their
campaigning days by approximately 100
years; and though the Crimean War
now sounds as if it belonged to a very
dim and distant past there are many
officers still serving in the British Army
who began their careers under Crimean
veterans.
* * * *
“X.S.”:. How’s this for devotion? A
peaceful-looking little woman was walk-
ing along a street in Melbourne when she
suddenly picked up a piece of road metal
and heaved it through a hotel bar
window. In rushing out to catch the
offender the licensee collided with the
stone-thrower, who was rushing in to
accept the responsibility. “Lock me
up,” she cried. “I have broken your
window,” and seizing a broom she started
to sweep up the pieces. A kindly-
natured Bung looked embarrassed, but
had no option but to hand her over to
the police. When she explained that
her motive was to be reunited to her hus-
band, who was languishing in prison
under a six months’ sentence for larceny,
he refused to sign a charge against her.
The lady retired, threatening to go back
and break another window if her request
was denied.
* * * *
“Nudder”: For four months men were
physically examined at a R.A.A.F. re-
cruiting depot in Sydney and nobody
worried about the windows. Then the
usual female wowser, having spotted the
horrid sight of a bare male shoulder or
something, rushed to the flapper press
with a complaint. “The men were
stripped,” she declared, in horror. And
the flapper paper, true to its tradition of
never missing a bet on the sex angle,
gave the lady’s complaint black head-
lines and double-column lead, and in-
quired of the M.O. at the depot what he
proposed to do about it. He probably
thought of many things he’d like to do,
but contented himself with the state-
ment : “I’ll have to get the windows
frosted.” Thus does Democracy close
its ranks against the threats of Tyrants.
* * * *
“Ming”: Add to curious mishaps a
chain accident that happened in a Syd-
ney suburb last week. A woman placed
a valuable vase containing flowers on
a narrow window-sill while she dusted
a table. Glancing round she noticed the
vase wobbling. In her dash to save it
she caught her finger in the net curtain
and the jerk dislodged the curtain-pole.
It hit her on the head ; she swung round
and put her shoulder through the
window-pane; the vase toppled through
the hole in the casement and showered
the baker who had just arrived at the
back door a floor below, ruined his
stock with water and broken glass, and
gave him a cut on one cheek. The whole
episode occupied about six seconds.
* * * *
“Kay C.”: History does repeat itself.
The following passages from a historical
novel published in 1892 might be cut-
tings from today’s newspapers:
What a fearful confusion the army was
falling into, without a commander or a
plan, dragged first one way and then an-
other, while the Germans went straight to
their goal with the precision of machinery.
Ever pressing onward, they were raising,
step by step, around Sedan their wall of
men and iron. Behind the first Prussian
line there was another one, and then an-
other and then another. Heroism re-
mained of no avail. Mow them down as
you might, there were always thousands
left standing. Disasters yet accumulated.
In the north Amiens had been abandoned,
and Rouen in its turn had fallen into enemy
hands. It seemed as though the whole of
France were burning, crumbling and sink-
ing amid the rageful cannonade. And one
day Paris was cut off from the world. The
Prussians entered Paris and occupied the
Champs Elysees, and a long howl of exe-
cration went up from every heart.
The story is Emile Zola’s Debacle, and
its last sentence leaves us some hope:
The ravaged field was lying waste, the
burnt house level with the ground, and
Jean, the humblest and most woeful, went
off marching towards the future—to the
laborious task of building up a new France.
* * * *
“Keewong”: Just-dead Maurice Mos-
covitch could quell an unruly audience
as effectively as Sir Thomas Beecham
can. When Maurice was playing Shy-
lock ip Sydney in 1925 kids who attended
in groups “to help on their studies”
made noisy nuisances of themselves, and
the efforts of ushers to keep them in order
were in vain. Moscovitch bided his
time till the second act, when Shylock
rebukes Launcelot for speaking out of
his turn. Stepping to the footlights with
a withering glare, the old tragedian de-
claimed “Who bids thee call? I do not
bid thee call.” The youngsters took the
hint and followed the rest of the play
in awed silence.
* * * *
“K. Ley”: What he calls an idea to
relieve war anxiety has been sprung on
a long-suffering public by a new species
of public nuisance who has initiated
“chain-telephone jokes.” The scheme is
to ring 10 friends and tell them a joke,
then invite them to ring 10 more and
so on. Sample of joke:
Why doesn’t the moon shine on a dark
night?
Well, why doesn’t it?
That’s just it, why doesn’t it?
The originator claims there are dozens
of good jokes like that waiting to be put
over, and adds that jokers have to re-
member they are not on the bowling
green (!), and must do a little censoring.
1 faithfully promise any joker who dis-
covers my number that there won’t be
enough blue in the censor’s pencil to
deal with my reaction.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The revival by Kings-
ley Wood of Andy Fisher’s “last man
and last shilling” reminds me. After dis-
embarkation leave the men in A.I.F.
camps in England were generally broke;
and scores used to hang over fences near
the Dorrington railway station when
troop trains brought in reinforcements
from Australia. Their technique was dis-
tinctly good. First of all the new arrivals
would be gibed about having only just
discovered that there was a war on ; when
reduced to humbleness they would be
told individually that they were pretty
game to enlist when they knew just how
horrible the war was. After that, they
were expected to shout. On one of these
pleasant afternoons a wisp of a man, in
comically ill-fitting uniform, straggled at
the rear of a bunch of new arrivals.
“Cripes!” exclaimed one of the fence-
leaners, “look at that bloke! They must
have sent the last man.” “Well,” said
his cobber, “if he’s the last man he may
have brought the last shilling with him.
Let’s chip him.” The chipping must have
been highly successful, for when the can-
teen closed that night the little chap was
still buying the drinks.
ON THE HOME FRONT.
Now is the time of test, the hour of trial,
To face whatever Fate may have in store,
Dangers beyond compute and past denial
Such as our race has never known before.
’Tis ours to fight, freely and firmly giving
Whate’er we may, till these dark days be
done,
For all that makes the life we lead worth
living—
Aye, and to fight as one.
Close up the ranks! A truce to factious
brawling,
Labels that cut and shibboleths that vex!
A Latin tag that’s better worth recalling
Is Salus Populi Suprema Lex.
The paltry party feuds we’re cursed and snared
with,
The things for which the rival salesmen shout
Should surely shrink to nothingness compared
with
The peril from without.
Throw planks and platforms to the winds if
need be,
Give partisan asperities a rest!
In times like these, no matter what their creed
be,
The call is for the ablest and the best.
None know what storm we may be set to
weather,
What to endure as surely as to do,
But, resolutely pulling all together,
Who doubts we’ll see it through?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Surely We can do SOMETHING, Muriel, to crush this awful Hitler!"
“P. Street”: Who says there’s no
hope' In an idle hour I wandered into
a Sydney hall and there found myself
among a group of people whose eyes
were fastened on a speaker. In a voice
charged with the solemnity of grave
events he assured them that the floor of
the Pacific would rise ere long and a
new continent greet the sun. He seemed
to think the habit would spread, or that
the Yanks wouldn’t let us get away with
such an achievement, for in the next
breath he said the Atlantic floor would
perform the same feat. And what of the
displacement of water? Easy; the
“northern worn-out countries of Europe
will disappear under the sea!” Their
peoples are to move into the great new
southern continents! To grasp this fully,
it became necessary to “pass to the super-
mental level,” a performance achieved
by relaxing the body, keeping the spine
erect and taking seven rhythmic breaths.
I regret that, being unable to discover
what a rhythmic breath was, I failed to
reach the desired level.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: I see be the papers where
a parson bloke in London partly paid
the debt off the parish hall by giving
every member of his flock a shilling,
telling ’em the Biblical story of the
talents, and then turning ’em loose on
the unsuspecting public. They turned the
deeners into big money by trading an
other things, and the parson—must ve
been a shrewd head —didn’t ask ’em how
they did it. Just as well, p’raps. I mind
a parson who gave 20 persons a quid
each with the same object and got back
£BO-odd. He never knew it, but four
of ’em popped the frogskins at 10 to 1
on a nag that rolled home at a pony
meeting far away.
“K.L.”: Sight of a bunch of pretty
V.A.D. girls cantering round a hospital
recalled the bashful young Digger from
beyond Milparinka who encountered one
of the earnest young ladies and said,
“Excuse me, miss, but would y mind
tellin’ me what them letters on y’ arm
mean?” She told him. “Aw,” he said,
suddenly red, “the blokes mustve bin
havin’ me on.” Smiling encouragingly
she pressed for an explanation and at
last got it out of him. “Well,” he said,
“them silly cows told me it meant
virgins and doubtfuls.” Whereupon the
inquisitive * *
“Strict Veg.”: Being a general may be
a healthy occupation (B. 12/6/’4O), but
being a world-conquering dictator isn t.
Attila’s career of conquest lasted for
eight years, Caesar’s and Alexander’s for
five years. Napoleon was the longest
stayer, with 11 years. They all started
young, Alexander being 22 when he
crossed the Hellespont and began to
march across the face of Asia.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: Had “Oxmead” (B.
12/6/’4O) turned up his Henry Lawson he
would have found a verse in support of
his contention that it was the, hustling
newcomers from the eastern States and
not “people living in the eastern States
who were termed “T other-siders by
Westralians. Lawson went to Westralia
with his young wife in 1896, and two years
later wrote a verse called “Sydney-side”
in which he depicted the longing of a
Nef South Wefshmen “toiling out be-
yond Coolgardie” for the joys of the Ma
State’s capital city The last stanza ran,
if I remember rightly, as follows.
“T’other-siders! T’other-siders!” Yet we wake
For'ww? thafsent the backward province
We fi that S trim Australia— making narrow
Yet we’r? always T’other-siders till we sail
for Sydney-side. # *
“T ao-dah” * Mrs. /Eneas Gunn’s We
of he Never Never (B. 12/6/’4O) suffered
the usual experience of He eventual
classic. It was first offered to , C( ™f ab.e
in 1908 and promptly rejected. Then it
was successively tried by ds author on
Blackie, Chambers, Jack and (in despair
no doubt) on the Religious
Tract Society. Finally
Hutchinson accepted it, and
cold out an edition ot
25,000. Then the type metal
was commandeered by the
British Government for war
purposes, and it was not till
1923 that the book was re-
set and reprinted. Its subse-
quent sales, including a
school edition published by
Robertson and Mullins, ot
Melbourne, now total
240,000.
“Cent”: Holy Trinity Church, Miller’s
Point (Sydney), celebrates its centenary
this week. It was built as a sort of olf-
shoot to St. Phillip’s at the top of Church
Hill the foundation stone being laid on
June 23, 1840. It is one of the few city
churches which have never been com-
pleted, though when it was built it stood
in the midst of a wealthy parish In the
early ’fifties an ambitious rebuilding
project was launched but never finished.
In the school hall George Reid and
Edmund Barton received part of their
early education. In the old days the
garrison stationed in Sydney used to
attend this church each Sunday in all
their scarlet finery.
* * * *
“0.P.”: Long years ago an aeroplane
momentarily infested the sky over_my
native Victorian Mallee village. While
we gaped in wonder an old lady declared
righteously, “No good will come of it,
you mark my words. If man had been
meant to fly God would have given him
wings!” In these latter months, review-
ing the doings in Europe and gazing
ahead at a grim future, I’ve come to the
conclusion she uttered a wise mouthful.
* * * *
“0.5.8.”: The debacle in France is
likely to deprive champagne drinkers of
their beverage for some time to come.
The home of the vin chantant was
cruelly devastated during the 1914-18
war, when at least 40 p.c. of the vine-
yards were destroyed, and it speaks
worlds for the energy of the Champen-
nois that no sooner was the Armistice
declared in 1918 than all classes set to
work to set their houses in order —with
the result that the 1920 harvest resulted
in the garnering of seven million gal-
lons (the 1913 average output was no
more than ten million gallons). The
district owed its prosperity to Dorn
Perignon, who was cellarer to the Abb^y
of Haut-Villers in the seventeenth cen-
tury. He discovered the secret of the
best blends and methods of fermentation
to produce champagne. Of the Abbey
only the church remained at the outbreak
of the present war, and in the crypt Dom
Perignon lies buried.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A plausible “doctor,” who
admitted he is not one, has gone to
gaol in Adelaide for five months. Owning
up to a dozen convictions in N.S.W. and
Victoria, he said he had come to
S.A. intending to start on the right
path, but got off on the wrong foot—l
must have a kink or something.” He had
found good-natured people to lend him
money, and his unpaid hotel bill of £7 in-
cluded close on £2 for champagne.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Eric Partridge, the Queens-
lander who settled long ago in England
and has made a name for himself as
an authority on the more dubious aspects
of the English, language, has found
time in these strenuous days to contribute
an article to “John o’ London’s” on the
cliche. “A cliche,” he says, “is an out-
worn commonplace; a phrase, a short
sentence that has become so hackneyed
that careful speakers and scrupulous
writers shrink from it because they feel
that its use is an insult to the intelli-
gence of their audience.” He quotes
some dreadful examples—“ Much of a
muchness,” the now pointless lock, stock
and barrel,” “the Iron Duke,” the
doublets “bag and baggage,” “rack and
ruin,” and so forth and so on. But
there is a danger in being too superior
to the common speech of the people,
of falling into a fresh pit if a writer
becomes too self-conscious about it and
starts to coin new metaphors. As G.B.S.
has suggested, many of the metaphors
sanctified by Shakspeare were probably
the cliches and commonplaces of his
period. And, of course, Mr. Partridge’s
own pet word “hackneyed” is a cliche .
It is derived from “hackney coach,”
which was once a vehicle for common
use, and hence “hackneyed” once con-
veyed the meaning “worn out, made
commonplace by frequent use. If he
was going to be really up to date he
should have said “motorbused.”
* * * *
“Egyptologhost”: Why should the
spine of an Egyptian princess be more
potent as an evil-bringer (B. 19/6/ 4Uj
than, say—the head of Oliver Cromwell
or a piece of the skeleton of Charles I.
Cromwell’s head was exhumed in 1660
and is still missing. It is supposed to be
in the possession of a private collector
of such curios, but his identity has not
been revealed so far by any series of un-
toward happenings. Charles I s coffin
was discovered accidentally in the vaults
in Windsor in 1813, and when the coffin
was opened in the presence of the Prince
Regent (afterwards George IV) a piece
of Charles’s vertebrae became detached
from the corpse and was appropriated by
George as a souvenir. This souvenir re«
mained at Windsor (without apparently
causing any derangements in the roya
family) until 1888, when the then Prince
of Wales (aftenvards Edward Vll) re-
turned it- with his own hand to the coffin
of his distant kinsman.
"You mugs have gone an' put the blarsted fire out."
MORE LADYLIKE.
“Haven’t yon as much intestinal fortitude as your
parents Dorothy Dix 3 in Sydney “Sun.”
Some words habitually flung
About by plain and forthright men
Will scarce befit a woman’s tongue
And mustn’t slip from off her pen
Lest they occasion shocked tut-tuts
In any drawing-room cabal.
So here’s a paraphrase for
In fortitude intestinal.
In bygone days a coward became
One with no stomach for the fight;
Not only was his heart to blame,
They also termed his liver white.
We’ve always known these sabre-cuts
Of Saxon speech and always shall;
But let not ladies tell of ,
It’s fortitude intestinal.
“Pluck” is another simile,
And one that nobody indicts
As vulgar, though the obvious key
Thereto is simply “liver and lights.
It’s risen from its humble ruts
To be a word that any gal
May use, yet she should soften ——
To fortitude intestinal.
How quaint are the unwritten laws
By modern Mother Grundys made
To give a dame or damsel pause
Before she calls a spade a spade!
But this authority no buts,
Shirley and Sadie, Sue and Sal.
Your sex’s synonym for
Is fortitude intestinal.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


9 iL J °l 001
9/I JO * 0Z
01
a 6
m
m
OS
m
w
nss®*
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
75 ty 10*
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
M
$
J
2817
POLITICAL POINTS
Australian businessmen who arrived at
their offices on Tuesday of last week full
of the news of Petain’s surrender got
another shock when they looked at the
chronological note on the office calendar.
It was the 125th anniversary of the Battle
of Waterloo.
In 1915, when things were going badly
for the French, General de Castelnau
said to Repington, of the “Times,”
“Rather than accept defeat by Germany,
as in 1870, the whole French race would
perish on the battlefield. Yes, the whole
French race.” There has been a differ-
ence since.
There were commanding majorities for
the Emergency Powers Bill —59 to 10 in
the House and 28 to 3 in the Senate.
Opponents in both Chambers were drawn
from both Labor groups: Beasley, Rose-
vear, Mulcahy, Gander, Sheehan, Ward,
Brennan, Blackburn, Pollard and Dr.
Maloney, Ms.H.R., and three of the “A”
Senators. Arthur, perhaps fearing that
Max Steinbuchel and his undiscovered
oil wells might be grabbed, voted with
Armstrong and Amour of the Lang Non-
Commo. crowd. They helped to drag the
debate out for six hours, and the Senate
gave its assent to the bill when Hitler was
dictating terms to France.
Fortified by the Federal A.L.P. con-
ference, Curtin refused to join a national
Government. Parliament, he said, is the
place for argument and disputation, not
a coalition Cabinet; and he regards it
as his responsibility to see that the Emer-
gency Powers are not abused. Everyone
sees the point and respects his attitude—
except the Stunt Press and some alleged
Laborites.
Statement issued from Canberra by
“Mr. W. Evans, general secretary of the
A.L.P. in N.5.W.,” which is supposed
to support Curtin and McKell, on the
day Curtin voted for the Emergency
Powers Bill:
I say definitely that Labor will not ratify
•any such treacherous Act.
And that night the Sydney Labor
Council sullenly refused to join in a
trade-union advisory panel, as part of
its war “effort,” because Menzies had
asked for it. If Stalin asked for a
trade-union advisory panel some of those
fellows would be down on their knees
licking his boots.
Britain is getting some return from
American Jewry for championing the
cause of their race. There are about five
times as many Jews in New York City as
there are in the whole of Palestine, and
this fact cannot be dissociated from the
strong pro-British attitude of New York
papers like the “Times” and the “Herald
“Tribune.” Governor Lehman, who is a
Jew, is also actively pro-British.
Daily papers and national broadcast-
ing stations, British and Australia, have
an annoying habit of inserting scraps of
news between huge layers of comment.
Karl von Wiegand’s interview with Hitler
is a case in point; though the public
would have been interested in every word
it was fobbed off with small portions,
some being embedded in a long account
of what Mr. Harold Nicolson thought
of the thing. Sometimes the comment
precedes the news. Thus newspaper
readers were informed that President
Roosevelt had said his Republic’s frontier
was “on the Rhine.” If he did say it,
Baldwin anticipated him ; and the good
Baldwin seems to have thought that the
frontier could be defended with battle-
axes.
Having oiled “the greatest fighting
machine history has ever known, the
Russian Red Army” (Sydney “Tele-
graph,” August, 1937), Stalin has grabbed
Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia and set
up puppet governments of “Left-Wing
patriots.” Until 1939 the old German
port of Memel was included in Lithuania,
and Danzig is not far away. Pointing
to these facts, and without pausing to
shed a tear over the fate of three more
little nations, those inextinguishable
optimists the Russian-alliancers are say-
ing once more that the scared Moscow
brigand is coming in on our side.
That brisk political lawyer R. W.
Mackay is back in Australia again. When
he returned previously he was an enthu-
siast for intervention (though not, of
course, for conscription) and a Russian
alliance, that being the policy of the
Labor party with which he threw in his
lot in England ; and he had a towering
“Allied activity in Abyssinia has resulted in Haile Silassie emerging from
retirement in England.”
“Well, it still fits.”
contempt for appeasement and the
Chamberlain Government, “the worst
England has ever had since the days of
Lord North.” The unsuccessful can-
didate is now a Churchill man, though
he handsomely admits that Churchill’s
“inspiring leadership” and “the courage,
initiative and ability” he shares with
Menzies have not worked wonders:
I left England twelve days ago. The
position is very grave. The attempted in-
vasion of England is not merely probable
—it is certain.
Mr. Mackay, it seems, “left England
twelve days ago” to pay out chin-music
in Australia on the Federation of
Europe!
For the moment, at least, one source
of tension in the Pacific has been
lessened, the French having acceded to
Japan’s demand to put a stop to the
traffic in arms between Indo-China and
the remnants of the Chinese Government
which have sought refuge under Chiang
Kai-shek at Chungking. Chiang has been
getting arms via the Indo-China route
for a long time. When this source dries
up it will be difficult for him to carry
on in his fastness on the Yangtzse River.
It is backed by a vast range of moun-
tains with only coolie paths across them.
The British Ginger Press and its imi-
tators here are beginning to jump on one
of their idols, of “sanctions” celebrity.
Anyway they are performing like this:
Mr. Churchill, who is facing brilliantly
a task which no Prime Minister has ever
before had to face, is hampered by some
people round him who are totally incap-
able of being infected by his drive, resolu-
tion and imagination... .Mr. Eden has
been a disappointment in most of his port-
folios, and it remains to be seen whether
he will improve on past performances at
the War Office.
All the same, Eden still has a following
in Australia among League of Nations
Union pundits, ladies and the very
young. His admirers cling to the notion
that if he had had his own way he would
have beaten our enemies somehow with-
out recourse to the vulgar business of
arming.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader McKell has
urged Menzies to make greater use of
State Parliament instrumentalities in the
war effort. Nice of him, but what the
blazes could Menzies do with the Sydney
Milk Board, the Select Committee of In-
quiry into Trotting and the N.S.W.
Agent-General, apart from the other 300
or so boards and commissions eating up
finances? Still, if McKell insists, most
of N.S.W. would willingly hand over him-
self and Mair to Canberra.
“One People, One Task,” was the head-
ing chosen by a Melbourne morning
paper for its leading article asking for
a national Government. It should have
added “One Government.”
It now seems likely that we are to
have seven “Works Co-ordinators,” the
N.S.W. Government getting in with an
appointment immediately after Canberra.
State Parliaments never miss a chance to
consolidate themselves by such moves,
probably working on the theory that the
more departments they can create the
more appalling becomes the task ot
abolishing them.
One cheering aspect of our system is
that Hitler would never be able to break
through the red tape entanglements that
cover us.
Shakspeare reported a precedent for
these June events (“King Henry VI:
First Part”):
Scene, Westminster Abbey. Enter a
messenger.
Sad tidings bring I to you out of France
Of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture:
Guienne, Champaigne, Rheims, Orleans,
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers are all quite lost.
(Duke of Gloucester):
Is Paris lost? Is Rouen yielded up?
How were they lost? What treachery was
used?
No treachery, but want of men and money.
Among the soldiers this is muttered....
One would have ling’ring wars, with little
cost;
Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings;
A third man thinks, without expense at all,
By guileful fair words peace may bo
obtained.
There was even a precursor of King
Leopold —“a base Walloon” who
“thrust” the English general “with a spear
into the back.” But the English general
broke away, and it all ended in a peace
satisfactory to “the crown of England.”
“Our perspective,” as outlined by
Sydney “Daily News” (since, unfortu-
nately, bought out of the receiver’s hands
by the Theodore-Packer Consolidated
Press): —•
Not a nation torn with class strife, but
a united free people fighting for its liberty
and right to civilised life—we are closely
watching this [Menzies] Government and
its influential advisers.
Something seems to have got out of
perspective.
Pretty problem in algebra, set by Syd-
ney “D.T.” in giving Australia leader-
ship :
We must have the ablest Government
that the brains of Australia can offer,
whether it be led by Mr. Menzies, Mr.
Curtin or Mr. X.
Of course, if X equals Theodore, every-
thing is squared and the country moves
to the nth power.
The Dunstan crowd in Victoria spent
almost a whole day “discussing” ways in
which the State might assist the Com-
monwealth’s war effort. One minute
would have sufficed for a motion to sus-
pend the State Parliament for the dura-
tion, but this, though easily the greatest
service Dunstan could render Australia,
wasn’t give a thought.
Unable itself to decide whether Traut-
wein, the Sydney “sport,” had committed
an “infamous crime” warranting expul-
sion by trying to dodge taxes and lying
about it, the Uppah House referred the
momentous point to Justice Maxwell,
sitting as a Court of Disputed Returns.
His Honor ruled that “infamous” was
the word, so out goes Trautwein. An-
other election is to be held if members
of the alleged Parliament can be col-
lected. The public wouldn’t care if
candidates tossed for the honor in one
of Trautwein’s pubs.
The Hungarian Premier, Count Teleki,
on “the French decision to seek peace”:
For Germans it is an occasion for glory
and satisfaction—for Hungarians an occa-
sion for joy. Europe cannot pass this
event without congratulating the German
leader.
In those pretty little tables the Stunt
Press used to be so fond of publishing,
those comforting arithmetical arrange-
ments which showed how the
“democrats” (Russians first) dwarfed the
totalitarians, Hungarians were numbered
on our side.


WAR WORK.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE SO5 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE ............ St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.G.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE FALL IN SHARE
PRICES.
THE OUTLOOK ANALYSED.
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL...
YOU can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for informative
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of
the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Harry Brown, appointed Co-ordinator
General of Works, knows something
about co-ordinating vast activities that
have got muddled. As post-office boss
he took over a service which had been
tied up in red-tape by politicians to
such, an extent that it had been rendered
almost incapable of movement. Before
that he was co-ordinating channels
of communication in Britain’s telephone
system in 1914, when cable cos. were
given 24 hours to run a cable from
Cornwall to Bordeaux in order to keep
London in touch with the French Gov-
ernment fleeing from Paris. Earlier still
he was sent on a similar mission to India,
He was born in 1878 at Sunderland,
England.
Frith has not been kind to Thomas
Church, N.S.W. manager of the National
Bank, who retires next month, but Church
CHURCH, of the “National.”
is too much of a philosopher to mind
what caricaturists do to him. If he
decides to write his reminiscences all
those who have heard him relate some
of them will buy the book. He was in
Westralia during the Roaring Days, and
knew most of the memorable characters
of that adventurous period, Hoover,
afterwards President of the U.S.A.,
among them. A keen judge of men, as
bankers have to be, the veteran did not
place Hoover first.
As Queensland’s Chief Justice, James
Blair succeeded McCawley, who died
suddenly; now Blair’s successor, Hugh
Macrossan, has died suddenly, only five
weeks after he was sworn in. Son of an
old-time Queensland statesman who
helped to build Federation, Macrossan.
with his raven-black hair and flashing
eyes, was the handsomest youngster under
a wig at the Brisbane Bar, and his ability
was equal to his good looks. In 1926,
when he had been 19 years at the Bar,
he became a Puisne Judge. He was well
read, had a witty tongue, and was an
excellent raconteur. He was 59 at the
end.
Died last week, James Ryan, for many
years a member of the N. S. Wales Leg.
Council. Born in Ireland, he came to
N. S. Wales as a young man, and was
for a while assistant road superintendent
in the Orange and Lithgow districts. He
then became a journalist, and for 38
years was managing editor of the Lith-
gow “Mercury.” He was a very good
journalist and a fine old boy altogether.
Appointed to the Leg. Council in 1917,
Ryan became a Minister without port-
folio in the Bavin and Stevens Cabinets,
1927-38. Lithgow and the country press
owed a lot to him; he served as pre-
sident of the Country Press Association
and the Australian Provincial Press Asso-
ciation.
Died at 58 in Melbourne, Edward S.
Gotch, director of Gordon and Gotch,
the Australasian newspaper distributors.
He was a son of John Speechley Gotch,
who founded the firm after giving up
seafaring. E.S. worked assiduously at his
business and devoted his leisure to golf
and racing.
The Leane family, which, headed by
Brig.-Gen. Raymond Lionel Leane, was
one of the greatest of the fighting fami-
lies of the first A.1.F., will have a repre-
sentative now in the new A.I.F. He
is Lieut. Geoff Leane, younger of the
two detective sons of the general, who is
S.A. Police Commissioner. Historian
Bean dubbed Geoff’s father the “most
famous fighting general in the A.1.F.”
He was once a storekeeper at Kalgoorlie,
rose to captain in the militia in the West
and farmed there for a while after the
war.
Planning boss for the proposed
£3,000,000 water supply pipeline from
Morgan, on the Murray, 240 miles
to Whyalla, on Spencer’s Gulf, is Hugh
Thomas Mofiitt Angwin, engineer-in-
chief of S.A. This ex-A.I.F. man has
spent about half his life on Murray
works, including lock and weir construc-
tion, and the Lake Victoria storage from
1914 to L 929 (minus two years at the
war), and more recently the rearing of
the five Murray-mouth barrages. In be-
tween whiles he was the Harbors Board’s
chief engineer for a term. He went
through the Adelaide School of Mines
and Uni.
“Paddy” Ohlstrom, dead at 49 after
an operation, was a well-known Adelaide
citizen, as a lawyer, as a Sheffield Shield
cricketer and particularly as a pioneer
and later a veteran expert of baseball.
He had four years service in the 1914-18
war.
Flying-Officer lan Russell, reported
missing in France, is the son of Frank
Russell, a Melbourne barrister, who gave
up the law for writing after winning the
£lOOO De Garis prize for the best Aus-
tralian novel. Frank joined Melbourne
“Herald” and became its most picturesque
special writer, being sent on several mis-
sions, including a world tour, during
which he interviewed Roosevelt, the
Pope, Mussolini and most of the royalties
and political heads of Europe. The
son was educated at Ivanhoe (Vic.)
Grammar, learnt flying at 15, and was
reputed to be the youngest aviator in
Victoria. He joined the R.A.F. after his
father’s death from pneumonia in Lon-
don. He has been awarded the D.F.C.
for destroying 10 German ’planes and
saving a fellow-officer’s life by guiding
a trawler to his shot-down ’plane.
Hubert Wilkins, the Australian ex-
plorer, has been recently in Paris repre-
senting a group of American manufac-
turers of aeroplane fuselages and had
to make his escape to Bordeaux on a
bicycle. When he was 24 he went from
his birthplace, South Australia, to Turkey
and accompanied the Turkish troops in
the 1912 Balkan War as a press
photographer. He was last in Australia
to collect funds for a submarine trip to
the North Pole. Most people were scep-
tical about it, but he had no more ardent
believer in it than his wife, who was with
him. He was an official photographer
in the 1914-18 war.
Victoria Country Roads Board’s new
chairman is Louis Francis Loder, an
engineer of 43 who got his experience
under Calder, for whom the State erected
a memorial—the Australian-tree-lined
Calder Highway from Melbourne to
Geelong. Loder joined the C.R.B. in
1923 and was appointed highways
engineer after the declaration of the first
State highway. He became chief engi-
neer after the death of his chief and
started to cut down costs by introducing
the use of local materials and the “road
mix seal” which has given the Cabbage
State the most comprehensive network
of good roads in Australia. He was
born at Sale, educated at Wesley, served
in the R.A.A.F. in the Great War and
got a mention in dispatches.
Born at Dunfermline (Scotland),
whence fared forth Andrew Carnegie,
great benefactor of libraries, was bespec-
tacled, 57-year-old Kenneth Binns, newly-
appointed president of the Australian
Institute of Librarians. Coming to Aus-
tralia as a boy, Binns was educated at
Sydney Grammar and Sydney Uni. He
began his career at the Fisher Library
in 1900, and 11 years later was appointed
cataloguer at the National Library, Can-
berra, becoming its chief in 1923, Be-
sides being the Australian representative
of the International Institute for Intel-
lectual Co-operation of the League of
Nations, Binns administers the Carnegie
grant for supplying Australia’s outlying
territories with books. He recreates with
bowls and cabinet-making.
Passed over at 61 at Ascot Vale (Vic.)
Charles John Mullins, an original trustee
and until his death chairman of trustees
of the Victorian branch of the R.S.L.
Mullins began his interest in the League
in 1915, the year of its establishment.
He went to the Boer War with a Vic-
torian contingent, and in the 1914-18
war served in the Light Horse with the
rank of captain.
Architect James Campbell Irwin, mem-
ber of the Adelaide firm with the mara-
thon name of Woods, Bagot, Laybourne
Smith and Irwin, has hung up his T-
square to be a captain in the present
J.C. IRWIN.
A.I.F. He’s 34, has represented Gawler
on Adelaide City Council for the last
five years, and is a member of the council
of St. Mark’s College. Golf, tennis and
lacrosse kept him fit in peace-time.
When that old Labor stalwart, John
Barnes, passed out last year, his place
in the Senate was taken by James Michael
Sheehan, a veteran of 30 years’ standing
in the movement. Born, as the poet says,
“of poor but honest parents who lived
in Castlemaine,” the Senator joined the
Victorian Railways and the A.R.U. at
about the same time. Later he became
organiser to the union, and travelled most
of the States. He was unopposed when
nominated for the presidency of the Vic.
branch of the A.L.P. last week.
Rev. Peter A. Smith, recently elected
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church
in N. S. Wales, is a quiet-spoken country
clergyman who for 30 years has occupied
the manse at Warialda. His principal
REV. P.A. SMITH.
interest outside the affairs of his own
district hitherto has been the Bourke
North-west Mission. He served as a
chaplain with the first A.I.F. During
the next twelve months he intends to
travel the State, visiting every Presby-
terian district.
Phil Whelan, now living in retire-
ment at Dee Why (Sydney), has
had adventures enough for half a
dozen men in his 66 years. At 14
he ran away from his home in Sydney
and shipped on a Yankee boat bound
with coal for Coquimbo. For 12 years
he roamed the world and got in and out
of a succession of stirring scraps. He
settled down for a spell as a meteorologist
in Australia, then took a job as an over-
seer on the phosphate fields of Ocean
Island. He was in the Solomon Islands
in 1914, came back to Australia, enlisted
in the A.I.F. and was wounded at Vil-
lers-Bretonneux. Discharged as totally
and permanently disabled, he took to col-
lecting Australian books, built up a fine
library, with sheaves of letters from the
authors, and presented the collection to
the National Library at Canberra. Every
week he adds several books to the col-
lection.
“Cauboy’s” valedictory to a tragedian:
I well remember the arrival in Australia of
Maurice Moscovitch, dead at 65. It was an-
nounced that he was the greatest living exponent
of Shakspeare. He opened at Melb. Royal
in 1924 in “The Merchant of Venice,” but
his Shylock was by no means a marvellous
performance. Then he put on a series of
Edgar Wallace thrillers, which grew tripier and
tripier until they culminated in a piece in which
a mad monk stabbed a pillar and a stream of
gold poured into the footlights. This was good
box-office, and started a dreadful boom in
thrillers which ended with Gladys Moncrieff
appearing at the Palace in one in which a
diseased man chased passengers over a Zeppelin.
So many people were alleged to have fainted
at these displays that nurses and doctors were
present at performances, and ambulances waited
outside. When the tragedian paid Australia a
second visit he played “The Ringer, “The
Terror” and such masterpieces. In curtain
speeches he referred to the depravity of the
public taste and deplored the necessity for
playing down to it. His son, Nat Madison,
is a better actor than Mosco ever was.


This
is what
you need
>
\ .
vxJmWAsmwvmmsmm®
■ " . ..«$
aSWSSSSSSX? ._...< yjg88ft£8SS
for long, sound sleep
COR the mind that is anxious and finds no rest, there is calm and friendly
comfort in White Horse Whisky. This noble spirit, full of years, is famed
for a deep and gentle glow that gives tone to the tired body, new strength to
the overstrung nerves. To-night, at your usual bed-time, take some White
Horse Whisky in a glass of hot milk. Sleep, that you have sought so long,
will come and stay till morning.
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch Whisky, matured and
maturing, ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies.
Screw-cap flasks on sale everywhere.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat and I once had a
job looking after sheep on an isolated
outstation west of Balranald (N.S.W.).
As anyone who has been alone with a
mate for any length of time knows, we
soon began to pick on each Either, and
I was far the worse of the two. We’d
argue about nothing and regard small
accidents as personal attempts at injury,
until it reached the stage where we lived
in a state of perpetual bickering. One
morning Mat suggested diffidently that
we muster the sheep for fly. Still hot
from some previous nastiness, I let out a
scornful “Bah!” Mat considered this in
silence, then went to his bunk and began
to roll his blankets. A bit upset, I
watched. Then he began to roll mine.
“Here,” I said, “what’s the game?” He
gave me a funny look and replied,
“When a bloke starts t’ act like a sheep
it ain’t so bad, nor even when he begins
t’ look like one ; but when he starts t’
talk like one, it’s time we both got out.”
We got.
* * * *
“Saltwater Fellah”: Arnhem Land
abos. select wild-goose camps as their
annual meeting grounds. Towards the
end of October the dry season swamps
have become boggy. Fat geese are there,
but cannot fly owing to mud on their
feet and feathers. It is here, too, during
the wet season that the “goose-wing”
tribal invitation corroborees are enacted,
so food must be plentiful. The birds
are nesting in tens of thousands, and
tons of eggs are gathered up in quaint
one-man canoes which are specially
made to glide over the long grass that
totally hides the waters beneath.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: As a full-blown bagman
of the Australian tracks I’ve always been
interested in the tramps and hobos of
other countries, a circumstance which set
me wondering lately about how a bag-
man gets on in a place like France when
a first-class stoush breaks loose and the
roads are crowded with tanks and bombs
and things. How’d a man feel, camped
on the stock route outside a town and
sizing it up for handouts, when a mob
suddenly rushed out of the place and
guns started goin’ off? Imagine me, sit-
tm’ on me swag, takin’ it all in, and a
big German rushes up and pokes a
bayonet at me chest. Strike me, it’d take
17 pots to put a man on his feet again.
♦** ♦ °
James W.”: Bullocks in the slaughter-
ing pens do go frantic (B. 22/5/’4O), but
in 1916, in the old Biboohra meatworks
(N.Q.) one put on his turn after he’d
been through the killing crush. The
crush side was a spring door that swung
outwards and upwards as the beast
dropped to roll out on to the slaughter-
ing floor. This one took half a dozen
wallops to down him. When he did
drop he rolled out in correct order, but
promptly got up again. What with yell-
ing men, carcasses, buckets and a huge
and thoroughly annoyed bullock skating
about the slippery concrete floor, Donny-
brook Fair took on a tame aspect.
Bellows and curses faded as the bullock
found a drier foothold outside and de-
parted. The locals got in a spot of snip-
ing and brought the ruins back in a dray.
Dissection revealed a bony process, over
an inch thick and as hard as ivory, grow-
ing over his frontal bone and extending
"T reated 'er like one o' the fam'ly for twenty year, and that's what she
does to us!"
backward between the horns for some
five inches. The sheer impetus of the
wallops had bowled him over in the
crush, but nothing short of a trip-hammer
would have stunned him.
* * * *
“Nisi Prius”: In a recent English case
Scott, L.J., ruled that camels were no
longer wild, but by virtue of their long
association with man could be classed as
domestic. The decision is in line with
that given by the W.A. Full Court in
1917. The somewhat startling paradox
results that although camels are tame
animals case law has established that,
along with lions, oysters and winkles are
wild.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Church Sunday in a
Murray River hamlet, a monthly event
for which the district faithful gathered
in the tiny fain hidden under the gums
and kurrajongs in the bend, while the
more sinful gathered in the pub up the
road. This particular Sunday was hot and
breathless with imminent thunder. Breath-
less also was the congregation as Tom
the Terror, “the worst man in Riverina,”
wandered up the aisle and dropped into
a seat. The minister, silently full of
praise for the evident interest in his dis-
course, launched a sermon on violent and
drunken men who worked evil in the
world. Everybody except himself felt
that it was all meant for Tom, though
Tom seemed blissfully unaware of the
condemnation. Came the final hymn and
the exodus. At the door the minister
shook hands with his flock. Came Tom,
who found his hand grabbed and an
earnest voice saying, “Very glad to see
you ; how did you like it?” “Bonzer,”
said Tom enthusiastically; “easily the
coolest joint in the town.”
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Goats mightn’t go bush in
Australia (B. 12/6/’4O), but in M.L. it’s
different. For years Great Barrier Island,
in the Hauraki Gulf, near Auckland, was
noted for its herds of wild goats, which,
safe from assault in deep valleys and on
forest-clad hills, lived their carefree lives.
When the s.s. Wairarapa was wrecked in
’94, she piled up on a tiny beach at the
foot of the 700 ft. cliffs that guard the
Great Barrier’s northern end. Among
the survivors huddled in the little cove
were two seamen from the wrecked ship
who scanned the sheer cliffs and reluc-
tantly decided that there was no hope
of getting to assistance that way. As they
looked a goat skipped over the face of
the precipice and lightly descended
several hundred feet. That settled it.
Where goats could descend A.B.’s could
climb up, and the courageous men began
the perilous ascent. Thus the first news of
the tragedy, involving great loss of life,
was given to the isolated homesteads of
Port Fitzroy, and the castaways were
rescued by launches and small boats.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: When I pulled
ashore today the joyful and uplifted ex-
pression borne by my friend Tommy
as he waited at the jetty steps made me
sniff suspiciously for the odor of rum.
Odor there certainly was, but one sug-
gestive rather of something long dead
and crying aloud for decent burial.
“Come inter the shed,” he whispered
mysteriously. Got something ter show
yec Dick. Made me forchin in one
hit.” Closing the door carefully he in-
dicated a lump of filthy blackish material
lying on a bag and amply explaining
the smell. “Ambergreze, Dick,” he
announced. “Found it floatin’ orf the
Coolum Wide in its own grease. Worth
a fiver a ounce and over six flamin’
pound of it! ” I have seen ambergris,
that queer product of diseased sperm
whales which has the strange power of
intensifying scents, and this did not look
like it. Cautious investigation with a
stick revealed a skewer and some string,
hitherto totally unknown attributes of
the genuine article. It nearly broke
Tommy’s heart to realise that all his
dreams of wealth had been wasted on a
putrid roast of pork, hove overboard
from some ship’s galley and floating in
a patch of oil-tank residue.
*****
“Padflogger”: That ganger who was
going to shovel the bloke’s farm into the
river (B. 29/5/’4O) recalls my old man’s
one experience as a guide. Conducting
a cashed-up Yank around the Cabbage
Garden, he finally brought him to the
Murray at Mildura. “There,” he said
with pride—“ Australia’s greatest river.”.
The Yank stiffened. “Whaat you say it
was?” The old man began to repeat.
“Australia’s mightiest....” The Yank
snorted. “Call it a river, do you? Why,
boy, if we had that in the States we'd
bottle it off ”
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: Binghi in his primitive
state was a fairly ingenious cuss, especi-
ally in the matter of catching tucker.
Hardly an estuary in W.A.’s south-west
that did not sport a fish-trap. About the
biggest was the one that occupied an
acre or so of shallow sandbank at the
confluence of the Murray River (W.A.)
with Peel’s Inlet. Constructed of thin
saplings driven deep into the sand, close
enough together to trap any sizable fish
yet far enough apart to permit of the
flow of the tide, this had a general for-
mation of interlocking Vs, so that the
catch finally found itself in a corral from
which it could be scooped up with the
minimum of labor. Maintenance costs
must have been fairly heavy after seasons
of flood, but so well built was the struc-
ture generally that it still stood decades
after the tribe that had last used it had
passed out of corporate existence. Up
at Giralia Landing, Exmouth Gulf, I
found yet another trap. Here one of
W.A.’s rabbit-proof fences makes junc-
tion with the sea, wandering out some
little distance with the idea of cheating
bunny from getting round the end. To
this sea extension the local Binghi had
attached a long wing of wire-netting
forming a big V, which with a tidal rise
of 18ft. made fish practically a drug on
the market.
* * * *
“Clinton Cape”: Many attempts at
acclimatising trout in southern parts of
Australia meet with
failure, seemingly un-
accountably. The
reason in the major-
ity of cases is over-
warmth of the water.
Trout is essentially a
cold-water fish, and
sickens rapidly when
stream or lake rises
above 60 degrees
Fahrenheit. And out-
side Gippsland few
Australian waters keep
to that temperature.
It is in fact surprising
how warm lakes and
streams do get by the
end of the summer.
Once saw tests made
on Mundaring Weir,
up in the hills a few
miles out from Perth.
With a not inconsider-
able elevation this big
lake should have been
cool, but the mercury
showed 80 degrees
15ft. below surface.
That was in April.
Waters at sea level
showed even higher.
Sampled a dozen or
so lakes all over the
Perth district and
found that some even
rose to 89 degrees at
the end of a hot day.
Trout and almost
every other imported
fish perished at that
heat.
“Arev”: Bill Todd was tired of supply-
ing free apples to the bands of youths
who came up from the city, so when he
saw a party putting their tents up near
the creek he made his preparations. Later
he saw furtive figures creeping under the
fence that separated the orchard from
the road. Bill merely smiled. His notice
hung on the tree nearest the road:
“Beware of poison. These apples have
been sprayed with arsenic.” Bill felt
there was now no need to guard the
trees. Anyhow, he had his time taken
up with Blossom, the sick Jersey heifer.
That evening Bill, passing the orchard
to get to the paddock where Daisy, an-
other Jersey, had been placed to keep
her away from the sick animal, saw
that the trees had been robbed of some
of his best apples and branches broken,
and beneath his notice was pencilled:
“Thanks for the warning: we tried them
on your cow and found them safe to
eat.” Bill was speechless. They had
risked killing Daisy, one of his best
milkers! Coming up to the house to
get his shotgun, his wife met him with
the news that the sick heifer had breathed
her last, ihen, as he pondered this last
blow, Bill had an idea. Next morning
the campers were met with a sight that
brought pallor to their cheeks. There
in the paddock was the Jersey cow, still
in death. With yells of dismay the lads
rushed back to their camp. When Bill
visited the paddock an hour later there
was a clear patch near the creek where
the camp had been.
SOLOMON’S APE.
An Ophir ship to Elath
Comes in the days of old
With almug logs in ballast,
Raw ivory and gold,
Chained apes and painted peacocks,
Pearls —such as Sheba wore—•
And spice and linen, freighted
By straining sail and oar.
Two hundred men of Tharshish,
Their three-year voyage done,
Have won their Red-Sea haven
Today at set of sun;
Two hundred Punic shipmen
Athirst for love and wine
Will in its dark stews dally,
Will in its taverns dine.
Torch-litten bagnios echo
A glib Phoenician tongue;
The fawning shore-rats listen
To tales of marvels, strung
On threads of far adventure
From men who owe their hire
To Solomon the Splendid
And Hiram, King of Tyre.
Bull-chested Gisco, spilling
His wine cup as he reels,
Gropes for the girl Dione
To grasp her by the heels.
As hairy arms enfold her
In dissolute embrace
The Grecian flaunts her capture
In jealous Leah’s face!
Leah the Hebrew harlot
To desert gods doth vow:
“Not shall she reign forever
Who queens in Elath now!”
Anon, a mantled shadow
Glides from the Grecian’s door
And leaves her stark form huddled
Along a blood-wet floor.
Who for the goat-herd’s daughter
Mourns, as the camels toil,
Laden with gold from Ophir,
Laden with Persian spoil,
Over the hills of Edom,
Over the desert sand,
Down through the grove of olives
Into the Promised Land?
Ebner, the donkey driver,
Cursing the heat and flies? —
Ever the thought of Ebner,
In distant Salem lies.
Eli, the Sultan’s horseman.
Guarding his camel train?—
Dreams of a girl in Moab
Drift through his drowsy brain.
Done with her sated lovers,
She neither hears nor sees
The camel train’s departure,
The clamor of the quays.
The Ape alone shall mourn her,
The wailing ape, whose cries
At day-fall there reveal her
To Elath’s scorning eyes.
Gift of a Theban rower,
Theft for his pleasure paid,
Babe of a jungle mother
Whose dam —her grief soon laid —-
Beyond the Dead Sea, carried
Three burning summers gone,
Now capers in the court of
Great Sultan Solomon.
VICTORIA.
F.J. Brady.


“Raorut”: “These ’ere optional deloo-
sions, like the Flyin’ Dutchman an’
’Amlet’s Ghost, c’n be mighty unsettlin’
at times,” Sid the Sailor mused. “Take
the time Yardarm Cecil, ’oo wus me
mate on the ketch I sailed between Mel-
bin an’ ’Obart, got the idea ’e’s Joner in
the whale. Yardarm’s a religious sorta
bloke an’, one mornin’ erbout four bells,
’e comes runnin’ on deck yellin’ out, ‘l’m
Joner! I’m Joner! There’s sin an’ dis-
truction aboard this derelict! Where’s
me whale?’ At first, we thinks ’e’s
foolin’, but we soon realizers ’e’s got ’em
pretty bad. We tries ter yumer ’im, but
no good. ’E’s all the time runnin’ ter
the side an’ tryin’ ter ’url ’imself inter
the sea. At last I sees there’s only one
thing for it, so, while a coupla
lads ’olds ’im down, I gits a
old sail an’ stitches it up like
a big bag. We slings this over
the side, thin takes Yardarm
an’ drops ’im inter it. We
leaves ’im there till ’e just-
erbout drowns before we
fishes ’im out an’ lies ’im on
the deck. After a while ’e
comes round. ‘ ’Ow long wus
l inside the whale?’ ’e arkses.
1 tells ’im three days. ’E
gives a sorta sigh uv content, gits up an
goes on with ’is job quite All
the same, I alwus kep’ the old sail ’andy
’slong as ’e’s with me on the ketch.’
* * * *
“Pick”: Though their natural foes,
goannas and snakes, live in holes in the
bush, small birds when chased by hawks
will dart into the first recess that offers.
I’ve seen landrails, peewits, parrots and
bronzewing pigeons dive into a rabbit
burrow to escape the swoop of their
enemy. It is a common experience among
horsemen when riding across the plain
to have a quail flash alongside the horse’s
neck and plunge under the pommel of
the saddle. A schoolgirl at Mt. Cooper
had a shawl lifted off her shoulder by a
pigeon escaping from a hawk that dived
into the folds of the garment. A shepherd
on a Bibbenluke run noticed a big ram
in the flock stagger drunkenly and, shak-
ing his head, drop out of the mob. A
quail had plunged at the ram’s head to
escape from a hawk in the curl of the
horn, killing itself in the impact.
$ * * *
“Dickie Beech”: “You’ve heard the
evidence,” said the Magistrate. “Have
you anything to say?” Bill swallowed,
gripped the rail in two big brown fists
and made his first public speech. “I
’it the bloke all right,” he said. “No
denyin’ it. But look what I’d just come
outer. Fortnight out, single ’anded yer
might say, me mate ’avin’ broke ’is leg
an’ stayin’ ashore an’ that there boy no
more good than a earful o’ cold water.
All over boils I was, too. Me icechest d
went overboard when the southerly it
us, fish an’ all. All me tucker’d got
spoiled an’ the stove’d come adrift so
we couldn’t even ’ave a cupper tea. If
I ’adn’t bin able ter borrow a bellyful
from Jim Neate when we was gettin
back we’d ’ave starved. Makes fast
dead beat, an’ no sooner ’as I put me
foot on the jetty than that there fat
bloke, with the good food fair oozin
outer ’im, up an’ arsts me ’as I got any
cheap fish. Cheap fish! Cripes, yer d
uv donged ’im yerself if yer d bin
through wot I ’ad an’ got arst that ’fore
yer’d got dry clobber or a bite o’ ’ot
tucker inter yer.” “A pound and costs,
said the secretly-sympathising Magis-
trate. “Next case.” Bill handed over
the cash, bade the Magistrate a polite
farewell and walked up to the late plain-
tiff, who watched his approach with
some apprehension. “ ’Ere, mate, he
said, “y’see ’ow it was.” He thrust a
large paper parcel into the man’s hands.
“ ’Ere’s yer bit o’ fish an’ it won’t cost
yer nothin’. Let’s ’ave a pot ter show
there’s no ’ard feelin’s.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: It was a long drift up
the coast to Onslow. Windless days, the
ocean like a lake, but with a deep swell
that rolled the schooner, rubbing and
chafing gear left set in hope of catching
a stray puff. At long intervals a big
turtle asleep was passed in the oily water.
“Turtle steak would be good,” suggested
old Peter. The city sportsman already
had that idea. Ping! went the bullet
from his Winchester. With a punctured
carapace the greenback woke suddenly
and dived. The couple of Binghis
laughed. But their mirth was hollow:
evidently they thought the white fella no
end of a plurry fool. “Let the niggers
have a go next turtle we sight,” suggested
Peter. An hour later and the schooner
was within 100 yards of another sleeper.
Slipping overside the Binghis swam
quietly towards the greenback. Then
they did the impossible. One heaving
upwards under one side, the other reach-
ing across the back of the shell and
“ Don't pull too hard, my man —there are explosives aboard."
they had 4001 b. of turtle over on its back
before it was properly awake. Treading
water they kept it like that, flippers beat-
ing air, head waving, until Peter arrived
with the dinghy and slipped a loop ot
rope around the neck and a back flipper,
making the capture complete. De Rouge-
ment!” remarked Old Peter as he
munched fried turtle. “They snorted
at his yarns about turtle riding, but these
niggers have been catching turtle that
way since before the Egyptians built the
Pyramids.”
“Fisher”: Getting rid of his breeches,
leggings and farmer’s cap is the hardest
feat Choom is up against. One of our
boys twice planted his clobber up a
handy hollow log, only to have it rescued
and restored by a humorless and canny
Scot, who could see no sense in discard-
ing an unworn hula dress, let alone
white man’s duds. The lad fixed things
with a bonfire the third time, and burned
out three dairymen when the flames got
away, but the fancy boots saw the fire
out without a singe on the leather. Our
squatter’s son bought them in the end.
Station people, third-generation, favor
gentleman-farmer tweeds.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: One of the mysteries
of life on our planet is why young things
grow with intensity and speed to what
we call adulthood then almost suddenly
slow down. We watch it among humans
and the animals, but trees are the same.
Most Australian hardwoods grow from
12in to 15in. in diameter in from 14 to
20 years. After that growth becomes
slow and slower. The seasonal rings are
thinner and denser. Thus trees over 4tt.
in diameter are centuries old. This ex-
plains, too, the tree still living and flour-
ishing with the heart rotted out. That
heart was juvenile wood, and lacked
resistance to fungus attack successfully
repelled by more mature growth: just
as human youth so often succumbs to
bacterial attack successfully resisted by
even quite elderly people.
* * * *
“The Duke”: “If every man wus ter
use ’is brains a bit ’e would always find
some way to earn money,” said Bottle
Green. “Take the feller I met w’en I
wus out west o’ Bourke. I asked im
wot ’e wus an’ ’e said ’e wus a pianer-
tuner. Natcherly I said ter im, Yer
can’t do much bizness then. I shouldn’t
imagine that pianers are very plentiful
aroun’ these parts.’ ’E shook ’is ’ead an
replied light’eartedly, ‘Ter tell yer the
truth, they’re not; but I keep me ’and
in for me trade as well as make a pretty
good thing out of tightenin’ up barbed-
wire fences! ’”
* * * *
“James W”: The oont (B. 5/6/’4O) is
certainly the most contrary collection of
vices and physical anomalies that was
ever lapped in hide. Nature did its best
to make him a mammal, but he jibbed
even on evolution, and, besides a mind
like a death-adder with a headache, he’s
retained some thoroughly reptilian char-
acteristics and physical equipment. Like
“Where’s the mirror, sarge ?”
all reptiles, his ears are not worth a
tinker’s curse. A crocodile has a fleshy
pad under his jaw. It acts as a jowl-rest
when the croc, roosts on shore, and is
sensitive to any vibration in the ground,
thus giving warning of approaching
enemies. Have a look at a camel and
see a similar pad decorating his chest.
Keepers in zoos titillate the tops of big
crocs.’ skulls with long poles while their
confreres sneak into the pens. Simi-
larly, a little skull-scratching is always in
order when the ’Ghans find it desirable
to take the edge off an oont s rising plans
for war with the world. Tickle him any-
where else and he’ll bite a slab out of
the spot you’ve just left —if you leave
quickly enough. Then consider his
apparent indifference to pain. A camel
chews up all the elderly thistles and
thorny-bushes he can fit his ugly face
around, and they don’t hurt him ; but
he takes the bun when running repairs
are the order of the day. Huge hideous
sores caused by chafing packsaddles are
not rare. They merely irritate oontie.
He’s irritable enough anyway, so the
’Ghans slap a leather patch
on to each fresh sore, actually
sew it to his hide, and hoist
the pack on again. Apart
from a few murderous snaps
that are merely habit with him,
the oont doesn’t object. In a
guess at his origin I’d say he’s
a cross between a prehistoric
giraffe and a dinosaur,
“Passage Pilot”: Will “Nor -west
explain why whales need at least 200 ft.
of water in which to dive without cracK-
ing their heads (B. 5/6/’40)? Any time
during the winter months dozens ot
whales of all sizes can be seen going up
the Queensland coast. A special play-
ground for them is Whitsunday Passage
With the odd exception of an occasional
“deep,” the water in the Passage averages
14 fathoms. When I slung a lead that
meant 84ft. Every one of those whales
sounds at intervals ; occasional ones stand
on their snouts and go straight down.
I’ve never seen a whale floating around
there with a cracked skull. And the
killers attack them in that area just as
savagely as at other spots.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Why is it that climbing plants,
whether of the bush or the garden, almost
invariably make their spiral ascent from
left to right? Also, why should the very
few exceptions which are occasionally
found depart so widely from the cus-
tomary procedure of their own species?
A botanical friend tells me that some of
the yam tribe ( Dioscorice ) spiral up anti-
clockwise as a regular practice, but can-
not suggest why they should have adopted
leftist tendencies of the kind. And by
what process of thought, cell-change, sen-
sation or otherwise do all spiralling
climbers, when deliberately twisted in
the wrong direction round a pole or tree,
patiently straighten themselves out and
return to the support in the right one
for them? It cannot be sun action
because the same thing holds in the
Northern Hemisphere. Another queer
thing is the way in which they reach out
for any hold which will help the twist,
but not in the opposite direction. Do
they reason it out?
# * * *
“Wippegong”: I suppose most surviv-
ing Aboliars grew up in the era of the
catapult and pea-rifle, but there is pretty
solid evidence that that stage of thought-
less savagery is passing, Admitted that
plenty of louts still regard anything in
feathers as a potential target, for educa-
tion out of barbarism is a very slow'
process, yet it Is at least as common
nowadays to find groups of youngsters
who wouldn’t harm a bird at any price,
and they are discovering thrills we never
thought of. In N.S.W. it is now possible
for a nipper to win a special badge
simply by inducing any untamed, wild,
adult native bird to use him as a perch.
The idea has caught on, and in many a
bush school lunchtime is now a session
of seductive wheedling, to coax wild-
fowl to come up and accept the crusts
they formerly gathered after the whistle
blew. Upwards of a thousand kiddies
have qualified, the most obliging birds
being soldier-birds, apostle-birds, mag-
gies, butchers and kookaburras, though
an orange chat and a red-rumped parrot
also have responded. It’s mainly a matter
of getting the bird interested in tucker
or water, and/or keeping dead still.
Writer has had a coachie —and there
aren’t many shyer—pause on his boot;
while at another time three brown-headed
honey-eaters perched together on his
bared head—though whether they were
after nesting material or white-ants he
has never been able to determine.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Ch airman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.L.; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair; A. E. Heath, C.M G
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .I
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street. T art.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
, Dividends Nominal
Pref. Ord. Writ- lte-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. ten Off. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
8 p.c.
1931 .. 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 ) ..
Provident fund, £lOOO .. J
All res. written off assets, £41,667..
10 p.c.
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
8 p.c.
1933 .. 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 ) -, a
Provident fund, £lOOO .. j
1934 .. 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 )
Provident fund, £lOOO .. j 116
1935 . . 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 .. 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 .. 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
1938 . . 144,038 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
1939 . . 147,631 10,208 63,333 67,603 11,779
7 p.c.
1940 . . 137,579 10,208 65,416 68,166 16,608
t Subject to supply rights, £,7500.
The contraction of £10,052 in last
term’s net earnings was due partly to
heavier generating, distribution and main-
tenance costs, the amount of which is
not broadcast. After allowing for these
costs, gross earnings (£223,241) were £592
lighter, despite a heavier demand for cur-
rent and a net growth of 687 in the num-
ber of consumers on the books (37,256).
Including a bigger but unspecified allow-
ance for taxation, and the provision for
depreciation, shown as written off in
the table, management charges, etc.
(£157,345), were up £7051.
Allowing for an unexplained addition
of £3517 (down £2973) to the insurance
reserve, the profit claimed was £10,616
lighter at £69,413. That was enough to
pay the prefs. their full contract rate of
7 p.c. and show 7.4 p.c. on ord. capital.
A point was chipped off the div., reduc-
ing it to 7 p.c.
Also, “consideration was given to the
application of the Interest Reduction
Act” to the payment of divs., which might
be taken as a hint that an all-round 7 p.c.
cannot be regarded as a steady thing for
the future. Under war-time demand the
consumption of current can be expected
to increase ; but costs are likely to re-
main on the up-grade, though the Gov-
ernment will make every effort to prevent
the rise becoming too steep. Certainly
the co. is not subject to the N. S. Wales
Gas and Electricity Act, which aims at
fixing the div. at not more than 5£ p.c.
on pref. and 6 p.c. on ord. capital. Still,
in view of the powers taken by the
Federal Government in respect of taxa-
tion and co. profits and over property
of all kinds, the State Govern-
ment’s recent action in refusing the
A.G.L. Co. permission to increase
the price of gas fractionally in
order to maintain a 6 p.c. div., and
the trend of legislation in respect of elec-
tricity undertakings in some other States,
a 7 p.c. distribution in the future might
prove an indiscretion. However, the co.
enjoys a monopoly within the area of the
five franchises under which it operates.
Of these franchises, two (Balmain and
Newtown) are perpetual, two (Petersham
and Leichhardt) run out in 1953, and one
(Ashfield) in 1943, subject in all cases
to purchase by the municipal authorities
at stated intervals.
Recognising all this, the market has
lately revised its estimate of the future
possibilities of the scrip as an investment,
and now prices the f.-p. pound ords. at
245. 6d. as against 31s. 6d. a year ago
and 345. 12 months before that. The
return at 245. 6d. is 5.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis. The pound prefs., paid to
17s. 6d. each, yield 5.5 p.c. at 225. (245.
a year ago). The net tangible cover is
£5 16s. prefs. and 20s. 2d. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. £ 937,500 £ 937,500 £ 937,500 £ 937,500
S u n fl r y
creditors .. 131,893 138,990* 123,837* 150,102*
Fixed assets. 1,014,544 985,408 930,908 875,714
Stocks, etc.. . 21,501 42,523 52,480 47,200
Book debts.. 7,578 12,949 16,290 25,585
Cash, etc. .. 51,792 08,021 101,918 176,510
* Including provision for taxation.
On fixed assets £55,254 more was written
off than was spent. The money that thus
became available, together with a net
growth of £26,265 in the debt, which in-
cludes an unspecified allowance for taxa-
tion, went mainly into the bank, the
cash holding being £74,598 stronger than
at the previous balance. The year’s
growth in the more or less liquid surplus
(£99,205) was £52,341. A lot of new
electrical equipment, originally estimated
to cost over £200,000, is to be installed
presently, which ought to mean much so
far as costs are concerned.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
r~ Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., 1 roflt. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 p.c. = 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20',000 .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
1933.. 38,193 13,152 4 „ „ 20,816 4,225 152.726
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4„ „ 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 9,302 162,332
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30.759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 84 „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 233;315
Provision contingencies written
back, £13,000 .. .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 18,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 56,684 13,152 6,, „ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Policy of this big Fijian trader and
plantation-owner has long been to keep
the div. moderate and accumulate
strength, visible and otherwise. Over the
past half-dozen years £ 136,000-odd has
been openly struck off fixed assets
out of earnings and £117,581 net
added to the visible lay-by, after main-
taining an average 6 p.c. div. In the
preceding dozen years, in addition to
ordinary depreciation allowances,
£166,800 was taken from reserves to
reduce the book value of assets and cover
hurricane losses of £12,400. Though
keen competition continues to come from
W. R. Carpenter and Burns, Philp’s South
Sea offshoot, it gives the scrip holding
possibilities in the ordinary course of
events.
Conditions in the sugar, copra, banana,
dairying and mining industries, exports
of which have behaved this way, largely
govern trade activity:
. t 1938 v 1939 v
Commodity. Quantity. Value. Quantity. Value.
~ ' £,
Sugar—raw tons 134,415 1,338,183 118,470 1,425 704
Copra, tons .. 33,475 270,915 27,361 204 289
Gold bullion, oz. 89,354 701,272 108,114 928 128
Bananas, bchs.. 314,925 73,578 114,580 26’411
Other produce 74,849 75 326
Re-exports .. 76,232 86,349
Total exports £2,535,029 £2,746,207
Rapid growth of gold-production has
lately infused considerable balance into
the economy. Increased output here and
better prices, particularly for sugar, more
than offset last term’s smaller physical
volume of exports, which were affected
by vagaries of the season earlier and
shipping difficulties later.
The shipping problem renders the
immediate outlook obscure. As for
copra, following the outbreak of war,
the London price of South Seas sun-
dried was fixed at £l2 per ton, as against
£9 7s. 6d. at the commencement of
hostilities. But practically no tonnage,
British or neutral, is available to lift the
stuff to European markets; though it has
been possible to send a little to Mexico,
that market is now also closed owing to
oversupply, and Island stocks are accu-
mulating fast.
As a result, the co.’s own copra planta-
tions (cost £120,000, written down to
£49,000) aren’t turning in anything at
the moment, and there have been trading
repercussions, too. But “the book value
of property in districts mainly dependent
upon the sugar and gold industries now
far exceeds that of assets in districts
dependent upon copra.” The board thus
reports a gain of £7862 in gross earn-
ings (£184,529); including depreciation
(£20,859, up £1188), exes. (£132,746)
swallowed all the increase and £lOB4 be-
sides, but a prior appropriation of £4901
(as against £3499) to insurance reserve
left the final result £3lB better at £56,684,
or 8.3 p.c. on ord. capital. An all-round
6 p.c. again went out, leaving £12,307 to
lay by.
The co. is anything but short of a
penny or two:
1933. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. .. £739,013 £739,013 £739,613
Deposits . . . . 12,420 3,904 4,940
Sundry creditors, etc.. . 18,228 19,504 18,999
Plantations . . . . 65,524 54,984 49,247
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 331,762 314,392 303,195
Stocks, etc 212,270 274,145 337,110
Investments and cash.. 142,020 184,494 107,250
Capital value of
branches, etc. .. 65,700 82.013 92,760
Book debts, etc. . . 132,590 157,271 133,950
Last year £16,934 more was written off
than spent on fixed assets. Together with
reductions of £23,321 in debtors’ balances,
a result of a more conservative credit
policy, and of £17,238 in cash, etc., it
enabled £62,965 to be added to merchan-
dise and other stocks —heavy trade sup-
plies were laid in on declaration of war.
Investments include “shares in sub-
sidiaries, £78,374,” which may be a
further source of undisclosed strength,
and £25,783 mainly in Commonwealth
securities, returns from which are whisked
to inner reserves before getting a chance
to figure in p. and 1. account.
In the market the pound ords. are
offered at 225., to yield 5.9 p.c. on the
basis of 6 p.c. divs. at the current rate
of Fijian exchange. Net tangible back-
ing is visibly 30s. sd. Fijian, and for
the prefs., which are rarely dealt in,
£4 12s. 2d.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 16,754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 .. .. 87,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 .. .. 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101 432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 331 104,474
1935.. 21,807 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 124 „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 7J „ 16,659 110,221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 ~ 19,465 5,806 116,027
Surplus sale plant, £4060 .. .. 120,087
1940 .. 26,056 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 6,591 120’678
Quality and value are the foundations
on which the name of Prestige has been
built. Thus, with its shrewd and enter-
prising management, the co. continues
to win attractive profits, despite the
crowded nature of the trade. Viewed
from capital account, expansion was
most marked between 1925 and 1933,
when the share-register grew by £182,078.
Liberal depreciation provisions and sur-
plus earnings have taken care of exten-
sions since.
A half-dozen years ago lingerie manu-
facture was embarked upon, but women’s
hosiery continues to be the backbone of
earnings. A variety of price grades is
turned from the Brunswick (Vic.) mills
for the Australian market, and there is
a subsidiary at Wellington (M.L.), where
import control has created fresh oppor-
tunities, notwithstanding the high level
of internal costs. In Australia hosiery
production has gone rapidly ahead under
the influence of a fostering tariff:
’OOO I ’OOO
Year Dozen | Year Dozen
June, Pairs. Value. | June, Pairs. Value.,
1929 1252.6 £1,737,000 I 1936 1663.3 £2.114,800
1930 1382.4 1,939,300 I 1937 1884.1 2,452,800
1932 1601.8 1,999,400 1938 2004.3 2,831,300
1934 1475.4 1,950,000 ] 1939 2136.2 2,676,122
A swing to the lower-price ranges appears
indicated there. Prestige caters for the
less high-grade trade through a Mel-
bourne subsidiary.
The way turnover continues to
put on weight is the encouraging
feature. It enabled the parent’s gross
earnings to be maintained last year,
although production margins narrowed ;
economies in administration and dis-
tribution offset increased tax and other
bills, and the net result, including £2457
passed on by the pups, advanced £785
to £26,056. Allowing for the prefs., it
represented 15.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
making an average 12.3 p.c. over the past
for the most part difficult decade. In
addition, there was a surplus of £4060
from sale of old plant. Depreciation
written off was £29,161.
Figures for the whole group show a
net trading profit, after depreciation of
£45,568, of £32,308, so that the pups
actually netted 6 p.c. on the cost of the
parent’s share-interest therein, after meet-
ing their own pref. obligations.
The management is thoroughly alive
to the necessity of keeping abreast of
modern developments in equipment if
minimum costs and maximum competi-
tive power are to be developed:
Consol.
3 938. 1939. 1940. Figures.
Paid capital. . £215,259 £215,259 £215,259 £215,259
Outside interests 25,000
Overdraft .. 69,299
Sundry creditors 45,457 50,950 77,092 109,004
Freeholds .. 80,581 78,570 78,628 105,369
Plant, etc. .. 111,786 88,285 61,457 107,588
S'haros other cos. 72,546 72,546 74.160 -
Stocks . . 134,816 123,212 140,089 216,578
Book debts, etc. 50,484 30,865 58.194 39,474
Cash, etc. .. 1,055 1,296 19,040 21,037
Despite additions, plant shows another
big drop—£26,B2B net. The reduction
here, together with another £26,142 from
outsiders, enabled accretions of £16,877
to stocks —it should do harm with re-
placement costs rising—of £21,329 to
book debts, mainly in respect of the
growing financial reqirements of the sub-
sidiaries, and of £17,744 to cash. When
the books closed the surplus of more or
less liquids was £29,808 stronger at
£140,231.
“Successful adjustment of manufactur-
ing and trading to altered circumstances”
is reported. It includes utilisation of sub-
stitute materials for certain non-sterling
imports—besides enabling price increases
on most lines to be avoided, a direct
contribution to the national war effort.
Earnings, however, may prove difficult to
maintain.
Last sale of the 10s. ords. was put
through some weeks ago at 175., to return
5.9 p.c. to the buyer. At 255., the pound
prefs. yield 6.3 p.c. On the combined
figures, book value of the net tangible
cover is 21s. ords. and £3 ss. 6d. prefs.


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goidsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING COMPANY NO LIABILITY.
A.M.P. Chambers,
Elizabeth Street,
Hobart, Tas.
NOTICE is hereby given that an Extraordinary
General Meeting of Shareholders in the above-
named Company will be held at the offices of
the Company, 23 Elizabeth Street, Hobart, on
Friday, the 9th day of August, 1940, at 12
noon, for the purpose of considering and if
thought fit of passing the following resolutions,
with or without amendment.
1. THAT in consequence of the whole of this
Company’s assets and undertaking having
been sold to Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredg-
ing, Ltd., upon the terms set forth in an
agreement dated the 25th day of October,
1938 (which agreement was duly approved
at an Extraordinary Meeting of Share-
holders held on the Ist day of December,
1938), and of this Company having ceased
to carry on business, this Company be
voluntarily wound up.
2. THAT John Lord, of Hobart, chartered
Accountant (Aust.), be and he is hereby
appointed Liquidator for the purposes of
such winding up.
By Order of the Directors,
JOHN LORD,
Manager.
DATED at HOBART this 21st day of June,
1940.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ha’ssel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
a \V DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of U B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
Share Prices
After slumping to 107.52 on June 19
the Sydney index of industrial-share
prices had moved up to 109.18 again on
June 22. Compared with a week earlier,
prices last Saturday were, on the whole,
slightly better:
Jan. June June June
31, 6, 15 22,
1940. 1940. 1940. 1940.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £25.6 £24.5 £24.5
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.5 £*>.o
Carlton Brewery.. 68/- 59/- 56/- 06/6
0.-Perkins . . 22/- 17/6 17/6 17/6
Tooth . . .- 52/3 44/- 43/6 44/6
Metropolitan Gas.. £13.5 £12.9 £13.0
Q’land Insurance. . 58/- 52/- 50/- 50/
Assoc. News .. 16/6 11/4 11/6 11/^
Melb. “Herald” .. 57/- 44/6 44/- 44/6
Adelaide Steam .. 36/- 28/6 28/6 27,
Huddart Parker .. 59/9 48/6 48/6 48/6
A’asian Paper •• 34/3 •
A. 38/3 30/6 30/- 31/3
Bradford Cotton.. 37/0 32/ — - 30/- 29/6
B. Prop. . . 49/6* 39/9 39/3 40/6
Burns Philp . . 54/- 49/- £B/3 49/-
Oolonial Sugar .. £50.0 at 45.3 £40.0
David Jones .. 33/6 29/- 26/- 24/6
Drug Houses . . 26/6 22/3 22/6 23/6
Blectro. Zinc .. 58/9 41/- 41/3 41/6
Fairy mead Sugar. . 37/- 33/- 32/- 31/6
Felt and Textiles. . 38/9 32/- 29/- 30/6
G. J. Coles .. 74/3 58/- 55/- 64/3
Henry Jones . . 56/6 45/- 44/6 40/6
Howard Smith .. 24/3 18/9 18/(5 19/0
Kandos Cement . . 29/9 24/6 24/6 24/J
Meggitt ..• .. 29/- 26/- 27/- 27/-
Winchcombe,
Carson .. .. 28/- 25/- 24/- 23/-
Woolworths . . 22/9 14/6 15/ 14/7
VV. R. Carpenter. . 45/6 35/6 36/ 30/-
Yarra Falls . . 42/- 39/ 38/6 38/
North B.H. .. 47/6 30/9 30/9 31/3
B.H. South .. 29/9 20/9 21/- 21/-
New B.H. .. 20/ 11/- 11/- H/~
Mt. Lyell . . 32/- 22/6 22/6 22/3
* Ex Issue.
One of the bargains of the list was Aus-
tralasian Paper, the fully-paid ords. sell-
ing at 235. 6d. and the rights being avail-
able at 2s. 6d.
Tongkah Compound No. 2, N.L.
First offshoot of Tongkah Compound,
by which a 40 p.c. interest is held, this
Australian-controlled Seremban (F.M.S.)
producer was floated in 1919. In eight
only of the years since have shareholders
pocketed divs., but in the aggregate the
distributions, including 2s. a share sent
out since the close of last accounts, have
been worth £132,342, or £51,092 more
than paid capital—£Bl,2so in 25,000 £1
shares fully-paid and 75,000 paid to 15s.
Two dredges are owned. The old
Ampangan unit has been on a care-and-
maintenance basis since working out
that portion of the property. For the
Rahang plant, rated capacity 140,000 c.y.
monthly, some 10,000,000 c.y. of lib.
dirt remains, indicating a 12-year life at
last term’s rate of digging. There may
also be several years’ profitable work in
Ampangan tailings if the price of tin
keeps right.
With a nominal assessment of 205 tons
t.o. annually, the co. is partly dependent
on quota purchases to maintain a decent
rate of turnover. Notwithstanding a
better price for the white metal, there
was a loss of £1734 in the latest term,
and the div. dropped from 4s. to Is. a
share: —•
i —Surplus — v Divs. N
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935. . £13,936 £7,404 £6,532 1/3 Nil Nil
1936.. 39,130 38,400 730 -/2 Nil Nil
1937.. 88,550 50,367 38,183 7/7 5/- £25,000
1938.. 39,958 25,882 14,076 2/10 4/ 20,000
Deficit.
1939.. 31,090 32,824 1,734 —1- 5,000
* Includes depreciation—l93s, nil; 1936, £23,000 ;
1937, £22,000*; 1938, £340 ; 1939, £15,309.
The adverse profit movement of £15,180
compared with 1938 is more apparent
than real, however, owing to the pro-
vision of £14,929 more at £15,309 for
depreciation.
Lower output, despite quota lifts, re-
flects the previous term’s heavy carry-
over :
1937. 1938. 1939.
Cubic yards .. 1,882,00*0 1,566,000 847,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 512.8 356.3 192.6
Av. per c.y., 1b... 0.61 0.51 0.51
All-in costs, c.y... 3.62 d. 3.88 d. 4.96 d.
Domestic quota, p.c. 37.3 51.1
Forward stg. av.
metallic tin .. £240/18/-£lB9/18/11 £224/4/2
For the first half of the current term the
co. has the benefit of a 77\ p.c.
domestic quota, and with spot metal
worth an average £250 in London, a
mine surplus of £18,770 stg. has been
cleared for the first five months from
production of 18li tons to.
Though international quotas have
been lengthened and tin metal is at
£274 stg., after being above £290, _ the
market has doubts, among other things,
as to future events in Asia, and prices
the co.’s shares at 17s. 6d., as against
20s. a year ago. Including dredge
spares and stores of £6152, more or less
liquids at Dec. 31 amounted to £29,173 ,
liabilities aggregated £19,811, of which
£18,750, payable £6250 annually, is com-
ing to the parent in respect of the Rahang
plant.
“Throgmorton”: Comments from the
preliminary report on Gt. Boulder affairs
by baronet William McLintock: —-
De Bernales for the year ended Dec. 31,
1939, the latest period available, received
£SI2OO salary as managing director, and £51204
in directors’ fees. Australian Mines Manage-
ment and Secretariate, Ltd., a De Bernales co.,
received £A2400 a year for three years to
June 1, 1939, as general managers, and then
had its agreement extended for five years at
£52500 a year. Wada, Ltd., owned by one of
the De Bernales family cos., was appointed
London secretary of Gt. Boulder for five years
from Feb. 1, 1937, at £52500 a year....
The usual basis of charging machinery to Gt.
Boulder was cost to the machinery cos., plus
10 p.c. This method could lend itself to abuse,
but the preliminary evidence submitted to me
does not give grounds for stating that the cost
to Gt. Boulder was unduly inflated. The posi-
tion in regard to machinery to other cos. ot
the group is rather different. Each of the cos.
affairs is the subject of a lengthy report, but
I do not propose to refer thereto other than
to state that in my opinion the ascertained facts
have fully justified the investigations. Having
regard to all circumstances, I consider that
it would be better to suspend my investigations
into the affairs of Gt. Boulder so far as its
mining operations are concerned and to con-
centrate upon the investigations of the associ-
ated cos. and the connection of Gt. Boulder
therewith... .1 am not satisfied that the directors
of Great Boulder fulfilled their duty in that,
before lending the company’s name to the new
flotations, they should have confirmed that aU
relative information about them was placed
before the public, and assured themselves that
the prospects of the cos. were at least as good
as the prospectuses anticipated.
The trend of operating results this year,
despite increased millings, calls for some
explaining. May surplus shows a further
sharp fall to £A17,480:
Treated, Working Cap.
Month Tons. Revenue. Surplus.* Expi.
1939 average.. 33,659 £78,989 £39,959 £19,390
1940
January •. 37,986 83,851 29',789 5,963
February .. 37,234 89,754 35,086 6,838
Atarch .. 38,578 81,848 24,851 6,097
April .. 37,903 79,365 22,886 7,735
May . . . - 37,643 74,544 17,480 9,966
* After regular development.
Average monthly surplus for 1939 was
£30,050, but for the last five months of
that term profits were to the order of
£38,000-£39,000. The board’s silence in
the matter can hardly be helpful in its
present endeavors to retain control.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) has declared a second
6d. div. this year, and distributions even-
tually of 4s. a share p.a. are being specu-
lated on. For the year just closed
throughput showed little change at 24,910
tons, but the 2.ldwt. improvement in
recoveries and the better price of gold
lifted gross receipts from 455. Bd. to
695. sd. per ton. Last ore-reserve esti-
mate was equal to nine years’ supply at
the current rate of treatment, so, as the
ore-bodies are claimed to have all the
appearances of permanency, there appears
ample scope for output-expansion. The
4s. shares, which sold at 3s. Bd. in 1939,
were recently up to 18s. 6d.; the issue
(250,000) is relatively small.
* * * *
North Kalgurli United, one of the least-
fortunate of the De Bernales Westralian
group, reports that with the co-operation
of the Paringa management it has corre-
lated the North Kalgurli United and
Paringa workings. From the results
obtained diamond-drilling from the sur-
face is in progress to test North Kalgurli
United ground adjoining the Paringa.
* * * *
G.M. Block 45 moved from Kal-
goorlie to Ballarat East (Vic.) towards
the end of last year to seek its fortune
on the Little Wonder. Nothing wonder-
ful was discovered, and the co. has packed
up and left. Some shareholders think
that it should cease a-roaming.
* * * *
Mt. Chalmers, 10 miles from Rock-
hampton (C.Q.), worked up to 30 years
ago as the Great Fitzroy, when it was
the largest copper-gold proposition in
Queensland after Mt. Morgan, is due to
reopen any day now. Initial dewatering
and reconditioning will be undertaken
with a subsidy from the Mines Depart-
ment. Meanwhile the new co., Mt.
Chalmers, Ltd., is asking for £30,000 of
capital. Oliver M. Wallace, of Sydney,
is consultant. Reserve ore is placed at
530,000 tons valued at 635. 6d. a ton. At
the start, at least, the stuff will be treated
at Mt. Morgan, and railway freights have
been cut to 4s. 6d. a ton ; treatment costs
will be 18s. 6d. Recoveries from trial
lots at the “Mount” equalled 475. 4d.
a ton. If they were anywhere near run-
of-mine values, profits and redemption
of the modest capital being called for are
obviously in sight.
* * * *
The remarkable return of 2oz. per ton
from alluvial dirt in the Venus on the
Miclere field, Clermont (C.Q.), has
turned talk in mining circles dredgewards.
There are big alluvial areas in the dis-
trict, all carrying flyspecks, if not more,
much of it shallow and suitable for
dredging, provided water can be retained
at the surface. The Venus is clearly on
a rich patch, but how big? That will
be solved in the four surrounding claims.
The returns are reminiscent of the Black
Ridge, which kept thousands of men busy
before the Great War. Malcolm New-
man has considered Clermont dredging
possibilities, and is understood to be
advising as to a leasehold recently pegged
out.
* * * *
The faith of G. Tremble, of Mackay
(C.Q.), started the ball rolling in investi-
gating Plevna shale, Mackay hinterland.
The local syndicate found the weights
too heavy, and Tremble started for the
south. The southern group interested
put O. M. Wallace, of Sydney, in charge,
and proceeded steadily with a drilling
campaign which is said to have increased
greatly the area and width available tor
examination by Dr. Wade and Dr. L. K.
Ward. Wallace seems favorably im-
pressed as to quantities, but the tale
will be fully told when run-of-shale
analyses are fully disclosed.
* * * *
Work of Q.S. Mines, at Cinnabar, and
the price and scarcity of mercury in Aus-
tralia have inspired the starting-up of
Queensland Quicksilver, Ltd., on its old
Kilkivan workings. The two districts
are cheek-by-jowl, and actually in the
one quicksilver belt of formation, which
is mainly andesite and conglomerate.
When working really low-grade ores be-
comes profitable this particular belt may
prove the main mercury producer of the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
Grasstree mine, Mackay (C.Q.), after
a fine spurt during 1938-39, got out of
step in 1940 and applied for exemption
early this year. It is remarkable for a
mine of this size that there is no treat-
ment plant on the spot. Returns so far
have been from high-grade stuff railed
to Chillagoe. Fletcher Young, formerly
Inspector of Mines at Cloncurry, is in
charge, and is working out methods of
keeping a roof over the workings while
the shoot is followed downhill. There
have been troubles with falling ground,
and last wet season —a bumper one —
imposed a severe test. However, latest
reports say the rich shoot is still going
down underfoot, and judging by past
returns that might mean anything from
15dwt. to 30dwt.
* * * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) has again struck
trouble. This time the 9in. tricone bit
stuck at 1991 ft. The superintendent and
head-driller have since conferred in Perth
with the board regarding equipment for
future operations. When drilling was
resumed after a mishap in March it was
stated that no further trouble was anti-
cipated.
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD.
CORNSACKS 1940/41 SEASON.
w
C.J. PERRETT,
q
eqw


BACK TO THE EMPIRE!
Departing- from an old custom, “The Bulletin” republishes an article published under the
heading on March 29, 1939, and part of another which appeared a fortnight later.
e Back to the Empire” policy has been enforced by the grim pressure of events;
w atever the outcome of the war, there will be no more of those alliances. The
second article, republished in part, was written in opposition to the guarantee to Poland.
References to France, which appeared at different times, are also reprinted.
Within the limits imposed by geography
and circulation The Bulletin has
worked for peace without railing inces-
santly at foreign Governments —there has
been too much of that on both sides.
All along it has opposed crusading,
whether for Abyssinians, Chinese, Span-
iards or Czechs, and it is not going to
support the crazy thing now, nor does
it feel that the world has tumbled about
its ears, because an Austrian, Adolf
Hitler, in contempt of his verbal assur-
ances to Mr. Chamberlain, has made him-
self ruler of Bohemia and Moravia, which
were Austrian possessions for centuries
before the war. Such things as the seizure
of Prague and Memel (except for the
last 20 years, Teutonic since its founda-
tion in 1252) have happened scores of
times in Central and Eastern Europe.
And obviously these Europeans don’t
change much.
In the eighteenth century a Prussian
king grabbed Silesia and tried to grab
Saxony, and in the process he twice
became master of Prague. It was the
time of the first Pitt, greatest of British
Foreign Secretaries. Did Pitt form a
bloc against the despoiler? No; he
helped him on the second occasion with
money and soldiers, among whom were
“the men who fought at Minden.”
Unlike our Edens and Attlees, the
makers and preservers of the British
Empire, Pitt, Clive, Wolfe, Nelson, Wel-
lington, Raffles, Rhodes, thought of
British interests first, last and all the
time. They never worried about the woes
of strange and remote peoples in
Europe. They would not have imperilled
the Empire by fighting for the imposition
of their own form of government on
foreign countries or for the liberties of
synthetic republics or improvised king-
doms which could not be trusted to put
up any sort of fight for themselves. They
were not crusaders.
History is a great comfort in times
like these. It is alleged that Hitler has
designs not only on all the territories
which were Prussian or Austrian before
the war—a certainty for which we should
have all been prepared, especially in
view of the disappearance of the Prussian
and Austrian Empires—but on Rumania,
Hungary, Poland, Yugoslavia, Lithuania,
Latvia, Estonia and, as some add,
Switzerland, Holland, Belgium and Scan-
dinavia as well. Suppose, for the sake of
argument, he cherishes all these sinister
ambitions. In May, 1918, the armies of
the Hohenzollerns and the Hapsburgs
were in Belgium, Northern France and
Northern Italy, Yugoslavia, Rumania,
Poland, the Ukraine, Finland and the
Baltic provinces, and Russia proper was
at their mercy. By the second week in
November they were beaten fugitives. In
1812 the Napoleonic empire included,
besides France, the Low Countries, Spain,
Italy, Switzerland (virtually) and Dal-
matia, and all Germany, Poland and
Lithuania were under Bonaparte’s thumb.
Within two years it had collapsed, and
he was a prisoner in Elba.
Hitler cannot be absolutely blind to the
warnings of history. He must know that
every extension of his dominion over a
foreign race, while it may appear to
strengthen him materially, weakens him
morally—-with his own people as well as
the outside world. Even bloodless con-
quests involve awkward problems of
government and the strong probability
of at least passive resistance or non-
co-operation, perhaps in a form as
baffling as Gandhi’s. And always there
have to be considered the reactions of the
German people. Hitherto they have fol-
lowed Hitler dutifully, because he has
given them all work and hope, and be-
cause he has shattered the Versailles
“settlements” without bloodshed and
satisfied a historical aspiration which
found favor with our own forefathers —
“the union of the German tribes.” But
their loyalty would not survive defeat
in battle. In any case, all European
experience of dictators is that their sys-
tems perish with them, as did that of
our Cromwell.
If this man is bent on further conquests
in Europe he has the means of achieving
them temporarily. None of the
countries supposed to be threatened, nor
France nor any of the dubious allies
which the crusaders would inflict on us,
could prevent him. They are all dead
scared of his Germans, Russia most of all.
Assuredly the United States would not
try to stop him. Should the British
Empire? One thing is certain—it could
not help with armies [conscription was
not legislatively introduced till April 27,
1939, and then only youths between 20
and 21—270,000 altogether—were called
up for six months’ training, the first
contingent reaching barracks on July
15.], and if it allied itself with, say,
Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia would go down
within a week. Then there would be
nasty repercussions in Asia from Jaffa
to Hong Kong.
For Australia and Maoriland one
immediate effect would be the loss of the
Anglo-German naval agreement, which is
at least a safeguard against the recovery
of the former German colonies by naval
action. Far graver would be the conse-
quences if barren championship of some
Balkan or Baltic State in co-operation
with Russia led to the Anti-Comintern
Pact becoming an offensive and defensive
alliance. Then Australia and Maoriland
would be cut off from the mother
country and in actual danger.
Why should the English break their
hearts and stake their future, and the
future of the Dominions, over Czechs,
Slovaks, Greeks, Rumanians, Serbs, Hun-
garians, Russians, Lithuanians, Letts or
Poles, who don’t care two straws for
them and their blocs and alliances?
They have a splendid Empire, and they
can defend it. They have abandoned
Mad Continent politics before, and they
can do it again.
The New "Collective
Security."
“That my people might turn their backs on
the Continent and point their prows for the
setting sun and the fortunate isles of the
blest!”— Words of a much underrated English
King, Henry VII, as wise today as when they
were uttered.
To Lord Arnold, the pledge that the
British Government has given to the
Polish Government is “the most danger-
ous commitment” in British history. Mr.
Chamberlain himself acknowledges that
“it is a new and tremendous departure
in British policy” ; and he might have
added that in his father’s age and in all
previous ages such a departure would
have been inconceivable.
Britain has fought many wars, some
of them very foolish. It is now univer-
sally allowed that the Crimean War was
one of those blunders that are worse than
crimes... .But “since the gold dragon
of the Wessex kings on Hastings field
went down” there has never been an
English or a British war for Czechs or
Poles,
The last King of Bohemia was the
son-in-law of an English king from Scot-
land, but neither English nor Scotch
were asked to shed their blood in his
cause. There were three separate par-
titions of Poland. Britain did not chal-
lenge any of them, nor did it champion
Poland ip the settlements effected after
Waterloo. In the seventeenth, eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries, crusading in
distant parts of the Continent was not in
fashion. If it had been there would have
been no British Empire.
Now all is changed. The Sydney
“Morning Herald,” while admitting in a
sober moment that the “new and tremen-
dous departure” involves “risks” that
are “great and evident,” welcomes it as
“a return to collective restraint of the
aggressor.” Yes, it is a return in principle
to what, in circumstances much more
favorable, was tried with utter and
humiliating failure in 1935-36... .The
method of “restraint” cannot now be
“sanctions” without bloodshed. It means
bloody war.
And how is the Empire prepared to
take such a war? Relatively to the Ger-
man, the Royal Navy is much stronger
than it was in 1914 —thanks, in part, to
the Anglo-German naval agreement,
which would be blown out of existence
by the first 5a1v0.... Although it is pro-
posed to double the strength of the Terri-
torials and plan for the dispatch of 19
divisions to France, the British Army
could not put into the field forces such
as it assembled in 1916, 1917 and 1918.
There will be no million Dominion
soldiers next time, if there is a next time.
Nor will there be any Belgian army un-
less Belgium is attacked. As for France,
its striking power may be cancelled out;
France would have to face the grim pos-
sibility of a defensive war on three fronts.
And the strength of its air arm is gravely
doubted.
On the other hand, the German Army
is relatively as strong as it was in 1914-
18. Although it is without northern and
southern Slavs, it has lost the disadvan-
tage of divided leadership.
The Poles have no navy and not much
of an air force. A high value is set on
their army by remote observers, addicted
to believing what they wish to believe,
but they have no record of victory over
the Germans, though they encountered
Germans often enough in 1914-16. They
have a long and indefensible frontier;
their racial minorities are as dissatisfied
as were those of Czechoslovakia, and
since 1919 they have not lived down
their old reputation for instability.
It was because of this instability that
they lost their independence. They used
to put their crown up for sale, and it
was bought by foreigners French,
Swedish, Hungarian, Saxon —with suffici-
ent to grease the requisite number of
palms. In their Diet they went in for
the liberum veto, a counterpart of the
modern club’s “one blackball disquali-
fies,” though it went much farther.
In the Polish State, as reconstructed
after 123 years, a wedge of territory—the
too-famous Corridor —separates one part
of Prussia from another. The apparatus
of Parliamentary government exists, but
even “S. M. Herald” admits that the
army runs the country.
It is the universal judgment of the
English-speaking world that the suppres-
sion of the Czech Republic was an act
of betrayal. Disappointment, indignation,
bitterness, is a natural British reaction.
But was the British Government there-
fore justified in accepting the policy of
the Ginger Group, in promising armed
assistance to Poland if Poland elects to
consider that its “independence” is
“threatened,” in sanctioning a course of
action which, if it involved the
Dominions in war, would expose at least
two of them to immediate perils—loss
of their sea-borne trade and attack by
sea and air? When the Canadian Prime
Minister characterised as “a nightmare”
the “idea that Canada should risk the
lives of its citizens every twenty years
....to help to run a continent which
cannot run itself,” surely he gave
Canada’s answer in advance.
“The common business of life,” said
Mr. Chamberlain, “cannot be carried on
in a state of uncertainty” ; and that is
true. These repeated shocks from the
Mad Continent are damaging business
and disturbing minds everywhere, and
the armaments race threatens all the
nations with bankruptcy; but is there
no way out but war? Suppose it is true
that Germany aims at subjugating Europe.
In an age when finance, trade and com-
merce are so interdependent, when
terrible weapons can be concealed in
coat-pockets, and when the boycott and
passive resistance have been reduced to
fine arts, there are limits to what any
conquering nation can do and to what
any conquered nation will suffer. Very
definite limits are imposed by mortality
and time.
Ours is an old empire with settled in-
stitutions. It has seen many conquerors
and many dictators come and go. It is
dealing now with leaders who are
fanatics, and whose leadership has made
their peoples fanatical. Both resent and
fear what they regard as a British resur-
rection of the French alliances that col-
lapsed last year.
Consultation gained something for the
Empire and the world ; it gained time
when time was precious. What has been
gained, what can be gained, by Warning
Germany? Suppose the Scots were in
the position that these Germans occupy,
what on earth would be the use of
Warning the Scots?
At best, Warnings plus the improvisa-
tion of alliances with remote peoples
who demand their price could produce
only a temporary effect. We have been
denied even this poor satisfact ; on. “Re-
turn to collective restraint of the aggres-
sor” has already brought more trouble.
The situation has grown worse instead of
better.
Is there no hope, then, for the race?
Must it drift into another catastrophe?
Shall the future of these young countries,
now so fair, be endangered, and perhaps
darkened indefinitely? Surely not! Faith
in consultation has been shaken, but the
method has not been exhausted. Let it
be applied under other auspices—those of
the President of the United States and
the President of the Argentine Republic,
for example. Call in the New World
to correct the blunders of the Old. To
a committee nominated by these Presi-
dents and by the leaders of the great
religions and the rulers of Scandinavia,
none of the Governments concerned
could, without grave moral weakening of
its case, refuse to refer the issues that
divide them. But there is not a moment
to be lost.
A House Divided.
(B. 1/12/'37.)
In France the Government has dis-
covered a Royalist plot and is making
the most of it. Republican France has
never been without Royalist plotters, but
they are never dangerous except when
things are going badly. For English-
speaking people, who are constantly
urged to back the shifty manoeuvres of
Paris politicians with their manhood and
their money, the affair of the Hooded
Men is a warning that those politicians
have made a mess of things at home
and abroad.
(B. 19/l/’38.)
“S. M. Herald” has suddenly dis-
covered that “a weak and divided
France” has become a menace to the
“peace of the world.” As suddenly Syd-
ney “Sun” has decided “to face the
present situation frankly and inquire
what benefit to Britain is an agreement
with a nation so weakened by political
division that its frontier becomes an in-
vitation and its sword blunt in its de-
fence.” This when the “Sun” had just
completed the formation of a Democratic
Front composed of France, Russia,
Britain and the U.S.A.
France’s influence on the Continent
began to decline from the moment it
entered into an alliance with Red Russia.
This decline has been accompanied by
increasingly grave internal disorders,
political, industrial and financial. The
Communist party has become a power,
and whenever that calamity descends
upon a nation the nation becomes a
house divided —it separates into two
camps. Now another French Ministry
has fallen, and in his last despairing
speech as Prime Minister the unhappy
Chautemps declared that “the crisis”
had been brought about by “systematic
rumors of a threatened revolution.”
As an ally, a France in which Com-
munists can guide or thwart national
policy is not worth two centimes, and
Communist Russia as an ally was never
worth one centime.
(B. 15/2/’39.)
It has been no mystery in Europe
that men, arms and supplies from
France were passed over the Pyrenees
in a steady stream by frontier guards
in the pay of or in sympathy with the
Communist and Socialist organisations
which backed Negrin and his predeces-
sor Caballero, and which are so strong
in France that the Communists alone
have 82 members in the Chamber of
Deputies. In “Uncabled Additions”
there was quoted the statement of
another Deputy, M. Francois Valentin,
that if France had had to mobilise in
September it would have been short of
two divisions, “20,000 or 30,000” men of
military age having “crossed the frontier
of Spain.”
When the frontier was about to be
closed the Australian public was allowed
to learn things of which it had been
kept in ignorance; for example, that
“Andre Marty, the midget French
Deputy who led the French naval
mutiny in the Black Sea in 1918, led the
last 1000 International troops over the
French border from Catalonia.” [ln Sep-
tember, 1939, Marty became a deserter
from the French Army; in other words,
a traitor.]


SMOKE-OH!
tw
The Decision.
The Director of the Army Cooks’
Comforts Fund stood erect and very firm
before the reporters and cameramen.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I cannot keep
women out of this organisation, of
course. Their help must not be denied.
But I will not —let me emphasise that
—I will not allow this Fund to become
a means whereby publicity-hunting
females can get their pictures into the
public prints. Therefore I have decreed
that no woman in any way connected
with this organisation shall be permitted
either to give her name to, be interviewed
by or be photographed for the press. 1
thank you.”
The pressmen withdrew with silent
admiration for the Director’s strength of
character.
Next day they found themselves sum-
moned to A.C.C.F. headquarters. There,
with the Director, they saw a large and
determined woman. They set up their
cameras and photographed her ; they got
out their notebooks and recorded her im-
pressions. Then they left, without a trace
of emotion on their faces.
Jonesy, a very callow young reporter,
asked Smithy, an old-timer, “But I
thought he said”
“Mother-in-law, son, mother-in-law,”
muttered Smithy, wearily sitting down to
his typewriter.
19 Grand.
Grim Business.
“No, I cannot!” she said, her eyes
pleading with him. Unheeding, he spoke
on, his eyes cold and pitiless. She tried
not to listen, but the words flowed re-
lentlessly. “. . . You are ageing . . .
You will find yourself old, penniless,
deserted. I offer protection . . .” Her
head whirled. She couldn’t bear it any
longer.
“All right,” she said hopelessly, “give
me the proposal to sign. What amount
did you say is payable at death?”
Ray.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing
unless you’re a turf tipster.
»F *F *F
The Match.
“The bridegroom is a first-grade cricketei,
and the bride is also a player. They met on
the cricket field.” — “Sun.”
The acquaintance was continued at
a cricket ball. Her beauty bowled him
over completely, and, although at first
he was stumped for conversation, he
pulled himself together and was soon
talking at a great bat about their mutual
interests. He scored well with her; they
shared drives together, and he stayed
with her so late that he was often in
danger of being run out. Finally she
hooked him nicely.
So all is over now, and she ought to
be satisfied, for he is the catch of the
season.
H. M.
•F *F *F *F
Osculation.
“There are many kinds of kisses.”
— Women’s mag.
One of the more popular is the taxi-
cab kiss. You have one eye on the girl
“This'll either be Thursday's train runnin' late or Saturday's runnin
early."
and one eye on the meter, whilst the
taxi-driver has both eyes on the pair of
you.
Another is the goldfish-in-the-bowl
type. It is indulged in at railway ter-
mini when engaged couples sec one an-
other off by air-conditioned express.
They press iheir trembling lips to the
cold, unsympathetic, shatter-proof glass
and make grimaces.
The business kiss, as its name implies,
is brief and to the point. The captain
of industry leans confidentially over his
private secretary’s shoulder and says:
“Miss Reid, that letter. Dear Sirs, —
Yours of the sth inst. to hand. My word,
kid, that’s a nice frock you’re wear-
ing.” The next moment it’s all over.
Miss Reid is left trying to erase an “1”
where a “t” should have been, and the
captain of industry is busy trying to erase
some lipstick from his shirt-collar.
But the commonest salutation of all is
the formal peck. It is exchanged by
husbands and wives twice daily around
8.30 a.m. and 6 p.m.
Melton.
•F *F v *F
“Do you know what class of books are best-
sellers in this country?”— Literary course.
Racebooks.
“In parts of U.S.A. church bells chime
‘Little Jack Horner’ for the birth of a boy
and ‘Mary Had a Little Lamb’ when a baby
girl arrives.” — “World’s News.”
The advent of twins no doubt is
heralded by a spirited rendition of
“Double Trouble.”
•F *F *F *F
“The increased price of petrol is responsible
for return of a stage coach to Geelong.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Little did we think we’d come to such
a stage. This petrol cost has upset our
applecart.
•F tF *F *F
There is a resident of King’s Cross
who is under the impression that the
Australians there are the foreigners.
Two Cards.
As Boswell was to Johnson, the Great
Cham
Of letters, and as Mary’s little lamb
To Mary, when with bleats of glad
content
It followed wheresoe’er its mistress went,
So— though the parallel may never reach
’em —
Is Neville Carclus to Sir Thomas Beecham.
H.
“Are you attached to your husband ?
Asked the Judge in a kindly way.
And she who sought a divorce replied:
“That’s for your Honor to say.”
C.L.
Balmy Idea.
“Inspired by the popularity of perfumed note-
paper, a Sydney modiste has issued a deli-
cately-scented brochure.” — News item.
Carnation, violet and rose —
Scents that alluringly persuade —
Will tickle many a client’s nose
And lead to much expanded trade.
And when the frocks, with flares and
frills,
Are ordered, made and taken, what
More natural than that her bills
Should whiff of strong forget-me-not ?
MISS SMITH.
Curse.
He fondly swore “I love you so !
Please marry me and end my cares!
She took him . . . That was long ago,
But still he swears !
T.W.N.
The Truth About It.
Anglo-Soviet Relations.
“According to a high authority in
Whitehall, the impending visit of Sir
Claude Worpletwirp to Moscow has not
the least political significance. The
primary object will be the broad discus-
sion of trade relations, and in particular
the possibility of a barter agreement to
exchange English bloaters for supplies
of vodka. While no great immediate
result is expected, it is felt in official
circles that the very fact that a man has
been chosen who broke with the Labor
party because of his advocacy of closer
relations with Moscow should help at
least to prepare the ground for a better
understanding of the trade requirements
of the two countries. He will be assured
of a warm welcome from the Kremlin.”
—The ‘‘Daily Wail.”
SIR CLAUDE WORPLETWIRP’S
MISSION.
Moscow’s Reaction.
“In a furious attack on Sir Claude
Worpletwirp, ‘Depravda,’ the Communist
party organ, today asks why a titled
minion of the plutocratic octopus of
Albion should have been selected to come
on what was nothing but a money-grab-
bing mission. ‘Let this bit of walking
ofEal come to the Kremlin if he wishes,’
the paper says, ‘but he and his stinking
bloaters will get short shrift. Our vodka
is for the mouths of good Comrades, not
to give the decaded quarter-wits of May-
fair some Dutch courage. Our Mighty
Red Army, which crushed the butcher
Mannerheim and his White Guards,
stands four-square to the world, and
wherever it moves it will prove invincible.
Let Churchill and his war-mad friend
Chamberlain realise that.’ The unsigned
article is believed to have been written
by Stalin himself.”
—“Evening Sensation.”
THE WORPLETWIRP VISIT.
Move Viewed as Sinister by Rumania.
“Sir Claude Worpletwirp’s visit to Mos-
cow has had repercussions in every Chan-
cellery in Europe, but in none more than
Bucharest. M. Yellforescu, in a state-
ment to the special correspondent of the
“Howler,” said that such a move might
well portend the grabbing of the Dobrudja
by Russia with England’s benevolent ap-
proval. A subsequent outburst of anti-
British propaganda culminated in the
public burning of an English bloater
in the Ulu by an angry mob. The 1924
class was called to the colors.”
—“Morning Howler”
MOSCOW VISIT.
Talks Begin.
“On his arrival at Moscow airport
Sir Claude Worpletwirp was met by
Mm. Molotov, Voroshilov, Kaminev and
Latestchev. Th« party then proceeded
in an air-conditioned mine-proof tank
to the Kremlin, where Sir Claude
Worpletwirp placed an English bloater
on Lenin’s tomb. Later, behind barred
and soundproof doors, the British pleni-
potentiary and Stalin had a 10-hour con-
versation. It is understood that nothing
of interest was discussed, but it is highly
significant that when the Dictator
emerged from the interview he was suck-
ing his moustache. It may well
have been indicative of satisfaction, for
it is known that this is his manner of
expressing it when among friends.”
—The “Blah.’
Great Cordiality in Moscow.
“According to the Stockholm corre-
spondent of the Chattanooga ‘Bellow,’ the
Commissar for Oyster Openers, M.
Latestchev, accepted from Lord Boob a
gift of some Yarmouth bloaters. Lord
Boob, who hawks up Russian fluently,
told the delighted Commissar to smoke
them first. Mr. Latestchev, thanking
Lord Boob, said he would share them
with M. Stalin, who was dining with
him that night.”
—Morning “Slam.”
Little Use in Talks, says Moscow.
“The Taas Agency reports that in a
new purge 63 generals, 35 admirals and
nine commissars have been shot. In-
cluded is M. Latestchev, the Commissar
for Oyster Openers. Circles close to the
Kremlin say that M. Stalin left M.
Latestchev’s apartments last night looking
very ill, and that he hurled his pipe away
for some unknown reason. It is thought
that the Commissar was involved in a
plot to poison Stalin. Tsvestia’ considers
it unlikely that anything concrete will
emerge from the Kremlin talks.”
—The “Chimes.”
Moscow-London Alliance?
“It is learned from reliable sources
that there is every prospect of an Angl'o-
Russian alliance to combat the menace
of Nazism. The fact that M. Molotov
didn’t spit on the Union Jack while at
a performance in the Moscow Opera
House of ‘lvan the Terrible’ is cited as
proof of Russia’s growing friendship for
Britain.”
— “Struth.”
Anglo-Russian Alliance Now
Certain.
“In a speech to the Grand Council of
Commissars yesterday, Sir Claude
Worpletwirp said that Britain would guar-
antee Russia against aggression, from no
matter what quarter it might come.
According to the Sofia correspondent of
the Milwaukee ‘Dingbat,’ Stalin himself
led the cheering which this statement
evoked. It is confidently anticipated that
Molotov will conclude immediately a
mutual assistance pact with Britain. Sir
Claude Worpletwirp today reviewed a
march-past of tanks in the Red Square,
standing between Stalin and Molotov
alongside Lenin’s tomb.”
- —“Sunday Scorcher.”
Rift in Anglo-Russian Relations.
“A bombshell was thrown into diplo-
matic circles today by the announcement
over the Moscow radio that Stalin and
von Ribbentrop have reached an agree-
ment for the partitioning of Bulgaria,
Rumania, Hungary and Yugoslavia. In
a fiery article, attributed to Molotov,
‘Depravda’ attacks England’s ‘hypocritical
attitude to the alleged menace of
Nazism,’ and goes on to say that the
Soviet can stand on its own feet without
the measly help of a vile gang of Im-
perialist criminals who for centuries have
ground their workers into the dust. Sir
Claude Worpletwirp’s mission is expected
back in London next week.”
—“Daily Yell.”
BO.


*
on
M
D
N
E
U
UJRE
★
* *
e
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The All-in Aim
Australia’s all-in war effort, as it has
been taking shape over the past month
or so and particularly over the past fort-
night, is up to the present theoretical in
its more extreme form. As in Britain,
though almost total powers have been
granted to the Government in respect of
control over manpower, industry and
money, the exact course to be adopted
in utilising those powers has yet to be
revealed. In all probability the course
will work itself out; there will be no
formal revelation of the full programme
because it isn’t as yet known, but as a
problem is reached the necessary measures
to overcome it will be availed of. There-
fore, except for what had been done in
the way of war emergency taxation,
security regulations, exchange restric-
tions, etc., before last week, the cheque
that has been handed to the Federal
Government is still largely a blank one.
At this stage it is known that additional
age-groups will be called up for military
training, but exactly who will be affected
is yet to be decided. There will also cer-
tainly be a transfer of men from mechani-
cal industries to defence workshops. Pre-
cisely which class of industries will be
turned to first isn’t yet known.
Legally the powers granted to the
Federal Parliament last week were so
vast that they could be expressed in a
very few words. They were practically
the same as those granted to the British
Government in May ; the main clause of
that Act was:
The powers... .shall include power by Order
in Council to make such Defence Regulations
making provision for requiring persons to place
themselves, their services and their property at
the disposal of his Majesty, as appear to him
to be necessary or expedient for securing the
public safety, the defence of the Realm, the
maintenance of public order, or the efficient
prosecution of any war in which his Majesty
may be engaged, or for maintaining supplies or
services essential to the life of the community.
The Australian measure doesn’t touch
on “supplies or services,” and it expressly
provides that “nothing in this section
shall authorise.... any form of compul-
sory service beyond the limits of Aus-
tralia.”
According to Prime Minister Menzies,
the new Australian legislation and legis-
lative powers that preceded it have given
the Government in particular:
(fl) An unlimited power to tax ;
(b) An unlimited power to take prop-
erty ;
(c) An unlimited power to direct em-
ployers what to do ;
(d) An unlimited power to direct em-
ployees what to do, and
(e) An unlimited power to call up and
train our manpower for the defence of
Australia.
In the P.M.’s broadcast speech which
preceeded the introduction of the
measure at Canberra he spoke of the
British measure as follows:
This Act represented the most complete dele-
gation of authority to the executive in the his-
tory of the British race. It received the
approval of the whole of Great Britain, of the
employers, of the trade unions, of the whole
of the people. Similar legislation has since
been passed in New Zealand.
Also,
In Australia we have made regulations in
relation to the new Munitions department, of
which Mr. Essington Lewis is the director-
general. Those regulations are far-reaching.
Among other things they enable the director-
general to requisition or compulsorily acquire
any property which he thinks necessary for a
maximum munitions effort.
Since legislation on the matter of our
future war efforts is more general than
specific, the speech to the people prior
to enactment is of special importance.
Regarding the efforts to obtain swift and
efficient production of munitions, Mr.
Menzies said:
The powers of the new department are extra-
ordinary, but they are no more extraordinary
than the times demand. We have recently been
obliged steeply to increase taxation. As war
expenditure expands, further demands must in-
evitably be made. Further, we have introduced
unprecedented war-time profit taxation, which
drastically taxes large company profits made
during war.
The prompt measures taken by the Guvern-
ment at the outbreak of war have so far pre-
vented the exploitation of prices and war
profiteering. But the position is being con-
stantly and carefully policed, and the Govern-
ment will not hesitate to deal with any war
profiteering by taxation of excess war profits,
properly so-called, to the extent of taking 100
per cent, of them.
Since wealth is primarily of value to the
community for what it produces, and since
we are setting no limits to the taxation which
we will impose upon the product of wealth,
and since we are raising from the community
many millions of pounds of capital itself, it
can accurately be said that the linancial re-
sources of the country will play their full part,
and will indeed be strained, if necessary to the
point of financial collapse. After all, financial
exhaustion is preferable to national destruction.
It need not be feared from the last para-
graph that the Government imagines that
by bringing about financial collapse it
would necessarily be any nearer winning
the war. Financial collapse would be
next-door to defeat, since collapse means
disorder and confusion. What is obvi-
ously meant is that no effort, monetary
or otherwise, will be spared in order to
gain victory, and that for the duration
of the war old ideas of gain or profit have
to be set aside. So long as the sacrifices
of war are borne equally there is little
danger of financial collapse.
The marshalling of wealth, by taxa-
tion, enforced borrowing or other means,
is of no use by itself. Labor and ma-
terials are the basic factors of produc-
tion for war or any other purpose. Of
labor the Prime Minister said:
I am sure that the trade unions will not hesi-
tate to submit themselves, in common with all
other sections of the community, to the fullest
consultation, co-operation, organisation and
direction at a time like this. This is not a
time when any of us must look for advantages.
We are an integral, proud and British com-
munity and to preserve these attributes must
practise a community of sacrifice.
One result of the imminence of last
week’s legislation was a foolish move by
some people to take their money out of
banks. Their behavior prompted an
official statement that no confiscation of
savings was intended, and that calls for
additional war-time financial resources
would be made by way of taxation.
A more rational result was the de-
cision of the A.L.P. not to oppose com-
pulsory training or the dispatch of troops
overseas, subject to adequate forces being
left in the Commonwealth. The A.L.P.
Conference also indicated its accord with
the marshalling of all national resources
for the conduct of the war, subject to
the safeguarding of the rights of trade
unions. An excess-profits tax of 100 p.c.
was advocated.
Supporting the Emergency Powers
measure in Canberra on June 20, Mr.
Curtin said: “In the time that is left to
Australia the Government should attack
with the greatest possible efficiency the
problem of supply. The unions will do
all they are asked to do.”
The first trembling step which the
Government has taken along the lines
of national mobilisation should soon be
followed by real results. Essington Lewis,
formerly g.m. of 8.H.P., and knight
Harry Brown, to name only two of the
recent appointments to the national task,
are highly capable men and quite out-
side the usual run of political appoint-
ments. Brown, formerly a prominent
civil servant, was nevertheless sufficiently
outstanding as director of the Post Office
services to have been sought after and
acquired by a world-wide industrial con-
cern. It is highly promising to record
that since his appointment as Director-
General of Munitions Supply Mr. Lewis,
typically,, has not made one public state-
ment. Australia is sick of words.
The Treasury has been here awarded
praise for its work before; with the
latest appointments to our war team we
should soon have something to show for
our expenditure, even though the job
ahead is no light one.
The French collapse brought the
lowest share prices of the year when
’Change reopened last week. The Sydney
index of industrial shares dropped
to 108.96 on Tuesday, compared with
over 136 early this year, and the only
recorded market rise during the day was
in Australian Consolidated Industries
shares ; the profits disclosed were surpris-
ingly large, even for A.C.I. In no case
was there a landslide from the levels of
the previous week, but in almost every
instance weak prices became still weaker.
Australasian Paper rights, previously
down to 2s. 10d., sold at 2s. 6d. for a
while in Melbourne; British Tobacco
ords. dropped below 40s. for the first time
in years ; Castlemaine Perkins shares fell
to 17s. ; Tooth shares sold as low
as 435. Myei ords. drifted to 255.;
Anthony Hordern ords. sold at 10s. ;
Bank of N. S. Wales were £24,
and National scrip was at par. The
market by this time was fortified by a
big depreciation reserve in prevailing
price levels, and in spite of the darkness
of the situation in France the temper of
the market was of a kind that promised
to hit back at the sight of the slightest
change for the better overseas. In any
case, the merits of well-bought shares
are becoming more generally realised.
The market decline continued until
Thursday, when a rally occurred. The
industrial-share index at this stage was
107.86.
* * * *
The following table, supplied by the
Sugar Board, tells very succinctly the
story of Australian sugar up to the time
it leaves the district mills:
Australian Sugar Production.
1937. 1938. 1939.
1000 1000 1000
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Home consump-
tion 365 364 383
Exported 445 458 545
Total 810 822 928
Exported, p.c. .. 55 56 59
Price per ton —
Home £24/-/- £24/-/- £23/12/6
Export 8/6/- 8/4/3 10/7/6
Average (exclud-
inff
sugar)* 17/11/- 16/19/1 16/19/7
Average (includ-
ing
sugar)* 15/6/5 15/2/2 15/15/3
Value (£AIOOO) —
Home quota .. 8,758 8,723 9,086
Exports 3,693 3,765 5,648
Total 12,451 12,488 14,734
* Applies to Queensland only; New South
Wales has a higher home-consumption quota.
The table actually takes into account the
sale of the raw sugar overseas also ; but
it is essential to note that the C.S.R., as
refiner, doesn’t come into the picture as
presented. Queensland mills averaged
£23 12s. 6d. a ton for home-consumed
raws last year, but the consumer paid
£37 6s. Bd. (4d. a pound) a ton for the
refined product. The retail grocer gets
some of the difference, sugar used in
goods exported has to be granted a rebate
on a world-parity basis, refining charges
have to be deducted, as well as a com-
paratively small profit-margin for the
C.S.R. And much as the G.S.R. is dis-
liked by some people, it is only fair to
say that, if its margin of profit were
eliminated altogether, there isn’t a coin
in the realm small enough to enable the
benefit to be passed on to the consumer
who buys by the couple of pounds.
* * * *
Carlton Brewery shares at 555. 6d. re-
turn £5 9s. per cent, on a 15 p.c. div. basis,
which rate of distribution looked very
secure on last year’s earnings of Carlton
and United Breweries. At the end of
April Carlton shares stood in the vicinity
of 705., so a substantial market-depre-
ciation reserve exists in the price of 555.
6d. It seems not unlikely that the market
outlook as regards breweries will change
later on as the outlook overseas takes
on its new shape, which at present is
obscure. The signs and portents in-
dicate that we may not be sending away
a large army for service in Asia or
Europe, but rather that we will be train-
ing a much-enlarged home-defence corps.
If that is so, then breweries can remain
assured of something like the support
to which they have become accustomed.
The standard of living may fall through-
out Australia as a result of our war
effort, but so far as one can see at the
moment there is no likelihood of a short-
age of malt, hops or sugar in this
country, even though other things may
become scarcer.
At 435. 3d. Tooth shares last week
yielded £5 11s. per cent, on a 12 p.c. div.
basis. Highest price in 1939 was 555.;
highest in 1940, 545. There was visibly
about 1.8 p.c. on capital to spare after
the div. was paid last year, and the
position is actually stronger than that.
Excess-profits tax in its present form
isn't going to weigh heavily on Tooth
and Co., and should the div. be cut back
to 10 p.c. in any event it would still
give a return of £4 11s. per cent, on scrip
bought at 435. 3d. With a return of
about 3 p.c. available from Consols even
such a reduced yield would be very
acceptable.
. At 17s. Castlemaine Perkins shares give
a return of 6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Nothing lower than that rate is expected
to be forthcoming this year. A 10 p.c.
distribution was made in 1938-39, but
capital has been increased since then.
The 12s. 6d. shares have fallen from
225. since the first news of Holland, and
Belgium’s invasion came to hand.


LET
r ATLAS :
CARRY THf s
BURDEN '1
y
j,
4^
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
LIARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla id Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
The PREDOMINATING CHOICE
is the
One
. N
** Shell
There is more SHELL sold in Australia than any other petrol
on the market . . .
O SHELL is the highest quality and most econ-
omical petrol you can buy in Australia today.
• NO OTHER PETROL—coloured or otherwise
can give you such a perfectly balanced per-
formance for Starting —Pick-up —Power or
Mileage.
O THE WHOLE of our resources have been
placed behind the production of this crystal-
clear ...
ONE UNBEATABLE SHELL
ftu can 6c sure cf Shell
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (Incorporated in Great Britain) SO
Wealth Conscription by Taxation
The sweeping terms of the new Security
Powers Act give the Federal Government
the means to deal drastically in requi-
sitioning man-power and money-power.
Almost everyone had been hoping that
the Government would avail itself of
these forces more effectively long before
last week’s legislation. The nation
awaited a lead that was not forthcoming
until the Empire was faced with clear
possibilities of disaster.
But the legislation by itself doesn’t
do the job. Only energy, organisation,
courage and wisdom will see our aims
achieved. And in the organisation of
things one of the prime essentials is
equality of sacrifice. This principle is
not one of sentiment; it is one of
economic necessity. It arises from the
fact that a country carries on best when
every employable person in it has a job
and has money to spend. For a few
to have great wealth and only a few
mouths and bodies to spend it on, and
for a great number to have little wealth
but many requirements, is not good
economics. Rewards and burdens must
be distributed evenly, especially in dan-
gerous times. There must be no profiteer-
ing. And by the same token there must
be no wage-inflation. The status quo,
subject fo a proportionate charge for
the cost of war, must be maintained so
far as possible. On him that hath the
first call is being made. But he that
hath little will not escape. The small
man, collectively, is the big man.
The main means of financing the war
will still be through borrowing and
taxing. “I can promise taxation that
will have no limit set to it, except sheer
impossibility of getting more revenue
from the taxpayer,” said the' P.M. last
week. Income tax will be availed of
particularly, since where there is profit
or income there is usually capacity to
pay. “Conscription of wealth” by any
means other than taxation would be for
the most part unfair and just as often
useless. Taxation of income means the
diversion to the national effort portion
of the nation’s energies and income,
which is what is wanted —live money.
Conscription of wealth means raising
credits on assets that may have no value
for our immediate purposes. A person’s
accumulated wealth may represent assets
created years ago for pleasure or other
such objects. What the Defence Depart-
ment wants now is a larger share of the
present-day production, and it requires
that present-day production aim at
defence rather than luxury. The National
Security Act Amendment enables the
Government both to take from, and to
direct, present production. Those with
idle money may give extra assistance by
subscribing to war loans.
On the advice of Essington Lewis,
Director-General of Munitions, the Gov-
ernment has appointed the following
businessmen to the posts mentioned:
Director-General of Explosives Supply:
Thomas Donaldson, of Imperial Chemical
Industries of Australia and New Zealand, Ltd.
Director of Ordnance Production: L. J.
Hartnett, managing director General Motors-
Holden’s.
Director of Gun Ammunition Production:
W, J. Smith, managing director of Australian
Consolidated Industries.
Director of Aircraft Production: H. W.
Clapp, chairman of the Aircraft Product Com-
mission.
Director of Materials Supply: Knight Colin
Fraser, director of various mining companies.
Director of Machine Tools and Gauges:
F. G. Thorpe, of Associated Machine Tools
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Director of Finance: E. V. Dixon, chartered
accountant and company director.
Director of Labor Supply and Regulation:
J. B. Chifley, a former Minister for Defence
in the Scullin Government.
If all these gentlemen are big enough to
realise that the man who asked for their
appointment is the boss, then their well-
known capabilities must be of great
service to the country, which should be
thankful that this isolated continent has
industries and industrialists of the calibre
indicated. The Protectionist has some-
thing to feel at least a little satisfied
about now.
* * * *
The ridiculous behavior of a number
of people in withdrawing money from
savings banks last week had its genesis
in fears and rumors that the Government
was going to confiscate savings to finance
the war. Mr. Menzies has assured every-
one that defence funds not provided
by borrowing will be raised through
taxation. Nobody’s bank account will
be touched, but there will be no escape
from taxation. The withdrawal of money
from banks is merely a nuisance to all
concerned, serving no sensible purpose
and causing loss of interest to depositors.
There is, of course, no danger of any
bank closing, especially any branch of
the Commonwealth Savings Bank. The
bank board is entitled to print all the
notes necessary to repay depositors.
* * * *
Australian Consolidated Industries’
claimed net profit of £351,039 for the
year to March 31 did not include undis-
tributed earnings of the subsidiaries. Con-
solidated figures showed net earnings of
£433,271 on the parent’s behalf—there
was £1983 on account of outside share-
holders. Furthermore, there were net un-
explained additions of £17,623 to the
organisation’s reserves. On Australian
Glass’s old ord. capital the claimed earn-
ings of the co. and its affiliates are equal
to 45 p.c., allowing for pref. div. require-
ments. The establishment of a goodwill
account of £2,353,041 in the books of
the subsidiaries following the reconstruc-
tion has put a much more moderate com-
plexion on earnings. Still, the 7 p.c. ord.
div. paid on the swollen capital repre-
sents approximately 27 p.c. to old
holders.
* * * *
Fewer stocks have fallen more heavily
in 1940 than British Tobacco. The shares
went up to 50s. 9d. early this year;
last week they sold at 395. in Melbourne.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis the scrip at that
level yielded 5.1 p.c. The sharemarket
is not overpleased with the deal with
Carreras, makers of Craven A’s. It
provides for the payment of 225,861 6|
p.c. prefs., 618,737 ords. and 618,737 B
shares, the B shares being deferred as
to return of capital only. At last year’s
rates of B.T. div. this purchase-
consideration parcel would call for
£138,430 a year, against earnings of
£108,544 shown by Carreras in its last
term, subject to £6BOO of pref. divs. due
to outside shareholders. It is possible,
of course, that the Craven A is a bigger
money-spinner than its accounts dis-
closed, also that the absorption of this
competitor will enable British Tobacco
to cut out some overlapping lines and
so increase profit ratios. The importing
of tobacco leaf at the present time must
be a problem to all in the trade, how-
ever.
* * * *
W. R. Carpenter shares at 365. return
5.8 p.c. Last term the 10 p.c. div. was
covered by earnings of more than 15 p.c.
on capital. The co. is exceptionally
strong, though what has happened or
what may happen to its fleet isn’t as
clear as it might be. Transport is a
problem to some island merchants,
though up till recently Carpenter’s were
sitting pretty. In any case, as a long-
term proposition the shares represent
good buying. They have been as high
as 465. this year. The New Guinea
connections shouldn’t give anyone a
moment’s worry.
* * * *
Tableland Tin (Return Creek, N.Q.)
had a good month in May ; it recovered
31 tons of tin from 84,000 c.y. and
showed a working profit of £3270. There
have been no recent reports on progress
with the construction of the big dredge,
but it seems to be going ahead to
schedule. It is possible that the war will
delay or increase the cost of construction,
though there has been no steep rise in
prices so far except for imported elec-
trical parts. Efforts are being made to
have the price of tin lifted within Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“M.H.”: Seven million tons of zinc
slag—described as the largest zinc “mine”
in the world —is awaiting treatment at
Port Pirie. It is an accumulation
from 51 years of smelting. Colin Fraser,
B.H. Associated Smelters chairman, said
recently: “We know how to obtain zinc
from slag today. As soon as we see that
the world can absorb it we shall put up
the money and erect the plant.” But it
won’t pay to do it just yet awhile,
Premier Playford was advised.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“INCREDIBLE MISTAKES.”
[ltems condensed under this heading, which is quoted
from M. Paul Reynaud’s speech of May 21 explaining
the German break-through into France, are given for
their value as helpful warning for the future. The
first is from a “New Statesman” article of May 25.]
We have been living off legends: instead of fight-
ing this war with the weapons and techniques of our
own time, we have told each other stories of past
triumphs and sought to create a dream world in
retrospect.
The English dream of a slow, unhurried victory
through the blockade of an invincible navy, the French
dream of a position-warfare behind impregnable forti-
fied positions, the Allied dream that National-
Socialism would crumble of its own accord by the
process of time, while we at our own pace organised
our vastly superior resources—it is on such fantasies
that we have been fed, while Hitler prepared his total,
annihilating warfare.
There were a few in Britain and France who re-
jected dreams and dared to look reality in the face.
They did not belong to any particular generation or
party indeed their political philosophies were often
so violently opposed that they were unable to unite
their strength. In the minds of these few men and
women there was only one question: Would the
Western democracies be annihilated by a totalitarian
attack or would they, by a terrific effort of self-re-
organisation, both domestic and international, revolu-
tionise their structure and traditions and pull through?
Tli e wise old men of all parties and all ages jeered
at their critics and called them Cassandras. Gazing
upon the plenty they had created among poverty and
on their vast imperial resources—largely undeveloped
since scarcity was more profitable than abundance—
they convinced themselves that wealth spelt impregna-
bility and prestige power. Against the total organisa-
tion of air power, a mechanised army, a war economy
and a Fifth Column in every country, they were con-
fident that the British Navy and the French fortifica-
tions would prevail. And for propaganda, both at
home and abroad, they were content to rely with small
variations upon the slogans of 1918.
Today legend is being dissipated: reality is sud-
denly revealed to startled eyes. At last it is realised
that reliance upon outworn techniques and phrases
and personalities and, worst of all, reliance on poten-
tial material superiority spell disaster.
In Japan there is a socially useful tradition
whereby men who have failed in the work entrusted
to them themselves draw the drastic conclusion of that
failure. We need the British substitute for hara-kiri
today both among our politicians, our leading civil
servants and our controllers. There is scarcely a de-
partment of State, either ciyil or military, which does
not suffer from the chronic and gentlemanly obstruc-
tionism of civil servants, the keys to whose peace-time
success were first their elegant ability to shelve issues
until action was impossible, and, secondly, their skill
in prosecuting departmental skirmishes and thereby
preventing any co-ordination of effort. The cult of
correct departmental procedure may be unobjection-
able in times of peace: it is more deadly than any
Fifth Column in total warfare.
So far the problems of supply and labor have
been handled with a delicate sensitivity to the feelings
of every organised interest which might be adversely
affected by a vigorous prosecution of the war. If
there was not corruption in and around the Ministry
of Supply, there was a solicitude for private interests
which in war-time is equally deadly.
British working people are willing for any sacri-
fices when they are convinced of their necessity. What
hinders their full employment is the tangle of rules
and regulations to protect this or that private interest,
and the presence of a host of controllers who, from
impeccable motives of business propriety, are sabotag-
ing our war-production.
Our morale remains unchallengeably high, but
it is still that of a people watching, not participating,
in the war. Millions want victory and imagine that
defeat is impossible ; but, inured by years of govern-
mental aloofness, they either feel frustrated in their
will to action or accept passivity as a natural law. It
is not appeals which are needed, but precise statements
of jobs to be done and services rendered and, above
all, a confidence in the people sufficient to permit
them to get on with the work without waiting for
Government regulation. The War Office wants “Para-
Su° tS V hundreds of thousands have filled up forms
Why should not every village and every ward choose
its own leader for the time being? Why should not
immediate instructions be broadcast which leaders
can follow in training their group in observation and
discipline? A home defence force thus spon-
taneously and locally self-organised would sometimes
be unsoldierly and sometimes chaotic. But it would
turn our morale from that of the wireless-listener to
that of the active participant—and once the movement
was created, it could be given its order and coherence
If it is dangerous to trust the people, the answer is
—we five in dangerous times. And to create a dis-
ciplined force is far less dangerous than to allow panic
to grow and rumor to work unchecked.
Nothing less than the imminence of defeat was
necessary to unseat the procrastinators; nothing less
than the full use of the new emergency powers can
turn imminent defeat into victory. But at least this
can be said: the democracies have now dismissed
legends and faced realities.
*, * * * .fc
C Robert Howard; London “Daily Telegraph.”)
The true answer to those who angrily demand to
know why, in this war, the initiative has lain in Hitler’s
hands is because for five years at least we failed to
mamtain or regain air parity with Germany.
a’ ee ’ Mr. Herbert Morrison, Mr. Green-
e- ' r ' exanc * er and the rest —including Sir Archi-
bald Sinclair and Mr. Lloyd George—are now aflame
with burning zeal for a more vigorous prosecution of
the war. Their zeal is of very recent birth. Rearma-
ment was anathema to every one of them during the
first tour, if not five, years of Hitler’s regime.
Have Mr. Attlee and Mr. Morrison forgotten the
reception they gave to the first belated White Paper
on Defence of March 4, 1935. It was frosty, frigid,
Arctic, hostile. They led their party into the “No”
Lobby in the interests, as they said, of “the future
wellbeing of the human race.”
Again, has Mr. Morrison forgotten how just four
years ago he and his followers in the L.C.C. refused
the use of Battersea Park for a display of the 52nd
Anti-Aircraft Brigade on the ground that local resi-
dents might object to the noise of gunfire?
Mr. Attlee stigmatised the White Paper as a “de-
plorable document “likely to lead” to a competition
in armaments, though the prospective enemy was
already many laps ahead in the race.
Mr. Alexander—an ex-First Lord of the Admiralty
—said that the “swollen naval expenditure” of 1936
was “due to panic.” Even in 1937 these three Social-
ist leaders pressed their party executive to vote against
all the Service Estimates, and were only defeated by
45 votes to 39. That was less than two years and a
hall before the outbreak of war!
It was Socialist and Independent hostility to re-
armament, on the pretext that collective security was
still the surest weapon of defence against aggression,
which, unfortunately, confirmed the successive
National Governments in their reluctance to face up
adequately to an unwelcome duty.
*****
( From London ‘‘Evening Standard”)
More than half the British press supported the
proposition that the Allies could save Finland, that
they should dispatch huge forces to her aid—a plan
"Daily Mirror,” London.
THE STOKER.
which would infallibly have produced a tight alliance
between Moscow and Berlin.
Today some of the same persons are waking up
to discover that it is an advantage to Britain’s cause
not to be committed to battle with half the world.
The war they would have had us wage is revealed as
an irrelevancy to the main contest; the enemy they
would have had us fight as a suspicious neutral; the
blood and treasure they would have had us spill as a
total gain ; the campaign they conducted as a piece of
hare-brained irresponsibility.
*****
{Robert Boothby, M.P.; London ‘‘Sunday Chronicle,”
5/5/’40.)
We are now paying for our woeful lack of imagi-
nation and energy in the years and months immedi-
ately preceding the war.
As I listened in the House of Commons to the
recital of the events in Norway I could not help think-
ing of the many occasions when we had been urged
to establish a Ministry of Supply, to introduce con-
scription, to quadruple the Air Force at any cost.
The inescapable fact remains that, despite re-
peated warnings over a long period of time, we were
not prepared for this war.
We have it on the authority of the First Lord of
the Admiralty that for the first six months of the war
we had no adequately protected fleet base in the North
Sea ; and of the Chief of thd Imperial General Staff
that in September our army was so small as to be a
negligible factor.
*****
Official False Optimism
[“Throughout this war the public has been misled'
regarding our real strength, and our strategical position
has been hidden under a flow of optimistic official
speeches. —London “Daily Mail,” quoted in last week’s
cables. Here are a few examples and some comment;
the list could be extended indefinitely.]
{M. Paul Reynaud, addressing the French Chamber of
Deputies, 12/4/’40.)
“Germany now presents us with the picture of a
sortie by a beleaguered garrison. Her initial tactical
success in Scandinavia has proved an immense stra-
tegical error. The iron ore route from Narvik to
Germany is now cut permanently.”
* * * * *
(From London “Daily Express,” 20/5/ ’40.)
Broadcasting, Mr. Churchill declared that we
might look forward with confidence to the stabilisation
of the front in France.
*****
(Mr. Duff Cooper, broadcasting 21/5/ ’40.)
“The armies of England and France in enor-
mously superior numbers occupy the battlefield and
the counter-attack when it comes should prove for-
midable.”
*****
(General Sir Edmund Ironside —now in charge of
Britain’s home defence —in a widely-quoted London
Daily Express” interview, 5/4/ ’40.)
“Frankly we would welcome an attack. Our
army has at last turned the corner. 1 was sure of this
for the first time a fortnight ago.
“We started with very little. The Germans gave
us these months to build a real fighting force. It’s
too late for them now. As a matter of fact, we’d
welcome a go at them.
“Whoever breaks through the great defence sys-
tem on the Western Front must at once improvise.
The Germans can plan a great campaign to the last
detail, but in their entire military history the only
successful improvising they ever did was at Tannen-
berg, and they would have failed then had they been
against a real army. But if they should penetrate
any part of the Western Front they would then have
to start improvising immediately. And psychologi-
cally they are not good at it.
“The German army has one weakness that is
largely overlooked ; she has no commanders who were
more than captains during the last war. We and the
French have many senior officers who have had every
type of military experience and exercised every com-
mand.”
*****
(From London “Daily Sketch,” 11/4/ ’4O).
Mr. Churchill and the Admiralty chiefs were
absolutely confident last night of the
final result of the naval war raging off
Norway. The First Lord was jubilant.
They believe it will prove to be one of
Germany’s greatest defeats, and may be
a turning point in the war. The part of
the German fleet that has left the Skager-
rak is unlikely ever to get back.
* * * *
C Hannen Swaffer; London “Daily Herald.”)
Whose judgment, in these hours of
crisis, can we trust? From the begin-
ning almost all the Cabinet was pleased
with itself.
“Already Hitler has lost the initia-
five»” t said Eden, on the air, on October
25. “The aggressor’s early advantage is
spent. With fast-gathering momentum
we fall into our stride.”
Chamberlain, broadcasting a month
later, was equally complacent. “We are
not losing anything by delay, for time is
on qur side.”
“Our position improves week by
week,” boasted Simon on November 29.
“Every month we grow, stronger,”
said Malcolm MacDonald on December
2. The opposite is true of Germany.”
* * * *
{London Evening News” Parliamentary
correspondent.)
Wh fmthe Germans had got a foothold in Nor-
way and British troops were about to disembark in
Southern and Central Norway on a task now shown
to have been beyond the strength available to them,
he then Prime Minister said: “Germany has made
many miscalculations, but none greater than this”
(me invasion of Norway). Mr. Churchill said: “He
[Hitier] has made a whole series of commitments
upon the Norwegian coast for which he will now have
to fight, if necessary, during the whole summer against
lowers possessing vastly superior naval forces, and
able to transport them to the scenes of action more
easily than he can.”
*****
{From a London “Evening News” leader.)
Even when the blow had fallen Mr. Chamberlain
was naively incredulous. He could not bring himself
to believeJhat Narvik in the Arctic could have been
seized. “There have been some reports about a
similar landing at Narvik,” he said to the Commons
on the day of the invasion. “I am doubtful whether
these are correct, and I am informed that there is an-
other place with a very similar name in the south of
Norway, which it is very possible might have given
rise to a misapprehension.” Misapprehension!
Why did the Government persist in underestimat-
ing our foe’s craftiness and resource? Why did it
delude itself that the Germans could not possibly shut
us out of all the ports—that they were bound to leave
us two or three nice bases somewhere? The Ger-
mans measure us by their own thorough standards.
It is a tragic pity that we should have measured them
by ours.
* * * * *
Unofficial Variety
[These examples of unofficial optimism, false prophecy
and the like could also be extended indefinitely Those
given are merely representative; the “famous authority
°. n h ™ terna ti° n al affairs” has pride of place as a due
(Madame Tabouis, in London ‘‘Sunday Dispatch,” a
week or so before the event.)
In spite of all appearances, and even certain
serious reports, it is not believed in well-informed


circles in Paris that Italy will enter the war except,
perhaps, in minor action in the Balkans.
* £ * * * *
(Extracts from Douglas Reed’s latest book “Nemesis”
(Cape); Mr. Reed also has some repute as a prophet.)
Hitler, much sooner than I expected, is finished.
I cannot tell how long he will last, whether he will
take an unconscionable time in departing, but his end
is written clearly on the wall, and he put it there
himself. It is an extraordinary thing: the marriage
with Moscow —without the wedding night. Collabora-
tion without the military alliance, what in the name
of duplicity is that? And on top of that, the case
of the Graf Spee. Adolf Hitler gave himself the
name he will deserve in history —Adolf Scuttler. From
that moment Hitler is old news. Hitler is a yellowing
page... .Italy, if she ever thought of taking Germany’s
side, probably changed her mind that day.
Hitler will not attack us in full force. Do not
believe the people who told you he would do this in
the autumn of 1939: who now tell you he will do it
in the spring of 1940 ; and who will tell you, if he
does not do it then, that he will do it in the autumn
of 1940. These voices are criminally suspect; they are
the voices of armament rings, rabid for their profits.
Hitler will not attack us with all his strength. 1 know,
from my years in Germany, that the Nazi strategy,
laid down long before the war began, was only to
launch that great-attack-with-everything-that-Ger-
many-has if (1) France and Britain could be sun-
dered from each other, and this has not happened ;
or (2) if Germany could find allies strong enough to
overcome them both together, and that has not hap-
pened. Failing either of these, that Nazi strategy,
long prepared, is to sit tight behind the West Wall.
* & # * *
{From London “Daily Mail.” This and the next item
figured freely in cables, along with wildly optimistic
and misleading “maps.”)
The Allied minefield in the North Sea, Skagerrak
and Kattegat, announced by the Admiralty, is prob-
ably the biggest ever laid. The effect of the field will
be to prevent German reinforcements reaching
Norway.
*****
(From Yorkshire “Post.”)
Hitler’s main object in attacking Norway was to
safeguard the Swedish ore coming by the Norwegian
sea route. We have stopped that route stopped it,
we may confidently say, for the duration of the war.
* * * * *
(Stephen King-Hall, in a letter to London “Economist.”)
I very much question whether victory presup-
poses, as you put it, “the defeat in the field of the
German military machine.” Italics are mine. Mili-
tary machines are only a part of the war-making
equipment in total war, and it is at least possible that
we have reached a stage in the evolution of war in
which they will play a subsidiary part.
* * * * *
Mistakes All Round
[Last week cables reported that “the original B.E.F.
was sent away largely with reconditioned artillery from
the last war. Even the schopls of artillery in England
were left short of guns to equip it.” Three weeks earlier
(29/ 5/ ’4O) London “Daily Herald” made the following
comment.]
What could have been foreseen —what was fore-
seen by many, though apparently not by those with
power to act —was the scale, the nature and the pui-
pose of German military might. German military
might today is based on the striking power of the
bomber and of the armored column. That power can
be countered only by forces which are adequately
armored and mobile. In the first great battle of this
war the British forces lacked sufficient armor. The
men fought with a tenacity which was awe-inspiring.
Their discipline was immaculate, their courage mag-
nificent. But, because they were underarmored, they
could not break through the German ring and re-
link themselves with the French. The French, too,
fought magnificently, but lacked adequate modern
equipment on the ground and overhead.
*****
(From the “People.”)
When Czechoslovakia was invaded we heard
stories about how the German tanks were useless,
lying in the ditches, things that you could almost put
your finger through —“ersatz.” Now we know that
their giant tanks can smash their way through almost
anything. We did not send to France nearly enough
tanks with which to repel the Nazi hordes. They were
being used in Britain for training purposes, training
that might have been done in France, so that both
men and machines would have been on the spot.
*****
(From London “Daily Mirror. ’)
The Maginot Line proper was constructed from
Basle to Luxembourg. From there it ceased and
became a series of hastily constructed forts extending
along the Belgian frontier to the North Sea.
In the light of history this is now revealed as a
staggering blunder. Three times within 70 years
France has been invaded by Germany. Twice the
invaders came through Belgium, and once by way of
Sedan. Yet the historic road of invasion that the
Huns always take was neglected in comparison with
the zones which they have never yet chosen as a path
for their advance.
For months every Tom, Dick and Harry that
could scribble in a notebook had been wined and
dined and shown the impregnable wonders in the
hidden depths of the Maginot Line proper, while
away to the north only a few desultory blockhouses
were scattered across the open countryside to bar the
way to the invader.
It can hardly be called an oversight. It was a stu-
pendous miscalculation based on the foolish theory
that either the Germans would respect the integrity of
the Low Countries or that the armed forces of these
countries would be able to hold the invaders back until
Allied aid reached them.
Also, the anti-tank weapons of the Allies were de-
signed to be effective against tanks similar to their
own. The Allies disregarded the possibility of any-
thing better than their best. The Nazis produced tanks
so armored that only three-inch guns could pierce
them. As a result, the smaller anti-tank rifles weie
useless and the French seventy-fives had to be used
on a job for which they were not designed.
* * * * *
(From M. Paul Reynaud’s speech in the French Senate
(21 /5/’4O), cabled in part. Last week cables explained
some of the “incredible mistakes” as due to Fifth
Columnists, reported to have been as active in Fiance
as they had been in Holland.)
“The Meuse —apparently a difficult river to cross
—had been wrongly considered as a redoubtable
obstacle for the enemy. That is the reason why the
French divisions which were entrusted with its detence
were few and were spread out over a great area along
the river. In addition, General Corap s army, com-
posed of divisions not so well-officered and less well-
trained, were put there, the best troops forming part
of the left wing marching into Belgium.
“The Meuse is a difficult river, and difficult to
defend. Machine-gun fire on the flank is impossible,
and infiltration is easy for manoeuvring troops. Add
to that the fact that more than half the infantry divi-
sions of the Corap army had not yet reached the
Meuse, although they had the shortest movement to
make since they were nearest to the point.
“That was not all. As a result of incredible mis-
takes the bridges over the Meuse were not destroyed.
Over these bridges there passed the German ‘Panzer’
[armored] divisions, preceded by fighter planes which
came to attack divisions which were scattered, lll-
cadred and badly trained for such attacks.
“You now understand the disaster and the total
disorganisation of the Corap army. It was thus that
the hinge of the French army was broken.”
* * * * *
(Daily Express,” 30/5/ ’40.)
Reynaud told, with complete frankness, how “in-
credible mistakes” were made in allowing the Ger-
mans to cross the Meuse. But we must admit, with
equal frankness, that incredible mistakes were made
“Akbaba,” Turkey.
HIS MAJESTY OIL.
in Britain ; that the people of Britain lingered long
in slothfulness while France was fully mobilised for
war.
* * ♦ *
Footnote
(From London ‘‘Sunday Express.”)
We are living in tense, grave days. The “Sunday
Express” believes that the light popular entertainment
of normal times is out of place now. For that reason
it has decided to discontinue the weekly article of
astrological predictions.
The New Methods of Warfare.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph” article
by Victor Gordon Lennox.)
When, contrary to expectation, the Germans
launched their sharpest attack in the Ardennes with
the heaviest armored columns the blow fell upon a
portion of the French front relatively lightly held. It
was a surprise move, brilliantly executed and carried
out under cover of devastating air bombardment which
spread terror among the civil population of the back
areas and threw into great confusion the complex
system of communication and supply for an army
constituted in mass.
During this period of disorder, rendered the more
disconcerting by the employment of strongly armored
tanks, the attacking columns were enabled to pene-
trate rapidly into north-eastern France, accompanied
always by clouds of bombing and low-flying machine-
gunning aircraft.
In countering these operations the Allies were
handicapped by two deficiencies, both proceeding
from the same fundamental error. They entered upon
the war with an inferiority in both tanks and aircraft
resulting from their continued insistence on viewing the
problem of a coming war with Germany in a purely
defensive light. It followed that, when the time came,
neither of the Allies considered itself in a position
to assume the initiative.
For long past a school of younger military
thought in France had strongly criticised the defen-
sive conception, recognising the well-established mili-
tary principle that in war the advantage must always
rest with the side which holds the initiative. Simi-
larly, in Britain, successive Governments were urged
to recognise that, apart from the slow strangling effect
of blockade by the British Navy, the Allies might well
find that they possessed only one means of imposing
their will upon Germany; namely, by gaining air
superiority.
Despite continuous resistance to expanded ex-
penditure by the Treasury, the aircraft industry now
exists and has succeeded in executing each programme
approved by the Government. But at no stage have
these programmes been on a scale equal to the
necessities imposed by the Nazis’ regimented indus-
trial preparation for war.
France, long wedded to the conception of a de-
fensive army, standing entrenched and fortified along
her frontier, supported by her formidable artillery,
belatedly conceded the desirability of adding a pro-
portion of tanks to her forces. Even after the lessons
of the German campaign in Poland these tanks were
still disposed as a stiffening for infantry divisions
rather than as an independent striking or pursuit force.
Votes for the armed forces in France, as in Britain,
were constantly described as being required for “de-
fence” ; and, indeed, in the case of France the bulk of
a very considerable expenditure was devoted to purely
defensive purposes —the construction of the massive
works constituting the Maginot Line and the provision
of artillery and equipment for an army of 5,000,000
men.
Horse transport, well suited to positional war-
fare, was retained as the basic system of supply for
these armies. So deeply ingrained was the French
conviction that the land army is the determining ele-
ment in warfare that the importance of air power
was not recognised until only recently. This was com-
parable to the British belief in sea-power—a faith
which has militated against the creation of an air
force so numerous as the present situation demands.
The German military mind noted the possibility
of waging the next German war of aggression by
totally new methods. These were the combination of
air striking power with that of swift-moving, heavily
armored columns. But for the disorganisation created
by the air force, ruthlessly employed in air bombing
and machine-gunning far behind the anticipated field
of battle, it might well be questioned whether the
leading armored columns could ever pierce the oppos-
ing lines. Here again, planning in most minute detail
and skilful sabotage must also be employed so as to
strike at the enemy at some point where attack is un-
expected. This was the technique which made pos-
sible the breach of the French front.
For this purpose the bulk of the giant German air
force was disposed on two main principles \ first, that
of feints to create doubts in the Allies’ mind as to
the actual point of intended mass attack. Such, for
example, was the bombing of Lyons on the morning
of the invasion of Holland and Belgium. The second
and main aim was to strike terror into population and
troops alike by intensive scattered bombardment from
all altitudes linked with dive machine-gunning.
During the inevitable military disorder due to
blocking of roads by damaged transport and the flight
of refugees from burning, crumbling towns and vil-
lages, the armored columns get their chance to pene-
trate. As their area of action is extended, preceded
always by fresh air bombardments, the difficulty of
the defence in moving fresh troops and artillery into
position is extended to an ever-widening area. If
successfully executed this move should provide a suffi-
cient opening for the advance of motorised and other
infantry to occupy and consolidate positions in the
disorganised area.
To this operation there can be but one reply ; the
relentless harassing of the invader’s communications
and concentrations, thus hampering the advance of
his infantry and his ability to bring up supplies of
liquid fuel sufficient to enable the tanks to resume
their advance. This is work for the defence’s medium
bombers, while the defending fighters are taking their
maximum toll of the attacking bombers and dive-
gunners. Thus the ceaseless fight in the air must go
on until one side has established a mastery over the
other.
It is easy to see the vital importance of possessing
behind the air force an aircraft industry able to turn
out ’planes at a rate sufficient to replace the heavy
wastage of the battlefield. And it must be remembered
that many a machine which brings its crew home
safely will not be serviceable to resume the battle
until damage caused by enemy fire has been repaired.
The R.A.F. has been called upon to undertake a
multitude of tasks on behalf of many friends and
allies. The bomber force has been almost constantly
engaged in the attempted destruction of enemy aero-
dromes—up to ranges of 600 miles from its bases —
and in bombing concentrations and communications
in and behind the battle zone. Not until late in the
campaign was the Air Staff authorised to bomb the
life-springs of the German mechanised war machine
—the sources on which the monstrous engine must rely
for its petrol and lubricants.
The fighters have been employed night and day
in the work of protecting the Allied armies and back
areas, ports, convoys and warcraft from the savage
German onslaught. Despite the great numerical odds
opposing them, their morale stands almost incredibly
high. Man for man and machine for machine they
are masters of the Germans. But numbers count
also, just as there must be limits to the human en-
durance of pilots and crews deprived of sleep by
the long hours which numerical inferiority now
imposes.
The duty is to work feverishly to supply machines
and ammunition to these indomitable men of the
Royal Air Force. In the last resort it will be upon
them that the responsibility will rest for preserving
British independence.
* * * * *
(From a “Yorkshire Post” article.)
The purpose of total war is not merely slaughter
without limit. It seeks to beat down the self-control


of its victims, to turn them into panic-stricken animals
no longer willing or able to resist.
It is a method of warfare so inhuman that the
men who are to wage it must first be dehumanised
themselves. They must be trained to despise mercy
as weakness, to worship brutality as the highest good.
Deliberately and for years, with this purpose in view,
Hitler has trained his young men. He has raised a
race of fanatical technicians, ready and equipped to
deal out scientific terror on soldiers and civilians
alike, and as contemptuous of their own lives as of
the lives of all who confront them.
London Changes.
{From London “Daily Herald ” comment by Hannen
Swaffer .)
London has put on the appearance of a threat-
ened city. Troops have piled up embankments and
sandbags to block both sides of the Admiralty Arch.
The Admiralty is surrounded with barbed wire,
every gap guarded by soldiers and police. The Horse
Guards Parade gives the appearance of an armed
camp. There are sandbags, too, at the Whitehall
entrance to Downing-street.
Yet never had St. James’s Park put on such a
robe of radiance. In blood-stained Holland the tulips
had shed their petals nearly a month before. Here
they still bloomed, palest-yellow to nearly-black, in
flower-beds within sight of the windows in which
Government chiefs were getting news of cruel carnage,
only half an hour’s flight away.
* * * * *
(From the “Sunday Express.”)
Shopkeepers in Hampstead, Golders Green and
parts of Finchley have few customers. The main
streets are almost deserted, and for the first time for
many months only English is spoken.
German and Austrian refugees who flocked to
this area of London have either been interned- or are
staying indoors. In the recent round-up of aliens
more than 2000 were detained in these areas alone.
The chairman of Hampstead Chamber of Com-
merce said: “Large empty houses were taken by
aliens. They crowded into the better-class houses,
three and four families taking one and sharing the
expenses. People refused to remain next door to the
refugees, who took over whole streets.”
Tradesmen who had been in business in Hamp-
stead for years have been forced to close. Business
people and the local Chambers of Commerce have
started a campaign to attract residents back to the
district, in the hope that there will be a return to
former prosperity.
4= * * * 4c
{William Hickey in London “Daily Express.”)
There has been a remarkable outburst of wall-
scribbling in London—all of a Fifth-Column type. I
saw in various districts, freshly chalked, swastikas,
Mosley “flash” signs, anti-Semitic slogans such as
P-J ” (Perish Judah) and “Read the Protocols and
See.” (This refers to a notorious forged document
much quoted by Nazis.) Authorities, remembering
use made of hoarding-codes by Dutch and Belgian
Fifth Columnists, should be perturbed.
4= * «c DC 4c
{From London “Sunday Times.”)
Under an order issued by the British Ministry
of Supply, shoppers will find that retailers will be
under an obligation to refuse to wrap goods which
do not require wrapping for their protection. The
manufacture of some classes of paper goods—hand-
kerchiefs, serviettes, tablecloths, cups, saucers and
plates, book wrappers, festoons and confetti—is pro-
hibited.
* * * * 4c
(Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.)
An unusual sight in London is that of army
officers carrying revolvers in their Sam Browne belts.
Elderly retired officers admitted that they had never
seen such a thing before except in the occasional
case of an officer who had just left or was rejoining
his unit and had his full equipment. Even in the last
war officers returning on leave from France did not
wear revolvers or even bring them home with them.
* 4= 4= * 4c
(London “Star” columnist.)
London lost one of its most characteristic features
when the evening paper contents bills were sacrificed
to the paper shortage.
We shall have to wait a bit before they come
back—l fear till another Armistice Day comes round.
There were no posters to tell us of the last one, but
no event needed posters less. Everybody told every-
body.
* t 4= 4c 4c
("Evening Standard.”)
Revolvers are now being handed in with hats and
coats in the members’ cloakroom at Westminster. The
ancient rule, dating back to the days of sword-carry-
ing, that no one may enter the Chamber bearing arms
has come up for reconsideration since officer-M.Ps.
have been attending the House in uniform, and it has
been upheld. All lethal weapons are banned from
the Chamber, even the skean dhu which a Highlander
wears in his stocking. The last member in Highland
dress to be challenged on this point was Mr. T. B. W.
Ramsay. He argued that the weapon was part of his
dress. But he had to leave it with the doorkeeper.
4= 4c 4: 4: 4c
Soviet Rule in Poland.
(Condensed from a London “Sunday Times” article by
a special correspondent.)
The fact that the invasion of Poland by the Red
Army did not have the same sequence on the part of
the Allies as the invasion of Poland by the Germans
has led British people to minimise the results of the
Soviet occupation as compared with the German.
The Germans aim at a complete annihilation
of eveiything Polish in culture and in national feel-
ing, using all the modern devices of their organising
technique to impose on the Poles the cruelty of the
German mind and the persistency of German aims.
The Russians, with their lack of organisation and
tendency towards chaos, aim at bringing the standard
of life and the national, social and religious ideals
of the occupied country, irrespective of the racial
affinities of the population—Polish, Ukrainian, White-
Russian or Jewish —down to the lower standard pre-
vailing all over Soviet Russia ; the standard enabling
the Bolshevist party to maintain its dictatorial grip
over the masses.
The methods of Hitler and Stalin may be different,
but both lead to the same result —the end of Poland
as an independent State.
Immediately after the Red Army had invaded
Poland, the Soviet authorities started political and
religious persecution. The G.P.U. had drawn up
special lists of Poles, Ukrainians and Jews according
to their political views and their social positions in the
community. The precise number of those arrested
is not yet known, but the total is probably not less
than 50,000. Many of them have been shot.
About 25,000 agitators were sent into Poland,
special propaganda centres have been created, and
anti-religious talks are broadcast from all radio
stations. All Church property has been confiscated.
Any flimsy excuse serves for closing churches and
convents. The Catholic clergy in the part of Poland
occupied by Russia (of a population of about thirteen
millions over nine millions are Catholics) included
19 bishops, 5500 secular priests and 500 priests
of various religious orders. Jaroslawski, the Bol-
shevist leader of the anti-God movement, announced
after a tour of inspection that already 4000 priests
had been deported to Siberia and that the clergy
would soon be completely wiped out.
Lwow, until recently a prosperous city of 350,000
inhabitants, is today in a state of complete decay.
Sanitary conditions are appalling, and there is a com-
plete lack of medical supplies. The nationalised shops
have next to nothing for sale ; shoes are unobtainable.
The Polish currency has been withdrawn from circu-
lation, all deposits in the banks of £lO and over have
—“Daily Sketch London,
AT THE GATES.
Last week's cables reported Lord Lothian. British Ambassador to the U.S.A.,
as having “issued a warning" that, “if Hitler destroyed or captured the
British and French Fleets, he would possess building facilities which would
enable him vastly to outbuild America’s own defensive preparations indefi-
nitely. The United Slates could not depend on the British Fleet going to
Canada, or on the fleet passing easily to the United States."
been confiscated, and the Soviet authorities ordered
the opening of all bank safes and the confiscation
of their contents. About 15,000 merchants have lost
their means of livelihood in the Bolshevist areas of
Eastern Poland.
Large estates and great industrial and commercial
undertakings have been nationalised ; even the private
property of small artisans has been confiscated. In
several industrial centres machinery has been trans-
ferred to Russia, as well as raw material. The estates
of the big Polish landowners have been divided among
the Ukrainian peasants, but the process of distri-
bution has been haphazard, without legal form of
transference, so that the peasants regard it therefore
as a temporary measure only, intended to help the
Soviets to remodel the agricultural structure in
Eastern Poland on the collective farm basis. Nothing
is feared by the peasants more than that. The first
collective farms are being organised already, and this
accentuates the feeling of unrest.
The peasants suffer, moreover, under a great
shortage of the industrial products they need. The
efficient Ukrainian co-operatives have been destroyed ;
the co-operative stores are empty, and the peasant is
reluctant to take his products to town and sell them
for Soviet roubles with which he can buy nothing.
In consequence of all this, cities like Lwow, Stanis-
lawow, Drohobycz, Bialystok are suffering from
famine.
*****
(From British official Empire Press Notes.)
Polish reports from the Soviet-occupied territory
point to a rapid deterioration of conditions. The
attitude of the Soviet authorities has also become
increasingly severe. Their object has been to deport
to Russia any people capable of giving a lead to
resistance, to undermine and destroy any form of
organisation, and to reproduce in the occupied terri-
tory the feeling of fatalism and apathy characteristic
of the Soviet Union.
The Polish educated classes are being liquidated
in one way or another. The Polish peasants and
workmen are united in hatred of the Russians. The
Ukrainians, too, are hostile, and speak of collabora-
tion with the Poles. If an early revolt were to occur
they might join with the Poles, but Nazi agitators
are said to be busy among them holding out hopes
that later on the Germans will occupy the country
and will deliver them from Russians and Poles alike.
Dragnet Digest.
{General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.')
No wonder France turns in her hour of crisis to
84-year-old Philippe Petain and calls him back to her
War Cabinet as Vice-Premier. It was Petain who in
the last war commanded at Verdun and held up the
German army until it smashed itself to pieces. His
was the famous watchword: “They shall not pass.
London “Daily Mail.”
j f *
“Belgians who live in Belgium, be assured that
the King is more than ever the incarnation of your
country. He has all the traits of a soldier, because
he began to fight, as a soldier of the second class, at
the age of 16, during the last war. Since he became
King he has constantly strengthened the Belgian army.
He has not left his troops, and the veterans of the war
of 1914-18, who are fighting again today, say that
in every way he is like his father.” — M. Pierlot, Bel-
gian Prime Minister; 28/5/’4O.
*****
I hear grave complaint as to the mobilisation and
disposition of our Parashot Militia. It appears to be
going along on the basis of friendly talks between a
number of retired officers and the squire.— London
“Evening Standard” military correspondent.
* * * * *
In half an hour a colleague heard that (1) the
Pope was fleeing to America ; (2) America was join-
ing in the war next week ; (3) Russia was coming in
on our side. — Hannen Swaffer on rumors, in London
“Daily Herald.”
* * ?*t 4c *
I like this account from Tokyo (quoted in the
American press) of an incident in the Japanese Par-
liament: Interpellating the Budget committee in the
Lower House, Haruji Tahara, of the Social
Mass party, shouted: “In times like these a strong
political system is needed to enforce strong policies.
We must have a strong hand at the top, such as Hitler,
Mussolini” The speaker paused. At this point,
the members of the committee
and the Government gasped, re-
calling that Suehiro Nishio was
expelled from the Lower House
because he added Stalin to the
list of strong men after whom
Japan should pattern her system.
“ or Roosevelt,” concluded
Tahara, to everyone’s intense
relief. The assembly burst into
laughter. “Critic” ; “New
Statesman."
* * *
A young Czech doctor, who
left Czechoslovakia for Poland
just in time to escape the Ger-
man invasion and is now medi-
cal officer at a refugees’ hostel
near London, told me: “Nazi
organisation on the march into
Poland was excellent. They
moved in an endless stream of
cars—first, open cars with high
officers; then great six-wheeler
lorries, all camouflaged, every
lorry carying 12 privates, a
n.c.o. and a heavy machine-gun ;
these, with the men sitting erect
in every lorry like waxen
candles, seemed to go on for
ever. Then came the Russians.
At first there were only a few
motor vans, dirty and over-
loaded. They carried, not 12 soldiers each, but 30
01 even 50, in uniforms which did not match, with
old and out-of-date rifles, the bayonets of which were
tied on with bits of string.”— “Evening Standard”
reporter.
*****
We have allowed the Nazis to build up the strong-
est Fifth Column of all right in our midst. I am sorry
about the refugees who hate the Nazis as much as we,
at long last, do. But we cannot take the risk. I
would take every German by birth right out of this
country now and put them in Iceland or, better still,
a reservation on the Canadian prairies. It is useless
to tell me that you cannot deport British subjects or
that it is not done to intern women. If we are going
to go on fighting Hitler to ultimate victory we shall
have to do a lot of things that are not quite gentle-
manly. Marquess of Donegal; London “Sunday
Dispatch.”
*****
The enrolment of 400,000 local defence Volun-
teers seems to have been done, in some cases, in the
teeth of determined opposition. Here’s a ripe instruc-
tion issued to the staff in all the branches of a bank:
Members of the bank’s staff have its permission to
register in this corps provided each applicant makes it
clear that the services are subject to the full require-
ments of a man engaged in a reserved occupation, in
other words, that the bank has first call on his services.
— “Cassandra” ; London “Daily Mirror”
*****
There is no ground for any complacent satisfac-
tain with British diplomatic representation in Europe
—to speak here of that continent only. There are
first-rate British Ambassadors or Ministers in half a
dozen capitals ; to describe the rest as mildly moderate
would do them no serious injustice. Never was there
a moment in British history when it was more im-
perative that the diplomatic representatives of Great
Britain in the capitals of Europe should be surpassed
by none of their colleagues and rivals in vigilance, in
alertness in the acquisition of information, in the cul-
tivation of cordial relations with every accessible circle
in the country to which they are accredited. There
is little question that German diplomats are in many
capitals serving the Wilhelmstrasse better than British
are serving Whitehall.— London “Spectator.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Perhaps the possibility of a reduction
in fixtures is causing people to go racing
while they can, and that may have been
responsible for the large attendance at
Rosehill. Either that or the belief that
winners would be easy of selection. Three
of the first four results greatly favored
the books, but as the last three winners
were hot favorites the afternoon did
not have a happy ending for them.
Owner J. Broadbent, who bought Bel-
voir for 250gns. last week, was unlucky
not to have led off with a win in the
Hurdle Race at that horse’s first run in
his colors. King Otho and Sir Julian
led along the back from Belvoir, who
moved up nearing the turn and was
with King Otho at the top of the straight.
Belvoir led at the last jump, but blun-
dered badly. Though he quickly re-
covered himself and ran on gamely, he
was beaten a head by King Otho. An-
other stride or two might have given
a different result. Capaneus, in third
place, took a couple of jumps awkwardly,
but may do better next time. He is sure
to improve with racing, and a longer
distance will help him. Sir Julian and
Pay Day headed the unplaced division,
and though their form was not of much
account they are possible improvers.
J. Carey had the pleasure of turning
out a winner in Gallant in the first
division of the Maiden Juvenile Handi-
cap. Perhaps Gallant was lucky, as
Merry Warrah was so far ahead of
The Elk, Gallant and Moderation when
he ran nearly to the outer rail turning
into the straight that a win for him
appeared certain. Merry Warrah’s mis-
behavior gave The Elk a winning chance,
but he was outstayed by Gallant, a
medium-sized brown colt by Veilmond
from Dearest, by Moabite from Amata,
a Newmarket Handicap winner.
Gallant, who had not previously
started, is owned by A. F. Smith, whose
father (one of Ajax’s part owners) made
him a present of the colt after buying
him at the sale of horses in the estate
of the late E. L. Bailleu. “Mr. Constable”
previously had a half-share in him with
the latter. Rondeval, who is by Grand
Joy, was a fair third, and the nearest
of the others were the Limarch colt
Jasper and Moderation. Jasper is better
than he looks. Merry Warrah, who will
be hard to back when he next runs in
a maiden field, is a well-grown gelding
by Wee Warrah from Happy Maid, and
is one of E. Hush’s team. The best-grown
filly in the field was Charlotte Green-
wood (Bulandshar-Gay Virginia), who
cost 525gns. as a yearling, and is raced
in partnership by W. J. Smith and “Mr.
Constable.”
• ••»••
In the second division of the Maiden
Juvenile an outsider in Christopher
Milne —who had not previously raced —
upset calculations. First into the straight
from Don Byrne, Gay Romeo, Covert
and Manelon, he finished better than
any of his opponents. Don Byrne
appeared to have a winning chance when
he ran up to Christopher Milne at the
leger, but he tired, leaving Celebration
and Casket King to chase Christopher
Milne home. Don Byrne was fourth,
and Ceres ran on best of the remainder.
Covert, who started favorite, was well
placed for a long way, but weakened
badly in the run home. He is a big colt
by Fox-earth from Lynforce. Celebra-
tion is by Denis Boy, and Casket King
by The Buzzard. Christopher Milne,
who is trained by N. Quigley for “Mr.
Biey,” cost 350gns. as a yearling, and
is by Christopher Robin from Chancel,
by Magpie from Chaptrel, whose dam,
Neuve Chapelle, is a half-sister to Friar
Marcus. Chancel never raced, and
Christopher Milne is her first living foal.
Last Chance quickly gave F. Christey
a return of a portion of the 200gns. he
paid for him at auction last week. In
the Three and Four-year-old Handicap
he proved too solid a finisher for June,
who, however, ran really well consider-
ing she started from an outside position.
At the turn she led from Last Chance,
Bombala, Royal Routine and Novice, but
though at the leger it seemed doubtful
whether June would be caught, Last
Chance defeated her comfortably, with
Novice a good third. As Novice only
recently resumed training her form was
a surprise.
Shipley’s fourth makes him worth fol-
lowing, and Klimop is coming on again.
Royal Routine did not act up to his
track work, and Good Morning’s form
was so far below what she showed at
Randwick earlier in the month that she
probably struck bad luck. Gay Romance
ran indifferently, and a drop in the
weights will be necessary to give her a
winning chance.
Beaulivre, who looked bigger than
when racing in the autumn, easily justi-
fied the odds laid on him for the Dundas
Handicap. Second to Jazbeau rounding
the turn, he quickly settled the latter in
the straight and went on to win from
Mohican, who, though he made a dash
a furlong from home, was unequal to
seriously troubling Beaulivre. I thought
Rodborough looked a little above him-
self, but he ran third. After the race
he was bleeding from the mouth, but
it was due to cutting his tongue while in
his box in the morning and biting on
to it in running. He is not to go to Bris-
bane. Pen, though in better trim than
when recently placed at Rosebery, was
never a possibility. The time was only
a quarter-second slower than the track
record standing to the credit of Luita
and Falstaff.
Adopting his usual tactics, Cook took
Gilltown to the front soon after the start
of the Rosehill June Handicap. Along
the back he slowed the field down, and
then, shooting the chestnut away from
Buzzal and Lockray entering the straight,
gained an advantage that enabled him
to win. Inside the last furlong he
appeared to be weakening, but, though
Mabson finished well, he failed to reach
him by half a length. Buzzal was a fair
third, while Lockray’s weight proved
altogether too much for him. As Gill-
town returned to weigh in there was the
old cry of “Good boy, Billy.” Somewhat
different from what the crowd unde-
servedly said to Cook when he won on
Martheus a week earlier.
From the time betting opened on the
Parramatta Mile it was certain Binnia
Hero would be favorite, though Enatic
and Speardale were well backed. Val
Eaton and Jan did the pacemaking, with
Enatic next. When the lastnamed got
to the front at the leger a win for him
seemed probable, but Binnia Hero, who
made his effort on the outside, quickly
disposed of him. Speardale, who was
interfered with by Moaveil when she
twisted round at barrier-rise, and in
consequence was much further back than
customary in the early part of his races,
put in a good run at the finish, but
without ever quite looking as if he would
overhaul Binnia Hero. Lithgow was
always prominent, his form making him
worth backing at a mid-week meeting.
* * * *
Our Boy and Bureaucrat impressed
among the Grand National Hurdle candi-
dates which raced at Moonee Valley on
Saturday. Our Boy had an easy
win with 11.1 in the Windarra Trial
Hurdle, but at the time of writ-
ing he was not a definite National
runner. Bureaucrat, second-favorite to
Cheery Jack for the National, enhanced
his prospects by a good fourth in the
Deep Creek Handicap, principal flat race
of the day. The less said about the G.N.
Steeplechase candidates the better. Tifone
disgraced herself, and Brightello also will
have to make a miraculous improvement
to have a chance in the big Flemington
race.
Backers who accepted 5 to 4 about
Our Boy would have sold out at a dis-
count when he was anything up to 40
lengths behind the leader at the third
jump, but rider W. Johnson was not per-
turbed. He knew that he had the “goods”
under him. Our Boy, improving his
position beginning the last mile, ran to
the pacemaker, Atticus, rounding the
home turn. Maintaining his run, he won
very easily from Atticus and Ronalla.
Owner A. B. Lord, who has Our Boy on
lease for the duration of his racing career,
thinks his gelding good enough to win
the National, but he states that trainer
Lou Robertson is against running him.
Robertson, according to Lord, is of the
opinion that Our Boy is not experienced
enough, and that it would be better policy
to keep him for something easier. Lord
will be guided by his trainer in making
a decision. If Our Boy does miss that
race, perhaps he will be given his chance
in the Australian Hurdle, run almost a
month later.
Before Tifone ran in the Travancore
Steeplechase she was third favorite for
the G.N. Steeple. After the race nobody
wanted her at extended prices. An out-
standing hunter last year, when she won
successive Hunt Steeplechases at the
Valley with 11.0, 11.7 and 12.4,
her display at her first appearance
in open company was inglorious. Cer-
tainly she was having her first start
since September, and muscular trouble
had interfered with her preparation,
but she had schooled well enough
during the week to indicate bright pros-
pects. Always well in the market, she
showed no dash at any stage of the race,
and, although sixth at the finish, was
approximately 50 lengths behind the
winner, Reef. Probably she will im-
prove —she cannot do much worse- —but
her failure in a comparatively weak field
with only 31b. more than her National
weight was not reassuring.
“Bill” Burke’s many jumping triumphs
include the last G.N. double with Green
Cape and Giant Killer, but Reef’s 12-to-l
win in the Travancore Steeplechase must
be one of the greatest tributes to his
training ability. Reef was having his first
start since last November, and his first
race over jumps of any description!
Burke, however, does not have to race a
jumper into form. He schools them thor-
oughly, and Reef’s win on Saturday
demonstrated that the gelding had ab-
sorbed his lessons over about 200 school-
ing hurdles before ever he raced on the
flat. A four-year-old by Hauwiri from
Miss Peak Hill, Reef cost Burke 35
guineas as a yearling. He was a winner
on the flat, but seems certain to make a
much bigger name for himself as a
’chaser. Although lack of race experi-
ence caused him to make several faulty
jumps, he recovered quickly, and led
throughout to win from Sachem and the
rising 12-year-old Prime Seal. Not one
of the place-getters is engaged in the
G.N. Steeplechase.
Owner W. R. Kemball had the satis-
faction of seeing two of his horses,
Grandson and Bankshaw, fight out a
half-head finish for the Deep Creek
Handicap. The betting order was a true
indication of their chances, even though
Grandson eased from threes to 9 to 2,
and Bankshaw, who is in a different
stable, firmed from twelves to eights.
Grandson, a three-year-old gelding by
Siegfried from Bourina, trained by W.
Hawthorne, moved into second place be-
ginning the bend, and fought on well.
Grandson drew attention to his future
by beating Pure Gold in a mile race at
the Valley last August, and his record
since his return to work is two wins from
four starts. Further improvement is
probable, and, although all out to win
over a mile and a quarter on Saturday,
evidently he is going to stay somewhat
better than his connections anticipated.
This thought is prompted by the fact
that he was entered for the Toorak Han-
dicap and Cantala Stakes, but not for the
Cups. Diaphane was a disappointing
favorite. Luck of the race was against
him, but he showed no dash when extri-
cated from a pocket, and finished second
last.
Believers in the “horses for courses”
theory will not overlook Portico at his
next start at Moonee Valley. Each of
his three wins has been recorded on this
track, but a poor showing at Flemington
last Saturday week, when he beat only
two home in the race won by Sun Valley,
caused most backers to look elsewhere
for the probable winner of the Burne-
wang Handicap. Starting at 15 to 1,
after 20’s had been bet, Portico was given
time to settle down early, moved up fast
near the three furlongs, hit the front at
the top of the straight, and won decisively
from Sir Richard, with Madame Coue
and Jerry Cronin dead-heating for third.
Sir Richard, favorite at 7 to 4, lost his
position early, did not get a run in the
straight until too late, and ran on well
enough to suggest that he will repay fol-
lowing. Owner W. Balloch, who paid 250
guineas for Portico as a yearling, was
prepared to accept £350 for the colt after
his failure at Woodend last month.
Cables informing him of Citadel’s suc-
cessive wins at Mentone and Moonee
Valley have made pleasant reading for
owner R. W. Newton, who is abroad.
Citadel, making the most of his inside
position—a big advantage in mile races
at Moonee Valley—jumped to the front
at the start of the Greenvale Welter, was
given a breather when out with a lead of
two lengths early, slipped further ahead
near the three furlongs, and won easily
from Con Naru and Bluebeard. The
result was never in doubt, but Citadel’s
task may have been harder but for mis-
fortune which befell the first and second
favorites, Dannevirke and Glenfmo.
Dannevirke was squeezed out at the start
and finished fourth, while Glenfmo, who
did not appear to be in line when the
tapes lifted, did well to finish fifth.
Citadel, one of the few roan horses
racing, is a five-year-old gelding by
Simeon’s Fort from Krishna, trained by
Roy Shaw. Even if he keeps his form
he might not be up to Toorak Handicap
or Cantala Stakes class —he has been
entered for those races —but further suc-
cess might come his way before the han-
dicappers get his measure.
Quiet handling by H. Badger was the
deciding factor in Gay Invader’s defeat
of the English gelding Quartermaster, and
the Tasmanian colt Beamish in the first
division of the Chandos Trial. Gay In-
vader is not the best of stayers, but
Badger did not move on him until about
three furlongs from home. Result was
that he finished just too well for Quarter-
master. A four-year-old gelding by Gay
Lothario from Heliostar, Gay Invader is
raced by his breeders, H. G. Raymond
and H. B. Ranken. Roundabout, who
started a better favorite than Gay In-
vader, let his backers down badly. He
was never travelling generously and,
although improving his position coming
to the turn, only plodded on in fourth
position. Cantland, trained by Alec
Fullarton, showed a lot of pace, and
should be worth remembering for a
hurdle race. Although a recent winner
on the flat, Cantland’s first racing was
done over jumps, and he is engaged in
the Maiden Hurdle to be run at Flem-
ington on G.N. Hurdle day. Also in
that race is Atticus, whose second to
Our Boy on Saturday was a promising
performance.
• • • • • •
Manurere’s success in the second
Chandos Trial division was compensation
for the defeat of Dannevirke, also trained
by Jack Fryer, earlier in the day. Manu-
rere, a three-year-old colt by Foxbridge
from Green Linnet, was bred in Maori-
land by Fryer, who won races with his
dam. A big future was predicted for the
colt after he had won his first two races,
but he disappointed subsequently, and
Saturday’s win was not out of its turn.
Starting equal favorite with Miss Verbi
at 9 to 4, he won decisively from Wan-
derer and that mare. Although the oppo-
sition was not strong, and the race was
made to order for him, Manurere
won quite well enough to suggest
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By "PILOT.")
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Capaneus,
1; Trekster, 2 ; Jack Mac, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Air Link, 1;
Duke Cullen, 2; Overjoyed, 3. -
Flying Handicap: June, 1 ; Mohi-
can, 2 ; Samurai, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Mabson,
1 ; Buzzal, 2 ; Lord Valentine, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Lavengro,
1 ; Dagmar, 2 ; Excursion, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Discipline,
1 ; Tickle, 2; Lithgow, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN
(At Moonee Valley).
By “SENTRY."
Maiden Hurdle: Raywood, 1;
The Stork, 2 ; Paljune, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Prairie
Prince, 1 ; New Zealand, 2; Coun-
sel, 3.
Williamstown Steeplechase: Reef,
1 ; Rhymster, 2 ; Inazuma, 3.
Port Phillip Hurdle: Cheery Jack,
1 ; Bureaucrat, 2 ; Our Boy, 3.
Point Cook Handicap: Diaphane,
1 ; Prince Ariel, 2; Grandson, 3.
Esplanade Welter: Citadel, 1 ;
Barham, 2 ; Manurere, 3.


that he might live up to his earlier
promise. Added merit attached to his
performance by reason of the fact that
he cut out the mile in a second and
three-quarters faster time than Gay
Invader recorded in winning the first
division.
* * * *
Double-backers will have something
to employ them for the next three
months. Weights for the spring handi-
caps were issued on Monday. As was
expected, Mosaic heads the two Cups
and Metropolitan, and handicapper
A. G. Wilson rates him more highly
than either of the Victorian handi-
cappers. Winner of the last Sydney Cup
with a pound over weight-for-age, Mosaic
is favorably treated when similarly
weighted for the Melbourne Cup. With
9.6 he is meeting Maikai only 31b. worse
than when he beat the latter in the A.J.C.
Plate. The w.f.a. scale allows for slb.
improvement on his part, against 21b. by
Maikai.
Rivette is getting 21b. more from
Maikai than when she beat him in last
year’s Melbourne Cup, and is not over-
done with 8.13 if she is a fair weight-
carrier. On their form of last spring
Reading was superior to Beau Vite, but
they are on the same mark. Evidently
each handicapper was influenced more
by what Beau Vite accomplished on his
return to Maoriland than his failures in
Australia.
Nuffield, the best three-year-old of his
season, has 31b. less than weight-for-age,
and is well in if J. Holt’s high opinion
of him at that age was warranted. He is
again in training, but has yet to get
through a preparation. Beaulivre and
Beaupartir are not overweighted, but
two miles may be beyond each.
Lucrative, with 7.6, heads the three-
year-olds, conceding 21b. to John, Broad-
caster and Pandect. The lastnamed is
generally regarded as a potential stayer,
and perhaps he may prove the best of his
age. He is by Pantheon, and breeding
says something for him as a distance
possibility. A three-year-old has not
been placed in the Melbourne Cup since
Hall Mark won in 1933.
With Ajax out of the way the A.J.C.
and V.R.C. handicappers regard El
Golea as the best miler. In the Cantala
Stakes and Epsom he has the samjK
weight, but by comparison with High
Caste is slightly better off in the former
than the latter. In the Epsom High Caste
has 51b. more than when unplaced in
the Doncaster, and Beaulivre has gone
up 111 b. for his second in that race. At
level weights High Caste beat Beaulivre
a head in the C. W. Cropper Plate. Mil-
dura has 101 b. more in the Epsom than
he carried in the Doncaster. Chatsbury
has been given a fair chance in the Epsom
with 8.7.
In weighting Mosaic at 9.11 in the
Metropolitan the A.J.C. handicapper has
expressed a higher opinion of Mosaic
than either of the Melbourne handi-
cappers, and if that horse is to have a
special handicap mission this season, the
Melbourne Cup offers most inducement.
Beau Vite is not as well treated as in the
two Cups. At a mile and a half Reading
was definitely his master at level weights
in the spring. Yet he is getting 41b. from
Beau Vite in the Metropolitan. In Mel-
bourne’s big handicaps they are on the
same mark. In the Metropolitan Yours
Truly has 51b. more than when unplaced
in the Sydney Cup for which he was
favorite. Feminist, Fearless and Pant-
ler, the place-getters in the last Metro-
politan, are respectively risen 61b., lib.
and 71b., while Buzalong (fourth) is up
31b., and Cooranga, who was second
favorite with 8.5, has 61b. less to carry.
At this stage it savors of waste of space
seriously discussing spring prospects, but,
if all goes well with Mosaic, he will be
one of the popular selections for the
Melbourne Cup up to the day of the
race.
* * * *
Beaulivre’s Dundas Handicap win at
Rosehill did not entail extra weight for
the Doomben Newmarket, in which he
has 9.2, and he reads better in that race
than any of the other Sydney horses
likely to visit Brisbane. All going well
he should be better on July 6 than at
present. Creditor, of course, still enters
into calculations. He improved at each
of his last two runs, and may continue
to do so. If Vergure is a runner he is
sure to flatter his backers for a long way,
but the last bit of the straight six may
worry him.
Penthides’s Randwick win with 8.2 also
puts him well in the race. He finished too
strongly for Vergure in the June Plate,
and further improvement is probable.
Godfrey M. and Expressman are gener-
ally regarded as Queensland’s best, and
during the past fortnight they have shown
nrst-class form. At Doomben on Satur-
day. Godfrey M. won a race down the
straight six by four lengths with more
than his Newmarket weight, and as he
recorded 1.12 it was a smart bit of gallop-
mg. He is a four-year-old gelding by
Brazen from Lady Caper tee, by Tressady
from Lady Rylstone, a V.R.C. Oaks win-
ner and sister to Strata Florida, and
halt-sister to Lord Cardigan. Lady
Capertee is also half-sister to a good
winner in Lady Constance. Godfrey M.
consequently lacks nothing in breeding.
Still, though northern horses are always
entitled to full respect on their own
ground, they will find Beaulivre, Creditor
and Penthides tough propositions.
Binnia Hero’s Rosehill win demonstrated
that he is nearly back to the form that
enabled him to win Tattersall’s Cup with
7.7. In the Doomben Cup he has 7.13,
and as that will permit of a strong rider
being given the mount his prospects are
bright. On recent Sydney form Gill-
town, with 8.0, must be considered, es-
pecially as W. Cook is to be on him. In
a couple of races Cook has been able to
slow down the field after going a few
furlongs, but, as he is unlikely to be able
to adopt those tactics, Gilltown will have
to run the 11 furlongs right out.
It cannot be urged against Gilltown
that he is unlikely to do so, seeing he
won the Moonee Valley Cup, at a
quarter-mile further, with 7.9, in fast
time. Fearless still counts, despite his
Winter Plate failure, but Hilarious (7.7)
really reads better. She won the Elles-
mere Handicap with 8.3, and was then
third with 7.10 in the Winter Plate. In
that she did not have a good passage,
being squeezed back more than once,
and at one stage was so far from the
leaders that she seemed to have little
chance of even getting a place. Last year
she ran second with 7.4 in the Doomben
Cup, and recent Sydney running points
to her being better now. Among the
Queenslanders Huko, Overdraft and
Dainty Revenue are possibilities, despite
the last-named horse’s failure on Satur-
day. I expect Sydney to supply more
than one place-getter, and though Gill-
town, Fearless, Buzalong and Binnia
Hero are well in, I have a weakness for
Hilarious.
* * * *
Cheery Jack is engaged in the Hurdle
Race at the Williamstown meeting, to
be held at Mentone next Saturday, but
if his owner adheres to his original in-
tention, that horse will tackle the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle Race without
a recent race over the jumps before it is
run, and, notwithstanding he is shaping
better on the flat than at any previous
period, and is also schooling well, many
racing men are of opinion that his chance
would have been improved by at least
one run in a hurdle race. A race and
schooling lessons are different things, no
matter how satisfactory the latter may
be. Melbourne jumping form has been
somewhat topsy-turvy, and the idea ob-
tains that if Cheery Jack jumps even
fairly he will outclass his opponents.
Dark David cut up badly at Fleming-
ton when his rider thought him a cer-
tainty, but his form was so indifferent
that it might be as well to overlook it,
even though he is said to have little
liking for Flemington. His stable com-
panion, Mamillius, was easily beaten by
Glowing at his last start, but, as excuse
was possible, no doubt he will be a
National runner. Sydney hurdling form
is below that of Melbourne, but Kerry
Bay, as winner of the A.J.C. Hurdle
Race with 10.5, may be worth a place bet
with 9.11. He has won at Flemington,
and it does not seem as if the National
field will be a strong one. Others with
less than lOst. that have recently shown
form are Harley, Glowing, Paul Lois,
Bureaucrat and Our Boy. The race has
not been a good one for heavyweights,
but Cheery Jack and Dark David may be
hard to beat, though the former would
have been all the better for racing over
the jumps. Horses with less than lOst.
likely to be troublesome are Our Boy,
Mamillius, Kerry Bay, Paul Lois and
Glowing.
It is difficult to say much concerning
G.N. Steeplechase prospects. Turf Boy is
sore, Bully Hayes injured himself
slightly in the Royal Steeplechase at
Flemington, and neither Tifone, Brightello
nor Henry Tudor showed National form
in the Travancore Steeplechase last week.
Blackford may be as good as anything
with which to end a double.
* * * *
Among those who have joined up with
the A.I.F. is E. Henry, the leading pony
jockey in Sydney some years ago. In
successive seasons Henry was credited
with riding 100 and 115 winners, and
even now could go to scale at a few
pounds under Bst. When Henry gave up
riding he invested in a country news-
agency, which he recently sold. He is
well placed financially.
* * * *
Despite failures on occasions when he
was expected to win Denis has done
well this season. Creditor was too good
for him in the Botany Handicap, but
there was nothing in it up to the last
half-furlong, and then Creditor’s advan-
tage in weight told. However, the £BO
second money was a good consolation
prize for the owner of Denis. This
season Denis has won four races, run
second in five, dead-heated for second
in another, and scored two thirds and a
dead heat for that position. With one
exception all his placings have been at
Randwick, and, as his 10x months’ earn-
ings are £2255 for 27 starts, he is well
ahead of what it has cost to race him.
Of the amount mentioned £6lO came
from minor placings. Last season Denis
had a long spell in Maoriland, but be-
fore he was sent there he started three
times for a win and a second.
* * * *
For three or four weeks prior to the
autumn sales at Randwick some trainers
are fairly regular attendants at Inglis and
Son’s stables to note the progress the
yearlings are making. None, however,
are as thorough as Harry Count, who.
up to the beginning of the war, trained
in France for many years for the Princess
de Faucigny-Lucinge. Each season be-
tween Easter and Whitsuntide Count
made a tour of the studs where yearlings
were bred for sale, and not only examined
them in their boxes and when walking,
but insisted on seeing them gallop in
the paddocks. Then he paid them another
visit in July, and later reported his selec-
tions to the Princess, who, acting on his
advice, made many fortunate purchases—
generally at high prices—either at auction
or privately.
* * * *
Whenever I hear people belittling
stipendiary stewards I often think it is
a pity many of these were not race fol-
lowers in the days of honorary stewards.
No steward or stewards can see every-
thing, but many things that were quietly
passed over in the “good old days,” either
owing to incapacity or friendship, would
have little chance now of being over-
looked. In fact, owners and trainers
would scarcely think them, let alone
attempt to do them. It was the same at
horse and “pony” meetings. There are
still “hot” trainers and owners, but very
few would care to take risks of which
some old-timers thought nothing.
* * * Sit
Gold Rod is still at Richmond, but
will shortly be removed to Molong. Two
of his first mates at the stud may be
Cereza (Heroic-Rhea) and Visage
(Limond-Veil). Both were smart two-
year-olds, Visage winning the Gimcrack
Stakes, and Cereza’s wins included the
C. W. Cropper Plate. Anything either
might throw to Gold Rod should lack
nothing in pace.
* * * *
Many hurdle races have been lost
through a rider being overcareful towards
the finish. It seemed to me it was so in
the A.J.C. Hurdle Race. Saratoga was
going so well when leading near the
hurdle at the half-mile that, with victory
in sight, his rider wished to avoid the
possibility of mishap, and checked him
slightly. The result was that Saratoga
took the jump so awkwardly that he nar-
rowly missed falling, and, in addition
to losing his lead, was unbalanced. The
wonder is that he ran on well enough
to get second. Although lightly weighted
in the two jumping races in which he
has shown form, it is on the cards for
Saratoga to be one of our best hurdlers
next season. As he is by David from
Fluency he should, on breeding, be cap-
able of running any distance. ~
* * * *
Next week the bloodstock at the Angle
(Dubbo) and Erambie (Molong) studs go
to auction. The proprietors must regret
that dispersal was not decided upon
earlier in the year. Some first-class mares
will be offered, but it would be difficult
to be optimistic in respect of prices
in view of the indifferent demand for
bloodstock at Inglis and Son’s sale in
Sydney last week. At the prices they
realised it will be surprising if some of
those sold do not prove bargains.
* * * *
Maoriland trainer T. George is
evidently of opinion that there are tracks
preferable to Trentham (Wellington) on
which to prepare horses in the winter.
He has shifted his team of 21 to Otaki,
but in the spring will be back at Tren-
tham. Beau Vite is among those he has
taken to Otaki.
* * * *
Moorefield will have its win and place
tote early next season, with a unit of ss.
The club was hopeful of having every-
thing in readiness for the July 13 meet-
ing, but that is now doubtful.
Hurdlers have had plenty of oppor-
tunity for distinguishing themselves at
Randwick this season. Up to the present
Warwick Farm meetings have given them
four more races than is customary at
headquarters. At A.J.C. fixtures there
have been nine races of the total value
of £3650. The largest field was 10, and
that on only one occasion. For one
race there were three runners, and as
the total for the nine was 63 the club
scarcely received the return it deserved
in quantity. Nor did the quality of the
runners make a fair balance.
Tattersall’s Club gave £BOO for three
races, and City Tattersall’s £250 for one.
Warwick Farm’s four were worth £9lO.
Consequently 17 hurdle races at Rand-
wick this season have carried £5615.
Two each were won by Gymkhana
(£450), Blackie Miller (£325), and Locks-
lea (£365), while Kerry Bay’s one win
carried £SOO. The largest field for any
race was 13, that being for the Trial
Hurdle Race won by Blackie Miller at
the Warwick Farm meeting on April 27.
Programmes would often have lost little
by the omission of the hurdle race.
* * * *
In racing, as in everything else,
opinions differ. While some keen fol-
lowers of the game believe that the
stewards should ask questions nearly
every time horses run better or worse
than in previous races reversal of form
inquiries have never appealed to me. In
my opinion the only occasions on which
they are really warranted are when a
long-priced horse runs indifferently and
wins a few days later when heavily
backed, or when a recent winner is
allowed to go out at a liberal price and
makes a showing that is not in keeping
with its earlier effort.
It is all very well to say an owner or
trainer should welcome being questioned
as to the running of his horse. If, after
being backed down to a short price it
runs nowhere, and then wins at odds
that indicate it has been permitted to
start practically unbacked, it is rather
galling to an owner or trainer to have
some "‘friend” come along, and say, with
a certain amount of malice, “Well, I saw
they had you up.” There are times when
neither owner, trainer, nor jockey would
be able to explain why a horse ran below
expectations. I know of a recent case
where a horse was supposed to be as
nearly as possible “a good thing” on the
strength of its work and it started favor-
ite. To the surprise of its trainer it was
never a winning possibility, and all the
jockey could tell him was that it “never
seemed to be going right.” Yet it won
a couple of days later at an outside price.
“I didn’t have a shilling on it, and after
the way it ran the other day I could not
advise anyone to back it,” said the
trainer in commenting on its success.
Stewards generally pay more attention
to the running of well-backed horses
than to others, and if they fail to see
anything amiss with the form of some-
thing well in the market they reflect on
themselves by playing the “after game”
and asking for an explanation if it wins
the following week. Furthermore, if an
owner or trainer knows he has done
something that may have caused the
stewards to be suspicious he can avoid
trouble by refraining from running his
horse again for three or four weeks.
* * * *
The abandonment of racing in Eng-
land was only to be expected. A race-
course crowd would make too good a
target for bombers, and the Germans
would do their best to take advantage of
it. Last war racing was greatly reduced,
but never ceased entirely, though most
of it was done at Newmarket. A great
number of people will be thrown out of
work, many fitted only for employment
at studs or in racing stables. The breed-
ing industry will suffer tremendously.
There will be practically no market in
England, and few, if any, sales for
other countries. At least 4000 foals have
been bred annually in England of recent
seasons, but there is bound to be a great
reduction after next year.
* * * *
Possibility of the war affecting racing
in England probably accounted for the
large fields in jumping races in that
country in April and May. At the South-
well meeting on April 30 fields were as
follows: Mansfield Hurdle Race, 2 miles,
18 starters ; Norton Hurdle Race, 2 miles,
16 starters ; Bleasby Selling Hurdle Race,
2i miles, 28 starters; Averham Selling
Steeplechase, 30 starters ; Rufford Steeple-
chase, 3 miles, 23 starters; Southwell
Steeplechase, 2 miles, 21 starters. With
the exception of the Norton Hurdle Race
and the Averham Selling Steeplechase,
which carried £B2 for first, £lO for
second and £5 for third, the place-
getters in the other races received £SB,
£7 and £3. There was a total entry of


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£143/6
lUBLE RIGGED.
;ed, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
)
£
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
WALTHER fc STEVENSON E™:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY -
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
£ NEW
CHAMPIONS
\/
s\Ss^
r
miiihm
im
at
OARAGE
m
u
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
and power. And much more
economy. Champions save
you money!
An Empire product
—made in Windsor, Can.
256, the fee for two races being £3 each,
and for the other four £2 each. Sydney
owners and trainers often find something
to growl about, but that would give them
a genuine grievance.
* * * *
The reduction of racing in and about
Sydney is certain, but the opinion of
some members of the Cabinet sub-
committee that it should be cut down
to one day a week in the metropolitan
area naturally does not find favor. We
could dispense with those provincial
meetings at which prize-money is meagre,
and which could not carry on without
Sydney support, but such a step as re-
stricting racing to Saturdays in Sydney
would be too drastic. Without being
actually necessary, too severe a blow
would be dealt to racing and breeding.
Until circumstances definitely call for
alteration, let us retain Wednesdays,
Saturdays and public holidays (if there
are any) for metropolitan racing, inci-
dentally giving Randwick most considera-
tion.
* * * *
Great racehorse and successful sire
Manfred was destroyed last week at
L. F. Aldridge’s stud at Sunbury, Vic-
toria. He won £28,830 in stakes, and
sired winners of over 550 races and
approximately £103,000, his progeny in-
cluding The Trump, Manolive, Mildura
and Manrico. Manfred’s A.J.C. Derby
win was sensational. Left a hundred
yards at barrier-rise, he was still four
lengths behind the second last horse
(Vaals) at the mile post. Gradually
making up his ground, “He’s got a
chance” was loudly proclaimed before
the six-furlongs post was reached, and
he eventually won comfortably. The
pace was comparatively slow for the first
half-mile, and that assisted Duncan in
bridging the big gap without unduly
bustling Manfred. He had 9.6 when
he won the Caulfield Cup, and that is
still a record for weight successfully
carried by a four-year-old in that race.
* * * *
History sometimes repeats itself, but
the odds are against it doing so in the
next Epsom Handicap. In 1890 Bunge-
bah won the Epsom Handicap, but it is
improbable that, at an interval of 50
years, the race will again be won by
a horse of that name. The Bungebah
entered for the coming Epsom is a geld-
ing by Brazen Lad from Love Comedy,
and for a time was trained at Randwick.
He is now in Melbourne.
* * * *
Auckland and Wellington Racing
Club? are devoting all their next season’s
profits to war funds, and it is anticipated
that all the other principal Maoriland
clubs will fall in line.
* * * *
Beaten in the Kentucky Derby, It
miles, on May 4, Bimelech, won the
Preakness, 9} furlongs, at the Maryland
J.C.’s meeting at Pimlico, on May 11.
Immediately after the Derby the critics
voiced opinions to the effect that the
trainer had overdone him, that the jockey
was not suitable, and that the going,
though not heavy, was not to his liking.
The result of the Preakness silenced
them. Bimelech led throughout that race,
beating Mioland three lengths, with the
Kentucky Derby winner, Gallahadion, a
length and a half further back.
Bimelech was favorite at about 10
to 9 on. The first five furlongs were run
in 58 3-5, and the last four and a half
took lmin., making the full time 1.58|.
According to those figures, which are
given in all American papers, the field
must have slowed down in remarkable
fashion in the last half of the trip. First
money was $53,230, second $lO,OOO, third
$5OOO, fourth $2000; while breeders’
premiums were: First $l5OO, second
$750 and third $250. Bimelech has won
nine of the ten races in which he has
started, and his earnings total $204,065,
making him nineteenth in the last of win-
ning horses in America. He has three
or four more engagements in valuable
three-vear-old races.
* * * *
As a trainer never knows how a
middle-distance race is going to be run,
it is a mistake for him to load a jockey
with instructions. At Randwick recently
I heard a jockey express himself very
strongly on this point. His mount was
unplaced in a race, and discussing the
result he ejaculated disgustedly: “Orders!
If I hadn’t tried to carry out orders I
might have won.” Ridden by the same
jockey the horse won shortly after, and
as the rider pursued different tactics pre-
sumably he was allowed to please him-
self. Bearing on obeying instructions, I
came across the following amusing para-
graph in a Lexington paper:
While an owner or trainer most certainly
advises and suggests the best method of
riding a horse, a jockey is in no way bound
to follow those instructions. The story
is told of Jockey E. Rudrigeuz how, when
he first came to the United States, he could
not speak or understand English. He
would Silently and gravely listen to the
instructions of the trainer, nod his head
knowingly, and mount the horse without
understanding a word of what had been
said to him. He enjoyed a wonderful
winning streak until, feeling he could do
better if he understood all the sage advice
of the trainers, he took his agent into the
paddock as an interpreter. Forthwith he
went into a slump.
Trainers’ instructions settled him.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Naturally, in a country like the United
States, which has so many good golfers,
putting has been studied from every con-
ceivable angle, and has been a subject of
discussion for many years. When one
stroke can mean the loss of sometimes
thousands of dollars the thought put into
this department of the game is greater
than any other.
Thousands of articles have been
written about it and theories galore
have been advanced. In other years
greens were not as true as they are to-
day, and anyone out in two putts from
the edge of the greens was really putting.
When greens improved until they became
almost perfect surfaces some players de-
veloped a touch whereby they could
always go round in well under an average
of two putts per green. This immediately
placed a high premium on one-putt
greens, which often decided a match
among topnotch players.
A putting style is largely a matter of
the individual’s own approach to the
subject. Consequently many and varied
methods have been used. If the ball can
be holed consistently by any particular
player using his own method then he
must be considered a good putter. Of
course, there are essentials in putting
as in other parts of the game. Of
these comfort plays an important part.
Although many of the American profes-
sionals are awkward-looking with their
unusual styles on the green, they have all
told me that they feel relaxed and com-
fortable. Another major point in putting
is to keep a smooth stroke at all times ;
this is best obtained by lack of body-
movement and co-operation of hands and
wrists.
At a g°lf clinic in Chicago, which
devoted half the afternoon to a discussion
on putting, Tommy Armour, at 45 still
a beautiful golfer, said, “Putting has
spoilt one of the greatest athletic sports
of all time.”
By this he meant that golfers capable
of putting better than others discounted
the value of skill in other departments
of the game. Armour, considered one
of the three leading teachers in America,
when asked what he would tell a pupil
who wanted a putting lesson, replied:
“Nothing ; for putting has no set rules
other than those fundamentals already
shown him as to his grip and stance.”
Taking Horton Smith, acknowledged
the best putter since 1929 in Yankee
tournament play, Armour pointed out
that the only difference between Smith
and the average putter was that, while
Smith never moved his head at all during
the putt till after the ball was well on its
way to the hole and kept his putter
blade square on to the line of flight at
all times, the handicap players did not
adhere to this simple rule. Walter Hagen
in his prime was a deadly putter. Armour
asked him what he concentrated upon
when putting. Hagen’s reply was,
“Damned if 1 know ; I just hit the ball.”
It is very difficult to make hard-and-
fast rules for putting. There are so
many exceptions who are laws unto
themselves that I pity the average player
when he tries to putt like one of his
favorite players. Nearly every good
golfer putts differently.
#•••**
I have always believed in a com-
fortable stance, with the ball played off
the left foot, and a little more weight
on the left foot than the right. Thus,
when the feet are placed about 18in. to
2ft. apart, a secure stance is at least
assured, from which the ball can be
struck in a manner in which topspin
can be applied easily. When this stage
is reached, which should be within the
reach of the rawest recruit, solid prac-
tice is the only way to get the “touch”
of the greens. I am not saying this way
will make anyone a great putter, but it
will assist those who take three putts
frequently. Above all, it should be re-
membered that if your putter blade can
meet the ball squarely and follow out
after it along the line that alone is the
secret of good putting. Don’t ever change
from it.
Footbrawl
A big crowd turned out at Richmond
to see the Tigers endeavor to hold their
place in the four against Essendon, whose
speed was superior but whose kicking
was poor. Richmond held the lead until
the last quarter, when each in turn got
a point lead, and a ding-dong struggle
followed for the ’Dons to gain the win-
ning goal, 12-10 to 12-5.
It was a battle of tactics at St. Kilda,
where Melbourne relied on long kicking
and high marking against the Saints’
nippy ground work and low, short
passing. The premiers’ method got them
17-21 to the Saints’ 16-16. Melbourne,
with seven wins, heads the premiership
list; Richmond, Footscray, Essendon and
Geelong are next with six each.
Out at Footscray they’re already
searching the hills for a good sort of
sapling to carry the 1940 premiership
pennant of the V.F.L. The side now
shares second place with four other
teams, all with six wins each, and after
a slashing victory against Collingwood,
which formidable combination it held all
the way to win, 15-10 to 12-12, Footscray
smells triumph. It did this in a previous
year, only to fall to pieces in the closing
stages of the season.
Poor old Hawthorn is becoming the
League chopping block. Down at Gee-
long its team actually led in the first
quarter, after which a vocal protest from
the fence shook Geelong out of its coma.
It pushed Hawthorn aside, kicked 12-18
and moodily allowed the visitors the
modicum of 6-10.
• • • • • *
Fitzroy and Sowth, grimly trying to
avoid the ignominy of being third lowest
on the list, clashed at Fitzroy, took each
other’s measure for two quarters and
then settled down to what looked like a
cross between a back-country Rugby
match, a Labor expulsion campaign and
a wrestling programme full of bounding
Yanks. Each emerged with sundry
bruises, aches and ten goals apiece. When
the behinds were counted, Fitzroy had
30 and Sowth 17.
Carlton, way up next to the leaders,
received the North Melbourne side, low-
est on the list, with some superciliousness.
In a bored sort of way the Blues slapped
on a few goals, then sat back to accept
the cheers. But the Northerners had
come there to play football, and a
shocked Carlton multitude is still trying
to work out what happened. North,
18-12; Carlton, 16-20.
* * * *
There’s little profit in forecasting how
Sydney’s Rugby Union games will turn
out. On Saturday Manly gave Randwick
a lacing, University touched off East,
and Parramatta downed St. George,
which had shared the second position on
the table.
Randwick had the best of the first
half against the Villagers and, although
behind 6-5, looked like going away. But
afterwards it couldn’t take a trick.
The Manly forwards gave their backline
a feast of the ball, and the threequarters,
displaying a cohesion they had lacked in
previous matches, made full use of their
opportunities—2l-5. University threw the
ball about also, marshalling four tries
against East’s three penalty goals—l 4-9.
And Parramatta, too, kept Saints from
crossing the try line —16-9. Gordon’s
forwards came the better out of a scrappy
game with North, 20-9. West, though it
went down to Drummoyne 3-16, yet had
the better of things territorially.
Drummoyne is now second to Rand-
wick. Then follow East, St. George,
Parramatta and Manly all together.
Sportsmen are rolling up for enlist-
ment in Melbourne. Last week five
brothers, all hockey players, enlisted.
Another hockey player to pass through
the recruiting depot was J. E. M. Colechin,
who, at 22, turns the scale at 12st. 101 b.
and established a new height record with
6ft. 7in. He wore a sergeant’s stripes in
the militia.
* * * *
Dead in Sydney, at 67, Montague
Alfred (“Mary Ann”) Noble, one of the
best all-round cricketers the game has
known, and one of the nicest fellows.
He and Trumper emerged about the same
time, during the visit of an English XI
in 1894-95, and both went on to sporting
fame. A steady rather than a stylish
batsman, Noble at his best was also a
wicket-taker of value, his medium-paced
off-spin worrying most of ’em ; and he
was a great captain. He made about
14,000 runs (including 37 centuries) in
first-class cricket. Against England in
Tests he scored 1905 runs at 30, and
took 115 wickets at 24. He went to Eng-
land with the Australians in 1899, 1902
and—'as captain —in 1905 and 1909.
Like his friend Hordern, he was a dentist
by profession; Hordern gave up the
game, but, with Noble, cricket was always
first. After retirement he took to cricket
writing and broadcasting, and was for
years a trustee of Sydney Cricket Ground.


GRACE BROS
SALE
WINTER
S 38
E
ngfi*fisnif
0
AT SPECIAL PRICE REDUCTIONS!
Lounge Suits Dress Suits —Dinner Suits
Discontinued numbers from our regular range are being offered
as a Sale Special. All suits are in first-class condition and the
prices quoted are pre-war, which enhances the net reduced
prices. Take advantage of the Lay-By System — it was intro-
duced for your convenience.
Lounge Suits, Usually £8 8/-, NOW £7/7/- Less 10% , £6/12/3 Net
Lounge Suits, Usually £lOlO/-, NOW £9/9/- Less 10% £B/10/- Net
Full Dress Suits, Usually £lO/10/-, NOW £9/9/- Less 10% £B/10/- Net
Dinner Suits, Usually £9/9/-, NOW £B/8/- Less 10% £7/11/3 Net
lOO
SPORTS
COATS
Made from Fancy All Pure Wool
Worsteds and Tweeds in Window-
panes, Overchecks, Hounds-
tooth and Donegal Designs on
ground shades of Grey, Green,
Brown, Fawn, London Tan and
Blue. Action and Plain Back
styles.
Usually 49/6
SALE PRICE, 29/6
« S .Q6 ; 6
Net
250
VELVET
LUMBER
JACKETS
Fancy Corded Velvet Lumber
Jackets in shades of Green, Blue,
Brown and Grey. Button Front
style, two pockets. Stout
Wearing, Windproof and Cold-
proof.
Usually 16 6
SALE PRICE, 10 6
9 X 5
Net
LESS
10%.
lOO
CHECKED
BACK
OVERCOATS
Do u b I e-breasted Chesterfield
Style in Heavyweight All Pure
Wool Checked Back Tweeds,
Greys and Fawns. Vertical
Pockets. Overcheck Designs.
Make a Lay-By if more con-
venient.
Usually £5/5/-
SALE PRICE, 69 6
s s . 6Q6
Net
m
mm
•:•: v:;:.: -; ; .v: : ;•:■:»>>?
/ V •: '
xx;
:?>:■ \
mmmrWWM W-mmm
m&m- Msm
wwliwi
ililii
-
: .. . "
...
mim
V-:
mmm
ii m
■x ■■. -
r
: :
■■
■
•x; :
; .... ■ i.. I
..
iillll®llli
'-x:
■•■*4, , • „ i :
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY.
’PHONE: M 6506
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.


Jlf/
35
-jAI
The
Sweetest of
All Meats,
ROAST
SUCKING
PIG
with delicious Seasoning, Apple
Sauce and Crackling.
What a scrumptious meal it
makes when accompanied with
Baked Potatoes, Green Vege-
tables and' Rich Gravy.
Included on our Luncheon and
Dinner Menus daily at the
HOTEL
B W
4091
PLAZA
WYNYARD
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Sir Thomas Beecham
A reputation will always fill Mel-
bourne Town Hall, and Sir Thomas
Beecham has an enormous reputation, so
the place was filled to suffocation on
Saturday night when the veteran Eng-
lish conductor arrived to conduct the
Symphony Orchestra.
As the Handel suite, “The Gods Go
a-Begging,” developed, however, the
impression deepened that the con-
ductor was much more concerned with
the music than with adding a few cubits
to his reputation. The suite was the ten
excerpts which Sir Thomas rescued from
Handel’s 42 operas and orchestrated.
With electric swiftness the conductor
snapped phrases from this part of the
orchestra and then from that one, nuised
each carefully, put it down and picked
up another with his baton, while his
left hand performed complicated
manoeuvres in some other direction.
The second item was the gentle “Sum-
mer Night on the River,” by Delius, the
English composer whom Sir Thomas did
most to introduce to the British public.
It has a dying close which sounded ex-
ceedingly lovely.
The orchestra was on its toes for the
“Paris” symphony of Mozart, that com-
poser being one of the conductor s
specialties. If it didn’t sound like Mozart
to some of its hearers, that may have
been because it was more like Mozart
than previous local performances. The
slow middle movement was especially
entrancing.
Tschaikowsky’s “Pathetique” was the
final item on the programme. Sir Thomas
conducts without score, though the sym-
phony is as full of rocks, sandbars,
depths, shallows and changes of mood
and cross currents as Queensland’s
Barrier Reef, and, like it, is visited by
cyclones. The visitor piloted his craft
through all these dangers with the same
assurance as he brought to the little
Delius fragment. Goodness knows how
many years of study were behind the
current performance and how he got the
orchestra up to the necessary pitch in
the short time allowed him by the Com-
mission. But the rendering brought that
rare thing shouts of “bravo” from the
Melbourne audience, which is the most
solemn audience in Australia. The long
lament of the final movement lapsed into
silence so gradually that it was difficult
to tell when it had finished. Divorced
from his music the conductor loses his
emotion, and he bowed his acknowledg-
ments sedately.
* * * *
Schneevoigt Conducts
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra was
kept busy last week, under Georg Schnee-
voigt’s baton, presenting three pro-
grammes on three successive nights.
The band was in good fettle for the
first concert. It swept through the
“Fugal Overture” of British composer
Gustav Holst in breezy style, and then
settled down to give a really enjoyable
performance of Bruckner’s Sixth Sym-
phony. The idiom of this is nearer to the
way of Beethoven and Mozart than is
that even of Brahms —the adagio might
pass in a fog for a Beethoven product
and the audience could follow it com-
fortably and enjoy Bruckner s really
masterly management of orchestral light
and shade. Tuneful and not too far
from old conventions, also, was Lalo s
“Symphony Espagnole.” Dorcas Mc-
Clean was violin soloist in this work.
When not required to race on top gear,
her tone was full and true and her phras-
ing smooth and graceful. The “Carnaval
Romaine” of Berlioz, now an old favorite
with Sydney audiences, was given very
impressively.
At Auburn Town Hall later in the
week the orchestra repeated some works
heard earlier in the current Schneevoigt
season two movements of Bruckner s
Sixth and the Max Reger arrangement of
a Bach suite, and also performed Men-
delssohn’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
music, which refuses to grow stale,
though the “Nocturne” has had hard
wear for 114 years and the “Wedding
March” has become almost as much an
English convention as “God Save the
King.” Audience wasn’t very respon-
sive. Harold Williams’s singing pleased
it better.
* * * *
Menuhin Plays Three Concertos
For the French Red Cross, young
Yehudi Menuhin, who sportingly tossed
his douceur into the kitty, regaled an over-
flowing audience at Sydney Town Hall
with no fewer than three full-length con-
certos, not to mention encore numbers.
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra, under
Schneevoigt, and at its best, provided
background.
Bach’s No. 1 in A Minor was the first
concerto. Despite such magnificent ex-
ceptions as the piece that has come
to be known as “The Air for the
G String” and the “Chaconne,” Bach
is not a congenial composer for the
violin, on which his music makes
exorbitant demands. But Menuhin
plays him almost with nonchalance.
More in the spirit of violinism is Men-
delssohn’s Concerto (E Minor), apd the
well-known slow movement of this was
Charles Norman, Bruce Carroll (avec topee) and Don Nicol are pleased
to unload the bride {Jane Conolly) on to the Captain {Eric Reiman)
in “Giving the Bride Away,” at Sydney Minerva.
sung by Menuhin’s fiddle in the manner
of an inspired but very serious angel.
In the Brahms D. Major the violinist
called up all his reserves of technique and
feeling, and touched the fringes of per-
fection. After Brahms, Sarasate’s
“Zigeunerweisen,” given as an encore,
was a little of an anticlimax, but it en-
shrines one immortal tune to which the
player did full justice.
# * * *
Friedman
Principal interest in Ignaz Friedman’s
second Sydney recital centred in his
Chopin playing. The Bach-Busoni
Chaconne and the “Appassionata” Sonata
have been given as eloquently by other
pianists, but now that De Pachmann has
gone Friedman is the accepted Chopin
exponent. He chose for Saturday night’s
recital the 24 Preludes. If Bach’s 48 pre-
ludes and fugues are the Old Testament
of pianism, Chopin’s preludes may stand
as the New. They enshrine every im-
portant contribution the Polish composer
made to pianoforte technique. Fried-
man’s treatment of them was robust and
vigorous and full of relish. The “Butter-
fly” etude and a little thing of his own
were Friedman’s response to vociferous
applause.
* * * *
“Giving the Bride Away”
What it was all about only the authors
know. Something about a young girl
who loved cows and was engaged to a
man who loved somebody else so she
married a bearded Swedish seafarer so
he married the one he wanted to, too.
With glamor girl, funny friend of
’groom, champagne, mother-in-law,
comic colonial and comic maidservant.
In short, the usual ingredients for the
lightest of farce.
But Charles Norman, Don Nicol,
Hilda Dorrington and company had
sufficient skill to keep Sydney Minerva
bubbling with laughter throughout
the first two acts and at satis-
fying intervals during the third, n
was “business” that did it getting
a foot tangled in the railings of the
bannisters, repeatedly cadging cigarettes,
a hundred and one dodges that don t
sound funny in print but which are and
always have been and always will be
funny on the stage.
The third act was played in a shrill
scream to conceal the fact that there was
nothing there—suitcases bumping down
a companionway were just suitcases
bumping down a companionway, and
not funny. Aileen Britton does better
in more serious roles; Lily Moore, as
comic maidservant, is admittedly funny,
but she’s too obvious. Otherwise, there
are no complaints. Jane Conolly, as the
rustic maiden, did a difficult job fairly
well; Bruce Carroll and Eric Reiman
also handled their light comedy roles
successfully.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory’s latest success,
three crowded evenings at the Tivoli, is
Jeffrey Dell’s “Payment Deferred,” the
ironic storv of a Londoner who poisons
an Australian visitor for his money, gets
away with it successfully (though never
daring to leave his home for fear some-
body should dig the garden), but finally
is hanged for a murder he did not com-
mit. It is a Charles Laughton part, and
Robert Matthews got every ounce out
of it, with good support from Beryl
Roberts and Lois Dickson as the wife
and daughter and Florence Brown as the
French woman who vamps him —causing
his wife to take poison which the Law
confidently debits to himself.
* * * *
Adelaide’s current relaxation is ballet
in varied form. At the Australia Gallery
is a big collection, made by Miller and
Sainthill, of designs for the leaping art,
ranging from Epstein’s deliberate shape-
lessness to the prettiness of Conder.
And at the Royal is a long season
by the clever De Basil dancers —
all-round talent rather than stars this
time. There are distinct signs that the
public is tiring of the everlasting pointed
toes, and welcomes anything with action,
such as “Graduation Ball,” or a mere
Red Riding Hood and Wolf episode,
which has a real meaning.
* * * *
Melb. Tiv. is being packed to the
doors with a fast-moving entertainment
called Crazy Show, in which George
Wallace makes his appearance as an
expectant father outside a maternity
ward, anon as the Handcuff King, on
which occasion he saws one of his hands
off in order to escape from a pair of
bracelets, and anon, having miraculously
restored the missing member, as other
variants of himself. In between there are
eruptions of girls in pink fleshings and
American and Continental variety turns,
the best of which are three young
men who hand a girl about with
apparent recklessness. Members ot the
cast erupt from the stalls and arise in the
boxes, and the general absence of formal
vaudeville is being rapturously received
by houses thickly sprinkled with khaki
and blue.
AT THE TALKIES.
Current Offerings
Sydney Savoy screens “Nine Bache-
lors” (a French film reviewed here, B.
15/5/’4O), which, both in its ingenious
narrative and its quick perception of
human values, might be something from
The Decameron or Balzac’s Droll Stories.
“Too Many Husbands,” at Sydney State,
is a tiptop Hollywood comedy with Jean
Arthur married, by an unfortunate acci-
dent, to both Melvyn Douglas and Fred
Mac Murray. Nothing that the situation
offers is missed, and the three players
carry it along with commendable ease
and speed.
The support at Sydney Embassy, “Cur-
tain Call,” is another sample of tophole
Hollywood comedy. It has Alan Mow-
bray as a Broadway producer, under-
taking to produce the worst play he can
put his hands on to queer the pitch ot
a cantankerous leading lady. Most of the
piece centres in Mowbray, and he does
it full justice. The main item at the
Embassy is “A Bill of Divorcement,”
which did the rounds some years ago.
The main theme, “should members of
a family which has a streak of insanity
marry?” has some drama in it, but
it’s turned into melodrama mainly by a
Hollywood glamor goil and sometimes by
its dialogue. Adolphe Menjou offers a
stretch of acting which could have been
put to better purpose.
At the 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. sessions
there is a support at Sydney State which
deals with a flying doctor lost in the
arctic regions of Canada. The film is
filled with animal studies —of bears,
beavers, ermine, “snowshoe” rabbits,
porcupines and others —and these are
entrancing. Two brown bear cubs hog
most of the running time and even then
it’s a wrench to see the last of them.
Meanwhile Sydney Lyceum is showing
“Dad Rudd, M.P.,” with Bert Bailey
doing the main job. The film is
an improvement on previous efforts
“staginess” has been largely avoided,
and a measure of polish acquired. There
is still a little artificiality about the in-
troduction of comedy scenes, and some
of these are carried even beyond farce.
Technical work has improved, too —flood
scenes at a dam and a bridge being swept
away being particularly effective. Bert
Bailey is his old reliable self, and the
supporting cast turns in some good work.
Artbursts.
In the exhibition of recruiting posters
which opened at the Myer Emporium,
Melbourne, last week, most of the designs
look like soap advertisements. A few
artists have gone in for a variety
of amateur cartooning, while others that
specialise in warnings against calamity-
mongers, whisperers of rumors and Fifth
Column activities are more arty-crafty
than impressive. Exhibits bear the in-
delible stamp of technical-college art
schools.


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This OT3 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
Relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
S pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
Waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait i Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The really stirring event for women
last week was the meeting called by Lady
Wakehurst to put into motion all the
surplus womanpower not only of the
State but of Australia. The meeting was
held at Government House on a wet,
cold morning, but its enthusiasm kept
this new machinery of victory warmed
up. Two women noted for successful
organisation are in charge: Mrs. A. C.
Godhard (famed before her marriage as
Mona Daly, of the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital) and Mrs. Crawford Vaughan,
who as Miss Preston Stanley was this
State’s first woman M.P. Simultaneously
with the Sydney meeting there was one
in Government House, Melbourne.
Just as this Letter is on its way to
your breakfast-table a monster meeting
in the Town Hall is throwing down the
gage to girls from 17 to 60. There will
be full-time or part-time service for all.
As well as hard work, the W.A.N.S. offer
you the fun of comradeship. Can you
fire a gun, sow an acre, grow lettuces?
Can you cook, brew, drive a car? Have
you ideas? And if you have nothing
to offer but willing hands and brain then
come on, be one of the W.A.N.S. You’re
needed! Trust the C.W.A. to be well
in the van. If you’re a land girl, or want
to be one, there’s a course of practical
land work to be had at the station of
Mrs. J. W. C. Beveridge, State president
of the C.W.A. At last week’s meeting
Lady Wakehurst was appointed president
of the movement. The Federal Govern-
ment O.K.’d the organisation. At last
night’s rally, Lady Gowrie, who spon-
sors the W.A.N.S. (Women’s Australian
National Services) for the whole of Aus-
tralia, Dame Enid Lyons and Lady Wake-
hurst were among the speakers.
Here’s a verse of the first song written
to the W.A.N.S.:
They call us W.A.N.S., and we’re the ones
To help our husbands, cheer our sons.
And sweethearts now, or in the making,
We’ll drive a truck or fly a ’plane,
We’ll raise the sheep and golden grain,
We’ll A.R.P., and V.A.D., or brew and do
a spot of baking.
Gilbert and Sullivan still hold the stage
at the Royal. In spite of Saturday’s
bitter chill, devotees bit on the bullet
and journeyed by ferry, tram and train
(those who arrived by car don’t get any
lily handed out to them. There’s no hard-
ship driving in a cosy, free-from-draught
limousine) to chuckle at the nonsense and
enjoy the music of “Patience.” “To walk
down Piccadilly with a poppy or a lily
in your medieval hand,” wrote Gilbert.
Strolling along the sandbagged front his
ghost would probably say: “A grenade
or a rifle in your highly-cultured hand.”
Evelyn Gardiner’s husband sat with
Evelyn’s mother in one of the boxes fol-
lowing every movement of Evelyn’s Lady
Jane. Ivan Menzies raffled himself to
his admirers with sprightly charm, and
a solicitor to see fair play.
Like her mother, Moira Pope has
married into the Navy. Her father,
Captain Pope, is serving overseas. In
St. Mark’s at Darling Point last week
she became the wife of Lieut. Da'vid
Charles Wells, R.A.N. The wedding fol-
lowed swiftly upon the engagement, the
date of the ceremony being decided on
only three days before Canon Barder
launched the twain’s matrimonial dread-
nought. Moira, who was given away
by Capt. Harold Farncomb, R.A.N.,
looked pretty as a picture in the snow-
flake softness of white marquisette over
white taffeta. In the mist of her tulle
veil was the traditional orange blossom.
Sister Lesley ’maided in pink organdie.
Reception was at the home of Mrs.
Edmund Playfair. Mrs. Pope and Mrs.
C. V. T. Wells, the ’groom’s mother,
who had come from Adelaide for the
occasion, received the guests.
There were many moments of beauty
during the Yehudi Menuhin concert for
the Red Cross, but the ultimate star of
the night was the announcement that all
the money raised was to go to France’s
Red Cross. When the Alexander
Gordon lady, a small neat figure in
black, a little shaken by emotion, and
all the more endearing for it, made the
announcement there was a sort of wild
radiance in the applause. The concert
opened with “God Save the King” and
the “Marseillaise,” and ended with the
“Marseillaise” and “God Save.” It was
one of those nights when the material
things of life fade into nothingness.
Yehudi Menuhin played great music
with a touch of the sublime. The Town
Hall seethed with humans ; the chair next
to this writer had the distinction of being
the only empty one in the house. Mrs.
Max Afford and Mrs. John Fairfax had
made a stirring job of the decorations.
Above the orchestra on the stage an
enormous cross of red satin was draped
on each side by white. The pillars of
the gallery were linked by garlands of
white flowers, while each pillar flew
red, white and blue streamers. At the
bottom of the hall Time was conquered
by Mercy, for the face of the clock .was
hidden under a cross of red flowers on
a white floral background.
Lady Gowrie wore white chiffons
under a coat of red velvet. Lady Wake-
hurst, too, was in white. Her coat was
of rose brocade, and had one of those
corded, snug -to - the - shoulder capes,
seen sometimes in pictures on regency
bucks. Lord Wakehurst was an
applauder. The dressing was gala
standard. Every woman wore her most
glossy. Two men at least put their bit
of color into the night: Bishop Pilcher
and knight Donald Cameron, with
trousers of the tartan of his clan. Lady
Bective, over from Adelaide, wore
bouffant black nets and was caped in
fur. Mrs. C. L. Jones flashed gold
encrustments on a frock of lagoon blues.
With her was Harry Gullett’s sparkling
little lady. Sue Gullett was somewhere
in the crowds. Warming as sunshine
was Mrs. Alan McGregor’s smile. She
was one of a busy company of pro-
gramme- and posy-sellers.
Marie Burke was i.n brown velvet fired
with bronze sequins. Her gloves were
gold, her earrings nearly shoulder-
length. The Bertie Kellys were in the
vice-regal group ; so was Clarice Faith-
full-Anderson. Mrs. A. E. Grace was
one of the night’s good-lookers. Mrs.
Crawford-Robertson, Mrs. Rupert Scam-
mell, Gladys Richardson, the Hon.
Henrietta Loder, Phyllis Parkinson, Mrs.
Wallace Turner, Mrs. McCartney, Mrs.
Hope Gibson, Knight Henry Braddon,
and almost everybody you’ve ever heard
of were there helping to make up the
£2200, the gift of which brought a
tremble into the voice of France’s
Consul-General when he said his thanks.
As sensible as she is pretty, Helene
Burfitt decided to make agricultural
science her life work. She is doing the
course at Sydney University. Sister Bar-
bara is doing medicine. Eldest sister
Esmey has already graduated. Helene’s
parents are the Dr. Walter Burfitt couple,
of Elizabeth Bay. Uncle Captain Fur-
neaux Mann, M.C. (he did non-interven-
tion committee work during the Spanish
war), his wife and two sons were among
those lucky enough to get ship from Bor-
deaux to a town on the west of England
last week. Theirs was the ship in which
Australia’s Trade Commissioner Voss
and his wife made their escape. Mont-
gomery Dunn’s camera made this pleas-
ing photograph of Helene.
English-speaking Unionists got off to
a good start with their own branch of
the Red Cross. Mrs. James Moyes, an
army sister in 1914-1918, spoke with the
tongue of eloquence, the brain of un-
derstanding, about the club’s new venture.
The Red Cross’s Owen lady, who is
director of branches, outlined the work
of the society. President of the group
is Mrs. W. R. Dovey. Its secretary is
Mrs. A. B. Cooke, its treasurer Mrs.
Wallace Turner.
The spirit of “Dogged as does it” ex-
tolled by “T. the R.” in June s’s Bul-
letin, is shown in this letter from
London: —
We are going through some bad days, but
we shall succeed in the end. The general
public is quite wonderful. The other day
after the dreadful news about Belgium had
been given, and I was feeling too awful, I
heard a workman singing cheerfully as he did
some work in the street. It made all the
difference to me, because I felt “you can’t beat
people like that.” Everyone went about the
ordinary occupations so quietly that one would
hardly have known that any bad news had
come. I simply can’t tell you what everyone
feels about the Dominions; on every side one
hears people talking about what you are all
doing, with the greatest gratitude and affec-
tion, and it will never be forgotten. So far
our food is excellent, and the prices quite
moderate. With the exception of butter and
sugar, and a rather short ration of bacon, we
feel the pinch hardly at $ll. One day recently I
lunched at the Criterion, and had smoked
salmon, veal, cauliflower, rolls, butter and white
wine, and there was a choice of delectable
sweets and ices. I invested in a bicycle a few
weeks ago, as it is most difficult to get about,
there are so few buses. The traffic is practically
nil with the shortage of petrol, so it is easy
and rather pleasant to ride about in this lovely
spring weather. Like other Londoners I am
growing lettuces on my balcony in boxes. So
far they look most promising. I hope they
will do well, as they are rather expensive to
buy, and so cheap to grow.
A Manly engagement that caused quite
a stir in the Village is that of Jean Davey,
tall and attractive brunette, to Gunner
George William Twigden (known as
“Bill”). Jean is known as a gifted elocu-
tionist and a player of good tennis. “Bill,”
who is in the 2nd/Ist. Med. Regiment,
7th Division, was up to the time of join-
ing the army a member of the Manly
Life Saving Club, “Life Savers’ ” foot-
ball team and Manly Sailing Club. He’s
the only son of the Harry Twigdens, of
Manly. Jean’s photograph was made by
Peter Pan.
Pretty Grace Prior, a granddaughter
of the Bulletin’s former editor, has just
returned from Melbourne with a small
fortune in diamonds in the place where
every nice girl wants it. That is on the
engagement finger. The young man who
put the ring in place is Flying-officer
R. Kingsford Smith, of Point Cook, now
doing a specialist navigation course.
Grace is the eldest daughter of the
Bruce Priors, of Mosman, Rollo the
youngest child of the W. Kingsford
Smiths, of Wollstonecraft. Grace, up to
two years ago a Wenona girl, was one
of the attractions of Annette Kellerman’s
“Marine Fantasy.”
George-street was a whirl of social
activity last Thursday night. Into the
Town Hall hurried keen bridge players,
the women clutching parcels of food,
the men carrying suitcase or bag. They
were going to make a night of it, and
were bringing their supper with them.
The Mayoress’s clothing fund benefited
from this party, which is a yearly affair.
You bring your own sandwich and the
Mayoress provides the tea and coffee.
Last week there were over 800 players.
Two hundred pounds is the expected
harvest. A golden sheaf or two was
garnered by the Parker lady. The Mayor
and Mayoress received the guests.
St. John’s and Sancta Sophia, both
within the University, are linked by a
true-love’s knot. Entangled in it are
Tom Bateman and Beatrice McGirr. Tom
is in his last year medicine, the equally-
clever Beatrice is doing law. Her parents
are the Greg McGirrs, of North Sydney.
Father will be remembered as the first
and only Minister for Motherhood
(endowment) of this State. That was
in the Storey Government. Like all the
McGirrs, Beatrice combines charm of
manner and an original mind. She has
just got her M.A. for a thesis on the
war poets. It is said to be almost a
poem itself. Tom’s forebears gave the
name to Bateman’s Bay, but his father,
E. P. Bateman, lives at Katoomba.
Beatrice’s ring features a sapphire, and
that tones with the blue of her eyes.
Soldiers and sheep shared the Show
Grounds last week. The Romney
Marshes, the Polwarths, the Corriedales
and their brethren seemed to fascinate
the lads in khaki, and the patriarchs of
the flock looking steadily into the faces
bent above them tried to say: “It’s all
right, boys ; I’ll see that the missus and
the young ’uns keep you supplied with
the best uniforms in the world.” The
sheep are proving themselves dinkum
Aussies in this 1940 war. The prize ram
which Otway Falkiner gave to the Lady
Gowrie Red Cross appeal looked deter-
mined to sell himself to the highest
bidder. Lady Gowrie paid him the com-
pliment of a special mid-morning visit.
The Show Ground was glitteringly cold
and feverishly active. On the green
sward lit, but not warmed, by the winter
sun’s rays, sheepdogs at a nod or a sign
from their master rounded up sheep,
guarded them and ushered them into
pens. In the stands sat beginning soldiers
intently watching the trials, goodness
knows what nostalgia for the things
“back home” in their hearts. The wide
windows of the Anthony Hordern
pavilion revealed a most inspiring dis-
play, though one the window-dresser
had never designed. Here was a soldier
sewing on his buttons ; there, one writing
a letter. Not far away one was polishing
his boots with great vigor.
This year the show was opened with-
out benefit of knife, fork or corkscrew,
the official luncheon being cut out. Lord
Wakehurst made a simple and direct
speech last Thursday afternoon, which
was the official opening date. Already
the pens were as gay as a maypole with
champion and prize ribbons. Lady Wake-
hurst, in deep sapphire blues, wore a
matching hat and her usual bright-eyed
alertness.
The prideful moment of small son
Robert Loder arrived when he was given
a ride on the back of the Red Cross
champion ram. These rams have a look
of being press-conscious. They were
posed against backgrounds of greenery,
of orange-striped tents for their photo-
graphs, and one of them seemed posi-
tively to smirk with satisfaction. Pat
Welsh was a woman exhibitor who will
take a ribbon or two back to Nandillyan
Ponds. Mrs. H. B. Austin, Thelma Mc-
Master, the Harold Prell family, Barbara
Glasson, the Rials mother, son and
daughters and Countess Bective were
visitors.
It was only in the intervals of “Giving
the Bride Away” that you remembered
there was a war on. While the acts blew
about the stage in their feckless, thistle-
down way it was possible only to laugh.
This Letter renewed an old friendship
with the authors Ann Neville and
Margot Goyder after the first act. They
sat throughout the play in an obscure
part of the house and confessed to feel-
ing jittery. Though why they should is
a mystery, considering their successes in
London and New York. They were feel-
ing deeply touched by cables received
that afternoon from friends in London
who had thought, even in the midst of
all the war clouds, to send good wishes
for the Sydney first night.
Producer Gerald Kirby, who is also
part author of the laugh-spinner, has
a gentle voice and a warm hand clasp.
He confessed to being content with the
way the audience was making merry
with the players. The Minerva was
packed to the limit. Noticeable in the
house was the number of local play-
wrights and amateur actors. Sumner
Locke Elliott, Ken Brodziak, Clarence
Murphy and Olita Hahn (whose brother
produces for the Dajonians) were early
in position in the stalls. Mrs. Doris
Olding was handsome in hibiscus chiffons
caped in mink ; the Bertie Kellys brought
a party. Actress Katie Towers was
there ; so was Mrs. M. Ellis, whose frock
was green as Ireland. Mrs. Claude Plow-
man’s coat was long and golden.
Margaret Vyner, one of “Doone’s”
prettiest pupils, and since then a much-
reported mannequin and screen actress in
London, was married last week. Hus-
band is actor Hugh Williams, who once
toured Australia with the Boucicault co.
Now he is a soldier. The wedding was
in a registrar’s office and later in
St. Ethelburga’s Church, Bishopsgate.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 790 of 1940.
BETWEEN EVA ELBRA SCOTT-RUSSELL
Petitioner
And WILLIAM ROBERT SCOTT-
RUSSELL Respondent.
TO WILLIAM ROBERT SCOTT-RUSSELL
late of Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVA ELBRA
SCOTT-RUSSELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Nineteenth day of September One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this nineteenth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
THOMAS R. LADDS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Brisbane Street, Tamworth; by his
Agents, WILSON, STEED & CLAPIN, Solici-
tors, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 888 of 1940.
BETWEEN GERALDINE JOSEPHINE
OLIVE GREWCOE (formerly Geraldine
Josephine Olive Mortimer) Petitioner
And WALTER JAMES GREWCOE Re-
spondent.
TO WALTER JAMES GREWCOE late of
1 Kellett Street Darlinghurst Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GERADLINE
JOSEPHINE OLIVE GREWCOE has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground of desertion by you for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Nineteenth day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HERBERT SMITH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The art of propaganda was seen last
week at Myer’s in the War Poster show,
its object being twofold—to stimulate
recruiting and to stop usless talking. The
concerted effort was a forceful one. The
Lord Mayor opened the show with a
plain speech and no beating about the
bush ; he made no secret of the fact that
he favors all-in conscription of man-
power, with a follow-up ol calls tor
volunteers for overseas service. He then
bought one of the four winning posters,
“Shoulder to the Wheel,” by Peter
Rowed, a young student from Melbourne
Tech. All expenses of the show were
donated, and proceeds were for the Red
Cross.
General Whitham made a brief speech
of appreciation of the artists and others
concerned. Also in khaki were the director
of recruiting for the Southern Command,
Lieut.-Col. Sampson, Col. James Chap-
man, Col. Pain, Major S. W. Whittington,
Captain J. R. Manifold, Captain .Sutton
and Lieut. Theo Scales. The Consul for
Belgium, M. Vanderkelen, made a point
of being present.
Daryl Lindsay contributed a forceful
recruiting poster contrasting a soldier
marching with his head held high and a
round-shouldered youth idling over a
sporting paper. C. S. Lloyd, well known
for his pencil portraits, produced an*
Empire group of fighting men as inspir-
ing as a marching song. William Gunn
and Dorothy Dibden were among others
who chose to be effective with pictures
depicting courage and high morale rather
than those which emphasised the horror
and gruesomeness of war. Some artists
let their fancy lighten the show with
comedy, Gurney warning Dad on the
farm that even the wheat has ears for
gossip.
Sybil Craig, under whose auburn head
was born the idea of the War Poster show
held last week, is booking appointments
for portrait sittings with artists Dora
Wilson, Rollo Thompson and Esther and
Betty Patterson, whose services are avail-
able for moderate fees to aid the Artists
War Service Group, a self-supporting
branch of the Comforts Fund. If the
lads in khaki would like sketches of their
girl friends to place over their hearts
(or if the girls would like the boys for
the place of honor upon their dressing-
tables) all they have to do is to get in
touch with Miss Craig at 123 Collins-
street or to give a tinkle to U 3544.
Myer’s grillroom reverberated with
bridge when 90 tables were booked to
aid St. George’s Hospital, which is badly
in need of general extensions, particularly
nurses’ quarters, for which the ground
has already been pegged and for which
an architect is preparing plans. At
present the nurses have practically to
put on their topcoats and go for a
tram ride to another part of Kew to get
to their rooms when off duty.
On the day of the bridge party Mrs.
John McCahon was up before the sun
picking flowers in the gardens of Mrs.
Herbert Syme and Mrs. Keith Hallam
(the latter’s daphne being particularly en-
ticing). Thus players were persuaded that
posies were necessary for good bridge.
Marjorie Summons and Anne Colville
were also in the running with their trays
of chocolates, the depot for which
was presided over by Mrs. Douglas
Thomas, rapidly knitting a khaki
pullover for her husband. Among other
supporters present were Mrs. Walter Car-
negie, Mrs. Wyville Field, Mrs. Cluny
Harkness and Mrs. C. O. Marschner,
the last-named with a boudoir wrap of
her own making to be had for a simple
sixpenny ticket.
With the growth of the camps at Pucka-
punyal and Seymour the minds of Sey-
mour citizens with Cr. Harold Bailey as
spokesman have cottoned to the idea of
a hut for soldiers in that township. The
traffic through the place is continuous
and augmented by the fact that so many
of the men can get short leave only when
they can reach Seymour and have no
time to go further afield. At present they
have to make the best of congregating in
the pubs and leaning up against the lamp-
posts.
Among city people who sympathise
with the troops at a loose end are Mrs.
R. Timmins, Mrs. Harry Cohen and
Mrs. H. Roberts, who combined with an
afternoon-enm-evening bridge party in
aid of the hut which will cost about £2OOO
and will no doubt arise on the Seymour
soil with' great speed. The large bridge
party was held at Mrs. Timmins’s home
in South Yarra and raised £35 odd. Mrs.
“Parney” (otherwise Walter) Waters had
a lucky day, for she won both sheer
stockings and a bottle of eau-de-Cologne.
Archie Crofts, when told over the tele-
phone that he had acquired a bottle of
whisky made a gesture in handing it
back, whereupon Mrs. Timmins set an
alarm clock and got to work on a time-
limit auction, as a result of which the
bottle of the best put a further £2 in the
till.
Among just-grown-up daughters who
are helping their mothers at the Ameri-
can Ball is Sally Coates, whose profile is
pictured here by Dickinson-Monteath.
The big night is July 5 at the Palais,
and the charity which benefits is, as
always, the Children’s Hospital, an insti-
tution whose responsibilities grow ever
greater, for it has guaranteed to treat
soldiers’ children free of charge. At the
ball Sally and her elder sister Isla will
assist at the novelty stall run by their
mother, Mrs. A. M. Coates, who is the
only American of the family ; father is
Scottish, and the girls consider them-
selves “dinkum Aussies,” for they were
born in this country. Sally is learning
the florist business, and one day hopes
to run a shop of her own.
The Red Cross scrap depot at 684
Elizabeth-street turned out for sale over
20 tons of assorted and sorted materials
during a week of its existence —it was
opened only during the first week in
June. Helpers are not lacking. Women
are daily sorting soft scrap, like rags, etc.,
and men (including a number of Techni-
cal College and University students, to
say nothing of businessmen) sort the
heavier stuff and load the lorries. The
depot is windswept, but compared with
Red Cross quarters in Latrobe-street, it’s
almost luxurious, for it provides plenty of
space and has actually a partitioned room
with coat-hangers for the helpers.
These partitions, like the trestle tables,
were run up overnight by local men, who
also painted the front of the building.
Ivor Richardson, who donated the prem-
ises, rallied his near-by acquaintances to
form a Haymarket Group for the Red
Cross. At the initial meeting he asked
for an 18cwt. weighing machine, which
was given next day.
Rags are in three grades: (1) Good
quality silks, wools and worsteds; (2)
medium grades, used for flock ; (3) in-
feriors, destined for paper mills. Expert
sorting brings good prices. Tyres and
all rubber scrap are useful, and a market
has been found for hypodermic syringes.
An old-age pensioner tramped out
through the rain last week to present her
little gift, a brown paper bag of used
envelopes and another bag of cardboard
milk-bottletops. The Red Cross hands
all silver paper and tinfoil to the Kinder-
garten Union, which in exchange gives
the Red Cross all cigarette and tobacco
tins which come into its scrapboxes.
There are women in Melbourne who
put up with pungent and peculiar smells
in their homes and an aftermath of de-
vastation in their kitchens, but they’re
uncomplaining, for the alchemists are their
husbands, doing good deeds—the hard
word having been put upon them by their
pal, P. G. Maher, of the Victorian Rail-
ways and the Stock Exchange Club. Every
week Mr. Maher visits the Kindergarten
sorting depot at 376 Flinders-lane laden
with cardboard boxes of old toothpaste
tubes, which he hands out to his friends
whom he has trained in the art of snip-
ping open and cleaning with noisome
cleaner. The finished articles are neatly
filleted and as smooth as if they had been
ironed.
At Government House one morning
last week Lady Dugan took delivery of
a utility truck, new and shiny with bottle-
green paint, a distinctive Red Cross and
lettering “Presented by the Victorian
Ladies Golf Union.” Mrs. Austin Gate-
house did the honors on behalf of her
sister golfers throughout the State from
the Murray to South Gippsland. This
useful vehicle is by no means the
V.L.G.U.’s sole substantial gift to war
charities. It has placed a similar truck
on the roads of Palestine, its gift to the
Comforts Fund. It has also made many
gifts to local patriotic enterprises and to
the French and Norwegian funds, and
has sent shipments of food and warm
clothing to England for distribution
through officials supervising the evacuated
children scheme and through English golf
committees.
Among the foodstuffs specialties have
been made of cheese and of Mil-
dura sultanas. The V.L.G.U. has
reached its £l7OO mark in its war effort.
All women golfers have a personal in-
terest in the aim of £2OOO. As those
women who play on fashionable links
with greens like billiard tables and fair-
ways like carpets are doing their part,
so are country golfers, who do good and
bad scores among pot-holed gravelled
greens and movable hazards in the forms
of browsing sheep and cattle.
A dignified affair was the Apex Club s
Ball, funds for which will be shared be-
tween the dub’s uplift activities and the
Comforts Fund. In silver letters of large
size at one end of the Palais was Friend-
ship and Service,” and the committee
almost obliterated its individual chests by
the size of its red rosette badges. Every-
body bought a paper forage cap from
stocks to choose from in red, white and
blue. Norman Atkins sold the caps with
exaggerated solemnity. A couple who
enjoyed themselves were the Barton
Hacks, he blond, large and solid, she a
small vivacious brunette. Looking her
best in a beautiful all-white gown was
Mrs. Max Ham. What there was visible
of Mrs. Bill Gillon behind her red com-
mittee rosette was clad in slim-fitting
burgundy velvet.
Broothorn made this photograph of
Mrs. John McCahon, who is always to
be found in one or more of the good
works committees. Her No. 1 effort of
the moment is the cabaret dance at
Admiralty House on Friday, June 28,
in aid of St. George’s Hospital, Kew,
which function will also be a farewell
to Major Douglas Thomas, one of the
hospital’s popular medicos, who has
joined the A.A.M.C. In between swing
rhythms from the saxophones at the
dance Mrs. Edward Billson will sing “Can
We Keep a Secret?” a hush-hush song
well known in the Southern Command.
Words and music are by Mrs. McCahon’s
brother, Noel Paton.
An individualist is Sir Thomas
Beecham, whose little goatee beard is
only one of his individualities. Though
a small man, his walk with head up and
chest expanded sets him aside from lesser
mortals. Of his white-tie-and-tails, the
tails are the shortest this Letter has seen
at a concert for many a moon. He used
no music and, like Antal Dorati, re-
quired no conductor’s music-stand. He
showed no sign of fatigue at the end
of Saturday’s concert, though he changed
his collar twice during the evening.
The face of the great Beecham is most
expressive in the music he interprets. It
needed little imagination to see him
cavorting as a piping faun in “The Gods
Go a-Begging,” the suite which opened
the programme. A contrast to his easy
manner with his musicians is his de-
meanour towards the audience. As the
applause breaks forth he remains facing
the orchestra, bowing and smiling. As
he turns towards the house the smile
freezes and the bows become stiff and
formal. Sir Thomas arranges his
orchestra in such a manner that the
organ loft had to be opened up. The
seats therein were in request, and the
overflow wedged itself as unobtrusively
as possible into standing space in the
back row.
In the full house were Dr. and Mrs.
Mick Healy, Mrs. Healy in a mushroom
jacket with a saucy tailpiece and a couple
of gardenias. A newly-married couple
were the Roy Grays, whose domicile is
a modernised weatherboard cottage in
Elizabeth-street, Malvern. Mrs. Gray
was Mrs. Frank Russell. Maxine Portus,
escorted by Andrew Thwaites, adorned
her head with something poetical in black
velvet. The Peter Marshall couple were
there with Barbara and Denis Clarke,
Barbara in fur coat and youthful pink
bow in her hair. Mrs. Harry Hutchins,
who was with her brother John Law
Smith, wore sunray pleated ivory sheer
and silver fox furs. Mrs. Charlie Tait
in all-black tucked her hand into son
Ivan’s arm while threading the swirling
crowd upon the marble steps.
Next Monday (July 1) Moira Creswick
and Roger Kimpton (he has joined the
R.A.A.F.) will be married very quietly
in the Angel Chapel of St. John’s. After-
wards intimate friends will assemble at
Mrs. Harry Creswick’s new home in
Albany-road, which she has called
Yarrien, after the old family mansion
in Irving-road. Another July wedding
will take place between Yvonne Richard-
son and Lindsay Cust, who have chosen
Tuesday, 23rd. As plans are at present
Yvonne will wear white and probably
finish the picture with a veil and a
bouquet. The new home is a house with
a garden in Lumeah-road, Caulfield.
Gifts of books and the sort of maga-
zines that men like are being welcomed
for the library of Air Force House, which
will be opened very soon. Melbourne
women journalists are running the library
and will be on duty there from 8 a.m.
to 10 p.m. Parcels of reading matter
intended for Air Force House may be
left c/o the Social Editress at any news-
paper office.
In spite of the war so close to the
shores of Britain, the arts are still alive
in that land of stout hearts. Artist
Eileen Pearcey (otherwise Mrs. Ramsay
Moon) writes to her mother, Mrs. W. E.
Pearcey, of Melbourne, news of exhibi-
tions in London. Eileen exhibited a
drawing with the United Artists’ show at
the Royal Academy during the winter.
The picture was sold and the artist gave
half her proceeds to the Red Cross. She
was to exhibit a drawing of old houses at
Annercy, in France, at the next Academy
Exhibition. Mrs, Moon is in London
with her husband. Little ginger-top son
Felix has been sent to the country.


w
r
Mifflin
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney ■— ■ Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth mais-m
THE SERVICE MAN
The Retain Government
Quits.
Ek Dum : In spite of the French
Government’s decision to make a sepa-
rate peace, fighting went on in parts of
France ; but it was the sort of fighting in
which, the referee having fainted, one
boxer knocks a punch-drunk opponent
round the ring till he falls over the ropes.
The speed of the German advance
showed how utterly disorganised all
French effort had become.
On June 14 the enemy entered Paris.
Within two days not only was the line
in splinters but the whole length of the
Maginot had gone. Marshal Petain has
since said that an armistice became in-
evitable when the lines broke on June 13.
The German scheme followed that put
into practice at every point—the creation
of nets with the enemy inside completely
surrounded.
A drive down the Meuse and the
old Toul-Belfort fortress line enclosed
the country between the Meuse and
Marne and the Rhine. Toul, Luneville
and Strasbourg were taken.
A second drive went due south and
south-west from Paris till it reached the
Loire. There it split. One half spread
westward to Tours. The other, between
Orleans and Nevers, went on south-
wards parallel with the continuation of
the Meuse drive nearer the Swiss border,
in five days reaching Lyons, 320 miles
miles to the south of the capital.
The western half of the drive to the
Loire moved towards Biscay and Nantes.
There was a parallel advance along the
Channel coast; Cherbourg was taken
and all French approaches to Brittany
and the last remaining Channel port of
Brest were isolated from the rest of
France. This was not accomplished with-
out some fighting, or before the new
British expeditionary force had been got
safely out of France. It included a divi-
Canadians who had been within
30 miles of Paris when ordered to retire,
• Some ° t tbers who bad been waiting
m^ rt on . tbe,r transports,
The , Position then was that the Ger-
? ianS whole L of northern France
Bnttan y to the Belgian border.
Th » y wer ? ™ or s than ba R-way to Mar-
and Toulon ’ the great naval port
to th ? east ° f l 4» towards which they
were fast making down the Rhone. They
werc formin « “ 'arge movement
n" T west ™, hlc 1 l ? " ould P rescnll >' cn E ulf
Bordeaux and all the country along the
Pyrenees to the Mediterranean,
i „ £ ,
tr 'l' y I s ? n .. a P ara,lel ° f latltud c, a
trifle south of the Italian border. Any
troo P S south and cast of there would
presently be hemmed with enemies on
c j th er side. Nice, Antibes, Monaco-all
the fashionable watering-places and
gambling resorts are in the Italian corner,
TU . . „
Thls camc from Berlin radio:
JUliiilfol &£!# JESS'S
power in Europe must be readjusted.
France has been trying for 300 years to
dismember, oppress and humiliate Gcr-
many. She must be destroyed. The
Gcrman arms wiU speak> as ,£ ng as the
Fiihrer thinks fit, to settle outstanding
accounts to the last item,
To emphasise their attitude, the Ger-
mans immediately afterwards sent 100
bombers to bomb Bordeaux, the tem-
porary seat of the French Government.
This they did repeatedly, afterwards say-
ing that they thought French plenipoten-
tiaries weren’t coming.
From Bordeaux Petain delivered an-
other broadcast speech,
On May 1, 1917, he said, his country
had 3,280,000 men in arms. At the be-
ginning of the battle of France it had
only 2,700,000 or so ; nor, as in 1918,
were there 85 British and 42 U.S.A. divi-
sions. French airmen fought at odds of
one to six against them. The inferiority of
material was greater than in the last war.
The French plenipotentiaries—General
Huntzinger, General Bergeret, M. Noel
(formerly Ambassador to Poland) and
Vice-Admiral Lelec —went to receive the
nation’s sentence from its conquerors.
Part of it had already been written in ruin
over the fairest parts of France. The rest
was delivered in the Forest of Compiegne,
40 miles from Paris, over which the Ger-
man offensive had rolled only a few days
previously.
No measure of humiliation was forgot-
ten. The same railway carriage in which
Foch, as a victor, met the German dele-
gates in 1918 was taken to the exact spot
on which it had stood. The commemora-
tive plaque showing the German eagle
with its beak in the dust was torn down.
And in place of Foch Hitler himself was
in command, supported by Hess, General
von Brauchitsch, the Commander-in-
Chief, and General Keitel, the chief
planner of the war. General Keitel read
the terms, which began with a recital of
the German version of the 1918 surrender
and of Germany’s subsequent sufferings:
At the moment of the arrival of the
Allied Commission there began a breach
of promises solemnly given... .Broken
promises and perjury were used against a
nation which, after more than four years
of heroic resistance, showed only one weak-
ness, namely, believing the promises of
democratic statesmen.
“Resistance” must have stung the French
delegates when they recalled the offen-
sive of 1914 which overran Belgium,
ravished northern France to the gates of
Paris and led to France being bled white.
But there were no interruptions, and the
general proceeded to say that on Sep-
tember 3, 1939, Britain and France de-
clared war on Germany without cause:
After a heroic resistance, France has
been defeated in a single bloody battle and
has collapsed. Germany does not intend
to give armistice negotiations with such a
brave opponent a shameful character.
It was added that the terms were framed
to prevent a resumption of the fight, to
provide Germany with “all safeguards
for the continuation of the war against
Britain, which was forced upon Ger-
many,” and to create preliminaries for a
new peace, the essential of which would
be “restitution for the wrongs done with
violence to the German people.”
The terms were handed over. The
French delegates left to lay them before
their Government. They accepted after
27 hours’ discussion.
The terms include the occupation of
territory north of a line from Geneva to
Chalons-sur-Saone, thence to the Loire
and along the Loire almost to Tours,
thence southward to the Spanish border
parallel to the Angouleme railway. In
effect, the whole of the northern and
Biscayan French coastline will be in Ger-
man occupation, including Bordeaux and
all the major French ports outside the
Mediterranean. The area covers about
two-thirds of France and most of the
French armament resources.
All French forces are to be demobil-
ised and disarmed save forces for main-
taining order. Colonies are left to
France—temporarily at any rate—with
sufficient navy to police them. All
weapons, tools, factories and aircraft are
to be surrendered, and land and coast
defences to be handed over in good order,
but the French fleet is not to be used by
Germany save for mine-sweeping and
coast surveillance.
All ships outside territorial waters must
be recalled to France. French forces
must not leave French soil, nor merchant
ships French harbors. French property
abroad must not be transferred to other
Powers. France is to facilitate mer-
chant trade with Germany and Italy.
Refugees from occupied territory must
return. All German prisoners will be
released ; all French prisoners held till
the peace is settled. No Frenchman may
fight against the Central Powers.
Fighting ceased six hours after the
signing of the agreement (6.50 p.m.
Greenwich time, June 22). General
Huntzinger and his fellow-delegates were
then on their way to Rome to make
terms with Italy.
It is doubtful whether Germany will
see much of the French Navy. Accord-
ing to American reports, two new 35,000-
ton battleships, nearly complete, had dur-
ing the week been removed from Brest
to an English port. Two older battle-
ships are reported in English ports. Most
of the rest of the fleet was thought to
be unlikely to surrender, and new capital
ships on the stocks were said to have
been blown up. French Channel ports
had been systematically wrecked by the
British before the evacuation. The fate
of the remnant of the French air force
is unknown.
Beyond France there was spirited
French talk of resistance. General Mittel-
hauser, who took over the Syrian com-
mand from General Weygand, announced
the determination of his forces to con-
tinue to fight on the side of the Allies.
General de Gaulle, broadcasting from
8.8. C., said that the kind of submission
which had been agreed upon would mean
slavery, which many Frenchmen would
not accept for reasons of honor and
commonsense and in the highest interests
of the country:
France has undertaken not to lay down
her arms except in agreement with her allies.
The Government has no right to surrender
while her allies continue the war. The
Polish, Norwegian, Dutch, Belgian and
Luxembourg Governments thus understood
their duty.
He said that it was absurd to consider
all lost. A bad military system, faults
in the conduct of operations and the de-
featist spirit of the Government made
France lose the Battle of France, but
there were still an intact fleet and much
gold and the colonies. There remained
also the gigantic possibilities of United
States industry:
The same conditions of warfare in which
we were beaten by 5000 aeroplanes and
6000 tanks would give us victory with
20,000 aeroplanes and 20,000 tanks
All Frenchmen, wherever they are and by
whatever means they can, must continue
to fight. The greatest possible French
force must be grouped wherever it can be
assembled, for military operations and
arms production.
Governors of French colonies echoed
the words of the general, who has formed
a committee in London to carry on the
war.
The French Government was composed
of old men. Contemplating the spectacle
of masses of unburied dead, of hundreds
of razed towns and villages, of millions
of homeless, half-crazed refugees, no
doubt the prey of Communist agitators,
their nerve failed. That is the long and
short of it.
Nevertheless the surrender is a serious
blow. It leaves the way open for the
Germans not merely to concentrate on
Britain but to make their way into Spain
and Portugal. It opens up the possi-
bility of an African war, with Gibraltar
immobilised.
Once Germany and Italy secured French
Tunisia and Morocco, an overland attack
on British African colonies with
their vast resources of raw materials
would be conceivable. The Balkans be-
long to the Central Powers for the taking.
The Dardanelles are menaced. The war
in its full force is brought immeasurably
nearer to Eastern Asia and to Australia.
In the Middle East the tempo has
quickened. Apart from bombings, there
has been desultory fighting along the
borders of all the Italian possessions in
Africa —Tripoli, Libya, Abyssinia, Somali-
land, Eritrea. The Italians are shaping as
if their hearts were not in the fight. The
naval war continues on a small scale,
mostly marked by a trail of sunken Italian
submarines ; in the Red Sea a trawler got
one and naval gunfire disposed of a
second. Both British and Italian fleets
are busy turning the Mediterranean into
a vast minefield. Egypt, Turkey, Greece,
Rumania —all may be counted out. As
for Russia, which has been busy grab-
bing Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, the
Tass Agency explains that those who
spread rumors of a breach with Ger-
many (and many wishful-thinkers and
other mugs were doing it) are “unable
to realise that the goodneighborly rela-
tions of the Soviets and Germany cannot
be disturbed by rumors.”
They are rooted in the common interests
of Germany and Russia.
So much for alliances and projected
alliances!
Ready!
“Ek D.”: In a few days France has
been reduced from a German enemy
to a German asset, and the first
shots in the Battle of Britain have been
fired by German raiders, evidently bent
on harassing British nerves. The few
casualties have all been civilians, in-
cluding little children. But Britain has
been preparing energetically. The whole
countryside is being turned into a huge
series of improvised fortresses to resist
whatever type of invasion may come.
There are 2,000,000 men under arms ;
the Navy is almost intact; the Air Force
is stronger than when the battle in France
began ; and the race is tough, resource-
ful, homogeneous, united and resolute.
Germany is now facing an enemy who
has had time to study the German army’s
methods, and who will have been able
to guard against all the elements which
tended towards a German victory in the
continental countries.
Compared with France, Britain has a
small compact area. It can be approached
only over a considerable width of sea.
Improvised bridges could be built across
the little Meuse and even the wide Rhine,
but not across the Channel at its


n**SSßi/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficien
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
iuvenate vou and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
w
BRANDAUER£
m
\>
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBANDAOEK * CO, Ltd, BIBMIHOHAM. ENG
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly fi ont
the publishers of “RADIO” (U.S.A.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” lias been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting
13/3 (2 years £l/2/9) to “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
narrowest. The enemy will have to face
line after line of stubborn resistance,
with every condition which has so far
favored him turned against him.
Whatever method he adopts, there is
a strong counter to it. If he makes the
attempt by sea his embarkations will be
attacked by the R.A.F., which, both
in machines and men, has proved
superior to his own. The moment he
reaches the waters of the Channel an
infinitely stronger Navy than his own
will attack him, co-operating with the
air arm. If he eludes them a large army
under a commander of proved ability
waits ashore.
If he succeeds in landing troops he
will be faced by a land force which
must in the initial stages be vastly greater
than the landing units at whatever point
they arrive or in whatever diffusion.
Attack by air seems to be more
likely than attack by sea—a withering
blast of raids aimed to wreck great poits,
disorganise aerodromes, wipe out
munition plants, fuel, supplies, railways
and roads ; to murder civilians and de-
stroy towns and cities on such a scale
that a chaotic panic will be set up,
creating disorganisation throughout the
country.
But the conditions are not nearly so
favorable as in the wide spaces of France.
To be effective, such a method would
call for not only one huge effort but a
-umber of them, each of which would
oe opposed by prepared anti-aircraft
defences and the finest fighting air force
in the world. In that kind of campaign,
carried on from across the water, with
all the elements of fatigue to be con-
sidered, the defenders are at a great ad-
vantage.
Even if the unlikely contingency were
to occur that Britons were driven out of
their south-eastern counties, every mile
of retirement would add to German
difficulties and render the sea journeys
of attacking aircraft longer. And British
rail and road transport, apart from the
comparative distances which have to be
taken into account, is infinitely stronger
in bulk and better in quality, speed and
general efficiency than the French.
Moreover, Britain has not the straight
roads of France nor the great arterial
system of important road junctions which
paved the way to the swift advance on
Paris and the easy piling up of supplies,
behind and within ready reach ot the
advancing German spearheads.
There are more obstacles in the c ®^ n "
tryside. Parts of the south-east which
cover London from the coast are made for
defence. In the early stages the invaders
would be without heavy tanks and heavy
artillery. Their continuance of ammuni-
tion supply would depend on General
von Brauschitsch’s capacity to keep
the sea and air lines open on a large scale.
And while his approaches are menaced
by the Navy and the R.A.F.,the great poi ts
at Britain’s back door —Bristol, Liverpool,
Glasgow and others—would still be lull
of ships unloading men and supplies
from overseas —’planes, guns, ammuni-
tion from Canada and U.S.A.
Surprises cannot possibly be ruled out.
There may be devices of which nothing
is yet known, and some which are known
may prove useful adjuncts to attack arti-
ficial fog, for instance, and the types ot
air-carried tanks which seem to have been
landed in Norway. But there is nothing
which can be imagined which would give
the Germans any kind of decisive superi-
ority.
Foi the first time Hitler’s legions are
likely to go into battle against equals m
morale and superiors in advantages , ad-
versaries who are strengthened by the
knowledge that round them is the iron
ring of the Navy and that behind them
lies the aid of Dominions and colonies,
vaster and more resourceful than those
of any other nation on earth, plus the
reservoir of the manufacturing industries
of the United States, and perhaps, if
they need it, American manpower also.
Germany, on the other hand, knows
that one great defeat might leave her
without the resources to recover from it;
that it certainly would give Britain the
breathing space which she needs to estab-
lish definite domination of the situation.
Britain’s preparations have been going
ahead night and day. Arrangements have
been made to avoid the embarrassment
of crowds of fleeing civilians which har-
assed the armies in France. The country
has been divided into districts, each
armed aud provisioned for a siege and
self-contained. The R.N. and the R.A.F.
are in position. Factories are working
day and night; food is pouring in,
children are being evacuated from danger
areas. On the other side of the Atlantic
a Democratic President, as earnest of his
sympathy and practical help, has ap-
pointed two pro-British Republican
leaders to his Cabinet. Of Dominion
soldiers there are at least three divisions
in Britain.
And the whole people calmly await the
zero hour.
To England in Time of Peril.
Travelling by the Cape route, Aus-
tralian and Maoriland troops the Aus-
tralians commanded by Major-General
Wynter and the Maorilanders by Briga-
dier-General Hargest —have reached
England.
, They were a magnificent crowd ct
men, the flower of the country districts,
with a large leaven of youngsters who
had seen service in the militia and a
sprinkling of Old Diggers. They arrived
in their usual high spirits, declaring that
they had lived like tourists in luxury
quarters, with plenty of room for sport
and exercise. They shouted for bacon
and eggs, and offered to sell kangaroos
to crowds of eager Britons who gathered
when the news went round that “the
Anzacs are here.”
They had called at Cape Town, full of
memories for many a Digger of the last
war, and had received a rousing recep-
tion ; and they had also put in at Free-
town, Sierra Leone. There was one death
on the voyage, but very little sickness.
It was a great feat in transport and
about the most expeditious on record.
As always, the Navy did its job splen-
didly.
The King, in a message, welcomed the
soldiers to the “forefront of the battle.
Mr. Eden, now at the War Office, made
a speech to them, saying “We now
present a truly Imperial front, which the
enemy has learned from past experience
has never been and never will be broken. ’
Cheering and singing snatches of song,
the men piled into buses and trains which
made a day-long journey to their camps.
All along the route they were cheered by
town and country people, touched and
thrilled at the sight of the stalwart cousins
who have come to help in the defence
of the homelands of the race.
They are already undergoing intense
training. They were followed to Eng-
land by more Canadians —a magnificent
gathering of the Empire’s sons which
could not have been better timed.
The first pictures of the German in-
vaders of France are on the newsreels.
Beside the Young Diggers who have been
photographed in Palestine and Egypt they
are inferior in physique and smartness.
And the Young Diggers who have gone
to England are as good as the lads who
preceded them up the Red Sea.
War in Australian Seas.
“Nobby II”: The war of destruction
reached Australian waters with the entry
of Italy into the conflict.
Preparations had been made for days
to seize any Italian ships which might be
round the coast, at the right moment.
Thus when the Italian liner Romolo left
Brisbane on June 5 the shadows of
R.A.A.F. ’planes fell on her constantly
and an armed auxiliary cruiser was in
her wake.
She made for the coral seas througn
rough weather, but there was no escape
for her. Her captain set her on fire at
a moment’s notice and ordered the pas-
sengers to the lifeboats. She was sunk
with gunfire in the interests of sea safety.
Many of her company lost all their
possessions. All escaped with their lives.
The affair was carried out according to
the best sea tradition. The captain was
the last man to leave the burning ship,
and afterwards presented his chrono-
meter to the commander of his captor
as a recognition of “the courteous and
honorable treatment” which he and his
crew had received.
Then came the sinking of the old
Niagara —she was built in 1913 —by a
mine off Auckland (N.Z.). At first it
was thought that internal treachery had
caused the explosion, but a mine was
picked up near the site of the sinking,
which took place at 3.40 a.m.
All the crew and passengers were saved
(they included Air Vice-Marshal Goble
on his way to Canada); and this was
something of a miracle, since the ship
went down in a slight sea and her holds
filled quickly as if a great deal of the
bottom had been lifted out of her. She
sank finally at 5.30 a.m.
Shipping was disorganised for a little
while round Maoriland, ships keeping to
their ports and the inter-island ferry
steamers trips being cancelled.
Meanwhile the first Australian de-
stroyer went into action in the Mediter-
ranean and bagged an Italian U-boat.
Minister - for - the - Navy Cameron re-
marked that it was a feather in the cap
of the R.A.N. that the first time an
enemy ship gave it a chance she got
her adversary.
THE FLYING COLUMN
R.A.A.F. Recruiting.
“Aileron”: As in Palestine, where he
was C.O. of the sth Light Horse, Donald
Cameron’s unobtrusive methods as direc-
tor of the R.A.A.F. recruiting scheme
have brought results.
The large, mobile, smooth-working
organisation which he built up through-
out the six States was last week able to
record that 100,000 men have offered
themselves for enlistment in the R.A.A.F.
According to Mr. Fairbairn, the Gov-
ernment has all the men it needs for the
scheme, with large reserves, save in pilots,
observers, ah>gunners and skilled trades-
men —mainly fitters. Enlistments in these
branches have been satisfactory, but more
will be wanted.
For the time being, at any rate, recruit-
ing will need to consist only in regulat-
ing the flow into the right channels, and
to provide a better understanding among
recruits of the general plan in which they
will have a part.
A public-relations section with a jour-
nalist, A. Kyffin Thomas, of Adelaide,
has been set up to link the recruiting
bodies with the Information Department,
and to keep State and local recruiting
committees in touch with R.A.A.F.
activities.
* * * *
“C 2”: People have been wondering
why Pan-American Airlines, which is
to connect Auckland and the Golden
Gate, should have troubled to establish
a base at Noumea, which lies about 900
miles off the Queensland coast. In the
“Saturday Evening Post” of March 30
one John Chapman says the co. has
bought the luxurious yacht Lyndonia,
which used to belong to Cyrus K. Curtis,
for use as a floating hotel at Noumea in
bad weather:
It is planned to ferry some passengers
from Noumea to Australia, while the
Clipper carries others on to New Zealand.
The yacht can get back to the island with
Australian mail and passengers by the time
the Clipper returns from Auckland.
But can it? What about the Imperial
mail service from Sydney to Auckland?
If the Commonwealth and Maoriland
Governments let P.-A.A. cut its throat
it won’t be long before they find Clippers
picking up European and Asiatic pas-
sengers and mail and dumping them in
Queensland in competition with Imperial
Qantas. Meanwhile, P.-A.A. is willing to
send a Clipper to Australia on a visit of
ceremony.
The Air War Day by Day.,
June 17: French bomb Turin and
claim to have destroyed industrial centres.
Air war continues on a large scale in
France. Further raids by R.A.F. on
western Germany.
June 18: R.A.F. raids on Germany
continue. R.A.F. attacks German lines
in northern France to cover evacuation
of British troops; also the area about
Paris. One report declares that “not
since the beginning of the war has the
R.A.F. done so much damage as during
the past few days.”
June 19: R.A.F. raids aerodromes
round Amiens and Rouen ; also makes
widespread attacks on western German
industrial centres; 250 bombs dropped
on Bremen oil tanks. In early morning
Germans raid Britain from Yorkshire
to the Thames with 100 bombers. Thir-
teen civilians killed, including young
children. Seven German bombeis
brought down. Italian submarine sun
by R.A.F. .
June 20: Further early-morning raid
by 100 German machines from eastern
Scotland to the Thames, industrial areas
being chiefly attacked. Damage in three
towns; six persons killed, 60 injured,
three German ’planes brought down,
another apparently disabled. Three
Italian machines destroyed during tign
in Libya. S. African A.F. bomb Lavella
aerodrome, Abyssinia. Italian bomber
forced to land at Aden —Italian losses
for day, eight machines.
June 21: German air-raider driven out
of s.-e. England. R.A.F. raids 12 Ger-
man towns and cities from Hamburg o
the Ruhr. In Hamburg 6000 tons of
whale oil destroyed ; ten dead and many
wounded in Dusseldorf. Germans report
raids on Bristol, Southampton and other
ports. British report says 100 raiders—
third raid in four nights attacked with
successive waves of planes, but no
damage except in a Suffolk town, where
three killed. Three wounded elsewhere.
Germans claim to have started oil fires
on Humber estuary.
June 22: German battle-cruiser
Scharnhorst, previously damaged by bombs
and on her way to Germany for repair,
escorted by destroyers and 50 Messer-
schmitts, harried by British bombing
squadrons and naval craft. She was
struck by a torpedo, and bombs scored
hits in the region of fore turrets. Five
R.A.F. ’planes lost—l 3, Germans allege.
June 22-23: Italian ’planes make three
unsuccessful raids on Alexandria, drop-
ping bombs indiscriminately over town
and harbor. Two killed, 23 injured.
Italians also bomb Malta five times in
nine hours, and Bizerta (French Tunisia).
At Djibuti two Italians brought down by
French A.A. gunners. French casualties,
two slightly wounded. Blenheims raid
Tobruk (Libya) operating behind a war-
ship smoke-screen ; Italian interceptors
retire badly damaged. A large Italian
bomber forced down near Berbera (Brit-
ish Somaliland); another broke in half
in a fight off Malta. Aerodrome at Dire-
dawa and troop concentrations at Asosa
(Abyssinia) attacked by R.A.F. An-
nounced that R.A.F. bombings of Italian
objectives have included the Ansaldo air-
craft works at Genoa, the Fiat works
at Turin, the Breda air-frame factory
and the Caproni works outside Milan.
Italians claim North African attacks
successful. They admit 20 killed and
38 wounded by raid on Trapani (Sicily),
but claim two R.A.F. machines brought
down.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
r
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FEIES OR GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.YV.
w
NORTH Of
TWENTY- EIGHT
Darwin’s Optimist
“P.D.”: In his report for 1937-38
Administrator Abbott was “most opti-
mistic” about “the future of the Terri-
tory.” He was positive that in his next
report he would record that value of
production had passed the £1,000,000
mark. The “next report” is to hand, and
Mr. Abbott has had to admit that value
of production has fallen by £218,658 to
£691,658, every industry except gold-
mining having suffered a decline.
The gold output —chiefly at Tennant
Creek—was up £22,587, value being
£115,835. And no thanks to Mr. Abbott
or the Government one of the Gov-
ernment’s war-time “economies” was to
reduce the development and assistance
grant. Value of pastoral production fell
by £134,742, and value of agricultural
production—vegetables, peanuts and ten-
tative tobacco crops—by £4335 to £5600.
There will be further falls now that
subsidies for improvements to holdings
have been cut out. The N.T. “is the oniy
part of Australia where no developmental
work is to be carried out during the
war,” and “the only part of Australia
where a man who wishes to take up a
block of land is unable to get financial
assistance from the Government.”
Mr. Abbott is quite satisfied with
aboriginal affairs, and so he should be.
The staff and money given over to that
department should make it one of the
best of its kind in the world. Under
the half-caste housing scheme 12
houses are occupied by owner-tenants
and “a proposal to extend the scheme is
now under consideration.” In 1919 a
workers’ homes scheme was planned, but
the member for the N.T. is still trying
to get the Government to do something
beyond considering it.
As for Darwin, Mr. Abbott is enthusi-
astic about his programme of tree-plant-
ing and plans for parks and reserves and
appointment of a staff —some of the abos.
uselessly hanging around Darwin should
be put on to that work. And he proudly
states that “funds provided by the Gov-
ernment have enabled the Administration
to carry out work which would have
been far beyond the capacity of the
revenue received by the Town Council.”
The Town Council was done away with
in 1937, and Darwinites have been re-
gretting it ever since.
Though his reputation as a prophet
has slumped, Mr. Abbott cannot “see
any reason for changing the optimistic
note I have previously expressed.” His
report is dated February 20, 1940. Two
months before that McEwen, M.H.R. —
who made a pretty good study of the
N.T. and prepared some sound develop-
mental plans for it —pronounced the
Government’s financial proposals for the
N.T. “a complete abrogation of the policy
placed before Parliament by me twelve
months ago,” when he was a Minister,
and said the money provided for
maintenance and development of the
pastoral industry was £lO,OOO less than
the amount spent on maintenance of
parks and gardens in Canberra.
The N.T. has no local government,
and is controlled at Canberra by the
Department of the Interior, which has
most of its time taken up with other
matters. The Minister in charge of the
department is tucked away in the drowsy
sanctuary of the Senate, safe from what-
ever criticism or suggestions that the
N.T.’s only and voteless member may
bring forward.
When those matters are straightened
out Mr. Abbott’s optimism might be
justified.
“Darwarb”: It seems that Judge Wells
is beginning to have an improving effect
on the local abo. One turned up recently
in Darwin with a request for a police-
boy to bring his handcuffs and accom-
pany him to Bathurst Island, there to
help recover his lubra and pinch the
buck who had abducted her. The usual
custom is for the wronged to run down
fhe errant pair, carve them up and then
take to the scrub until run down by the
white pfeller’s law.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The further the count goes
the more the population of New Guinea
seems to grow. The Germans used to
hold that there were not many more
than 300,000 Brown Brothers ; but inland
settlement has been found to be dense.
The latest enumeration shows 627,000,
and there are still whole districts which
have not been touched. It looks as if
the million mark will be hit before the
estimate has been completed.
* * * *
“Gain”: Papua is wondering anxiously
who its new Administrator will be. The
title has been altered from Lieutenant-
Governor, and the salary is to be reduced
“Been hanging over the back fence gossiping all day, I'll bet."
to the same as that paid to the Man-
dated Territory Administrator —from
£lBOO to £l5OO. Rank parsimony in a
growing country—the job is a big one,
with responsibilities increasing every day.
* * * *
“Nau Watnam” (T.N.G.): A dark
night was chosen for the stirring event
of Wewak’s first blackout. All the white
residents were instructed to dash their
lights and cigarettes out at the given
signal and to assemble at an appointed
place. The natives were to join them
immediately upon hearing the signal. At
the ringing of the bell—the prearranged
signal—lights and cigarettes were doused,
and there was much confusion in the
blackness as all the whites —fully 20, in-
cluding the newly-born twins —flocked to
the appointed place. Then came hundreds
of natives carrying huge bamboo flares.
Wewak had never before been so bril-
liantly illuminated. The coons were de-
termined not to let slip the chance of
celebrating so auspicious an occasion.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Kindness to her
small boy’s dog has caused the death of
a Brisbane woman. While using an
electric iron she heard the dog, chained
to a verandah post, yelping in apparent
pain. Leaving the iron on she went
to help the animal. As she touched the
chain she was flung to the ground and
could not get free. Her nine-year-old
boy tried to break the chain with a
spade and then ran for help. When aid
came the iron was burning a cloth on
the table and was switched off, but by
then woman and dog were dead. A
damaged piece of the insulation of the
iron-cord had allowed the current to
pass along an earth-wire running down
the post to which the dog was chained.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: In a case before the Criminal
Court at Brisbane the Crown Prosecutor
announced that a prisoner, released on
£5 bail in May after being committed
on three charges of stealing, had “gone
to a place outside Australia on business
for the Commonwealth in connection
with some war.” Having elicited the
fact that the stolen goods consisted of
fat, the property of his Majesty, and
that the absentee was still employed by
his Majesty, Justice Philp, with due
gravity, expressed the view that his
Majesty did not seem to think very
harshly of him. To the Crown Prosecu-
tor’s suggestion that a warrant might
issue, to lie in the Sheriff’s office pending
further order, he agreed with equal
gravity. Although, of course, such private
knowledge as he might have gained dur-
ing his four years of very active service
with the old A.I.F. would naturally not
be permitted to influence the judicial
mind, his Honor appears to have grasped
the ancient principle in military equity
that the cook has a right to his fat.
* * * *
“Malaguna”: Dead in Melbourne,
W. E. Grose, one of the old hands of
New Guinea, though he was only 47.
Grose was at the last war as a captain
in the 7th Infantry Brigade, helped to
supervise the embarkation of troops
from France and went to New Guinea
in 1921 as private secretary to the Ad-
ministrator. Two years later he was
given charge of the police, and became
warden at Morobe after the gold finds.
In later years he went planting in New
Ireland, and he was an unofficial member
of the N.G. Legislative Council.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Pacific industries are suffer-
ing as much as others from lack of ship-
ping. The copra trade has petered out
because of inability to ship, and planters
have no recourse to the good old Aus-
tralian expedient of a pool, copra being
perishable. Big firms are doing their best
to help planters to hang on ; meanwhile
there is an agitation afoot to get some
of the £50,000,000 which Great Britain
has set apart for colonial development.
If a little of that were to become avail-
able Wau might even get its road to the
coast, which still seems to be as far off
as ever —when the last mail left even the
specifications for the first section were
not ready. Gold is booming—returns
from New Guinea fields are averaging
about £400,000 a month.
“Balander”: The effete south, which
we understand to be suffering a minor
water shortage, will no doubt have a
fellow feeling for Tully residents, whose
annual rainfall average is down five
inches. The town had 113 wet days this
year and got only 164.01 inches; last
year it got 169.97 from 107 wet days.
Some people here are thinking of moving
to a wet climate.
‘Topper”: The cane country is begin-
ning to wonder whether King Badila is
to be deposed. For close on 40 years
Badila has been the premier variety of
cane in Queensland, and in that time
has done as much as any other factor
to put the sugar industry where it is.
A good grower and heavy yielder, it
has been the growers’ best friend, and
wherever exhibited at shows has been
hailed by its subjects with something
amounting to worshipful awe. It was
brought into Queensland from New
Guinea by Tryon or Cowley about 1896,
and soon earned the title of “King.” So
appreciative were many that there was
an agitation once to have the “Bad”
taken out of the name and “Goodila”
substituted. Like a certain wheat in the
south it has long been regarded as a
mortgage-lifter, and though most of us
realise that the up-and-coming new
varieties must be given a chance to bear
out the claims made for them by the
experts, old hands recall the long years
of droughts, cyclones, pests, diseases and
other evils which Badila has withstood
and urge that the rush to use the newer
canes be not too sudden. If ever a
history of the cane sugar industry is
written, Badila will hold the same place
in it as the merino sheep, Federation
wheat and Illawarra cows in their re-
spective industries.
* * * *
‘‘23-45”: Luxurious picture painted by
the Charleville correspondent of a
Queensland north coast weekly: “We
continue to wallow in ideal weather.”
* * * *
“Allicreek”: Bowen is out for more
war honors. It sent volunteers—who
mostly horsed and equipped themselves
—to the Boer War, sent more to the
1914-18 war, during which it won an
Honor Flag for raising money, claimed
to have put up the greatest effort per
1000 of any place in Australia and got
a Belgian medal for a local lady’s sock-
knitting record. This time men and
money are appearing in encouraging
numbers.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
e
w
i
is?
m
«
e
PITCH WITH STOP
*
■
I
Km iikh M |K»' “*J
.■£rszi~\
■gills
lili
1111 l
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
BUNKER PLAY
&
w
e
w
BUNKER PLAY
e
w
ew
ih« ►>«•<» Milt dowu
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Nn notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently
Name'and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributes
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. shot,
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
M.P.: Cut out the Americanisms and reduce
to eight lines... .E.R.: Not up... .M.M.McM..
“Talking Sand” is almost worth listening to.
F.C.D.: “Roll On, Blue Sea.” It rolls on.
G.A.T.: Fell over its own feet in its
haste to hide its shame in the w.p.b
L.F.C.: Surely you can do better than that
with five murders and 6000 words... .P.L.R.:
Have heard of swaggies afflicted with an
“Oxford accent,” but never of an abo
L. Yes, and they lived happily ever after.
P.R.C.: Wish we could meet the kind
stranger who’s always lifting the mortgage
from the old homestead 8.H.R.: Tripe
M. : Dozens of others have said the same
things before you... .L.R.N.: You re still in
the amateur class... .L.Y.: “Ghosts. Away.
. ...8.H.E.: Won’t have “The Terror of Tim-
ball Range” on the premises L.R.8.: It
isn’t funny. ...M.E.W.: Racing men were tell-
ing each other that story when Carbine won
the Cup... .8.E.F.: Better than your last effort,
but still not up... .G.8.W.: Why not finish it?
NR A : You’re a bit early with Spring
idyll”... .H.N.D.: Humorous stuff is better.
M.S.: A hint of feeling in it... .A.M.P. •
This is no place for “Hearts and'Smiles ....
G. Gloomy G.H.: Don t like the
rhetorical questions R.A.J.: Advice to drink
hot toddies will come as a shock to PiP a
but we’ll suggest it to bim J.0.T., A. 8.,
M.H.A., R. 8., D.D., M.M., V.M.H., S.S.,
H. C.T., A.M.P., J.F.T., 8.R.D., P.K. and
“‘Dad’ and ‘Mum’”: Let “Dad” speak for
the nation: —
Australia! Australia! Awake from thy slumbeis.
The bang of the bombers is beard o er the sea.
Then spring off your tail and check up your numbers.
If Hitler onee gets us we’ll never be free.
Australia ! Australia ! Awake and get going .
There’s no time for S.P. or tin hares just no" .
Jump hard on all strikers! Stop windy blokes blow-
ing !
And each grab a gun and hop into the row.
Australia! Awake, and get fly to the danger!
The Dagoes and Huns are both having a go .
Keep a grin on your dial but don’t trust any
stranger; ,
Dig deep in thy pockets and furnish the dough.
... .F.L.E.: No, but it might go elsewhere ..
K. : Have you ever seen a ship loading?
N.R.: The inkwell extinguished “Consuming
Flames”... .N.G.W. i The hackneyed ending
spoils it... .8.D.R.: “If I could seH you one
story I’d never bother you again. We le
tempted... .N.R.C.: Doesn’t ring true....
L. Cut it by half and come again
D.R.S.: Illegible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.0.L.: Decorative, but dull P.D.W.:
Don’t want “amazing adventure strips”
F. : A wearisome jest.... J.C.: The tram-
driver’s suffering from elephantiasis... .V.R.8.:
Dress those French lasses before you send them
out again... .W.D.: It cast an even deeper
gloom over an already gloomy week....
R.J.D.: Your “Diggers” must have looted
Ruritania for their uniforms C.G.: Humor
is fresh enough, drawing labored.. . .0.R.-S.:
That was grandmother’s best-known wheeze
G. : For a start try your hand at some-
thing rather less ambitious than a full-page
war cartoon... .J.G.: That homing drunk gets
no older with the passing years A.W.:
You’re poaching on Frith’s preserves.. ..J.r.:
You know little of perspective, and less of
how to apply a wash J.N.W.: We ve been
unaffected by the “surprising return to world-
wide popularity of the silhouette’...
First let the boy find his feet on a daily s
Kiddies Page; and send him to a good teacher.
CT : That gag was one of “Hop s
brightest efforts... .W.G.8.: Faint pencil
sketches couldn’t be reproduced even if we
wanted to run them... .D.N.M.. Belgium s
gallant stand faded as your cartoon was cross-
ing the continent....L.N.: Small-town mayors
aren’t fit subjects for caricature... .D.S. : Yes,
we admire poster art, but not in joke-blocks.
H.C., J.McP. and R. 8.: All handicapped
by feeble jests.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Dick Tafone”: Concluding sentence
of a cable from a lady war correspon-
dent :
While I was sheltering in one ol
France’s greatest cellars, a baby was born
without any fuss and little attention.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: New York University has
established a Faculty of Pix i.e., motion
pictures. The aspirant for the degree ot
Bachelor of Science of Motion Pictures
will take a four-year course which will
include English and American literature,
sociology, psychology, history, politics,
government, languages and fine arts, as
well as the financial, technical and pub-
licity aspects of the industry. In due
course, these graduates will be let loose
on the world with their brains addled by
professors. Talkie magnates, being, for the
most part, illiterate individuals who have
fought their way upwards by their
superior commercial talents, will be
deeply flattered and will sack their per-
doocers and replace them with B.S.M.Ps.,
who will academise the movies. They
will get rid of such vulgar persons as
Joe E. Brown, Grade Fields and Wallace
Beery and replace them with under-
graduates from schools of acting and
deportment. Then we will all go back to
the legitimate theatre.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Schemes are afoot to
settle refugees from Europe in places as
far apart geographically and climatically
as Alaska and the Kimberleys. The Alas-
kan scheme is being handled in charac-
teristic American fashion. A bill before
Congress will allow refugees to settle in
that cold land and become eligible for
American citizenship after five years,
and chartered corporations, each with
£3,000,000 capital, will undertake devel-
opment. Whether this method will be
any more successful than the old un-
organised rush of panic-stricken popu-
lations before a ruthless invader is a moot
question. Real settlement of masses of
people is a very slow business and sub-
ject to all sorts of unexpected political
vicissitudes, as the British Government
found when it tried to induce the Arabs
to assimilate the Jews in Palestine. When
Persians fled before the nomads into
India and Armenians from the Turks
some centuries later, massacre was the
portion of some and starvation of others.
The few that survived became one with
the ruling commercial castes in the
countries they fled to. The Persians be-
came the Parsees,. who own half the
banks and cotton mills of Bombay and
Madras and the finest palaces. The
Armenians own most of the hotels from
Port Said to Tokyo. One of their descen-
dants became a distinguished poet and
another a Cabinet Minister.
* * * *
“K.N.”: In a letter to a Sydney friend,
George Fitz Patrick, Carey Wallace, of
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, says that the gag
in the Dr. Kildare film referring to “Q
fever” was founded on a Bulletin item
mentioning an outbreak of Q disease in
Queensland. Carey admits that in his
reading of the Australian press he re-
peatedly finds small notes, bits of infor-
mation or news which he turns into
dialogue or business in Hardy or Kil-
dare films. Now, why can’t some Aus-
tralian writer or producer make the same
use of the material to his hand?
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland Univer-
sity’s law students had an opportunity
of learning some of the more recondite
features of common law at the annual
dinner of their society. Prof. Yorke
Hedges informed them that oysters had,
in 1895, been decided by a British Judge
to be wild animals. Two years later
magistrates in the County of Kent ex-
tended the ruling to cover winkles. On
the other hand, it has been decided
judicially that lions are not domestic
animals, and the House of Lords has
ruled that a well 32 feet deep is not a
building 32 feet in height within the
meaning of the Local Government Act.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: In his official organ, the
“Central China Daily News,” Wang
Ching-wei, the “puppet President” of
China, gave Powers with concessions and
extra-territorial rights the choice between
peaceful negotiation with Nanking and
force. Wang, like every Chinese states-
man, has always hated the foreign con-
cessions, but when he was a rebel fleeing
from Governmental vengeance he found
them useful. He kept a fine mansion for
convenience in the Shanghai British or
international settlement and he banked
his money with the British. In 1914 he
helped the late Sun Yat-sen to run a
newspaper in the foreign pale ; it was
famed for its vitriolic leaders, which
would have got the head of its author
chopped off if he had stepped into
Chinese territory. Unless he has lost
the instinct of self-preservation, Wang
ought to keep at least one foreign con-
cession handy.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD,, Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Businessman, over military age, 25 years’
commercial, indenting experience, salesmanship,
office routine specialist, seeks any suitable posi-
tion. Good city refs.—742l.
To buy Codrington’s Melanesian Languages
and Ray’s Comparative Study of Melanesian
Languages. —74l9.
do buy The Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by
All' Brasch. —7330.
To buy spinning wheel (simple type), with
appliances.—74l7.
To buy copies of London “Punch” for June
28, July 5 and 19, September 27, 1939, and
for March 3 and July 1, 1937. —7402.
Piano accompaniment to “We Rock Away On
the Billows Gay” (Curwcn), and “Three Bumble
Bees” (Truhn). Will buy or guarantee safe re-
turn—74o3.
Information Sought.
Is it possible to back a team of bullocks ?
—7411.
Looks like a trick question. In ordinary
working circumstances no driver would waste
time trying to back a bullock-team attached to
a loaded wagon when the obvious thing to do
would be to unhitch the team, attach it to the
rear of the load, and pull it back. If it were
desired to back an empty wagon, say, into a
wool-shed apron, it could be manhandled into
place in a few minutes. The ordinary working
bullock-team yoke would not allow the team
to back the wagon; when “good carthorses”
back a load they are yoked by breeching
and/or hames to pole or shafts, which allows
backing.
* * * *
Can you recommend a small and handy
Arabic dictionary that would be of use to a
member of the 2nd A.I.F. ? —7290.
Handboo' on Colloquial Arabic (for the
use of troops and tourists in Egypt, Palestine,
Syria and Transjordan), compiled by Andrew
McCartney; price, Is. 6d.
* * * *
Where can cookery be learned in Sydney?
Are evening classes in the subject held? —7lB4.
Evening classes in cookery are provided
at the Sydney Technical College, Ultimo, and
at the East Sydney Branch Technical College,
Darlinghurst, on Monday to Friday inclusive,
from 6.30 p.m. to 9 p.m. Application for en-
rolment should be made to the Lecturer-in-
charge of the Domestic Arts Department, East
Sydnpy Branch Technical College, Darlinghurst.
* * * *
Number of males in Australia in the various
age groups from 10 to 59 at the 1933 census?
—7369.
10-14, 317,524; 15-19, 311,790; 20-24,
297,993; 25-29, 277,461; 30-34, 251,513; 35-
39, 228,658; 40-44, 229,828; 45-49, 209,329;
50-54, 171,687; 55-59, 132,320.
* * *
Are there any alligators in Australia? —7365.
The name “alligator” often applied to Aus-
tralian crocodiles is incorrect. True alligators
are to be found only in the southern States of
North America and' in China. In Australian
crocodiles the fourth tooth on each side of the
lower jaw is much enlarged, and fits into a
notch in the upper jaw, being thus plainly
visible when the mouth is closed. In alligators
a similar tooth fits into a pit within the border
of the upper jaw; the typical alligator, more-
over, has a more rounded head and is more
sluggish than the voracious crocodile, with its
pointed snout.
* * * *
(1) Any informc.‘ : on regarding weekly rents
paid by various tenants in private dwellings in
Australia? (2) Average weekly rent paid? (3)
Has there been any noticeable movement
towards lower or higher rents? —743s.
(1) At the census of June 30, 1933, there
were 19,369 tenants paying less than ss. weekly;
66.281, 55.-Us.; 135,808, 10s.-155.; 127,587
155.-205.; 100,439, 205.-255.; 48,947, 255.-305.;
25.281, 305.-355.; 9166, 355.-405.; 8667, 405.-
505.; 2792, 505.-605.; 1566, 605.-705.; 608, 705.-
80s.; 452, 80s.-905.; 195, 905.-100 s.; 493 tenants
were paying over 100 s. weekly. (2) 17s. 6d. (3)
H i ere seems to have been an equalising move-
ment ; there were fewer persons paying very
low rents or very high rents at the 1933 census
than there were at the 1921 census. The
under-ss. group decreased by 3319, the 55.-10 s.
group by 4347, the 505.-60 s. group by 239, the
605.-70 s. group by 198, the 705.-80 s. group
by 21, the 80s.-90s. group by 120, the 905.-
100 s. group by 29, and the over-100s. group by
130.
* * * *
When were the Australian States formed into
separate colonies? Present area and popula-
tion ? —7418.
N.S.W. (including the A.C.T.) formed into
a separate colony in 1786, at December, 1938,
had a population of 2,747,695 and an area
of 310,372 square miles; Victoria, 1851,
1,873,760 persons, 87,884 square miles; Queens-
land, 1859, 1,004,150 persons, 670,500 square
miles; S.A., 1834, 595,109 persons, 380,070
square miles; W.A., 1829, 462,261 persons.
975,920 square miles; Tasmania, 1825, 241,407
persons, 26,215 square miles; N.T., 1863, 5645
persons, 523,620 square miles.
(1) Date and locality of the heaviest rainfall
over 24 hours in each of the A ustralian States ?
(2) What is the 24 hours’ record for Sydney or
thereabouts ? —7420.
(1) Cordeaux River (N.S.W.) had 22.58 in.
on February 14, 1898; Crohamhurst (Blackall
Range, Q.), 35.71 in. on February 2, 1893;
Whim Creek (W.A.), 29.41 in. on April 3, 1898;
Birrimbah (N.T.), 16.50 in. on March 6, 1935;
Winnington (S.A.), 7.12 in. on March 1, 1921;
Apollo Bay (Vic.), 11.08 in. on March 28,
1932; Lottah (Tas.), 18.lOin. on March 8-10,
1911; Cotter Junction (A.C.T.), 7.Din. on May
27, 1925. (2) On October 16, 1844, 20.41 in.
fell at South Head, near Sydney.
* * * *
What mileages of railways open for general
traffic are owned by the Commonwealth, by
the States, and by private companies in Aus-
tralia ? —7440.
Figures are for 1938. N. S. Wales has 6113.79
miles of State-owned line and 9.23 miles of
privately-owned line; Victoria, 4720.77 State and
24.94 private; Queensland, 6566.65 State and
212.39 private; S.A., 1252.39 Commonwealth,
2557.38 State and 50.90 private; W.A., 453.99
Commonwealth, 4375.83 State and 277 private;
Tasmania, 651 State and 131.55 private; N.T.,
489.73 Commonwealth; A.C.T., 4.94 Common-
wealth.
* * * *
Particulars of native education in New
Guinea ? —7425.
By the Education Ordinance of 1922-38 the
Administrator is authorised to establish schools,
grant 'money therefor, prescribe instruction and
arrange for the training of teachers and other
matters. Expenditure on native education in
1937-38 was £6726. Natives are liable to pay
education tax, but none has been collected
since 1922-23. European teachers have been
seconded from the Queensland Education De-
partment, During the year ended June 30,
1938, the Administration maintained native
elementary and native day schools at Molunga
arid Nodup, near Rabaul, and at Kavieng, and a
native elementary school at Chimbu (Morobe);
a native technical school at Malaguna, and a
native agricultural school at Keravat. There
are schools for Europeans at Rabaul, Kavieng
and Wau. Missions maintain elementary
schools in villages, intermediate boarding
schools at headquarters, and high schools and
technical schools. At June, 1938, missions
maintained 51 training centres, 60 high and
technical schools, 137 elementary schools and
2282 village schools. Pupils numbered 65,246.
Schools for Chinese children in Rabaul and
Kavieng are also conducted by missions. Assist-
ance to mission schools is provided for by the
Education Ordinance, but no grants have been
made so far.
* * * *
Details concerning ground parakeets in Aus-
tralia, and for what reasons did the night
parrot become extinct? —72B3.
The ground parakeets ( [Pezoporidce ), peculiar
to Australia, comprise three species, the best
known being the budgerigar or shell parrot
( Melopsitlacus undulatus ), very abundant all
over the interior and a familiar bird in aviaries
throughout the world. The ground parrot
( Pezoporus wallicus ) inhabits open, healthy
country near the sea along the southern coasts
of Australia and Tasmania. It is completely
terrestrial in habits, running swiftly on the
ground, never even perching in a tree, and
laying eggs in a hollow among the herbage.
Its congener, the spinifex or night parrot
( Geopsittacus Occident alls'), is apparently now
extinct. It formerly occurred in spinifex
country in central and western Australia, and
is said to have been nocturnal in its habits
and completely terrestrial. Considering the
unaltered character of its habitat and the great
area over which it was formerly found, its
extinction is not easily accounted for and cannot
be attributed to human agency—unless it has
been caused by the introduction of cats, which
have penetrated into regions beyond human
settlement.
* * . „ * *
Some information about flying fishes ? —7389.
They are species of the family Exoccetidce,
occurring rnainly in temperate and tropical
seas; about a dozen varieties are found in Aus-
tralian waters. They attain a length of 16in.,
and are excellent table-fish. Greatly enlarged
pectoral fins enable the fish to escape the
attacks of enemies by leaping from the water
and skimming over its surface for distances
up to several hundred yards. Flying-fish move
in surface shoals and are greatly preyed upon
by birds, large fish and dolphins. They are
attracted by lights, frequently flying aboard
ships, and this habit is made use of by South
Sea natives, who erect nets or sails in their
canoes to catch the fish which they attract with
torches at night.
* * * *
A few details concerning the Nankeen
night-heron ? —7376.
The attractive Nankeen night-heron (Nycti-
corax caledonicus ) is fairly plentiful throughout
Australia and Tasmania, and occurs also in the
Malay Archipelago and New Caledonia. The
adults are of a beautiful cinnamon color, with
a black patch on the head and two long,
narrow, pure-white plumes on the back of the
neck; the young birds retain their immature
plumage (mottled brown and dirty white) for
two years. These birds are mainly nocturnal
in their habits, and spend the day roosting
in trees, so that they often escape observation.
Some details of the career of Robert Logan
Jack, author and explorer? —7397.
He was born at Irvine, in Ayrshire, September
15, 1845, and educated at Edinburgh Uni. In
1877 he came to Australia as Queensland Gov-
ernment Geologist. During 1879-80 he explored,
geologically, a great part of the Cape York
Peninsula. For the following 20 years, Jack
made use of his position, developing the mining
industry and extending the system of artesian
wells. He wrote extensively on both subjects,
and, in conjunction with R. Etheridge,
brought out in 1892 a Geology and Paleon-
tology of Queensland and New Guinea. In
1899 he resigned his post and led an expedi-
tion to Korea, but had to abandon it in 1901
upon the outbreak of the Boxer War; this pro-
duced another book, The Back-blocks of China,
published in 1904. In that year also he re-
turned to Australia and settled down as a con-
sulting geologist. His last work, Northmost
Australia, an account of exploration since 1600
in the region north of the tropic of Capricorn,
was being published in London when the
author died at Sydney on November 5, 1921.
* * * *
Names of Melbourne literary societies, with
names and addresses of their secretaries 7 —7341.
Aust. Song Writers’ Club (W. A. Bevan),
247 Bay-street, Port Melbourne; Bread and
Cheese Club (E. J. Turner), 132 Cubitt-street,
South Richmond; Aust. Literature Soc. (A. H.
Willey), 313 Punt-road, Prahran; Gordon
Memorial Committee (J. D. Jennings), 60
Middlesex-road, Surrey Hills; Henry Lawson
Memorial and Literature Soc. (Steve Ford),
63 Windsor-strect, Rootscray; Melb. Shak-
speare Soc. (C. R. Long), Edgeclilf, Frankston;
Aust. Poetry Lovers’ Soc. (G. Fielding), 22
Harold-street, Middle Park; Writers’ Cultural
Club of Aust. (Miss F. O’Flynn), 20 Manton-
■ street, Burnley; P.E.N. Club (J. McKellar),
6 Ormsby-grove, Toorak; Melb. Dickens Fel-
lowship (Miss V. McMeekin), School No. 2743,
Brunswick-road, Nil; Lindsay Gordon Lovers’
Soc. (Miss M. Boyd), 26 Kororoit Creek-road,
Williamstown; Melb. Literary Group (Alex.
Angus), 68 Gatehouse-street, N. 2; Fellowship of
Aust. Writers (Leonard Mann), 27 Ferncroft-
avenue, East Malvern.
* * * *
How to diagnose and treat ear canker in
dogs? —73B7.
There are two varieties of otitis —internal,
which is inflammation of the tympanic cavity
and affects the membrane of the eardrum,
and, more frequently, external, which applies
to the canal of the external ear. Symptoms
are inflammation of the affected parts, the
dog scratches his ear, shakes his head and
often holds it to one side, and in most cases
there is a thick brownish discharge. The com-
plaint often assumes the form of or follows
eczema. Mix well a lotion of two drachms of
oxide of zinc ointment and one ounce of
almond oil and apply it two or three times
a day with a camel’s-hair brush to all red parts
and down into the canal as far as it will go.
After 12 hours the ear should be cleaned out
with medicated wool twisted tightly around
the point of a bodkin or manicure stick.
Twice daily the dog should be given from
three grains to one scruple of sulphate of mag-
nesia and half that quantity of bicarbonate of
potash (according to the size of the dog)
with its food. Treatment should be continued
for as long as the dog shows any signs of
irritation of the ear.
* * * *
At a euchre tournament pairs of players, A
and B, have scored equal points, but A scored
theirs first. Another hand is in progress. B
has declared trumps and has won three tricks
when the bell rings. B players claim that, as
they have won three tricks, they are sure
of scoring one point, which gives them the
game. A players say that, as that hand is un-
finished, no score can be taken, and as they
scored their points first they win. Who is right ?
(2) Name of a book containing rules for euchre
tournaments, where obtainable and price? —
7354.
(1) The situation is covered by the follow-
ing rule: “In case a tie has occurred at any
table and (when the bell rings) either side has
won their third trick of the hand which will
decide this tie, they may score and progress,'
provided the trick has been taken in and turned
down. (2) Hoyle Up-to-Date (50th edition),
published by the United • States Playing Card
Co., obtainable from any large bookseller, price
about 2s. 6d. Rule quoted is taken from this
work.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a clear liquid in which to pre-
serve insects? (2) Any further hints on preser-
vation ? —7062.
(1) Insects may be preserved in methylated
spirit or. 70 p.c. alcohol, but the colors are
liable to fade, and certain groups, such as the
butterflies, moths, etc., have scales which are
destroyed in spirit and require a different
method of preservation. (2) The method of
setting, labelling and preserving insects will be
found in an article in the “Australian Museum
Magazine,” Vol. IV, No. 5, 1931, and applies
to the vast majority of insects. Alcohol should
only be used for soft-bodied insects and grubs.
The magazine may be obtained from the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney, or from booksellers;
price Is.
* * * *
Dressing for waterproofing a tarpaulin ?
7147.
Heat together 20oz. of paraffin wax and lOoz.
of pale resin. Stir till blended, remove from
heat and add loz. of pure turpentine. Apply
hot to canvas. The preparation is best applied
on a hot day or in heated room. If it hardens
or spreads ■ irregularly go over the tarpaulin
afterwards with a warm iron, smoothing out
all wax “waves.”
* * * *
Easiest way to remove whitewash from a
wall? —7100.
Use a wire brush and loosen the harder
parts by washing with water. It is very essen-
tial that this cleaning process be carried out
thoroughly; otherwise, when overfinished with
an oil or water paint, further “scaling” will
occur at some later period. When absolutely
clean allow the surface to become quite dry
and then apply a full coat of Berger’s “Dusseal,”
which will effectively seal any alkali which
may remain in the surface from the whitewash
coat.
Brief Answers.
C.N.H.: Write Department of Supply and
Development, William-street, Melbourne....
W.H.: There is in the ordinary sense of the
word no “heir” in Australia. Under the pro-
visions of an early Act of Parliament (N.S.W.)
known as “Doctor Lang’s Act” it was pro-
vided that, where the ultimate devise in a will
was to the testator’s “heir,” the personal repre-
sentative of the testator was the person denomi-
nated as “heir” and he held in trust for the
testator’s next-of-kin. Under the provisions of
the will referred to you should, before making
any transfer, consult a solicitor....B.S.C.: At
half-yearly rests, interest payable on £250 at
5| p.c., repayable at £5 per month, amounts to
£3l 19s. 6d C. 8.: Write Secretary, Dept.
of Supply and Development (Aircraft Produc-
tion Commission), 84 William-street, Melbourne.
. ...C.R.: (1) Not if she has attained the age
of 21. (2) If named in the will by her married
name, the marriage certificate should be suffi-
cient... .S.G.: Enlistment does not relieve him
of his financial obligations in Australia. He
should consult the owner of the property, who
might adjust matters A.R.S.: (1) It would
certainly be a proper subject-matter for a
patent. (2) The principal basis for a valid
patent is utility W.H.P.: A Miniature His-
tory of the English House, by J. M. Richards
(3s. 6d.), The Architecture of England from
Norman Times to the Present Day, by
Frederick Gibberd (55.), Week-end Houses,
Cottages and Bungalows, edited by Alan Has-
tings (7s. 6d.)... .F.W.: The Lord Privy Seal
is the functionary to whom the Privy Seal is
entrusted. This must be affixed on the war-
rant of the Sovereign to charters, pardons
and other such documents before they are
passed for the Great Seal. The post is usually
held by a peer and it ranks the holder before
all dukes after the Speaker of the House of
Commons... .M.P.: Expenditure of the various
States on education, science and art for the
year 1937-38 was as follows: N.S.W. £5,418,372,
Vic. £3,182,062, Q’land £2,153,585, S.A.
£1,087,703, W.A. £861,702, Tas. £426,436....
W.J.: Constitutionally, Lord Howe Island is
a dependency of N.S.W. and is included in
King, one of the electorates of Sydney. A
Board of Control at Sydney manages the affairs
of the island and supervises the palm-seed in-
dustry... .F.D.: At the poll, held in Vic. on
October 8, 1938, the voting was as follows,:
For abolition of liquor licenses 368,676, against
721,704, informal 7648. The percentage of
electors who voted was 95.38 V.C.: (1) The
total area of the Northern Territory is 523,620
square miles, or 335,116,800 acres. (2) The
number of full-blooded non-Europeans, excluding
Australian aboriginals, in the Northern Terri-
tory on June 30, 1933, was 744, of whom 462
were Chinese, the remainder being mainly Fili-
pinos (69), Japanese (91) and Malays (59).
There were at one time over 4000 Chinese in the
Territory... .G.C.: (1) A German submarine
torpedoed the British aircraft-carrier Courageous
(22,500 tons) in the open sea in September,
1939. (2) Yes, the Royal Oak (29,150 tons) was
sunk in October, 1939, inside Scapa F10w....
J.G.: (1) It would form proper subject-matter
for a patent provided the means for implement-
ing the idea can be provided. (2) It is a
matter on which only the military authorities
would be competent to give an opinion, and
it is suggested that you get in touch with the
Department of the Army... .H.W.: Woollahra,
Randwick, Ku-ring-gai and Waverley issued
permits for the erection of dwellings involving
the largest total amounts during the 18 months
from November, 1938, to April, 1940, the
values being approximately £949,000, £946,000,
£895,000 and £733,000 respectively W. 8.:
Send the spurs to Walther and Stevenson Pty.,
Ltd., 395 George-street, Sydney, who could tell
you whether they would need retempering.
The costs, should the retempering be needed,
including chrome plating, would be Bs. 3d
C.R.S.: As, apparently, you have no docu-
mentary or' other evidence to produce in sup-
port of your claim the executors are justified
in refusing to admit it. Unless you can pro-
duce evidence to the Court in support of your
case beyond a mere assertion of indebtedness
you will have little chance of success
J.N.: If you forward your address a typed
copy of “A Bushman’s Farewell to Queens-
land” will be posted R.S.H.: It is not ne-
gotiable outside M.L R.V.8.: Information
not available locally A.D.: To become a
licensed surveyor in N.S.W. it is necessary to
have passed the leaving certificate in maths. I
and 11, English and two other appropriate sub-
jects, then serve four years under articles with
a licensed surveyor before sitting for the sur-
veyor’s examination C.M.D.: National
Box Co., 16 Punch-street, Balmain; Smith
Bros., Botany-road, Waterloo; Union Box and
Timber Co., White-street, Leichhardt —all Syd-
ney... .P.E.H.: Much depends on the type of
attachment, design of the engine and the degree
of vaporisation of the kerosene. The resultant
mixture would be inclined to knock, and the
usual steps to overcome that trouble would be
necessary. Write to H. P. Reinbach, secretary,
Vic. Producer Gas Committee, care State Elec-
tricity Commission, 22 William-street, Mel-
bourne... .T.W.: (1) The Commonwealth De-
signs Act provides for registration of designs
or patterns for material. Applications for regis-
tration should be placed in the hands of a
patent attorney. Write to Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Asbestos House, Sydney. (2) Try
Gilkes and Co., 61 Missenden-road, Camper-
down. .. .W.G.L.: Write to the Mines Depart-
ments in each State D.L.D.: (1) An original
etching which has become discolored and fly-
specked needs washing and bleaching in a
bleaching bath. It’s a job for an experienced
picture-restorer. (2) E. J. Mayberry is a well-
known English etcher. Many of his works
have been sold in Australia F.0.C.: “White-
bait” is a name loosely applied to the young
of several species of fish. Write to the Fisheries
and Game Branch, Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment, Sydney, giving particulars of fish and
fishing grounds D.H.H.: Know of no firm
handling the material in S.A. Get in touch
with Spider Web Sports Products, Wells-place,
South Melbourne, 5.C.4 M.F.: Only method
is to dig a trench about 15in. wide and 3ft.
deep. It might spoil the look of the garden,
but it would enable any invading roots or
suckers to be cut off, say, once or twice a
year R.A.: Write to the District Naval
Officer, Edgecliff, Sydney.


HITS
LYS
ft
PROOF,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
w
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, W IRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool-table Technique.
„ „ ry, ™hirh
Murrawong : Two factors which
must be taken into account by woo -
pzsszsrq&zsz
“EwJTcrssN.
in ‘he Table of Limits. As a result only
those classers who have been employed
in reclassing stores during the past
season have much idea of the types and
how strictly they must be adhered to.
Last year classers had no instructions
about appraisement needs, and worked
on the lines that were popular with the
brokers under the auction system—bulky
lines and as few lots as possible.
Classing often suffers because the
classer has too much to do—woolrolling,
experting, acting as boss of the board,
“Arty old iron?”
He should have time to examine every
fleece thoroughly, also to keep an eye
on piecepickers, pressers, the bins, and
the bellies and locks that come off the
board.
In many districts skirtings comprise
up to 50 p.c. of the clip. Careless skirt-
ing and pieces badly picked will knock
|d. per pound off the clip average. Skirt-
ing if slummed destroys the chance of
good classing. The appraiser wants each
lot of wool to be regular in (1) length of
staple, (2) spinning quality, (3) condition,
(4) percentage of burr or seed. The
classer can look after the first three,
although No. 3 includes dusty or wasty
backs which are the woolrolkrs’ job
and can be checked only by unrolling
each fleece on the classer’s table.
Some shedhands’ idea of skirting is
to slice off anything that hangs over the
table edge. Skirting should render a
fleece as even as possible in the degree
of burr and dust it carries and free from
short and dirty edges. The extent of burr
on fleeces varies not only in different
districts but in different paddocks on
the same property, and there should be
no blind automatic ripping off of the
same amount each time.
Fleeces quite free of burr need only
have the short dirty edges taken off,
the classer should instruct whether necks
should be skirted also. Where there is
a sprinkling of light burr on the skirts
it should be removed to leave the fleece
free. If burr is heavy and high up on
the fleece it would not pay to make a
free line out of the small strip of back
remaining ; take off the fribby edges and
the heavy clusters of burr on the points.
These remarks apply chiefly to merinos.
Crossbred pieces must be picked accord-
ing to spinning quality. With crossbred
wool in particular the all-in principle
loses under appraisement.
It is too early yet to forecast the ex-
tent of the labor shortage, but if wool-
growers find that sufficient labor to pick
the pieces thoroughly in the shed is not
available they should not attempt to
get through shorthanded. Better to con-
centrate on skirting the fleeces well.
Send skirtings for sorting to a reclasser.
Remove stains only and bale up the
rest. Wool reclassers in the city are
also likely to be affected by labor short-
age, but the job will be done, although
firms may not be able to give the same
prompt service.
Australia’s Chance.
“Pappamosca”: Little has been said of
the value of Australia’s vacant spaces in
relation to the war. In Europe France
is temporarily out of production ; Bel-
gium and Holland are ploughed up with
shells ; Denmark is in enemy hands, as is
Norway’s fish industry; Poland is de-
prived of vast quantities of labor ; Fin-
land is readjusting herself; Italy, Ger-
many and several more countries are
blockaded.
The only countries which can carry
on uninterrupted production are the
Dominions, and the only ones where all-
the-year-round production (thanks to the
mild winter), combined with large-scale
expansion on virgin or partially virgin
lands, is possible is the Commonwealth.
It is not now merely a matter of
whether Britain and some other accessible
countries will buy our products, but of
whether we can produce everything they
need. Irrespective of quality or British
taste’ Australian beef and pig products
have become absolute essentials if the
United Kingdom is to be fed.
The position calls for a widespread
programme, and especially for stock de-
velopment and conservation on a large
scale. And stock diseases need careful
watching. No outbreak of contagious
disease, however slight, should be
neglected.
Wounded Stock.
“G.G.2”: Nine times out of ten cuts
on animals which run with the grain of
the flesh amount to nothing. Usually
lin. of the wound is cut, the other llin.
tear. A tear heals quicker and with less
injury than any other wound. It is when
the cut is at right angles to the grain
that the injury counts.
First stop the bleeding; it’s not easy
because the wound tends to gape. Most
horses which are bleeding are immediately
sapped of all vice. A man can handle
them with impunity if he starts early ;
later a sort of reckless desperation takes
charge of the horse. Usually a man
hasn’t any bandages, ropes, ties, liga-
tures or things of that sort. A stout bit
of tie wire or a large pin will do the
job. Pull two or three long al - t
the horse’s tail. Skewer e pp
flaps of skin. The main t ing is
pin projects at both ends. . .
projecting ends do a nguie-o - g
the horse hair. Keep on ° 8
there is no projection le .
clots the blood, stops the » P
a hasty scab undei w ic e
can heal. . t
A good flow of blood does no harm at
all ; there is no cleansing agen
it to wash foreign ma et
wound.
After-drought Feeding.
“Watchem”: It isn’t sufficient to start
hand-feeding stock before their condition
drops at the onset of a dry spell (B.
19/6/’4O) it must be kept up when the
drought ends and the new pastures come
away. A big mistake can be made by
stopping the supplements too soon.
The quick green growth that follows
rain is generally a bit washy, containing
little nutrient. It causes scours and will
quickly make animals weak if it is not
supplemented.
The old idea that conserved fodder is
purely a drought reserve, not to be used
until drought has its grip and to be
stopped at the first rain, must go over-
board. The fodder must be used as an
ally with the natural pastures in keeping
condition up all the time, and the fodder
reserve itself must be replenished at every
opportunity.
Sand Drift.
“Ex-Vic.”: So far no method of stop-
ping sand-drift in cultivated Mallee soil
has been discovered. Still, the cover crop
in place of bare fallow offers a good
chance of checking drift where it has
obviously begun.
There should be a normal ploughing
in winter and then, as an early spring
working, combine in a crop of oats.
Allow the oats to grow until well
founded, then turn in sheep. Grazing
must leave sufficient roots and butts in
the ground to hold the soil together dur-
ing summer.
The wheat yield is unlikely to be as
high as that from ordinary fallow, but
most of the soil will still be there and the
yield loss may be partly made up from
increased sheep returns if the paddock
is well managed. The method has one
drawback in that the cover crop may fail
if the year turns out dry, but that is a
poor excuse for not giving the method
a trial.
“Ghanam”: Wool averages under, the
appraisement scheme have worked out
on a scale well below the basic figure of
13.4375 d., except in Tasmania, where
the figure is 14.5 d. and in Victoria where
it is 13.35 d. Adelaide showed the lowest
level at 11.08 d., W.A. next lowest with
11.85 d., Brisbane 12.33 d. and Sydney
12.64 d. The figures of the poorer States
show advances of about 2d. over last
season, but of Victoria and Tasmania a
little more. In those States there is a
larger percentage Of high-yielding
merinos than in others and less vegetable
contamination.
“Clyde”: Working neddies should
have been clipped by this. The legs can
be left hairy. After work the horses
need rugging, and should be dried off
before the rugs are put on. A good rub
down doesn’t take long and the horse is
all the better for it. Clipped horses need
a little more food than unclipped when
the weather gets cold. If stabled they
should get a good feed of hay at night.
A couple of tablespoonfuls of carron oil
in the feed three times a day is good.
Nags turned out to grass should have
feet and teeth put in trim, and if the
feed is poor give them some hay, prefer-
ably in racks.
“Porcine”: Contagious abortion in
pigs has been evident in widely separated
N.S.W. districts —the first to be recorded
in Australia. There is the fear that it
has also gained a footing in other States
through the distribution of stud animals.
Now it seems that the disease was intro-
duced in stock imported from North
America. In an attempt to isolate it in the
present known centres of infection, the
disease has been scheduled under the
N.S.W. Stock Diseases Act, and is noti-
fiable. Pig-keepers should report abor-
tion in sows, or sows which have dead
litters, or suspicious cases of either
boars or sows which are infertile. Buyers
of breeding stock may find it necessary
to require a warranty of freedom from
the disease. C.A. is caused by an organ-
ism similar to but distinct from that of
abortion in cattle, and is incurable. It ( s
only to be eradicated from herds by
elimination of animals that react to the
agglutination or blood test.
“A.A.D.”: A legume from Brazil gives
promise of supplying a long-recognised
deficiency in natural pastures in coastal


There’s COMFORT I
in this Broad Toed
Oxford Shoe...
82814
ABBEY
SHOES
There’s both comfort and value in
this good-looking broad toed Oxford
Shoe. Comfort because of the
sturdy mannish shape that gives
plenty of room for the toes and
value because of the quality of
genuine calf leather used in its
manufacture, the stoutness of the
soles and seams. Available in Black
or Brown. Ist Grade 32/6, Super
Grade 37/6, Zebu 42/-. Sizes and
half -sizes.
• To order, post your remittance TODAY to
Abbey Shoes, 316 Georye Street, Sydney, to-
gether with your size and a tracing of your
stockinged foot. If outside of N.S.W. add
inter—State, postage. Satisfaction guaranteed.
THE SKYLI N E OF EUROPE
m
m
LONDON ROME BERLIN BELGRADE ANKARA MOSCOW
From the capital cities of Europe
news broadcasts flash across the
oceans to your home when equipped
with a dual-wave Radio—vivid—real
—as only the spoken word can be.
In your console or second set, Radiotron
Valves ensure realism that loses nothing
of the original brilliance and inherent
characteristics *of each nation to which
you listen.
2®
m
r
\ ■
\
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.
For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“r !K-’ is “"Australian product for Australian conditions.
onlv a iehTlf'f °£ Iy * h ? fi " est ™ ater ials in its ingredients, providing not
■*—*»«
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”:—
HOR SES—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
atter foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CAT Tm-f‘teats r fo"t ta rot OU etc abortion ’ douche after calvin ?- mammitis, milk fever,
SHE marking, r e ™ asrgot sheaHng cuts * foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DoG p^sf O flea d i S l e nd P d e o r gTcef e etc. OUCha PUPPh,g ’ graSS Seed abscesses * cracked
CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
‘‘CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
areas of Queensland and Northern Aus-
tralia, where lucerne and clovers fail to
establish. Stylosanthes guyannensis, it is
of the same species as “Townsville
lucerne,” an annual that has had some
local success. In C.S. and I.R. tests the
newcomer has given outstanding results
and is classed as of “great potential
value.” A perennial, it is recumbent in
growth, somewhat resembling creeping
saltbush. The Imperial Bureau of Pas-
tures, reporting grassland investigations
in Australia, refers to the plant as “palat-
able, drought-resistant and remarkably
productive under favorable conditions.”
“Zedo”: The war has brought about
shortage in many an agricultural side-
line. Australia uses about 1500 tons of
ginger per annum, but production is only
about 20 tons and most of the crop is
grown on 10 acres at Buderim, 60 miles
north of Brisbane. Ginger is not, how-
ever, a cheap crop to grow. Production
costs run over 4d. per pound, but under
protection all requirements could be
lilled from Queensland coastal districts
and 1000 acres of coastal land put into
intensiye cultivation. It should be a good
sideline for fruitgrowers in volcanic
coasMl districts.
“Dundee”: Milling and flour tests of
, s^ m P les of the principle varieties
ol N.S.W. wheat from last harvest afford
many useful comparisons in quality.
Oular (123) gave the highest total points,
followed by Pusa 4, 122*. Highest for
gluten percentage was Ford 17.4 ; Gular
scored 17.1. and Fedweb 1 (new rust-
immune variety) 16.5. For gluten quality
Ford and Cailloux led with 38 points
from Pusa 4, 37. Highest for water
absorption was Pusa 4, 68 p.c. The
strongest flour wheat in the list was
Pusa 3, Gular following. Best for bushel
weight included Cailloiix and
Pusa 4, Gular, Ford and Fedweb 1,681 b.
“Canbelego”: Announcing that 92.9
p.c. of N. S. Wales butter manufactured
in 1939-40 had been graded as choicest,
N.S.W. Director of Dairying O. C. Ball-
hausen said that no country, with the
possible exception of Denmark, had done
better. Norco’s Cawongla branch factory
recorded 99.8 p.c. choicest. Some other
States might profitably take a leaf out
of the New South Wales book.
Side-bone”: The Horse Association
of N.S.W. and the Clydesdale Society
have been clamoring for years for a
Horse Breeding Act “on the lines of the
Victorian legislation.” The promised bill
is still being drafted. Now the Victorian
Government reports that serious defects
are apparent in its Stallion Registra-
tion Act. Twenty-one per cent, of the
draught stallions examined last year were
rejected lor hereditary unsoundness,
which high figure Chief Veterinary In-
spector Talbot reported was undoubtedly
due to breeding from unsound mares.
Also 124 stallions that had been refused
registration were being retained by the
owners for their own use. The section
of the Act which permits this practice is
condemned as doing much to increase
unsoundness.
Outback Occupations.
w
her heels hotly pursued by the tykes
and Dick. You teeter, fall, and by a
spasmodic leap'just manage to jump the
dip, landing safe on the other side.
“Let the old go, Dick! ” you
shout. “She ain’t worth chasing.”
Dick turns back, so do the dogs.
Something white flashes by your feet.
In your jump one hand grabbed at the
hanging bag and tore it away. The
penned sheep charge the opening. Some
fall in the dip, most of them jump it
and head in several directions up the
paddock.
You run back and block the open-
ink, calling for Tom to bring you
hammer and nails to fix up the bag.
That done, you heave the hammer at the
nearest dog and draw off your forces
for a spell.
The work is resumed and proceeds
steadily until about half the 500
sheep are through. Then there is a hold-
up. Sheep enter the dip, swim forward
and baulk. You block the race and go
forward. There appears to be no reason
for the sheep refusing to leave the dip.
Yet they continue to struggle and swim
and sink and bob up and struggle, the
forward lot trying to get back, the rear
lot trying to get forward. Quick action
is necessary if they are to be saved. You
call Dick and Torri and order them into
the bath. Dick complains of a cold. Tom
gives Dick a quick look and then bends
over, holding his stomach and moaning.
“Get in!” you roar. Tom holds his
nose and drops into the yellow liquid,
Dick creeps in slowly by lowering him-
self from the bottom rail of the race. The
sheep view this intrusion with alarm, and
all scramble out into the draining pen.
The boys climb out and make for the
house, dripping yellow and with awful
looks on their faces.
You have been fifteen years among
sheep, so you don’t waste time trying to
find out what stopped those sheep but
go back to the race to start again. The
dip has settled down, the bag is in its
place and everything ready. But the
yards are empty, Tom having left the
outer gate open at your call. Up the
paddock both dogs are industriously
shepherding the sheep over the rise, fol-
lowing out their habit of taking the flock
back after the muster.
You sit down and think of your
brother Sam, who runs a newsagency
down in the city and often writes to say
how much he envies you the free-and-
easy existence you must lead up there
on the farm. You eye the turgid dip
and think how nice it would be to feel
yourself pushing Sam into it. Presently
you decide that with half the sheep
dipped old Mousey can go to blazes, be-
cause if it comes to that the Court won’t
ask how many you dipped ; it’ll be satis-
fied if you prove you operated the dip.
And so homeward, to find Dick sneez-
ing in the midst of a blanket by the fire
and Tom bitterly trying to scrape dip
fluid ofl his new boots. The wife has
brought up the mail. There is a letter
lor you: —•
T C J • pp - District of Bobbra.
J. Fordcubbin, Esq.
Lindisfarme.
Sir,
Pursuant to my letter of earlier date
concerning statement of having found lice
and ticks in some sheep of yours grazing
near T.S.R. 136/10 on 15th ultimo, I now
have to state that it has since been dis-
covered that the sheep in question were
stragglers from a flock that passed the
f.S.R. 136/10 on the day before. I, there-
fore, do not consider it imperative that
your sheep be dipped until and upon it
being found that they are so infested.
Yours, Jno. Mowseking,
Stock Inspector.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line, all others
4 Names —though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don t object.
First this week is a Victorian, who yites trenchantly on the waste o
money on the roads. Some of his remarks will be hotly disputed.
Waste and Wantonness
Simply by using commonsense and
good manners motorists can do a good
deal to conserve our petrol supplies. Bad
motoring costs big money—tens of thou-
sands a year.
Take a simple case of careless parking.
The tail of a car left jutting out in a
busy street definitely slows down
often stops it. At peak traffic time 500
cars may be forced down to low gear
to negotiate the narrowed road, and per-
haps many are brought to a standstill.
Each car uses about three times as much
petrol in low gear as in high, and still
more to start off from a stop. Work it
out. All because of one man s bad
manners.
Excessive speed is the enemy of motor-
ing economy. How often is it really
necessary for anyone to drive at 60
m.p.h.? Apart from speed-caused acci-
dents, injuries and damage, there is the
terribly wasteful ratio of high fuel con-
sumption to big speeds, well known to
every motorist, plus terrific wear on tyres
and machines. . .
The “rev-up” addict is another
“waster.” He warms his engine up by
“revving” it flat out for several minutes.
In a cold engine this tears about three
months’ normal wear out of the cylinders,
wastes petrol and, if it is night, wakes
up everyone within a radius of halt a
mile. More bad manners, more waste.
In fact, a mild but effective form of
sabotage.
Eighty per cent, of road smashes aie
caused by breaches of reasonable traffic
rules. In peace-time costly accidents
are bad enough. In war-time they are
calamitous. In Melbourne recently, over
one week-end, motoring smashes resulted
in the death of a member of the
R.A.A.F., injuries to two others, injuries
to five members of the A.I.F. and to 14
civilians, two of whom were key . muni-
tion workers. If enemy agents did that
much damage in an Australian city over
one week-end there would be a terrific
hue and cry. Yet motorists whinge when
a traffic cop bawls them out for gross
carelessness. — Propergander (Vic.).
Petrol Rationing
The only effect of increased petrol
prices has been to inflict hardship. on
those who could least afford it, particu-
larly people living in the country, who
have no public facilities such as trams
and bus services or even trains except
for long journeys. The increase in pi ice
has hardly affected consumption at all,
and I venture to say that there has even
been increased buying, to hoard in case
of further increases. The increased price
hardly affected the well-to-do, but if
petrol had been rationed the restrictions
would have been fair to all users, and
would certainly have resulted in a saving
of fuel.
It is strange, too, that the Government
should have put through a bill to sub-
sidise a motor-car industry at this time.
If the use of motor-cars can be cut down
to one-half or less, as Mr. Thorby has
suggested, then this country has too
many motor-cars now.
Mr. Thorby has also appealed to all
people who could use horses in place
of motor power to do so, and he said
that by doing so these people would
serve their country twofold. It is appal-
ling to think that it needs a war to point
out this obvious fact. To mention only
one discouraging example, farmers have
been practically compelled to cease from
using horse-drawn vehicles by the very
high rates that are charged for license
fees. In view of the comparative damage
to roads by motor-trucks as against
horse-drawn vehicles the rates for the
latter are exceedingly high. This has
increased the use of motor-trucks until
the farmer now has neither horses nor
vehicles, even if he wished to use them.
The most logical scheme, if petrol must
be saved, is to limit the use of the fuel
to esseatial services and ration any sur-
plus. There would be little real hard-
ship in that—for years the cities and
suburbs have been choked up by cars
and other motor vehicles while the public
services have been running at a loss,
mainly owing to want of patronage by
the very people who contribute to their
upkeep— Toxites (W.A.).
Real Wealth
I have every possible reason for hating
Hitler—he bombs children, I like ’em
but the devil must be given his due.
Hitler is the one outstanding leader who
has fully grasped the fact that there is
no wealth but life. It is more than a
fact, it is one of the greatest guiding
principles of the universe.
Hitler took over an impoverished
country from the point of view o!
finance and (then) material resources.
Yet he must have realised that there is
no wealth but life, and Germany was
prodigal in that, prodigal to the tune,
even then, of close upon 70 million. So
rich in real values was Germany that
Hitler was able to tap that immense
reservoir to help him garner together all
other forms and shapes of material
wealth. So immensely prodigal is the
lifestream he controls that he can well
afford to throw away vast quantities of
it in order to obtain his scheduled vic-
tories.
The point is that Britain and Australia
have not yet realised the primary impor-
tance of the eternal principle Hitler took
in his stride —there is no wealth but lire.
However immense the material resources
of . a nation, they are useless in the face
of a declining birthrate. Humanity,
people, is the eventual arbiter of wealth.
If the British and French Empires can-
not face up to that fact, if Australia
cannot face up to it, then, eventually,
there will be no British and French
Empires, no Australian people.
Hitler will go down in history as the
bomber of little children, but who will
be reading that history a few hundred
years hence, the Teutonic peoples who
increase and multiply or the possibly
enslaved races who decline to face
reality?
Risking all criticism, may I state that
we have just sufficient human resources
to win this war, but that we will never,
win another unless we become in-
creasingly aware of the greatest race
maxim of all—there is no wealth but
life. —T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).
Both Ways
I said to an Italian acquaintance “I
suppose the war will make things tough
for you?” He laughed. “Not tough for
me —tough for you. Your Government
take me away and have to feed me, give
me clothes. I lose nothing. If the Eng-
lish win I am the free man again. I
have not got the shell-shock or the war
wound. If Italy win lam still the free
man—but lam not Tony the laborer; I
am Tony the Australian man’s boss.
Both ways I win.”
I J m still trying to convince myself that
he wasn’t right.—B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Leopold
It can’t be explained away that Leo-
pold (B. 12/6/’4O) asked for and accep-
ted help from the Allies and then, with-
out informing them, stopped his army
from fighting, thus betraying Great
Britain and France to the invaders. Only
marvellous tenacity and skill prevented
the troops from being either annihilated
or compelled to surrender. t
The excuse that Leopold was saving
his own country from destruction at
the expense of those who came to his
aid does not in any way mitigate the
ex-king’s crime. Churchill showed great
forbearance when he asked us to suspend
judgment on Leopold, but had to admit
fiS? there were no extenuating circum-
rtn nC OS
The’case of Holland is not similar, as
the Allies were quite aware the monarch
of that country was giving up the| light,
and no Allied forces were left in the
air.” —Acting Private (Q.).
Refugee Children .
Australians are again living upm their
reputations. Given a lead by the Gover
nor-General (Lord Gowrie) many of
them have expressed a desire to adopt
refugee children from the ravaged coun-
tries of Europe. Meanwhile T
orphanages remain a burden to the State.
If some of those publicity-hunting society
wom?n interested themselves m the wel-
fare of our Australian-born orphans they
would be doing something of inestimable
value to the country. —A. W. K. IGT
Real War Work
Daily-press photographs of women do-
ing such strenuous war work as attend-
SSI a concert in aid of the Lord Mayor s
fund, playing tennis in aid of K.A.A.r.
comforts funds, studying a pro-
gramme for a Win-the-War rally, sipping
cocktails at some cabaret in aid of war
funds, and various other vanahons of
their social routine could well be re-
placed by pictures of a farmer s wit
stirring a pan of home-made jam that she
intends giving to soldiers’ comforts fun s,
of a farmer’s daughter gathering eggs
from the nests to give to some other
fund or of a woman busy washing a
soldier’s underwear and darning his
socks. .
The young women in overalls working
in munition factories for long hours
should also be featured, as well as girls
making uniforms in factories.
Social butterflies should get down to
real war work or else drop out of the
spotlight. While newspapers feature their
make-believe at war work they will con-
tinue to live in a world that doesn t know
what war work really is. Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Snobbery
I know sensible and capable women
who refuse to join up with V.S.D. detach-
ments because they know that they are
hotbeds of petty jealousy and aggravat-
ing snobbery. The other day I heard a
girl saying smugly “I’m terribly lucky
to have got into So-and-so [V.A.D. group]
because Lady Blank is our secretary and
crowds of society girls belong to it. its
terribly exclusive.”
The word “society” at such a time as
this is hateful. —A. F. F. (S.A.).
“Patriots”
In parts of Australia Lutheran
churches have been set on fire (pre-
sumably because the ancestors of the
members came from Germany about a
hundred years ago). In one case the
son of the pastor had enlisted as well
as several other members of his parish.
The fire certainly will not encourage
more enlistments; its immediate results
are that an Australian insurance com-
pany loses £5O and the Australian tax-
payers meet the cost of the police in-
vestigations. .
There is real irony in the fact that in
near-by districts genuine acts of sabot-
age have been occurring which, in more
than one European country, would result
in the offenders being shot. It has been
revealed that the mouse-proof structures
round wheat stacks have been tampered
with, resulting in a tremendous waste
of wheat. Enemy agents? No. Merely
local patriots creating employment.
E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
They Should Be Working
As the result of action by the N. S.
Wales Public Service Association, officers
of the service are to keep going till 5.30
p.m. to make up work usually done by
men now in the A.I.F. . .
It’s about time that the politicians of
this State did likewise. Recesses, now
more than ever, could and should be
abolished', and, with the prospect of a
full-time job before them, politicians
might decide that it isn’t just a three
years’ holiday earned by crooning into a
microphone for a couple of weeks at
election time. —F. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Fighting ’Planes
If the Commonwealth Government an-
nounced that it would pay a certain price
for bombers, fighters or other planes
built in accordance with its specifications,
it would be a safe bet that scores would
be built in a comparatively short time,
no matter how strict were the tests be-
fore acceptance and payment. Many
now large American aircraft construction
concerns began by turning out sing e
’planes with improvised tools and equip-
ment.
The Government evidently is prepared
to risk £1,000,000 to give Commonwealth
Aircraft Corp. chaps practice m turn-
ing out a ’plane that may or may not be
successful. How about devoting another
million to buying ’planes produced by
anyone who likes to make the attempt, on
the basis of no payment if the ’plane does
not pass the flying tests of the R.A.A.F..
Similar offers could be made for the
construction of tanks and other equip-
ment. The Australian only wants an
opportunity. — James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Wings in the Ground
“Inability to obtain supplies of
duralumin will affect all of Australia s
plans for the local manufacture of ser-
vice aircraft.” So said Air Ministei
Fairbairn, reported in “S. M. Herald.
Duralumin is a trade name for an
alloy of aluminium, with small propor-
tions of copper, manganese and mag-
nesium. Its lightness and strength make
it first favorite for aeroplane construc-
tion.
Up rose lon L. Idriess, who knows
his Australia well:
There are plenty of manganese ores.
Deposits of bauxite, also. Aluminium is
largely extracted from bauxite.
Idriess then gave Sydney “Sun” the
location and analyses of some deposits
and swore there must be others never dis-
covered because there was never any
incentive to discovery:
W.A. Mines Department estimated that
the good-quality known deposits of the
Horseshoe Range alone were at least a
quarter of a milion tons, carrying irom
40 to 50 per cent, of metal in the super-
ficial crusts of two ore-bodies.
Idriess further recalls manganese de-
posits near Meekatharra (W.A.), easily
got at by open-cut methods. Some of the
pockets analysed up to 92 P- c * rnan_
ganese, with less than 1 p.c. ofi iron.
Could anything richer be found? he
asked
In Westralia bauxite laterites have been
known for 30 years or more. It has been
estimated that the area covered by these
deposits must be at least 500 square miles.
As there has never been a commercial de-
mand for bauxite it is impossible to say
what these laterite deposits average.
Mr. Fairbairn, before delivering him-
self of the remarks anent duralumin,
pointed out carefully that local manu-
facture of aircraft was not his concern
but that of the Aircraft Construction
Commission. ~
Well, over and above all that, its the
concern of the War Cabinet, which
should see to it at once that lon L.
Idriess is conscripted, equipped and sent
forth to locate those deposits, while
means of treating the ores are developed
without delay.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Communist Soothsayers
Communists seem to take it for granted
that, whether Hitler or the Allies win,
Communistic elements in various coun-
tries will start revolutions and Russia
will then step in and support them. Stalin,
they say, is not imperialistically-minded,
but he will assist any country that wants
it to establish Communism, whereupon
he will withdraw and leave them to con-
solidate their new society. This is what
every nation that has acquired an empire
has said, and it has been the technique
of every conqueror from Julius Caesar
to Napoleon. Why would it be neces-
sarily different in the case of Stalin?
I have talked to a good many Com-
munists, and they are quite convinced
that Stalin is different, inasmuch as there
is something inherent in the Communistic
doctrine which would prevent his being
merely another Napoleon. But when you
ask them what Communism is, you get a
bewildering variety of answers. They
one and all appear to postulate some
malign influence which is keeping the
soup out of the workers’ stomachs.
When you ask them how the soup is to
be got into the workers’ stomachs they
cannot tell you. They haven t succeeded
in doing it in Russia yet.
Russia, they tell you with pride, has
the largest army and air force in exist-
ence, and one Communist tells me that it
could put 23,000,000 soldiers in the
field. He visualised this vast horde as a
band of happy warriors engaged in free-
ing the workers of the world from the
bonds which oppress them. What it
conveys to me is a nation which, while
it has tackled certain problems we haven’t,
is spending most of its time making
munitions in mass-production factories.
When I was in Russia in 1914 I found
the Russians a particularly kindly, intelli-
gent and imaginative people. How long
will they remain so after decades of


industrialism devoted principally to war
purposes? We were told that when.
Communism had got going in Russia the
workers would have the leisure they
longed for and would devote it to art and
culture. But if you give one person
leisure or money, he will devote it to
writing books or painting pictures. An-
other will say that his work has so ex-
hausted him that all he can devote it to
is drinking, football or going to the
races. Why should the Russians be any
different from the general run of human
beings? In Russia they already have
State-organised football.
Any society you care to mention is
composed for the most part of such well-
adjusted individuals. They have no very
strong desires and can satisfy them rela-
tively easily. * In the classless society
which the Communists visualise, there
will be enough food, clothing, leisure and
opportunity to do what they want to do
for the vast majority of people. But
what about the few maladjusted?
If Communism ever became the estab-
lished system and the majority were well-
adjusted to it, that fact alone would be
all that was needed for some resolute,
maladjusted individual to want to try
to upset it. — Pawang (Vic.).
“‘Business As Usual”
At the beginning of the war the essence
of the pep-talks we got from our
national leaders, both here and in Eng-
land, was “Carry on.” Surely this
means “Keep on living.” How can a
nation live with, as “Kingsman” (B.
5/6/’4O) would have, “every able-bodied
man between the ages of 18 and 60 en-
gaged directly in war work”?
Cutting strings of sausages and yards
of silk and selling apples are just as vital
now as ever they were. The show must
go on. Recreation —sport is a good
form of it —is as vital to health as eat-
ing and sleeping. “Kingsman” talks of
the time and energy “lost” in sport.
There is a superabundance of both time
and energy everywhere.
We owe our fitness as a nation to love
of and indulgence in sport. We need
that fitness now. For certain periods
during the day it is natural that we
should ignore the war. But that does
not mean that we do not realise that
there is a war on. Quotas have rapidly
been filled.
There was a time when England itself
was menaced by a Spanish armada.
Doubtless, in that year, there was much
criticism of the central executive’s de-
cision to carry on with the South Eastern
District Winter Pennant Bowling com-
petition. Admittedly, Drake was only
No. 4 in Plymouth Hoe’s B team, but he
found time to finish the match.— Delor
(Vic.).
Compulsory Training
Within 25 years Australia has twice
been called to war on the other side of
the world. On the first occasion we were
able to make our preparations, compara-
tively speaking, at our leisure. Had the
cauldron boiled over again in this quarter
of the globe, our folly in abolishing the
compulsory system of military training
would have been more tragically obvious
than it is now.
If the compulsory system had never
been allowed to lapse, every able-bodied
male citizen in the Commonwealth would
have been trained in the arts of war and
ready to take the field at the outbreak
of hostilities. Our war machine would
have been working smoothly and effi-
ciently from the outset. There would
have been little shortage of men or
munitions.
Whatever the outcome of the war, it
should teach our legislators that we can-
not afford to rest on the laurels won by
the Anzacs. Although we had ample
warning, the fact remains that we were
caught unprepared. Compulsory train-
ing is as necessary to our national wel-
fare as the development of our primary
industries.— Nairb (Vic.).
Conscientious Objectors
There are two kinds. One hears the
still, small voice only when the drums
begin to roll. At other times they fight
tooth and claw with their fellows for
the makings. The other kind practises
pacifism in business and religion through-
out life, and is at least consistent in its
attitude.
Some years before 1914 I got in touch
with a religious body in a large British
city. They worshipped in a building as
bare as a barn. The difference in expense
between that and a cathedral of sorts was
given to charity. When I—a rank out-
sider—asked for a contribution towards
a club for down-and-outs they handed
over the entire premises for week nights
absolutely free, and allowed us to run
everything from carpet bowls to wrestling
matches. That was religious pacifism.
Some of their members owned huge
business concerns and spent the profits
on model villages for their employees.
They were pacifists in business.
When the Great War started they re-
fused to bear arms, but their “body” was
first in the field with a splendidly organ-
ised, equipped and manned Red Cross
unit. Arriving in France before the army
turnout, they found a railway shed con-
taining hundreds of wounded without
beds, food, drugs or doctors. Did the
patients call them shirkers? During the
war they sent other units, all working
without orders or pay.
When the war was over those that were
left alive continued to do marvellous
work, cleaning up the mess all over
Europe, helping to feed millions of starv-
ing children and fighting death and
disease long after the world had gone
back to business as usual.
These people belonged to the Society
of Friends, better known as Quakers.
They are no doubt having a rough time
just now and being called very hard
names, but they are certainly not cowards,
religiously, physically or financially, and
will do their bit to save lives and relieve
suffering if allowed to do it in their own
very efficient and self-sacrificing way.- -
Fair Go (S.A.).
Friendship with Japan
Events abroad should be driving home
to Australians the lesson of the need for
friendly relations with neighboring coun-
tries. Our nearest great neighbor is
Japan, and it is our duty, if we are to
help preserve peace in the Pacific, to
cultivate friendly relations with this
nation. Apart from the engineering of
trade treaties, and the other moves that
must be made by politicians, it is the
duty of ordinary Australians to do their
bit towards the increase of Pacific friend-
ship. As between persons so between
nations knowledge of each other is the
best basis for friendship.
More instruction on Japan, her cul-
ture, her needs, her history, her prob-
lems (presented by writers and speakers
not infatuated with Red China) would
lay a foundation for future friendship
and co-operation.— Pacifica (S.A.).
Christian Unity
Now that the powers of evil are work-
ing havoc on mankind, would not this
be an appropriate time to unite all
Christian churches? A splendid Chris-
tian force would thus be formed to meet
and defy the followers of a false prophet
whose ambition is to replace the Bible
with the selfish and degenerate doctrine
of Mein Kampf ! —J. S. (S.A.).
The Pyramids
Like “M.M.” (B. 5/6/’4O) I have
studied the Pyramids and the Bible, plus
“interpretations” based on both. The
Monument and the Book may agree on
some points, but unfortunately the in-
terpreters don’t, and thereby hangs a
long tale of woe, of which the present
war is only one chapter.
Many of the Pyramid prophecies have
been “fulfilled.” They are couched in
language so indefinite that any “time of
tribulation” on any part of the earth’s
surface can be made to fit them. Such
“times” are to be found on almost any
date.
When nothing of consequence happens
to justify a prediction there is an easy
way out, as instanced by the chief pre-
dicter, apologising for a terrible dud:
“Does the question arise with any, what
beginning of restitution was marked by
this date? We answer, nothing occurred
which the world could discern. We still
walk by faith and not by sight.” Heads
I win, tails you lose!
Nobody can foretell the future unless
it is fixed. If it is fixed we cannot change
it. If we can alter it by “getting on our
knees” or by any other means, then it
has not been properly fixed, and prophecy
is impossible.
Can “M.M.,” aided by the Pyramids,
tell what will happen in Europe during
the next few months or years? Not
merely a time of tribulation —I could tell
that without the Pyramids—but some-
thing that the world can “discern.” Now
is his chance.
If Hitler is merely a. scourge in the
hand of Providence, whipping us “to our
knees,” we can’t blame him, poor man.
But if we roar at him and cuff his ears
we can’t be blamed either, for we v/ill
be merely carrying out an inscrutable
“Plan of the Ages” willy-nilly. The Pyra-
midists, to be consistent, should be con-
tent to let the all-wise cast-iron plan
work itself out inevitably, but man for
man they are the most vigorous prose-
lytisers and propagandists on earth today.
—Con Sistent (S.A.).
Improve Dairy Production
There are many ways in which national
economies can be effected, but restric-
tion of a movement which plays a big
part in improving production of dairy
cows is difficult to understand. It is in-
evitable that Australia will be called on
to supply Britain with some of the butter
and cheese formerly imported from Den-
mark. The news, therefore, that the
N. S. Wales Government will not handle
any great increase in the number of dairy
farmers who wish to have their herds
recorded for production, and that the
Commonwealth Government has with-
drawn its financial assistance to the herd-
recording scheme, is unaccountable.
Australian farmers are being told that
they must increase the production of their
dairy herds as a contribution towards
the war effort. The most effective way
of increasing production is to cull out the
low producers, use a pure-bred bull of
high butter-fat inheritance, an 3 keep
calves only from the best cows. It is
only by herd-recording that the farmer
can do those things.
Money expended on herd-recording is
well spent, and instead of doing anything
to restrict the scheme Governments
should be encouraging more farmers to
go in for it. The increased returns will
mean more money for Australia, and
more vitamin-rich, fat foods which are
needed for a healthy race and for the
wellbeing of the fighting men. —Cow
Time (N.S.W.).
Back from Retirement
There are many retired public servants
able to do office duties 'or other light
work that would release an eligible man
for service either as a soldier or as a
munition worker. And there are men in
offices who could work in munition
factories and leave their own jobs to
older men who are capable only of office
work.— Eureka (N.S.W.).
Taxes
The entertainment tax proposed by
“W.P.T.,” (B. 5/6/’4O) would be a mis-
take. In the present circumstances free
spending is more advantageous than the
hoarding of money, so why should the
man who spends to the limit of his
meagre basic wage be penalised?
Everyone must make some sacrifice,
but in taxation a tax at the source of the
income would be fairer than all these
petty taxes on the things we buy.—•
Arthur Peters (N.S.W.).
Flats and Families
It is not only landlords’ lease-restric-
tions that keep flat-dwellers from produc-
ing the small arms that are Australia’s
most vital defence need. Many flatters
feel that, with no garden or backyard
for children to play in, a flat is not a
good place for them to live. Accord-
ingly, they remain childless or, at most,
have no more than an unhappy, spoiled
only child.
The remedy is simple. Brisbane, with
its stipulation of a minimum-size area
on which a dwelling may stand, has
shown the way. Bring in similar legis-
lation for every capital city and large
town in the Commonwealth. In the bar-
gain, have every flat and maisonette
considered as a dwelling. Then a block
of, say, 10 flats, instead of being crammed
on to a building block that should hold
no more than a fairly large house, would
have to stand on a piece of land suffi-
cient for 10 houses.
Besides, a danger to urban living con-
ditions would be removed. At present
every be-flatted area is a potential slum-
district of the future.— More Kidsan-
room (S.A.).
“Listeners’ Orchestras”
One thing that the A.B.C. could do to
develop musical culture in Australia
would be to institute “listeners’ orches-
tras.” A month or so before the per-
formance of any orchestral work over the
air all members of the “orchestra” are
notified of the work to be performed,
and each who wishes to take part sends
for his part. He practises, and when the
night comes takes his place by his wire-
less with his ’cello, flute, second fiddle
or whatever he happens to play, and
plays “with” the broadcast orchestra.
The idea may seem funny to non-
musicians, but it seems to be gaining
plenty of support, and experts say that
it looks like being one of the best musi-
cal training forces of the future.— Hack
(S.A.).
W.A.’s Portions
In the comments of correspondents
about sums paid over by the Federal
Governments to the State Government
of W.A., the suggestion is made that
they were overgenerous. They were
more, they were excellent reserves for
rocky Labor Governments hard up for
just the sort of thing to appeal most to
halting electors —that they had spent and
would spend most liberally on essential
and social services—without disclosing
the source of the extra cash. Nationalist
Federal Governments did this sort of
thing more than once and so helped to
defeat National State parties.— Adsum
(W.A.).
Whaling
Before the war rather more than half
the world’s whale catch found its way
into Germany. Almost half the whale
is blubber; the rest consists of meat
and bone. About two million tons of
whale meat is disposed of every year.
The oil is used mainly for margarine,
but also for lighting and for making
soap, candles, linoleum, cosmetics, ex-
plosives and pharmaceutical products.
The fresh meat may be preserved for
months by freezing, and may subse-
quently be pickled, smoked, tinned, dried,
made into sausage or “corned beef.”
Suitably prepared, it has no oily flavor.
An appetising extract is made from the
meat. The flesh is also used as food for
animals, and as a fertiliser. Other pro-
ducts are gelatine, glue, whalebone,
ambergris and, from the organs and
glands, a large supply of vitamins and
hormones for medical use.
Germany must, to a very great extent,
be now deprived of these supplies, and
as they come largely from the seas that
surround our shores it should be prac-
ticable for Australians to share in the
harvest. Even if we do not take a hand
in the actual catching, we should at least
be able to establish industries to treat
the raw materials for our own advan-
tage, ,as well as for supplying our allies.
—Ambergris (Vic.).
For General Exhibition
Under the Victorian Theatres Act
1928, children between six and 16 were
not permitted to attend showings of films
“not suitable for general exhibition”
(B. 5/6/’4O).
An Act passed in 1933 cut out this
provision ; the law now is that exhibitors
shall, by advertisement, inform parents
as to the classification of the film, the
responsibility for seeing that children
attend only suitable entertainments rest-
ing with the parents and not with the
exhibitors.
I, too, deplore a public officer’s con-
demnation becoming “the strongest
selling point a film can command,” but
I have heard that people ring theatres
and ask if the film being currently
screened is “general,” so the “public
officer’s” condemnation may have some
effect after all.—F. H. B. (Vic.).
Final Notice
Why is it that alone among N. S. Wales
Government departments Education is so
chary about paying its bills —or so long-
winded? Salaries are paid on the nail,
but the creditor has to wait months —
sometimes over a year—to get his or her
cash.
A country council has had to notify
the department that the supply of elec-
tricity to the .local school will be cut off
unless the account, extending back over
a year, be paid.
It took five months for a lady engaged
in part-time teaching at a North Coast
technical high school to get her remun-
eration.
The wife of a country teacher, to suit
the convenience of the department,
undertook the sewing classes. She waited
18 months for her first cheque.—Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
Journalistic Competition
It is futile for the freelance to com-
plain about unfair competition from pro-
fessors, politicians and their wives, as
long as the public retains its veneration
for “authorities.”
To the unthinking reader an article
written by an unknown freelance hasn’t
nearly the value as the same article with
a well-known name above it. Most
people unconsciously allow some selected
persons to do their thinking for them.
The editor (especially if he has a
flapper circulation) has no choice, even
if he could buy the freelance’s article
for a quarter of the money. Like a shop-
keeper, he has to sell the goods the
public wants. The freelance can never
expert to be anything but a picker-up
of unconsidered trifles, unless he can
train himself to be an “authority.”—
E. O. S. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precisio
£5/10/-
Watcli, Stainless
Steel.
Si>ecially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof] Dustproof.
Semi for Diamond Ring and Watch Catalogue.
diamond
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
e
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY, j
OPR DAVIDJONES
MUSHROOMS
“PERFECTION”
100% pure culture
spawn.
Made in Australia
and is developed
under skilled super -
vision. Enough to
grow 401 b., 4/6 post
tree.
But first send 2d.
postage for
w
FREE BOOK
giving full instructions as to preparation of
compost, method of growing, etc.
J. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
ew
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Un. knee pads; Sin. thigh
pads. 4jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hahd : sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl, surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J. P, TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham ;St., Sydney.
WINCHESTER
SKATES
17/6—21 /■
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STBEICT, SYDNEY
RADIOS
40% off retail prices where there is no
Century agent.
leisurely free trial in your own home.
Mr. E. M. S.j of Coolac, had a six-valve
Century on trial. He wrote:—
“]Vc recommend it to all who come along,
and an soon as ever they see it they think
it is the most beautiful Wireless that
they have ever seen or heard- — and I may
say that I am a proud owner.”
A 16-page art catalogue describes the
latest Century sets. It will lie a pleasure
to post one to you. You save £2O if no
Century agent in your District. Write
at once— .
Century Radio Manufacturing Co.
11 Dixon Street, Sydney.
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St„ Sydney.
“What destroyers have We in Australia, Jenkins?
“White ants and grass oppers, sir.
RNIIVG
Get rid of
Ws Horns BEFORE
they start!
m
Wllliiw
One application of
HAYES' CHEMICAE
BBHOKNEK
will remove the horn
bud. from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing-. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, cheap and humane method. Price
e
6/6
COMPANY,
351 Queen St.,
BRISBANE. Pci
>st Free.
AMAZING VACUUM HELMET MACHINE
FUL
CUARANTtrD
GROWS HAIR
FREE TRIAL OFFER TO
MEN, WOMEN. Scienti-
fically renews thick hair,
cures baldness, greyness,
dandruff, oily, dry hair, etc.,
by stimulating deep lying,
dormant blood vessels, nnh
MOTORISTS! RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
w
Just pour in plug holes;
reconditions while-U-drive.
Saves rebore, ends piston
slap, rattlSs, oil, petrol
waste, &e. Restores power.
Guaranteed good for 10,000
miles. Harmless finest en-
gine. Trial tube. 6/6- Any-
one can use it. RE-NU
LTD. (est. 1982), op. Rich-
mond stn. 75 other lines.
Free samples offered. Agents
reauired.
The Wanderfal GENDEROMETER Sex
ew
When this marvellous instrument was;
recently proclaimed in Europe it caused|
a tremendous sensation. It is stated toj
show which eggs are fertile and from)
which eggs roosters or hens will be hatched..
Over two million Indicators were sold.;
and public interest was greatly enhanced'
when it was found that the apparatus
could be applied in many ways besides:
egg testing. Mcar. fur. hair, feathers, indeed all
living and dead animal matter, can be subjected to its tests, as
well as men and women, birds, f#c. The scope of the Sex Indi*
cator is limitless and its results are followed with the keenest
interest. Baron von Reichenbach is mentioned as vouching for
the genuineness of the apparatus, and Dr. Voll compares its
actuating principle to that of the divining rod. Even those
.who are disinclined to believe all the amazing attributes ascribed
jto this instrument have derived much interesting amusement'
from experimenting with it. and the price is so moderate, only
ONE SHILLING, post free with full instructions, that it is
■surely worth while 10 get one and study how it acts.
Obtainable only from ,
THE UNION AGENCY CO v 2 99 Elizabeth Street. Melb-
LAMBS SAVED
e
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
Banjo Mandolin
w
for 59/6
We will send you a beautiful
BANJO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 59/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C. 0.1).
Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost . . .
Buy your batteries direct from the
manufacturers and save approxi-
mately half. All types of wet bat-
teries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting.
“Marshall” batteries carry the full
guarantee of this leading factory.
There is no better battery made.
Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.
42 HAKIiOUK STREET, SYDNEY.
BRIGGS 8, STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGEE-CYEINDEIt
PETROL MOTORS.
A to 5 HOIISEFOWEK
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
aMPIJOk (A/SIA) PTY. LIMITED
“ 383 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
e
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Rup
itll^
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessity
for possiole improvement or recovery I Via e, o
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere, batis
faction guaranteed no matter where y
Send for details, self measurement form, test,
monials and 14 days’ free trial ofier. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
w
HOO Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and .trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on \\ pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake oif. All
lamps fitted with PVRKX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model 13X100 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging I,amp, or Table Lamp.
Height 10 inches.
PRICE, 57/0 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent oi
XV. Kopsen & Co. Pty.. Ltd.
‘ISO Kent Street, Sydney.
e
"Ainslite"
Coloring
Clay
Pipe
With Self-cleaning System.
To “Bulletin” Readers for
Usually 3/6.
1/6
Good Tobacco Cheap. Send 6d. stamps
for liberal quantity of “Levy's Own”
Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb. Honestly
worth 10/- lb. For cigarette or pipe.
SOL
tobacconist,
est. ;<8 years.
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
7
OILSKINS
ior long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of out-
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue anti Samples.
A. JL HUGHES
(Established 1893),
12IIS REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHARCOAL GAS
—saves 80% on fuel costs and is therefore
the logical answer to petrol rationing.
Our recently improved design for a
simplified and thoroughly efficient Gas
Producer can he made by the average
handyman at a most economical cost. The
set of easily understood blue prints and
specifications, which cost £l, show you
how to do the .iob. No alterations to the
engine are necessary and you can run on
petrol or charcoal gas at will. Send today.
N.Z. readers please send Money Order.
economy gas PRODUCER CO.
10 Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
M
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
ma d e absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SLIP
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
26/6/’46 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut
this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


Amazing Overseas Reception with
ULTIMATE
Champion Radio!
DID
YOU
KNOW
w
....That 798 verified separate
stations were received on a standard
Ultimate Receiver A WORLD’S
RECORD?
. . . . That Mr . R, N. Shaw compiles
his “Wireless Weekly” Short ~wave
Notes from an Ultimate Receiver?
....That when Commander R. E.
Byrd led his Expedition to the
South Pole, he selected an Ultimate
Receiver for his radio work?
....That Mr. L. J. Keast uses a
standard Ultimate Radio for com-
piling the short-wave notes for
“Australian Radio World”?
.... .That the Australian Adviser to
the British Broadcasting Commission
uses Ultimate Receivers exclusively?
. . . .That Ultimate Champion Radio
can enable you to listen to short-
wave stations you have never heard
before, can bring you news of the
moment easily, clearly, from over-
seas?
Wouldn’t you be proud to have an
Ultimate Receiver in your home!
What a wonderful story you could
tell your friends about it, and what
satisfactory service and enjoyment
could you get from it. All we ask is
that you give Ultimate due con-
sideration before buying your Radio
Set—we are prepared to abide by
the result. Send the coupon for
particulars .
The ULTIMATE
DE LUXE
8-valve All-wave
Console Receiver.
:
'
Mmm
f i $
m '»
if .r
-.W
I
■
.
| t;
;l «S
‘ St* i
-' • v*-
r
®|lpS§igll
3p ~r
r '£il§ls
wm&mrn
: <MM
Feafurina
EXCLUSIVE LIGHT RAY TUNING
A special “ULTIMATE” device for easier, quicker and more accurate tuning especially
on Short-wave Stations. In operation, this device is similar to the “Logging Pointer” as
used with the corresponding 1939/40 Model, but: is more conspicuous and infinitely more
attractive. A short radial line of light moves consecutively through fifteen numbered slots
arranged in a circle of approximately two inches in diameter. When tuning for Short-wave
Stations this travelling light ray, which moves much more rapidly than the main pointer,
should be consulted for the logging and re-tuning of any givefi station or stations. This
device is exclusive to “ULTIMATE”!
"ULTIMATE" STILL LEADS !
All the outstanding features that have made “ULTIMA I E the choice of super-critical
technicians and Short-wave Experts have been retained, mostly in improved form,’in the new
Season’s Models.
Unsurpassed performance, particularly on Overseas reception, majgnificent tone and volume,
razor-edge selectivity and exquisite cabinets, characterize every “ULTIMATE” Receiver—
you cannot buy a better set!
OBTAINABLE IN THE FOLLOWING MODELS :
8-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC CONSOLE 6-VALVE DUAL-WAVE ELECTRIC MANTEL
10-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC CONSOLE 8-VALVE DUAL-WAVE ELECTRIC MANTEL
7-VALVE DUAL-WAVE VIBRATOR CONSOLE 7-VALVE DUAL-WAVE VIBRATOR MANTEL
RADIOGRAM COMBINATIONS ARE ALSO OBTAINABLE IN ANY OF ABOVE MODELS.
OVERSEAS NEWS BULLETINS IN ENGLISH.
fFree Log Chart indicating Overseas News Bulletins in English
and particulars of “ULTIMATE” Champion Radio will be
sent post free on application. Fill in this coupon and post
I7IJV' 0
W NAME
y ADDRESS
e
GEORGE BROWN & CO., PTY., LTD., 267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
