

x m
Cu-lAr,
Zinc
'
i:S.
:
:
til
■
m
1:
m-
mm
i
Shaft winder building, head frame, and crushing plant at one of
the Broken Hill Mines.
PRODUCED BY GROUP OF
FAMOUS COMPANIES
NORTH BROKEN HILL
LIMITED
BROKEN HILL SOUTH
LIMITED
THE
ZINC CORPORATION
LIMITED
T*HE Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty., Ltd., Port Pirie (S.A.), extracts lead
* and silver from the Lead Concentrate shipped from Broken Hill. Most of the
Zinc Concentrate from Broken Hill is treated by the Electrolytic Zinc Company of
Australasia, Ltd., Risdon (Tasmania), for recovery of Zinc. The Electrolytic Refining
and Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd., treats copper-bearing by-products from the other
two Companies and other copper-bearing materials purchased or obtained throughout
the Commonwealth.
THE
BROKEN HILL
ASSOCIATED
SMELTERS
PTY. LTD. '
ELECTROLYTIC
ZINC COMPANY
OF AUSTRALASIA
LTD.
THE
ELECTROLYTIC
REFINING
AND SMELTING
COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
■
■
mm
m
m
i!& s§w§
m
m
c
;«s
■■•■■ '•' ■
Lead stacked ready for shipment on th e market lead storage
area at rort ririe
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,Vol. 61.—N0. 3171.
Wednesday, November 20, 1940.
Molotov Goes to Berlin
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Olhce, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


'Storu Writing
O UH VJ at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Pleas& send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write fof Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
BOOK SERVICE.
York
SUBSCRIPTION MANAGERS
Let US quote jou the LOWEST AND
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or boot
published. Information gladly s
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place.
GRAHAME
London
BOOK IMPORTERS
Let us quote you
ipplied.
84241
The Red Page
A NOTABLE NOVEL .
John Masefield, in Basilissa (Heine-
mann), and Howard Spring, in Fame Is
the Spur (Collins), both try desperately
hard and unsuccessfully to do something
which Richard Llewellyn, in How Green
Was My Valley (Joseph; Angus and
Robertson), does as easily and naturally
as breathing (the Llewellyn novel was first
published a year ago, but has a lasting
freshness).
In brief, the results are: From Mase-
field, a piece of historical fiction set in
Roman times, so callow in the writing
that it makes pathetic reading; from
Spring, a journalistically competent sur-
face-rskimming of England’s suffragette
era, entertaining, and plenty of it; from
Llewellyn, the bringing to life of a Welsh
valley and all its inhabitants in a novel
which, for beauty of thought, style and
language, for pure honesty of feeling,
arresting unusualness, quiet humor, rep-
resentation of living human characters
and simple dignity, seems to take by
right, or, at any rate, to deserve, a set
place in literature.
The point of resemblance between
Masefield and Llewellyn is in simplicity
of sty)e, manner and language, or rather
in the attempt on the Laureate’s part to
achieve by deliberate design and con-
scious sweating what in Llewellyn seems
inborn and effortless. The Laureate’s
accomplishment is a sluggish, amazingly
unreal fictional reconstruction of the love
story of the former dancing-girl Theo-
dora and the Roman Emperor Justinian,
these and other characters puppet con-
trivances who never come to life, and
who are made all the more jerky and
shadowy by the Laureate’s unhappy use
of what is called “modern idiom”: e.g.
(Theodora’s sister speaking), “When a
girl’s got the K.O. from a bloke she
can’t keep an eye on things” ; or (Jus-
tinian making whoopee), “What d'you
say, beloved ; don't you think we could
make it?”
When, along with that sort of thing,
goes such description as “looked as if he
had been shot in a vital place,” and,
generally, a story that wanders absently
from place to place and ends in nothing,
it’s a relief to think of Gallipoli, or some
of the writing in The Bird of Dawning,
or anything at all but an old friend who
must be tired out.
Spring, who is a successful journalist
and writes like one — i.e., with a com-
petent loose facility of expression, easily
and voluminously— has only one or two
lapses into Masefieldian bathos: “It is
not easy to put a bright face on adultery
encountered for the first time, if the de-
ceived person is your mother, buried yes-
terday” is about as bad as he manages.
His point of resemblance to Llewellyn is
in his attempt to depict social change and
evolution, bordering on revolution, in
England over about the same period dur-
ing which Llewellyn’s Welsh mining
community was striving to maintain,
through trade-unionism, the former
happy days of the valley, rapidly pass-
ing away under the pressure of modern
(i.e., late nineteenth century) industrial-
ism, and now gone, no doubt for ever.
Spring comes on into the present cen-
tury, but he gives the-impression of being
an outsider, a reporter, looking on, whereas
Llewellyn writes as if he knew it all from
inside experience. Spring’s people, con-
sequently, are almost as puppetlike as
Masefield’s, though his story is incom-
parably a better one and better told. It
has a brilliant opening, with a picturesque
handing on to a boy of a sabre that could
have a splendid symbolical significance.
In one of the blurred demonstrations that
were the beginnings of trade-unionism it
had been wielded by a trooper, killing
a girl among the demonstrators. Spring
makes nothing of it but a romantic deco-
ration, though it hangs over his entire 679
pages. The boy who inherits it becomes
a symptom of that dislike and distrust
of politicians which is general among
journalists. He climbs selfishly and cyni-
cally till he sits with the
highest in English politics.
His story, with that of
his expanding circle
of acquaintances, is told
freely, not to say volubly ; by such stand-
ards as Llewellyn sets it rings somewhat
hollow and false, but as general fiction
goes it is good enough entertainment
Masefield hops straight back to Ancient
Roman times and at once starts his fic-
tional engine heavily working; his mis-
use, as it sounds, of modern idiom is his
awkward bridge over the gap. Spring
leaps fancifully backward and forward,
using excerpts from the speeches of
Hamer Shawcross, M.P., as a handy
springboard for back somersaults which
land him on different points oi Shaw-
cross’s past. Llewellyn, with character-
istic simplicity of thought and language,
makes no bother about the time factor:
“It is very strange to think back like
this, although, come to think of it, there
is no fence or hedge round time that is
gone.”
Llewellyn’s first-person narrator, Huw
Morgan, is then about to go from the
valley in which he has grown up from
childhood, living and watching its sin-
gular, in a sense primitive, certainly
utterly unsophisticated, sort of life ; en-
joying most of it —the special kind of
life it is, its pleasures and tragedies—as
much as Llewellyn enjoys having him tell
of it, rolling out the lovely Welsh
names, Biblical without being of the Bible
—-Bronwen, lanto, Cyfartha and the rest
—and knitting together the stories of all
their lives into a pattern of living and
of language that also have a Biblical
quality, as the story in ijs parts and as
a whole has Biblical depth and dignity.
The life of the community also has Bib-
lical relationship, being founded on the
Bible and bound by its laws, with a few
local additions. For the greater part of
the story the English law doesn’t affect
or touch it. “You must realise, Huw,”
the local preacher explains to the narra-
tor, “that the men of the Valleys have
built up their houses and brought up their
families without help from others, with-
out a word from the Government. Their
lives have been ordered from birth by
the Bible. From it they took their in-
structions. They had no other guidance,
and no other law. If it has produced
hypocrites and pharisees, the fault is in
the human race. We are not all angels.”
The same speaker, addressing a meeting
up on the mountain: “ ‘Before you are
much older,’ he shouted, and his voice
was running in a ring all round the
Valley, ‘you will have policemen here
to stay. A magistrate next. Then per-
haps even a gaol. And the counterparts
of those things are hunger and want, and
misery and idleness.’ ”
The people, though the rocklike stolid-
ity of their environment is in all of them,
are all individuals, and the range of char-
acter is remarkably wide. The characters
mainly comprise the Morgan father and
mother, the younger Morgans and the
wives and husbands they marry, the local
preacher, neighbors and others of the
Valley, including the two prizefighters,
Dai and Cyfartha, whom Borrow would
have enjoyed putting on paper, and on
whose portrayal he couldn’t have im-
proved. Dai is the champion of the pair ;
much the same sort of a Dai as the one
who taught Jimmy Wilde how to fight,
though that, by Wilde’s account, was done
down in the dimness of the coalmines,
whereas this Dai teaches Huw to fight
up on the mountainside. The circum-
stances, however, are just as strange as
those recorded by Wilde, and the teach-
ing just as rigorous, and, for its limited
ends, just as effective. It enables Huw
to fight his way to a schoolboy pedestal
in the National school over the moun-
tain, and subsequently give a hiding to
a swine of a teacher, one of the very few
characters that the author bitterly hates.
To the worst of the rest he allows a
certain measure of humanity; in most
of them the finer human feelings and
motives outweigh their foibles and weak-
nesses. The Morgan father, rigidly en-
forcing the Valley law in his home and
out of it, can pull over his other clothes
the red jersey in which one of his sons
has played representative football, and,
thus attired, dance drunk in the street;
the Morgan boys who are “trouble-
makers” in the mines have great strength
of purpose in that, but individual weak-
nesses ; others show strength and weak-
ness in fairly-even measure in the face
of sex and other temptations. All speak,
and the story as a whole is told, in a
mannered style that makes it read as if
it might be a translation from the Welsh:
the language has music in it, just as the
Valley has. That is one of the things
that make the setting unusual in a novel,
though no doubt it is typically Welsh ;
the people will burst into song at the
most unexpected times —sometimes in the
very midst of tragedy —and enjoy their
singing. Situations threatening to become
serious will be as suddenly changed in
the same unexpected way by laughter
breaking in.
A listing of highlights of a book which
is splendid throughout would have to
include the fifth chapter, which, with a
few touches, could be isolated to stand
as a superb short story ; the mouth-water-
ing gusto with which the food and drink
of the Valley are described ; the study
in friendship between men represented by
Dai and Cyfartha, and the resounding
nobility of that “Eh, Cyfartha?” with
which Dai ends most of his remarks to
his mate; the love and the nature of
women, represented in many shades by
many of them, with supreme loveliness
by Bronwen ; and, one of the novel’s vari-
ous enjoyable quaintnesses, the poet’s
feeling given to Huw in order that he
may give a positive reality to such inani-
mate things as the old barrel into which
he falls while trying surreptitiously to get
in home at night, to the black bully of a
slagheap, and to such living things as
trout and trees and the daffodils up the
mountainside. The description of the
liberation of the blind pit ponies when
the mines are flooded is a magnificent
expression of that same feeling ; but, then,
it is there all the time, investing the story
with extraordinary beauty.
Marie's Muse .
In the intervals of her scientific labors,
Dr. Marie Stopes is given to song. It
goes like this:
The lark above us singing to his mate
Trills the same song his father sang through time
But now outspringing fresh with human fate
Mankind projects a variant sublime.
The simple joy of sunshine is the lark’s
Blue dusk recalls him to his nest to sleep,
But human fate unrolled in many darks
Fulfilled itself in symbols xylons keep.
How slowly ferine creatures rear their ways
From species up to type more beautiful —
Man’s eyes but flash, and 10, an eagle’s gaze!
In mutant suddenly the race leaps on.
For the benefit of those who might
imagine a xylon is something to do with
Sydney Bridge or a thing that makes an
idiotic bubbling noise when you hit it
with a hammer, Dr. Stopes submits the
note:
“Xylons”: In the internal structure of
flower, plant and tree, the delicate long
pipes carrying water have walls thickened
with lignin and are called xylon. In bulk
this forms the greater part of what we
commonly call wood; when pulped it is
used for the making of paper.
Dr. Stopes’s new book is called Oriri
(Heinemann). It’s a single longish poem
about He and She, who have been meet-
ing and loving since prehistoric times,
and who meet and love again in the
poem, assisted by Guardian Angels,
Spirits of this and that, and a Chorus of
Flowers. A quotation from Plato
modestly prefaces the effusion: “To this
day not a single man has dared to hymn
love worthily.”
Sing on, sweet maid.
Wild Australians .
They’re a wild lot of Australians Eric
Lowe introduces in his second novel,
Framed in Hardwood (Collins).
Old Sam marries a young wife ; Young
Sam has his eye on her; Old Sam, either
accidentally or accidental!y-on-purpose,
induces a mare to kick Young Sam,
crippling and blinding him.
Jim Gall’s v/ife dies giving birth to his
daughter; Jim, developing a grudge
against society, picks on his neighbor
Hogan ; he traps dingoes and lets ’em
loose on Hogan’s property ; it’s suggested,
too, that he starts fires on Hogan’s ; and
one dark night he goes out to burn
Hogan’s haystacks.
Jim also detests Peter Bennett, the
son of Young Sam and his stepmother.
He leads Peter’s favorite stallion to the
edge of a bottomless pit and tries to back
the beast over the cliff. On his way he’s
interrupted by his daughter Sally, who
has at him with an axe, but he cools her
ardor by whacking her wrist with an iron
bar. Peter, who has married Sally, rides
to the rescue of his stallion, and he and
Jim fight on the clifftop till Jim is thrown
to his death. (
A little before these happenings, Peter
has seen one Grandfather Devlin die
violently in a sawmill accident; a little
later he is to be in at the accidental death
of the unfortunate Hogan ; Hogan, bird’s-
nesting, stands on the back of his horse
and puts his arm in a hole in a tree ;
horse moves off; Hogan hangs by his
broken arm.
The chapter of accidents reaches its
climax in a great flood. One of Peter’s
enemies (a bloke who ran off with Sally)
has a deep-laid plot to dynamite Peter’s
dam. While Sally is rushing to warn
Peter, the villain goes about his scheme ;
it fails, but a hillside slips away and the
dynamiter is swept to his death. Peter
and Sally, and a horse who has come
inside for shelter, are having a hell of a
time meanwhile in Peter’s flooded house.
When Peter goes into another room to
smash Hogan’s collection of birds’-eggs,
the horse kicks Sally to death. Peter
lugs her dead body to the roof and sits
there, watching the flood.
The story connecting these villainies
and fatalities is the history of Peter, an
Australian version of the familiar
Napoleon-of-Commerce. Peter gets hold
of the Galls’ land by blackmailing Jim
and his brother over the dingo business,
by marrying Sally, by killing Jim, and
by kicking Sally out after he has per-
suaded her to make over her land to him.
He gets the Hogan land by buying cheap
when Hogan is in difficulties. When he
has divorced Sally he marries Hogan’s
daughter; he nearly goes to the pack
with whisky when she leaves him, but
recovers after the flood.
Peter is not credible. He is impossibly
“ruthless.” He “can’t understand” why
an old boundary-rider shouldn’t be dis-
missed ; when he is reminded that he
owes a debt of gratitude to Hogan for
befriending him in his youth, he says “I
don’t understand such things.”
Framed in Hardwood can be read only
as melodrama. It doesn’t approach the
standard of Lowe’s Salute to Freedom as
serious fiction.
Islam and Christianity : Lootfy
Levonian (Allen and Unwin). Concise
and clear chapters discussing Muslim-
Christian differences in religious outlook,
by the Dean of the Near East School of
Theology, Beirut. The Dean holds that
the Christians have hitherto been some-
what obtuse in their approach to Islam,
and unless they’re prepared now to
abandon prejudices and go at it with
understanding their evangelical institu-
tions might as well turn the game in.
How to Write for Broadcasting:
Howard Thomas (Allen and Unwin). “If
a writer’s ambition is for his work to
reach the largest possible number of
people he must eventually write for
broadcasting,” and, by way of encourage-
ment, the author knows one radio writer
earning a four-figure income without
breaking into the “big programmes.” In
radio “it is a fact that the public loves
repetition,” which may explain why
literary and political flops sometimes do
extremely well at it. The usual agree-
able all-round instruction, salted with
useful hints.
Review of Education in Australia,
1939 (Melbourne University Press). With
the promise of annual publication, this
handsomely-turned-out tome is the
Year Book of education in this country.
The whole Commonwealth is covered in
outline, with comparative reference to
other countries and special articles on
certain branches, such as agricultural edu-
cation, statistics on costs, attendances,
etc., in all States, and pictures of schools
that it must be almost a pleasure to
attend.
The Conquest of Bacteria: F. Sher-
wood Taylor (Seeker and Warburg).
Argues for stronger Government support
of those successfully carrying on the
offensive in that endless war.
My brother, gassed in the war of 1914-
18, and dying of tuberculosis of the larynx,
wrote on a piece of paper—-for he could
not speak—“ This is what modern science
has done for me.” The world is again at
war and is spending perhaps some twenty
millions a day on weapons of death and
defence against them. Yet we will not
spend a thousand pounds a day in the
hope of winning a permanent victory over
the grim wolf who was with us when Egypt
waned with Babylon, who each year carries
off thirty thousand of us Englishmen, and
who, if we help not ourselves, will still be
slaying us when the present war is but a
dusty item in the historian’s count of crime
and its reward.
The author’s argument takes the solid
form of relating the story of the develop-
ment and use of curative drugs, to the
famous new drug M. & B. 693.
And So to Bath: Cecil Roberts
(Hodder and Stoughton). Roberts gone
rambling along the historic road from
London to Bath, telling its past and
present. Pleasant, entertaining, and all
the better for not being quite so tepid
a bath as H. V. Morton’s usual.
Behold, New Holland!: Rix Weaver
(Paterson’s Press, Ltd., Perth). A West-
ralian’s novel of the early days ; the usual
colonising story, with the emphasis on
the women characters. Profits to the
Red Cross.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
X,
V
\
* /
r
The "HORDERNIA"
ALL METAL ICE CHEST
The "Hordernia/' all metal, is the latest addition to our
popular "Chilcott" Ice Chests. The steel cabinet is all in
one piece with rounded corners, and is available in
cream, white and pastel green. The food chamber is
lined with one-piece vitreous porcelain enamel, making it
hygienic and easy to clean —you just wipe it over with a
damp cloth. The ice chamber is fitted with a double
bottom under the meltage tray which ensures low con-
sumption of ice. Outside measurements: Height 43iins.,
width 23ins., depth 17ins. Food chamber: Height 17|ins.,
width 17|ins., depth 13ins. At Anthony pQ/1 Q/
EASY TERMS: Deposit £l, 9 monthly payments of £l/0/9.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
needs an Ice Chest
for Food Preservation
Warm weather is here! Everybody knows the danger of eating
meat which has been exposed to the hot air for any length of time,
and how disagreeable it is to take a sip of tea made with milk "on
the turn," or to find the butter rancid. Be sure of dependable food
preservation this Summer with one of Anthony Horderns' famous
"Chilcott" Ice Refrigerators—any one of them. You can buy it on
our Easy Terms.
/
/
/
Note the capacity
of the “Chilcott”
,:V;
■
mm
■
"nM
m
•:
s^sat
m
■
r .
mm
* 6 More of the famous 'Chilcott’
No. 50P —Oak Cabinet, similar-to illustration at right. Ice chamber opens at
top. Container and ice tray are removable, hence are extremely easy to clean. The
lining is one-piece porcelain, hygienic and easy to clean. All fittings are the very
best manufacture. Outside measurements: Height 39ins., width 19£ins., depth 15ins.
Provision chamber: Height 16ins., width 16ins., depth Ilyins. Fitted
with one shelf. At Anthony Horderns'. Price
£7/17/6
EASY TERMS: Deposit 15/9, 6 monthly payments of £l/4/3.
No. 50P__
removable, one
In appearance
'Chilcott” Ice Chest, one-piece porcelain lined. All inside parts are
shelf. The cabinet is beautifully lacquered in cream or white,
compares with a metal cabinet. Outside measurements: Height
39ins., width 19£ins., depth 15ins. Provision chamber: Height 16ins
width 16ins., depth Ilyins. At Anthony Horderns'. Price
9/31/83
EASY TERMS: Deposit 17/3, 6 monthly payments of £l/6/6.
No. 51P —"Chilcott," same as 50P above, but with two shelves
chamber, and larger in size. Outside sizes: Height 4Hins., width 2
in provision
Hins., depth
17ins. Provision chamber: Height 18ins., width depth 14ins.
At Anthony Horderns'
£9/10/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit 19/-, 6 monthly payments of £l/9/3.
No R9P
—Details as above, but further increased size. Two shelves in food
chamber. Outside sizes: Height, 43ins. width 24ins., depth 17ins. Provision
chamber: Height 19ins., width depth 14|ins.
Horderns'. Price
At Anthony
-/01/113
EASY TERMS: Deposit £l/3/-, 9 monthly payments of £l/3/10.
Oak Cabinet Ice Chest
No. 51P —Oak Cabinet. Ice chamber opens at top.
The container and ice tray are removable, which makes
the cleaning extremely easy. The lining is one-piece
porcelain, making the interior very hygienic—there being
no joints. All fittings are of the very best manufacture.
Food chamber is fitted with two shelves. Outside sizes:
Height 41iins., width 2 loin's., depth 17ins. Provision
chamber: Height 18ins., width 17£ins.,
depth Mins. At Anthony Horderns', Price
JPQ/IQ/C
JUO' JL<ur O
EASY TERMS: Deposit 17/3, 6 monthly payments £l/6/6.
No. 52P —Details as above, but increased size. Two
shelves in food chamber. Outside sizes: Height 43ins.,
width 24ins., depth Mins. Provision chamber: Height
19ins., width 19}ins., depth
At Anthony Horderns'. Price
PI O/TO A
XpJLU' "
EASY TERMS: Deposit £l/1/-, 9 monthly payments £l/1/9.
•7ce Chests—4th Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.


FARM
PROPERTY
By J.A. CHRISTOMAR.
FARM
PROPERTY : FRONTAGE HORTON RIVER. £75 DEP.
Area: About 7 acres 1 rood 15 perches.
Situation: FIFIELD. The property has a frontage to
Horton River about two miles from Fifield
railway station. There are stores, school,
etc., at Fifield.
Description: The soil is of a sandy nature, and there
is some rock. About three acres of the land
is ready for cultivation. The soil is most
suitable for fruit and vegetables. There is
fresh water in Horton River, also under-
ground tank, about 20ft. deep, cut out of
rock. Also there are two dams.
Buildings: DWELLING constructed of solid stone,
comprising enclosed verandah, dining-room,
three bedrooms, bathroom and laundry.
Price: £3OO. Deposit £75, balance at £3 per month
to include principal and interest at 3 per
cent.
Directions: Take train to Fifield station. Then walk on
towards Hatton on the left-hand side of the
line for a short distance, then turn to the
left, passing store, and continue for about
one mile. At the top of the rise take road
which bears left, this being Sexton-avenue,
and continue for about one mile. The
property is the last property on the right-
hand side. It is owned and occupied by
Mr. Joad.
PETERS & TARRANT,
Farm Specialists.
P HE train stops only to set down those passengers
1 who have previously informed the guard that they
wish to get off at Fifield. Outside the gate at the foot
of the ramp leading up to the platform a dusty red
earth road springs suddenly from the green of the
paddock and goes along towards Hatton parallel to
the railway line.
On the other side of the line grassed hills sweep
up in a long incline to the old house set among the
few remaining trees on the crest of the hill. On that
side there is no sign of a fence within miles, the only
mark across the dried grey green of the grass the two
wheel-tracks coming winding down from the home-
stead. There is no sign of cattle anywhere on those
hillsides, but it is obviously dairying country, good
and rich, showing grass still in spite of the drought.
On this side, close up opposite the station, is a
small cottage, a quarter-acre of cabbages jammed
close alongside, fowlhouses at the back. The road
turns away at a right angle to the railway line about
two hundred yards along. It dips down to a solidly-
built white-railed bridge, high above a dried creek-
bed, and rises again a half-mile further on to the store.
It’s a small, defeated little building, hemmed in
by the red dust of the road, which makes a corner
here. The step of the footpath, cut out of the same
red soil some years ago, has been trodden down and
worn as if the road had swallowed it in its desire to
flood up to the doorstep. A folded potato sack laid
as a doormat and muddied by some long-forgotten
shower has remained there till it, too, has become but
part of the red roadway. There are tinned sardine and
salmon and baked beans in the window, a battered
newspaper poster board at the door.
There's another;, more modern store on the other
side of the road set well back across the grass in the
apparent belief that this will one day be the main street
of a township. It has a refrigerator, and, besides the
tinned meats and fish, sausages and corned meat and
occasionally lettuces can be had there. Ice-cream
also. It boldly displays a half-dozen or so shining new
tin billies and three or four hard new scrubbing-
brushes. . It has the Post Office contract, and is the
telephone and telegraph office ; there is a branch of
the Savings Bank. The two-roomed wooden school,
with its rusted bell and hanging rusted chain in the
bravely determined whitegum outside the door, is in
the paddock at the back.
This side of the line the country is just as rich.
There is a good dry pick in most of the paddocks still.
The “places” are small, but “they’re a good Jiving.”
There are small crops of green feed for the fowls
dotted here and there, and patches of cabbages. Along
from the store one “place,” somewhat larger than the
average, has a fine old stone house among the green
of orange-trees at the back of a four-acre wheat crop.
Behind the house are a couple of acres of grapevines,
staked and ready to come on soon. Peaijh-blossom
makes a pink haze at the side, and though there is no
water in the creek now the grass along its banks is a
deep green.
U/HERE the land at the side of the road has been
VV divided into small U-acre blocks is a huddle of
pitiful little two-roomed fibro shacks —nude, ugly
blocks of buildings with small square window open-
ings boarded in and open doorways hung with hes-
sian. Here and there are signs of abortive attempts
at beautification by laying out flower gardens in front,
but only one or two of the shacks have been con-
nected to the city water or light which passes along
the road, and the small household tanks ring hol-
lowly on all but the lowest rungs now. At the side
“ Where'd you get those decorations ?”
“Anthony Horderns', sir."
the ground has in most cases been scratched over with
a “hand cultivator” and the green tops of young pea
plants are showing through in rows. There are few
trees left anywhere. Perhaps here and there where
they are close to the shacks and don’t occupy any
earth that can possibly be used in other ways an old
gum or two are still standing.
Further along, at the crest of the hill, are two
sturdy old stone homesteads, one on each side
of the roadway, looking down across cleared grazing
paddocks to the shacks in the hollow. Behind the
houses the trees have not been cleared, and where,
just over the hill, the road branches to the left, chang-
ing suddenly from its red dustiness to a hard butter-
colored clay surface, over which the wheel ruts wind
and stagger, it goes along through a tunnel of shade.
They’re good trees, gum and box, well spaced,
but on one side there’s a scattering of low scrub stuff
among the larger trees and not so much grass. A
little way along there are a couple of acres cleared, a
weatherboard cottage and whitewashed shelter shed
for the fowls. There’s an old spring cart with only
one wheel propped up against the side of the house,
with the axle resting on the narrow verandah.
Then trees again with a little more scrub, and a
hundred yards along another little clearing, a cottage
and fowlhouses. More trees, still more scrub and
another clearing. Then suddenly—the change as dis-
tinctly marked as if a line had been drawn across the
countryside—the earth changes. There are no more
of the grassed spaces among the trees. It’s rough
coastal scrub country now. The trees are smaller,
twisted in their struggle to live in the rock and sand
to which the good red and dark brown soil has sud-
denly given place. The roadway is rock and sand,
with only patches of clay. The scrub on both sides,
seemingly rejoicing in this poverty of soil, pushes out
on to the road in places as if it would join across it
to blot it out entirely.
Along the road a half-mile or so the scrub has
been cleared to make room for a shack. No grass
grows on the cleared space, only a few spindly weeds.
The walls of the shack had been made of a double
thickness of bags strung on a sapling framework and
limewashed, and the roof is of iron. At the side of
one of the two rooms there are a chimney and open
fireplace made of scraps of iron. Part of one of the
walls has been torn off or fallen down, for the place
is abandoned now. In a corner is a heap of straw,
greyed with the weather, where it has fallen out of a
chaffbag that had been used as a mattress. The floor
is of sand with bags laid on top of it. Nowhere, out-
side or about the little clearing, is there any sign of
what the people who built the shack intended to do
on the place.
Where the road dips down a little and where a
small area of slightly better soil mixed with the sand
makes cultivation possible about ten acres has been
cleared. Three brightly-painted weatherboard houses
cluster together, and there’s a bright show of flowers
along between the front of them and the road. At
the back there are row upon row of fowlhouses. There
are young crops of green feed alongside. These people
have had sufficient capital to make a start, to clear the
ground, build their homes and triumph over rock
and sand. It’s hard work now to maintain things, but
it’s work with an object and work with visible pros-
pects of success. The days are long, but the nights
are, too, out here, and there are half a dozen children
to help with weeding and picking peas and things like
that when they come home from the school, in near
the station.
‘ < T OAD’S place” is on beyond the clearing about
half a mile. The house is back off the road a
little, built in straggling fashion down the side of a
slope. Somebody—nobody now remembers who —
built it years ago with rough-hewn stone blocks he
quarried out for the tank. The walls are little more
than six-foot high, hardly that on the side to which
the iron roof slants, and the rafters, saplings, squared
off on the side against the iron, are lower still in the
couple of rooms at the back which were built last,
apparently when the tank was nearly finished and
stone was scarce or the builder's vision of creation
was fading. Dick load, who uses only those two rooms,
one to sleep in, the other for meals, and who goes
six-foot-two in his stockinged feet, has got into the
habit of bending over as soon as he goes in the door
and goes about continually stooped.
Outside the stone has been coated with whitewash
a couple of times and from a little distance looks
pretty smooth and level. Sometime, too, the wooden
frames in the window openings were painted a deep
dull blue. Inside there is a little heap of sandstone
dust all round the bottom of the walls where it has
been worn off the rough edges. In the two front
rooms with their boarded floors the sand has filled the
cracks between.,
Between the house and the road is a ridge of
bare rock. The iron and netted gate, hung without
hinges, carries a side of board from a fruit-case let-
tered in stencil “Fairview,” but it’s always known as
“load’s place” now or “That place with the two young
chaps.”
It’s all in Dick load’s name, but it belongs really
to him and Tom Engels, half and half. They’ve been
there just over three years now. It was after they’d
knocked out a cheque clearing and fencing down near
Bemboka that they got it. They’d had a run of four
jobs lasting nine months, and when they’d fixed up
with the storekeeper who had staked them with Kellys
and shovels and grub there was just on £325 coming
clear. They both reckoned they’d earned a rest after
that effort, and so they had. It had been hard work
and no sight of town for months, so they decided to
splash things around a bit. There were cream silk
shirts to buy and new singlets and soft shoes, and a
pub to stay at where a man could get a hot bath every
day and have a beer or two —though not too many,
for they didn’t want that —and wander about leisurely
and smoke tailor-made cigarettes for a bit. Then
they’d decided on a couple of weeks in Sydney—just
quiet stuff, seeing the harbor and the zoo and walking
about the streets —before they looked about for the
next bit of yakka. And it was while they were in
Sydney they got the idea. They hadn’t thought before
that you could get a place of your own where you
could settle down and work it for yourself so cheaply,
thinking always in terms of the 150-acre places down
in the country they knew. Once they did get the idea
they had a quick look around before the rest of the
cash went.
/'NF course, £2OO wasn’t very much really, but so
long as they could get a place to start on they
wouldn’t mind the work, and though the place at
Fifield didn’t look too prosperous they thought of it in
relation to the cluster of weatherboard places just
down the road, and the flowers in front of them and
the green at the side, and the fruit trees there and
the green of the paddocks in near the station, for it
was a good season that year. They thought of the
tank, too, and the water in the two small dams, which
were full then, and what they could do with it, and
the water in the river if they ever should need it.
And, surprisingly perhaps, they thought of all the
work that was needed, and liked the idea, for, after
all, they were used to work and had got into the
habit of it. And then the chap who was trying to sell
to them talked a lot about those places down the road
and how well they were doing, so they snapped it up


at £2OO cash, and knew that what remained of the
cheque if they got in now would see them through
easily.
And they did work hard, the pair of them, and
if one of those other dreams they’d both had —of
sitting down outside their own house and smoking
and yarning in the cool of the evening—didn’t
eventuate, because they were always too tired and
turned in early, they didn’t either of them grumble
about it. And if, sometimes, as they worked at clear-
ing the scrub from the ridge over beyond the little
hollow where they’d first of all put in some peas, they
wondered at the poorness and salty sandness of the
soil, and wondered how it was those places down the
road had come on so well, it still took them quite a
time to realise that the most important feature of all
those places, and one they hadn’t somehow noticed
at all before, was the rows of fowlhouses at the back,
and the one thing most important in all the district
was the crowing of the fowls at night. And even
when they very gradually did realise all that —and
realised that they couldn’t possibly mess around with
hens and roosters and chickens —it didn’t mean any-
thing like the end of their dreams.
It only meant a lot more and harder work clear-
ing the scrub, and that the heap of rocks, big and
small, they took off the cleared part and thought
some day they’d use to make fences grew more quickly.
It meant that they looked again at what remained of
the cheque to see how long it would keep them going,
and that they took it in turns for a few weeks’ milk-
ing for old Rouse in hear the station, while the other
went on getting those couple of acres ready.
They didn’t ever think that they wouldn’t be able
to do the job and get crops in sometime, even when
there wasn’t much over three or four inches of rain
last year and the two dams quietly dried up. Not
even when they had a look at the water down in the
river and suddenly realised something else —that they’d
need a pretty good pump and engine to get any of it
up out of the gorge to where they’d want it —did they
think it wasn’t worth while. They just kept on work-
ing, happily enough, too, certain that they’d break the
back of it and get started some day.
Only when there was a start with recruiting for
the A.I.F. was there any talk of their giving up the
place, and that, of course, was only natural and not
the result of any discouragement they’d felt. They’d
have gone into the army in any case wherever they’d
been and whatever they’d been doing. And there
wasn’t really any talk about it; they both just said
together they were going when Dick brought the news
back from the station. After that, of course, they had
to make arrangements, and they agreed pretty quickly
that the best thing to do was for one of them to hang
on till the place could be sold. So they tossed up and
Dick lost.
L_j E’S still on the place, and he still works just as
1 * hard as he did before, and with the same object
really—that ridge has to be made ready for a crop.
But Dick hopes every day now that someone will
come along who wants the place and make some offer,
and he’s been thinking lately that when Tom comes
on leave next time he’ll suggest they give it another
month, and if nothing happens by then they just let
the place go.
If you know anybody who wants a little place of
his own cheap, and who isn’t afraid of hard work,
you can tell him about it. Those are the agent’s
directions I showed you, but the place isn’t much
like that really.
THAT DAY AT THE BROWN LAKES
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
I WONDER if you
remember the day
we pedalled out to
the Brown Lakes?
It was a good day, that, one of those memor-
able days that are pretty much like a lot of others
but that stand out in your mind because of something
or other. It was a whole day that went with your
mood and completed itself in weariness and peace.
It started right when I got to your place and
your mother was packing a couple of apple-pies in
your crib. At that time I used to reckon that those
apple-pies of your mother’s were better than anything
my old lady could make. My mum was the best
around the place when there was anything wrong
with me ; but when everything was O.K. she was just
a woman, and it was a pity she couldn’t make apple-
pies like the juicy ones, with flaky pastry, that camp
from your place.
I filled my waterbag at your tank and tied it
between the bars of my bike, and you strapped your
twenty-two along the top bar, and we got off in the
early morning, with our bags full of good food and
the long day ahead of us.
“Now be careful!” your mother said. “I’m sure
I don’t know what you want to go away out there for.
You’ll tire yourselves out for nothing, and get home
about midnight, I suppose, with everyone worried to
death about what’s happened to you.”
“Aw, we’ll be all right,” you said. “We’ve pushed
our bikes further than that in the bush. We know
how to look after ourselves.”
Then we were off, pedalling side by side through
the streets of the town, and though I couldn’t tell
what you’re thinking now, even if it was worth a mil-
lion, I knew then, all right. You were feeling like
me —impatient and patronising towards women who
didn’t know why a man wanted to pedal so far and
tire himself out for nothing. I was feeling impatient
with the town, and with my humdrum work at Simp-
son’s, too. I was thinking that it was better to be set-
ting out for the Brown Lakes with you than it would
have been with Darky Green or Sid Wilson or even
Larry Summerville, though I used to knock about
with him so much in town.
The day started right.
Up Parsons’ Hill we stood on the pedals, and we
both began to sweat. When we got to the top we
had a spell, and I was mighty glad to find that you
could do with a breather, too. We squatted on a
couple of big rocks on top of the hill, with the whole
town spread out on one side of us and the endless
stretch of bush, with the ribbon of road running
through it, on the other. In the town the chimneys
were dribbling smoke, and in the scrub Jackson’s dairy
was huddled and some cows were milling and moo-
ing in a yard, but nothing else stirred for miles. It
was pretty flat country except for Parsons’ Hill.
I remember looking at you then and feeling ner-
vous, just for a moment, wondering if I’d be able to
hold my own all right on the long ride. You had
thick, strong legs when you were a kid, as brown and
powerful-looking as a grown man’s. Anyway, I had
no need to get the wind up, and my fear was only
momentary, because, though I was skinny and light,
I knew from experience that I could push a bike with
the best of ’em.
We coasted down the hill and then settled down
to a good, steady bat that rolled the miles out behind
us. For the first fifteen of them the road was broad
and straight to the old diggings, and the surface wasn’t
too bad. As we went, the trees at the roadside pulled
their shadows in toward themselves, the sun rose
high and fierce, and we were soon sweating again.
But it wasn’t the breathless, uncomfortable sweat
that had poured out of us at the top of Parsons’ Hill.
It was a good flow of lubricant for our moving
muscles, a sweat that cooled and refreshed on the skin.
While we pedalled that easy fifteen miles we
talked. We could ride abreast, and we must have
averaged about two words to the yard. We both said
things we wouldn’t ever put into words when there
was anyone else around —even the best of the mob
like Larry Summerville. What we said then wasn’t
of much consequence, pretty silly, really, I suppose,
but we got it out of us along with our good sweat,
and it mixed with the sunlight and the air we were
breathing, to form part of the pattern of a good day.
After the old diggings the track was bad. For
twenty miles it wound between rock outcrops, and
where there weren’t stones there was sand. It was
narrow, too, and whenever a ear passed us, full of
men and beer and shotguns, we cursed the dust and
wobbled and sometimes took to the bush and fell off.
But we enjoyed it, every minute of it. At Wrigley’s
Soak you shook your fist at the road and roared all
the bad language you knew into the quiet bush in a
fine fluent stream. I cursed and swore, too, and we
called ourselves fools, but we wouldn’t have been
anywhere else for quids. We ate your mother’s apple-
pies and filled the waterbag from the soak. The bag
was still nearly full of good tank water, but we
emptied that out because the weedy, strong soak water
seemed to us to be the stuff to keep life and energy
in proper bushmen and pioneers.
From there on it was hard work getting through
the sand and stones and double-gees, and it was single-
file riding and we didn’t talk much. You made the
pace and you put your back into it. I could see you
wanted to shake me off in the rough going, and for
a mile or so my muscles ached and I hated you. But
then I found that I could keep up all right and didn’t
have to burst myself, and I felt a sort of patronising
affection for you as you strained away in front with
your big muscles bulging. When we came out among
the Brown Lakes we were tired, but we felt we’d done
something. We felt good.
WOU mightn’t be able to remember that day even
I if I reminded you of it, but surely you sometimes
remember the Brown Lakes? It was a public holiday
in town, and the news that there was good shooting
out there must have got around. Everyone who owned
a shotgun and could get a ride in a car seemed to
be there, and they were keeping the ducks on the
move. Most of them had come out the previous night,
and there were camps all round the two-mile stretch
of shallow, rusty inland water. There were parties
at all the outlying waterholes and claypans, too,
booming away and keeping the weary, puzzled birds
on the wing most of the time. It was hard shooting,
and pretty cruel shooting, too, but we were, blood-
thirsty enough for it.
“Cripes!” I said, excited. “Y’ never get a sitting
shot. We’ll never pot one of those with a rifle.”
“We’ll give ’em a fright, anyway,” you said,
getting the twenty-two off your bike. “We won’t
get ’em if we don’t try, that’s sure.”
But then a chap came across from one of the
camps and put an end to that. “You kids can’t shoot
here with a rifle,” he said. “You’ll murder some-
one. Can’t you see there’s
more people than
ducks?”
That nearly spoiled
the day properly, but when he said we could tag
along with his crowd it made it perfect.
If you don’t remember all the tramping and wading
and excitement of that day you ought to
remember when he gave us each a shot out of
his double-barrelled gun, anyway. I can tell you I
shoved the butt hard against the muscles of my
shoulder as I’d always been told to do with a gun
that kicked. And I don’t mind admitting now that
I shut my eyes when I pulled the trigger. Any duck
was safe from me that wasn’t pretty unlucky. I was
content enough and proud enough to find myself still
standing upright after I’d done the job.
That was all good, exciting and strenuous, the
whole day of it, pedalling and tramping and eating
and shooting and yarning like we did. But do you
remember going home? Do you remember the first
five miles after we’d reached the good road, when we
were dog-weary and pedalling slowly, but not too tired
to talk? It was cooler then, just beginning to get
dark, and we got on to talking about girls. We were
full of curiosity about girls, but we were sentimental
and frightened and respectful too. We were decent
kids underneath all the bluff we had to put up to
convince the mob that we were tough and ruthless.
When there was just the two of us, after such a fine
day, it was different, and that day you said things
you haven’t lived up to, if that leery dial of yours
means anything. Perhaps I’ve fallen short of a few
of the things I said myself.
It was a hard ride back, with all the cars that
had been around the lake on the road together going
home, and one of them bumping us into the bush
about every half mile in the bad section and the
air thick with red dust; but it was all right. We were
young and tough and full of illusions. We reckoned
war was heroic and business was romantic, and that
the world never meant us any more harm than we
meant it. It was a good day. But it was after dark,
after the last car had passed us on its way to town,
when we had our lamps lit, and I had three punctures
in a mile, and then the back tube pulled in half, that
it was best of all for me. It was ridiculous and
childish and unfair to our parents and altogether mad,
but it was deeply satisfying.
I wonder if you remember? It was six or seven
miles from town where the case got hopeless and we
decided that my bike was unrideable. We’d been
working, patching the tube in the yellow light of our
lamps, with the bush shadowy and cool and dark
all around and the crickets mocking us in a chorus, and
we’d been cursing our luck and really enjoying the bit
of an adventure not too far from home.
“Well, that’s that!” I said. “You’d better ride on
to town to let ’em know we’re all right. I’ll walk
and wheel the bike, and if my dad’s home he can drive
out in the car to meet me.”
“Gosh, no!” you said. “Here, you go on, on my
grid, an’ I’ll do the walking.”
“Don’t be silly!” I said. “Your bike’s all right.
Hop on and ride it! ”
“Look,” you pointed out, “you don’t know for
sure if your dad’ll be home. You might have to walk all
the way. I don’t mind that. I’m as fresh as a daisy.”
“Who do you think isn’t?” I demanded indig-
nantly. “If you think I can’t keep up with you, ridin’
or walkin’, you’ve got another think cornin’.”
“Aw, I didn’t mean it that way,” you said. . “Only
we’re in this together. I’m not going to leave you out
here just because you had a bit of bad luck anyone
might have had. I’ll toss you for it if you like.”
When we tossed I won, but I wouldnff take your
bike. I felt pretty heroic about it, and the excitement of
our crazy argument had driven all the fatigue out of my
bones. I was wide awake and determined, and I was
depending on you, too. In the first place I’d quite ex-
pected that you’d ride on and I’d walk to town ; but
once the argument started you’d have disappointed me,
Dick, if you’d given way. I reckoned mates had to stick
together. I was stupid enough for anything, with just a
few miles between us and home, but we were only kids
and that was how I felt. When you stuck out and
we eventually set off on the tramp along the dark,
silent road wheeling our bikes, it was the perfect end
to a perfect day for me. I was elated, full of talk
and friendship and not giving a damn about our
parents worrying their heads off at home when we
finished up with that seven-mile walk on the day we
pedalled out to the Brown Lakes.
You didn’t disappoint me then, but would you
now? I must be afraid you would, or I’d have said
it aloud, told you all I remembered about it instead
of just thinking it as we sit here over our beer. That
day—practically the whole of that day—you and I
were pretty much the same ; but we’re different now.
You’d probably think I was mad. The years we
haven’t seen each other, that we’ve both spent chasing
the hopes we had that day, have done a lot to us.
You don’t look my kind now, Dick. You’re thick
and fat and dressed up and stamped with prosperity
and anxiety, but even so you might be a better man
than I am. I don’t know. I only know that you’re
different.
But perhaps I’m wrong. You’ve been silent for
a long time now, just sitting there staring at your
beer while I’ve been remembering all this, and for
all I know you might have been thinking about the
day we pedalled out to the Brown Lakes too.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
JJ ofyit Mm ofWw mellcumc44xmdl*cuqnd
WATERLOO STATION.
For eighteen years, or since Waterloo Station underwent a long overdue enlargement and rebuilding, completed in 1922 and opened by
H.M. Queen Mary, this gateway to London is the one first reached by the great bulk of oversea travellers hailing from Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa and the Americas. It is likewise the portal through which pass vast numbers of His Majesty’s military and naval
forces. Of course, since the group scheme for the railways came into being in 1921, the London and South Western Railway Co., the
previous owner of the station and railway, has ceased to be, and is merged in the group designated “Southern Railway.” The present
terminus is one of the largest and most convenient in the metropolis, though situated in a locality which bears, as it has for decades, a
none too savoury reputation. “New Waterloo” may be said to reflect the sensational rise of Southampton to the position of the greatest
oversea passenger entrepot in the United Kingdom. To the shipowners of the then comparatively unimportant Hampshire port in
1830 the genesis of the present terminus may be credited. Regarding what the Liverpool and Manchester Railway was likely to accomplish
for the great Merseyside town, they decided on action ; hence in April, 1831, appeared the prospectus of “The Southampton, London and
Branch Railway and Dock Company,” a title, regarding subsequent developments, somewhat significant. The raising of the necessary
capital was the difficulty, so at a further meeting in London it was decided that the dock part of the scheme should become a separate
enterprise, the capital thereby being reduced by £500,000. A bill was introduced into Parliament in 1832 for the construction of the
London and Southampton Railway. It was thrown out, and the next year met with a like fate, but in 1834 the promoters secured the
passage of the measure, but at a cost of £31,000 in legal expenses. The capital was £1,000,000, with a third as much in loans. This was
nearly all expended in two years. New arrangements were made, and the advent of important shareholders, “the Liverpool party,” and the
placing of the contracting work with Thomas Brassey, the “great railway builder” of his day, found difficulties disappear. Brassey was at
the time a young man of 31, and this job was the means of his coming to London. The line was opened in May, 1838. Since then
“Waterloo and Southampton” have become household words throughout the travelling world,


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3171.
Wednesday, November 20, 1940.
ENTER THE THIRD ROBBER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America. 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
MOLOTOV GOES TO BERLIN.
None of our boys of the Russian-alliance breed was
heard from when Molotov went to Berlin. British
members of the brotherhood were moved to make a
few fatuous remarks, mostly to the effect that Lord
Halifax was to be or should be sacked to admit of Mr.
Eden courting the Muscovites who love him so much,
but our own Reds and Pinks were too dejected even
to echo this nonsense. Silent was the Sydney “Tele-
graph,” which was wont to rave periodically about
“the greatest fighting machine history has ever known,
the Russian Red Army,” and which as late as July,
1939, was demanding “the signing of the Anglo-
Russian pact and its extension to Eastern Asia” as an
“urgent” matter. Silent also the Communist party,
though its “Tribune” keeps coming out surreptitiously,
and though Moscow agents are still doing what they
can, not having yet been interned with other enemies,
to prevent Australia throwing its full weight into “the
Imperialist war.”
“Chamberlain must at once sign the Anglo-Soviet
pact against the German butchers, and extend it to
the Japanese butchers, instead of attempting to make
treacherous bargains with the Fascists.” That appeared
in the Communist-party publication a few weeks
before the outbreak of war, and if suppression of the
surreptitious “Tribune” is too big a job for a Govern-
ment clothed with unlimited national-emergency powers
it should at least give workmen exposed to Communist
propaganda an opportunity of comparing the
November, 1940, output with the August-September,
1939, stuff. In August-September, 1939, Germany was
“the land of the midnight strangler,” of “dehumanised
thugs, the dregs of humanity.” Goring was “a drug
addict” and a “Fascist beast of prey.” The Molotov-
Ribbentrop “pact” was “a great victory for the Soviets
and for peace.”
Compelled to recognise the growing might of the
Soviet Union, Hitler sends Ribbentrop to Moscow
to try to make terms The Soviets agree to sign a
non-aggression pact, but that does not and never could
mean that they are prepared to give Hitler a free
hand for new and greater aggressions. Ribbentrop
will soon find that, in the event of unprovoked aggres-
sion, the pact becomes null and void.
In Moscow that eminent American journalist Mr.
John Gunther was writing to the same effect, though
in a different style. Both Mr. Gunther and the Aus-
tralian Communist party were misinformed, and when
this became clear the “Tribune” let itself go.
The savage German Fascists have launched a new
aggression against Poland. This war, launched for the
purpose of the conquest of Poland and its subjection to
the Fascist Empire of Hitler, is an act of stark aggres-
sion without justification of any kind. . Lovers of
liberty and justice throughout the entire world will
support the struggle of the* Polish people for their
independence and against enslavement by a foreign
Power.
This lofty attitude was maintained for one consecutive
week. In the agony of Poland the Mighty Soviet
Union pounced on the part of the prey that “the Ger-
man butchers” had flung to it, and straightway the
“Tribune” discovered that it had all happened because
“the Government of the Polish ruling class” had
“refused to have Soviet troops on Polish soil”:
“thereby” it “landed the Polish people into a barbarous
massacre.”
The Red Army is now engaged in saving the White
Russian and Ukrainian minorities from the Nazi
invasion and its accompanying horrors.
Three months later the Red Army found itself “en-
gaged in saving Petrograd and the Finnish democracy
from the insatiable ferocity of the murderous Man-
nerheim and his White Guards—and made a very
clumsy and ingloriously incomplete job of it. By that
time, of course, the Communist party had discovered
that the German war was wholly the work of “Franco-
British Imperialists” and all references to “savage
Fascist butchers,” “drug-addict Goring” and “de-
humanised thugs, the dregs of humanity,” had dis-
appeared from its propaganda.
It is a relief to turn from this unspeakably abject
championship of the new Russian imperialism, as cruel
as and more treacherous than anything in the history
of the Czars, to the writings of Krivitsky. Whether his
name is Krivitsky or Sam Ginsberg, or whether he
was a Red Army general or a Communist strike-
promoter or spy, he was right when he wrote that
“Stalin’s foreign policy in the Western World was pre-
dicated upon a profound contempt for Britain and
France” —which, many months after, Stalin betrayed
—“and upon an equally profound respect for the Nazi
regime,” being “guided by the rule that one must come
to terms with a superior Power.” He seems to have
been right also when he wrote that “from the very
beginning of the Hitler dictatorship Stalin pursued a
policy of appeasement towards the third Reich” —this
while, to the dutiful admiration of knaves and noodles
all the world over, his propaganda bureau threatened
the Third Reich with the most horrible punishment.
Stalin Krivitsky (or Ginsberg) described as “a per-
sistent suitor who will not be discouraged by rebuffs.”
There is enmity on the side of Hitler. On the side
of Stalin there is fear.
Fear there certainly is, and it must be greater than ever.
If the French army were still in being, if Hitler had
not made himself master of Central and Western
Europe, and if he had not added Japan to the Axis
alliance, Molotov would never have been sent to
Berlin. He was sent there because Stalin’s own per-
fidious plans have miscarried, because the safety (plus
loot) he thought he was buying with Slav blood when
he made his monstrous deal with Hitler is now depen-
dent on the caprice of a conqueror without mercy or
scruple who made a hideous wilderness of the Low
Countries in spite of his pledged word, and because the
Mighty Red Army itself is now exposed to the danger
of being attacked on two fronts.
No doubt there is still enmity on the side of
Hitler. The hatred of Bolshevism he professed for so
many years can scarcely have been assumed, nor is it
likely to have been eradicated by what Stalin did in
1939 or by anything he has been permitted to do since,
whether in Finland, the Baltic States or Bessarabia.
And “good-neighbor” Stalin has all too much
reason to fear that he will feel the full force of it if he
fails to carry out the instructions which Molotov must
have borne back from Berlin.
What these instructions are has not been revealed,
but their purport is fairly easy to guess. Stalin has
doubtless been ordered to get Turkey out of the road
if the Germans are obliged to send an army through
that country in order to attack Britain in the Middle
East. As reward for this service, if the service is
exacted, he has no doubt been promised Iraq or Iran,
or both, though whether he would be allowed to keep
them if he got them is another pair of sleeves. At
the same time he was probably commanded to stop
sending supplies to Chiang Kai-shek. And although he
must have made all sorts of promises to Chiang, he
would abandon that warrior as cynically as he aban-
doned Benes and Beck, and for the same ignoble
reason —cold feet.
There being no more little countries which can be
annexed or dismembered, with Hitler’s sanction, the
U.S.S.R. has lost its appetite for fight. Kalinin con-
veyed this great truth to the Supreme Council of the
Soviets on the twenty-third anniversary of the Bol-
shevist Revolution: “when almost the whole world is
involved in war,” he said, “it is a great joy to know
that we are standing aside.” But “we” now have to
reckon with the presence on “our” frontiers of a great
unemployed German army, whose western divisions
have signally failed to get across the English Channel
and end the war by that route ; so “we” are reduced
to supporting Hitler’s peace offensive lest the “great
joy” be violently expelled from “our” hearts. Such
seems to be the significance of the humiliating mission
to Berlin.
That a peace offensive is in progress there have
been several recent signs. The most striking was given
by the Foreign Secretary in the House of Lords when
he said that “we have repeatedly rejected all sugges-
tions from the enemy for an agreement with us at the
expense of France.” To such “suggestions” this is the
only honorable reply ; all the same, the British Gov-
ernment should never bang and bolt the door against
any peace overture from any quarter, provided it
specifies terms which may form a basis for fair dis-
cussion and offers guarantees, with international super-
vision, especially that of the U.S.A. The Government
owes this to the people who have stood by it so loyally
and with such stoical endurance of suffering, and to
the people of the Dominions and the other parts of
the Empire, and to the grand men of the Royal Navy,
the merchant navy and the Royal Air Force and their
Dominion comrades.
The thought of peace must be cherished by mil-
lions of Germans and Italians, particularly those with
bitter memories of the last war ; and it must be the
darling wish of Mussolini’s heart. The war is going
badly for Hitler’s junior partner, and there are
indications of a tendency to blame the senior partner
for Italy’s misfortunes.. There was a note of chagrin
in the cry uttered by Gayda after the Fleet Air Arm
had mauled the battleships in Taranto harbor —“we
may expect the British to deliver their heaviest blows
against Italy. The Italian fleet will have a difficult
job, for alone and without support it is facing the
British Navy.”
"In Great Peril."
Coincidence in person marched in and occupied com-
manding positions in the columns of Australian dailies
one day last week. Armistice Day had produced an
outbreak of speeches warning Australians of their
imminent peril. Side by side with reports of these
appeared reports of some of the strikes that go on
holding up munitions production, as in the past they
have held up war essentials such as hospital ships,
The speech-makers included many eminent Aus-
tralians, giving voice to thoughts that are in the minds
of most other Australians. Archbishop Mowll “pro-
tested strongly against what he termed ‘the apathy
and complacency of many Australians over the war.’ ”
Anything which holds up war production points to
a lack of those qualities which aje needed to make a
people really great—personal unselfishness, consideration
for others, pride in tradition, loyalty to leaders and
devotion to an ideal.
The Australian Minister to Japan declared that
Australians did not yet know how well off they had
been ; the Empire which had protected them for so
many years was today fighting for its life ; Australia, as
part of that Empire, must put forth its maximum effort
to survive.
For many years Australians have governed themselves
without any pretence of control from outside. They
have been able to do almost what they liked, and they
have run very few risks. For many years they have been
accustomed to think that they could determine any
question by votes. It is of no use to vote against
a war such as is being waged today. Votes are
irrelevant. This is a matter of fighting.
Mr. R. J. Grimshaw, an English (Portsmouth)
naval architect and shipbuilder who has settled in Aus-
tralia, used language understandable in his adopted
country: Australians had been “on a very good
wicket” ; his examination of it told him that it had
now become so sticky that it called for ships.
Ever since the war began there has not been suffi-
cient ships to carry all Australia’s exports. One of the
best things Australia could do to help the war effort
would be to build merchant ships.
There were plenty more like these, trying to wake
Australia up, lest the alarm should come in the form
of falling bombs, and at that too late. There can be
no question that they were uttering what many Aus-
tralians are thinking, but, like the bulk of those Aus-
tralians, they were men without positive responsibility.
The Armistice Day speech-makers, however, included
one pre-eminently qualified in that respect —the Prime
Minister. “We are in great peril,” said Mr. Menzies,
“and too many of us cannot, or will not, realise it.
Perhaps we have become so accustomed to power and
place and pride that we deem ourselves unconquerable.”
Translating “we” as “Australians,” that statement
could pass as ironical. Australians are aware, or they
certainly should be, that they have hitherto had neither
power nor place: by political action —not, it needs to
be said, at all disagreeable to Australians at the time—
they were rendered defenceless and were allowed to
remain defenceless, with no power of their own on
which to rely; utterly dependent on the protective
strength of the British Navy. Their “place” has been a
part, and —as it has been allowed to become —an insig-
nificant part, politically speaking, of the Empire. As for
“pride,” if there is one thing for which there is no
occasion, it is that: the word should be gratitude-
thankfulness for having been allowed thus far to grow
up under Britain’s protection ; for geographical posi-
tion which makes invasion more difficult than in the
adjoining lands of Europe, or even Britain, with its
narrow strip of sea ; and thankfulness for the British
blood which makes this a race of natural fighters.
“If there is not an end of strikes,” Mr. Menzies
proceeded, “there might well be an end of a free
Australia.”
To be safe within a reasonable time Australia can-
not afford to forgo the making of a single gun, rifle,
shell or bomb which it is within her physical capacity
to produce... .Here is the rub—thousands of men will
go on strike as lightheartedly as if we were at peace.
Surely it is a strange obscurity of mind which induces
a man to offer the labor of his hands to the enemy
when he would scorn to desert to them in the field.
Right here the difference between the Prime
Minister and the other Armistice Day speech-makers
comes in. Mr. Menzies is the elected leader of the
country ; these strikes are his responsibility before any
other man’s. If they are doing a fraction of the
damage stated or implied, it is the responsibility of
Mr. Menzies to bring them to an end. He has that
which he wrongly credited to Australia —place and
power. If he has pride as well, it is now his respon-
sibility to stand on all three ; to end these strikes, or
fall in the attempt, giving up his place to one who
can. Mr. Menzies said:
In a country at war—and at war for its life —such
things might conceivably be justified if the conditions
of labor were brutal and oppressive. In Australia they
are unpardonable. They are, as the all-party War
Council agreed the other day, a gift to the enemy.
The P.M.’s speech, as speeches go, was a good
one. It voiced more clearly and fully than any of the
others what Australians collectively have on their mind
and conscience. But it is far too late in the day for
speeches, however good. Australians look to their
elected leader for leadership, not in words, but in
actions. There has been enough dodging of real issues
since this war got going ; they now must be faced and
grappled with. If the P.M.’s speech is to be taken
literally, and accepted as completely correct, the
strikers have no case and rightly belong in the class
in which Mr. Menzies drastically placed them. If, on
the other hand, they have a case, it should all come
out, and there should be expeditious, just and, as far
as possible, final arbitration on it.
By an added coincidence, the paradox of reports
of the serious warning speeches appearing side by side
with reports of the munitions strikes was given further
point by the publication along with them of the most
revealing pictures of the destruction of London that
have so far appeared—in Australia, that is ; ever since
July even more blood-chilling pictures have been
appearing freely in American newspapers. That may
be partly the trouble. Australians have not hitherto
been told nearly enough about what has been going
on. It has looked as if those responsible were deter-
mined on issuing two kinds of news —one for America,
showing Britain in need of more and more help ; the
other for Australians, showing Britain as unbeatable.
It may now be the intention to change this, and it is
about time.
But this, after all, is a thin excuse ; despite any
censorship idiocies, Australians must know what is t <-
alternative in total war to total united national effort.
They have seen one disunited country after another
topple, and only unity enables Britain to hold out.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Unnecessary and Dangerous.
On the last day of a session which began on August 20,
the Queensland Government was seen in an astonish-
ing and alarming exhibition of provincial totalitarian-
ism. With the minimum of debate, it put through a
so-called Public Safety Bill which confers prodigious
powers on the State Premier and three of his Ministers
—called a “Council of Public Safety”—if they choose
to exercise them. And, subject to the supreme authority
of the Council of Public Safety, the prodigious powers
may be delegated to so-called local emergency com-
mittees.
The Act is to remain in force for the duration of
the war, “and for a period thereafter determined by
Parliament” —which means a submissive Labor caucus.
It empowers the Council to “carry out everything it
considers necessary for the welfare and public safety
of the Queensland people” ; and the Council is to be
the sole judge of everything it considers necessary ;
policeman and Crown Prosecutor withal.
It is provided, among other things, that “persons
* committing offences against the Criminal Code and
any other acts notified by the Council” may be arrested
without warrant, “and those obstructing the arrest of
such persons may also be arrested without warrant.”
Failure to comply with any section of the Act is
punishable with a fine of £lOO. What is more, “every
person who has any interest in any property enjoys
it subject to the Act.” The Premier, Mr. Forgan
Smith, allowed that “this bill gives the State Govern-
ment extraordinary powers, powers which I hope will
never be exercised,” and claimed that the extraordinary
powers were “supplementary and complementary to
Commonwealth legislation”; also that the measure
“does not attempt to infringe Commonwealth powers
or Commonwealth legislation.” The truth is that, in
respect of the power to detain persons arrested without
warrant, it goes farther than the National Security
Act; and when it says that “every person who has any
interest in any property enjoys it subject to the Act” it
strikes at “every person’s” rights under the Common-
wealth Constitution. In any case, the Commonwealth
has an immediate and pressing interest in “every
person’s” income from Queensland property, and can
recognise no impudent assertion of supreme provincial
power over such income.
Introducing this amazing measure Minister
Hanlon, who is to be one of the Councillors of Public
Safety, asserted that a measure of much the same kind
had been passed in Victoria, though he refrained from
entering into specific comparisons. Mr. Mair, it
seems, is toying with the notion of passing a Public
Safety Act in N. S. Wales. There is not the slightest
need for more than one National Security Act, and
if it is necessary for the provincial Governments to
exercise emergency powers they should do so only
under specific instructions from the Commonwealth
Government. One supreme authority is enough in war-
time or at any other time. But the unpleasant truth
has been brought home to the Australian citizen that
he has many masters, and each of his masters claims to
be supreme.
An Incredible Act.
Under the N.S.W. Local Government Act, local
authorities are empowered to
construct and maintain roads and streets, provide
water supply and sewerage or sanitation systems,
administer public health Acts, conduct town improve-
ment schemes, regulate erection of buildings, provide
and maintain public reserves, parks, baths, libraries,
etc., manufacture and supply gas, electricity or hydraulic
power, acquire and preserve places of historic interest
or scenic attraction, protect native flora and fauna, keep
waterways free and flowing, impound straying animals,
provide cemeteries and crematoria, establish public
markets, weighbridges, wharves, abattoirs, sheepdips,
watering-places for travellers, animal and human,
regulate the sale of fish and meat, license hawkers and
other things, compel destruction of noxious weeds and
animals, and generally keep the locality clean and fit
for human habitation.
Finance is obtained from rates, loans against
assets, Government grants and the sale of gas, elec-
tricity, etc. In every case the local authority is a
council of residents elected every three years.
For many country people the council is the only
direct form of government they encounter. Their
State Government, lost in Sydney amid a jungle of
departments, boards, commissions, is to them a distant
power about which they are reminded only by the
sight of a mounted trooper collecting statistics, the
annual arrival of long envelopes from the Taxation
Commissioner or a sudden invasion of the district by
aspiring politicians at election time.
Now the Sydney Government has taken from
them the right to elect their councillors. Under the
bill now in its second reading in the Upper House —
it was gagged through the Assembly in face of a storm
of opposition—the local-government elections are
postponed for a year, ostensibly because the Govern-
ment “wants councils to concentrate on war work
instead of electioneering.” The argument is too weak
to stand up.
The idea of postponement originated in the Mair-
Bruxner mind last June, when the German was rolling
across France and it looked odds on that Britain
would be invaded. What this had to do with shire
and municipal elections in distant Australia is hard
to imagine, but a circular went out from Mr. Martin,
the Minister of Local Government, informing councils
that the elections would be postponed. Some of them,
caught on the hop, agreed with the idea. The people
were told that a majority of the councils favored it.
Since then it has been clearly shown that fewer
than half of them did so. When a hostile local-
government conference was offered a sop in the form
°1 a promise to extend local-government powers, it
showed what it thought by plumping for the abolition
of State Parliaments.
It came out, too, that the Government had not
obeyed the Act requiring annual preparation of the
municipal and shire rolls, and people are suggesting
that this is the reason for its persisting with the post-
ponement. It is also suggested that this post-
ponement is a preliminary to an attempt by the Sydney
Government to dodge the State elections by post-
poning them, too.
Another Government excuse, that many soldiers
are now out of the country and would be deprived
of their vote, is silly. In fact, if the Government
could hear the opinions of many countrymen now
abroad about its action it would probably feel insulted.
Mr. Martin has not accepted challenges to name
the councils that supported or opposed the postpone-
ment. It wouldn’t matter if he did. It is the people,
not the councils, whose rights are being abused, and
the opposition is no less strong in the city and suburbs
than in the country.
The Premier, Mr. Mair, told the House that his
Government felt confident of winning the State elec-
tions, although “if the circumstances of the war are
such that it is impossible to hold elections, the Gov-
ernment will not hesitate to postpone them.” If the
man thinks he can use the war to prevent the people
expressing their opinion of his Government at the
due time he is a super-optimist. If he or his colleagues
can interpret public opinion at all, the reaction to the
postponement of council elections should fill them with
dismay.
Air Patrols and Hot Air.
Sydney “D.T.” plumbed the depths of sensationalism
in an interview with Mr. McEwen, the new Air
Minister, about coastal air patrols. It devoted most of
its front page to the hysterical stuff, embellishing it
with a photograph which made the meekest Minister
who ever mouthed a platitude look as stern and un-
bending as the original bull-terrier.
Mr. McEwen has nothing of the bull-terrier in
him, otherwise he would not have wilted under the
questioning. And Mr. McEwen has no judgment, or
he would not have allowed a journal notorious for its
attacks on the R.A.A.F. and on the late Minister
Fairbairn to act as his vehicle of expression.
Actually, there was nothing sensational about Mr.
McEwen’s replies, but they were presented in such a
way as to suggest to the public that there had been
dereliction of duty. He “frankly stated” that there
had been no R.A.A.F. patrol of Bass Strait for 18
days before the blowing up of two ships off Cape
Otway. That appeared in big black type under scream-
ing headlines, such as “Not Enough ’Planes to Guard
Mined Area.” Inconspicuously printed a long way
down the column were McEwen explanations that
the October 20 ’planes flew at 4000 to 6000 feet,
“the regulation height for these patrols,” that “the
purpose of patrols or reconnaissance flights is to keep
a watch for unidentified ships” and that “mines cannot
be seen from the air because of light reflections and
surface ripples.” In between, Mr. McEwen worked in
a little advertisement for himself: “I trust I have given
frank answers to all these points. I am not going to
jump in to defend the Air Force against any reason-
able complaint without investigating it.”
This delighted the “Telegraph,” but evidently it
didn’t delight the Prime Minister or the Minister for
the Navy. Mr. Menzies said warmly next day that the
question of patrols was a matter for the R.A.A.F.:
If the time comes when I think I can tell the
Air Chief his job I will appoint myself in his place....
It would take 50,000 ’planes to cover the whole of
the Australian coast.
And with 50,000 ’planes available raiders might
still slip through. As Mr. Hughes pointed out, the
whole might of the R.N. and of the R.A.F. has not
been able to close the narrow channels out of the
North Sea to raiders —fresh minefields are continually
being laid by Germans round the British coast.
In another article in which it praised itself and
the very green Minister, the “D.T.” suggested that the
situation might be saved if the Government would only
buy enough American Guba seaplanes to make the
patrol watertight. The Guba is a large machine —six
or seven tons larger than the Short Sunderlands. The
only Guba which has been seen in the Commonwealth
is the one that made the Indian Ocean survey with
Captain P. G. Taylor last year, and it was flown by an
American crew. It is a very complicated machine. To
train sufficient crews to handle even a dozen Guba
squadrons would mean considerable organisation, even
if Gubas could be obtained and were worth obtaining.
The order placed by the Government is being filled at
the rate of one a month.
Tax Lottery Prizes !
Defence and war expenditure reached £11,000,000 in
October, and Australia may look forward to this figure
being vastly exceeded, Mr. Fadden said last week.
That means, for one thing, a great deal more tax-
revenue, and the new Commonwealth Treasurer’s
opportunities are limited by the State Treasurers’
drastic cuts at high incomes. But while the war is in
progress and until normal times return he could get a
few millions at practically no cost of collection by
taxing lottery prizes.
The Commonwealth used to tax these prizes, but
waived the impost as an undeserved concession to
State Governments engaged in the lottery business.
There were only two then ; there are four now. In
1938-39, the latest year for which details are available,
the N.S.W. Government gathered in £865,600 from
lotteries and the Tasmanian Government £437,600.
The Queensland Government drew £95,100 from lot-
tery tax, and an additional £445,200 was “remitted to
the Department of Health and Home Affairs” for
expenditure at its discretion.
The Westralian Government levied no tax, but
reported that £141,500 had been subscribed to six
“consultations” and that £48,141 had been distributed
among hospitals and charitable organisations. The
Chief Secretary mentioned that “subsequent ‘consulta-
tions’ ” had been “conducted on a larger scale, and
involved the purchase of a new barrel and marbles,
£1019.” Incidentally, salaries, commission and office
expenses cost £21,504 in Westralia and £116,800 in
Queensland, where tickets amounting to £1,902,500
were sold.
A 10 per cent, tax on lottery prizes for defence
and war expenditure would impose no hardship on
anyone and would do away with a scandalous anomaly.
At present, when taxing incomes equivalent to the
first prize in an ordinary Queensland or N.S.W. lot-
tery, the Government carrying on the war takes ss. Id.
in the £ on the first £4200 and 9s. in the £ on the
excess. These rates are no doubt justified by the
national emergency, and they are to go higher,
but it is grossly unfair to the persons thus taxed, and
also to the general taxpayer, that equivalent amounts
gained without exertion—merely by the lucky turn of a
marble —should go untaxed. Though the State Gov-
ernments have, in one way and another, been relieved
of a great deal of expenditure, they have refused to
reduce their excessive income taxes; and on this score
alone the Commonwealth Government is warranted in
taxing lottery prizes. It should also reimpose its tax
on entertainments, which would give it another
£750,000 or so p.a.
Soil Erosion in Victoria.
Prevention of soil erosion is the subject of a bill
under consideration by the leisurely Victorian Legis-
lature. According to its sponsor, Minister Old, unless
prompt measures are taken Victoria may one day
repeat the horrors of the American dustbowl, where
100,000 farmers were literally blown off their holdings.
Laanecoorie weir, on the Loddon River, is a
good barometer of the situation. It had an original
storage of 14,000 acre-feet, but siltation has reduced
its capacity to 6650 acres. After the 1939 bushfires
1000 acres of silt slid into the Eildon weir. Nearly
one-half of the State is said to be affected.
Mr. Old’s “remedy” is the familiar one —a board.
A board composed of seven members, with a chair-
man as a full-time officer, assisted by officers from five
departments, plus a part-time representative of pas-
toral interests. There are to be the usual “investiga-
tion” and a report to the Government, after two years,
as to whether a voluntary control campaign would be
efficacious or whether private owners should be com-
pelled to share in the task of preventing the State slip-
ping into the Southern Ocean.
The proposition has a musty smell about it.
Boards working with departments have an unfortunate
history in Victoria. They haven’t prevented or even
sensibly diminished the devastation caused by bush-
fires ; and bushfires cause erosion. The bushfire
menace is still being countered by committees lack-
ing sufficient power and departments industriously
passing the buck to one another. Excellent schemes
have been worked out by the Forestry Department,
and there is plenty of equipment, but they are made
largely ineffective by divided authority.
So much is already known about erosion that
a great deal of remedial work could be done under
a resolute authority. But resolute authorities usually
cause acute embarrassment to Victorian party poli-
ticians. Mr. Old may be old by nature as well as
name before Victoria gives up its habit of eroding.
S.A. Moves Forward.
“H.A.L.,” with three loud cheers:
Some country towns (B. 23/10/’4O) grew up around
industries which were started in the wrong place—the now-
defunct foundries and implement works of Gawler (S.A.) are
a case in point. But on the shores of Spencer Gulf the
busy industrial town of Whyalla has risen upon what a few
years ago was saltbush and mudflat. It now resounds to the
din of the building of the blast furnace and of ships being?
loaded with iron ore for the Newcastle steelworks; to the
clatter of the riveting guns in the shipyard and the rattle of the
dredges as they excavate the basin for the huge new harbor.
Port Lincoln, with its busy shipping, its freezing works and
super, works, has doubled in size within a few years. So has
Naracoorte, in the south-east, centre of a district whose stock-
carrying capacity has trebled since the introduction of sub
clover and topdressing of pastures.
Farther south, on low dune ranges which grew nothing save
bracken and manna gums 20 years ago, the dark green of
pine forests now stretches for mile after mile, intersected
by broad firebreaks. In the centre of each area is a sawmill
using the most modern plant and surrounded by a pretty
and well-planned town of comfortable cottages. From those
mills motor-lorries cart away first-class flooring boards,
weatherboards, building timber and case shooks. Now in
course of construction is a factory which will turn mill waste
and plantation thinnings into wrapping paper, building boards
and cardboard. There is no waste or desolation about the
working of these pine forests, for planting follows always in
the wake of the logging gangs as they fell the mature trees.
Butter and cheese output has of late years doubled and
then doubled again in the heavier-rainfall districts of S.A.,
with new factories being built to handle the increased pro-
duction. Many a country town has a derelict flourmill —
but nowadays it is more economical to grist wheat in a few
big central plants than in the scores of old rat-warren type
of flourmill.
Delicensed hotels? Yes, almost every town has one, but I
hope to live to see the day when each country town will
have but one hotel, and that a Trust House owned by the
community, like that at Renmark, from whose profits thousands
of pounds annually go towards paying for civic improvements.
South Australia also has its Eudunda Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, a venture started by farmers and woodcutters, whose
annual turnover has risen from hundreds of pounds to millions,
and whose customers are shareholders. They not only buy
their goods at ordinary store prices, but obtain a dividend —
Is. 9d. in the £ last year—on their purchases.
Some people do their darnedest to stop country towns pro-
gressing. They are usually the McGinty type, who bought up
all the land around the place when it was only a pub, store
and blacksmith’s shop, and who nowadays won’t sell a block
to a would-be homebuilder except at an exorbitant profit.
But our Government clips the wings of these people wherever
possible—at Whyalla building sites are allotted only to genuine
homebuilders or those who wish to start businesses. At
Bordertown the speculator was checkmated by the resumption
of some superfluous commonage and its subdivision into
home sites.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ike Hollar”: Our suburb is being
stirred from its apathy by a local organi-
sation which is splashing sloganistic
placards everywhere as the start of a
drive for a greater war effort. The cam-
paigners have struck an unexpected effect
in several places because their posters,
here and there, have been pasted over
another, advertising some babies’ food.
The combination runs:
They Have A Bonnie Baby
What are You doing to Win the War?
* * * *
‘Nakh”: “Tuart’s” par. (B. 13/11/ ’4O)
on the matrimonial affairs of the Sultan
of Johore reeks of Anglo-Saxon preju-
dice. After all, why wouldn’t his High-
ness Sultan Ibrahim, G.C.M.G., K.8.E.,
appear in the eyes of an English girl as
good a mate as some youthful Cockney?
When I first visited his kingdom he was
certainly better known on the Singapore
racecourse than in the Council Chamber,
and his State led a precarious existence
on the illegal opium trade and the pro-
ceeds of the gambling tables. Since then
he has turned his principality of half a
million Malays, Tamils and Chinese into
a modern State, with schools, colleges,
medical services, public hospitals, an ex-
cellent postal and telegraph system,
metalled roads, railways lined on both
sides with rubber plantations and a con-
siderable manufacturing industry. It re-
quired some character and intelligence in
its ruler to accept the help of his British
advisers to achieve this triumph of Euro-
pean civilisation. To cap it all, he has
presented a battleship to the Empire and
made other patriotic gestures of which
“Tuart” would doubtless approve if they
came from a white-skinned ruler.
» * * *
“El V.”: St. Clement Danes, in the
Strand, which suffered a direct hit from
a bomb the other day, knows something
about invaders. It is the burial-place of
Harold Harefoot, the illegitimate son of
Canute the Dane, and the war falls in
the 900th anniversary year of his death.
Time was when London was full of Danes
—their names are in a dozen localities
and churches; St. Olave’s, Southwark, St.
Magnus are all memorials of their time.
But the English dealt with them. The
particular lot who had appropriated the
area round St. Clement’s were locked up
in the church and done in to a man. And
” ’Op over and ask the skipper if 'e'd like to join us for dinner?”
for that the English had to suffer the
invasion of Canute himself, with his
golden dragon ship. St. Clement’s also
has sea associations, the saint, a com-
panion of St. Paul, being the patron of
sailors who was martyred by Trajan by
being tied to an anchor and cast into the
sea. The anchor appears on the weather-
cock and the parish boundary stones. In
later days, St. Clement’s was known as
the children’s Church of “Oranges and
Lemons,” but the bells which Doctor
Johnson heard when he worshipped there
no longer play that tune. Instead they
play “Hanover” and “Lass o’ Gowrie”
three times a day.
“Ek D.”: Wonder if the time-bomb
which was dug out before the west front
of St. Paul’s frightened away one of the
cathedral’s most ancient ghosts? It has
been immemorial legend in the City that
there is always a wind blowing at the
south-west corner of the cathedral. The
yarn is that the Devil came riding in on it
to visit the lawyers in Doctors’ Commons
across the way and hitched his mount
in St. Paul’s Churchyard while he
made his call. He found the company
so congenial that he never came back for
his breezy nag, which has been champing
at the bit there ever since. Can’t produce
affidavits, but there certainly always is a
wind there, and anybody who has ever
had a bill o’ costs can vouch for the
affinity of Auld Snootie with the attor-
neys,
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Even the ship which took
the leading part in Conrad’s story The
Brute didn’t have a worse hoodoo on
it than the old Kakariki. Sunk in a col-
lision with the Caradale on Jan. 31, 1937,
with the loss of five lives, close to the
main shipping channel into Melbourne,
it has been reposing on the mud near the
Gellibrand Light for close on four years,
despite repeated attempts at salvage.
The latest was begun 10 months ago with
the use of the lifting pontoons known as
camels. The other day a gale arose when
the final test before lifting was only a
couple of hours off. The sling of five
4in. hawsers, with a total breaking strain
of 740 tons, inexplicably parted and the
camels floated ashore at Port Ormond.
On its unpremeditated cruise one of the
creatures collided with the 30ft. punt
which carried the crew, their quarters
and the electric-light installation, and it
joined the Kakariki. After two years
on the job, however, contractor A. E.
Geddes, Geelong engineer, is not down-
hearted.
* * * *
“Ay-Ay”: Out of Sydney “Pix” always
comes something new. In the latest
October issue appeared a bad reproduc-
tion of the Windsors, beneath it a line
or two of comment on the much-dis-
cussed sacrifice of throne for true love —
concluding with the titbit that Shakspeare
used the crown-v.-love theme for one of
his famous tragedies. Rather a pity that
tragedy has escaped publication—it would
have surely taxed even Shakspeare to
present such a theme convincingly to an
Elizabethan audience. Good Queen Bess
was the daughter of a commoner, and
the issue of an extremely irregular mar-
riage. Henry sought a divorce from his
first wife on grounds which were flimsy
then, and nowadays would not be allowed
in any English court. The divorce went
through only after Henry had promoted
himself head of the Church and beheaded
the main opposition. The idea of abdi-
cation to satisfy his subjects’ moral
scruples apparently never occurred to
him.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: From California, land of
wonders, comes a report that a man who
paid for admittance to a moving-picture
theatre has sued the exhibitor for 20,000
dollars because a film bored him,
and the Judges have been unable to come
to a decision, two Courts having already
solemnly considered the application.
Evidently the law in U.S.A. isn’t con-
ducive to logical thinking. Because a
person is bored by a film or a book
doesn’t necessarily mean that the book
or film is boring. There is a certain
amount of truth in Ethel Mannin's dic-
tum that only bores are bored.
* * * *
“F.S.”: An artist used to say he always
judged whether a person had a real belief
in art by his reactions to the lawsuit
between Whistler and Ruskin. If he sided
with Ruskin he was a Philistine, and if
he sided with Whistler, for all Whistler’s
mistakes, he was an artist. The forcible
cutting-off of baronet Beecham’s beard
by some young men who entered his
cabin on the trip to Canada is another
test case. Sir Thomas antagonised the
Australian public. In other words, he
was as bad a psychologist as Whistler.
But he is a great conductor who suc-
ceeded in getting the allegiance of Aus-
tralian orchestras as nobody had done
before him. When he shouted “Shut that
door! This isn’t a cabaret” in Brisbane,
it was music he was defending. The
people to whom music was of such slight
importance that they could stamp into
the middle of a concert were besmirch-
ing music. The young men who chopped
Beecham’s beard off may have thought
it patriotic, but they were only stupid
bullies. And the Melbourne newspaper
which reported the occurrence with un-
concealed delight was taking their side
against music.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Touching advt. from
a Brisbane evening paper:
For Sale, two pretty bride’s bouquets
(new), any offer accepted.
As a bride never carries more than one
bouquet it would seem that two romances
have been busted up, two tender hearts
broken, or at the least considerably bent,
and two perfectly good arrows wasted
from Cupid’s quiver. The only consoling
feature is that the forlorn maidens have
retained their sense of values and do not
intend to allow it to be all dead loss.
Brave lasses both, and wise to keep the
less perishable items of the bridal outfit
—in these swift days a girl can never tell
when they might come in handy.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Luck is an inconsequential
bedfellow. Witness the case of the car-
penter who was missed when a British
freighter blew up in Bass Strait. When the
ship exploded he took up his boat station
with his companions and then left it to
retrieve his money from his cabin.
When he returned one of the windward
boats had got away, but the other seemed
to be in difficulties. He ran to the lee side
just in time to see the lee boat leaving.
The remaining windward boat got away,
and the last the people in it heard of
the poor carpenter was a cry for help,
which was swallowed up by the sea a
second later. On the other hand, one
of the survivors is a 25-year-old Tas-
manian who has exchanged kisses with
death so often that he is known as “the
Man the War Chases.” He was at Narvik
when his ship, the Otterpool, escaped
through a minefield after shooting down
two Nazi raiders; he was off Nantes,
France, when the Germans entered that
city ; he was off Italy when Musso. de-
clared war, his ship being bombed 10
minutes afterwards; he saw three ships
next to his own in a convoy tor-
pedoed ; he was on the Otterpool
when she was sunk and was picked
up after drifting four hours; he saw
his savior, a destroyer, sink a German
U-boat; he dropped in on Liverpool
in the middle of an air raid. He was a
seaman on a British freighter trading to
Spain during the civil war. On the
latest occasion he escaped death by a
hairbreadth.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Nobody would be so silly
as to doubt that Don Bradman, now
Lieut. Bradman, is an authority on
cricket, but it would be interesting to
know why the military people thought
that he must necessarily be an authority
on physical fitness. It isn’t the people
who have always been strong and vigor-
ous who have built up theories of
physical culture. The strongest man who
lived in recent times was a consumptive
weakling at 20, doomed to an early death
by the doctors. That was Sandow. It
was the necessity he felt to overcome his
disabilities that made him an authority
on physical fitness.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: That Melburnians are
singularly unobservant of their weather
is a conclusion which is forced on me by
the fact that they persist in holding their
Melbourne Cup and all its attendant
functions in November, the coldest, blow-
iest and most inconsequential month in the
Victorian calendar. A few days before
the latest occasion a hailstorm which
swept part of the State cut the bodies of
my neighbor’s chickens in half as if they
had been operated on by a skilful sur-
geon and hammered on my roof like
shrapnel. The day of the great event
opened cold and tempestuous. Yet the
previous month was a typical Victorian
October; that is to say, it was un-
believably beautiful halcyon weather,
still, warm and sunny. There is a
ft*ed belief in Melbourne that summer
starts in November., It doesn’t. It starts
in October, has a relapse in November
and never properly recovers till close on
Christmas. I discovered this when I
took my holidays in November and
December. After a couple of unfortunate
experiences, I tried October, and my own
weather prediction has failed me only
twice out of 15 occasions.
WAR-TIME MEASURES.
“Cigarettes and beers are to be shorter as a result
of increased excise duties.’’
The time has come again to note
The lesson learned aforetime,
That one and all must help to tote
The nation’s load in war-time.
Though grumbles, needless to admit,
Will come from many a quarter,
Reflect, it still will take a bit
From off the usual “deffersit”
If fags and beers are shorter.
The chap who in his pocket digs
For monetary dollop
Will get a lighter pack of cigs.,
A lessened whack of “wallop.”
That inch or two off brown “she-oak”
Or gaily foaming porter
Will something of regret provoke,
Fll say, in many a thirsty bloke
When smokes and pots are shorter.
Yet some there are will lose no beans
From excise rubs and raspers,
The crowd that frowns on wet canteens
And disapproves of gaspers.
No time or care have they to spare
For any bar-resorter,
The unco’ guid who dodge their share
Of what their fellows needs must bear
s Now fags and beers are shorter.
Ah, well! We all can do our bit
Without unmanly squalling
To make the coming “deffersit”
A little less appalling.
It needs no fluent orator,
No passionate exhorter.
To tell us —what we’ve glimpsed before —
It can’t but help to win the war
That smokes and pots are shorter.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C.R.”: The inviting of a writer of
frothy comedy to Australia to tell the
country about the British war effort in
between songandance turns may sound
like a joke to future generations. It
recalls another occasion when the sub-
lime was linked with the ridiculous. That
was when Einstein was invited to Mel-
bourne for the centenary celebrations.
Presumably his potential hosts wanted
him to discourse on relativity. As there
were probably not ten persons in the
city capable of understanding him even
if he spoke in English, this was quaint
enough. As he talked only German
his real audience might have been nar-
rowed down to a couple. But perhaps
they only wanted him to see the fire-
works.
* 4c Jk *
“Dick Tafone”: The “Times” never
attained the pontifical level of the Mel-
bourne “Argus” of 40 years ago in the
matter of austere punctiliousness con-
cerning medical titles (B. 30/10/’4O).
Other than those actually on the State
Medical Register with an M.D. quali-
fication, nobody ever , got a “Dr.” in its
columns, only a “Mr.” with the initials
of his degree or collegiate qualification.
Any reporter or sub. who failed to check
up doubtful cases was heading for trouble
either way. The climax came when a
conscientious sub., after meticulous re-
search, corrected Stanley’s historic greet-
ing to the long-lost African explorer to:
“Mr. Livingstone, M. 8., I presume.”
Surgeons in Britain usually prefer to be
addressed as “Mr.” even if they do
possess an M.D. as well as the F.R.C.S.
As for other doctorates, if Dalton, M.P., is
a D.Sc. (London) by examination, the
“Times” is either ignorant or rude in
ignoring his properly-earned title.
♦ * * *
“Nakhoda”: Reported that Queen
Wilhelmina is going to the Dutch East
Indies to set up her Court in those delect-
able islands. If true, it will be the first
time a European sovereign has ruled in
person over an Asiatic country, with the
exception of Alexander the Great and
some of the Roman emperors, and there
are bound to be some strange repercus-
sions. Per medium of her portrait, Queen
W. has been worshipped as a remote
white deity in every orthodox Java-
nese household for nearly
half a century. But there
is concrete evidence of
royalty in the Court of the
Sultan of lokjakarta and
of the Susuhunan of Solo.
These two semi-divine
princes have each a walled
kraton which houses a
population of from ten to
twenty thousand of their
relatives and retainers.
Each maintains a ' Court
which is stiff with tradi-
tion, and in which every
word and gesture are gov-
erned by centuries of
usage. If the white queen
comes to Java the Dutch
officials will have the job
of surrounding her with
an aura of sanctity at least
as impressive as the sul-
tan’s and the susuhunan’s.
There is one direction in
which she will find it diffi-
cult to compete with these
ghostly rulers. Once a
year they levitate them-
selves to a distant moun-
taintop where they com-
mune with their ancestors
and receive advice on
State matters of import-
ance.
* * *
“Bohemian”: , Flax of
the sort produced by
Phormium tenax has
always played a part in
Maoriland’s life. Recent
decision of the Government to spend
£15,000 on planting more of it in the
South Island reminds that Seddon, whose
electorate was covered with it, found it
very/ useful one day. While on a post-
sessional tour of Westland he lost all the
buttons off his pants in a gig accident,
and, having little time to spare before
his next speech, took out his pocket-knife,
hacked a long blade from a flax grow-
ing on the roadside and extemporised
a belt. It was just his luck that at the
meeting a heckler accused him of neglect-
ing the flax industry. “It’s a lie,” roared
Dick; “not only do I support flax, but
flax maintains my pride and dignity.”
And he proudly. revealed his shining
green belt.
* * * *
“A Major”: “Cauboy’s” yarn (B.
13/11/ ’4O) about the amiable Szigeti, who
played for his friends on a 60s. fiddle,
goes to emphasise the big advantage these
bow-instrument virtuosos have over
pianists. They do their own tuning.
Despite many picturesque legends to the
contrary (Beethoven extemporising the
first movement of the “Moonlight” on
an old cracked-tone upright in a humble
cottage is one of them), I’ve never known
a concert pianist who wouldn’t recoil
with horror from the lordliest Broad-
wood or Bechstein if it were a hair-
breadth off pitch. That’s one reason why
well-known pianists are so coy of show-
ing their paces in private homes—the
home piano is hardly ever in tune. Liszt,
in his declining years, let it be known
that it was his rule, when visiting, never
to play if he were asked; if he wasn’t
asked he wasn’t likely to volunteer.
Possibly the only great pianist Austral-
asia has ever heard struggling with in-
ferior and badly-tuned instruments was
Carreno. She did the “smalls” in Aus-
“you clumsy ass —that Was the best drive I've made for years!”
“Now this is how I Would have done it.”
tralia and Maoriland, and I cherish a
memory of her sitting up to an ancient
Erard upright and wincing as its debili-
tated strings slumped down in some cases
a full quarter of a tone after she had
walloped the “Appassionata” out of it.
But she never looked or sounded so
heroic.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The old Tweed Heads
custom-house building—it ceased to
function as such in 1903 and has been
sold for removal recently—saw much
border history since it was built in 1872.
Its original site was near that of the
present Empire Theatre, but a threat of
flood caused it to be removed bodily on
timber jinkers to higher ground. The
occasion was made one of alcoholic
hilarity—any occasion was in those free
and artless days—and when the job was
finished it was found to be half in N.S.W.
and half in Queensland. Except for the
fact that it provided Tom Garrick, Cus-
toms Officer in the later 1880’s, with a
stock joke by threatening his ever-smiling
wife that he might leave her any time and
clear out across the sitting-room to
Queensland, nobody took any interest in
the matter till 1919. Then the ’flu scare
caused Queensland to “close” the border,
and the agitated Brisbane sanitarians drew
a line across the floor, nailed up the
northern door, and ordered the inmates
to keep to their own contaminated end
under threat of terrific penalties. Elec-
torally the building was in N.S.W. terri-
tory, but the tenants for many years were
on the Queensland roll.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The opening of a £lOO,OOO
extension to the Myer store in Melbourne
recalls the career of a man Arnold Ben-
nett could have immortalised in a novel.
Sidney Myer landed in Melbourne a
Jewish youth from Mogilso in Russia
with nothing in his pocket. Tradition has
it that he was equipped with a hawker’s
cart by the Jewish Aid Society. Then he
became a shop-assistant and after that
opened a little store in Bendigo. He
started in Bourke-street in a similar small
way, and the business grew and grew. Up
to his death Myer retained his interest
in it. At the height of his success
he made the discovery that “Happiness
is not in material things but in the mind.”
So he subsidised music in the form of
free concerts for the masses in the Botanic
Gardens. Melbourne’s weather was
against that idea, and the benefaction now
takes the shape of periodical free sym-
phony concerts on Sundays at the Town
Hall. Most of Myer’s other gifts went
to the university to promote the kind of
education in commerce he had never had
himself. When he died it is said that his
army of assistants wept..
* * * *
“X.S.”: A curious case of misappre-
hension leading to ultimate benefits has
cropped up in a will case in Melbourne.
Twenty years ago a young man went to
live with his uncle. In 1930 he discovered
that uncle was not married to “aunt,”
having separated from his wife 33 years
previously. The young man suggested
that they should marry, and they went
through the form to please him. Then
uncle had a stroke, and the nephew duti-
fully helped the couple with portion of
his wages as a tramway employee. In
1934 he learnt that uncle’s real wife had
been killed in a motor accident just after
the soi-disant marriage had taken place.
Nephew, however, loyally stuck to his
“aunt” until she died in 1936 intestate,
her “husband” having predeceased her.
The jury decided that “aunt” had con-
tracted to leave all her estate of £1053 to
the young man in return for all the con-
sideration he had shown her.
* * * *
“C. G. Salis”: “Oxmead’s” contention
(B. 6/11/’4O) that the verb “gut” dates
back to Stuart times is correct, but the
Stuarts were monarchs long before they
left Scotland for England and disaster,
and the word in question was commonly
used in Scotland in the time of James IV.
There is a legend that that king, like
Haroun-al-Raschid, had the habit of
roaming his realm dressed as a beggar.
At an inn one day he heard a farmer
order two fish to be dressed for the
dinner of himself and a friend. The
beggar-king pleaded his extreme hunger
and the farmer good-humoredly increased
his order, saying to the hostess: “Gut
three, gude wife, gut three.” James en-
joyed his fish and later called his bene-
factor to Court and ennobled him, giving
him the name of “Guthrie” in remem-
brance of their first meeting. Whether
or not there is truth in the legend it is
certain that the word was widely used in
Scotland for many years before it gained
currency in England. Half a century before
Macaulay expressed the opinion that
“gutted” was “somewhat coarse” for
Southron ears, Scott was using the
proverb “Keep your ain fish guts to your
ain sea maws.”
FURPHIES.
“Wives of servicemen, including senior officers are
the worst spreaders of baseless war rumors which
may do tremendous damage. Lieut.--Geneial Miles.
A singularly definite assertion,
Bound to annoy and pretty sure to vex!
Will no one rise to combat the aspersion
On such a goodly section oi the sex.
None? Well, although in camps he finds his
mission, ,
He’s versed in more than, military wiles,
He's studied human nature in addition,
I'll say, has General Miles.
“Wise heads, still tongues”—“Speech silver,
silence golden”—
Excellent axioms, we all allow,
Sound aphorisms worthy to be holden
Ever in mind—and never more than now.
No wasted warning this, if it arouses
A twinge or two, the consciences to touch
Of our defenders’ too loquacious spouses,
The dames who talk too much!
Some may account it but a trivial matter,
A habit hardly to be cavilled at,
The feminine propensity lor chatter
(And not entirely feminine at that).
But, sisters, 'ware, when in expansive humors
You toss the ball of converse hither and yon,
Of lending eager ears to baseless rumors
And passing furphies on!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


-fife.
m
10 for 9d...20 for 1'6
CRAVENA
IfeuU uftpuciute tkm.
MtUtfiHamq auM&f -
E 1869
■■ ■ . •
I ■ II II M II I ■
POLITICAL POINTS
Campaigning alone, and dropping
down from the skies to speak at a
number of townships rarely visited by
Federal candidates, F. R. Lee made a
gallant attempt to capture Kalgoorlie. The
odds against him were immense, “Texas”
Green’s last majority having been 16,536
in a poll of 35,000 ; but on Monday, with
14,000 votes to be counted, Lee was only
3300 behind the Labor man, Johnson,
and the other two candidates had 1898
between them. That gave Lee a remote
chance. If he loses, the U.A.P. should find
him something less difficult next time. In
Victoria, for preference.
Westralia is to have another Federal
by-election, Gregory having followed
Green, his fellow-member for 18 years.
He was so old and ill when he nominated
for Swan that it was widely felt that he
shouldn’t have come out again ; but he
led the field once more, finishing with a
majority of nearly 7000. In the present
temper of Westralia, as expressed in all
the electorates, that majority is very un-
likely to be overturned.
Kalgoorlie and Swan being without
members, there will be 35 Ministerialists,
35 Laborites (in two groups) and two
Independents in the new House of Rep-
resentatives when it meets today. That
looks awkward for the Government, but
anticipations of a “crisis” are not war-
ranted. There is an anti-election party
with a commanding majority.
“To avoid the terrible error of the last
war, when we won the war and lost the
peace, we propose to map out a pro-
gramme to cover both the immediate
future and the years of peace.” Thus
Mair, the Sydney Premier, announcing a
magnificent Five-Year Plan. Great War
histories fail to mention Generalissimo
Mair or to allow that any Sydney Gov-
ernment won the war or lost the peace.
Anyway, a week after Mair produced his
plan the electors of Barwon, since 1932
a C.P. seat, gave the A.L.P. mam Heferen
a majority over three Ministerial can-
didates, so it looks as if a Five-Month
Plan would be sufficient.
“Taking into consideration the results
achieved by unity, Mr. Bruxner and my-
self have agreed to face the future as
a united Government.” So said Mair,
blithering about his Five-Year Plan. The
electors of Barwon, having heard, there-
upon arose and enthusiastically applied
the ballot boot to the three Mair-Bruxner
candidates, and another “united” Gov-
ernment constituency joined the legion of
the lost.
Sitting three days a week and rarely
going beyond the dinner hour, Queens-
land’s one-Chamber Parliament has com-
pleted another legislative “year.” The
1938 “year” lasted from August 9 to
November 16, the 1939 “year” from
August 8 to November 23 and the 1940
“year” from August 20 to November 13.
The pay for these exhausting labors is
£650 p.a., plus £5O p.a. for postage and
telegrams and free passes over the Gov-
ernment railways of two Dominions. It
has been argued for the defence that
members of the Westralian Leg. Council
get £6OO p.a. and the same deadhead
privileges for less work and twice the
Queensland term of three years.
Before the Queensland Parliament
broke up “for Christmas” and the
best part of 1941, a Public Safety
Bill was put through with the cus-
tomary expedition. The measure, it
was explained, is to become effective
only after the proclamation of a state of
emergency ; that proclaimed, a Council of
Public Safety, consisting of the Premier
and three of his Ministers, may, if it
pleases, exercise such powers as arrests
without warrant. Moore wanted to know
where Habeas Corpus, Magna Charta
and common-law rights came in, but no
attention was paid to him. Perhaps Aus-
tralia is to have six Councils of Public
Safety as well as the Government whose
job it is to run the war and preserve
the nation.
It came out after Molotov’s return to
Moscow that weeks before he set out for
Berlin the British Government courted his
concern once. more. It offered to “recog-
nise” the Bolshevist grab of the little
Baltic States, all fellow-members of the
League, and proposed a non-aggression
pact, with a guarantee of Soviet par-
ticipation in the peace conference. Mos-
cow’s only reply was to default in a
payment due on the “expropriated” (i.e.,
stolen) Lena goldmines. Under the terms
of the guarantee to Poland, Britain
“Topboots, no! R-r-running shoes!”
should have declared war on the second
invader in September, 1939. A declara-
tion of war might have been less harm-
ful in the long run than the periodical
crawl.
A rift in the Axis loot is suggested by
recent events. Though the spirit and
fighting qualities of the Greeks have sur-
passed expectations, it is hard to believe
that they would have mobilised so cheer-
fully if they hadn’t got a tip from the
right quarter that they wouldn’t have to
fight the German army or air force, and
that —in the early part of the campaign,
at least —the Italians couldn’t do them
much harm. And Gayda’s wail that “the
Italian fleet, alone and without support,
is facing the British Navy” sounds very
like a protest against the absence of Ü-
boats. Moreover, the Hitler-Molotov
palavers in Berlin can scarcely have been
palatable to Mussolini, since none of his
mob was admitted to them.
One of the wild absurdities of
our bog of Constitutions is that
each of the six provincial Legisla-
tures can prolong its life by enact-
ment, though the national Parliament
can’t. Our six excrescences can also call
off local-government elections, and this
the Sydney concern is doing, though there
has been an avalanche of protests —from
local-governing bodies, newspapers, Labor
groups and even U.A.P. branches. The
thing seems to have been meant as an
overture to an attempt to postpone the
State elections if the electors would, stand
it. The loss of the Barwon by-election
may bring the crowd in office to its senses,
if it has any.
Dunstan’s “United” Country party is
trying to bring about a fusion with the
“Liberal” Country party, which has one
member in the Assembly and two in the
Council. McFadyen, the L.P.C. leader,
says “the door is still open,” but his sup-
porters see no chance of a fusion while
“Mr. Dunstan or Mr. Hocking holds
influence.” As things are shaping in the
Mallee, there may be a Centre Country
party.
That simple child Mair said the other
day that he had asked his Minister of
Justice to “report to me on the manner
in which the liquor laws are being en-
forced,” The Minister forthwith reported
to a pressman that “the liquor laws are
being enforced as they have been for
many years.” That same night gales of
laughter whirled through fashionable
pubs and hard-drinking clubs.
A brother of Theodore has succeeded
the late Percy Pease as M.L.A. for Her-
bert (Q.). He is a sugar farmer, which
is a bit of a change ; the modern ten-
dency in Queensland is to get new Labor
members from the civil service. W. M.
Moore, who won the Merthyr by-elec-
tion, was a Government Insurance Office
inspector. Baker, who wrested Federal
Maranoa from the Country party, was
an inspector of Government schools.
Thorby, the defeated P.M.G., has be-
latedly revealed that he asked the A.B.C.
chairman for an “A.B.C. Weakly”
balance sheet, and was told he couldn’t
have it. In other words, he, the Minister
responsible to Parliament, as Parliament
is responsible to the people, was refused
information of what the Commission was
doing with listeners’ money, and he said
nothing about it till he, could do nothing.
The chairman contends that his concern
was “absolved by Parliament from the
necessity of disclosing intimate details of
its operations,” and “absolved” it may
have been. Australian Parliaments are
daisies at sacrificing popular rights to the
commissions and boards they set up to
relieve themselves of responsibility.
For Sale. —A hope. Long held about
the mighty Red Army and the determi-
nation of Stalin to stop Germany when
it suits him. Was in good order and
healthy; now slightly emaciated but might
respond to concentrated feeding and in-
jections of optimism. Owner has no
further use on learning of Molotov’s visit
to Berlin. Apply “Daily Telegraph,”
Sydney, or will deliver c.o.d.
Taxation reform at last:
The Prime Minister is attempting drasti-
cally to overhaul financial relations be-
tween the Federal and State Governments.
He proposes that the national authority
should assume the exclusive right of col-
lecting income taxes and death duties, and
also the States’ direct and indirect finan-
cial obligations, and he is willing to intro-
duce nation-wide unemployment insurance.
Good ; but unfortunately the Prime Min-
ister is not Menzies but Mackenzie King.
Twitted by Baddeley about his bill
postponing the N.S.W. local-government
elections, Mr. Mair replied that the Gov-
ernment would not be influenced by out-
side criticism. Lang used to talk like that.
Announced that Keith Murdoch has
retired from the Department of Infor-
mation and has been “thanked by the
P.M. for his good work.” The thanks
were not echoed in rival newspaper
offices. Canberra, it was announced, is
planning wider and more intensive acti-
vities for the department. Why? It is
also announced that the vote for Infor-
mation is to be increased to £150,000.
Again, why?
Applying from exemption from mili-
tary service in Maoriland, where he had
been living for two years, a native of
Eire claimed that he was a neutral. Claim
rejected, but claimant was informed he
could get a solicitor to press it if he
wished. He replied that no solicitor
would take the job.
After the Brisbane Parliament had
passed its Public Safety Bill Forgan
Smith gave it out that “the measure is
supplementary and complementary to the
Commonwealth National Security Act,
but the wide powers it confers will not
be invoked unless the situation demands
it.” It only remains now for Foggy to
weigh in with a declaration of his Gov-
ernment’s war aims and a comprehensive
statement on Queensland’s foreign policy,
and the war’s won.
In 1934-35 the State Governments col-
lected £36,455,000 in tax-revenue; in
1938 -39 £50,507,000; in 1939-40
£54,387,000, N.S.W. bagging over 40 p.c.
of it. And for nine months of 1939-40
Australia was at war, and the State Gov-
ernments merely spectators of the war.
Eden told London journalists after his
visit to the Middle East that he had un-
shakable faith in final success because
“what” he had “seen” had been “most
encouraging.” Well and good, but Aus-
tralians are doing a bit of hard thinking
about their men in those parts, and
they’d feel easier in their minds if they
had a say in an Imperial War Cabinet
and on the War Council. Eden may be
too easily satisfied.
“Very important extensions of the
scope of local government are planned
for the immediate future,” the N.S.W.
Minister for Works and Local Govern-
ment told a municipal conference. Where-
upon the conference showed that it had
some plans of its own for the same object
by unanimously carrying a motion for
the abolition of State Parilaments.
Gifts to comforts funds and to the
Commonwealth for war purposes are to
be exempt from income tax in N. S.
Wales under a bill now before the House.
Now if only income tax were exempted
from wages tax or wages tax from income
tax, people might think that conscience
was really pricking the Sydney Govern-
ment. As things are, the new exemption
may force a lot of money into Common-
wealth hands, people being prepared to
hit back at State taxation in every way
possible.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.J


FOR CAPTAIN FOGARTY FEGEN AND THE MEN OF THE JERVIS BAY.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/l/’3B.
AH Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
SHARES, TAXES AND JOBS—
A Mixed Outlook
A Full Budget of Financial Developments
November Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all State*-
PERSONAL ITEMS
When little Harry Gregory arrived in
Melbourne from the West 27 years ago
as M.H.R. for Dampier, it was remarked
that he looked almost as frail as Hughes.
But, like Billy, he was tough in fibre and
spirit, and though he had recurrent bouts
of sickness, and was more than once re-
ported at the point of death, he kept going
till last week, when he passed away in a
Melbourne hospital, leaving Billy the
oldest member. Victorian by birth,
Gregory had Westralian associations for
nearly 50 of his 80 years, was an indus-
trious politician for 41 years and always
a fighter. He was Minister of Mines in
Westralia, and just missed succeeding
Rason as Premier.
Outstanding among younger B.H.P.
men, Reginald Theodore Kleeman has
been appointed the co.’s superintendent
at Whyalla after a lengthy period as
acting-superintendent. If Harold Darling,
B.H.P. chairman, is the benevolent un-
crowned king of Whyalla, Kleeman is
his prime minister. For, though the
co. is all-powerful in this town of its
own creation, Kleeman is a democratic
ruler. He rose from a lowly place on
the engineering staff, which he joined 17
years ago after taking his B.E. at Adel-
aide Uni. Kleeman and his peace-time
managing director, Essington Lewis, are
both called “Snowy.”
Walter R. Hume, who has just signed
the biggest individual contract ever
entered into by his pipe cos. —one for
half a million worth for the Murray
pipeline to Whyalla to serve the B.H.P. —
lives in Melbourne now but founded his
industry in S.A. in 1910. In 1913, when
he went to England, it was acknowledged
that the Hume pipe was not only an
improvement but a
revolution in concrete
pipe construction.
Rolled steel fencing
was also exploited by
Walter and his brother,
Ernest J. Hume, and
E.J., since dead, pion-
eered radio engineering
in S.A. Walter, now
67, crowned his career
by manufactu ring
welded steel pipe, made
on an automatic elec-
tric machine.
News comes from
London that Flying-
Officer John Cock,
D.F.C., is to be trans-
ferred to the Empire
training scheme as in-
structor and lecturer in
fighting tactics. A
veteran of many fights
(he is in his early twen-
ties), Cock has had
several narrow escapes
from death. Patrolling
the Channel on October
11, he sighted 100
enemy ’planes on their
way to England, and
brought down a couple
of bombers. Wounded
in the arm and his
Hurricane on fire he
bailed out at 20,000 ft.,
fell into the sea and
swam half a mile to
the shore. He celebrated his return to
service by downing two more. His
parents live at Grange (S.A.).
Prof. James Arthur Prescott, newly-
appointed Federal president of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural Chemists,
is the director of the Waite Agricultural
Institute, Adelaide. Born at Bolton
(Lancs) 50 years ago, Prescott was edu-
cated in England, France and Germany.
In 1912 he gained a Ministry of Agricul-
ture research scholarship, and spent four
years at the Rothamsted experimental
station ; then followed eight years at the
Bahtim experimental station, Egypt. In
1924 Prescott was appointed Professor of
Agricultural Chemistry at Adelaide. He
is chief of the soils division of the C.5.1.R.,
and is a prolific contributor to scientific
journals on soil fertility and classification
and the principles of crop production.
Dead at 71, Walter A. Moore for thirty
years was on the staff of Sydney
High School, and served as deputy-
principal under five headmasters. A
good all-rounder, able to teach any
subject of the curriculum, he devoted
himself in retirement to the playing and
making of violins. “Wally” will be long
remembered by “High” boys in their
thousands all over the world.
Frith meets a diplomatist:
J. G. Latham, P.C., G.C.M.G., the Com-
monwealth’s first Minister to Japan, is a sterling
example of how a simple man who never pushes
his ambitions can get on in this world. When
the last war broke out he was a young barrister,
and he did good work as a naval intelligence
officer. He went to the Peace Conference with
the Prime Minister’s staff, settled down at the
Bar on his return and was soon appearing in
leading cases, notably the Ryan-“ Mercury” libel
action. Within three years he was M.P. for
Kooyong; three years later he was Attorney-
General. When S. M. Bruce went out in 1929
Latham became Opposition leader, and in
1931 he stood aside for Lyons and
settled down to work with Joseph loyally
as Attorney-General and Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs and Industry. In 1934 he quietly
retired and resumed practice after serving as
JOHN G. LATHAM.
(Modelled by Frith.)
head of the important mission to the Dutch
East Indies and Japan. Next year he was the
obvious choice as Chief Justice of the High
Court. In his time he has had a varied inter-
national experience. He was assistant British
Secretary to the mission which brought Czecho-
slovakia into existence. He was first president
of the Australian League of Nations Union. At
the 1926 Imperial Conference and the League
that year he was a conspicuous success, as he
was also at the Disarmament Conference of
1932. Quiet and simple in manner and in
thought, unassuming in outlook and always
patient, over six feet high, with a fine presence
and an equable mind, he is the ideal diplomat.
Those who know him well find him the same
J. G. Latham they knew 20 years ago, and
the test of his character is that, during a
long career in which he has sometimes re-
vealed a granite-like determination in political
contest, he achieved the respect and confidence
of all parties.
DR. E.C. VRISAKIS, Consul-General
for Greece in Sydney.
Now that uniformed padres are among
us again with their little black shoulder-
straps, old-stagers recall that John Claude
McPhee, who at the beginning of this
year retired from the job of Victorian
Deputy Commissioner of Repatriation,
was a Presbyterian chaplain-colonel in the
1914-18 war. He discarded the clerical
collar in 1918 to become Repat.’s
secretary. The 10th Battalion (S.A.-W.A.)
remembers him. He carried ammunition
to front-line trenches at Gallipoli, with
the Turks in range, because he wanted to
help. For variety he would hold a Bible
class in a dugout 100yds. from the enemy.
Behind the fitting-up of the new
chemistry school at Melbourne Uni. there
is an interesting story. Lowest outside
tender was £21,000. Lecturers and staff,
led by Prof. E. J. Hartung, took on the
job themselves and saved £5830. Hartung
himself turned out to be an efficient car-
penter. He was educated at Wesley and
Melbourne Uni. and became tutor, lec-
turer and finally head of the chemistry
school at his Alma Mater. In 1926 he
won the David Syme prize for scientific
research. He has been president of the
Australian Chemical Institute since 1928,
and is the author of numerous publica-
tions on his subject.
Arthur Nelson, just dead in Auckland
(M.L.), had the remarkable record of
having been elected chairman of his
Church (Congregational) Union in three
Australian States as well as in M.L.
Born and trained in S.A., he was pastor
at West Maitland and Woollahra
(N.S.W.), Hobart, Port Adelaide and for
the last five years at Auckland. Only 52
at the end.
Son of a journalist, Herbert Nicholls
was born in Ballarat (Vic.) and showed
an early liking for the law and athletics,
doing well in both. He was admitted
to the Tasmanian Bar in 1892, and was
Attorney-General by 1903. After lead-
ing the Opposition for a time he became
a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court,
and succeeded knight John Dodds as
Chief Judge in 1914, himself being
knighted two years later. He remained
on the Bench until his retirement in 1937,
finding time to be Lieut.-Governor before
the arrival of Sir James O’Grady.
Nicholls passed out in Hobart last week,
at 72.
Isaac Solomon, dead in Adelaide at
97, was about the last Adelaidean to
remember the long-ago visit of the Duke
of Edinburgh, one of whose bodyguard
he was on the ride to the city from the
landing at Glenelg.
Presbyterians in Victoria are expecting
a bit more liveliness in Assembly discus-
sions in Melbourne from the appointment
as Moderator of that keen debater Dr.
C. N. Button. Comparatively young for
the position (he is 52), he commenced to
earn a living in business in Britain, and
joined the N.S.W. public service in 1908.
Night classes in arts at Sydney Uni. gave
him his B.A. and M.A. degrees and his
passport to the Presbyterian pulpit. He
did post-graduate work in New York,
got his doctorate at Edinburgh, and after
a three years’ ministry in that city re-
turned to St. Andrew’s, Ballarat. He
sometimes walks from his parish to Mel-
bourne when he has affairs in the metro-
polis.
“Bohemian”: Maoriland disciples of
Major Douglas have imported John
Hogan, described as having been formerly
known as “the boy orator of Australia,”
for a lecturing tour to convert the Gov-
ernment. A slim, frail, spectacled young
man, Hogan can talk and is drawing
crowded houses.
Retiring this month, Inspector G. E.
Garlick (of course nicknamed “Phil”),
of the N.S.W. police. He had a hatful
of arrests of the first importance to his
credit, some of them of armed criminals.
In the Coogee bones case Garlick got
Dr. Hunter to “reconstruct” a corpus
from some bones he had unearthed, and
it led to an identification. The case
attracted world-wide attention.
A grazier in Queensland in the ’nine-
ties, and member of the S.A. Leg. Council
for 29 years, Walter Hannaford, of
Broad Oak station, Riverton, S.A., has
decided at 72 to retire from Parliament
after the session ending late this month.
Riverton-born, Hannaford was in Banana-
land for 10 years from 1889, then re-
turned to his native State. He was un-
opposed at each of the five Leg. Council
elections for which he has had to stand.
Inspector Francis Mclver, dead at
Townsville (N.Q.), did good work when
on anti-espionage duty with the first
A.I.F. in Egypt. Leakages of military
information had baffled all investigators
until he was put on the job of tracing
their source. Within a month he had
rounded up a dangerous spy-organisation.
Latest Australian to win the D.F.M. is
Squadron-Leader Harold Gibson Lee, a
Point Cook (Vic.) trainee who joined the
R.A.F. in 1933—at 21. Distinguished ser-
vice in France before the evacuation and
subsequent exploits on bombing opera-
tions got him the award. He was born
in East Malvern, Melbourne, and edu-
cated at Scotch College.
Apropos of J. M. Fowler:
“Though a good fellow in many respects,
he was also a good hater, and it must have
cheered him in his last illness to learn that
Mann had gone down in Flinders.” So it was
said in B. 6/11/ ’4O. The truth is that Fowler
hated only two things, rascality and deceit.
Moreover, he always said that E. A. Mann was
the fairest opponent he ever fought, and he
listened to “The Watchman’s” broadcasts all
through his long and painful illness. When
that gentleman was defeated in Flinders Fowler
expressed his disappointment, as he thought
the candidate would have been an acquisition
to Parliament at the present time.
Correction made in justice to the living
and the dead. Still, Fowler was not un-
fairly described as a good hater in the
sense that Dr. Johnson, a great English-
man, was so called. None but a good
hater could have delivered those tre-
mendous denunciations of Henry Chinn.


NO THANKS
fid rather have
Reef Capstan
*
i
m
a
m
l/A
£
i\
*Si
■
in
i
7*
i
Time for a
Ci
—that’s why they are the
Empire’s favourite cigarettes
' ' ■
B ' ‘
10 (or 6> ■ 20 (or I'-
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild . . . Red Packs
Capstan Medium .... Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs


ABORIGINALITIES
TIME TEACHES.
At twenty I know
The world’s all awry,
I am certain also
That the man who can straighten and right it
Is I, even I.
At forty I think
The evil that lurks
In each cranny and chink
Can’t be mended by me while I am
A part of the works.
At sixty I feel
I have had a fair run,
Not mended a deal,
But have found that the clouds are but clouds
While the sun is the sun.
At eighty at last
I croak to my nurse,
All bitterness past,
That the things I thought to have bettered
Might have been worse.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Once he was properly
soused Big Mat was as harmless as a
blue-tongue lizard. It was when he was
half-stung that you had to watch him,
never knowing whether he’d want to sing,
fight or work. He was helping the South
Aus. Government do something about a
railway line up Pinnaroo way and joined
the mob in the town on their first pay-
day. On Monday Mat turned up late
and half-stung. Said the ganger, a little
cove, “Here, whadda y’ mean be cornin’
at this time?” Mat wanted to fight. The
ganger fell over, got up and retreated.
Mat chased him, booming threats. The
ganger fled along the top of the cutting,
dived into the little galvanised-iron tool-
shed and locked the door. Mat surveyed
the fortress, which was about 4ft. by 4ft.
and sft. high, and gave it an experimental
kick. “Y’re sacked!” cried the garrison.
“Sacked me foot,” snorted Mat, placed
his mighty arms round the toolshed, lifted
it and heaved it over the cutting. We had
been gaping up at the proceedings and
scattered as the thing tumbled down the
bank. Fortunately, it had no floor and
the ganger was still crouched on the spot
where it had been. Mat grinned, teetered
uncertainly, then stooped beside the
frightened man and said, “Here, mate,
y’ don’t want t’ take any notice o’ me.”
Then he grabbed a shovel and went to
work.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Does the ordinary mud-
turtle (or tortoise—l’m not going to
argue) hibernate? Grubbing stumps dur-
ing the winter I unearthed a fair-sized
specimen at a depth of about 2ft. 6in.
No entrance tunnel was visible—
apparently the little amphibian filled the
earth in behind itself as it burrowed
down. Incidentally, brain-power is not
the mud turtle’s strongest point. After a
heavy rain he goes “walkabout,” some-
times travelling miles from his native
creek. But a wire-netting fence will end
both his journey and his career. To
turn back doesn’t occur to him ; he just
pokes his neck through the netting and
stops there until the sun scorches him up.
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: Most of what “D. Beech”
tells about fish scarcity on Australia’s
east coast (B. 23/10/’4O) can be paralleled
on the west. Went out the other day to
banks and reefs where a couple of seasons
ago the finny folk just hooked themselves
on. But nothing doing now. Never a
snapper or a jewfish. Even the trash of
the sea, rock fish and trumpeter, have
become scarce, where once they used to
annoy the angler by their multitudes
getting in the way of the edible fish. On
sandbanks where whiting once came up
three at a time one dawdles hours wait-
ing for a bite. What has happened?
Has a great fish plague swept the Southern
Ocean, from which most of our finny
visitors come? But, oddly, crustacean
life is abounding. Not one river in
south-west W.A. has this past winter run
fresh water within 10 miles of its mouth ;
the result is that king prawns, those tasty
fellows about sin. long, which usually
were to be taken in marketable numbers
only in the autumn months, are this year
plentiful in these months of spring. Crabs,
too, are swarming in many of the salt-
water estuaries. This plenitude of crus-
tacean life may be due to the scarcity of
predatory fish, which in normal seasons
devour countless millions of the tiny
crustacean nymphs.
* * * *
“Flight”: Watched a mob of waxbills
(zebra finches) migrating from one bit of
water to another across the Queensland
downs country. Rarely found any dis-
tance from water, these birds prefer tim-
bered areas ; when a patch is eaten out
they may have to go four or five miles to
another waterhole in another creek, but
they never do it in one go. This mob
limited its flights to about a mile, tak-
ing advantage of every tree on the way
and using it as a sighting place in the
eternal search for hawks. The birds
probably flew three times the crow’s-
flight distance, sometimes flying at right-
angles to the track they wished to follow
to make sure of umbrageous defence.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Fresh-water yabbies fre-
quently leave their dams or channels at
night and take a stroll about the sur-
rounding country, generally when things
are dry and they’ve got an idea there’s
better water over the road, as it were.
One greeted me the other morning at the
back door, waving its claws in a sort of
“Cripes, it’s dry!” greeting. It’s about
500 yards from the tank to that door,
which is beside the well, so I went down
to the tank. The last of its water had
faded out overnight and that yabbie,
probably having left it too late to make
the necessary drought-hole of its kind,
had made for the next-nearest water.
“ We're bein' followed”
“0.P.”: Visitors at a Sydney suburban
home gradually became aWare of a steady
wail from outside, where the various off-
spring were at play. Investigation re-
vealed a small child in a laneway across
which was tied a bit of string. He had
been told by the others not to pass it.
“Cripes! ” said a bloke fresh from the
hinterland. “He must be pure merino.”
Somewhat startled looks greeted the re-i
mark. “Only a merino can be held be
one wire,” explained the sage from the
saltbush. “If he’d bin a crossbred he’d
bin through it in no time.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: When the first creamery
was built in our valley the chance to sell
all the milk you could take along seemed
too good to be true, and Strawberry was
often flattered by support from the tank.
The fact that payment was made only on
a butterfat-content basis wasn’t grasped
at first, and old Ironbark clung to the
early jubilant hopes with a tenacity
equalled only by the vigor with which he
resented any suggestion that his milk was
thin. Still, he weakened when, to dodge
Mrs. I.’s withering comments, he forsook
the tank and instead patronised the creek
on the way to the creamery ; and so it
was that one morning the manager glared
incredulously into the dripping strainer,
then roared for Ironbark. “What the
hell do you mean by putting creek water
in these cans?” he yelled. The sinner
took the “injured innocence” line, but it
was no use. “All right,” growled the
boss, “I’m coming round to your place
this evening to see the cow that gives
these damn’ bullfrogs in her milk.”
* * * *
“Billy See”: Speaking about pennies
once being the universal bush tyre wedge
(B. 23 /10/’4O) recalls that those much-
travelled coppers used to be regarded as
the perquisite of the wheelwright’s ap-
prentice, his being the job to get the worn
tyre off while the boss went on with more
skilful work. And I’ve known a well-
worn wheel to turn out a full couple of
bob, though there were times when the
harvest would be considerably diluted —
by tokens. Tokens were copper coins
especially minted for the use of early
Australian businessmen, given by them
as small change and redeemable at their
own shops or others with which they had
a working arrangement. A subsequent
ban by the Governments abolished this
private coinage, but for 20 years after
any number of tokens were to be seen.
So we blacksmiths’ boys always regarded
with pessimism any wheel that came from
a vehicle owned by a person with a name
akin to MacPherson. For a canny Scot
teamster invariably saved his tokens for
tyre wedges.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: That trick of warming
the panning-off water with a shovelful
of red-hot stones (B. 23/10/’40); well,
we kids knew that one pretty well when
fossicking around the flats and gullies of
Ballarat. But we went a trifle better.
With but little trouble it was possible to
gather a shovelful of sizable water-worn
stones of both white quartz and cement.
Heated to redness and then douched in
the cold water such stones cracked into
hundreds of cross-sections. Retrieved
after they had done their warming job
they fell to tiny fragments with a crack
of the hammer. Many the nice speck
of gold we got that way, especially from
the cement. Miles of early-Victorian
roads were macadamised with quartz-
cobbles mixed with fragments of cement.
At times we used to gather the dust from
such surfaces —and the tin dish gave us
gold that way, too. There must still be
thousands of ounces of the yellow metal
in those old roads.
* * * *
“Pauldique”: Congratulations to artist
Jolliffe, who got Andy’s foot caught in a
trap from below the jaws (B. 23/10/’4O).
The trappers in our Tassie district have
been trying to do that for years, but
haven’t yet succeeded.
* * * <i
“Acombe”: In a Maranoa (Q.) shed
during smoke-oh, the talk had drifted to
wire vine, a kind of yam peculiar to the
district, which sends stock mad if they
eat too much of it. Old Peter said, '‘You
know ‘Silent’ Knight?” One or two
owned to acquaintance with that eccentric
bachelor. “Well, I was crutching a few
wire-struck ewes for him wunst, an’ we
got talking like we are now. I says ‘I
wonder would it affect a man. It’d be
great to be drunk all the time.’ ‘Aw, I
dunno,’ ‘Silent’ says ; ‘I been eating the
tops for cabbage and the roots for spuds
all me life, and it ain’t never affected
me.’ ” Peter let that sink in for a puff
or two. Then, “Just as well it don’t affect
him,” he said ; “as it is he’ll put his hat
on a mulga stump and yarn with it by the
hour, and he always hangs a big Conda-
mine bell to the horse he’s riding. Says he
likes to hear himself cornin’ home to tea.”
* * * *
“Earthologist”: Traversing the skin of
this old planet seeking fertile land one
may be puzzled as to why wide areas may
be of rich loam or clay, while others are
of poor sandy stuff on which the grass
can hardly find a footing. The solution
lies below or at least not far away. In
the beginning this globe was all rock —
soil came only as the rock was slowly
disintegrated and dissolved by the oxygen
brought down as a solution in the rain.
Thus greenstone, otherwise diorite or
bluestone —bluestone on the Victorian
goldfields, diorite in W.A. —produces a
rich clay soil. Decomposed lava becomes
the rich chocolate soil famed for the
growing of potatoes. Granite, which is
really the original earth crust ground to
fragments, well mixed, and then fused
together again, may yield a soil that will
give one field of good fertility and a neigh-
bor as stinted of growth as a baldheaded
man’s crown. Granite roughly con-
sists of quartz, feldspar and mica. Quartz
frits to sand, which in itself will grow
nothing. But feldspar may decompose into
clay and potash, two valuable elements.
Mica, too, will add to fertility, but de-
composes with infinite slowness. So, as
rough advice to the landseeker, avoid
granite as much as possible ; look for the
bluestone or greenstone as a positive in-
dication of fertility.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: One of the geological
marvels of the western side of the conti-
nent is its underground water. At first
glance most of the big western State looks
bone-dry—both the Dutchmen and Bill
Dampier thought it so —yet dig just be-
neath the surface anywhere over thou-
sands of square miles and you find water.
Not artesian, though Perth has such a
supply, drawn from
3000 ft. and nowa-
days kept in re-
serve should the
western capital
ever be faced with
a water crisis. But
up on the vast
Murchison - Gas-
coyne sheep plains
there’s water, lifted
nowadays by wind-
mill. Up in the
Kimberleys there’s
still more. Yet the
rainfall over most
of these areas
never seems ade-
quate to replenish
this underground
supply. Along
much of the vast
coastline water can
be found by simply
digging a hole in
the beach sand
above high-water
mark. In other
places one finds
real subterranean
streams ; one such
flows silently
through the Yanchep Caves, now one of
the State’s showplaces. But it is in the
south-west that water becomes a real joy.
Sink a shallow bore, 10ft. to 20ft., in
the sandstone that caps so much of the
coastal country and one finds water that
any other country would bottle as a spa.
And one can pump all day for weeks,
months on end, and the supply never
diminishes. There’s a spring like that
pouring out of Mt. Eliza, Perth. Running
when the whites arrived 100 years ago,
it has never yet failed.
:S * * ♦
“Bad Australian”: “Silas Slocum wus a
sanctermoaneous ol’ crow,” said Tommy
the hawker. “Honest enough in ’is own
way, but always manooverin’ ter get
somethink f’r nothink. Among other
things, ’e’d bin ’avin’ the free use o’ Jim
Smith’s noospaper ever sence ’e’d started
’is markit garden on the block next ter
Jim’s. ’E’s over at Sam Clark’s borrerin’
a bag o’ super, until ’e gets ’is caulies
orf, an’ Sam ’appens ter mention that
the noosagent in the township told ’im
that Jim wus damn’ near broke an’ 'adn’t
paid f’r ’is paper for more’n twelve
munce, an’ that ’e ’ad ter close down on
’im. W’en Silas ’ears this ’e pulls a long
mug, turns up the yallers o’ ’is eyes an'
ses, ‘Well, well, well! Ter think that
at my time o’ life I should be imposed
on be a unscruperlous feller like that! I
tell yer, Mister Clark, yer don’t know
who ter trust these times, the world bein’
so full o’ corruption an’ deceetfulness an’
false dealin’ an’ gen’ral depraverty." Then,
‘I suppose I’ll ’ave ter go without the
noos after this,’ ’e ses.”
* * * *
“Yenomit”: “My neighbor,” said Mee-
katharra Mike, “had a bull which he
couldn’t keep in the paddock. He tried
everything he knew, but it was no good.
Then someone suggested lashing a pole
across the horns. Well, he did, but as
soon as he was unroped that bull went full
gallop for Murphy’s fence. We thought
he was going straight through it, but the
beggar eased up just as he got within a
yard of it, tilted his head a bit and, sticlc-
in’ one end of the pole in the ground,
vaulted over the fence. He hasn’t seen
it since.


“Old-timer”: Bluey and Dutch were
invited by Jerky Jones, the most erratic
man on Rainbow Creek, to build him a
fence. They asked for so much a mile,
but Jerky insisted on so much a day.
They finally agreed and began work. A
couple of days later Jerky rode out to
see how they were going and nearly fell
off the prad at the incredible number of
posts that had not been put up. “Y’
flamin’ loafers! ”he said. “Y’ can go on
contract.” B. and D. agreed and the price
was settled. But when Jerky saw the pro-
gress they made he howled to heaven
that they were rooks, and promptly re-
pudiated the contract and put them back
on day-work. By this time the pair recog-
nised the character of Jerky and gave him
his head. It took them 10 weeks to do
the job, and at least twice every week
Jerky switched them from contract to
day labor or vice versa. For three days
the fence would creep slowly along a
chain-or so, in the next three days half
a mile would go up, then she’d drop back
to the crawl again. It might have led to
a law case, only Bluey and Dutch knew
their man. When the job cut out they
billed Jerky for all but a few chains at
contract rates, got day rates for the re-
mainder, then claimed and got a bonus
for every strainer-post, took Jerky into
town while they cashed his cheque and
made him shout for two days. And the
Fits-an’-Starts fence still encloses Jerky’s
land, though Jerky is no more.
* * * aie
“J.V.W.”: Touching the sharpening
of picks and rock-drills (B. 23/10/’4O).
These tools are not ground on an
emery-wheel. They are heated to
white heat in the forge and repointed
on an anvil. Drills are given a chisel-like
point, but are “spread” to allow plenty
of clearance for the shank. The cutting
edge is slightly concave, and the temper-
ing is done by immersion in water when
the steel is at a dull-red heat. Picks also
are beaten into shape on an anvil, but the
point is tempered by dipping it in the
water at more than red heat, withdrawing
it after about two seconds, and immersing
when the straw color reaches the extreme
point.
“Lexion”: A dictionary of the Swan-
land abo. lingo (B. 16 /10/ ’4O) was made
in 1840 by George Grey, who arrived
at the Swan River in 1837 as a passenger
on the Beagle, along with Charles Dar-
win. Grey must have been an outstand-
ing linguist, seeing that, all told, his resi-
dence on the Swan River could not have
exceeded six months. Yet he accom-
plished his task so well as to receive the
approval of George Fletcher Moore,
the western colony’s first Advocate-
General or Crown Prosecutor, and John
Henry Drummond, its earliest botanist
and agricultural adviser, both fluent
speakers of the native dialects. This glos-
sary of Grey’s was first published in the
Perth “Gazette” of 1840, and may still
be found in one of Grey’s books dealing
with his Westralian experiences.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: With the oncoming of
spring, Burketown (N.Q.) again enjoys its
“Morning Glory” sea breezes for a few
weeks. They are curious to watch.
Usually at some time between 6 a.m. and
8 a.m. a dark-grey cloudbank builds up
over the Gulf waters away out to the
north-east, and from it blows a sudden
“Tha's what ’e is, Mawther—German baled out!”
“Rather a nice job We put over the Italian Navy , sir.”
strong wind, cool, damp and refreshing,
with a salty tang in it. The cloud mass
grows swiftly outward and upward to
spread a vast grey pall across the sky,
the cool, damp wind blows stronger, and
flickering eddies show above the horizon
whence it comes. Suddenly the great pall
lifts clear and rolls bodily away to the
south-west, the sun shines clear once more,
the triumphant wind chases the last rags
and wraiths across the zenith, and, its
work done, dies away just as quickly as
it sprang into life. The whole gigantic
happening generally takes about half an
hour. Local belief has it that “Glories”
occur nowhere else except in the Gulf
of Mexico.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The highest recorded
waves (B. 30/10/’4O) of other than
seismic origin were measured by Captain
Bertram Hayes, of the Majestic, during a
North Atlantic gale. Several averaged
over 80ft. from trough to crest. Numer-
ous waves from 50ft. to 60ft. have been
recorded in the North Atlantic and
Southern Oceans. Accurate measurement
from a big ship is a simple enough matter
of taking angles of crests from a known
height above water level and correcting
against observed trough-levels. Like that
of the Yongala in the same latitude off
the Queensland coast just a year earlier,
the Koombana disaster was caused by
wind-force, not wave-height. The waves
created by winds of cyclonic strength
don’t run any regular course, but may
come at a ship from two or more direc-
tions at once. In a China Sea typhoon I
have seen seas break over bow and stem
simultaneously, with a 40ft. pyramidal
heap of water coming up on the star-
board beam. Had it caught her, held
tight as she was, this par. wouldn’t have
had an opportunity of getting itself
written. Aided by such wind-force a
relatively small wave will
simply overwhelm a craft
the size of the average
pearling lugger. In the
1896 blow at Cape Direc-
tion (N.Q.) some were
rolled over and over for
nearly a quarter of a mile
inland.
* *
“A.W.8.”: The horse
that flashes a white-
rimmed eye is, according
to the popular view,
chock-full of vice, yet
some of the quietest
animals I’ve ever handled
showed plenty of white,
though they were always
spirited. The white eye is
mostly an indication of
nervousness and timidity,
and careful treatment
gains confidence. Again,
a washy chestnut is mostly
passed over by a prospec-
tive buyer, yet I’ve never
seen a squib with a coat
that color, and some I’ve
ridden have been the
hardiest horses I’ve had
anything to do with, as
game as any made. Yet
many friendly-looking old
beggars can be the meanest
cows you have ever
saddled. A well-placed kick if at all
careless in moving about them, habits
such as pulling away when dismounting,
and a knack of deciding to buck or bolt
—or both—in a nicely selected patch of
thick timber. And the biggest squib I ever
rode was a rich bay, a color highly prized
by horsemen.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A Melbourne angler
has put up what appears to be an Aus-
tralian record for rod and line by hooking
a full-grown seal off Sorrento and bring-
ing it alongside for release. Seals have
often been hooked while snatching barra-
couta and sea salmon from trail lines,
but this seems the first authenticated catch
for a rod. Other unusual rod catches in-
clude turtles, platypuses, various birds,
water rats, bats, cats, dogs and cows, the
last five species being usually taken on
the fly during the back-cast. The heaviest
and most startling strike in my experience
—it was not landed, however —was a
30ft. baby humpback whale which
decided to scratch its dear little back on
the nice barnacled keel of a Queensland
Government steamer full of politicians
and their henchmen out for a day’s
snappering at taxpayers’ expense. The
startling part was amply provided by the
language when it made hastily out to sea
with some 20 lines attached.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Padflogger’s” damper (B.
16 /10/’4O) contains no baking powder or
“rising” of any kind, and in that most
old-timers will agree. Still, many bush-
men pin their faith to baking powder
or soda to “lift” it, or some substitute if
these are not available. Knew one
’whacker in nor’-west N.S.W. who tossed
in a handful of wood ashes with the mix-
ture, and another who mixed the dough
with artesian-bore water, which he
claimed contained some ingredient with
the properties of yeast. The best damper
I ever tasted was one that was mixed
with spa water obtained from Rock Flat,
on southern Monaro (N.S.W.). Very
pleasant to the taste, this water was so
strong, however, that it would blow the
lid off any billycan and even burst a
bottle that was tightly corked. Inhabi-
tants of Cooma and Nimmitabel often
used it instead of yeast for bread-making
in the early days.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Australia suffers enough as
it is from imported bird pests with
sparrows, Indian minahs and starlings,
but had the attempts of misguided en-
thusiasts of 70-odd years ago been more
successful we should have been a lot
worse off than we are. During the 1860’s
hundreds of Java sparrows—really a
Chinese species introduced originally to
Java by way of England as pets —were
released in Victoria. They are serious
pests to rice and other crops both in
China and Java and would have added
another burden to the Australian farmer’s
life had they not luckily disappeared.
Yellowhammers, another crop-robbing
species, also failed to get a footing.
Because of their reputation as table
delicacies ortolans were released in con-
siderable numbers near Melbourne in
1863. In their native Europe they ravage
cornfields and are fit for cooking only
after they have been fattened in cages,
so it is just as well they followed the
yellowhammers into oblivion. Goannas,
cats (native and otherwise), foxes, Jackie
kookaburra and crows probably share the
credit.
THERE’S A LIMIT.
f’m trampin’ down the Marthaguy
One hot an’ burnin’ afternoon,
An’ spots a feller, long an’ spry,
Who’s camped beside a dry lagoon.
"G’day,” I says, an’ drops me swag.
Says he, “What seek you here, my friend?
Is freedom at your journey’s end?
Or must you have some rebel flag
That calls you to a hopeless cause?
Say, whither do your footsteps trend?”
"Is this some flamin’ crank?” I thinks.
Says he, “All men must march a road,
And few there be can see the links
That bind them to the driving goad.
I am a poet, as you see,
And 1 must know—must brood upon—
This thing that drives or leads us on
Through joy and grief and tragedy.
Why must we go, why can’t we stay?
This is the matter I must con.”
“These gums,” he says, “this old lagoon,
The sky so always far above,
And burning dawn and harvest moon—
What have they known of death or love?
I find no answer for me there
And I must probe the hearts of men.
I pray you, friend, to tell me then,
What do you seek? Is it so rare
That, homeless, you must search alone?
If you’ve the tongue, then I’ve the pen.”
“Well, mate,” I says, “I’ve heard y’ spout,
An’ round the bend’s the Quambone pub.
S’pose we go an’ break the drought
An’ see if we can hum some grub.”
He lifts his carcass, eyes ashine,
An’ says, “Begone, thou fickle jade!
To tempt me that the summer shade
Might answer queries vain as mine.
While in this bosom”—pokin’ me —
“There lies the truest answer made.”
That night, along the Marthaguy,
With beef an’ beer below his vest,
He spouts his verses to the sky
About the “largesse of the west.”
He thumps his chest an’ props an’ baulks,
An’ goes on like an actor bloke,
Until I see it’s past a joke.
F’r, drunk or sober, still he talks,
I grabs me knot an’ does a bunk.
He talks too much. Besides, he’s broke!
N.S.W.
C.H.S.


Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend to be the Executor of your Estate, appoint Kim
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of ' Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman). Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, 11. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton. Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
siaimoonn
J
%
o
&
nix
5V
m
o
mm
for
GEARS
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES_
V BELT DRIVES
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST.STH. MELBOURNE
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
B6371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
f —Dividends)—>,
Pref. Ord. To Re-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 62,123 206,083
9 p.c. 5 p.c.
1931 .. 154,296 152,650 1,746 207,829
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1932 . . 206,275 167,069 39,206 247,035
1933 .. 217,724 167,705 50,019 297,054
1934 .. 226,460. 168,083 ) „ 7
Tax reserve. £46,000 1 mjaa i
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 325,682
9 p.c. 1$ p.c.
1935 . . 261,462 194,237 67,165 392,847
9 p.c. 8$ p.c.
1936 .. 289,664 211,582 ) 7 - 082 4C7
Staff fund, £3OOO $ 70,082 407,0-9
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1937 .. 321,011 220,210 ) r « 7qo
Staff fund, £3OOO j ’
1938 .. 319,369 220,210 ]
Written off, £20,000 ) 74,159 639,889
Staff fund, £5OOO j
1939 . . 305,080 220.210 ]
Written off, £20,000 J- 59,870 699,759
• Staff fund, £5OOO J
1940 . . 322,260 220,210 ]
Written off, £120,000 77,050 776,809
Staff fund, £5OOO j
: f Including employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
As buyer for the community he
serves, the retailer’s success depends upon
many things, the keynote of which is ser-
vice. This means, among other things,
(1) convenient location of the store, (2)
comfort, pleasure and facility in shop-
ping—brighter stores, better display and
carefully-trained staff —and (3) variety
and quality of merchandise and equity of
prices, which have led to close study of
family budgets, keen buying and exten-
sive advertising. In all these matters the
Myer management has exhibited what
appears to be the right kind of judg-
ment combined with practical care for
detail.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was more money
about, owing to higher export income and
to Government spending on war and
other account locally. Also, employment
was maintained at a high level, owing to
increased factory production of war goods
and to absorption of personnel into the
fighting services. And difficulties asso-
ciated with imports, especially of fashion
goods, haven’t done the co. any harm
either ; lines previously bought overseas
are now being made in the co.’s own fac-
tories and workrooms, where more atten-
tion is being given to style and design,
and larger quantities of Australian-made
materials are being manufactured into
garments, etc. Output of the co.’s
woollen mills at Ballarat increased con-
siderably, partly on account of defence
contracts; and the Adelaide store, in
which this Melbourne parent holds most
of the 300,000 £1 ords., on which 9 p.c.
has been paid lately, had another good
year.
So, after allowing an extra £22,500 for
taxation (£97,500), the parent showed
£17,180 more profit at £322,260. This
was enough to pay the 9 p.c. pref.
and 6 p.c. staff divs. (together £64,960)
and show 14.9 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 13.9, 14.7, 14.7, 13, 11.3, 9,
8.9, 8.2 and 5.1 p.c. back to 1931. Ord.
div. was again kept at 9 p.c., £20,000
was struck off the book value of
premises and £5OOO was sent to the staff
fund. The £77,050 that remained lifted
the lay-by to £776,809 in excess of good-
will (£250,000), which is not treated as
an asset herein.
Before allowing for outside interests,
the combined net profit of the parent and
its subsidiaries was £447,272 (down
£20,826). Group shareholders’ funds are
shown at £4,739,923, of which £464,607
represents outsiders’ equity.
At 325. 6d. (295. a year ago) the ords.
return 5.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis, and
the prefs. at 355. 6d. (31s. 6d. 12 months
back) yield 5.1 p.c. On consolidated
balance-sheet figures, the net tangible
cover is £5 12s. Bd. prefs. and 345. ords.
Here are the parent’s balance-sheet
figures:
1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages. . .. 516,650 441,500 411,500
Sundry creditors.. 778,441 677,474 998,659
Freeholds, lease-
holds, eta . . 2,105,195 2,079,899 2,084,566
Plant, vehicles, etc. 269,786 259,920 235,327
Shares in other cos. 441,309 441,309 441,309
Stocks . . .. 1,093,863 1,061,453 1,437,167
Debtors . . . . 706,997 681,341 702,535
Cash, etc... .. 25,314 23,306 45,108
Outstanding feature last term was the
sharp spring of £375,714 in stocks, which
can be taken as an indication of the
board’s opinion that the market during
the current term will be a rising one.
Total amount coming to outsiders in-
creased by £291,185. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,215,960) was £127,525.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends— ~
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary, serves. Reserves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 39,943 40.000 Nil 865
1931.. 35,607* 36,000 Nil 472
1932.. 38,668 36,000 Nil 2,668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 Nil 5,496 8,636
8J p.c.
1934.. 50,472 36,000 6,710 7,762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6,710 4,905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6,710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6,710 5,948 34,650
1938. . 60,304 36,000 6,710 17,594 52,244
12$ p.c.
1939. . 69,207 36,000 10,066 23,141 75,385
Divs. from subsidiaries, £15,172 .. 90,557
Capital reserve, £72,153 .. .. 162,710
1940.. 80,989 36,000 10,066 34,923 197,633
* Includes £29,376 paid by subsidiaries from reserves,
t Excluding depreciation res., £42,801 at 30/6/’4O.
The two manufacturing proprietaries—
Lincoln Spinning Mills and Lincoln Knit-
ting Mills—whose interests this co.
formed to weld in 1922, and which had
nominally operated at neither profit nor
loss of recent years, were wound up
halfway through the last term ; before
doing so they passed £15,172 of accu-
mulated earnings on to the parent by way
of special div. Distributing and manufac-
turing activities are now both carried on
under the one name.
It was the flushest year in the co.’s
experience. Superimposed on a rush of
trade orders from retailers and others
came “enormous” defence contracts
which the thoroughgoing modernisation
and extension of plant of recent years
well fitted the organisation to handle.
After striking off £16,156 for depreciation,
combined trading profits spurted £46,363
to £194,669; extra general outgoings
(£113,680, up £34,581, including unstated
taxation at the rates laid down in the
“deferred” War-time Profits Bill) reduced
the benefit in the net result to £11,782.
Allowing for the £400,000 of 9 p.c. pref.
money, the £80,989 of profit represented
55.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
41.2 p.c., 30.2 p.c. and 15 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The margin here
over the 12| p.c. div.—it left £34,923
to plough in—gives the ords. speculative
possibilities, with prospects in the long
run of some restoration of the 16s. a
share capital cut suffered in 1926. Each
1 p.c. on the ords. requires only £BO5 of
profit.
Movements in fixed assets were more
apparent than real:
1930. 1932. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Liabilities . . *197,242 41,248 *33,838 *168,550
Freeholds . . 93,269 89,161 81,596 117,715
Plant. . . . 205,724 176,275 114,124 192,134
Stocks . . 310,171 215,483 341,805 419,107
Book debts, etc. 138.850 99,279 113,462 190,620
* Includes an unspecified provision for taxation.
Coincident with the liquidation of the
pups, there was writing-up of heavily-
depreciated working assets to the Taxa-
tion Commissioner’s valuation, a paper
profit of £72,153 being placed to capital
reserve. Another book entry is the prop-
erty lift, due mainly to the allowance for
depreciation thereon, previously deducted
from the asset, now figuring as a reserve
on the other side of the sheet. The course
of trade is evident in the additions to
stocks (£77,302 higher) and debtors
(£184,836, up £88,402), to finance which
outsiders were called upon for another
£134,712. There is nothing uncomfort-
able in the liquid position, however, the
debt being more than covered by amounts
due to the co. itself alone.
Defence requirements mean another
brisk year is ahead, although with wool
and other costs higher the expense ratio
may be less favorable, while the new tax
proposals, when they come down, will
bring home forcibly something of the
cost of war. But the really sticky time
will not be till the post-war period, when
there will be more plant than ever clam-
bering after a reduced volume of business.
Acting conservatively and leaving capi-
tal and depreciation reserves out of ac-
count, the cover for the scrip is 30s. 4d.
prefs. and 10s. 3d. ords. At 295. 3d. and
10s. respectively, immediate yields are
6.1 p.c. and 5 p.c.
Hordern Bros., Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends Towards
■ Prefs. Re— Re-
July, Profit. 9& 8 p.c.* Olds. serves, senes.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.-42,596 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 20,096 619
1929.. 43.046 9,300 6 „ „ 13,500 20,546 21,165
Prelin:'...ary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
1930. .27,725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 5,786 23,676
1931. .17,319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932. .28,231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933. .30,207 13,175 6 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,967
1934. .31,007 13,175 6 „ „ 13,588 4,244 32,211
1935. .34,860 13,175 6 „ „ 13,669 8,016 40,227
1936. 13,175 6 „ ~ 14,124 11,749 51,976
1937.. 42.313 13,175 0 ~ „ 14,530 14,608 66,584
1938.. 44.497 13,175 6 ~ „ 14,530 10,792 83,376
Written off buildings, £20,000 . . 63,376
1939.. 42,087 13,175 6 p.c. = 14,811 14,101 77,477
Written off buildings, £lO,OOO . . 67,477
1940.. 45.710 13,175 0 p.c. = 14,986 17,549' 85,026
* Subject to N.S'.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
The co. has a bright store, situated in
one of the busiest blocks in the city, an
able control, alive to the advantages of
shrewd buying and other problems of
service, and sound finances, all of which
help to make for success in the highly-
competitive retail field.
Last term most retailers gained more
from the proceeds of war-time contracts
than they lost through the increased
demands of the taxgatherer and the steady
climb in costs generally. There was more
money about, owing to the sale of surplus
exports to Britain at figures higher than
pre-war prices and to growing local ex-
penditure on the defence services, includ-
ing their pay, food, clothing, equipment,
quartering and transport, etc. Also, diffi-
culties associated with imports created a
stronger demand for goods turned out
from local factories and workrooms.
After making an unspecified but larger-
than-usual provision for taxation, allow-
ing £5868 (down £B3) for depreciation,
and paying bonuses (not mentioned in
previous years) to the management and
staff, the board figured net earnings £3623
better at £45,710, which is the best since
the public became interested about 18
years ago. The £45,710 was enough to
pay the prefs.—there are 100,000 9 p.c.
firsts and a like number of 8 p.c. seconds
—their full contract rates and then show
11.4 p.c. on the £249,775 of ord. capital.
But the board’s policy is, and has been
for many years, to strengthen the co.’s
shock-absorbers, visible and otherwise.
So the ord. div. was kept at 6 p.c., and
the first and second prefs. received only
6.9 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively, owing
to the incidence of the N. S. Wales In-
terest Reduction Act, which has outlived
the conditions it was originally designed
to meet. While £17,549 was put on the
shelf, £lO,OOO was slipped away to inner
reserves, being written off the book value
of premises, leaving the visible accumu-
lation at £85,026.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
were mainly in anticipation that the
market for goods in which the co. trades
will go still higher during the current
term: —-
1929. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £325,000 £427,825 £449,775 £449,775
Mortgage 1 1 100,333 100,333
Overdraft, etc. J- 325,646 193,614 1 22,986 63,514
Sundry cred.* J (. 97,038 126,637
BBS* ,t o | 375 ' 318 *«««»{ *BSB *B*B
Stocks 200,291 150,441 173,688 300.553
Book debts . . 47,894 55,920 88.903 98,951
Mortgages, etc. J 61>807 58 ,100 {JJ;*”
* Including tax provision.
Outstanding feature there is the sharp
growth of £126,865 in stocks. If the
board’s anticipations prove right, and


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T,
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
BE BRITISH-BUY BRITISH."
V
a\
0
WORK
Y
" 4'
Kg
EBRITISH’NAVY
k
ery Artkle used in their
nstructionMs Br
For\o
been
thinks
to the
The
the R
fashio
eventy Years the "Swan" has
ading British Pen. When one
tain Pens the »"
/ S'
jcomes
Family use "Swan" Pens—
Navy uses "Swan" Ink. Be
and
O LIKEWISE !
—*
/ r \
BEST !
Made/fn many sizes, with a Gold nih to suit every
hand Black and many colours and mounting,
also in Pen and Pencil Sets.
BLXeKBIRD & JACKDAW PENS
are also rfrade by the “Swan Pen^ec They
are the
the—d
ALWAYS USE "SWAN" INK.
INSPECT THEM AT ALL STATIONERS,
JEWELLERS AND STORES
Send for Illustrated Price List to MABIE, TODD &
CO . LTD.. 255 a George Street, Sydney, or 3G4
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
Xq a£wwu/o
te is nothing at the moment to
suggest that they won’t, the larger
stocks, which should place the co.
in a strong competitive position, augur
well for the current year’s earnings.
To meet the outlay and carry an extra
£10,048 of book debts, the board drew
upon cash for £42,133, reduced the
amount coming to the co. as mortgagee
by £7878 and went outside for an extra
£70,127 net. The more or less liquid
surplus (£173,928) was £16,775 stronger
than at the previous balance.
At 255. the firsts yield 5.6 p.c. on
a 6.9 p.c. div. basis, and the seconds at
21s. return 5.9 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c. distri-
bution. They are very satisfactory
returns, all things considered. The net
tangible cover is £5 7s. firsts, £4 7s.
seconds and 265. 9d. ords., which are not
listed, being mainly held by the family.
Peters Ice Cream (Vic.)
Towards
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, preliminary exes., etc. .. 58,578
1930.. 7,634 Nil 66,215
1931.. 16,475 Nil 82,690
Profit.
1932.. 3,895 Nil 3895 78,795
Intangibles written off, £38,795 .. 40,000
1933.. 8,668 6 p.c. = 7,356 1318 38,682
Reserve for depreciation, etc.
(£19,198, up £8403), taken in.. 19,484
1934.. 14,225 8 p.c. = 9,799 4426 15,058
Added to depreciation reserve, £BlOl. . 6,957
1935.. 9,632 6 p.c. = 7,347 2285 4,672
Reserves.
Added sundry reserves, £7017 .. 2,345
1936.. 10,164 8 p.c. = 9,800 364 2,709
Added sundry reserves, £15,379 . . 18,088
1937.. 20,023 9 p.c. = 13,675 6348 24,436
Added sundry reserves, £15,614 . . 40,050
1938.. 21,793 9 p,c. = 15,078 6715 46,765
Deficit.
Reserves reduced, £65,311 .. .. 18,546
1939.. 22,5 2 4 9 p.c. = 15,077 7447 11,099
1940.. 24,27 2 9 „ „ 16,948 7324 3,775
This offshoot of Peters American Deli-
cacy Co. (Sydney) operates throughout
Vic. and Tas. Formed in 1929, it made
a disappointing start, but with the lop-
ping of £82,825 (Bs. in the £) off capital
in 1932 the accounts were put on an
even keel, and, following the erection of
a new factory at Richmond and extension
of the business to Tas., the co. soon
developed into a satisfactory dividend
payer. Distributions began in 1933 with
6 p.c.; the rate reached 9 p.c. in 1937
and has remained steady since, with satis-
factory margins, the average over the last
eight years being 8 p.c. p.a.
Earnings have moved in accordance
with seasonal and economic conditions
and the extension of the co.’s field. Dur-
ing the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts war expenditure of one kind
and another and relatively high prices
for most of our exports put more money
in people’s pockets, and a lot more ice-
cream was consumed. To cope with the
increased demand additional provision
for storage had to be made at the co.’s
Hobart depot.
Manufacturing, delivery and other
costs continued to climb, and after allow-
ing £13,900 (down £3600) for deprecia-
tion and setting aside a round £lO,OOO
for taxation (amount not specified in
previous term), the net result was £1748
better at £24,272, equal to 12.9 p.c. on
average capital as against 13.4, 13, 14.2,
8.2, 7.9, 11.6, 7.1 and 2.1 p.c. back to
1932. So the board had no difficulty in
maintaining the 9 p.c. div., and the £7324
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £3775 —goodwill, etc. (£40,000),
is not treated as an asset herein.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £122,505 £167,080 £167,453 £195,022
Sundry creditors 25,703 10,227 21,206 13,894
Freeholds . . 58,746 102,394 1 -ioq 099 qB5
Plant .. 65,215 102,577 f
Stocks .. 2,859 6,607 10,614 22,635
Book debts . . 2,087 2,203 6,018 8,100
Cash, etc. . . 18,302 1,636 1,173 9,107
On fixed assets £3256 more was spent
than was written off. To do this, add
£2082 to debtors’ balances, and carry an
extra £12,021 of stocks (mainly items
which it might be difficult to obtain later),
holders of the 277,072 12s. contribs. were
asked for another 2s. per share, making
them paid to 10s. each. The amount
coming to outsiders was reduced by
£7312. Including stocks, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£25,948) was £29,349.
The market, doubtful of the ultimate
effect of war and post-war conditions
upon this class of business, prices the
lOs.-paids at 14s. 9d., at which figure the
return is 6.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 19s. Bd. per
pound of paid capital.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 13,686 9 p.c. = 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8.,712 6 „ „ 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ „ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937.. 12,762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69,948
1938.. 12,180 10 „ ~ 11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ ~ 11,000 1232 72,360
1940.. 11,812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
Prudent testators never fail to create a
liquid fund in their estates to cover
duties payable on their death, and there-
by sidestep the possibility of forced
realisation of portion of their assets at
what might prove to be a very unfavor-
able moment. Proof of the wisdom of
such a provision was provided in abun-
dance during the slump of the early
1930’5, and with the recent growth of
taxation, which can be expected to con-
tinue, the need for such a fund becomes
increasingly urgent. One way out is to
put money at fixed deposit with the
bank ; another is to buy a paid-up in-
surance policy.
At the annual roll-up of shareholders
in the Permanent, Sydney, chairman
Yarwood suggested a third, which the
Government would be well advised
to consider. That is the making
of further Government bond issues
(Consols) acceptable in payment of death
duties, both Federal and State, the latter
by arrangement with State Govern-
ments. If this was done, many people
could satisfy the strong obligation they
feel to support Government loans at the
moment, and at the same time carry
out what they regard as a necessary duty
to their dependants.
As for the co. itself, expanding busi-
ness necessitated registration of an asso-
ciate, Permanent Trustee (Canberra),
Ltd., last term, when £644,358 more busi-
ness was put on the books than was dis-
tributed among beneficiaries —distribu-
tions amounted to about one and a half
million pounds:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925’! 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932'.! 17,909,175 67,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,865 54,142 44,580 82.3 „
1935!. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 ~
19.38 . 21,117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 ~
1939 21,890,250 72,998 60,160 82.4 „
1940!! 22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
The improvement in gross earnings from
all sources was £2016. Owing to in-
creased taxation and a bigger wages
bill, exes, took all the gain and £420
besides —the co. has been duplicating all
its vital records, which have been “safely
lodged at a centre well away from the
city.” After deducting £6OO struck off
the book value of premises, the net result
(£11,812) was equal to 10.7 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 11.1, 11, 11.6, 10.5, 8.2
and 8.1 p.c. back to 1934. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c. and a 2 p.c. bonus was
added, making 10 p.c. for the fourth year
in SUCCeSSIOn.
One problem for the investor to de-
termine is whether expansion of business
in future will lift gross earnings taster
than taxes and ord i nary costs increase
outgoings.
The market expresses its opinion by
pricing the £5 shares paid to 11s. each
at 20s. 9d., at which figure the return
j § 55 p c>Qn a JQ p C> d iv. basis. The
backing is 18s. 4d. in net tangibles (book
value).
The co.’s £llO,OOO of paid capital,
together with the reserves and £9249
CO ming to sundry creditors, is invested
j n premises, £54,321 ; mortgages,
£80,544 ; Government securities, cash,
etc>> £64,757.
{“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


O o
o
o
O
c
TIME IS MONEY
Save both • • use Cheques
The cost of keeping a current account with
the National Bank is returned many times
over in time saved and convenience afforded.
When you pay accounts by cheque you save
walking and waiting, you cut out risks of
loss, and have a record of payment. Our near-
est Branch will be pleased to supply details.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated In Victoria)
337 Branches in Australia .
89—16—40
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
IN THE MATTER of BRITISH MEDICAL
INVESTMENT TRUST LIMITED (in
liquidation) and
IN THE MATTER of the COMPANIES
LIQUIDATION ORDINANCE 1935-1936.
TAKE NOTICE that the Second Accounts
and Plan of Distribution showing a return of
capital to the holders of shares of nominal
value of £1 each in the above Company who
have paid in full for such shares have now
been filed in the office of the Registrar of
the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital
Territory at Canberra in the Territory for the
Seat of Government of the Commonwealth
of Australia for inspection by persons .inter-
ested AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
such account and plan of distribution will be
submitted to the Court for confirmation on
Friday the Twenty-ninth day of November 1940
at 10.30 a.m. if not previously objected to.
The amount shown to be due to each share-
holder under the said plan will be paid by the
sole liquidator at his office after the expiration
of seven clear days from the confirmation
thereof.
DATED this 15th day of November, 1940.
W. B. GEDDES, Public Trustee for the State
of New South Wales, Sole Liquidator, 14 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Golden Plateau, N.L. (Q.)
The downtrend of mill head values at
Golden Plateau, Queensland’s second
gold-producer, was arrested last year, and
to date in the current term recoveries
have been around s.Bdwt. But the value
placed on reserve ore is sdwt. With
all-in costs at last year’s 265. 3d. a ton,
including depreciation, full recovery of
that would show a surplus of 235. a ton —
£92,000 p.a. on an 80,000 tons through-
put. A return to annual 3s. a share dis-
tributions therefore appears to be depen-
dent on a rise in ore values or further
expansion in output ; and that isn’t justi-
fied at the present juncture of develop-
ment.
Disappointing failure of the deeper
levels to live up to the promise of a year
ago shows up in this ore-reserve com-
parison :
t 1939 N f 1940 ~
, Tons. Grade. Tons. Grade.
Proved . . 174.300 4.o2dvvt. 142,800 4.B9dwt.
Probable . . 48,300 0.29 „ 32,300 5.08 ~
Total .. 222,000 4.9Bdwt. 175,100 4.93d\vt.
Though all-over grade is much the same,
new ore opened up fell 47,500 tons short
of millings, despite development expen-
diture of £26,953, or 6s. 9|d. per ton. Chief
blow was the cutting out of values on
No. 3 level in the western section, and
no payable extension has yet been dug
up in driving on No. 5 (644 ft., bottom)
level. In the eastern section, which con-
tains No. 3 and the Sunrise lodes, the
position looks much more satisfactory,
though here again No. 5 level had not got
into pay-ore 432 ft. from the shaft. Still,
the increasing proportion of silver in the
ore with depth may be an omen of per-
sistence. Something will also depend on
how far the Sunrise deposit, well to the
east, lives below No. 1 level.
Throughput recorded little movement
last year: it was the better price of gold
and slight lift in ore grade that produced
the rise of £14,432 in revenue:
r~ —Profit — —Divs.
June, Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 253,975 58,467 195,508 4/8 4/6 189,000
1937.. 228,109 72,446 155,663 3/8 3/- 126,000
1938.. 225,949 90,013 135,936 3/2 3/- 126,000
1939.. 212,783 84,581 128,202 3/0' 3/- 126,000
1940.. 227,215 111,893 115,322 2/9 2/- 84.000
* Includes depreciation—l 936, £7106; 1937, 8043;
1938, £8621; 1939, nil-, 1940, £9916.
Declared profit declined £12,880; but
earnings had to bear an extra charge of
£16,972 for development (£34,974 alto-
gether, including £8022 of capitalised ex-
penditure in the preceding term) and of
£9916 for depreciation, passed by in
1939. Though 2s. 9d. a share was earned,
only 2s. was sent out. Earlier payment of
an interim shilling may portend some-
thing better for the current term.
Harder ore as the workings go down
shows up in the extraction figure:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Treated, tons . . 48,453 56,912 80,010 79,035
Gold, 07. 25,834 25.729 22,698 22,711
Dwt. . . . . 10.66 9.04 5.67 5.75
Recovery, p.c... 95.76 94,65 94.05 93.7
Silver, oz. . . 11,471 20,353 18,008 28,633
Dwt. . . . . 4.7 7.1 4.5 7.2
All-in costs, ton . . 29/10 31/7 23/3 26/3
Of the 3s. a ton rise in all-in costs, 2s. 6d.
was on account of the depreciation allo-
cation, so that all other exes, lifted only
6d. a ton —evidence of improved efficiency,
considering the rise in wage rates and mill
supplies and that 47 p.c., as against 26
p.c., of the mill-feed came from below
No. 2 horizon. The same factors, with
enlistments, will make the figure more
difficult to restrain in the current term.
Golden Plateau has 840,000 3s. 4d.
shares on issue, 210,000 fully paid, the
rest to 2s. 6d. Since the beginning of
1940 the contribs. have been up and down
between 11s. sd. and ss. Bd. At 7s. the
mine and surplus liquids of £61,536 are
now valued in the market at £294,000,
which at the moment isn’t therefore pre-
pared to pay very much for “prospects.”
“War conditions” have brought yet an-
other postponement of Sulphide Corp.’s
reconstruction proposals, leaving their
nature still in the air—nothing more defi-
nite has been broadcast than that some
repayment, as well as writing down, of
capital is intended. Since working out
of the Central mine at the Barrier,
the co. has become dependent on
its mainly industrial undertakings at
Cockle Creek (N.S.W.), where it turns out
cement, super., sulphuric and hydro-
chloric acid and limestone, besides
zinc concentrate roasting on Electro-
lytic Zinc’s account. In the three years
to June 30, 1939, the latest for which
accounts are available, over £lOO,OOO was
expended on extension and modernisa-
tion (not then completed) at Cockle
Creek. The balance sheet then showed
more or less liquids of £849,810 sterling,
made up as follows:
Cash £99,970
Government securities . . 325,937
Sundiy investments . . 73,278
Debtors 194,162
Stocks and stores . . 156,563
That lot was subject to known liabilities
of £29,245 and to unascertained obliga-
tions for taxation and workers’ compen-
sation, for which the big sum of £216,723
had been tentatively earmarked. Even
allowing for this, the co. may be able to
repay up to three-fourths of its
£600,000 of 10 p.c. non-cumulative parti-
cipating prefs. when it makes up its mind.
At 19s. for the prefs. and 7s. for the
15s. ords., the local market places a
valuation of £624,000 stg. on the scrip.
That is not so very much more than sur-
plus liquids alone, deducting the £216,723
referred to ; and then there are the Cockle
Creek works, which figure at over
£300,000. Earning power in 1939 was
£41,263. There may be a capital profit
in the prefs. if exchange is allowed for
when some repayment takes place ; mean-
time, they stand in the path of distribu-
tions to the ords.
* * * *
The Centre has lost one of its most
proficient mining men with the enlist-
ment of H. Maitland Thomas. The
rapid progress of Eldorado Tennant
Creek is one testimony to his manage-
ment. From 2000 tons a year ago proved
ore has grown to 13,000 tons, grade
16dwt., with a further 5000 tons (14,000
is Thomas’s figuring) estimated probable
in the view of W. J. Turner. In its first
term of 15 months the co. crushed 4298
tons and showed a loss of £1827. After
charging £4750 for development the defi-
cit turned into a surplus of £8402 last
term, when 6681 tons ore and 4590 tons
of sands yielded bullion worth £35,343
gross, and two 3d. divs. now stand to
the co.’s credit. With a reasonable quan-
tity of ore in sight and its characteristics
proved, installation of a new 50-60-tons-
a-day treatment plant is in the air—by
reducing costs and increasing metallur-
gical efficiency, expected to make 4dwt.-
6dwt. ore pay. It has still to be demon-
strated how far the irregular Tennant
lodes will live below 200 ft., but the prob-
abilities of both their downward and
lateral extension are considered promising
on the Eldorado. The ore-deposits here
may be likened to a pair of breeches—
the trunk representing the main lode as
worked in the opencut and the legs por-
traying the east and west ore-bodies.
Millings have lately lifted to a level in
excess of 8000 tons p.a.
* * * *
Success of some Westralian goldmining
resurrections has astonished many local
mining men. Take Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie. This group includes properties
on the east side of the Golden Mile
worked in the early days and then dis-
carded by Central-West Boulder, North
Boulder, Oroya South, Bank of England,
Royal Mint, Iron King and other cos.
Raised from the dead in 1934, they have
since paid divs. aggregating 2s. 7jd. on
each of the 1,220,000 issued shares, and
are at present producing gold at the rate
of £400,000 p.a., showing a working profit
of about half that amount. Proved and
probable ore is estimated at 657,000 tons,
grade s.ldwt. Bayley’s Reward, whose
richness advertised Coolgardie far and
wide in the early ’nineties, is another
resurrection apparently doing well. Oper-
ated by Phoenix, Ltd., one of De Ber-
nales’s group, it has resumed regular pro-
duction at the rate of £6500 a month,
and is reported to have a fair tonnage
of ore in sight and a future.
* * * *
Voluntary liquidation of New Yilgarn
Gold, N.L. (W.A.), is announced. A
return to shareholders of approximately
Is. a share is expected. In January co.
declared a shilling dividend out of accu-
mulated funds, and broadcast that mas-
sive intrusions of pegmatite dykes and
heavy flows of water below No. 4 level
stood in the way of profitable working.
* * * *
Among items of information from the
Westralian Mines Department, State
Mining Engineer Wilson mentions a
steady increase in electrical equipment
throughout the goldfields. Two new elec-
tric winders have been installed by North
Kalgurli, the Western Mining Corpora-
tion has extended its power plants at Kal-
goorlie, Norseman and Cox’s Find, and
Lake View and Star has done likewise on
its Kalgoorlie-Boulder group. Kalgoorlie
Power Corporation, a London co. which
supplies some of the Golden Mile mines
and the local tramways with electric cur-
rent, also has a new turbo-generator. E. J.
Hogg, superintendent of the Mines
Workers’ Relief Act, also says that of the
mineworkers examined last year 95.63 p.c.
were normal. These included men with
first-class lives or suffering from pneu-
moconiosis only. The remainder had
either early or advanced silicosis, or sili-
cosis plus tuberculosis; 1622 new appli-
cants and 679 re-examinees were found
normal and given initial certificates, and
118 re-examinees were found to have
pneumoconiosis.
* * * *
“Strike Me”: I wonder whether
Tommy Higgins, of Miclere Battery
(N.Q.), still claims that a magnify-
ing glass is wanted to find the dirt to keep
his mill going. There have been some
fine crushings since he wrote, and he
has the only battery on the field with a
more or less certain water supply that
can handle the stuff. There are still
others waiting with headings and tails in
their parcels.
* * * *
Hawkin’s Hill, on the Etheridge field
(N.Q.), a rather awkward problem left by
C. Rutledge and taken up by F. W. Cuth-
bert on his return from Misima, has re-
cently struck heavier mineralised ore
formation, and values have improved.
Mine output is averaging some 100 tons
monthly. The ore is concentrated at the
battery, the last 250 tons producing 10
tons of concentrates, assay not given.
As a line on values, the concentrates
recently realised around fine gold
per ton, so the ore may be running from
6dwt. to 7dwt. But Cuthbert has the
Midas touch, and the Hill, which looked
an ugly duckling, may yet develop.
* * *
The Kidston area, on the Oaks gold-
field (N.Q.), is turning out a lot of low-
grade dirt. Though out in the backblocks,
it has been one of the cheapest proposi-
tions for prospectors in Queensland,
because the ore can be rooted out from
opencasts and then treated in the State
battery by a co-operative system whereby
the miner can do his own chores in the
battery and so keep down costs. It
seems a plan worth copying. The big
lots now being treated are averaging only
2hdwt. to 3dwt. For instance, Price, on
the Kidston, took 68oz. bullion from 500
tons, and Hall’s party, on the Mountain
King, 650 z. from the same tonnage. It’s
all remarkably even, and, if lumped to-
gether with the smaller satellites that
occasionally drop their thirties and forties
in at the mill, might take on the com-
plexion of a Big Bell.


SMOKE-OH!
“Mrs. Saunders said that the great aim of
ill the women was to give hell to the soldiers.”
— “Sun.”
Oh, ladies!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jasper’s lips closed in a thin straight line
at Max’s retort. ‘l’ll get even with you for
that,’ he snarled.” — Short-story extract.
Jasper, no doubt, was thankful for
having been taught as a youth how to
snarl through his ears.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A baby boy in America has been born
possessing a complete set of teeth.”
For the present, however, he will be
allowed to chew only the bands of cigars.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A fettler had reported that the permanent
wag was slightly damaged at this point.”
— “Sun.”
Probably spoke out of his turn.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Several times during the last round he
invited his opponent to punch him on the
jaw.”— Boxing report.
He applied for a job, as it were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The proprietor of the hotel declared that he
fired the gun to frighten off a number of
drunks who were trying to force their way
in ."—“D.T.”
An anti-tank gun?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Jonahs of the Future.
“One whale will furnish as much meat as
one hundred cattle.” — “World’s News.”
For the coastal cocky, beaten by the
drought and locust-eaten, a whale-farm
will be surely worth a try. Musterers,
beating up the water, driving whales up
to the slaughter-house, or placid grazing
“cows” will meet the eye. It may mean
a constant battle when the rains no longer
rattle on the roof and creeks dry up
to mostly mud. Humpbacks, waiting to
be branded, will get well and truly
stranded. And they might get washed to
sea when there’s a flood.
For the whale-farm that’s extensive
feed may be a bit expensive ; so much so
that profits easily might halve. As for
Dave, he’ll do a shiver as he paddles
round the river while he’s waiting for his
favorite whale to calve!
Elm.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Quite a number of visiting boxers whom I
have met in recent years kept a diary.”
—Sports gossip writer.
Surely, though, they referred to them
as their scrap books!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One of our travellers tells stories of snakes
being drowned by frogs, four fish caught on
one line, and kangaroos bitten to death by rats.
Do any of these things happen?”
— “D.T.” correspondent.
It depends on what one drinks.
“For those days when you wake to see the
sun streaming in a yellow glow through the
window, I have worked out a keep-cool plan
for beating the temperature at its own game.”
—Beauty hint article.
Pull down the blind?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wrinkles for housewives.” — Cookery book.
But isn’t that the last thing any woman
wants?
“Soldier Bound Over on Bigamy Charge.”
— “D.T.”
Hasn’t he been bound enough already?
4* .!. »j.
“In the most modern method the launder-
ing of a stiff collar involves no less than 15
processes.”— ‘‘World’s News.”
Including one to give it that serrated-
edge effect.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“£2 Fine for Kicked Shins.”
— ‘‘D.T.” heading.
We can’t help thinking, though, that
embrocation might be better.
“Many women seem to develop a small appe-
tite after a few years of housekeeping.”
— Woman’s paper.
They just keep picking at their hus-
bands, but now and then they get a
good bite.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The girls hope to put £lOOO a year into
National Savings by going barelegged.”
—‘‘Worlds News.
They will, of course, save the money
in stockings.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘There is no love lost between the criminal
classes and High Court Judges,’ declares legal
correspondent.”
Still, we’ve never heard a crook com-
plain because the Judge didn’t have any
time for him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The young man who is described as
“a seed” too often sprouts into a bloom-
ing nuisance.
Answered.
I asked her softly, and her glorious eyes
Turned towards mine, and over them
there swept
A gleam of tender longing, soft though
bright,
As though from overjoy they might
have wept.
Then, bending forwards till her honeyed
breath
Played on my cheek, a fragrant garden
breeze,
The while her white throat fluttered with
a sigh,
She whispered softly : “Gin and bitters,
please!”
C.L.
Ought-to-bes.
“Many a man has found success, after
floundering aimlessly, through his wife telling
him what he ought to be. Women have the
gift to do this.”— Woman’s paper.
Too right, they have!
“You ought to be ashamed of your-
self,” says Maria. That’s one of her
favorite ought-to-bes. “You ought to
be horsewhipped,” “you ought to be
glad that you have a wife willing to
look after you,” “you ought to be thank-
ful that you have a home to come to
after your drunken orgies” are amongst
others.
it “You ought to be shot!” is the
“oughter” with which Maria most closely
approaches verity. Yet if I get even half-
shot she goes crook!
But her “You ought to be hanged”
may in the end come closer still to the
truth. The hanging may follow what
happens to Maria some night when she
has gone to sleep after telling me all the
things that 1 ought to be.
H.M.
Nothing But.
“It wasn’t that he had any real objection
to telling the truth, but that the truth tended
to disturb the tranquil flow of ordinary casual
conversation.”— Short story.
“Nice day, isn’t it?”
“Climatically, yes.”
“Does this train get in at nine?”
“How do I know?”
“Oh, I’m sorry; I didn’t mean to
intrude.”
“What else did you mean, speaking to
a perfect stranger?”
“I —er —well, I thought”
“You did not. You merely opened your
mouth and words came out. Trite, trivial
words about the weather. If you had
“ You'll have to ring later. I'm just going out to lunch!"
ever thought you would have realised
that the words had no meaning what-
soever.”
“/ think you’re a bit of a crank.”
“Wrong again. You don’t know what
to think, simply because you’re encoun-
tering the truth.”
“Ar, go to hell!”
“I suppose you believe in that, too.”
“I’ve a good mind to stoush you.”
“No, you haven’t. You’re simply mak-
ing a threat inspired by your discomfort.
Why not admit that everything I’ve said
is correct?”
“Maybe it was, but it’s the way you
say it. There’s no need to go about
offending people.”
“How do you know?”
“Well, the world isn’t so big that we
can live in it without regard to the feelings
of others.”
“Feelings, my eye. You spoke to me
out of curiosity. Back of your mind you
hoped to find out who I was, where I
was going, what I do for a living and so
on. Well, you didn’t, and now you whine
about your feelings.”
“Are you married?”
“If you must know, yes.”
“Ah, I thought so.”
M8.
Song for an Amazon.
No stint of honor for the maiden
Who plays a soldier’s part; but why,
Oh why, must she affront the eye
In uniform with badges laden ;
Whose tightly-belted form divulges
Some most unmilitary bulges?
P.M.L.
Hectic Histrionics.
“According to a dramatic critic, the drama
and its interpretation should occupy a promi-
nent place in the curriculum of every school.”
I once thought so, too, and as teacher
in the upper sixth I decided to put it
into practice.
One day, while working out a cross-
word puzzle—the pupils were busy squirt-
ing ink at one another —I came across
the word “corporeal.” At the time,
strangely enough, I happened to be think-
ing of stewed rhubarb, and, if this in
itself were not coincidence enough, the
next word turned out to be “gingham”!
What more natural, then, than that my
thoughts should turn to the stage? Then
and there was born my determination to
foster any histrionic talent my pupils
might have.
With me to act is but the prelude to
thinking. Putting down my crossword, I
tapped on the blackboard for silence.
“Boys,” I commenced, anticipating with
what I must confess was an almost boyish
enthusiasm their joy at my disclosure.
“Boys, we are going to have a play!”
Immediately there was a vocal uproar
that shook a colony of white-ants out
of the weatherboards, a shower of paper
and books shot ceilingwards and a pen,
guided unerringly by the feather stuck
through the split handle, whizzed past my
head to bury itself in the board an inch
from my left ear. I took this as a sign
of youthful exuberance at the thought
of getting an opportunity to act, but next
moment, with roars of “Good old Egg-
head!” and “Jings, he’s not such a bad
old blank after all!” the entire class
made a wild rush for the door, the hind-
most scrambling over the backs of those
who had got jammed.
By the time I got out into the play-
ground they were already into leap-
frog, “weak horses” and cockfight-
ing. It was half an hour before I
could get them into the classroom again
to explain that I meant we’d act a play.
They were sulky for a while until I
promised to take the part of Calphurnia
myself, allotting to the boys the other
roles of “Julius Caesar,” which they had
done for the last exam. My decision
to appear in a feminine role apparently
put them in a good humor, for someone
—“Stinker” Smithers, I think —sang out
in an imitation soprano “00-hoo! Hey,
Pongo, get Egghead in a pair o’ corsets! ”
while from “Skinny” Matthews, cast as
the Emperor, came a plaintive “Strike
me! Do I ’ave to kiss ’im ?”
My plan was that as they were all
thoroughly acquainted with the work —
I had read it to them 14 times before they
got the gist of the plot—they should each
interpret their lines in the manner natural
to them, with appropriate gestures.
“Gobbo” Burton started the proceed-
ings when, as Flavius, he entered the
“street” with his fellow-tribune Marullus
and certain commoners. “Gobbo,”
freckled, with water-wing ears and part-
less hair standing up from his scalp like
a Chow’s, took a deep breath and alter-
nately shrilled and boomed in his break-
ing voice:
“Go on, y’ lazy cows, now nick orf ’ome!
This ain’t a ’oliday. Youse ought to' know
Y’ gotter wear some sign so we can tell
Yer yakka. What do you do for a
crust ?”
First Commoner
(“Billo” Hawkins):
“Me? I’m a plumber.”
Marullus (“Seven-
heads” Carruthers):
“Yer a flamin’ liar,
Billo; where’s yer
saw and gimbelet?”
Flavius: “You
shut y’r trap, ‘Seven-
heads’ ; a plumber
don’t use a saw. My
old man’s one, an’ he
mucks around with a
solderin’ iron.”
Marullus: “Garn!
When I was over
your place last Sat’-
dee I seen him cu{-
tin’ a pipe with a
hacksaw.”
Flavius: “Ar, y’
goat! A hacksaw
ain’t a proper saw! ”
Here “Pongo”
Bates, cast as Marc
Antony, rushed in
and held up his
hand. “Shut up, you Alicks. Cassar’s
here to mag.”
Caesar (“Skinny” Matthews): “Hey,
Cally! ”
Silence.
Caesar ( louder): “Hey, Cally !”
Marullus: “Cripes, Egghead’s forgot
his lines.”
Caesar {roaring): “Hey, Cally, are y’
deaf?”
I had been turning up the play so as
to prompt them, but at this reminder to
my cue I entered.
“Here, my lord.”
Second Commoner (“Ocker” Stevens):
“Ar har! Who’s getting on his guts and
crawling to the teacher? Ar har!”
Caesar: “Wait till I get yer after school,
Ocker. I’ll belt the daylights out of y’.”
It was here that “Bingles” Wilcox, who
was Brutus, could wait for the assassina-
tion scene no longer. He rushed in and
hurled himself on Caesar, pushing a ruler
down his back in imitation of a stab and
yelling “Take that, y’ sod!”
Caesar lashed out at this ill-timed
assault, and then Cassius (Jacky Morgan),
Casca (“Rollo” Martin), Trebonius
(“Ginger” Hammond) and the rest of the
conspirators tore in. Octavius hurled
against me, and I fell over the back of
Publius, who somehow happened to be
kneeling right behind my legs. Within 10
seconds, amid an uproar that could be
heard in the next town, I was struggling
under a mountain of milling Senators,
conspirators, citizens and guards. At the
height of it the door opened and the
school inspector, on an unexpected visit,
walked in.
I have since omitted dramatic presenta-
tions from the curriculum.
BO.


u
\>\SC\W
*
:
m
I “ : ; -
Oilfo
Here is a “Caterpillar" Diesel D 2 Tractor pulling 10
foot one way discs in stubble, in fourth gear,
ploughing 5 to 7 inches deep, covering to 4
acres per hour, 12 hours a day. "Caterpillar"
Diesels are helping thousands of farmers to reduce
production expense while improving their crops by
doing deeper, more thorough work.
Mr. R. J. Fagan, “Sunnyridge”, Mandurama, writes: "The work
the little "Caterpillar" D 2 is doing at present has astonished me.
In hard, virgin country it is pulling in 3rd gear a 12 furrow disc
plough, which is turning up nearly five inches of soil."
Your local “Caterpillar" dealer has powerful facts
and figures to show you. See him personally or write
to us direct.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
74
7"7
&n
f
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S. HIGH WAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt'. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed . . . by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at- any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Depression “Cuts” Were Worse
During the depression (remember it —
it was supposed to be worse than the
1914-18 war?) there was 30 p.c. unem-
ployment throughout Australia, and those
in jobs suffered cuts in their pay, the cuts
generally being 10 p.c. or more. Nearly
everybody had a bad time, some a rotten
time. But we survived, and so did other
countries. Now Australia is involved in
another crisis calling for further great
sacrifices. It is proposed to spend nearly
£200,000,000 on defence in 1940-41 ; this
may be taken as the equivalent of about
35 p.c. of the value of Commonwealth
production, or about 25 p.c. of what is
termed the “national income.” The latter
comparison is probably the truer, seeing
that defence money will be spent on
services as well as production. Also, some
of the money is to be spent abroad.
It is clearly a big chop into the actual
output of goods and services by this
country from whatever point you look at
it. The sacrifice is a present one ; it
would be foolish to believe that posterity
could relieve us of it. Something more
than a quarter of the products of our
labor may be taken from us for defence
purposes. But up to date not one
Australian has gone hungry or bare as
a result, even though £11,000,000 was
spent on defence during October. On
the contrary, unemployment has fallen
to near the lowest point on record, partly
because men have gone overseas, partly
because of increased national production
as a result of war. It will be remembered
that unemployment was the worst feature
of the 1930-33 depression. With nearly-
full employment now, reduced indi-
viduals’ spending-money will not be cause
for a depression, though there may be
less trade for retailers and more for war
industries.
With the cost of living on a remark-
ably steady basis, the majority of Aus-
tralians can well afford to make a mone-
tary contribution to the cost of this war,
particularly in view of the fact that there
is not now such a wide variety of goods
to spend their money on, defence absorb-
ing more and more. War’s cost should be
met to the utmost now by direct, straight-
forward taxation that has regard to all
but the very lowest-income-earning fami-
lies. Equality of sacrifice means what it
says ; sacrifice should range from excess-
profits tax on companies down to “wages
tax.” And since State Government acti-
vities are likely to be curtailed as a result
of the concentration on defence, wages
tax is a field in respect of which the
States might consider total or partial
evacuation.
Latest figure mentioned for the Com-
monwealth Budget is £274,000,000, which
compares with £250,000,000 previously.
Last week Treasurer A. W. Fadden said
that in July Australia spent £6,900,000
within its own shores on defence; in
October the figure was £11,000,000; by
June, 1941, it would be £15,000,000. This
£15,000,000 a month is equal to
£180,000,000 a year, and is exclusive of
expenditure outside Australia, which is
“rapidly rising.” On May 2, when an
estimate of war expenditure within Aus-
tralia for 1940-41 was given at
£79,000,000, overseas outlay was put at
£31,000,000. It appears that the recent
forecast of an all-in expenditure of
£200,000,000 on defence during 1940-41
is not overestimating the hole war will
make in the national income.
In order to spend, say, £150,000,000
within Australia on defence, that much
labor and materials has to be diverted
from private consumption to the Gov-
ernment. The simplest and most equit-
able means of doing this is to deprive
the population of £150,000,000-worth of
spending money, and for the Government
to avail itself of some of the powers it
was granted in June. These were sum-
marised as:
(a) An unlimited power to tax ;
(b) An unlimited power to take prop-
erty ;
(c) An unlimited power to direct em-
ployers what to do ;
(d) An unlimited power to direct em-
ployees what to do ; and
(e) An unlimited power to call up and
train man-power for the defence of Aus-
tralia.
It is hardly necessary to say that these
powers must be availed of with discre-
tion and fairness. But they were will-
ingly granted by Parliament and were
generally approved by the people. The
most relevant provisions for the purposes
of the war Budget are those giving powers
to tax and to direct employers and em-
ployees what to do. Unless the industrial
energies of the nation are directed
towards producing defence equipment,
the mere spending of money will do little
good, but will create waste of effort and
material.
Though many of us know what is the
right thing to do, it isn’t always easy to
do the right thing. An English economist
has said, “As a matter of abstract prin-
ciple, taxation is preferable to borrow-
ing. As a matter of practical politics, for
the purpose of this war we shall have to
have as much as we can of both.” That
is the way Canberra’s philosophy, stif-
fened by Central Bank tuition, appears
to run, too. Somebody has blown out
the “credit-expansion” stuff to some
effect. According to Mr. Fadden:
Some people are urging us simply to
create the money we need by printing it or
drawing it in a mysterious way out of
bank accounts. But those ideas won’t do.
You cannot produce a war effort like a
rabbit out of a hat; neither can you pay
for a war effort without cash that has a
solid and substantial purchasing power.
To do so would cause inflation, and this
is certainly something against which we
must be on guard. Because activity will
be expanded still more, with more people
in employment and greater total output,
there is still scope for some monetary ex-
pansion. It will help us to raise war
funds, both directly and through the
higher incomes it will create.
The Government will, therefore, use
credit expansion in due measure, as it
has done in the past. But there are
strict limits to that policy which must be
observed and are going to be observed.
The main part of our funds must come
from public loans and taxation; in other
words, from the savings and earnings of
the community.
“In the past” the Government has only
used bank credit in the same sort of way
as any other overdraft-seeker ; the money
has been withdrawn from the ordinary
banking channels in the ordinary manner,
and subject to all the “tightening” effects
the borrowings may have imposed on the
credit system generally. The only differ-
ence is that a loan to the Government is
regarded as riskless, and to some extent
a credit base.
The biggest public-loan programme in
Australia’s history is to be launched, and
what loans and “strictly limited” credit
expansion don’t provide will be found
by means of taxation.
We have got to get the money. We
have got to get so much that everyone
must contribute, directly or indirectly.
No one class or group could provide
the whole amount; the burden must be
spread over the whole field. We are
all involved in this war; we all ought
to contribute, to its cost according to our
ability.
A loan of £25,000,000, it is forecast, will
be offered early in December. Other
unofficial “tips” from Canberra are
that the “statutory income-tax exemption
will be reduced from £250 to £150,” dis-
appearing on a net assessable income of
£3OO. Allowances for dependants won’t
be touched. A ls.-in-the-£ tax on wages,
as in Maoriland, is said to have been
turned down, perhaps because the M.L.
ordinary income-tax exemption is £2OO.
What is to be done about excess-profits
tax remains a mystery.
* * * *
The £25,000,000 war loan to be put
on the market in December will be in
two sections, as in the case of the previous
(May) £20,000,000 issue ; there will be a
short-dated loan of five years, at par,
carrying 2} p.c., and a longer-dated issue,
10-16 years, also at par, carrying 3| p.c.
The loan will probably be subject to old
and new Commonwealth taxes. About
three-fourths of the issue will be for
defence.
According to present plans, there will
be a second loan about the end of Feb-
ruary, probably for £25,000,000, and a
third issue before June 30, making a total
of more than £70,000,000. War-savings
certificates may yield £20,000,000,
especially in view of their freedom from
taxation. There is a limit to the amount
each person may hold, however.
* * * *
The figures of nine trading banks for
September (average of weekly figures)
show an inflow of nearly £5,000,000 in
additional deposits for the month, most
of which has gone into loans to the Com-
monwealth Government:
Average of Weekly Figures.
Sept., May, Aug., Sept.,
1939. 1940. 1940. 1940.
LIABILITIES — £mil. £ mil. £ mil. £mil.
Fixed deposits .. 198.0 213.9 205.2 204.9
Current accounts .. 116.6 138.8 139.3 144.5
Total deposits .. 314.6 352.7 344.5 349.4
ASSFTK—
Cash .. .. 32.6 41.6 42.1 41.5
Treasury bills .. 17.5 43.1 34.1 37.5
Govt, securities .. 22.0 41.4 43.6 44.2
Advances .. .. 295.8 287.1 284.8 283.6
Over 12 months the holding of Govern-
ment paper rose from £39.5 millions to
£81.7 millions, and advances dropped
from £295.8 millions to £283.6 millions.
The fall in advances hasn’t provided all
the money necessary to finance the Gov-
ernment ; the rise of £34.8 millions in
deposits has been the greatest help.
Between Oct., 1939, and Oct., 1940, the
Commonwealth Bank’s holding of Gov-
ernment securities has fallen from £61.2
millions to £42.9 millions. Its “advances,
etc.,” have risen by £11.4 millions, how-
ever, and it has added £39.7 millions to
its London funds. This is partly repre-
sented by an addition of £31.5 millions
to deposits—the trading banks have
deposited most of their London money
with the Centra] Bank.
* * * *
Australian Taxation Departments are
not showing up brilliantly in this crisis.
They are doing nothing to simplify the
taxation position at a time when efficient
and fairly administered taxation measures
would help greatly in drawing off from
the community the monetary contribu-
tion to the nation necessary to finance
our big defence programme. They are
not particularly tolerant of suggestions,
either. The proposed instalment system
of paying Federal tax is a cumbersome
thing as it stands, capable of much im-
provement. It will produce staff-inflation
in the department and angry remon-
strance from firms with big payrolls. Many
“executives,” for instance, will resent
being asked by the accountant for par-
ticulars of their total annual income. It
would be much simpler to do the job
as it is done in Victoria.
# * * *
As forecast in B. 20/3/’4O, the asbestos
field at Robertstown (S.A.) is coming
into the industrial picture in a biggish
way. On November 9 Amalgamated
Asbestos Industries, Ltd., began com-
mercial production of asbestos fibre there.
Ore has hitherto been sent to other States
for treatment. Two shifts are being
worked to cope with orders. Plant’s
capacity will later be doubled.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
• DROUGHT FEEDING . . .
COPRA
GROUND
SMALL LUMPS
£lO/10/- per ton f.o.r. Sydney
Sheep Pigs Cattle
DESIKOKO PTY. LTD.
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Protects all
moving Parts
V
4
f
%
\
\4 \% \% \l
\ \\\%\\u
%
%
%
The unique oiliness content of Drag Free Shell
Motor Oil is ideal for today's motoring needs,
when, because of rationing, your car will
stand for longer periods than usual.
STANDING ... Its constant oil film protection
will not drain from the metal parts, therefore
definitely prevents corrosion.
STARTING ... Its constant oil film protection
definitely prevents "dry starting'-the greatest
cause of engine wear.
RUNNING ... Its drag free qualities will
definitely enable your engine to develop
greater power-give more miles and smoother,
safer running.
m
SHELL
sdf
sdf
sdf
i
THE SHELL CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
LO. 019
Possibly because of the magnitude of
the war Budget, possibly because all
things, good or bad, have to come to an
end, the prolonged rise in Australian
sharemarkets ceased for the time being
last week. On Nov. 8 a peak of 134.02
was reached in the Sydney industrial-
share index, which was only slightly
below the 136.54 reached on Jan. 16
during the pr e-Blitz. armament boom.
Having touched 134.02, daily subsidence
in the index has since taken place, 132.32
being registered last Friday. Broken Hill
Prop, dropped from 475. to 455. 9d., Felt
and Textiles slipped back to 365. 6d.,
A.C.I. to 375. 3d., North B.H. to 405.,
Tooth to 51s. 9d., and most other market
leaders proportionately.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell, Australia’s largest copper-
mine, at Queenstown (Tas.), had a better
year to Sept. 30. After providing £12,417
more for taxation (£50,018), and writing
off depreciation and development at ap-
proximately the same rate as in the pre-
ceding term (£92,935 altogether), net
profit was £183,095, an increase of
£21,906 over the previous term’s result.
The div. was lifted to 10 p.c. (against
1\ p.c.), calling for £155,000. The final is
of Is. 3d. a share, payable on Dec. 18 ;
books close on Nov. 22, until which date
the scrip is quoted cum div. At last
week’s market of 30s. the net price is
thus 28s. 9d., and at this figure the yield
is 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Only Lyell’s preliminary figures were
published last week, and even when the
full accounts are available they will not
carry the usual production data and
details of costs. In order to help meet
the increased demand for copper, how-
ever, the co. is probably doing all it can
to extend output, and it has the practical
encouragement of the Prices Commis-
sioner in this regard—there is a bonus of
£4 a ton above the £72 fixed early this
year to be applied towards developing
production. Soon after the outbreak of
war the Australian price of the metal was
fixed at £63 17s. 6d. Australian a ton.
The later revision put a new complexion
on Mt. Lyell scrip as an investment.
* * * *
With no lift in the final div., Tooth and
Co. disappointed supporters in last week’s
slackening market. The scrip, which was
up to 545. 6d. on Nov. 7, slid back to
51s. 9d. ; this is one of the sharpest
market setbacks of recent months.
* * * *
James Fielding and Co., the Sydney
cardboard-box manufacturer, showed net
profits of £59,527 during last term, com-
pared with £56,136 in the preceding
period. The 15 p.c. div. was repeated ;
the profit was 25 p.c. on capital, so there
was ample margin. Sales of products
have increased since the outbreak of war.
So have taxation rates. The co.’s shares
at 87s. 6d. return £3 Bs. 6d. per cent.
* * *
The wide scope of the taxation pro-
posals in the new Budget (income tax
£33,000,000, against £9,400,000) was em-
phasised by the Prime Minister last week
in Melbourne. He said:
We have got to get rid of the idea that
burdens must be apportioned on a politi-
cally popular basis. The only principle
that can be observed is that of justice.
The man who draws a big income will
pay big taxation; the man who draws a
small income will pay small taxation,
according to his circumstances.
At present people with incomes of more
than £lOOO a year have an aggregate in-
come of £85,000,000 a year, and pay
£30,000,000 a year in taxation to all
authorities. [Commonwealth: Last year,
£7,700,000; under new Budget, £20,000,000.]
People with incomes of between £4OO
and £lOOO a year have an aggregate income
of £143,000,000 a year, and pay less than
£4,000,000 in taxation. [Commonwealth :
Last year, £1,600,000; this year, £8,000,000.]
People with incomes of less than £4OO
a year have an aggregate income of
£517,000,000 out of the total of all incomes
of £745,000,000, and pay only £lOO,OOO in
taxation. [Commonwealth: New Budget,
£5,000,000.]
The people who are finding £30,000,000
out of their £85,000,000 are going to find a
lot more. The people who are in the next
—£4oo to £looo—group are also going to
find more, but we are going to say to
those who are in the relatively small in-
come groups, “We must ask you to make
some contribution out of your smaller re-
sources.”
The new Parliament meets today (20th)
for the first time, and the Budget is the
chief dish on the menu.
Sjc He 5*5
Over the twelve months to Nov. 11 the
Australian note issue expanded from
£51,525,215 to £61,619,444. Some part
of this expansion was due to the rush
by “shrewd” people to hoard money a
few months back. The Commonwealth
Bank’s deposits rose by £24.4 millions
during the year, largely because of the
action of the trading banks in shifting
their London money to the central bank ;
there was a rise of £36.8 millions in the
bank’s London funds over the 12
months ; they totalled £55.3 millions on
Nov. 11. Advances have also expanded
£l2 millions, reaching £3O millions ; Gov-
ernment securities have fallen by £23.7
millions, to £3B millions. Trading banks
and the public have probably absorbed
most of this parcel.
« * # *
United Steel, a British co., had two-
thirds of its profits absorbed by taxation
(including e.-p.t.) last term. Trinidad
Petroleum Development, another London
co., last year earned £181,224 more at
£360,677, but it has had to put £175,000
of the increase aside for taxation, making
tax provision £200,000 altogether.
* * * *
Airlines of Ausftalia made a profit,
subject to taxation, of £14,449 during the
year to June 30, which compares with a
loss of £18,557 in the preceding term.
An increased Government subsidy—
£42,9l4, against £19,279 for mail carriage
and subsidy in the previous term —was
responsible for the profit, though earn-
ings from operations improved £8246.
Total receipts were £187,596, against
£155,609. Provision for depreciation was
£18,235, against £24,591. This year £2500
has been set aside for taxation, reducing
net earnings to £11,949. P. and 1. debit
is now down to £20,829 ; other intan-
gibles are preliminary exes. (£4195) and
goodwill (£14,679). Paid capital is
£114,937, of which £5OOO is in deferreds.
* * * *
Holeproof, the big Victorian hosiery
co., firmed to 225. 6d. last week, the best
price for several months. A 10 p.c. ord.
div. has been paid for four years now,
and the last interim, paid in September,
was the usual 4 p.c. Hosiery stock
has been going cheaply in every capital
because of fears of overproduction and
difficulty of obtaining raw material. Hole-
proof makes men’s socks as well as
women’s stockings, and this has helped
to stabilise earnings.
* * * *
An outstanding rise a month ago was the
advance from 625. to 665. by Mauri Bros,
and Thomson, that old-established business
whose connections spread from coast to
coast and across the Tasman. The shares
have since firmed to 675. Bakers have been
buyers of its yeast for generations, and
bottle-seals, vinegar and various equipment
for brewers, pubs, confectioners and others
are also bread-and-butter lines. Disclosed
earnings could fall 35 p.c. and yet still cover
the 15 p.c. ord. div. The position might
prove even more attractive than it looks
were the cloak swept away from the
figures of the cluster of subsidiaries.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
HOLLAND’S DARKEST DAY.
[As a lesson to any people who may think they can
go haphazardly through this war as if they were still
at peace it would be impossible to improve on the vivid
account of Holland’s last five days, written by former
Foreign Minister Jonkheer F. Beelaerts van Blokland
and published in the October London “Fortnightly.”
The portion here condensed deals with the first day,
Friday, May 10; though the rest makes just as arresting
reading, this part includes the more revealing informa-
tion on the ruthless German manner of bringing war
upon another country, on both the diplomatic and the
fighting fronts.]
Holland has a tale to tell. It is not a pretty tale.
But it is high time it were told.
Thursday, May 9, was a glorious day. A cloud-
less blue sky stood over the green fields and the busy
cities. In the early morning hundreds of thousands of
Dutch men and women had cycled through the clean,
sunny streets on their way to their offices. Perhaps
they had talked about the war a little. But not for
long. It was not their war.
The Hague had its usual and deceptive appear-
ance of pleasant, dignified idleness. Deceptive indeed.
For behind the sunbaked fapades of the Government
offices there was neither idleness nor pleasantry on
this last day of peace, but only a feverish activity and
an ever-deepening sense of gloom as reports from the
intelligence service made it more and more evident that
what had long been feared was to come true at last.
Evening came and the people of Holland, their
day’s work done, cycled back home again, perhaps
even more confident about the future than they had
been that morning. No reason for worry or for fear.
Holland remained an island of peace. It could not
happen. It was inconceivable. That must have been
one of the last thoughts of thousands of Dutchmen
as they fell asleep.
A few hours later it did happen. In the still of
the night village after village, town after town was
woken up by the heavy throbbing drone of countless
squadrons of aeroplanes passing overhead. What
could it mean? Curtains were drawn aside, sleepy
tousled heads peered out of windows. Perhaps a few
jokes were exchanged between neighbors: whosoever
they were, up there among the stars, they certainly were
making a proper hash of Dutch neutrality. For this
time it was not the one or two ’planes that on several
previous occasions had been violating Dutch neutrality,
but a whole armada.
Within a few minutes after the Germans had
begun to shoot and blast their way into the country
with which only yesterday they pretended to live in
peace, lacking a single grievance, the alarm was
sounded all over the sleeping land. Long before
another day had dawned, every village and town knew
that the inconceivable had happened, that after more
than a century of peace Holland was at war. Hol-
land’s hour that was to last five days had come.
To the small group of men in The Hague the
threatening drone came not as a shock of horrorstruck
surprise but perhaps even as a sort of relief. No more
struggling against a last desperate hope which they
knew to be unfounded and which yet would not let
itself be subdued. As long ago as Monday of the
same week they had received information suggesting
that the German machine of aggression had been set
into motion, this time irrevocably. In all silence they
had taken their final measures to put the country in a
state of preparedness. As far as possible the public
was kept in ignorance of these preparations and the
disquieting information which had given rise to them.
What was the use of creating a general state of alarm?
The German newspapers would only seize on reports
of Dutch preparations as a sign of a “provocative atti-
tude.” Silent preparedness was the only possible
course to take.
These few men, Ministers and generals sitting
together in a quiet room, waiting, talking and confer-
ring, were not the only ones to keep vigil through this
endless Thursday night. All over Holland there were
shadowy figures in green uniforms standing guard on
the dykes, sitting in small pillboxes behind the rivers,
lying behind earthwork fortifications near the frontier,
all intently peering into the darkness of the east.
About midnight, the silence of these waiting thou-
sands was broken by a series of sharp explosions at a
number of important bridges. In the space of a few
minutes, one after another, the great iron structures,
most of them rebuilt along the most modern lines
within the last 10 years, cracked in the middle with a
shattering roar and plunged into the dark, swiftly flow-
ing water underneath. Once again tense silence fell
over the sleeping land.
Where did the first shot fall that shattered this
silent night and ushered in the five days of roaring
violence that were to end only in the re-establishment
of another and ten times more fearful silence? Impos-
sible to say. Once begun, the pace of the battle was
too fast and furious, the fog of war too thick to allow
more than the general outline to become visible. The
first news which the small group of men sitting in the
Foreign Minister’s study received was that bombs
had begun to fall on the aerodrome of Rotterdam
shortly after 3 a.m. After that reports began to come
in from all parts of the country in an ever-growing
stream. And always they told the same story: Ger-
man aeroplanes were signalled over all the important
aerodromes. Almost simultaneously the news was
received that advance elements of the German army
had begun to cross the frontier from its northernmost
tip on the North Sea to the southernmost point near
Maastricht where it joins the Belgian frontier.
A simultaneous air and land attack of this kind
had long been prepared for. Holland’s neutrality was
an armed neutrality. Holland was ready and deter-
mined to defend itself. The Dutch army was at its
post, firmly entrenched behind the successive water
defences. The coastal defence posts in the west and
the north were fully manned. Navy and air force
had stood by for several days, ready to go into action
at a moment’s notice. On all but those aerodromes
which had to serve the Dutch fighter squadrons, drain-
age pipes, old automobiles and obstacles of all kinds
had been placed so as to render them useless as land-
ing grounds for enemy ’planes. Tank-traps were in
position at all important points, and at this very hour
of 3 a.m., when the tramp of marching troops, the
drone of the aeroplanes high up in the dark sky, and
bombs exploding around the aerodromes woke all
Holland to the still incredulous realisation that it was
war at last, hundreds of bridges were already going
up in the air, completing the demolition begun some
hours earlier, and hundreds of sluices let in the old
enemy, now in this hour of trial become Holland’s
most reliable ally: the black gurgling water silently
rising in the chain of empty fields of the carefully-
planned inundation zones.
Sadly, but not without confidence, therefore, the
Ministers at about half-past four on Friday morning
assembled in the house of their leader. They had work
to do ; a royal proclamation to draft, a thousand de-
cisions to make, bombs or no bombs. Thus they sat
and worked while in one city after another the waiting
sirens rent the cool morning air, while less than 20
miles away a rain of bombs and fire was thundering
down on the buildings and hangars of Rotterdam
aerodrome, while on one of the busiest squares of
Amsterdam just outside the station a flaming enemy
’plane crashed among a crowd of gaping spectators,
while in the dewy meadows along the eastern rivers
the machine-guns manned by the desperate in
green were pouring out their stuttering fire at the in-
vading tanks, while one of the attacker’s armored
trains was being blown sky-high together with the
bridge which it was trying to cross, while in a hun-
“PM,” New York.
THE NEW GULLIVER.
dred thousand homes and in a hundred thousand
cellars families only just roused from peaceful sleep
sat miserably huddled together in blank-eyed astonish-
ment that all these incredible, terrifying things could
really be happening in their yesterday still so happy
land.
It was about six o’clock when at last the long-
expected telephone message came that the German
Ambassador requested an audience with the Foreign
Minister. Shortly afterwards, in the Minister’s room
in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the two men met.
Over what passed at this short and tragic meeting I
prefer to draw the veil of silence. There is to me no
joy nor pride in the humiliation of a man who is forced
to act against his conscience, even when that man is
an enemy. Let us leave it to the bearers of the “new
culture,” the apostles of the “new heroic morality”
to gloat over the discomfiture of their adversaries.
Rather I would now tell of what had been happening a
little earlier in Berlin. For that indeed is a pretty tale.
At 3.50 Dutch time, that is to say, almost an hour
after the German troops and aeroplanes had launched
their wanton assault, the Dutch Minister in Berlin was
visited by a German official who requested him imme-
diately to go and see Herr von Ribbentrop at the
German Foreign Office. There the Dutch Minister,
about 40 minutes later, was given what must be con-
sidered one of the most extraordinary documents that
have ever come out of a Foreign Office. It consisted of
a memorandum from the German Government accom-
panied by two “communications” (Berichte ), one
signed by the German High Command, one by
Ministers Himmler and Frick. Each of the three
documents would be worth a separate article, for they
afford an example, not only of brazen mendacity and
incredible hypocrisy, but also of the German technique
of lying and the German ideas of evidence which
would make a fascinating and highly-profitable study
for the student of Nazi methods.
What did these 58 pages of typescript try to
prove? That Germany had the right “to secure Hol-
land’s neutrality by all means” because Holland “had
entirely and one-sidedly favored Germany’s opponents
and assisted them in their plans,” because “it is per-
fectly clear from the irrefutable facts that Holland had
from the outbreak of war secretly and notwithstanding
official declarations to the contrary ranged itself on the
side of the Allies,” because “in the light of the estab-
lished facts Holland’s apparent and officially declared
policy of neutrality can only be considered as an
attempt to conceal and disguise the real purpose ot
Dutch policy” (all this, incidentally, goes for Belgium,
too ; throughout large parts of the memorandum the
two guilty nations are mentioned in one breath ; why
bother to waste paper and ingenuity in drawing up
two separate trumped-up charge sheets?), because
“there is irrefutable proof that the Anglo-French
attack on Germany through Holland and Belgium is
imminent and because the Reich Government can no
longer doubt that Holland and Belgium are deter-
mined not only to tolerate the imminent Anglo-French
attack, but even to assist it in every way,” because in
this war forced upon the German people by England
and France the Reich Government refuses to wait pas-
sively for the attack of England and France and allow
them to carry the war via Dutch and Belgian terri-
tory on to German soil.”
In this collection of quotations you have a perfect
example of the applied technique of propagating un-
truths so eloquently expounded in Mein Kampf:
repeat a lie often enough, make sure it is a big lie,
and in the end you will get people to believe it. Some
idea of the value of the German evidence may be
obtained from the following example:
A still stronger proof of the true attitude of the
Dutch [so the document runs] is that their mobilised
troops were directed entirely and exclusively towards
Germany. This redistribution of the Dutch troops
with front against Germany was undertaken at a time
when their neutrality seemed ever more threatened by
the massing of aggressive Anglo-French troops on the
Franco-Belgian frontier and when Germany had not
concentrated any troops on the Dutch and Belgian
frontiers. Through these sudden measures, violating
every military principle, the Dutch and Belgian High
Commands have revealed their true attitude. Their
action becomes comprehensible, however, when one
knows that these measures were taken in the closest con-
sultation with the Anglo-French High Command.
So now one knows. Because the Dutch authorities
took reasonable precautions to protect their neutrality
against the danger of an attack from the east by the
Power which on November 11, 1939, had only called
off the attack at the very last minute, which ever since
had maintained large troop concentrations on Hol-
land’s frontier and which had already attacked Austria,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Denmark and Norway, it
follows that they were conspiring with England and
France for an attack on innocent peaceful Germany.
There is much more of the like in this incredible
document. But enough has already been said to show
up its farcical character. Farcical is indeed the only
word for it. For it is utterly impossible to wax indig-
nant about the accusations of unneutrality directed
against a country which at the cost of its
natural preferences as a civilised demo-
cratic nation has made every sacrifice to
maintain a strict impartiality in word and
action ; which had put severe penalties
on newspaper comment hostile to either
one of the belligerents; which had so
long and so firmly refused any idea of
military understandings or staff talks that
the Allies never even took the trouble to
ask for such talks; which protested
against every violation of its neutral
rights so consistently and forcefully that
the Allies, far from regarding Holland
as one of their “advance posts,” often
complained bitterly of what they con-
sidered Holland’s excessively legalistic conception of its
rights and duties as a neutral ; which, finally, is so
situated between its two warring neighbors that it could
not for one moment even dream of being anything but
strictly neutral without volunteering to become the
battlefield of Europe. Holland not sufficiently neutral,
Holland guilty of siding and conspiring with the
Allies? Never was there a feebler, drearier jest.
But there is worse to come, worse even than the
tedious transparent lies, the heavy ponderous hypo-
crisy of the document. At the end of the memorandum,
after 10 pages of indignant accusations based on “irre-
futable” proofs, the courage of this inventive men-
dacity suddenly deserts the author. And instead there
comes that weak, shrinking refusal of responsi-
bility, that pitiful whine that we have heard so often
from Berlin: We did not want this —Wir haben dies
nicht gewollt.
The German troops do not come as enemies of the
Dutch people, for the German Government has not
wanted this development nor been the cause of it.
The responsibility falls on England and France, who
have prepared the attack against Germany on Dutch
and Belgian soil to the last detail, and on the Dutch
and Belgian Governments, who have tolerated and
favored this attack.
But why, then, if all these charges of conspiring
with the Allies for Germany’s downfall are really
based on irrefutable proof, if Holland has really been
guilty of hostile intent and behavior towards Ger-
many, why then this sudden and surprising assurance
that the German troops do not come as the enemies
which they would have every reason to be were the
charges levelled against Holland really true?
Meanwhile the war had developed with lightning
speed. For this was indeed a lightning war if ever
there was one. By the time the people of Holland
would normally have been at work, less than six hours
after the first explosions of the German bombs shat-
tered the peace that had endured for more than a
century, it had already become clear to the High Com-
mand and to the group of Ministers sitting at The
Hague that their calculations were being upset by an
entirely new factor and the employment of entirely
new methods which they had not seriously reckoned
with: invasion through the air. At the time it was not
yet possible to see exactly what was happening and


what it was leading to. Ail that could be gathered
from the steady stream of reports coming in from all
over the country was that parachutists in their hun-
dreds were being dropped in a great many places far
behind the Dutch lines, while at the same time Ger-
man transport ’planes were landing fully-equipped
troops, not by the hundred but by the thousand.
The carefully-planned scheme and the grave
threat of this invasion from the air became clear only
at a later stage. On that hectic Friday morning it
could still seem as if the only object of these men fall-
ing from the skies was to create confusion behind the
lines and no more than that. Confusion they certainly
did create. Almost immediately after the stunned
population of Western Holland had learned that Ger-
man troops had crossed the frontier 200 miles away
to the east, the enemy was among them. Peasants
working in the tulip fields just behind the dunes along
the west coast, thinking the war still distant, suddenly
found themselves surrounded by small groups of
desperate, heavily-armed men. Dropping down in
carefully-selected meadows where at this early hour
only a few lazy cows stood peacefully grazing, they
immediately assembled in small formations, made con-
tact with other groups through prearranged birdcalls
and set out to occupy strategic points in the neighbor-
hood, commandeering cars at pistol point, shooting
wildly whenever they met with resistance, causing be-
wilderment, terror and confusion wherever they
appeared.
And always more would come floating down out
of the blue sky, always others who had come down
unseen would surge up in the most unexpected places.
Thus within a few hours the core of the country, en-
closed by the ring of water which until yesterday had
been thought a guarantee against invasion, was riddled
with small enemy detachments, bands of ruthless
armed men popping up from nowhere, roving across
the fields and along the country roads, entrenching
themselves in houses and behind natural obstacles and
filling the air with their rifleshots and the sharp bursts
of fire from their sawn-off shotguns.
Before the sun had risen most of the Dutch ground
defences at Rotterdam were a heap of smoking ruins
and wave after wave of German transport ’planes
began to land their troops on the aerodrome. Well
over 10,000 men, a whole division complete with
equipment which even included light artillery, were
landed in this way, only a mile away from the vitally
important bridges across the southern and northern
arms of the river Meuse.
Naturally, the enemy had not been able to achieve
this surprise without suffering heavy losses. Again
and again Dutch fighter squadrons took off to throw
themselves at the clouds of German transport ’planes
with a reckless daring proved by the fact that in a
short time over 150 German ’planes had been destroyed
and close on 90 p.c. of the Dutch air force had been
used up in the process. But always with an almost
inhuman passivity new swarms of German ’planes
would come out of the east till no Dutch fighters were
left to attack them and the Germans had a free hand
to start a regular shuttle service to and fro between
Rotterdam aerodrome and their own aerodromes only
a short distance away across the German frontier.
Thus already in the course of Friday the Ger-
man troops were able to advance the short distance
from the aerodrome to the lower arm of the river,
to seize the bridge across it, and to establish themselves
on the bridge across the northern arm of the river as
well. And there they remained, holding the two
bridges against all attacks so as to keep open the
passage for the armored division which was to appear
three days later, and whose thrust across the southern
rampart of the Dutch water defences right into the
heart of the country finally made further resistance
impossible.
In London Now.
(From London “Nineteenth Century”)
It is untrue that Londoners are unafraid, that they
are not suffering, that they are cheerful. After the
horror that has come upon them, their faces are tragic
—not the faces of those, perhaps, who arrive from the
west and suburbs, although these, too, have suffered —
but the faces of those who live in the East End and
other congested districts and spend night after night
in crowded shelters or in the Underground. Every
morning their eyes show the lack of sleep more and
more, and every evening the constant skyward glances
and the hypersensitiveness to sound reveal the ner-
vous tension and the dread of the night to come.
The nights are indeed terrible with the malignant
droning of the German bombers above, the glittering
brilliance of the shell-bursts, the swishing, whining
descent of the bombs, the earth-shaking roar of the
explosions, the red glare of the fires that follow, the
chattering rain of the jagged razor-edged shell-frag-
ments, the reverberations (the one comfort on such
nights) of the anti-aircraft guns, the houses dis-
embowelled and smashed and spilt into the deserted
streets, the dead and the injured.
No one who has lived through these nights will
be the same when they are over. And yet, fervent as
the yearning is that they may be over soon, the resolve
that they shall not be over until the foe has been
broken is more fervent still (there are prayers for
peace in all the churches, and rightly so, but the
prayers must be for peace and victory, never for peace
alone). Awful as the horror and the tragedy are, and
unendurable, almost, the apprehension of what is still
to come, there is a pride and a glory in being a Lon-
doner in London now— in London, greatest city that
is and ever was, worthy successor to ancient Athens
and Rome, heart of the Empire, and last stronghold
of freedom in Europe.
When it is all over, London will have earned im-
perishable honor because, when other capitals sur-
rendered or were overrun, or stood aloof, and when
even Paris fell, she became, as it were, the symbol
and the epitome of the nation and of the Empire that
fought and crushed “the evil thing”—the symbol and
the epitome, in her endurance, her courage, her misery,
too, in her defiance, in her resistance, and in her un-
bending will to win.
The War Unites Canada.
(Condensed from a “Current History and Forum ’
article by Jerome Beatty, reprinted in November
“Reader’s Digest.”)
Canada a year ago was a nation of disjointed
racial groups of varying loyalties. The 3,500,000
French-Canadians, a. third of the Dominion’s popula-
tion, are not French and decidedly were not pro-
English. Add a million Canadian Irishmen, 500,000
Germans, 300,000 Ukrainians and 140,000 Italians, and
almost half the population was something less than
sympathetic over England’s woes. And so for nine
months Canada’s war effort was much too leisurely to
please the English and Scotch elements, afire to help
the Mother Country.
Then France fell. Suddenly it became clear to
all Canadians that they were fighting, not for England,
but for Canada —the land where English, Irish, French,
Germans and Ukrainians could live side by side as free
men. Here was something* to fight for!
When the Dominion really got going last June,
Parliament passed a bill providing for conscription of
wealth, industry and labor. It likewise ordered the
registration of every person more than 16 years of
age. Montreal’s Mayor, Camillien Houde, spoke in a
“Herald Tribune,” Hew York.
OUTRAGEOUS!
key formerly popular. Parliament, he said, had no
mandate to vote conscription, and he would advise
people to resist registration. Police slapped him into
a concentration camp quicker than you can say
“Quebec.” Registration went smoothly. The Mayor
had not been smart enough to see how completely the
temper of his own neighbors had changed.
It is only human to squawk about taxes, but
Canada is paying taxes that are taxes and complaining
little enough. With hardly a murmur 1,000,000
workers will pay income taxes for the first time. A
2 p.c. deduction from all wages hits even the scrub-
woman, the shopgirl and the messenger boy. There
are sales taxes on almost everything. There is a pro-
cessing tax even on bread. Cigarette taxes are so high
that many Canadians are rolling their own. The
average man will pay at least 30 p.c. of his income
for taxes—and buy a lot of war savings stamps, too.
Fifth Columnists were working desperately in
Canada long before the phrase was invented. The
United States can join in thanking the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police for years of unsurpassed detective
work. Today the leading Trojan horses are interned,
A few years ago a clever man made himself so
popular among the 180,000 Communists—7o,ooo of
them Ukrainians—that they elected him secretary of
the party and he served for three years. They seem
to have been disconcerted to learn that he was a
Mountie. At least the Reds have since kept rather
quiet. Traitors to Canada have learned that democ-
racies eventually become fed up with enemies within,
and when the police get tough they get good and tough,
Italy’s Tragedy.
. , ,
E. W. Poison Newman.)
Italy’s tragedy is threefold: it not only affects
Great Britain and Italy, but is a heavy blow directed
at the fabric of Christian civilisation for which both
countries have stood firm throughout the centuries.
While making no attempt even to suggest negotiation
with either Great Britain or France, the Fascist Gov-
ernment declared war upon them without any provoca-
tion or justification. The majority of the Italian people
did not want war, but the country’s manhood was
forced to take up arms to satisfy the vain ambitions of
hot-headed extremists. But there are also cool heads
in Italy who realise the madness and feel the degrada-
tion of this act.
While Italy’s outlets from the Mediterranean were
certainly in the hands of other Powers, the Anglo-
Italian Agreement of 1938 was proof of Britain’s
readiness to treat her as an equal and to recognise her
freedom of action. There was no adequate reason
why either Power should wish to encroach on the
interests of the other. Yet Italy continued to preach
her doctrine of Mare Nostrum, although she had no
more right than any other Mediterranean Power to
regard this international waterway as her own prop-
erty. This was the only possible major difference
between Great Britain and Italy, and it was in reality
little more than a shadow. This and every minor
question could have been settled by negotiation, but
the Fascist leaders appeared to think it grander and
more spectacular to try to seize what they wanted
by force of arms. They shouted about the destiny
of Italy and the glories of Fascism ; indeed, their
general behavior was more akin to that of the tenth
century than to that of the twentieth in which they
claim to be advanced pioneers.
The questions at issue between Italy and France
were more substantial ; Italy had a case in some of
her claims if others were purely fantastic. There was
no reason why such claims as she was making could
not be settled ; but the Italians declined even to say
what they wanted, because their real purpose was the
strategical domination of the narrowest part of the
Central Mediterranean. It is understood that France’s
only reason for refusing to negotiate on
certain points was because of the insult-
ing and threatening manner in which the
demands were made.
If Italy’s position with regard to the
Suez Canal was proving unsatisfactory,
she had only herself to blame for any
lack of consideration. Had she
approached the Powers with courtesy and
with the usages of civilised nations, she
would have received in this grievance a
considerable measure of redress. In the
Canal issue the Italians had a case, but
they threw it away by their uncouth
methods, which disgusted their supporters
in England and France long accustomed
to Italian courtesy.
Financially, Italy had a good oppor-
tunity of restoring her national resources
by remaining neutral. Her position in
Africa would have stood secure. Her
position in the world was in the ascen-
dant. For the Fascist leaders this was
not enough. With Germany invading one
country after another, they must do the
same. They did not stop to think in
what direction lay Italy’s true interests.
They declined to say what they wanted ;
for it amounted to as much as they could
get. The situation demanded steady heads
and cool judgment; but, with German
pressure being exerted all the time, the
urge in the direction of war was over-
whelming.
Now Italy stands to lose the whole
of her East African Empire, cut off from
its source of supply via the Suez Canal
and beset on all sides by British posses-
sions, including the sea. An extensive,
and in many ways rich, region which she
has conquered and partially developed at
great expense has been staked on the
prospect of a short war victorious for the
Axis Powers, or possibly on a longer war in which
these Italian possessions might be lost but regained in
the peace settlement. To this extent of madness Fascist
ideology has carried an enterprising and hard-working
people. But this is not all. Italy not only stands to
lose all that has been built up at home and abroad
during the last 18 years, but she will long have to
shoulder the ignominy of an action unworthy of her
standard of civilisation.
It is important to realise how far the militant
Fascist creed is really the guiding star of the Italian
people. For this purpose the population may be
divided into four fairly clear-cut sections: (1) The
extreme Fascists, comprising a minority in the regular
armed forces but most of the militia, and some Gov-
ernment officials and professional men; (2) the
moderates, comprising most of the regular armed
fdrces but a minority in the militia, and a greater
number of Government officials and professional
men ; (3) the indifferents, who may nevertheless show
spectacular support of the regime, comprising the
majority of industrialists, professional and business-
men, and practically the whole peasant population ;
and (4) the anti-Fascists, who are comparatively few
in number and are chiefly confined to intellectual and
business circles.
While the extremists, moderates and indifferents
alike have always been deeply grateful to Mussolini
for what he has done materially to improve conditions
of life in Italy, all the indifferents and most of the
moderates were opposed to war. As subjects of a non-
military nation by nature, they disliked the idea of
war in itself, and were disgusted at being called upon
to fight against their old friend England on the side of
the Germans, whom they despised. As time passes, they
will realise that Britain can be as unpleasant as an
enemy as she can be helpful as a friend. They will
discover that militant Fascism, differing though it does
from Nazism, has chosen to share the same fate. As
Britain’s iron determination to rid Europe and the
world of this double-headed menace becomes painfully
impressed upon them, it will be interesting to see the
reactions of what constitutes about two-thirds of the
Italian people.
If the Fascist leaders’ war policy is a tragedy for
Italy, .this is intensified and extended by its repercus-
sions elsewhere. Since the breaking up of the Austro-
Hungarian Empire, Italy has become the leading
Catholic Power in Europe and protector of the Roman


Church ; but, if this has added to the secular prestige
of Italy among the nations, it has also invested her
with heavy responsibilities.
Pope Pius XII, who has had first-hand experience
of the forces with which Italy has cast her lot, has
denounced their policy and methods with clarity and
vigor. War placed the Italian people in the position
of having to choose between two allegiances—their
Church and their Government. They knew that the
Church preached what was right, and that the decision
of their Government was wrong. They followed the
line of least resistance, but the majority did so with
heavy hearts. Further afield, throughout the Western
Hemisphere, in Asia, Africa and in Australasia, there
are millions of Italians who can no longer look with
pride to their Mother Country. Nor is this humilia-
tion confined to Italians. There are true friends of
Italy in almost every land who deeply resent the
heavy damage done to the reputation of a country
and people that they had learned to love.
Another serious aspect of the situation is the loss
of Italy as a rallying point for European civilisation at
the end of hostilities. No combination of power could
have been in a more favorable position to bring the
nations together than the Church and State of Rome.
Their ancient heritage, their geographical position,
their human characteristics, and their dignified setting
would have provided an ideal centre from which the
new peace of Europe could begin to radiate. Italy
would have been fulfilling the role of the leader of
Latin civilisation, thereby rendering a high service
not only to the civilised world, but also to her own
honor and good name. This great opportunity of
acquiring lasting distinction by rendering service to
mankind was thrown away in favor of vain ambitions
that will merely soil the pages of history.
Stalin’s Choice.
{From a new York “Times” article by George
Soloveytchik.)
The difficulty of appraising Stalin’s policy derives
mainly from the fact that he possesses, so to speak, a
multiple personality. In the first place, he must be
viewed not as a European ruler but as an Oriental
potentate. Both the scope and the form of power he
exercises cannot be judged by Western standards.
Secondly, he is, in fact though not in theory, head of
the Russian Government. In the third place, he is
both the spiritual head and the active manager of an
international organisation whose purpose is world
revolution.
Thus Stalin, acting in this triple capacity, natu-
rally sets the world a problem that on the face of it is
not easy to solve. Each one of these aspects necessi-
tates a certain line of policy and action. The interests
of the Asiatic ruler may not always coincide with those
of the ruler of all the Russias, and they may even
clash; similarly, in the case of the world revolu-
tionary ones. When this occurs, for obvious reasons
the self-preservation instinct determines the course to
be pursued. But during the last few years it has often
happened that all three of Stalin’s main interests have
coincided, and latterly this certainly seems to have
been so.
Stalin demands from his subjects an extreme
form of self-abasement. The result is a permanent
economic and military weakness which has become
inherent in the Soviet system itself. The fact is,
according to many observers, that Stalin cannot hope
to make war successfully unless he were to change his
system so completely that he might lose his own posi-
tion in the process. Since he is not prepared to risk
that, he is determined to avoid becoming involved in
war at any price.
Once this elementary principle is grasped, his
policy becomes both logical and wholly consistent.
Moreover, in this instance his three interests happen
to coincide. For a long time he has believed in the
inevitability of “the Second Imperialistic World War,”
and in the certainty of world revolution as its final
result. His policy has therefore been calculated not
to avert the clash but to bring it about in conditions
most favorable to himself.
By his deal with Hitler, Stalin achieved the fol-
lowing advantages: (1) He escaped the danger of
having to meet the German onslaught alone, as Poland
had to do despite her Western alliances ; (2) he was
able to reannex with the minimum of effort (except in
the Finnish war) the territories Russia lost in 1918
when she was weak and helpless; (3) he achieved
almost overnight a tremendous bargaining position in
world affairs, having thrown away nothing, not even
the possibility of going over to either side if he ever
feels so inclined.
The belt of countries stretching from the Baltic
to the Black Sea is purported to have been wanted
by Stalin to safeguard him against an inevitable attack
from Hitler in the future. The fear of that is, of
course, omnipresent in his mind. Yet he realises, and
so does Hitler, that for the moment they have too
many interests in common to fall out with each other.
The White Man in the Far East.
{From an American “Foreign Affairs” article by Pearl
S. Buck, author of sundry books set in China.)
Whenever the future of the white man in the
Orient comes to be discussed it inevitably means one
question. Will the power and prestige of the white
man in the Far East be what they have been in the
past? It is acknowledged that for the moment these
are at a low ebb. But can they rise again in the future
to anything like their past glory?
I never hear that phrase, the power and the
prestige of the white man in the Far East, without
being reminded of a certain incident in my Chinese
childhood which more nearly wrecked our peaceful
missionary household than all the riots and revolu-
tions of China put together.
There came to our compound gate one winter’s
day a unique person. He was an American salesman.
Any white man was strange at our gate, but a sales-
man we had never seen. My father admitted him at
once because what he sold, it seemed, was Bibles,
though anything more like coals to Newcastle than
Bibles to our house cannot be imagined. My father in
the goodness of his heart never inquired how the man
came to be selling Bibles, and the salesman himself
never told us, so none of us ever knew. He was simply
there, very dirty and hungry and with no baggage
except some shopworn Bibles and a small cardboard
suitcase that after several weeks of his steadfastly
remaining a hungry guest in the house apparently pro-
vided him with no change of garments.
The weeks grew into months and he stayed on,
and my mother reached the point of mutiny. He had
a change of clothes now, but they were my father’s.
When he finally left us, and it was entirely due to my
redoubtable mother that he did so at all, he went out
clothed in my father’s second-best suit, with other gar-
ments of my father’s in my father’s suitcase, all his
Bibles sold to my father, and his purse full of my
father’s meagre funds. Only under these terms had
he consented to move on.
My mother remarked after the gate had been
bolted by the servants, “Thank God we still have the
house and the furniture.” Whereupon my father, in
one of his few moments of self-doubt, said in an
uncertain voice, “Maybe I should never have let him
come into the house to sell me anything.”
That Bible salesman represents in a simple way
the white man who walked into the Far East to trade,
who stayed to take all he could get —and long beyond
his welcome. There is about as much chance that
he will be welcome again on the old terms as there was
for that salesman to get back into my father’s house.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
We think history will deal more kindly with
Chamberlain than his contemporaries have done. He
“Daily News,” New York.
JUDGMENT DEFERRED.
never did look to us like anywhere near the fuddy-
duddy he’d been called ever since Munich. Chamber-
lain, in his dickerings with Hitler prior to Munich,
got an idea of how dangerously armed Hitler was, by
land and in the air. Like Lindbergh, Chamberlain in
1938 had a clearer idea than Eden, Duff Cooper or
Churchill of just how terrible a fight Hitler could
put up. By the Munich compromise of September,
1938, he won the British a whole year in which to
prepare, if they had cared to take advantage of that
period of grace. —New York ‘‘Daily News.”
*****
More and more it begins to seem as if the Berlin-
Rome-Tokyo treaty were in fact a gigantic screen put
up to soften the effect of a whole series of failures
which Hitler and Mussolini are now gently admitting
to their peoples. They have failed to end the war by
winter. Mussolini failed to bring Italy in “five minutes
before the end” ; it looks rather as if she got in only a
few hours after the beginning. Hitler failed to knock
the R.A.F. out of the skies, to invade Britain, to write
a treaty in London, to upset the “plutocratic” Churchill
Government. He failed to protect Germany from the
R.A.F.’s answering blows, which are growing heavier
nightly and for which no end can be promised. —New
York ‘‘Herald Tribune.”
*****
England (and not only her habitual scapegoats,
“the politicians”) allowed this “evil thing” to come
upon her by her acceptance of, or at least her failure to
repudiate, the false religion which would deny, or
imply denial of, the sinfulness of man, ignore the
limits set on all human endeavor, and proclaim the
possibility of a perfect state on earth. It is this false
or secular religion which has lured her away from the
simple duty (the duty she owes to her own people and
to mankind, to the dead generations, and to her own
future) of maintaining the armed strength needed for
the defence of her shores and cities, her vital interests
and the overseas communications on which her well-
being depends. It is this that has led her to support
the utopian pacifism which is so incompatible with
her own political genius. Without this sober and
balanced genius she would not have achieved the Pax
Britannica, the greatest expanse that ever existed where
peace and ordered freedom prevail. And unless the
decline in the power and scope of this genius is
arrested, she will lose the second World War or, if
she win it on land, on the sea and in the air, she will
lose it when it is over, just as she lost the first World
War when it was over. — London “Nineteenth Century.”
* * * *
In France the Nazis made the biggest haul in his-
tory. Here is some of the booty: Steel scrap enough
to cover normal German imports three and a half
years ; 42,000 tons of raw copper ; 27,000 tons of zinc ;
19,000 tons of lead ; 3600 tons of tin ; 1700 tons of
nickel; 700 tons of quicksilver ; stocks of munitions
including 230,000 tons of guns, mostly not yet milled ;
9000 tons of barbed wire and 800 tons of other wire ;
4500 tons of nails; 53,000 motor-cars and 29,000
trucks, not counting the enormous number half-
destroyed and abandoned all over France ; untouched
quantities of food, soap, shoes, clothing, paper, razor
blades, even toothpaste. A good example of Nazi
plundering took place at Lyons, where leather, silk
and canned fish were requisitioned in such quantities
that 140 trains were needed to haul them to Germany.
Incidentally, the trains were not returned either. —
New York “PM.”
*****
Dictator Stalin has discarded the system of uni-
versal free education, once the proudest accomplish-
ment of the Soviet Union. Under the substitute system
there no longer will be any free colleges or even high
schools. Pupils above the seventh-grade will have to
pay tuition or go without further education. This is
a return to the old “dual system” of education, half-
public and half-private, which grew up in Europe in
the early nineteenth century. — New York “Post.”
*****
This war is shaking the structure of British life so
that it can hardly be the same when the war is over.
A war that costs Britain £10,000,000 a day is redis-
tributing wealth with a vengeance. A war that pushes
hundreds of thousands of city children into country
homes for safety against air raids is, inevitably, expos-
ing the squalor of British slums, the evils of faulty
feeding, the survival of injustices in spite of all the
social legislation of the last 30 or 40 years. — New
York “Times.”
*****
Two new sounds are becoming familiar in raided
London. One of them haunts the West End streets
where bombs have dropped among the big shops at
night. It is the sound of burglar alarms buzzing for-
lornly somewhere behind broken plate-glass windows.
Nobody has time to turn them off. The other sound
is heard in the morning. It is the sound of broken
glass being shovelled into heaps. The sight of the glass
piled up against the foot of a wall, looking like dirty
ice, is too familiar nowadays to draw a second glance.
—Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.
*****
Our local Communists are busy making capital
out of the distresses of air-raided London. I have a
copy of a leaflet issued by the London district com-
mittee of the Communist party of Great Britain which
is being handed to people spending the night in Tube
stations. Such effect as this speciously misleading stuff
may have on tired and unhappy people —and there is
no evidence that it amounts to anything —will diminish
in proportion as our measures of relief for air-raid
victims improve. The Communists are thriving only
on our misfortunes and miscalculations.— Manchester
“Guardian” London correspondent.
*****
Before the war Great Britain possessed 16 medium
and long-wave broadcasting stations, including two
high-powered, broadcasting on 12 waves. Germany
had 40 such stations, including 10 high-powered, on
31 waves. At the outbreak of war we reduced our
broadcasting to two wavebands; Germany kept all her
stations. We now use five wavebands, while Germany,
following conquest of Poland, Holland and Belgium,
controls 112 stations, including 24 high-powered,
broadcasting on 82 waves, to which can be added a
further 50 stations controlled by Italy on some 20
waves. In the House of Commons Captain Plugge
noted that the Dutch, Belgian and French army sur-
renders all happened some 48 hours after the principal
broadcasting stations had been occupied. He also
commented on the tremendous superiority we should
have in this war of ideas if the position were reversed,
with our immeasurably stronger “case” and vast
number of listeners ready to receive non-Nazi, if not
anti-Nazi, news. — P. L. Field; Manchester “Guardian”
letter.
*****
War conditions have singularly aggravated the
problem of diet for the Italian people. There are four
meatless days a week, sugar is an “iron ration,” olive
oil and butter are scarce and dear. Oil-seeds and
frozen meat imports have stopped, as well as maize
imports from Argentina. It will be difficult for Italy
to obtain from Yugoslavia, Hungary and Rumania
cattle, pigs, grain or haricot beans at the same rate
as in the past. The present shortage is therefore likely
to continue throughout the war, and the question may
be asked when the strain on the civil population will
bear its visible effects. News about the reappearance
of the disease pellagra is significant. This scourge was
an inheritance from Austrian domination, and it had
almost completely disappeared. It developed in a
background of poverty, malnutrition and bad housing,
and its direct causes were to be found in a nutrition
chiefly based on maize, especially when it was inferior
in quality or mouldy or badly cooked. London
“Times.”
* * * * *
It may happen, since the Soviets seem perturbed,
that the Moscow-Berlin pact will end in a Moscow-
Berlin rupture ; we may yet see the Soviet Union at
war with Germany. If this occurs, Communists
throughout the world would raise the gladsome cry
anew that the Soviet Union has become the derender
of democracy. The same comrades who bitterly de-
nounced Hitler for years, under Russian direction, an
then, with equal and impartial bitterness, denounce
the war against Hitler as an imperialist war, wou
perform another of their magical changi -
their minds as one man. — New York “Post.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Remarc’s success in the Williamstown
Cup, run at Flemington on Saturday,
demonstrated that there is a limit to the
capabilities of any horse. High Caste ran
a game second under his 9.7, but the job
of conceding a year in age and 311 b. in
weight to the improved Westralian was
beyond him, and he was beaten almost
three lengths.
High Caste was hampered somewhat by
Saint Warden in the straight, and the
latter, according to his jockey, attempted
to savage him about 30 yards from the
post. But it made no difference to the
result as far as High Caste was concerned.
Jockey Ted Bartle gave a precise and
accurate reason for High Caste’s defeat.
“Only his weight prevented his winning,”
he declared. High Caste now returns to
Sydney for a brief let-up before being
prepared for important autumn races.
Time will not permit of his having a
real holiday, as he is an immense horse
and would put on too much condition if
let down altogether. It was deemed in-
advisable to allow him to remain idle
during the summer months last season,
and, thriving on the treatment, he won
the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes in January.
Victorian-owned horses have been left
out in the cold this spring in respect of
important handicaps. Gilltown (Moonee
Valley Cup), Beaulivre (Caulfield Cup)
and Old Rowley (Melbourne Cup)
are owned in Sydney, while Remarc is
owned in W.A. by veteran “Paddy” Con-
nolly. Remarc, however, is now trained
in Melbourne by Frank Godby, who has
had remarkable success with horses
owned in other States. Followers of
Godby’s stable had one of their best
days ever on Saturday. In addition to
Remarc, that trainer won with Sun Belle
and Prince Ariel, both of whom are
owned in Adelaide.
Had the Caulfield Cup been run on
Saturday the possibilities are that Remarc
would have won it. He has improved
with every race since his arrival from
the West, and in winning the Williamstown
Cup he ran right up to the form that
had enabled him a week earlier to win
the Final Handicap in time which
equalled Manolive’s Australian record
for 10 furlongs. Manolive went on to
Williamstown Cup and Eclipse Stakes suc-
cess after making his record in the Final
Handicap. Remarc equalled his perfor-
mance in respect of the Williamstown
Cup, but, unluckily for his owner, is not
engaged in the Eclipse Stakes, to be run
at Flemington next Saturday. At the time
of writing, however, Godby is well repre-
sented in that race with Mildura, Maikai
and Prince Ariel. Mildura has been left
in Melbourne under his care, and, all
going well, looks like winning.
Remarc adds to the number of noted
performers which have come from W.A.,
and, like several useful horses in recent
years, has reached top form after a light
season at the stud. It had been intended
to retire him next season, but probably
plans will be changed if in the autumn
he equals or improves on his present
form. Well-positioned throughout Satur-
day’s race, he was always travelling like
a winner. A lucky opening in the straight
meant that he did not have to leave the
rails at any stage, but his win was too
clear-cut for excuses to be possible for
any of the beaten runners.
Saint Warden, also owned in Westralia,
missed second money by half a head,
thereby revealing his best form in Mel-
bourne. He was a St. Leger winner in
his home State, and, as he seems to be
improving with racing, might be worth
following. Pandect came from eighth at
the turn to finish fourth, whereas Tidal
Wave, whose Melbourne Cup third sug-
gested that he should have been ahead of
Pandect wherever they finished, was never
within shooting distance of the leaders.
Tidal Wave declined to stretch out
properly at any stage, and his form ob-
viously was too bad to be true.
Nor did Melbourne Cup form work out
correctly with Old Rowley or Maikai
(same stable as Remarc). This pair fin-
ished first and second in the Melbourne
Cup, but on Saturday they ran second
last and last respectively. At the barrier,
however, Old Rowley received a severe
kick on a knee, and in the race he
“couldn’t gallop a yard,” to use the words
of rider Andy Knox. Old Rowley may
not have won in any circumstances his
starting price of 50 to 1 revealed the
general opinion respecting his chance —
but it was unfortunate that his last race
should have such an unhappy ending.
He now retires from the Turf to end
his days as a station hack. Maikai ex-
perienced a series of checks, owing to his
not having quite enough dash to take full
advantage of openings that would have
been easy for a nippier horse.
• • • • . •
Prince Ariel, Flemington record-holder
for a mile and a half, improved con-
siderably to land a betting plunge in the
Ozone Highweight. At long odds and un-
placed in the mile Yan Yean Stakes 11
days earlier, he was backed from as much
as 15 to 1 down to fives on Saturday,
when the distance again was a mile.
Saturday’s field was weaker, and Prince
Ariel, after being a good way out of his
ground early, finished too strongly for
Carpentier (favorite) and Saki.
Prince Ariel had been offered for sale
by auction between his races in the Yan
Yean Stakes and the Ozone Highweight.
He was booked to W. J. Winterbottom,
one of Godby’s patrons, for 600 guineas,
but on Saturday still carried Godby’s
colors. He had been entered in Godby’s
ownership before the sale was effected.
Godby explained that Winterbottom had
purchased Prince Ariel, but later agreed
to pass him on to an Adelaide man who
wished to buy a horse to represent him
in the Port Adelaide Cup next month.
He added that the transfer papers had
been lodged officially. Prince Ariel will
now receive his share of weight in the
big Adelaide race, but, if he continues to
progress well, may be hard to beat.
• ••••«
High Road’s success with 8.10 in the
Rawdon Stakes demonstrated that his
win with 7.12 in the Flemington Stakes
a week earlier was no fluke. One of the
biggest and most promising juveniles in
Melbourne, he did not get away too well,
but hit the front shortly after passing the
two furlongs and, ridden out, won de-
cisively from Her Highness and Cooch-
behar. Trained by Lou Robertson, High
Road looks like developing into a first-
class horse. An interesting feature of the
race was the fact that the riders of Her
Highness and Coochbehar lined their
mounts up on the outside of the straight
track, instead of crowding towards the
inside. Probably' the success of Pooka
up the “slow” side in the Ottawa Stakes
prompted such action, but, although Her
Highness and Coochebehar did something
more towards lessening the prejudice
against the extreme outside of the straight
track, they were up against a snag in
High Road.
• •••••
Aurie’s Star, undisputed champion up
the straight-six since Manrico lost form,
recorded a good performance to win the
Strand Handicap with ip.9. Starting at a
shade of odds-on, he did not get to the
front until nearing the furlong post, and,
although never in real danger of defeat
subsequently, had to be ridden right out
to win from All Veil and Star Leaf.
Orteli, the early leader, settled her chance
by hanging out badly. As good as ever
at the age of eight, Aurie’s Star has won
four races up the straight this season,
and has increased his stake earnings to
almost £12,000. G. J. Barton and W.
Balloch, part-owners of All Veil, have
reason to know how good Aurie’s Star
really is. Their colt unexpectedly beat
the Adelaide-owned speedster at Ascot in
September, but has played second-fiddle
to him three times.
Sydney trainer Jack Cush had no luck
with Reading in Melbourne this spring,
but All Love and Stylish meant a most
profitable trip for him. Stylish, who, like
All Love, is owned by “Charles Vixen,”
started favorite for the Seddon Handi-
cap, but it was due to Bartle’s vigorous
riding that she scrambled home by a
head from Dollar Bill. Latter headed
her towards the finish, but Bartle meta-
phorically “lifted” Stylish over the finish-
ing line. Tranquil Star, runner-up in the
Victoria Derby and Oaks, found the
seven furlongs too short. She finished
strongly, and in a couple more strides
would have beaten Orcadian for third
money. “Charles Vixen” has been for-
tunate in his racehorse ventures. He has
dabbled in the bloodstock market only
twice, but has drawn two nice prizes—
All Love at 250 guineas and Stylish at
110 guineas.
Improving on his form at Ascot at his
previous start, Air Speed, a five-year-old
gelding by Windbag from Green Moth,
outstayed Cavallo to win the first division
of the Verdon Trial. Cavallo may have
been unlucky. From last he was rushed
right round the field, and, forced wide on
the turn, weakened slightly after looking
the winner a furlong from home.
Neatherlea, favorite at 7 to 4, finished a
moderate fourth after having every
chance.
Distinct possibilities are associated
with Adelaide-owned mare Sun Belle,
winner of the second division of the
Verdon Trial. Backed down to 10 to 9
favoritism on the strength of her defeat
of Tel Asur at Ascot at her previous start,
she was in front at the end of a furlong,
and gave Darby Munro an easy ride for
the rest of the trip. She won as she liked
from Contact and Livingstone, both of
whom had every chance, and cut out the
nine furlongs in a second faster time than
that recorded by Air Speed in the first
division. Owned by C. Haigh and trained
by F. Godby, Sun Belle is a four-year-
old by Beau Pere from Summertime.
M= Me Me Me
There was an average attendance at
Rosehill on Saturday, when the pro-
gramme was not particularly attractive.
Three of the eight races were Novice
divisions, and the two principal handi-
caps were contested by small fields. The
win and place tote, with a ss. unit, was
operated for the first time at this track,
and, as elsewhere, gave satisfaction.
Notwithstanding it was his first race and
no special newspaper reference had been
made to his work, Final Victory opened
at a short price for the Macarthur Stakes
and closed favorite. Nowadays it is diffi-
cult to beat bookmakers’ and backers’
sources of information. Final Victory
did all that was expected of him. Close
to the pacemakers, Fort Leon and Pars-
ing, turning for home, he was too good
for them over the last furlong. He is by
Phaleron Bay from Hunting Lodge, by
Hunting Song, from Martianette, by
Martian from Equitas, a good winner,
and is trained by G. Price for “W. Biey,”
who gave 425gns. for him as a yearling.
Behind the place-getters Prince (Cheve-
ley Lad-Salamander), Gregory (Hari-
nero-Coolarran) and Marconigraph
(Marconigram-Suggrapho) shaped prom-
isingly.
In the Lady Fitzroy Stakes Magi made
amends for her failure at Canterbury
the previous week. She was again in-
clined to hang out, but after following
Rimpton (Melfort-Miss Dinetta) round
the turn took charge at the leger, and
won as she liked from Harprey, who,
consequent on McMenamin being her
rider, was always well in the betting.
Harprey did not have the best of luck,
but, in any circumstances could not have
beaten Magi, who adds to Brueghel’s
winners. Her dam, Mahlon, is by Moa-
bite from Redlin, a sister to that smart
galloper Red Signal. Two’s Company
(Denis Boy-Honeymoon) and Bullarrow
(Bullhead-Sagitta) are likely to improve,
as may La Junta (Melfort-Woorambie).
Trumpet Call was fancied, but was hope-
lessly left at barrier-rise.
Grey Derby, who has been tubed for
some time past, was lucky to beat Hash
in the Spring Flying Handicap. Hash
had taken the measure of Roxford and
Slam at the turn, but then lost ground
through running wide. Even then her
chance appeared a winning one a hundred
yards from home, but Grey Derby hung
on so well that at the winning-post he
was a head to the good. Bestop, who
was slow in finding his legs, was last into
the straight but finished a fair third,
and that probably had a deal to do with
lis being a runner for the Parramatta
Mile later in the day.
Roxford showed lots of pace, but does
not stay as well as last season, when he
won up to a mile at Randwick. Valve is
another that has not returned to his two-
year-old form.
Dewar had an easy win in the Cum-
berland Handicap. Last for half the
journey he moved up smartly after pass-
ing the half-mile, and was second to
Masterpiece turning into the straight. He
had no difficulty in disposing of the
latter, and Constant could not trouble
him, though she deprived Masterpiece of
second place. After Six did not run as
well as at Ascot the previous week, but
struck himself. Though lame on pulling
up he appeared right again on Monday.
Aristocrat, though fourth, was never a
winning possibility. He finished fast, and
was almost* level with Constant and
Masterpiece. At the 180gns. F. Christey
gave for him Dewar has proved a bar-
gain.
King’s Park looked a sure winner of
the first division of the Novice Handicap
when he led into the straight from
Theorize and Happy Bay. However, his
effort in getting to the front from an
outside barrier position had taken a lot
out of him, and he was unequal to stall-
ing off Lion Hunt, who was always in a
handy position. L’Amond did nothing
to justify his favoritism, and of the un-
placed runners Theorize and Happy Bay,
who looked above herself, may be best
worth following. The winner is a plain-
looking gelding by Hunting Song.
Some early backers of Gallant for the
second division of the Novice Handicap
got 6 to 4 about him, but he was quickly
at odds-on, Fire Jax being the only other
backed to any extent. Waiting on Glas-
nevin and Fire Jax until entering the
straight, Gallant was a winner as soon as
his rider called on him. His division was
run in faster time than the other two, but,
though he is smart, there is the possibility
of his two wins causing him to be slightly
overrated. Jean Melfort and Be Friendly
ran respectably, but the pace Sylveroni
showed at his two previous starts was
missing.
La Capitana accounted for the third
division of the Novice Handicap, but the
backers of Trade Mark and Merry
Warrah reckoned themselves unlucky.
From a position near the rails Trade
Mark was ordered to the outside, though
his jockey did not take him that wide
(failure to do so costing him £5), and
Merry Warrah got away badly. Zanze
made the early running but La Capi-
tana, who took charge halfway down
the straight, won comfortably from Trade
Mark and Wee Woo. Merry Warrah did
well to run fourth, and of those further
back Zanze and Franden are most likely
to have a win in the near future.
It is often urged against present-day
horses that they cannot saddle up as well
as those of an earlier period. Perhaps it
is not so much that they cannot as that
their owners or trainers do not ask it of
them. In the Parramatta Mile Bestop
demonstrated that a seven furlongs run
earlier in the day did him no harm. He
was behind Aranui and Tartanus at the
entrance to the straight, and, first of all
disposing of the latter, went on to win
from Aranui, who, staying on better than
Tartanus, beat him for second money.
Mustapha, Calruin, Opportunist and Red
Relish were backed, but were never dan-
gerous, and there seems little likelihood
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
By “SENTRY.”
Ormond Handicap: Burrabil, 1;
Alarm, 2 ; St. Fervent, 3.
Stansmore Two-year-old: Cooch-
behar, 1 ; Primavera, 2 ; Her High-
ness, 3.
Tara Steeplechase: Dark David,
1 ; Sir Balios, 2 ; Seymour, 3.
Eclipse Stakes: Mildura, 1 ;
Gladstone, 2; Velocity, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old: Portfolio,
1 ; Fort Garry, 2 ; Pyramus, 3.
Rosstown Plate: Pure Gold, 1 ;
Pamelus, 2 ; All Veil, 3.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(To be held at RANDWICK)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Royal Head,
1 ; Drava, 2 ; Eager Fox, 3.
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes:
Bruegalong, 1 ; Final Victory, 2;
Magi, 3.
Horsley Handicap: Kooba, 1 ;
Hash, 2 ; Penthides, 3.
Warwick November Handicap:
Lord Valentine or Aristocrat, 1 ;
Kurrawid, 2 ; Dewar, 3.
Farm Novice: Royal Emblem, 1;
Trade Mark, 2 ; Petronius, 3.
Leumeah Handicap: Blinky Bill,
1 ; Hash, 2 ; Leeds, 3.


of immediate improvement in Tartanus
or Opportunist. Osculum will need a
little more racing before he strikes his
best form.
* * * *
At the time of writing High Caste is
still in the Eclipse Stakes, but it is gener-
ally accepted he will not be a runner,
though even with 9.10 —31b. more than
his Williamstown Cup weight —he would
have found substantial backing. The
quarter-mile shorter distance would have
favored him. Mildura is the probable
favorite, and a repetition of his Epsom
and Craven Plate form should make him
a winner. In the Epsom he was in receipt
of only lib. from High Caste, and in the
Craven Plate, when conceding Beau Vite
41b., ran him to a head, and beat High
Caste, to whom he was also conceding
41b.
Mildura has not raced for six weeks,
but he was fit when he left Sydney, and
has worked well since recovering from
the injury that caused his withdrawal
from the Cantala Stakes. Mildura has
shown form up to a mile and a half, and
a mile and a quarter is well within his
compass.
Reading should be all the better for his
Williamstown Cup run, and, lower down,
Historian, Mac Rob, Gladstone, Saint
Warden and Prince Ariel are sure to be
supported. The last-named is liable to
be rehandicapped for last Saturday’s win,
but, unless he is harshly treated in that
respect, he must enter calculations. With-
out going further, Mildura has a chance
second to none, though Reading, Glad-
stone, Prince Ariel and Saint Warden
may be troublesome opponents.
* * * *
It is contended by some followers of
racing that “There’s nothing in time.”
Well, few Australian trainers can sub-
scribe to that idea. Most are guided
to a great extent as to their horses’
chances by what they show them against
the watch in their work, and what holds
good in track gallops can also be applied
to races. Remarc’s win in the Final
Handicap at Flemington with 7.13 in
time equalling the Australian record said
a great deal for his chance in the Wil-
liamstown Cup with 7.3. Form and
figures worked out correctly; as he won
easily from High Caste, though the latter
ran a great race with 9.7.
Reading was set the task of winning
the Williamstown Cup all the way, but
though he weakened over the last quarter-
mile his showing was good enough to
dispose of the idea I recently heard ex-
pressed that he would “never come back.”
His defeats are bound to send him down
in the weights, and he may stand an
excellent chance of winning a good
handicap before the close of this season.
Tidal Wave cut up badly, finishing a
long way behind Pandect, and, after all,
the autumn may see the latter the best
staying three-year-old. Their form
against the older horses has not put the
younger division in a favorable light, and,
though they may not be such a poor
lot as is generally believed, our three-
year-olds are not up to the standard of
many past seasons. Which further em-
phasises the difficulty of yearling buyers
in selecting something that will develop
into a real racehorse.
Wilson was again disappointing, and
though this time last year it was antici-
pated he would prove a genuine stayer
he has been costly for J. Wren. St. Con-
stant was in one of his bad moods, but
though he is uncertain his win at Rand-
wick and half-win at Flemington have
put him on the credit side for this season.
He has disappointed on occasions, but it
is certain J. W. Cook will never get an-
other such good horse for £l.
* * * *
J. T. Jamieson scored his share of
wins in Melbourne with a small team,
but, despite his successes including a Can-
tala Stakes and a couple of w.f.a. races,
it is improbable the trip south proved a
financial success for him or the betting
followers of his stable. Seconds in the
Caulfield and Williamstown Cups consti-
tuted aggravating luck, and High Caste,
in the C. B. Fisher Plate, was the only
chance of a win at a fair price. That
opportunity was missed, and it was not
surprising, as it was impossible to forecast
that the Melbourne Cup had taken so
much out of Beau Vite and Beaulivre,
whose previous form put them ahead of
High Caste at a mile and a half. The
books have great respect for horses
trained by Jamieson. In that they prob-
ably are wise, and, owing to cramped
prices, the stable js not a good one for
the public to follow.
* * * *
Australia has had few more remark-
able sprinters than Aurie’s Star, who
appears able to gallop nearly as well with
about ten and a half stone as with a
stone and a half less. In the opinion
of some racing men it is possible to make
almost any horse stay, but, while Aurie’s
Star has won at seven furlongs, a mile
has invariably proved beyond him. At
a mile and a quarter Aurie’s Star would
be lightly weighted by comparison with
what he gets in sprints, and if he could
be trained to stay even fairly there
would be a fortune in it. However,
while he may continue to win with all
sorts of weights in short races, improve-
ment in him as a stayer is scarcely to be
expected at eight years.
* * * *
Double Remove’s first season’s progeny
have done so well that it is of interest
to would-be buyers to learn that there
are 19 yearlings 'by him at Kia-Ora to
be catalogued for the next autumn sales
at Randwick. Ten are colts and nine
fillies. The latter are sure to be in strong
demand, consequent on the successes
of All Love in Sydney and Melbourne
and Triad in Brisbane.
* * * *
There is seemingly little between Tran-
quil Star and Session, and, though the
V.R.C. Oaks gave the latter the honors,
it will take another meeting or two to
decide which is the better. It is possible
they may meet in the Adrian Knox
Stakes. There is nothing special for Tran-
quil Star in Melbourne at Anniversary
time, and that may tempt her owners
to send her to Sydney. Both fillies are
also in the A.J.C. St. Leger, but their
form at the Melbourne meetings will
probably decide whether that race will
be chosen for either.
* * * *
Lieut.-Col. W. P. Farr, assistant secre-
tary of the Australian Jockey Club, died
suddenly at his residence at Vaucluse on
Saturday morning. Colonel Farr served
throughout the last big war, and was
subsequently attached to the 2nd Cavalry
Division in Melbourne. He joined up
with the A.J.C. in 1932, and a few months
ago was given leave of absence to fill
an executive position at Eastern Com-
mand headquarters. Colonel Farr estab-
lished the A.J.C. school of apprentices, a
move that was followed in other States.
* * * *
It is remarkable that, out of all the
yearlings sold in 1939, Sydney has not got
a good staying three-year-old bred in
N.S.W. Our best, on form, is Tidal
Wave, and he is a Maorilander. Scientist
was expected to stay, but, though a
winner at a mile and a quarter in
open company, he has yet to show he
can get a mile and a half. Ex-
cuse for him was possible each time
he attempted that distance, but
whether he is really at home over a
distance remains to be proved. Fearless
Fox won a Derby in Brisbane, but seem-
ingly his opponents were not of high
calibre, and though Nightbeam a
Maorilander —promised well early in the
season he has since been a failure.
Beaten in both Derbies by Victorians
Tidal Wave at present seems the only
Sydney-owned colt with St. Leger pros-
pects.
* * * *
Beau Vite has gone back to Maoriland,
but he will be here again for autumn
racing. It was his owner’s original in-
tention to run him at the Wellington Cup
meeting towards the end of January, but
now I think a change of plans is practi-
cally certain. Kept going with a view
to competing a couple of months hence,
there would be very little time in which
to give Beau Vite a let-up and have him
at his best next Easter. That will be
necessary in order to beat Beaulivre, High
Caste and Ajax in the w.f.a. races.
* * * *
Par Avion is one of Maoriland’s
best early two-year-olds. He won three
of the first four races in which he started,
and at Wellington had 9.5 in the five fur-
longs Karitane Handicap, in which he
beat nine opponents in easy fashion in
1.1. Trained by T. R. George for E. J.
Kirkwood, he is by Ringmaster (Colo-
rado-Vervelle, by Buchan) from Damaris
(Limond-Pennon), and is related to many
important winners. Par Avion is in the
A.J.C. Derby, so he may give George the
chance of a trip to Sydney next season.
As a yearling Par Avion was sold for
320gns.
* * * *
The New Zealand Oaks, run at the
N.Z. Cup meeting, gave Beau Pere an-
other advertisement, his daughter Belle
Cane winning from Cherry Bay and
Doria in 2.30 2-5. At two years Belle
Cane started only twice and was un-
placed. However, as she won at her first
three starts this season it is likely she was
favorite for the Oaks. She was sold as
a yearling for 275gn5., and in the “Aus-
tralasian” Turf Register W. J. Smith, of
Sydney, is given as her buyer. She is now
jointly raced by P. A. and J. T. O’Neill.
Cherry Bay is by Phaleron Bay and Doria
by Iliad.
In touching upon the New Zealand
Cup in last week s issue I assumed that
J. H. Jefferd, who had Serenata last
season, was still training her, but this
season she has been one of T. R.
George’s team. Serenata’s success would
in some measure compensate George for
being unable to come to Australia with
Beau Vite. Serenata ran second with 9.0
in the Heretaunga Handicap, 1 mile 3
furlongs, at Wellington last month. She
was beaten a half-length by Charles
Edward, and her form did not greatly
impress the critics. It was said of her
that though she might run well under
her light weight of 7st. she would have
to improve in order to win the N.Z. Cup.
After the Wellington meeting Royal
Chief was generally regarded as a fair
thing, next to him coming The Buzzer,
whose win in the Waverley Cup at
Hawera at the end of last month was
supposed to give him a great chance.
* * * *
A record entry has been received for
the 1941 National Thoroughbred Sales
in Maoriland, the catalogue comprising
141 colts and 79 fillies. The sales will be
held at Trentham (Wellington) on Jan. 20
and 21. Forty-nine sires are represented, in-
cluding two half-brothers to Beau Pere.
Particulars are advertised. The merits of
New Zealand thoroughbreds require no
emphasis, but it is worth noting that no
fewer than 37 Derby, Oaks and St. Leger
winners have been sold at these sales
since their inception 14 years ago. This
is a world’s record. Phar Lap, Beau Vite,
Beaulivre, High Caste, Gold Salute,
Catalogue, Royal Chief, Gold Rod, Theo,
Veilmond, Defaulter, Heritage (All India
Eclipse Stakes), Tohunga (Durban Gold
Cup), Homer, Waikare, Yaringa, Honour,
Ammon Ra, Concentrate, Elanage, give
an idea of the class of stock that has
figured in past catalogues at the Maori-
land thoroughbred headquarters.
* * * H=
Enrich, winner of the Stewards’ Handi-
cap and Derby at the N.Z. Cup meeting,
evidently improved greatly with racing.
At the Wellington meeting Sir Beau and
Beau Leon beat him in the Guineas, but
the latter could only get third in the
Derby, which was run in the fast
time of 2.31 3-5. Sir Beau was
an unplaced runner. Enrich, who was
sold as a yearling for 225gn5., is by
Safari (March Along-Duchess Glass, by
Duke Foote) from Sight Draft (Paper
Money-Gazeworthy). At the same sale
at which Enrich was sold Safari was
disposed of for 340gns. and Sight Draft
for 125gns. The last-named is now at
the St. Aubins Stud in N.S.W. Safari
raced in Sydney, winning at Ascot and
running second at Randwick and Rose-
hill. Of the seven runners for the Derby,
Enrich was only fifth in demand, the
favorite being Belle Cane, who was un-
placed, but subsequently won the Oaks.
* * H= *
Few mares throw two really good fillies
in successive seasons, but Chaptrel is
among the exceptions. Her daughter
Triad is Queensland’s best two-year-old,
and at Flemington on Saturday her three-
year-old daughter Stylish demonstrated
her pretensions to class by winning the
Seddon Handicap with 8.10. The un-
placed runners included Tranquil Star,
who was conceding her 81b. As a year-
ling Stylish was sold for llOgns. and
Triad for 375gns.
* * * *
Queensland is rarely represented in the
A.J.C. December Stakes, but this year
that State may have a runner. Triad,
who outclassed the others of her age at
the recent Queensland Cup meeting, is
engaged, as is Mannerheim, who deci-
sively won the Canonbury Stakes. As
there are no two-year-old races of special
importance at the Brisbane summer meet-
ings, the respective owners of Triad and
Mannerheim may give a Sydney trip
serious consideration. The trainer of the
latter reckoned he was unlucky not to
have done better in Yaralla’s Breeders’
Plate, and the son of Corban certainly
showed improvement at his next run.
* * * *
If Footmark should run in the Railway
Stakes at the Perth Cup meeting he will
take a lot of beating, despite his 9.7. He
can run a good mile, and is up to weight.
He probably has a much better chance
in the Railway Stakes than in the Perth
Cup with 9.3. Mac Rob also has that
weight in the latter, and it may be enough
to cause J. Holt to keep him in Mel-
bourne for summer racing.
* * * *
It is not new for the Caulfield
Cup, Melbourne Cup, Maribyrnong
Plate and V.R.C. Oaks to go to
Sydney-trained horses in the same
year, and for good measure the Vic-
toria Derby. In 1906 Poseidon won
his first Caulfield Cup, following it up
with the Victoria Derby and Melbourne
Cup, while that year the Maribyrnong
Plate went to Maltine, and the Oaks to
Yabba Gabba. In 1909 Blue Book and
Flavinius dead-heated for the Caulfield
Cup, Malt King won the Caulfield
Guineas, Desert Rose the Maribyrnong
Plate, Prince Foote the Derby and Cup,
and Lady San the Oaks. Flavinius also
won the Moonee Valley Cup that spring,
and Irishman the Toorak Handicap.
* * * *
The war caused the abandonment in
England in October of a race that was
instituted by King Charles II in 1666
to commemorate his accession to the
throne. This was the Newmarket Town
Plate, which was only once not previ-
ously run, that being in the year of the
Great Fire of London. King Charles
ordered that “the plate is to be rid for
yearly, the second Thursday in October,
for ever.” It was a local affair until
some years ago, when women began to
ride in the race. Since then it has at-
tracted much interest. Last year a duke’s
sister, a jockey’s sister, a bookmaker's
daughter and the daughters of four
trainers rode in the race. There was only
one male rider. He finished last.
* * * *
The death took place in France last
month of Lord Furness, who owned the
Gilltown Stud, near Gillingham, Dorset.
He contributed largely to England’s sales,
and in 1936 one of his yearlings realised
15,000gns. This colt, who was bought by
Miss Dorothy Paget, was by Fairway
from Golden Hair, and raced as Colonel
Payne. He proved of little account. An-
other good sale by Lord Furness was in
1930, when a filly by Grand Parade made
13,000gns. In 1928 Lord Furness re-
56,250gn5. for 14 yearlings, and
37,710gn5. for 13 in 1936.
* * * *
Prince Ariel gave promise when he was
raced in Sydney by R. Skelton, but he
must have made marked improvement
since he went to Melbourne. A few
months ago he made the Flemingtcn
record of 2.28} for a mile and a quarter,
and on Saturday beat a good field at that
track in the Ozone Highweight, his time
for the mile being 1.37£. Well backed,
his starting price was 5 to 1 with the
books, but F. Godby’s previous two wins
with Sun Belle and Remarc influenced
NEW ZEALAND NATIONAL
THOROUGHBRED SALES
January 20 and 21, 1941, at Trentham.
A record entry of 141 colts and 79 fillies
has been received, representing the following
49 sires:
Mr. Standfast (half-brother to Beau Pere),
13; the young sires Theio, by Tetratema, 12,
and Man’s Pal, by Manna, 11; Lord Quex
(sire of Melbourne, Auckland and New Zealand
Cup winners), 10; the highly successful young
sires Foxbridge (sire of Fearless Fox) and
Solicitor General, by Blandford, 9 each; Broie-
fort, by Blandford, 9; Bulandshar (sire of High
Caste), 8; Night Raid (sire of Phar Lap,
Nightmarch and Nightly), 7; Nightmarch (Mel-
bourne and New Zealand Cups), 7; the success-
ful young sires Ringmaster, by Colorado, 7,
Tiderace (sire of Tidal Wave), Phaleron Bay
(half-brother to Miracle), 6 each; Siegfried
(sire of Melbourne and New Zealand Cup
winners), 6; Captain Bunsby (half-brother to
Coronach), Colossus (sire of Dannevirke), and
the new sires St. Boswells, by Solario, and
Gynerium, by Phalaris, 6 each; Defoe (sire
of Defaulter), Spiral, by Limond, Baffles (half-
brother to Manna), Pink Coat (sire of Kinoull),
and Croupier (sire of The Raker), 5 each; and
lesser numbers by the successful sires of stayers
and classic winners Hunting Song, Paper
Money, Lord Warden (sire of Gold Salute),
Paladin, Vaals, Inflation, Leighon, Foxlight,
Hazrat, Salmagundi, Illumination, Nightly,
Vermeer, The Greek, Tidal, King Lu, Spear-
dance, Musketoon (sire of Gladynev), Valkyrian,
Martarma, Jay, Portofino, and the untried sires
Dink (another half-brother to Beau Pere),
Guarantee and Lang Bian (by Massine).
Since the inception of these sales 14 years
ago, no less than 37 winners of the Derby,
Oaks and St. Leger contests in Australia and
New Zealand have been sold at these sales —
a world’s record. Such famous horses as Phar
Lap (Melbourne Cup), Beau Vite (Metropoli-
tan Handicap), Defaulter (w.f.a.), Royal Chief
(Metropolitan Handicap), Beaulivre (Caulfield
Cup), Catalogue (Melbourne Cup), High Caste
(Epsom Handicap), Mosaic (Sydney Cup, twice),
Veilmond (£21,616 in stakes), Heritage (All
India Eclipse Stakes), Tohunga (Durban Gold
Cup), Cerne Abbas (N.Z. Cup), Gold Rod
(Epsom Handicap), Waikare (Metropolitan
Handicap), Sir Regent (Metropolitan Handicap),
Concentrate (Auckland Cup) are amongst those
which have figured in Trentham catalogues,
apart from the host of classic winners. As
there was practically no winter last season in
New Zealand, the yearlings now catalogued are
exceptionally well grown and developed. The
sale of brood mares and racing stock will be
held on the second day.
Catalogues may be obtained in due course
from:
Messrs. Wright, Stephenson and Co. (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., 499 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ;
Messrs. Wm. Inglis and Son, Ltd., 28
O’Connell Street, Sydney;
or by application to the joint auctioneers:
Wright, Stephenson and Co., Ltd., Custom-
house Quay, Wellington, N.Z. —cables
“Wrightson”;
Pyne, Gould, Guinness, Ltd., 178 Cashel
Street, Christchurch, N.Z. —cables,
“Insignis.”
Racing men intending to be present at the
sales should apply to the Shipping Companies
for sailings. Arrangements to purchase and
ship on behalf of those unable to attend will
be undertaken by the firms concerned. In-
quiries are invited.


H
lUCKER S
♦ )♦ X’X/IW-m
♦ *
wm i
m
s
m
Whisky
tmmo.
We introduce
V':
{ m
mmu
VS!)
R
r,)-y
' •• •; ,c
I
#
?v
Sv
l+X
*Afr;
> J
w$
&
-, .<■
a fine whisky . . .
We are proud, very proud, to be able to introduce
to you Tucker’s Old Tudor Whisky. For over a
century Tucker and Co. Pty. Limited have been
handling products of the highest quality, and we
are confident that Tucker’s Old Tudor Whisky
will meet with general approval.
Tucker’s Old Tudor is an Australian Whisky
above the average. It has mellowness, strength,
flavour—in short, it has every quality you could
desire in a good whisky.
Therefore, we suggest you ask for Tucker’s Old
Tudor at your hotel, and enjoy an excellent
whisky. Then you, too, will echo the sentiment
expressed above—“Ahhhh!! You’ve got some-
thing there, Tucker!”
n v 'in
TUCKER & CO. PTY., LIMITED
SYDNEY
If you life good Lager
You cant buy better than
FOSTER’S SI LAGER
Obtainable at all Leading Hotels


SAVE MONET
N>
3
IT'S
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS a
CHAMPIONS
Bring GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY!
Throughout your car’s life,
Champions will keep the engine!
up to its best power, speed
and economy ready to serve
you dependably—because
Champions provide the strong
hot sparks that ensure fuller
combustion of the fuel.
Champions save you money!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Can •
m.
wm
»tV
m
ggasiaa
Prince Ariel’s tote backing to such an
extent that his dividend was at the rate
of only a shade over 3 to 1. On the
other hand, he paid nearly 2 to 1 on the
place tote. By comparison with his 6
to 1 with the books, Remarc’s tote divi-
dend of only 6d. less than 8 to 1 was
the best of the afternoon. His place divi-
dend was slightly over 2 to 1.
* * * *
Among those killed in England in Sep-
tember by a German bomb was A. F. B.
Portman, editor and director of the
“Horse and Hound.” He took over the
editorship of the paper in 1890, and
wrote as “Audax” up to the time of his
death at 79. He and his wife were
trapped beneath the wreckage of their
home.
* * * *
It is interesting to read in the “Horse
and Hound” that two hundred years ago
the cry of “too much racing” was raised
in England. On June 20, 1740, Parlia-
ment passed an Act to stop the small
meetings that were being held all over
the country. It was provided that any
person organising a race-meeting at which
the stakes were less than £5O for each
race was liable to a fine of £2OO. An
owner was debarred from entering more
than one horse for any plate, or any
horse of which he was not the owner.
At only Newmarket and Hambledon
could races of less than £5O be run. The
preamble to the Act read: “To restrain
and prevent the excessive increase of
horse races....and the preventing of
excessive and deceitful gaming.”
But as time went on small meetings
were restored and in 1870 the English
Jockey Club took action. There were
then 154 meetings held on improvised
tracks —commons and big fields. Until
1871 any meeting was “recognised” so
long as it had been advertised in the
“Racing Calendar,” but the 1870 restric-
tions put an end to all this, for they
allowed no race of less than £5O, clear of
all deductions, to be inserted in the
“Calendar,” and a little later insisted that
the executives of each meeting should
contribute at least £3OO added money on
each day’s racing. In due course this put
an end to the so-called “flapping” meet-
ings, which were noted for toughness in
every way.
* * * *
J. A. Estes, editor of “The Blood-
Horse,” which is published by the Ameri-
can Thoroughbred Breeders’ Association,
has no time for the Bruce Lowe Figure
System, and recently delivered himself
as follows concerning it:
The Bruce Lowe figure guide for breed-
ing thoroughbreds was founded on foolish-
ness, substantiated with sophistry, popular-
ised through propaganda, and got its full
growth through feeding on the abundant
stores of human gullibility. Finally,
blasted into a thousand pieces, it calmly
reassembled itself in mid-air, detached
itself from all visible means of support,
and set out to spend a millennium of
haunting people.
Sometimes I forget myself a little and
take a vicious cut at the thing. As well
try to destroy a moonbeam with an ice-
pick.
My pet peeve against the ghost of the
figure guide is its insistence on “sire
families.”
* * * *
An agitation against two-year-old
racing had so little effect in America
that up to August 31 there had been 1228
races for horses of that age, against 1145
for the corresponding period last year.
The average per race in first money was
about £A275. Stallions represented by
winners totalled 295, and Blenheim II
(by Blandford) led in prize-money with
a little over £A 15,000. Three of his
two-year-olds won six races.
* * * *
The war is not adversely affecting
racing in India. There was such a tre-
mendous increase in entries for the Cal-
cutta meeting this month and next that
there are 137 pages in the first entry
book, against 116 last year. Nomina-
tions for Class IV races are specially
numerous. There are many newcomers
from England in the principal events, and
Australian and Maoriland entrants in-
clude Respirator, Myosotis, Fils de Vaals,
Panaster, Martara and Synagogue.
* * * *
The American colt Bimelech, who was
unbeaten at two years, but ran errati-
cally this season, may race again. He
was believed to have broken a bone in
one of his feet, but it now appears the
trouble was exaggerated, though there
was an injury to his off forefoot. A
veterinary surgeon who went over him
recently said Bimelech was sound in wind
and limb. At latest, shod in bar plates,
he was doing long working gallops, and
it is now anticipated he will be a runner
for some of the important winter handi-
caps.
* * * *
As I have mentioned on previous occa-
sions, prominent American jockeys are
kept busy, and, as they ride throughout
the year, big winning totals are not un-
usual. Up to Sept. 14 W. L. Taylor
was leading with 184 wins, but was not
far ahead of Earl Dew with 182. Others
with over 100 were Donald Meade 149,
J. Longden 137, J. Adams 137, S. Clark
135, B. James 134, D. Dodson 127,
E. Rodriguez 123, W. Eads 122 and
E. Arcaro 112. The way some jockeys
advance in America is remarkable. Lads
practically unheard of one year will be
among the leaders the next, though, as
in Australia, some of the older jockeys
continue riding important winners over a
comparatively long period.
* * * *
D. J. Davis, who owned Phar Lap, still
takes an active interest in racing. He
also breeds thoroughbreds at his 80-acre
farm at Capertino (California), and re-
cently purchased a young stallion named
Hollyrood (High Cloud-Mandy Hamil-
ton). Those names mean nothing to most
Australians, but Hollyrood was a good
performer, his wins at two years includ-
ing the Pimlico Futurity. He won the
Chicago and Detroit Derbies, and though
he did not race after three his earnings
totalled about £26,000. As he is only
seven years old, the chances are Davis
had to pay a stiff price for him, but the
odds are against that owner breeding a
Phar Lap, though he has some Maoriland
mares at his stud.
* * * *
During the last Great War many girls
were employed in English racing stables,
and recently a leading trainer advertised
for some not weighing over 9st. Appli-
cants were so numerous that he had diffi-
culty in selecting those likely to be most
suitable.
* * * *
One of the largest studs in England is
that of Lord Glanely, who has 59 mares.
That number would be dwarfed by some
N.S.W. studs —notably Kia-Ora. This
year he used nearly all his mares, and
made a wide selection in sires, several of
the 12 with which his mares were mated
being outside his own stud.
* * * *
Some American clubs have great diffi-
culty in finding stabling accommodation
on their courses for all the horses sent to
their meetings. The Miami Jockey Club
can accommodate 1250 horses at Hialeah
Park, but up to the end of September
stall accommodation for 2504 had been
received for its 46 days’ meeting com-
mencing on Jan. 8. Large teams are
needed for such a long meeting, and Her-
bert Woolf’s Woodford Farm stable had
applied for 59 stalls, and Warren Wright’s
Calumet Farm stable for 50.
* * * *
Racing is booming in America, in-
creased added money being announced
for various important races to be run
next year. Prizes are so large for two-
and three-year-old races that it might
pay some prominent Australian breeders
to breed a number of youngsters to
American time and race them there. One
N.S.W. breeder has already done so.
California is getting another club, the
Golden Gate T.C., with San Francisco
its headquarters. The latest venture will
cost about half a million pounds and a
three-tiered grandstand—the only one of
its kind in America —will seat 12,000. Its
length is 270 yards. There is parking
accommodation for 12,000 cars, and on
the course there is stall room for 1450
horses. In America most of the horses
are stabled on the course throughout a
meeting. Commencing on December 28
there are to be 36 days’ racing at the
Golden Gate meeting, for prize-money
approximating £129,500. The richest
race is the Golden Gate Handicap, of
about £A16,000, \\ mile. The course is
within 15 minutes’ drive of San Fran-
cisco.
* * * *
Commenting on the private sale of a
number of the Aga Khan’s yearlings, a
writer in the “Horse and Hound” (Lon-
don) expressed the following opinion:
Even in these days from their looks
and promise Major Allnatt must have made
a great bargain when purchasing for 4400
guineas the 11 yearling colts bred by the
Aga Khan, and reared at his Sheshoon and
Ballymany Studs close to The Curragh.
Probably the best of these, and there are
several very good youngsters, is Muzloom,
a very light grey half-brother by the 1936
Derby winner, Mahmoud, to the previous
year’s Epsom hero, unbeaten Bahrain. He
is also a half-brother to Dastur, second for
the Derby of 1932, and I thought an un-
lucky loser. A great goer, with wonderful
limbs, he belongs to the highest class, and
makes one of the seven that the major is
sending to Manton for Joe Lawson to train.
The remaining four will be placed under
the able care of Victor Smyth at Mospey,
Epsom.
* * * *
There were 20 entries for the English
substitute St. Leger, which was to have
been run at Hurst Park on Sept. 28, but
did not take place; they included
Pont l’Eveque, Stardust and the Irish
Derby winner Turkhan. Nominations
for the Cesarewitch, won by Hunter’s
Moon IV on Oct. 30, totalled 75. Several
flat-race dates were arranged for this
month. The severe bombing may have
necessitated cancellation ; still, in view of
the outcry against racing, it says volumes
for the English spirit that they should
have been contemplated.
* * * *
It is mentioned by a Jamaica writer
that the West Indies has one woman
licensed trainer —Mrs. Alexander. She is
credited with being a most knowledge-
able person in connection with all matters
relating to racing and breeding, and has
made a good horse of more than one that
was moderate when it went into her care.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Westbury Walks In
A different Alan Westbury from the
one who was lucky to get away with a
draw decision against Jimmy Day a few
weeks back leapt into the Leichhardt ring
last Thursday night and straightway
began to indicate that this time there'd
be no doubt about it.
He’d meanwhile got rid of the spare
tyre with which his tummy had been
adorned ; at 10.6| he looked in beautiful
fighting shape. Day, weighing a couple
of pounds lighter, looked slender against
Westbury’s nuggety strength, and, at-
tacked vigorously from the word go, was
never once in the ascendant, and hardly
ever in the hunt. He used one really
good weapon, his left, sent straight or
short-hooked, and Westbury had the job
right to the end of fighting his way in.
Westbury went into action as if the
last train back to Newcastle was due to
leave in the first round. He punched
freely and heavily with both hands; con-
centrated on the body, and before the end
had Day’s ribbery as rosy as a poet’s
effusion on dawn. Day broke even in
a couple of rounds and won another
couple, but this seemed to be largely
through Westbury taking a breather or
becoming careless—towards the end he
didn’t mind Day hitting him, the body-
pounding having by then taken the sting
out of the punches. Westbury clearly
won eight of the dozen, and even the
ranks of Tuscany (which would be about
nine-tenths of the house) could scarce
manage more than a feeble outburst of
hoots when ref. Pearson proclaimed Alan
the winner.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
The Mexican amateur championship
held in November usually attracts a
strong field of American amateurs. Held
in Mexico City, it ranks equally with
the Canadian championship, which is
mostly won by a U.S. entry. The pres-
ent Mexican titleholder is John Barnum,
a Texas player now stationed in Chicago,
who intends defending his title. Among
this year’s contenders will be Wehrle,
Doering and several Texans.
Barnum, who won his championship
last year in a spectacular manner, de-
feating many of the best players from the
United States, was my opponent in the
recent Chicago amateur championship,
where I defeated him five and four. A
6ft. 2in. Texan with a beautifully smooth
swing and tremendous distance from the
tees, he is still in his early twenties and
is regarded by critics as one of the most
promising amateurs in this country.
Dick Chapman, who won the United
amateur championship last month, is
co-author of a new golf book. Chap-
man, strangely enough, obtained special
permission from the U.S. Golf Associa-
tion to have his book sold on the course
during the championship as the only offi-
cial publication on sale at the Winged
Foot course. The whole matter created
much discussion in golfing circles; it
was made the more prominent by Chap-
man’s winning the title at the same time.
Chapman’s book explains how he
plays golf, together with other leading
amateurs’ versions of how they make
shots. Critics consider that he has in-
fringed his amateur status and have de-
manded a statement from the U.S.G.A.
Sam Snead’s last three starts in
tournament play have produced some
wonderful golf. After tying with
McSpaden for the Canadian open
championship he won the play-off.
Journeying down to Hershey he was de-
feated on the 36th green in the final of
the American professional championship,
after being one up and two to go.
The following week he turned the tables
on Byron Nelson, who had beaten him
to win the 5000-dollar Scranton open
by two strokes.
Since arriving in the U.S.A. I carry
three putters in my bag, two blade putters
and one aluminium. The two blade
putters, one heavy and the other light,
are for the bent greens of different paces,
while the aluminium club is of great
assistance on the rougher Bermuda- or
couch-grass greens. On arriving at a
course a glance at the greens soon de-
termines which putter is called for. It
is surprising the difference the right put-
ter can make.
The 1940 Arkansas State championship
is held by a 15-year-old schoolboy from
Pine Bluff, while the women’s State title
belongs to a 16-year-old girl from Fort
Smith. Another piece of evidence that golf
is not the old man’s game it used to be.
Ins and Outs
The Queensland-N.S.W. match in
Brisbane —a sort of no-decision affair
which replaces the Sheffield Shield games
—started a day late because of rain.
When it did get going there was some
hurricane bowling. Fast-bowler Ellis dis-
posed of Cohen, Carmody and Barnes (a
duck) for 20 runs. Thanks to McCabe
(88), McCool (37) and Saggers (22) the
score was taken to 212 ; but it was a poor
effort. Ellis got four for 62 ; Raymer —
a new man, bowling slow left-hand stuff
—three for 63. Behind the wickets Tallon
had caught McCabe and stumped Saggers,
and there wasn’t a sundry.
Emulating Ellis, Victor Trumper’s son
and namesake dismissed Brown and
Cook in his first over. Tallon, batting
breezily, stayed till stumps (55 n. 0.),
and Baker was with him ; four for 144.
Tallon went without adding to his score
on Monday, but Queensland got ahead.
All were out for 219 (Baker 58, Watt 34);
O’Reilly bagged four for 42.
N. S. Wales’s second try brought 172
for four by tea —McCabe 57, Carmody 47.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“I Love You Again”
Another Myrna Loy-William Powell
stretch of irresponsible damphoolery and
as funny as anything they’ve turned on.
It says something for this pair that they
were practically the originators of this
type of entertainment and are still able
to make it highly amusing—dozens of
others have attempted the same brand of
humor and failed dismally. Reason for
Powell’s success probably lies in the fact
that he is really a clown of the first
order, and pure clowning is always funny.
More, Powell manages to remain the
suave sophisticate which the average
feminine audience demands as a leading
male figure, while at the same time get-
ting away with enough congenial idiocy
to kill every matinee idol on the screen if
they were game to attempt the same
thing.
The Loy is, of course, a perfect and
most attractive foil for him, as well as
being a most engaging comedienne in her
own right, which is strange enough, con-
sidering that not so long ago she was
figuring in films as a dusky seductress or
Oriental villainess. Incidentally, Powell,
too, began his film career as an oily and
decidedly nasty piece of work.
But to see the pair of them in this
present offering, showing at Sydney St.
James, it would be hard to imagine that
they ever played anything but comedy.
Powell figures as a gentle grafter fallen
victim to amnesia who suddenly recovers
after eight years, during which time he
has become a smug, parsimonious, small-
town businessman. His other attributes
he discovers by cautious investigation are
a most charming wife who is about to
divorce him for his parsimony, the leader-
ship of the local Boy Scouts and the
managership of a small pottery firm.
What he does about it all adds up to
one of the most amusing films seen for
some time.
* * * *
“The Westerner”
The recent death of Tom Mix may
serve also to mark the end of the old
order of Western films. They are, of
course, still being turned out, if anything
in greater numbers than in the past, and
the same old plots and Western dialect are
still serving faithfully ; but the spirit
seems to have changed completely.
Actually what has changed is the West-
ern hero. Tom Mix was the greatest of
these doughties, who were specialists in
their own line. The only screen cowboy
specialist in action today is famous for
his crooning rather than his horseman-
ship. Western characters once portrayed
by actual cowboys are now played by
any popular star of the moment.
A current instance is “The Westerner”
at Sydney Plaza. It is also an instance
of the popular Hollywood custom of
slaughtering the bird that lays the
golden gooseberries. Give your Holly-
wood nabob an actor who is so good that
his name is a preassured box-office draw-
card and he will at once concentrate on
making capital of the name without
worrying unduly about the quality of the
films he uses to do it.
Theme of “The Westerner” is that
hoary old veteran of friction between
cattlemen and farmers who move in and
fence off the open range lands. Comes
Gary Cooper, armed to the teeth with
nothing more substantial than shrewd psy-
chology, and peace ensues in due course.
Cooper is ideal for the role and it is an
entertainment to watch him play it, but the
story isn’t worth his trouble. Walter
Brennan, as saloon-keeper, self-appointed
Judge and executor of justice and leader
of the cattlemen, also wastes effort on a
tiptop job, entertainment in itself.
* * * *
“The Grapes of Wrath”
“Cauboy” considers the film: “The
Grapes of Wrath” is a severely-potted
version of John Steinbeck’s gigantic
novel. If the picture presented is true, it
is as damning an indictment of one
aspect of a social system as any Govern-
ment ever permitted to go over its
borders. A family of farmers are driven
out of the notorious Dustbowl of Cali-
fornia, which Nature and man and poli-
tical ineptitude have converted from a
fertile land into a howling desert. They
are the rearguard of an army of 100,000.
A terrible collection of depressed human-
ity, they pack their pitiful possessions
into a decrepit motor-van and set out
to seek succor in the fruitgrowing dis-
tricts. But all their advent does is to
depress fruit-pickers’ wages, already
below the margin of subsistence, down to
starvation level.
If Steinbeck is to be believed, Uncle
Sam runs his industries in a deplorable
fashion. There are bands of thugs hired
to produce riots amongst the workers,
when the emissaries of the State
rush in with lethal weapons and baton
the bewildered mob into a semblance of
law and order. The more hopeless
William Powell saluting Myrna Loy and Frank McHugh in “l Love You Again,"
at Sydney St. James.
wrecks are then salvaged by a State de-
partment run on charitable principles, the
system remaining untouched and, in fact,
assisted by this oasis of humaneness.
This is the only relief in an ocean of
unmitigated misery into which new-born
babies are flung while their elders are
drowning all around them. Henry Fonda
is the young man who gets out of the
penitentiary after doing four years for
murder, to find that man’s inhumanity
to man isn’t a monopoly of prison
warders, and who in the final sequence
goes off with a vague idea of starting a
revolution. He turns in a fine perform-
ance.
* * * *
Action Month
Sydney Capitol is normally a pretty
peaceful filmhouse. Rarely on the same
bill are there more than 10 murders, half
a hundred cowpunchers ridin’ and
shootin’ over most of the Wild West,
and three or four fights between men
and crocs., along with aeroplane crashes,
hurricanes, disastrous fires, screaming fire
engines and police cars and so forth.
It is heartening to read that the Capitol
is pulling on its boots for a few weeks
and offering its patrons an “action
month.”
The current bill Is the beginning of
“action month,” and the support item,
a neatly-made film cashing in on the
Russo-Finnish war, is a good kick-off.
The story of a small group of Finns
holding out in their snowbound fastness
while the advancing Russians try to
burrow under them and blast them out
was told in very much the same way a
few years ago with Austrians and Italians
as the main figures, but it is still a good
yam. There is any amount of vigorous
action, some clinking photography of
snow scenes and ski-ing, and a likely
young Dutch actor named Philip Dorn.
The main item at the Capitol is a Wal-
lace Beery opus, with Mr. Beery well up
to form. He’s represented as the last
of those tough enough to venture into
the inferno of Death Valley after borax.
The usual Beery vein of humor is well
in evidence, and the wild doings of the
piece wind up with some hard ridin’ and
shootin’, with Mr. Beery at the right end
of the gun.
* * * *
“The Great Profile”
There are few waning stars who would
have the courage to make a film tearing
themselves and their profession to pieces
as thoroughly as John Barrymore does in
this stretch of entertaining nonsense at
Sydney Cameo. Barrymore satirises him-
self as Evans Garrick, a highly eccentric
actor and a thin veil over the Barrymore
profile. Given the leading role in a sas-
siety woman’s production of what prom-
ises to be a deadly boring play, he pro-
ceeds to make it an uproariously funny
burlesque. Barrymore’s talent for this
type of nonsense proves every bit as good
as it has been in the past for Shak-
speare and heavy drama. Gregory Ratoff,
as Barrymore’s manager, earns his share
of laughs.
* * * *
It was reported a few weeks ago that
some of the characters in “I Want
a Divorce,” showing at Sydney Mayfair,
were in actual life busily engaged divorc-
ing themselves from their husbands or
wives at the time the film was being
made. That may account for the fact
that it doesn’t carry much weight in its
intended purpose as anti-divorce propa-
ganda. Its main line of appeal is in its
occasional moments of light amusing
comedy.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Tom Jones”
The audience at Melb. Comedy on the
first night of the Gilsullivan Society’s
presentation of Edward German’s comic
opera was so small as to be practically
invisible, while there was the usual good
house for “Ruddigore” at His Majesty’s
opposite. Yet there was hot such a
difference between the Australian cast’s
performance or German’s music to war-
rant such a discrepancy in numbers. Ger-
man was Sullivan’s youthful pupil, and
musical opinion is that in some of his
compositions he bettered his instructor.
He had the misfortune to have as libret-
tists Thompson and Robert Courtneidge
and as lyricist Charles Taylor, instead of
the immortal Gilbert. They had none of
the sense of the theatre and the incon-
sequential humor of Gilbert, and it was
a mournfully prim job they made of
Fielding’s spicy novel. But the music
flows gently and sweetly through the nar-
rative, and, with the assistance of J.C.W.,
the Melbourne amateurs put up a per-
formance which could be judged tiptop
by professional standards.
W. Elliot Wells was a tepid Tom
Jones, the foundling who causes havoc
amongst the Somerset lasses, and as the
villainous Blifil Neil Riches was as stiff
as buckram. But Lance Carlson gave a
robust rendering of the crusty Squire
Western, Violet Jackson made a melo-
dious Sophia and Marion Morrison a pert
maid. Lennox Brewer produced, Regi-
nald Bradley conducted and Alan
Brudenell was responsible for some par-
ticularly bright singing by the chorus of
70.
* * * *
A record-breaking Giisullivan season is
being rounded off at Melbourne His
Majesty’s with revivals and glimpses of
the lesser lights in the G. and S. constel-
lation. “Patience” took the boards the
other night, but a satire on an aesthetic
movement of the ’eighties which is said
to have existed nowhere but in Gilbert’s
imagination suffers from remoteness, and
it is only the liveliness of Sullivan’s music
and Gilbert’s accumulated prestige which
save it from oblivion. A satire on the
modern movement would probably have
filled the house if there was anybody to
write it.
However, there is perennial interest in
the graceful miming of Ivan Menzies as
the fleshly poet, even if his role lacks
meaning, and Viola Wilson is suitably
girlish as the dairymaid who, presumably,
represents the mid-Victorian notion of
unsophisticated Nature. The baker’s
score of twenty lovesick maidens and the
officers of the Dragoon Guards make an
effective chorus. John Fullard has not
only the finest voice in the present en-
semble but one that would stand him in
good stead on any concert platform, but
in this opera he has the nomvocal role
of the Duke of Dunstable. Still, he is
a capital comedian.
* * * *
“No Time for Comedy,” the latest
vehicle for Marie Ney’s comprehensive
arsenal of expressions and emotions, is
making a considerable dint in public ap-
preciation at Melb. King’s. The theme
of the double triangle in which the re-
shuffle is avoided by wholesale desertion,
if treated in a different manner, would
merit the title. Written in the shallow
vein of S. N. Behrman, it makes a pass-
able evening’s entertainment, gives Miss
Ney an opportunity for some finished act-
ing and serves to introduce a new actor
to Melbourne in Hal Thompson, who fre-
quently infuses with feeling his part of the
playwright torn between Bacchus, Venus
and the Muses.
ARTBURSTS.
George Duncan’s Pictures
George Duncan, whose show of pic-
tures, mostly European travel sketches,
is at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, is
an Australian who has lived abroad for
many years. He has a nice decorative
touch, and such pieces as “Woodhouse
Eves, Leicestershire” and some of the
Spanish sketches give pleasure and satis-
faction to the eye. Mr. Duncan is not a
realist. Some of his buildings lean to an
extent that makes the Tower of Pisa seem
perpendicular, and his human figures are
sometimes curiously distorted. But he has
imagination and feeling, as evidenced in
“Industry Near Sydney,” a glimpse of a
gaunt outlook familiar to any North
Shore dweller.
* * -1= *
In the absence of an official body of
war artists in this war, a corporal in the
Royal Melbourne Regiment has provided
the first paintings of modern war, even if
it is not on any war front. Wilfred
McCulloch, who is holding a show at
Melb. Riddell Galleries, was a Nat. Gal-
lery pupil. He offered himself for the
A.1.F., but was drafted to the militia
camp at Mount Martha, where he has
been painting his cobbers, their surround-
ings and bits of them at manoeuvres. In
addition, his superior officers have
requisitioned his art in the service of the
camp for topographical pictures. Some
of his paintings in oil are well above the
standard of the average run of city exhi-
bitions. “Mornington” and “Heat Haze”
are luminous and delicate, and the line
drawings of soldiers display feeling.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of KiJncy Tubes
•—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood In your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. .
Don't wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get tho
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing vou due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Personal and Missing Friend.
YEO, Harry George, formerly of Clayfield,
Brisbane, is requested to communicate with the
A.M.P. Society in Brisbane, when he will hear
something to his advantage.
YEO, Harry George. £250 reward will be paid
to any person who can advise EDWARDS &
TROUT, Solicitors, Brisbane, of the where-
abouts of HARRY GEORGE YEO, mentioned
in the above advertisement.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2140 of 1938.
BETWEEN ARCHIBALD THOMAS CALD-
WELL Petitioner and
ESTHER CALDWELL Respondent and
EVAN GEORGE POWELL Co-respondent.
TO EVAN GEORGE POWELL late of Adams-
town in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ARCHIBALD
THOMAS CALDWELL is commencing a suit
against his wife ESTHER CALDWELL in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of inter
alia your adultery with the said Esther Caldwell
between the Nineteenth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine and the
Twelfth day of December One thousand rune
hundred and thirty-six at Broadmeadow
Warner’s Bay and at Parramatta and other
places in the State of New South Wales AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the pi oper
office of this Court on or before the Thir-
teenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event ol
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A cppy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge. ,
DATED this Fourteenth day of November
A,D - 1940> (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE CRAGG & COHEN, Solicitors
fnr the Petitioner, Bolton Street, Newcastle:
by BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors, 9.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Australia’s Minister to Japan, John
Latham, speaks well. His voice has a
pleasant cadence, his words are simple
and sincere. At the reception given
by the Consul - General for Japan
and Mrs. Akiyama in celebration of
the 2600th anniversary of the found-
ing of the Japanese Empire, he
and his lady were the guests of honor.
They had come on from a lunch spread
by the Empire Society, and in between
had collected a luscious rose-bowl from
members of Japan’s community in Syd-
ney. When you slipped out of the
crowded rooms on to the lawn of Craig-
y-Mor it was like stepping from reality
into a page of the Lady Murasaki. The
harbor lay still in the late afternoon light,
and here and there against tree and shrub
a kimono shone moth-blue Or grey.
If you were a realist you could be
served with sake in little bowls from a
buffet on the side of the lawn. Here all
sorts of Japanese dishes were kept en-
ticingly hot, and some of the guests
seemed to manage their chopsticks very
well. Bertie Kelly and Mrs. Moore
Cosgrave sipped sake side by side, while
Mrs. Bertie stood near by talking to the
guests of honor. The A. M. Pooleys and
knight Tom Gordon and his wife were
there. Mrs. Toby Browne, the Maurice
Gulsons and Chief Justice Jordan and his
wife were part of the animation. Mrs.
Percy Spender wore one of the largest
black hats. And, talking of hats, Mrs. J.
T. Perkins’s was a pretty resting-place for
pink hibiscus. Learning, too, came to
this party, for Professor Sadler and the
Francis Andersons were seen in the dusky
garden. The toasts of the day were the
King and the Emperor of Japan.
Practically the only one sure of getting
a seat at the reception to Archbishop
Gilroy was the Archbishop himself. The
Town Hall seethed with clergy and laity.
Bishops were in their robes, and Mon-
signori added a dash of violet. The stage
was bright as a tulip bed with thfe mauves,
the buffs and browns, the greens, the
blues of the Grail Choir, the Theresians,
the C.U.S.A. and the V.As. Dr. Gilroy’s
colors, blue and white, were draped
around the balconies, and recurring in
the decorative scheme were the coats of
arms of the present shepherd of the see
and of his predecessors.
Impressive part of the evening’s cere-
monial took place in the vestibule. Here,
under the great and glittering chandelier,
prince of the Church and priest and papal
knight were grouped about the throne chair
where the Archbishop sat to receive the
representatives from the parishes who
came in token of the loyalty of the laity.
Followed the entry up the centre aisle
while the thousands of his flock stood
and the choir sang “Behold, the Great
Priest!” Glowing moments were pro-
vided by Ella Caspers singing “Land of
Hope and Glory” and by the speeches.
There wasn’t a poor speaker among those
who raised voice. Mark Sheldon’s tongue
had almost an inspired ring. But, of
course, it was the Archbishop’s clearly-
enunciated words that brought down the
house. His concluding “to live for, if
necessary to die for, God and for Aus-
tralia” was greeted with a tornado of
applause.
Lady Wakehurst brought an air of
woodland coolness into the hot and
crowded Education Gallery when she
came to open the Arts and Crafts exhi-
bition. And a very good show it is. It
fills the two rooms with light and color,
with the work of potter and carver,
weaver and silversmith. John Dabron
was this year’s winner of the Elisabeth
Soderberg memorial prize. His winning
exhibit was a pair of curtains eight yards
long, glowing with color. He says that
with the sun shining through they have
the effect of stained glass. Will Ashton,
of the National Gallery, and Mrs. Will
were lost in contemplation before them.
Margaret Preston had left the seal of her
approval on Nance Mackenzie’s hand-
printed materials for beach wear. Mar-
garet chose a creamy ground spattered
with hibiscus. This Letter’s choice was
the blue with the darting and wheeling
gulls.
Alice Mackenzie, from Orange, was
admiring the arrangement of flannel-
flower, waratah and bottle-brush. Widow
of artist Phillips Fox, who herself
painted as Ethel Carrick, was with Dr.
Mary Booth and Stella George. Mrs.
Caryll Cooper acted as ticket collector
and catalogue dispenser. She’s a great
hand with vegetable dyes, as her em-
broideries on Jessica Booth’s weaving
showed. Any woman would love the
batik scarves. One carrying a design of
kangaroo paws on blue makes appeal. So
do the toys. They are all cuddly ones.
Pauline Francais was there with Mrs.
M. Ellis. Pauline, chief judge of the
dancing at the Railway Institute Eistedd-
fod, and in addition will give the thumbs
up (or down) signal for 11 revues. Mrs.
McCausland and the Countess de Vilme-
Hautmont were together. Everybody
liked Vi Eyre’s flamingo vase and Ada
Newman’s cups and saucers, specially the
ones with the little green lions on them.
Mrs. Vrisakis, wife of the Consul-
General for Greece, is already busy on
behalf of the soldiers of her native land.
Last week there came to her a long and
inspiring cable from the Crown Princess
Friderika in the name of the King of
Greece. It implores the help of all
Greeks, wealthy and poor alike, and the
friends of Greece, wherever residing, to
help the fund organised by the Princess
to ensure the Greek troops against the
cold. This is particularly severe on the
Epirus and Macedonian fronts. The
fund is named “Flannel for the Soldier,”
and all contributions sent to Mrs. Vrisakis
will be transmitted by her to the King
of Greece in the name of the Crown
Princess. The cable reminds that the
Greek forces are fighting heroically and
adding another epic to the history of
their country. It adds, “Besides the mili-
tary forces of the enemy, they are facing
another opponent —the cold.” Photo-
graph from Dorothy Welding.
Noel Coward, the English playwright,
arrived late last Saturday afternoon. The
Federal Government shouted welcome
drinks at the Australia ; then came a visit
to Admiralty House, then dinner with the
Jimmy Dicksons. Here were busmen to-
gether again, for Mrs. Jimmy was a
Vanbrugh, and at least one other guest,
Marie Burke, had been on the London
stage. The big splash of the day was
to have been the Red Cross reception in
the Town Hall. It had been hoped that
this would draw about three thousand
(and you can work that out at 7s. 6d.
a head, with tea and coffee optional at
one shilling extra). But, truth to tell, even
with W.A.N.S. and V.As. and attendants
there were no more than one-third of this
number.
There was a great illuminated Red
Cross on the stage, where Jim Davidson's
dance band was blithesome ; there was a
red carpet up the hall, and if Noel had
been the lily maid of Astolat they couldn’t
have got one more November lily into
either of the great bowls flanking the
stage. He stood there with his back to
all that, a nice enough figure, though
the observant sensed a bone-tiredness
behind the quick smile, the always right
word which he handed out to each fresh
hand-clasper. The Alexander Gordon
and Sam Walder ladies stood on each side
of him and murmured names. He wore
a pink carnation in the lapel of his dinner
suit, and his identification disc on a
thin gold chain around his wrist —a nobby
way to wear a ferry ticket.
Altogether the party, apart from the
decorations, had an unpremeditated air
which was rather matey. Besides the Red
Cross heads there were dozens of begin-
ning Gertrude Lawrences and a few
young men. There were smart W.A.N.S.
and busy V.As. who sold tickets by the
yard, quarter or inch to coffee addicts.
The Mayoress’s rooms provided the
official group with drinks, and about
ten-thirty, when the place must have been
as populated as Drake’s bowling alley an
hour or so after the Armada was sighted,
Mr. Coward came back and sang. After
hearing his broadcast on Sunday this
writer decides he sounds like Lord Lur-
gan. But Mr. Coward’s speaking is a
different matter. His voice has a straight-
forward baritone quality. His words were
simple, his phrases sincere. His speech
was an Englishman’s credo. It ended with
the toast from “Cavalcade” “Let’s
drink to the hope that one day this
country of ours will find dignity and
greatness and peace again!”
Decoration with palms goes to the
Gordon lady for her friendly hostessing.
Notable even in a gathering of duchesses
would have been the ermine turneid on
by Mrs. Victor White and Mrs. Frank
Albert. Two who wore white with good
effect were Marie Bremner, who was the
night’s singer, and Mrs. John Fairfax.
The Fairfax lady and Mrs. Wilfred Fair-
fax were others of the family present.
Black velvet with pearls comes swinging
into favor again. The alliance suited
several women among the Coward-gazers.
Noreen Dangar’s cherry chiffons and
Mrs. W. Johnson’s bronze lames were
things to be admired. Cartoonist Jimmy
Bancks was there ; among the attractive
was Mrs. John Human. Gladys Marks,
the Owen lady, ’cellist Bessie Griffiths
and Ryder Swinson were in the picture.
When music-lovers gathered at the
Norman McLeods’ home last Sunday they
heard a new song. The poem which has
been set to music by Horace Keats is
by Julia Philip (Mrs. Charles Philip), and
is named “Requiem.” It is a lament for
one who loved flowers and who died
while his garden was still in the making.
Horace Keats, you will remember, has
specialised in putting the poems of Chris
Brennan and other Australian poets to
music. His wife, as Barbara Russell, is
famed for her singing of her husband’s
songs. Mrs. Philip is a writer of short
stories, and has had some of her work
in the “Australian Woman’s Mirror.”
Husband Charles is a capable pianist, and
he composes, too. One of his successes
is “Lullaby,” words by Pamela Travers.
Last Sunday’s party was fourth in a series
of six of which the Norman McLeods
are hosts. The District Nurses and the
Women’s All Services Canteen benefit.
Photograph of Mrs. Philip by Peter Pan.
Over five thousand guests went to
Archbishop Gilroy’s garden party. This
made even the spreading grounds of the
palace at Manly look thickly populated.
A queue, seemingly miles long, moved
forward slowly to be received by Dr.
Gilroy, who stood most of the time, but
before the last of the faithful had kissed
the episcopal ring seemed glad to sit down
occasionally. His mother, beaming with
happiness, as she had been on the pre-
vious evening in the Town Hall, smiled
at the obvious affection and admiration
in which her son was held. With her were
her three daughters, Rita and Catherine
and Mrs. R. J. Bayliss.
There was music in the air as well as
the tang of the sea. The Westmead Boys’
Band played in as spirited a fashion as
they had sounded the fanfare on their
trumpets the night before at the Town
Hall. All the Catholic bishops were
in the group on the steps leading to the
great doorway. All the 126 parishes of
the diocese had sent representatives. The
Gargantuan task of serving tea to the mul-
titude was undertaken by the group of
workers known as the Legion of Catholic
Women, of whom Mrs. M. J. O’Neill is
president.
In 1913 organist Lilian Frost began a
series of midday organ recitals in the
Pitt-street Congregational Church. On
Wednesday of last week she played for
the thousandth time between the hour of
one and two, and swept an audience,
many of them business people, into a
world where the adding machine and the
avid street are not. The vestry table
was banked with flower offerings, and
the organist wore a spray sent by her
friend of many years, Ada Baker. The
church where Lilian is director of music
was thronged. Among the works on the
programme was the Guilmant “Pas-
torale,” played at the first recital in June,
1913. Old friends Lawrence Campbell
(who recited Adelaide Proctor’s “Story
of a Faithful Soul”), Henri Stael and
Esther Kahn assisted. Virginia Bassetti
and Elsie Findlay raised their rich notes.
The Premier found time to write a note.
This is one of several gracious acts
notched up to Mr. Mair’s credit.
Mayoress Crick was a listener.
A pretty bride of the week-end was
Mary Purcell, who became the wife of
Sergeant William Blakeney, R.A.A.F., of
Brisbane, at St. Mary’s, Concord. Mary’s
frock was of cream tulle, very bouffant.
Its skirt was a ruffle of tiny frills down
the front panel. Around the neckline was
a berthe of old Brussels lace that had
already decked three brides, her mother
one of them. Sister Norma ’maided.
Bride’s mother and father, the L. G.
Purcells, of Concord, gave a reception at
the Forum Club. Mrs. Purcell’s color-
scheme was royal blue ; the ’groom’s
mother wore black net frocking and a
turquoise blue hat.
Mrs. A. E. McCartney is giving a
sweets afternoon at her Lindfield home
on Thursday, November 28. Mrs. Mc-
Cartney is one of the vice-presidents of
the Kuring-gai centre of the Women’s
Hospital, Crown-street, and the sweets
will furnish a stall at the Retford Hall
fair. Admission to the party can be
gained by a smile and a lib. packet of
sweets.
It has always been a great joy to this
Letter to hear Laurence Godfrey Smith
play Debussy. But it was not till last
week that it learned that Laurence God-
frey introduced this composer to Sydney.
The Sydney pianist studied in Vienna
with Leschetizky, where Ignaz Friedman
was a fellow-student. In the 1914-18
war L. G. Smith first served in the
Censor’s Department in London, then he
joined up with the English artillery and
was wounded three times. He has again
been engaged for a tour by the A.B.C.
For six weeks he will make musical pil-
grimage around Australia with ’cellist
Osric Fyfe.


BABY’S TROUSSEAU—SpeciaI Xmas Offer:
Bonnet, Matinee Jacket, Frock, Petticoat,
Nightgown, Bib, Shoettes, Vest, Binders, 6
Squares. All good quality. Satisfaction Guaran-
teed. Send now; cash with order, 50/- com-
plete.—D. ROGERSON & CO., Babywear
Specialists, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
No sooner did Greece become our ally
in war than the Greek community in Mel-
bourne had a Red Cross branch formed
and a few thousand pounds in hand almost
overnight. Already Australian Greeks had
shown sympathy for Britain’s cause in
a very practical manner ; now their efforts
are naturally concentrated on helping
their own country. The women were
not far behind the men in forming a
committee, and plans for raising money
are well under way. Funds and goods
will be sent to Greece through the Vic-
torian Red Cross Society. The wife of
the Consul for Greece in Melbourne,
Mrs. A. J. J. Lucas, is president, and one
of his six daughters, Marea, shares secre-
tarial duties with Mrs. S. Shapnos. The
charming wife of the Vice-Consul, Mrs.
A. A. Nicolades, and Mrs. Florence are
vice-presidents, and Mrs. L. J. Sigalas
will handle the money.
It has been decided to hold a dance
on December 2 and a Greek national
party on New Year’s Eve, when many of
the country’s customs will be revived.
John Eldershaw, who had already given
two of his pictures recently exhibited to
the Red Cross, has given another to the
Greek committee. This will be first prize
in a raffle to be drawn on New Year’s
Eve, the second prize being a large doll
dressed as a soldier in the Greek King’s
Guard. A case of wine comes third on
the list.
To give interested people an idea of the
excellent job being carried out at the
United Services Cafe in the Block, Dr.
Deborah Buller Murphy gave a luncheon
party in the special room set aside for
such functions. Lady Dugan was the
guest of honor, and others who partook
of the delightful repast were the Brookes,
Armitage, Argyle, Mann, Hyde and
Colvin ladies, Mrs. R. G. Menzies, Mrs.
A. A. Dunstan, Mrs. Frank Beaurepaire,
Mrs. H. R. Hamer, Mrs. G. D. Healy,
Mrs. E. Drake-Brockman and Vaire
Wilkinson.
Dr. Buller Murphy has a perfect genius
for household matters and for entertain-
ing. As the Hackett lady she compiled
a household guide which rivals the
famous Mrs. Beeton’s. This was re-
printed at the beginning of the war and
is now on sale, the profits to be donated
to the Red Cross. In it are thousands of
recipes and everything a housewife ought
to know—and very seldom does.
The luncheon table illustrated her flair
for decoration. In her Toorak home are
many treasures; in fact, it somewhat
resembles a museum. Some of these —
Venetian and Bristol glass—she brought
along for the party and arranged a table
fit to grace any home. The centrepiece
of ruby glass overflowed with luscious
cherries, encircled at the foot by red,
red roses, cunningly arranged in tiny
glass bowls completely hidden by the
flowers, which just seemed to grow there.
Miniature trees in tubs carrying out the
cherry motif and glorious glasses
touched with ruby with a decanter or two
worthy of mention completed the picture.
It does not seem to be generally under-
stood that the cafe is open to the public,
not only for ordinary meals, but for
special occasions. That’s where Dr.
Deborah shines. She doesn’t hope to
compete with all the odd cafes in Mel-
bourne, but she has something quite
unique to offer in the way of special ser-
vice. She is willing to place at the dis-
posal of patrons years of experience as •
a hostess, and rushing arrangements
through for a party at short notice is
something she has been delighting in for
years. Dr. Murphy started this cafe for
funds for the British War Orphans—the
only fund of its kind in existence.
The same afternoon Mrs. John Buchan
entertained about 100 of her friends at a
cocktail party at the cafe. Flowers, which
are always a feature of the decorative
scheme, were impressive. Tall foxgloves
and gladioli were massed in huge bowls
for the occasion. The hostess decided to
ignore the vagaries of Melbourne weather
and wore a patterned sheer cotton frock
with a wide-brimmed hat. Giving her a
helping hand with her guests were
daughter Mrs. George Phillips and son
Ronald Buchan.
Zooie Ball enthusiasts meet on the spot
these days—or as many as can wangle
a petrol coupon for the journey. Apropos
of which difficulty Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
suggested a meeting of cars in the city
to pick up those not thus blessed. The
weekly gatherings should grow and
prosper. Mustering on the last occasion
was quite encouraging. It is suspected
that the Zoo’s performing animals proved
quite an attraction to members of the
younger contingent, who were somewhat
conspicuous by their absence halfway
through the meeting.
A few fortunate kids made the most
of the occasion, too. The youngest of
the Wallace Mitchell clan came along
with two of his small pals, and Mrs. Bert
Wolff was accompanied by her young
hopeful. They were happily engaged with
the doings of the monkeys and other
wild life while the meeting went on, but
some strange instinct told them cakes
(and maybe ice-cream) were about, and
they turned up at tea-time at the kiosk.
Mrs. Mitchell, who loves feeding people,
was hostess.
No more attractive spot could have
been chosen for the meetings. Improve-
ments at the Zoo are notable, and the
colorful garden beds are at their best
just now. The board-room in the modern
office buildings, which director Hector
Kendall placed at the disposal of the
ladies (along with his own services as
general - factotum - cum - adviser), boasts
long landscape windows partly covered on
the outside by huge raised letters spelling
Zoo. The Angliss lady presided, then
dashed off to another meeting, leaving
Director Kendall to cope with the femi-
nine throng. Now and again chatter
attained the intensity of that in the cocka-
too cage outside, but it was firmly and
pleasantly quelled.
A Shetland pony given by Mrs. Mit-
chell to swell the funds quite stole the
limelight. A saddle and bridle had also
been given, so some lucky child is going
to think Christmas comes at least twice
a year. “Weather permitting” looms large
in the minds of organisers of these out-
door entertainments, and precautions in
the form of insurance are to be taken.
If the weather man can’t fix things be-
tween certain hours on December 7 some-
body is going to be the loser by £3O0 —
but not the committee. Ken Luke will
show the pictures he took on a world
tour to raise the premium. The board-
room will see the show on Tuesday,
November 26.
Pictured by Dickinson-Monteath is
Margery Austin, who, besides being one
of the ticket secretaries of the Zooie Ball,
will help Betty Wallace Mitchell handle
hot-dogs for hungry people on the night
of the party. Margery is the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Austin, of
Kooyong.
The answer to “What would you rather
do than go to the races?” was “shoot”
on Saturday. About 30 women have
been meeting every fortnight for the last
six months down at Bentleigh, where
they have sufficient wide, open spaces
to make shooting clay pigeons compara-
tively safe. It seems they hoped to fit
themselves to deal, should the occasion
arise, with bigger game in the shape of
parachuters. Meanwhile, they were glad
to help along the war effort in a less
spectacular and more congenial fashion
as competitors in the Blarney House
shoot. Although the rain held off, marks-
manship was affected by a wind which
whistled persistently through the tweeds
worn by the majority of competitors.
Even the male crack shots like Com-
mander Creelock-Price didn’t shine very
conspicuously. However, a good time
was had by all, and the financial result
was satisfactory beyond all expectations,
considering the modest entrance and ad-
mission fees. The accounts will show a
pleasing £67 in credit.
Both Mrs. Tom Patterson and Mrs.
Tom C. Paterson (called “two ts” and
“one t” by those to whom it matters)
wielded a gun. Mrs. Patterson was
accompanied by her sportsman husband
and daughter Joyce and did them credit in
a suit of brown herringbone tweed.
Commander Creelock-Price looked very
“huntin’, shootin’ and fishin’ ” in a neat
fawn-and-brown check coat and modest
brown felt, complete with feather. The
American counterpart of the English
shootin’ gentleman was General Motors’
manager Harry Cavanaugh in an outfit of
nigger-brown—even to suede shoes. He
wore a huge pair of dark glasses, only
rivalled by those of Lynette Dickinson.
Hers boasted red rims and unique ear-
pieces broadening out to half-an-inch in
width, on one of which gold initials were
to be discerned. She can't* be blamed for
branding them ; sun glasses, like books,
are often borrowed, seldom returned.
Mrs. Ross Fenner, Mrs. Joan Ramsay
and Paddy Wilkinson, of Blarney House
committee, also shot, and Mrs. Lindsay
Plant spun the wheel without which no
charitable function is complete to good
effect.
The flood of engagement rings since
the war has made who is not engaged
news rather than who is. Another result
of youth donning khaki or blue is the
sudden yearn for nursing in the younger
contingent of the opposite sex. The
latest young thing to succumb on both
counts is Noel Gambetta, pictured here
by Athol Smith in laughing mood. Noel
is the only daughter of Mrs. F. I. Gam-
betta, of Westbury Grove, East St. Kilda,
and the .lucky man Ross Lewin, A.1.F.,
son of Mr. R. O. Lewin of Brighton, and
the late Mrs. Lewin. Ross will shortly
leave for overseas, and Noel meanwhile
continues training at St. Vincent’s.
The young wearers of various school
ties who twice yearly run a Fifty Hos-
tesses’ Dance for the Gloucester branch
of Prince Henry’s Hospital have another
success to their credit. They take war
work in their stride and remain loyal to
peace-time obligations. Missed in the
throng of dancers at Ormond Hall was
Col. Wallis, now second in command of
the Royal Melbourne Regiment. He had
a very soft spot for these youngsters, and
for years has never failed to turn up to
their dances. He still manages to call in
to the city office of Prince Henry’s,
which before the war was his H.Q. as
publicity officer, but dances seldom see
him now.
Kathleen Lascelles, as president of
these young well-doers, was early on the
job watching Audrey Campbell rush
through last-minute jobs which fell to
her lot as secretary. Jack Birch and
Bob Mitchell shared financial duties, and
lan Lloyd, Ethel Jackson, Brian O’Sulli-
van and June Taylor persuaded people to
buy tickets.
The new Prince Henry’s is one of the
most modern hospitals in the world. It
is a marvellous achievement both as a
building and an engineering feat. Mod.
cons, would turn the average housewife
green with envy ; color and form delight
the interior decorator. The architecture
is a source of controversy, but the medi-
cal staff is delighted. Among other
things, the hospital offers facilities for
post-graduate work in surgery. Round
a huge glass dome in the ceiling of the
main operating theatre budding geniuses
of the knife watch surgeons below per-
form miracles. There are only two or
three of these domes in the world, so
P.H. has something to be proud of. The
building is not progressing very quickly,
more for want of funds than lack of
materials caused through the war. The
Gloucester youngsters are doing their
bit towards keeping things going.
Lady Dugan arrived to open the Christ-
mas shop of the Victorian Society for
Crippled Children looking very smart in
one of the plaid-coat-plain-skirt suits
that are apparently the season’s best bet.
The coat was checked in white and black
on grey, and boasted a black velvet collar.
The skirt had three box pleats well to
the front, the whole very British. Lady
Armitage, who accompanied her, wore a
grey worsted bolero suit with short
sleeves, offset with a broderie Anglaise
blouse in white. The Christmas shop was
run by the Handcraft and Welfare Com-
mittee of the society at 166 Little Collins-
street, and was open to the public for the
sale of goods. These were all made by
the craft club under the direction of the
occupational therapist, Sylvia Docker.
The Primrose Pottery Shop always has
these goods on sale. Proceeds benefit the
individual children, not the society. The
craft club has brought happiness to hun-
dreds of young people.
There were some lovely things dis-
played at the Christmas shop, all of them
modestly priced and suitable for gifts.
Hand-knitted baby clothes and embroid-
ered frocks, basketware of all kinds,
hand-woven scarves (these can be made
in any color), gaily-colored string bags
for shopping or the beach, and small ones
for golf balls, soft toys in endless variety,
and lovely pottery lamps give some idea
of the display. The pottery lamps were
specially effective and original. These
were made by an older youth of about
20. He has made quite a success of this
work, and has had orders from one of
the big stores.
Another fine venture in the rehabili-
tation of cripples is the hostel attached to
the Orthopaedic Hospital at Frankston.
The medical superintendent, Dr. Douglas
Galbraith, started this hostel on Ameri-
can lines. In the U.S.A. the Government
takes the whole responsibility for cripples,
and has proved it a sound financial plan
to train them in industry rather than pay
out thousands of pounds annually in
invalid pensions. Here the work is left
to the charitable public. Fortunately
the hostel has many good friends, notably
General Grimwade, Harnett, of General
Motors, and fairy-godmother Mrs. Wal-
lace Mitchell. Mrs. Mitchell managed
to have all the 19 children at present
attending “adopted” for this year at £5O
each. The sympathy felt for the victims
of the last infantile paralysis epidemic
should be extended to these children, who
need it (in a practical way) now as much
as they ever did.
For days another group of British
children had been expected at the
U.S. cafe, where they are enter-
tained at luncheon before going off
with their foster parents. However,
they were held up in Adelaide and
came over later by train. Some of
the first arrivals were rather reporter-
shy, and who can blame them? One
dour arrival admited reluctantly he was
from “Glesgie” (Glasgow). When asked
how he liked Australia (this is inevitable)
he said, “Haven’t seen mooch of it yet.”
That ended the conversation as far as he
was concerned. Latest arrivals were from
Lancashire for the most part and shared
with Gracie Fields a fine sense of fun.
After a good lunch they were to be taken
to the circus and were unanimous in de-
ciding they were “going to loike it foine”
(or the Lancashire equivalent).
Red Cross and Comforts Funds were
to benefit by four performances of “Tom
Jones” at the Comedy. The light opera
by Edward German was revived very suc-
cessfully, but the scant audience on the
first night gave small hope of large profits.
Lennox Brewer, the producer, thanked
them for their presence and hoped
(feelingly) they’d tell their friends to come
along on the next three nights. Mrs. A.
W. Coles, representing the Comforts
Fund, and the Angliss lady, representing
the Red Cross, sat together surrounded
by empty seats, but happily nibbling
chocolates. Prof. Skeats, vice-president
of the Gilsullivan Soc. of Victoria, which
presented the show with the help of
J. C. Williamson, was present with his
wife.
Few people in Melbourne take a
chance on something—or somebody—
being good. One of the things they missed
by staying at home or going to the pic-
tures was Joyce Lodge’s dance recital at
the National Theatre in aid of the Red
Cross. The acme of grace, Joyce Lodge
is a living advertisement for her particu-
lar form of body culture. Grace goes
hand in hand with slimness and the deli-
cate strength that makes for beauty.
Quite apart from its practical uses in
developing the body, the dancing is ex-
citing to watch and stimulating to the
imagination. Costumes, which were
made to Miss Lodge’s designs, were
striking, and no little of the success of
the entertainment was due to the modern
music and the pianist, Edna Bennett.


THE SERVICE MAN
Visits to Taranto.
“Ek Dum”: Taranto is a city which
has enjoyed- a varied life. It is 2648
years old. It once was Greek. It con-
ducted a war against Rome for 10 years
before the Romans captured it. Hanni-
bal made it surrender. Fabius took it
back. It has given its name to the
tarantula, which, like the Italian Navy,
looks a horrid animal but is almost
harmless. It was also the home of an
Edward Lear hero:
There was an old man of Tarentum
Who gnashed his false teeth till he bent ’em.
The old gentleman, if still alive, must
have had plenty of scope for his peculiar
dental activity when the Fleet Air Arm
proved to Taranto that there are always
new experiences which even a city almost
as ancient as Rome can enjoy.
Taranto lies on the western side of the
gulf between the heel and toe of Italy.
It owns a harbor which is well sheltered
and shaped something like the letter “B,”
as a good many Australians and others
who found their way from it to the Ser-
bian front in the last war may remember.
It is somewhere about 40 miles as the
crow flies from Brindisi, across the “heel”
on the Adriatic, and about 50 miles from
Bari, further north on the Adriatic
coastal railway. Thus Italy has done the
Fleet Air Arm the good turn of concen-
trating its main southern ports and naval
bases within a few miles of each other.
Brindisi is only about 270 miles from
Salonika on the other side of Greece ;
Taranto to Salonika is 310 miles;
Taranto to Athens is 360 miles.
Next to Bari, which holds about
200,000 people, Taranto is the largest
city in its region. Its 120,000 inhabitants
devote themselves to dockyard work and
other naval occupations.
Upon becoming near neighbors in
Greece of Bari, Brindisi and Taranto,
British bombers wasted no time in arrang-
ing courtesy calls, and Taranto had the
lion’s share of the salutes.
On the night of November 11 the
Fleet Air Arm turned up over Taranto
and with the help of the moon gazed
down on the beautiful spectacle of large
quantities of Italian fleet disposed about
the harbor beyond the balloon barrage.
Within a very short time, loud and terri-
fying noises awakened the Tarantines,
and the harbor looked as if the original
Samoa hurricane had been through it.
Most of the deadly work was done with
torpedoes fired almost at sea level.
One of the two new Littorios, 35,000-
ton battleships, which took nearly six
years to complete and pack with nine
15in. and 12 6in. guns, was badly down
by the bows—she is 774 ft. long—and
had a distinct list to starboard. The re-
constructed 23,000-ton Conte di Cavour,
which carries 10 12.6 in. guns and a heavy
complement of lighter weapons, had been
beached with her quarter-deck and after
turrets under water. A second battleship
of the same class had been heavily
damaged. In the inner half of the harbor,
a couple of cruisers reeled drunkenly to
starboard with a vomit of oil fuel about
them, and a pair of fleet auxiliaries were
tails under.
The Fleet Air Arm brought home
photographs to prove its work and even
the Italian communique issued next day
admitted that a “warship” had been
heavily damaged.
The operation was more than a mere
attempt to damage harbor and shipping.
The real objective was to drive the Italian
fleet beyond the shelter of its land guns.
The R.N. waited in the neighborhood for
24 hours, but its only prey was a convoy.
Italy had six battleships. Two were
35,000-tonners, of which one is now
smashed, and four 23,000- or 25,000-
tonners of the last-war vintage, one of
which has been put out of commission
and a second damaged. Two more
35,000-tonners are under construction,
but, unless the rate of building is faster
than that of the last two completed, it
will be years before they are at sea.
Though the Italians claimed to have
brought down six British machines during
the raid and probably three more, the
actual loss was only two, part of the
crews being taken prisoner. Little enough
to pay for a disaster to Italy of which
Mr. Churchill declared that it would “de-
cisively affect the balance of naval power
in the Mediterranean and carry with it
naval reaction in other quarters of the
globe,” and his First Lord that “the
balance of sea power in the oceans of the
world has beeh decisively altered.” This
may seem overenthusiastic, but Mr. Alex-
ander revealed that, before the action,
our battle fleet in the Mediterranean was
less numerous than that of Italy. He
added that the numerical superiority had
now been reduced to inferiority in an
action in which the Italian dispositions
allowed their admirals to offer only a
passive defence.
The Taranto raid was no isolated inci-
dent. Since the outbreak of the Greek
war, attacks have been made continu-
ously on the Italian embarkation and
landing ports on each side of the
Adriatic, and it might well be that the
results of these on the fighting between
Koritza and the Kalamas are far greater
than are known.
On the day on which Taranto harbor
was bombed Durazzo and Valona on the
Albanian side were both heavily ham-
mered ; so was Brindisi.
And light naval forces fastened on an
Italian convoy of four supply ships
guarded by two destroyers off Valona,
sank one of the supply ships, fired two
“Steady there, Bert — you’ll bust ’et!”
more so seriously that their destruction
seemed certain, while the fourth escaped
damaged behind a smoke screen. Both
destroyers left for the horizon at high
speed, one of them having been hit.
A second raid on Taranto on Nov. 13
was carried out, not by the R.N. Fleet
Air Arm but by the R.A.F. operating
from an unstated base. The Italians
claim that only one person was killed,
three wounded and a small amount of
civilian damage done, and that two
R.A.F. machines were “probably” shot
down. But the fact is that no British
machines were lost, and that the docks
and harbor works of Taranto had as bad
a dusting as the shipping on Monday
night.
A noticeable feature of the Mediter-
ranean war has been the swift tailing off
of the Italians’ air activity since the
Greek war began. Their African raids
have become sparse and feeble and their
retaliation appears to be mainly carried
out on paper. Following the Taranto
affair, they claimed to have hit a cruiser
at Alexandria with bombs and to have
torpedoed two ships from the air in the
Eastern Mediterranean, sinking one. In
the same area, two British ’planes were
supposed to have been brought down,
and probably three more. The news
about these victories seems to be strictly
copyright to Italy.
Epic of the Jervis Bay.
“Nobby II”: The German tale of hav-
ing sunk the whole 86,000 tons of the
convoy attacked on November 6 in the
North Atlantic proved just a German
tale. The actual results reflect no credit
on German seamanship, but add glory
to the records of the R.N. Auxiliary
Convoy Service and the Merchant Navy.
There were 38 ships in the convoy
and their lone escort was the Jervis Bay.
One of the old Commonwealth liners,
built by Vickers in 1922-23, the Jervis
Bay, after many voyages to and from
England as a Government one-class ship,
was sold to White Star in 1928. At the
outbreak of war, she became an auxiliary
armed cruiser commanded by Acting-
Captain E. S. Fogarty Fegen, who a
dozen years ago was accounted about the
largest and most dashing Irishman ever
seen at Jervis Bay, where he was second-
in-command of the naval college for a
time. He was a good Rugby footballer,
and was a great pal of all the boys.
It was a sunny evening when the raider
appeared. It is not clear whether she was
a pocket battleship or a Nurnberg class
cruiser, but from the manner 'in which
she dealt with the Jervis Bay, whose guns
she completely outranged, the former
seems more probable.
She opened fire at extreme range on
the largest and nearest vessel in the con-
voy, the N.Z. Shipping Co.’s Rangitiki
(16,698 tons). A few shells fell among
the lines of other vessels.
Immediately, the Jervis Bay steamed
between the attacker and the convoy,
dropped smoke floats to hide the ships—
they at once began to scatter —and closed
with the enemy. Nelson, who made his
name at St. Vincent in the Captain (74),
under the old admiral for whom the
Jervis Bay was named, would have been
proud of the dash and courage of the
attack, in which death was inevitable.
The steering gear was shot away. The
White Ensign at the masthead was shot
down and replaced by a seaman who
went aloft under fire to do it. Then half
the bridge went, and the captain lost his
right arm. But, streaming with blood, his
immense figure towering above the men
around him, he was seen to stagger to the
after-bridge to try to steer his ship from
there. This failing, he returned to the
ruins of the main bridge to direct his
gun crews.
The Jervis Bay burst into flames and
began to sink by the stern. Then only
was the order to abandon ship given, but
Captain Fegen went down with her, the
White Ensign still flying. She had been
pounded for an hour, but continued to
return the enemy fire even when burning
furiously.
Meanwhile, the convoy had had a
chance to disperse behind the smoke
screens. The Germans waited to blast
the surviving Jervis Bay men in their life-
boats with shrapnel before beginning the
pursuit. It was for the most part a
failure ; 33 ships reached port; and the
34th is “unaccounted for.”
The Admiralty communique was, as
usual, sober and matter of fact:
The escape of nearly the whole of the
large convoy from a powerful raider was
due in a high degree to the efficiency shown
by the captains of merchantmen in scatter-
ing and using smoke screens, and also the
very gallant action of the Jervis Bay.
Of the crew of the Jervis Bay, the captain
of a Swedish freighter rescued 65. He
declared that the action had been so gal-
lant and unforgettable that, after five
hours, he risked encounter with the
raider by turning back to rescue them.
Because of weather conditions, it is un-
likely that more were saved. Their in-
trepid commander will go down to his-
tory as Captain Fogarty Fegen, V.C.
The Jervis Bay’s fight was a glorious
episode, but fully in the tradition of
ships of her class and of the R.N. —the
tradition which sent the crews of the
Good Hope and Monmouth unflinch-
ingly against a German squadron im-
measurably stronger than themselves in
the last war and the Rawalpindi into the
hopeless fray with the Deutschland in the
present. The same tradition, too, which
led Admiral Jervis to attack 27 ships
with 15 at St. Vincent.
German battleships may pile them-
selves on mudbanks and scuttle rather
than take a chance of defeat. It is the
policy of the Royal Navy to “fight the
enemy wherever found” and to go down
fighting rather than surrender.
Frightfulness Comes to
Coventry.
“Ek Dum”: German barbarism keeps
up its reputation. Weather has made
raiding more difficult at intervals, but
when raids have been possible they have
been more concentrated ; greater quanti-
ties of bombs have been dropped in par-
ticular spots.
London and other cities were subjected
to indiscriminate bombing last week. In-
stitutions miles from any military objec-
tives suffered —for example, the Chelsea
Royal Hospital, where only old pen-
sioners live, and St. Dunstan’s, sacred to
the blind. And Buckingham Palace was
scarred again; so was Drury Lane
Theatre.
“The latest list of objectives” hit by
Germany included 25 churches, four
palaces, three embassies, seven stores,
three clubs and nine newspaper offices.
Of course this senseless destruction was
not committed in a single week.
A.R.P. workers strove through a week
of horror to rescue a number of people
who were held down in the wet bowels
of London under the piles of masonry
which had once been a printing office.
The entombed included young girls,
young husbands and helpless people who
rushed for shelter. Some spent days
there before they were carried out to die.
Some were still there when this was
written, and none of the watchers out-
side could say whether they were living
or dead.
And Coventry, of “the three tall spires”
and “the ancient legend,” suffered cruelly
on November 14. To the Luftwaffe- this
was perhaps a little thing. The Luftwaffe
laid defenceless Warsaw waste. It blotted
out the whole beautiful civic centre of
Rotterdam —over two miles square —kill-
ing in a few minutes 30,000 people who
were absolutely helpless and incapable of
either defence or offence. It ranged
through the East End of residential Lon-
don, concentrating on the homes of the
poor, and pictures of some of the airmen
who took part in the attacks and who
afterwards landed on British soil showed
that they seemed to consider wholesale
murder a laughing matter.
The bombing of Coventry, according
to Berlin Radio, was retaliation for the
bombing of Munich while Hitler was
speaking there on the anniversary of the
German request for an armistice in 1918.
Not one of the innocent women and
children or the quiet old people of the
ancient charity foundations of Bonds and
Fords who in normal times live in clois-
tered peace in their old half-timbered
houses had lifted a finger against Munich.
That was a responsibility which the
R.A.F. would have been eager to take
had the Luftwaffe been anxious to inflict
punishment. But women and children
are easier to kill with bombs and churches
are safer to bomb than aerodromes.
Coventry is part of English history. Its
story of Lady Godiva has always had
an appeal to the pitiful human instincts
of the world. The honesty of its work-
manship has given England the phrase
“true as Coventry blue.” It was there
that Cromwell sent his Midland Royalist
prisoners to isolate them —thus the phrase
“sent to Coventry” was born.
The city stood, till a few days ago, 94
miles from London, 16 from Birming-
ham, on a little rise among green War-
wickshire lanes. The 300-foot spire of
St. Michael’s had soared above it for
over 500 years, and watched it grow from
a feudal borough to a great industrial
centre with 250,000 people. Its growth
had not destroyed its character.
In the suburbs were vast motor works
—Morris and Rolls-Royce among them—
cycle works, sewing-machine works,
carpet and woollen factories. In the cen-
tral ring the old city nestled like a kernel
in a nut, with its walls, its old gateways,
its old churches, its magnificent St.
Mary’s guild-hall full of precious relics of
British history and dating from the fif-
teenth century, its old grammar schools
and charity organisations, its half-
timbered shops and winding streets.
At Coventry two of the rivers which
feed Shakspeare’s Avon join. It is a
jumping-off place for all the historic cor-
ners of Warwickshire. It was one of the
brightest and gayest provincial centres in
England, full of tourists moving in and


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
SsCfors say your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 121 Gland Tonic
Tablets contoin genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
GLAND
TOM I C
T. JONES S CQ.
CHJSMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney,
out of teashops, and of bicycles winding
their way round the corners.
From its position on the eminence
marked by its spires, Coventry’s old town
would be easy to bomb. An enemy with
any conscience would be anxious not to
bomb it because a knowledge of its con-
centration of population and of its his-
tory would assure him that the bombing
would not be accomplished without a
huge slaughter of the innocent and of
a vast collection of irreplaceable historic
treasures which belong rather to the
world than to Coventry.
He would, in fact, sigh with relief that
it was as easy not to bomb old Coventry
while aiming at military objectives as it
would be to bomb it, since most of the big
munition and other factories round about
it have been carefully separated from its
historic quarters.
The German High Command rejoiced
at what it called “an extremely vigorous
and successful attack, in which numerous
engine works and large aircraft plants
were plastered with heavy-calibre bombs,”
causing “tremendous devastation” to
stocks of raw materials and “conflagra-
tions which were visible along the English
Channel” —which, incidentally, is 120
miles away at the nearest point. First,
fire bombs were sprinkled through the
town. When these had started the flames,
heavy explosive bombs followed. The
fourteenth-century church, St. Michael’s,
save for the ancient spire, has gone. Hos-
pitals, schools, charity foundations, hotels
all crumbled under what Berlin proudly
describes as “the greatest attack in the
history of air warfare... .several hundred
’planes unloaded 1,000,0001 b. of bombs.”
A crowded town which is smouldering
is not easy to reconnoitre, but on the
morning after the disaster it was an-
nounced that casualties would total 1000
—2OO are known to have been killed, 800
wounded. At that time many people
were still trapped among the ruins of
houses and shops.
The R.A.F. did not wait long to avenge
Coventry. It struck at once at shipyards
and gasworks and other public utilities
in the heart of Hamburg, killing 223
according to Berlin Radio’s admission
and wounding large numbers. The first
Hamburg raid on Friday night was fol-
lowed by a second on Saturday night,
which lasted several hours. Other objec-
tives over several hundred miles of coast-
line and country were not neglected.
Meanwhile, the Germans on Friday
night, sending 500 machines over London,
repeated their barbarous performance
over Coventry. The loss of life was
heavy—so was the damage. First, as at
Coventry, incendiary bombs were
sprinkled over a wide area, and then,
guided by the fires, the raiders added
heavy explosive bombs. The buildings
destroyed included seven hospitals, three
hotels, two convents, two cinemas, an
apartment house and a school.
The new technique of the indiscrimi-
nate night raid is a deadly one against
which there is apparently no defence
likely to give cumulative results. ’Planes
come over at great heights singly, at
minute or two-minute intervals, in cease-
less succession. They silence their engines
as they approach, making a long glide.
Often the first indication that the defence
has is when the bomb falls. Looking
for a single high- and fast-flying ’plane
in a night sky, especially when there is a
pall of smoke, is like looking for a nut
in the ocean.
It seems that night raiders have now
almost an open license to destroy help-
less civilian populations, though to fly
low enough to spot definite objectives is
to court destruction.
Gallant Greek Resistance.
“Ek Dum”: The Greeks with their
little army spread along the mountainous
front from the Yugoslavian border, near
Lake Presba, to the lonian coast, along
the Kalamas River, 120 miles away, are
certainly showing the Italians how to
fight.
Weeks ago it was reported that the
Italians had 250,000 men in Albania, and,
though they have obviously not thrown
them all into the preliminary battles, they
have used strong forces and picked corps,
such as the Alpini.
The net result of their operations so
far has been that, in the north, the
attacked Greeks have actually advanced
into Albania and have been dominating
the heights around Koritza, which is
described as the Italian main supply base.
In the south, the Italians pushed well
across the Kalamas below Corfu, but
were driven back. In the centre, north
of Yanina, what looked like an encircling
Italian movement against that town was
nipped, breaking the continuity of the
Italian front. Everywhere save in one
spot on the Greek left wing, the Italians
were driven back to their own lines.
Greeks report the taking of 3500
prisoners and 20 field guns and heavy
Italian casualties.
Meanwhile British and Greek bombers
are harrying Albanian and Italian ports,
which form the termini of Italian sea
communications, and scattering Italian
columns and supply trains.
Whatever may be the ultimate result
when heavier forces are employed by the
Italians —if they are employed, and if the
Axis is not still trying to divert British
effort from other war areas —all the suc-
cess so far is on the side of the gallant
little Greek army, which has turned the
defensive into an offensive.
Just before the week-end, Badoglio and
Keitel had a meeting in Austria. What-
ever the outcome the Greeks have done
nobly, and the Empire army in Western
Egypt is on its toes, hoping to do better
still.
This much is certain —that the three
weeks’ campaign in Greece has adminis-
tered a damaging blow to Italian prestige
everywhere. And success is necessary to
Mussolini for internal reasons, since Eng-
lishmen who know Italy are agreed that
many Italians have been against the war
all along.
More "War" in Asia.
“Fong Tsz”: War is ready to break
out again for the umpteenth time in the
East Indian area, and Generals Wind
and Blah have mobilised their shock
troops, which consist of the words
“rumored,” “alleged,” “believed” and
“reported.” Thus:
The Dutch naval base at Sourabaya is
being prepared to receive battleships, believed
to be British, according to the alleged
statement by the Commander-in-Chief of
the N.E.I. The report of this statement
has added to the increasing interest being
taken in the general situation in the Pacific.
A schoolboy would know that, if prepara-
tions of the sort were being made, any
c.-in-c. in his right mind would make
as much noise about it as a dead oyster.
Besides this choice bit of “intelligence,”
a Sydney paper contained the following
in the same column:
Thai troops are reported to have in-
vaded French territory.
It is thought possible that Japan may
use this clash as a pretext for landing
troops “to restore order.” Concentrations
of Thai troops are reported at several
points. These troops are said to be build-
ing rafts.
Then there is an "alleged” attack oil
Indo-China by the Chinese, but this is
not anonymous like the rest of the news
—it comes from the French authorities
themselves via the Hanoi correspondent
of the Japanese Domei newsagency. And
there is a communication from Japanese
army headquarters that the evacuation of
Kwangsi and southern Kwangtung pro-
vinces has been completed.
The Chinese position is obscure, as
usual. It is learned —whether by tele-
pathy, telegony, the ouija board or clair-
voyance is not stated —that the Chung-
king Government is busily planning at
least three more years of resistance ; and
“rumors of difficulties between the
Kuomintang and the Communists are
discredited by high Chinese officials.”
It should be noted that, though, for
instance, Sourabaya, where the mighty
naval preparations are supposed to be
in progress, is about 800 miles from the
Australian coast, the information about
its preparations comes from London,
12,000 miles away, and the only authority
quoted for any of the vague stuff is “our
special correspondent.”
Anybody who has sought information
about distant Asia from official quarters
in London knows how much it is
worth. In 1926 the writer was earnestly
warned about the dangers of crossing
Central Australia by car without fire-
arms. Even his assurance that he had
done it already within the previous two
years seemed to create only distrust in
the mind behind the eyeglass.
“Nobby II”: British and Allied mer-
cantile shipping losses for the week to
Nov. 3-4 amounted to 72,595 tons. The
British list, 13 ships totalling 65,609 tons,
included the Empress of Britain, 42,438
tons; the Empress of Japan, 26,500
tons, reported by a Japanese ship to be in
difficulty off the west coast of Ireland,
reached port under her own steam.
Losses of British auxiliary naval craft —
five trawlers, in three of which there
were casualties —showed that the enemy
is still active and ruthless in the North
Sea. But the Royal Navy is never idle.
R.N. guns were heard last week from
Italian Somaliland, where Mogadiscio,
the seat of government, was bombarded,
via the Libyan coast and the Adriatic to
Mexico, where four German merchant
ships—Phrygia, Orinoco, Harwala and
Rhein —were intercepted after they had
left Tampico on Nov. 15. The Phrygia
was set on fire and was scuttled by her
own crew, and the others dashed into
Mexican territorial waters. And the
Helgoland, which sailed from Colombia
Bay on Oct. 31, carrying numerous Ger-
mans, is reported sunk by the R.N. in
the Caribbean.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: For a spot in which two
vast armies—greater by several times than
those which fought at Waterloo —glower
at each other across the sands, Western
Egypt has put up a record in military
inactivity. The R.A.F. and the Navy
blaze away at Italian communication
lines. Italians make timid raids on Alex-
andria or Suez. But there hasn’t been
enough fight so far to fill an evening at
a Ballylongford pub. It can’t be long
now before the gun goes off —that is, if
it is to go off, and if Hitler and Musso.
are not merely sitting tight everywhere,
taking care not to try their people too
high and watching carefully for an oppor-
tunity to manoeuvre a peace while the
going is good.
Sf * * #
“Ente Marid”: A British commander-
in-chief for the Far East, with head-
quarters at Singapore, has been chosen
from the Air Force. He is Air Chief
Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham, and
he will co-ordinate the sectional commands
in Malaya, Burma and Hong Kong. The
new c.-in-c., whose territory will fringe
that of Australia and be partly served by
R.A.A.F. units, is 62, has been in the Air
Force since 1912, and has been c.-in-c. Iraq
and inspector-general of the R.A.F. The
name Popham has its own magic around
the Indies —Sir Home Popham’s fleet pro-
vided the escort when Davy Baird took
the first Indian army to leave Asia to
Alexandria in 1801. Air Marshal Brooke-
Popham, however, was born a Brooke and
assumed the Popham under royal license.
The Air War Day by Day.
November 11-12: Daylight raids over
England; 12 German, 13 Italian and two
British machines brought down. No
night raids because of bad weather.
In raid on Taranto (Italy) Fleet Air
Arm puts two Italian battleships and
probably a third out of commission, as
well as two cruisers and two naval
auxiliary vessels.
R.A.F. North African raids extend
from Benghazi (Libya) to British Somali-
land. Two Italian formations pass over
Malta without attacking. Italians claim
to have attacked Suez installations and
Cairo airfield and shot down Gloster
Gladiator over Metemma (Abyssinia).
Nov. 12-13: London, Midlands and
other parts of England heavily bombed
in moonlight. Germans claim to have
dropped 150 tons of bombs on London,
damaging Kensington gasworks and
warehouses. Air Ministry reports damage
and casualties not heavy considering
scale of raids. One raider shot down.
Germans admit raids on Germany,
but say “bombs fell in fields.” R.A.F.
reports having dealt smashing blows at
enemy marshalling yards and other tar-
gets, including invasion ports, particu-
larly U-boat base at Lorient. Five
bombers attacking North Sea convoy
shot down ; no ships damaged, though
Germans claim to have sunk 44,000 tons
during attack.
Home Office announces civilian
casualties from air raids over Britain:
August 8-31, killed 1075, seriously
wounded 1200 ; September, killed 6954,
seriously injured 10,615 ; October, killed
6334, seriously injured 8695.
R.A.F. fires petrol stores at Santo
Quaranti, Durazzo, Valona and Tirana
(Albania). Santo Quaranti, Albania’s
third port, reported to be smoking ruin.
Nov. 13-14: Fifteen enemy ’planes —•
13 dive-bombers included —brought down
during battles over southern England.
Two British fighters lost. Heavy rain
and fog keep raiders from London.
R.A.F. defies weather and raids Ber-
lin during banquet given by Molotov
to Ribbentrop, attacking central Berlin
and outer-ring goods stations. Power
station at Cologne, numerous industrial
plants and aerodromes in Germany and
occupied territory bombed.
British raids on Taranto and other
Italian and Albanian ports; also on
Bologna in northern Italy. Italians kill
50 civilians and wound 140 in raid on
Yanina (Greece). Greeks bomb Koritza.
Italians raid Alexandria —no casualties.
R.A.F. continues to harry Libyan Italian
communication lines.
Nov. 14-15: Savage attack by 500 Ger-
man machines on Coventry, wiping out
centre of ancient city, killing 200 and
wounding 800. Further heavy raids on
London and southern England.
R.A.F. bomb shipping in German-held
ports from Stavanger (Norway) to Lorient
(France); also Berlin and Potsdam, where
fires started, and numerous oil refineries
and other German military objectives.
British bombers batter Albanian ports
—Durazzo and Valona —and supply
lines ; Greeks report 15 ’planes destroyed
on Koritza aerodrome and marching
troops and supply trains scattered.
Italians claim to have repeatedly bombed
objectives in Crete and Corfu and at
Larissa and Fiorina, and brought down
13 Greek machines. Greeks declare few
casualties, little military damage.
November 15-16: Savage attack by
500 raiders on London. Buildings dam-
aged include seven hospitals, three hotels,
two convents, a block of apartments, a
school and two rest centres.
Raid on Hamburg in retaliation for
Coventry slaughter. Shipyards and
docks, gasworks and other objectives hit.
Berlin admits 223 killed and large num-
ber injured.
Italians report bombing of Greek ob-
jectives and of Crete and Alexandria, and
admit bombing of Bari (Italy) by R.A.F.,
which reports ceaseless harrying of Lib-
yan coast and western Egyptian com-
munications. Italians raid Patras and
other cities on lonian coast, causing many
casualties.
Wholesale raids over Italian points
from Red Sea to Libya. Italians admit
bombing of Solium, Bardia, Derna,
Bomba and Benghazi, with one 'plane
shot down on each side but little dam-
age otherwise. Italians bomb Port
Sudan and claim to have got two Gladia-
tors.
Nov. 16-17: Quiet day over England;
raids concentrated mostly over London
and Home Counties, but extended to
Hebrides by odd machines. Air Ministry
estimate of week’s losses over Britain:
Germans, 68 machines; R.A.F., eight
machines and three pilots.
Further devastating attack on Ham-
burg and on coastal ports in German
hands.
R.A.F. reports having severely dam-
aged Italian motor transport column near
Koritza (Albania), taking large numbers
of troops by surprise. Mutual bombing
on Greek front.
British bombers severely damage the
Addis Ababa-Jibuti railway. Italians
claim bombing of Alexandria and Mersa
Matruh and the railway between.


‘Viyella
FOR SERVICE
STANDARD
HALF
HOSE
m
•:s
SSK
?.V5-
S 3
Viyella Socks are
available in a wide range of
colors, including White, Black,
Khaki and Air Force rto per
Blue, at irO pair
A VERY WELCOME
XMAS GIFT.
Khaki Viyella Army and Air
Force Stockings, regulation
style, length and shade, for
Army and Air Force n//* per
Drill Uniforms, at ..I'D pair
THE FOOT RULE ABOVE IS YOUR GUARANTEE
MEASURE BEFORE AND AFTER WASHING
IF THEY SHRINK WE REPLACE
Win. Hollins & Co. Ltd., Box 3335 PP, G.P.o!,"Sydney!"
Please send me a copy of the VIYELLA SER-
VICE KNITTING BOOK containing approved
designs an<} instructions for knitting Army,
Navy and Air Force garments. I enclose
(in stamps) 6d., plus 2d. postage.
Name
Address
S.B. 20.11.40
If any illustration in "The Bulle-
tin" takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Danger from the North
“8.0.Y.D.”: Raphael Cilento, the
Queensland Director-General of Health,
points out that no great war has ever
ended without a widespread epidemic,
and that we shall have to reckon with the
possibility that the present war will be
followed by a visitation as bad as the
pneumonic influenza of 1918-19.
He was replying to critics of the course
in tropical and preventive medicine at
Queensland University, and severely casti-
gated medical men who opposed the
course at a time when already 90 Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders had been in-
valided home from the Middle East suf-
fering from tropical diseases.
All Queensland north of Rockhampton
lies in the true tropics and the rest of
the State in the sub-tropics. Aeroplane
services have brought us into contact
with parts of Asia where smallpox,
plague and cholera are endemic. The
danger may increase as a result of the
war in China, which is spreading south-
ward. Dr. Cilento rightly asks if any-
body could seriously oppose the teaching
of methods of dealing with these diseases,
and suggests that the opposition comes
from private medical men who fear an
intrusion into a province formerly re-
garded as the “jealous preserve of the
private practitioner.”
Whatever the real reason of the criti-
cism, the country cannot afford to dis-
regard the tenor of Dr. Cilento’s remarks.
His knowledge and experience of the sub-
ject should be sufficient to attract the
attention of Federal authorities to a
matter that is causing much uneasiness
in the lay mind.
“Straiter”: Canberra is hinting that
Leonard Murray, Hubert’s nephew, is to
become Administrator of Papua. The
suspect is 54, has been official secretary
to the Administration since 1916 and is
a member of the Papuan Executive and
Legislative Councils. If he is like his
uncle he’s the man for the job.
* * * *
Queensland Parliament has adjourned
until some time next year. Ordinary
people have to go on working, lucky if
they get a fortnight off annually on full
pay. The same Parliament that passed
a Public Safety Bill, declaring that people
were complacent and not alive to the
terrible danger that confronted them,
calmly gives itself a holiday for several
months. Its last act was to pass the
Second-hand Fruit-cases Bill.
* * * *
Balander : Those mysterious person-
ages commonly referred to as “repre-
sentatives of the industry” had a confer-
ence with Minister for Agriculture Bui-
cock about Brisbane’s milk last week,
whereat it was decided to call together all
sections of the industry and (of course)
“formulate a plan”—“a detailed plan of
stabilisation for submission to the Gov-
ernment.” Also, the Price-fixing Com-
missioner is to be asked for an adjust-
If you WILL stand there like Mussolini instead of ’avin ago at 'em you've 'got to expect that”
ment of prices. This means, of course,
vesting of all control in the Brisbane
Milk Board and very likely an increased
price to consumers. How many of the
latter were “represented” at the confer-
ence isn’t stated, but the Sydney Milk
Board was mentioned as a sort of
example of what could be done. Well,
if Queensland is prepared to foot the
cost of royal commission after royal com-
mission inquiring into its milk and its
Milk Board, it should go right ahead,
but it is hereby warned that the Sydney
affair is a shocking example.
* * * *
“23-4”: Queensland branch of the
A.R.U. wants a zoning system under the
Liquor Act to provide for opening hours
suitable to district conditions. This may
be all right theoretically, but it would
create an interesting situation on zone
borders, where a pub on one side of the
road may close at 6 p.m. while one on
the opposite side may remain open until
10 p.m. The sensible thing, of course, is
for a Commonwealth-wide period for
trading of 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., but then State
Governments can’t be expected to be
sensible.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Passed out suddenly, at 58,
Dr. George R. Woodhead, a leading light
in Maryborough. He got his early train-
ing in London hospitals, and was in the
1914-18 war as a lieut.-surgeon, R.N.;
he was a foundation member of Toe H,
president of Maryborough Rotary and of
the local R.S.L. branch, repatriation
officer and chairman of the local branch
of the B.M-A. Maryborough gave him
a military funeral.
* * * *
111-health has compelled the retire-
ment of Queensland Attorney-General
Johnnie Mullan. Johnnie, a native of
Dublin, became one of Charters Towers’s
two members in the State House in 1908.
Redistribution lost him the seat, but he
went on to the Senate (1913-1917). In
1918 he was M.L.A. for Carpentaria,
which he still represents. A layman, he
will be succeeded by another layman in
John O’Keefe, Queensland-born, who won
the Chillagoe seat after E. G. Theodore
left it to tackle the Federal Herbert seat
—unsuccessfully. O’Keefe, defeated in
1929, was back again, this time for
Cairns, in 1930.
* * * *
“23-4”: Up on the head of the Broad-
water, a dozen miles west of Cardwell
in dense scrub and rain forest, is develop-
ing what promises to be a paying tin-
field. The area is about 2500 ft. above
sea level, and is a bit trying in the wet
season. Francis and Blackman pros-
pected it in 1938, and a year later, with
H. Sinclair, cut a track through six miles
of scrub over the Cardwell Range. It
took them six months. Their alluvial-tin
claim was registered as the General Gort,
and values ranged from 21b. to 251 b. a
yard. A sample parcel assayed 74.77 p.c.
of tin and brought £192 15s. a ton. An-
other party took up Paddy’s Gully and
found rich alluvial assaying 75 p.c. Other
parties are showing interest, but anyone
coming in must pack supplies for six
miles over a 3000 ft. range as there is no
feed for horses. West and north of the
two claims is about 250 square miles of
country, pretty wild, but promising well
for tin and other minerals.
* * * *
“Kilop”: Exit John McKerihan, a
Mackay “Daily Mercury” staff man for
20 years. He went to the “Mercury” from
the “Argus” at Warwick, having gradu-
ated from N.S.W. country papers. Mc-
Kerihan saw a lot of Mackay’s later
growth, and died believing the place had
a great future. He left nine children —a
rare achievement for a pressman.
* * * *
“T.R.W.”: Premier Forgan Smith was
presented by his party with a handsome
reading chair when Parliament rose last
week, the wish being expressed that he
would spend many happy hours in it with
pleasant books. Fortunately the givers
had the nous to add “during the coming
recess,” otherwise there might have been
repercussions.
* * * *
“Lid”: Whenever Premier Mair is pray-
ing for rain in N.S.W., Premier Forgan
Smith is protesting against the floods
with which J. Pluvius deluges Banana-
land. Last week, while Sydney Water
Board and others were ready to sell their
souls for a few drops, a real buster struck
Brisbane. A 59-m.p.h. wind and an inch
and a half of rain swept the city, flood-
ing basements, damaging goods and even
holding up traffic for a while. On the
day before, at Pine Creek (N.T.), where
the Chinese miners of 50 years ago turned
the ground into a warren, another fierce
bit of weather wiped out a church and
ripped the roofs off courthouse and town
hall.
* * * *
“Norther”: There are mulga wires
floating round that may cause another
rush to the old Palmer field, C. E. Barnes
being charged with having come across
good free gold on the Louisa lease. Many
parties have looked over the Louisa since
the old days, but very little underground
development was done until Barnes came
in. He dewatered the ground and put
in a lot of repairs to the workings, then
went in for systematised prospecting,
striking a reef which some people —
they may be optimists —say will go an
ounce to the ton. A new crusher is to
be put in, and Barnes, encouraged, has
secured a lease over the near-by Ida
property.


QUICK FACTS
ABOUT
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
TO PAY by cheque saves time and
expense. It also avoids risk of loss
of money which you may otherwise
keep in your home or carry about
with you. Moreover, paying by
cheque stamps you as being “busi-
nesslike” in the conduct of your
affairs.
It is easy to open an account. Ask
at any branch of this Bank.
About 90% of Australian business
transactions are settled by cheque.
OF NEW
EUR AM* A N K
fvNI
H WAIES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners :i
t R. McKERIHAN (PRESIDENT)
H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS
Wei \ Jt If" vp?Ufi [oJbte, vpnJ" <JuW«xB^
ctowt** YoJasj ■ «
CjlfietteJ'
‘T3ETTER to be safe than sorry, especially
when the safest gift is such a noble gift . . .
Three hundred and sixty-five perfect shaves next
year or as many more as his chin demands !
What better than a Gillette could any woman
offer her best-beloved ? And he’ll be bound to
think of the giver every morning, in gratitude
for this certainty of a swift, efficient shave.
No. 47 Set. Comprising the new
Gillette one-piece razor (Popular
Model) —no loose parts,
no separate pieces to
assemble and three
Blue Gillette Blades in
highly polished nickel-
plated case with
specially embossed lid.
Price .... 12/6
M Other Gillette Sets
from 2/6 to 45/-.
m
%- :
sdf
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
A MIXED GRILL
One of Frank Anstey’s most typical
actions was given no notice in the
obituaries. During the 1914-18 war he an-
nounced his intention of going to England
to inquire for himself into the war cir-
cumstances before giving his whole sup-
port to the war effort. Gladly a Govern-
ment-franked trip was offered him.
Anstey refused it, nor would an ordinary
paid passage do him. He worked his
passage; and over the other side very
little was seen of him in official quarters.
He was mixing with the men and women
who had to do the fighting and working,
and did some working among them, too.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Norfolk Island has put up
a fine performance in raising war funds.
One person in every eight of all ages is
a member of the Red Cross, which has
raised more than £1 per adult in a com-
munity whose means are the most modest
—as well as sending away hundreds of
garments and 76 cases of oranges for
A.I.F. use. Charles Rosenthal’s wife is
the president, and the committee is
studded with names familiar to every
Bounty historian, including a Christian.
* * * *
A compact British mechanised expedi-
tion rolling up the sprawling German
Army is visualised as the last stage of the
war by the New York “Herald-Tribune.”
With Mr. Roy Howard cheering it on
from the rear, one may presume.
* ¥ * *
“D.G.”: “Insatiable Italy drawn
by the odor of corruption and calamity,
always ready to attack anybody from the
rear and make off with a bit of
plunder....” That sounds like some-
thing hot from the contemporary press.
But it isn’t. It is Bismarck’s reference to
Adolf’s ally.
* * * *
Adelaide has lost its unofficial anti-
quarian and historian, A. T. Saunders, at
86. Saunders boasted of having gone
through and annotated every newspaper
file for the State’s first 70 years, but
also, strange to say, of never indexing
his notebooks, a prodigious memory
doing the rest. He went to no end of
trouble to dig up the facts about Bully
Hayes, for whom he had an utter loath-
ing, and among those who accepted
his researches gratefully was Joseph Con-
rad. Long ago he made periodical trips
to Perth to see how the “Sunday Times”
was getting on. H. L. Conran, of the
London Stock Exchange, was then the
“S.T.’s” financial backer, and Saunders
looked after his Australian interests —by
no means confined to the Sunday sheet.
* * * *
“K.N.”: Novelist Rebecca West has
become guardian to a 19-year-old
girl, Primrose Melvill. The appoint-
ment is made in the will of Prim-
rose’s mother, Mrs. Ruby Nadi.
This links Rebecca in a curious
way with Australia. Mrs. Nadi’s first
husband was George Nesbitt Armstrong,
Melba’s son. A very pretty girl, she
married him at 18, came to Australia
with him and his mother and returned
to England with the pair. The marriage
was dissolved, and the lady married a
Mr. Melvill. That marriage, too, was
dissolved. Ruby’s third venture was
an Italian, Aldo Nadi. It is her
daughter by her second marriage to
whom Miss West will be guardian. Miss
West, in private life Mrs. Cicely Fair-
field Andrews, told an Australian friend
recently that she met Mrs. Nadi in
1923 and regarded the guardianship as
a great honor. She said that “Mrs.
Nadi was rarely in England and travelled
a good deal in Europe. She once
even lived on a South Sea island. She
died shortly after doing a typical
act of kindness, leaving her sick bed to
help someone who had appealed to her.”
* * * *
Mosley, the Fascist, has brought suc-
cessful libel actions against the “Daily
Mirror” and the “Sunday Pictorial,”
which alleged that he was having a high
old time in Brixton Gaol, and drinking
wine, red and white, by the gallon.
Mosley declared in court that he had
received no special privileges, and had
taken nothing alcoholic since he was in-
terned on May 23 —one report made it
“or at any other time.” Australia is not
interested in this imitation Blackshirt, but
the credibility of a paper like the “Daily
Mirror” —source of supply for no small
amount of the foreign stuff served up in
cable columns —is of some concern to it.
If the “Daily Mirror” couldn’t get its
facts right in such an ordinary matter as
the behavior or treatment of a notoriety
in a London prison, how much faith can
be placed in its sensational accounts of
the foreign scene?
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
Splinters from the barrage:
I. :
You praised in glowing terms a race of fighting men
Whose deeds made impotent the poet’s eager pen ;
And in these days we also shame to laugh or sneer
At “Blimey,” “Ee by Goom,” “What! What!” or
manner queer.
J. :
The Lion's Cubs now spurred to actions
Will help to down the demon factions.
N.S.:
Thins we accused the Lord of Hell:
“You have a slave who serves you well,
Gorging with blood on land and seas,
Vying with Hell in atrocities,
A soul so black, he is a blot
Smelling of death, a creeping rot!”
L.S.: “Highway Robbery” merits the
strictest censure... .N.G.8.: Yes, we know all
about the squatter’s daughter... .M.D.: “Poor
Eve” is stranded for want of her fare home....
8.G.C.: You can say less in 8000 words than any
politician we’ve ever heard... .L.G.H.: At least
you’re the first we’ve struck to give “that in-
destructible bond between editor and contribu-
tor” as one of the main reasons why we should
accept your yarn... .M.G.C.: Where did you
hear an abo. say “Massah’s down by dem
trees, sah”? H.T.P.: We’re deluged with
enthusiastic essays on Australian beaches every
summer F.8.R.: It might find a home if you
don’t call the girl Aggie J.8.C.: That hoary
old-timer heads the list of most probable rejec-
tions... .8.H.R.: After reading “the outline of a
story which I can send you either in MSS. or
illustrated strip form,” we regretfully decline the
offer... .G.N.F.: No, brother, we’re not angry,
just sorry for you... .D.8.W.: “A humorous
article proving what would happen if an irre-
sistible force met an immovable object” met
an immovable object... .C.V.F.: “Having
studied most carefully the type of story you
publish I now send you this.” Why?....
H.F.N.: The idea is not new, but if you cut
the yarn by about one-third you might place it.
B.G.S.: Not bad for a youngster; let’s
hear from him in a few years’ time... .S.C.C.:
“True romances” always bore us... .C.D.R.:
It isn’t funny N.J.L.: That same old pros-
pector has been flogging that same old pad for
the last 30 years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.V.: Faint signs of a humorous line, but
you’ve been careless... .F.L.M.: Jest adorned
calendars in the days when beer was 3d.
a pint... .M.8.A.: Can’t see any wild merri-
ment in a washerwoman hanging clothes out
while what faintly resembles a dog chews an
“intimate” garment... .T.C.: The tramcar re-
sembles an unglazed cathedral window....
F.E.8.: Draw men, not stiff-jointed robots....
D. 8.: But why should the three-foot-thick
soldier wearing a cardboard hat turned up on
the wrong side make such a pointless remark
to the horrible-looking officer wearing last-war’s
Sam Browne and a pair of windmills attached
to his boots? J.L.T.: If the navvy in the
bar crowned four barmen it would still leave
us unmoved... .A.C.8.: Gone to its long and
—we hope—last re5t....W.E.8.: Market for
jokes about seasick passengers and fat pork
on a string is flatter than shares in a pram
factory.


PAINFUL CORNS.
i\ o matter how many, or how b,ig, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. : ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletii
readers.
.. The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
BuLLETm 6 to °hand. the inSide back COVer ° f laSt
T? avo ' d confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
be , f* 8 p*- selection and rejection is reserved,
wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Dental mechanic, exp., refs., wants perma-
nent position in Brisbane. —8730.
To buy Frank Anstey’s Red Europe and
Money Power. —8758.
To buy issues of “Model Engineer” (London)
containing plans for Admiralty rescue-type
tug 1914-18 (Saint class) and the tug Perse-
verance.—8767.
To exchange Grove’s “Melody of Hope
Reverie” for “Grandest Fleet Waltz” or “Silent
Watch Mazurka,” all out of print.—8716.
Authentic stories of John Forrest of Bunbury,
for use in biography.—8741.
Information Sought.
Exactly what do Near East, Middle East and
Far East signify with re,sped to Australia, and
what do these terms signify with respect to Eng-
land 3—8570.
The terms Near East and Middle East are
now being used very loosely and interchange-
ably. - Early this year Lord Ruthven, criticising
Mr. Eden for using “Middle East” in reference
to the present A.I.F. and N.Z. forces, pointed
out that Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Turkey are
properly the Near East; India, Iraq and pos-
sibly Malaya, the Middle East. Eastern Asia
is the Far East. In general usage the terms
signify the same in Australia as in England.
* * * *
(1) Is power alcohol sold in Sydney; if so,
where ? (2) Are there any restrictions against
its use in Australia? (3) In what proportions
is it mixed with petrol? (4) Price? —8393.
(1) Yes, by J. L. Lennard, Reiby-lane, and
as an admixture with petrol principally by
Dunlop, Ltd., 665 Gcorge-street, and Indepen-
dent Oil Industries, Ltd., Glebe. ( 2) Yes. It
is classified as motor-spirit under the National
Security (Liquid Fuel) Regulations, comes under
the rationing scheme and can, therefore, be sold
only on the surrender of ration tickets. (3)
Power alcohol when blended with a standard
grade petrol in the proportion of 15 parts of
alcohol to 85 parts of petrol produces a super-
grade motor spirit. Even up to 20 p.c. power
alcohol in the blend may be used without
adjustment being necessary to the petrol engine.
(4) Small quantities in customers’ containers
may be purchased from J. L. Lennard at 2s. 3d.
per gallon. A four-gallon tin costs 10s. 6d
* * * *
(1) What is the definition of the term “terri-
torial waters of Australia” in particular as it
applies to Tasmania? (2) Would a person
travelling by water from Launceston to Mel-
bourne or from Hobart to Sydney by the
shortest practical route proceed outside Australia
in the course of the journey? (3) What are the
authorities for the opinions expressed in answer
to (1) and (2)3—8372.
(1) There is no statutory clefinition of the
term “territorial waters of Australia.” The
authority of a State extends to those waters
surrounding its shores which are known as
territorial waters. These consist of waters in
the maritime belt the breadth of which has,
since the end of the eighteenth century, been
generally recognised as three miles, or one mari-
time league, i.e., the effective range of shore
guns. Some countries, however, claim a breadth
of four miles and even six miles. All straits
not more than six miles wide would be con-
sidered territorial. It is, however, controversial
whether a strait more than six miles wide
can be territorial. Oppenheim ( International
Law ) states that the majority of writers, in-
cluding Hall and Hershay, assert that it can,
but a minority, including Westlake and Taylor,
maintain that it cannot. He expresses the
opinion that claims of States over wider straits
than those which can be commanded by shore
batteries can no longer be upheld. (2) If the
latter view is correct, it would seem that a
person travelling by sea front Launceston to
Melbourne or from Hobart to Sydney would, at
some stage of the voyage, pass outside the
territorial waters of the Commonwealth. (3)
Oppenheim’s International Law (fifth edition),'
Vol. I, and Wheaton’s International Law
(sixth edition), Vol. I.
* * * *
(1) Have diamonds been mined in Australia?
(2) If so, where were they discovered ? (3)
What is their appearance when in the rough ?
(4) Are they water-worn alluvial stones or mine
stones? (5) Do they have a grain or seam
running through them ? (6) Some are used in
industry for cutting operations. What is the
difference between these and other kinds ? —
8572.
(1) Diamonds have been mined for many
years in the Inverell district, N. S. Wales. Total
value of output to 1938 is £147,949; value
won in 1938, £300. (2) Diamonds were first
recorded in Australia from Guyong in 1851.
Since then they have been discovered at Cudge-
wong, Barraba, and Inverell in N. S. Wales,
and at Nullagine in W.A. (3) The appearance
of diamonds in the rough varies consider-
ably. Sometimes they are definitely crystals
with bright faces. More often they look like
beads of glass that have been painted with a
coat of thin glue. (4) In Australia they have
only been found alluvial. (5) Not as a rule. (6)
The Australian diamonds, being harder than
foreign stones, are most suitable for the cutting
of diamonds and other gemstones. The two
varieties of diamond usually used in rock drills,
etc., are bort and carbonado. The former is
imperfectly crystallised and varies from greyish
to almost black. The latter is black and
opaque and is the hardest variety of diamond.
* * * *
Particulars of facilities for the bulk handling
of wheat in N. S. Wales? —8769.
At June 30, 1939, there were in N. S. Wales
a concrete and steel shipping elevator at Sydney
with a storage capacity of 7,500,000 bushels at
one filling, a terminal elevator at Newcastle
with a capacity of 800,000 bushels, and 175
elevators distributed among the more important
wheat-receiving stations throughout the State.
The country elevators, which have direct access
to lyil, have a storage capacity of 23,523,000
bushels in the aggregate. The elevators at Syd-
ney and Newcastle are run by electricity, and
have been built and equipped for receiving,
handling and shipping classified wheats; facilities
for cleaning and conditioning are provided.
The terminal elevator at Sydney is connected
with the State railway system by four lines,
and has a receiving capacity of approximately
224,000 bushels a day and a shipping capa-
city of approximately 448,000 bushels a
day. The rates at Newcastle are 2000
tons and 8000 tons respectively. The
country plants, with few exceptions, are
equipped for receiving wheat in bulk from
farmers’ wagons and loading into bulk trucks.
They are built of reinforced concrete and steel
with corrugated galvanised-iron coverings, and
practically all of them are capable of receiv-
ing classified or graded wheat in bulk.
* * * *
Any statistics regarding poultry-farming in
N. S. Wales ? —8771.
Poultry-farming was originally run in con-
junction with dairying, but as it achieved some
importance commercially it developed into a
distinct industry. At March, 1939, there were
in N. S. Wales 2853 holdings carrying poultry
for commercial purposes to the extent of 150
head or more. As far as can be estimated,
farm value of production for 1938-39 was about
£3,853,000. In 1939 poultry in N. S. Wales
included 5,066,000 fowls, chickens, etc, 180,000
ducks, 25,000 geese, 209,000 turkeys and 10,000
guinea fowl and other birds.
* * * *
Particulars of the Act of Union uniting
England and Scotland? —8581.
Although joined by one crown by the acces-
sion of James VI of Scotland to the English
throne in 1603, England and Scotland retained
separate Governments, and in the later years of
William 111 and the early part of Anne’s reign
there was a great deal of friction. In 1698 a
Scottish attempt to found a colony on the
Isthmus of Darien was a disastrous failure,
this being ascribed to lack of English sympathy.
Under the English Navigation Acts the Scots
were regarded as belonging to a foreign country,
and their trade consequently, suffered. In 1703
the Scottish Parliament passed an Act of
Security authorising the Parliament, upon the
death of Anne, to choose a successor other than
the one chosen in England. This brought
matters to a head, necessitating either union or
complete separation. The English Government
faced the situation and proposed a union
between the two countries. Commissioners
from England and Scotland convened in
London, and a treaty was drawn up and
adopted. This Act of Union agreed that the
Scottish Council and Parliament should cease
to exist and that there should be one Govern-
ment for the two countries. The Scots were
to'retain their own established church and their
own legal system, with its College of Justice
in Edinburgh. Trade between the two countries
was to be free, and no legal difference was to
be recognised between English and Scots
throughout the British Empire. The United
Kingdom was henceforth to be known as Great
Britain.
* * * *
(1) What are rayon and cellophane made of?
(2) Chief producing countries? —8558.
(1) Wood pulp serves as the raw material
for both rayon and cellophane, although other
materials, such as cotton-linters, are used to
some extent for rayon manufacture. The pro-
cess of manufacture consists broadly in con-
verting the cellulose of the wood-pulp to a
soluble condition and then regenerating it in
the desired form by squirting the solution into
a regenerating bath. The principal difference
between rayon and cellophane is that the cellu-
lose solution in the former case is squirted
through nozzles so as to form threads, whereas
for cellophane it is extruded through a fine
slit to produce the familiar thin sheets. (2)
The chief producing country for 1938 was
Japan (550 million pounds of rayon out of
a world total of 1900 million pounds), followed
in order by Germany, U.S.A., Italy, Great
Britain and France.
* * ❖ Jfc
Is it correct that all children born in Aus-
tralia, whether, or . not their parents were
naturalised, are British subjects, and that those
not born in Australia are regarded as aliens
unless their names were, attached to their
parents’ naturalisation papers? —Bslo.
Yes. Children born in Australia are British
subjects by birth whether or not their fathers
are British subjects. In some cases a child
may also acquire at birth the foreign nation-
ality of its father and, therefore, would possess
two nationaliities.
I am 23 years of age with no previous ex-
perience in engineering. Would 1 be able to
get engineering training through any course at
a Sydney technical college? —8700.
It is difficult for a young man of 23 years
without previous experience to enter engineer-
ing. The Sydney Technical College provides
diploma courses and trade courses, such as
fitting and machining, but these are open only
to persons engaged in engineering. There are
special courses, such as engine- (including
Diesel-) driving courses. Interview the voca-
tional guidance and welfare officer at the col-
lege, Harris-street, Ultimo.
* * * *
What became of General Sir William Gatacre
on his return to England after the Stormberg
disaster during the early part of the Boer War?
When did he die?- —8356.
He was afterwards in command of the 10th
Division, British Army. Died March 4, 1906.
* * * *
Who constructed the first railway from Syd-
ney to Parramatta? Was it Joseph and William
Wright? Or did they have any part in its
construction; if so, what part? —8615.
The first contract for portion of the Sydney-
Parramatta line was let to Mr. Wallis on
March 4, 1851. Mr. Wallis later relinquished
his contract, which was taken over by Mr.
Randle, who completed the line. As far as can
be ascertained, Joseph and William Wright
did not take any part in the construction of
the line. Between 1854 and 1858 a William
Wright received contracts for various works in
connection with the construction of the Hunter
River line.
* * * *
(1) / believe that in South Africa there is
some legal protection for old buildings of his-
torical interest. Particulars? (2) Under this
protection I believe that several objects were
proclaimed as monuments about two years ago
in the Cape of Good Hope. What were they ?
—8753.
(1) You probably refer to the Natural and
Historical Monuments, Relics and Antiques
Act, No. 4, of 1934, which embodies the pro-
visions of earlier and somewhat similar Acts
and further extends the scope of a permanent
commission empowered to proclaim a wide
range of objects as monuments which, then,
may not be removed or alienated without the
concurrence of the commission. (2) In 1938
the following objects were proclaimed as monu-
ments: Blockhouse, Tulbagh-road; powder
magazine, Fort Glamorgan, East London;
King’s blockhouse, Devil’s Peak, Capetown;
Signal Tower Reserve, district Albany; Rhodes’s
cottage, Muizenberg; martello tower, Fort
Beaufort; old drostdy, Swellendam; tower
and adjacent walls of Fort Brown, Grahams-
town; Donkin Reserve, Port Elizabeth; old
drostdy, Grahamstown; Cango Caves, Oudt-
shoorn; blockhouse, Aliwal North; old bridge
over Lourens River, Somerset West; old post
office tree, Mossel Bay; Fort Armstrong, dis-
trict Stockenstrom; Fort Murray, district King
William’s Town.
* * * *
(1) From whom did the Red Cross purchase
the Woolcott-Forbes home at Gordon? (2)
How many patients could be accommodated
there without additions to the building? —B4l4.
(1) From mortgagor exercising power of sale.
(2) 120.
* * * *
What method of waterproofing tarpaulins is
used by the N. S. Wales Government railways?
—B6IB.
The canvas is made waterproof by immersion
in a mixture of wax, petroleum jelly and a
superior kerosene. Any excess of the water-
proofing mixture is extracted by steam-heated
rollers from the canvas, which is then passed
through a drying chamber where the heated
wax used in the mixture is cooled.
* * * *
I am a Frenchman, born in New Caledonia,
and at present employed in New Guinea. I
have not been naturalised. Does this bar me
from buying land in Australia and holding it
in my own name? —B647.
The National Security (Land Transfer) Regu-
lations provide that a person shall not enter
into a contract or agreement for the sale of
land to a subject of a country in enemy occupa-
tion unless the consent, in writing, of the
Attorney-General has first been obtained.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by Section
241 of the Crown Lands Consolidation Act,
1913, on the acquisition of Crown lands in
N. S. Wales by aliens, and possibly there are
similar restrictions in force in other States.
Communicate with the Commonwealth Attorney-
General’s Department as regards the Common-
wealth restrictions and, if you are interested in
a Crown land holding, with the Lands Depart-
ment of the State where the land is situated.
* * * *
(1) Where is woolclassing taught in Mel-
bourne ? (2) Length of training period ? (3)
Prospects of work and usual salary for trained
men ? (4) Agricultural colleges available in
Vic. ? —8768.
(1) Only at Melbourne Technical College,
Latrobe-street. (2) Two years for full-day
classes; four years for two half-days a week
or night class. There is a Wednesday and
Saturday afternoon class for workers. Fee for
two-year course, £8 a term. (3) Very good at
present, but difficult at ordinary times. Salary
for ordinary sorter is £5 2s. per week in city.
At country sheds depends. on qualifications,
and may run up to £l4 or £lB a week, but
average is £7 155., plus keep and all expenses.
(4) Dookie, near Shepparton, and Longerenong,
near Horsham.
* * * *
(1) In order to practise as a masseur in
N. S. Wales is it necessary to be registered?
(2) Particulars of study and examination? (3)
Names of any helpful textbooks? —8614.
(1) No. (2) and (3) Communicate with the
Australasian Massage Association, 185 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the Queensland
Governor after' whom the town of Cairns was
named? —8342.
Sir William Wellington Cairns was the
son of William Cairns, of Cultra, in County
Down, Ireland, and half-brother of Disraeli’s
Lord Chancellor, Earl Cairns. W. W. Cairns
was born in 1828 and trained for the civil
service. After some Eastern travel he entered
the Ceylon civil service in 1852, becoming
Postmaster-General to the colony in 1864. Re-
turned to England in 1866 to begin a round of
colonial Governorships—Lieutenant-Governor of
Malacca in 1867, of St. Kitts in 1868, of Hon-
duras in 1870, and Governor of Trinidad in
1874 and of Q’land in 1875. In 1877 he was
transferred to South Australia, but his com-
mission as Governor did not reach the colony
until after he had left it, so he ranks officially
as Administrator. His transference to Australia
had been necessitated by ill-health due to
the West-Indian climate, but Q'land did not
cure him, and his tenure of the South Aus-
tralian post lasted less than two months. He
then retired from the colonial service and died
in England on July 7, 1888.
* * * *
What is the correct season to move a small
shrub (Tasmanian prostanthera, known as the
northern Tas. lilac ) which produces its blossoms
on new wood in late spring? —8558.
Late autumn.
Brief Answers.
D.N.: Taylors, 170 Wickham-street, Valley,
Brisbane... .J.E.S.: Rather a wide subject.
Suggest you get hold of the following papers
prepared for the British Commonwealth Re-
lations Conference held at Lapstone (N.S.W.)
in 1938: “The Population-carrying Capacity of
Australia,” by J. Andrews (Australian Supple-
mentary Papers, Series A, No. 1); “The Future
of the Australian Population,” by A. Smithies;
“Migration,” by R. B. Madgwick; “Tropical
Settlement in Australia,” by J. B. Brigden and
W. Wynne Williams. Copies of these may be
obtainable from the secretary, Australian In-
stitute of International Affairs, 53 Martin-place,
Sydney G.A.: Have forwarded booklet
giving instructions. If unsuitable, try the Mel-
bourne Public Library.... KB.: Craft of
bricklaying cannot be briefly described.
There probably are books on the sub-
ject in the Brisbane Public Library
J.K.F.: Kurt Offenburg is still in the
employ of the A.B.C. He has not been
used as a commentator as he is now engaged
on work of greater importance... .C.P.: Can’t
trace a recipe for lime putty. Wesco Patching
Plaster may be suitable for your purpose....
L. Unable to trace Lawson's movements of
40 years ago so precisely... .P.J.0.: Apply to
Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff, Sydney, which
will supply all information required... .W.S.:
Call at the Hospital Admission Depot, 93
Macquarie-street, Sydney, at 10 a.m. on any
morning excepting a Saturday or Sunday, when
arrangements for admission would be made. If
unable to attend the depot, apply at the local
police station or request the medical prac-
titioner attending you to make necessary
arrangements through the Hospital Admission
Depot M.C.L.C.: Not received here. ...
X. : John Warren, who is an Australian,
has joined the A.I.F. He severed his connec-
tion with the A.B.C. Dance Band about a
year ago... .J.D.W.: Write to the electoral
office in each State and to Canberra.. . .J.S.L.:
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that a pensioner’s income, including pen-
sion, must not exceed the sum of £B4 10s.
a year. Board and lodging provided a pen-
sioner is regarded as income within the mean-
ing of the Act and is assessed at the rate of
£32 10s. a year. A pension at the rate of
£39 a year is correct H.E.: Edmund James
Banfield was born in 1852 and died 1923.
Publications include My Tropic Isle, The Con-
fessions of a Beachcomber, Tropic Days, Last
Leaves from Dunk Island and Within the
Barrier, a Guide to North Queensland....
J. 1.8.: Information in connection with entrance
to the Commonwealth Police Force may be
obtained from the Chief Officer of Police, Can-
berra... .G.C.: See the Penguin Political Dic-
tionary ... .L.J.F.: Impossible to publish de-
tailed swimming instruction. Get in touch with
an instructor or coach... .C.S.E.: It was not
published in The Bulletin M.H.: Your
papers in connection with application for
assistance from the Commonwealth Literary
Fund were received too late for consideration
at the meeting of the Advisory Board. The
next meeting will be held early in January,
when your application will be considered....
E.8.C.: The lines you quote are the entire
poem. Written by W. N. Ewer.. . .E.J.F.: No
courses in chiropody are conducted in Sydney.
... .L.C.G.: Prior Memorial Prize awards for
1940 went to Eve Langley, Kylie Tennant and
Malcolm Henry Ellis, who each received £IOO
from the accumulated £300... .H.R.C.: (1)
The punter would have £3 13s. 4d. on Bell
Bassie. (2) He’d have £1 on Miss Armidale.
. ...M.V.: The vessel Duke of Sutherland
arrived at Sydney on February 12, 1884....
M. : The Director of the Red Cross Sewing
Depot, Sydney, advises that it is not intended
to employ any paid staff... .J.F.S.: Owner
of third can only protest against the second
and gain second place. To work that swindle
you suggest, the two owners A and B would
need to know beforehand exactly how the
race was going to be run, and it would be so
obvious if they did try it that the stewards
couldn’t miss it M.D.: Have forwarded lists
of books on engineering... .C.M.: In the
absence of the reference to title or other parti-
culars sufficient to enable identification of the
land in question, no information can be sup-
plied E.J.R.: Leaflet on sunflower culture
posted. Before attempting to produce sun-
flowers on a large scale, make inquiries from
merchants such as A. J. Hatchman, 171 Sussex-
street, Sydney, and oil mills such as Tung Oil
Mills, Ltd., Gardeners-road, Mascot, and Mar-
rickville Margarine, Ltd., Edinburgh-road,
Marrickville, regarding the prices offered for
this seed.


PREVENT BONE-CHEWING—FEED
Q/ Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Do not wait for evidence of bone-chewing and then seek a remedy. Feed
ln-cal-os Bone Flour to prevent it and other bone troubles, for much of
Pasture lacks those essential minerals, which the stock must have and
which they seek when they chew bones. Tri-cal-os is the best and most
reliable source of these minerals —calcium and phosphorus—for all livestock
reeding. Iri-cal-os contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. All stock take to it readily.
P art i cular s from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
o.FO. Box 4058. Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide, G.P.O. Box 758 K,
Brisbane, G.P.O. Box 588, Perth
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
Bl
U
O
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Stock and Minerals.
“D.J.”: Phosphorus and lime, usually
in combination, are essential-for the cor-
rect functioning of nearly every part of
the body—bone, blood, nerve and
muscies.
An ever-increasing area in Australia
tends towards phosphorus deficiency.
The phosphorus available for plant food
is usually located in the top inch or so
of soil—lime is distributed through the
lower layers—and even slight erosion will
exercise a very marked influence on the
phosphorus content. The season also
will affect the amount of phosphorus
available to stock, as the young, tender
shoots of almost all plants are compara-
tively rich in this element. As the plant
becomes taller, coarser and drier the phos-
phorus content becomes proportionately
lower, till, in extremes, the plant is almost
all fibre and the phosphorus is almost all
concentrated in the seed or reproductive
cells.
Lack of phosphorus will lead to trouble
with all classes of stock.
In the case of a breeding ewe during
the latter stages of pregnancy, the rapid
growth of the young skeleton calls for
an extra supply of calcium and phos-
phorus. During the last few days, when
the milk is beginning to form, still further
demands are made for those minerals,
which constitute such a vital part of miik.
The ewe will endeavor to increase her
intake of them if available, either by eat-
ing more food or taking lick. The bulk of
the food will |imit its consumption, and,
failing a suitable lick, the reserve supplies
stored in her own bones are released to
meet the demand. If there is enough
mineral available all is well, but if not
the ewe will fall away rapidly in condi-
tion, spongy bone probably developing.
The lamb will be undeveloped.
In extreme cases comes the complete
collapse of the mother’s system known as
"twin-lamb sickness.” It is by no means
confined to those ewes bearing twins but
is more likely to appear with twins than
otherwise.
If promptly given, an injection into
the bloodstream of a solution carrying
calcium gluconate will usually effect a
rapid recovery.
Somewhat similar troubles are occa-
sionally apparently due to protein short-
age ; but it is safe to say that, unusual
local conditions excepted, if the mineral
deficiency be remedied, the protein short-
age, should it exist, will seldom be fatal.
For prevention and general well-being
iopdress. But if this is not economic
then conserve the phosphorus in the soil,
guard against erosion and provide licks.
Sheep-rugging.
"Ghanam”: N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment has decided, after trials at
Trangie, that sheep-rugging in central
western N.S.W. does not pay.
The experiment began in an extra-dry
season with 100 sheep lots. Rugging cost
—allowing for a three-year rug life—was
put down at £3 3s. 10d., plus £2 17s. sd.
p.a. for repairs. Labor was reckoned at
£3 10s. 10d.—total £9 12s. Id. The in-
creased return from wool fell Bs. 9d.
below this figure. Sheep were fed for the
last four months of the year.
A second experiment with two lots of
60 sheep, run in the same paddock, gave
a rugging cost of £4 os. 3d. and a greater
wool return from the rugged sheep of
£1 16s. lid.
Other trials are quoted by the depart-
ment as evidence that rugging shows no
profit, but there is little doubt that it has
a good effect in some climates on the
health of the animals and on the clean
cost of the wool from which it keeps out
the dust.
Has any M.O.L. reader any experience
to offer?
Bacon for Britain.
"Mullengah”: Australia is not the only
country which is increasing production of
pig meats to meet Britain’s requirements.
Canada and the Argentine are taking
steps to increase their output on a large
scale, and in S. American countries
“Foiler Dais and find where she's hidden the noo calf —but DON'T let 'er see yer!"
generally farmers are being urged to go
after the British market.
That market is likely to be lucrative
for several years, as it will take a long
time for pig-raising in Denmark and
other European countries to get back to
normal when the war ends. Australia
could have at least 10 years of an un-
interrupted market, and that period might
be extended indefinitely if pig-raisers in
this country produce the correct type of
pig to meet British requirements.
On breeding the correct types, Charles
McCann, the S. Australian Agent-
General and Trade Commissioner, says —
as the M.O.L. page has insisted for
years—that the simplest way to estab-
lish uniformity is to do as Denmark did
—standardise one breed.
Much could be achieved if pig-raisers
culled for type, irrespective of breed,
where straight-bred pigs are reared.
McCann’s advice is to aim for the type
which London butchers require. The
achievement of type could be simplified
by crossing and preferably not breeding
beyond the first cross. Work on those
lines is done extensively in S. America,
where the Poland China and Tamworth
are both used on Berkshire sows to re-
duce the thickness of neck and excess
of jowl. Another cross praised by
Charles McCann is the Tamworth on
Large White, which produces a lengthy
carcass with much to commend it after
slaughter.
Why Burn Stubble?
“Nabby”: It might be a good plan not
to burn wheat stubble this season, seeing
that the country has been almost wrung
dry by the drought.
Usually, summer rains bring along a
bit of green growth in the stubble before
burning, and though the burn settles the
growth it leaves root matter behind. This
season the ground is so dry that plenty
of rain will be needed even to put it in
good order for the fallowing, and a burn
will leave the surface exposed to wind.
There has already been a goodish bit of
blowing in districts where crops hayed off,
died right out or were eaten out, and to
burn away the top cover of straw, thin as
it may be, looks like asking for trouble.
Left standing until the paddock is to be
ploughed, or even if it is to be left out,
the stubble not only will help to hold the
surface together until rain comes, but
will also provide much-needed humus, of
which there is always a shortage in dry
years.
It’s a Hardy Plant.
“8.C.”: Ford and Bencubbin held out
well against bad conditions in n.-w.
N.S.W. this season, and the new Eureka
made a name for itself out in the Palla-
mallawa country and at Gunnedah, where
it came through in better condition than
others. An early mid-season variety,
Eureka was bred at Glen Innes experi-
ment farm, is believed to be immune to
stem rust and, by this season’s experience,
yields better than it looks, an 18in.-high
crop running eight bags to the acre.
The grain was a nice sample and, being
in a medium-strong flour class, may raise
a small premium. Eureka is from a
Kenya-Florence-Dundee foundation, and
is still to be more generally tried before
the seed will receive official sanction.
Out from Inverell, the Wardell Bros,
are still putting their faith in Ford, and
their best paddock was yielding about 11
bags an acre a week ago. It has been the
driest growing season since 1920, with
only about an inch throughout the grow-
ing period. The seed-bed was moist, and
it is good holding country, which pulled
the crop through, a fact that should be
remembered in favor of early sowing. It
went in in mid-April. The brothers grow
nothing else but Ford, in a wheat-grazing-
oats rotation that has cleared their pad-
docks of footrot and black oats.
Ford again stood out around Narrabri,
being placed first in a local show com-
petition, and the paddock should go 10
bags. It got no more than 2in. of rain
from seed to ripening, but was sown early
and even gave the sheep a quick pick in
July.
Eight to nine bags an acre are expected
from the best Bencubbin crops around
Wee Waa and Bingara, where the wheat
got a pretty severe drubbing. Ford did
well in those districts on a low rainfall,
and a Nabawa crop of nearly nine bags
is reported from Treloar Springs. Few
late-sown crops got through, some hav-
ing been held up by grasshopper fears.
Home-grown Tea.
“Gryllus”: Australia consumes a little
over half a pound of coffee per head
annually—3,B34,ooolb., of which New
Guinea grows 240,0001 b. and Queensland
70001 b. Average annual consumption
of tea per head is 6.831 b., nearly
45,500,0001 b. in all, and none of it home
grown.
As with coffee, picking is the snag in
commercial production, but there is no
reason why thousands of Australian
farmers and fruitgrowers should not grow
their own tea-supply on the place. A
lot of Asiatic farmers do.
Camellia thea is an ornamental ever-
green shrub, hardy, free from disease, and
easy to cultivate. Its normal climatic
range corresponds with all of coastal Aus-
tralia south of Townsville, and it has
grown well on the Atherton Tableland in
N.Q. The Assam variety (Indian tea)
does not stand frosts, but the China is


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
■
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
Vf
-EE
'NS
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
WANTED TO BUY.
ANY quantity GREEN or BLEACHED
BONES, preferably free of horns and hoofs.
Quote prices to the ELECTROLYTIC REFIN-
ING & SMELTING CO. OF AUSTRALIA.
LTD., Box 42, Post Office, Port Kembla, N.S.W.
ROSE S
EYE LOTIOIf
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M. A. Bose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
max XU
mm
rr'X
mgs
Lfe
ssSa
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.O., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. - Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
cultivated in Japan up to 43 N. lat.,
where the winters go 16deg. F. below
freezing point.
Average acre-yield is 1001 b. of pre-
pared tea, and the heating, curling and
sweating of the leaves are all the prepara-
tion necessary for use. This can be done
in an ordinary oven. Pruning, to obtain
the best formation of small, tender leaves
from young branches, is done in the cool
season and is as easy as orchard pruning,
Best results are obtained on slopes of
sheltered alluvial soil with plenty of water
for irrigation, but these are not essential
ior fair yields. Calcareous manures are
helpful.
Fifty years ago, Baron von Mueller,
then Govt. Botanist in Vic., wrote:
“Seeds of the tea-bush are now locally
to be gathered in many parts of Australia
from plants distributed by the writer since
1859 ; and for many years to come the
cultivation of the tea-bush will in all
likelihood prove highly lucrative.” But
the casual Australian has preferred to
cultivate tea-millionaires abroad.
~ e
Lucerne Still King.
“Bogaduck”: It takes a drought to
prove the value of lucerne as fodder. In
big areas of S.A. where clover and grasses
are backward or have disappeared,
lucerne paddocks are still green and
luxuriant. Sometimes they are even
better than in a normal year, thanks to
the warm and sunny spring.
Years ago lucerne was thought to be
suited only to rich river flats or under
irrigation. Then it was grown without
irrigation in areas of high rainfall. Gradu-
ally it made its way into drier and drier
areas, until now you will find it in the
Mallee, right out in the saltbush country,
and even in Central Australia.
Lucerne must not be planted where the
ground becomes soggy at any time of
the year, and it must have a good depth
of soil, rubble or permeable clay for its
wonderful root system to penetrate.
Given that, plus soil rich in available lime
—most of the soils of the drier areas are
rich in lime—and it will grow almost
anywhere. Sow on fallow which has
been worked as carefully as for a wheat
crop, use no more than 21b. of seed per
acre if you’re not going to irrigate it, and
sow it after the first autumn rain while
the soil is still warm. During the first
season, when most people ruin their
young lucerne by overgrazing, give yours
only a light, quick grazing once a month
or so. During the second season, cut it
into small paddocks and graze in rotation,
Here are two examples of what can
be done ; both can be seen north of
Naracoorte (S.A.).
Two years ago Ralph Penny, of
Taliska, rolled 120 acres of scrub,
ploughed the land twice to get rid of
roots and yaccas, left land fallow until
the following autumn, and then put down
21b. of lucerne and |lb. phalaris. ‘ In
spite of the drought he now has waving
lucerne about a foot high. If there is
a better paddock of feed within miles, I
haven’t been able to find it.
T. F. Guster, of Keppoch, sowed his
lucerne paddock with 101 b. of seed p.a.,
but during dry summer spells he keeps it
going by flood irrigations from a well,
The pump being driven by a suction gas
engine, the only expense is that of lubri-
eating oil, there being ample timber for
charcoal. Around Guster’s place are
thousands of acres of similar land, with
an unlimited supply of good irrigation
water at depths ranging from 6ft. to 30ft.
from the surface.
To the northward of Ralph Penny’s
property lie hundreds of thousands of
acres where experiments made by the
C.S.I.R. have shown that lucerne will
grow without irrigation. In parts of the
Wimmera (Vic.), at present drought-
stricken, and in the best seasons mainly
devoted to wheat, there are areas which
seem quite suited to lucerne.
Lucerne won’t grow anywhere—till
somebody tries to grow it.
“Yeno Ham”: Crossbred sheep are be-
ing used to control blackberries at
Robertson (N.S.W.). The blackberries
are first mown, the land is ploughed and
pastures sown. Paddocks are kept small,
and a big mob of coarse-woolled cross-
breds is turned in for quick grazing. The
sheep readily eat the tender young shoots
of the blackberries. Idea of the quick
grazing is to prevent damage to the
pastures before they are strongly estab-
lished.
“Yan King”: R. J. Doolin, who has
24,000 acres at North Star (N.S.W.), has
proved the value of wheat as sheep feed
in dry times. He stored 1500 bags from
last harvest, and has been feeding it out
since the dry spell set in. He crushes the
wheat and adds 20 per cent, of salt to it.
Hand-feeding started before the sheep
lost condition, and a daily ration of 3oz.
a head in wooden troughs has kept them
in good fettle. Wheaten or lucerne hay
is being used as a„ supplement for some
of the sheep every third day ; others have
to be satisfied with lopped scrub as
roughage.
“Bundalinga”: Eleven years ago D. A.
Gordon, Dooralong, Wyong (N.S.W.),
sowed a paddock with 31b. of sub. clover
per acre. The sub. started to fade away
after the first two seasons, and the pad-
dock was allowed to revert to paspalum.
Four years ago the sward was rotary-
hoed, ploughed, harrowed and sown with
red and white clovers, Italian and peren-
nial ryes, plus a bag of super, per acre.
Most vigorous growth was of sub. clover,
which had been practically dormant for
so long. Early this year, the paddock
was again rotary-hoed and sown with
Italian and perennial ryes, with super.
By June the sub. was a foot high, and
provided grazing for seven cows per acre
for 2| months. After harrowing and
more super., the sub.-provided grazing at
the same rate for another month.
Gordon’s experience shows that it is
necessary to encourage sub. clover by
loosening the surface soil and application
of super. Treated in that way, sub. will
thrive.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLIV.
Putting Up with Drought.
You look at the crop. It is spindled
and sparse. Most of the heads that
managed to burst through the flag never
filled, but hang white and pathetic from
the ends of the thin stalks.
In a cloud of dust Jack is driving the
tractor towards the gate. Tom is on the
header he is drawing. You don’t open
the gate, but look back up the bare slope
at the sheep standing listlessly around the
bank of the tank.
The tractor pulls up and you make the
decision.
“Never mind, boys, it isn’t worth
strippin’,” you say. “We’ll let the sheep
have it.”
Tom gets down, comes over to the
fence, leans on it and surveys the
stricken crop. “Only thing t’ do, Dad,”
he says.
“What’ll I do with the machine, Dad?”
Jack calls from the tractor.
You survey the splendid blue sky and
the golden sunshine. There is a ripple
of fiery purple along the horizon and
above it a line of steel. Above that
again comes the blue. The hot, golden
light beats down on the earth, on the
bare ground and the dead thistle stalks.
There is color everywhere. It is magni-
ficent, but it is also a fair cow.
Jack repeats his question.
“Oh,” you say, “better take ’em both
along to the State salvage commissioner,
Jack. We won’t need ’em here any more.”
Tom drops the slip panels and makes
up the slope to drift the sheep down to
the crop. The tractor roars back to
the shed, the header lumbering behind.
You walk over to the house, pushing
your hat back. The wife has some tea
ready and brings it out to the verandah.
The tractor stops. Jack appears. A few
minutes later comes Tom. They help
themselves to tea.
‘They’re rushin’ the crop,” says Tom.
“The what?” sneers Jack.
“Cheer up, boy,” you say. “Apples’ll
grow again, there’ll be more Phar Laps
and showers of rain some day.”
“Yair,” says Jack. “I worked fifteen
hours a day rushin’ that crop in, if y’
haven’t forgot. With the frost an inch
thick and chilblains on me hands an'
ears. An’ I even went on Sundays, too.
an’ ”
“Aw, you’re always growlin’ lately,”
complains young Tom. “Anybody’d
think y’ was the hardest done by around
here. What* about me? Don’t”
Their mother stops it. “Why don’t
you switch on the radio, Tom?” she says.
“It’s time for the news.”
The announcer’s voice rises. He
reports war and other news from abroad.
Then comes the local news. Accidents,
a fire, the city Water Board stops people
using hoses, “there is to be a new guaran-
teed price for wheat, but the Premier
states that he favors payment of ss. a
bushel for the first 10,000 bushels and a
graduated rate for the balance.”
“What I’d like to know,” you state,
“is what good is a guaranteed price when
you ain’t got any wheat?”
“These Premiers get on my nerves,”
Jack announces, and turns his head sud-
denly as a blast of wind leaps out of
the north-east, slams a door somewhere
and spatters dead straw and dust over
the tea-things.
You raise your head anxiously.
“Look at Dad,” says Tom, “tryin’ t’
smell rain. Did y’ get a sniff of any,
Dad?”
“Tom,” says his mother reprovingly.
“It might interest y’ t’ know, young
feller,” you say, “that this here farm is
being blown away. Look at that.” You
point to the ground beyond the verandah
where the surface can be seen on the
move before the wind. Little loose
patches of dust vanish, showing the hard
clay beneath. Here and there tiny cracks
appear.
“That,” you say, “doesn’t look much,
but it’s going on over the whole place.
It’s takin’ away tons of topsoil, that’s
what it’s doin’. Laugh that off, young
feller!”
All day and well into the night the
north-easter blows. Lying awake in bed
you hear it whooping past, but there is
no feel of rain on it.
You awaken to a still and stifling
morning. The world seems to be on edge.
The dogs survey you listlessly as you
come forth in the dawn. A dispirited
chook goes singing mournfully across
the horseyard. You wonder what you
got up for. There isn’t anything to do
except feed the sheep on the crop at
judicious intervals. Thank heavens the
well is still holding out! At the thought
you hear the windmill suddenly begin
to clank and look up. Up from the
south-west wells a great red cloud. You
race for the mill and shut it off, then
fight your way back to the house through
a wall of heavy dust.
Inside you slam the door. The smell
of dust is everywhere, and dust is seep-
ing through cracks, under doors and
down chimneys. The daylight grows dim.
“Hey, Dad,” calls Jack, “this ought t’
cheer y’ up!”
“Cheer me up?”
“Too right. Yesterday y’ was com-
plainin’ about the north-easter blcwin’ all
the topsoil away.* Well, here’s a sou'-
wester blowin’ it all back again. That's
fair enough, ain’t it?”
You give him a look and lie down on
the floor. There isn’t anything to do.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
Double rates this week for a sarcastic Westralian.
All American
The American alarm clock rang at
7 a.m.; I sprang from my patent Ameri-
can mattress and cooked breakfast on the
American gas stove. My Amei ican car
took mfe to the factory where I earn a
living by tending American machinery.
In the evening I smoked a pipe of Vir-
ginia tobacco and glanced through a syn-
dicated magazine which imports 90 p.c.
of its material from America. Then I
turned on the American radio to hear:
Owing to the necessity for conserving
dollar exchange for war materials, it is
predicted in well-informed quarters that
an extension of the petrol-rationing scheme
will be considered.
I turned off the radio and pondered.
Why petrol? It’s the only product I’ve
used today that can’t be made here in
Australia. And tomorrow night I’ll go
to see the American talkies or one of
those negro boxers that everyone’s talk-
ing about. —How (W.A.).
Cash Orders and T.-P.
The whole point about this cash-order
and hire-purchase business is that a client
can get his goods now and not in the
dim, distant future. In Victorian times,
when life rolled placidly along, there was
that feeling of security which enabled
young couples to start off in a small way
and add to their household goods as
their position in life improved. That
was the usual thing, and nobody expected
these couples to begin where their parents
had left off.
Today circumstances are entirely dif-
ferent. When a girl gets married she
wants all the comfort and convenience
she can get —expensive furniture, re-
frigerator, hot-water system, radio and so
on —and these things can be obtained, as
a rule, only by cash orders or hire-
purchase. If young people are deter-
mined to get what they can out of life
when the future is so uncertain, who can
blame them? —J. E. D. (N.S.W.).
How can “E.R.S.” reconcile his claim
that cash trading would cause a serious
falling off in trade (B. 30/10 / ’4O) with
the fact that the most flourishing retail
organisations in Australia today—chain
stores —do business on a strictly cash
basis? Moreover, better-class furni-
ture stores encourage their customers to
save for their furniture requirements by
the lay-by method, and many actually
pay as much as seven per cent, interest
on the balance standing to the prospective
client’s credit. Surely this is an infinitely
better proposition than paying 15 per
cent, or more to so-called finance com-
panies.
By far the most disagreeable part of
t.-p. is the prying into a person’s private
affairs which it entails. Reputable business
houses lose many valuable hours every
week answering telephone calls respect-
ing the probity of their clientele. In our
office, handling an extensive middle-class
rent roll, a leather-coated stormtrooper
can be found at odd moments of the day
draping himself ungracefully over the
counter, and scaring away possible buyers,
as he cross-questions members of the staff
regarding our tenants. — Melton (Vic.).
“8.E.C.” (B. 6/11/ ’4O) emphasises but
one undesirable feature of the cash-order
system —he failed to touch on the cash-
loan business which is carried on in con-
junction with cash orders. Interest on
these loans, which have a currency of
just under six months, may be charged at
the astonishing rate of 20 per cent. —a
little over 40 per cent, a year. As the
loans are limited to £lO and are
not granted without rigid investigation
of the prospective client’s position, the
loss through bad debts is extremely small.
One company offers a loan free
of interest for one month. The client
thus finds borrowing fatally easy, the
habit is acquired, and then any un-
expected financial setback sends him to
borrow for longer terms at high rates.
If members of Parliament knew of (or
cared about) half the pain and sorrow
directly due to usurious interest rates, re-
newals with interest charged on the
original interest unpaid, etc., they would
accelerate Mortgage Bank legislation.
Bar won (N.S.W.).
Contrary to “B.E.C.’s” opinion, I have
always found time-payment firms ready
to suspend payments during illness or in-
capacity, provided they know a customer
to be honorable.— Pierrot (N.S.W.).
That A.B.C. Valuation
Of course, I knew that the £25, £lO
and £5 prizes in the A.B.C. radio-play
contest were in addition to the usual fees
for radio plays ; but, even with the usual
fees added to the bonuses, the amounts
awarded to the writers for their work are
still far too small when compared with
the prizes awarded listeners in what really
amounted to a guessing contest.
Add A.B.C.’s usual fee to the bonuses,
then multiply the amount by about tea,
and you will arrive at a figure somewhere
near the amount given to imported artists
for their work. Further, those Austialian
“I'll bet shell get a move on when that time bomb goes off!
playwriters are grateful to the country
in which they are allowed to earn an
existence and do not adversely criticise
anything and everything Australian, as
so many imported artists have done after
receiving their cheque from the A.B.C.
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Australian Books
The paper-rationeers work in a funny
way their blunders to perform. A book
by an Australian author had gone out of
print owing to the failure of the English
publishers. There was a sufficient demand
here for an Australian firm to embark on
a new edition. They’d decided it was.
worth while to make the first printing
3000 copies. If that succeeded they would
print another 3000.
But there they must stop. Their paper
ration having been exhausted, they will
have to let the edition lapse . even if
the demand persists or has been increased
by the new edition.
But there is nothing to prevent the
importation of books from America, so
the shortage will probably have to be
made up by the same publisher or an-
other importing similar classes of books
from across the Pacific. So dollar ex-
change won’t be saved in this case or
the Australian writer benefited. — Soap-
saver (Vic.).
Birth Control
“A.P.” (B. 23/10/’4O) might at least
have refrained from misrepresenting my
views. I did not “quote an individual
case of financial stress” in justification of
birth control —it is the exception, not
the rule, for young men in Australia to
be financially able to support more than
a couple of children in the early years
of marriage. Whether or not rich people
actually have big families is quite irrele-
vant to the discussion of the right to
restrict families for financial reasons.
“The physical terrors of childbirth” are
mentioned by “A.P”’ apparently as a
modern reason for avoiding it. 1 did not
refer to this matter (perhaps “A.P. con-
fuses it with the physical strain and
danger of childbirth to a physically unfit
woman, which I mentioned), but since he
has raised this point I might say that not
one of the many young mothers I know
has seemed at all concerned with the
aspect of physical pain.
Finally “A.P.” suggests that the effect
of birth control is “to reduce marriage
to the level of free expression of love
with no responsibilities,” and calls it un-
natural.” Considering the adjustments
necessary in every phase of life in a civil-
ised community, it is the height or absui
dity to refer to the regulation of repro-
duction as unnatural unless we aie pie
pared to apply this term to the wearing
of clothes, the use of machines and the
prolongation of life by medical science.
D. J. G. (Vic.).
Accent on Sex
Once upon a time there was a little
ofi-1 called Matilda. She washed her
hands before meals and had a bath every
day because she liked being clean. As
she grew older she found out that 101
15 years she’d had the wrong slant on
life. You don’t bathe to be clean or
because cleanliness is next to godliness ;
you bathe to catch a man. The news-
paper advertisements told you that, with
advice to buy Somebody’s soap or tooth-
paste or deodorant or whatnot. •'Love-
lies” draped in a small towel and oozing
sex or in glamorous evening dresses giving
sleek swains passionate kisses proved it
beyond all doubt.
And then Matilda started to read
novels from the local library. Her big
blue eyes opened wide, and she became
an avid fan of Emily Slush. The girls in
these books weren’t silly little shopgirls
on 21s. 6d. a week; they dripped furs
and diamonds and smoked cigarettes
from long holders, sipping cocktails the
while.
Like all good little girls, Matilda went
to the pictures, sometimes with Harry
from the next street. Harry was a nice
chap, 18 years old and good-looking, but
some of his glands were slightly mal-
adjusted. Nothing to worry about; even
a specialist would locate little trouble.
In a normal, natural world Harry would
never have known that anything was
wrong. But this was a world of glamor-
ised sex, of women about to step into
baths, of passionate portrayals and of
brutally frank newspapers. That girl on
the corner hoarding, for instance, adver-
tised toothpaste. But her picture showed
a lot more than her teeth. She fascinated
Harry. And then he, too, began reading,
not light books like Matilda, but the
works of men to whom morality and
decency were things tc scorn. So Harry,
whose glands ■ were not quite normal,
found a justified and ready-made philo-
sophy.
But all this happened once upon a
time. Harry took 15-year-old, romance-
mad Matilda to the pictures one night,
and they didn’t go straight home. Harry
was sent up for 18 months, Matilda s hh-
was blighted, and the big bad witches,
Emily Slush and the girl on the tooth-
paste ad. lived happily ever after. — Pip
(Vic.).
The V.A.D.
There has been a good deal of criticism
of women in uniform, so Fm going to
vindicate the V.A.Ds.
In the first year of membership, two
nights a week were taken up with lectures
and practical training in first aid and
home nursing. Studying for examina-
tions accounted for two more nights ; and
this was before war was actually declared.
Examinations in these subjects were
passed, and have to be passed every year
while we are at war, and every year are
made harder.
That year was only playtime. Every
member is now in uniform, either at her
own expense or from the combined efforts
of her detachment in raising money. Uni-
forms cost at least £5 each—no light ex-
pense to a gill on a small w a g e -
As well as attending weekly lectures
every Aid has to complete 60 hours’
training at a hospital. Some give up
their annual furlough, others their week-
ends, backsliders their evenings—-one a
week —and when this training is com-
pleted they should be ready at any time
to perform duty at a military hospital.
It’s not easy work.
In our town a church hut is kept open
for the amusement of the lads in uniform,
and each detachment has to furnish girls
regularly to go up and “play” with the
boys as well as attend fortnightly dances.
Aiders are also expected to give a week
occasionally to assist in the hospital at
camp as well as the military hospital in
the city. They are also called upon to
sell buttons on various patriotic days,
dispose of raffle tickets, furnish stalls and
make sweets for patriotic nights.
One night a week is given up to
marching round a barrack square or
doing stretcher drill under the eye of a
sergeant-major. Lectures must be
attended and examinations passed in air-
raid work, and those who hold drivers’
licenses attend for tuition in driving
ambulances and repair work. Cooking
lessons are held, which means.yet another
examination.
So don’t sneer when you see a V.A.D.
—Hobart (Tas.).
Imperial War Cabinet
I agree that representation of Australia
and the other Dominions in the Imperial
War Cabinet and on the War Council is
desirable. I think circumstances make
the idea impracticable at the present time.
The man for the job must have full
power to act on behalf of his Govern-
ment in all matters pertaining to the war.
A sort of glorified High Commissioner,
unable to move without reference to his
home Cabinet, would only make matters
worse. Clearly the Prime Minister of
the Dominion is the only person qualified
for the task, and it is just as clear that
he is the one person who cannot be
spared.
In the last war conditions were very
much different. None of the Dominions
was threatened, transport to and from
Britain was comparatively safe, and there
was no risk of the entire War Council
being wiped out in an air raid on London.
Until the position has cleared our best
course seems to be to continue the heart-
to-heart chats over the telephone and use
to the full the capabilities of our High
Commissioner. — West Riding (Vic.).
War-time Music
Those responsible for our radio pro-
grammes show very little imagination in
their choice of music. It’s either “boop-
a-doop and tweedle-tweet” or marches
which, however suitable for a band
concert, no regiment on earth has
adopted. In short, none of it is the sort
of music which the average man finds in
the least stirring.
As Churchill truly said, we are now
fighting for survival. We need hearten-
ing, we need something to remind us that
we have triumphed over heavy odds in
the past, and will do it again if we all
pull together at the right time and in the
right place. Then let us have stirring
music—the strains which have led our
troops to victory in the past and, please
God! will do it again. Let modern tripe
and ancient classics wait until the war is
over. — Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
Wool
The facts of wool appraisement briefly
are: During the last war W. M. Hughes
secured us plus half profits on any
wool resold by the British Government.
Mr. Menzies has got us roughly 13id.,
plus half profits on any wool resold out-
side England—practically a negligible
quantity. In 1916 ten shillings would buy
as much as 20 today.
Wool is about the only article in Aus-
tralia on a fixed price. We were prom-
ised a review of prices after the first
season. This promise was not kept. Either


it was a business arrangement or a senti-
mental one. If the latter, the sentiment
seems to be all one side and we have been
handed a raw deal.
At its inception it was stressed by its
sponsors and others that under existing
conditions the appraisal price would pro-
vide graziers with a moderate profit.
Owing to increased shearing costs, road
and rail freights, appraisal costs and extra
expense caused by long and widespread
drought, those conditions have vanished,
and with them all chance of any profit
for a great number of graziers.
It is all very well to quote the 1938-39
prices. Why not take into consideration
the 1937-38 ones, which were 40 p.c.
better than the ’3B-39 series? The bulk
of our clip is approximately 64 class. Why
not compare what it averaged with what
the similar South African wool brought
last year? — Marthaguy (N.S.W.).
From Where?
No matter how this war develops there
is no possibility of an air attack being
launched against Australia on a scale
sufficient to inflict serious damage. Even
if an enemy managed to get possession
of the Dutch East Indies the situation
would not be substantially altered. The
Dutch territories most contiguous to Aus-
tralia, Dutch Timor and New Guinea,
which are also the nearest foreign terri-
tories capable of constituting effective air
bases, are at least 2000 miles from the
closest of our main centres of population
—south-east Queensland. The French
island of New Caledonia is about 1000
miles from Brisbane, but it is thinly
peopled and isolated, and could be
quickly occupied if there were any pros-
pect of its being used as a hostile air base.
Thousands of German aircraft with
bases only on the other side of the narrow
English Channel have failed to devastate
crowded England in continuous attacks
ever months. What, chance would ’planes
operating from thousands of miles away
have of doing material harm to any Aus-
tralian city?—D. A. (N.S.W.).
Brothers All
“Glesca Keelie” (B. 6/11/ ’4O) is look-
ing through the wrong glass when he
foresees the eventual welding of the human
race into “one tremendous federation.”
The human race began functioning as a
single family. The disintegration of that
social unit has continued ever since.
Human nature, that composite expression
of all the virtues and vices governing
man’s behavior, is the cause of it all; and
as long as one man is strong and another
weak it will go on.
“G.K.’s” historical allusions are unfor-
tunately selected. England “led the world
in the arts of peace” because it was
powerful enough to travel its own road.
Even so, it did not lead the world, only
portion of it. The rest refused to fall
into line. The League of Nations failed
because it had neither power nor author-
ity to enforce its decrees. And when the
last war ended there were “millions of
sadder and wiser men who had learned
from bitter experience what they had
refused to be taught from schoolbooks.”
But look at them now!
Their knowledge did not stifle human
greed and lust for power. It did not make
man conform to a pattern. It did not
make weak men strong and strong men
weak. It did not bring nations together
into one happy family, because it could
not. All the teaching and example of
the ages cannot make human nature in-
variable. While there is life left on this
earth of ours the struggle for survival
will continue. — Nairb (Vic.).
Pensions
Despite several O.F.M. contributors,
pensions are not in all cases a right. Every
pension is an expense to the country, and
the bona fides of every recipient should
be beyond doubt. Incapacitated soldiers
and their dependants, orphans and per-
sons unemployable through no fault of
their own have a just claim upon society.
But the thousands of people who wasted
their schooldays, made no attempt to im-
prove their minds, frittered away every
penny received in betting and drinking,
and are now a charge upon the State
should be told plainly that their pensions
are not a right but a charitable payment
from the pockets of their less shiftless
countrymen.— Bly (N.S.W.).
Old-age Pensioners
I went into a friend’s garden last week
and exclaimed at the beauty of it. “Oh,
yes,” she said, “old Mr. H. does it. And
for so little. He is a pensioner and can
only earn so much.” I knew poor old
H. and thought if he could have charged
as much again it would have been well
below an ordinary gardener’s charge, and
would have meant a great deal to the
poor old man.
A man must prove that he is destitute
before the pension is granted, so in the
name of charity why not let him earn
what he can while he has the will and
pluck to do it? The £1 in the back-
ground would give the feeling of security
that he will not starve. —J. S. M. (Tas.).
Parliament on the Air
And why not? From a friend just
back from Maoriland, I learned that the
debates as broadcast are very popular,
and that on political questions the
average Maorilander is much better in-
formed than the average Australian,
whose press reports even the debates at
Canberra in a very skimpy fashion.
To a fair-minded Parliamentarian the
scheme should have no terrors. To the
slothful, of course, it means that his
doings soon become apparent to the
public. The objection that members
would play to the gallery is not worth
a candle —the gallery speedily sums a
man up with uncanny accuracy.
After all, he who pays the piper should
at least be able to hear the music.—
Jodge (N.S.W.).
Death to Latin
All 1 remember of Latin is that the
teacher had big ears and a hooked nose.
But for “EJ.B.” (B. 6/11/’4O) to regret
its gradual disappearance from our
schools strikes me like worrying over
one good hen escaping from a fowlyard
containing 50 other equally good egg-
artists.
Education (in the average case) is
merely the training for livelihood, so why
clutter it up in the early stages with sub-
jects which are usually skipped com-
pletely, seldom remembered for any
profitable reason and only very occasion-
ally excelled in? That rare student will
always manage to dig his mental claws
into Latin somehow or other when and
if he really wants to.
Let ’em learn the most immediately-
useful subjects (including shorthand and
typing and elementary mechanics) up to
the age of, say, 16. If circumstances still
permit them to linger on the education
merry-go-round, then let a trained psy-
chologist step in and advise them which
extra subjects they are most suited to
tackle.
A. simplified but solid general educa-
tion will have prepared the way clearly
for the more mature mind to make a
quicker grab at new knowledge, without
having muddled the brain with the bits-
and-pieces thrown in for Culture’s sake
before the student was capable of choos-
ing according to his individual tempera-
ment.—L. S. D. (N.S.W.).
Universities
A university training may be necessary
for specialists in the sciences (B.
16 /10/’4O), but it is only by accident (or
perhaps through failure) that universities
produce outstanding men in the arts. For
one thing, your true creative artist is too
avid of life to settle to the dull routine
which has been worked out to fit the
slowest type of cram-mind. For another,
the creative type of mind much prefers
learning for itself to being taught by an
inferior mind. For a third, universities
put the accent on intellectuality so
strongly that the lives and minds of those
either developing or functioning in them
tend to become distorted, with the result
that undergraduates break out sporadi-
cally into silly lunatic pranks that are
really a blind, desperate endeavor to re-
gain their equilibrium. Also, the accent
on intellectuality fosters an intellectual
snobbery that not only devitalises its
victims but causes them to lose all real
contact with ordinary mortals.
Finally, Australian universities have the
worst blight of all upon them. This is
the blight of otherwhereness. More than
any other person in Australia it is the
academic that concentrates all his atten-
tion and emotion upon Europe. Hating
his own country, neglecting its culture,
he has his spiritual home in what he
believes is the civilisation of one continent
and his body in another. He is out of
touch with his environment and mal-
adjusted to his surroundings. And no
form of life that was imperfectly
adjusted to its environment was ever con-
sidered by nature as fit to survive.
In which fact, perhaps, there is some
comfort.— Australl (S.A.).
Heart-attackers
What’s the use of shouting “Look
out!” and firing the gun at the poor cow
at the same time? And what’s the use
of lorries sounding their horns like
maniacs but not slowing down as they
race from laneways and drive-in bolt-
holes all over the city?
A few drivers are careful. The rest
are normal. Actual accidents at these
spots may be few, but I’d like sixpence
for every pedestrian who has skidded to
safety with a split second to spare, while
the offending truck-driver mentally
thumbed his nose at his victim’s subse-
quent heart-trouble.
All alleyways can’t have flag-wavers or
inverted mirrors to warn people that
trouble is approaching on four wheels
and a drink of petrol. But at least the
truck-drivers could be fined if their
triumphant entry into the street was made
at more than five miles per hour. — Elm
(N.S.W.).
A Fair Go
Ours is only a small independent
picture theatre and Saturday night, which
usually coincides with A.I.F. leave night,
is the only night when the “full house”
sign is hung outside the door. That, how-
ever, does not prevent the notice “The
management welcomes all members of
the A.I.F. as its guests” being prominently
displayed.
No doubt the management feels that it
owes some return to the lads who sup-
ported it when they were on a good
wage. I dips me lid to it and regret that
some of the larger picture combines
“Take cover, you idiot — it's a raid!”
amassing money for American interests
don’t feel likewise. — Paddy (N.S.W.).
The Flippant Critic
“Jack High’s” opinion (B. 6/11/ ’4O)
that The Bulletin’s criticism of the
memorial art exhibition at Heidelberg
(Vic.) was flippant and unconstructive U
based on the assumption that the exhibi-
tion was representative of the best paint-
ing that has been done in Australia. But
if, in case of fact, it was not represen-
tative the critic could hardly be blamed
for not mentioning pictures that didn’t
happen to be present. That he thought
the latter to be the case is suggested by
his remark that the committee seemed to
have been afflicted more with a desire to
be polite than selective—although, of
course, the better painters may not have
offered their wo/'ks for exhibition.
“J.H.” also assumes that, because an
ignorant, prejudiced and abusive criti-
cism of a show by Roberts, Streeton and
Conder was published in a Melbourne
newspaper in 1899, that fact places them
in the same category of the great as
Manet, Constable and Turner. They
may belong to that blessed hierarchy, for
aught I know to the contrary, but neither
an approving nor an abusive criticism
will have placed them there. Only their
work can do that.
During the lives of Manet, Constable
and Turner mediocre artists were pre-
ferred both by the critics and the public.
As a matter of fact, one of the Mel-
bourne critics who went along to the
Heidelberg exhibition discovered one
work there of quite transcendent genius.
It may be a work of genius or it may
be perfectly mediocre, but his opinion
won’t alter the picture. A Melbourne
critic, since dead, used to discover a
fresh young genius every week. His
criticism may have been more construc-
tive than that of the gentleman who let
himself go at the 1899 exhibition. But
if so it had very unfortunate results for
his victims.—F. S. (Vic.).
Country Telephones
I can offer a few more facts about the
P.M.G.’s Department and country tele-
phones. About two years ago 1 asked
the P.M.G.’s Department for an estimate
of the cost of connecting my residence
by telephone to the exchange six miles
away. The line passed alongside the road
about a quarter-mile from my house.
They replied that they would be
pleased to install telephone provided 1
defrayed £72 of cost, supplied and erected
six poles required on private property,
undertook to replace them when neces-
sary (all poles becoming the property of
the department) and agreed to rent tele-
phone for at least seven years—six
pounds a year.
They informed me that after the first
year I would have to pay only £1 10s.
per year rent as they would allow me a
refund of my £72 at the rate of £4 10s.
per year.— Mac (N.S.W.).
Wasting Wire
With fencing wire scarce and dear, I
marvel that so much of it is allowed to
lie wasting on abandoned farms in this
country (M.L.). In my district alone from
Nuhaka to Wharerata, a distance of 20
miles, there are over 3000 acres of totally
or partly abandoned land, all of it once
well fenced. Today most of the posts are
lying flat, but the wire is mostly in good
condition and well worth salvaging. How
many thousands of tons of wire there
must be wasting throughout the North
Island alone I do not know, but I do
know the time has arrived to set about
gathering it up. —O. W. W. (M.L.).
Irrigation in N.S.W.
There is talk of a hydro-electric scheme
on the Snowy River, irrigation systems
on the Hunter, Lachlan and Darling are
mooted, the position on the Irrigation
Area is in for an overhaul, while other
experts are solemnly giving opinions
about the metropolitan supply.
Meanwhile the metropolis is faced with
the imminent failure of its water and
sanitation system. Farmers in drought-
stricken areas are handfeeding their stock
and staring at ruined crops. And all
because the task of irrigation did not re-
ceive consideration commensurate with
its importance to the community in the
past.
We could be grateful to the drought
if it resulted in serious development in
irrigation and water conservation. But
it seems the old methods of wild ex-
travagance and disjointed policy hold
sway.
Water conservation should be con-
sidered in its relation to the State as a
whole and a systematic plan of campaign
drawn up and adhered to. Blunders are
costly, and, though we must get on with
the job, there must first be system.
Aquarius (N.S.W.).


3
w
/
y
'Jttjoul OA&
a Wemcuv
tuuuLtfuA
Mirrors Tell —
If you are a woman, you
peer in the mirror often. That s
natural. You want to look your
best at all times. But your
mirror can tell you more than
you think.
The next time you look in
your mirror, put out your
tongue. Not because you don’t
like yourself—but because you
do. Now examine your tongue.
Is it coated with a furry, white
or yellowish substance?
A Sure Sign—
A coated tongue is an almost
positive sign of constipation.
Remember how the doctor
says, ’’Let me see your
tongue.” He knows that a
coated tongue usually means
constipation. And he knows
that constipation is the most
common cause of headaches,
dizziness, biliousness, blotched
skin, ‘‘that tired feeling,” and
many worse ailments.
Nature’s Remedy—
When a coated tongue tells
you of constipation, act at
once. Don’t wait for something
worse to happen. Help nature
back to normal with a natural
laxative —with a good gentle
laxative with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
You will like the way Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills act.
There is no griping pain, no
depressing sickness. Swiftly
and smoothly the herbal in-
gredients stir the intestines into
activity. Soon the poisonous
wastes that were coating your
tongue are gone. Then consti-
pation cannot endanger your
health.
For coated tongue, for any
of the symptoms of common
constipation, four generations
of women have preferred the
natural remedy—-Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Dr. Morses
ill
■>
k-
( \JdrtkLiver
PIILL
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a high grade preparation sold at a low price .
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
vvith the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powdei
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
•stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
c right.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
J
TO “THE BULLETIN,’’
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postal
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDT AKERS,* by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
l " s® V
„&y cfi
y t iQ°
tls rcr y
ttX' \\\'
*' c
*'!>&
■•■» °'
(tf VO \#S^A e '
t\^ S «»V C ’ A


'
Mm
$
& ? *
1
or
all
BORN - SHORN -WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA
