

a— aggSg
■■l 1 " 1 ! 1 iiiginr»
A
S=3SSS=s@=
■*sgr-- j 7y-
•*“*** 3F3H i acr
agsST=
G L
A
n 0 U
l to
AC *
I l M*°
v-gIVE 1 '*
EWM
TfSE
ķ
WIRELESS
APPARATUS
ĸ
ORGANISATION
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS
The Bulletin
«The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3155.
Wednesday, July 31, 1940.
From Halifax to Hell
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*428 George Street, SYDNEY.
k
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
WRONGS OF PAT MULLEN.
Although he didn’t realise it when a
boy on Aran, Pat Mullen decided later
that the lines of his father’s mouth, on
the rare occasions when the trimming of
his bushy red whiskers made them visible,
were hard and cruel. That was the first
injustice he suffered: to be bom into
a world where his father had a hard
mouth. The old man, Pat declares in
Come Another Day (Faber), was jovial
and hospitable only for business reasons
or to impress the neighbors, and when
the priest came to stay and Pat stumbled
in the loft above his bedroom and show-
ered the visitor with dust, Mullen, Senior,
should have blamed his own negligence
in not having had the loft mended in-
stead of putting it all on to Pat.
Without chronicling any more of the
sorrows of his childhood on the bitter
island, Pat sets sail for America, and,
not having contributed to a collection
for the stewards, is shocked when one
of them is curt to him. And what right
had the immigration officials to be in-
specting these passengers who had come
to America as immigrants? True, he
had no trouble himself, but what did
America mean by giving him work to do
when he had come there to work? :■+—
I experienced very little difficulty in
being let out of the enclosure, for I was
big, very strong, used to work and looked
itand, as I learned later, I was considered
good material to be worked and sweated
for a period of 10 to 15 years, after which
I could be pushed aside to make room for
others like me, the flower of European
youth, who, having no way of living at
home, were heading towards America.
And the way the landladies treated
him! There was one of them that
wouldn’t let a whisky-sodden tramp into
the house, but cruelly gave him a meal
of sandwiches to eat outside, and there
was another whose wickedness he for-
gives because she is dead:
This landlady of mine did not live long.
I believe her own cooking poispned her.
Now she is dead I shall let her soul, if she
had one, rest in, peace. She surely did not
do the world much harm by leaving it.
But all this was nothing. The woes
of Mullen are only beginning. He gave
a barman a five-dollar bill to buy some
brandy; the barman pocketed the money,
and there was the most glorious shindy
you ever did see, with everybody hitting
everybody and Pat trying to tear the
brass-rail from its fittings to brain the
lot of them. And the black injustice of it
was that Pat was arrested later and fined.
And now here’s Pat working as a
gardener with Jack MacGarro, and Jack
wouldn’t climb the frosty trees to kill
the gipsy-moth pests, so Pat did all his
climbing for him, and as a result of his
generosity he fell and nearly broke his
back. Then, while he was in hospital,
one of the other gardeners 'intrigued
against him and beat him for a coveted
full-time job. Pat* bore no great ill-will
against him, “for what he had done only
bore out my first impression of him.”
The next thing that happened was that,
while Pat was trespassing on a rich man’s
estate, the rich man ticked him off. Then
some of Pat’s alleged friends tricked him
into a “friendly” sparring match with a
fighting sailor, and the sailor hit Pat hard
and Pat had to knock him out. And Pat
gets a job in a woolstore, and one day
the tally is five sacks short and Pat (un-
justly) gets the blame for it. And then
Pat goes to a dancing-class and makes
friends with a noble and beautiful girl,
and one of Pat’s drunken friends turns
up particularly drunk to watch him danc-
ing with the beautiful and noble girl and
Pat has to take him home in a taxi, and
thereafter the beautiful and noble girl
(unjustly) will have nothing more to do
with Pat.
Now Pat marries a boardinghouse-
keeper (woe the day), and one suspects
that Pat, for all the chivalrous reticence
of his statement on the matter, had suf-
fered black injustice once again:
It was this mistress of my new boarding-
house that I married, and the less said
about the affair the soonest mended. It is
the one big happening in my life that I
think better to let alone. Suffice it to say
that we were not temperamentally matched.
Amongst other things, I loved reading and
she did not. Her heart was as big as the
world is wide, and she was a far better
woman than I was a man. I daresay we
both meant well, but this was not enough
to bring real happiness.
No, sir. You’d think, after all that,
that life might be fair to the poor chap ;
but not a show of it. Pat
led a strike in a wool store,
won an increase in wages
for all the other men, but
his own pay envelope re-
mained unaltered.
The war broke out. College graduates
from the wool stores joined the navy.
Rich men’s sons, they were, Pat thought,
seeking cushy jobs. Anyhow, drowning
is said to be an easy death. And while
these popinjays were flocking to the
colors Pat had to do drill and (unjustly)
would have been conscripted if his wife
hadn’t come to the rescue. “She must
have cared a little for me at this time,
for she appeared before the board and
held me back for the time, stating that
I was a married man with a family to
provide for.”
When the war was over Pat got up
at a union meeting and supported the
idea of a police union, for which he
became (unjustly) unpopular among his
friends. And then some hound intrigued
against him once more and the police
(unjustly) got the idea that Pat was
opposed to their union and bashed him,
and Pat woke up to meet his wife’s “not
very sympathetic face.” He was offered
a bribe to go over to the employers’ side,
refused, and was sacked from the wool
store. He was blacklisted.
Friends worked him back into the
trade, and he was called on to lead a
strike. He acquiesced in the beating-up
of a scab, but for saving the scab from
being kicked to. death was (with horrible
injustice) berated by his wife. A re-
turned soldier, wearing the rags of a
uniform, tried, to get work in the store
Pat and his cobbers were picketing.
When Pat tried to stop him getting work,
he simply snarled.
“That bird certainly needs a dressing-
down,” said Manning. “He probably
imagines that he is a seteond Julius Cassar.”
“Yes, and that he alone has made all
small nations free into the bargain,” 1
answered. “He looks and acts as if he
had been in France.”
It was agreed that the soldier should
be bashed. When he died in hospital
Pat was (most unjustly) interrogated by
the police, and if it hadn’t been estab-
lished that the fellow had died of
ptomaine poisoning there’s no knowing
what cruel sorrow might not have been
imposed on Pat. Even as it was, Pat
suffered enough, for the return of thou-
sands of men from the battlefields, all
eager for work, made it advisable for
those who had stayed at home to call
off the strike. Says Pat sarcastically: —
The returning soldiers rang the death
knell of our union, for the fame of these
heroes had been lauded to the skies by
the newspapers, and they flocked to and
were eagerly received by the sweatshops of
the country, for had they not freed the
world and made it a fit place to live in?
Having done so they were surely entitled
to the rewards of their labor!
Pat was heartbroken. Reaching the
climax of his bitterness against the in-
justice of life, he walked into an office
and offered himself for sale, as if he
were a slave. Then his father sent for
him to come home to Aran. More in-
justice. His father had “overstated the
case” when he said there was plenty of
work and money. Moreover: —
My father’s enthusiasm for my return
died shortly after my arrival, he became
my most bitter enemy, and held on grimly
to the little holding of land which he had
promised to turn over to me on my arrival
in Aran.
And still there were injustices and Pat
was persecuted on his native island.
After such a piteous recital it is really
cheering to leam from Pat himself that
he is now “captain of his soul,” even if
there have been a few “lapses from this
purpose” ; to learn from the blurb that
Pat made a fairly good thing out of the
tourist trade to Aran; and to leam from
the back flap that six of the leading
newspapers of the country he wanted to
fight in 1917 — England — praised his
three other books so highly that he must
have done pretty well out of the oppres-
sor. His autobiography is good, tough
reading, but why Faber and Faber
should have published it at this time—
unless they wanted the public to read
between the lines or meant to show how
truly tolerant England can be — is a
mystery.
Yet Another v. Nippon.
This page last week described the pro-
tracted contest Gerald Samson v. Nippon.
Meanwhile, cables have reported an-
other engagement in the same arena—
Hallett Abend also v. Nippon.
Though in the cabled story Abend
(who sports the Stars and Stripes on his
fighting togs) had the worst of it, being
attacked, beaten and forced to his knees
by “two gunmen, alleged to be Japan-
ese,” they demanding to know “Where
is the anti-Japanese book you are writ-
ing?”, he had previously had easily the
best of some hard infighting against
Nippon, which is more than could be said
of Samson, the British Hope.
Nippon, it may be recalled, got a
stranglehold on Samson, hurled him
into a verminous prison and kept him
incarcerated there in ignominy, danger
and itchy discomfort for weeks. Only
when he’d escaped (via deportation) to
long range was he able to rock it into
Nippon, which he did with vigor, as
recorded in his account of the contest,
Warning Lights of Asia. In Chaos in
Asia (Bodley Head) Abend has a chapter
recording a curious round of his own
close-quarters scrapping with Nippon.
It happened in October, 1938, after
the New York “Times” (Abend is its
correspondent in Asia) had published one
of his news dispatches, “which told a
few unpalatable truths about the methods
and activities of Japan’s spies.” Two of
these gentry then called on him and asked
questions which infuriated him; Abend
dialled the number of Mr. S. Kita,
“official spokesman and public contact
official for the Japanese Embassy,” and
barked into the telephone:
“Kita, there are a couple of your nosy
snoopers intruding into my office. They
are attempting an intimidating cross-ques-
tioning, and I won’t stand for it. I de-
mand three things—to know who they are,
to know who sent them, and to receive
an official apology.”
Mr. Kita asked if he could speak to
the intruders, after which they wished to
apologise to Abend. No good to Abend.
“You’ll call on me at some appointed
time, with superior officers, and make a
formal and official apology” he declared,
“flinging their coats at them.”
For a minute it looked like fight. They
reared back 'belligerently and glared un-
believingly at the angry foreigner.
“Get quick!” I exclaimed, with a
sweeping gesture towards the door. And
they got out.
Abend then called on both his own
corner (Mr. C. E. Gauss, the American
Consul-General, now U.S.A. Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipoten-
tiary in Australia) and the Nippon corner
(Consul-General Hidaka) to see fair play,
and the upshot was that on an appointed
day a Nipponese army colonel, a major
of the Nipponese gendarmerie and the
two offenders made their formal call,
stood stiffly to attention in a row facing
Abend, bowed in unison and delivered
set speeches of apology lasting for just
six minutes. While this was going on
the solemnity of the occasion was as good
as ruined by Abend’s two Scotch terriers,
which sauntered in, sniffed round the
major’s legs, and then settled down —
while the speechmaking proceeded—one
of them using the major’s right boot and
the other his left for pillows.
Apology over, Abend spoke in reply,
suggesting in respect of the causes of all
the bother, “You’d better put them in
army uniforms; maybe they would be
shot in battle, and thus conserve the lives
of two more useful men.” He was satis-
fied that his “diatribe had been fully
translated, for the two intrusive gen-
darmes were of an apoplectic red, their
fists were clenched until the knuckles
showed white, and their necks had
swelled to such dimensions I feared their
collars would burst.”
Some weeks later he received five
mysterious telephone calls, all with the
same cheering message to impart:
“This Abend-san, yes?”
“Yes.”
“Ah, so. You ... better ... look .. . out!”
Click!
Abend-san comments in his record of
the engagement, “There has been no
aftermath.” His next book on his Asiatic
experiences may contain amendments.
For the time being his Chaos in Asia
is a record extraordinarily free from
discernible bias, sentimentality or per-
sonal exhibitionism—the first ip dray-
loads of publications on Nippon v. China
to give an impression of an author doing
his best to set down his observations
without prejudice, and without fear of or
favor for either side. It will probably
please neither side, but, while the
criticisms might sting, each side should
be able to find enough stated in its favor
for general face-saving purposes.
A good deal more blood has been spilt
and the war situation has undergone con-
siderable changes since he wrote, but the
bulk of his facts, figures and findings are
firmly based.
“The New Order,” he says, “has already
arrived. It is poverty, desolation, hatred
and chaos.” That is one for Nippon,
and he has plenty more shot for the same
barrel, but he does attempt to get at
Japan’s case and set it down, though he
adds his personal finding that it is thin.
He has shots just as telling in his other
barrel for China —the general untrust-
worthiness of Chinese propaganda, the
inferiority of Chinese airmen/the folly of
assassinations of Chinese committed by
Chinese. His summing up on the much-
talked-of, era of “sincere co-operation”
between Chinese and Japanese is that it
“is probably so dimly distant that no
man now living will live to enjoy the
promised wonders and fruits thereof.”
How to Get By in War-time: Ethyle
Campbell (Peter Davies). Women of
Albion, here’s how you can, and should,
economise. But without sacrificing your
charm, etc. And remember: “It is
patriotic to keep hens. Keep that well
before you. In the sacred name of
patriotism you can do things which ordi-
narily aren’t done.”
“Life and Letters Today”: The May
number of this melancholy successor to
the London “Mercury” is more solid
than earlier issues, with a James Hanley
war story and another slab of the diary
of Osbert Sitwell’s aunt. A poem, “Lin-
guistic,” by one Terence Heywood, has all
the simple lyricism of an isosceles tri-
angle.
“Oriflamme”: Contributions in prose or
verse from Maorilanders aged 17 to 27
are invited (no payment); the little multi-
graphed magazine lives at 13 Bowen-
street, Wellington. While a bard in the
second number is suffering from “a lousy
cloud of murk” on his soul, the standard
can’t yet be considered high, but it’s a
good idea to let young poets have their
fling.
“The Australian Museum Magazine”:
It’s a nice job they turn out at College-
street, Sydney, and the articles should
interest anyone with a taste for birds,
beasts and fishes. Various writers deal
with grasshoppers, the carved trees of
New South Wales, statistics of gold
nuggets, and the identification of amber-
gris. There is also a New Zealand
trumpeter with two mouths.
Dope Runners: Gerald Grantham
(Crime Book Co., Melbourne). Chinese,
opium, Scotland Yard, beautiful girl, kill-
ings and shootings galore.
Let Me Breathe Thunder: William
Attaway (Hale). Author of this hobo
novel is a negro, if that matters. An
imitation of Steinbeck’s Of Mice and
Men, it’s also a criticism of it, for it’s
not so much more sentimental as more
obviously sentimental. Instead of one
hobo with a halfwit, Attaway has two
young hobos with a dear little Mexican
boy. Fair allowance of prostitutes,
bashings, rape, etc., a kind-hearted apple
farmer and an innocent gal wno is tired
of living like an apple. The dear little
boy dies a dear little death in a railway
truck, and the two young hobos go off
into the distance, not before it’s time.
“D.D.” smites a Philistine:
A Red Page reviewer (B. 10/7/’4O) devoted
exactly six lines to a notice of Jacques Mari-
tain’s Science and Wisdom, dismissing it as “an
almost startling anachronism” of possible in-
terest to “retired doctors of divinity.” It is
true that a “closely-reasoned” treatise based on
the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas may
seem an anachronism to many modern minds,
but that fact is a criticism neither of St.
Thomas nor of Maritain. It is merely sympto-
matic of the modem mind.
St. Thomas was a simple soul who believed
wholeheartedly in reason and the uses of logical
thinking. No wonder the work of a Thomist
such as Maritain seems an anachronism to
minds brought up on the vaporings of H. G.
Wells and the rest of the “modem thinkers.”
The trouble with these modern rationalists is
that they seem to have a rooted aversion to
using their reason. Your reviewer must be a
stranger to modern English Catholic literature
else he would know that books on St. Thomas
are of interest to more than retired doctors
of divinity. Indeed the Thomistic revival is
one of the most significant features of such
literature. Arnold Lunn, G. K. Chesterton,
Douglas Jerrold and Ronald Knox—to mention
but a few —have devoted considerable time to
the study and exposition of St. Thomas. Which
explains their ribald rough-handling of modem
seers. Ronald Knox’s Broadcast Minds is a
fair sample of what Thomists can do with
modem “thinking.”
May I suggest that the Bulletin reviewer
tackle Lunn’s Flight from Reason ? Lunn’s
brilliant contrast between the rationalism of
St. Thomas and the credulity of our modern
philosophers may surprise him, but it will show
him why the “close-reasoning” of Maritain
makes him appear an anachronism. Logical
reasoning from a sure premise is not the forte
of modem pundits.
Finally, a reviewer who contemptuously dis-
misses a book by Jacques Maritain shouldn’t
be guilty of such absurdities as “the dogmas
of St. Thomas Aquinas.”


Depend on Anthony Horderns’ for “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.’
“THE SENIOR STORE’
If
"t
I
w
n
i
11
■
If m
■
m
I
t ,
mm
-
; 1
:.S
N \
X. "'
*#»>**"
m
Cepea Serge Pyjamas, 14/6
These are the Pyjamas men buy time and
again. And the reason is because they are so
comfortable and durable in wear. Made of a
British fabric in striped designs in' our own
workrooms. V sports neck or square collar.
Small, medium and outsizes. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, suit 14/6
"Hordura" Socks, 211
"Hordura" Socks are the choice of men who
demand the maximum of wear. They're avail-
able in a big selection of the newest Check
and Jacquard designs in Grey, Navy or Fawn
tonings. Sizes 10 to 11£ inch foot. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, pair 2/11
Also sizes 12 and 13 inches. Price, pair: 3/6
KEEP WARM AND
COMFORTABLE
k
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
t*
Look to the future] Be economical and buy supplies of "Jumbuk"
Underwear NOW at pre-war prices. "Jumbuk" is all wool, light
in weight, and comfortable to wear.
Undershirts Sizes: 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 in.
(short sleeves) Prices: 7/9 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/3 11/3 12/6 13/9
Underpants 8/9 9/3 10/6 10/9 11/3 12/3 13/6 14/9
Trunk Drawers 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 10/9 11/9
35/- DRESSING GOWNS
Here's the Dressing Gown for cosy warmth
and smart appearance. Superbly tailored
of all wool tweed. Fancy checks in Blue,
Grey, Fawn and Green, with plain contrast-
/
ing collar, cuffs and pockets. Finished silk cord and girdle to
tone. Sizes 36 to 42in. chest. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
42/6. Special Price 27/6
IWBiS «iSI
RRHHi
B ■
:' « J ; ;:
Is.. i
—]
mmmmi
M
M
I :»
■paii
>!
: :
I»
M 0
: '
- ■
.
<*
V' .... ’
1 1 mm
mrt'
AKUBRA HATS. 19'6
Styled for the man who is particular about the type of
hat he wears, the Akubra is a fine quality Fur Felt with
the new lower crowns and narrow bands. Also in the
more conservative styles. New tonings of Grey, Blue,
Fawn, and Brown. "Boomerang'' quality. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 19/6
Also "High" quality, silk lined. Price 25/-
• Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth,
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


THE BISHOPS
SHOOT A GODWIT
“No thanks , mate. Always gives me a hangover .”
BY DOUGLAS STEWART
THE waves broke on the bar in snowy turmoil,
but the incoming tide shouldered the headland
without violence, and the sea ran to the horizon
like a blue banner swaying in the wind. The
men on the two or three launches between the harbor
mouth and the bar were continually pulling in their
lines, re-baiting them and throwing out again, but
nobody seemed to be catching any fish. From the
direction of Tern Island beyond the horizon, a flight
of godwits, dark and rapid in the distance, sped
towards the launches and the fishermen on the head-
land, then wheeled along the line of breakers to the
north.
Mr. Bishop turned to his son. “There you are,
Lex!” he said. “There are the godwits.”
Among the other fishermen on the rocky ledge,
Mr. Bishop was as conspicuous as the* boy was insig-
nificant. He sat at the extreme point of the head-
land —the best position, for he had come down before
slack water to be sure of capturing it. His long white
skinny legs, red with sunburn at the knee joints, his
new panama hat, his insufficiently ragged “old coat”
were in themselves enough to single him out, and his
hunched shoulders and the rigidity of his posture
facing the open sea were a warning to trespassers
against his isolation. Though his mood was amiable,
any casual beggar of bait would have been intimidated
by the unalterable severity of his features which
years of teaching dull history to stupid small boys
had frozen to the appearance of marble. It was his
close-cropped hair, long skull, straight-lined face and
thin though sensitive mouth as much as his profes-
sion that made his acquaintances regard him as a
man born out of his age, some survivor of the per-
secutions in Holland or the war against King Charles.
People who observed the perpetual blinking of his
weak eyes behind his rimless spectacles received a
distinct shock, as if this ordinary human misfortune
were some unworthy secret. Asa concession to his
fellow-men, for he was aware of his remoteness and
at times regretted it, Mr. Bishop smoked a pipe, mak-
ing, however, the mistake of using so large and so
rank a cherrywood that the effect was at once repel-
lent and absurd. When he filled it, he seemed to be
packing a cabin-trunk.
“There you are, Lex!” he said. “There are thn
godwits.”
“If I had my gun here some might fly over,” the
boy suggested. “Shall I fetch it, dad?” He peered at
his father eagerly and nervously through his horn-
rimmed glasses.
“That wouldn’t be any use, Lex. They can see
us here and they won’t come near.”
“Won’t they see us then tomorrow? Shall we
have to hide?”
“We dig a trench in a shell-bank, Olsen tells me,”
Mr. Bishop answered. “It will be quite anew experi-
ence.” He spoke in an ironical tone, conveying the
impression that new experiences, even if one wel-
comed them, were somehow childish and trivial.
The boy’s face contorted as he worked up cour-
age to say what was in his mind. When he spoke
he stuttered slightly. “M-mother says it’s really cruel
to shoot them.”
Mr. Bishop winced, and then his face grew stern
and bony-looking. “You must learn to be more
manly, Lex,” he admonished. ‘‘l explained to. you
when I gave you the gun that you must never use it
unless shooting for food. The godwits are for the
pot. In any case, we are in Rome now, and must
do as the Romans do.”
Nothing but sermons ever since Dad had thought
of buying him the gun, Lex thought bitterly. Not to
point it at people (as if he would!), not to carry it
through a fence, not to shoot singing birds, not to
boast about it to other boys because he was legally
too young to own it, not to do this, not to do that! He
stared sulkily at the sea.
It really was a shame to shoot the godwits, Mr.
Bishop reflected. Marvellous voyagers! They flew
all the long ocean from Siberia and then, when they
had fattened on the New Zealand beaches, the great
slaughter began. Shooting them from motor-cars on
Ninety Mile Beach! He rather hoped that tomorrow’s
expedition would be a failure. But then —life was
cruel, he consoled himself. Man was a hunting animal.
He imagined the morning light and the clean bark of
the guns and felt contented. Lex would buck up in
time.
Mr. Bishop lit his enormous pipe as if he
were officiating at an auto-da-fe. Feeling the
knock and strain of his line as the sinker
shifted or a green swell rolled glassily by, he
felt happy. He watched the dance of the water
and the clouds. It pleased him to see the tiny
mussels clustering as thickly as sunflower seeds at his
feet and the bigger mussels nearer the waterline. The
seaweed, reddish in the green water at the rock’s edge,
swayed with a lovely abandon, an eternal ballet of
the ocean.
Seeking to draw his son into his reverie, Mr.
Bishop saw that once again, because he liked to pre-
tend the bumping of his sinker on the sea floor was
the bite of a snapper, the boy hauled in his line to
re-bait and had the cord badly tangled. He was
plucking at it despairingly, not daring to ask for
assistance. As he was about to go to the rescue,
Mr. Bishop felt a tug on his own line. He sprang to
his feet, poised himself, struck as the fish bit again,
and methodically drew in the bucking line. The
snapper gleamed palely in the deep water and shone
copper, rose and silver as he pulled it flapping up
the rocks.
“A beauty! ” exclaimed Olsen beside him. “Good
for you, Mr. Bishop!”
“Yes, Olsen,” agreed Mr. Bishop with judicious
enthusiasm. “A nice fish. The first today.” And
no one else at the heads had landed a snapper that
tide, he thought triumphantly. “And what about
those godwits, eh? Do we shoot tomorrow?”
“Ay.” Watched by the boy, Olsen was freeing the
snapper from Mr. Bishop’s hook, and grunted assent
without looking up. “I came to tell you, Mr. Bishop.
We’ll get away early if it suits you.” He threw
the fish with a splash into a pool in the ledge.
“Capital!” said Mr. Bishop heartily. “You set
the time and we’ll be ready. I’ll bring the boy along,
too. He has a new shotgun.”
“So you got a new gun, eh?” Olsen said to the
boy. “You got your line in a bit of a mess, too.
We’ll soon fix that.”
He was a big man, but his fingers moved deftly
among the cord. He liked helping the youngster, for
he was sorry for him, so shy and helpless. He was
fond of Mr. Bishop, too, respecting him as a gentle-
man and a man of culture. A Swede by birth, with
big, coarse, sunburned features, Olsen had spent his
whole life with boats and the sea. Some mystery,
which he himself had almost forgotten, lay in his
past; whether it was drink or a woman or an accident
at sea for which he had been held responsible nobody
knew. He was Olsen the boatman. An authority
on tides and weather, fish and birds, the vagaries of
his engine and the lunacies of trippers, he led an
idyllic sort of existence, hiring himself and his launch
to visitors, catching a few fish for the local market
and acting as carrier for settlers on the upper reaches
of the harbor. Like the sluggish tides that stole
over the mudflats and crept about the green piles of
the jetties, he was never exactly idle, but he was never
in a hurry. Mr. Bishop found his insistent helpful-
ness on fishing expeditions somewhat trying, but
tolerated it because it made him feel rather like the
local squire.
Lex, who had been watching the fish gasping and
flapping in the pool, came back when his line had
been baited and thrown out again and took it from
Olsen’s huge red hand with a look of gratitude.
“All right, then, Mr. Bishop. Six o’clock I’ll call
for you,” said Olsen as he strode away.
"T" HEY could hear the launch chug-chugging in the
morning mist long before they could see it. Olsen
made tea for them on his primus, and when they
came up again the harbor was a wheatfield of golden
light. It was low water and the mudflats were gleam-
ing. A solitary gull, burnished by the sun, looked
like a bird out of a legend. The steel of the guns
was cold to touch, but there was warmth fn the early
rays on their faces and the backs of their hands.
“A wonderful day for it, Mr. Bishop,” said Olsen.
His passenger, smoking his pipe with keen relish
in the world of gold and crystal, nodded gravely.
Lex was preoccupied watching a ragged youth whom
BEAUTY SUCH AS THIS.
I would not barter beauty such as this
For all the pomp and splendor of a crown ;
The lilac-tinted shadow-shards that lie
Beneath the trees like sunbonnets cast down
In pixie petulance. The whisper kiss
Of wind that, drowsy as "a butterfly,
Lingers down warm jade grottoes in the grass,
Where bright as quartz among the fallen bark
Of dappled gums lie pools as still as glass —
Each an oasis fringed by bracken, dark
As clustered date palms in some desert close.
Drenched by the morning rain the black rocks gleam
Like oilskins worn by fishermen when blows
The bitter rime across the narrow beam
And salt nets sag beneath their silver load.
The shepherds' wreath that blue as heaven glowed
In dead September now lies bleached and grey,
A half-coiled lariat lost among the heath.
The berries of the snake-bush, ripe and gay,
Glint green as little muscatels beneath
The ashen eaves of sullen thrusting thorns.
The wild hop swings pale amber gourds of seed
Below the moss-entangled brittle horns
Of dead sweet-briar where, like locusts freed
From Bible days, the flecked motes move among
The tilted guava gold of June sunshine.
The cold volcanoes of the gorse have sprung
To flame again, and line on yellow line
The blossom lava ripples and runs down.
I would not barter beauty such as this
For all the pomp of kings or doubtful bliss
That lies within the- circle of a crown!
Tasmania.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


Olsen had brought with him fingering his smallbore
with an expression of mingled envy and contempt.
“Never seen anything like that before, have you,
Dick?” Olsen drawled.
“I like the big gun,” the youth answered. “Won’t
do much good with that!”
Lex leaned over the side and trailed his fingers
in the water. It was surprisingly warm.
Both he and his father were bewildered when
Olsen, apparently in the middle of the nowhere of the
waters, switched off his engine and let go the anchor.
“We take the dinghy here and row to the shell-
bank,” the boatman explained. “Dick will row it
back and pick us up when we’re ready. Those birds
won’t come near us if there’s anything queer.”
The oars dipped and splashed, spilling bright
drops. The shell-bank, a mass of millions of cockles,
showed tawny across the water, and when the men
landed the cream and golden shells crackled under
their feet. It was a tiny island of living cockles and
empty shells, sloping palely away under the shallow
water as far as the eye could see. Olsen took a
shovel and scooped three dugouts, the shells scratch-
ing unpleasantly on the steel as he worked. Dick,
rowing back to the launch lost in the mist, was
already a long way off. As the ripples lapped their
little island, Lex looked apprehensively towards the
harbor mouth. What if a big wave came? What
would they do when the tide rose? Suppose the
ragged boy went to sleep and failed to come to
rescue them?
“Well, Olsen, if the launch sinks we’ll have a
long swim home,” said Mr. Bishop jocosely. He, too,
had felt they were marooned. How quiet it was!
The shell-bank, the green shallows, and the harbor
fading into the fog, all absolutely silent except when
a shell rattled in a retreating wavelet.
“No need to worry about that,” the Swede
reassured him, and Mr. Bishop wished he had not
spoken. »
They heard guns in the distance.
“Ay!” said the Swede. “They’re shooting along
the beach, Mr. Bishop. That’ll bring the birds into
the harbor. We’d better take cover.”
Water had seeped into the hollows he had scooped,
and it took an effort of will to lie down, fully-clothed,
among the wet shells. At water-level, the harbor
seemed to be brimming over, already engulfing the
islet. With a shock of terror Lex saw a dogfish
swimming a few feet away from him. But his fright
was soon lost in sheer wonder at a sight which to
both men as well as the boy seemed like some miracu-
lous revelation. It was a huge snapper, so big that
the fin on its back jutted out of the water like a
sail, feeding on the cockles. They could see it flurry
the shells about and then bob upwards while they
imagined the hard jaws cracking the shellfish like a
nutcracker a nut. Over the pale shells its body was
rose-colored, and the fin above the surface, lilac spotted
with green in the sunlight, had the iridescence of a
butterfly’s wing. It swam away with a calm grace,
and a shoal of herring rattled the green surface of the
shallows with a rush as if hail had fallen.
“We could have shot it,” Lex suggested, playing
the man.
Peering at him through his spectacles over the
rampart of shells, Mr. Bishop said icily, “We would
have frightened the godwits.” He was feeling damp
and cramped and undignified, and the fact that the boy
was shivering and blue with cold increased his irrita-
tion.
“Look!” said Olsen softly. “Here they are!”
The godwits, perhaps fifty in the flock, were
flying directly towards them in a swift dark phalanx
from the sea. The mist, Mr. Bishop realised in a
flash, had cleared. The surf, breaking creamily on
the bar beyond the protecting headland, looked moun-
tainously tall. He thought of one calm evening of
early summer, years ago, when he had first seen the
birds coming in from Siberia, a great constellation of
them with their wings beating out a thin, urgent
melody in the darkening air.
As the godwits saw the men, they wheeled
sharply overhead, and the guns shouted together. One
bird, as if of its own swift intent, plunged into the
sea like a diver from the high board.
Olsen waded out to retrieve it. “The boy shot
it!” he laughed as he came back, dangling the limp
bundle. “And a good shot, too, boy!”
“Yes, you shot it, Lex,” Mr. Bishop said.
Lex was biting his lips and there were tears in his
eyes. “But I didn’t!” he cried. “I didn’t!”
“Course you did,” Olsen encouraged him. “I
saw the one you aimed at.”
Lex struggled with his conscience and his desire
to please h : s father and the big Swede. “They came
so swiftly,” he burst out. “The way they turned. It
was too quick. I didn’t shoot.” He looked down at
the shiny blue steel of the gun his father had given
him.
No more birds came over, and soon it was time
to go home. By the time they had reached the
launch the tide had covered the shell-bank, and un-
broken water stretched to the grey-green shore. Not
too depressed, for at least he had been out godwit
shooting, Lex sat in silence while the launch chugged
home. He was hungry and looked forward to break-
fast. Mr. Bishop smoked his pipe, watched the water
going by, and gave an occasional nod or grunt as
Olsen apologised for the poor bag and recalled fabu-
lous successes in former expeditions.
“Well at least you got one, Mr. Bishop,” said the
Swede, handing him the bird when they reached the
jetty.
“Damn him!” thought the schoolmaster with a
surge of symapthy for his son. “He knows very well
he shot it himself.”
THE BRASS NUGGET
By S. H. COURTIER.
*‘ \ | I HEN I was sluicin’ in Charcoal Gully near
\ A / Bendigo there was a chap called George
V V Thomson who was a terror for joking.
There was six or seven teams there, all one-
man or two-men shows, and whenever we saw
George’s big hairy face about we got ready for some-
thing to happen. We was always havin our watei
turned off unexpected or findin our pipes blocked,
so, in a way, we was mighty pleased when he was
taken down, though were all in the same boat, as it
happened. .
It was the brass nugget George made it. He
got a few ounces of brass melted it down and poured
it oyer some gravel When it cooled down it had
the look of the real thing Not that it would take
you in if you knew gold, but it was near enough to
make you give a bit of a gasp when first you spotted
it in your sluice- ox.
“O’ course, it was George’s idea for some feller
to make a proper goat of himself and bolt off to the
bank with it. But no one done that, though all of
us found the damn' thing in our boxes one time or
odler
, , ,r ... ~, ,
It became a sort of game with us, that brass
nugget. Me and me mate, we had our plant up at
the head of the Gully. We'd find the nugget in our
“Hurry up, Joe!”
box, then one of us would stroll down casual-like to
the next team to ask the time or borrow a match and
drop it into their sluice. Then they’d find it and pass
it on to the next. As a rule, it would have a quick
passage, because sluicers are always pokin’ into their
box to see their luck. .
“But the game died out after a while. The last
sluice in the Gully was George Thomson’s, and
having his joke boomeranged back on him annoyed
him so much he heaved the thing away and we
gradually forgot it, except to kick it off the track
when we saw it.
“One day a new chap called Cresby came into
the Gully and takes up a lease just below George.
He’s a nice sort of feller who’d been a counterjumper
till the doctor told him to get into the open air
because his lungs wasn’t too strong.
“We all went down to help him get his g ea r
settled and his sluices up, and we soon found out he
knew nothing about the game. He said the only gold
he’d seen was what come out of a jeweller’s shop, and
he’d be glad of any advice we could give him.
“That was right into George’s hands. It’s a
WQnder Cre§by don>t gQ si „ with all the advice
George giyes him The right way tQ swing a shove];
how tQ undercut a wall> ho w to clean the boxes;
G showg him everything> but always s 0 as poor
c himself into a mess. But you couldn’t tell
from hjs face if he twigged
he was bein’ made a goat
or nQt Then George remembers the brass nugget
and passes the word up the Gully if we spo tted it
about anywhere to sen d it down to him.
. , , T „ , . , . , . ,
“ As happened, I found it a couple of days later
and sends it down to George the usual way—dropped
it into the box of the two men below me. I nearly
~,. , . „
» d “" “> thmkm George was too hot on Cresby
but the thou S ht ot a feller rusbm f lnto the bank Wlth 3
lump of brass was too much tor me.
“About an hour later, I reckoned the nugget must
have got to George and, bein’ near enough to crib,
I suggests to me mate we go down and watch the fun.
All the others must have decided the same thing, for
we finds ’em all leanin’ on George’s sluice and watchin
Cresby unobtrusive-like.
“‘He’s got it, boys,’ George says, grinnin’. ‘I
dropped it into his sluice a few minutes back.
“Cresby goes on shovellin’ dirt into his sluice
without appearin’ to notice us. Then he goes along to
look in his box—he’d soon got into the ways of
sluicers. After fiddlin’ about he climbs up the bank
to his valve, shuts the water off, then puts on his coat
and comes up to us.
“ ‘Excuse me,’ he says, ‘but would one of you
mind lending me a bike? I got to go into the town
on business.’
“There was three or four very
willin’ to lend him a bike. George
starts quizzin’ him what the busi-
ness was about, but Cresby’s not
lettin’ on, and he rides off tellin’
us he’ll be back in an hour. But
we can guess all right, and we was
imaginin’ the look on his face when
the bank tells him he’s got a lump
of brass.
“We decides to prolong the
crib time so as we can view the
result. But when Cresby comes
ridin’ back there’s a big grin all
over his dial. He thanks the feller
who lent him the bike, then he
says: ‘You know, I found a nugget
in me box this morning, but I didn’t
like to say anything about it, not
being sure. I might have mistaken
it and I didn’t want to make a fool
of myself. But it was all right!
The bank advanced me forty quid
and there’s more to come after the
final assay.’ And he shoves a
thumpin’ roll of notes under our
noses!
“We’re just about knocked
stupid and we’ve hardly got the
. gumption to congraterlate him.
* When he’s gone back to his sluice
George stands starin’ thoughtful-like, then with a hor-
rible look on his face he heads over to his box. Sure
enough, there’s the blasted brass nugget lookin’ him in
the eye!
“What stumps us all is, Did that Cresby bloke
drop the brass nugget into George’s sluice when he
come to borrow the bike, or did George make a
terrible mistake and put a real nugget into Cresby s
box? Or was there a real nugget at all? One thing,
Cresby himself never tells us the answer. That night
George drops the brass nugget down the deepest
shaft in the Gully.”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Hme efiaie melloiiiieJ^UTidJmiqiuei/
“WAR, COMMERCE AND PLEASURE" -A SCENE OFF GRAVESEND.
Some twenty-six miles from London Bridge, Gravesend, often referred to as “the Entrance to the Port of London,” is a town whose name can be regarded as
almost a household one in Australia and New Zealand. From the river front in the pioneer days departed those sailing vessels carrying the British people, or a
large bulk of them, who laid the foundations of those great Dominions of the British Commonwealth of Nations in the Southern Seas. In all the succeeding
decades the Thames at this point has witnessed a continuous departure of craft terminating in the stately liners of the twentieth century bound for like destinations,
with this difference that the passengers now embark on the northern side of the Thames opposite—Tilbury. Today the passenger windjammers and their close
association with Gravesend are matters of history, but none the less important and interesting on that account. Dickens in “David Copperfield” has left a vivid
picture of scenes associated with the sailing of these immigrant ships in, what now appears to most, “the long ago.” But Gravesend, in many respects lacking in
those natural and artificial attractions which appeal to the tourist, possesses a “life” hoary with age. In the Domesday Book it was called “Graves-ham,” which
implies the residence of the ‘grave” or “ruler.” Another etymology derives it from, the Saxon word “Graef,” which means a coppice. Like other domains in the
vicinity it was held by Odo, half-biother to William the Conqueror. The manor passed in course of time through various ownerships, ecclesiastical and lay. It was sold
by the notorious Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, in pursuance of a licence from Queen Elizabeth, but reverted to the Crown in James I’s reign. In the tenth year of
Elizabeth’s reign it received its charter of incorporation. Coming to 1798, that year witnessed an ambitious scheme prepared by a civil engineer named Dodd for
a tunnel under the river to Tilbury. Though supported financially by the counties of Essex and Kent, and work actually started on the Gravesend side, it was,
for various reasons, eventually abandoned. “Good Queen Bess” ordered the Lord Mayor of London to receive all Ambassadors and eminent strangers at Gravesend,
and escort them in civic barges to London, if they proceeded by water. In the parish churchyard repose the remains of an illustrious heroine —Pocahontas, the
Indian princess, who in 1608 saved the life of Captain John Smith, captured by Indians in the early days of North American colonisation. A century past Gravesend
was a popular “seaside resort” with Londoners, and today its fame has not entirely departed for excelling in the art of preparing shrimps in forms most
palatable. If Gravesend, with its narrow streets, lacks much, it is “backed” by beautiful and undulating country. One attraction remains pre-eminent, the shipping
pageant in ceaseless procession up and down the river. To sit at a window of the Old Falcon Hotel and contemplate the scene is to form some idea of Britain’s
and the Empire’s might. The illustration, taken from this vantage point, just prior to the outbreak of the Great War, conveys some idea of what, with certain slight
changes in marine architecture, can be seen ,in even the distressful times which the Empire is faced with in 1940.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3155.
July 31, 1940.
THE BIG-GAME HUNTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.Q.),
Wellington.
London: l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
FROM HALIFAX TO HELL.
“War is hell.” — General Sherman.
In a Europe full of crime, suffering and fear, one thing
shines like a star —the spirit of the British people.
Standing at bay in their homeland, and awaiting an
attack on the Rock from which they have controlled
the Mediterranean for 200 years, the British people
are magnificent.
They have no illusions left. They are aware that
their enemies have nearly three times their population
and are far stronger on land and in the air. They
have seen all their allies defeated in a few weeks,
and the greatest of them surrender on terms so shock-
ing that its finest battleships had to be fought to pre-
vent their being added to the hostile navies. From
their southern shores they can see some of the desola-
tion wrought in France by the conqueror. They
know that famous towns and cities have been blasted
into hideous ruins, under which lie the shattered bodies
of many of the inhabitants, ferociously slaughtered re-
gardless of age, condition and sex, and they have all
too much reason for dreading what may be in store
for their own historic cities and towns. But there is
no faltering in Britain. The nation is united as it has
been united only in the high heroic periods of its his-
tory. From King to scavenger, there is only one
thought and determination —to fight until the two
enemies have had enough, and until everything for
which Britain stands has been preserved.
Contemplating this spectacle of calm courage and
stoical acceptance of sacrifices, of which the Kings-
ley Wood Budget is the latest and not the least, the
people of the Dominions are stirred by feelings of
pride and emulation. Slow to get going, because
they were unprepared and did not realise what was at
stake, they are now throwing everything they have
into the struggle. In Australia the rush to the colors
has exceeded the present capacity of the authorities
to cope with it, and enlistments were greatest when
the situation on the Continent was at its worst. Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders serving in the Royal Air
Force have covered themselves with glory; cruisers
from both Dominions have taken part in two
of the grandest sea-fights of the war; their sol-
diers are helping to guard the Suez Canal, Palestine
and the vital pipeline that ends at Haifa, England
itself; and their contribution to the British war
effort, all along important in the matter of supplies,
will become more considerable with every succeeding
week.
But in one field in which the Dominions could
assist, if only by bringing fresh minds to bear on
problems which await solution and which have recently
been added to and complicated —for Australia and
Maoriland in respect of New Caledonia, the New
Hebrides, the Netherlands East Indies and New
Guinea—their assistance has not been asked. There
is no Imperial War Cabinet, though, partly because
of the defeat of the Dutch and the French, the
case for an Imperial War Cabinet is far
stronger than when the necessity for one was con-
ceded in 1916 ; and the Dominions are not represented
on the War Council, though representation was
granted to Poland and Norway. The British Govern-
ment decides everything. No doubt it pays the Gov-
ernments of the Dominions the compliment of ascer-
taining their views, and in some instances it may be
influenced by them —this was perhaps the case in the
affair of the Burma Road —but even conversations
between individuals at two ends of a radio telephone
are unsatisfactory substitutes for discussions of policy
in which a representative of each Dominion can have
his say. There have been no such discussions since
the war began, and it doesn’t seem likely that there
will be any while the war lasts, unless the Govern-
ments of the Dominions claim, as in justice to their
own nations they must, what the British Government
could not refuse.
Australia has been led to believe that the High
Commissioners have frequent discussions with the
British P.M. Sydney “Sun” blurted out the truth on
Saturday—on the previous day they met him “collec-
tively” for the first time since his appointment in the
second week of May. And Mr. Churchill is to be—
or has been —approached, not to give Australia its
proper share in the shaping of war and peace policy,
but to get power for the Menzies Government to post-
pone the Commonwealth elections !
Hitler’s speech to the Reichstag was answered by
Lord Halifax. Whether he consulted the Governments
of Canada, Australia, Maoriland and South Africa
beforehand or informed them of what he proposed to
say has not been disclosed. Probably he did one thing
or the other; it is scarcely conceivable that he would
bang and bolt the door, as he did, against the “last
appeal to England” without communicating his inten-
tions to those Governments, since they, and not the
British Government, are responsible to their peoples
for the continuance of the war. Forty-eight hours
before Lord Halifax spoke Mr. Menzies said at
Footscray that Hitler would be “answered in half a
minute —with derisive laughter.” On the other hand,
it is just possible that, had the proposal, such as it
was, come before an Imperial War Cabinet, there
would have been a majority for challenging the man
to state in precise terms what he meant by “a reason-
able peace.”
The Foreign Secretary’s speech was such as might
have been delivered by any of the Lords spiritual.
“Those of us who cannot serve in the armed forces,”
he said, “must all do our best in other ways to help
them. There is one thing we can all do, which may
be much more powerful than we know; and that is
to pray.” His Lordship quoted the example of a
Yorkshire village where “the people agreed to form
a Sixth Column, in which they pledged themselves to
give a few minutes each day in God’s house for
prayer” ; and he referred with satisfaction to what was
going on in the United States —“that great people prays
for our victory over this wicked man and his ways as
fervently as any of his present victims.”
It would be edifying to see Mr. Upton Sinclair,
Mr. Theodore Dreiser, Mr. Ernest Hemingway, Mr.
Walter Winchell, Mr. Jimmy Cagney and the editors
of a parcel of Left-wing magazines and news-
papers down on their knees praying for “our
victory,” instead of bawling taunts of cowardice at us
because .we failed to oblige them by hurling ourselves
into the dogfight in Spain—Germans and Italians on
the one side ; Russians and French on the other—but
it is doubtful whether this interesting conversion has
been witnessed. In any case, the prayers of good
Americans can be taken for granted ; more urgent
needs from their nation, as two of Lord Halifax’s col-
leagues pointed out during the week, are a few score
destroyers and a few thousand bombing and fighting
’planes.
“We never wanted the war,” the Foreign Secretary
said in another passage, “and certainly no one here
wants the war to go on for a day longer than is
necessary. But we shall not cease to fight until free-
dom for ourselves and others is secure.” He did not
specify the “others,” but Poland is no doubt one of
them; the British Prime Minister assured the Polish
General Sikorski that “we” would “conquer or die
together.” Czechoslovakia seems to be another; any-
way, the British Government has recognised the
Czechoslovak Provisional Government set up in
London, with that child of misfortune Benes as Pre-
mier ; and “Britain’s determination to see the Czechs
regain their independence was reaffirmed by the
Foreign Under-Secretary, Mr. Butler.”
The last British Ambassador at Berlin has written
that “the Czechs were incredibly short-sighted and
domineering in their treatment of the Slovaks, and
the separatists among the latter were no less blindly
disloyal in their attitude towards the Czechs.” And
there were, of course, dissatisfied minorities of Ger-
mans, Poles and Hungarians, all of whom were taken
care of when the spoils were distributed. If “Britain’s
determination to see the Czechs regain their indepen-
dence” means that an attempt will be made to cram
Czechs, Slovaks, Germans, Poles and Hungarians into
a republic as explosive as the last, Australians will be
no party to it, nor will they be bound by any other
commitment of the kind. They look upon the war as
a war for the preservation of Britain and the British
Commonwealth and Empire, and when it is over they
will go out of the crusading business and retire from
the Mad Continent for all time.
Before Britain came into the picture Poland and
Czechoslovakia were proteges of France. So was
Rumania. Last week the Rumanians, who were
guaranteed and subsidised by Britain, repaid their
benefactor by grabbing the property of Astra Romana,
the biggest oil company in their rotten kingdom,
jointly owned by Britons and Dutch. They had pre-
viously seized British ships ; and now Britain is vir-
tually in a state of war with them, as well as with
Petain’s France. Plundered of Bessarabia and
North Bukovinp by the Russians, and threat-
ened with the seizure of Transylvania and the
Dobrudja, the Rumanians have crawled into the Ger-
man orbit. Russia was another ally of France, and
here again the British Government of the period was
willing to be drawn into the French system of alli-
ances. Though, with low Eurasian cunning and ras-
cality, Britain was sold by the Russians in August,
1939, and was very nearly at war with them in Feb-
ruary, 1940, it is courting them again through the
instrumentality of that very queer ambassador Sir
Stafford Cripps. Sir Stafford obviously hopes to bring
off a Russian alliance. There would be two certain
consequences, each abhorrent to Australia and Maori-
land : these nations would cease to be united, and there
would be trouble with Japan.
Last year, perhaps, the Chamberlain Government
could have had an alliance with Russia, which would
have lasted fully a month, had it agreed to let
Moscow gobble up and Bolshevise the Baltic States. It
preferred to keep its hands clean and preserve the
reputation of its country; and now Moscow has
gobbled up and is about to Bolshevise the Baltic States
by arrangement with Germany. This is as clear as
noonday, though no doubt fools and knaves will main-
tain the contrary; the withdrawal of the German
minorities from the Baltic States is convincing evi-
dence of criminal collusion. What fresh examples of
perfidy and spoliation Hitler and Stalin are preparing
another month or two may disclose ; meanwhile here
is the record of Sir Stafford’s friends:
Russia enters into non-aggression treaties with Finland,
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland,. Rumania, Czechoslovakia,
Persia and Afghanistan. The agreements specify that “the
internal position of any State, as, for example, its political,
economic or social structure, alleged shortcomings of its
administration, disorder following upon strikes, revolutionary
or counter-revolutionary movements or civil war,” is not to
justify aggression (May, 1933).
Russia joins the League, and pledges rtself to respect
and preserve as against external aggression the territorial integ-
rity and existing political independence of all members of
the League (Article X). Also to submit to arbitration or inquiry
by the League Council any dispute likely to lead to rupture,
and in no case to resort to war until three months after the
award by the arbitrators or the report by the Council (Article
XII). Poland, Finland, Estonia, ' Latvia, Lithuania and
Rumania are fellow-members (September, 1934).
Litvinov asserts the Russian/ Government’s willingness
to defend Czechoslovakia against German aggression, provided
France does the same (September, 1938).
Russian foreign policy defined by Stalin as support for
nations which have fallen a prey to aggression, resistance to
threats from aggressors and peaceable relations with all neigh-
boring countries “so long as these countries maintain identical
relations with the Soviet Union” (March, 1939).
Definition repeated in London by Russian Ambassador,
stress being laid on the words “assistance against aggression
for those who fight for their independence.”
Litvinov falls; Molotov succeeds; Britain assured that
there will be no change in Russian foreign policy (May, 1939).
Russia proposes an Anglo-Franco-Soviet agreement for
mutual assistance; negotiations at Moscow drag on for three
months, May-August; then, at Stalin’s invitation, an Anglo-
French military mission arrives for conversations (August 11).
While the “conversations” are in progress Molotov and
Ribbentrop sign an economic, political and military agreement
good for 10 years (August 21-23).
Molotov asserts that the agreement “narrows the field
of hostilities and thus promotes universal peace.” He accuses
Britain and France of being “insincere and contradictory” and
of having tried to “provoke war between Germany and
Russia” (August 31).
Germans invade Poland (Sept. 1). Russians invade Poland
(Sept. 17). They sign a treaty cutting up the country (Sept.
28).
Russia forces “pacts of mutual assistance’ on Estonia
(September 28), Latvia (October 5) and Lithuania (Octciber 5);
troops sent into the three States and naval and air bases
occupied. A similar “pact” refused by Finland.
Molotov supports “Germany’s efforts for peace” and
declares that Russia is granting the Baltic States “oppor-
tunities for independent development denied to them under
Czarism” (November 1).
Russians invade Finland (November 29) and take 14
weeks to turn the Mannerheim Line, losing, according to
Molotov, 48,745 killed and 158,863 wounded. Peace signed
(March 12), the Finns losing Viborg and other parts of their
ancient territories. “British and French attempts to represent
the treaty as ‘the destruction of Finnish independence'"
described by Molotov as “falsehoods.” He adds that “the
Soviet Union does not intend to regain Bessarabia by war"
(March 29).
Employing large forces of soldiers and airmen, Russians
“occupy Bessarabia and North Bukovina without incident"
(June 27-30).
Russia “swallows” Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. Their
“Parliaments” declare that the previous Governments were
under subjection to “capitalist birds of prey” and made
military bases available against Russia, thus rendering the
three States “helpless toys in the hands of imperialists” (July
20-23).
If alliance with Russia were now possible, it
should be rejected with loathing, whatever temporary
advantage it might seem to bring. No doubt the false
friends who abused each other so violently and for
so many years will quarrel again some day, but when
they do let us be content with what fairly comes to
honest men when thieves part company, and let the
devil take both. War, as waged by Hitler on Nor-
way and the Netherlands, and by Stalin on Finland,
is an affair of barbarians. If the barbarians fall out,
let them fight it out
"Defeatists."
Every day provides some new and better evidence
that Australians in general are solidly in favor of
doing their utmost in the way of war effort —of doing
everything the Government asks or directs. Not one
demand has so far been made that has not brought
a whole-hearted response. In building the A.I.F. the
Government has suffered mainly from an embarrass-
ment of offers, and that applies as much to the response
of industries. Yet some Government spokesman or
other repeatedly works himself into a sweat and his
hearers into cold shivers over the alleged hampering
influence and low-down white-anting activities of
(unnamed) “defeatists.”
Sydney (N.S.W.) would seem to be singularly
afflicted. The Prime Minister made the distinction;
the Director-General of Information echoed and im-
proved on it. Said the Prime Minister: “We have in
this city, more than any other city, men whose contri-
bution to the struggle is a statement that Australia is
not playing its part. This,” added the Prime Minister,
“is a false, miserable allegation. We ar& playing our
part.” As for his Government’s effort, he declared:
“We are 15 or 16 loyal, honest Australians, and we
are going to do our damnedest to win the war. There
must be a silence for the dogs that bark.”
A week later the Director-General, etc., gave
clearer hints for identifying the dismal hounds. “I
am impressed,” he said, “by the assertion —that so far
I can find only in Sydney—of the existence of a good
many people who say it does not matter to them
whether the war is won or not.” In one breath
he seemed just a little vague —“These defeatist
people must exist in Sydney because so much is said
about them,” which would scarcely pass for sound
reasoning in one of his own leader columns— but
presently he was more definite and precise: “These
people are not Communists. They are the pseudo-
intellectual theorising type.”
Sydney, presumably dumb with the guilt of its sins,
took it lying down: it may have been comforted when
yet another defeatist-scalper—the Minister for the
Army—hit out right and left at “the knockers” with-
out mentioning it as their address (and, of course, with-
out naming anybody).
But less than a fortnight after the Prime Ministe
made such a mouthful of the defeatism allegedly ram-
pant, and three days after the Director-General, etc.,


echoed him, it came out that recruits for the A.I.F.
were offering themselves so freely that the rush
might “result in early consideration being given by the
Federal Government to suggestions that some form
of temporary slowing down be evolved.” This was
carried a step further last week, when it was given
out that older men, especially those over 40, “may
soon be asked to leave that force.” It has been stated
that more than 31,000 A.I.F. men are now in camp in
N. S. Wales alone.
Patently, there is nothing wrong with the will of
the country. As far as that goes, Sydney’s contemned
defeatists have no effect. The P.M. has stated
that the highest number of people making munitions
in Australia in the last war was 2737 ; now there
are 16,000; by the middle of next year there will be
SO,OOO employed directly on munitions and another
70,000 producing materials for munition-making.
Under the new £50,000,000 programme a great part of
the munitions industry will be duplicated. Also, there
are 120,000 troops in camp or on full-time duty, and
an additional 40,000 militia who have completed four
months’ training brings the total of men already
trained and ready for the defence of Australia up to
160,000. This figure will be raised to 250,000. In
the first 10 months of this war 121,000 men have
been enlisted for service outside Australia —“25,000
more than in the first 10 months of the last war.”
The truth is that wherever the eye falls or the
ear listens there is this same solid determination of
Australians as a whole to do everything humanly pos-
sible to make this country safe and build up its war
effort. Defeatism everywhere —including the sinful
city—is that near to nil that it has no influence what-
ever. If it had, it could be quickly scotched. The
Government has complete power to silence “the dogs
that bark.” Instead of competing (vaguely) in the
barking, it should name them (if any) and (if any)
muzzle them and lock them up. Australia’s war
effort can be safely relied on to be in exact ratio to
its leadership.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A.B.C. Has Tons of Money.
A.B.C. has taken to publishing extracts from The
Bulletin in its “Weakly.” As a measure of economy
this should be welcome to listeners who have to pay
£1 Is. p.a. for a service worth fully 10s. 6d.; for the
“Weakly” has been losing pots of money and every
shilling saved from the waste helps. But it would
come cheaper to give extracts from the monologues
of brisk boys of the Russian-alliance breed ; and it
would be more pertinent to answer the charges of
royal spending made by Mr. Ellis Price.
Mr. Price, a veteran of radio, holds that A.B.C.’s
expenditure could and should be cut by one-third.
That is only his opinion, but he supports it by pro-
ducing a truly extraordinary catalogue of employees,
lumped together as “staff”:' —
In addition to the Commissioners, there are a general
manager, State managers, a Federal superintendent, a
Federal programme director, a Federal controller of
programmes, an assistant Federal controller of pro-
grammes, State controllers of programmes and State
concert controllers.
There are also a Federal controller of plays, three
State producers of plays, a Federal controller of talks,
State controllers of talks, a Federal news editor, a
Federal education officer, State education officers, a
Federal controller of children’s sessions, State con-
trollers of children’s sessions and State controllers of
women’s talks.
There are, in addition, a Federal publicity officer,
a Federal supervisor of records, State supervisors of
records, a Federal .sports controller, State sports con-
trollers, a Federal librarian, State supervisors and
assistant supervisors.
Prodigious, and incomplete at that; for the “Weakly”
staff has to be added. So have “lecturers, announcers,
accompanists, producers and programme officers”;
in the annual reports as dissected by the Auditor-
General, they come in under “Artists’ Fees and Pro-
gramme Expenses.” Artists’ Fees and Programme
Expenses mopped up £473,606 in 1938-39. “Lecturers,
announcers, accompanists, producers and programme
officers” excluded, staff salaries came to £33,031 in
1936-37, £37,744 in 1937-38 and £42,076 in 1938-39 ;
and no doubt there was another whopping increase
in 1939-40. Commissioners’ fees (£1800) are additional.
Revenue for 1938-39 amounted to £720,134. In
spite of the gorgeous expenditure on artists’ fees, pro-
gramme expenses and staff, a surplus of £429,640 was
accumulated in seven years for a building programme.
However, the war intervened, and with obvious
chagrin it had to be announced that the building pro-
gramme had been suspended in favor of an invest-
ment in war loan. Previously the Government which
created the commission had never been known to
interfere with it in any way. On all other occasions
Ministers when asked for information touching the
expenditure of the obviously excessive amounts dragged
from listeners were ready with the stereotyped reply
that it was the commission’s business entirely. Even
the bold Mr. Thorby refused to satisfy a member’s
perfectly reasonable inquiry about the financial show-
ing of the “Weakly,” and another member who con-
fessed to being staggered at the number of deadheads
to be seen at A.B.C. concerts was completely ignored.
Members should no longer tolerate this Minis-
terial subservience. The public has a right to know
how its money is spent and it is the business of
members to insist on getting the facts.
"Fascist" France.
The flapper press pounced on a simple explanation of
what has been going on at Vichy since Petain and
Weygand, admirals and air-marshals, Senators and
Deputies gathered there to fashion some sort of Con-
stitution for their defeated and distracted country. It
explains that they are all Fascists, engaged in the con-
version of France into a Fascist State. Like all efforts
to put the easiest possible construction on complex
things, the explanation is ridiculous.
A prey to party spirit ever since the First Revolu-
tion, France in its decline had a plethora of parties.
There were Socialists, Dissident Socialists, Radical
Socialists, Republican Federationists, Left Republicans,
Independent Radicals, Popular Democrats, Conserva-
tives, Communists and Dissident Communists. All, ex-
cept the Communists and perhaps some of the Dissident
Communists, seem to have been represented at Vichy.
The Communists, having done their country all the
harm they could —and what they did was terrible
W'ere in gaol, in hiding or in Moscow. From that
refuge, it would be comparatively safe for traitors like
Marty to hurl defiance at the conqueror, and their
defeatist confederates in France itself could use their
secret printing presses for the same purpose ; but a
scared silence has descended on them and their
masters. Masters and pupils never had any stomach
for fighting Germans, though they were the means of
shedding rivers of French blood in Spain.
Fear of another Commune, as well as of the ven-
geance of the conquerors, undoubtedly inspired the
proceedings at Vichy. The* Commune has been almost
forgotten by English-speaking people, and the names
of its leaders have been quite forgotten; but they are
heroes to present-day French Communists, and the
Russians have named some of their ships after them.
In April and May, 1871, while the enemy cynically
looked on, the Commune made Paris a hell. As an
English historian puts it: —■
Communards committed the most horrible excesses.
The Archbishop of Paris, President Bonjean, priests,
magistrates, journalists and private individuals whom
they had seized as hostages were shot in batches in the
prisons, and a scheme of destruction was ruthlessly
carried into effect by men and women with cases _ of
petroleum. The Hotel de Ville, the Palais de Justice,
the Tuileries, the Ministry of Finance, the Palace or the
Legion of Honor, that of the Council of State and part
of the Rue de Rivoli were ravaged by the flames.
Barrels of gunpowder were placed in Notre Dame and
in the Pantheon. The whole city would have been
involved in lasting ruin if the national troops had not
gained their victory of May 28. Large numbers of Com-
munards were pitilessly shot; others were executed after
trial; others again were transported.
Grievously as Petain, Weygand, Lebrun and their
associates have injured us, nobody with any feeling
for France would desire the unhappy country to suffer
another and more frightful Commune.
Evidently in a pathetic attempt to placate the
Germans, who have answered only with jeers, Petain
announced that “the framework of the new Constitu-
tion” would be “totalitarian.” The truth is that the
thing has strong monarchical, even Bourbonist,
features. In point of fact the Constitution it is sup-
planting was so framed as to admit of the trans-
formation of the Third Republic into a monarchy with-
out too violent a jolt. As Chief of State (the President
disappears), Petain looks more like a regent than any-
thing else; a kind of French Horthy. Being 84, he
can’t last as long as Horthy has done, nor is his Con-
stitution likely to endure ; but France will endure.
Not even conquest could keep so great a nation down.
“Broke to every known mischance, lifted over all by
the light sane joy of life, the buckler of the Gaul”—
Kipling knew France and the French. But there will
never be another Franco-British alliance.
British War Finance.
In April the standard rate of income tax was raised to
7s. 6d. in the £ and surtax to Is. 3d. in the £ above
£2OOO. Last week the standard rate was increased to
Bs. 6d. in the £ and surtax to a minimum of 2s. The
peak surtax rate is reached at £20,000 per year;
incomes above that figure will pay 18s. in the £.
Having regard to exemptions, the effects on lower
incomes are not as bad as they seem; for example,
a married man with two children will pay £l5 16s. Bd.
on an income of £4OO. But the rise thereafter is steep
—at £6OO, the tax is £6B 17s. 6d.; at £lOOO, £2lO 10s.;
and the single are hit harder—£7o on £4OO, £l4l on
£6OO p.a. And tax is to be deducted at the source.
Nobody will escape his share of war imposts.
Absolute luxuries are to be taxed 33 per cent, on
wholesale prices ; a second category of luxury goods
carries an impost equal to one-sixth of their whole-
sale value. Another penny a pint is clapped on beer
and another 2s. per pound on tobacco.
Before the last war taxation from all sources was
round £150,000,000 p.a. This year, income tax and
surtax alone are estimated to yield £639,000,000 —
against £290,000,000 five years ago —and revenue as
a whole is placed at £1,267,000,000. All the same, this
will be a long way from meeting war-time needs.
The weekly expenditure of £40,000,000 in April jumped
to £50,000,000 by the end of June, and for the four
weeks ended July 20 averaged £57,000,000 for war
alone; and this average is bound to increase. So far
about £1,300,000,000 per annum is being found by
local borrowing.
The magnitude of the financial effort can be
measured by the fact that the Chancellor of the
Exchequer places the normal national income at
£5,000,000,000; and the total required for Gov-
ernment purposes, including the war, is £3,467,000,000.
It is a tribute to the British spirit that the Budget is
dismissed as “timid” by the “Times.”
Air Mails and Foreign Competition.
Australians were pioneers of commercial air services
—Westralian Airways and Qantas were among the
first in the world to carry mails and passengers. And
in New Guinea carriage of heavy loads was intro-
duced by Australians, whose example was followed
by companies in foreign countries.
Civil aviation was making great strides until war
conditions brought handicaps. They have not been suf-
fered by the Pan-Americans, who, in arranging their
service to Auckland, chose to use a harbor within
700 miles of the Australian coast at Noumea. They
could have established a more direct route to Auck-
land via Fiji, but they decided to fly over Fiji, though,
now that the connection with Noumea has been made,
a call at Suva is mooted.
At Noumea, our American friends have a base
on a yacht bought for the purpose. It is written in
U.S.A. that the vessel is to be used for the purpose of
carrying mails and passengers to the Australian coast.
This would be an interference with the rights ot
Australians, Britons and Maorilanders, all concerned
in the Auckland-Sydney service.
The Dutch, for their part, have their eyes on the
Singapore route. Our own flying services having
been put momentarily out of gear by Italy’s entry into
the war, they offered to carry mails to Singapore and
were allowed to take a single consignment. They
have since sought to enter the mail-carrying business,
saying that, without subsidy, they could carry letters
bi-weekly to the A.I.F. in Palestine within eight days.
The manager of the K.N.I.L.M. finds it “difficult to
understand why there is any argument about a few
pounds of mail a week.” But if only “a few pounds
of mail” are concerned why should our friendly neigh-
bors be so anxious to get into the field? At the risk
of offending two Sydney dailies, the Australian Gov-
ernment has politely refused the Dutch offer. One
paper suggested “a round-table conference between the
Australians and the Dutch” ; the Government evidently
takes the view that Australian air policy is a matter
for Australia.
There is now a weekly Empire service both ways.
Mails are given preference—A.l.F. mails in particular.
From next month, the service will become bi-weekly.
It is owned in part by the people of Australia, who
also provide the subsidy which enables it to function,
and foreign competition with it, however friendly the
would-be competitors, cannot be permitted.
Australian Invention Again.
“El V.”: Though Mr. Stewart seems to be bent on
more procrastination, the Prime Minister has told us
that petrol rationing must come ; “it is as inevitable as
the rising and setting of the sun.” Tankers are no
longer available as in times of peace, Britain’s demand
for oil fuel has increased several fold, and the need
for conservation in every threatened country, Aus-
tralia included, has been intensified.
No more oil fuel will come from corrupt Rumania.
British-controlled supplies —in Iraq, Iran and Borneo
—are in dangerous regions, and imports from Dutch
sources are affected by the conquest of the Nether-
lands. Added to all this is the need to conserve
dollar exchange—vital in the matter of purchases,
since the bulk of the petrol for Australia must come
from the U.S.A., at a time when it is necessary to
increase Australian reserves.
Thirty years ago, the electric car was a regular
feature of city transport. It is an almost trouble-
free vehicle, cheap to build, easy to drive, free of
gear troubles and inexpensive to run. One of pre-
Great War vintage still negotiates the suburban hills of
Sydney. The one difficulty is range. The old electrics
were limited to about 70 miles without recharging of
batteries. Little experimental work was done with
them because, while petrol vehicles were in develop-
ment, electric supply was limited.
A South Australian inventor claims to have pro-
duced an electric power unit which can be charged
from an ordinary household point and which, once it
is running, will recharge.itself for unlimited distances.
There is no unsolvable problem in producing such a
vehicle —the difficulties should be no greater than
those which were involved in the production of a
motor-car radio. If they have been overcome or even
if they are on the way to being overcome, the inven-
tion needs the attention of the Government, since it
means that an all-electric transport era, at least for
closely-populated areas, is in the offing.
One More Funeral.
Lamentation of “Blue P.”:
Out-of-work newspapermen in Sydney are having a whip-
round to buy a wreath for the “Daily News,” painlessly
extinguished at last. It began to look a bit wan a few years
ago, when a pernicious form of advertising anaemia set in as
the result of infection by the Lang bacillus. A change
of control and a change of name —from the “Labor Daily”—
raised hopes of recovery, but the paper caught a dose of
Communism and relapsed into a decline. Its bankers put in
a receiver, and an order for crepe was given. But a savior
was on the spot —Consolidated Press, which bought the
“Daily News” “to save the paper and because we think it
essential for Labor to have a voice in New South Wales.
We have always wished to see the ‘Daily News’ survive.”
Cheers from the Red element, jeers from journalists.
Meantime, “Terewth” announced the impending publication of
its “Daily Mirror.” It engaged a big team of journalists,
attracting good men from good jobs—some from the country
and as far as Westralia. The bosses of the “D.T.” and
“Terewth” had engaged in a feud and had taken to getting
about with bodyguards and shooting each other with cameras,
and the stage was set for big doings. Then Canberra reversed
its decision to grant the “Daily Mirror” a newsprint import
license, “Terewth” charged the Sydney dailies with everything
short of barratry on the high seas', and began to carry Labor
news bearing the imprimatur of the secretaries of the N.S.W.
A.L.P. and the Labor Council. Whether or not this hastened
the end is a matter for conjecture, but few journalists were
surprised to read the following in the “Daily News” of
25/7/’4O: —
“The ‘Daily News’ will cease publication in its present
form with tomorrow’s issue. It will be incorporated
in the ‘Daily Telegraph,’ and a large percentage of its
editorial staff will be absorbed by that paper.”
In effect, a “large percentage” of the 10 or 12 left
by the receiver. Nothing is said of the mechanical and
business staffs. x , , . .
Thus the “Daily News” joins the long list of bought-out
and closed-down newspapers in Sydney and other capitals.
No wonder journalists greeted the Murdoch rumpus with
sardonic grins.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
"Not so much of that lipstick, Charlie. Remember I’m the star ballerina."
“Un Hung Lia”: One Wong Wah
Gee was a Chink, you see, who, gathered
to his fathers, left £ s. d. ’Twas at
Cobar Wong heard the Reaper’s gong:
no more pipe, no more mah jongg. Wong
made a will when taken ill, and drew it
up with devilish skill; bequeathed, for
some reason he alone knew, 300 pounds
to Yonk Gong Tsu. The lawyers chased
about and around, but Yonk Gong
Tsu could not be found. After nine
years hot on the trail they got, to find
Yonk Gong Tsu wasn’t who, but what.
In short, they found, after snooping
round, that Tsu wasn’t a man but a
hole in the ground. And now that cash
goes to China, by Gee, for a Tsu is a
Chinese cemeteree!
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland newspapers,
in the days of handse'tting, produced
some lovely “typo” errors. The “N.Z.
Times,” for example: “The Hon. W.
Rolleston said he had been pestered by
a number of nude women school-
teachers.” And a paper owned by Joe
Ivess: “We regret to announce that
Miss Blank met with a painful accident
yesterday. She was standing on a step-
ladder in her conservatory, lowering
down her pants for inspection, when she
slipped, spraining her ankle.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Motorists who crawl their cars
tortuously among the dense forest of
black and yellow verboten signs that
stud Sydney’s brick and concrete can-
yons will unleash cynical grins at a
recent magisterial decision. One of the
fraternity who cause taxing masters to
go down on their knees in thankfulness
was haled before the Beak for “causing
his vehicle to stand in a street contrary
to a notice bearing the sign ‘No park-
ing between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m.’ ” His
solicitor ingeniously argued that the
definition of “parking” was referable only
to that word when used in the regula-
tions, and that painted on a sign it lost
its legal significance. Point upheld, case
dismissed. It must often have struck
even the layman, viewing the long
lines of cars drawn up beside the kerb
every day in practically every busy
thoroughfare, that ’Arborside car drivers
must either be the champion defiers of
the Law’s apparently unequivocal words,
or that the Law view its own warnings
as a joke. Ninety-nine out of a hundred
signs never qualify the “No parking”
with the half-hour time limit. To visit-
ing motorists the system is several head-
aches rolled into one.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: A Sydney man who claimed
to be a spiritualist and did a little fore-
casting on the side was a better prophet
than he himself suspected. To a woman
client he said, “When I first saw you I
felt as if I was sitting on a volcano.” The
volcano duly erupted, his client being a
policewoman. He told the magistrate
that in giving the “readings” he got into
touch with his dead sister Dorothy, who
was his guide; thus it was not he but
his sister who was talking. “Was it
Dorothy who said ‘That will be two shil-
lings, please’?” asked the sceptic on the
Bench, as he prophesied a month in clink
for the volcano-sitter.
* * * *
“T.W.”: Last week police stations,
Sydney G.P.O. and the South Head signal
station received several ’phone calls inti-
mating that a coastal trawler was out
of control and drifting to destruction on
the beach at Maroubra. Members of a
surf club stood by with a dinghy, and the
pilot ship Captain Cook cast off and went
at a great lick to assist the trawler. In
response to the Captain Cook’s signals
the trawler sent back the laconic answer
“We’re fishing. The catch is bonzer.
Send a boat and we’ll give you a basket-
ful.” Offer accepted. Incident closed.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Commonwealth Treasurer
Spender has had something new in claims
served upon him —a demand by the New
Theatre League, which was banned along
with sundry publications and organisa-
tions, for the return of its confiscated
property or £lOlO 10s. compensation. The
half-note comes in as the result of “shock
and nervous prostration of secretary,”
set down at £lO 10s., £4OO is claimed for
books and stage properties and £6OO for
labor involved over five years in build-
ing up the organisation. If the case goes
into court the New Theatre League is
unlikely to call Prof. Francis Anderson
as a witness. Thinking, perhaps, that he
would meet kindred spirits from the other
League, the professor attended a protest
meeting of New Theatre Leaguers and
their friends and was so horrified at what
he heard that he wrote to the papers
about it. One of the “many opinions and
sentiments expressed” was that “the
present war is a British imperialist war.”
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: The well-known term
“son of a gun” has a quaint origin. In
the old navy, senior ratings and sailors
were permitted sometimes to keep their
wives on board ship, so that an occasional
baby was born afloat. Confinements
always took place on the gun-decks
masked by a temporary screen of gun-
carriages. The new arrival was there-
fore called a “son of a gun.” There is
a tradition that a child was born during
the Battle of the Nile. “Son of a broad-
side” was another term with a still
quainter explanation. “This day the
surgeon informed me,” wrote the captain*
of a brig off the coast of Spain in 1835,
“that a woman on board had been labor-
ing in child for twelve hours, and asked
if I could fire a broadside to leeward.
I did so, and she was delivered of a fine
male child.”
* * * x
“P.D.”: The youth who escaped when
his two companions were arrested in
Melbourne —after they had made a get-
away by bailing up their police escorts
and transferring the handcuffs to them
(B. 17/7/’4O) —was captured in N. S.
Wales in circumstances almost as excit-
ing. A policeman on duty at the
punt at Bateman’s Bay (N.S.W.) ques-
tioned the driver of a car which carried
a Victorian number-plate. When the
punt was about 100 yards out from the
shore the driver jumped from the car
into the river. He was picked up, half-
frozen, when he climbed ashore, and
turned out to be the lad who had escaped
in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Funny how fear follows
patterns. Alick Fullarton, Victoria’s most
dashing cross-country jockey, retired from
the turf the other day, after a couple of
decades of breakneck riding, and his wife
was interviewed by a pressman. She de-
scribed in feeling language her delight
at the thought that she would no longer
have to listen with her heart in her mouth
to the wireless recounting her husband’s
hair-raising exploits. Then she was asked
if her small son was going to be a rider.
“Certainly not!” she exclaimed —and
added, “He wants to be an airman.”
Hs * * *
“Craiser”: Lud Mayor Coles, of Mel-
bourne, made a sensible move when he
decided to abandon the annual hop. This
undemocratic fixture has always been a
joke to the irreverent, and it takes £5OO
or so out of the Mayor’s private pocket,
which will now go into the Comforts
Fund. Only the privileged few are in-
vited, and the current holder of the civic
office is always expected to outdo his
predecessor in lavish expenditure and
cheapjack novelties, like the setting of
the stage to represent an ancestral castle.
On several occasions it has been con-
sidered necessary to provide this function
with a military guard, which is duly
inspected by the Lud Mayor in full
regalia, and by other bigwigs. Afterwards
the warriors stand to attention on the
stairs while the fur-coated and dress-
hatted multitude file past them. If the
said multitude knew what the living
statues said about them it might destroy
their complacency. As the ball won’t
be held, certain citizens won’t be out-
raged by hearing the thunder of the hoofs
of the gentry over their heads when they
go to enlist in the service of their coun-
try. There happens to be a recruiting
depot under the floor of the dance hall.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The battle of vested
newspaper interests, put forward as a
battle for democracy and free speech,
reminds me. Some years ago in Mel-
bourne a mildly radical weekly was not
attracting much attention, so the editor,
a tall fellow with a voice like a crosscut
saw, devised the notion of offering it on
Saturday evenings to the crowds hurrying
to the pictures in competition with the
dailies. Every time the “Herald” lads
shouted “Speshul! Speshul! The last
race!” his voice cut across the vortex:
“The last race! The Human Race!” He
sold a good many.
# ❖ ❖
“Gaffer”: The old English farmer who
barricaded himself in the farmhouse and.
armed with a gun and gasmask, stood off
a large body of police, who attacked with
service rifles and tearrgas, because he re-
fused to obey State orders about the cul-
tivation of his land, had his holding on
part of the Tichborne estate, in Hamp-
shire, which figured so largely in the
case of the Tichborne Claimant.
This began when a Wagga (N.S.W.J
butcher, known as Tom. Castro, claimed
to be the missing heir to the estate, was
welcomed home to England and “recog-
nised” by the heir’s mother. When
she died he launched a civil action,
and was proved to be Arthur Orton,
a native of Wapping, with some
slight resemblance to the missing
Tichborne. Forty thousand pounds was
subscribed by the English public to assist
Orton’s claim, and public opinion forced
the Treasury to pay the expenses of his
witnesses. Orton got 14 years, served
nearly 11 of them and published a full
confession in 1895.
H= * * *
“D.E.”: As a rule, except in Queens-
land, whether or not a convicted mur-
derer mounts the scaffold depends on
the party complexion of the Government
in office. Sometimes he hangs if the
Government is anti-Labor ; if it is Labor,
hardly ever. In Westralia, when two
goldfields detectives were shot by gold-
stealers whom they had tracked to an
illicit treatment plant, a Labor Govern-
ment decided that the law should take
its course. This precedent has been de-
parted from in the case of a young
ruffian, one of twins arrested for theft,
who broke out of ’his cell, grabbed a
police pistol from a holster hanging on
the wall and shot the constable who had
taken him to the lockup. It was a bad
case, for two shots were fired: one
through the chest and another in the
back ; but the sentence has been reduced
to imprisonment for life, presumably on
the ground of the murderer’s youth—he
is in his twentieth year. Under the police
superannuation scheme, the constable’s
widow, who has two children, is entitled
to a mere £2 a week. No doubt this will
be increased a bit; but I wonder what
the police are thinking. In the affair of
the goldfields detectives they made it very
clear to the Government how they would
react to a one-sided interpretation of the
law.
# * * *
“Colonel Macßungstarter”: The recent
use of screaiping bombs over northern
Scotland is a typical example of Nazi
inability to understand the inhabitants of
Britain. To a hardy people inured from
earliest childhood to the bagpipes any
device of the kind must sound as merest
sofi music. The property-damage done
by such lullaby affairs is another matter,
though. The obvious reply will be
through massed pipe bands, strengthened
by amplifiers if an apparatus of sufficient
endurance can be produced by the heavy
industries. The first skirl of pibroch will
assuredly reverse the scream bombs in
their course and send them aloft again
for refuge in their racks. The horrified
Nazi pilots will by then have started
homeward at full speed to invoke the
Geneva Convention against utterly in-
human methods of warfare. The stam-
peded bombs will follow them screaming
for help, and, with a final screech of
despair, will explode themselves over the
Fuhrer’s headquarters in spasms of terror
lest they be again sent to confront Scotia’s
entirely non-secret weapon.
A BITTER PILL.
“Sir Thomas Beecham found the singing of the
National Anthem by Brisbane choirs so distressing
that at one point he hurled his baton to the floor,
covered his face with his hands and wailed “Oh,
my God!’’ —Sydney “D.T.”
What brush can limn, what pen can scroll,
The maximum of storm and stress
Laid on a human being’s soul
By some appalling bitterness.
Rage, agony and dumb despair
Were all on view, L’ll bet a crown,
Had any camera been there,
When Beecham bunged his baton down!
A courting cat, a yelping hound,
Are things most people hold in hate;
And some have a dislike profound
For pencils squeaking on a slate.
But such are trials for common men
With no pretensions to renown;
One senses keener anguish when
A Beecham hurls his baton down.
Enshrined in his Olympian heights
One readily conceives he has
A fierce contempt for crooning wights,
An animosity for jazz.
But ’twasn’t stuff like this that gave
So sheer a shock in Brisbane town;
They did but try to chant “God Save”
When Beecham flung his baton down.
He launched a curse upon the air;
He hid his dial in his hand;
’Twas more than fortitude could bear
Or overstrained endurance stand.
The atmosphere grew chill and bleak;
It must have made Euterpe frown
In wrath, and Polyhymnia shriek,
When Beecham bunged his baton down.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Shibli”: According to the cables,
Geoffrey de Montalk, the queer M.L.
poet who claims he is King of Poland,
is in trouble again. This time it’s three
months’ hard for striking a policeman
with an axe. De Montalk was born in
M.L. and is the son of an architect. His
Polish ancestry, plus an urge to write, has
given'him a complex that finds outlet in
crimson flowing gowns, exaggerated
claims to literary importance, and assaults
at law. Just to flavor the mixture he
dabbles in astrology, amateur printing
and hypnotism, claims Good King Wen-
ceslas as one of his ancestors, alleges
that his verse is as good as Byron’s,
though not, he allows, quite so good
as Shakspeare’s, and has at latest advice
taken unto himself a wife—the “Queen
of Poland.” He has published about a
dozen small books, mostly verse, all
printed by obscure private presses. In
his early days in Christchurch (M.L.) the
“King of Poland” was a milkman.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I’m not quite
sure whether the design of Australia’s
new Id. and 2d. stamps is psychologi-
cally sound. The background presence
of a nurse, much bigger than the Army,
Navy and Air Force combined, might
conceivably deter enlistment amongst
nervous lads by overemphasis on the
bodily risks which necessitate the pres-
ence of nurses in army organisation. The
depicted forces have their backs turned
to her—it might influence another type
of lad by reminding him that he prob-
ably wouldn’t see his girl for the dura-
tion, and you can’t tell what might go
on behind your back in your absence.
On the other hand, she is a distinctly
good-looking young woman, and most
Australians of enlisting age would prob-
ably consider that if she is a f.a.q. sample
of army nurse a man could take the risk
of meeting her on or off duty—prefer-
ably off. Perhaps, after all, the designer
was right in putting her there.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: How the liquor and the
anti-liquor interests love each other!
They are always trying to get into con-
tact, and, lacking a referendum, when
they can embrace on every platform, they
have been manifesting this affectionate
impulse in Melbourne lately by arguing
the intoxicating effects of the humble
orange. The surpris-
ing assertion was
made that the orange
contains 5 p.c. of
alcohol, and therefore
all fruit-barrows and
vegetable shops should
come under the pro-
visions of the Early
Closing Act. A spokes-
man of the Drys re-
torted that if oranges
contained that amount
of alcohol they were
as headache-promot-
ing as beer. The Wets
still maintain their
assertion, and have
challenged the Drys to
get some stale oranges
analysed. It reminds
me of an occasion
when I was- sitting in
the circle at a King’s
Theatre first - night.
Wishing to be friendly,
my next-door neigh-
bor offered her box of
chocolates to a
stranger. The aus-
tere - looking gent.’s
face softened. He thanked her, took
one, and put it in his mouth. Then
a terrible look came over his face and
he hastily removed the sweetmeat with
his handkerchief and hustled it under the
seat. It was one of the liqueur variety
and he happened to be a leading Prohi-
bitionist.
* * * *
“Pedagiggle”: Had the Duke of
Windsor been a few years earlier on
the job in the Bahamas he would have
had “the real McCoy” as a subject. Mc-
Coy was “King of Rum Row,” with
Nassau as G.H.Q. In the crooked trade
of re-exporting hooch to the Amurrican
mainland, McCoy was straight as a die.
He never doctored the Scotch, he paid his
debts, kept his promises and bribed
nobody. After delivering his 200,000 th
case of whisky to a thirsty Republic,
McCoy’s schooner fell into the hands of
the U.S. Revenue folk, and that put
McCoy out of business.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Russell-street (Melb.) police
headquarters is justifying the installation
of the new patrol system and radio com-
munication. The other evening the patrol
arrived at an Armadale resident’s house,
surrounded it and arrested a fellow mak-
ing away with the groceries. Before the
astonished householder knew there was
an intruder on the premises, a passer-by
had ’phoned to Room D 24, which wire-
lessed a car cruising in the district.
# * * *
“Hamfat”: A Red Page review of
“Some Ancient Novels,” with the com-
ment that the formula of novel-writing
is as old as human history, reminds me
that the same remark applies to the stage.
An instruction for casting written hun-
dreds of years ago had points which stick
"It's all ri', mate — I'm chuckin' the little 'uns back."
in my memory though the title of the
book quoting it is long forgotten. “Theer
must neede be a man of comedy,
grotesque in looks and bearing, and a
foyle on whom may tricks be plaied. The
manne of villainy must be darke” ; the
hero must be fair, hair reddish “butte not
an uncomely red.” Actually, the casting
"Why aren't you helping with the War effort instead o’ just standing
there ?”
of a company goes back to the ancient
Greeks and probably was borrowed
by them; hero, heroine, adventuress,
comedy merchant and his butt, char-
acter old man, mercenary parent. The
iconoclast may rail against the trite-
ness of the formula ; but it survives be-
cause there is a certain human reality
about it. Take any boarding-house,
place of business, club or institution and
you will find its personnel automatically
casting itself in the various roles, and
in time “playing up” to even the villainous
ones. Can anyone name any place
which lacks an accepted leading
comedian, a recognised leading lady and
a veritable dashing young juvenile?
* * * *
“Ex-C.”: Stated in B. 17/7/’4O that
Baden-Powell can not only write with
either hand, but in his heyday he could
mount his horse from either side with
equal ease. In my day, every British
army cavalryman was trained to mount
from either side.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Lord Dawson of Penn
reports that, despite the attendant stresses
and strains, the war is actually improv-
ing the health of England. It is the same
in Victoria. A leading doctor informs
me that neurotic patients who were on
his books for a decade have ceased to
bother him with their imaginary diseases.
In effect, an individual catastrophe tends
to separate people, but a universal one
tends to draw them together. If my
house were burned down in a bushfire
or bombed in an air raid and the houses
of my neighbors escaped, I would feel
my loss much more acutely than if all
Melbourne were demolished, because I
would feel that I had been singled out
for misfortune. And my next-door neigh-
bor would feel isolated from the rest
of the community if he were the only
victim. But if everybody were burnt out
the whole community would be drawn
together. An’ individual Englishman
would not now write to the “Times ’
complaining that this was a wicked war
because-his house would be threatened
in an air raid. On the contrary, you
find him writing to the “Times,” not
about his personal peril, but the peril of
the nation. So a common catastrophe
has made him forget his own suffering
and identify himself with the sufferings
of society.
# * * *
“U.S.A.”: The Sydney flapper press
has been circulating a story that Petain
might be thinking of restoring the
Bourbons to the French throne. The
Napoleonic seed, however, still survives
in the 23-year-old “Napoleon IV,” who,
being a six-footer, should prove a worthy
flapper-press idol. He is a great-grand-
son of Jerome, King of Westphalia
(brother to Boney). This young man's
chances might, however, be compromised
by the existence of the American Bona-
partes, who are descended from Jerome
Bonaparte’s first marriage to Betsey Pat-
terson, of Philadelphia. The American
“Napoleon IV” is middle-aged. He lives
in New York with his wife, but they
have no family.
* # * *
“Autretemps”: The second world war
has witnessed the act of surrender by
several nations in an entirely unglamor-
ous fashion. In days gone by they did
these things more gracefully. When
Napoleon 111 surrendered to William I
of Prussia at Sedan he did it by means
of a short and sweet note which, in trans-
lation, read as follows:
My dear Brother:
Not being allowed to die among my
troops, it remains for me only to place my
sword in the hands of your Majesty.,
I am, your Majesty’s good brother,
Napoleon.
Sedan, September 1, 1870.
Just imagine anyone addressing Adolf as
“dear Brother”!
*.* $ *
“J.8.D.”: That chap who had trouble
with the physical-culture addict in the
flat overhead (B. 24/7/’4O) recalls a feud
in a block of flats where I dug in recently.
My first night there was made miserable
by the blaring of a couple of wireless sets
—Smuggins across the corridor had a set
raising enough din to revive the dead,
and a couple of doors down Jenkins had
his set going loud enough to unrevive
’em again. I’m a timid sort of cove, and
I put up with the cacophony of jazz
bands, booming news broadcasts, sym-
phony orchestras and what not for a
week, when, unable to stand it any
longer, I knocked on Smuggins’s door.
“I say, old man,” I said, “do you have
to run that wireless of yours at such a
pitch?” Smuggins confided in me. “It’s
driving me mad, too,” he said. “But I
do it in opposition to Jenkins. Otherwise
I can’t hear the programmes I like above
the noise of his set.” I called on Jen-
kins. “About that wireless of yours,”
I began. “Listen,” he said, “you get that
Smuggins bloke to turn his set down so
that I can hear my own. Then call
again.” I had them both in for a beer.
SYNTHETIC APPEAL.
“Vaseline lightly smeared over the upper lid will
give the eyes an appealing look.”— Beauty hint in
women’s paper.
When you’re dolling up for dinners or for
dances, , , .
It’s not impossible that you may feel
’Twill procure you more appreciative glances
And supplement your chances of romances
If your eyes convey a look of soft appeal.
It’s unrivalled as a feminine allurance
And, best of all, it needn’t cost a bean;
Its acquirement is a positive assurance
With just a tiny smear of vaseline.
There are numerous synthetic aids to beauty,
Supplying items which you haven’t got,
That bring the parlors of the cult their booty,
And very skilfully they do their duty,
But surely here’s the simplest of the lot.
For who would run the risk of being neglected
Through an aloof or irresponsive mien
When the deficiency can be corrected
By an artistic dash of vaseline?
The language of the eyes! What sweet tempta-
tion
May lurk therein! When did it ever fail
To signify a melting invitation
To pleasant colloquy or mild flirtation
With this or that impressionable male!
But, even though it smacks of double-dealing,
How useful from a source like this to glean
That any woman’s eyes will look appealing
Beneath a little bit of vaseline.
But you, Lothario, forbear from deeming
Another certain conquest is begun
When in some damsel’s orbs a dewy gleaming
Of welcome would suggest, to outward seeming,
The mute equivalent of “You’re the One!”
For though you think that you’re discerning
clearly
The real genuine “lovelight in her e’en,”
For all you know, my son, it may be merely
The product of a dab of vaseline.
N.S.W.
T. THE R. .


CRAVENA
..ate so
Ws-
-
EIE6B
10 for *°
20 for 1/6
k
/ ,< &C
/
m
PR EVENT
THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Taxation is up again in Britain, and
in some way or other everyone has been
hit. The standard rate of income tax
rises from 7s. 6d. in the £ to Bs. 6d. and,
with surtax, the Government will take
nine-tenths of an income of £20,000.
And the only complaints are that it isn’t
taking enough from all hands. How can
Hitler hope to beat a people like that?
With three more guaranteed States
gobbled up and the plunder about to be
distributed, Molotov has undertaken to
“define Soviet foreign policy.” In respect
of individuals, the authors of our
criminal code defined it in three words:
robbery under arms.
In his first broadcast speech as
Premier, Prince Konoye said his Govern-
ment “must take into consideration
economic expansion in the South Seas.”
This doesn’t necessarily mean expansion
in the islands south of the Equator,
though McEwen, the Minister of External
Affairs, evidently thinks it does. As
northerners, the Japanese give the geo-
graphical expression a much more
restricted application. For the most part,
they limit it to the waters that wash the
coasts of Indo-China and Siam.
In the last war, Australia had two Com-
monwealth elections without suffering
noticeably thereby; but if some people
had their way it wouldn’t have one Com-
monwealth election this time, though one
is nearly due. Cameron has infuriated these
people (at least one member of his party
was among them) by coming out strong
for an election, 4 ‘when the term of Par-
liament expires.” He points out un-
answerably that neither Menzies nor him-
self has ever been before the electors as
a party leader, and that, although Curtin
has, there have been “serious defections
from his party.”
According to Sydney “Sun,” “Minis-
ters are in favor of petitioning the British
Parliament for power to prolong the life
of the present Commonwealth Parlia-
ment.” Some Ministers are, but Cameron
and Thorby are not, and Menzies seems
quite hurt about it. Yet he can remem-
ber a war in which there were two Com-
monwealth elections, two Commonwealth
referendums and elections in every State ;
and there never was any talk of “petition-
ing the British Parliament” then.
Perhaps in emulation of Tony Eden’s
stern injunction to the British (“Look
tough, act tough, be tough”) our Percy
Spender has come out with a bitter-end
speech of the most ruthless description:
This war must be fought until Germany
is crushed and until desolation is carried
to the people who brought it to others.
There can be no mercy in us. When you
speak of mercy, I say mercy for whom?
And to see Percy at a dinner-dance you
would think butter wouldn’t melt in his
mouth.
In what is known as the Woolcott
Forbes case, R. B. Walker, M.L.A. for
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.), has been com-
mitted for trial on seven charges of con-
spiracy and 20 other charges. There
are three other defendants (one, a solici-
tor named Levitus, was committed on 70
charges), and the Police Court hearing
lasted from October 3 to July 22.
Strangely enough, Walker did not ask for
leave of absence from his legislative
duties “on urgent private business,” as
the formula runs. In any case, the Par-
liament to which he belongs has sat for
only four months since October 3, and
for weeks before it rose at the end of
May members did not even make a
show of being interested in their alleged
work.
Nowadays, when a member of any of
the six superfluous Parliaments dies, it
seems to be regarded as only right that
the job should remain in the family. For
the Tamworth (N.S.W.) Assembly seat
the U.A.P. executive has “endorsed” the
late F. A. Chaffey’s eldest son, who is
24. He was previously “selected at a
meeting of Tamworth electors,” another
aspirant being Roland Green, who was
C.P. member for Richmond. Lang’s
Labor group and McKell’s are each run-
ning a candidate, and McKell, who is
totally humorless, asserts that “the by-
election is of national importance.”
Whatever else Cameron may be, he is
no humbug, and he has a healthy dislike
for humbug in others. The sentimental
pretence that everything would have gone
well in France had the Left-wingers been
given their heads seems to have got on
“What is left of the League is going to the U.S.A. as guest of Princeton University,
of which Woodrow Wilson was once president.”
“Dadda!"
his nerves. Anyway, he said this at
Bairnsdale (Vic.):
The collapse of France shows that no
country can submit to white-anting by Com-
munists for 10 years and then have in the
army, air force and navy, in the factories
and on the railways, respect for authority.
It also indicates that, with the demand
mechanised war makes on munitions, no
war can be successfully waged with ammuni-
tion departments working 40 hours a week.
And now, of course, all the Left-wingers
are at him, particularly the imbeciles who
contend that left to themselves “the
workers” —Czech, Austrian or French —
would have settled Hitler’s hash some-
how.
Brought back from France after the
loss of a campaign which he pronounced
a certainty, Ironside has now been super-
seded as Commander of the Home
Forces and placed on half-pay with the
rank of field-marshal. His fall should be
a lasting example to warriors as to the
wisdom of keeping their mouths shut.
Roosevelt couldn’t have hit it with
Garner, the old Vice-President; anyway,
at his instance, Wallace, the Secretary for
Agriculture, is to be substituted for
Garner on the Democratic ticket. This
may drive some Democrats into the
opposition camp, especially as Willkie,
the Republican candidate, was once a
Democrat himself. And if the friends
of Farley (Farley was P.M.G. and an
aspirant to the Presidential nomination)
bolt also, Willkie may have a chance.
Vice-Presidents used to be reckoned of
small account, but in the course of 30
years three candidates for the office —the
two Roosevelts and Coolidge—have
entered the White House, and few other
Presidents have had such solid followings.
With its dying breath Sydney’s “Daily
News” pleaded for mitigation of the
sentence:
We exposed the moral and strategic im-
plications of the Munich Pact. We cam-
paigned for the democratic Spanish Repub-
lic. We rallied support to the standard
of democratic China.
And the Australian worker, neither as
foolish nor as credulous as Pink writing-
boys believe, shoved his three-halfpence
back in his pocket.
Most of the 750,000 cases of Australian
canned apricots, peaches and pears were
already in Britain, some were on the way
and a small balance remained here when
canners received the news that the sale
had been made at £700,000. The fruit
is from the 1940 pack. Canners and
growers are pleased, but the general
manager at Leeton cannery complained
that “the official attitude of chilliness was
unnecessarily sustained.” But when was
officialdom ever enthusiastic or in a
hurry?
Not only have State politics in Vic-
toria ceased to interest electors. Mel-
bourne City Council is to have an election
on August 22. When the Revision Court
met to consider claims for inclusion on
the roll, its job was finished in five
minutes. There was only one name to
deal with.
In a pageant in Moscow white-cloaked
children staged a miniature tank attack
against a miniature Mannerheim Line
and other children crept along dragging
tiny machine-guns and armored sledges.
They attacked a pillbox which fell to
pieces after a furious bombardment; then
Finnish children emerged and embraced
their assailants. This was solemnly
presented as a demonstration of the prin-
ciple of loving your neighbor. It is a
strange way of showing your love to
kill him.
A Wheat Acquisition (Contracts Re-
view) Tribunal, with all the rights,
powers and privileges of a Supreme Court,
has been set up to inquire into cases of
alleged hardship arising out of cancel-
lation of contracts under the wheat
. r.
acquisition scheme. The tribunal can
force the attendance of witnesses, their
examination, production of books and
documents, and prosecute for perjury.
So that if a wheat-cocky west of Wya-
long (N.S.W.) considers he’s been done
in, all he’ll have to do will be write to
the Minister, whereupon the tribunal
will canter out to Wyalong, or order the
cocky to Melbourne, and proceed to
settle the dispute. Meantime, people are
still asking what is the Wheat Board
for?
“There is now,” reports the press,
“keen speculation about Mr. Duff
Cooper’s future,” said Mr. Cooper hav-
ing been hauled over the coals for his
administration of the Ministry of Infor-
mation. Like'Mr. Murdoch in Australia,
Mr. Cooper is finding his press friends
suspiciously eager to put in the boot the
moment his ideas and theirs conflict.
In the gentle art of passing the buck
State Premiers have nothing to learn
from the U.S.A. A few days ago Dun-
stan was blaming Canberra because Vic-
torian Mallee cockies were walking off
their blocks; now Mair has sent Can-
berra a list of unemployed, so it “may
use them to the best advantage on de-
fence works.” N.S.W. has 38,000 on the
dole, a Parliament that will be out of
action till September, a thumping deficit
and drought.
Reid, the N.S.W. Minister of Agricul-
ture, is the latest to seize on the coal
strike as something to blame when things
go wrong. He has had the face to assert
that it was mainly responsible for the
failure to ship the N-S.W. wheat crop
overseas. The strike has been over a
good while, and still the wheat stays
stubbornly where it was put —in stacks
and silos.
Sydney is facing another milk famine,
an effect of a dry winter in the restricted
zone from which supplies are drawn, and
Cabinet is to consider financial assist-
ance for purchase of fodder. The presi-
dent of the dairy-farmers’ union told the
press that, though milk was brought in
from outer dairy areas in the March
shortage, there is none to spare there
now ; but a Manning River factory man-
ager announced that, if necessary, his
district could supply as much now as it
did then. Meantime the Milk Board is
buried in silence, and nothing has been
heard of the latest royal commission.
If a Maoriland M.P. named Endean is
right, Auckland, Kipling’s city of cities,
“last, loneliest, loveliest, exquisite, apart,”
has another and most unpoetic distinction.
According to Endean, there is more
loafing on the Auckland waterfront than
at any other Pacific port where records
are kept. Cargo-handling rates are
37.4 tons per hour at Vancouver,
29.5 at Honolulu, 22.4 at Suva, 22
at Sydney and 11.7 at Auckland; “and
since Christmas the Auckland rate has
fallen to about 10 tons an hour.” In Left
Book Clubs, Councils for Civil Liberties
and the like, Fascism is suspected.
“Feng Shui”: Unconsidered is one
aspect of the evacuation from Hong
Kong of white women and children, some
thousands of whom are en route to Aus-
tralia. The British people have been
guests, so to speak, of the Chinese since
1843. During that period the island has
had many ups and downs, but on the
whole it has prospered to an extent not
shared by neighboring China. In Hong
Kong’s first great crisis the white women
and children are sent away, and I sup-
pose we must look after our own. But
upwards of half a million Chinese women
and children will be left behind. So we
will have to pay with our prestige, for
the Hong Kong Chinaman is entitled to
say “You were ready to share our joys
with us, but not our sufferings,” if and
when the evacuees return.


* x / "
SHUN /
* / / //
STAN-AT EASE/
" STAND EASV / "
YOUNG DIGGERS ALL.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE REVIVAL IN SHARE PRICES.
PROGRESS OF WAR FINANCE.
August Issue on Sale next Saturday.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL...
YOU can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for informative
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of
the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
PERSONAL ITEM S
George Fuller, Premier of N. S. Wales
1922-25 and Federal Minister of Home
Affairs 1909-10, who died in Sydney last
week aged 79, was born in N. S. Wales
and graduated in law at Sydney Uni.
His Parliamentary career, State and
Federal, covered just short of 40 years.
Following it came a six years’ term as
N. S. Wales Agent-General in London,
after which he retired. He was knighted
in 1919. Urbane and dignified in
manner, he maintained the traditions of
Parliamentary politeness throughout a
period in which many members of the
N. S. Wales Assembly appeared to have
forgotten them.
Latest to be lent for war service to
the Commonwealth Government is A.
R. L. Wiltshire, who goes to the job
of Inspector-General of Administration
from the managership of the Bank of
Australasia in Melbourne. He is the
son of a parson and served in the 1914-18
war, where he landed a lieut.-colonelcy.
At the Armistice he was in temporary
command of the 6th Infantry Brigade.
Forty years ago, when a young man in
his prime, Edwin Geach, dead last week,
went to Invercargill (M.L.) to join
West’s Brescians, the co. which had
one of the first motion-picture outfits
to come to Australia. From that grew
his lifelong association with the movie
business, which culminated in director-
ships of Union Theatres and allied con-
cerns, from which he retired recently.
Before joining West, Geach, who was
born in Gippsland, was engaged in
theatrical business, in Geach’s Enter-
prises, Willoughby and Geach and other
like concerns. A sister was Edwina
Geach, who won some fame as an actress;
and Portia, leader of women’s societies
in Sydney, is another sister. Geach met
his wife, Lily Willis, who died last year,
when she joined one of his theatrical
cos. in Maoriland.
Dead in Sydney, E. Carr Hordern,
grandson of Anthony and son of John.
He was born in a room above his father’s
store in Grosvenor-street 86 years ago.
Started to work for his uncles at 14,
but soon found other employment. He
did not return to the Hordern orbit till
1876, when he became junior manager
for his brother John L. A year later he
and his younger brother, A.J., were
taken into partnership, the business, still
extant, being then first known as Hordern
Bros. When John L. died, E.C. bought
out AJ. and brought in his own three
sons as co-directors. E.C. was the oldest
living member of the family that com-
menced its Australian commercial history
with Anthony.
Latest name on Canberra’s enormous
roll of advisers is that of Prof. T. H.
Laby, Prof, of Natural Philosophy at
Melb. Uni., who goes to the job of chair-
man of the Optical Munitions Panel.
Laby has an international reputation
amongst physicists and studied under Prof.
Joseph Thomson, Nobel Prize winner.
He was educated at Sydney Uni. and
Cambridge. During the 1914-18 war
when gas began to make its appearance
he joined with other experimenters in
designing the first respirator. He is presi-
dent of the Australian Institute of
Physics, has published several works on
his subject with an overseas circulation
and was born at Creswick (Vic.), which,
for some reason or other, has been the
birthplace of more distinguished Austra-
lians than any other township in the
country.
“Ente Marid” sums up a Frith victim:
In many ways it has been the misfortune
of R. W. D. Weaver, Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly and, latterly, Conservator of Sal-
vage, that Nature endowed him mainly
with positive characteristics. More than six
feet high, with a thatch the same color as that
of Julius Cassar, Ben Jonson, Milton, George
Washington, Jefferson and Viscount Gort,
Weaver does not melt into a crowd as most
SPEAKER WEAVER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
men do. He remains definitely Weaver. The
first time I saw him he had been challenged
by the hotheads of Queensland Labor to appear
at a Brisbane Domain meeting at his peril-
memory of his part in the 1917 N.S.W. railway
strike was still green. There were several thou-
sand people in the Domain that day, but only
one seemed to be visible —Weaver. At election
campaigns in Sydney for some time afterwards
there appeared to be one voice which was all-
pervading—that of Weaver on a gramophone
record shouting from every wharf that he
would not wobble. And at times Parliament
seemed to consist of a large explosive figure
towering above sprawling Ms.L.A. and orating
warmly in the active voice. His vigor soon
carried him into the Ministry. The highlight of
his Ministerial career was when he saw the 1930
coal strike through as Minister for Mines. If
ever the Battle of Rothbury comes to be painted
it will not be hard for the artist to find
a central focus for his picture. Going into
opposition with Tom Bavin, Weaver returned
to office as Minister for Public Works and
Health in the Stevens Ministry in ’32, but a
nervous breakdown put him back among the
rank and file for a time. Then he found his
proper niche as Speaker of the Assembly. He
is a capable Speaker. He knows his standing
orders and procedure as few Parliamentarians
.know them, and is a firm and impartial dis-
ciplinarian. Underneath his determined ex-
terior he is really a soft-hearted person who
does many a good turn for the underdog ; but
he insists that he hates The Bulletin.
W. R. Charlton, who died in Sydney
last week, was a journalist who com-
menced his career with the “Australian
Star,” Sydney, had some English experi-
ence, and then returned to Sydney to be
first editor of the “Sunday Sun,” which
commenced as an “Australian Star” off-
shoot. In 1905 he became editor of the
Fairfax-owned “Sydney Mail,” and pre-
sided over that paper till it went out in
1938. His recreation was bowls, and he
took part in the establishment of the
Matraville Garden Village for Soldiers
Just retired, after 27 years of it, Judge
Wasley, doyen of Victoria’s County
Court Judges. A man of shrewd wit and
as tolerant as the law would let him, he
had a short way with the too-voluble
witness. On one occasion ’Sonah
polished off 20 divorces in one sitting,
though that feat was performed on affi-
davits. He was born at Ballarat, and
before he was old enough to get any
degree had qualified for two at Melb.
Uni. He got his County Court appoint-
ment in 1912, and was acting-justice of
the Supreme Court from 1927 to 1934.
Bridge is his recreation, and he is one
of the most dangerous opponents known
to the fraternity in Melbourne.
Theodore Fink, chairman of directors
of Melb. “Herald,” at 85 and on a
sick bed leader of an
attack against the Min-
istry of Information’s
press regulations, the
policy of his own paper
and the actions of his
own managing director,
has been one of the
beshknown figures in
Melbourne for half a
century. He was born
in Guernsey, educated
at Melbourne Grammar
and graduated in law at
Melbourne Uni. His
association with Phil
May, Blamire Young,
Streeton, Fullwood and
others in his adoles-
cence, when he essayed
to be a painter, gave a
cast to his mind which
differentiated him from
his legal and business
colleagues. He helped
in the fight for Federa-
tion and then fought
bureaucratic tendencies
in the Federal Govern-
ment. One of the most
voluble talkers in local
history, he used to be
the terror of art-show
managers ; also he can
wield a trenchant pen.
No singing career
has had a more curi-
ous genesis than that of John Collin-
son, the Brisbane tenor, back in Australia
after leaving it as a soldier in 1914. He
was wounded in France in 1916 and was
transported to England. While under an
anesthetic he burst into song, and a
musically-minded doctor decided he was
worth bringing under Sir Henry Wood’s
notice. That eminent conductor thought
so much of Collinson’s voice that he had
him trained at his own expense and sent
him for a final polish to France and
Italy. In 1922 Collinson began to appear
in opera, and has since been singing over
the air in the Cold Land. He wants to
sing in Australia if old wounds will let
him.
H. C. Brown, formerly Commonwealth
Auditor-General, owed his start to luck.
The head of Correspondence Branch in
the G.P.O. secured permission of his
chief (S. H. Lamton) to make a foray
on the public schools to improve his
staff. Bound for Sydney’s Fort-street
school, he first called in at St. Phillip’s
school and asked the master to put his
class through their paces. Two lads were
selected there and then. One was M. L.
Shepherd, who retired from the secretary-
ship of the Defence Department; the
other, H. C. Brown, who died recently.
John H. Cann, dead at 80, started work
as a lampboy in a mine in England at
lOd. a day, and had to supply his own
lamp oil; he got his education at a night
school. He was a leader in the big
strike upheavals in N.S.W. in 1890-91,
and was one of the pioneer Labor mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Parliament, staying
on for 25 years. Holman entrusted him
with the job of Acting Premier while he
was in England during the war The
conscription issue finished Cann’s poli-
tical career, for Broken Hill, his elec-
torate, would not return a man who had
gone over with Holman. He became a
Railway Commissioner at £l5OO a year.
His most difficult period was when, as
Whip of his party, he had to chase the
Government’s sparse majority and drag
it out of pubs to be present in the House.
Dead at 76, Alexander McPhie, head
of the Toowoomba (Q.) stock and station
agency that claims to conduct the largest
horse sales in Australia. Born in N.S.W.,
he made a memorable ride on horseback
from Gunnedah to Toowoomba in 1889.
In earlier years he was a noted polo-
player.
“Ek D.” tells of a coincidence:
During the period of Greek intervention on
September 6, 1898, H.M.S. Hazard lay in the
harbor of Candia in Crete. The senior officers
were away on a shooting expedition when the
Moslems of Candia rose against the small
British garrison, threatened to take over the
Dime Office and generally began to play merry
Hades. A sub-lieutenant, Hugh Nicholson,
who three days before had celebrated his 22nd
birthday, assembled a force of bluejackets and
marines, went calmly ashore and, implementing
his Greek family motto —ek vikous’ nike (“out
of striving, victory”)—took charge of the situa-
tion. Queen Victoria sent for him and per-
sonally decorated him with the D.S.O. He is
still the youngest man in history to have won
it. Today he is a director and manager of
Hadfields, the great Sheffield steel firm. Be-
for his Candian adventure he had served
with N. S. Wales Governor Harry Rawson on
the West Coast of Africa; afterwards in
H.M.S. Australia. A sister lives in Sydney—
married to Professor F. H. Easthaugh, of
Sydney Uni. When the present war broke out
H.M.S. Hyperion was patrolling Cretan waters.
Her commander was Hugh Nicolson—no
“h” in the name, though the cables have
credited him with one. He won the D.S.O.
early in the war. And the other day—again
off the coast of Crete —he was senior officer
of the destroyer division which was with
H.M.A.S. Sydney when she smashed the Bar-
tolomeo Colleoni. His late Cretan adventure
earned him a bar to his D.S.O.
Just returned to Melbourne from a
post-graduate course in surgical dentistry
at Toronto University, Dr. H. C. Giles,
one of Geelong’s leading dentists.
During his sojourn a colleague casually
asked him if he would like a trip to
Callander to treat the teeth of the
Dionne Quins, it being the custom of
the university to supply this service gratis
annually. He jumped at the opportunity,
and proved to his own satisfaction that
the famous five are identical, even to
their molars.
Hugh Thomas Moflfitt Angwin, South
Australia’s Engineer-in-Chief since 1936,
H. T. M. ANGWIN.
was born 51 years ago at Angaston
(S.A.), the son of the Rev. T. B. Angwin.
H.T.M. graduated at Adelaide Uni. in
1910 and was Angas Engineering scholar
in 1912. He was in the 1914-18 scrap,
and since then has had a varied experi-
ence on public works in connection with
S.A.’s lakes and rivers.


SMOKE-OH!
“There is no money in verse.”
—Literary course.
Still, monumental masons manage to
chip out a living from it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An amendment to the National Security
Regulations which deal with ‘subversive
associations’ reads: ‘Property includes money
and funds and anything animate or inanimate
capable of being the subject of ownership.’ ”
That will get the Communist party’s
goat.
4* 4* *F 4*
“Following an argument about the war, a
fight occurred amongst lodgers in a Surry
Hills residential.” — “Sun.”
Wars, and roomers of war.
* * * *
“Most sailors when on a long cruise allow
their beards to grow.”— Women’s paper.
This gets them out of many a scrape.
4* 4* 4. 4<
Motto for swains: It’s no good trying
to say it with flowers if you’re only a
weed.
•F *F *F *F >
Differences.
“When the day arrives that there are no
differences of opinion between husbands and
wives, life will not be worth living.”
— N.S.W. Judge in divorce.
“There you are, Aitchem! ” Maria
cried triumphantly as she drew my atten-
tion to the item. “You see what the
Judge says. You try to make out that
you are a martyr just because we have
a few arguments now and then.”
“Oh, well! ” I said, and, having in mind
that I wanted to get in a little sleep that
night, left it at that.
“Of course,” said Maria, “there would
be no arguments at all in this house if it
wasn’t for your stupid outlook and your
opposition to every reasonable thing I
want to do.”
I tried to read my book. Anything I
might say was liable to be used —all
night—in evidence against me.
“There you are!” cried Maria, with
rising anger. “Look at you now! I
just expressed agreement with the Judge
and this is the attitude you take!”
“Look here”
“Now you want to roar me down!”
said Maria. “But I tell you I won’t
“I found it down the far end of platform No. 3 !”
stand it. Your sullen attitude tonight,
I expect, is just because I said that you
should give me a few shillings a week
extra”
“In my opinion” I began.
“Don’t you dare tell me your opinion!
It wouldn’t be worth listening to in any
case....”
Maria was still going strong at
3.50 a.m. Perhaps the Judge is right,
though. The trouble in our household
is that Maria won’t permit a difference
of opinion.
H. M.
•J* *F *f* *F
“People with one eye generally develop quite
a different philosophy to those with two good
eyes.”— “World’s News.”
Especially at football matches.
* * * *
“A wealthy young American has a bathing
suit tattooed on his body.”— “Worlds News.
And no doubt quite a few young
women have designs on him, too.
•F *F *F *F
“It is a wonderful feeling to know that
there is plenty of money at your back.”
— Women’s paper.
Anyone can experience this by just
leaning against the wall of a bank.
•I* ►!• *l* 4*
“Boxer’s wife gets divorce.” — “Sun.”
She k.o.’d him by slipping out of the
ring.
4- 4. 4< 4 1
Not every man who forges ahead in
life acquits himself well in his hour of
trial.
Chat About Chatter.
“Do you really know how to talk?”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Speech is silver, but the court-costs are
gold. Still, you can’t go far wrong if
you talk
To a Judge: in long sentences.
To a poet: with rhyme but no reason.
To a gun-man: in explosive phrases.
To a cricketer: with a catch in your
voice.
To an artist: in colorful curses.
To a musician you can make a song
about anything. Boxers like a yarn with
plenty of punch in it; you must be brief
with lawyers and long-winded with
athletes. You can hammer your argu-
ment home to a carpenter, but you must
soft-soap a window-cleaner. In talking
to your wife, of course, you must use
your head . . . that is, just keep nodding.
E.
“Women are less susceptible to colds than
are men.” — “World’s News.”
Well, a woman gets a fur coat but her
husband gets skinned.
q* 4*
It is often not until several years later
that the average married man fully
realises what a fright he got at the altar.
•b »!• •»« *
They say it’s never too late to learn;
but how about when you arrive at the
wharf at midnight only to learn that
the last boat left at eleven?
•I* *i*
Children should be seen and not heard,
especially those that sing on the wireless.
q* q*
Stable Secrets.
“Marry a girl with good, hard horsesense
and you have the answer to your requirements.”
—Dorothy Dix.
She had horsesense all right when we
married. “A cute little filly!” I thought.
But now the old nag’s got me harried.
She “bites” well, but hates being caught.
She shies at my pals’ elbow-bending, and
bridles at every remark. She keeps a
close rein on my spending, and bolts
when I call her a nark. There’s a kick
like a mule’s in each lecture ; she stamps
despite all that I do ... But her horse-
sense is no wild conjecture—her
mother’s an old war horse, too!
Elm.
“Sorry, mate, but you'll have to move.”
Dilemma.
The fires of love within my heart
With fevered fury blaze!
Ah me! I feel that burning smart
Through bitter nights and days!
With pangs too deep for words to tell
l groan, 1 pine away ;
But whether ’tis for Nance or Nell
I’m hanged if I can say !
T. W. NATHAN.
Disillusion.
Sweet Olive was my soul’s delight,
So innocent, unspoiled.
But things are different since the night
They got my Olive oiled.
P. M. L.
Easier.
“After St. George conquered the dragon he
married the charming Princess Cleodolinda, and
for a time they both forgot there was ever a
dragon in the world.” — “Sun.”
From conquering monsters he turned his
attention
To quaffing full deep of the conjugal
flagon,
But early he yearned for a chance to
return to
The easier conflict of man versus
dragon.
P. S. C.
Farewell Note.
“The hangman, assisted by three warders,
carried out the execution.” —Short story.
No orchestra was heard to play
The victim’s funeral dirge; and yet
( It’s paradoxical, to say
The least ) he had a string quartet.
FRAMIL.
A Sure Winner.
“Britain must organise Left-wing revolutions
in Europe. Our Foreign Office and Ministry
of Information should change their whole men-
tality.”—London “Daily Express.”
The Hon. Ponsonby Gadzook, the
Foreign Officer’s Fourth Liaison Secretary
to the Ministry of Information, adjusted
his monocle the better to absorb the
rather startling suggestion in the opened
paper before him.
“Gad!” he exclaimed, when he had
read it for the fourth time. “Ai do be-
lieve these jollay old press chappays have
hit on something!”
Forthwith he reached for his Homburg
hat, his lavender gloves and cane,
glanced down mechanically at his oyster-
grey spats to see that they sat correctly
on his patents, and strolled over to the
Foreign Office to see his uncle, Sir
Galahad Gadzook.
Sir Galahad had had a meteoric career.
After getting through his intermediate
exam, at Winchester at his seventh attempt
his genius was recognised and he was
snapped up for the Diplomatic Service
by his uncle, Earl Bohndohm. Under the
Earl’s tutelage Sir Galahad had risen
rapidly until now, at 89, he was Third
Assistant Comptroller of Stationery to
the Parliamentary Under-Secretary’s
Chief Clerk.
As the Hon. Ponsonby sauntered in
his uncle slid under his writing pad the
crossword puzzle he had been working
on. Sir Galahad glanced at the clock.
It was half-past twelve.
“Bai Jove, mai boy, what the devil’s
up with you, getting in before lunch?”
he asked.
“Ai’ve had a wretched stroke of luck,
uncle. Meadows, mai man, has been
called up. Devilish inconvenient. Ai
have to do for maiself now of a morn-
ing, get mai own shaving water and lay
mai own clothes out. Gad! Ai haven’t
taimed it properly yet. It’s a feahful
bore. All because of this impossible
boundah Hitler! Bay the way, that is
what Ai came to see you about, reallay.”
He fixed his avuncular relative with what
he hoped was a piercing gaze. “Has it
evah occurred to you, uncle, that we
could easily beat this Hitler chappay
without even firing a beastlay shot? We
could simplay arrange revolutions in
everay countray the cad conquers. You
know, sort of pinch the jollay old thundah
from the Bolshies and turn it against him.
Sort of work the people up to a frenzay
and they’ll bash into the Bosche, what?”
It was with awe-stricken eyes that Sir
Galahad regarded his nephew. Gad! the
youngster had brains —and imagination.
He would go far. The jolly old family
brains coming out, and all that. But
another thought rushed in to change the
smile on his face to a troubled look. “It
seems a dashed good ideah, m’ boy, and
Ai congratulate you. But doesn’t one
thing make it impossible?”
“What’s that, uncle?”
“Ai’m afraid it wouldn’t be cricket.
Ai mean to say, making use of the jollay
fellows owah class has no time for. Be-
saides, how could you handle these
chappays who wave red dags and don t
wash?”
Eventually, after much persuasion, Sir
Galahad agreed to use his influence.
After all, it was for England, and one
couldn’t very well let noblesse oblige
stand in the way of defeating Hitler. Sir
Galahad’s wife’s sister was the Dowager
Lady Egghead, and, as everybody knew,
Lord Egghead was t he power behind the
°° f F
Government.
So it was that, a week or so later the
gon. Ponsonby Gadzook, now Under
Director of Subversive Propaganda,
Enemy Branch, was standing on a plat-
form m a room at the F. 0., monocle in
J an £- addressing a gathering of the
brightest young men of the diplomatic
service. Old school ties adorned every
collar, and there was even an odd Harle-
-9™ ra P he « and there.
“Ai have, the Hon. Ponsonby was
saying, “received the official blessing of
Lord Beavahbrook on putting this jollay
old scheme into operation. This wahr
will be won not only on the playing fields
of Eton, but in the ballay factories of
Germany and Iran and everay other
countray in Europe wheyah there is a
machine to be slowed up. We must play
Hitler at his own game. You all know
the jollay old slogan: When in Rome
do the Romans.
“Owah plan, which Ai have worked
out for you, is quaite simple. Each of
you will go to Hayde Park on Sunday
and acquaint yourselves with this ballay
revolutionary stuff they spout from the
soapboxes. Then select a factoray or
a maine or something in some European
countray and wraite to the ganger or
head mechanic or someone and tell him
that beastlay capitalism is sucking his
blood and grinding the boundah in the
dust. Tell them all to raise, and mastah
theyah mastahs. You will, of course,
have to arrange for your letters to come
from a neutral countray. It’s quaite a
top-hole ideeah, and in no time the old
Hun will be so busay fighting his own
workahs and those of subject races that
he won’t have taime for the main wahr.”
As the Hon. Percy Cholmondeley said
to his friend Plantagenet Anstruther as
they polished their monocles after three
hearty British “Hoop-ras!” had been
given for the brilliant instigator of the
scheme: “The Hon. Ponsonby was jollay
good, eh? Ai didn’t think befoah that
his bean was anything else out solid,
donchaknow!”
The E.O. confidently awaits the
imminent collapse of the Reich,
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was a great be-
liever in squelching attempts by his em-
ployers to get the better of him. He
arrived at a Watchupga (Vic.) farm just
on sunset one night, fed with the cocky’s
family and was shown his bunk. By
8.30 p.m. all signs of life had ceased on
that farm, and Mat sat on his bunk dead
certain of being called early. Sure enough
a voice was hailing him in the false dawn.
Mat wanted to know what was wrong.
“Come on, come on,” called the voice ;
“we start early here, y’ know.” “Start
what?” Mat demanded. “Work,” called
the voice. “Come on, the birds have been
up a long time.” Mat was silent; then
came inspiration. “No blanky wonder!”
he roared. “And so would lif I slept
in a flamin’ tree an’ lived on grubs an’
never did any work. But I’m no flamin’
bird, see?” And he turned over for an-
other ten minutes. After that they kept
reasonable hours on that farm..
sjc
“Nap”: Deciding to add what she
considered an original touch to the hall
decorations for our bush patriotic dance,
a lady organiser gave the mailman a
hastily-scribbled order for two large bal-
loons. What she received —and it acted
like a tonic on all but the lady concerned
—was a pair of X.O.S. bloomers that
would have rugged two Clydesdales. The
district is still laughing.
* * * *
“0.-t.”: Mac, a Mallee cocky, couldn’t
get home one Saturday night because his
car broke down, so he put up at the local
pub, a place wherein he had frequently
drank but never eaten. They gave Mac
a soggy lump which they pretended to
think was porridge for his breakfast,
then followed it with a queer concoction
supposed to be scrambled eggs and
bacon. Mac did his best with it and
went to see about the car. It couldn’t
be fixed till afternoon. By lunchtime
Mac was pretty peckish, and marched
into the dining-room ready for anything.
He managed the alleged soup and started
on the steak-and-kidney pudding. Sud-
denly he stopped, gave a few hard chews,
pulled something from his mouth, gazed
at it, then got up and searched out the
publican. “Look here, Jim,” said Mac,
“I’ve often drunk y’r beer, an’ it wasn't
too bad. I’ve eaten that goo y’ call por-
ridge, an’ I managed y’r addled eggs and
weevily bacon, an’ then come at y’r dish-
water which the waitress called soup.
After that,” he continued, holding up his
trophy, “I didn’t mind havin’ a go at that
old horse they served up f’r dinner, but
I’ll be darned, Jim, if I’m goin’ t’ eat
the flamin’ harness too!” And he
stamped out and went over to the Greek
restaurant.
* 4c # *
“Marneen”: If you are in a car and
see a member of the Blake family wrig-
gling across the country road, dodge him
if you can ; but if you must run over
him, jam your brakes on hard. He’ll
be a very squashed Joe then, with no
ambition to get tangled up in the steer-
ing wheel or to squat beside you. But
run over him with wheels running freely
and he’ll shoot up into your car before
you know where you are.
Jfc ❖ if:
“Bulrush”: Two sure calls to dinner
bring congregations of kite hawks to
the feasts. One is jf a man is driving a
mob of stock across the open downs.
Inside half an hour a pattern of hawks
is weaving the air above him, aware that
the driven stock will flush ground-run-
ning birds and grasshoppers and uncover
carney lizards and other prey. The other
call is just as lively ; as soon as ever a
man hooks un his team and starts the
“Well have to ram her, skipper. We've used all our ammunition .”
delver going in a boredrain the glad word
is passed to all the hawks in the country.
As the delver flushes the water from the
drain it leaves a swathe of water-beetles,
yabbies and small fish. An old-man
yabbie, claws held high in defence, is no
match for a diving kite, and to see a
sprat of a thing leap in the air, a squirm-
ing bar of elastic silver, and to note the
timing of the fiawk that grips that fish
before it hits the ground, is a lesson in
a highly-specialised art.
* * * *
“Jeidisee”: Either the black cockatoos
of the heavily-timbered hill-country have
abnormally developed hearing or they’re
the world’s best guessers. You’ve only
to see them tearing away bark and mak-
ing the chips fly while they hunt down
the larvae of wood-beetles to realise that.
A tree may have unblemished bark, but
along come the black cockies to show
what is underneath, and every tree they
tackle will have its grub tunnels. Their
benefit to timber generally, though, is
doubtful; I’ve seen in mid-eastern
N.S.W. forests where hundreds of young
trees have gone over in the first strong
wind ; the powerful beaks of these shy
birds will often cut a tree nearly through
before locating their quarry.
* * * *
“Mallee Slasher”: Did someone say
that mutton and damper was monotonous
fodder? I once signed on with a bachelor
who was clearing new land and whose
only working stock was myself and a
fair mob of poultry. Neither of us could
cook or bake worth mentioning and we
weren’t on the visiting list of butcher or
baker. But we didn’t starve. Every
working morning the boss hard-boiled
four dozen eggs in a bucket and set them
on the table like snooker balls. His
technique—which I followed —was to cut
each egg in halves and scoop the, meat
into his mouth with the end of the knife.
Three actions and the egg was gone. At
first I could manage only about a dozen
at a sitting and put the balance in my
pockets for future reference; but in
about a week we were running egg-for-
egg. On Sunday we poached them, just
for a change of menu, and they went
down like oysters. Not one was ever
left to tell the tale. According to the book
of rules we should have died of indiges-
tion, but as vitamins had not been in-
vented then we balanced the diet with
hard work and hunger, and throve on
’em.
* * * *
“K. Ley”: Nobody had ever taken
much notice of old Lou’s periodic fits of
the d.ts. till the new manager came. A
sympathetic sort of cove, he was most
concerned about Lou the first time he
discovered the old fellow “seein’ ’em.”
Months later, when Lou got ’em again,
he put the sdfferer into the car and
rushed him into the local doctor. The
doc. wrote out a prescription, gave it
to the manager, pocketed his 10s. 6d. and
said, “Look, you don’t need to come to
me every time he gets like this. I’ll send
you out some instructions later.” In
due course a small parcel arrived labelled
“Instructions for dealing with alcoholic
excesses in lieu of medical attention.”
I"he manager opened the parcel and a
small booklet was revealed. It bore the
title “The Art of Snake-charming.” Next
time manager and doctor met they very
nearly needed that book themselves.
* * * *
“Odd P.”: The elementary knowledge
that the “sun rises in the east and sets
in the west” might be all right for a
bloke trying to find his way about “Hay-
street, Perth’s” backyard (B. 17/7/’4O),
but I’d hate to see him trying it in
eastern scrub-lands, where the sky is often
overcast for days and there’s nothing
but whipstick, which is entirely devoid
of landmarks of any kind. If ever “Hay-
street, P.” gets bushed in that country,
he’ll need a ledger to “note every time
you turn round” and his chances will be
those of the cockroach in the treacle-
barrel if he depends on the sense of loca-
tion.
“Billy See”: To the practised bush-
man the finding of his way, which usually
means getting back to camp, through un-
familiar country presents little difficulty.
What really is difficult is the finding of
water in apparently dead-dry country.
Creeks and rivers may be absolutely dry,
but there will be a native well some-
where if he can only locate it. With
absolute dryness the common signs, such
as the flight of birds—mostly cockatoos
and pigeons— to water in late afternoon,
fail. Birds will not be present. His
only resource left is the ground. On the
W.A. side of the continent native wells
often go down 15 to 20 feet. To get at
the last of the water, generations of
natives, not possessing either a rope or
a bucket, have dug a long sloping trench
down to dipping-up depth. ’Roos, wal-
labies and dingoes also avail themselves
of this trench, with the result that over
a wide radius tracks, human and animal,
will be found converging on the point
where the trench begins its slope. ’Roo
pads are comparatively easily found, for
the marsupial has much the same instinct
as the cow in following the same route,
day after day, to a definite point until
the ground is worn bare and hollow.
Such tracks will be there long after the
marsupials have left the district, driven
away by its general aridity. And there
will still be water in the well, deep down
under the sand—sand that Binghi
shovelled into the well in order to con-
serve the last few gallons against both
animals and evaporation.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An odd botanical search has
been started in S.A. for the wormseed
plant (botanically, Chenopodium anthel-
minticum), said to give the very best oil
for treating internal parasites in pigs. It
was last seen near Adelaide about 15
years ago, but seems now to have hybri-
dised and blended with weeds that are
common enough but are no use for the
purpose. The hunt, however, is well afoot.
“Wippegong”: No matter what a man’s
attitude towards his house, from the spick-
and-span suburbanite to lazy cows like
me who are home where they hang up
their hats, a counterpart can be found
among the birds. Yellowbobs and cer-
tain of the flycatchers make snug little
homes as neat, compact, comfortable
and as tastefully decorated as a
cottage. Eagles build shelters to last
a lifetime, never allowing them to
fall into disrepair. After any big
blow you’ll see them patching the nest
with new sticks; and their young are
taught clean habits. Bottle-swallows love
to crowd together a la King’s Cross.
Curlews get away out where nobody
would expect to see a camp —and if you
stumble across it they’ll go further. The
pise experts peewees, choughs, grey
jumpers and swallows —make a humpy
wherever mud is handy and the foun-
dations sound ; others, waterfowl mostly,
put up with a rough house and noisy
locality for the sake of the cheap living.
Sundry fowl, usually finches or such
small fry, build homes ridiculously large
for the size of the owners. Wrens are so
bent upon privacy fhat it’s hard to
find their front doors; pigeons’ nests, on
the other hand, hold no secrets from any-
body. And you can’t take the appear-
ance of a bird as a guide to the kind of
house he makes any more than you can
with a man. About the showiest bunch
of the lot, the parrots, rejoin their wives
and families by crawling into dark, un-
furnished hollow spouts.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The good old Australian
prad gets some of his own back now
and then, even in this heavily mechanised
age. When one of the rail-motors which
are the Qld. Railway Department’s par-
ticular pride and joy flatly refused to
start from Toogoolawah for Brisbane on
a frosty morning, Dobbin was called upon
for aid. It took more than half an hour
of vigorous hauling up and down the
station yard to make the contraption
stop jibbing, but Dobbin finally won.
PIONEERS.
With stringybark and bloodwood their blocks
were covered when
They lifted axe and crosscut, resolved and
ardent then
To merit virgin holdings and woo the soils to
yield
Some day in rich abundance the products of
the field.
They planted maize in fancy, in dreams they
fattened swine;
They heard the hen’s announcements, the lowing
of the kine
That grazed in future paddocks the which —in
daydreams—grew
The most nutritious pasture a paddock ever
knew.
To bring glad visions nearer they rose by
candlelight
And dragged great logs together, burned slowly
overnight.
Oft-times in rude seclusion they saw the morn-
ing star
O’er darkened treetops shining, ere chilly skies
afar
Were flushed with threat of sunrise—and so
rejoiced to learn
They had all day before them; another day to
burn,
Another day for felling, another day to try
Their heavy mauls and mattocks, long levers
to apply.
From monkey-jacks and wedges, from S-hook,
drag and chain,
Steel bars and forest devils the knowledge to
obtain
Would fill a tidy volume; which one might
dedicate
To them whose education, by Fancy or by Fate,
Is gained in sylvan conquests which neither
praise nor thanks
Have yet received from bailiffs or mortgagees or
banks;
But bring—at city functions —a noisy round of
cheers
When someone toasts, with feeling, “Our rural
pioneers.”
Slow-thinking, much-enduring, but game, they
are indeed
Who learn in that hard college, and yet a
sanguine breed
Who, like the ass of fable, by carrots of desire
Are led to fell the timber and stoke the clear-
ing fire;
Who, when their crops are blighted or when
the price is low,
Turn anxious eyes to Heaven —for only God
doth know
Why agents dwell in villas when growers live
in shacks,
And moneylenders flourish while settlers break
their backs!
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


“D.Mc.”: Joe Staggers and his mates
were discussing queer jobs. “I reckon
the one landed by Bill the Bott takes
some lickin’,” said Joe. “Bill was that
soaked with rum the police warned us
not to strike matches within 20 yards
of ’im. A temp’rance spruiker offered
Bill a constant job an’ a few quid a week
if ’e’d come along with ’im an’ be ex-
hibited as the Awful Example. Bill come
at it with ’is ears back. ’E was such a
roarin’ success as the Awful Example
that most of the district got the wind up
an’ signed the pledge. Just when the
publicans looked like goin’ broke Bill
was tryin’ to make such an Awful
Example of ’imself that ’e c’llapsed an’
'ad to be docked in ’ospital fer repairs.
The publicans put their ’eads t’gether
an’ ’ad a yarn with the doctor, a very
clever bloke on operations. When Bill
came out of ’ospital ’e knocked the first
bloke ’oo asked ’im to ’ave a drink of
rum as flat as a pancake. ’E couldn’t
get enough water t’ drink. People ’ad
t’ chase ’im away from their tanks, and
the cockies took to ? im with stockwhips
an’ dogs if they found ’im near their
water’oles. The temp’rance bloke threat-
ened t’ sue ’im fer breakin’ the contract.
It seemed queer fer a temp’rance bloke t’
be pleadin’ with Bill t’ keep on drinkin’
rum ; but Bill only donged ’im an’ ’eaded
f’r the nearest creek with ’is billycan.
The next we ’eard of Bill was that ’e’d
signed up with a sideshow t’ be exhibited
as the ’uman fish in a big glass tank. It
never came out until years after that the
doctor bloke grafted the glands of a
Murray cod on to poor old Bill.”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Australia has wasted mil-
lions through careless surveying in early
days, but has atoned for it in later years
by producing some of the world’s best
surveyors and survey-methods. The tri-
angulation method of taking angles from
a baseline of accurately known length
began in England about 230 years ago
with wood and metal rods to measure
the base. Then wires and metal tapes
were evolved. The first steel tapes varied
one part in 100,000 per degree of tempera-
ture ; then a nickel alloy reduced it to
about one in a million, but was structur-
ally inferior to steel. Later, temperature
"Quick—what'll yer give us for these ?”
adjustment for steel tapes was made from
thermometer readings alongside the tape.
Now the Australian Military Survey
Corps calculates tape-temperatures, and
thus length-variation, by electrical resist-
ance. In two recent base-line measure-
ments the probable error in the first was
one part in two millions; in the second,
one in 15,000,000, probably the most
accurate survey ever made—less than
l-50th of an inch in a five-mile base-line
Near enough, anyhow.
* * * *
STY”: A man who’s once smelt
gidya never forgets it. Always it will
carry his memory back to the time when
he was a little boy in short trousers on
the banks of the Barcoo, when, during
its flowering period, it first made him feel
a reeling at the pit of the stomach. That,
“Never mind your dolls; go and help your mother .”
the true gidya, only blooms about once
in seven years. The hybrid abomination
which flourishes on the Georgina is a
cross between a wattle and a real gidya,
and flowers every year at the end of
winter. Though it’s profuse in its blos-
soms it doesn’t carry the odor that the
real Mackay effuses; a square mile of
the hybrid stuff wouldn’t equal one old-
man tree on the Barcoo. Another
peculiarity of the Georgina stuff, apart
from giving cattle gidya-pod poisoning,
is its ability to sucker. The dinkum stuff
never does that; when chopped down
it dies. The Georgina gidya suckers pro-
fusely and shoots from the butt like any
other low-down botanical abomination
without a real father.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: An osprey has invaded the
territory of the stately pair of sea-eagles
which float like great butterflies above
the still reaches of the river, watching
for unwary fish to stay near the surface
long enough to be reached with a swift
stoop of grasping talons. Fiercer and
more aggressive than they, the intruder
has already fought three brief duels with
the rightful occupants. The last, an un-
chivalrous and unprovoked onslaught on
the female eagle, seems to have convinced
him that Kipling’s estimate of her sex’s
superior ferocity was entirely correct.
She knocked more feathers off him in
one swoop than her husband had done
in two real scraps, and he doesn’t seem
inclined to try again. Combat tactics on
both sides would provide a valuable
lesson for a fighter-’plane pilot in their
lightning accuracy of offence and avoid-
ance. Yet, in many such fights, despite
the intermingling of great taloned feet,
whirling wide wings and fierce hooked
beaks, I have never seen a casualty
greater than some lost feathers, although
the combatants seem on the very verge
of plunging interlocked into the water
below. Though swift and fierce they aie
short affairs, broken off by mutual con-
sent and with no pursuit tactics. Before
long the osprey will move on and peace
will reign once more above the river.
“Wang”: Dad blew into Ryan’s pub
one morning to find him in argument
with a loud-voiced stranger. The sub-
ject under debate was soil productivity.
The theme of the stranger’s discourse
was that the soil in the part of Tasmania
where he came from was more fertile
than that in any other part of the Com-
monwealth. Dad, supported by Ryan,
disputed his contentions, and mentioned
instances of their Victorian district’s soil
fertility. For a couple of hours the argu-
ment continued till Dad got fed up, and
walked out of the pub, the stranger still
talking to Ryan. At the door Dad
stopped, gave an exclamation of annoy-
ance, and, turning around, winked at
Ryan behind the stranger’s back.
“Cripes,” said Dad, “me missus will give
me fits over this. That’s me damn’
mem’ry agin.” “Why, what’s wrong?
asked Ryan, playing up Jo him; “fer-
gotten somethin’?” “Yes,” said Dad; 1
stuck the end of that prop I’d just cut for
the missus in the ground before I came
in here a coupla hours ago, quite ler-
gettin’ what the soil’s like in these parts.
Look what’s happened to trie damned
thing” and he pointed to a hefty young
bluegum growing alongside the fence a
few yards away* *
* . . *„
“Mick Awber”: Without quest on we
moderns are slipping in reg y.
other day a Per ci l
for obstructing t e at l m e -
tion of his duty the said c,t. havmg
iel used, to ,open t e oor °
possession.” Time was when it was con-
a Ta/jh Lmp
bailiff out. e ence o
was an event that stirred neighborhoods.
A state of siege would be proclaimed,
doors barred and all communication con-
ducted per the windows, through which the
besieged received food and clean clothes ;
and it might go on for months. My dad
was once co-defender in such a siege.
With a cobber he was hired to hold the
engineroom of an insolvent Ballarat gold-
mine. For weeks he and his mate faith-
fully held the fort, kept to virtue by a
daily ration of two pints of the best,
But the day came when the “man,” who
had so persistently hung round, dis-
appeared, evidently weary of constant
frustration. Came a little bookie bloke
to the engineroom window. “Coupla
bob 1 owe yer, Ned. Had a good win
and am settlin’ me debts.” There was
a pub near by. For weeks my old man
had eyed it longingly. Now he had an
unexpected florin. “After dark we’ll slip
over for a quick one.” But when they
got back the bailiff was in. You see,
the bailiff knew that bookie —and he also
knew my old man!
* * * *
“Atrax”: Civil engineers in Australia
frequently become very uncivil concern-
ing the free creatures of the wild and the
funny things they do to engineering
works. White-ants not only devour the
insulation of underground electric cables,
but they dissolve lime mortar in brick-
work and do serious damage to brick
walls. Borer beetles play the deuce with
bridge timbers. Cobra-worms have im-
perilled the souls and reputations of
harbor-engineers by attacking wharf-piles.
Rabbits seem to prefer earthworks of
railways, roads, bridges and dams to
all other places for burrowing in.
Possums used to make themselves one
of the worst of curses on electric power
lines by committing suicide across the
cables. Since they have decreased,
goannas have done their scaly best to
carry on the tradition. Birds are as bad,
either by nest-building or short-circuiting.
The only creature for which engineers
can have a good word is the scallop—
the idea of corrugating sheet materials to
increase their longitudinal rigidity came
from its corrugated shell of thin texture
but of great resistance to pressure.
* * * *
“White Australian”: Matching his
powerful gun against the wooden
weapons of the aboriginal our early
colonist was apt to credit his opponent
with the possession of small courage. But,
actually, there were few more courageous
races on this planet than our Stone Age
brethren. The huge stamping horse, with
its terrible head, glaring eyes and cruel-
looking teeth, must have appeared to the
untutored black as a fearsome monster.
Later the more intelligent confessed that
they quite expected the white men to urge
their strange mounts to bite and worry
naked abo. bodies as would savage dogs.
Yet it is recorded more than once by
Westralian explorers that blacks, men
and women, stood up to the alarming
beast. John Brockman, first to break the
cattle trail up from York (W.A.) through
the Murchison and the Gascoyne to Roe-
bourne, used to tell of surprising a native
camp on the then unmapped Lyons River.
A young woman with a baby on her
back came running back, right to the
noses of the horses, to snatch up a tiny
mite, too stupefied with terror and amaze-
ment to move Compare that with the
millions of Americans scared stiff by the
radio version of Wells’s War of the
Worlds— “ The Martians are here!”
A NEW RACE.
“A party of abos. who were sent from a western
Victorian town to a camp a few miles through the
scrub returned for a guide.”
They roamed where speargrass dots the open
spaces,
And moved precariously from soak to soak,
The members of the wildest of all races
Who first embraced the use of fire and smoke.
Their hideous pipeclayed and red-ochred faces
Full terror in their enemies awoke.
Witchetty grub and bardi were their fare
When snake, nardoo and wallaroo were rare.
On walkabouts for distances amazing,
By trackless spinifex and endless sand,
They trudged unerring till they ended gazing
Upon the blue Pacific’s golden strand.
Then, gorged with fish, and after weeks of
lazing,
The Yadikans and Myalls turned inland.
By star and sun, by tree and hill they paced,
Direction-sure, as footsteps they retraced.
But that was when the unprotected native
Was of our land the undisputed boss,
Ages before six hundred legislative
Patrons arose beneath the Southern Cross.
Under their fostering care he’s slipped—the
caitiff.
His quondam playground finds him at & loss.
“By cripe!” he says, as in some scrub he’s
pushed,
“You wantum blurry pfeller to git bushed?”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
JU S f Ct i ng ® xecu^or ) vbo to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
t-ho^ 1 a has suffered grievously because the dea.d father’s executor was lazy, or too old
A\hen the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest
it is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It
rna -'L, be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
fhe Company s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
m TT , DIRECTORS:
r. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
TT „ H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; J. P. Abbott.
H* Y. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
The financial security the company offers comprises its own assets and uncalled capital exceeding
£1,250,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
After a day’s business or pleasure, you will
find perfect rest and relaxation in the quiet
seclusion of your room at the Victoria.
Located in Melbourne’s city centre, but away
from the noise of city traffic, up to 900 guests,
like yourself, find their rooms at the Victoria
a veritable “haven of rest.”
£
“ROOM ONLY” DAILY
TARIFFS:
Singles —S’- to 10'-
Doubles—B~ to 18'6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services,
f * it i a v
MELBOURNE'S MOST POPULAR HOTEL
Next Town Hall Little Collins Street
S. D. Horne—Manager
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 118,349 10 p.e. = 84,232 34,117 357,696
1931.. 43,762 5 „ ~42,116 1,646 359,342
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 2i p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ ~ 42,116 342.025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl .. 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 7$ p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 67,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 .. 420,583
1938.. 97,101 124 p.c. =84,233 12,868 433,451
1939.. 98,340 12* „ ~84,233 14,107 447,558
1940.. 96,705 12* „ ~84,233 12,472 460,030
Efficient cement-makers continue to be
good div.-payers, although capacity of
the industry as a whole is still well ahead
of demand, despite willing public-works
spending, particularly in N.S.W., and the
rapidly-expanding uses to which cement
is being put. The next table gives some
idea of the fortunes of the industry over
the past decade:
Year Output, Value, Year Output, Value,
June, Tons. £ j une , Tons. £
1929.. 696,569 2,979,551 1935.. 550,131 2,132,865
1931.. 389,278 1,630,785 1936.. 645,234 2,389,899
1932.. 247,396 1,046,642 1937.. 720,093 2,556,740
1933.. 320,910 1,324.793 1938.. 848,914 2,991,927
1934.. 410,343 1,650,480 1939'.. 867,849 3,023,707
The outstanding feature is the benefit to
prices as efficiency has improved with the
expansion of output.
This Kandos co. and Australian
Cement (paid capitals £673,862 and
£760,433 respectively) are equal share-
holding partners in Australian Portland
Cement Pty. (paid capital £2,000,000), the
operating concern in which the two first-
named welded their interests in 1930.
The works are at Fyansford (Vic.) and
Kandos (N.S.W.). Chief competitor of
the Fyansford plant, where a lot of
money has lately gone into improve-
ments, to the benefit of capacity (now
300,000 tons p.a.) and reduction of costs,
is Goliath, a low-cost producer of Railton
(Tas.). The Kandos works (capacity
200,000 tons p.a.) share the N.S.W.
market with four other producers, total
annual productive capacity for the State
being around 720,000 tons, or almost
double present demand. A proposed fifth
competitor has yet to start production.
Figures for the operating concern,
which closes its books a month before the
Kandos co., aren’t broadcast, but it ap-
pears to be paying 9 p.c. very comfort-
ably. The balance of Kandos’s income
comes from commissions as agent for
the working co. and from interest on
its cash investments. At £96,705 (down
. £1635 after allowing for taxation) net
Kandos earnings last term were 14.3 p.c.
on its £673,862 of capital, as against 14.5,
14.4, 12.3, 11.5, 11.3, 4.8, 4.9 and 1.6 p.c.
back to 1932, when constructional activ-
ity was at a low ebb. For the third suc-
cessive term 12y p.c. went out. It was
covered with £12,472 to spare,, apart
from whatever the operating co. declined
to pass on.
As for the current term, building is
proceeding vigorously in Melbourne
(which houses most of Defence official-
dom), not so much in Sydney ; there must
also of necessity be some shaving-down
of the States’ works expenditure, but this
may be largely offset by increased Federal
defence spending. Immediate chances
are, therefore, that the mounting-costs
factor is likely to prove a more formid-
able foe than a falling demand.
At the end of June, apart from its
shareholding in Australian Portland,
Kandos had £183,954 in the bank and
book debts of £969. Its only outside
liability was £8914, part of which repre-
sents provision for the tax bill.
Sharing in the general experience,
Kandos 165.-paids have fallen from
30s. 6d. to 28s. since the beginning
of the year, to return 7.1 p.c. on the
basis of current divs. The return com-
pares with 7.9 p.c. from Australian
Cement pound shares at 31s. 6d.:
Face Net
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Kandos .. 16/- 28/ 121 p.c. 7.1 33/8
Aust. Cement 20/- 31/C 121- ~ 7.9 28/2
* Per £1 of paid capital.
Though both cos. pay the same rate nf
dividend, the market is at last taking
cognisance of the greater div. cover for
Kandos scrip—the co. owns £l4B of the
operating co.’s capital for each pound
of its own, as against Australian Cement’s
£l31 —and of its fatter accumulation of
cash.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To lie— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 53,525 10 p.c. - 44,370 9,155 162,333
1931.. 38,222 10 „ „ 44,370 156,190
1932.. 36,051 8 „ „ 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8.,, „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35.496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 „ 35.496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 ~ „ 35,496 415 168,649
1938.. 42,915 84 „ „ 37,714 5,201 173.850
1939.. 40,191 9 „ „ 39,933 258 174,108
1940.. 42,530 9-J „ „ 42,152 378 174,486
The profits are conservatively stated.
With the book value of assets fairly
shrinking with modesty, too, the board
therefore had no qualms in tactcing
another \ p.c. on the div., although the
p.c. again called for practically all
declared earnings.
The extra £1339 of profit was won in
the face of a weightier tax bill, pro-
vision of £3056 more at £30,499 for
depreciation, handing over of five
ships to the Navy and the loss of
two more (fully covered by insurance)
by wreck, another coal strike, drought,
and all-round lifts in running exes., in-
cluding marine insurance. Though the
co. is admittedly in a favored position,
the better showing may indicate a satis-
factory trend in the earnings of coastal
shippers generally.
The co.’s ships have been poking in
and out of Sydney, Newcastle and the
N.S.W. northern rivers for over half a
century, and now enjoy a virtual mono-
poly of sea transport from the Coal
City to the Queensland border. Earn-
ings are governed mainly by the volume
of farm and dairy produce coming for-
ward for shipment and the backloading
of goods for storekeepers and others.
With the loss of Scandinavian supplies
the U.K. Government has been taking
Australia’s surplus butter outturn, but
unfavorable seasonal conditions are at
present cutting into N.S.W. production.
To offset the reduction in available
tonnage, orders have been placed with
Mort’s Dock for a new steel vessel of
600 tons and with a Tuncurry builder
for a wooden hull of similar dimen-
sions, delivery in each case about the
middle of next year. The board will
have no difficulty in finding the money:
1931. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* . . 30,859 40,171 50,578 60,111
Ships .. 298,238 212,352 314,401 260,300
Freeholds, etc. 35,859 16,920 16,383 15,038
Liquids . . 318,837 440,581 357,568 425,146
* Including tax provision.
Of the £425,146 of liquids, £353,509,
or 15s. lid. per share, is represented by
Government securities and cash. Last
year’s lift of £54,024 in the two items
and the fall of £54,101 in the book value
of ship property reflect writings-off and
insurance payments for the two vessels
lost.
Though the immediate outlook is not
as satisfactory as it might be, the board
is unlikely to have pushed the div. up
if it had little hope of maintaining it;
in any case, the allowance for deprecia-
tion, which would write fixed assets
down to zero inside nine years, suggests
that more of last year’s takings could
have been called profit had the manage-
ment desired.
At 38s. 475. earlier this year—
the pound ords. are priced to yield
5 p.c., assuming 9} p.c. continues to
go out. Written-down values give a net
tangible backing of 275. lid. per share,
of which 16s. sd. is in surplus liquids.
The scrip is closely held.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 40,180 121 p.c.=31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
1931.. 17,572 10 ~,, 25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 „ ~20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 „ ~ 20,000 2,955 12,690 305,515
1939.. 34,117 8 „ ~ 20,000 3.135 10,982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 „ „ 20,006 4,993 11,641 328,138
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, Queensland experienced
one of the best seasons it has enjoyed
for many years. The usually-parched runs
in the Thompson and Barcoo districts
received relief, and a plentiful supply of
fat cattle sold readily at satisfactory
prices, while the British Government
bought the export surplus of a bumper
sugar crop, heavy wool clip and large
output of dairy produce at better than
average pre-war prices. All this and
Government spending on defence and
public works meant that money was
plentiful; and traders in merchandise got
their fair share of it. Certainly costs and
taxation continued to climb, but their full
effects have scarcely been felt yet.
A lot of this • co.’s business —head-
quarters are at Rockhampton—is done in
the central and far-west parts of the
State. After making a larger than usual
allowance for taxation and providing for
bad debts and other contingencies, gross
earnings sprang £5293:
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1929. . £128,432 £81,456 1936.. £87,592 £55,789
1931.. 92,044 74,472 1937.. 95,208 62,140
1933.. 81,298 57,882 1938.. 101,091 65,446
1934.. 82,440 55,370 1939.. 100,851 66,734
1935.. 87,653 56,315 1940.. 106,144 69,510
Exes, gobbled all but £2517 of the in-
crease, the net result being 14.6 p.c. on
capital, compared with 13.6, 14.2, 13.2,
12.7, 12.5 and 10.8 p.c. back to 1934.
That leaves out of the reckoning the allow-
ance for depreciation of property and
plant (shown as written off in the table),
which the “Wild Cat” believes to be
largely or wholly genuine profit.
The cautious management, which has
been steadily building up the co.’s shock-
absorbers, visible and otherwise, for over
40 years, kept the div. at 8 p.c. The
£11,641 openly put on the shelf lifted
the lay-by £78,138 in excess of paid
capital, which advanced from £93,750 at
the beginning of this century to its present
figure with the aid of only £11,250 of
cash subscriptions. Also, the co. has
more invested outside the business than
in it, and appearances are that returns
from these outside investments provide
more than half the present rate of div.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:—•
1930. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £250,000£250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 36,115 33,068 41,497 49,110
Stock .. 208,298 135,930 146,930 161,962
Book debts .. 76,095 38,364 71,576 59,468
Cash .. .. 63,676 47,122. 35,375 39,225
Freeholds and 1 f
plant 1243,568 -j 66,292 65,520 62,102
Investments J ( 309,471 319,521 338,753
Chief movements in the figures last term
were a reduction of £12,108 in debtors’
balances and a growth of £15,032 in
stocks, £3850 in the cash holding and
£19,232 in investments, which are mostly
Government securities. The year’s in-
crease in the more or less liquid surplus
(£550,298) was £18,391. The co. is in
a position to return the whole or part of
its share capital without hamstringing
itself, which means much from the in-
vestor’s point of view in these uncertain
times.
At 375. (395. 4d. a year ago) the return
is 4.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. It is
a very satisfactory yield from a sound
stock. The net tangible cover is 465. 3d.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
, Net To Re- Rc-
reb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1929*.. 10,898 20 p.c. = 4,000 6,898 2,226
1930 .. 31,568 40 „ „ 8,000 23,568 25,794
Bonus scrip issued, £20,000 .. 5,794
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,298
1932 .. 28,725 221 p.c. = 16,875 11,850' 20,146
1933 .. 13,053 20 „ „ 15,000 18,199
1934 . . 30,202 20 „ „ 15,000 15,202 33,401
1935 .. 20,818 20 „ ~15,000 5,818 39,219
1936 . . 25.876 20 „ „ 15,000 10,876 50,095
Doubtful debts written off, £5OOO .. 45,095
1937 .. 13,887 12* p.c. = 9,375 4,512 49,607
Estab. exes., etc., capitalised, £24,924.. 24,683
1938 .. 10,895 5 p.c. = 4,000 6,895 31,578
Net addition estab. account, £13,777.. 17,801
Pref. Ord.
7 p.c. 5 p.c.
1939 .. 11,265 8,633 4,000 16,433
7 p.c.
1940 .. 16,755 5,600 5,600 5,555 21,988
*l5 months.
Air transport is a national necessity
for the continued development of Aus-
tralia, as well as a useful adjunct to the
air arm of the defence forces. Formed
at the end of 1927 as an offshoot of
Guinea Gold, Guinea Airways, which
pioneered the “clipper of the sky” busi-
ness from the coast to the goldfields in
New Guinea, has during the last few
years made a valuable contribution to
Australia’s commercial air fleets and aided
economic development by opening up
important new routes.
Operating from Adelaide, the co.’s
’planes fly twice weekly to Darwin, daily
to Kangaroo Island and to Port Pirie
and Whyalla, where B.H.P. is putting up
important new works, and thrice weekly
to Port Lincoln. The Darwin run, which
has been increasingly important from the


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney.
Keeping in line with the market for
Triton, in which it holds 200,000
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elisabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
Position Vacant.
APPLICANTS for the position of Mechanical
Engineer required for Singapore, capable of
undertaking Bucket Dredge design, erection and
working, are advised that the position has now
been filled. Applicants are thanked.
YOUR BANK CAN HELP YOU
in many ways •
a
& :
t\i>
A Bank offers to individuals and business
firms many services that will be found
distinctly helpful. The National Bank offers
to its Clients facilities which cover every
form of Banking Service, among which are
included: Collections, Banking by Mail'
Transfers of Money. Ask at the nearest
branch for full particulars and for free
booklet —“Services and facilities.’’
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
incorporated in Victoria
85 16 40
national point of view, was the first the
co. opened up in Australia. This service
began in February, 1937, and was con-
tinued at a heavy loss to the co. until a
well-deserved Government subsidy was
received about two years ago. Since
then there has been marked improvement
in trading results, thanks partly to in-
creased passenger traffic ; the tonnage of
goods carried has been disappointing.
Here are operating statistics for the
two sections of the business: --
NEW GUINEA.
Tonnage Average Passengers Gross
Feb., Transported. Freight.* Carried. Earnings.
1929.. 434 10.61 d. 809 £44,006
1930.. 949 8.28 d. 2,047 72,756
1932.. 3947 5.91 d. 1,607 95,619
1934.. 6044 4.12 d. 7,398 111,203
1936.. 6476 2.90 d. 12,137 137,729
1937. . 6705 2.49 d. 11,869 96,134
1938.. 8408 1.94 d. 12,120 92,541
1939.. 8804 2.07 d. 11,626 102,576
1940. . 8374 1,97 d. 11,481 96,141
AUSTRALIA.
1939.. 117 2,332 54,862
1940.. 135 5,938 80,248
* Per pound.
Despite the fierceness of competition—
this is indicated by a glance at the aver-
age freight rate per pound column—the
New Guinea business, which is the back-
bone of the undertaking, holds remark-
ably well. Last term’s gross earnings
in New Guinea were £96,141 (down
£6435). Exes, amounted to £81,242
(down £4314), leaving a profit of £14,899
(down £2121). In Australia gross earn-
ings were £80,248 (up £25,386) and exes.
£78,392 (up £8998), leaving the net result
£16,388 better at £1856. The £16,755 of
profit from the two sections combined
was enough to pay the prefs. their 7 p.c.
and show 13.9 p.c. on ord. capital. That
was after allowing £28,035 (= 19 p.c. oil
book value of fixed assets at close of
accounts in 1939) for depreciation. The
ord. div. was stepped up from 5 p.c. to
7 p.c., and the £5555 that remained lifted
free reserves to £21,988 —no goodwill or
other intangible now figures in the
accounts.
The financial position, which is com-
fortable, was further strengthened:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £75,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities .. 12,549 24,444 14,411 12,917
Fixed assets . . 70,950 174,844 147,961 128,680
Investments .. 31.788 3.152 4,738 29,980
Debtors , . 20,662 37,857 37,390 27,338
Cas h . . . . 8,245 170 7,556 17,308
The heavy allowance for depreciation,
which always takes a deep bite out of
earnings in this class of business, is
reflected in the net contraction of £19,281
in the book value of fixed assets and a
growth of £25,242 in investments. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£61,709) was £26,436.
Three new aircraft were on order when
the accounts closed ; and all assets are
reported in a high state of efficiency.
The board says there is no reason to
doubt continuance of profitable opera-
tions in New Guinea —and earnings in
Australia are expected to increase further.
Still, the market, doubtful of the
possible effects of petrol restrictions on
the business, and thoughtful as to what
might happen in other directions, prices
the pound ords. at 11s. (11s. 6d. a year
ago) and the pound prefs. at 15s. lOd.
(17s. 4d. 12 months back). At current
prices the return is 12.7 p.c. and 8.8 p.c.
respectively on the basis of last year’s
distributions. The net tangible cover is
£2 ss. 6d. prefs. and 255. 6d. ords.
Broken Hill Prop.
Broken Hill Prop.’s profit of £979,138
(after providing £903,354 for deprecia-
tion, compared with £850,670 in the pre-
ceding year) was down £452,375 on the
record showing for 1938-39. Production
of steel for the first 44 weeks of the
later period was up, but costs were
heavier, the coal strike having an in-
fluence, and it is likely that the results
published last week have been arrived
at after making heavy provision for
taxation. The net profit is equal to
8.6 p.c. on the bonus-increased capital,
and covers with little to spare the present
7+ p.c. div. rate. The sharemarket showed
only slight disappointment with the result,
the fall in the scrip being less than Is. a
share. B.H.P. is at present the back-
bone of Australian munitions production,
besides exporting defence materials to
Britain. Its Port Kembla subsidiary,
Aust. Iron and Steel, is also hard at
work; it cleared off all pref. div. arrears
this year.
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging, N.L.
Including 3s. l|d. per share sent out
since the close of accounts, this Takuapa
(Thailand) producer has distributed
£385,937 Aust. in divs. since the begin-
ning in 1925. At the end of December
there was still another 17 years’ work in
sight, apart from what may be added by
further purchases, assuming a turnover
of 4,000,000 c.y. annually.
The reserves are contained in
68,651,000 c.y., distributed as follows:
Takuapa ■ . • • 2,940,000 c.y. averaging 10.20 z.
10,206,000 c.y.. ~ 6-Boz.
6,000,000 c.y. ~ 4-6 o•/..
Lease applications. . 3,485,000 c.y. ~ 9oz.
Ban Pru . . . . 6,714,000 c.y. ~ 12.20 z.
Northern Area .. 35,000,000 c.y. ~ 8.40 z.
S.-e. Extension . . 4,300,000 c.y. ~ 7oz.
At present only the old Takuapa and
Ban Pru areas are being dug, the big
Northern Area and South-east Extension
being recent additions. The Takuapa
property is equipped with two Diesel-
powered bucket-dredges ; Ban Pru, where
the wash is hard and clayey, resulting in
recoveries well short of bore indications,
with an American spud-type unit. Com-
bined nominal assessment is 1258 tons t.o.
annually—Takuapa 1012 tons, Ban Pru
246 tons.
Including a contribution to the buffer
pool of 115.1 tons, permitted exports last
term amounted to 1050 tons of oxide,
representing an 83.5 p.c. quota release,
compared with 62.5 p.c. in 1938. The
metal fetched more, too, and net earn-
ings benefited by £lB,OBB stg.:
Ex- , —Profit— v—Dividends—^
Dec., Revenue, penses.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1936.. 114,754 79,957 34,797 2/9 2/~ 27,401
1937.. 140,185 88,436 5i,749 4/1 3/9' 50,795
1938.. 114,842 88,374 26,468 2/1 1/9 23,780
1939. . 130,676 86,120 44,556 3/7 2/- 27,282
* Including depreciation: 1936, £20,128; 1937,
£20,302 ; 1938, £20,611; 1939, £20,432.
That excludes an expected uncollected
profit of roughly £lO,OOO on the buffer-
stock contribution and is after writing
off £20,432 for depreciation, making an
aggregate £98,220 over the past five years.
Shareholders participated in the improved
result to the extent of another 3d. per
share, the full distribution of 2s. being
worth 2s. 6d. to Australian holders.
Here is an analysis of results from
the operating angle:
f — : Takuapa v Ban Pru •,
1938. 1939. 1938. 1939.
C.y. dug .. 2.870,000 2,199,000 953,0001,200,000
T. 0., ,tons.. 798 695.1 175 223.2
Yield, C.y... 0.621 b. 0.711 b. 0.411 b. 0.421 b.
Costs, c.y... 3.45 d. 3.74 d. 5.17 d. 4.63 d.
Oxide real’ll,
ton . . £ll3/9/7 £136/1/7 £l2O/9/8 £l4O/18/-
Tin price,
ton .. £lB9/12/-£226/5/8
To improve recoveries No. 1 dredge at
Takuapa was equipped with new-type
jigs during the year, and No. 2 plant
is to be similarly converted when oppor-
tunity offers.
With the international quota now at
130 p.c. tin-producers generally are work-
ing flat out. Despite the high quota, the
sterling price of spot metal keeps above
the very satisfactory level of £266 a ton,
tdo, compared with an average £254
for the first half of 1940. But it remains
to be seen how the political tension in
Southern Asia and the effects of the
accumulation of tin stocks that will arise
from the existing quota will work them-
selves out.
At 225. Takuapa pound shares are
now still below their highest level of
the past year or two ; there are 250,000
issued. At balance day the co. held more
oT less liquids in mixed English and Aus-
tralian currency of £98,618 ; there was
then £30,000 coming to outsiders, includ-
ing £24,000 outstanding on the adjoining
Northern Area. So far this term appre-
ciably lower-grade wash has been encoun-
tered.
10s. fully-paids (two for every one of its
own issue), Western Gold (W.A.) has
fallen from 16s. 3d. to 9s. 6d. over the
past 12 months. Taking the Triton
interest in at 6s. per share, net Western
Gold assets are worth 12s. per share, and
that excludes the co.’s equity in the
Rand leases. The difference between
9s. 6d. and 125., however, is partly
accounted for by the fact that most
of W.G.’s scrip carries a liability of
4s. 6d. per share, and that the co. has
expenses of its own to meet. Western
Gold paid Is. 9d. a share last year, but,
owing to the passing of Triton’s May
dividend, income this term is likely to
be only half so buoyant. . Development
of the Rand leases, for which Western
Gold puts up 10 p.c. of the working
capital and Triton the balance, cost
£lO,OBO in all last year. With the excep-
tion of one small shoot, now being pre-
pared for stoping, the outcome was dis-
appointing, but a diamond-drill stab
midway between the North Rand and
Emu North workings has yielded pros-
pects at 1100 ft. thought to be worth
exploration. Western Gold is to get
20 p.c. of any profits from the Rand
leases until £lOO,OOO has been so re-
ceived, thereafter 10 p.c.; but it is early
yet to form an opinion as to what the
right may eventually turn out to be
worth.
* * * *
Presiding at North Kalgurli’s annual
roll-up in the absence through illness of
chairman C. A. Whitfield, C. T. Ley de-
clared that last year’s mining results were
eminently satisfactory, not the least the
increase in ore reserves after extracting
135,671 tons of an average grade of
7.4dwt. Positive ore lifted 50,000 tons
of a slightly lower grade, while broken
ore now amounted to 190,192 tons
averaging B.lldwt. Turning to the indi-
vidual areas mined, Ley stated that the
Kalgurli, with its variety of producing
lodes, was the most interesting. The
N.E.D. formation had become a much
larger producer than was expected when
originally located. Croesus Proprietary had
shown an amazing transformation since
manager Tyrrell took charge. Ore was
abundant, and the grade could now be
safely estimated at 6dwt. North Kalgurli
and Union Jack were also given a re-
sounding pat on the back. A most in-
teresting feature of the co.’s properties,
Ley added, was that practically the whole
area of 160 acres was ore-producing.
The future never looked better. New
plant would be coming into commission
before long, with increased production
and, he hoped, rising profits. From the
shareholders’ point of view, however,
prospects were clouded, owing to the
costs and tax factors. When the books
closed the co. had £stg 138,697 in cash
and shares and debentures in Kalgurli
Ore Treatment Co. valued at £76,283-
This concern, which treats North Kal-
gurli and Boulder Perseverance ore, is
jointly owned by the two cos.
* * * *
Chairman A. C. Moreing, since dead,
told the Sons of Gwalia meeting
in London in June that development of
the mine and maintenance of ore re-
serves received a full share of attention
during the past year. Major items of
development included sinking the main
shaft, the opening-up of No. 30 level
and the development of Nos. 28 and
29 levels, as well as considerable
diamond-drilling. It was, he said, too
early yet to assess closely the results of
development on No. 30 level, but it had
already contributed appreciably to re-
serves and given promise of further large
additions of pay-ore. Moreing, who was
M.P. for Preston, passed on suddenly,
age 48.
sfc *|6
Profit of South Kalgurli (W.A.) for
the year to March was £30,460 stg.,
down £7OOO compared with the previous
12 months. Two dividends—ls. interim
and Is. 4d. final, plus a 2d. bonus from
non-mining profits—were distributed.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
j. 0.: Search at the Registrar-General’s would
yield most of the information required....
W.R.M., L.S. and R.S.B: No record....
D.O’D.: One of the better-type forestry con-
cerns, but prospective returns are shrouded in
uncertainty. There js no open market for the
shares... .Investor: At law you could be com-
pelled to pay; but try sitting tight M. Bell:
All front-rankers A. 8.: Write N.S.W.
Mines Dept A.R.H.: Gladstone’s Pty.,
Margaret-street, Sydney, might be able to help.
R.A.P.: The profit on the issue of coinage,
Much goes to the Treasury, is the difference
between face value and metallic content, plus
ninting exes. The coins are exchanged at their
:ace value for the banks’ cheques or notes, as
equired.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Looking Back a Moment
A lull has occurred in the progress of
financial developments. The wool season
is finished, the new taxation proposals
have been presented, sharemarkets are
recovering their composure, petrol-
rationing is on its way at last, the trade
balance for the year was again adverse,
the early spurt in new industrial activity
is settling down, and the latest basic-
wage lift should take care of any in-
crease in living costs for some time.
Income-tax returns are now being made
out, and generally there is an air
of reflection and introspection rather than
hustle and bustle in the financial world
for the moment. In the actual produc-
tion of munitions it is to be hoped that
activity is greater than ever before, be-
cause the hustle to date has been mostly
of a preliminary kind. Australians are
paying willingly for defence, but they
want results, not merely a tangle of red-
tape.
In the process of reflecting on what
has happened since war broke out some
Sydney interests reckon they have found
that Melbourne is having too much to do
with the running of the war. The N. S.
Wales Chamber of Manufactures has
expressed feelings on the matter. It has
been pointed out that the following
organisations and departments have their
headquarters in Melbourne, not in Can-
berra :
Defence Department, Naval Board, Military
Board, Air Board, Civil Aviation Department,
Supply and Development, Aircraft Production,
Contract Board, Supply Planning, Factories
Board, Ministry of Munitions, Munitions
Board, Controller-General Munitions Supply.
Posts, Telegraphs, Telephones, Department of
Information, Mint, Note-printing, Stamp-print-
ing.
Central Wool Committee, Wheat Board,
Hides and Feather Board, Meat Board, Dried
Fruits Board, Apple and Pear Board, Canned
Fruits Board, Dairy Produce Board, Shipping
Board, Liquid Fuel Board, Jute Board.
Melbourne has preponderant represen-
tation, too, in the personnel of the De-
partment of Munitions Supply. It may
be that the heads of the concerns most
obviously skilled in work similar to muni-
tions-making happen to belong to Mel-
bourne. Still, there is little doubt that
Melbourne has scored over Sydney in
appointments if not in industrial activity
in this matter. There is no obvious
reason why one city or State should
receive preference, though centralisation
of departments in one place may have
advantages.
Subscription to war-saving certificates
still goes on, but the next loan has not
yet been announced. Minimum security
prices for Consols are now operating.
The banking position remains liquid,
though a good deal of the liquidity is
being diverted to Government use.
The hue and cry against the Common-
wealth defence finance policy has died
down. It may have been discovered that
the Australian programme is less “de-
flationary” than that of Maoriland, for in-
stance. In Maoriland it has been gener-
ally acknowledged that maintenance of
living standards will be difficult in the
face of heavy war expenditure. The
reason for paying a maximum proportion
of war’s cost now out of taxation seems
to be more clearly understood on the
other side of the Tasman, too. The
British Budget wasn’t quite so “realistic”
as some expected ; even heavier taxation
was looked for.
Following announcement of Britain’s
additional tax measures under its supple-
mentary Budget, many Australians felt
like congratulating themselves on the
“light” touch of their own Taxation De-
partments. Most of them ceased their
congratulations when they remembered
“wages tax,” originally introduced for
relief of depression unemployment, but
still with us. Also, few of them have yet
realised that their 1939-40 assessment rate
has been stepped up, particularly in the
£6OO-£lOOO income class. They haven’t
been billed yet, but they will be. Then,
of course, there is the question of com-
parative value for money. A great deal
of Australia’s Government expenditure
is only productive of obstruction to in-
dustry—Red Tape is firmly in the saddle
now that war is on. Britain certainly has
its share of muddle, too, but the British
have something to show for their outlay.
In Australia we mostly hear of lack of
this or lack of that. Perhaps positive
instead of negative results will show up
later on when the new Munitions Supply
team gets warmed up to its job.
Australian Stock Exchanges have
moved up again in the comparative calm
of the last two or three weeks. The
Sydney index of industrial-share prices
rose from 107.52 on June 19 to 115.23
on July 25. Here are some comparisons
of leading share quotations:
Jan. June July July
31. 29. 19. 26.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £24.9 £24.8 £26.0
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.3 £5.3
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 60/- 58/6
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 18/- 19/-
Tooth .. .. 52/3 43/9 49/3 48/6
Metropolitan Gas .. £13.5 £12.8 £13.1 £13.2
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/
Associated News .. 16/6 10/6 10/- 10/5
Melb. “Herald” .. 57/- 43/- 49/- 48/6
Adelaide Steam .. 36/- 27/6 29/6 31/
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 49/- 50/
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/- 27/3 26/9
A. 38/3 30/9 32/9 33/3
Bradford Cotton ..37/6 28/- 30/6 31/
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 41/6 43/9
Burns, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 49/6 50/
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £47.0 £47.5
David Jones ..33/6 23/6 26/3 28/
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 23/2 23/3
Electrolytic Zinc ..58/9 40/6 44/3 45/6
Fairymead Sugar .. 37/- 31/6 32/6 33/
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 34/- 33/9
G. J. Coles.. ..74/3 52/6 55/9 59/
Henry Jones .. 56/6 48/- 51/3 51/3
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/- 18/9 19/6
Kandos Cement .. 29/9 24/- 27/- 28/-
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 27/- 27/6
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 23/- 22/9
Woolworths.. ..22/9 13/4 14/3 15/3
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 32/6 36/ — 36/
Yarra Falls .. .. 42/- 37/6 37/- 37/-
North B.H 47/6 30/6 33/9 34/6
B.H. South.. ..29/9 20/3 22/6 23/-
New B.H 20/- 10/- 11/6 12/6
Mt. Lyell ~ .. 32/- 22/6 25/3 26/3
* Ex issue.
Turnover generally was small, but buyers
were more evident than sellers in most
cases.
# * * *
Following a similar experience at lower
price levels during the preceding week,
Australian sharemarkets gained ground
steadily last week. Quietness prevailed
on Monday and Tuesday, sellers becom-
ing less numerous, but on Wednesday
turnover increased, buyers meeting sellers
more readily, and on Thursday and
Friday the upward trend continued.
Barrier mines were the exception to the
general market mood, showing little
movement and registering small turnover
until Thursday; tin stocks were better,
after a relapse on Monday, and gold
issues were also sought rather than sold.
Market leaders were not principally re-
sponsible for last week’s better tone in
the investment section, though 8.H.P.,
British Tobacco and C.S.R. were firmer.
The main body of movement was in the
better-class second-line industrials, such
as the smaller breweries, the textile con-
cerns, retailers and manufacturers. Even
hotel scrip was hard to buy at recent
prices, and concerns like General Indus-
tries, Wunderlich, Die Casters and
Moulded Products sold to higher prices,
too. Scrip in Sydney newspaper pro-
prietaries was better, though Mel-
bourne “Herald,” after a smart recovery,
tended to slacken off. One instance of
swift recovery still continued buoyant:
W. R. Carpenter scrip, which had recov-
ered from 295. to 365., was in demand
at that latter figure, with sellers asking
more. G. J. Coles shares were particu-
larly firm; after turnover at 565. 3d.
there were later sales at 595.
%
Attractive buying last week seemed to
be North Coast Steam scrip at 38s. On
a 9\ p.c. div. basis the yield was 5 p.c.;
if the div. is maintained in 1940-41 at the
same rate as the final for 1939-40, it will
be 10 p.c., in which case the return will
lift to £5 ss. per cent. Other coastal ship-
ping scrip has been rising lately, but the
North Coast issue is at its lowest for some
years, May prices included. Earlier this
year there were sales at prices up to
475. 6d. The co. is strongly entrenched in
its trade, and it has ample funds to re-
place losses and charters. The Common-
wealth Government has temporarily taken
over five of the co.’s ships, but it carries
on its service very profitably still, as last
year’s lift in the div. indicates.
* * * *
Tooth shares dropped back from their
peak price of 495. 3d. soon after it was
reached. Early last week they were dealt
in at 48s. 3d., then they moved up to
48s. 6d. Among representative stocks
on ’Change the “war” movement in
Tooth scrip was probably more pro-
nounced than in any other; B.H.P. and
A.C.I. shares showed only moderate re-
covery compared with the big Syd-
ney brewery. Other brewery shares also
were less spectacular in their rises and
falls than in Tooth’s case. Carlton (Mel-
bourne) scrip was the next most-volatile,
but at 58s. 6d. now a movement of a shil-
ling or so doesn’t mean as much as in the
case of a 405.-50 s. stock. Castlemaine
Perkins (Brisbane) shares at the begin-
ning of last week were still slow to move
at their reduced price of 17s. 9d., but
later there were sales at 19s. On a
12 p.c. div. basis Tooth shares return
5 p.c. at 48s. 6d. (next div. due in
November); Carlton 5.1 p.c. at 58s. 6d.
(interim next month); and Castlemaine
Perkins 12s. 6d. shares at 19s. yield
5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. basis, or 6.7 p.c.
should the 10 p.c. distribution be main-
tained on the increased capital. A final
div. from this prosperous Brisbane
brewery is due in September.
* * * *
Most Victorians were glad to hear that
the “Argus” last week had declared its
first div. under the new control. Net
profit for the year to June 30 was £20,122,
compared with earnings of £12,098 in
1938-39 and a loss of £46,057 in 1937-38.
The div. declared is in respect of arrears
on the pref. shares from the day the co.
took over in July, 1936, until June 30,
1937.
* * * *
A profit of 12.8 p.c. on ord. capital has
been revealed by Meggitt, Ltd., the
linseed-processing co., compared with
13.7 p.c. in the preceding year. The div.
stays at 10 p.c. The co. has added sub-
stantially to its stocks of linseed, etc.,
which have lifted from £134,546 to
£256,496. In view of shipping difficulties
this movement is all to the good. The
shares are quoted “wide” at 265. 6d.
buyer, 28s. 6d. seller. Last sale was at
245. 6d.
* * * *
Port Jackson Steam’s results were a
pleasant surprise for the market when
published last week. The net profit
claimed was slightly higher at £24,710,
equal to just over 8 p.c. on capital. The
interim div. paid in January was reduced
from the previous 'half-yearly rate of
4 p.c. to 3 p.c., and market support
crashed. However, the final distribution
has been lifted to 5 p.c., making 8 p.c.
for the year, the same as for 1938-39,
and buyers of the shares are more
numerous than sellers. There was
little visibly to spare above div.
requirements, but adequate provision
appears to have been made for deprecia-
tion and other invisible charges. Rising
costs have been a difficulty over the past
two years, but installation of oil-burning
equipment in some of the steamers and
other economies have been a partial off-
set. Next summer, if petrol rationing is
in force, the co.’s Manly ferries may be
patronised to a greater extent. Some
shareholders who sold their scrip at this
year’s lowest prices may be inclined to
criticise the board for cutting down the
interim, contrary to custom, when at the
end of the year profits were shown to be
as satisfactory as in the preceding term.
When there is such a small margin over
div. requirements, however, it is diffi-
cult to be sure about anything halfway
through a term, especially when the
extent of war-time taxation may be un-
known.
* * * *
Some epic work is being achieved by
the Customs Department in the old tradi-
tion of red-tape. Foreign exchange has
to be conserved; therefore importers
have been put on a ration in many cases
based on a proportion of the value of
their import# during 1938-39. The lines
handled by an importer may perhaps be
classifiable as classes A, B, C and D. A
and B classes might be goods serving a
useful, if not essential, service in this
country ; C class may be a useful pro-
duct, but one which can be done with-
out ; D class may be a pure luxury or
novelty of no real importance. But
when the importer is granted his quota
it applies separately, and quotas aren’t
transferable from one class to an-
other. Thus, if the importer were
granted £15,000 of exchange for 1940-41
—£sooo, say, for each of A, B and C
classes—he couldn’t cut out class
C and transfer the money to class A or
B; he may either import up to £5OOO-
- of inconsequential stuff, plus up to
£lO,OOO-worth of other goods, or he may
cut out the £5OOO-worth or part thereof
and still import no more than £ 10,000-
worth of more useful and readily market-
able merchandise. The way the matter is
being handled officially encourages the
importer to buy non-essential goods over-
seas in order to maintain his turnover.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the big and swift re-
covery in W. R. Carpenter scrip, shares
in another Island trader, Morris, Hed-
strom, were offered last week at par with-
out a buyer appearing. Last sale was
at 19s. 3d. To begin with, of course, the
fall in Hedstrom scrip wasn’t propor-
tionately so heavy as in the other case ;
a drop from 265. 6d. this year to 19s. 3d.
compared with a crash from 465. to 295.
But now that Carpenter scrip has recov-
ered to 365. it is down just about 20 p.c.
on this year’s “high,” whereas Hedstrom
scrip on the basis of the last sale is 27 p.c.
below the 1940 highest price. The Hed-
strom business is mostly centred round
Fiji, which has its gold as well as copra,
sugar, bananas, pineapples, etc., but it
hasn’t consolidated its position on the
transport and finance side to the same
extent as the Carpenter concern, which
is mainly interested in New Guinea, but
which bought control of Brown and Joske
in Fiji a short time ago. Morris, Hed-
strom lives pretty close to the copra
market, and it has plantations of its own,
hence the marked susceptibility of profits
to copra prices in Europe and elsewhere.
Earnings of W. R. Carpenter have been
much steadier of recent years owing to
the consolidation of interests already re-
ferred to. At the moment Island pro-
duce is hard to shift owing to shortage
of shipping, and it is difficult to dispose
of in any case. The position will prob-
ably clarify to some extent soon out of
sheer necessity for something to be done.
The Hedstrom business has improved its
financial position considerably in recent
years, and if it were only capitalised on
a lower basis the scrip would be more
popular. The share-register total is
£739,613 ; last ord. div. was 6 p.c.
(Fiji money) out of profits of 8.3 p.c.
At 19s. 3d. the shares are not without
attractions for holding purposes.
* * * *
Burns Philp (South Sea) is a Fiji-regis-
tered offshoot of B.P. in Sydney. Its scrip
has fluctuated between 275. and 20s. 3d.
this year, and is still available at the latter
price. Earnings in this co., too, are very
susceptible to copra prices. However,
the div. has been kept stable at 6i p.c.
over the past three years. The interim
payable in October may be lower, but if
it drops to 5 p.c. it will still give a reason-
able yield at last week’s price. There is
evidence that the co. has been building
up financial strength that has not all been
put on view.
* H= *
Though G. J. Coles ords. recovered to
595. last week, after seeing 525., shares
in Woolworths were still rather quiet at
15s. 3d. Recovery here has been only
25., though in proportion to Coles £1
shares that isn’t as bad as it looks.
Woolworths scrip is in ss. denomina-
tions, and on a 17£ p.c. div. basis the
yield is 5.8 p.c., the same as in the case
of Coles shares. The Woolworths busi-
ness will be no more subject to excess-
profits tax than the Coles concern. In
the past Woolworths scrip has always
given a lower yield in the market than
Coles’s. The present equality of yield
suggests that a reduction in Woolworths’
div. is expected, or that the market hasn’t
sorted its values out properly since the
crash in May.
* * * *
The managing director (R. J. Webster)
of Bradford Cotton Mills (B. 24/7/’4O)
last week said that his co. and its affili-
ates could give jobs to nearly 1000 new
operators over the next four or five
months if they were available ; as it is,
millhands have to be trained, a slow pro-
cess, and 20 skilled operators have been
brought from Britain. An acute
shortage of many types of cotton goods
still exists. A representative of the
woollen textile industry stated that,
although a speeding-up of production
was necessary in order to meet defence
and similar orders, there was a danger
that when the war was over idleness of
plant would follow resumption of im-
ports from overseas. These remarks
seem particularly applicable to the
woollen textile trade, which is overcapi-
talised in some sections. Cotton textiles
are very much underproduced, and in
order to encourage local manufacture
new Government protection has had to
be offered.
* * * *
“Pigge”: Five experienced Lancashire
cotton-mill workers have arrived in Aus-
tralia to manage new mills or depart-
ments of mills under the expansion
scheme of Davies, Coop and Co. They
are experts in spinning, carding and tyre-
cord work.- Last-mentioned section will
be mainly concentrated in Melbourne;
Adelaide will make waterproofs for
wagon- and gun-covers ; and Sydney will
contribute naval uniforms and other
cloths. The £250,000 mill at Kilkenny
(Adelaide) is already in production,
though installation of all machinery has
not been completed. The £33,000-worth
of alterations to the old General Motors-
Holden building at Marrickville (Sydney)
is expected to be complete in October.
Managing director D. T. M. Davies met
the lads from Lancashire in Adelaide—
they had to get special permits to leave
England.


LEARN HOWTO BUILD, INSTAL AND SERVICE
PRODUCER GAS
UNITS
These cuttings from the daily press show how
Producer Gas is replacing petrol everywhere .
Charcoal Stations I
To Grow Like 1
Petrol Pump Depots
t _ v phiclc should
“Our present aim £ *£,*,** Nation to S»et a
s « wart *
yesterday.
PRODUCER GAS FOR '
FARM ENGINES.
Interest in Country.
MOREE. Sunday.
Great interest is being shown in Moree in
the development of the producer-gas method
of driving engines to conserve petrol supplies,
and the success of a number of local resi-
dents in using this method is expected to
result in its extension.
a a 5a ' J "
tuU * aS
FARMERS and STATION-
ARY ENGINE OWNERS!
The Kingsford Smith College course is an essential for every Stationary
Engine Owner, Farmer, Truck and Tractor Owner, Garage and Service
Station Man. It is a practical course for practical men. There are
no weighty textbooks to wade through and no high educational standard
is needed to follow the course.
HOW to CONVERT and MAIN-
TAIN YOUR OWN VEHICLES
The Kingsford Smith College course is the quickest and most thorough
method of obtaining the knowledge you need to enable you to convert
and maintain your own plant efficiently. Everything is made clear by
simple, easily followed diagrams and instruction sheets.
OUR EXPERIENCE WILL HELP YOU
The course includes coaching by Producer Gas Experts, specialising in
this work, and as Kingsford Smith College is under the same direction
as the well-known Diesel Engineering College and the College of Civil
Aviation, you receive the benefit of the latest and most up-to-date methods
of technical training. Students of these colleges are now holding down
well-paid positions all over Australia, and what has been done for them
can be done for you, but it is up to you to make the first move. SEND
THIS COUPON OFF NOW WHILE YOU THINK OF IT.
ĸ
NO BIG CASH
OUTLAY NEEDED
YOU CAN MAKE
BIG MONEY AS A
PRODUCER GAS EXPERT
In every neighborhood there will be wonderful opportunities for those
who learn about Producer Gas engines early, to make big money
installing and servicing Producer Gas units.
The simplified Home Study course at ICingsford Smith College makes
it possible to gam a thorough knowledge of Producer Gas Engines in
your spare time at home. Scores of our students are already making
big money in this field, but for every one employed there are hundreds
of openings. This easy-to-follow course covers every phase of the sub-
ject—manufacture, installation, conversion, service and the production
of the charcoal.
PRODUCER CAS IS
PROVED SUBSTITUTE
Private owners and Government
authorities all over Australia, like
their counterparts overseas, have
proved Producer Gas the most effi-
cient substitute for petrol. Producer
Gas is not just a dream of the future
—it is THE power of the present
and it is here to stay, for its amazing
economy has shown those who have
already adopted it that it will never
pay them to return to petrol.
41
1
m
London Bus Being Propelled
by Producer Gas Unit.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 31/7/’4O.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES PTY. LTD.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
EUROPE’S GREAT REVOLUTION.
[ln the striking article here condensed from London
“Contemporary Review” R. B. Mowat regards the
present war as a stage in a great European revolution
which has been going on since 1914. He suggests that
this war may be the final stage, and on that premise
argues that there is hope for the future.]
Many facts may be advanced to support the
theory that we are living in a period of decline —the
fall in the birthrate, increasing age of populations,
growth of cities, decay of the countryside, crushing
taxation, colossal public debts, loosening of conven-
tions or of conventional moralities, poverty of litera-
ture, lack of great men, loss of belief in progress, in-
ability of mankind to control itself and to prevent
the perpetual recurrence of wars. This is a formid-
able list of evidence of decline and none of it seems
to contain any germ of a new birth.
The idea that we are living in a permanent decline
is a reasonable interpretation of facts, but it is not
the only reasonable interpretation, nor does it en-
visage all the salient facts. There is undoubted re-
semblance between the decline of the ancient world
and the present decline of the society of European
States. There is, however, also resemblance between
this and the decline of the Ancien Regime towards
the end of the eighteenth century.
European civilisation in the eighteenth century,
represented at its best by the Ancien Regime in
France, was —politically at any rate —outworn by
1789. Its decline and the Revolutionary-war period
which followed were the prelude to a magnificent
renaissance which expanded, flowered and then, in the
late nineteenth and early twentieth century, declined.
It looks as if there were a kind of rhythm in human
affairs which we can only perceive if we observe not
just the age in which we live but a period of at least
a hundred years at a time. If the rhythm of the last
200 years is being maintained, we may feel some con-
fidence in the belief that we are at the end of a period
of decline and are in a revolutionary-war period of
transition —transition, presumably, towards something
stable and good.
The nineteenth century after 1815, which ensued
upon the decline of the Ancien Regime of the
eighteenth century and the French Revolutionary-war
period, was a century of astonishing and, for years,
rapid progress. Machinery was enormously improved.
The whole system of medicine and surgery was re-
made with marvellous benefit to mankind. An im-
mense humanitarian effort was successfully under-
taken to end the slave trade and in other directions.
Romantic literature blossomed in England and
France ; a great “realist” literature was produced in
Russia. Communications were improved from the
stage-coach to the express train. Food was produced
in increasing abundance; population advanced in
number every year, and was easily sustained by capi-
talist industry and agriculture. Great missionary
enterprises showed the spiritual zeal of large sections
of the European communities. Representative insti-
tutions were adopted in all the European States. Great
movements for national union were successfully car-
ried out in Italy and Germany. Vast areas of the
world were opened up and successfully colonised.
There was a deep feeling of optimism on every side.
Everybody believed that mankind was growing better
and that there was for all a secure future to look for-
ward to.
The last 20 years, however, of the century 1815-
1914 was a period of decline. There were now few
giants of arts and letters ; such as existed were, most
of them,, survivals from the previous generation.
Spiritual zeal was almost exhausted. Even the tempo
of mechanical inventions and improvements was re-
laxed, although there was some invention and develop-
ment in the internal combustion engine—science’s dan-
gerous if not fatal legacy to the following hundred
years. The great statesmen, all but Lord Salisbury,
were dead or had retired from active life by 1895.
There were no Peels, Metternichs, Thierses, Bismarcks,
Cavours, Gladstones. Salisbury was a lonely survival,
and he, too, had lost his sure touch, his grasp and con-
trol of affairs, by 1895. The first 14 years of the
twentieth century were a time of malaise —of labor
strikes ; of diplomatic coups (Agadir); of occasional
wars; of feeble constitutional experiment. It was a
pleasant enough period to live in, but there were no
great men, no bountiful givers, enrichers of European
civilisation like the poets and thinkers, the artists and
prophets, the statesmen, of the generations before the
’nineties. The years 1890 or 1895 to 1914 were a new
decline of an ancien regime; 1914 was another 1789.
The next period, 1914-1940 or 1941, is the revo-
lutionary-war period which ends a period of decline
and is the transition to a fresh start, to a renaissance.
Since 1914 Europe has been literally in revolution.
The war of 1914-18 was not inevitable; it was
Europe’s colossal blunder ; rightly regarded it was the
Great Civil War within the community of civilised
States. Every civil war is a revolution ; and this, the
most colossal of civil wars, was the most colossal of
revolutions since the fall of the Roman Empire. This
is why the disturbance which it made is still going on ;
this is why real peace did not come at the settlement
of Versailles. The revolutionary-war period is still
with us. Three stages of it can be discerned.
The first stage was the war of 1914-18. It was a
revolution from every direction —in men’s views upon
civilisation and society ; in the attitude of the Oriental
peoples towards the Western peoples ; in the habits of
individuals; in the use of labor-saving machinery ; in
communications ; in women’s work ; in political con-
stitutions ; in the distribution of wealth ; in scales of
taxation; in prices. After the Armistice people
thought that the revolution was finishing, and when
the Treaty of Versailles was signed and ratified they
thought that the revolution was complete. But the
Versailles Settlement was only a temporary halt in the
revolution which began in 1914.
The second stage was the period 1920-38. Dur-
ing this time the revolution was carried on by other
means, for the most part, than by war. There was
incessant agitation—about frontiers ; about war guilt;
about reparations and inter-State, chiefly American,
war debts. There were violent alterations of Consti-
tution in Italy, Germany, Greece and Spain. There
was bitter economic warfare in which even the most
enlightened Governments, such as the United States
and Great Britain, took part. The increased and in-
creasing speed of mechanisation dislocated many in-
dustries and created “technological” unemployment.
Perhaps the greatest evidence of revolution in this
second stage is the tremendous alteration in the moral
outlook of most people, particularly of the young;
they lost the idea of progress, the belief that there
was a secure future for each one and for all mankind,
which was fundamental in the nineteenth century.
The third stage in the revolution began with the
outbreak, better called the restarting, of European
war in 1939. For it is really the same war which began
in 1914, died down in 1918, was continued by other
means in 1919-38, broke out again in 1939 ; and the
whole forms the Great Revolution of the modern
world.
If this interpretation is correct —and it may be
correct, for there is as much evidence in its favor as
there is for the catastrophic interpretation—the future
need not be regarded with dismay. The Great
European Revolution is still going on. It has been
going on for over 25 years, nearly as long as the com-
plete duration of the French Revolutionary and
Napoleonic War period. There is a possibility that
it will go on indefinitely until European civilisation
decays and disappears, but there is no particular
reason why this should be deemed probable. The
decline and fall of the Roman Empire went on for
many generations and ended with the collapse of a
civilisation. Most other revolutions have lasted for a
much shorter period ; and generally at the end the
peoples directly concerned have established a fairly
durable settlement and have made a new start with
building instead of destroying.
Revolutions are always costly. Few have been
worth making. They dislocate all the fruitful ways of
life and habits of society. They release evil forces.
They destroy wealth. They destroy people. As a
rule the vast majority of the peoples involved in a
revolution have had little or no choice in regard to
the making of it; but, once in, they have to go through
it. Most revolutions end within periods of one year
to five years. Yet the German religious revolution
was a Thirty Years War, 1618-48. The French Revo-
lutionary-Napoleonic period covered nearly 26 years,
1789-1815. The Great European Revolution has
already lasted between 25 and 26 years, 1914-40; it
may finish in 1940 or ’4l. Then comes the opportunity
for a durable settlement and for the restart of fruit-
ful, peaceful life.
The Armistice of 1918, the peacemaking of 1919,
the various world conferences subsequently convened
—Washington Naval Conference, 1922, World Eco-
nomic Conference, 1927, Hague Reparations Confer-
ence, 1929, Disarmament Conference, 1932, Second
World Economic Conference, 1933 —offered oppor-
tunities to the politicians (or statesmen) for taking
control of affairs and stopping the revolution. They
failed to do so, and the revolution which had been
going on as an economic and propaganda war became
the land, naval and air war of 1939-40. And this may
be the last stage. There are many indications that the
impetus of the great revolution is being exhausted.
Such a revolution, though not inevitable, is quite
likely to happen in the decline of one era, but it is
temporary ; the instinct in the peoples for creation,
organisation, peace, asserts itself; and a new settled
era will begin.
A False View of J. Bull.
(From a London “Times” letter by Sir Norman Angell.)
1 he confusions and distortions of thought result-
ing from misuse of the term “Imperialism,” by which
German propaganda so greatly benefits, become still
more mischievous when we associate with that word,
as we usually do, other such misleading terms as
“British possessions overseas,” carrying the implica-
tion that the Empire is an “estate” owned by the in-
habitants of Great Britain for their profit and en-
richment.
Hitler, in every speech he makes, and the German
propaganda machine daily harp on the theme that it is
a gross injustice for a people of 45 millions to “own"
a quarter of the earth, while others lack living space.
This view of John Bull as an obese, overrich land-
owner, while the rest of the world starves without liv-
ing space, is not merely accepted by the enemy people
as broadly a true picture ; it is so accepted by nearly
all neutrals, including the majority of Americans, by
much of the Left in Great Britain (who insist that
virtually all wars are waged for the profits of imperial
conquest and capitalist exploitation), and by much of
the Right as well, who, while they do not share the
view that Empire brings profits, often hold the belief
that it ought to.
Such words as “ownership” of Empire lead to
grave confusions between owning and governing ; and
this confusion has set up gross distortions of political
thought, and given rise to political conceptions which
have been the root of infinite mischief in Europe.
Though possibly we in Britain might more or less
govern parts of the Empire, we certainly do not own
them ; indeed, in respect of most of the Empire, we
do not even govern it.
I used to suggest to American friends when they
referred to our “ownership” of so much of the earth
that if the United States were to annex the whole of
the British Empire (it would solve many problems
if the U.S.A. would) not an Englishman, broadly speak-
ing, would lose a penny’s worth of property, nor an
American gain it. When in the Senate of the United
States it was suggested that “Britain might transfer
Canada to the United States in settlement of the British
debt,” one wondered what individual Americans would
receive property as the result of transfer, and what
individual Canadians lose. (In the actual circum-
stances, by reason of the redistribution of the tax
burden, the British would gain enormously by
America’s annexation of their country.)
For 30 years these clarifications of political thought
seem to have been regarded by those who have paid any
attention to them at all as amusing paradoxes, but
having no political importance whatever. Yet by
virtue of them there goes by default a case which is
the mainstay of German propaganda today, and, so
far as I can see, we are doing almost nothing, either
by private or by public means, to explode the idea
that conquest and Empire, in which we have been so
successful according to the common view, means en-
richment for the conqueror and impoverishment for
everybody else. Is it not about time that we began
systematically to debunk this notion, so extremely
valuable to the enemy, and so extremely harmful for
our cause?
Exit the League of Nations.
[ln one of his books Philip Gibbs records his having
asked men working on the League of Nations palace
at Geneva what they were building, their reply being that
they were “building a hospital for the next war.” It
hasn’t come to that yet, but as the writer of this League
obituary notice indicates it might as well be put to some
such use. The article is condensed from London “New
Statesman,” which speaks of the author as one who
writes “from long experience of the League at first
hand.” The president of the N. S. Wales League of
Nations Union said last week that he had no doubt
that “Australia’s contribution to the League for 1940
will be paid.” The amount would be £43,125.]
Unwept, unhonored and unsung, the League of
Nations passed away in the afternoon of May 17,
when it was announced that about four-fifths of the
permanent staff of the League Secretariat had been
suspended or compelled to resign. Most newspapers
did not consider this event sufficiently important to
devote to it even a few lines. A skeleton staff remains,
unable to work for lack of clerical assistance. No
meeting of the League Council nor of the Assembly
is possible, even if the States who retain their mem-
bership insisted on its convocation. All that is left is
a palatial building, haunted by ghosts, and a few
officials entrusted with the vague task of upholding
liaison with the remaining member States.
The League, as built at Geneva, never had any
real chance of success. It was a cpmmittee of sovereign
States ; no executive power was entrusted to it. It
was more and more used cynically as a screen for
ulterior aims, as a platform for non-committal declara-
tions of goodwill, as a dustbin for diplomatically lost
causes. Endless conferences, called not to deal with
problems but to soothe opinion, had only the result
of compromising the very idea of diplomacy by con-
ference. The World Economic Conference and the
Disarmament Conference were pretences followed by
disastrous increases in tariffs, armaments and all the
follies of exclusive nationalism. The nations would
have taken the path to hell without the League, but
the result of linking these tendencies in the public
mind with League idealism contributed to the de-
cadence of the idea of international collaboration.
It is a truism to say that the State members o!
the League destroyed it by their progressive disregard
War Famine.
From an article by Ex-President .Hoover
in London “Sunday Dispatch”:—
Western Europe for 100 years, even in
peace-time, has not produced sufficient food
supplies for itself. The- food situation in the
present war is already more desperate than at
the same stage in the World War. Then, except
for Belgium, there was no rationing of the civil
populations until the second or third year. In
the present war every combatant country was
on rations within 90 days.
Moreover, today every neutral country,
out of fear, has mobilised almost its full man-
power, and food production will therefore
diminish. Out of all these forces, if this war is
long-continued, there is but one implacable
end. That end is the greatest famine in history
—and from the- lowered vitality caused by
famine comes Pestilence.
There was a great famine at the end of
the World War. The dramatic events of peace-
making obscured it, but during the 24 months
after the Armistice in 1918 America sent some-
thing over 80 billion pounds of concentrated
foodstuffs to Europe.
Pestilence, in the form of typhus, came
down from Russia on a front 1000 miles long.
At its height 1,000,000 cases raged with a
deathrate of a quarter of those stricken. With-
out the help from America Famine and Pesti-
lence —and their end, Communism —would
have engulfed Europe. There would have
been no peace of any sort.
Who will stop famine after the present
war ?


of the Covenant, and d powerful argument can be built
up against each of the great Powers as mainly respon-
sible. Or put it another way and say that the failure
is due to a social system in which States were organised
in the interests of those who desjred not a new world,
but the retention of the status quo. One day the full
story will be written. Among other factors it will be
shown how the weariness and exhaustion of the world
after 1918 led, as one of its after-effects, to the occu-
pation in nearly every country of all outstanding posi-
tions by second-rate men. With few exceptions and
apart from a few episodes like Locarno, international
affairs were handled by men without vision and cour-
age, by yes-men who owed their careers to those very
qualities or lack of qualities which made them un-
able to act, by diplomatists and civil servants without
imagination and with an instinctive fear of taking
responsibility. To watch the diplomatists at close
range during a crisis at Geneva was to know despair
and impending doom.
There was something intangible in the Geneva
atmosphere which encouraged a spirit of timidity.
Truly the esprit de Geneve was first and foremost a
spirit of goodwill and international co-operation, but
it was also a spirit of self-deception and make-believe.
Nowhere outside Geneva —not even in the Imperial
and Royal Chancelleries of the eighteenth century —
could be found such a belief in taboos, in the magic
value of the mere formula, such readiness to get over
difficulties by ambiguous phrases, such a conviction
that it was more important to compromise—to com-
promise on everything and in all circumstances —than
to face issues.
Behind this attitude lay the belief that all diffi-
culties were only due to misunderstandings ; that there
was essential goodwill on all sides and that, if it were
possible just to go on, everything would finally be for
the best. This inability to face facts, to take small
risks to avoid bigger ones, will long remain a puzzle
for future historians.
Sir Eric Drummond, whatever his shortcomings
might have been, left his successor a first-class inter-
national civil service. To visit Geneva in 1930 and
see the League machinery in action was to recognise
a remarkable and efficient organisation. In this adminis-
tration, composed of nationals of about 40 countries,
all brought together by the same ideal, the impossible
seemed to have become reality. There were no
quarrels between individuals because of their
nationality, no difficulties in having Germans serving
under a French chief, or' Englishmen directed by a
Greek. There was never even a suggestion of corrup-
tion. From the moment he took over Sir Eric’s
heritage M. Avenol, the French Secretary-General,
succumbed to the growing nationalism in Europe and
took steps which broke the esprit de corps of this
administration ; he discouraged the tendency of the
Secretariat itself to be a positive factor in international
co-operation and degraded it into a civil service in
which bureaucratic qualities only counted.
The disappearance of the League Secretariat
means that a body of men and women who, for more
than 20 years, had been trained in international work
on a super-national basis has been dispersed. Unique
experience acquired at great cost to members of the
League has thus been forfeited. Exceptional know-
ledge of international psychology, of the habit of
working with the representatives of dozens of nations,
of the faculty of understanding widely different
national points of view, of the experience of Inter-
national Conferences, of the drafting of documents in
different languages—all this has now gone beyond
repair. An international civil service cannot be impro-
vised. Here, one had been built up with infinite pains
and has been abandoned. What remains is a luxu-
rious palais -in the Park Ariana at Geneva. This
palace, a monument of self-complacency and megalo-
mania, has cost the members about a million and a
quarter pounds sterling. Had this sum been invested
in a reserve fund instead of being squandered on the
material shell of the League, the best of the machinery
could have been preserved for the future.
Stalin and Zhdanov.
(From a New York “Times” article by Spencer Williams,
former Manchester “Guardian” Moscow correspondent.)
Stalin seems recently to have aged considerably.
I last saw him at close quarters in Moscow’s Bolshoi
Theatre on Nov. 6, 1939, during the celebrations of
the anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution. His thick
hair, once jet black, is now completely grey and he is
getting paunchy, deliberate and slow.
At the moment I would say that the Soviet Crown
Prince is Andrei Zhdanov, Communist party boss in
Leningrad, a job always regarded as a key post in the
regime. Zhdanov, 43 years old, looks like a tough
foreman of a gang of stevedores. He is of average
height, though among the squat Soviet leaders he
looks almost tall. He can smile sometimes, but pre-
fers a scowl for everyday use.
At the sessions of the supreme Soviet in the
Kremlin, I observed that the Red Czar always had
Zhdanov at his elbow, whispering in his ear. They
are alike in their ruthlessness, their ignorance of the
outside world and their ambitions. They speak the
same language. It is Stalin’s marks of personal favor
that make Zhdanov clearly Public Bolshevik No. 2
today, though he holds other vital positions in the
Kremlin apparatus.
As chief of the press propaganda bureau of the
Communist party Zhdanov controls a vast machine
that would be useful if he ever has to struggle for
dominance. As a member of the Politbureau inner
circle of the Communist party he is privy to most of
Stalin’s own plans. Zhdanov’s anti-French bias always
made him favor a German rapprochement, and he
forced the Aryanisation of the Berlin Embassy in
1938 by displacing appointees from the then Foreign
Commissar Maxim Litvinov’s coterie, comprised
mostly of Jews.
So far Zhdanov’s intervention in foreign affairs
has produced ugly results. He, more than anybody,
encouraged Stalin to subjugate the Baltic States. He
was a strong advocate of sending the Red Army into
Finland —indeed, foreign diplomats in Moscow
believed it was he who engineered the fake provoca-
tion on the frontier.
War Derby.
[As described by Hannen Swaffer in a (condensed)
London “Daily Herald” article. This War Derby, like
the substitute Derbies of 1915 to 1918, was run at
Newmarket instead of Epsom, the official view in holding
it being that “it would be a good gesture not to disturb
a tradition of 160 years.”]
It was a real War Derby. A guarding aeroplane
flew overhead at Newmarket Heath. Anti-parachutist
precautions were visible on almost every hand. A.R.P.
notices advised the public, in the event of a warning,
“to disperse and take cover.” Twice while racing was
on the warning came . . .
Hundreds of Tommies in battle-dress walked to
the course. Five flying officers stood in a row wait-
ing to collect winnings at the 2s. tote window. Girls
in blue or brown uniforms were on the stand.
The ancient Britons raced on Newmarket Heath
before the Romans came. Modern Britons still race
there, whether the Germans are coming or not. Nor
would you have thought there was any shortage of
petrol. Hundreds and hundreds of motor-cars, a
huge field of them, row after row, had been used to
bring people by road.
Flying men have been summoned from racing
at Newmarket to go on a sudden raid. Often they
have bombed Norway in the early morning and been
racing in the afternoon. “We find it soothing to the
nerves,” one said. “It’s nice to get back to normal.”
I heard of one airman who flew in from Belgium
that morning after an all-night raid, crashed when
landing home, and then —went to Newmarket. He had
two black eyes. But he still had a good eye for horse-
flesh.
Bookmakers wore A.R.P. badges. One racing
journalist was in uniform, on a two-weeks’ leave. Two
padres from near-by camps were in the crowd. There
was scarce a word heard about the war. “I’ve got
24 hours’ leave,” was the nearest approach.
I thought back to the first Derby I ever saw.
Then, the Chevalier Ginistrelli won it, wearing an imi-
tation Panama hat, with a rank outsider, his famous
filly Signorinetta, which he worshipped. That is the
only time an Italian has ever won the Derby. It’s a
good job it didn’t happen this time.
It was the biggest crowd, they told me, ever seen
on Newmarket Heath. Usually, the world-famous
course, except on the days they run the Two Thou-
sand, the Cesarewitch and the Cambridgeshire, is
visited only by people keen on bloodstock or those
who make racing a business or a life study.
“What would you do if a parachutist came down
now?” I heard. A bookmaker answered. “I’d have a
go at him with my bloody stand. Your shooting-
stick wouldn’t be much good, sir.” “I don’t know,”
replied a racing man. “There’s a strong steel prong
at the other end!”
The omnibuses could not cope with the crowd. So
I saw from the stand, almost all the time until the
Derby started —and it was the third race! —a long pro-
cession of people walking over the Heath towards
the course. At times, they were three and four abreast.
“It looks like Dunkirk,” said a friend. No, it
didn’t look like that; but it did remind me of other
processions that have stretched their weary lengths
across Holland, Belgium and Northern France —and
the one that moved south from Paris. But this one
was a pilgrimage of pleasure. Those others were each
treading a Via Dolorosa, a Way of Sorrows that
seems endless in its tragedy.
Usually at Epsom you feel that you are watching
being written a new chapter of racing history. This
time the history was overseas, and you felt that unless
you were taking a share in its making—well, what did
anything matter? That is why I have not mentioned
that the war Derby of 1940 was won by a horse called
Pont l’Eveque. Indeed, I had forgotten its name.
British Children for Export.
[“Candidus” in London “Daily Sketch” comments on
the proposed scheme —for some reason or other since
put into cold storage—to transfer to Australia many
thousands of British children. These comments are
given as typical of the very favorable reception accorded
the scheme in the British press.]
For decades the “White Australia” question has
vexed the politics of the Pacific. Australia, whose ter-
ritory is vast in comparison with Britain’s, has a popu-
lation about the size of Greater London’s. Wide
stretches of it are, of course, desert, but, even allow-
ing for that, Australia is capable of supporting at least
another ten million souls. Past schemes for settling
British immigrants in the Dominion were as faulty in
conception as they were unhappy in ultimate result.
This was probably due to the immigrants being unable,
because of their mature years, to assimilate them-
selves into an unfamiliar environment. If British
stock goes to Australia at an early age, before habits
have become set, that disability will not exist.
It is pathetic that little children should be
orphaned of their parents and homes through the
brutal ambitions of a maniac. But when that un-
merited and tragic hardship falls on them, it is infi-
nitely better for them to start life afresh in a land of
opportunity, and among people who are noted for
their kindness, than to be herded together in what are,
at best, coldly impersonal institutions of an indus-
trialised community.
On all counts such a “folk-wandering” would be
desirable and beneficial to all concerned. It would
give the youngsters a first-rate chance of a good life ;
it would add to the strength of the Dominions ; and
it would relieve the dangerous density of population
in Britain. It would bring very near to fulfilment the
ideal of the Empire as one big family, geographically
scattered, it is true, but in sentiment and loyalty a
compact entity. It would be a blessing to all who live
under the Union Jack and a buttress to the peace of
the world, for the Empire is the only practicable
League of Nations.
Dragnet Digest.
{General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Stories of absurd scares and mistaken arrests
come from many parts of the country. Some are
tragic. A suspicious-looking individual with a bundle
and a protruding stick, assumed to be part of a lethal
weapon, was found apparently changing his boots on
a railway line. The villagers wasted no time. They
rang up Scotland Yard, saying that this was really
a serious case, that the man spoke with a German
accent, was apparently armed and no doubt a para-
chutist. Investigation proved that he was a tramp
from Scotland, taking off his boots, as tramps will,
to rest his tired feet in hot weather.—“ New States-
man.”
* * * * *
Church bells will be heard in Britain “for the
duration” only to warn Local Defence Volunteers and
the public of the approach of parachutists and air-
borne troops. — London “Evening Standard.”
% 3c 3« 3c 3c
R.A.F. droppa
de hot bomba
on Libya?
No?
Yes?
—Scrawl improvised to sell an evening paper in Picca-
dilly, scare posters being forbidden.
* * * * *
The Finns, a fairly truthful race, gave out some
astonishing figures of their anti-aircraft fire. They
claimed to have brought down a raider with every 54
shots fired. In the last war we reckoned on “register-
ing” once for every 30,000 shots. Perhaps we should
ask those Finns to volunteer for us now. — London
‘‘Evening Standard” military correspondent.
*****
Extravagant mistakes were made by the Air
Ministry in the leisurely days before the war, or
before the war gathered its real momentum. The
latest report of the Select Committee on national
expenditure states that £250,000 was wasted last year
in the attempt to site an aerodrome and depot on an
undrained Scottish bog, that land in Kent was bought
in a “careless and haphazard” way at £144 and £220
an acre, and that estimates made in these and other
cases were “little better than a mere formality.” This
is the sort of inefficiency that has sapped the country’s
war potential. Money was grudged for vital needs
and thrown away on details. It is not merely that
public money was ill-spent. More important, labor
and materials were in many cases squandered fruit-
lessly.—London “Economist.”
*****
An interestingildocument has been circularised to
American-born English in Britain for signature. It is
to be broadcast and syndicated on both sides of the
Atlantic. Here are extracts: “We Americans now on
British soil, but first and foremost still Americans,
brought up under the precepts of Washington, Jeffer-
son and Lincoln, have, up to the present moment, felt
justly proud of that heritage. Let us not now give
cause to our sons, our sons’ sons and all our lineage
to be ashamed of us. But we have not that right if
we continue to allow ourselves to be drowned in that
all too smug sea of our own security. Our duty, one
of plain commonsense, is clear. Let us give our
’planes, arms, guns and, if necessary, our men. Delay
costs lives —the lives of both our former allies and
ultimately ourselves.” — Quoted in London “Daily
Mail.”
3c sfc Hi 3* *
The munitions supply scandal in 1940 far sur-
passes that of 1915 ; it is comparable only with that of
the Crimean War. Fourteen months ago conscription
was introduced: instead of a small expeditionary force
of 100,000 men, Britain prepared to build a large-scale
modern army. At the beginning of the war, it must
have been known that we should by now have a mil-
lion men under arms: and this implied that the
Ministry of Supply must provide equipment for that
number. It has been admitted in Parliament that we
could not even re-equip the divisions evacuated from
Flanders, roughly 250,000 men. So far from providing
equipment for 1,000,000 the Ministry failed to pro-
vide equipment for*half that number. Nor should we
forget that even the equipment provided proved in-
adequate. We are short of everything from small-
arms ammunition to heavy tanks: we cannot even
provide all the L.D.V. with rifles. Those are the
facts. It is silly to disguise them, since Hitler knows
them far better than a public gulled by compla-
cent speechifying.— “New Statesman.”
*****
“Some facts about Empires,” from London
“Picture Post”:
British capital has more at stake in the Argentine than
in all the British dependent Empire.
In the last five years more people have emigrated from
the overseas Empire to Britain than have gone from Britain
to the overseas Empire.
The United States, which does not “own” Canada, sells
to it three times as much as Britain does.
Of the £334 million worth of foodstuffs imported by Great
Britain in 1934, only £26 million worth was supplied by the
colonies.
All the colonies, protectorates, dependencies and mandates
of the whole world contributed 10.6 per cent, of total world
trade.
The exports of Britain to her colonial Empire represent
11.2 per cent, of her total exports.
The proportion of raw material Germany used to draw
from her colonies was one-half of one per cent.
More Germans were earning their livelihood in the City
of London in July, 1914, than in all the German colonies of
the whole world put together.
Three per cent, only of the staple raw materials of the
world come from colonies.
Neither Germany nor Italy is as densely populated as
Great Britain, Holland or Belgium. The figures are (per
square mile): Germany, 362; Italy, 355; Belgium, 707;
Holland, 673; Great Britain, 488.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Frill Prince, out of the winning list
since the Moonee Valley Cup and V.R.C.
Hotham Handicap in the spring of 1937,
staged a belated return to form in the
Glen Orla Handicap at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. Starting at 10 to 1, and
ridden nicely by the successful Western
District jockey E. Clarke, who was
brought from Warrnambool specially for
this mount, he outstayed Diaphane and
won by a head after the latter had entered
the straight with what appeared a win-
ning lead. Frill Prince will be an eight-
year-old tomorrow (Thursday), and,
although it might be expecting too much
of him to return to his best form, he
was entered for the Melbourne Cup, “just
in case he stood another preparation.”
Some trainers have the happy knack
of treating “crocks,” and F. Manning,
jun., has done a good job with Frill
Prince. This Frilford-Soporific entire,
who was bred by his owner, L. O. Menck,
was hurt in a fall in which his rider,
Keith Voitre, was fatally injured, and
on a couple of occasions has broken
down apparently so badly that it seemed
useless to persevere with him. Entering
Manning’s stable about five months ago,
his nasty-looking near foreleg gave that
trainer a few scares, and Manning has
worked him in a right-handed direction
to save the affected joint as much as pos-
sible. This, combined with salt water
treatment and plenty of exercise on the
beaches at Mentone and Mordialloc, has
had the desired effect, and, with the
weights he is now receiving, Frill Prince
might be good for another win or two
before he is much older.
Lanarus, third to Frill Prince, showed
slightly - improved form, but Rose
Princess, favorite, and Barametric, second
favorite, disappointed. Barametric, whose
unreliability caused him to be schooled
over hurdles some time ago, was never
within “shooting range” of the leaders,
and finished second-last.
Des McCormick is making a name for
himself as a trainer of jumpers. In recent
weeks he has won with Mamillius, Dark
David, Atticus and Highland March, and
Kevastar carried on the good work by
leading throughout the Aberfeldie Hurdle
Race to win easily from Paul Lois and
Flying Comedian. Kevastar was one of
the first horses backed for the G.N.
Hurdle last year, but he broke down
before that race. He has given McCor-
mick a fair amount of trouble, and only
a month ago a quartered hoof seemed
likely to interrupt his preparation again.
The trouble cleared up quickly, however,
and a good race on. the flat at his pre-
vious start prompted substantial support
for him on Saturday. Kevastar, in addi-
tion to his stable-mates Mamillius and
Dark David, was still in the Australian
Hurdle Race at the time of writing, but
it had not been decided whether he would
survive the final forfeit on Tuesday. If
he does run, and wins, it will be one of
the greatest lucky breaks ever associated
with the first leg of the V.A.T.C. jump-
ing double. Owner Abe Silk, who also
races Atticus, intended that Kevastar
should have been withdrawn at first
acceptance time last week, but the geld-
ing was left in by mistake!
The more one sees of our moderate
hurdlers, the less chance they appear to
have of beating the G.N. Hurdle winner,
Cheery Jack, in the Australian Hurdle,
to be run next Saturday. Paul Lois,
fourth in the G.N. Hurdle, raced on
Saturday as if he were a tired horse, and
form in the A. V. Hiskins Steeplechase
did not say a great deal for Man of
Ayr’s chance of reversing G. N. Steeple
positions with Blackford in the Australian
Steeplechase. Man of Ayr certainly had
a lot of the steam knocked out of him
when he hit hard at the second-last fence,
but it is improbable that he would have
beaten Tornarsuk in any case. The
latter won running right away, while Man
of Ayr, who was second to Lacus at the
time of his faulty jump, was beaten by
the latter for second money. Tornarsuk
is not engaged in the Australian Steeple-
chase, a fact his owners, D. G. Officer
and C. R. Maskell, no doubt regret. Still,
they can console themselves with the
thought that Tornarsuk’s two races since
the horse was returned to them have
yielded as many wins for £lO5O in stakes
and a £5O trophy.
Jack Holt’s hopes of beating Steve
Murphy for the 1939-40 trainers’ pre-
miership crashed badly. Only \\ win
separated them before Saturday’s meet-
ing, but, whereas Murphy won a race
with Knight’s Armour, Holt’s trio, Dis-
tinction, Moonray and Greenwich, let
him down. As Holt has no runners at
Ascot today (Wednesday), he will figure
as runner-up for the season.
• ••**•
Distinction, starting second favorite
for the second Coo-ee Handicap division,
was beaten decisively by Procyon (Gay
Lothario-Mizar) after having had every
chance, but it is improbable that his
defeat was as costly to the public as
those of Moonray and Greenwich, These
well-credentialled English horses, who
were sent to Australia by the Duke of
Kent, but are now owned by Mrs. L. R.
Buxton, started favorite for the Derrimut
Handicap and first Sunset Welter division
respectively, but each was beaten out of
a place. Moonray, however, would have
finished closer than fifth had he not been
disappointed in going for a rails-run at
the turn, and, as it was his first start in
Australia, improvement is probable.
Further, his best form in England was
over distances beyond six furlongs.
Greenwich was never going like a winner,
finishing sixth to Maluno, and, even
allowing that his second at Flemington at
his previous start showed him capable of
better form, he will need to do much
better to justify his substantial weights in
the rich spring handicaps.
Con Naru (Consultation-Naru), who
outstayed Nifty in the Derrimut Handi-
cap, is a useful horse on his day, but the
way was probably made easier for him
when Moonray had to be checked, and
when Unishak, second favorite, lost
enough ground at the start to put him
out of the race. Tranent shaped well in
third place, but, from a spring view-
point, Aurania and Historian attracted
more attention. Aurania, four years old
this week, has been out of the winning
list since his success in the Maribyrnong
Plate, but he finished strongly enough in
sixth position to suggest the probability
of a return to form. It was his first race
since November. He is engaged in the
Cantala Stakes and the two Cups, while
Historian, who finished just behind him
on Saturday, is engaged in those races in
addition to the Epsom and Metropolitan.
Historian also was having his first race
since a spell, and some keen judges are
already selecting him as a definite Cup
possibility.
Betting suggested that stable ideas
were upset completely when Knight’s
Armour won the first division of the
Coo-ee Handicap. Having her first race
since March, Knight’s Armour eased
from 6 to 1 to twelves, whereas Florin,
also trained by Steve Murphy, and an
easy winner at the Valley earlier in the
month, was always a hot favorite. Rather
slowly away, Florin rushed up to hit the
front at the end of a furlong, but he was
quickly passed by his stable-mate, and
thereafter it was all Knight’s Armour.
The latter held on to her lead to win
from Madame Coue and Rimutaka,
Florin dropping back to sixth. Knight’s
Armour, a winner at the Valley in Feb-
ruary, has always been possessed of
great pace, and has been cheap at her
yearling cost of 260 guineas. Her owner,
W. Jackson, had given bookmakers a
good result with Warbird at Flemington
a week earlier.
• •••••
Rose Princess was a disappointing
favorite for the Glen Orla Handicap, but
her trainer, “Snowy” Baldwin, landed a
double with Procyon and Snow White.
Procyon gave first-class promise by win-
ning a division of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes at Flemington at his first start,
but he disappointed in later races, was
gelded and sent for a spell. His race in
the first Coo-ee Handicap division was
only his second since his return to work.
A lucky rails-run assisted Snow .White to
success in the second Sunset Welter divi-
sion. Burrabil, favorite, ran very wide
when leading round the turn, and Badger,
premier jockey for the second successive
season, shot Snow White through the
opening. Snow White went on to a
comfortable win from Burrabil and
Cumulus, with Bathing Beauty doing well
enough in fourth position to indicate
that she may be worth following in imme-
diate engagements.
Rosebery’s meeting at Victoria Park
must have given that club a substantial
profit. The attendance included a large
number of soldiers, but “paying guests”
were so numerous as to suggest that, with
revenue from every source so desirable,
the Government would lose heavily by
anything approaching a drastic cut in
racing. Betting was brisk, which was
satisfactory to the books, and the totali-
sator turnover was excellent.
Windbrook was a false favorite for the
first division of the Trial Stakes, never
looking a winner. Canvasser and Lady
Dunnottar were first into the straight, but
Metallic finished strongly to win by a
half-head from Canvasser, a Veilmond
three-year-old, who started at an outside
price. The time, was a track
record for this class of race. Of the un-
placed division Sanpam and Galtheon
shaped best, and the latter, who has been
out of the winning-list for 18 months,
should shortly return to it. As I men-
tioned in a previous issue, Metallic’s sire,
Metallurgy, was sold for 200gns. at the
recent dispersal of the Angle Stud, and at
that price it is probable his buyer secured
a bargain.
Lady Galadeer came home well in the
second division of the Trial Stakes to
beat A. Papworth’s representative, Bonny
Col (four-year-old brother to Bonny
Loch), with Metallize a good third. Val
Eaton, who was fourth, could once have
been sold at a fairly high price, but has
not come on as expected, and he will be
six next month. Gretchen, though well
in the market, is scarcely as good as a
little while ago, and Bothwell (Medieval
Knight-Meadow Queen) has yet to act
up to his breeding. As Lady Galadeer is
not a four-year-old until tomorrow she
may turn out really well. Comet has
pace, but is a poor stayer.
Lady Vallee won the Fourteen-two
Handicap by a wide margin from Mag
and Majorca, who dead-heated. Spasm,
the only one to threaten La Vallee, ran
out wide in the straight after joining the
latter, and that disposed of him. The
fast pace set in the first couple of fur-
longs proved too much for Lady Gay
with her, 11.4, and perhaps her efforts
under big weights are commencing to
steady her.
Three races in four days sounds hard
work for a mare, but June rose to the
occasion in the Flying Handicap. She
followed Belvoir into the straight, and
then, after catching him a furlong from
home, was joined by Denita. Less than a
hundred yards from home Denita led,
but June, raising another effort, beat him
on the post. Dashing Cavalier, after
being a bad third-last at the half-mile,
finished brilliantly in third place, and
will not lack backing when he next run.s
in an eight- or nine-furlongs race. St.
Constant made a poor showing, and Peek-
mond is evidently not yet up to success
in open company. Some of Denita’s dis-
appointed backers suggested Cook took
it a trifle easy when he thought he had
the race won. A far-fetched idea, as no
jockey could have ridden harder for the
last half-furlong.
Broadcaster, Tidal Wave and Night-
beam were colts that caught the eye in the
Cape Solander Handicap, which would
have gained in interest if it had been
run in two divisions. In a field of 22
some of the runners were too wide out at
the start ever to have a chance. Rox-
ford and Rimveil looked as if they re-
quired more racing to bring them to their
best, and Black Banter and Panchio were
palpably above themselves.
Broadcaster displayed all the pace ex-
pected, and when he was seemingly going
easily in the lead at the turn into the
straight a comfortable win for him
seemed certain. However, just after start-
ing upon the last furlong Munro was
seen to be getting anxious, and a little
further on was hard at his mount. Broad-
caster struggled gamely, but Brazen Boy
and Dublin Lad were too good for him.
Roxford showed up in the early part,
but was beaten a long way from home, as
was Happy Lass. After being a trifle
slow in getting away, Nightbeam moved
up smartly to be sixth at the half-mile,
and though he was not any further for-
ward at the winning post it was far from
a bad effort, and the run is bound to
improve him. Dawn Mary was always
well up, and is worth keeping in mind.
Hydra again failed to show himself as
good as he looks, but he started from
the extreme outside.
G. P. Nailon has recently experienced
such an aggravating run of minor plac-
ings that neither he nor owner L. Car-
penter could be begrudged Mischiefs Sir
Joseph Banks .Handicap win. Tel Asur,
Shipley and Gimme were the leaders
when half the trip was covered, but Mis-
chief shot through in the straight, and
easily beat Tel Asur. Bristol was only
a neck behind the last-named, but, though
he made a run halfway down the straight,
he was not gaining on Mischief at the
winning-post. Gimme ran fairly, and
nothing did worse than Vestal, notwith-
standing track work gave her a chance.
Although a useful field contested the
Kingsford Handicap, Gundagai won so
decisively in 1.381 for the mile that he
appears certain to put a much better race
to “Miss Lorna Doone’s” credit. Lucullus
Lad, Last Chance and Sologram were
the leaders at the top of the straight,
but Sologram and Lucullus Lad weak-
ened. Lord Valentine did well to get
third, and is better suited by a longer
distance than a mile.
Luck in running did not favor either
Flaring or Irish Sea, who were well
backed; and John Peel stopped badly
at the end. He is a long way from his
form of earlier in the season. Shem
twisted away at barrier-rise, losing several
lengths ; and Good Morning, who has
had some hard racing during the past
three months, must be getting tired, as,
notwithstanding a 71b. allowance for Gil-
lard, she could not get near the front.
* * * *
Double business on the Epsom and
Metropolitan is quiet, backers principally
confining their selection for the first leg
to Beaulivre and High Caste. Next to
them come Gold Salute, Mildura and
Gundagai. Pantler is receiving most
mention for the Metropolitan, those on
the second line being Beau Vite, Mosaic
and Reading; and then Beaulivre, Mil;
dura and Gundagai. For the “two Cups"
double backers are commencing with
Gladynev and ending with Beau Vite and
Maikai, though John, Mosaic, Rivette
and Wilson have supporters.
* * * *
Well-known stallion Pantheon died on
Monday, a twisted bowel being the cause.
Pantheon was a high-class racehorse,
winning several weight-for-age races,
while his placings in handicaps included
third in a Melbourne Cup (9.3), second
in Metropolitan (9.6) and third in Aus-
tralian Cup (9.11). At the stud he was a
success, siring many good horses, the
best being Peter Pan. Up to the
time of his death Pantheon was still
owned by P. Miller, of Kia-Ora Stud.
* * * *
Prize-money at the coming A.J.C.
spring meeting will be £26,400, against
£29,700 last year. The Epsom remains
at £3OOO, Metropolitan £5OOO, Derby
£5OOO, Breeders’ Plate £l3OO, and Gim-
crack£l3oo, entries for those having
closed at the amounts stated. The
Craven Plate has dropped from £l5OO
to £l3OO, and Randwick Plate from £l2x'
to £lOOO. They will not suffer in entries
because of that. All the minor races
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Crimea Trial: Isambard, 1 ; Kai-
para, 2; Palencia, 3.
Moondah Plate: Manrico, 1; El
Golea, 2 ; Chatsbury, 3.
Australian Hurdle Race: Cheery
Jack, 1 ; Mamillius, 2 ; Dark David,
3.
Balaclava Stakes: Sir Grey, 1;
Panax, 2 ; Frill Prince, 3.
Steeplechasers’ Flat Race: King’s
Warden, 1; National Debt, 2;
Reef, 3.
Mornington Welter: Astounding,
1 ; Greenwich, 2 ; Beau Spear, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(By “PILOT.")
Hurdle Race: Leap Year, 1 ;
King Otho, 2 ; Glittering Flame, 3.
Trial Stakes: Widden, 1; Laven-
gro, 2 ; Bonny Col, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Cum-
berland, 1; Dublin Lad, 2;
Moocher, 3.
Carlton Mile: Tuhitarata, 1 ;
Brazen Lad, 2 ; Ydurs Truly, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Aristo-
crat, 1; Brown Bomber, 2 ; High
Dividend, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Tarn,
1 ; Blue Baron, 2; Zel, 3.


have been reduced, the amounts varying
from £lOO to £2OO. It is a pity they
should have been affected, and that
circumstances did not permit of the
A.J.C. cutting down the Epsom, Metro-
politan and Derby, which are so valuable
that they could have better stood a little
trimming than the minor races.
$ ♦
Owner J. C. M. Forsayth holds that,
without spoiling his work, handicapper
C. Hill could have been a trifle more
lenient to Cheery Jack in the Australian
Hurdle Race. This, in a measure,
on the score that Pooley Bridge had lib.
less when he won. He may be correct,
but in view of Cheery Jack’s success
in the Doutta Galla Hurdle with 12.6, a
rise of 31b. does not seem severe treat-
ment, even allowing for the distance be-
ing an additional three-quarters of a
mile. Bureaucrat, who ran second in the
Doutta Galla, has since won, but the
41b. better terms on which he meets
Cheery Jack do not appear to give
him a pull over the latter. Whether he
wins or not Cheery Jack will start
favorite. In my opinion he will find
Mamillius hard to beat.
* * * *
C. Cullen and J. M. Mitchell are to
be additions to the list of No. 1 (Rand-
wick) trainers for the coming season.
Cullen, who was E. F. Walker’s foreman
for some years, has held a No. 2 license,
as has Mitchell, who was F. Williams’s
foreman up to the time of the latter’s
retirement. It has always been my
opinion that in granting No. 1 licenses
the A.J.C. should give special considera-
tion to men who have been foremen in
leading stables for a long period. Their
experience warrants that concession.
The idea of a match race at Randwick
at the Red Cross meeting is still being
adhered to, notwithstanding that the Hill
Stakes, at a mile, gives the weight-
for-age horses an opportunity for a run
on that occasion. It seems practically
certain Ajax will not be here, and, as
I wrote previously, it would be wise of
the committee to get definite assurance
of local support before going further in
the matter. In the absence of Ajax, and
without our absolute best competing,
the proposed race would be a disappoint-
ment.
* * * *
It was a surprise to read that Canter-
bury Park racecourse had been made a
military camp, and relief to learn that
it would still be available for race meet-
ings and training purposes. The fact of
the military being in occupation may
mean a certain amount of inconvenience (
in connection with the club’s arrange-
ments, but it is good to know that the
course is not to be taken over altogether.
The improvements have made racing at
Canterbury enjoyable, and with the prize-
money liberal, and profits to go to war
funds, it would have been regrettable if
there had been serious interference with
that track’s fixtures.
* * * *
Seven Fifty and High Caste worked
between races at Victoria Park on Satur-
day, and after going three furlongs at
an easy pace finished up with a fast
half-mile. High Caste appeared very
burly, but strode out in great fashion.
Seven Fifty is looking so well that I
have no doubt he will be a winner be-
fore the important spring meetings come
round. Since his arrival in Sydney he
has not run up to his best Queensland
form, but my judgment will be all astray
if he fails to do so in the near future.
* * * *
The Cape Solander Handicap attracted
a fair number of our best two-year-olds,
but it cannot be claimed that any of the
runners brought themselves prominently
into the limelight, so far as the Derby is
concerned. Broadcaster, who is well for-
ward in condition, emphasised his bril-
liance, but it is possible he will be better
suited by the Rosehill Guineas or Can-
terbury Guineas than the Derby. How-
ever, it is too early to be pronounced
on that score, as we saw Reading —
another of' Marconigram’s progeny —fail
in shorter races at the commencement
of this season, and then win the Derby.
Nightbeam, who also ran in the Cape
Solander Handicap, impressed me. He
is well-grown, possesses substance, and
shows quality. He won four of the
eight races in which he started in Maori-
land, the last being the G.N. Champagne
Stakes, six furlongs, at Auckland, in
March. In that he beat practically all
Maoriland’s best two-year-olds, and was
going away from them at the finish. He
is by Night Raid from Lady Burleigh,
by Paladin from Tormentor, a daughter
of Martian. Owner F. W. Hughes gave
£l5OO for him, and deserves a good
return.
Tidal Wave, who has gone on the right
way since the autumn, is a stylish colt,
lacking nothing in size. He was making
up ground at the end of the Cape Sol-
ander Handicap, and did not finish far
behind Nightbeam.
* * * *
If J. T. Jamieson has reason to be
pleased with Gladynev’s 6.7 in the Caul-
field Cup, it can be pointed out that
Round Up’s weight in the various spring
handicaps has not given him any cause
for rejoicing. In fact, on his Australian
form Round Up has got more than his
share with 8.10 in the Metropolitan, 8.12
in the Caulfield Cup, and 8.10 in the
Melbourne Cup. When he ran second
in the Auckland Cup he had 8.8, the
minimum being 7st. It was the same
when he subsequently won the A.R.C.
Handicap, 14- mile, with 9.3. The steeple-
chaser Padishah had 9.0 in the race
Round Up won. Last autumn Round
Up had three unplaced runs at Randwick,
the last being with 8.10 in the Dangar,
won by Own Folk with the same weight.
Now he has to give the latter a little
weight in everything. Round Up’s latest
run was in the Canterbury Park Turf
Club Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, in
April. Ridden by an apprentice who
had a 71b. allowance, he carried 8.6 : In
a field of nine he was not one of the
first six, so, at the age of eight, he will
have to improve considerably on any-
thing he has shown in Australia to be
a possibility for any of the spring handi-
caps.
* * * *
In Melbourne there is often a disposi-
tion to underrate Sydney jockeys. De-
spite that our riders have won their share
of important races on the other side.
In that connection it is interesting to note
that 10 of the last 12 Victoria Derby
winners were ridden by Sydney jockeys.
J. E. Pike won in successive years on
Strephon, Phar Lap, Balloon King and
Johnnie Jason ; D. Munro scored on Hall
Mark, Nuffield and Reading; J. Munro
on Liberal; M. McCarten on Theo;
and A. Knox on Talking. The other
riders successful during the period
covered were K. Voitre (Maoriland) on
Feldspar, and R. Wilson (Melbourne) on
Hua.
* * * *
Two notable retirements from the
ranks of Melbourne jockeys are an-
nounced. Annoyed by an admonition of
the stewards to continue riding work
when they recently suspended him for
a month at Moonee Valley, A. Reed has
decided not to apply for a renewal of
his license; and the successful cross-
country rider A. Fullarton is carrying
out a resolve formed eight years ago—to
retire at 30. Fullarton has been riding
over the jumps for 12 years. His im-
portant wins include the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle Race on Polygonum,
Grand National Steeplechase on Sand-
hurst and Woodlace, Australian Hurdle
Race on Dress Suit and Great Eastern
Steeplechase (Onkaparinga) on Kenjin.
Reed has a long winning list in valu-
able races on the flat. He took the Mel-
bourne Cup on The Trump and the Caul-
field Cup on the same horse ; King’s Cup
on Marauder; Caulfield Guineas on
Balmerino, Green Wave and Young
Idea; Maribyrnong Plate on Green
Wave; Cantala Stakes on Mystic Peak
and Gay Lover ; V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes on Thurlstone ; Newmarket Handi-
cap on Gothic; V.R.C. St. Leger on
Peerage ; Epsom Handicap on Cathmar ;
Gimcrack Stakes on Belle Gallante. It
is hard for jockeys to retire while their
services are still in demand, and, as
there is rarely as much money in training
as in riding, it might not be safe to bet
that the last has been seen of either Ful-
larton or Reed as a jockey.
* * * *
Compared with last year, there was a
general falling-off this year in entries for
the A.J.C.’s “young” races. The only
exception was the Sires’ Produce Stakes,
which showed an increase of 14. On the
other hand there was a marked drop in
the Champagne Stakes. F. W. Hughes
has a greater interest in Breeders’ Plate
entrants than any other owner. He has
three in his own name, and shares owner-
ship with W. A. Freeman in two more.
Owner Hughes, with five, has strongest
numerical representation in the Gim-
crack Stakes, the sires being Fanfare,
Beau Pere, Man’s Pal, Piccadilly and
Jericho. Entries made this year and
last for the various races are as under
1940-42. 1939-41.
Breeders’ Plate .. . • 130 152
Gimcrack Stakes .. .. 107 114
December Stakes . . .. 263 293
Sires’ Produce Stakes .. 360 346
Champagne Stakes . . .. 438 491
Easter Plate.. .. .. 197 228
A.J.C. Derby . . .. 426 459
Adrian Knox Stakes .. 189 225
St. Leger .. . . .. 383 417
Kirkham Stakes . . .. 234 252
Hobartville Stakes . . .. 281 300
H= * H= *
It is not unusual to hear trainers com-
plain that practically everything in con-
nection with racing has deteriorated. They
allege that horses are not so hardy as
they were ; they neither stay as well noi
are as consistent; jockeys are below the
old standard; racing officials are lacking
in most respects ; and, in fact, there is
little that is as it should be. Accoiding
to their ideas nothing has advanced,
except, of course, the trainers, inat -o
possible, as in addition to their own
knowledge they have the experience of
the old-timers to help them ; but whether
many are really superior is a mattei of
opinion.
In several ways a trainer’s life is easier
than that of those of an earlier period.
Training facilities are greater, there are
not the old transport troubles, and there
is not quite the same necessity for relying
on their own judgment in getting a horse
ready for an important race. Form in
suburban races enables them to learn
where they stand ; and, incidentally, often
enlightens bookmakers and punters as
much as the trainer concerning a horse’s
prospects. It is unwise to live in the
past, and, while I think racing is in every
way ahead of 50 or 60 years ago, it is
difficult to believe that our trainers have
progressed in a fashion that has left
everything else behind. Some certainly
know a lot more than the old-timers
about “stimulating” horses, but that is
scarcely a gain.
* * * *
Pantler, now trained at Randwick by
D. Lewis, is making satisfactory pro-
gress, and, as he is more favorably
weighted in the Metropolitan with 7.10
than in the Melbourne Cup with 7.11,
presumably the former will first receive
attention. Metropolitan first money of
£3BOO is a long way below £7OOO in the
Melbourne Cup, but, plus return from
betting, it would make a nice win. If
he failed, there would still be the Cup
for him to tackle with his original weight.
Lewis has had Metropolitan wins with
Speciality and Polycletan.
Pantler carried 7.3 when he ran third
to Feminist (7.11) and Fearless (7.10) in
the last Metropolitan, and will be meeting
the former lib. and the latter 71b. worse,
but since then he has run third in a
Melbourne Cup with 7.0. On the other
hand, Feminist has fallen short of expec-
tations since her Metropolitan win.
Pantler had three runs in the autumn,
missing a place each time. His last
start was in March in the Victoria Park
Handicap with 8.4. He ran fourth, All
Set (7.2) winning from Assegai (8.5) and
Early Bird (9.2). Pantler was backed,
being third favorite at 5 to 1. As he
will be only five next month, he is not
beyond the age at which considerable
improvement is possible.
* * * *
If Beau Vite had been sent to Sydney
last autumn he was to have gone into
F. McGrath’s stable. It was therefore
not surprising to hear that, on Friday
last, the trainer named had received a
cable telling him he was to take charge
of Beau Vite when he arrives in Sydney
early in the coming month. As the horse
wiil probably do all his handicap racing
at long distances, owner R. Stewart has
acted wisely in selecting a trainer who
has shown he can get the best out of
a stayer.
Beau Vite is prominent in the betting
on all the spring handicaps, but, as he
is more favorably weighted in the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups than in the
Metropolitan, one of the southern races
may be made his special handicap mis-
sion. Possibly the Melbourne Cup, as
last year he did well in that up to the
last furlong, showing to greater advantage
than Reading. In 9.1 he has a pound
over w.f.a., against 151 b. successfully
carried by Phar Lap (computing his geld-
ing allowance), 31b. by Patron, and 21b.
each by Windbag and Nightmarch at
the same age.
# * $ *
Gundagai is held on lease by “Miss
Lorna Doone” until May 2, 1942. In
the Kingsford Handicap he knocked
three-quarters of a second off the pre-
vious record for that class of race at
Victoria Park. He won very easily with
8.2 in 1.38| for a mile, and as he will
not be four until this week there is no
reason why he should not continue im-
proving. He is by Pantheon, and his
dam Ilatait, a Magpie mare, will be
remembered as winner of many races
at Sydney “pony” meetings, and was
also successful at “horse” meetings.
Gundagai has 7.4 in the Epsom and 7.0
in the Metropolitan. Wins at mid-week
meetings and in one or other of those
races are different, but Gundagai
accounted for his last two races in such
decisive fashion that it would be impos-
sible to say of him “Not class enough.”
* * * *
The A.J.C. rules on betting which
come into force tomorrow are compre-
hensive, and their interpretation leaves
little room for disputes. It was absurd
that, with betting playing such a big
part in racing—there would not be much
without it—the ruling body should not
have taken part in its government long
ago. Clubs receive a lot of money from
bookmakers for betting licenses, and it
is only right that the latter as well as
tickers should know exactly where they
stand in the event of difference of
opinion in the adjustment of bets. It
must be added that, while in some cases
the books have been at a disadvantage,
backers have also suffered through some
bookmakers’ peculiar ideas of fairness.
* * * *
Wellington R.C. (Maoriland) had its
record totalisator turnover this season,
the total being £843,695 for 11 days. The
previous best was £727,061 for a similar
number of days. Prize-money for this
season was £54,200, against £38,660 in
1938-39. At the recent Wellington three
days’ jumping meeting £211,241 was put
through, against £197,258 10s. the
previous year. It is not surprising that
the Maoriland Cabinet is opposed to any
interference with such a good revenue-
producer as racing.
* * #
“Apart from his third to Old Bill and
Beau Vite in the Wellington Cup, what
has Gladynev done this season?” I was
asked the other day. Well, he made a
modest start by winning a seven-furlongs
Trial Plate at the Avondale meeting in
September ; and followed that up with
a win in the Normanby Handicap, one
mile, at the Auckland R.C. meeting in
October. He carried 8.8, and his time
was 1.38 2-5. Beaten by Full Hand in
the Claudelands Handicap, one mile, at
Waikato, he made amends at his next
start by winning the Te Awamatu Cup,
li mile, at the Waipa meeting, but he
carried only 7st. In December he was
third with 7.4 to Fils de Vaals (7.0) and
Beau Repaire (7.8) in the Auckland
Summer Cup, 1| mile, but was less than
half a length from the winner; and on
the concluding day of the same meeting
won the Nathan Memorial Handicap,
1 } mile, in 2.6 with 7.11.
After his third with 7.11 to Old Bill
(8.0) and Beau Vite (8.7) in the Welling-
ton Centennial Cup, Gladynev was un-
placed with 8.0 in the Wellington R.C.
Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, which Beau
Repaire (7.9) won by a head from Royal
Chief (9.5). While his record may' not
have entitled him to 8.5 in the Mel-
bourne Cup, it undoubtedly warranted
more than 6.7 in the Caulfield Cup.
Gladynev is doing easy work at Rand-
wick, and is a neat though not a big
horse.
* * v
Despite his poor third in the Wellington
Steeplechase, Padishah is placed in
advance of all other steeplechasers and
hurdlers in Maoriland. In the G.N.
Steeplechase, to be run at Christchurch
next month, he has 12.6, and 12.4 in
the G.N. Hurdle Race. Clarion Call,
with 12.1, is next to him in the former,
and is getting 61b. from him in the latter.
Catalogue, winner of three Winter Cups,
one mile, at the National meeting, has
10.11 (minimum 8.0) this time, but his
latest form does not point to success with
that weight.
* * * *
Many racehorses live a long time after
their retirement from the turf, and in
Maoriland these include The Hawk and
Desert Gold, who will respectively be
22 and 28 years old next month. During
his career The Hawk’s winnings were
more than £28,000, and those of Desert
Gold exceeded £23,000. One of The
Hawk’s specially good handicap efforts
in Australia was his 1925 Challenge
Stakes win with 10.3, J. Pike being his
rider.
* * * *
Speedy two-year-olds are generally
numerous in America, and the best seen
out in that country up to the end of
May was a filly named Maemante, whose
owner died on the racecourse shortly
after seeing her win the Hialeah Juvenile
Championship. A few weeks later she
won the Youthful Stakes at Jamaica
(New York), and ran 4\ furlongs in
51 2-5, equivalent to about 51 \ for five
furlongs. The Randwick record for the
latter distance is Pandava’s 58^.
* * * *
The fact of G. Richards electing to
ride Tant Mieux was responsible for
his winning stable-companion, Pont
l’Eveque, starting at a comparatively long
price for the New Derby. Richards must
have been fairly wedded to Tant Mieux’s
chance, as a fortnight before the Derby
he won the Longleat Stakes, a straight
mile, on Pont l’Eveque, at Salisbury. In
a field of seven 4 to 1 was laid on Pont
l’Eveque, who went to the front after
going half a mile, and beat the second
horse in very easy fashion by five lengths.
He looked as if he could have gone on,


and so greatly impressed some of the
critics that they gave him a good Derby
chance. It was therefore surprising his
price for that race was so liberal.
* Jfc
It must have been after very hard
thinking on the part of the British
Cabinet that it was decided to abandon
temporarily horse- and dog-racing in
England. Early in June Sir John Ander-
son, Home Secretary and Minister for
Home Security, was asked in the House
of Commons if he would ban greyhound
racing. He replied:
Experience has proved that if workers
are to maintain their efficiency for more
than a limited period some measure of
relaxation is essential.
For that reason the Government has
been anxious not to interfere unduly with
facilities for sport and recreation.
The whole position is being kept con-
stantly under review, and I will not hesi-
tate, if circumstances demand it, to im-
pose such further restrictions on public
entertainment as may be necessary.
* * * *
The South African Jockey Club now
controls the system of stipendiary
stewards, instead of, as formerly, those
officials being merely the paid employees
of some particular club. The Cape Town
clubs, by which ex-Sydney journalist
Hedley Ward is employed as a steward,
originally intended to oppose the pro-
posal, but changed their views. The Turf
Club will have six regular stewards. I
have always been a staunch upholder of
the advantages of the stipendiary system,
and wherever it has been tried it has
advanced in favor.
* * * m
A couple of well-known mares were
sold at Wellington (Maoriland) a fort-
night ago, and, because of her age, 15-
year-old Jewel of Asia (dam of V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes winner Sir John)
made only 15gns. She was mated with
Spiral this season, and will be a bargain
if she foals. Sixteen-year-old Oratrix
(1928 New Zealand Cup winner) was
sold for UOgns. She was believed to be
in foal to Phaleron Bay.
* * * *
Selling races in England occasionally
give a good return to owners of second
horses and clubs. At Windsor a few
weeks ago the conditions of a selling
race of £lB7 provided that the winner
should be sold for £SO. A filly named
Picnic Party, a 10-to-l chance, was the
winner, and on going to auction realised
600gifs.
* * * *
An English exchange says that Epsom
became fashionable as a resort by an
accident. The summer of 1618 was very
dry. Looking for water for his cattle a
man named Wicker was astonished to
find on the Downs a hole full of water.
But the cattle would not drink it, and
analysis revealed that it was of strong
medicinal qualities. To take the waters
came the gentry from London and the
country, and races were instituted to
pass away the time. It was not until
1730, however, that regular race meetings
were held annually.
* * * *
If yearlings do not make good prices
at sales in Australia or Maoriland it
cannot be attributed to anything left
undone on the part of compilers of cata-
logues. Every tabulated pedigree and
inclusion of well-performed relatives —•
each thoroughbred has some on the sire’s
or dam’s side —suggest potentialities
either as a stayer or sprinter. When one
of these eventually does all that is sug-
gested by the catalogue, it enables some
peejigree expert to comment: “It is only
what you would expect from its breed-
ing.” The same could be said of hun-
dreds of others that did not turn out well.
Which reminds me that some years ago
an English expert used to make his Derby
selection on Bruce Lowe figures.
Strangely enough the horses he selected
were invariably those to which form
pointed. Others for whom “figures,” but
not form, said quite as much were over-
looked. If, however, one of the latter
did win, it was pointed to as another
triumph for the figure system.
* * * *
Chicago gets its full share of racing.
Arlington Park commenced on June 24
and finished on July 27. Washington
Park took up the running on July 29,
finishing on September 2. It was antici-
pated the distribution of prize-money by
the two clubs would total $900,000.
Sixty-one successive days—excepting
Sundays—with so many of the same
horses racing over and over again, must
be filling, to say the least. It is no
wonder dirt tracks are favored in
America. Turf tracks would not stand
many of the long meetings customary in
that country.
* * $ *
Neither American racegoers nor
trainers favor large tracks, and reduction
of the circumference of Belmont Park
(New York’s best track) is again re-
ceiving consideration. At present it is
a mile and a half, but the idea is to
make it either eight dr nine furlongs,
and eliminate the Widener track, which,
I think, is a straight seven. Among the
reasons for the reduction is probably
the fact that stayers are not, numerous
and comparatively few flat races in
America are run at a longer distance than
a mile and a quarter, and not many even
at that. In Australia the preference for
large tracks is general.
* * * *
A fire in a stable near Centerville,
Bourbon County (America), in May de-
stroyed four stallions, the one of most
note being Flying Heels, who was a
highly successful racehorse and a suc-
cessful sire of two-year-olds. The others
were Kiev (sire of distance winners), Sgt.
Byrne, and Aneroid. The last-mentioned
two won many races, Aneroid defeating
Seabiscuit in the San Antonio Handicap.
They were newcomers at the stud. The
horses were not insured, and their joint
value was placed at approximately
£25,000.
* * * *
Various starting machines are bidding
for popularity in America, and the latest
is a magnetic control gate that was used
at Santa Anita. This gate differs from
two others in general use —the Puett and
the Bahr—in one important particular.
Where they open by an electric current
which releases a catch, the magnetite gate
is held shut by an electric current, and
opened by cutting off the current. It
is argued that while a catch may pos-
sibly fail to open in the other gates, the
current cuts off all or none of the stalls
in the magnetic gate.
* * * *
The death recently took place in
Ireland of D. Sullivan, one of that
country’s best-known breeders and
owners. He won every classic race in
Ireland, the Two Thousand Guineas with
Soldumeno, the One Thousand Guineas
with Resplendent (dam of Windsor Lad),
Irish Derby with Rosewell, the Oaks with
Resplendent, and the St. Leger with La
Paloma. Several horses bred by him
won good races in England, but the most
notable was Windsor Lad, whom he sold
as a yearling for 1300 gns.
* * * *
The Western India Turf Club (Bom-
bay) does not believe in any trainer
having an outsize team. A rule of the
club sets forth that no trainer must have
more than 40 horses, whether they are
in or out of training. It disposes of a
straight-out monopoly, but does not pre-
vent a trainer who has reached the maxi-
mum having a few horses in someone
else’s stable. It is evidently the opinion
of the W.I.T.C. that no trainer can
properly supervise more than 40 horses,
though in England it has not been un-
usual for a trainer to have double that
number. In Sydney few trainers have
ever had more than 25 horses in train-
ing at the same time.
* * * *
Shortly before the French surrender
Claude Halsey, who has trained in
France for many years, had one horse
killed and six injured by a bomb that
fell near his stables at Chantilly. One
cannot help wondering what has hap-
pened to French horses, trainers and
jockeys. Many racing men were on
active service, including R. Brethes, who
visited England this year and won two
races on French horses at Newmarket.
Several trainers and jockeys were practi-
cally penniless when they arrived in Eng-
land from Belgium. They were unable
to bring away any of their possessions
and were trying to get .billets in English
stables. Now that England has gone out
of racing their position is worse than
ever.
M.Q. and Rafferty
A Record Knockout?
Fighting Jackie Burns in the main
prelim, before the grappling at Rush-
cutter Bay A 1 Walker accomplished what
might go into the chronicles as a world
record k.o. Afterwards Joe Wallis com-
mented that, “although Walker’s action
was not sportsmanlike, it was legal, as
the bell had sounded.”
What happened was that A 1 had in-
structions to attack from the word go.
The bell sounding, he out of his corner
and barged straight across the ring.
Burns, standing facing into his own
corner with his hands on the ropes, had
partly turned his head when A 1 reached
him. Sighting A 1 atop of him, he in-
stinctively turned away, and a punch that
felled him and might have felled an
elephant caught him about the ear or a
little behind it. He was counted out, and
was out for a long time.
Deciding on a split second in the ring
what is sportsmanlike and what isn’t is
not so simple as it sounds. A 1 went over
screwed up to wade in—no state of mind
for cool thinking. Through the haze of
excitement he saw his target and hit it,
and scores of others would have done
the same if they’d gone out as he did
set on a Blitzkrieg. Of course, he was
himself counted out, the mob being un-
aware, or forgetting, that A 1 had had
some 40 scraps without once hearing a
word of warning from any ref. If he
were not so by choice he would be a
clean fighter by the nature of his style.
He fights on the upright—almost the
Mace —stance, and almost always high''
for the head. Improving a lot, he’s lately
added a short bob to his method, letting
his left rip to round about the liver.
But he’s never had a foul registered
against him.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Most golfers realise what a strain com-
petitive play places on contestants, even
in our own Australian championships
and such events, but few realise the hard-
ships suffered by leading American
players or appreciate the mental load
carried by them in the big events in the
U.S.A. The game in the States is truly
a profession; not only has one to live
at the game most of the day, but over
a series of months every section of a
player’s game is built up until it can
function under the severest pressure.
When a player chooses golf as his live-
lihood he has to be prepared to work
incessantly. His period of successful golf,
“determined by scientists and statistics,”
is from 25 to 36 years of age ; and in
this short span of 11 years he must have
won enough to retire on or have obtained
a good club job for when his competi-
tive days are over.
Over the last live years there has not
been a case of a newcomer making good.
The stars of today are proven golfers
who have built their game up over a
period and are receiving the reward for
their efforts. For instance, the leading
ten money-winners this year, from Ben
Hogan, who leads with 7888 dollars,
down to Paul Runyan at tenth place,
with 2650 dollars, are all players who
have scaled the heights the hard way.
The open championship carries a first
prize of only 1000 dollars, but success is
worth anything from 25,000 to 50,000
dollars; thus the strain attached to play-
ing for this title is terrific. Many of
the recent open championships have been
won with comparatively high scores ; this
shows that the extra urge to victory tells
on the players in the 72-hole grind.
In a recent national broadcast, Horton
Smith mentioned this subject, saying “I
have lost the spark I used to have to play
golf. I am pretty well burned out right
now. I have played 13 years of strenu-
ous tournament golf with the grind away
day after day; and although many times
you know exactly what you want to do
and should do, you cannot complete the
operations to suit yourself. I just don’t
have that little extra something to bring
out the best shots I should make.” This
frank admission from one of America’s
leading golfers and member of the 1940
Ryder Cup team, sums up the position.
At 32 Smith is a young man in years,
yet is nearing the end of a long and
successful career, during which he has
won every title but the open itself.
the term given to the
players who return steady rounds, aptly
describes the average good American pro-
fessional, who is in the picture consis-
tently with a low score but never low
enough to win. Yet there is money in
returning an average of par over a long
period. This is possible because of the fact
that fourth, fifth and sixth prizes are
usually worth around £l5O to £IOO, and
with one event about every week or ten
days a consistent golfer can win £ISOO a
year by keeping within a few shots of the
winner. This amount, added to the salary
and expenses paid to the leading pros, by
their club or sporting-goods manufac-
turer, gives them incomes from £2OOO to
as high as £4OOO to £SOOO a year.
The lesser-known professionals who
are not employed by wealthy clubs or
firms, however, find the going much
harder. Expenses are high, and unless
they are winning regularly tournament
play is not a very profitable pastime.
Ralph Guldahl, the 1937 and 1938 open
champion and a great tournament-
winner, told me: “Super-concentration is
the only thing that gets me through. By
thinking only of the shot immediately
to be played and forgetting everything
else I am able to make a success of my
game.” I discussed modern golf with
the master of them all, Walter Hagen,
winner of over 100 major championships.
Hagen said, “I am glad to have retired,
for today’s golf is so much keener and
calls for much more accurate shot-mak-
ing than it did ten or fifteen years years
ago.”
Footbrawl
A strong northerly affected the Mel-
bourne-Footscray match at West Foots-
cray, play being mostly at the southern
end. Having the wind in the first and
third quarters, ’Scray had a third-quarter
lead of 2-6, but the premiers collared
the game in the last, running to a clear
lead in the competition list by 15-20 to
12-19.
At home to Geelong the rejuvenated
Fitzroy side shot the ball at the posts
as though using one of the Navy’s mul-
tiple pom-poms, but with lesser accuracy,
marking up 10-27 to Geelong’s 8-12.
As in all Melbourne matches, wind
was the best player at North Melbourne,
where the locals entertained St. Kilda.
“Amused” might be a better word, as
the Saints had brought their shooting
boots and rattled on 13-6 to 6-11, or 19
shots to 17 for a margin of 37 points.
There was nothing in the Carlton-
Collingwood game to write home about,
except the complaint of a barracker that
the wind pushed his voice down his
throat every time he opened his mouth.
Carlton hung on the invaders’ flanks
until the centre weakened, then went
through to victory, 14-18 to 13-9.
From their villas and gardens on the
slopes of the Camberwell Mountains
Hawthorn sent a safari down into the
wilds of Richmond, where lurk the
Tiger and the tomato-sauce industry,
and the wanderer by night at this season
is apt to have the daylight scared out
of him by the hunting-cry “Eat ’em
alive, Tigers! ” Despite a strong gale and
the black looks of the natives, the safari
surrounded its fiercely-struggling prey and
came out with the scalps, 12-15 to 11-13.
Essendon opened up against Sowth at
Albert Park with real football skill, con-
centrating on the strategic scoring corner
and taking every advantage of the wind.
But Sowth came back with a touch of
the dash that made the side famous in
the long ago, and crowded the ’Dons out
of the lead in the third. The match
finished in a great struggle, the ’Dons
failing to get there by two points, 9-6
to 7-16, which shows the value of accu-
rate boots and an ounce of luck when
the decision is close.
* * * *
With two competition rounds to be
played, Randwick and St. George are
certain of places in the Sydney Rugby
Union semi-finals. It will be the young
St. George club’s first experience in “the
four.” It earned its place with a sterling
10-3 win ovdr East. Gordon, now third
on the list, also seems likely to make
“the four.” Though it scored only one
try against Manly’s two, that try came
at the right moment —it was the result
of a clever interception by O’Brien, and,
converted by O’Brien, it gave the High-
landers a 12-8 win. Manly is now
fourth.
Randwick, though it broke even in the
matter of tries (three each), took a fear-
some licking from Drummoyne. The
fiery Red forwards subdued the Green
pack, and, breaking through quickly, gave
Towers and his insides little chance to
open up the game. Still, the 22-9 defeat
made no difference to ’Wick’s position
at the top of the table.
University has two tough problems
ahead in its bid for a place —Randwick
and St. George. On Saturday the students
put West through in grand style, 19-9.
and Parramatta obliterated North, 17-9.
* * * *
In Brisbane Queensland again downed
pore old Noo South at Rugby League--
23-15. This time the ref. could not he
blamed for Noo South’s discomfiture:
“injuries” were responsible. •
After riding thousands of miles in
motor-cycle dirt-track races at breakneck
speed, A. G. (“Bluey”) Wilkinson met his
end in a Sydney suburban accident. A
Bathurst (N.S.W.) native, he was 17 when
he landed in England in 1929, and, with
other Australians, introduced dirt-track
racing there. It took on, and Wilkinson
won the world’s championship in 1938.
together with other titles. He retired
from the game last year, and had come
back to Australia to go on the land. Pool
“Biuey” was 29.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: What price glory? The
annual report of the A.L.T.A. shows :>
net loss of £1569, of which £1037 was
incurred during the Davis Cup tour, h
might be said that Australia has the cup
but more important events in Europe
somewhat dimmed the splendor of the
victory.


BRANDAIIERrS
m
y}i+
=> <£>
PENS
6W
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAMDAUSR ft CO, Ud, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
at the talkies.
“Return at Dawn”
Characteristics of French films shown in
Sydney are that they tend to linger, almost
as though in appreciation of their more
artistic moments, and that story, action,
etc., are readily delayed while the last
ounce of artistry is dragged out of the
acting, photography or directing. That
tendency, admirably suited as it is to
some films, can be overdone in a highly
romantic concoction like “Return at
Dawn,” showing at Sydney Savoy. What-
ever other merits the film may possess,
it lacks the crispness of presentation
which might have blurred over the edges
of the several improbable situations which
stick out of the narrative, and which even
the excellent acting and other deft touches
fail to conceal.
If it were based on human emotions
instead of being merely decorated by
them, the film could stand up to its length
and leisurely pace, but it is based on a
series of coincidences and improbabilities
which even the most natural acting and
the most elastic imagination cannot make
convincing. A stationmaster in a small
town near Budapest marries a simple vil-
lage damsel and shortly afterwards gets
his station included as a stopping place
for the Budapest express. His wife is
fascinated by the trainload of city
fashionables, and, when she is left a
legacy and has to go to Budapest to col-
lect it, promising to return the same even-
ing, the ideas planted in her head by the
sight of the people in the train are given
full rein around the dress shops, and she
misses her train home. Before the even-
ing is through she has been drunk as a
lord, registered at a posh pub as the wife
of a jewel thief, arrested as his accom-
plice, and so on.
The bare narrative is no worse and
no better than the general run of stuff
that Hollywood metes out, and perhaps
the treatment that Hollywood would
have given it might have been nearer its
worth—artistic treatment of brittle,
shallow fiction tends to emphasise the
contrast. The redeeming features of the
film include a rich stream of characterisa-
tion ; picturesque photography providing,
incidentally, soft, beautiful flesh tones ;
and many clever touches such as giving
an idea of contrast by representing the
Budapest express at the small village as
a towering monster and at Budapest as
a small insignificant railway train.
The practically flawless acting of
Danielle Darrieux fills a lot of gaps in
the film. She has a knack of registering
emotions with the minimum of effort and
expression, and she runs through the
whole scale of emotions, from simple,
childish wonderment to a very convinc-
ing burst of hysteria. The supporting
cast could hardly be better.
Supporting “Return at Dawn” is a re-
vival of “Ruggles of Red Gap,” with
Charles Laughton, Roland Young and
Charlie Ruggles. It is still one of
Laughton’s best comedies, and anyone
who can’t laugh at it needs a doctor.
* * * *
“Torrid Zone”
Pat O’Brien managing a banana planta-
tion, James Cagney as chief overseer,
Anne Sheridan as a sort of bewchus
feminine swaggie temporarily stranded on
the plantation, Jerome Cowan as another
Weak-kneed overseer, Helen Vincent as
his philandering wife and sundry bandits,
darkies and other creatures make up the
hulk of this Sydney Plaza item. Cagney,
having lifted O’Brien’s missus, disposed
of her and turned his attention to Miss
Vincent, finds the Sheridan wench in his
paddock and returns to tending banana-
trees so that he can keep an eye on her.
Everything that that set-up might sug-
gest to a Hollywood producer is in the
film, but it’s a fairly vigorous and mildly
entertaining offering, gaining consider-
ably from a stream of prickly verbal
sparring between Miss Vincent and Miss
Sheridan, who go at each other as if
they really mean it.
* * * *
“The Saint Takes Over”
For benefit of the uninitiated, the Saint
is a genial sort of detective-cnm-crook
who, if not lifting Lady Whosit’s pearls,
is busy helping the police apprehend who-
ever happens to be Public Enemy No. 1.
In this support at Sydney Plaza his main
job is to clear the name of his detective
cobber, and after three, maybe four,
Anna Neagle (Alice Blue Gown ) surrounding Arthur Treacher,
Alan Marshall and Roland Young, in “Irene,” at Sydney Regent.
maybe five murders he untangles the
mystery. His methods show less finesse
than those of Ned Kelly, but a ration of
comedy makes the film bearable. George
Sanders plays the Saint, t but Paul Guil-
foyle, as a nervous little crook, takes the
film from him.
* * * *
“Rancho Grande”
The warbling cowhand Gene Autry
is the chief offender in this slab of
modern-style Wild-Wester at Sydney Capi-
tol. Gene figures as chief of the hahnest
bunch engaged in a desperate race
against time, bailiffs and crooks to com-
plete some wild irrigation scheme. They
mix it in fine style, but it’s mostly Gene’s
warbling which effectively subdues all
opposition, armed or otherwise. A feast
for those who like Autry, and an
R.S.P.C.A. offence against those who
don’t.
* * * *
“Double Alibi”
Support at Sydney Capitol and miles
better entertainment. Wayne Morris plays
the fugitive, suspected of an ex-wife’s
murder, who passes himself off as a crime-
expert newshound and proceeds to track
down the murderer. Complications set in
when the original crime expert turns up.
Aided by female newshound Morris man-
ages to catch up with the criminal before
the beans are spilt. Plenty of action and
suspense, with goil going in the right
direction.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Ballets Galore
Hurrying through its last few weeks
in Sydney the ballet company is lavish
with its programmes. There were two
changes last week. “Paganini,” impos-
ing and direct—a modern example of the
best use of the ballet technique; the
dancing rising out of the music, the whole
combining to illustrate vividly the dis-
ordered and tortured state of the violin-
ist’s mind —ran the whole week as a vital
focal point for the programme.
It had Balanchine’s incomprehensible
“Cotillon” —a series of clever and divert-
ing dances, prettily-dressed and attrac-
tive, but having nothing at all to do with
anything at all —and Lifar’s arrangement
of the ever-delightful “Blue Danube” to
give it backing. All the principals had
plenty of scope: Toumanova in “Cotil-
lon,” Grigorieva in “Paganini” and
Riabouchinska as the village girl in
“Paganini” and with Lichine (vigorous
and lively as the Hussar) in “Blue
Danube” —in this last the two of them
combining in perhaps the most pleasing
dancing the company has to offer.
Later in the week “Cotillon” was dis-
carded and replaced by the first perform-
ance in Sydney of “Le Pavilion,” which,
with its assorted lolly-colored costumes
and murky green background, seemed
like something off the shelf of an old
china shop. Borodin’s music and the
dancing had the same sentimental curio
atmosphere as the setting.
Nina Verchinina’s “Etude,” “inspired
by Bach’s music,” had its “world premiere”
during the week. It was stated that “there
is no actual story to the theme, but the
choreography conveys the realisation of
musical architecture through kinesthetic
dance form.” Even with that clue it was
difficult to find any connection between
the dancing and the music. The ballet
has moments of graceful posing and
agility and, once or twice, of feeling, but
it is generally dull and not enlivened by
the absence of any meaning.
“Jeux d’Enfants” was also put on
during the week, with Riabouchinska
showing that same charming childish
quaintness which she infuses into her
dancing in “Graduation Ball. ’ Schwez-
off’s “Lutte Eternelle” also had its “world
premiere” last Monday and will be re-
viewed here next week.
* *
Friedman with Orchestra
In company with orchestra under
A.B.C. conductor Code’s direction, Ignaz
Friedman struck fire and tenderness out
of the Concerto No. 2 in F minor of his
favorite composer, Chopin, at Melb.
Town Hall. The orchestral backing is
scanty, and Code had little to do but pro-
vide the tempo; but in the tone poem
“Tintagel” of Bax, with its effect of
enormous waves mounting, crashing and
subsiding against the foundations of
King Arthur’s castle, he conducted with
great vigor. The most appealing music
of the evening, however, to this com-
mentator’s way of thinking, was the
“Royal Water Music” of Handel.
The Polish pianist’s solo concert wasn’t
so well attended, which was no criticism
of the music. The subscription habit
has caught on in Melbourne, aided by
A.B.C. propaganda, and individual vir-
tuosi who used to command packed
houses are apt to be neglected. He
played the Bach-Tausig Toccata and
Fugue and the Sonata, Op. 58, of Chopin
and ended with a dazzling series of Liszt
items.
* * *
Beatrice Tange’s Recitals
Beatrice Tange, whose series of four
Saturday afternoon recitals at the
National Art Gallery, Sydney, to aid the
Lord Mayor’s Patriotic Fund has just
concluded, is a Sydney pianist of such
power and ability that she has been a
welcome performer on radio circuits in
the U.S.A. and Canada, and has been
concerto pianist under such conductors
as Sargent, Szell and Schneevoigt.
In her four recitals she covered a wide
field. Outstanding were her performances
last Saturday of the Bach-Busoni
“Chaconne” and Liszt’s “Variations on a
Theme of Paganini.” Her style is crisp,
confident and assured; she uses the
pedal to sustain notes, not to blur intri-
cate backgrounds, and her climaxes and
her bravura playing are not impaired by
the player’s femininity.
If she were Signorina Tangerino from
Milan or Fraulein Tangst from Vienna
the A.B.C. “celebrity concert” clientele
would listen to her with bated breath.
* * * *
“The Importance of Being Ernest”
Doris Fitton’s Independent Players are
presenting this Oscar Wilde comedy at
their theatre in North Sydney. When it
was first presented in 1895 it was prob-
ably regarded as one of the naughtiest
things of the naughty ’nineties, now it
goes over as a highly-amusing and enter-
taining play. In ingenuity and wit Wilde
is still a long way ahead of most modern
playwrights, and, curiously enough, it
struck this commentator that the play
satirised most effectively the very
“aestheticism” which the author affected
and supported.
Redmond Phillips as Algernon Mon-
crieff and John Appleton as John Worth-
ington, the two worthies most anxious to
own the name Ernest, played their roles
most capably and in a fine vein of
comedy. Marie Rosenfeld as the
Hon. Gwendoline Fairfax and Gwenda
Moverly as Cecily Cardew, the two
wenches determined to marry someone
called Ernest, handled their side of the
business just as well. Enid Lorimer,
Natalie Simon and Desmond Rolfe filled
the other parts without a hitch.
Artbursts.
James Quinn is holding a retrospective
exhibition of his works at the Velasquez
Galleries, Melbourne, which includes
portraits of the Queen, Hubert Wilkins
the explorer, General Birdwood, Casey,
Australian Minister at Washington, and
other notabilities. Preferable are the
little landscapes and sketches Quinn
painted in his artistic adolescence. They
look fresher, more close to Nature than
the official portraits which made the
artist’s European reputation and found
their way into the Royal Academy and
other institutions. An early portrait of
Henry Fullwood (1913), in a magnificent
hat and an equally magnificent beard and
pair of mustachios, looks like a Spanish
hidalgo and has signs of loving care
about it. The portrait of the Qileen
is the portrait of a queen, not the
portrait of a woman.


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
blogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
byes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don't delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does—take DOAN'S
UACKACHJB gIBNfiY J’JIAS tQ-.dsX. '
A WOMANS
LETTER
If ever this Letter gets snowbound in
a mountain resort may High Commis-
sioner for Canada Burchell and Canada’s
Trade Commissioner Colonel Moore-
Cosgrave be there to. spin seafaring yarns.
Between the two of them and Padre
Cash, the yearly meeting of the Mission
to Seamen, at the Rawson Institute, was
the most joyous happening of last week.
High Commissioner Burchell is a “blue-
nose” —that is to say, he comes from
Halifax, in Nova Scotia —and in the
roaring goldmining days the clippers
raced between the port of Halifax and
Port Jackson. In fact, two uncles,
Captain Charles Burchell and his brother,
sailed one of the swiftest and most
queenly of the sailing ships to enter
Sydney Harbor, the Oweenee, still quoted
in seafaring annals. And who recalls the
Lightning, the clipper which held a
record that it took steam 30 years to
beat?
Listening to the speakers as they told
of highway and laneway of the seas kept
open by the bravery not only of the
Navy, but of the mercantile marine, you
realised that every shipment that comes
and goes is as much a cargo of human
courage and high endeavor as of mer-
chandise. Last winter was the bitterest
the North Atlantic had known for 75
years; and last winter the perils of the
ice were coupled with the perils of mines.
But the seaway was still England’s.
Archbishop Mowll was one of the
speakers, and a report of an amazing
year’s work, was greeted with applause.
The loud hand also greeted the announce-
ment of the newly-organised Mercantile
Marine Comforts Fund.
The happy hunting-ground for the
housewife last Saturday was Elaine, the
Hubert Fairfax home. Here sunshine
with a hint of early spring in it shone
on a market day in excelsis. The flowers
and fruits of the earth were piled on
stalls, and Darling Point householders
weren’t above pinching (literally, not in
the shoplifting style) a cabbage or lifting
up pots of home-made marmalade to the
light. The stalls were arranged on the
terrace, which was brightly awninged;
the garden was a stretch of green happi-
ness ; the aprons of the workers were red,
white and. blue. Patriotism was the
motive of this market day, the C.W.A.
War Fund gaining by the sales.
It was a day for Amaryllis, and she
or her twin sisters came and sported in
the shade and sun —at any rate, a group
of girls from Grace Bros, in bouffant
white chiffons gave,a display of eurhyth-
mic dances. There were a band and one
of those photographic mazes where you
guess the original of a photograph taken
from 15 to 20 years ago. To make it
harder, some of the photographees insist
on putting in pictures of themselves as
babes. Lady Wakehurst, who had with
her the Hon. Henrietta Loder, opened
the fair.
China’s war orphans will gain many
a hot bowl of rice from the violet after-
noon at Mrs. Chuey’s home last Satur-
day. This nice old home rises above old
Cremorne wharf, and members of the
Chinese community, their Australian
friends and several padres admired the
view from the balconies, as well as buy-
ing out the stocks of embroideries, cakes
and flowers. The helpers at the stalls
were mostly dressed in national dress,
but the girls who served tea wore giddy
little aprons of violet organdie with their
black frocks. Mrs. Chuey’s house is set
about with pieces in jade and porcelain,
with exquisite inlaid tables, and those
pictures in finely embroidered silks.
China’s Consul-General Pao opened the
fete.
All in white, even to the camellia in
the hair, the little company of debs, at
City Tattersall’s Ball was a pleasant sight.
They stepped slowly and softly up the
length of David Jones’s ballroom, led by
Mrs. George Herdsman, whose frock was
a glitter of gold lame and net. Chairman
and City Tattersall’s president Gus
Mooney entertained the official party.
Miss N. Brazel’s velvets were black. The
Pat O’Learys brought a group of friends.
Mrs. Edward Johnston’s vellum laces were
admired ; so were the stately stocks and
rich red roses of the decorations. Min-
ister for Health Primrose and Mrs. Prim-
rose received the debs.
“As we were marching out of Boys’
Town on our way to National Park,
Dublin Lad was coming down the
straight.” When Father Dunlea came to
this point the meeting in the
lower Town Hall last week did everything
but throw its hat in the air. Just as well
it didn’t do that, for the hat for the most
part was a smart new-season affair.
Boys’ Town, being compelled by cir-
cumstances to shift from its Sutherland
home, decided to put up a canvas roof-
tree in National Park. But the owner of
Dublin Lad had promised half that noble
steed’s first stake to Father Dunlea to
help put maybe even a tiled roof over
him and his proteges.
One of the boys said: “Don’t worry,
the change is fine for us. Most of us
never had a holiday before.” Another :
“We’ll stick to you, Father, as long as
you stick to us.” So, like the Three Mus-
keteers, it’s a case of “all for one and
one for all.” Nearly £BOO was collected
at the Town Hall meeting. Premier Mair
sent a heartening letter to the founder
of this home for homeless and unhappy
youngsters. He also sent his cheque for
£5. A well-known Sydney professional
man and his wife, who were anxious to
adopt a. child from overseas, have now
become financial godparents to one of
the 21 lads in Boys’ Town. Ten shillings
a week buys happiness for one.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was on the platform,
the turquoise blue of her hatband and
gloves being a bright spot among the sur-
rounding male tailorings. Mrs. Fraser,
who knows all about America’s Boys’
Town, spoke ; Mrs. Joe Coen was among
the many who dashed along with a
cheque. The owner of Dublin Lad was at
the meeting ; so was City Tattersall’s Mr.
Nathan. Solicitor T. Purcell presided,
and the Mayor of Boys’ Town (one of
the boys) welcomed the meeting. It was
one of those gatherings that you leave
with tears in the heart and laughter in
the eyes.
This striking-looking girl is Kathleen
Martin, of Melbourne, once of Wagga,
who with her sister Florence is now
in Sydney. All last week they were busy
with Colonel de Basil and Igor Schwezoff
over the costumes for Igor’s new b&llet,
“Lutte Eternelle.” The two girls designed
both decor and costumes for the ballet,
which had its world premiere last Mon-
day night in the Theatre Royal. Athol
Shmith photograph.
Colonel de Basil did all the shopping
for the materials, which are water-
colorish in effect, as it was considered
that vivid shades would not suggest the
subtle meaning of the ballet —the struggle
between man and his emotions. George
Upward, of Melbourne, painted the
scenery.
As the ballet nights draw to their end
it may be noted that custom has not
blunted the edge of the enjoyment of
the “Old Faithfuls.” They turn up at each
change of programme. Some, it is said,
go to almost every performance. Their
faces still shine with enthusiasm. Even
“Etude,” which was inspired by Bach's
music, but seemed to one at least as far
removed from the “realisation of musical
architecture” (that’s quoting the pro-
gramme) as washing in the wind is from
fleecy clouds, caused wild bursts of
clapping. Flowers banked the stage,
and Nina Verchinina, who had arranged
the choreography as well as being
Number One dancer, should feel well
pleased. Mrs. C. V. Walker was warm
with enthusiasm, a dark suit and
rich furs. Nora Peachey, Adelaide’s
Mayor Barrett and his wife, the Elink
Schuurmans, the Bertie Kellys, with son-
in-law Gualtiero Volterra and his wife,
and Sheila Smart were among the noted.
Actress Carrie Moore had a birthday
party last week. Australia’s first “Merry
Widow” intends to go off to Hollywood
again in the near future, so her old
friends Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Ardill, of
Potts Point, planned a surprise party to
surround the congratulations brought by
Marie Burke, Rita Pauncefort, Marie Le
Varre, Shirley Ann Richards, Aileen
Britton and a host of other people of
the theatre.
Carrie’s warm heart is as much quoted
as her bright eyes. The other week she
went to an afternoon rally of the All
Services Canteen volunteers. One of the
girls, who was singing to entertain the
others, so attracted the actress’s admi-
ration that she asked if she might present
the young girl with her A.S.C. uniform.
That reminded Carrie of the first con-
cert she sang at. It was a Liedertafel
affair and the numbers chosen were from
“Pinafore.” Producer decided that Carrie
was to wear a smart reefer with cap to
match. That seemed an insurmountable
hurdle to a little girl whose only gold
was in her voice. But a friendly neigh-
bor, a tailor, came along, measured her,
and made her as smart a reefer as was
ever donned by middy in the King’s
Navee. Last time Carrie was in England,
not long before the war burst, she
appeared in a command performance at
the Coliseum in which Irene Vanbrugh
and other English stars took part.
Two families in loyal Mosman will be
united next month when Joan Mackinlay,
subject of the photograph, marries Paddy
White. Joan, a very pretty girl and a
good horsewoman, is the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Jack Mackinlay. Her
father, a British Tobacco man, was a
grade-cricket contemporary of Noble and
Trumper. and is still a regular ’keeper
in summer games. Paddy has been almost
everything on the “Farmer and Settler,”
of which his father, P. C. White, is direc-
tor. The young man is a grandson of
the White who wrote the bushranger
books.
Tonight the fashionable trek will be
to Government House. Here at 8.30 the
musical at-home for the Victoria League’s
club for servicemen from overseas will
get into action, with Percy Code leading
a string orchestra in delicate airs. Lord
Lurgan, Harold Williams, Maria
Markan and Kenneth Neate are listed
singers. Tickets are one guinea each,
and all seats are booked out, to the joy
of the Sydney Victoria Leaguers in
general and organiser Mrs. Walter Swin-
son in particular.
Whoever is responsible for the Com-
monwealth’s new stamp issue can be
complimented on an artistic as well as
topical job. The three handsome and
typical Australian sailor, soldier and Air
Force boys so smart in uniform in the
foreground are topped in a sort of
shadowy background by as pretty a war
nurse as any convalescent soldier can
hope to see hovering over him. And
talking of stamps reminds to bring to the
notice of collector readers an envelope
which arrived by the last London mail.
Quite a third of it is taken up with a
buff background which is topped by the
royal coat of arms. There is an inset
of Lancaster House, London, and an
announcement that the Royal Philatelic
Society is holding its stamp centenary
exhibition in aid of the Red Cross and
St. John Fund. Isn’t there an idea here
for stamp collectors in Sydney to raise
some patriotic pennies?
Winifred Gillespie, of Vaucluse, was
one of last week’s pretty brides. Winifred,
who became Mrs. Mervyn Bateman in
the Fullerton Memorial Church, shares
an interest in flying with her aviator hus-
band. He is a pilot-instructor at Mascot.
She is State secretary of the Australian
Women’s Flying Club. The Gillespie
girls are lovers of folk songs and folk
dancing, and Winifred has spent some
happy days in the Hebrides. Last year
she sent from that craggy spot a sprig of
white heather. Last week it was tucked
into her bride bouquet. Another touch
of Scotland was the kilted piper who
piped bride and ’groom out of the church.
White and silver gleamed the wedding
frock. Sister Jean, who ’maided, wore
white ninons spattered with blue dia-
mente. Mervyn comes from Hawke’s
Bay, Maoriland. Cardrowan, Vaucluse
home of Winifred’s mother, Mrs. D
Gillespie, was the scene of the reception!
An aeroplane decked the wedding cake.
Mrs. Don Taylor, of Kirribilli, whose
husband was among the State’s finest
yachtsmen, and one of the pillars of the
Royal Yacht Squadron, is one of the
active in raising funds for the naval war
auxiliary. She is now busy with others
of the Squadron Women’s Auxiliary on
the Kitchen and Pantry American Tea
which will turn the clubhouse at Kirri-
billi into a brisk shopping centre on
August 10 at half-past two. Lady
Gowrie has promised to be present if
she is in Sydney at the time. You know
the tea is run on the good old system
of “bring a gift and buy a gift.” Mrs.
Middleton, of Pymble, is the treasurer.
One of the most blessed departments
over which the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund
sprinkles pennies from heaven, or the
pennies that come from your waste paper,
is that of Family Welfare. The office
dealing with this is in the Town Hall
itself, and there any day you will see
just-beginning soldier husbands and
wives, or girl wives with their babies.
Does the wife of an A.I.F. man in Pales-
tine want a house at a low rent? The
bureau will help her to hunt one up.
Recently it advanced money to help a
soldier’s wife buy her own furniture and
surround herself with a cosy and cheer-
ful bed-sittingroom which would be the
first home of her expected child. Advice
and help ip meeting time-payments on
furniture bought before the husband’s
enlistment are other ways in which the
bureau gladly helps the “girl lie left
behind him.”
It will be 50 years on August 15 since
the Hospice for the Dying in Darling-
hurst was founded. On that date the
committee of the ball held at the Went-
worth recently to help the Hospice will
have pleasure in handing the Mother
Rectress a cheque for over £3OO. Mrs.
M. J. Slattery was president of the com-
mittee.
Harry Dangar, of Coolah, Singleton,
has given up being an artist or a squatter
for the duration. Harry was a very
young soldier of the 1914-18 war, and
served with a crack English regiment.
Now he has enlisted in the R.A.A.F.,
and is at present in Melbourne learning
to do an administrative job. As it takes
four or five men on the earth to keep
one ’plane in the air, there’s plenty to
do. Mrs. Harry, while her husband is
down south, is back home with her
people, the Hicksons, of Malabar,
Singleton.
New premises for the Air Force hostel
which is to be just like a club for the
flying lads changing camps and spending
a night in town are in Goulburn-street.
The old Fox Film building has been
picked by the committee, and if the City
Council O.K.’s the choice the merry work
of reconstruction will begin.
This Letter’s old friend the Salvation
Army drops a note telling of the need
for public assistance and sympathy in its
unceasing task of social service. As
the letter puts it: “The Army has many
agencies for the rehabilitation of broken
manhood and side-tracked womanhood,
for assisting the aged, the boy and the
girl.” During the year just ended it
has given over 75,000 free meals, has
supplied nearly 82,000 free beds, has
distributed over 29,000 garments. “Free
beds and free meals”! Let us not for-
get these things when we eat full or
sleep soft.
Even the Kindergarten Union is feel-
ing the touch of the hand of Mars. The
Union has decided to keep its centres
open for longer hours to enable mothers
to work in munition factories and other
war-time activity.


Personal and Missing Friends.
Edward Nicol.
WILL any of the next-of-kin of the above-
named Public Works employee, who was born
at Hobart in 1885 and died at Gisborne, New
Zealand, on the 15th March, 1940, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Gisborne, New Zealand?
HEPWORTH. —Louisa Hepworth, widow of
Joseph Henry Hepworth, late of Whitton, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Tom Reginald Phillipson.
IF TOM REGINALD PHILLIPSON, whose
last known address was Henderson, Auckland,
New Zealand, and who left for Australia about
five years ago, will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear something to his ad-
vantage.
The Trust Manager, Trustee, Executor and
Agency Branch, THE NEW ZEALAND IN-
SURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED, Queen
Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 729 of 1940.
BETWEEN LILLIAN MAY HOUGHTON
Petitioner
And GEORGE ADAM HOUGHTON
Respondent.
TO GEORGE ADAM HOUGHTON late of
Stanmore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILLIAN
MAY HOUGHTON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Sixteenth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of July, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. G. TRUMAN, Solicitor for Petitioner, 10
Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 11 of 1940.
BETWEEN LIONEL JAMES ABEL Petitioner
And DOROTHE HAMILTON ABEL Re-
spondent
And FRANK VINCENT Co-respondent.
NOTICE to DOROTHE HAMILTON ABEL
late of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
LIONEL JAMES ABEL has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of your adultery with one Frank Vincent (who
is herein added as Co-respondent) AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-second day of October One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event of
your not so doing within that time or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 24th day of July, a.d. 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. P. WHITE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
4 THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 259 of 1940.
ETWEEN PHILLIS JEAN SNOOK Petitioner
And ERIC ROBIN SNOOK Respondent.
0 ERIC ROBIN SNOOK late of Usher’s
Hotel Castlereagh Street Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHILLIS
iAN SNOOK has commenced a suit against
)u in this Court and is applying for a dis-
ilution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
on during three years and upwards without
st cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
lat you are required to enter an appearance
> the said suit at the proper office of this
ourt on or before the Twenty-third day of
ctober 1940 and in the event of your not
oing so within the time limited or obtaining
rrther time the Petitioner will proceed and
le suit be heard and determined your absence
otwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
erein may be had on application to the under-
igned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of July, 1940.
(L,s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
STANLEY R. HILL, Solicitor for the Peti-
ioner, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Ramornie, the W. R. Sedons’ home in
Mangarra-road, Camberwell, opened its
portals in the cause of the Comforts Fund
on Saturday night. Invitations read
“bridge and dancing,” but if any fours
played bridge they did so in close seclu-
sion, not even coming forth to meet their
friends over liquid refreshment or to eat
hot supper around the billiard-table.
There one of Mr. Sedon’s provocative
recipes tricked everybody. Most guesses
were for crab or lobster, but the main-
stay (before a complicated procedure
made it into a tasty dish) was just blue
cod.
As always at Ramornie, the pictures
excited admiration and roused klepto-
maniac instincts in otherwise law-abiding
citizens. Cliff Thompson was hon. sec.
for the party, and Mrs. R. G. Menzies,
the Angliss lady (both wearing white
romaine), Mrs. R. W. Chambers and
Mrs. H. P. Ogilvie worked on the com-
mittee. Among the 180-odd who shared
in the pleasant evening were Dr. and
Mrs. Bob Hadley, Dr. Frank Tate (who
with his smile and easy manner could
be taken for hillbilly Bob Dyer) and the
Dare Holymans, who arrived late, for
their very new baby took a lot of per-
suading that sleep is necessary in large
doses for all healthy, happy infants.
The Frank Partridges were there; also
Margaret Moon and her brother John,
not long returned from Hollywood. The
P. R. Fullers brought visitors from Hong
Kong, Mr. and Mrs. V. A. Garton, who
arrived in Australia via Java and Fre-
mantle. Although Mr. Garton, who is
an architect, visited Canton 83 times in
not much more than 18 months, he has
travelled very little in Australia during
the last 15 years. He hopes to study
the Harbor Bridge from the “inside”
when he visits Sydney on his way home.
Mrs. Frank Andrew rang the changes
so successfully in her own lounge one
evening that the intimate little theatre
she evolved would have been unrecog-
nisable to son Rod unless his eyes had
[it upon his own brushwork landscape
upon the wall. Medico Rod is in Pales-
tine attached to the A.A.M.C.
A stage curtain was fixed to the beams
of the ceiling, and the cast made entries
and exits through a door into the garden.
Though these players were practically
an top of the audience (and the mallee-
root fire was a stage prop, as well as part
of the “house”) they put the little plays
over with artistry and skill. Patricia
Trace, Lewis Tegeart and John Holds-
worth did Mrs. Andrew’s Australian one-
acter “The Ghost Girl,” and Mrs. Trace
and David Reid baited one another with
Sutro’s cynical language in “A Marriage
Has Been Arranged.” In the interval
Margaret Scott spoke prose of a rollick-
ing nature. Mrs. John Butler was pro-
gramme-announcer.
Mrs. Andrew’s home —but by no
means homy—effort was originally in-
tended for the A.A.M.C. Comforts Fund,
but it was decided to hand all proceeds
of the evening to the Red Cross, whose
need at the moment is urgent. During
the evening Mrs. W. W. S. Johnston en-
lightened those present on the kind of
work the A.A.M.C. Comforts Fund is
doing. She also read extracts from a
letter from her husband (Medical Corps
C.O. in Palestine), who mentioned among
his closely-written air-mailed lines what
a bright spot in the lives of the troops
is the personality of Eugene Gorman.
Nothing could keep Megan Taylor off
the ice at the St. Moritz carnival. She
was there bright and early in the piece,
waltzing with Jimmy Paxton (in his naval
uniform) and other efficient partners. The
boys and girls greeted her with a cheery
‘Hullo, Megan!” and it was something
of an honor to look after her fur coat
when she had changed her brief pleated
skirt and bunny-wool bolero for the
colorful gipsy costume she wore in her
exhibition numbers. Betty Cornwell,
Gwen Hallam, Nancy Lyons and an ice
ballet with beautiful legs and superb
poise whizzed over the ice as if Nature
had intended human beings to spend their
lives on glaciers. An outlet for patriotism
t° “Land of Hope and Glory,” “Colonel
Bogey” and other martial strains was a
Naval and Air Force finale.
Guests in the special loge were Lady
C'olvin and Captain and Mrs. J. B. Foley,
whose daughter Anne was one of the
tambourine ballerinas. Mrs. Mortimer
Robb carried out the successful but diffi-
cult organising, for her committee let her
down with a mixed bag of ailments (in-
cluding measles, Puckapunyal throats and
the sprained wrist of H. H. Kleiner, con-
tracted, not upon the ice, but in the
street). Mrs. Guy Barrenger made a
notable effort in hot dogs, procuring as
donations 20 dozen from well-known
“dog” stalls of the town.
In the same aromatic environment, and
wearing red pullovers, all-enveloping
white aprons and tall chefs’ caps, were
Mrs. Humphrey Clegg, Mrs. Lindsay
Mildred, Mrs. Leo Quick, Mrs. E. H.
Young, Mrs. J. Burrows and Joan and
Bunty Burnett. Mrs. Frank Sampson
spread the publicity of the carnival and
its afternoon session for children in aid
of beneficiaries, the After-care Hospital
and the Comforts Fund. When not con-
vening raffle tickets (men won boudoir
jackets and permanent waves but a
woman landed the case of cutlery), popu-
lar Mrs. Cairns Harper was out on the
ice in fine style. Pat Clegg, in short navy
skirt and cream cable-stitch pullover with
edelweiss embroideries, was among the
girls who looked dashing enough for any
ice rink.
A Spencer Shier camera caught this
impression of June, younger daughter of
Captain and Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, who
came to town with her parents from Car-
ranballac, Skipton, for the wedding of
Sheila Armytage and Robert Molesworth.
This marriage was an even more im-
portant event for June’s elder sister Judy,
who with Diana Armytage and Mary
Molesworth attended the bride in frocks
of white ring velvet and tulle veils at-
tached to curled ostrich-feather coronets.
The lively sparks who never sit still
for long on their laurels as the Originality
Branch of the Comforts Fund were on
the job again last week with a “Night of
Mirth and Melody” at the Village Theatre
and a surprise up their sleeves, a supper
cabaret to follow at the Village Inn across
the road. They guessed pretty accurately
that once they’d gathered the crowd to
the theatre there wouldn’t be much bother
about getting them to cross the street —
especially after a general invitation had
been flashed across the screen with a
clincher for those in doubt, “Drinks Are
Free.”
The vaudeville artists, too, enjoyed the
cabaret. Bob Dyer, the tall hillbilly with
the white teeth and the feet like boats,
well known in the Marcus Show at the
Tivoli, turned on his personality with
guitar accompaniments. Don Nicol
brought his sketch-book and pencil, draw-
ing caricatures for a fee and faces around
the victims’ signatures for “breadcrumbs.”
There was a healthy meal spread at the
buffet, for donations were forthcoming
of chickens, ducks, hams and a bullock,
or part of one, all cooked as another deed
of gift by the chefs of one of the town’s
flourishing hostelries.
The first part of the evening at the
Village Theatre was a two-layer pro-
gramme of vaudeville, followed by “The
Road to Singapore,” wherein the less
hardy spirits gave up the ghost and went
home to bed when Dorothy Lamour
moaned to moon and willow-tree. A
Dutch auction for a radio set during the
interval brought up a lively show of
hands, plus much scurrying by girls and
schoolboys with moneyboxes. Like a
cuckoo clock was one of them, Mary
Lundqvist, working off by repeated rais-
ing of black-gloved arms each two-shil-
ling helping of George Dickenson’s
pound note.
August 12 looks like a date worth
keeping for those who like variety shaken
into their entertainment. A sports com-
mittee in training to assist the Lord
Mayor’s Comforts Fund lit upon the idea
of running a show at the Town Hall at
prices to suit everybody’s pocket, 2s. for
ordinary mortals and 3s. for those who
treat themselves to reserved seats. P. W.
Pearce, A. G. Overend, Frank Wardrop
and Malcolm Hay, meeting among punch-
ing balls one fine morning, called it a
day earlier than usual to make out a
list of pals they knew would help, either
on the platform or with backstage
organising.
Hubert Opperman is bringing his bike
(plus the clock gadget pace-measurer
which was a success at the Motor Show).
It will be his final appearance, as he’s
being called up for the A.I.F. on the fol-
lowing day. Herbert Browne will sing ;
also, possibly, Strella Wilson. The A.B.C.
will put on its Merry-Go-Round, the Fire
Brigade boys will make their pyramids,
and two League footballers will show the
world that if they hadn’t become foot-
ballers they might have been comedians.
Inaugural appearance will be made by
bright girls, the Wasps and the Ruyton
Squad. The Wasps (i.e., Women's
Auxiliary Service Patriots) are young
women with free afternoons who are
making use of their time by limbering
up and getting themselves fit by attend-
ing gymnastic classes. Though they
might not be in the first flight with the
star turns of the Women’s League of
Health, they have personable figures and
a nice taste in playsuits. For their exer-
cising act in the Town Hall they will wear
grey shorts and shirts with scarlet scarves;
for selling tickets in the foyer they’ll be
buttoned up in transport uniforms of
grey with red trappings.
There’s an erroneous belief that medi-
cal units are staffed with doctors com-
paratively well paid and nurses who have
a grand time filling up their engagement-
books, whereas the largest percentage of
the units consist of men on low pay —
ambulance men, orderlies, transport
drivers, etc. The A.A.M.C. Comforts
Fund, inaugurated originally by wives of
medical men and now augmented by
their friends, undertakes to send parcels
abroad and to camps. It also does less
romantic work at home by distributing
clothing and other necessities to the wives
and children of the men. Personal con-
tacts are made, so that all gifts left with
Mrs. Gordon Shaw or at her husband’s
rooms, 55 Collins-street, are sent to a
timely destination.
Wearing the headpiece sonnet in
flowers is Olive Thomson, who was ticket
secretary for the “Night of Mirth and
Melody,” when she was equally decora-
tive in a Madame Recamier gown of
coral-pink crepe and a deeper shade of
velvet. Antoine photograph.
Eight letters in one envelope is the
cunning scheme of the Comforts Fund
working for the 2nd/2nd Field Regiment.
Airmail stamps are an item in the
budget of a private’s wife. The 2nd/2nd
Comforts Fund, with Mrs. Michael
Buring as hon. secretary, got into touch
with 500 regimental wives, who were sent
explanatory circulars and sheets of air-
mail paper. Within a couple of weeks
there came 300 replies of appreciation
and the airmail sheets back again, but
as letters, folded, sealed and addressed
for overseas. Though it will be the C.O.
who opens the envelopes of eight letters
(he will also hand the letters to the men)
each man will at least have the thrill
of breaking the gummed paper on his
individual note. The 2nd/2nd Comforts
Fund is paying the cost of airmail stamps
and stationery, and will dispatch by first
mails all letters left at its depot at the
Carry-on Club. Both the Carry-on and
the Legacy clubs have given this particu-
lar fund their benign approval.
Something special in bridegrooms’
speeches was made by Lindsay Cust with
a radiant bride beside him —Yvonne
Richardson in her twinkling lame gown,
a picture any ’groom would be proud of.
Ron Emerson proposed the toast of the
most important couple at the wedding
reception at Menzies, and even composed
some verse for the occasion, making the
most of his poet’s license by rhyming
pledge with acknowledge, etc., but he
thought better of reading it, and only
showed it to his most persuasive friends.
Best-man Maurice Nathan, opening tele-
grams, unfolded a further poetical effort
from Keith Welsh, of Wagga.
A decorative guest from Adelaide was
Lilian Lovick, barrister-at-law and pur-
veyor of orchids of quality and magnifi-
cence. Mrs. Paul Northey managed to
wear both an emerald-green turban and
a gardenia, the former back of her head,
the latter balanced over her forehead,
and she got away with the lot. An
ingenue hair-do belonged to Mrs. Max
Ham, and a sophisticated one to Mrs.
John Cameron. Flight-Lieut. (ex-Captain)
Theo Haultain, who is Lindsay’s brother-
in-law, was among guests in uniform.
Bride Yvonne reserved for herself
no wedding-day privileges of hours for
dressing. At 2.30 she was varnishing the
floor of the home-to-be in Lumeah-road.
Later still she had her Edwardian curls
shampooed and set, kept an appointment
with the dentist, bought her going-away
hat and arrived at St. Paul’s Cathedral
chapel with her papa only five minutes
late for the 7.30 ceremony.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE . . . .
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour, 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
k
WRITE
TO-DAY
ķ
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
THE FLYING COLUMN
The "Invasion" of Britain.
"Aileron’’: Present indications are
that the “invasion” will boil down to an
air campaign, with such assistance as
inferior sea-power and long-range guns
can give.
The U.S.A. press, which is often
wrong but sometimes right, declares that
in recent unofficial feelers for peace it
was disclosed that the Germans had lost
2300 aircraft but still had 36,000 and a
trained personnel of 600,000. The num-
bers, if anywhere near correct, must
apply to machines of all types. And it
is not only numbers but proportions,
types and speeds which count in air
warfare.
There must be reasonable unity of
speed combined with heavy carrying
capacity in slower machines. There must
be something like uniform manoeuvring
ability. And superiority in general
efficiency is needed more by the attacker
than the attacked.
There have been two sets of air tactics
in this war, both interesting to watch.
The initiative was taken by the R.A.F.
with extensive reconnaissance flights over
Germany, which resulted in all main
objectives being plotted and photo-
graphed. Germany failed to copy the
British preliminaries. Its attacks are
more or less blind on land, conducted
at height to avoid anti-aircraft fire and
the superior British fighters.
German onslaughts have gone through
three phases, each of which seems to
have been experimental. The first was
a phase of minelaying and bombing of
small craft, as a supplement to the
U-boat campaign. British inventiveness
and resource and our great number of
vessels available for minesweeping and
patrol nullified that effort in its infancy.
The next trial came with the evacua-
tion of Dunkirk, which was in effect a
test against an assembled battle and
cruiser fleet and supplementary aircraft.
After the' first day or two the bulk of
German aircraft failed to penetrate the
screen of R.A.F. Spitfires, Hurricanes and
Blenheims, and the retreat and evacuation
were accomplished with small loss.
Though the narrow seas were easy marks
for air attack, and though the mosquito
fleet was without anti-air protection of
its own, the damage done to it was
negligible.
The next phase was a series of attacks
on Britain. The results of these have
shown that specific military marks have
suffered little and that the bulk of the
damage has occurred where bombs have
fallen in closely-packed towns. The cost
in German machines has been heavy.
The more important objectives off the
sea coast the Birmingham group of
munition towns, with the busy Black
Country on its western fringes, Man-
chester, Sheffield, Bradford—have gone
untouched. Attacks on naval ports
have done next to no damage. London,
in contrast to Berlin, is unscathed. Only
one flight of German ’planes has
appeared over it, though the Thames
Estuary at its open end has been several
times attacked.
The latest phase has been a combined
one. Attacks by small forces have been
made over the whole of Britain and its
North Sea fringes, but only apparently
to keep nerves on edge and defence
dispersed while main forces try to
solve the problem of using large masses
of complementary types of heavy and
fast machines at one and the same time
against a well-defended and concen-
trated target. The experiments have
been made on Channel convoys.
in theory there should be no better
object for mass attack than a convoy,
it must be static in formation and con-
fined to a limited space so that its
escort ships can cover it. It is possible
to create diversions on the sea itself by
submarine and torpedo-boat attack. A
convoy moves so slowly that it is pos-
sible to gauge its movement exactly in
relation to the known points on land
in a narrow strait. Protecting ships must
look after themselves as well as their
charges. In certain positions the aerial
defenders, who must have height from
which to operate at great speed, cannot
attack low-flying aggressors without
harming ships themselves. But the dis-
abilities of the attackers are very great.
The Germans first tried three squadron
formations—about 35 machines. The
results were negligible. Not a single
large ship was sunk. The next experi-
ment was made last week with increasing
numbers in varied formations, each de-
signed as an attempt to overcome the
confusions and dangers which result
from handling the big air armadas in. a
small space against mobile fighter
squadrons.
On July 25 “the biggest forces ever
used in an air battle” came into conflict
over the Channel. Hundreds of craft
were sent over in waves of tiers at all
heights to maximum ceiling. The damage
to shipping admitted by British sources
was heavier than has yet been seen, but
even then it amounted oply to five small
vessels, totalling 5104 tons, which were
sunk, five more of the same total ton-
nage and two destroyers damaged, and
five British machines shot down. The
Germans claim to have sunk 11 vessels
of 43,000 tons and set a destroyer on
fire. Twenty-eight German aircraft were
shot down, bringing the total destroyed
in raids op Britain since June 18 to 217,
and since the war began to 285.
By contrast, R.A.F. raids on Germany
have been conducted under great advan-
tages. The size of the country makes
for the element of surprise ; the superior
Experience of British fliers over strange
territory counts, and the value of pre-
liminary reconnaissance has played its
part. In terms of figures R.A.F.
operations have been stupendous.
In three months over 1000 large-scale
raids have been made on Germany and
on occupied territory—l6l on industrial
targets, 229 on aerodromes, 258 on mili-
tary objectives, 275 on communications,
and so on.
The raids have been carried out with
an impunity which the Germans have
never enjoyed in their attacks on Eng-
land, as the Scharnhorst in its shattered
dock in the centre of a fortress naval
base testifies. Nearly half the attacks
have been made within a month at the
rate of over a dozen a day. Western
Germany is kept awake night after night;
the rush for air-raid shelters —when there
is time, to rush—is incessant. German
technique has been borrowed and im-
proved upon so soon as devised. To
bomb-dropping, torpedo- and mine-
dropping have been added. All round,
the R.A.F. seems to have the best of it.
Only about two months of fightable
weather remain in Northern Europe.
In September the leaves will begin to fall
in Germany; by the end of October
they will begin to lie thick in the squares
of London. Then the upper air will
be about as permeable as the centre of
a bag of flour. Ice will be forming on
wings at low altitudes. Autumn seems
to be closing in early. If a large blast
is to be made by the Germans it must
be soon; and it must be made more
or less in the dark, without full know-
ledge of how the technique of really
heavy mass attacks, as yet untried, will
work out.
Forces are not yet large enough, so
far as is known and the indications go,
for anything like a “total” air war. Next
year the position will be different.
Present ’plane losses, even allowing for
depreciation and wastage by wear, are
negligible beside the building of both
the combatants, which is somewhere in
the minimum region of 2000 machines
per month each.
Effective usage of machines depends
on highly-trained personnel. Trained
numbers depend on “ the numbers of
machines and instructors and the quan-
tity of fuel available for training. Every
expansion is on the side of Britain in
point of view of personnel and the crucial
factor, fuel. The more fuel used for
training the more Germany eats into her
restricted supplies.
Lord Beaverbrook reports an
ment under which Britain will receive
from U.S.A. a supply of machines esti-
mated at 3000 per month—from “early
next year,” he added. Americans are of
opinion that this is much too optimistic ;
but from the day full production is
achieved British numbers should run
away from German numbers, as will
fuel supply. And while the
Germans must train their fliers in
what are virtually war areas, which
will be more and more harassed
as the new types of British machines are
adapted to the needs of range, objec-
tive and the lessons of experience, Britain
has far-flung Dominions in which to
train men and build training machines
in peace, and virtually open seas over
which to feed herself with materials, of
which the Dominions and colonies and
the U.S.A. are great reservoirs. The
Navy too has 1,000,000 tons of new
shipping on the stocks, apart from con-
struction in the Dominions. So if the
threatened destruction of England is not
completed before winter it looks as if
any total air war can come only when
Britain is in a position to take the offen-
sive overwhelmingly.
A German Prophet.
“Aileron”: Uncannily interesting these
days is an official book issued for the
use of the German Air Force by the
General Staff early in 1939. Its author
was Dr. Otto Schiiddekopf, and it pur-
ported to be a study of British and Con-
tinental air strategy.
The author’s first premise—it reads
strangely in the light of later utterances
by Hitler and others —is that the aim of
British policy is the preservation of
peace ; but “not peace at any price.” A
warning is issued against the delusion
that the British Empire has become de-
cadent. The author writes that it is “not
possible to defeat Britain easily.” Her
first plan, he says, would be to with-
stand the brunt of attacks in which the
enemy would mass all his power in an
endeavor to smash the Empire. After that,
Britain would endeavor slowly and con-
tinuously to break the enemy’s will-
power, her objective being “moral vic-
tory, not annihilation.”
This leads to the discussion of the in-
struments of war. Schiiddekopf rejects
the theory that an air force cannot be
the decisive factor, since he believes that
war can be won without the occupation
of the enemy’s territory. The British
theory, it is declared, is that mastery of
the air cannot be achieved except against
an immensely inferior enemy.
The defeat of an enemy in the air, says
the German High Command’s mouth-
piece, can be achieved in one of five ways
—an air battle of sufficient dimensions,
destroying ground organisation and fac-
tories, blockade, cutting communications,
forcing the enemy to concentrate his
power and leave other parts of his terri-
tory open to bombing attack.
The main seats of war are visioned in
three zones: (1) Britain, France and
western Germany; (2) the Middle East,
from Sicily to beyond Basra ; (3) all the
land and sea from Ceylon to Hong Kong
and south to New Guinea and North
Australia.
It is pointed out that the normal area
of British defensive bases is the south-
east of England, but that it might be
possible to force the withdrawal of the
R.A.F. to Scotland and to Northern
Ireland. It is added that the position is
complicated by the political relations of
Britain and Eire, but that Ireland’s stra-
tegical position is very important, as it
dominates all the sea routes that converge
on England.
As a field for bombing, it seems Eire is
a poor affair, since the only substantial
target is Dublin. However, a “deter-
mined enemy could land parachute
troops in the remoter parts of Ireland
and set up air bases from which the
supply of food and materials from over-
seas could be seriously hampered.”
In the end, the doctor —and hence the
High Command —correctly visioned what
the German air strategy and that of
Britain would be. He expected three
lines of attack on western Germany, one
directed at the group of naval ports from
Emden eastward to Kiel. He looked
for a second inflow of attack across Hol-
land to military objectives of Hanover,
and a third further south, directed to-
wards the Ruhr.
The outline of the German plan has
been startlingly accurate to date as pro-
phecy. It provides for an encircling
method. One line of assault would strike
at eastern Scotland and its naval and in-
dustrial areas; the second, at the south-
east of England and the Midlands, gradu-
ally extending westward ; the third was
laid as coming from Cherbourg and blast-
ing Ireland from Dublin to Belfast. The
first two areas already have been dealt
with by the Germans. Attacks are
spreading westward towards Eire, those
on Wales and Devonshire apparently
coming from Cherbourg and its hinter-
land aerodromes.
The Air War Day by Day,
July 22: Early-morning raids by Ger-
mans on s.-e. and n.-w. Scotland. Three
German ’planes shot down, including a
Dornier 17 ; pilot rescued. First appear-
ance of new Heinkel 113—a fighter
carrying two large-calibre machine-guns
and a motor cannon, with a top speed
of 400 m.p.h. Houses damaged in n.-e.
England, and isolated attacks made on
points along the Thames Estuary, in
Wales and in Scotland, where 100 bombs
dropped on a single town, doing damage
and causing some casualties, but no
deaths. German High Command claims
bombing of Pembroke Harbor, Chatham,
Sheerness, Edinburgh and Aberdeen;
also damage to oil-storage plants near
Portsmouth and to three merchantmen.
R.A.F., in moonlight raids, drops 37
tons of bombs on n.-w. Germany. Relays
of squadrons for an hour bomb Dornier
works at Wismar and Fieseler factory
near Cassel —the Fieseler is a highly con-
trollable machine used for landing para-
chute troops. Several buildings set on
fire and great explosion caused. Focke
Wulf aircraft factory at Rothenburg,
near Bremen, damaged ; oil tanks near
Ghent burst and flaming oil poured into
canals ; supply barges on Weser Canal
fired. Dive bombers sink anti-aircraft
ship and damage seaplane- bases at Ber-
gen (Norway). Flying-Officer F. S. B.
Sheen, Sydney, decorated with D.F.C.
Admiralty announces loss of H.M.S.
Brazen, a 1360-ton destroyer, which
brought down three enemy ’planes before
she was sunk. H.M.S. Beagle, another
destroyer, shoots down a Junker 87 with
pom-pom fire. Haile Silassie flown to
Egypt.
R.A.F. bombs Tobruk (Libya) jetties
and submarines; also El Gubbi and
El Aden (Eritrea); one machine missing.
July 23: Germans announce that
R.A.F. bombed Bergen and killed several
persons and wounded a large number
at Amersfoort (Holland); also that
German raiders bombed English roads,
railways and supply depots, sank two
patrol boats, a submarine and a trawler.
They admit that raid on n.-w. Germany
did considerable damage, and that one
Geripan ’plane was lost, but say three
British destroyed.
Malta’s 80th air raid. In the course
of the 80 12 Italian machines have been
brought down and nine severely
damaged; defending force has lost one
machine. Italians claim the firing of
Malta oil tanks. S. African bombers
attack military formation on Kenya
borders. Short Sunderland damages two
merchant ships in attack on convoy.
Italians report having raided Mersa
Matruh and Sidi Barrani and Wajir
(Kenya) and shot down two Gloster
Gladiators in a North African fight.
Alleged British raid over Rome; Italians
report two killed, four wounded.
July 24: German bombers escorted by
fighters attack convoy in Thames Estu-
ary. In ensuing battle, in which 60
machines take part, five Germans brought
down. Two German flights raid shipping
off south coast of England, the first
dropping 100 bombs. No damage to
ships. Three raiders shot down by
fighters and A.A. guns in various parts
of England, ranging from the north to
the s.-west; two more destroyed off
Scottish coast. Ten Italian bombers raid
Haifa (Palestine), dropping between 80
and 100 bombs; 46 civilians killed and
88 wounded. Fight between R.A.F.
Gladiators and large formation of
Italians; four enemy bombers crash;
one badly damaged. Short Sunderland
brings down Italian fighter.
Germans say 10 British machines shot
down during the day ; admit losing six
German. British place total German loss
at 13, R.A.F. loss at three.
July 25: Eighty German machines
attack convoy off s.-e. English coast.
(Continued in column 4, next page)


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George's Hue., st. George’s Tee., Perth
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £1,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAIi 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Raid succeeded by battle in which 100
machines participate; one German
brought down. Germans claim to have
damaged three merchantmen, destroyed
four grounded machines at Vickers’s
Weybridge plant and bombed industrial
plants at Great Yarmouth and Glasgow.
R.N. Swordfish patrol torpedoes Ger-
man escort vessel Konigen Louise —600
tons, crew 124.
July 26: Hundreds of German
machines attack Channel convoys. Admi-
ralty admits five small ships, totalling
5104 tons, sunk, two British destroyers
and further five small vessels damaged ;
Germans claim to have sunk 11 ships,
totalling 43,000 tons, and set a destroyer
on fire. Air Ministry reports 28 Ger-
man ’planes brought down in the fight
and five British lost. Trawlers Kingston
Galena, Fleming and Rodina sunk by
aircraft; trawler Berberis shoots down
bomber.
Blenheims raid Derna (Libya); Gloster
Gladiator escorts shoot down five Italian
attackers. Italians claim British machine
destroyed. One person killed and seven
injured in raid on Alexandria. R.A.F.
attacks Massawa and Assab and Macaca
(Eritrea). Italian raid on Gibraltar driven
off without damage.
July 27-28: German High Command
claims to have sunk a 7000-ton auxiliary
cruiser, two destroyers and a 5000-ton
merchantman, also “probably” another
destroyer and two other merchantmen,
presumably in the Channel. Further
reports having bombed Swansea and
“several Cornish aerodromes,” and
brought down five R.A.F. machines
against a loss of two of their own.
Actually about 70 German raiders were
intercepted over the Channel in heavily-
clouded weather and three shot down,
including a fighter and a seaplane. Six
others destroyed during week-end in other
raids.
Two R.A.F. forces bomb Nantes
and St. Nazaire (W. France) oil storage,
apparently causing heavy damage. Day-
light raids on Dortmund power station
and Netherland aerodromes at Schipol
and Waalhaven. Italians believe that
they have “repeatedly and effectively
bombed large units of the British Fleet
and the naval base at Alexandria. ’
R.A.F. leaflet raid over Vichy. Further
raids on Derna and other Eritrean aero-
dromes, R.A.F. denies any British
’planes have been over Rome during the
war, and suggests that incident in which
Rome civilians were injured by anti-air-
craft fire was a repetition of one at
Venice, when Italians fired on their own
bombers and brought down two.
THE SERVICE MAN
War in Bits and Pieces.
“Ek Dum”: If it could be assembled
in one piece this last week’s war would
be a sizable affair, but one end of it
was more than 3000 miles from the other,
and it had scarcely any middle.
One day its north-western limit was
Glasgow, where industrial plants were
attacked by bombers. Its other end was
in Kenya, where the Italians were push-
ing into the desert lands beyond Moyale,
and in Eritrea, where British bombers
were blasting Italian aerodromes. The
intervening distance is nearly 4000 miles
by crow route.
In between, every sort of war was in
progress, but it was mainly naval and
aerial. Around the English coasts Ger-
man bombers swept down on convoys
and were swept down on in turn by
hovering British fighters. German sub-
marines sought any prey they could find.
Germany claims to have a new type of
U-boat, fitted with noise-control, which
can defeat the operations of detectors
and predictors. Britain, for its part, is
extending and widening minefields round
the coast.
Belated facts are coming out about the
agony of France. For example, on June
17 bombers sank the White Star liner
Lancastria, packed from stem to stern
with French refugees, as she lay in St.
Nazaire Harbor, killing 2500 of the 5000
refugees. It was the greatest sea disaster
since the sinking of the Lusitania.
On July 24, off Weymouth, the Ger-
man Navy added to its share of ignominy
and callousness. After notification to
the French Government 1300 officers and
men from interned French warships were
being repatriated on the French steamer
Meknes, 6127 tons, which left an Eng-
lish port for Marseilles. Every care was
taken to see that her neutrality was
evident. The Tricolor flew at her mast-
head ; it was painted on her decks and
on her sides ; her navigation lights were
burning, her decks were illuminated as
she made her way down the Channel.
Near Portland, a German motor-boat
ranged alongside and signalled that her
crew and passengers must be got off
within five minutes. The captain tried
to signal back the name of his ship.
Each signal was greeted with a burst of
machine-gun fire. The port lifeboats
were smashed. While men rushed to the
remaining boats the torpedo struck.
Hundreds jumped into the sea; over
300 were drowned. British warships hur-
ried up, and 950 survivors were presently
landed at Weymouth. Berlin reported
the sinking of an 18,000-ton merchant-
man, “heavily convoyed.”
Other naval events were small but
lively. Australian sailors walked in the
funeral procession of the captain of the
Bartolomeo Colleoni, who lived long
enough to learn that his vanquisher had
been H.M.A.S. Sydney, which, Italians
had been told, was already sunk. An
Italian communique announced the sink-
ing of an Australian destroyer and a
British submarine. Leaving the British
to make the other denial, the Australian
Minister for the Navy positively denied
the loss of any destroyer.
It has been established that at least
one German raider is loose in the
Atlantic ; and she may have companions.
And there was a report that a sub-
marine, accompanied by a tanker, was
seen making its way from the Pacific
through the Magellan Straits. It may
have been British.
In the week to July 14, shipping losses
totalled 61,032 tons —32,963 tons British,
7335 tons Allied and 20,734 tons neutral.
The Germans claim to have sunk
4,329,000 tons of enemy shipping since
September 3. The Admiralty report is
that losses have beeh multiplied by two.
The atmosphere over Europe was
ominous during the week-end. _ Heavy
movements of troops and materials were
noticed in northern France, and a Ger-
man order suddenly shut off all road and
rail passenger services between occupied
and unoccupied France.
It may be recalled that July 31 is the
anniversary of the mobilisation of the
German army in 1914; August 1 that of
the declaration of war on Russia, August
2 that of the movement of German
troops into Luxembourg.
Round the Mediterranean.
“Ek Dum”: Desultory desert fighting
continues around the borders of East
African colonies. The Italians claim to
“Now We'll try it once more ... LEFT TURN!”
have occupied over 5000 square miles of
Kenya beyond Moyale. For all the
use the barren and waterless region will
be to them, they are welcome to it. They
hold portions of the border towards
Italian Somaliland, but a few British posts
hold out further west towards the
Sudan, and north of Lake Rudolf British
native troops have raided deeply into
enemy country.
On the Egyptian-Libyan border, too,
there have been more skirmishes, but
weather, lack of water and difficulty of
communications have inhibited larger
operations.
British policy in these regions has been
defined as one of active defence on land,
but there are continual patrol of the
seas, with small losses on each side, and
continual bombing of aerial objectives.
The greatest losses of the week in any
western Mediterranean sphere were
caused by the Italian raid on Haifa with
its 130 casualties. Otherwise, Palestine
is reported quieter than it has been for
years; the quietude may be deceptive.
American correspondents report Italian
efforts to incite the Arabs to interrupt
British oil supplies; the position in Syria
remains uncertain, and Turkey has signed
a trade agreement with Germany. That
may mean nothing in particular, but
“great diplomatic activity in the Balkans”
certainly means something. Our own
Blarney, a student of affairs as well as a
good soldier, has warned his soldiers in
Palestine to get in shape to fight Germans.
Gibraltar continues to be bombed
sporadically, and 16,000 inhabitants of
the Rock have been compulsorily regis-
tered for evacuation. Many of them
have been landed in Lisbon and other
places. An early attack on “Gib” is all
too probable.
Spain is being plied with German and
Italian propaganda, and the cry “Gib-
raltar for Spain” has been raised by
Franco’s extreme followers. So far his
own attitude has been correct, but a
proposed tightening of the blockade to
stop the passage through Spain of goods
alleged to be for Italy and Germany will
have to be very carefully handled. Mean-
time Britain has made arrangements with
the Governments of Spain and Portugal
that will admit of their getting wheat,
supplies of which the Spaniards in par-
ticular sorely need. Relations between
Franco and Salazar have all along been
cordial, and Salazar’s Portugal has not let
Britain down.
Britain's New C.-in-C.
“Omadhaun”: Britain has certainly
got a man with a fighting tradition as
her new C.-in-C. of the Home Forces,
Sir Alan Brooke. The battlefields of the
last three centuries of Britain’s wars have
been strewn thickly with dead Brookes.
They are an Irish family, all out of a
mould —lithe, active in body, aquiline
in countenance, and with something of
the look of the young Wellington about
them.
It is the family tradition that the suc-
cessor to the family baronetage always
keeps as much as possible out of the
army to assure the succession, since
Brooke nature is such that, otherwise, he
would have a fifty-fifty chance of being
killed off with the rest. However, even
the head of the family never shirks a
good war.
Burke shows the record of one set of
cousins of the new C.-in-C. which is
typical of the whole clan: Eldest son,
killed at Ypres, October, 1914 —died a
V.C.; second son, severely wounded;
third, died of wounds in S. Africa;
fourth, died on active service with the
R. ; fifth, died in infancy. The eldest
of two daughters married a Cameron
who was killed within a year in the last
war; the second daughter married a
Gordon Highlander who had survived it.
This is a typical family record. There
were three fighting brothers in the imme-
diate family of Alan Brooke in the last
war.
The eldest —an 11th Hussar—fought in
the Chitral, Matabele, Tirah, Nile, S.
Africa (severely wounded) and Somali-
land campaigns and the Great War. He
“had nine mentions” in dispatches, nine
patches in various campaigns, had nine
clasps to his S. African medals and
won the D.S.O. in 1898. The second
was in the 9th Lancers, was wounded in
S. Africa and won the D.S.O. After-
wards he was with the Kabul mission of
1904. He was killed in the Great War on
August 29, 1914.
Alan, Ironside’s successor, is 57. He
won the D.S.O. with bar during the
Great War —four D.S.Os. among three
brothers must be a record —and was men-
tioned in dispatches six times. He is an
artilleryman, and was G. 5.0.2 with the
Canadian artillery in 1917, having spent
most of his military life previously in
India.
He commanded the Mobile Division
for a year from 1937, then was given
charge of the Anti-Aircraft Division,
became C.-in-C. of the Southern Com-
mand last year, and Deputy-Chief of the
Imperial Staff later.
He was born in France and—like Wel-
lington—is a sound French scholar. His
nephew, the present baronet, was in the
10th Hussars and won an M.C. at the
Dardanelles.


e
\v
5^0
€
%
vfO
«
*/
■
X
:>#
**
•»*
ee
v*
•«*»
«***
8*
•S*
s
a"
V,e<»
vi'
v<*
s»
\V\e
*o
*Yv<>*
s*
%e
t\£ e
a"
d\tf ete
d*
*o<>
\V\e
\e*
*****
vVve
e"
*o
e**
t*
ace
*t<*
nee
SO
<«"
VI
\d
*V*
G‘W C
V\n e
s* e
rtf'*
o"r
yev
\Vv
tfi
vi'
V*
CC*"
\>SC
dro? s
*ev*
\**' 5-T
:
Lend to Defend
Buy War Savings Certificate!


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Finke River Mission
Rev. J. J. Stolz, president of the
United Evangelical Lutheran Church in
Australia, writes from Adelaide:
In your issue of May 29 reference is made
to the Finke River Mission at Her-
mannsburg, near Alice Springs. This mission
was founded in 1877 by the Hermannsburg
Mission Society of Germany and the Evan-
gelical Lutheran Synod in Australia. About
1892 the E.L.S.A. parted company with the
German mission society, and since then no
German organisation has had anything to do
with the control.
In 1894 the mission station was taken over by
another Australian Lutheran body, the Evangeli-
cal Lutheran Immanuel Synod. When this body
amalgamated with other Lutheran Synods the
station became the charge of the United Evan-
gelical Lutheran Church in Australia. This
body is an independent Lutheran Church; it
owes no allegiance to any Lutheran Church out-
side of Australia.
The board of management consists wholly of
Australian citizens; six out of eight hail from
families that have been in Australia for genera-
tions. The only member of the staff of German
nationality is Mrs. Albrecht. The superinten-
dent, Rev. F. Albrecht, hails from pre-World-
War Russian Poland. The teacher in charge
of the native school was educated in the Im-
manuel College of our church and in the
teachers’ college of the S.A. Department of
Education. Teaching is done only in the
Aranda and English languages, nor is German
taught outside of school.
The attitude of the staff can be gauged from
a wire sent to the Adelaide “News” at the
request of that paper: “Rev. Albrecht absent
Haase’s Bluff area. For Mr. Albrecht and our-
selves, we, as British subjects, take this oppor-
tunity of declaring unswerving loyalty to
Britain. None of us has Nazi sympathies.
To our knowledge the swastika and Nazism
are unknown to mission natives, and there are
no swastikas painted on rocks on the mission.
Staff’s object is to proclaim the Christian
Gospel, preserve the race and, with our
Lutheran Church everywhere, to inculcate
loyalty to the British throne and British rule.
If published accusations were made on the
basis of swastikas found in the Petermann
Ranges, we state that mission natives do not
visit that area, nor has the mission so far
made much contact with natives from there.”
In effect, the Finke River mission is not a
German mission, is not staffed by Germans,
and does not teach the German language. It is
a genuine Australian undertaking, carried on
by the Lutheran Church of Australia, which
has spent many thousand pounds on its main-
tenance without receiving a single penny for
this or any other of its enterprises from over-
seas.
“Balander”: Wool put more money in
Queensland’s pocket than any other
product for 1939-40, sugar running
butter to a close finish for second place.
A good season and higher export prices,
together with British war contracts, gave
the State a record year, and its exports
have more than doubled since 1932-33.
Value of sugar was up £2,000,000, value
of wool more than £1,000,000. There was
a drop in dairy exports. Main exports
compared:
1938-39. 1939-40.
Woo! .. .. £8,522,000 £9,735,000
Butter .. .. 7,115,000 6,370,000
Sugar .. .. 4,005,000 6,097,000
Beef .. .. 3,632,000 3,928,000
Lead .. .. 1,122,000 1,260,000
Pork . . .. 499,000 912,000
Cheese .. .. 243,000 253,000
Altogether, the State got £31,512,829
from its exports.
afc * * $
“S.T.S.”: The Northern Territory Co.,
Ltd., of Adelaide, is one of the oddest
cos. in existence. It acquired enormous
blocks up there some time last century
at 7s. 6d. an acre, and now holds 73,000
acres, still hoping. But at some almost-
forgotten date in the past it sold enough
to buy £3700-worth of Commonwealth
inscribed stock, and on this it sits. Four
of Adelaide’s best-known men are direc-
tors, and accept four guineas among
them for their year’s work, the annual
report always being the same: “There
has been no opportunity of dealing with
the land during the year. Income is suffi-
cient to cover expenses.” As a matter
of fact, anything up to £lOO is added
to reserves annually.
* * * *
“X.T.”: There have been some sad
farewells in Centralia, where most of the
young locally-born bushmen have rushed
to enlist. These youngsters are Austra-
lians in the best sense—the few left of the
old pioneering families who have been
brought up bilingually with the natives.
Young Ben Nicker is one: a splendid
physical type, well educated, well read,
capable in bush lore and practice. Few
expeditions have left for the west of
the O.T. line in the past few years with-
out seeking Ben’s advice or help. He
speaks Arunta as a natural tongue, and
is treated as one of the tribe, and there
was mourning among the weeai and the
queai when he left.
* $ * *
“Norther”: Toowoomba is trying
town gas as automobile fuel. The gas
company has fitted a gasbag on top of
a utility truck and expects to get 30
miles to the bag, which holds 150 cubic
feet of gas worth Is. The truck is 14 h.p.
Although a loss of 15 per cent, of power
is anticipated, engine wear is reduced
because there is no dilution of lubricat-
ing oil.
=h * * *
“Checker J.”: The “No Room for
Passengers” sign was hung out on a
Qantas-Empire Airways ’plane which left
Brisbane for the north-west the other
day, cargo and crew filling all space.
Had any inkling of the cargo got abroad
"Wot about another — atchool—search for that rum, Ma ?”
there might have been some attempts to
stow away —it was whisky and rum. As
one in the know feelingly remarked, “A
man wouldn’t mind being stranded in
that ’plane somewhere in the saltbush
for a few days.”
* * * *
“Dave’s Ghost”: Left-wingers had a
nasty shock at the Brisbane Trades Hall
Council elections. The campaign
resolved itself into a straightout fight
between Left-wingers and moderates, and
the moderates won hands down. They
elected the president, the vice-president,
the treasurer, filled all executive vacan-
cies, and now dominate the basic-wage
and disputes committees.
V '
“Clayfield”: Petrol-rationing does not
seem to have any terrors for the new
Brisbane council. A dozen new buses
have been ordered to be put into commis-
sion within the next couple of months.
The council should be cutting out petrol
buses instead of building more; they
could be replaced by electric trolley
buses such as those which run from
the heart of Sydney to King’s Cross.
Many a large town in England is served
by trolley buses. Even 15 years ago,
Wolverhampton, which is nearly as big as
and far busier at peak hours than Bris-
bane, ran its whole local transport with
electrical buses, which call for no road
plant save overhead lines to carry current.
* * * *
“Noisy Bill”: Brisbane has always
prided itself on the quality of its choral
singing and on the excellence of the
places it has to sing in, but Sir
Thomas Beecharti gave it some nasty
shocks on both scores. When he saw
the proscenium of the city’s million-
pound town hall concert-room, he re-
ferred to it as a “shedlike structure,”
and insisted on its removal before he
would agree to perform in the hall. Then
he paused in the final rehearsal of “The
Messiah,” in which he was conducting
the flower of the city’s massed choirs
and symphony orchestra, and hurled his
baton to the shocked earth, while his
pungent phrases floated down from the
platform. He likened the music pro-
duced by the bass viols to “a groaning
noise, like a chorus of kangaroos,” and
told the choirs that they sounded like
“a chorus of stalactites in the caves of
Kentucky.” The rendering of the “Hal-
lelujah Chorus” reminded him of a
mothers’ meeting. “This is tragic. What
with rabbit-hutches and sheds and now
this!” he exclaimed. And to late-comers
to “The Messiah,” and incidentally to
all Australia listening-in, he snapped,
“Close the doors, please. This is oratorio,
not a cabaret!”
=!: '* * *
“Barrier”: Thirty-three years ago a
shy youngster who gave his name as R.G.
Wyatt got a job in the Townsville branch
of the Adelaide Steamship Company.
Since then the banana transhipments
which kept Townsville jetty alive have
faded away, and the old Marloo, Inna-
mincka and Woollahra —crack vessels of
their day—have passed, their places taken
by ships like the Manunda. R.G.W. saw
all these changes through, and the other
day assumed management of the branch.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: At this time of year there
is usually keen competition among towns
on the stock routes to report stock move-
ments, each trying to outdo the other
with numbers passing through, being sold
or bought in the district. This season
Emerald has gained a lead on points,
owing to its being able to begin its latest
stock movement report thus: “Stock
movements are: 50 goats, etc.” Destina-
tion of the nannies isn’t given.
* * * *
“K.P.”: A police court case at Kinga-
roy (Q.) provides an illustration of the
lengths to which a malingerer will go to
dodge work and scrounge a comfortable
living for nothing. A 29-year-old
mechanic claimed to be paralysed in the
lower part of his body and his legs.
Alleging that he was a prosperous
farmer, he had already spent some com-
fortable gratis months in private wards
at two other country hospitals before he
pitched the old tale at the Kingaroy in-
stitution. Without a flinch or any sign
of feeling, he underwent the usual tests
for sensory and motor paralysis, needle
pricks, skin- and hair-pulling and other
trials which must have needed real nerve
to endure without visible reaction. The
surgeon was not quite convinced, and
induced him to submit to a further test
under an anaesthetic. It showed that he
had full use of his legs and no paralysis
anywhere. Shortly afterwards, when
being turned out of the hospital, he
demonstrated the correctness of the diag-
nosis by pushing a nurse downstairs and
putting up a lively scrap before a com-
bined force of nurses and wardsmen
could get him into a strait-jacket and
strapped to a bed till the police arrived.
Three months’ for false pretences wilt
now provide him with a further period
of restful, well-fed existence with nothing
to pay.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Canberra’s recent an-
nouncement that the Naval Board will
pay £2 for a mine found within two
miles of the coast and £5 for any out-
side that limit has stimulated fishy blokes
to keep an extra-keen lookout. The catch
is that before the reward can be col-
lected the goods must be delivered safely
to a responsible naval authority, an article
rarely found on fishing grounds. Cautious
Canberra has not committed its clerkly
self to any suggestions as to how mines
can be 'handled for towing or other
me ans of transport with reasonable
sa f ety . Nor does it reveal the places at
w hi c h such finds should be delivered
s h ou ld the finders survive the journey,
* * * *
“J.”: Apropos of Brisbane’s bridges,
“Clayfield” (B. 17/7/’4O) slipped. Grey-
street does not carry either railway or
tramway. Of the three bridges, Story,
Victoria and Grey, Victoria only carries
rails, and they are for the trams. There
is a railway bridge at Indooroopilly with
a sidewalk for pedestrians, and there is
the Indooroopilly toll bridge for both
pedestrian and vehicular traffic. The
latter does not carry rails either.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
L.8.P.: Liked the viola... .W.R.: Thanks:
but we don’t reprint... .A.P.: Try a women’s
paper M.C.: Just misses J.M.: Call
again R.P.: Keep it in the family circle.
S.S.: “What! You’ll take me out????
Hooray.” Good-bye R.T.: Nations dpn’t
“spank” one another... .C.D.: Just a jotting.
G.G.F.: Somewhat ghoulish... .J.R.H.:
Hang him by the neck to the nearest gum-tree.
... .G.C.B. i Dismissed with a caution....
N.N.: Worth trying elsewhere... .D. 8.: Keep
at it... .E.D.H.: Prosy... .R.K.L.: We read
it twice M.P.H., E.S., A.8.C., R.W.V.,
R T., 8.P., J.P., M.H., A.D. and P.K.: War’s
a large subject R.H.K.: Too jingly
PY.L.: As dead as last week’s news
P.T.N. : “The Judge” signed his own death-
warrant M.D.8.: A mass of statistics doesn’t
make an article H.R.8.: “Smoke Without
Fire” was just that L.R.8.: “The Kil-
kenny Cats” are trying to fight their way out
of the wpb J.T.G.: You’ve cut out the
best parts of it R.H.W.: Not very promis-
ing K R.C.: Most unfortunate victim of
“The Murderer” was the English language,
R.H.B.: Try something less ambitious,
.. . .G.H.R.: “My friends say it’s one of the
best mysteries they’ve ever read.” Did they
say anything about the solution? T.N.E.:
What makes you think that “the vast majority
of Australians would sooner read romantic
short stories than anything else”? G.T.H.:
Afraid “Life in a Laundry” won’t wash
L.T.R.: It is many, many years since that
poor little old lady was first helped across the
street and repaid her helper by leaving him
a fortune J.R.8.: The day we hear a pros-
pector say “food and drink I need not, gold
I must have,” we’ll sink a shaft in Pitt-street.
. ...J.R.8.: Away with maidens sobbing in the
bleak dawn P.R.: No, but try again
H.R.C.: “Dairy Maid” going home to her
cows R.W.P.: Try it as a short Smoke-Oh
article J.R.8.: You’ve a good deal to learn.
T 0 ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESI ONDENTS.
W.H.C.: Verbal bout between cockatoo and
rooster fell on deaf ears... .R.M.: Wheeze has
been going the rounds for months M.N.:
Decline to hand over any cash to that bush-
ranger M.T.: Pictures of fairies are some-
what juvenile for our readers P.H.: Some-
how you managed the rabbit, but the cove
with the gun was dreadful R.W.: No
“spare corner” for the crumpled little man with
the lobster P. 8.: A lifeless sketch
H.M.: Wash drawing too faint for reproduc-
tion E.N.: Offer to provide series of
humorous drawings based on titles of popular
songs declined with thanks.. . .S.T.: Didn't wc
see that old gent, indulging in the same prank
in a recent issue of “Punch”?... .M.C.: Little
Tommy is a credit neither to his parents nor
the artist who drew him V.R.: ”.2™- har . d
and let us see some more... .G.G.: That pair
of deadbeats was warned oil many years ago.
F.J.D.: You belong to a large army of
industrious but futile scratchers... .K.G.: Make
them larger, and put more life into the
figures.. . .S.C.: Jests seem like strays from
some ancient book of music-hall gags K.D.:
Found fault with everything but the periscope.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
IVith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, middle-aged, companionable, capable
housekeeper, fond of and able to teach children,
desires well-paid position in Northern Terri-
tory or outback Queensland. Loneliness no
objection.—7676.
Printed references to the Victoria Inn which
once stood in Oxford-street, Paddington, Syd-
ney, opposite Victoria Barracks.—73o7.
Plans or blueprints for constructing a wooden
spinning wheel. —7668.
Will pay 6d. per copy for second use of
“Saturday Evening Post,” May 4 issue on-
ward. —7692.
Words of poem “When Are You Going
Away?” by Norman Campbell, published
during the 1914-18 war.—7sB2.
Words of poem containing stanza commenc-
ing “As this blind rose, no more than a whim
qf the dust.” —7466.
To exchange child’s Cyclops stroller for tri-
cycle. Lane Cove (Sydney) district. —7658.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the quotation the King used
in his Christmas Day (1939) Empire broadcast,
the origin of which was unknown to English
men of letters? (2) Who was the author of
the lines? —7593.
(1) “I said to the man who stood at the gate
of the year, Give me light that I may tread
safely into the unknown. And he replied, Go
out into the darkness and put your hand into
the hand of God. That shall be to you better
than light and safer than a known way.” (2)
The lines were written by a Miss M. L.
Haskins, novelist and poet, as an introduction
to a volume of verse called The Desert,
privately printed and circulated many years
ago. The King probably saw them quoted in
a letter written by a Mrs. J. C. M. Allen pub-
lished in the London “Times” of September 7,
1939.
* * * *
What is the G.P.U. in Russia ? —7704.
It is an abridgment for Gossudarstvennoye
Polititcheskoye Upravlyeniye (Political State
Administration) and means, in effect, the Soviet
secret political police. It was organised after
the Communist Revolution in 1917 to find out
and annihilate the opponents of Communism.
It was known as the Cheka then, being an
abridgment for Chrezvytchaynaya Komisia (Ex-
traordinary Commission). The G.P.U. de-
veloped special methods to detect opposition
against the Communist regime and to super-
vise the behavior and utterances of the Rus-
sian population. Since the emergence of splits
within the Communist party G.P.U. activities
have also largely been directed against Stalin’s
opponents. It has had a leading share in the
party purges and mass executions of 1936 and
1937. Forced labor camps are also in charge
of the G.P.U.
* * * *
How and when was Czechoslovakia occu-
pied by the Germans? —7424.
In October, 1938, after the Munich agree-
ment, Czechoslovakia was forced to cede the
Sudetenland to Germany. Immediately after
Hitler’s success, Hungary and Poland, too, put
forward territorial demands, and Czechoslovakia
had to cede to Poland the Olsa area, with the
town of Teschen and large coalmines and steel-
works, and to Hungary a large strip of land in
southern Slovakia and Sub-Carpathic Russia.
In March, 1939, Hitler used a Nazi-inspired
uprising in Slovakia as a pretext to declare that
disorder in Czechoslovakia was threatening
Germany, and German troops invaded the
country on March 15, 1939. No resistance was
offered, and President Hacha signed, yielding
to German threats, a statement placing the
country under Germany’s “protection.” The
“Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia” was
formed as part of the German Reich, including
the Czech provinces, while Slovakia was made
an “independent” State, likewise under German
“protection.”
* * * *
(1) Name of first V.C. winner? (2) Oldest
and (3) youngest V.C. winner in the war of
1914-18?—7707.
(1) Lieut. C. D. Lucas (mate), R.N. (after-
wards Rear-Admiral), Baltic, June 21, 1854,
“for throwing overboard a live shell which had
fallen on the deck of H.M.S. Hecla at Bomaa-
sund.” (2) Sgt. J. Ripley, age 48, Ist Battalion,
Black Watch, at Rue du Bois, France, on
May 9, 1915. (3) Private T. Ricketts, age
Newfoundland Regiment, at Ledeghem, on
October 14, 1918.
* * * *
A few details concerning Schleswig-Holstein ?
—7514.
A province in North Germany, 5300 square
miles, taken from Denmark by Prussia in
1864. The Danish population in the northern
part claimed its return to Denmark for over
half a century, and in 1920 a plebiscite was held
under the peace treaty of Versailles, resulting in
the return to Denmark of North Schleswig. The
district has been styled South Jutland since.
It included a German minority of 35,000, en-
joying broad rights and having German schools.
A Danish minority of 25,000 was left in South
Schleswig, which remained German.
* * * *
(1) Is it a fact that during the war of 1914-18
the Commonwealth Defence Act overrode the
British Army Act in a few disciplinary pro-
visions so far as Australian troops serving with
the British Army were concerned? If so,
how was this possible? (2) What did the Com-
monwealth Defence Act have to say as regards
the death penalty being inflicted on Australian
troops ? —7710.
(1) Yes, this overriding of the British Army
Act by the law of the Dominions, so far as
Dominion troops were concerned, was provided
for in the British Army Act itself, and was a
basic condition on which Dominion troops
served with the British forces. (2) The Com-
monwealth Defence Act (Section 98) said: “No
member of the Defence Force shall be sen-
tenced to death by any court-martial except for
mutiny, desertion to the enemy or traitorously
delivering up to the enemy any garrison,
fortress, post, guard or ship, vessel or boat, or
traitorous correspondence with the enemy; and
no sentence of death passed by any court-
martial shall be carried into effect until con-
firmed by the Governor-General.”
* * * *
Who designed the Panama Canal? How
did America come to own it, and what is its
length ?—' 7702.
It was designed in 1879 by Ferdinand de
Lesseps, who constructed the Suez Canal. A
Colombian concession was sold to the Panama
Canal Co., and work of survey, etc., was com-
menced in 1881. The estimate of cost was
about £33,000,000, reduced by De Lesseps to
£24,*000,000, and the work was to be com-
pleted in 1888. With less than one-quarter of
the work done and £74,000,000 estimated debt,
the company was forced into liquidation in
1889. In 1892-93 occurred the Panama scandals
in France, leading to the imprisonment of De
Lesseps and others. The company offered its
rights and assets to the U.S.A. for £8,000,000
in 1902, but difficulties with Colombia led to
the revolt of Panama and the cancellation of
the treaty under which the work progressed.
When the U.S.A. eventually made arrangements
to dig the canal it paid the Republic of Panama
a bonus of 10,000,000 dollars and the French
canal company 40,000,000 dollars. In 1925,
mainly to obtain the goodwill of the South
American republics, it paid Colombia 25,000,000
dollars. Work on the canal was finally started
in 1905 by the Americans, and was formally
completed in 1920. The total length of the
canal is 43.85 nautical miles.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning the Earl of
Bathurst who was Secretary of the Colonies
during Governor Macquarie’s time in Aus-
tralia ? —7437.
Born on May 22, 1762, and educated at
Oxford, during his youth he contracted an
intimate friendship with William Pitt the
Younger, who made him in 1783 a Lord of the
Admiralty, in 1789 a Lord of the Treasury
and in 1790 a Teller of the Exchequer; this
last office he held till his death. In 1793 he
entered the House of Commons, but vacated
his seat the following year because, owing to
his father’s death, he had become a member
of the House of Lords. He was Master of
the Mint under Pitt, and after Pitt’s death
was President of the Board of Trade under
the Duke of Portland and Spencer Perceval,
besides holding other positions. Lord Liver-
pool made Bathurst Secretary for War and the
Colonies; this office he held from 1812 to 1827,
and from 1828 to 1830 was Lord President of
the Council under the Duke of Wellington.
He was said to be the best and most intelli-
gent, if not the ablest, of all the War Ministers
with whom Wellington had to deal. A Tory
of the old school by conviction, he yet favored
Catholic emancipation and the abolition of the
slqve trade, but could not abide Parliamentary
reform, and after the passing of the Reform
Act of 1831 abandoned politics altogether.
He died on July 27, 1834.
* * * *
Australian trade (1) with British possessions
in West Indies, Central and South America and
(2) with foreign countries in West Indies,
Central and South America? —7738.
(1) Bermuda, imports from £2, exports to
£900; British Guiana, £3804 and £4361;
British Honduras, £246 and £10,005; British
West Indies £67,048 and £132,788. (2) Costa
Rica, £7262 and £561; Guatemala, £3172 and
£6015; Mexico, £30,082 and £141,726; Nicara-
gua, £36 and £634; Panama, £309 and £13,942;
Salvador, imports from £264, no exports to;
Cuba, £21,220 and £20,390; Haiti, £655 and
£3005; other West Indies (foreign), £lB4l and
£793; Argentina, £72,413 and £9330; Bolivia,
imports from £407, no exports to; Brazil,
£70,825 and £16,928; Chile, £110,276 and £604;
Colombia, £2539 and £5977; Ecuador, imports
from £2410, no exports to; French Guiana,
imports from £4Ol, no exports to; Dutch
Guiana, £ll6 and £6; Paraguay, imports from
£3052, no exports to; Peru, £1314 and £1938 ;
Venezuela, imports from £5llO, no exports to.
Figures are for 1938-39.
* * * *
Australian trade with Balkan countries, in-
cluding Yugoslavia, Hungary and Albania? —
7735.
Albania, imports from £2, exports to £66;
Bulgaria £lO3l and £45,557; Greece £11,689
and £306,952; Hungary, £39,249 and £8813;
Rumania, imports from £3173, no exports to;
Turkey, £36,281 and £91,970; Yugoslavia,
£33,467 and £BO2O. Figures are for 1938-39.
* * * *
(1) Is there pny record of a Hunt Club
formed at Parramatta in the early part of last
century? (2) Was there any hunting done
prior to the founding of this club? —7714.
(1) A Hunt Club was formed at Parramatta
on May 27, 1833, “to improve the breed of
horses, and to rid the country of native dogs
and of bushrangers.” (2) The first recorded
hunt with the hounds in Australia took place
on October 8, 1812, when a kangaroo was
hunted at the Nepean, near Cowpasture Plains,
and killed after an exciting run of two hours.
There was also a hunt after deer near Syd-
ney, when the hounds threw off near Ultimo
House, the residence of Mr. Harris, June 27,
1820. From April, 1836, Captain Hunter’s
pack of hounds hunted weekly in the vicinity
of the Dog Trap road.
* * * *
Where and what in London is the “Queen’s
Tobacco Pipe”? —7724.
It is the name facetiously given to a kiln
situated at the Lofidon Docks, in which tobacco
and other contraband goods are destroyed.
Most saleable goods are now sold by the
Customs authorities or given to charitable insti-
tutions, but useless or damaged goods are still
destroyed in the “pipe.” The fire never goes
out, for it is continually supplied, tea, books,
mutton, hams, kid gloves and goods of every
description being consumed.
* * * *
Some biographical details regarding Mrs.
Henry Wood, English novelist? —7585.
Born January 17, 1814, at Worcester, Eng-
land, the daughter of a glove manufacturer.
Her maiden name was Price; in 1836 she mar-
ried Henry Wood, the head of a large shipping
and banking firm, and after her marriage lived
for the most part in France. In 1860 she wrote
a temperance tale, winning the £lOOO offered
by the Scottish Temperance League; prior
to this she had regularly contributed anony-
mous stories to periodicals. In 1861 she wrote
the very popular East Lynne. Then followed
The Channings and Mrs. Halliburton’s Troubles
in 1862, Verner’s Pride and The Shadow of
Ashlydyat in 1863, and Lord Oakburn’s
Daughters, Oswald Cray and Trevlyn Hold in
1864. She became proprietor and editor of the
“Argosy” magazine in 1867, and the “Johnny
Ludlow” tales published there are the most
artistic of her works. In all Mrs. Henry
Wood produced 35 novels, the best not pre-
viously mentioned being Roland Yorke, Within
the Maze and Edina. She continued to edit
the “Argosy” till her death on February 10,
1887.
* * * *
A few details concerning Samuel Richardson,
the English novelist, and what position does he
occupy in English literature? —7727.
Bom in Derbyshire in 1689, he came to
London and, after serving an apprenticeship
to a printer, set up in business in 1719 on his
own account. For 20 years he pursued the
even tenor of his way, and then two book-
sellers, Rivington and Osborne, suggested that
he sHould write a volume after the style of
The Polite Letter-writer. The idea appealed
to Richardson, but he improved upon it, and
wrote the story in letters known as Pamela
(1740). This was a great success, and not
even Fielding’s parody, Joseph Andrews, could
stop its triumphal march. His next work was
Clarissa Harlowe (1747-48), and this was fol-
lowed by Sir Charles Grandison (1753). His
books are little read now, owing to their senti-
mentality and narrow outlook on life, but Rich-
ardson, who has been called “the father of the
modern novel,” must always occupy an im-
portant place in the history of English litera-
ture. He died in 1761.
* * * *
Details of the two bridges over the Mac-
leay River at Kempsey, N.S.W. ? —7720.
The railway bridge is of a type adopted by
the N.S.W. railway commissioners as standard.
It consists of three 200 ft. steel spans and two
66ft.-plate girder spans, with ironbark timber
approaches. The footway is carried on canti-
levers. The bridge was completed in 1917 at a
cost of £31,000. The traffic bridge is one of
the largest all-wooden bridges of its type in the
world. It consists of four timber truss-spans
of 153 ft. each, supported on iron cylinder piers
6ft. in diameter, with nine timber approach-
spans, overall length being 925 ft. The 153 ft.
truss-spans called for truss timbers of excep-
tionally large dimensions; the top chords of the
trusses consist of two ironbark flitches 18in. deep
by 6in. thick, and many lengths of over 30ft.
free from heart were required. The bottom
chords were built-up members of iron-
bark flitches, Min. by 7in. Some of the
piers, sunk by the pneumatic process, were
carried 84ft. below low-water mark. The
bridge was completed in 1900 at a cost of
£22,345.
* * * *
What is the discoloration which comes on
white marble after exposure to weather for
years? Is it a fungus, and how may it be
removed? —7555.
The discoloration you refer to is caused by
lichens. These are a simple form of plant life
and they are invariably associated with a
fungal growth. They can be removed with steel
wool.
* * * *
(1) Titles and authors of books dealing with
the Mandated Territory of New Guinea in
German and pre-German times? (2) Any
book dealing extensively with the manners,
customs and early history of the Ninigo
Islands and other islands in the immediate
vicinity? (3) Has there been a book written
covering the history of the various shipwrecks
on the coasts of the Mandated Territory of
New Guinea ? —7285.
(1) There is a good bibliography in Stewart’s
Handbook of the Pacific Islands. (2) The only
book that covers these islands in any detail is
Parkinson’s Dreissig Jahre in der Siidsee, in
German. (3) Rhodes’s Pageant of the Pacific
and Australian Encyclopedia touch upon the
subject.
* * * *
When other than a player kicks off in a rep.
match under N.S.W. Rugby League rules what
procedure is followed throughout the game ?
7707.
The ball is recalled by the umpire, and after
the kicker-off leaves the playing field the ball
is scrummed at the halfway line. At the
start of the second half the ball is again
scrummed instead of being kicked off.
Brief Answers.
F.G.: No, the taxation imposed would be on
the basis of the Q’land schedule of taxes.,..
D.F.S.: The label on the matchbox was de-
signed 12 months before the 1914-18 war and
bears no relation to military colors... .C.W.W.:
Toole-be-wong probably means “light woods on
a flat-topped mountain,” though it also re-
sembles a native word for “stringybark”...,
H.J.M.: You might institute an action against
the Postmaster-General, but before doing so
should be sure of your ground and be advised
by a solicitor with all the facts before him...,
R.G.8.: A may make application to the N.S.W.
Supreme Court, under Sec. 22 of the Married
Women’s Property Act, 1901, for an order de-
claring that B holds the property upon trust
for herself and A, and ordering her to execute
such documents as may be necessary to trans-
fer the property into their joint names. Alter-
natively A may apply to the Equity Court for
a similar order, but application under the Mar-
ried Women’s Property Act would be cheaper
and more expeditious... .T.G.: No reliable in-
formation available... .A.W.: Write Common-
wealth Statistician, Federal Bureau of Census
and Statistics, Canberra, A.C.T V.E.M.:
See Soilless Growth of Plants, by Ellis and
Swaney A.8.H.: A table showing correc-
tions for sundials in N.S.W. is obtainable from
the Government Astronomer, Sydney Observa-
tory, Sydney A.M.: All the preparations
mentioned are unobtainable in Sydney....
R.W.L.: “The Choice,” by W. M. Melville,
published in The Bulletin of June 5, 1940.
G.C.: No J.M.: (1) Birth certificates
can be obtained at the General Register Office,
Somerset House, London, on the payment of
ss. Id. (2) In the 1916 conscription referen-
dum 72,399 members of the A.I.F. voted for
and 58,894 against the proposal; in the 1917
referendum 103,789 voted for and 93,910
against S.W.: He did not serve with the
A.I.F. during 1914-18... .J.L.J.: Populations
are China 451,000,000, British India 256,860,000,
Indian Native States, 81,311,000... .F. 8.8.: (1)
Depends upon layout of library. Most big
libraries place all fiction in alphabetical order
according to authors’ names. (2) Quinn and
Acomb’s A Manual of Cataloguing (205.)....
R. : All Australian books on the subject
..are at present out of print. Suggest that you
try the various State Agricultural Departments
for pamphlets on the matter... .L.N.: A letter
care of The Bulletin, 247 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, will find him....J.K.D.: Write Officer-
in-charge, Inventions Board, Victoria Bar-
racks, Sydney... .F.M.M.: (1) and (2) N 0....
J. (1) and (2) 96,834. Takings £6778
9s. 3d. Grand final League match, Carlton v.
Collingwood, 1938. (3) 87,798. Feb., 1937.
. ...H.C.: From Robertson and Mullens, Mel-
bourne; ss. 3d. posted E.N.: Sir Frederick
Darley married Lucy Forest Browne, daughter
of Capt. Sylvester Browne, in 1860 at Huns-
don, Hertfordshire, England. She was the
sister of Thomas Alexander Browne (“Rolf
Boldrewood”), * author of Robbery Under
Arms ... .P.D.: Write John Lynch, Worthy
Scribe, Bread and Cheese Club, Alexandra Man-
sions, Aikman-street, South Melbourne, Vic.
... .C.H. and J.A.W.: Of the 343,250 members
of the A.I.F. sent abroad in 1914-18, 66,321
were born in the United Kingdom, 4464 in
New Zealand, 23,246 in other British countries
and 3387 in foreign countries N.F.:
Cannot trace article mentioned... .R.J.F.: The
article “Sydney Harbor Names,” by J. H. M.
Abbott, appeared in The Bulletin of December
13, 1939 L.R.: “Were” can be pronounced
either to rhyme with care or with fur.. r
P.G.G.: Apply Seamen’s Union of Australasia,
54 Day-street, Sydney... .D.M.L.: The only
Epaminondas traceable is the Theban general
and statesman of that name who was born
418 b.c. If you can give further particulars
another search will be made... .R.8.L.: Most
of such dishes are tinned iron, but evidently
the one you complain of has a base of some
other metal. The only cure is to have the
article retinned, and, as that is too expensive
a job, it will pay you to buy a new one...■
D.M.: Consult any of the standard histories
of the two countries... .F.M.M.: Write C. F
Laseron, 21 Royal-arcade, Sydney C.W.:
Atlas of First Aid, by David Farrell (55.), and
First Aid at a Glance, by W. H. London (25.)
D.J.: Walker’s Textbook on Sprinting (2s
9d.), obtainable from Angus and Robertson
Sydney K.E.G.: (1) Yes. (2) Angus anc
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.. ••
H.S.: It may be possible to get in touch wit!
them through firms like Edwards, Dunlop anc
Co. and Gordon and Gotch, both of Sydney
J.T. and S.C.: Catalogues posted...
S. : E. V. Barton’s The Hidden Face was
published by the Beacon Press, Sydney...
K. : Teachers in non-State schools in N.S.W
are not registered before they accept a positior
in a private school. Full conditions regardinf
private schools in this State may be found if
the N.S.W. Public Instruction (Amendment
Act, 1916 F.T.: All three are Anglo-Saxon
words. “Stoke” and “stowe” both mean "3
stockaded place”; “ley” means “a meadow”. ••
C.E.: Drawings should be done in Indian ink
charcoal or wash on good quality paper, anc
need to be at least lOin. by 14in, large. Jokes
should be original. Payment is made upof
acceptance and ranges from 30s. to £2 2s. pel
drawing... .H.8.H.: English translation reads:
“Blessed is he who takes up the Cross”. ••
K.8.M.C.: N.S.W. Seed Co., 17a Pitt-street
Sydney J.M.G.: Sorry; no copy available
. ...M.R.J.: The residence of the Earl o!
Dudley is Himley Hall, Dudley, Worcester
England....S.K.R.: (1) and (2) Verse is cnti
cised only in the “Answers to Correspondents
column. No charge is made. (3) Alway.
prepared to consider original verse for puM
cation. (4) Cannot give estimate without in
formation as to at least a dozen different re
quirements. Consult a printer E.L.B- :
Write to the Departments of Labor and In
dustry in the various State capitals FJ-C-
The Bulletin is always prepared to conside:
original verse and to pay for suitable contn
butions upon acceptance J.A.G.: (1) T,
Strait of Gibraltar has a length of 50 mile,
and a breadth varying from nine to 23 miles
(2) Gibraltar is shaped like an “enormon
lion,” three miles long, averaging three-quarter
mile broad, rising 1400 ft. above sea level, excep
on the west, where it slopes more gently ,c
the sea A.C.L.: C. J. Dennis’s verse o e ;
ginning “Fellers of Australier, blokes an’ cove'
an’ coots” appeared on the Red Page of The
Bulletin of December 12, 1912 L.H.: Cor-
rect quotation is “Though the mills of u°“
grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small.


Improve your winter production with
Ch.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os provides those minerals which are needed
by all stock to make the best of winter fodders. It
contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having a
guaranteed minimum of 32.5% phosphoric acid and
40% of lime. Being the mineral matter of bone,
Tri-cal-os is pure, wholesome and palatable.
Write for folders giving details of feeding Tri-cal-os.
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
sf-Bi
m
o
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’EAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The New Wool Season.
“Ghanam”: First appraisements of the
new season will begin in N.S.W. and
S.A. on August 19 ; in Queensland and
W.A., a week later. In Victoria the
season will open on September 16 ; in
Tasmania early in January. It is planned
to deal with 1,750,000 bales before Christ-
mas. Payment, subject to agreed deduc-
tions, will be made through brokers
within 14 days after each appraisement.
Because of the shipping position and
the disorganisation of the world’s milling
facilities, arrangements are being made
for storage within the Commonwealth,
but appraisements will go on without
interruption. Large quantities of woo!
are already in store in Sydney, and shear-
ing in N.S.W. is well ahead.
The overseas position is still doubtful.
Possible manufacturers of Australian
wool are limited to Britain, U.S.A. and
Japan. British manufacture will be
govefned by war-time conditions, and the
U.S.A. has a heavy tariff against im-
ported wool. There are signs that this
tariff might be modified and arrange-
ments made for the transfer of quantities
of our greasy fleece across the Pacific.
Canada may take up some of the slack.
Some agreement should certainly be
made to supply Japan’s needs. The re-
building of the wool trade would be a
powerful help towards permanent friend-
ship with the Japanese.
Wool Preparation.
“Murrawong”: The Central Wool
Committee has done little towards help-
ing growers with directions as to the pre-
paration of the clip for appraisement,
but the Sydney brokers Schute, Bell,
Badgery, Lumby fill the need with a
handy booklet. Merino wool has a sec-
tion to itself, and comeback, Corriedale
and crossbred are dealt with.
Some of the suggestions are of prime
importance. For instance, if fleeces carry
heavy burr only the points should be
removed, and any portions of the skirt-
ings which differ in quality from the
fleece wool; there’s a warning, too, that
fribs or skirtings decrease the value of
the fleece.
Suggested layout of a clip is:
AAA. —Finest and best fleeces (may be
64’s or 64/70’s); sound and even in quality,
condition and color, with the minimum
length of staple 3in. (If there is a good
percentage of finer wools, brand AAA A.)
AA. —Similar in quality, but with more
color, condition and may be shorter.
A.—Open, wasty, badly-grown fleeces;
good color, light condition.
Stronger fleeces must be kept separate,
and should be branded AAA comb. They
should be sound, of good length and
well grown. Shorter, commoner, strong
fleeces must be branded A A comb ; they
will take all cast fleeces, including dingy,
discolored, cotted and heavy-conditioned
fleeces.
With small clips there must be even-
ness in spinning quality ; on no account
should bellies be rolled with fleeces.
Superfine, specialty wools must be
strictly classed according to quality,
length, color and condition. Lines sug-
gested are:
80’s and Upwards.—A minimum length of
2 Jin.
74/80’s. —2Jin. to 3in.
70’s. —3in.
"This type of wool must be free from
burr; should britches or folds vary in
quality remove them.
Tender wools must be kept separate ;
rough, doggy wools also. Bellies must
not be mixed with broken or pieces. Dis-
tinct types are set out for each and they
should be packed separately.
Where there are enough locks, separate
lines should be made of board and table
locks. Stained pieces must be thoroughly
dried before packing. Last season much
AT THE N.S.W. AGRICULTURAL BUREAU CONFERENCE.
“There you are!” says A. A. Watson, State Marketing Director. J. M. Coleman,
sheep and wool expert (top left); C. C. Crane, Bureau organiser (top centre);
A. H. Jeffries, of Delegate, and the bearded C. G. Rowcliff, of Dubbo, listen in
while Chief Vet. Max Henry raps for order.
stained wool arrived in store wet and
had to be reconditioned at the owner's
expense. Suggested layout for comeback
lines is:
Super Cbk. —60/64's: sound, bright,
deep-stapled.
AAA Cbk. —Shorter staple.
AA Cbk—sB/60’s; well grown, sound.
A Cbk. —58/64’s; shorter and heavier.
Crossbred lines:
Super XB. —56/68’s; bright, light and
sound. •
AAA XB (fine X8).—50/56’s; better
length.
AA XB (medium).—46/ 50’s; longer
staple; sound, light condition.
AXB (strong).—All the stronger fleeces.
XB.—Cotted, heavy condition; bad color.
Each line must be even in spinning
quality.
Tender wools should not be packed
with sound, and as much attention should
be paid to skirting of crossbred fleeces
as to merino. Don’t try to force doubt-
ful fleeces into a line ; send them in a
bag or mixed bale for regrading and
pooling.
Dead wool must be free from skin
pieces. Mixed lines of dead wool must
be regraded or they will be offered in
sheepskin catalogues.
Care should be taken in branding bales.
Start on the top of one side of the bale
with the station brand ; under that place
description of contents, say, AAA/E,
with the number of the bale underneath
that.
Scrub Feed for Sheep.
“2LX”: Aim at plenty of variety.
Mixed in a mulga scrub there will be
whitewood (poisonous on its own) supple-
jack, beefwood, leopardwood, emu apple
and other trees. Take the stuff in a face.
Don’t feed one kind alone.
If shepherding on scrub, don't allow
the sheep on the new-felled tree. Keep
the cutters a day ahead of the sheep.
The drooped leaves are more palatable
and won’t cause scouring.
Boree makes good feed if there is
enough roughage to go with it. Alone,
it will kill sheep. The fibres ball inside
to make a tight mass. Its sturdier cousin,
gidya, is eaten readily if allowed to dry
until the leaves are beginning to fall from
the twigs.
Supplejack is about the best single
scrub feed there is.
World Wheat.
“Ben C.”: The Australian crop for
1940-41 will need a lift from early spring
rains. So far Westralia is the only wheat
State to get anything like the required
late autumn rains. N.S.W. and Victorian
crops are beginning to feel the pinch.
Estimates of winter wheat in the U.S.A.
have been increased to 489,000,000
bushels, and, though it is early for a
spring crop forecast, 200,000,000 bushels
is mentioned. Carryover at the end of
July is estimated at 274,000,000 bushels.
For export there should be 66,000,000
bushels. Argentina, with an eye on the
reduced European crop, is likely to in-
crease its wheat area.
As for Europe, little crop news is
coming from that distressful continent.
Germany is not releasing news from
occupied countries and reports from else-
where are slow. Italy apparently antici-
pates a good harvest; the position in the
Danube basin is obscure; Russia had
193 million acres sown by the end of
May and there had been good rains on
the Volga.
Wire Wounds.
“Clyde”: Barbed-wire wounds in
horses need careful treatment. Avoid
stitches, as a wire wound invariably
festers. First clip the hair all round the
wound and well below it, then wash it
with a good antiseptic. Cut flaps of skin
off close. Use as dressing an ounce of
pure liquid carbolic acid and three ounces
of turpentine made up to a pint with
raw linseed oil. Shake the bottle well
before using, and apply the dressing twice
a day.
Edges of the wound, likely to be hard-
ened by coagulated blood, need particular
attention, and holes in muscular tissue
must be swabbed out. Use fresh swabs
for dressing from time to time. When
scabs begin to form they should be
rubbed off at each dressing. Keep the
wound free of dirt, and the area below
it free of discharge. A smear of vase-
line will help.
Don’t be alarmed by the formation of
proud flesh, as the dressing will gradu-
ally contract the tissue as the new skin
draws together.
Perseverance is the main thing. A
large wound takes a long time to heal.
Try the method for sore shoulders.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: Careful classing pays
under appraisement. Keep qualities apart
as much as possible. Don’t put broader
wools with finer types. Keep variations
in length separate, and remove seedy and
burry portions. Don’t put short, un-
attractive and heavy skirtings with the
brighter, freer wools of the shoulders and
sides. Skirt off seedy edges, as far as
possible. Separate the shorter lambs'
wool from better-grown types. It doesn’t
pay to put bellies with pieces.
“O. W. Waireki”: Try this to water-
proof calico: Make a warm soap bath,
using lib. of soap to each gallon of water,
and soak the calico well in it for five or
ten minutes. Pass through an alum
mixture of the same strength. After-
wards, roll through a mangle. The coat-
ing does not show, as it is absorbed in
the fibre of the material.
“M.H.”: Soot is a valuable aid to
fruit-trees. In early spring dig it into
the soil about 3ft. from the base of the
trunk. If you can’t use it at once store
the soot in a box and keep dry, other-
wise the sulphate of ammonia in it will
rapidly evaporate.
“Mullengah”: If the sow dies, start
the piglets on cow’s milk, fresh and fed
warm six times daily. After three weeks,
make a gradual change to separated milk,
working down to three meals a day. From
the time the change is made, keep a
trough of dry meal —90 per cent, pollard,
bran, maizemeal or wheatmeal and 10
per cent, meatmeal —in the pen. Make
sure the youngsters always have access to
clean drinking water. To teach them to
drink, put half an inch of milk in a


\r.'V
mr
:
isw
im
'-o N
H‘l
iTJ3
/N/
E2O!
ii
i*
i»«
s«2
v6t* K
*0
I
London
£Mn
compahv.u*"^!^
aara
fel
®i!k
mMima
m
Sfeir
r '*r
'*rs
'"•r
•'lo.
*tr t
m
fsr
t'S.
-^5
Pa
<%v
§£r
KfiSP
BS®P
Gordon's
St may coit a little mete
bat iti WELL wottk it!
0
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
Ohe latyett gin dlMillaU in the woild
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
£* da &
'Taman;
m
mm
5
18!
gS
•svtnjxti
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. "
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
shallow dish, stand a pig in it and
hold its head down into the milk. Later
the dish can be replaced by a shallow
trough. Use dishes and troughs of metal
or earthenware so they can be scalded
after every meal.
“Mattock”: To kill club-root spores
which destroy crown-bearing vegetables
treat the beds before sowing seed with
lime to the square yard, dug well
in) or water with a strong mixture of
permanganate of potash. Examine seed-
lings for infection (small knobs on the
roots) and dip them in the potash solution
before planting. Burn all plants which
how the disease, and don’t use beds which
carry the disease for at least a year.
“Bungaree”: S. Africa has carried out
valuable field work on mineral supple-
ments over the past 10 years. Samples
of natural grass and scrub collected from
every district in the Union were analysed
qnd tables and charts drawn up to show
the value of the natural pastures in any
particular district at any time of the year.
Two groups of cattle (one given a phos-
phorus supplement) were grazed on the
same pasture. The phosphate group
averaged 11931 b. The quality of meat
was prime and the value was £9 6s. 4d.
sterling. The others averaged 7371 b. of
poor quality meat, selling price £3 13s. sd.
The difference in value was attained at
a cost of 11s. 2d. for phosphate per
beast. Phosphorus deficiency can be
treated in two ways. The indirect
method is by treating the soil with a
suitable fertiliser. The direct method is
to supply phosphate as a lick or drench,
preferably as a lick. The three most suit-
able types of lick should contain bone-
meal or bone flour or dicalcic phos-
phate. The total needs of 100 sheep per
week, provided that the pastures were
totally deficient, would be 161 b. bone-
meal or 111 b. bone flour or 51b. dicalcic
phosphate. Dicalcic is the cheapest form.
Cows in calf or in milk would require a
daily ration of soz. bonemeal or 3jOZ.
bone flour or dicalcic phosphate.
“Sheepo”: There’s no doubt that the
Mules fold operation reduces fly strike
in fine-woolled and wrinkly sheep. But
all sheep that have undergone the opera-
tion should carry some distinguishing
mark. Wrinkles are in the blood, and
no external operation can prevent
wrinkles appearing in the offspring of
ewes that have undergone the treat-
ment.
“Stockwhip”: The problem of hand-
ling cattle while on the hoof to mini-
mise bruising of carcasses has been given
attention by Swifts at their new killing
yards at Gladstone (Q.). There are no
projections which could cause bruising,
a good straight lead right through, with
the V approach to gateways to facilitate
easy and quiet movement from one yard
to the next. All gateposts are fitted
at the ground with a concrete kerb, which
commences about 15in. to 18in. ,up the
post, and extends out about 15in. to
18in. at the ground level. The idea is to
keep cattle away from the gateposts.
The killing race is wider on the top than
at the ground level, flush fitted timber
walls, with overhead slide doors, fitted
with soft rubber pads. Cattle are worked
along the killing race by a man working
over the top of the race from an out-
side platform.
“Agric”: A new drought-resistant
creeping lucerne, collected in Turkey—it
is common in Cilicia —has been made
available for test at the Waite Agricul-
tural Research Institute, S.A. Lucerne is
used extensively as a pasture plant in
S.A., but existing varieties are of the hay
type, which do not persist well under
intensive grazing nor blend satisfactorily
in pasture mixtures. The breeding of a
creeping type adapted to grazing condi-
tions, without a marked crown and pro-
ducing underground stems, has been in
progress since 1934. Selected creeping
types from crosses and from open-polli-
nated seed, produced by plants of extreme
creeping habit, were allowed to inter-
pollinate in 1939. The seed obtained is
being used in trials this year.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXVIII.
AT THE SALE.
In the mail there is a handbill from
the local agents announcing that a “clear-
ing-out sale” will be held at Sid Jordan’s
farm. “Everything,” says the handbill,
“is to be sold without reserve, including
two splendid dairy cows, a sowing-
machine and all that portion of land
being Section 54, Parish of Jintanna,
County of Cumbarra, comprising 324
acres. Mr. Jordan has long been recog-
nised as one of our most progressive
farmers, etc. ; refreshments provided.”
You confer with the wife. She thinks
she’d like to have a look at the sewing-
machine, but you point out that the hand-
bill spells it sowing and probably means
a broadcaster or drill of some sort. She
is equally confident that a sewing-
machine is a sewing-machine, no matter
how it’s spelt, and if you think she hasn’t
seen that refreshments will be provided
and doesn’t know that means there will
be beer you are sadly mistaken.
Whereupon you say, with quiet dig-
nity, “I have long admired that poley
cow of .Sid’s, and intend to acquire her
for our establishment if it can be done
at a reasonable price.”
You wife looks hard at you, purses her
lips and remarks, “She’s certainly not
worth more than £6. He won’t get that
at the sale. Why don’t you slip over
and offer him that for her now?”
“Aw, get out,” ,you say ; “y’ can’t go
doin’ things like that.”
The day of the sale is fine and warm.
You and the wife get over to Jordan’s
early and start looking round. The wife
goes off after that sewing-machine, you
first of all locate the two nine-gallon
kegs under the tankstand, and then go
into the yard and make eyes at the poley
cow.
People arrive and begin poking about.
You see old Simpson watching you, and
you pretend to look at the cow’s udder.
Then you walk away, nodding your head,
and say to Simpson, “Looks like she’s
got mammitis. That quarter’s nearly
blind.” Simpson gives you a deep look,
but stays in the yard. You go round
the homestead and sneak back to the
corner and watch. Simpson is prodding
the cow’s flank, Blast him!
You look in the front door. The place
is full of women. Some of them are
carrying plates of cakes and sandwiches
around ; others are surreptitiously prod-
ding upholstery and holding curtains up
to the light. Suddenly you realise that
a crowd of men are surrounding the tank-
stand. You hurry over there. Sid Jordan
and the auctioneer are handing round
glasses and pannikins. The time passes
happily enough ; you have worked your
way close in to the kegs.
Then the auctioneer walks busily over
to the machinery shed shouting “Sale-
ho! Sale-ho! ” Most of the others fol-
low. You only want that cow, so you
stay under the tankstafid. The time
passes happily enough ; you listen to the
noise of selling.
You notice the crowd making towards
the yards and wonder what’s to be sold
there. Ahead of them walks a figure you
know—old Simpson. Cripes! You wipe
your mouth, drop the pannikin and
head for the yards. Just in time, too.
“Gentlemen,” the auctioneer is say-
ing, “finest little cow in the district—
what’m I offered —someone start her at
a fiver —four-ten; come, come, gentle-
men, this is not”
A vague memory of your wife stirs
you.
“Shix quid! ” you shout.
There is a dead silence. The auc-
tioneer is looking hard at you, trying to
get his breath back. Eyes turn on you
from everywhere. You try to focus your
attention
“And ten,” cries old Simpson.
The auctioneer grabs at the air and
smiles. His voice is back. He gibbers
and shouts. You hang on to a post and
glare at Simpson and yell, and the auc-
tioneer dances and cries. You watch
Simpson, and when he shouts you try
to shout him down. Then you hear the
auctioneer cry, “Gone at ten pounds five
to Mister”
“Me!” you howl.
“What rot! It’s me!” yells Simpson.
“Disputed bid,” roars the crowd; “put
her up again.”
Somebody near you says “I’ll take six
to four Simpson,” and you see money
changing hands. By this time you find
it a bit hard to keep the post from bend-
ing, and this surprises you, because you’d
always thought Sid Jordan made a good
job of his fences. Simpson is shouting
again, and you shout back, and then
Jordan is shaking hands with you and
saying she’s a damn’ fine cow.
“You warrer get this posh’ fixed up,"
you tell him, and he leads you over to
the tankstand. Simpson is there.
“Serves you blanky well right,” he
says.
“ ’Snot my post,” you tell him, bury-
ing your face in the pannikin.
“She wasn’t worth more’n six quid,"
says Simpson.
You pull yourself together, glare at
him coldly and state, “Y’ tried t’ do me
outa that sewing-machine, dirrent y’?”
“Y’re drunk,” he says.
You decide you’ve had enough of him,
and try to knock his block off. But the
old cow won’t stay still. So, finding
yourself on the ground and it cool, you
decide a bit of sleep won’t hurt anybody.
And then, sitting in the back seat of
the car going home with your wife, she
says, “Making a fool of yourself.”
“Got y’ that sewin’-machine, dirrent
I?” you announce.
“Sewing-machine,” she snorts. “You
ran that poley cow up to twelve pounds
five, if you want to know!”
You try to grasp this, feeling an inner
sickness at the knowledge. You recall
vaguely the bidding, the dispute, how
you watched Simpson, the post made of
rubber and the tankstand.
“Aw, what’sh a few quid?” you cry
grandly ; “it was a bonzer shale — besht
I errer went t’.” You break into song,
knowing that tomorrow you’re going to
do some moaning over that poley cow.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. p**r line; all other* at
2Jd. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
First place goes to another Queenslander —a resident of the Brisbane suburb
of Newmarket—who doesn’t seem to agree with Lord Halifax that “we may take
heart from the certain knowledge that Americans pray for our victory over this
wicked man and his ways.”
It should be remembered all the same that all naval men are under the orders
of their Governments, and that even British warships were “H.M.S. Unriskables” to
writing boys of the interventionist breed because they were kept out of the Spanish
“We Joined the Navy”
“Listener” (B. 19/7/’4O) thinks that it
is inappropriate while the war is on for
wireless stations to play:
We joined the navy to do or die,
But we didn’t do and we didn’t die.
Not so. The song was composed by
an American, is sung by an American
crooner and played by an American
band, and obviously refers to the Ameri-
can Navy—and that hasn’t done and
its members won’t die.
This fleet is hibernating in Honolulu
while the British Navy, as many
American newspapers admit, is keeping
the Atlantic safe for Uncle Sam. I think
the song is darned appropriate. —W. K. D.
(Q.).
Sidelines on the Farm
Australian farmers do not pay suffi-
cient attention to sidelines, which can be
termed the petty-cash section of the farm.
Take the humble hen. On specialised
poultry farms, where most of the feed
has to be bought, the value of a hen for
eggs alone is assessed at ss. a year. Her
value on a farm, where all feed can be
grown, would be much greater, yet such
places have few fowls. There is no lack
of a market —Britain has contracted to
take all the eggs we can supply.
Vegetable-growing is another way of
raising extra cash, as some wise farmers
have found. One N. S. Wales North
Coast dairyman makes about £2OO a year
from vegetables. Other possibilities are
pigs, bees, tung-trees, production of pure
seeds, including grain, grasses, clovers,
vegetables and even flowers. It may
mean planting for posterity, but useful
timber trees will yield profits in future
years.
To meet conditions during and after
the war, cost of production on farms will
have to be reduced, and more attention
to sidelines is an effective way of lower-
ing the overhead. —Two Strand (N.S.W.).
It Wasn’t Wanted
Australia didn’t need a Department of
Information. Its newspapers had a far
better coverage of local and overseas
news than any Government department
could possibly work up in a few months,
and by training and experience they were
able to give the news hours and even
days ahead of the department.
There was some ground for the fre-
quent complaints as to the manner in
which that news was presented and a
lot of suspicion as to the accuracy of
some of it. The “How We Took Narvik”
classic is the best example of this. But
generally time soon showed the reader
the truth of things, and he was rapidly
learning to sift the grain from the chaff.
As it was, the Department of Infor-
mation did nothing to correct the posi-
tion. Since its inception about all Aus-
tralia ever saw of its efforts was the
release of pictures of the activities of
the forces at home and abroad.
Presentation of views was a different
matter. The more ill-balanced dailies
seemed to think the best way to win the
war was to attack this Minister or that
and then persuade some public man to
comment on the alleged confusion of
the position.
Here there might have been editorial
suppression of Government replies to the
attacks but to attempt to force the
papers to print what they may not
wish to print smacks too much of
bureaucracy run mad —and it’s mad
enough in this country as it is.
A competent censorship—and by com-
petent <s meant something possessing
wide and sound journalistic knowledge as
well as the nous to keep information out
of enemy hands—could have dealt with
the whole thing witboul much. fvjs*. No
responsible newspaper refuses to allow
space to Governments or Ministers when
they have something to say, and the best
way to have dealt with papers which pub-
lish wild assertions and pseudo-accurate
scare stories or articles would have been
to hit them where they feel it most —in
the pocket.
Rightly or wrongly, the reaction of
press and public to the power given the
Murdoch Department was a fear that
Murdoch was setting up as a sort of
News Panjandrum to the whole Com-
monwealth, and was out to tell the public
what it should or should not read.
Australia has had a Department of In-
formation since the war began. Its prac-
tical value has never been clearly shown,
if it has any, and it has been a source
“ I’m afraid Private Smith hasn’t forgiven me yet."
of friction since its inception. If Mr.
Menzies were a bold leader he would
drop the absurd thing henceforth and
rely on the censorship and public opinion
to keep the suspected papers in their
place.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Motoring Costs
Since the outbreak of war the petrol
tax levied by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has been increased from 7d. to
lid. a gallon—a little over 57 p.c. in 10
months. Users of motor vehicles will
not grudge the increased cost, even
though it will be accompanied by restric-
tions on the use of their vehicles, for it
assists the national war effort.
But they will have good cause to com-
plain if the State Governments continue
to mulct them in the same high charges
for registration and to enforce the same
expensive requirements for compulsory
insurance as they have done when petrol
was cheaper and there were no restric-
tions.
Another concession which might well
be made to motor-users is the remission
of such barefaced moneygrabbing as the
Logan bridge toll on Queensland’s main
southern highway, the bridge having been
already paid for several times over by
those who have pass&A across it. —
Cclp.un (Q.)
If the Sirens Sound
In Melbourne trams are already con-
gested, and they are becoming more over-
populated than ever since motorists began
giving up private transport. Generations
of neglect have left bottlenecks and level
crossings as barricades across most of the
exits from the city.
I shudder to think what would happen
if an air-raid warning sounded in real
earnest. But if it did sound it might not
be heard except by a few policemen in
the vicinity of headquarters. In the one
and only test that was made some months
ago people in Bourke-street went on with
their customary avocations unaware that
they were being warned to take shelter
(hypothetically speaking, there being as
yet no shelters). It hasn’t been tried
since, but I suppose Mr. Dunstan, who
considers that State Governments justify
their existence, is concentrating on the
problem. — Chevroford (Vic.).
Women and War
“E. 0.5.” (B. 17/7/ ’4O) seems to be
getting a great kick out of any setback
to women’s war activities, but does he
know that the country has called for
women doctors to enlist for service?
Does he know that France and Russia
enlisted women in their air forces? There
are hundreds, probably thousands, of
women mechanics in every country. And
wasn’t it a woman who captured a Ger-
man parachutist and was decorated by
the King?
We admit there is a lot of social
snobbery and heartburning in women’s
organisations, but are men’s organisations
free from these trials? If there is any
worse snobbery anywhere than is to be
found in army officers’ clubs it would
be interesting to meet it.
There are women of all kinds, just as
there are various types of men. Would
the average keen-thinking, hard-working,
capable man like to be classed with the
gigolos, social rotters and general mis-
fits? Our politicians have not shown
themselves entirely free from the capa-
city to be troublesome, yet they are not
“relegated to a minor position in national
affairs.”
Anyway, what about Boadicea, Joan
of Arc and Nurse Cavell? And even as
I write there is news from England of
another woman who has dared to take
an active part in the war. A member
of the Women’s Auxiliary Air Force, she
has been awarded the Empire Gallantry
Medal for bravery in rescuing an uncon-
scious and injured pilot from a burning
’plane, and dragging him to safety before
a hundredweight bomb exploded in the
’plane.
“E. 0.5.” thinks producing babies is the
only work women are suitable for. Cer-
tainly we have the monopoly in that line,
but there are the women who have not
married and are not legally entitled to
produce children. There are also those
'who have outgrown that ability. Many
of these are capable, level-headed citi-
zens, able and willing to face any danger
to help keep their country free. —A
Woman (S.A.).
I’d soon put an end to this pretty-
uniform business (B. 17/7/’4O) by con-
scripting all members of the pretty-uni-
form sex under 25. Why should com-
pulsory training be confined to male
youth only? Rope in these painted young
sheilahs, give them a thorough course of
house-cleaning, scrubbing, baby-minding,
cooking, etc., and they’d be all the better
for it. — Leonardo da Coogee (N.S.W.).
Robbing Peter
Last week in our paper a bottle-collec-
tor wrote a letter saying that during the
last few months he has been deprived
of his business because Boy Scouts and
Girl Guides are collecting old rags,
bottles, paper, etc., to be sold to raise
patriotic funds. He is a married man
with six children to support.
A State schoolteacher tells me that
they had so many pie, pasty and sweet
days at her school that the small local
shops who depended on its patronage
were suffering seriously.
Any kind of patriotic endeavor which
deprives hardworking citizens of their
living should not be allowed.— Audrey
F. Francis (S.A.).
Being Busy
Nothing riles me quite so much as the
popular opinion that the lives of city
people are more “busy” than those of
country people.
My observation leads me to conclude
that the apparent “busyness” of city
people is simply a result of their un-
economic use of time and their habit of
imitation. They lie late in bed and have
to rush to get to work. They bustle at
their work because their working hours
are so short. They rush home again
because they want to go out afterwards.
They go to bed late, and so are too tired
to get up early enough to avoid the neces-
sity of rushing to work again.
And those who have no need to hurry
do it simply because so many others are
doing it. The “intense competition” we
hear so much about often amounts to
no more than competing for a seat in a
tram. Having secured the seat and ar-
rived two minutes earlier at their desti-
nation, they waste half an hour telling
yarns. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Reduction of Racing
The proposed reduction of racing dates
by the N. S. Wales Government is very
shortsighted. The reductions will not
affect the leading owners and trainers
to any extent —they derive their income
from the major meetings, which will go
untouched. But with the disappearance
of many of the minor meetings, the vast
army of battlers who draw a breadline
existence from this source are faced with
ruin. Reared as they have been in the
racing game, any other atmosphere is
foreign to them, and it is useless to assert
they will quickly be absorbed in other
domains.
Anyhow, why single out racing and
greyhound racing for pruning alone? The
turf has made a contribution to the in-
dustrial and business life of the com-
munity, and continues to do so. Why
guillotine it in preference to the foreign-
controlled film theatres, which still show
six nights weekly, or other professional
sports which think only of profits?—
Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Racing First
“Wangpa’s” remarks (B. 10/7/’4O) on
the rationing of room for Agricultural
Shows are applicable to more States than
one. But there is another aspect. All
the State shows I have seen could have
been reduced to a comparatively
“skimpy” size without serious harm to
farmers.
Take the Adelaide Show, f’rinstance.
The major part of its space and time is
taken up with stunts that have no more
to do with farming than with astronomy.
The main hall houses something between
a church bazaar and a chain store, where
the nearest approach to an agricultural
implement is a vacuum cleaner or a scent
spray. The huge concert hall is given
over mainly to musical and other enter-
tainment. The annexes wherein are
shown the milk and honey and butter
and cheese of the land are poorly staged
and poorly attended. The “educational”
exhibits of arts and handicrafts are ex-
amined only by a few high souls.
The machinery section is a mere ex-
perimental plot beside the wide paddock
of pleasure motors of every class and
kind. The flocks and herds and grains
and birds appear to attract less attention
than anything else under the roofs.
And what of the great out-of-doors?
Apart from the Grand Parade and a spot
of log-chopping, the “ground” is mostly
occupied with such farming interests as
trots and band concerts. The vast “mar-
ginal lands” are just one gigantic merry-
go-round of lunacy and ballyhoo, a


mighty “separator” of money from
pockets.
The Show is no doubt a very valuable
institution, but if it is limited the real
losers will be Big Business, the tramways,
the Fat Lady, the Wild Woman from
Borneo, and the man who produces
rabbits from a hat. — Roll’em Bowl’em
(S.A.).
Government by Newspaper
Freedom of the press is no less vital
a prerogative of our democratic way
of life than freedom of speech—both
qualified necessarily in war-time —but
government by the press is something to
fight as we would the plague.
Lately we have had the unsavory spec-
tacle of certain dailies fiercely urging the
claims of their own nominees—fortu-
nately unsuccessfully—for key positions
in extra-Governmental activities. Then a
vitriolic campaign was waged to replace
a Minister of the Crown with a news-
paper magnate as Director-General of
Information. When their darling was
granted dictatorial powers over their own
organs of what they fatuously term
“public opinion” the Frankenstein-
creators set up a howl of pure anguish
and yelled for the clipping of his claws.
A Government remarkable for its guts-
lessness humbly complied.
Old-time newspaper proprietors who
held it was their sacred duty to attack
what they honestly thought to be wrong
and champion what was right; who had
what must, in the cynical eyes of some
of our press barons, appear to have been
queer notions of chivalry in their refusal
to buy up and close up rival rags and
throw hundreds of employees on the
streets —these men, peculiarly, did not
brag about the “leadership” they gave
their country. That has been left to the
cheap imitators of American low-class
tabloids who play up in splash headlines
anything that appeals to the morons and
tuck away in an inconsequential corner
the event of real national importance.
Imagine where Australia would have
been landed had the nation been guided
by editors who unceasingly urged that
we should fight Japan over Manchukuo
and China, back Stalin’s Cheka in Spain,
and take up arms in the cause of Ethiopia,
and who shrieked for alliances with and
guarantees for every gimcrack State in
Europe—and all at a time when the
British Empire was left as weak as a
vegetarian dog because of a blind belief
in those twin idiocies Collective Security
and Disarmament, over both of which
the same editors spilled reams of guff.
Their sly dropping of their precious
League of Nations when that supreme
futility curled up and faded away at the
first chill breath from a menacing Mars
is a memory that must still stir the mirth
of the gods.
No. Government by politicians may
be bad enough, but at least the people
have their remedy for any remissness.
But government by a press which, with
a few honorable exceptions, revels in its
irresponsibility would be a major tragedy.
—Bouquet (N.S.W.).
Touch Wood
If some of our amateur defence
schemers have their way then the waters
of Australia will be alive with wooden
ships, the skies will be darkened with
wooden aeroplanes and the whole land-
scape will be covered with ex-Diggers,
W.A.N.S., W.H.E.N.S. and N.O.W.
A.N.D.T.H.E.N.S., drilling with wooden
rifles and knitting with wooden needles.
All that remains then is for an enemy
with wooden heads to come along—and
we’ll Blitzkrieg them with bows and
arrows.—A. B. F. (N.S.W.).
“Partant pour la Syne”
M. “Ente Marid” (B. 17/7/’4O) must
have spent more of his time consuming
“le viskey et du cognac” when in Syria
than in observing the political conditions
and aspirations. For some time past
there has been a possibility that France
would surrender her mandate, at least in
Syria, and that Syria (and possibly the
Lebanon) would be recognised as inde-
pendent or maybe federated under a
Moslem king.
Since her acceptance of the mandate,
France has had to fight two campaigns
in Syria, and in one of these she suffered
more in casualties and expense than we
did in our own Boer War. In addition
there has been continual guerrilla war-
fare, hence a large army had to be main-
tained.
Since the crusading days of Louis IX,
however, France has always taken a sym-
patheic interest in her Lebanese pro-
teges. They are Maronite Christians, and
their fate under a Moslem ruler would
be at least unfortunate. The Lebanese
actually look upon themselves as French-
men.
M. “Ente Marid” must be a very un-
observant traveller. The Pan-Arab en-
thusiasts, who form a very definite
“Party of Independence,” might prove
the greatest menace (even to Europe
itself) that has been known since the
days of Jenghiz Khan. — Abdul Azzface
(N.S.W.).
Imported “English”
I am a teacher, and part of my work
is to impart to my pupils a knowledge of
the language which, by law, they are sup-
posed to acquire. To aid them I encour-
age them to read the type of literature
which, I hope, will enable them to read,
write and speak correctly.
Some of the essays which the pupils
hand in for correction contain spelling
and phrases that read like a foreign lan-
guage, and one of the sources of this
mangled form of expression is the sup-
plement of one of our weekly papers.
This rubbish is being imported, duty
free, until it can be printed in Australia.
So the youngsters may read in their weekly
paper: “Wal, wall Ef tain’t Bessie! Ah
sees yo’ done dyed yo’ hair an’ bought
a new set o’ store teeth!” or “Who is
thet hoomeruss-lookin’ polecat wif yo’,
Aunt Bessie?” and so on.
Is it any wonder that teachers need a
glossary to read their pupils’ essays.—
Magister (N.S.W.).
Conserving Exchange
If it is necessary to ration petrol in
order to conserve dollar exchange, then
the measure might reasonably be ex-
tended to include the more invidious type
of film, play and story.
The U.S.A. has practically a monopoly
of these products in Australia, yet the
Australian film producer, author and
playwright are either thrown out of em-
ployment or never had any. It would be
interesting to have a list of the amounts
forwarded to America every year for
films, stories, articles, plays, verse, etc.,
the bulk of which would appear to be
cast-off stuff which has outlived its use-
fulness in the States.
And it wouldn’t be a bad idea if all
Australian publications were compelled
•to have at least one all-Australian issue
every now and again. That would be
giving The Bulletin 50 years’ start on its
contemporaries, but they’d learn in time
how it can be done. — Wyllyn (N.S.W.).
Telephone Books
The P.M.G. has decided to continue
to issue ’phone books half-yearly. Nine
hundred tons of paper is consumed in
the compilation of these colossal tomes.
Supplementary lists, as is the case with
electoral rolls, should suffice in these
hard times for any necessary alterations.
—W.E.C. (N.S.W.).
Correction
The secretary, Commonwealth Literary
Fund, did not “correct” my statement.
He substantiated it. My statement was his-
toric and true to fact. His is prophetic,
and assures us that again £6OO will be
donated to the rich universities.
The fund, according to the. official
prospectus, was created to afford financial
assistance to indigent authors of proved
ability during the present depression.
Only that and nothing more. The first
annual issue was £lOOO. Of that sum
£4OO went to approved writers and £6OO
was distributed amongst six universities,
which are no more indigent authors than
they are widows and orphans.
The second annual issue seems to have
been amplified in amount and scope, but
again £6OO is to be diverted from its legi-
timate and praiseworthy purpose. Doubt-
less this will be repeated every year, the
precedent having been created.
Even if the fund should be augmented
to £lO,OOO a year the allocation con-
tinues to be a grave miscarriage of jus-
tice which should be “corrected.” No
reflection on the secretary is intended. He
is to be thanked for making the facts
public.
My nom de guerre, by the way, was
not “A. Blug” but “A. Glug,” in allusion
to “The Glugs of Gosh,” by Dennis, one
of the greatest of those Australian writers
whose works have so far been ignored
by the aforementioned universities. —
A. Glug (S.A.).
Refugee Children
There is a little unkindness in
“A.W.R.’s” suggestion (B. 26/6/’4O) that
“publicity-hunting society women” adopt
Australian orphans instead of children
from stricken Europe. Admittedly
charity should begin at home, but it
should be remembered that orphans here
have at least the blessings of food, shelter
and safety.
I have met some of the people who
have promised to take in English, French
or Belgian children. They are certainly
not of the publicity-seeking sort, but
seem to be acting purely upon a warm-
hearted impulse. It must be realised, too,
that their action carries with it responsi-
bility and difficulties.
This is an occasion on which the spirit
of “it’s not our affair” can well be put
aside and the need of the irioment recog-
nised. Thousands of helpless children
have tasted and will taste the unspeak-
able horrors of a war of bombs and
machine-guns. Those who are offering
them refuge deserve not criticism but
respect. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Apples and Pears
The f argument urged against opponents
of the pool seems to be that the Gov-
ernment needs every penny it can lay
hands on to finance the scheme. Whether
this is due to poverty of finance or
merely poverty of resource I do not
know.
The pool makes no allowance for the
quality of fruit or for the different
market value of the different varieties of
apples. N.S.W. growers receive less per
case than their fruit still commands even
in the present market. They are paid at
a flat rate of so much per case. Is this
just?
A large portion of the N.S.W. fruit
is sold in the producing districts. Most
of this trade would disappear if there was
no local fruit. By taking all the receipts
from such sales the board is getting pay-
ment for a service it does not render.
The grower does all the work and is
allowed a small commission for selling
his own fruit. The board collects the
balance of the money. Is this good for
trade?
The N.S.W. industry cannot be com-
pared with that in States which grow
apples mainly for export, such as Tas-
mania. N.S.W. orchards produce only
a portion of the fruit consumed in N.S.W.
By reason of the early maturity of the
fruit and the extent of the local market,
growers in N.S.W. may even be able to
operate without any special protection.
—J.R. (N.S.W.).
Cheaper Australian Books
When a new Australian novel is pub-
lished it is usually retailed at 6s. or even
more—too much for any workingman to
outlay on one volume of fiction. Books
dealing with travel, nature study, natural
history and other educational subjects
are published at even higher prices, which
must certainly limit their sales.
You can buy well-bound imported
novels of the popular type for 2s. 9d.
retail, but it is impossible to buy an Aus-
tralian popular novel in a similar good
binding for anything like that price.—
W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
All Together
Why not take a tip from Mr. Chamber-
lain? When he was superseded by Mr.
Churchill his first words were “Let us all
rally around our new leader.”
Instead of demanding new leaders and
telling Mr. Menzies “things we want done
today” through our popular newspapers,
it would be wiser if we rallied opinion
behind him for the tremendous task he
has in hand. —Minto (N.S.W.).
W oolgathering
Of course the war is no longer funny
in essentials, such as blood and slaughter,
but in the nice conduct of the trimmings
there is still cause for mirth of a sombre
sort.
It is funny, for instance, to see how
patriotism is expressed in the window-
dressing of Big Business generally. Take
one window at random from many similar.
It is filled with expensive wristlet watches,
silver cigarette cases, glorious toilet sets,
marvellous wallets, valuable fountain pens
and a hundred other gifts fit for heroes
of all ranks, yea, even for generals. In
a corner is' a printed notice of a “drive”
of some sort to cqllect pennies for the
purchase of “comforts” for the troops.
There must be something wrong some-
where.
If there is any truth in the evidence
before us, our left hand is bestowing
costly gadgets of questionable utility on a
favored few, while the other hand is
begging pennies for socks for soldiers less
fortunate. Or it may well be that a
hero may go forth to battle limping under
a load of precious lumber while his socks
(if any) lack heels and toes.
Other armies may march on their
stomach, but the A.I.F. does it on its feet.
Socks are equipment as necessary as hats.
Petrol is being rationed to provide money
for equipment. Patriotic sentimental
presents could also be rationed to provide
wool and other materials which could
then be delivered to the thousands of
willing workers who can’t get a move on
under the present system till the pennies
have been laid on and collected from the
pavement. — Slow Motion (S.A.).
Bicycle Tax
A very large army of cyclists have
escaped all transport taxation, although
they are generally well able to pay some
trifle which would compensate for the
loss of revenue to Government trams,
buses and trains which the riding of
bicycles causes. Instead of riding to and
from work in a Government bus, tram
or train, thousands now ride a bicycle
to work to save anything up to five
shillings a week in fares. A war-time
tax of ten shillings a year on bicycles
would not be a great imposition
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Study in Contradictions
I have written down these events in
chronological order to see if I can make
head or tail of them:
1918: Britain and France beat Germany
to her knees and disarm her.
1923: Mussolini’s Italy, honored member
of the League now and for 12 more
years, grabs Fiume.
1925: Locarno Pact. Britain and Italy,
no less, guarantee France and Ger-
many against each other.
1931: U.S.A., choked with gold, collapses
financially and the big slump begins.
1933: Hitler’s rise to power on anti-Com-
munist programme.
1934: German designs on Austria stopped
by Italian show of force.
1934: Nazi Germany declines with scorn
Soviet non-aggression pact and an-
nounces will sign nothing Soviet
signs.
1934: Soviet joins Britain and France as
mainstays of League.
1935: Britain, France, and Italy hold col-
lective-security conference at Stresa.
1935: British naval pact with Germany.
1935: Germany begins to rearm against
Soviet.
1935: Abyssinia; Britain and Italy nearly
at war.
1937: Germany and Italy form anti-
Comintern pact.
1938: Germany takes Austria with Italian
connivance.
1938: Germany and Poland dismember
Czecho.
1939: Britain and France guarantee Poland
against Germany.
1938: Germany and Soviet together carve
up Poland.
1939: Britain and France versus Germany.
1940: Britain versus Germany, Italy and
France.
No, it’s too much for me. I defy any-
one to find even a thread of consistent
policy by any of the countries named
in its relations with its neighbors. The
Bulletin is right. It is the Mad Conti-
nent, and we are better out of it.—
Smilax (Q.).
Salvage
When he made his first announcement,
the newly-appointed N.S.W. Conservator
of Salvage (Mr. Weaver) acted up to the
traditions of most Government heads by
addressing his appeal to the city. Except
for one remark, he appeared to forget
that there was anything to salvage in
country districts. He said nothing about
collecting waste in the country, where
he would reap a rich harvest, except to
mention that combs and cutters of shear-
ing machines were of great value because
of the high-class steel from which they
are made.
If Mr. Weaver had consulted anyone
who knows the country, he would have
been told that there are discarded cream
separators, made from the best Swedish
steel, on hundreds of farms, and that if
he went rooting round rubbish heaps,
odd corners of sheds, lofts and similar
places on holdings settled for more than
half a dozen years he would find tons
of the metals which Australia can use.
He would find many other things, too,
that could be used in war industries, and
they would be in much larger quantities
than could be found in the average city
home. Most farmers have a weakness for
storing up articles that “may be useful
some day,” and then finding no use for
them. Aluminium, bronze, lead, fine
steel and similar metals abound in worn-
out farm machinery and other discarded
articles.
Fortunately, many country people are
looking such items up, saving other
materials that are normally wasted, and
putting them by in the hope that some-
thing will be done to collect them. There
is a wealth of waste in the country worth
conserving, and Mr. Weaver is due for
a surprise when he goes after it.—Two
Strand (N.S.W.).


*■- ' Hk '4>v*^ lvw i "' W ''»V« AlW^
KV\
B
P* h-’i 1
1^
«o>
s
r
?■ !p
m
V
QsE
■
Ps/
%FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or, energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling fired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—to a
slowing down of physical activity—to altered habits or mode of living——
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or*
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
Dr.MORSES
A\ADE IN AUSTRALIA
for Simple Constipation
PILLS
and Attendant Ills.
No More Work
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not be
wetted too frequently. Household
duties of all kinds, to say nothing of
factory work, are detrimental, and
once the hands are thoroughly
roughened it is a difficult matter to
restore the natural softness and
whiteness, and still continue work-
ing. However, with care and atten-
tion a great deal can be done to
prevent an unsightly appearance.
After any hard work they should be
well cleaned with good soap and
warm water, and when thoroughly
dried Mirpil rubbed well into the
skin, repeating the operation two or
three times on each occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, After Shaving, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Try rubbing on soles of sore, tired
feet before retiring at night.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6
per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculat
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack ol
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot" Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Patersoi
"Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with th<
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postas
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDT AKERS,* by
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra)
<Pi
a*>
V r,o
-e %
AO
$*
1&0 V
s o^ 1
o 1
#'
a o’
o*H€ >1
\o
/
nM”
O v 1


The Head Office Building of
the T. & G. reflected in the
River Yana.
-
■HH■
*
■
■-•;> .: ' ■
ill
■
»:••:■ :•
wmMmßmmmmm
“ ; ' ;
' *■.
:
ml
r- ~ t |
I
• : ■■ : .
•• * • "V
Plan
Hiitlin
l III! IJ |
*
lAjm.ui
■
I
» rl
>
** , Jf-
*£Ss
a* . . ♦
zmmM
IN the 64 years of its existence this Society has lived through a large part of
Australia s history, in peace and in war, during good times and bad, it has
steadily increased in size and in ability to benefit the community, until today it
is recognised as one of the strongest Life Assurance Societies in the British Empire.
A Progressive Society with a Reputation for Stability and Service
rl &
c flu lual Uj
O'
