

Stilton Hur.r:;....lonshife
This ancient , caching
inn has for three cen-
turies served travellers
to and from the city,
which is now more
readily known by the
cheese to which it gave
its name.
Host Holbrook says:
"Biscuits and cheese is a
frugal meal, but when a
few drops of my Wor-
cestershire Sauce are
added it makes a savory
and digestible repast."
enser
iS
or.
HOLBROOKS
sdf
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
/
P® S&
A
V>o B^*
rf£*.?£
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3131.
Wednesday, February 14, 1940.
The R.A.A.F. Plan
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU?
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
MR. ELIOT ON THE TILES.
Mr. T. S. Eliot’s new book of poems
can confidently be recommended to all
cat-lovers.
It’s a remark that could have been
made in malice about the voice that cried
from The Waste Land, but applied to
Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats
(Faber; F. W. Preece, Ltd.) it’s a simple
statement of fact.
When first it was rumored in dark
alleys that Faber was going to spring
this book on the public, the natural
expectation was a collection of epigrams
in the manner of ‘"The Hippopotamus”
and of “Whispers of Immortality”;
The couched Brazilian jaguar
Compels the scampering marmoset
With subtle effluence of cat;
Grishkin has a maisonette;
The sleek Brazilian jaguar
Does not in its arboreal gloom
Distil so rank a feline smell
As Grishkin in a drawing-room.
But much water has flown under the
bridge, and into the milk, since then.
The manner of the new book is;
Growltiger was a Bravo Cat, who lived upon
a barge;
In fact, he was the roughest cat' that ever
roamed at large.
From Gravesend up to Oxford he pursued his
evil aims,
Rejoicing in his title of “The Terror of the
Thames.’'
His manners and appearance did not calculate
to please;
His coat was torn and seedy, he was baggy at
the knees;
One ear was somewhat missing, no need to
tell you why,
And he scowled upon a hostile world from
one forbidding eye.
There is rough writing, padding, the
amiable faults of doggerel; perhaps it
could be described as a pleasant book of
catterel;
Then Griddlebone she gave a screech, for she
was badly skeered; ,
I am sorry to admit it, but she quickly dis-
appeared.
She probably escaped with ease, I’m sure she
was not drowned—
But a serried ring of flashing steel Growltiger
did surround.
There seems to be something about
cats that gets poets. As Shakspeare put
it (possibly with Eliot’s hippo, also in
mind);
Some men there are love not a gaping pig;
Some, that are mad if they behold a cat.
The youngest contemporaries seem to
prefer to play with railway trains, but
most of the older modems, from Kip-
ling to Edith Sitwell, have shown the
same affection for cats as Gray did for
the beastie that was drowned in the gold-
fish bowl, and has since had 9999 lives
in the school anthologies. Edith, like
Gray, had the domestic viewpoint, the
cat indoors:
His kind velvet bonnet
Warmly lies upon
My weary lap, and on it
My tears run.
Scotch bonnet, bonny,
Lying on my gown,
The fire was once, hey nonny,
A battlemented town.
Kipling had the proud and splendid
animal of the Just-so Stories who
“walked by his wild wet lone,” and
Yeats had his solitary “Minnaloushe”: —
The cat went here and there.
And the moon spun round like a top,
And the nearest kin of the moon,
The creeping cat looked up.
Black Minnaloushe stared at the moon,
For, wander and wail as he would,
The pure cold light in the sky
Troubled his animal blood.
Nothing in Eliot can match the magic
of that, yet beneath his easy humor there
is much the same approach to the sub-
ject. As long as he doesn’t suffer Swift’s
horrible fate and become famous as a
writer for children, Old Possum’s Book
of Practical Cats won’t do his poetic
reputation any harm. It will preserve
him from the accusation levelled at Shel-
ley, that he lacked a sense of humor, and
its colossal simplicity is good evidence
that the obscurity of much of his more
serious work isn’t wanton.
This is a book to read to children,
and by the time they’ve heard of the
wanderings and crimes of Growltiger,
Mungo jerrie and Rumpelteazer, Old
Deuteronomy, Mr. Mistoffelees and Bus-
topher Jones the Cat About Town, they’ll
be ready to echo the poet’s not very
elegant ejaculation:
So for Old Gumbie Cats let us now give three
cheers—
On whom well-ordered households depend, it
appears.
"Flight from a Lady."
rhe hero of A. G. Macdonell’s Flight
from a Lady (Macmillan; Angus and
Robertson) doesn’t like (1) the lady; (2)
Hitler, Mussolini and the Japanese ; (3)
the filthy housing-schemes of suburban
London” ; (4) the word “air-
plane” ; (5) cosmetics; (6)
his rivals for the lady ; (7)
the physical attitude, neces-
sary for cycling; (8i
“Bobby” Browning in his unintelli-
gible moments; (9) drab ninmidjgii
(10) Dame Nature; (11) the 1 West
End; (12) bright boys who call one
another “Darling” ; (13) the'British gov-
ernment ; (14) garlic ; (15) “the dis|bßihg
dish called Bouillabaisse” ; i (16) winter
sports and fat girls in velveteen trousers
(17) Franco ;-(18) “the nauseating rub bis
that is talked about Napoleon”;
big businessmen; (20) Emma, Lad
Hamilton ; (21) Admiral Beatty ; (22) th
Lipari Islands, Dachau, the Fortress o
Petro-Pavlovsk and prisons in general
(23) the Union of Conservative Women’
Associations; (24) British Sportsmen
(25) Torquemada ; (26) most noses ; (2 1]
“Orstrylian wool cards from Stinkin
Sheep Gulch” ; (28) the Spartans; (29’
Lucius Mummius; (30) Aphrodite; (31
Xerxes; (32) Attila and Kaiser Bill
(33) “the loathsome, dusty, noisy, gim
crack suburbs of northern Athens.”
The nice thing for Mr. Macdonell’
hero is that, disliking so many thing
in the world, he happens to be flyin,
round the world and gets a chance t<
talk about them all. He is in love wit)
a lady of Mayfair who isn’t in love wit!
him, so he has hired an aeroplane to
escape from her and writes her an in
suiting letter from each landing-place
offering much guide-book information
with the appropriate snappy comments
So far he has reached Athens and he
has all the way to Bali yet to go.
He dislikes (34) kinking his neck; (35)
Signor Morosini and Lord Elgin for
messing about with the Parthenon; (36)
the sooty air of Bloomsbury and “the
unctuous hypocrisy of the English”
(37) London “Daily Mirror” ; (38) laure
trees; (39) Athena, the Owl and Hera
(40) “women, women, women”; (41)
Tintoretto’s “Ariadne”; (42) customs
regulations ; (43) “a lout like Hercules” ;
(44) the Harpies; (45) Medea; (46’
8.8. C. announcers in a bad temper;
(47) General Sarrail, who commanded the
Allied forces in Salonica in the last war ;
(48) buttercups; (49) the Serbs ; (50) al-
fresco entertainment.
Only another fifty to go and you’ve
got your century, chappie. And you’re
not even out of Europe yet.
Public Enemies No. (51) are Ouida
and Ella Wheeler Wilcox; (52) “the
everlasting stupidity of the rich” ; (53)
Cecil Rhodes and Barney Barnato; (54)
the “incompetent polo-players” who were
officers in the last war; (55) the British
and French newspapers which failed to
report the French treason “re-trials”,
(56) Foch, Joffre, Poincar£ and Stanley
Baldwin; (57) the Pyramids; (58) the
Sphinx and the Mona Lisa; (59) junior
Ministers; (60) St. George; (61) the
British, the Jews and the Arabs in Pales-
tine ; (62) Aimee Semple Macpherson ;
(63) lithographs of the Prince Consort in
Saxe-Coburg tartan; (64) Bagdad; (65)
General Townsend ; (66) John D. Rocke-
feller and Sir Henry Deterding; (67)
bombers ; (68) Eve; (69) the coast of
Persia ; (70) the South Pole ; (71) camels ;
(72) air pockets; (73) Anglo-Indian
bores ; (74) driving in the heat to the
Ghats; (75) mending punctures; (76)
indigestion; (77) the noise of train-
wheels ; (78) the damned silly people who
attack Escapism; (79) Calcutta; (80) the
Rangoon aerodrome; (81) Scottish
planters ; (82) hangovers ; (83) snakes ;
(84) Conrad’s Mrs. Travers; (85) love.
At this point, of course, the traveller
cables the lady that he’s coming home to
marry her. His orthodox Leftist politics
might make one glad to say good-bye
to him, but he writes amusingly and he
has a wholesome respect—-if for nothing
else —-for beer.
Relatively Einstein.
It is not surprising that after reading
H. Gordon Garbedian’s Albert Einstein
(Cassell) one’s conception of the theory
of relativity should still be as clear as
mud. For, however “popularly” it is
described and illustrated, it has an innate
and implacable muddiness. In a couple
of chapters which Mr. Garbedian kindly
advises you to skip, this book has an
extremely popular explanation, crammed
with the most fascinating stories of men
on Mercury running backwards at
186,000 miles a second and smoking
large black cigars curved at the end in
the space-time continuum, but it still
doesn’t mean anything in particular.
What is surprising, though, is that the
rest of the book, a biography of Einstein,
might as well be about the man in the
jjnoon.j u lytr. Ji. Gordon Garbedian has
a sjtyleffas 'airily orotund as his name, and
ne sounds like one of Stephen Leacock’s
professors trying ,lo ; ., borrow a million
~&Hars. j&Mmt A d
■3 *Me hM ■ quite a nice description of
the weather at the time when Papa
Einstein-was pacing"hrixidusly about the
streets of Ulm and the neighbors were
getting ready to admire little Albert’s
“chubby face” and “shining brown
eyes,” but that’s about as far as he can
go in realism. On the last page a
Yankee prof.> is trotting up to Einstein
with “a cup of tea in his hand and a
mischievous smile on his face,” and you
feel that he’s about to chuck a baby
Albert under his chubby chin. And Mr.
Garbedian actually does record there a
bit of waggish baby-talk of the type that
flapper papers foist on to royalty.
The facts of Einstein’s life are here—
the hard work, the slow recognition, the
world-wide hero worship, his simplicity
and his devotion to the cause of the
Jews but the nan isn’t. Mr. Gar-
bedian’s next book, unless he is going
to go back to his popular science series,
should be a biography of Shirley Temple.
Fleet-street Maorilander.
Maoriland journalist lan Cosier, who
translated himself to London a dozen
years ago, had ups and downs in Fleet-
street, became managing editor of
“Nash’s Magazine,” and is now film re-
viewer of the “Evening Standard,” pre-
sents in his first book, Friends in Aspic
(John Mills), a series of sketches of Eng-
lish notabilities and notorieties, something
after the manner of A. G. Gardiner, but
more intimate and irreverent.
G. B. Shaw is one of the bag. The
patriarchal Arnold Dolmetsch, authorifv
on archaic musical instruments, tola
Coster that Shaw wears five-toed socks.
It took a lot of intriguing to find out if
that was true or not. It isn’t.
“The Conversion of Swaff” tells how
and why Hannen Swaffer, “best reporter
of our time,” exorcised the Demon
Alcohol —he took a five-guinea treat-
ment, and it worked, but he still smokes
cigarettes all the time he is awake.
There’s a candid-camera snapshot of
Lloyd George surreptitiously combing
his snowy shingle before facing a movie
camera to do his two-minutes’ silence on
Armistice day (L.G. gave Coster a full
transcript of his thoughts during that two
minutes—in advance). Two people who
wouldn’t be interviewed were Kipling
and George Arliss. Coster interviewed
Arliss’s butler, and later attempted to
annoy the great man by confessing the
dreadful deed. “One has servants,” .re-
marked George icily, “but one does not
have them interviewed. Good day.”
After attending a nudist convention the
essayist comes to the conclusion that if
the human race gave up clothing there
would be seasonal breeding and an end
to promiscuity.
Geoffrey de Montalk, who calls him-
self Count Potocki and claims the throne
of Poland, is traced from his dairy-farm-
hand days in Maoriland to his picturesque
eminence in Bloomsbury, where he sports
the royal crest of Poland on his bed-
stead and wears a crimson-and-gold robe.
Babe Ruth takes a whang at the game
of cricket. “Slow balls beat him, but
he smashed the fast ones.” Wrestler
Hackenschmidt explains his new and
beautiful theory of Cosmic Rhythmic-
Energy. Francis Meynell tells of the
days when he smuggled jewels into Lon-
don for the Bolsheviks. And there’s an
impish picture of that legend of Fleet-
street Percy Cudlipp, when last heard
of editorial manager of the “Daily
Herald.”
Jim Philp.
A familiar name to many Queens-
landers in the very interesting article on
“The Bulletin and Its Writers” (B.
31/1/ ’4O) was J. A. Philp, classed as one
of the sub-editors of the ’eighties, and
therefore “one of the temperate crew.”
Reaching out to the bookcase, I took
down a volume, Some Bulletin Stories,
by James A. Philp. Not all Bulletin
stories, for some were original to the
little volume. But the foreword shows
that “The Stinkin’ Pride of Harold
Devaney,” “Mr. John Young,” “Lone-
somehurst,” “Two Days with a Maori
Chief” (J.A.P., by the way, was a Maori-
lander), “Miss Maloney’s Reppitation,”
“The Long Arm of Coincidence” and
“Mclntyre’s Leap” all first saw light in
the columns of The Bulletin.
When Jim Philp ceased direct connec-
tion with The Bulletin he became ad-
vertising manager for Brisbane “Courier,”
which,, as the years went on, became his
Bible, his preoccupation, for about three
generations. As an advertising man he
was in the front rank. His excellent
memory and gift for story-telling often
enabled him to wheedle an advertising
contract out of a difficult prospect when
no other means would have served. He
had his fine-weather and wet-weather
clients. In dry spells he kept away from
the firms depending on land industries
for their business; but let the drought
break and Jim was on the doormat with
the first good shower.
Jim kept his hand in by writing a
column of humorous verse and prose for
the “Courier,” and published several little
volumes of what might be called jingle,
much of it anti-Labor. At Labor’s ex-
pense he was often vitriolic.
Stung by the attitude of certain sec-
tions of the community in the Great
War, Jim Philp published Jingles that
Jangle, “a book of unpublished satires,”
and inscribed “to my two soldier sons,
and to the soldier sons of thousands of
other Australians, who, in the great
world war, have been deaf to all sophis-
tries and have heard the clarion call of
duty.”.
The foreword might in a sense have
been written in 1940:
This little book is issued largely with the
intention of giving expression to the senti-
ment of rather tired contempt that the
writer is conscious of feeling towards those
Australian communities which, after the
greatest war in history has lasted four
years, are seemingly content to permit dis-
loyalists, indifferentists, pacificists and open
and concealed “comforters of the enemy”
to occupy the seats of the mighty from
which they can without any danger of
discomfort to themselves regulate—when
the opportunity oilers—the kaleidoscopic
current of events to the disadvantage of
our hard-driven and bleeding Motherland.
Jingles that Jangle put the acid on
most of Queensland’s public men. It
had a frontispiece portrait of the author,
“from a wash-drawing by F. P. Mahony,
the eminent Australian artist.”
Philp’s two sons returned from the
war. One took up the law, greatly to the
delight of his dad, who, however, never
lived to see him raised to the Bench.
A daughter has for years been secretary
of the Queensland branch of the B.M.A.
Another son is doing his best to become
a wool king in the south-west of Queens-
land, whither he carried off a Brisbane
lady journalist as wife.
S. I. VAL.
Soul of a City : “Printed by arrange-
ment with the Municipal Council of
Sydney.” Oswald L. Ziegler, who pro-
duced about the only lasting memorial
of the 150th-birthday commemoration in
Sydney—his beautifully-designed volume
covering in photos, and descriptive articles
practically every aspect of the Australian
scene —has done another nice job in the
present vol. On a smaller scale than
the earlier tome, it depicts with fine
photos, a day in Sydney, beginning with
dawn breaking on the harbor, through
morning movement beginning to stir in
the streets, the markets, workers coming
in to toil, schools, lunch-hour and so
on to nightfall. As an advertiser of his
country Ziegler would take some beating.
Born in Victoria, brought up in S.A.,
and since then making himself familiar
with the rest of Australia, he has
imagination and a sure eye for effective
depictions.
From Allans, Melbourne, Songs from
Tales and Tarradiddles (25.), words by
“The Perfesser and Alter Ego Esq,” and
music by Arthur S. Loam. These
amusing jingles, set to quite good tunes,
deal with Australian birds and beasts.
It’s an open secret now that “The Per-
fesser” was Prof. Harrison, who occu-
pied the Chair of Zoology at Sydney Uni.
at the time of his death. The book from
which the verses were taken was pub-
lished some years ago by the Cornstalk
Co., and its steady safes have encouraged
the publication of the musical setting of
some of its contents.


•'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ’’ always
"THE SENIOR STORE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
SALE
dsf
SALE
SALE
SALE
HORDERNS
*»?•
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
genuine reductions on quality merchandise
5 ; ■
m
m
x
m
Vi
PURE WOOL
Travelling Rugs
Merino finish, soft and fleecy.
Fringed ends. Wide range of
beautiful colours and designs.
Size 80x60. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 39/6
SALE PRICE 32/6
/
5;
W's i '' ..
mm
jr
Solid
Leather Cases
Cowhide. Eight
Mad. from cover „ d
Strong gun
leather capped
frame round body of case,
handle.
20ins. 22ins. 24ins. 2o:ns.
Regular 40/
case
Sizes
28ins.
44/_ 48/- 52/- 56/-
Kr 35/6 39/6 93/6 46/6 50/-
3*5
'
¥*2
m
h
S:
V
w
%
r
FIBRE MOTOR CASES
Strongly made from plain fibre, leather-l.ke
in appearance. Two hardwood battens
round case, fitted eight capped corners
and strong leather handle. Between Suit
Case and Cabin Trunk in size
26ins. 28ins. 30ins. 32ins.
Regular Prices 3. 22/- 24/- 25/6 27/6
SALE PRICES 20/- 21/9 23/- 24/6
• 7 lravel Goods—'Grnd. Fir
Pitt or First Floor—
George St. Freight paid on
Travel Rugs only •
.22 CAL. SINGLE
SHOT, BOLT
ACTION RIFLE
.22 calibre Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle. 30in. Barrol.
Reqular Price 30/-
SALE PRICE 26/-
_
m
/.
“V)
r
V\
r
( XA,
(- >K ,7
X ‘ X
r
X
r
n
Lk
27/6
B.S.A. MARTINI ACTION
RIFLE. 25 INCH BARREL
B S A 310 Col. Martini Action Rifle. 1 ?!'? mb#r * d J?
take 32 W.C.F. Rifle Cartridge*. Military fight*.
600 ,o,d, Th« ■«!.. or. » p.n~.
and have had a little u*e. SALE PRICE ...
%
£B/17/6
16 Gauge Bayard Double Barrel
30in. barrels, nitre proof. A good grade gen.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price
SALE PRICE
£lO/10/-
£B/17/6
• Guns, Rifles -Lotvcr
Floor—Pitt Street . - -
paid on Guns and Rifles s®/*
and over.
12 Gauge Single Barrel
2 Gauge Single Borrel^Sun. R 3 c 0ins. or 0^
egular Price, bb Regular Price.
6 and 20 gauge 30 ms. oniy. w/ .
6/-. SALE PRICE , __ ■ — I 1
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS L .
RoI 2712 C, G.P.O.. Sydney
Phone M 2401 - • B°* 2712


LUCK O’ THE FO’C’SLE
"Come on, George — We 'aven't been in a
'anshom cab f'r years!"
BY STEVE BENNETT
AFTER six tirin’ weeks in Melbourne we had
enjoyed a rollickin’ last evenin’ ashore, an’ as
we straggled along the pier singin’ choruses an’
comparin’ the charms of our Pollys an’ Kates
we saw a bloke huntin’ a young urchin down the gang-
way of a Swedish barque. We took the kid’s part,
naturally, pickin’ a row with the bullyin’ watchman,
chasin’ him back aboard an’ adoptin’ the kid our-
selves.
In the light of the fo’c’sle lamp he looked a miser-
able, pasty-faced little waif ; an’ when Russian Tom
lifted him an’ pushed him to arm’s len’th overhead
the boys encouraged the ridiculous big clown, but I
was scared he’d hurt the kid’s back.
‘Take a pocketful o’ biscuit an’ get ashore again,
nipper,” says I as Tom stood him right side up ; but
the nipper sparred up for more, his beady eyes dancin’
an’ his pinched little face all a-grin. The Russian
pounced on him again like a bear with a rat, an’
we laughed at their antics till. Tom was puffed. Then
we laughed at the way the kid began stowin’ away the
grub we found him.
“Why ain’t you home in bed, laddie?” I asked
him.
“Me ole man’s drunk an’ gimme a hidin’,” he
says, “an’ me ole woman’s drunker. I’m on the
doss.”
“You can doss here tonight then,” I told him.
“But get ashore in the mornin’ before we get to sea.”
“Take no nottis o’ Scotty,” laughed the Russian.
“If you don’t vant to go ashore in de mornin’, nipper,
you can stay aboard —huh?”
“Good-oh!” says the nipper, wolfin’ a thick slice
o’ bread an’ marmalade ; an’ that started an argu-
ment that would have ended in a free fight if we
hadn’t gradually talked ourselves to sleep. The last
I heard was the big Russian swearin’ that the boy had
been specially sent by Providence to be our lucky
mascot, an’ that a hot-headed Scotsman didn’t nefed
so many blankets: he was draggin’ off both mine
to cover the nipper!
We had fat heads at six in the mornin’, an’ it took
two pannikins o’ hot coffee to set me on my pins.
Then I had a peep at the nipper, still sleepin’ in his
bunk, an’ Russian Tom grinned like a bad boy in a
fruit-garden when I got goin’ again.
“A damn’ fine mascot!” says I. “I’d sooner a
shark’s tail tacked to the jibboom! That poor little
devil is too weak to go to sea!”
“He iss too veak to stay ashore starvin’,” says
Tom. “De sea vill make a man of him, an’ ven he
gets back home he vill stand up to hiss drunken
fader —huh?”
“Back home!” I grumbled. “Are you bringin’
him back home?”
Tom was still wrigglin’ for an answer when the
mate poked his nose in the doorway to rouse us
out. We all crowded on him in a hurry to hide the kid.
NTIPPER lined up to eat a man’s breakfast, an’ he
was so pleased with his new dosshouse that I’d
have been sorry then to talk o’ chasin’ him. Still, I
couldn’t fit him in amongst that crowd, he looked so
tiny an’ frail. He stayed out o’ sight as we towed down
the bay, an’ it wasn’t till we’d dropped the pilot that
me an’ Tom rigged a tale for the skipper.
“We found him, sir,” says I, very honest, “stowed
away in the fo’c’sle. He’s a willin’ kid an’ seems
pretty smart for his age, but Tom here wants to
chuck him overboard, like they do in Russian ships,
sir, because he’s too small.”
Now the skipper was only a little weed himself,
an’ touchy about it. He got his back up at once. “The
biggest men,” says he, “are always the greatest fools!
If you ever harm this lad, you blusterin’ barbarian,
I’ll pretty'quick reduce your size an’ weight! Now
take the boy for’ard an’ look after him! I’ll send
him some clothes.”
The kid was so pleased he’d have jumped into the
big bloke’s arms if Tom hadn’t clipped his ear just as
we reached the main deck —an’ at that the skipper
became so abusive we had to bustle for’ard at the
double.
Tom reckoned we’d scored a win, but I was
narked. We should have tricked the Old Man into
givin’ Nipper a comfy job aft, I said ; but I suppose
the after gang wouldn’t want to be bothered with the
brat, any more than some o’ the fo’c’sle hands, who
already reckoned him a damn’ nuisance.
Ted Buller was one. Ted was an awkward feller
with a few wisps o’ fiery hair left above his ears
an’ the temper of a circus mule. Nipper seemed to
think that because Ted was as big as Russian Tom
he should be as good-natured ; an’ the first time Ted
cracked him for his cheek the kid almost cried. So
Ted cracked him again, an’ Nipper blubbered to him-
self for five minutes. Ted explained to the watch
that Nipper was a colonial, an’ that an English lad
would have shown more ginger.
“He vill get hard bymeby, Buller,” says Russian
Tom very quiet. “A little smack von’t hurt him—
huh? But I vouldn’t break his spirit!”
“If he don’t keep out o’ my way I’ll break his
blasted neck!” growls Ted. “You an’ Scotty brought
him aboard, so you an’ Scotty had better keep him
in his place.”
But the Russian wouldn’t teach Nipper his place
an’ I couldn’t, so between us we were soon makin’ a
regular monkey of him. In watches below durin’ fine
weather Tom would toss him about in all sorts o’
balancin’ tricks, then give him lessons
in smokin’ a stumpy clay. The black
plug made him sick at first, but he
soon learned to swagger round the
deck with the pipe in his teeth an'
blowin’ a cloud o’ smoke like a
Grimsby trawler, an’ the more we
laughed the better he acted.
Now Tom was also a great hand
at fancy knots an’ plaitin’, an’ he was
fast enough to shame any woman at
knittin’ socks ; but he left it a bit late
to start that kid on anythin’ so useful.
There wasn’t enough applause cornin’
for just fiddlin’ with ropes an’ spun-
yarn, while at sight o’ the wool an’
the long needles Nipper showed fight.
“I’m a man, Tommy, ain’t I?” he
pipes, indignant as a bantam rooster.
“Well, you ain’t makin’ me a bloomin’
tart!”
That seemed to be his one idea —
to be a man. An’ as he was takin’
Tom for his model the Russian had
to stow his knittin’ an’ start playin’ up
to the kid now an’ again by bullyin'
me an’ the others. We all took our
parts except Ted Buller, who was as dull as he was
big.
“No Rooshian’ll bounce me!" he told the fo’c’sle
one evenin’ when Tom was turnin’ a friendly argument
into a serious row, with the kid watchin’ him close.
“When a furriner talks to me in a British ship he’ll
talk respectful!’’
Tom was lettin’ that pass, with a wink at us an’
a hopeless shrug o’ the shoulders, but it was more than
Nipper could stand. “You’re gettin’ too cheeky, Red-
’ead,” he shouts from the other side o’ the fo’c’sle.
“You belay that or Tom’ll pull your long nose.”
Buller went after him then, coursin’ him out o’
the fo’c’sle an’ along the deck, but Nipper dodged
round the foremast an’ the deckhouse an’ was back
amongst us while Ted was still snarlin’ outside. We
roared at the kid’s smartness, an’ when Ted comes
lumberin’ in, blackguardin’ him enough to scare him
stiff, we roared still louder at the way Nipper met him,
springin’ back from the doorway an’ bobbin’ from
side to side like a penny jumpin’-jack.
“Ginger for pluck!” shouts the kid from afore
the windlass, an’ when Ted scrambled after him he
skipped away to hide behind Russian Tom. Buller
came to get him, stampin’ wild, but Tom circled
round, keepin’ Nipper behind him an’ laughin’ with
the rest of us, till Ted swung a nasty clout that jammed
the Russian’s ear against his head an’ shifted the grin
from his face.
That made things livelier. The Englishman knew
darned little about usin’ his fists, an’ although Tom
knew less he had the strength of a bull an’ the speed
of a cat. It was funny to see him duckin’ an’ slip-
pin’ Ted’s swings pretty enough, then lungin’ in to
miss with four out o’ five of his own ; but even one
in five o’ those cow-kicks was too good an average
for Ted, an’ he soon found ’em a bit dazin’.
Nipper had dodged away at the first clash, an’
was slingin’ advice to his champion from between
me an’ a lanky Norwegian, jumpin’ on our toes in his
excitement. “Go it, Tommy! Knock ’is baldy ’ead
orf! ” he shouts every few seconds ; an’ as Buller
came in close an’ was flung back against the bunks,
“Hooray! Hooray! Eat ’im alive!”
“SHut up!” says I presently, givin’ the kid a shove
an’ anxious to keep my mind on the scrap; an'
although Nipper wasn’t offended, a ’Frisco bloke
behind him was. “Let the boy enjoy himself, you
haggis-chawin’ hobo,” he growls. “Didn’t he promote
the gahdamn fight?”
“Oh, what a snifter!” squeals Nipper again as
Tom stopped a rush by Ted with a left jab that was
all accident. “Let ’im ’ave it, Tommy. Smash ’is
bloomin’ jaw.”
You never saw a madder young larrikin. He
was in the mill himself, his eyes starin’ wide an’ his
puny body wincin’ with pain at every crack the hefty
Russian got; an’ when at last, after the rottenest ex-
hibition I’ve ever seen, Ted was so winded he offered
to shake, Nipper dived across an’ grabbed his other
hand. “You’re pretty good with that right uppercut,
Baldy,” says he, which set us all rackin’ our brains
to remember it; “but you’d never beat my cobber.”
]\l IPPER was so pleased at Tom’s win that from
then on he couldn’t do enough for Ted Buller.
He cut his tobacco, greased his boots an’ admired
every picture an’ knick-knack Ted showed him from
his sea-chest. He started callin’ him Teddy, an’ only
when he felt like bein’ cheeky, which was oftener
than ever, did he altogether forget his new pal.
One afternoon his infernal impudence nearly
brought his end. We were close-hauled an’ cuttin’
some queer capers in a heavy head sea. The kid had
been keepin’ warm an’ gettin’ suspiciously friendly in
the galley, an’ the cook had caught him pinchin’ a
pancake meant for the Old Man. He came flyin’
out with his prize held aloft an’ the cook’s boot close


under his stern, runnin’ straight into a sea that had
climbed over our bows. It took our lucky mascot aft
with a rush, rolled him an’ spun him like a farthin’
top, tossed his pancake overboard an’ would have
fed the kid himself to the fish if the cook hadn’t
grabbed the seat of his pants.
"If he had gone over the side in a sea like this,”
says Ted Buller, lookin’ very wise as Nipper crawled
into the fo'c'sle half-drowned, “we’d have seen him
washed back aboard on the next lee-water!”
“Bunkum!” says I. “The sea ain’t so kind an’
motherly!”
“I seen it done five years ago,” Ted goes on very
stolid, “in the old Monreale, heatin’ west’ard off the
Leeuwin! ”
“Maybe you did,” I agreed. “But if I was as big
as Russian Tom I’d call you a liar!”
Instead of Tom takin’ the hint he sided with Ted,
as solemn as an undertaker. “Don’t be too sure o’
yousself, Scotty,” he says. “Ve don’t unnerstan’ efry-
ting. I haf heard ’bout dem tings before.”
Nipper tried to laugh, shiverin’ with cold an’
fright as Tom separated him from his wet clobber.
”If I’d ’eard about it before,” he chattered, “I’d
’ave ’ung on to me pancake.”
“An’ you’d be still hangin’ to it, laddie,” I told
him, “on your way to Davy Jones. Don’t you swaller
these whale-an’-Jonah yarns, an’ don’t let these fellers
kid you the sea is as soft an’ sentimental as them-
selves.”
But Tom an’ Ted kept at it, an’ damn me if the
rest o’ the bunch didn’t start in to remember cases
they’d heard about! In the second dog-watch all
hands swung on to it, Buller an’ the Russian bein’ in
such a convincin’, sanctimonious mood that I soon
found myself the only one game to stand against ’em.
It’s queer how a lopsided idea can get stuck in
the noddles of a fo’c’sle crowd with nothin’ much
else to amuse ’em. For about four weeks there was
never a day passed without a man overboard bein’
dished up with the crackerhash or the slumgullion—
an’ no one bar myself seemed to have ever seen a man
stay overboard. Nipper took it all as serious as they
did, an’ while he was makin’ friends with everybody
else he turned me down as a miserable blighter who’d
have had him drowned without givin’ him a second
chance.
He was gettin’ a bit o’ the rough stuff now that
was takin’ the snap out o’ him, nearin’ the Horn in
July bein’ hardly the sort o’ picnic to cheer an under-
sized weaklin’. He was knocked about at times by the
sea, but still he dodged around wherever there was
work, an’ we had to threaten him with a beltin’ some-
times to prevent him cornin’ aloft. He tried to crack
hardy, but the snow an’ sleet an’ heavy seas were
gradually gettin’ him beat, and the only way we could
keep him in his bunk for a watch now an’ again was
by tellin’ him he was a flamin’ eyesore anywhere else.
That made him worse, anyhow, as he could see
the big Russian gettin’ livelier an’ noisier, like the sea
itself, the nearer we came to the Horn. And what
upset him most was to feel that he wasn’t quite the
man he’d decided to be.
“You vill be right ’nough, Nipper, after ve pass
dis gordam corner,” the Russian would shout when
he saw the kid lookin’ half-dead. “I feel yoost like
you, but if 1 lay up dese fellers kick me out on deck
—huh? You vill be first-class sailor bymeby. You
yoost vants little more sunshine.”
JUDGIN’ by the color o’ the kid, he needed a lot
more ; an’ I began to notice him lookin’ even
skinnier than when we brought him aboard. “Do
you think Nipper’s gettin’ sick?” I asked Tom one
evenin’ on the quiet, after hearin’ something queer in
the boy’s breathin’.
“Gettin' ?” snaps Tom. “Efrybody but de blind
Scotsman knows he can’t get much sicker. Nefer you
see consumption?”
“Well, I’ll go to blazes!” says I, a bit guilty. “We
ain’t treatin’ him proper, an’ the grub ain’t fit for
pigs!”
“You ask him,” argues Tom, warmin’ up. “He
gets less kicks an’ more grub aboard here dan he efer
got at home. An’ ven ve runs up into de varm sun-
shine he’ll get stronger. Dat kid brings plenty good
luck to dis ole limeyuicer, an’ she brings him plenty
strength bymeby. But you iss alvays growlin’ ’bout
someting! ”
“Well,” 1 growls on, “if the kid is gettin’ weaker,
an’ we ain’t yet round the Horn after two months o’
mostly dirty weather, where in hell’s the luck?”
But Tom stuck to his superstition, an’ most o’
the fo’c’sle stuck with him. He told us about a
brother who’d been cured o’ half a dozen diseases by
a long voyage. Another bloke saw a paralytic chuck
his crutches overboard six weeks after leavin’ Sydney.
A shipwrecked orphan with a weak chest, after driftin’
ten days on a raft, had been handed a clean set o'
lungs. Between the lot they had more bloomin’
miracles to mystify ’em than a whole tribe o’ Hindu
fakirs.
I wasn’t sorry now to see Nipper believin’ these
fancy tales, because it bucked him up an’ gave him
back some o’ his old sprightliness. But I’m hanged if I
could savvy the whole fo’c’sle goin’ sort o’ religious
about the kid, lookin’ at him sometimes as though they
expected to spot pin-feathers sproutin’ from his
shoulders.
An’ how quick did that imp cotton on to the idea
that he was a livin’ idol.
“I’m in the port watch, maties,” he’d say very im-
portant, callin’ the attention o’ the whole crowd. An
I tell you straight I’m goin’ to work with the port
watch! ”
He did, too. Even Tom couldn’t kid him to stay
in his bunk ; Ted was stupid enough to coax him out
of it, an’ all the abuse I slung at him only made him
more perky. He was a full-blown seaman at last;
cursin’ an’ being cursed at, standin’ up to the wet an
cold without a grizzle, climbin’ as far as the tops 1
yard with his shipmates, squattin’ about the fo c sle
smokin’ an’ chippin’ in to every talk, knowin’ he was
more respected now than ever Russian Tom or the
Old Man himself.
“P\IS kid vill nefer look back!” Tom told us at
breakfast one mornin’. “De sea iss makin him,
right ’nough. An’ de good spirits iss vatchin him.
“If there’s any spirits hangin’ round this dirty,
God-forsaken corner o’ the globe,” says I, dog-tired
after losin’ two watches below, “I’ll swear they ain t
good ones! Decent spirits wouldn’t deal it out to dogs
like we’ve been gettin’ it. Can any son-of-a-gun lend
me a dry pair o’ underpants?”
No one could ; an’ I turned in as wet as the rest
of ’em, Nipper included, good spirits notwithstandin .
We turned out at seven bells, fought the crazy,
prancin’ ship for our dinner, an’ at eight bells stag-
gered into a vicious sleet-storm an’ a job! As we
sneaked very wary to the waist o' the ship 1 spotted
Nipper.
“Hey!” I shouts, hopin’ the mate would hear.
“You get to hell out o’ this! Away for’ard till you’re
wanted!”
But Nipper wasn’t takin’ orders from me. He
slipped by, well lashed in oilskins that might have
made him two suits, lookin’ like a funny little mechani-
cal toy ; an’ as we passed the brace from hand to hand,
cockin’ an eye at the big seas heapin’ up around us,
he dodged between Buller an’ Tom an’ grinned back
at me with all the impudence his white, wizened face
could muster.
Then we started to haul, bracin’ ourselves against
the rail as the deck tilted to leeward, splutterin an
blowin’ as the torn-off crest of a sea smacked our
faces, clenchin’ our teeth as we came down into the
trough below the next oncomin’ roller.
That one passed under us, to hand back a few
tons o’ water as it shook its greeny-white head over
our lee rail before racin’ away with a satisfied gurgle.
The next one played with us the same way, but it left
the deck so flooded that when the old hooker rolled
back to weather we were up to our armpits ; and that’s
why we were already grabbin’ pins an’ shrouds when
the third sea charged at us like a mad elephant,
thumped the whole length o’ the bulwarks with the
boom of a cannon, curled above our stiffened backs
an’ came down with a crash that set me all nervy
about the crook plankin’ just abaft the mainmast.
We wobbled under that load so long I lost count
o’ the seconds, an’ catchin’ my breath I swallered
enough water to drown a seal. But away goes the
deluge at last, the ship rollin’ to leeward at such an
angle that she buried her rail under a slopin’ wall o
water risin’ clear from the neck an’ threatenin’ to
topple back an’ sink us. An’ there, in the middle o'
that choppy stretch, a few fathoms up an’ out from
the deck, we spotted Nipper’s sou’-wester. A little
swirl spun it round, an’ Nipper himself smiled our
way, game an’ trustin’, his bulgin’ oilskins keepin him
afloat. Then up comes the lee rail between him an’
us, an’ up further it goes as the weather rail comes
down to make us another bath.
No one spoke. Every man jack stood waitin'
silent for that lee side to dip once more. Russian Tom’s
head was the highest, an’ watchin’ his smilin’ face I
felt stupidly hopeful, though I was numbed through
as though the frost had got my guts!
That rail seemed hours reachin’ the level, an'
hours more gettin’ low enough to suit us. But it got
down at last, an’ further down, till another hungry,
treacherous sea came sloppin’ inboard. An’ even then
no one spoke. For half a minute more we stood like
wooden men, dingin’ helpless to whatever was handy,
blinkin’ at the merciless sea an’ listenin’ to its brutal
roar. I saw the smile disappear from the Russian’s
face, sudden as the night Ted Buller scattered it, an’
then I got my voice.
It sounded like the moan of a wounded dog, but
1 knew I was speakin’ for the crowd. “Tom,” I says,
“I’d give every goddamn bean I got to see your cranky
arguments proved! ”
“When you bite this joint, kid you're a bit weary on it!"
The Fisherman.
Nobody wants to stay on the . beach now
With the sky burning and the sea blackening, and a
ship
A long way out, remote as a rock or a cloud
Or the travellers’ island soft with girls and palm-
trees.
The dusk has swept the children away like driftwood,
And the cars have raced the darkness home to the
city.
But who in a time of war, when the wind of death
Roars in our ears, goes home as to an orchard
Where the lights ripen their peace of gold on the
boughs
And the roof tree roots in earth? Our houses creak.
The children in bed can hear the shriek of the wind,
And the neighbors’ house is a ship a long way out.
The fisherman, lonely on the beach, is not more
lonely
Than the starry city that wheels its course in the
darkness :
O lost, lost people, and one man standing still!
He juts from the sand like the spar of a wrecked ship,
Admired because it survived the fangs of weather,
Though it points at nothing—an idiot gesture of
wood.
Old scarecrow among your silver meadow of foam,
No more than Canute can you defy the sea's
White melancholy birds, or the rushing dark :
Your flesh and bone will be false to your look of
rock,
The sand will slip from your feet, the tide come on
And your cry of drowning swirl in the night like
seaweed.
Where is the shadow of stone 1 left to stand
By the Awakino when morning was green and foggy
And the blue glass was broken over the limestone
rocks
And the kingfisher dived like a falling star of
sapphire ?
At noon it crumbled; when evening came to the
willows
Gently as a woman’s voice, my shadow was drowned.
The Bible’s fishermen saw their white young God
Walk on the sea as a seagull rides on air,
And I look for a sign : fisherman, stand
For the simple men who stood in the dark of history.
For the simple men who will stand in the dark of the
future,
As you do now, while the ocean shows its teeth
And the city is lost in a wind of autumn leaves.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
tfbd c MheofWie mellmmcJSanddcuq/iiei
MR. PICKWICK'S LAST HOME.
Five miles south of London Bridge, in the county of Surrey, but a part of South London, is the “village” of Dulwich, with delightful
arboreal appurtenances. It is famed for its College, “God’s Gift College in Dulwich,” built and endowed by the actor Edward Alleyn in
1619, and its gallery, wherein is housed one of the best collections of pictures of Old Masters in the world from the brushes of Murillo,
Cuyp, Teniers, Rembrandt, Rubens, Van Dyck, Ostade, Salvator Rosa, Paul Veronese, Claude, Poussin, Gainsborough, Opie and Sir Thomas
Lawrence, to indicate a few. But it possesses another object of fame of possibly greater immediate interest to thousands, and the majority
are not “art enthusiasts,” in what is believed to be the residence to which Mr. Pickwick retired to spend the eventide of his life. No
character in fiction has more closely endeared itself to English readers the world over than the hero of Dickens’s marvellous literary
creation. Here in this “quiet pretty neighborhood in the vicinity of London,” he saw a house which “exactly suited my fancy,” took it
and furnished it. “It has a large garden and is situated in one of the most pleasant spots near London.” Here the most lovable,
simple and honest of all Dickens’s characters “continued to reside... .employing his leisure hours in arranging the memoranda
which he afterwards presented to the secretary of the once-famous Club.” Becoming somewhat infirm, this “still living lovable man”
frequently visited Dulwich Gallery to contemplate the pictures, or walked in the pleasant neighborhood on a fine day, idolised by all, young
and old. This historic residence will continue to claim the attention of every reader of the Pickwick Papers, the popularity of which
remains unabated with the passing of the years.


THE INVASION OF 194?.
“If anyone tried to violate Australia I would be in the front rank."- J. T. Lang, who is rising 64.
“Kamerad!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
BY-ELECTION WARFARE.
What is euphemistically called “defence” —meaning
war-effort—is gladly accepted by Mr. Menzies as “the
real issue” at the Corio (Vic.) by-election. And no
wonder. It is no more a “real issue” in that scrap
for a seat than the cost of beer would be in a dog-
fight, but from the point of view of the Government a
better false issue could not have been presented.
Labor’s notion of an adequate war-effort being
known, Labor’s chance of winning on such an issue is
almost as remote as the war. A good deal can here
be said about the Government’s shortcomings in the
same matter, but when it is all said the Government
still looks like a live trier compared with Labor’s weak
inability to face up to realities, as exposed by Mr.
Curtin whenever he opens his mouth.
As for the Government’s conception of war-effort,
the belief might well be held that it expects this war
to fizzle out. In 1914 Australia was made instantly
aware that a crisis in its existence was at hand. Aus-
tralia today is as yet scarcely conscious that a war
is on. In 1914 Australia immediately rose to the occa-
sion as a nation. Today comparable national effort
plainly does not exist. The spirit is willing enough.
Nothing in 1914 gave stronger proof of citizen support
of the troops than was given in the crowd demonstra-
tions at the recent march through Melbourne. Of
comparable leadership—capable of making that re-
sponse nation-wide and maintaining it at the needed
high pitch—there is scarcely a sign. If the national
consciousness is jolted alive it will be by force of
events, not force of individuals.
To the Menzies Government’s credit stands its
acceptance of the elementary fact —beyond the grasp
of Mr. Curtin and his following—that this war is not
going to be won in the spirit of sitting back and wait-
ing for the fighting to be brought here. To the Gov-
ernment’s credit also, though time is expected to wait
on all its decisions, stands solid foundation work. If
expenditure —at which Australian Governments parti-
cularly shine —would win wars, this war would be as
good as won. It is not enough. Setting up a multi-
tude of new boards —enlarging bureaucracy on
every side —is not enough. Nor are making munitions
and armaments and ordering ’planes. Notwithstanding
Mr. Curtin’s evident full-belief and the Government’s
apparent half-belief to the contrary, there is no sub-
stitute for all that is implicit in the term “man-power.”
It implies, in the first place, trained men to do the
fighting. The war in Finland should be sufficient object
lesson. If, when their ally winter passes on, the Finns
are overwhelmed, it will be by weight of men. The
last war also should be remembered. The call then
was for men ; it was the advantage in man-power
which the entry of the U.S.A. gave the Allies that
turned the scale. Unless the Government has undis-
closed advice that this present war will not go on,
that call must shortly again become urgent. The false
issue in Corio may serve the good purpose of making
this unmistakably clear to Australia. In any case, the
turn of events in Europe will presently do so. When
it does get going, the maximum of Australia’s man-
power will be urgently required, either to help win
the war far abroad or near or in Australia. Even
Mr. Curtin and his following must realise this, despite
their platform ditherings.
Implicit also in the term “man-power” is the loyal
backing-up of the fighting forces by the rest of the
population. Nobody will accuse The Bulletin of
being a warmongering paper. It opposed policies
leading towards war and alone stood out for policies
aiming to secure peace during years of provocative
and belligerent writings and utterances elsewhere. But
it has no illusions about requirements once war is on.
It realises that there is only one thing to do in war,
and that is win.
Different standards altogether apply in war and
peace. In peace the national life can blunder along,
lacking aim, purpose or direction. It may thus get
nowhere, but it will come to harm only by the slow
process of spiritual deterioration. In war the whole
national life must be directed to the single purpose
of winning. Backing the fighting man-power must be
the awakened spirit of the rest of the nation. Any-
thing which is opposed to such all-in national effort is
a serious danger.
There is a lot of shallow thinking and loose talk
at the moment on the theme of preserving democracy
at all cost. Losing this war is one cost that democ-
racy cannot afford. Democracy, therefore, must now
agree to the temporary suspension of some of its minor
conveniences and take on its war shape, or perish.
It has to accept war standards now, and forget
for a while some of its amenities of peace-time. For
this reason one of the spectacles that may presently
divert Australians —they will no doubt have to wait
till after Corio—will be provided by Mr. Menzies
turning a violent somersault. Either that, or there will
be another leader.
The P.M., with Australia at war, has laid down
the doctrine that “We [the Government] will do
nothing to prevent men from speaking in opposition
to the sending of troops abroad.” On the other hand,
Mr. Menzies warns Australia whenever he thinks of
it—he will think of it a lot just now —that this country
might presently be fighting for its existence. He has
stated that there is no saying who may be for us and
who against us ; if another pronouncement of his did
not envisage invasion, it would be described only as
nonsense. Despite all this, Mr. Menzies, as war Prime
Minister, issues what will be taken by the enemy
within the gates as an open invitation to get busy and
sabotage the national war-effort on the most important,
and the most vulnerable, front —that of man-power.
And Mr. Menzies no doubt expects his more serious
warnings to be taken seriously ; expects Australians to
accept that a supreme effort is called for ; expects them
to give an enthusiastic response to that call; expects
them to accept him as an inspiring national leader in
the present crisis of this country’s continued existence.
A false issue has been raised to suit Mr. Menzies
in the pending by-election warfare. It no less suits
defeatists, pacifists, Communists and all who
consciously or unconsciously work to do this country
harm that a false issue should be made of democracy
in regard to the other sort of pending warfare.
Because he accepts this false issue as he accepts the
other, Mr. Menzies said the thing which, granting
that it was meant for Labor members whose loyalty
is above suspicion, should not have been said ; the
thing which Reds have already construed as an invita-
tion to get busy.
It is a ludicrous —at the present time a deadly-
dangerous—conception of democracy that it must
sacrifice the welfare of the majority to the whims of
a miserable little minority of cravens and cranks, who
are nothing if not active and articulate, and some of
whom are agents in a foreign conspiracy, directions
for action in which come from Soviet Russia. As this
war goes on, as terrible things occur to shock public
morale, or the effects of war weariness become evident,
the whole tribe of these so-called “pacifists” will
become more and more active. It may suit Mr.
Menzies to mollify them for the supposed purposes of
the warfare in Corio ; in the long run it is not going to
suit Australia.
The R.A.A.F. Plan.
The recruiting plan for the new R.A.A.F. has begun
well. Its director, Donald Cameron, is a distinguished
Light Horse soldier who learned in Palestine the vital
importance of an efficient air force, and who had
abundant opportunities for studying the type of men
out of whom great airmen are made.
The names of his assistant committee should be
an inspiration to every airminded youngster. Hudson
Fysh, Keith Smith, Murray Jones and the rest —not
one of them began the last war with advantages denied
to the generality of young Australians. The R.F.C. and
A.F.C. led every one of them into a position of stand-
ing in the community. There are many more young
Australians whom the same chances await if the
scheme is carried out properly, and if preparations are
made beforehand to employ the seasoned air and
ground personnel that will return from this war in the
building of Australia into a great flying nation.
Because of the peculiar nature of the requirements,
R.A.A.F. recruiting is not merely recruiting for war,
but a marshalling of the best human material into
channels in which it will be trained to be of service
in civil life.
The main danger at present is overoptimism. It
is being trumpeted—not by the committee —that 60,000
men have already registered their names at recruiting
depots, and it might accordingly be thought that enrol-
ment of 56,000 will be a comparatively simple task.
It will be simpler than in most countries because of
the high Australian standards of health, education and
initiative ; but tough withal. The aim is to accept not
the first 56,000, but the best 56,000. Almost every young-
ster who is physically fit and has perfect eyesight may
be a potential pilot. What must be striven for is a
proper balance between ground staffs and pilots,
between mechanics and fitters and the men who do the
actual flying and fighting.
Viewed from the angle of securing a complete
force of all arms and departments, the job is about
as difficult a one as has ever been set a country with
not quite 7,000,000 people, more especially as Britain
draws a very large proportion of its R.F.C. pilots and
aircraftsmen from the Dominions. It is doubly diffi-
cult in view of the expansion of manufacturing indus-
tries, which is making an increasingly great call on
the mechanical skill of Australians. The Government
should consider whether it would not do more ulti-
mately for mechanical industry by subordinating some
projects to the air-recruiting scheme: motor-car manu-
facture, for example. This will be necessary after the
war, but undertaken during the war it would absorb
men who are particularly needed for the R.A.A.F.
And in the R.A.A.F. they would receive training of a
kind which would fit them for the technical side of
car-manufacturing when they return to civil life.
There is one phase in which there will have to be
definition if the scheme is to succeed fully, and that is
the ultimate organisation of the force. It is still uncer-
tain whether the squadrons will be used as part of
the R.A.F., distinguished from others by their uniforms
or badges, or whether they will constitute a real
R.A.A.F., under Australian command, which will not
only do its job during the war, but will afterwards
provide adequate air defence against any air force
which may be in future used against us, together with
a large nucleus for the post-war expansion of civil
aviation, aircraft manufacture and other kinds of
defence.
This last aspect is highly important. Air-force
training amounts to universal education of a modern
army. Its members must be the flower of manhood,
the flying men younger than footsloggers —the
minimum age is 18 —and still young when they have
finished their war job, with the certain prospect of
many years of usefulness ahead of them. The
knowledge and experience gained in technical units are
such that they can be applied in any civil or military
mechanical field.
From a defensive point of view, an R.A.A.F.
sufficiently large and well equipped would be im-
measurably stronger in actual warfare in its own
country than an invading force of the same size
operating at great distances from its main bases and
manufacturing centres. It is not too much to
say that an R.A.A.F. of 56,000 men, backed by
adequate local manufacture of machines and muni-
tions, could render Australia impregnable against
serious air onslaught by any force which could attack
it in the next generation. It could make almost im-
possible the landing of a hostile army, and if the
almost impossible were achieved it might make the
invaders’ position untenable. It would be an invalu-
able auxiliary to the Navy, and if together they failed
to prevent landings at different points its specialised
mechanical knowledge would automatically constitute
its units a crack basis for a mechanised road army.
But all this would depend on its being an Australian
force under Australian control, using Australian
machines and arms.
The Government’s measures are not rising to
the height of this conception. Its announcements as
to the manner in which the new R.A.A.F. is to be
employed have hitherto been nebulous. Its proposals
for the manufacture of machines do not suggest that
it regards the plan as one for the permanent defence
of Australia. It is certainly arranging for the produc-
tion of large numbers of machines —£25,000,000 is to
be spent on building and maintenance in years—
but its construction schemes seem unlikely to develop
private corporations which can afterwards divert their
activities to the making of civil aircraft, in addition to
machines needed for regular peace-time defence.
In other countries which have gone in for great
air forces, the work of private companies and private
individuals has been outstanding. In Britain Short,
De Havilland, Bristol, Napier, Rolls-Royce, Morris-
Cowley and a dozen more ; in the U.S.A., Lockheed,
Boeing, Curtiss-Wright, Douglas, Vultee and others;
in Germany, Heinkel, Henschel, Focke-Wulf, Messer-
schmitt and Junker have been very largely respon-
sible for bringing flying and airffighting to its present
high standards. During the past five years of strain
they have worked ceaselessly with Governments, as
also have the civil transport companies. In no country
has the aircraft manufacturing industry developed as
it is developing in Australia—wholly from Govern-
ment initiative. And in no English-speaking country
except Australia has it been proposed, as it is now
proposed in Australia, to make a Government commis-
sion “responsible for all aircraft construction and
maintenance, whether by Government establishments
or private shops,” and to empower it to take over all
“private shops.” The part assigned to private enter-
prise is merely to “support Government activity.” All
this, we are told, is to “speed up production” and to
put “the whole war effort of aircraft construction on
a business basis.” The idea of Government control
speeding up production and putting anything on a
business basis would be laughable if the matter were
not so serious.
The air recruiters will get their 56,000 good men
because 56,000 good men are needed urgently, and
because Australians are always willing to meet a
situation in which the country is threatened, as
they did so gloriously in the last war. They
would get them more rapidly if the plan were
more concrete, if it looked to the future, if the force
were definitely made an all-Australian entity, if private
manufacture of aircraft were placed on a permanent
basis, and if the men knew that they were enlisting
not merely to fight but to secure training which would
assure them of openings in life when the cease-fire
sounded.
Donald Cameron will need all the assistance he
can get in the task he has undertaken. What he needs
most of all is energy and vision on the part of the
Government.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Britain, Australia and Japan.
All who wish for an enduring peace in the Pacific
welcomed Mr. Chamberlain’s references to the dis-
pute over the taking of 21 German seamen from the
Asama Maru within sight of Fujiyama. Though the
captain of the British warship acted within his rights
and within the bounds of naval policy as practised by
all Powers with navies, Japan included, “legal issues,”
as Mr. Chamberlain put it, “are not the strongest in-
fluences in the lives of nations and the hearts of men.”
Nothing would distress us more than for Japan to
think that we deliberately and intentionally exercised
our belligerent rights with want of courtesy and lack
of consideration for the Japanese nation... .The last
thing we want to do is to affront the self-respect of a
friendly nation with which we want to live in peace.
There followed the difficult and delicate task of
negotiating with a prpud people who, in this instance,
felt as Australians would feel if a Japanese warship
were to stop a British mail steamer making for Sydney
Harbor and take from it a number of Chinese sailors.
The negotiations were successful to the extent that the
British Government offered to return nine of the
Germans and the Japanese Government agreed, “with-
out regarding the case as settled,” at the same time in-
structing Japanese shipowners “to refuse passages to
citizens of belligerent Powers who are capable of war
service.” They were not made easier, to put it mildly,
by press and radio comments, some of which were
published in Australia.
The kind of prophecy and “exposition” in which
some radio uncles and professors indulge is mis-
chievous and Communist boycotts are dangerous. The
great body of Australians “want to live in peace” with
Japan, and Australia can do its part in preserving
peace in the Pacific. Appointment of an Australian
Minister to Tokio would be timely and useful, and if
the Chief Justice, whose visit to Japan a few years ago
had an excellent effect, could be induced to accept the
post for, say, six months, so much the better.
Victoria's Shabby State Politics.
Five years ago Victoria had a U. A. P.-Country party
Ministry headed by Dr. Argyle. Labor, though almost
certainly representing a majority of the Victorian
people, was in opposition, the distribution of elec-
torates being so grossly undemocratic as to prevent it
getting a majority of seats. At an election held in
March, 1935, Labor was beaten as usual. The U.A.P.
lost a seat or two ; the Country party gained three,
one with U.A.P. preferences.
Before the new Parliament met the C.P. central
council held a secret meeting to consider the position.
Its boss was a Mr. A. E. Hocking, who, although not in
Parliament and unknown to the mass of Victorians,
had achieved a certain limited notoriety by falling out
with Federal C.P. members (they and their supporters
have since formed the “Liberal” Country party); with
the people of Gunbower, who had elected Mr. Martin
in spite of him ; with the State Parliamentary party,
which admitted Mr. Martin to the party-room ; with
Dr. Harris, the C.P. leader in the Upper House, who
had refused to sign a pledge, and with his own
treasurer. The decision of the central council Mr.
Hocking announced to the reporters in these terms:
“IFe have decided to walk out —to discontinue our
association with the Argyle Ministry.”
So on the morning of the day on which Parliament
met, C.P. Ministers Dunstan, Allan and Goudie
quitted the Administration. Mr. Dunstan had, five days
before, accepted appointment as Deputy Premier. With
Labor backing, he and his party voted the Argyles,
his associates for three years, out of office, and he
straightway formed a Ministry in which, as he blithely
intimated, there was no representation of Melbourne,
“where 54 p.c. of the population live,” or of other
important districts. Going to an organisation confer-
ence, he announced that “the will of the people has
prevailed ; democracy has triumphed.”
Mr. Hocking’s services were requited with a seat
on the Savings Bank Board at £500 p.a. Other friends
were remembered when rewards were handed out.
Government by a sectional minority is not a thing
that any democracy can be proud of, but this is what
Victoria has had since Mr. Dunstan became Premier.
On the evidence of the Senate election, which Labor
won hands down, Labor should be in office, but the
rights and ambitions of Labor supporters have been
stiffed by the Labor politicians, who have never pressed
for a redistribution of seats. They have contented them-
selves with keeping the Dunstans on the Treasury
benches. And so it might have gone on for years if
Mr. Dunstan and Mr. Hocking had not quarrelled.
It was tardily discovered that three members of
the Savings Bank Board were “ineligible,” being barred
by a section of the Act forbidding the appointment of
a director of a company interested in the lending of
money on freehold or leasehold estate. One of the
three was Mr. Hocking. His colleagues resigned.
Mr. Hocking did not resign, taking the point that his
disqualification had been removed by the abandonment
of certain directorships. The Government introduced
legislation validating the proceedings of the board and
declaring Mr. Hocking’s office vacant; and, an amend-
ment directing it to replace Mr. Hocking failing, the
bill was passed through both Houses.
Then hell began to roar. At the instance of Mr.
Hocking and his friends, various C.P. branches passed
resolutions calling on the Government to replace him.
Mr. Dunstan said in effect that the Government would
be damned first.
At a Swan Hill meeting, the Premier asserted that
his former champion had “lobbied Ministers and
members,” declaring that “the Government must be
smashed” and that “Dunstan must go.” Mr. Hocking,
he continued, was “a wealthy man, with big interests
in 14 companies” (denied). It was untrue that the
trouble had arisen because Mr. Hocking had refused
to endorse Mr. Dunstan’s son for Bulla-Dalhousie ;
“this policy of dictation and domination ’ had been
in operation long before.
The Savings Bank affair, though a particularly glaring
example of outside interference, was not the first
occasion on which dictation has been attempted. When
vacancies occurred on the Electricity Commission a
determined attempt was made to have Mr. Skeat
appointed; and Mr. Hocking was particularly insistent
on having a co-director of one of his companies
appointed to the Housing Commission. The same
dictation applied in respect of appointments of Ministers
and the filling of positions such as that of Whip.
All very pretty, but Mr. Dunstan did not object to
“dictation” and “outside interference” and the Hock-
ing plan of job control” when he was the beneficiary.
At Swan Hill he “reminded the meeting that, of
approximately 1,000,000 electors on the roll, about
2 p.c. are members of the Country party.” The
“reminder” would be keenly resented by the 98 p.c.
unrepresented in the Ministry if they had any further
use for State politics. But that is impossible ; State
politics have become too paltry and shabby. If Vic-
toria had a provincial council with equal electorates
and in matters of local self-government that is all
that it needs —Hockings and 2-per-cent, rule would
pass out of the picture.
In John Knox's Vein.
“Old-timer” lets himself go:
There is no longer any mystery about woman. Her
shape is displayed at every opportunity in the flesh, in the
illustrated papers and on the screen. When she goes to
bathe, be it on surf beach or in back-country river, she is
all but naked. When she goes to work it is in clothing
deliberately designed to emphasise those points of her physical
construction which she has been taught have a special attrac-
tion for the male eye. Should she be lacking in these points,
then by color or freakish design she still contrives to draw
attention to herself.
Efforts to attract the male are legitimate. In this the
modern girl obeys an instinct as old as humanity; but
has gone too far. The male no longer titillates himsell by
imagining what hidden charms lie beneath the gown. His
imagination turns to things such as the long-shot winner and
the beer after hours. , , '
But it is in another direction that woman has lost heavily.
Since she has become a wage-earner, with money of her own
to spend, there has sprung up a vast commercial hunger for
that money. Knowing something of female vanity, it has
concentrated on skin, hair, eyes, figure. Biological facts
hitherto kept secret are dragged into the glaring light or
publicity by advertisers competing for custom; bodily dis-
placements, odors, blemishes are brought out and the cure
announced —somebody’s soap, cereal food, face cream or
PillS The young man watching the beauty trip along the street
need only study the nearest newspaper or magazine to find out,
both by word and picture, how she has been produced.
The flapper press and the women’s papers join gleefully in
this garish advertisement. Let some woman have a baby while a
scrub fire rages round her suburb and she is placarded as a
heroine beside whom Grace Darling was a washout, though
the plain fact is- that she had to have the baby, scrub fire or
not. Some chit wins a tennis match and hits the headlines;
her body is pictured in all sorts of peculiar postures; we are
told what she eats, drinks and wears, her opinions on everything
from toenail polish to the Russo-Finnish war. A high per-
centage of modern fiction details the battle plans of women
fighting for some gigolo or other, and the same is true of
screen and stage.
In short, man has woman hurled at him from all directions.
He cannot get away from her. And the effect on his attitude
towards the female is to make him blase and cynical. The
once-softer sex has become the blatant sex, a fact which should
be considered deeply by those concerned with the falling birth-
rate and the increase in divorces and sex crimes.
The Tourist Business.
Very belated orders have been issued in Canberra that
unnecessary expenditure must be cut down, and de-
partmental officers” have made the discovery, astonish-
ing to them but to no taxpayer wise in the ways of
Australian politicians and bureaucrats, that £1,617,000
p.a. can be saved from the beginning. The alleged Aus-
tralian National Travel Association must be afraid
that its annual subsidy, reduced from £20,000 to
£15,000 last year (it gets a lot more in exhibition
years), is in danger. Anyway, there has been another
eruption of blah about the wonderful work done by
this excrescence and the swarms of tourists who have
been rounded up by the “association’s North American
manager” or will be some day.
Sydney “Sun” let itself go on this subject last week.
So did Harold Clapp, although he didn’t conjure up
a vision of “millions of pounds flowing yearly into
Australia,” a fantasy that periodically excites the
“Sun.” (Incidentally, the association seems to be
directed mainly by commissioners, past and present,
of insolvent Government railways, and by gentlemen
connected with fashionable ragshops and pubs, and
when the Canberra plum-tree is shaken pressmen
always underneath.) Mr. Clapp even allowed that “we
are not looking for any sudden influx of American
tourists,” though he saw “every possibility of Ameri-
can tourists in increased numbers booking to countries
bordering the Pacific.”
Maoriland, which has been in the tourist business
far longer than Australia has, and runs it efficiently
at a fraction of the cost lavished on State Government
tourist bureaux, London Agencies, High Commis-
sioners’ and Trade Commissioners’ branches and the
Australian “National” Travel Association, is not join-
ing in the rhapsodies of the “Sun.” “With travel dras-
tically restricted by war conditions, New Zealand’s
tourist traffic has shrunk to a fraction of its former
level.” So wrote the Wellington “Dominion” on
January 25. It quoted as a witness the manager of a
private tourist agency, who said that, although holiday
traffic within the Dominion was brisk, “at a time when
we really want overseas traffic it is not coming.”
It was hoped that the war would encourage many
Americans to come to the Pacific on vacation, but this
expectation has not been realised. Ships which would
be normally packed with Americans are at present
far from filled. Practically all American and Euro-
pean bookings have been cancelled.
The “Dominion” mentions that the number of tourists
handled in 1938-39 was 21,762, of whom 16,692 were
from Australia and 783 from the United States. And
not all the Americans who visit Maoriland come on
to Australia —far from it.
The “National” Travel Association had an office
in London, where seven Australian Governments have
suites of offices, each with a large staff. It still main-
tains a manager in India, and has recently made a
change, the previous “manager” having been appointed
Australian Trade Commissioner in India, with an
Assistant Trade Commissioner to attend to the
punkahs or something. According to Mr. Clapp,
“before the outbreak of war Australia received each
year more than 1200 tourists from India, Ceylon and
Burma, and nearly 500 permanent new arrivals, in-
cluding retired army officers and civil servants on good
pensions.” He makes this assertion periodically, and
it is a source of innocent merriment to Australians in
India, especially as it is always accompanied by a sug-
gestion that Indian Army officers in India may be
allowed to take their leave in Australia. They never
have been and are never likely to be.
The Australian tourist trade has a future ; but
before it can come into its own idiocies like six o’clock
closing, the ban on the serving of light wine with
restaurant meals and the savage taxation of service
cars will have to be got rid of. Meanwhile a great
deal of money is wasted on the administrative side.
The whole business should be placed under Common-
wealth control, and there should be no room in it for
self-advertising tax-eating concerns like the “National”
Travel Association.
Outside the Traffic Courts.
“E.V.”: A Sydney newspaper is pleading for the adop-
tion of the American plan of dealing with minor motor
offences, the plan whereby offenders or alleged offenders
against motor laws can elect to be fined by the con-
stable who pulls them up.
It would certainly save time ; but it would
intensify the disgraceful method of legal blackmail
which operates against motorists.
Police procedure in minor cases is already out-
side ordinary British legal usage. The defendant is
first asked by posted notification, not by served sum-
mons, to attend the court. If he does not appear, a
summons is issued.
N.S.W. traffic courts can scarcely be called courts.
Congestion is so great, even though most charged
motorists plead guilty, that any magistrate who
attempted to apply ordinary court procedure would
be compelled to sit till Doomsday. And any person
charged with a motoring offence who wishes to defend
it is fined the value of considerable wasted time
whether he is found guilty or not.
A license is issued for a year. If not renewed, it
must be returned at the end of the year. If renewed, it
may be kept and destroyed. The authorities have no
way of knowing that it is destroyed. Obviously an
expired license in the hands of a man who has a valid
one is more dangerous to the community than one in
the hands of somebody who has not a valid license.
The holder can give the expired one away without
risk of damage to himself, or he may merely drop it
where it may be picked up.
Periodic variations in the design of licenses would
make it impossible for a used license to be flaunted
without detection. But this system would not be pro-
ductive of work for Government employees, though it
would save stamps, paper, and public and private time.
The N.S.W. citizen’s chance of escaping punish-
ment when charged with a motoring offence is alrnost
as remote as his chance of winning “the lott’ry.” In
1937 20,944 charges were laid, arrests being made in
566 cases. Those fined and otherwise punished
totalled 20,068. Last year 826 out of 18,948 escaped.
Continued prosecutions do not reduce accidents,
and that is the objective to which prosecutions should
be directed. In 1937, persons killed in motor accidents
in N. S. Wales numbered 513. In 1938, the total was
583 and the injured list went up from 7961 to 8467
this despite the 30-m.p.h. regulations which came into
force in December, 1937.
There is plenty of work for the N.S.W. police
outside the job of walking round and pouncing on
motorists who have overstayed their time beside the
kerb. The more so since the percentage of “serious”
criminals caught has shown a bad slump. For four
years, 1933-1937, in N. S. Wales it ranged from 74 per
cent, to 80.5 per cent. The last year for which figures
are printed —1938 —shows only 66 per cent. Over the
whole State 6714 serious crimes out of 19,727 reported
were not cleared up.
The Law and Psychology.
“Pawang” : It has become the fashion for some Mel-
bourne Judges to delve into the deeper realms of
psychology, and it is a good thing to see a Judge
acknowledging that mental states may have something
to do with crime. But the decisions come to aren’t
always enlightened. For example, a Judge “ordered”
a sexual offender to submit to treatment at the hands
of a psychiatrist.
An individual with a sexual obsession is psycho-
logically a sick person. If a normal person gets a
pain in the side he knows he is a sick man and goes
to a doctor. If the doctor diagnoses appendicitis and
orders an operation, the patient will be upset and will
be hurt by the operation, but he will usually submit
to it because he takes society’s valuation of the surgeon.
In nine cases out of ten an individual with a
sexual obsession regards himself not as a sick man but
a victim of society. He thinks that society, not him-
self, is abnormal. If, as a result of his delusion, he
gets into the hands of the law and the law orders him
to undergo treatment at the hands of a psychiatrist, he
is a hostile individual being handed to the enemy.
Obviously, therefore, to order treatment for a
psycho-neurotic or to confine him in an institution is
worse than useless. It only serves to confirm him
in his belief that he is a victim of society. The State
Government is pinning its faith to compulsory institu-
tional treatment for neurotics, but unless it recognises
this it will be wasting the taxpayers’ money.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: In the hot weather when
nobody can be bothered to draw the
blinds in the crowded flats around King’s
Cross, the nightly pranks of the neigh-
bors come to mean no more to you than
the perambulations of goldfish, but the
“ ’Ere y’are—four pound a deener while they last.”
most ghastly screams at about 2 a.m.
brought the entire community of three
adjacent buildings out of their beds.
There was a rattle like machine-gun fire
as window after window was flung open.
Fifty or sixty of us stared hopefully into
the street while the sounds of massacre
from a ground-floor flat gradually died
into a low sinister gurgle. Peeved be-
cause there was nothing to see, the
watchers retreated until only the large
gent, in the striped pyjamas on the
balcony opposite me and the brunette in
pink things above him were left. “It
sounds as if she’s been murdered,” said
the brunette to the night. “Only half-
killed, maybe,” said the striped pyjamas
sadly. And that was all; the company
retired. It’s not exactly private at the
Cross, but at least they don’t interfere
with you, even if you’re a-weltering in
your gore.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Has any ship-sinking
raider been such a nuisance to its enemies
as the old submerged Kakariki has been
to its friends? On January 31, 1937, she
had an altercation with the S.S. Caradale
off Gellibrand Light, Port Phillip, and
went down, drowning five men. A month
later the Melbourne port authorities, de-
spairing of her breaking up, ordered her
owners to have her raised. There was
no tender for salvage, and dynamite was
indicated. Then a Geelong firm con-
tracted to raise the old ship within two
years. When the time limit had expired
she had been up and down several times,
but now was well down (cost £10,274).
In 1939 a new contractor came along
at £15,500. She is still on the mud. It is
now proposed to lift her with sea camels,
as used to raise the scuttled German fleet
in Scapa Flow.
* * * *
“M. Raker”: Hahllywood’s publicity
agents are working overtime to see that
the war doesn’t shove the rubbish about
their pets out of Australian newspapers.
A yarn that several “stars” had been held
up and robbed of jewels worth a fortune
was followed by another dealing with a
public reconciliation of a “great lover”
with his lawful wife—they still have such
things in California —and then came the
capper: “Newspaper and studio authorities
do not share the alarm of a press agent
at the disappearance of Clark Gable and
Carole Lombard in wild country.” Well,
I shared his alarm: they might turn up
again. And they did.
* * * *
“O’Hamer”: Two minutes’ conver-
sation with my friend Pat convinces any-
one that his parents were Irish ; he has
no brogue, but bulls rampage through his
verbal paddocks. A genial man with his
staff—his business is a fair-sized one —as
he walked out through the general office
with me he noticed something. “I can
see someone who isn’t here this morn-
ing,” he said with a smile upon the
surrounding girl clerks. “Whose lovely
presence is absent?” The absentee, it
appears, was a Miss Blank. “Ah,” said
Pat to me, “she enjoys a lot of ill-health,
poor thing. She’ll never get to the top
until she gets to the bottom of it.”
* * * *
“S. Piel”: This is the tale of the sym-
pathetic boarder, told in a Melbourne
court by the man himself. Discovering
that his landlady was in difficulties, he
decided to help her, and turned
to the • racecourse. He had been told
of a good thing, but hadn’t enough to
back it, so went to a mate for a loan.
The mate couldn’t do it. Returning dis-
consolate to the house, he spotted the
landlady’s daughter’s engagement ring,
took it and popped it for a quid. Then
he went home to wait for the race, but
fell asleep, and on awakening found the
race had been run and the good thing
had come home. He backed another, of
course, and of course it lost. By this time
the girl had missed her ring and the
police were on the job. The helpful
bloke raised two more loans of 10s. on
the ring, and the books got the lot. Then
the Law swooped. After the jury had
been assured by the young woman and
her mother that they had no doubt of
his good intentions, accused was dis-
charged—still suffused with the helpful
spirit, no doubt.
* * * ¥
“F.”: The Otago, which Joseph Con-
rad captained on her Sydney-Mauritius
voyage in the ’eighties, has been sold to
Japan for scrap-iron. Conrad set sail
from Sydney while a fierce gale was
raging. The pilot tried to persuade him
to postpone his adventure, then angrily
left him to his own resources before the
ship was through the Heads. The trip
to Mauritius, besides opening up a new
sailing route, gave Conrad much material
for his stories. The Otago, his last com-
mand, has lain rusting in Risdon Cove
(Tas.) for years.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland’s celebration of
the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi, a
matter of imposing pageantry and inter-
imperial congratulations, has not been a
whole-hearted affair so far as the Maoris
are concerned. One of the leading North
Island tribes dissociated itself from
the proceedings on the ground that the
pact of 100 years ago was a very unfair
bargain, and at the principal ceremony
Apirana Ngata, most influential of Maori
leaders, an M.P. and an ex-Minister,
mourned that the Maoris’ lands were
gone, the power of their chiefs humbled
in the dust and their culture scattered and
broken. He was fair enough, however,
to admit that the shield of British
sovereignty was a “benefit.” That was
why the chiefs of 1840 made their marks
on the Waitangi parchment. They
wanted a strong, warlike protector, and
they scented good trade. Also they prob-
ably reflected that as they hadn’t con-
sulted all the members of their tribes who
had property rights in the land the trans-
action, as a matter of Maori law, had as
many holes in it as a colander. There’s
been litigation over Waitangi ever since,
and the Maori loves litigation. For
all that the British had the best of the
bargain, but they did establish for the
Maori generous reserves of land, much
of which still turns in revenue to the race.
* ❖ * *
“Perry”: Most people dislike being
presented with coppers in large quan-
tities. I was in an Auckland tram
when a woman handed up a pound
note for a penny ticket. The con-
ductor retired to the back of the
car and opened a locker, returning
with his arms full of cylindrical packages.
He opened one and removed a penny,
then dumped ten parcels in the passen-
ger’s lap. “What does this mean?” she
demanded. “Your change, madam,” said
trammie. Later in such cases the com-
pany accepted the note, gave a receipt
and asked the passenger to call at the
city office for change. That effected a
quick cure.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Touching thefts from eating
houses (B. 7/2/’4O), a Melbourne
hostelry has forestalled souvenir-hunters
by having stamped on its crockery in
bold letters “This was stolen from the
Wig and Pestle.”
* * # *
“G. Blanco”: Mildura-on-the-Murray
is about to experience its annual
influx of pickers. In recent years the
march of the indigent on the fruit town
has been productive of a good deal of
trouble, especially at Ouyen, the last big
place on the way up from the south.
Ouyen was battled by about 2500 men in
five weeks last season, but this tear num-
bers have fallen off owing to military
demands and increased employment
generally. Still, Ouyen could hardly
stand another raid on its cupboards, so
the authorities have arranged for a sus-
tenance allowance of ss. for each man
stranded there, provided he moves on
within a day or two. In Mildura itself
men registered for fruit-picking will re-
ceive an allowance of 10s. a week until
picking starts, but for this they must
work hours a week for the councils.
* * * *
“D.E.”; For 20 years I have been an
observer of the feminisation of the Syd-
ney business world. Very gradual at the
beginning, it has increased so startlingly
of recent years that the five o’clock rush
from offices has become a moving pano-
rama of short skirts and colored stock-
ings, with once-proud man in a hopeless
minority. And now I read that the N. S.
Wales Public Service Board has issued a
regulation to the effect that girls in the
departments are expected to notify the
heads when they marry.
The instruction covers all girls in the
service already married but working under
their maiden names. It will be used for
statistical purposes only.
In short, nothing will happen to any
lady so circumstanced, except that she
will be addressed as Mrs. instead of Miss.
As long as she can contrive to avoid
having a baby, she may go on drawing
salary for her five-day week, less 12
public holidays per year and three weeks’
annual holidays, meanwhile taking the
bread out of another person’s mouth.
There is a case for the married school-
teacher ; there is none for the married
office girl whose husband has a job or
a business, whether she poses as single
or owns up to being a missus. I have
been told that a large proportion of the
fashion-plates who flutter about city
offices are married, but I never thought
Government departments came at this
sort of thing. Meanwhile, wherever you
go you can see working on the roads
intelligent-looking lads who were robbed
of their destiny by the feminine conquest
of the city.
.** * *
“The Dink”: According to a London
message, Canadian Arthur Hilliam and
Australian Malcolm McEachern, who
take the stage as “Flotsam and Jetsam,”
have composed a “special war song for
Australians” entitled “Is He an Aussie,
Is He, Eh?” The composers tried it on
the Savage Club, which pronounced it an
excellent marching song. The title sug-
gests the influence of “Whose Izzie Is
He?” I’ll guarantee that if Aussies don’t
like it and if any misguided Savage starts
singing the question near members of the
Second A.I.F. he’ll darn soon find out.
Hi * * *
“Pegasus”: The colored-shirt vogue
(B. 31/1/ ’4O) came neither from the aris-
tocracy nor the larrikinocracy, but, like
most other Australian fashions, from
Hollywood. John Gilbert brought the
fashion into polite Californian society on
an occasion when he left his studio so
late for a party that he had no time
to change. From California the fashion
spread down under. If the eagle eye of
“C.Q.” penetrates a little farther through
the ensemble of the Collins-street gentry
he will probably find that they are doing
without undershirts. That fashion was
wafted from the screen when Clark Gable
undressed in a tourist camp in “It Hap-
pened One Night.” As a result sales
of masculine underwear dropped so pro-
digiously in the U.S.A. that the manu-
facturers sent a delegation to the pro-
ducers asking them to take the scene out.
* * * *
“El V.”: After watching a couple
of our Judges at lunch, I have
come to a certain conclusion as to
why justice has become a pale and
effete thing and why leg-irons have
gone out and long probations and
psychiatrists come into fashion. One of
the wigs toyed gently with prawn mayon-
naise. The other prepared himself to
wield his scales on a plate of mild cheese
and lettuce. You couldn’t raise a decent
dose of indigestion (which is the basis
of judicial indignation) on a hundred-
weight of that sort of fodder. Look what
the Judges of old used to fill themselves
with in the glorious eighteenth century,
when crime was crime. Old Lord Jus-
tice Karnes, of Scotland, was in the habit
of having a whole cow salted down at a
time. Then, beginning at the neck on
one side, he and his family would eat
down to the tail; beginning at the tail
on the other side, they would eat back
to the neck, with nary a change of diet.
And look at Lord Justice Clerk Braxfield
(there’s a nice picture of him in R. L.
Stevenson’s Weir of Hermiston), who
considerably added to the population of
Australia in the days of transportation.
What a different type of trencherman
he was from the modern brand of
Justice: “A turkey is an awkward animal,
too much for one, too little for two,”
was his considered opinion. And what
a different kind of justice he doled out —
he gave Muir, the Scottish martyr, 14
years for, inter alia, circulating the
works of Thomas Paine in Glasgow and
Kirkintilloch.
SINK OR SWIM.
The Labor party opposes the dispatch of troops
overseas because it is more concerned with the defence
of Australia than with the oil wells of Huku.”
— Mr. Curtin,
This sort of hustings diction
Might carry some conviction,
Save that it hardly skims
One vital point, methinks,
A thing that, late or early,
Concerns us much more nearly:
Who sinks if Britain swims?
Who swims if Britain sinks?
What though our first obsession
Be safety from aggression,
Still there are ties and links
That bind our Empire’s rims.
As oft before, arow
We needs must face the foe.
Who swims if Britain sinks?
Who sinks if Britain swims?
Who knows what far-flung regions
May stage the clash of legions?
But this no posturing dims,
No special pleading blinks:
Our breed and blood, where’er
They’re bidden, will be there.
Who sinks if Britain swims?
Who swims if Britain sinks?
ANDREE HAYWARD.
252 George-street, Sydney (N.S.W.j.


“The Tug”: Female inhabitants of one
of the N.S.W. coast’s most superior
guest-houses got the thrill of their lives
when the bus disgorged, among other
things, a tall, dark, handsome young man.
With dazzled eyes they watched his
splendid figure stride down to the beach.
All that afternoon he lazed about the
sand, while hunting females tripped back,
and forth. That night there was a dance.
Two of the more enterprising girls got
the hostess to introduce them to the
thrill. They almost had hysterics when,
instead of a satisfying bass, a high
falsetto trilled “How d’ y’ do?” Next
day the idol with the voice of clay was
left severely alone, a fact which, as he
happily confided in his real voice to
some of us, would “blanky well do him!”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A man sent to gaol for two
years for an assault on a girl in
Melbourne came out and three weeks
later was charged with assaulting an-
other. Judge Foster remarked that the
law’s way of protecting society from
sexual perverts was to sentence them to
imprisonment, and in the case before him
imprisonment for life would be the only
effective protection. All he could do
was to protect society for another three
years. The State Government now pays
lip service to modern psychology, and has
built up an elaborate and costly system
of psychiatrical treatment, but appar-
ently it has to wait for a crime against
a child to be committed before a patient
can qualify for attention. And then in
nine cases out of ten he doesn’t get it.
* * * *
“Fair Go”: The magisterial tqne of
“Si Anu’s” par. attacking Melbourne
Observatory (B. 17/1/’4O) may mislead
the uninstructed into thinking that
“S.A.” knew what he was writing about.
The great Melbourne reflector was indeed
a wonder—7o years ago. In size it was
then second only to Lord Rosse’s 72in.
reflector at Birr Castle, Ireland. But. the
most essential and expensive parts of the
instrument, the 48in. mirrors (there are
two of them), are made of speculum
metal. They were hopelessly out of date
50 years ago. To-day they are merely
of antiquarian interest. No astronomer
in his senses would waste his time at-
tempting to work with such museum
pieces. Of course, a modern glass mirror
could be made, but at a high cost. Even
“Send for her captain, Prendergast. I'll teach him to do that boomps-a-
daisy business."
so, South Yarra is no site for a big tele-
scope, unless Melbourne introduces
blackouts. The fact that the big tele-
scope has lain idle for years does not
reflect any discredit on the present direc-
tor, who is well known as an able and
experienced astronomer. The other gibe,
that “for a long time the only thing the
observatory has been good for is the pro-
vision of a time signal to broadcasting
stations,” is also ill-founded. The pro-
viding of accurate time is a highly-special-
ised job, involving much skilled and care-
ful work, but Melbourne Observatory
does a lot more than this. The various
Melbourne star catalogues are much
used by astronomers when they want
accurate positions of southern stars. This
valuable work is still being carried on,
and as efficiently as ever.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne policeman
bumped up against a crowd of gesticu-
lating individuals in front of an all-night
cafe. He warned one of the human
semaphores to be less conspicuous in his
behavior, whereupon the disturber of the
peace compressed his nose with two of
his fingers and made what sounded like
a contemptuous noise. In court it turned
out that the accused and his companions
were deaf mutes. Case adjourned for a
year.
* * * *
“Nairb” : References to Henry Lawson
in The Bulletin’s diamond jubilee num-
ber recall that he first published a phrase
which later swept the world. The advent
of the talkies brought in the shattering
remark “Sez you!” It was accepted
as an Americanism, but some years
before talkies infested this country a book
of verse by Lawson was published which
included a poem entitled “Says You ”
° f fom
familiar phrase.
, ■
“S.T.S.”: One of Add aides most dign -
fied executor-trustee cos. has been in the
humorous position of appearing in the
nolice court for “having carried for sale
bread of less than the standard weight.”
ir had to take over a bakery, and
carelessness in the delivery department
hit the co. for a quid and costs.
“Pawang”: It is strange how per-
sistently people tend to cling to physical
explanations of disease. At an inquest in
Brisbane on a man of 50 who died ol
nephritis (inflammation of the kidneys)
it turned out that a sister, aged 39, had
died of the same complaint, that a
brother had been sent back from the
war with it and died in hospital, that
another brother had had it but was killed
in a railway accident, and that the
mother had been found dead in circum-
stances pointing to nephritis. A sur-
viving brother said he considered that
powdered paint containing white lead,
which they had played with as children
when their home was being painted,
might have entered their systems and
caused all these deaths. Is it any more
fantastic to suggest that they manufac-
tured their symptoms by unconscious
imitation after they had been told as chil-
dren that people died a terrifying death
if they played with white paint? I know
of a recent case in Melbourne where an
elderly Chinaman died of cancer of the
stomach. Attending on him during his
last hours was his favorite niece. She
was terribly upset by his death, became
ill and died of heart failure a couple of
days after the funeral. But first, in the
few final hours, she reproduced all the
“Must you do your washing every time we have visitors?”
symptoms-the paralysisi of _ first one side
of the body and then the other, the slap
ping of the stomach, the rolhng of he
S S grfd^lf
her ov * r a number of yea rs. The
last thins she did was to ask for an orange,
and §he died eating it> So ha d he.
* # -
. .„ ttQ . v „ de _
O. W. Waireki . Strict Veg.
dares that, except for the fact that
Seventh Day Adventists do not smoke,
eat meat or drink beer or tea (or even
coffee, by the way), there is little
that differentiates them from other Chris-
tian denominations” (B. 17/1/’4O). I
don’t agree. S.D.As. are pacifists to a
man ; one-tenth of their earnings goes co
their church funds, and they never attend
movies or theatres, nor do they even
. countenance bazaars. They don’t call
their pastors “Revs.,” and on their Sab-
bath they shun newspapers, magazines
and radio broadcasts.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Masefield isn’t the only bard
to break silence (B. 31/1/ ’4O). Humbert
Wolfe, the poet and industrial planner,
is represented in December “Lilliput” by
what is probably the last piece of work
published in his lifetime. It is called the
“Agony at Berchtesgaden.” It starts:
Have you heard, Hitler (or don’t you read
the Book?),
How when the priests began their hearts to
harden
One walked through flowers with a shepherd s
crook
In what they might have called a Berchtes-
gaden ?
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The widowed mother of
an English seaman claimed compensation
for the death of her son recently on the
ground that he had died of yellow fever
as the result of the bite of a mosquito
on a voyage to West Africa. The em-
ployers argued that this was not a risk
which arose “out of and in the course
of the sailor’s employment,” inasmuch
as all the inhabitants of West Africa
were liable to bites from yellow-jack mos-
quitoes. The case reached the Privy
Council, which found it “difficult to con-
ceive of a risk more truly arising out
of employment than the risk incurred by
seamen who are sent to work in a fever-
infested country.” The British attitude
has certainly changed since the days of
John Company. Seamen died like
flies on the early voyages of dis-
covery, and ordinary traders thought
themselves lucky if they got back home
with half the complement they started
out with, the other half having died of
scurvy. Still, it was because the con-
ditions were so hard that antidotes to
scurvy, malaria and a host of other
diseases were discovered. Nowadays it is
safer for a white woman to have a baby
in Manila than in New York City.
* * * *
“J’wood”: I suggest that “O. Henry”
got some of his knowledge of Australia
from Such Is Life, by “Tom Collins”
Furphy. It was published in Sydney
when he was in gaol in Texas, and it is
quite on the cards that he read a copy
in the prison library. I suggest also that
his • style was strongly influenced by
Furphy’s. Anyone who thinks this extra-
vagant should read Furphy’s book, and
then start on a volume of Porter’s yarns.
If he completes the job without being
struck by resemblances, I’ll pay for the
drinks.
THE PROFANE GAME.
int j„ favor of Sunday cricket is that there
™r%o much swearing as there is in golf.”
n t 3 —Bexley ( Sydney ) alderman.
No doubt the clash of bat and ball
When runs are slammed or wickets fall
Is noisier, but still, in all
Good faith and patent sanity,
A sheer advantage this may claim
Over the "Royal and Ancient” game
Is greater freedom from the blame
"Attaching to profanity.
Our wowser friends their brows contort
At anv kind of strenuous sport
When church should be the first resort
Of off-the-chain humanity.
Cricket they specially deplore;
Golf doesn't make them near as sore,
They never stop to think it’s more
Conducive to profanity.
Where budding Bradmans find their growth,
Some chan to quit his crease who’s loath
May smother, now and then, an oath
About the ump.’s inanity.
But where the portlier golfers creep
About their links, you’ll hear a heap
(Whate’er the day) of far more deep
And loud and long profanity.
‘•Swear not at *3ll, for, for thy curse,
Thine enemy is none the worse”—
Nor better thou, who thus asperse
Thyself in wounded vanity.
But when the merits are assessed
Of pastimes on the Day of Rest,
That one should surely rank the best.
Which least provokes profanity.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


10 for 9d...20 for 1 / 6
E 1869
CRAVENA
IjcniU apfmdute tAm
ouUtandmy tpuMtu
00
... -'•••'
m.
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Gullett in a Melbourne speech, as re-
ported by the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
though not by other papers:
There is more reason to believe Italy
will end as a neutral friendly to the Allies
than that she is going to Germany. It all
depends on which is the winning side.
If Gullett said that he should be dis-
missed from the Ministry as a provocative
blunderer. If he didn’t say it, he should
force the Russian-alliance and positive-
action-against Japan rag to withdraw and
apologise.
Unless circumstances take an unex-
pected turn, Forgan Smith will not be
seen in the next Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, or perhaps any other. He could
have had a nomination for a safe seat at
any time these last six years, but he has
rejected the opportunity once more. A
pity, for the man is needed in national
politics, and he is still only 53.
Coroners in N.S.W. are appointed
through the member for the district.
Sometimes they have no legal knowledge,
and their methods and findings are apt
to cause astonishment. The State
Cabinet talks of doing something or other
about it. If really anxious to hear some-
thing about coroners, especially in coun-
try districts where mysterious events are
bound up with local feuds, it should
consult solicitors and newspaper re-
porters.
Perhaps because Mighty Russia has
disappointed him, “The Watchman” has
returned to an older obsession —Free-
trade. He blames Protection for the
massing of population in the cities:
The farmer has been sacrificed to the
Moloch of industrialism... .A cure may be
found in a radical change in our fiscal
policy.
The city with which “The Watchman”
should be best acquainted is Perth, see-
ing that he was its Federal member for
six years. Its growth has been so rapid
that, with Fremantle and suburbs, it
now shelters nearly half the population
of Westralia. Yet it has never been much
of a factory town, and it wasn’t to get
jobs in protected industries that people
shifted to Perth from the country. “The
Watchman” will have to find some other
“explanation” to fit the case of Perth.
Premier Dunstan, though telling all
and sundry that his wrangle with Hock-
ing is a “relatively unimportant matter,”
has gone stumping through northern
electorates accompanied by Pye, M.L.C.
At Mildura, Pye, M.L.C., said, “There
is not one single man to take up the
reins of government if the Premier goes.
There are not two Dunstans in Victoria.”
Victoria is expected to take this as a
compliment.
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’
executive wants more grower representa-
tives on the Australian Wheat Board and
its State counterparts. Ernie Field, one
of the two grower-members of the Board,
pointedly objected to men who are
handling or buying wheat “sitting around
the board table determining their own
commissions.” Was that thunder or a
low growl of approval rumbling through
the wheat country)
In 1934 a settler out from Jeparit (Vic.)
told the Closer Settlement inspector that
he would have to abandon his block. The
inspector notified the Lands Department,
which advised him what to do. Among
the settler’s assets were some coils of net-
ting. The inspector disposed of the netting
to three different men, remitted some of
the money received to the department
and passed the rest on to the bankrupt
settler. This, according to accused’s own
statement, was what led to Lieut.-Colonel
John W. Mitchell, of the Second A.1.F.,
being charged with embezzlement and
Army Minister Street’s attempt to have
the charge withdrawn. The jury acquitted
Mitchell, who is now back in the Second
A.I.F.
A son of Andrew Fisher is one of five
aspirants to the Labor nomination in
Wide Bay, his father’s electorate for 14
years, 1901-15, though it has been all
Corser since. Father was a Right
Winger, so much so that the Red and
Pink bosses of a British Labor con-
stituency for which he wanted to stand
wouldn’t have him ; son goes to the other
extreme. The old man is almost for-
gotten in Wide Bay; the young man’s
writings and associations have made him
too well known.
“The agricultural achievements of
Jewish immigrants in Palestine literally
provide a new epic of colonisation
“News published in the London press has been banned for transmission to Australia.”
“No more of your pap, ma. Give a man meat!"
Every safeguard for [sic] early assimila-
tion has been incorporated in the Kim-
berleys scheme. The average man
would be prepared to give it a trial
provided it entirely excluded a drift by
the colonisers to the towns.” Thus
Stevens in a book Planning for War and
Peace. Refugees should pray to be saved
from some of their champions. As far
as N.S.W. is concerned, support by
Stevens would damn any scheme.
The father of Frank Baker, who died
last year after having been a Federal
member for eight years, is after the Labor
nomination in Maranoa (Q.). So is Ran-
dolph Bedford, who opposed Hunter in
1937, and suffered the fate of every
Laborite who has challenged the little
man since 1921. Randolph is 71. And
Bill Bertram, sometime Speaker of the
State Parliament, wants to stand for the
Senate. Bill is 65. His troubles about
Youth movements.
Extraordinary efforts were made to
save from the gallows two I.R.A. terror-
ists, Barnes and Richards, who were con-
victed of murder after the Coventry
bombing, in which five people were killed
(a sixth died of grief) and many were
injured. Not only Chamberlain but the
Pope and the President were asked to
intervene, and there were public demon-
strations in Eire. In time of peace the
prerogative of mercy might possibly have
been exercised, though there is no known
precedent in these cases. As it was, the
British Government had to choose be-
tween offending Eire, which is not in the
war, and offending Britain, which is. Sen-
tence was carried out.
N.S.W. Premier Mair appeals to “trad-
ing concerns” to cut their dividends dur-
ing the war, mentioning “j to 1 per
cent.” It is no use asking Mair to cut
his dividends during the war. When he
took over his Treasurer reported a deficit
of £2,448,600—a dizzy understatement —
and proceeded to budget for another of
£1,512,000, at the same time adding
£3,900,000 to the taxes. And when half
the year had gone the deficit had
reached £6,500,000.
Labor ran J. J. Dedman against Casey
in Corio five years ago. Casey got 30,622
votes, Dedman 20,394 and an Indepen-
dent 1355. L. A. Carmody was the
Labor candidate in 1937, when Casey’s
majority slumped to 6675. In the pre-
selection ballot held this time, Dedman
beat Carmody and seven others hands
down. Dedman served in Gallipoli,
France and Mesopotamia, returning a
captain ; and probably that decided it.
Corio is one of the few Victorian elec-
torates (there are 20) in which the sexes
are almost equally divided. About three-
sevenths of the electors (54,000 or so)
live in Geelong. In 1937 Geelong gave
Casey a majority of 846. Vinton Smith
can lose that and win comfortably if
Newtown and Chilwell stick to him as
they did to Casey, who in Newtown
and Chilwell polled 5689 to 2619. There
are 14 subdivisions, and Casey led in 10.
Westralian Labor is about to appoint
another Director of Education, C. W.
Hadley being due for retirement in a few
months. When he retires, the State will
be paying pensions to four ex-Directors.
The “Sunday Times” points out that this
will be nothing unusual, since three
former Under-Treasurers are receiving
pensions. Swanland is a pleasant country
in which retired civil servants live long ;
all the same Perth Governments seem
to time these appointments rather badly.
Of course, they never have to worry
about the financing of the pensions, since
the accursed Commonwealth is a never-
failing source of easy money.
From the “Daily News,” a Sydney
Labor paper, which has pubßshed acres
of stuff in praise of Maoriland Labor:
In opposing the sending of Australian
troops overseas Labor has rejected
emotionalism.
Then Maoriland Labor, in sending
Maoriland troops overseas and arrang-
ing to send a lot more, has accepted
“emotionalism.”
Adelaide “Advertiser’s” Canberra man
points out cruelly and remarkably,
since the “Advertiser” belongs to the
Murdoch group—that the Menzies
Ministry “has had to give way on practi-
cally every important decision that has
been brought before the House or an-
nounced to the country.” On the list
of backdowns are the wealth census, the
Sydney G.P.O. inquiry, the financing of
the wheat harvest (twice), soldiers’ pay
and the motor-car contract. In the re-
sult,
Many of the U.A.P. rank and file
members who are most strongly opposed
to the Country party admit now that the
disappointments of the past eight months
have been due to the failure to form a
composite Ministry.
And for that the P.M. is solely to blame;
“he could have had a composite Minis-
try long ago,” but “it has been his own
choice to attempt to rule the country
on a minority basis.” Cameron has his
faults, but confused thinking and back-
ing down are not among them.
Attlee, the British Labor leader, is a
melancholy combination of Little Eng-
lander and meddler in the affairs of other
countries. Not two years ago, he was
demanding British intervention in China
and Spain, in the latter country by way
of backing the Major Attlee battalion
of polyglot Stalinists. Now he wants
Britain to give up all the colonies and
place them under “a mandatory system” ;
this he says would “dispose of the Ger-
man lie that we are fighting an imperial-
ist war.” Presumably if Australia and
Maoriland were still “colonies,” Mr.
Attlee would be offering to give them
away.
Maoriland is worried about its tourist
trade. January, February and March are
usually the busiest months, but this
season there have been few forward
bookings, and the slump for the year is
expected to reach £1,400,000. In 1938-39
21,762 tourists visited the Dominion;
16,692 from Australia, 2105 from the
U.K., 1705 from other British countries,
783 from the U.S.A. and 477 from other
foreign countries. Only 783 from the
U.S.A.! Anyone reading Australian
“National” Travel Association mush
would imagine that they came by the
thousand.
Faced with a list of 1640 persons who
failed to vote at a municipal election
when voting was compulsory, Footscray
(Vic.) Council exempted them from
further action. This brought a howl of
protest from the A.L.P. and caused a
Melbourne paper to survey municipal
opinion regarding the compulsory vote.
Of those who expressed an opinion, nine
out of 13 councils opposed it, and of
those who favored it two did so because
they believed it would relieve candidates
of the expense of carting electors to the
polls. Under the compulsory system,
lodgers and other itinerant dwellers in a
municipality are forced to record a vote,
though they don’t care what the rate is or
how it is being spent.
The Post Office has suddenly advised
telephone-users that it has decided to
charge for rentals three months in ad-
vance. It can’t need the money: revenue
for seven months —£10,374,446 —is up
£300,000, and January takings were
£lOO,OOO over those of January, 1939.
The thing is just departmental arrogance
and extortion.


THE OUTSIDER.
“‘When an old boy wants to do a dirty trick he takes his school tie off,’ said the headmaster of a Sydney college in an interview."


The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
Jk
w
mi
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “ Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Queensland
. Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
N. S. Wales Rhodes scholar this year
is Basil Travers. Travers went to Sydney
Uni. on a scholarship from “Shore” ; he’d
been well known there for a couple of
years—head boy, captain at cricket and
Rugby, captain of the Combined G.P.S.
at cricket and a “combined” footballer.
In his first year at the Uni. he netted
a double blue (cricket and football). He
was rated a possibility for the Union
team which went to England but didn’t
play because of the war. And the war
made young Travers a lieutenant in the
2nd Battalion of the Second A.I.F. The
scholarship will have to wait till the
war is finished. Three previous genera-
tions of the Travers family have pro-
duced Australian soldiers.
Lord Tweedsmuir, Governor-General
of Canada, better known as John
Buchan, is dead at 64. He commenced
public service in 1901 as private secre-
tary to Lord Milner, then High Commis-
sioner for S. Africa, fresh from a highly
successful academic career at Oxford,
where he was president of the Union. For
a while during the 1914-18 war Buchan
was on the H.Q. staff in France, and
then became Director of Information.
He entered the House of Commons in
1927, representing Scottish Universities,
and had a term in 1933-34 as Lord High
Commissioner to the Church of Scotland.
His peerage came to him with his ap-
pointment as G.-G. of Canada in 1935.
He wrote histories, essays, poems and
some very successful novels; in one of
the novels he describes a Union Rugby
game between Australians and Scots. His
Thirty-nine Steps was filmed a year or
so ago.
Gilbert Sherman McDonald, lately
appointed Director of Technical Educa-
tion in S.A., started to earn his living
G.S. McDONALD.
as a cabinetmaker, but switched to
schoolteaching in 1914. He enlisted in
1915, and returned badly wounded in
1917. He was one of the first teachers
in the trade schools established as a
result of Dr. Fenner’s efforts ; had three
years in Papua establishing a technical
education system for the Methodist Mis-
sionary Society, and since 1937 has been
an Inspector of Technical Schools in
S.A.
Just retired from his duties in Warr-
nambool (Vic.) —among other activities
he was organist and choirmaster of St.
Joseph’s—A. F. Roper, one of the best-
known musicians in the southern State.
He was born in Hobart 81 years ago,
and took over his church appointment
in Warrnambool in
1881. For many years
he conducted the
Warrnambool orches-
tra, which has a State-
wide reputation.
Bishop Roper of Too-
woomba (Q.) is his
eldest son.
Australian ornitho-
logy owes a lot to
Gregory Mathews,
just returned after
years of sojourn in
the Old Dart to attend
to the housing of the
bird library he pre-
sented to the Com-
monwealth Govern-
ment. Besides being
one of the most com-
plete bird libraries in
existence, it contains
his own vast work on
Australia’s feathered
population, which
runs . into a dozen
volumes and published
price of which was
124 guineas. Born in
N. S. Wales, he has
represented Australia
at most international
conferences of orni-
thologists during the
last three decades.
Lord Willingdoti
has climbed a long
way since he lived in Melbourne as
A.D.C. to Governor Brassey, but he
seems to remember his Australian days
with some affection. He told a M.L.
audience, with a chuckle, that he once
got brief reference in The Bulletin —
the writer of “Melbourne Chatter” re-
corded that at a race-meeting at Fleming-
ton one of those present was “Mrs.
Freeman-Thomas, with her husband in
tow.”
Adelaide Con., which under an old-
time Elder bequest is a branch of the
local University, gets a first-class teacher
of the violin in Lloyd Davies, formerly of
Sydney. A namesake, Harold Davies, is
at the head of the Adelaide concern,
and is also Uni. Prof, of Music.
Adelaide, itself only 103 years old,
has a native-born citizen who has just
had a 99th birthday. Albert Ashton’s
other claims to fame are 18 children —
12 now living—and “13 years in gaol.”
He was born there; his father was
the first governor of the institution (used
for short sentences only) which is the
first bit of Adelaide that the visitor sees
as the train pulls in to the Central station.
Ronald Minchin, dead after a long
illness in Adelaide, had only five years’
control of the fine zoo there, but did
much to improve it as a popular resort.
His brother Keith runs the Koala Park
close by. The profession is, in fact,
a family specialty. R. E. Minchin
was the original director ; his son A.C.
succeeded ; and his son was Ronald.
F. W. Arnold, moving from Perth to
Adelaide as Director of Posts and Tele-
graphs, will soon have seen official ser-
vice in every mainland State. The West-
ralian first got experience on the gold-
fields, then made a long stay in Brisbane,
with intervals of four or five years each
in Sydney and Melbourne. Latterly he
has been back in the West.
Frith, picturing himself in the same
position as Hammond or Bradman, offers
this model as his impression of the man
H. or B. sees when Bill O’Reilly begins
his run to the crease. Bill was born at
White Cliffs (N.S.W.), got his early
schooling at Goulburn, and in 1924
arrived at the Teachers’ College at Syd-
ney. It was on Moore Park that he took
W. J. O’REILLY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
to cricket. Since 1931, when he played for
Australia against South Africa, O’Reilly’s
accurate and guileful medium-paced
bowling has been the backbone of the
Australian attack. He gave up a master-
ship at “Grammar” to go into partnership
with Stan McCabe, and they sell sporting
goods alongside The Bulletin. Bill’s tall
form and inscrutable smile can be picked
out in George-street as far away as
Wynyard station.
Serving with the S. African forces is
the youngest son of that Colonel Tom
Price, of the Vic. Mounted Rifles, whose
command to his men to “fire low and
lay ’em out” caused a lot of stir during
the maritime strike in 1891. The younger
Price was in an Australian contingent in
the war of 1899-1902 ; followed this with
service in the Zululand rebellion in
1906 ; and afterwards jot a commission
in the forces of the East African Pro-
tectorate Government (now Kenya).
Now, at 55, he has been granted a
commission in the Union army.
Passed over at the 76th milestone,
Sydney Walter Philips, Maoriland-born,
who for 45 years was a figure in Sydney
business and sport. He was one of the
founders of Meggitts, chairman of direc-
tors of Michael Naira and Co. since
that firm was formed, and on the board
of the Mick Simmons concern. A mem-
ber of the A.J.C., he raced a number of
horses with fair success, among them
Lady Constance, Fair Diana and
Rylstone.
Exit at 60, Jack MacGinley. His
father was one of the characters written
by Steele Rudd into his stories. Jack’s
M.A. and LL.B. came from London
University. He was admitted as a bar-
rister of the Inner Temple ; then came
home to practise at the Queensland Bar,
but his experiences went far outside
the law. After a spell as Master of Titles,
he became a surveyor and a mine
manager. He was an authority on
bacteriology and on artesian bores. At
the time of his death he was engaged
on a compendium of Australian law and
upon a thesis for his doctorate in law.
He had 13 brothers and sisters.
William Henry Wilks (always known
as Bill), who died in Melbourne the
other day, was a politician for 16 years:
M.L.A. for Balmain North (1894-1901)
and M.H.R. for Dailey (1901-1910). He
was no speaker, but was the Gander of
the period. Reid made him Government
Whip. After the loss of his seat to
Labor, he became a city land valuer in
the Commonwealth service, retiring four
years ago.
Latest recruit to the Federal Govern-
ment’s bloated Ministry of Information
is Gordon Williams, Melbourne
“Argus’s” chief humorous writer. A
virtuoso of the pun, he started punning
in its columns to such effect a few years
ago that in a short while the staff be-
came infected and puns began to creep
into headlines over the weightiest of sub-
jects. Williams also has a talent for
serious journalism.
“C. 8.”: Bland Holt is reported by his
friends to be looking very well this year,
which happens to be his 87th. He lives
in retirement at the Coppin home at
Sorrento, and on his birthday old theat-
rical colleagues make the trip down the
bay to congratulate him. They have good
cause to remember him with affection.
His chief weakness was loyalty to his
companies, and the last thing he would
ever admit was that what his shows
needed was new blood,. The._s?ld entre-
preneur takes an occasionat trip to Mel-
bourne and goes to the pictures. If he
looked in at one of his old theatres he
would be excused for indulging in a little
cynical laughter, inasmuch as it has
started on a season of revivals of some
of the melodramas which were born in
his theatrical heyday.
Finland, the liberty-loving little
country that has astonished the world
by its fighting prowess, which has won
a high place in the athletic world by
the speed of its runners, and which pro-
duced Sibelius, considered by many the
greatest living composer of music, is
represented in Sydney by Consul Paavo
CONSUL FOR FINLAND.
Simelius. He’s 46, was Consul in Hol-
land before he came to Australia, and
for several years lived in the U.S.A.
Walking, reading and gardening are his
recreations.


ON LAND
Gi
%
£
m
*!i
%
B*
r
f
"ii
£
x'*
A
AT
7 s
7 s
7 s
AIR
IN
THE
An Australian Factory in
an Australian Garden.
BEAM WIRELESS SERVICE
WIRELESS TELEPHONE SERVICE
WIRELESS SERVICE TO SHIPS
NEW GUINEA WIRELESS SERVICE
FIJI WIRELESS SERVICE
BROADCASTING SERVICES
AIRCRAFT RADIO SERVICES
PICTUREGRAM SERVICES
WIRELESS MANUFACTURE
WIRELESS RESEARCH * *
BROADCASTING STATIONS
THE FISK RADIOLA * *
<§>
A.W.A. is wholly self contained in the manufacture of every type
of wireless equipment at sea, on land and in the air.
In the commercial and industrial world, wireless is of national
importance, being closely allied with Australia’s local and overseas
trading, the press, international affairs, aviation, shipping, and
all arms of defence.
The industry was pioneered by Amalgamated Wireless in 1913,
and since then the Company has been foremost in every phase
of its development.
Wireless communication services are available to overseas
countries, Papua, New Guinea and Fiji, to ships and to aircraft.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat, toiling for a
Goulburn Valley fruit cocky, found him-
self an object of much interest to the
cocky’s daughter. He didn’t take much
notice of her attentions for a while, ac-
cepting nicely-washed shirts, darned
socks and her persistent search of his
company after dark with non-committal
awareness. But one day a nightdress of
the girl’s somehow got mixed up in the
wash, and Mat found it among his shirts.
He resigned, got his money and left. “She
wasn’t a bad sort,” he confided later, “but
it looked as though she was gettin’ too
damned familiar.”
* * * *
“A.H.H.”: It’s wonderful the tricks a
crow will come at to find out whether a
man’s properly settled before hopping
down for a meal. Was lying under a
brigalow trying to snatch a nap on the
dinner camp when I heard Kelly settle
in the branches overhead. I opened one
eye sufficiently to spot him and closed it
again. In a few seconds I heard a crack
up above and then felt a twig drop on
my chest. I didn’t move, but awaited his
next move. Crack —the next one, a bit
bigger, landed on my legs. I heard him
flap away then, but, feeling a bit sleepy
with the heat, I just stayed quiet. I was
just dozing off when —bump! I felt some-
thing soft and heavy land on my middle
and wriggle off. Letting out a yell I
jumped for it. That crow had gone and
found a young green snake and dropped
it; I suppose he thought if that didn’t
shift me I must be a goner.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Paddy the Pest, camped
in the grandstand of a western N.S.W.
showground, watched with slight interest
a display of first-aid by the local Boy
Sprouts. After the crowd had gone he
went over the ground for butts, odd coins
and other things that might have been
dropped by the careless. To his disgust
all he found was a large linen sling that
had been used for a broken-arm demon-
stration. He was about to throw it away
when a sudden gleam entered his eye.
Hastily rolling the knot, he lit out for
points west, and, about sundown next
day, a sympathetic old lady was moved
to see a poor unfortunate of the roads
stagger past her house with most of his
left side in a sling. She called him back,
pressed food upon him, then gave him a
10s. note and sternly ordered him to go
at once to the local doctor and have the
arm fixed. Paddy moved off, but not
to the doctor. Next day he was about 20
miles away when a car overtook him, and
he just had time to shove the arm back
in the sling. It was the old lady, indig-
nantly looking for him after a telephone
call to the doctor. Her grown son thrust
Patrick into the back seat, and they took
him back. The doc. looked him over,
broke down his story and called the
police. Paddy made a dash for it, doctor
and son caught and threw him violently,
and he finished up in the local hospital
with a broken left wrist and dislocated
shoulder. “An’ strike me fat,” he wound
up, “if that ol’ girl don’t visit me every
day, bringin’ soup an’ eggs an’ all that.
But she don’t bring no more money. You
reckon she woke up t’ me sling stunt?”
* * * *
“Mallyree”: Suburban bushfires bring
out in full force well-meaning neighbors
who drag all the furniture out and, if
possible, place it in the path of the fire,
preferably among long grass. The house
is saved, but the furniture (usually un-
insured) is not. Even if it is miraculously
saved, the owner is left to drag it back
through his smashed front door. His
faithful dogs have come off second best
in a box-on with the helpers, who, armed
with palings wrenched from the fence,
soon quieted them. Still, the neighbors
get a lot of pleasure out of their good
deed, dog-breeders are pleased because
the householder has to buy several more
tykes, and stores gain business from re-
placements. Next time there’s a fire in
my suburb I’m mounting guard with a
gun!
* * * * *
“H.W.”: Kiama (N.S.W.) dairy-
farmers could teach “S.W.s’s” sheep-
man (B. 17/1/’4O) a thing or two about
stone yards. On nearly all properties in
“Thought I Was tin, did you?”
that district stone fences are used almost
exclusively. But the settlers there didn’t
waste time and money cementing their
stone; they did as their Irish ances-
tors have done for generations—stacked
the loose stones so cunningly that they
have stood solid as a rock for over 80
years. And nary a cow has died in their
yards from suffocation. In appearance
as well as in utility these stone fences
are a great improvement on post-and-
rail, and their build'ing served a double
purpose in clearing the once-stony hill-
sides.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: While acknowledging the
feats of “Waranbini’s” feathered sub-
marines (B. 17/1/’4O), I must put in a
word for the Tasmanian native hen.
Slower than ducks, this bird, though it
dives only to escape pursuit, will travel
30 yards under water. If reeds are handy
it will clutch them below water, pro-
truding only its beak tip till danger
passes. Surprisingly, its toes are com-
pletely unwebbed.
* * * *
“Shaker”: With so much discussion
on earthquakes and stilly air, how about
a word for our Australian variety,
“Barisal guns”? All over the plains on
the west side of tfc> continent one is
likely to hear them, though particularly
towards W.A.’s south-west. Invariably
on a stilly night do the rumblings and
earth-shudderings come, much as though
in the distance a terrific bombardment
was taking place. Sometimes the shud-
derings are violent enough to cause slight
damage to buildings. They are thought
to be due to the sundering of rock
masses at a comparatively shallow depth,
or perhaps to the collapse of huge caverns
worn through the earth’s crust by the
flowing of subterranean streams during
the ages. Kalgoorlie back in 1917 even
had a man-made ’quake. So gigantic was
the tonnage removed from the Golden
Mile in the course of over a quarter-
century that the huge “horse” of country
rock left standing between the Ivanhoe-
Horseshoe and the Great Boulder mines
broke. Three thousand feet tall, lying
on slight underlay, weighing perhaps a
million tons, its slipping sideways of
barely an inch shook the earth for a
hundred miles, along with an explosion
that woke the town. Happened at night,
of course. Most falls of stone in deep
mines occur at night, particularly in the
small hours.
* * * *
“Amathea”: Outstanding horse of his
type was perhaps Fisherman, of Corella
Station (s.-w. Q.). All that a camp-horse
should be—cutting out with zest, skill
and glee—he would come in fresh from
a spell, pig-fat, and a man could hop
on to him and work a bullock till he
was safe in the cut. But unless Fisher-
man agreed to it there wasn’t a thing in
trousers could ride him. Still, he always
gave warning that he was on strike by
rearing as soon as the rider got aboard.
Then he’d follow with something right
out of the box, and the station would
know Fisherman wouldn’t be working
that day.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: When I go to our sale-
yards and watch some drover untangling
himself from his stockwhip every time
he swings the lash, it takes, roughly, 10
beers to bring me back to normal. A
few years back anyone who could ride
was able to use a whip, but nowadays,
although there are a few here and there
who can sit a horse if it doesn’t go
beyond a canter, about one in a hundred
can swing a whip without damage to
himself or his surroundings. And the
whips Lordy me, our fathers would
have used ’em for bootlaces! With the
old-timers a stockwhip was a thing of
beauty—the handle the work of an artist
and the fall of the lash so cunningly
adjusted that the whip would almost swing
itself. Each whip had its whip expert
who plaited his thongs to each individual
taste ; no cattleman would think of using
a factory-made whip. However, I’ll admit
that I did see a decent exhibition of
whip-wielding recently. I forget the name
of the film it was in, but it shows what
a versatile lot they are in Hollywood.
* * * *
“Karaway”: A N.S.W. abo. weapon
that has disappeared with the spread of
settlement, and consequent discontinu-
ance of tribal wars, is the liangle of the
western N.S.W. blacks. It was made some-
what like a boomerang, but more sharply
curved at one end, which was broadened
and sharpened like the blade of a toma-
hawk. The weapon, in fact, was something
of a cross between a boomerang and a
one-piece wooden axe with a curved
handle. It was exclusively a fighting
weapon, and could be throwh, or tied a!
a chopper in a hand-to-hand combat.
Being fashioned from the natural bend
of a very hard wood, it could inflict a
nasty wound on the other fellow what-
•. . * r* . .•
ever way it was used. Another fighting
weapon of the same districts was the
b.rra which was like a short spear, sharp
at both ends and was thrown as a man
throws a waddy, but with the purpose of
striking with one of the sharp ends.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: It is generally accepted
that a hen sits on her eggs to keep them
warm, but have you seen one standing
over them to keep them caol ? Watched
a broody silver gull on a Barrier Reef
cay, where the shade temperature was
somewhere about mild oven-heat. So
long as the nest was shaded the bird was
hardly interested in it, but as soon as a
patch of dazzling sunlight streaming
through a break in the pisonias touched
the eggs the gull’s anxiety was pronounced.
Straddling the clutch, it became vigor-
ously abusive of any threatened intrusion
and would only move at the last moment
—and then only for a foot or two to
return aggressively despite the presence
of inquisitive investigators. For an hour
that panting body of gleaming white
stood umbrella to its eggs ; then the
shadow crept over again and the gull
strutted away. Out on the broad beach
of blinding dead coral terns were shov-
ing fluffy chicks along as bits of shadow
moved away from them, and when dis-
turbed flitted over the lagoon, dipped
and dived back to rub wet breasts over
the gasping youngsters. Call it instinct
if you like, but humans applying the
same principles would be credited with
sound commonsense.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Yairs,” said the old sailor,
“me an’ me mate Bill Stubbs wus the
only survivors of the wreck of the good
ship Nancy Brown. We’d managed t’
make a raft oula bits of wreckage, an’
floated about fer weeks. Wot few pro-
visions we had gradually went until all
we had left wus a bag o’ sovereigns Bill
had pinched outa the captain’s room.
These we whacked up equal. A coupla
mornin’s after we had run outa the last
of our tucker I woke up t’ see Bill sittin’
sievin’ his sovereigns between his fingers
an’ babblin’. He must’ve been goin’ ding-
bats, for he’s sayin’: ‘These ain’t no good
now ; I’ll chuck ’em t’ the sharks.’ He’d
no sooner said the words than there wus
a flop on t’ the raft, an’ somethin’ landed
between us an’ buried its head in Bill’s
heap o’ gold. It had scoffed a dozen or
so before I got me wits .back an’ killed it
with a lump of wood. Yair, that jewfish,
the biggest I ever see, kept us goin’ fer
a whole week till we wus picked up be a
passin’ steamer.”
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Down in the old Victorian
mining town of St. Arnaud—named after
a French general of the Crimea—there’s
been a bit of a controversy because shire
councillors changed the shire’s name from
Kara Kara to the French one. Some
bloke had this to say:
Kara Kara might be an aboriginal ver-
®jon welcome, or it might represent
th e cry of a bird, or it might be a cor-
ruPh°n ol kangaroo. My tip is that if
an ybody wants to know where the abos.
d a ae ias t 0 ls &° old and listen
to tae £ rows - *
ttT ... „ * * . . *
*■?■“* : The en ! h , us ! ast ', c y, oun *
th . s 0 e 'Shied to learn
... . ■ tb e r b an ~ ls -julict in-
,,u S C *?“ r S h ?, al , d ln P ref ‘
“““ * he .. b !° o ™‘ ,C , k " tual s ° P°P U '
se m rar nverVhnndred ri 11
“ ,I’ZJrZ es of bumpy
£ ad , “ M°.™ ,be “ r ™°ny- Black
Brother rallied to the knot-tying in full
force s 0 dM eve bod else / B * t wh
radiating approvah the parson demanded
of the brjde: ~w ilt tho p u have
etc she ducked , behind her
• said ~N o„ most ” p hatic a lly and
continued to say it. Luckily for the good
man, one of those strong, silent heroes
who are familiar with the abo. interpre-
tation of the demonstrative “this”
strode forward, grasped Romeo’s arm
and said, “Him, Nancy, him. You have
that feller?” Prompt acquiescence from
Nancy, and the parson hurriedly com-
pleted the job. He had not dreamed that
Nancy suspected him of trying to usurp
her bridegroom’s place.
LONGSHORE LASSES.
A girl in a teahouse I’m thinking to sing—
All painted and powdered was little Miss Ming.
The chantey that fits her I’ll raise if I can;
Its chorus comes in with hi-yo and hi-yan.
Hay-i-yoh, Hay-i-yan!
A maid of Calcutta I’m wishful to praise;
I met her one morning when walkin’ me ways.
Her lips were like cherries, she’d eyes like the
sloe,
The song that she sang me was —how did ye
know?—
Money makes the mare to go,
Whether she has legs or no,
Money makes the mare to go !
I’ll tell of a lassie of Liverpool town —
Oh, give us some time for to blow the man
down!
Pork pies was her fancy, which, taken with
beer,
No handyman hurted so far as I hear.
Come, haul aft the sheet there, my lads of
renown!
We’ll blow the man up and we’ll blow the
man down,
Wey, hey ho! Blow the man down!
Now Boston’s a gay town, where g&ls by the
score
In all their fine feathers trip down to the shore.
Oh, Nancy and Jenny and Sally and Sue,
They’ll all be a-waiting, my bullies, for you.
You’ll love them and leave them the same as
before,
A-singin’ your chorus of old Shenandore:
Hurrah, you rollin’ river,
A h ha ! you Shen-an-dore!
To finish my ditty I’ve got to reveal
I loved a mulatto, ’way down in Mobile.
The chantey that fits her suits Polly and Sal —
Farewell and forget me, my pretty young gal.
Farewell to the lasses of Sweden or Spain;
We’re bound out for Rio, for Rio again:
Hey, Rio, and away, Rio,
We’re bound for the Rio Grande!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Turoar”: “Yer can’t beat these ’ere
Gippsland birds,” Old Bob declared.
“Take the time me an’ Tarry Tom’s driv-
in’ a bullock-team down in the Strze-
leckis. As gooder team as yer’d see
anywhere, an’ not a nounce uv vice in
none uv ’em. One mornin’ me an’ Tarry
we’re goin’ out with a load, an’ we stops
fer a coupla pots at the Toora pub. When
we comes out the team’s gorn, an’ the
wagon, too. After lookin’ erbout, we
starts orf up the road an’ meets a bloke
’oo reckins ’e seen a team goin’ ’ell-fer-
leather up towards the ’ills. O’ course,
it’s our team, an’ we goes fer the lick
uv our lives, wonderin’ wotinell ’ad got
inter the brutes. It’s not till sundown
we catches ’em, an’ then we’d never got
’em only they’d tried ter pull the wagon
between two lumpin’ great trees an’ got
jammed. Wot started ’em? There’s two
blasted little devils uv birds sittin’ on
the frame, whippin’ like mad. Yair —
whipbirds.”
* * * *
“Jeidisee”: The dainty fairy martin,
whose bottle-necked masonry is so often
found under culverts and in ro6k caves,
always appears such a harmless little bird
that it is difficult to impute to it certain
medieval cruelties. Examining these
nests under a culvert, we noted one whose
entrance had patently been capped over
by the birds themselves, and examination
revealed the corpse of a young bird.
There being only one bird induces the
wonder, did the fairy martins protest
against being foster-parents to a young
cuckoo? The season has brought forth
a phenomenal number of offspring to the
pallid cuckoo, and perhaps even these
nests caught the cynical eye of those con.
men of the bird world.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: “Cooramin’s” description
of the lubra carrying her baby (B.
17/1/’4O) recalls many such that I have
seen. But he missed just one point —that
the mother can also feed her offspring
while keeping on the march. Nature has
assisted in this. So pendulous is the black
woman’s equipment of what Mr.
Micawber described as “Nature’s fount”
that a twist down the shoulder brings
the infant’s head under its mother’s arm.
There it drinks. Many a time I have
seen a sturdy youngster carried practically
standing in a sling across the mother’s
back, the “fount” in such cases being
passed up over the shoulder. It would be
difficult to believe that such an attenuated
mammary organ was capable of yielding
milk, but the young-’un gripped with
hands and lips and evidently obtained his
fill. About the most touching thing I
have ever seen was a young gin carrying
her day-old baby slung across her back
in a strip of kangaroo-skin and a thin
sheet of curled bark. It took my long-
haired mate to persuade her to open the
precious bundle; it was the tiniest of
infants —and nearly white.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I shouldn’t care to dine
on beef that had been chased around a
10-acre paddock for an hour just prior
to killing (B. 17/1/’4O). There seems little
doubt that overexcitement or fatigue
produces a mildly toxic condition in the
flesh of animals, a poison that may upset
the human stomach. In Shackleton’s
1909 Antarctic expedition, after eating
part of the carcass of a pony shot after
a gruelling day’s march, the whole dash-
for-the-Pole party was prostrated by a
violent diarrhoea that came near to end-
ing their marching for ever. It was only
when, braving the pangs of hunger, they
ceased eating the pony meat that they
recovered.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Twenty-five years ago
when the Reaper called in our valley
Bill the undertaker sometimes let me
ride his black horse down to Fitz-
Geralds’ to borrow theirs. The pair
of blacks would then set a sedate pace
for the cortege, by the length of which
you could gauge the local regard for the
citizen departed. There was plenty of
time to see who had turned out. Buggies
there were, a few spring-carts, sulkies —
from worn veterans with wobbly wheels
to gleaming rubber-tyred vehicles with
restive trotters —and perhaps Jack Stewart
with a fractious two-year-old strapped
heavily in a long-shafted brake well clear
behind. After him came a bunch of
horsemen, and, last of all, as befitted
mechanical contraptions, a few bikes;
but for the day all were held down to
the easy walk of Bill’s blacks right to
the top of the northern hill, where horses
were hitched to saplings and the assembly
gathered beyond the fence. The horses
dozed, though magpies carolled gloriously
above them ; and when all was finished
there was a spell of quiet talk among
those who seldom met, a little pausing
by older graves. Then the homeward
drift began and the better horses re-
sumed their pride of place out of the
dust. The other day I went back there
again, in time to follow an old friend
up the hill. Bill—now “old Bill”—wore
a great black coat that fitted like a sec-
“First 'ome gets the cell with the easterly aspect."
“Good morning , everybody. I represent the Osgood Elevator Company .”
tion of corrugated-iron tank, and he sat
beside an elegant fellow who drove a
big motor-hearse. Variety still followed
—sedans, tourers, utilities, and a three-
ton truck—but the only fractious colts
present were the lads who were un-
comfortable holding their cars down to
a steady twenty. The service over, the
road suffered one noisy spasm, and calm
settled down again beside the sleepers.
The magpies—and Death —are still the
same.
* * *
“Aratta”: Dad rose to propose a vote
of thanks to the speaker. “Mister
O’Golly, the member for Breakanbust,”
he said, “has been most entertainin’. He
has told us a lot about the millions of
pounds we owe, an’ quite a lot of other
things. I’ve got to confess that I dunno
much about what he wus talkin’ about,
an’ I don’t s’pose any of yous other
people do either. But it wasn’t so much
what he said that impressed me, but
the way Mr. O’Golly acted when he
said it. I got quite a thrill out of it.
Every time he dived his hands inter them
trousers pockets of his me heart give a
jump. I thought he wus goin’ t’ pull
out that five quid he owes me!”
* * * *
“Tall T.”: Removing fuel oil from
fabrics (B. 17/1/’40)? Working for years
in the Mersey Valley (Tas.) shale re-
fineries or retorting plants taught me
something of the task. Greasing the hair
or skin with fats such as lard or butter,
a quick rub with petrol, then a hot soapy
wash, will remove all but a faint smell.
Much the same treatment will remove
the oil from fabrics, except that the cloth-
ing should be left to soak in the petrol
for a short time.
“Trevdee”: Tea
Tree Well is 120
miles north of Alice
Springs. A voice
called me to come
and eat. I went to
the front part of the
house, to the back,
to the sides; but the
usual sounds
crockery, knives and
forks, moving feet
and voices were
entirely absent, as
was a light of any
sort. Suddenly a
shaft of yellow light
came from near my
feet, and then the
head and shoulders
of the lady of the
house appeared
from a hole in the
ground. “Come on,” she said. “Tea’s
waiting. We eat underground here on
account of the heat, you know.”
* * * *
“Daly River”: It is amusing to read
the comments of superior and ofttimes
half-baked anthropologists on the glut-
tony of the black. One hears of bucks so
gorged as to roll over and over on the
ground in the effort to massage and re-
lieve their interiors. Quite true —I’ve seen
it myself. But one thing is overlooked —
the abo. has no three meals a day ; he
is lucky if he can always get one. Let
some of our hearty city diners try one
meal a day, year on end, and see how
they’d exercise moderation when con-
fronted with something eatable. The
native camp knows no breakfast-time,
unless it is to gnaw a few dried roots or
some lily bulbs; everything else, even the
bones, has been chewed up overnight by
the ever-hungry dogs. So no one really
dines until the food-gatherers or the
hunters return. And the hunters may be
late, even empty-handed. So, is it any
wonder that, when the larder does happen
to be full, all hands give it a Gargantuan
go? Another reproach is that the abo.
eats up everything in sight, taking no
thought for the morrow. Well, how
could he, in a land of heat and myriads
of flies? Having no means of preserv-
ing his meat he gets all possible inside
him while it is still eatable. And who,
having lived in the torrid parts of this
continent —and that’s nearly the whole
of it —will not adjudge him wise?
* * * *
“Wang”: The new parson was paying
his first visit to the Gumboughs’ place.
At table the conversation drifted around
to the present-day craze for speed, the
parson instancing sundry record-breaking
efforts on land, sea and in the air.
“Yes,” remarked Dad, “that’s all right
s’ far as it goes. But there’s other things
what badly needs speedin’ up, spite of
what y’ say. Look at Dave there, f’in-
stance.” The parson looked at Dave,
who squirmed about on his chair uncom-
fortably. He was decked in his Sunday
best. “Yes,” continued Dad, “here he’s
been trackin’ with a girl fer seven years
now, an’ ain’t popped the question yet;
goes over t’ see her once a fortnight,
an’ ” Dave jumped to his feet, and
with an angry glare at Dad left the
room. “The young fellers is too bloomin’
slow t’ catch grubs these days,” said
Dad. “Not like they wus in my young
days.” “They’re not all so slow about the
business as you say Dave is,” remarked
the parson. “Why, the day before yes-
terday I married a couple over at Jack-
son’s Gully. The bridegroom was a new
arrival, and had only been employed by
the bride’s father a week. Perhaps you
know the family. Mary Potts was
the bride’s name.” “Hey!” exclaimed
Dad, rising and moving towards the
door. “Excuse me a mo.” A few seconds
later the good man heard a stentorian
voice roaring across the paddock: “Hey,
Dave, it’s no use y’ goin’ over t’ Mary’s
—she’s spliced. Y’ might as well get into
y’r old clobber an’ get stuck into that'
stookin’ in the boundary paddock.”
EŚENTIAL OVERLOOKED.
Say, let me tell y’ of the time
The flood struck Yerranheip,
An’ cut us off on ev’ry side
With water wide an’ deep:
Our tucker soon was runnin’ low,
We doled it out with care,
But as the days went slowly by
Starvation faced us there.
An’ still it rained an’ still the flood
Around the station lay;
We’d eaten all the rabbits an’
The birds had flown away.
All lizards, snakes an’ jumpin’ frogs,
An’ field mice in the wool,
With other things, long since had gone
T’ keep our bellies full.
When Lanky Somers volunteered
T’ ride his brown horse out
We drew our belts an’ raised a cheer,
Though we were full of doubt.
We knew the fury of that flood,
We heard the storm rains roar,
An’ sadly watched old Lanky go,
Nor thought t’ see him more.
Two dreadful days went slowly by;
We watched the waters drear,
But never sign of man or horse
Was there to quell our fear.
The drowned sheep bumped the drowning
trees,
A pale sun lit the scene,
Our hearts were sore for Lanky’s loss,
Our bodies weak an’ lean.
An’ then one hopeless dawn we heard
A hail from someone’s throat,
An’ saw a saviour pullin’ in
A tucker-laden boat.
’Twas Lanky, with his cheerful grin—
No angel brought more joy—
We thumped his back an’ shook his hand,
An’ yelled, “Good on y’, boy!”
An’ while he told us of his ride
Through flood an’ storm an’ rain,
We gathered round that food supply,
An’ praised his name again.
With tins of beef an’ bags o’ flour
Tea, salt an’ sugar, too,
Spuds, butter, jam an’ bacon rolls,
We were a happy crew.
But suddenly our joy was dulled,
Our laughter quickly died,
We cursed the hero roundly then
An’ punctured all his pride.
Aw, yair, he’d braved the flood for us
Upon his game brown horse,
But then he rowed his boatload back
Without tomato sauce!
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman), Orwell Phillips (Deputy
Chairman), Robert J. A. Massie, Geoffrey F. Hughes,
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
c
ARE in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
„, „ 1 any a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
when the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
„„ i, JS . i ( f e | f ence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It
rna -L, Je appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
Ine Company s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It wall tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
_ T „ „ DIRECTORS:
H. Kelly (Chairman); Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. ; E. R. Knox;
K: de L. Cudmore; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis.
H. v. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £56,000,000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE EASY-
SH AVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle I®/®
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle - 217-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits I and J blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (Perth)
Dividends and Dividend Tax.
r \
Pref. To Re— Re—
Sept., Profit. 0 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 112,652 3000 20 p.c. = 85,090 24,562 567,524
1930.. 118,187 3000 18 ~ „ 70,581 41,006 000,130
1931.. 09,929 3000 14 „ ~ 59,503 7,3GG 613,496
1932.. 83,449 3000 14 „ ~ 69,563 20,886 034,382
1933.. 89,045 3000 14 ~ ~ 59,503 27,082 001,404
1934.. 105,215 3000 18 „ ~ 76,581 25,034 087,098
Written off freeholds, £5OOO .. .. 682,098
1935.. 98,974 3000 20 p.c. = 85,090 10,884 092,982
1930.. 120,253 3000 20 ~ ~'85,090 32,103 725,145
Share premiums, £33,981 . . . . . . 759,126
1937.. 110,390 3000 25 p.c.= 114,859 757,657
1938.. 128,983 3000 25 „ ~ 127,017 750,021
1939.. 120,082 3000 25 ~ „ 127,017 751,486
Ever since the discoveries of Ford,
Bayley and Hannan started a rush of
thirsty people to Coolgardie and Kal-
goorlie in the early ’nineties this co.
has enjoyed a lion’s share of the trade
in Westralia. Here the consumption of
beer per head of population is about 50
p.c. greater than the average for the
whole of Australia, and the co. keeps on
buying up hotel freeholds, thus making
it difficult for effective competition to
rear its head.
Shareholders have had a royal time.
For nearly 20 years to 1911 divs. ranged
from 24 p.c. to 32 p.c. Then the rate
dropped to 16 p.c., following transfer
of £101,450 from reserves to capital, and
remained steady, sweetened with 4 p.c.
bonuses in the fattest periods, until slump
brought the rate down to a mere 14 p.c.
in 1931. It rose to 20 p.c. again in
1935, and to 25 p.c. two years later, and
has remained steady since.
A factor which has made possible the
high nominal rate of dividends has been
the corpulence of reserves they were
visibly £191,017 greater than paid capital
at the end of September last. Like capi-
tal, they belong to shareholders, who are
entitled to a fair return on the two
combined. On this combined figure
(£1,311,955) last year’s profit was a shade
over 9.6 p.c., which suggests that assets
are well worth their book value.
The position in respect of earnings
is more glittering than it looks, too.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts rural areas in Westralia
were affected by seasonal conditions and
low prices for wool and wheat. After
allowing for taxation, depreciation and
repairs, the co.’s declared net earnings
were £2901 less than the previous year’s.
Whether the shrinkage was due to
economic conditions or to transfer of
business to the subsidiary (Emu Brewery)
is not clear from the published figures.
The £126,082 of profit claimed was suf-
ficient to pay the small pref. div. and
show 24.1 p.c. on the £510,469 of ord.
capital, compared with 24.6, 24.7, 27.5,
22.5, 24, 20.3, 18.9, 15.7 and 27 p.c. back
to 1930. Profit included £2llB (down
£463), presumably from W.A. Glass
Manufacturers, added to leasehold guar-
antee reserve, but nothing from Emu
Brewery (bought about 13 years ago),
which was recently equipped with a new
plant.
Emu’s figures, published for the first
time, show gross earnings for the year
to Sept. 30 last at £110,455. Including
£7418 for repairs, £15,584 for deprecia-
tion and £12,020 for taxation, exes,
swallowed £72,445. That left a profit
of £38,014, equal to 48 p.c. on Emu’s
£79,100 of capital, or 7.4 p.c. on Swan’s
ord. capital. The declared profit of
the two cos. combined (£164,096) was
enough to pay Swan’s pref. requirements
and show 31.5 p.c. on its ord. capital.
So maintenance of the 25 p.c. div. was a
much easier matter than appeared from
the parent’s figures alone.
The next table provides a bird’s-eye
view of the parent’s financial structure:
1932. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £475,454 £560,407 £560,469 £500,409
Mortgages . . 21,148 2,510 6,009
Other liabilities* 119,371 174,302 159,985 144,821
Freeholds and
plant . . 959,071 992,168 968,738 902,291
Mortgages . . 39,710 35,047 30,957 37,080
Stocks . . 50,234 02,347 06,283 74,545
Shares in other
cos 111,722 112,397 112,397 112,397
Book debts .. 65,817 108,009 101,558 93,441
Cash, etc. .. 50,827 23G,844 255,097 5.1,567
Emu advance - —•— 178,000
* Includes goodwills accruing.
Outstanding feature last year was a re-
duction of £203,530 in the cash holding
and appearance of an advance of
£178,000 (it was reduced by £20,000 dur-
ing the last half of the term) to Emu
—encouraging movements from a
shareholder’s point of view. Including
advances but not shares in other cos.,
the more or less liquid surplus (£289,812)
was £l9ll stronger than at the end of
Sept., 1938.
Around 265. the well-protected £1 prefs.
yield 4.6 p.c. The f.-p. ss. ords. at 31s.
return 4 p.c. on a 25 p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities. Consolidated balance-sheet
figures give a net tangible cover of
13s. 9d. (book value) for the parent’s
ords.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,651
Profit. ,
1932.. 18,409 2\ p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2| „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 24 „ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 2| „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,515 0 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
1938.. 21,291 4 ~ ~ 19,649 1,642 52,893
1939.. 34,085 7 ~ „ 34,38 G 299 53,192
The old Q.M.E., led by Robert Philp,
was split in twain in 1915, when the
pastoral properties passed to Australian
Stock Breeders and the meatworks at
Townsville and Brisbane to the present
co.
For the first five years shareholders
averaged 5.8 p.c., thanks to war-time con-
tracts. During the next 11 they received
two divs., totalling 9 p.c.; and reserves
were tapped for £BO,BOl to pay them and
extinguish trading losses. That was be-
cause the Argentine got a stranglehold
on British and Continental markets with
baby chilled beef, while locally high
prices, drought and labor conditions
bumped up costs. Still, owing to allow-
ances for depreciation, etc., the co. man-
aged to hang on to more money than it
could find use for in the business, and
ss, per share ( = £163,744) was returned
early in the 1933 term, reducing paid
capital to the present figure of £491,232
in 15s. shares.
The real turning-point came about
three years ago, when Britain withdrew
restrictions on Australian chilled and
agreed not to impose duties on beef from
the Dominions, while maintaining levies
and quantitative restrictions on shipments
from the Argentine. Also, in 1935, over
£45,000 was spent on the Townsville
works, mainly in connection with chil-
ling, and the co.’s London selling ar-
rangements were overhauled. One result
was that the 1937 earnings reached their
second-highest point for 19 years ; only
once previously in that period (in 1920)
had shareholders received a 6 p.c. div.,
the average being 2.3 p.c.
Last term began with a very doubtful
outlook, which changed as international
developments led to British Government
purchases of beef at better prices. Then,
following the outbreak of war, Britain
contracted to take surplus Australian
meat supplies for 12 months from the
beginning of October last at prices very
satisfactory to exporters. The result can
be expected to show up in further im-
provement in the current year’s figures.
After striking off £BO7O for deprecia-
tion, last year’s declared net result sprang
£13,394, reaching a shade over 7 p.c. on
capital, compared with 4.3, 6 and 4 p.c.
for the three preceding years. The div.
was lifted from 4 p.c. to 7 p.c.
During the year substantial additions
were made to the Townsville works,
where a further £40,000-odd is to be
spent during the current term. But share-
holders aren’t likely to be asked for any
more:
1931. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £054,975 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* .. 17,010 190,827 249,533 319,459
Property, live-
stock. shares
in other cos. 423,532 399,091 332,957 329,155
Stock.. .. 35,243 141,332 227,990 283,079
Stores .. 20,180 19,698 17,662 18,992
Debtors & cash 244,282 185,033 234,098 207,043
* Including provision lor contingencies.
When the books closed, Government
securities (£80,000) and cash (£121,900)
together totalled £201,900, while the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
—the etcetera is an unspecified provision
for contingencies—was more than
covered by other more or less liquids.
At 12s. 6d. (11s. a year ago), the f.-p.
15s. shares, covered by 16s. Bd. in net
tangibles, yield 8.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. As a long-term investment, the
doubtful factor is what is likely to happen
in connection with the trade when war-
time contracts run out again.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929 .. 40,281 8 p.c. = 49,867 58,207
1930.. 39,501 6j „ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 ~ ~ 24,298 4,441 01,093
Reduction in reserves, £4026 . . 57,667
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 67,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner, reserves, £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 64 p.c. = 11,050 64,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
From tax reserve, £5258 .. .. 58,292
Written off, £3258 .. .. .. 55,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. .. 52,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 .. .. 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 .. .. 51,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,258 50,353
Share premiums, £65 .. .. 50,418
Insurance claims, £1279 .. .. 49’139
1938.. 13,505 6 p.c. = 14,963 47,681
Insurance claims, £1202 .. .. 46,479
1939.. 14,807 0 p.c. = 14,963 40,323
Doubtful as to what the future holds
for this co. —it used to be a money-
spinner before the Harbor Bridge wiped
out its main sources of revenue in 1931
—the market prices the f.-p. ss. shares,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of ss. lid., at 4s. 4d., compared
with ss. Bd. a year ago and 6s. lOd. 12
months before that. At 4s. 4d. the return
is 6.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, earnings from the co.’s
suburban ferry services were irregular.
Increased takings were recorded on the
Parramatta-Lane Cove and Zoo-Athol
runs, due almost entirely to defence
activities. Competition from Govern-
ment trams and buses, using the Harbor
Bridge at reduced toll rates, further
lowered revenue from the Neutral Bay,
Cremorne and Mosman services. The
Balmain service, for years a losing one,
was relinquished by the co. in April last.
Chief source of profit now appears to be
tourist traffic, takings from which con-
tinued to increase; indeed, on several
occasions one of the smaller craft has
had to be pressed into service to take
the overflow from the two large show-
boats.
After meeting all charges, which con-
tinued to climb, and allowing £6410 for
depreciation, the declared net result was
£1302 better at 5.9 p.c. on capital as
against 5.4, 6.3, 7.2, 6.6 and 3.4 p.c.
back to 1934. That includes an un-
specified dividend from the subsidiary—
Harbor Land and Transport Co. —and
leaves out of the reckoning £1202 charged
to reserves in respect of workers’ com-
pensation claims, etc. The subsidiary’s
div. was assisted by an unstated profit
from the sale of land and by a small
amount from reserves.
With costs more likely to rise than
fall, despite the Government's cheap-
money policy, appearances are that the
co. will have a struggle to maintain 6 p.c.
out of earnings.
Here is a view of the business from
another angle:
I 932. 1 93G. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £170,000 £201,154 £249,387 £249,387
Liabilities .. 41,478 19.720 41,940 31,099
Landed property 28,434 20.211 23,540 23,00 t
Ship property 29,921 77,041 103,814 100,151
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 4,787 0,549 0,797 0,118
Fuel, stores, etc. 7,942 8,125 7,322 9,152
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107.000
Sundry debtors 30,909 47,249 30,497 22,594
Public securities,
etc . . . . G 2,251 4,483 4,172 4,172
Cash .. .. 2,271 2,157 1,100 1,100
Chief movements in last year’s figures
were a reduction of £10,841 in outside
liabilities and of £7903 in debtors’ bal-
ances. When the books closed more
or less liquids, including stores but not
shares in the subsidiary, exceeded the
debt by £5919, an improvement of £4768
over the twelvemonth.
At the end of December the subsidiary
had more or less liquids totalling £15,935
to meet liabilities of £20,452, of which
£18,012 was coming to the parent. Free-
hold figured at £72,178, and lighters,
plant, etc., at £45,333. Its pound shares
were covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 21s. Id.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 p.c. =12.000 543 14,564
1930.. 15,450 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,650 16,220
1931.. 14,962 4800 10 ~ „ 9,000 1,162 17,382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 „ „ 7,200 503 17,885
1933.. 8,211 4800 0 ~ „ 5,400 15,896
1934.. 12,377 4800 7 „ „ 6,300 1,277 17,173
1935.. 5,859 4800 2i ~ „ 2,250 15,982
1930.. 4,682 4800 Nil 15,864
1937.. 178 4800 Nil 11,242
1938.. 4,973 4800 Nil 173 11,415
Surplus sale Consols, £69 . . . . 11,484
1939.. 5,443 3000 2\ p.c. = 2,250 193 11,677
Repayment three-quarter-way through
the last term of the £60,000 of pref. capi-
tal —it was gathered at the time the co.
took over George Farmer’s Ballarat ham-
and bacon-curing business in 1919 —has
removed a hindrance to the ords. and
put them back on the div. list with a


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/o
Double Room, from 11/
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water.
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
‘Grancentral,” Sydney.
jt-. .Jt-,
“T
tt a n
ri
nr
E
»R*W
fIC os
■MB at
CO
u
hnftiinp-fIS BRITISH
YES! THIS IS THE
NUMBER OF MOTORISTS
WHO HAVE FITTED
DUNLOP SILENT ‘9o’
FOR ITS PROVED
GREATER VALUE IN
MILEAGE
SAFETY&
SILENCE
DUNLOP
\ ir m,w,-
SHE NT
//
*
m
H B-173 26
INCREASE
IN SALES
SINCE
LAST SEPT.
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
{INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA!
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
24 p.c. distribution, the first for four
vears
' It used to be a highly-profitable busi-
ness—an average 15.6 p.c., larded with a
one-for-two gift issue in 1926, was
handed ords. for the dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1931—but, though
the slump record was creditable, aggres-
sive competition on both the buying and
selling sides has produced a poor return
on capital over the past half-decade.
There’s a lot of capital invested in this
class of undertaking. United Provisions
tops the list with a share-register of
£1.400,000, and there are innumerable
small curers.
Last term the board was able to show
a profit on trading £842 better at £4389 ;
interest (£1054) turned in £372 less, mak-
ing the gain in net income £470, after
providing £2525 and £ll5O for deprecia-
tion and taxes respectively. The pref.
charge to time of repayment took
£3OOO, leaving enough to cover the
21 p.c. ord. div. with £193 to spare.
Allowing for loss of interest, the net
result was equal to 4.9 p.c. on the £90,000
of ord. capital. Until those in the trade
decide to co-operate in preference to
fighting each other, obviously only mod-
erate returns to shareholders can be
looked for. Present cost and tax trends
are likely to intensify the fight.
Reflecting the capital repayment, the
surplus of more or less liquids (£36,757)
fell away £56,889:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £90,000
Liabilities .. 2,309 6,104 2,689 9,215
Premises .. 44,457 44,457 44,457 43,707
Plant, etc. .. 28,707 27,583 26,435 25,102
S’toclis .. 20,180 24,612 21,058 18,147
Book debts .. 22,709 24,435 22,777 19,514
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 57,738 48,835 52,500 8,311
The figures are still comfortable. On
plant, the efficiency of which means a
lot, £1333 more was written off than
was spent.
Between 1935 and 1938 market for
the pound ords., covered by 225. 7d.
in net tangibles, crashed from 335. to
ss. 6d. At 14s. 9d. now, investors buy
the assets at a discount of 7s. 2d. in
the pound and a yield of 3.4 p.c. from
2\ p.c. divs. —5.7 p.c. if 4 p.c. goes out.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
Added
Writ- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 10,504 12 p.c. = 12,000 254 ) o S7n
Provident Fund, £5OO { 3870 102 ’ 745
1930.. 16,010 12 p.c. = 12,000 307 ) q9n o , nK Q , a
Provident Fund, £5OO J 1U& ’ 948
1931.. 10,997 8 p.c. = 8,000 289 ) 99ns
Provident Fund, £5OO J 8 108,lob
1932.. 10,118 8 p.c. = 8,000 1218 ). ina
Provident Fund, £5OO j 400 108 > 55G
1933.. 8,927 8 p.c. = 8,000 297 ) iqn , n „ RRfl
Provident Fund, £5OO j 180
1934.. 11,367 8 p.c. = 8,000 392 )„ A>7r
Provident Fund, £5OO j 2475 Ul * l6l
1935.. 11,383 10 p.c. = 10,000 393 ) ~I rnl
Provident Fund, £650 j 340 in - 501
1936.. 12,407 10 p.c. = 10,000 1383 ) 111fi7f
Provident fund, £650 j
1937.. 14,050 10 p.c. = 10,000 691 ) „„„ 114 584
Provident fund. £650 f 2709 114,084
1938.. 14,422 10 p.c. = 10,000 487 ) o 9S r, n7«rq
Provident fund, £650 f 328 j 117,80 J
1939.. 14,021 10 p.c. = 10,000 1557 ]
Provident fund, £650 1 564 118,433
Bldg, improvements, £1250 J
Formed in 1880, this is the largest trustee
co. in S. Aus., as well as being Aus-
tralia’s second-oldest. Speaking broadly,
earnings are derived from two sources:
returns from investment of the co.’s own
funds and from corpus and other com-
missions in the trustee section of the
business. Returns from these two sec-
tions are not separated in the published
accounts, but when the books closed
the £lOO,OOO of paid capital had the
support and assistance of £118,433 of
reserves. So capital and reserves com-
bined need turn in only 4.5 p.c. to pay
10 p.c. on capital alone.
Assets comprised Australian Consoli-
dated Stock £82,909, mortgages and ad-
vances to estates, etc., £42,038, freehold
£74,000, furniture, etc., £5723, safe de-
posit £14,000, and cash, etc., £5163. The
amount coming to outsiders was £398.
Appearances are, therefore, that the
trustee section hadn’t to provide much
toward the 10 p.c. div.
Furthermore, as the advantages of
the corporate over the private trustee
have become more widely known and
appreciated, the trustee section has con-
tinued to expand, and the expansion has
been hastened by recent legislation, which
has complicated the administration of
estates. Last term £1,154,931 of new
business was entrusted to the co.’s care.
But capital distributions to beneficiaries
totalled £190,547 more than that, leaving
the volume of trusts on the books at
£12,116,390:
Gross Exes p.c.
Trusts. Income. Exes.* Income.
1920.. £4,508,146 £22,477 £11,388 50.6
1925.. 6,480,945 31,581 18,006 57.0
1928.. 8,302,728 44,439 26,046 58.6
1930.. 10,036,608 44,426 28,416 63.9
1932.. 10,870,670 38,921 28,695 73.7
1934.. 10,913,978 38,351 26,984 70.5
1935.. 11,527,693 40,206 28,823 <1.7
1936.. 12,096,589 42,402 29,994 70.7
1937.. 12,214,348 47,080 33,030 <O.l
1938.. 12,306,937 50,441 36,019 71.0
1939.. 12,116,390 51,390 37,369 72.7
* Excluding depreciation.
Before allowing for writings-off and the
other appropriations in the introductory
table, the net result (down £401) was
14 p.c. on capital as against 14.4, 14,
12.4, 11.3, 11.3 and 8.9 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
As a long-term investment this class
of scrip has much to recommend it.
The co.’s pound shares paid to ss. are
covered by 10s. lid. in net tangibles. At
12s. 3d. they give an immediate return
of 4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
New Guinea and the Gold Tax
Application of the Commonwealth
gold tax to New Guinea is one of Can-
berra’s choicest injustices to a long-suffer-
ing Territory. Since 1929 N.G. mining
operators have been paying the Adminis-
tration a 5 p.c. royalty on the gross value
of all gold won; while in calculating the
royalty allowance is now made for the
Commonwealth tax —50 p.c. of the price
of the yellow metal over £A9 —the effec-
tive N.G. gold impost with the metal
worth £lO 13s. is 265. 4d. an ounce, as
against the 16s. 6d. levied in Australia.
The Commonwealth tax is, of course,
being levied for defence, and there is no
desire on the part of N.G. companies to
evade their contribution ; it is the double
taxation that is objected to, particularly
with the rising price of supplies adding
to the already high cost of mining. The
position now is that the Territory’s mining
industry is handing the Government 12
p.c. of its gross earnings, irrespective of
whether it makes a profit or not.
Latest figures show that for the
year to June 30, 1938, 410,0580 z. gold
bullion (making the gross total 2,351,787
oz.), worth £A2,028,980, was exported
from the Territory; copra worth
£847,734 was the principal other export.
For the quarter to Sept. 30 last mining
royalties, etc. (£33,928), produced 27 p.c.
of total revenue (£126,869); a further
42 p.c. (£53,695) came from Customs,
largely in respect of mining requisites.
Mining is obviously carrying the coun-
try. But, though large sums are found
for the Treasury and other public bodies,
scarcely an item of direct mining expen-
diture appears in the consolidated
accounts. For years the miners have
wanted a road from the coast to the
goldfields air transport costs 2d. a
pound, and it used to be lOd. It was
to pay for this that the gold royalty
was originally clapped on. Now the
mining cos. are being asked to shoulder
some of the cost, notwithstanding that
they have already paid the full amount
many times over.
Mineral resources of New Guinea have
been spasmodically explored to date, and
more Morobes may be awaiting dis-
covery. But it is a company’s, not a
small man’s, country, and if capital is
to be made available conditions will have
to be more attractive. Numerous low-
grade deposits, both lode and alluvial,
are already known, but are unpayable
at the present high level of costs, par-
ticularly burdensome to reef-mining.
When every additional ounce of gold,
our most readily saleable commodity,
means added strength in the present
conflict production should be encour-
aged, not hindered. In Australia official
means of speeding up output are already
being investigated. The first step in New
Guinea should include reconsideration
of either the royalty or Commonwealth
tax, if only as a matter of equity ; the
second should be immediate construction
of the goldfields road, thereby cutting
some £l5 a ton off transport costs.
Beryl, one of the Westralian De Ber-
nales golden group, broadcasts that its
acquisition of a ninth interest in the
Comet Gold Mines last year was a good
move. Three others of the group, Gt.
Boulder Mining and Finance, Common-
wealth Mining and Finance and Anglo-
Australian, hold the balance of Comets
issued shares. The Comet lode carries
high values to a known depth of 260 ft.,
and its continuation has been located in
another section of the property.
* * * *
Position of Murchison Gold Develop-
ment, a once-boosted De Bernales
holding co., appears to be improving,
but a long wait still looks to lie ahead
of shareholders—in front of the £300,864
of share capital is £245,390 of debt,
60 s.c. of which is in 10 p.c. notes, re-
deemable 1942 at latest. For the 12
months to June 30 the co., which has two
interests, the Emu at Lawlers and the
Riverina at Menzies (W.A.), shows a
j oss 0 f £24,361, of which interest corn-
mitments accounted for £20,161. No in-
come was received from the operating
CQS the Emu, on which main hopes
depend, ore reserves have gone up 44,550
tons to 156,170 tons averaging 5.4dwt.,
thanks to promising developments over
good widths on Nos. 7 and 8 levels,
and there is talk of doubling the 5000-
ton-monthly mill when funds and cir-
cumstances permit. Here, on millings
of 50,193 tons, recoveries last term were


em
I
li.it, _ >
: - '/'7 c . v . v'
Hi
:a>. : '.U'W ' /■ >;'
'-ft
4 »
~v ,
~;|W ~ :" f
\*V?r>
A- 1 , .-V ' 1
S' 'V, , /
K ■ ■'•••»- ,• I<> I '
A 1.,'-' - •fBJTI . ' ’IV . : :.=:il l = "7 " '
■■/..• y», 5'- / m ■"
/ -=
; ' ; 'r ''
. ,
1 .. • v-i
~ <•* ...... *•
The sooner you plan
your future
the better that future
will be!
MOST couples face two great hazards:
(1) That the husband will die too soon, leaving his wife
and children to fend for themselves.
(2) That the husband will live beyond his earning years,
and will spend his old age in want.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an experienced man
to talk over your hazards: your financial problems. Give him
your confidence. He will be able to help you with a sound plan
for laughing at the hazards, and building up your financial
strength.
Send to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir S'amuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A, W. Sneddon,. F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd. •
Write for a free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V,V, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 0 5294
nearly ldwt. higher at 5.2dwt., wfiile
working costs registered only fractional
movement at 295. 4d. per ton. The
working surplus of £A47,552 was re-
duced to £17,954 after allowing for de-
preciation and development. At Riverina,
where milling ceased in March owing to
inability to keep sufficient feed up to the
2000-tons-a-month plant, a loss of £25,725
showed up for the same period, of which
£19,053 was represented by depreciation
and development. A diamond-drilling
programme has been put in hand to test
the lode to 800 ft. Reserve ore is only
21,510 tons, grade 7.14dwt., but from the
main shaft some 9.2dwt. stuff has been
driven on over a width of 50in. for
523 ft. in the North drive on No. 4
horizon, while in the South shaft on the
same level 381 ft. of ore, grade Bdwt.
over 51 in., has been opened up. Funds
are very low.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe continues to make
a satisfactory job of re-treating old Kal-
goorlie residues. Last year’s recovery
from Gt. Boulder No. 1 dump was 28,523
fine ounces gold and 21,7290 z. silver,
with a recovery ratio of 53.91, against
47.35 p.c. Higher efficiency was not
accompanied by any rise in working costs,
notwithstanding increased wages and
rising prices. Net profit was £40,894 stg.
and a ninepenny dividend was paid. Tail-
ings remaining should give another three
years’ work, and the manager still hopes
that more than half a million tons in
No. 1 dump will average a working profit
of 4s. 6d. a ton. At Sept. 30 the co.
held £169,553 in cash, plus investments
with a market value of £15,737, and
owed £38,761.
* « * *
Lake View’s new chairman, D. Chris-
topherson, agrees that, in view of the
Commonwealth’s decision to strengthen
its forces and assist Britain to the fullest
extent, the tax on gold was unavoid-
able ; but he thinks it unfair that West-
ralian mineowners should have to pay
an industry allowance on gold at £lO 10s.
Aust. and upwards an ounce when they
receive only £9 15s. an ounce. He hopes
that in due course the Arbitration Court
will see that this payment is limited to
the net price received by the producer.
In all, taxation (British and Australian)
is now Bs. Ofd. in the £1 sterling, or more
than two-fifths of the co.’s income.
♦ :jc
New Golconda (W.A.) has given up,
and announces a sale of its plant. Lady
Shenton is also disposing of its machin-
ery, but is continuing its search for wealth
on a near-by property. Both cos. were
formed in 1934 to resurrect mines which
were then mouldering in their graves.
For a time prospects of Lady Shenton
were much overboomed. New Gol-
conda’s never were.
* * * *
Ora Banda South (W.A.) has informed
shareholders that on the advice of the
manager it has decided to opencut on
the northern side of its Marble Bar gold
venture and connect with the present
workings. To do this, the directors state,
will necessitate moving some of the plant,
etc. A call of Iyd. is being made to pro-
vide funds for the work. Meanwhile all
activity except cyaniding is suspended.
An earlier announcement said that nearly
£l5OO had been paid off the £5OOO pur-
chase consideration, and that, except for
a shortage of funds, everything was all
right.
* * * *
Edjudina Consolidated admits a loss
of £2733 last year, increasing the debit
balance to £14,629. Since the previous
report no work was done on the prop-
erty. Co. was formed in London in
1935 to acquire a big area in the Yerrilla
district (W.A.). It had substantial capital
to start with, but two years later had
little cash left. Operations were sus-
pended in 1937 pending the raising of
further capital. The mine is still idle.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) has bough!
the Wiluna East for £2500, which is
being taken from profits. Some months
ago the managing director estimated that
approximately 6000 tons had been
blocked out, and that an additional 20,000
tons had been partially developed.
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Charlotte, Ltd.,
which transferred its activities from
Rhodesia to Kalgoorlie three years ago,
reports a small expenditure, mainly legal
costs and directors’ fees, for last year.
Co. claims ownership of the Hannan’s
Reward-Mt. Charlotte group, which in-
cludes Paddy Hannan’s find. It has
already won its case in the Westralian
and High courts, and counts on winning
an appeal made to the Privy Council by
the other side.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.),
has few shareholders in Australia ; never-
theless its activities as a treater of very
low-grade ore are worth noting. Last
year the average grade of rock put
through the mill was 3dwt., and extrac-
tion averaged 2idwt. Value of the out-
put was £54,285 sterling. Operations
showed a loss of £4944 compared with
a profit of £374 for the previous year.
One or two small dividends have been
paid so far.
* * * *
London-Australian, Ltd., formerly of
Lawlers (W.A.) and now interested in
African mining properties of “great in-
trinsic merit,’’ complains in its latest
annual report of heavy South African
taxation, low prices ruling for base
metals, the idle and depressed state of
the stock markets and impossibility owing
to the war of conducting the financial
operations it desires. Co. holds shares
in Australian mines, principally Sons of
Gwalia.
* * * *
“Several influential financial interests”
have promised to spend up to £1,000,000
on a thorough survey and oil-boring
scheme in the West, provided much larger
areas are made available for prospect-
ing. The State Government is consider-
ing the matter. Freney is persevering in
its search in the north. The latest report
states that the obstruction in the bore
has been sidetracked, and that the coun-
try has been cored to a depth of 1240 ft.
The management states that no further
trouble is anticipated, but the market is
sceptical.
* * * *
Ralph E. May, a Melbourne share-
broker, is contesting the New Occidental
(N.S.W.) seat, to be vacated at the annual
meeting by G. H. Blakemore, who is
standing for re-election. At present there
are no Melbourne representatives on New
Occidental’s board, though the southern
capital owns a large portion of the scrip.
* * * *
Sungei Bidor Tin Dredging, Ltd., in-
corporated at Canberra three years ago
with a capital of £lBO,OOO in 240,000
shares of 15s. each, has paid its first
dividend —Is. per share. The co. has
a selected area of 32,000,000 c.y., which,
with unrestricted production at the
present rate of digging, will be worked
out in 10 years. Gold is proving a useful
sweetener, but at the annual meeting the
chairman drew attention to the fact that,
though the co. was equipped with a high-
grade dredge, the property itself was low-
grade, and latest returns bear out the
statement. During January the dredge
treated over 300,000 yards at a cost of
under 2d. per yard, and recovered 98
tons of tin and gold to the value of
£lO5O. It was early anticipated that gold
worth £5OO per month would be recov-
ered from the tin, but presumably the
management has profited by experience
gained in saving the unseen gold at
Barrytown (M.L.). The point for in-
vestors to note is that Bidor’s assessment
is only 44 tons per month. Restriction
would greatly cramp its style. So far no
announcement has been made of any
increase in quota.
* * * *
Mount Oxide mine, Cloncurry (Q.),
produced one of the most remarkable
red-oxide outcrops of iron and of copper
(cuprite). The iron didn’t matter, but
the look of prospecting work below
300 ft. by the present mining syndicate
throws all previous ore estimates out of
gear. Patches of 10 p.c. ore have been
disclosed between 300 ft. and 400 ft. deep,
but it takes 20 p.c. ore to pay under exist-
ing conditions at Mt. Oxide, so that they
will not be developed. Another argu-
ment for a central treatment plant at
Cloncurry, says the local miner.
* * * *
The Queensland gold yield for De-
cember dropped back to 14,123 fine
ounces, as against 16,172 fine ounces for
Dec., 1938. This is merely due to the
fluctuating output at Mt. Morgan, so is
not of much consequence. The yearly
output is shrinking somewhat, the end
of Mt. Coolon making a serious gap
which has not been bridged by any of
the newer fields. Cracow output is show-
ing steady improvement, and is no longer
a one-mine field depending on the
“Plateau.” Warwick, Gympie and Croy-
don are right in the dumps, with at
present little hope of emerging.
* * * *
Alluvial gold from Clermont (C.Q.)
reached 310 oz. during December. Most
oi; it came from Miclere, where deep-
sinking is reported to have located several
payable patches. Miners are now work-
ing ground up to 250 ft. deep, and any-
thing over lOdwt. to the ton is regarded
as payable there, for the sinking is easy.
Three inches of rain at the beginning of
February should set the alluvial shows
on their feet again.
* * * *
Mt. Peter, Cairns (N.Q.), which has
had some worthy little gold shoots, not-
ably the Talisman, is to try out the low-
grade stuff in the J.M. At 60ft. the
J.M. reef has a solid body of 12ft. of
quartz with a sprinkling of pyrite. Hand
samples are of very little use, so a small
tonnage is being sent to Chillagoe to
test bulk values. Chances are these won’t
be payable. Too many of those bucky
reefs, with a bit of mundic thrown in,
have been tried out —generally for a
couple of ’weights. Mobs of them be-
tween Cairns and Kuranda have turned
out duds.
* * * *
Mount Carbine, behind Cairns (N.Q.),
noted for its clean-cut quartz-wolfram
veins, has produced a large scheeiite lode
that looks a winner from its size, though
only just opened up. It lies about two
miles south-east of the wolfram shows,
and the discovery has started a new line
of prospecting nearer the granite and
limestone contact. About 15 claims have
been pegged out.
* * * *
There’s not overmuch to take a digger
over the long trek to Cape York fields
(N.Q.) at present. Claudie River is turn-
ing out under loz. gold ore, and is much
below original expectations. Batavia,
changing over gradually from alluvial to
reef, is doing better on 25dwt. ore, but
there’s little glitter in that considering
the trials of the extreme northern en-
vironment. On the other Peninsula fields
pickings only out of old shows are the
sole inducement at this stage.


WHISKY
ROYAL KONOBO
Royal Konobo Whisky is 15
years old,
USUAL PRICE 21/-.
Due to a remark-
able purchase by
our London office
we are able to sell
this superb whisky
at
12/6
bottle.
Full Pre-1914
War Strength
and Quality.
We are so confident
that this whisky is
the finest whisky
procurable in the
world that we will
give you a sample
free to test our
claim.
'L
Obtainable ONLY at
HOTEL
PLAZA
The Hotel for the Connoisseur.
Mail Orders: No. 3 Bottle Dept.,
WYNYARD STATION,
George Street, Sydney.
F. 0.8. or F.O.R. Sydney—Free
Delivery City and Suburbs. BW3OIB.
SMOKE-OH!
“Keep down, yer silly cow—do you
Want ter get yer brains knocked
out?"
“10/- Pianos Tuned.” — “Dominion” (M.L.).
But are they worth it?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Policeman a Pacifist.” — “Sun.”
A soft cop?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Nazis Collect Spare Metals.”
Seven Governments grab our spare tin.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Peanuts are beans, not nuts.”
— “World’s News.”
People in theatres should be provided
with noiseless stringers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There are many ways in which a man could
save his wife needless work.” — Women’s paper.
For one thing, he could place all his
money in a neat heap on her pillow to
save her going through his pockets.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“School gardening contest.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Gymnastic-teachers encourage the
weeds.
. 4* 4* 4* 4*
Life is apt to be full of contradictions.
— Women’s mag.
Especially if a man is married.
“At one time the earth was thought to be
flat.”— Weekly.
Even now there doesn’t seem to be
enough of it to go round.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Most women would like to turn back the
clock.”— Women’s paper.
Especially when they rush home from
bridge at five-thirty to start preparing
the old man’s dinner.
•5* *s*
“Found old love-letters.” — Women’s paper.
His wife went through his pockets once
And found a note that meant a lot.
It ended with a kiss or two —
So that’s why now X marks the spot.
E.
4* 4* 4« 4*
“New locomotives. Speeding up timetables.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
That wouldn’t simply be new. That’d
be news!
“Stated that Melbourne is well laid out.”
And ready for the hearse?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Robot man can be controlled by voice or
gesture.”
Sounds like the ideal husband.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man who hit householder with frying pan,
struck him with a picket and smashed his
windows said he called on a friendly visit.”
—News item.
Things will be lively when he comes
after an argument.
It’s hard to say whether the works of
some modern writers should be classified
as prose or worse.
+ 4 1 4* +
When a woman puts her best foot
forward you can bet it’s in a shoe two
sizes too small for it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wheat Firmer Overseas —Melbourne Un-
changed.’ ’ —Headi ng.
But wait till the football season.
4* 4* 4- 4
Guide for Policemen.
“Once again the old question has arisen:
‘When is a driver under the influence of
alcohol?’ ” — “Sun.”
It may safely be assumed so if he
does one or more of the following: —•
Asserts that the reflection of his nose
in the windscreen is the tail-light of
another car;
Tells the constable to hold the car
still while he gets out;
Thinks the constable is a tram con-
ductor and tries to pay him a fare ;
Imagines the steering-wheel is a snake
or the police station a sly-grog shop ;
Talks about his relatives and weeps.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It was Daisy the Dumb Belle who made
the truly feminine remark that she spent
the best ten years of her life between
the ages of twenty and twenty-five.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The foundation-stone of Durham Cathedral
was laid in 1093, but it was not until 1500
that the edifice was completed.”
— “World's News.”
A Government job, no doubt.
4*
“Storage for Apples. Fruitgrowers’ Bodies
Disagree.”—' “West Australian.”
Indigestion?
Communion.
0 heart, with life we’ve played the fool,
And Time is unforgiving ;
We’ve scoffed at code and laughed at rule
And simply lived for living.
We’ve made of Love a jest and sport
Regardless of her sorrow.
We’ve mixed champagne with rum and
port
And rued it on the morrow.
And now, O heart, I’m much afraid
(And this thought makes me shiver )
That, though you’re hale, the years have
played
The devil with our liver !
P. O. M. C.
Detail.
“It is a mistake to think that women fail
in observation of detail.” — Women’s paper.
“That was the new Mrs. Bloggs we
just passed,” I remarked ; and, as Maria
registered dumbness, I added: “You
must have seen her —she almost brushed
against you.”
“Oh!” exclaimed Maria, “do you mean
the woman in the teal-blue crepe de
Chine with those absurd sequins? So
silly! Sequins are as out of date as that
sort of bolero jacket. That must have
been a dress out of some relative’s ward-
robe. It’s dated. And her mustard street
coat was an atrocious fit.”
“Well,” I stammered, “I didn’t notice
what she wore” —:
“Now, Aitchem, don’t tell me you’re
so dumb that you didn’t notice that hat.
Why, it was enough to make a cat laugh.
With a drooping dove’s feather! Feathers
on hats don’t droop now. A hat like
that simply shows up the way she touches
up her hair. Now don’t tell me you
didn’t notice that. Natural hair —fiddle-
sticks! Why, you could see the grey
hair at the roots.
“And those black suede shoes of hers,
with the buckles. They were obviously
too small for her. I should say she ought
to take two sizes larger. And worn with
oyster-grey stockings, too. What wretched
taste! ”
“Well, you seem to have seen her all
right,” I said.
“Oh, I hardly took any notice of her,”
said Maria—“just a glance in passing.
I’m sure I wouldn’t know the woman it
I saw her again.”
H. M.
Conviction.
Twin imps of mischief were your eyes
That night I stole a kiss;
But little did I realise
That I’d get life for this.
PATON.
Meditation.
He gazed into the fireplace of their little
sitting-room, thinking of all she had done
for him. It was she who had cured him
of the drinking habit. But for her he
would still be spending his evenings in
wild riot, and eternally getting into trouble.
She had stopped his betting, too, put
an end to that unhealthy excitement of
the racecourse and that reckless love of
cards. And she it was who had finished
his affairs with thpse other women, the
ones who had lowered him with their
baseness and deceit.
At last he rose from his reverie.
“Gosh!” he muttered. “What a wonder-
ful time I’d be having if I’d never met
her! ”
T. W. N.
A Trainer’s Trials.
“Eyebrows can be trained.” —Beauty note in
“S.M.H.” women’s pages.
It’s all a matter of discipline. Mine
used to stick up like the hair on a Chow’s
scalp, and no amount of browbeating
would induce them to lie down perma-
nently. If I gave a heavy frown they
would crouch down, but immediately I
registered surprise they would spring up
again with real military precision.
I tried training each hair individually,
and then in platoons and companies, but
the response was disappointing. If I put
them a certain way, they would lazily get
back into their old positions as soon as
my back was turned. They insisted on
wandering about, especially across the
upper bridge of my nose.
Leaving the outside hairs for the time
being, I decided to get to work on the
more amenable follicles. Putting them
through strenuous exercises twice daily,
I would rub them down briskly after-
wards with whale oil and banana skins.
After a while this training got them into
such condition that I could feel their
muscles rippling up and down between
my third and fourth epidermises. In
spite of this, the hairs, which must have
benefited from this gymnastic course, still
refused to toe the line. They were de-
liberately hanging out on me.
Fed up, I gave the follicles sternly to
understand that if they couldn’t exercise
greater control over their root systems, I
would pluck them all out.
No doubt the follicles did their best to
influence that part of them growing on
the outside of my skin, but the hairs re-
mained as mutinous as ever. I ascer-
tained at last that the reason my training
was not meeting with success was that
the hairs were growing so thickly to-
gether that there wasn’t room for them
to lie down.
When it came to the question of which
ones to yank out so as to lessen the den-
sity there was nearly a riot. Those that
were being jostled in the middle wanted
to come out, but demanded to be trans-
planted to a less congested area. Others,
the young ones, objected strongly to
being uprooted at all before they had had
a chance to fight their way up into the
sunlight. Some frankly criticised my
training, sneering at what they termed
hopelessly out-of-date methods. One,
bolder than the rest, took me to task:
“Yer got us jumbled up all over the
joint. No order, that’s what’s wrong.
Yer couldn’t run a fowlhouse. Why in
hell can’t we be arched like them sheilahs’
eyebrows are? When they git raised the
hairs can git a bit o’ recreation.”
I was not unmindful of the justice of
their case, but discipline is discipline. I
intimated that if there was any further
cavilling at my training methods I would
wipe the lot of them out by soaking them
in a reliable depilatory, and damn what
my face looked like afterwards. That
inspired them for the first time with real
fear.
For a while they submitted to being
massaged against the grain for an hour
a day with a hard brush. But trouble
broke out afresh when I abandoned the
pig’s-bristle brush in favor of a wire-
haired one. The treatment had appar-
ently got them almost jumping out of
their skins —or rather mine—for at the
first touch of the wires they kicked over
the traces properly, deliberately getting
all hopelessly tangled. Some even be-
came so vicious that they started ingrow-
ing.
Things were going from bad to worse,
and it was getting that way I couldn’t
do a thing with them. They flatly refused
all training and would sulk day-long. In
no time they were back to their old un-
controllable vicious ways again. Then
one day I caught a group of hairs con-
spiring with a dandruff.
This insubordination —yea, treachery —
was the last straw. Enraged, I grabbed
a blowlamp and turned it on them. They
weren’t so stiff-necked after that. In fact,
they just curled up and lay down.
After that, I had no further trouble. I
had struck the ideal training method.
Now, whenever they start jostling too
much, wind in and out each other and
generally disturb my upper facial peace
I simply give them a touch of the old
blowlamp. That makes them more
amenable to discipline than all the
hectoring.
BO.


C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Direc
_] mm
SYDNEY
m
mm
Stay at the Wentworth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is fanned. The Wentworth is close to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
Nearly 200 years have elapsed since Drambuie was
first distilled in the Isle of Skye. The recipe was
presented by Prince Charlie to Mackinnon of
Strathaird as a reward for his ser-
vices in enabling the Prince to
evade his pursuers. The secret
recipe has been jealously guarded
and the liqueur has been made by
successive generations of the
same family to this day.
Agents:
MCLAUGHLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.,
185 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
1
Id
Although delicately sweet-
ened with heather honey,
Drambuie leaves a delight-
fully dry, aromatic flavour
on the tongue. It is much
used in fashionable circles
of London, New York and
elsewhere in the making of
cocktails.
AM Bill*
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Mount Lyell
Professor Copland, the Prices Com-
missioner, should give a report this
week on the position of Mt. Lyell (Tas.).
Union members had decided to take
action soon if the price of the metal
(fixed at £5l sterling, or £63 17s. 6d.
Aust. a ton) was not reconsidered, since
a rise to £56 sterling for electrolytic
would have meant an extra 3s. a week to
them. In Britain the metal is over £6O
sterling a ton, and the position in Aus-
tralia is difficult for the miners to under-
stand. Professor Copland was at Queens-
town ten days ago, and after a discus-
sion with representative parties a recon-
sideration of the price has been promised.
As this paper said at the time metal
prices were fixed, copper is a compara-
tively poor-man industry in this country,
and Queenstown miners are not the most
happily situated of their class. Still,
price-fixing is necessary, and there is the
question of precedent to be considered in
Mt. Lyell’s case.
Mt. Lyell shares have been particularly
strong among base-metal stocks of recent
weeks. At 345. 3d. the return is only 4.4
p c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis, so that it is
obvious the sharemarket expects more
than Is. 6d. a share in divs. during the
current year. In the term to Sept. 30 last
the co. received £6l 12s. Aust. for the
11 months to Aug. 31 for its electrolytic
copper production. Afterwards maximum
prices operated in Britain. Since De-
cember a maximum Australian price of
£63 17s. 6d. a ton has been fixed, up
approximately £2 ss. a ton on last term’s
average. Since Mt. Lyell’s output, largely
consumed in Australia, is 13,000 tons of
refined copper a year, revenue from
mining should lift by about £30,000 this
year. But even if all the extra income
turned out to be profit, which is un-
likely, it would represent not quite an
additional 2 p.c. on capital. Last term’s
7| p.c. div. was paid out of earnings of
9.7 p.c. Revenue from chemicals may be
up this year, but price-fixing also operates
here. Plainly the market has set con-
siderable store by Professor Copland’s
visit to the mine, and pins its hopes on
the Australian price of copper being “let
out” a bit later, seeing that the maximum
English price is now £77 Aust. a ton.
Though Australian Cement shares in
Melbourne are particularly firm at
395. 6d., Kandos Cement scrip has been
going cheap in Sydney at 28s. 6d. The
Melbourne-registered co. yields £6 6s. 7d.
per cent., Kandos a shade over 7 p.c.
Actually, if Australian Cement is worth
395. 6d. Kandos scrip, on a yield basis,
should be around 325. And that is
without taking Kandos’s p.c. greater
equity in the operating co. into account.
Broken Hill Prop.’s next div. will be
payable in May, with the announcement
probably late in April. It will be an in-
terim distribution. Prior to the bonus
issue lately allotted it was the co.’s prac-
tice to pay its 12 \ p.c. div. in two equal
half-yearly instalments; if the practice
is to be continued the April announce-
ment should settle the question of what
the distribution rate for 1939-40 is going
to be on the increased capital. A 10 p.c.
distribution on the new share register
would require £1,141,000, as against
£1,431,513 earned in 1938-39 and
£760,715 distributed. A 10 p.c. div. is as
much as can be expected for the current
term ; in view of the possibility of new
capital being asked for later on, on
which divs. would have to be paid long
before any profit became available from
the new expenditure, the div. may be
9 p.c. or 8 p.c., either of which rates
would call for
considerably more
than was distri-
buted last term.
An increase in
earnings may be
expected this
year, of course,
though taxation is
bound to be
heavier.
* *
B.H.P. shares
dipped under the
pressure of heavy
selling on Mon-
day of last week.
The stock had
closed shakily on
Saturday at 48s.
li-d., and on
Monday morning
475. 6d. was ac-
cepted for some
parcels of scrip.
Sydney official
turnover was 1300 shares for the day.
Firming in the afternoon, quotes closed
at 48s. On Tuesday there was recovery
to 48s. 6d., quotes closed for the week
at 495.
* * * *
The earnings of Permewan, vVright,
country merchants with 23 stores in Vic-
toria and 19 in N.S.W., apparently crashed
during the year to Jan. 31. The business
expanded rather rapidly between 1934
and 1938, and £90,000 of capital and
share premums was raised. Paid capital
is now £200,000. Earnings in relation, to
capital rose to 14.9 p.c. in 1937, and,
though higher in volume in 1938 (the
term to Jan., ’39), represented a lower
ratio at 12.7 p.c. Over the three years
to Jan., ’39, 8 p.c., 10 p.c. and 10 p.c.
were the annual divs. The interim for
the term just closed was reduced to 2 p.c.,
and now, “having considered the pre-
liminary figures,” the directors do not
recommend a final div. The sharemarket
was startled by the board’s announcement,
the shares crashing from a last recorded
sale of 275. to 235. seller, 21s. buyer. After
publication of accounts 10 months ago
the scrip was at 255. 6d., ex a 10 p.c. div.
* ♦ ♦ f
Though results for the half-year have
been “highly favorable,” Bradford
Cotton is to pay a reduced ord. interim
of 5 p.c. Last term interim and final
were 6i p.c., making 12| p.c. for the year.
Bradford has over the past 12 months
more than doubled its capital, and a
drop in the distribution was to be ex-
pected. At 365. 6d. cum div. the shares
yield 5.5 p.c.
* * * *
The suggestion by Mr. Mair, Premier
of N. S. Wales, that a decision by com-
panies not to pay higher divs. during the
war would “stabilise investment returns
"It's a ’phone message for you, my dear. I’m to tell you to ‘come home
an cook the blasted tea '!”
for the duration,” and that if lower divs.
were paid “on the true results of busi-
ness activity” customers would be
charged lower prices for their goods,
showed that the speaker had nibbled at
the subject from the wrong end and had
not digested all he had nibbled. No one
should deny a co. the right to maintain
or increase divs. during this war so long
as such increases are the result of greater
efficiency. Dividends are several times
removed from the real root of the war-
finance problem. Even total profits don’t
represent bedrock. It is profit margins
on goods sold that require close watch-
ing in order to prevent an unwarranted
rise in the cost of living that would lead
to financial revolution —in other words,
inflation.
The retention of profits in excess of
one-third of a co.’s total earnings would
render it liable to special income tax.
Could such a factor have entered into
Mr. Mair’s train of thought? Whether
it did or didn’t, the taxation question is
as important as that of profits and
profiteering so far as war economics are
concerned. The point has come up that
in order for the Federal Government to
raise the requisite portion of its spend-
ing programme from taxation it will be
necessary for industries to make large
taxable profits. But it is little use
the Government extracting larger taxes
from inflated profits if the increased
profits are a result of industries selling
to the Government (and others) at in-
flated prices. It is far better for a Gov-
ernment to take a larger share of profits
that haven’t been inflated by charging
higher prices, because then there is no
confusion about the issue at stake—that
the burden of war should be spread
evenly. It is when costs, prices and
wages start to chase each other that
unfairness in the apportionment of war’s
cost becomes difficult to detect. Further,
such inflation, apart from directly
penalising the person who supports war
loans, throws industry out of gear in the
end, with unemployment the most obvi-
ous consequence.


do not experiment with imitations.
a BHANDADKE * CO. Ltd. BIB11ENGHAM, EXQ
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
HRISW'* 6
5
uictßHt
ptR 0^
FUEL CONSUMPTION. K GALLONS PER HOUR
says Mr. J. Bicket,
Gunnedah, N.S.W.
"Pictured above is one of my 'Caterpillar 7 Diesel RD4 Tractors
operating a 4" pump irrigating lucerne. The water is pumped
approximately half a mile, working on a2V head. The irrigation
is equal to two inches of rain on five acres per 10 hour day. The
fuel consumption is 1J gallons per hour."
There isn't a job on the land that requires dependable, mobile, low
cost power that "Caterpillar" will not do better and more eco-
nomically with the lowest possible fuel and maintenance cost.
CAT ERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Victoria Cr Tasmania:
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
521-523 Collins Street, Melbourne
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
Waugh Gr Josephson Pty. Ltd.
102-124 Melbourne St., Brisbane
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company
231-239 Flinders St., Adelaide.
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney
West Australia:
VVigmores Limited
613 Wellington St., Perth.
Mail this
coupon to-day!
Address to your nearest State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
costs with a "Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME '
ADDRESS
8.6.39
In manufacturing to meet defence
orders some Australian textile and similar
cos may find that the demand for mili-
tary equipment is not all extra business.
Particularly in regard to woollen textiles,
with which Australia has been principally
supplied by local mills for nearly a
decade, the turning-out of khaki after
a while may merely represent a change
from civilian to military manufacture.
So far as the militia is concerned, the
men will be still buying “civvies” as well
as wearing out army uniforms ; but men
in the A.I.F. will be almost restricted
to khaki, and demand for ordinary
worsteds, etc., may fall off. Though the
general effect of this war may be to
stimulate manufacture, the stimulation
may be most noticeable during the first
twelve months, after which the influence
of diverted rather than expanded activity
can be expected to show up. Of course,
so far as those industries are concerned
which hitherto have supplied only a small
proportion of our requirements, the
effect of war on imports will shove
Australian production ahead at full
speed. Woven cotton-goods are a case
in point, and there are other manufac-
tures in much the same circumstances.
* * * *
Back in Sydney from the property on
Return Creek, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), Mal-
colm Newman reckons Tableland Tin
is in excellent shape. The ground is
hard, but there is no other catch in it,
he says. The pilot dredge has had to
have its power-supply stepped up, and
for a couple of months it wasn’t getting
down to bottom, but last week the good
values from deep down were coming up
again. The disappointing thing about
Tableland is that it has taken longer
and has cost more money to reach this
stage than was originally anticipated.
But the big dredge has been ordered
from Evans, Deakin, of Brisbane, and
the power-plant has been booked-up
overseas. A loan of £75,000 is being
arranged, and the new dredge is expected
to be at work within two years. There
has been a good deal of criticism of the
co.’s policy of spending money on the
small dredge when the larger one was
aimed at eventually. But the small
machine has at least proved the ground
and shown up the difficulties. Now the
co. has evidence to make its plans on.
The 16s. 6d.-paid ords. are quoted un-
officially at 6s. If the co.’s present
anticipations are realised they should be
worth a lot more in two years. Table-
land definitely appears to have some-
thing to work on, but time has been an
enemy in the sharemarket.
* * * *
Emperor shares rose buoyantly early
last week, 16s. 9d. being paid for the
10s. scrip at one period. As little as
7s. 7d. was paid in 1939. There are con-
fident sharemarket anticipations about
developments in the lower levels of the
mine, which some time back looked dis-
couraging. Good values have been men-
tioned, but low values and broken
formation also figure in reports, and it
is too early yet to estimate what actual
additions to ore reserves above the
846,600 tons believed to exist on Sept. 6
are going to be made. Certainly the
probable additions are not likely to be
worth the Bs. per share —£760,000 —added
by the market to the mine’s valuation
since the date of the last ore-reserve
estimate. There has been a sharp in-
crease in the price of gold since then,
it is true, and at the time war broke
out Bs. 9d. may not have been a flatter-
ing price for Emperor scrip ; but last
week’s quote of 16s. 9d. seemed to be a
temperamental one —there was a reaction
of Is. later. It isn’t often, for instance,
that one sees carefree buoyancy in such
stocks as North Kalgurli and Lake
View and Star, though North Kal. in
particular has dropped on to some rich
stuff the past three or four years. Em-
peror also has yet to solve the problem
of large-scale treatment of its sulphide
ores. It costs Loloma a mint of money
to treat its higher-value ore. Emperor
reckons it can put sulphides through for
3s. a ton more than the oxides.
* * * *
Mt. Kasi (Vanua Levu, Fiji) should be
bringing out accounts in a month or so.
The co. put through 39,534 tons for
86020 z. fine gold in 1939 —millings were
up by 1114 tons, recoveries by 2730 z.,
and revenue was nearly £79,000 (Aust.).
Average recoveries during the year were
4.35dwt., exclusive of slags, much the
same as for 1938 ; but during the last two
months of 1939 the yield was 4.56dwt.
There are prospects of a maiden div.
this year, but shareholders’ hopes are
mainly pinned to the progress of develop-
ment down below. They hear about this
only annually. In 1938 additions to ore
reserves were disappointing, though the
annual report indicated that something
worth while might come to light later on.
Until the mine is proved, all that can be
said is that the co. is doing a workman-
like job on low-grade ore, and making it
pay. There are 395,888 3s. shares issued,
priced at ss. last week.
* * * *
Anyone interested in coal scrip might
find Newcastle Wallsend appealing. For
the £lO shares buyers now offer
£5 2s. 6d., no sellers appearing. Last
sale was at £5 ss. The co. pays 4| p.c.
p. a., giving a yield of 8.6 p.c. at £5 55.,
and it customarily shows profits at
exactly the amount necessary to pay the
div., no shillings or pence figuring in
p. and 1. account. Being incorporated
by a special Act of Parliament (1860),
the co. probably feels that it is entitled
to look after the pounds and to let the
pence take care of themselves. The way
it earns just enough to pay the div., how-
ever, suggests admirable budgeting in the
early part of each year. In any case it
is a system under which the co. hasn’t
become poor. Last balance day (Dec.
31) there was £94,053 in cash and
Government securities, etc., equal to
£3 15s 3d per share. Creditors amounted
to only £2938. The co. worked only
176 days out of a possible 266 last year
in order to show 4| p.c. on capital. This
year, provided labor is sensible, coal
should be a bit better from the investor’s
point of view. Price-cutting isn t so
spiteful as it was.
* * * *
Some bank shares, which as a class
had had a good run for a few weeks,
dropped back on Tuesday of last week,
After touching a “low” of £24 14s.
earlier in the year, Bank of N. S. Wales
£2O shares had recovered to £27 at the
end of 1939 ; this year the scrip moved
up to £29 95., getting to within 21s. of
the highest price of 1939. But on Tues-
day of last week there was a fall of
14s. a share, £2B 15s. being accepted
for a parcel of the scrip, though there
was partial recovery later. Commercial
of Aust. ords. were also slacker, but
Commercial of Sydney, which recently
lifted its div., and National of Aus-
tralasia showed firmness.
* * * *
Holeproof, Ltd., the Victorian men’s
and women’s hosiery concern, should an-
nounce its profits for 1939 very soon,
and in anticipation of a satisfacotry
reatdt the lifted thetprke for
ZA M S' ln fl g gurf.hI h y U iS d d a ls
8 p.c., provided the 10 p.c. div. continues.
In 1938 the interim was 4 p.c. and the
final 6 p c. The interim for 1939, paid
in September, was unchanged at 4 p.c.
Though the cost of raw silk has gone
up, indications are that Holeproof has
been doing all right, helped partly by
the buying of materials ahead and partly
by the fact that its men’s woollen hosiery
section is a good standby,
* * * *
Australian Securities, in the Sydney
mo tor-finance business, has maintained
j n terim div. at the rate of 1\ p.c. p.a.
It has been tbe policy of the board in
recent years to stabilise the div. at 1\
p C ? an d an y drop in the distribution
during the current year would have been
a shock ; in 1938-39 profits of nearly 14
p.c. on capital were disclosed. The
7s. 6d. shares are at par. Like niost
finance-house issues,. the maiket t ese
times finds them unexciting.
* * * *
In the leather and belting business,
J. C. Ludowici and Son has paid a final
of 4 p.c. for 1939, making a total of
7 p.c. for the year—down half of one
p er cen t. compared with 1938. Profits
were £7156, against £7600. So far
tbe regulations regarding the export of
hides don’t seem to have brought any
windfalls to this co., though the hides
merchants alleged some time back that
tanners and leather distributors had been
given too kindly treatment. The Ludo-
wici concern is a steady earner in a tern-
peramental type °‘ business Pa.d capital
» on y WOO, divJ <he f c
an attract,ve yieid of 7.2 p.c.
* ; lon
B.H.P. has acquired rights over 190
acres of magnesite deposits near Kal-
goorlie, believed to contain 1,000,000
tons of worth-while stuff. The co. uses
magnesite for lining its steel furnaces
at Newcastle.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CAN RUSSIA SUPPLY GERMANY?
[The analysis here given of Russia's ability to supply
Germany is from a long statistical examination of the
question in the American “Foreign Affairs” by Professor
Bruce, C. Hopper, of Harvard University, who spent
several years on economic research in Russia. To the
difficulties in the way of that supply put forward by
Professor Hopper must be added those brought about
by the Soviet’s invasion of Finland.]
The Allied blockade has cut off 45 per cent, of
Germany’s normal imports of 63,000,000 tons. Her
most serious deficiencies are in fats, oils, iron ore and
manganese. In 1937 Germany imported 470,000 tons
of vegetable oils, to replace which she will need
2,351,000 tons of Manchurian soya beans. The German
war-time consumption of oil is estimated at 12,500,000
tons, of which 8,000,000 tons must come from Russia
since other sources have been cut off. As for iron ore,
Germany normally imports over twice as much as she
produces. Though Swedish ore is still available to her
and though she undoubtedly has considerable reserves
of scrap iron, large imports from Russia will be neces-
sary if the war is long and destructive. The blockade
has hit Germany particularly hard in regard to man-
ganese ore. In 1938 she obtained from abroad 425,000
tons, of which only 60,000 came from Russia. Since
the other sources have now been cut off, this means
that if Russia is to meet Germany’s present needs she
will have to increase her exports to Germany twelve-
fold.
It is not realistic to speak of great surpluses of
anything in Russia, despite the vast, unexploited
mineral wealth. The Russian grain crop averages
close to 100 million tons a year, but there is none to
spare for export. Should the war last for several years,
Russia could meet Germany’s deficiency by increasing
the sown area. Butter and eggs almost disappeared as
Soviet export items in 1936. The export of vegetable
oils is matched by the import. The livestock herds
are being gradually replenished from the low level
existing after the wholesale killing of cattle by the
peasants in 1930, but there is no fodder for export.
Russia in 1938 produced a 1 p.c. surplus of iron
ore ; the figure could be raised in order to supply
Germany, given two years to work out the planned
increase. The production of manganese ore —three
million tons, one-third of it surplus—likewise could
be increased on need. It should be noted that the
best results in making steel are obtained by mixing
manganese ores from various sources. How German
steel will fare on Russian manganese alone remains
to be determined.
Russia’s supply of non-ferrous metals is inade-
quate for her own needs. Russian production meets
the domestic needs for copper by only 62 per cent.,
lead 76 per cent., nickel 40 per cent., zinc 96 per
cent., aluminium 87 per cent., mercury 94 per cent.,
tin less than 1 per cent. Germany’s shortage of
timber and lumber can be met from Russia’s supply
of standing timber (available after some effort). Ship-
ments could go forward via the Baltic-White Sea
Canal during the summer months. Russia’s cotton
crop in 1939 was the largest in her history, but the
domestic textile industry takes practically the total;
only 3600 tons were exported in 1938 (11 months).
Rubber is likewise unavailable.
The Soviet output of oil last year was 30,000,000
tons, of which 90 per cent, came from the Caucasian
fields at Baku and Emba. The export has declined in
the last decade from 6,000,000 tons to 1,231,000 tons,
indicating increased home consumption with the ad-
vance of industrialisation. In fact, domestic require-
ments have almost overtaken production capacity in
oil. Frequent fuel shortages are recorded by the
tractor stations serving collective farms. Of the
27,000,000 tons of crude oil refined in 1938, Russia
consumed at home 21,750,000 tons, leaving a surplus
of 5,250,000 tons, of which three-quarters went into
the war reserve, some of which might be shipped to
Germany.
From the foregoing it would seem that the only
key supplies readily available in Soviet Russia for
export to Germany are timber, manganese ore, oil and
possibly, in time, some iron ore. The question arises
as to the possible increase of production through the
reorganisation of Russian industries by German
engineers. In 1930-32 there was worked out a vast
scheme of reorganisation of Soviet industries and
transport, under which Germany would supply
machinery, rolling stock, technical assistance and
credit. This undertaking was interrupted by the events
which placed Hitler in power. Since 1934, when the
German engineers returned to the Reich, there have
been serious breakdowns and much sabotage in the
Soviet plants. One of the reasons given for Stalin’s
rapprochement with Hitler was his urgent desire to
get German experts back into Soviet plants, along with
the necessary replacements for German-installed
machinery. German industry, however, has been
working at top speed for war needs. It also has suf-
fered from lack of repairs. Just how much energy it
can devote in war-time to supplying the Russian need
for machinery remains to be demonstrated. The one
clear fact seems to be that current Russo-German
negotiations involve revival, on an even larger scale,
of the scheme for German reorganisation of Russia’s
entire industrial and transport systems.
If we assume that with the aid of German
engineers the Russian production of oil, iron, man-
ganese and timber could be increased to supply Ger-
many’s war-time demand, the problem would then be
one of delivery. This is a key matter in the whole
discussion. The railway system, the weakest link in
Soviet economy, is organised for internal distribution
rather than for export services via the ports. More
than half of the locomotives are now old oi
obsolescent. Soviet oil has always been exportea
through the Mediterranean, which is now blocked.
Main reliance must be on the Soviet railways.
1 o deliver 8,000,000 tons of oil in one year from
the Caucasus to Germany (3500 kilometres), the fol-
lowing schedule would be required: daily distance
travelled, 139 kilometres; time en route, 25 days;
daily arrival in Germany, 22,000 tons; daily arrival
in Germany in trains of 50 cars, 22 trains; daily arrival
‘ n Germany of 20-ton tank cars, 1100 cars. For 22
trains to arrive every day, with another 22 spaced for
every day in the 25 days en route , would require 550
trains, containing 27,500 tanks, constantly under load
To allow for the returning empties this figure
must be doubled, making a total requirement of 55,000
tank cars. .
. Leaving a wide margin for underestimation of the
?* ISbl ? 8 equipment we would seem safe in assuming
tha ■ entlre number of Soviet tank cars > lf assigned
exclusively to the German order, would fall 50 per
“"<• short of the performance Accessary to deliver
8,000,000 tons of oil in one year. Nor can it be ex-
pected that the Soviet planners would put so much
capital and energy into the construction of so many
tank cars that would be useful only during the period
of Germany’s war emergency. Moreover, the oil must
be moved over the Soviet railroads of the densest
traffic, in the Ukraine. These, and other difficulties,
abt i tip to f° rm a belief that the whole oil transaction
* s t°° colossal for the existing Soviet equipment. What
German engineers could make of the situation, given
two years’ time, must be kept in mind as a qualification
of th l s c . ondl usion. , J t
A simi J a r chart m ay be offered in regard to the
transport of 2,351,000 tons of soya beans in one year
from t . Manchunan border to the new Russo-
German frontier (7000 kilometres)—a colossal task.
Considered separately, the delivery to Germany of oil,
soya beans and manganese ore is in each case a job
— "‘Star-Times," St. Louis, U.S.A.
AMERICAN VIEW OF SOVIET REVERSES.
"Maybe I went too far!”
which would greatly tax the Soviet facilities ; and,
except in the case of manganese ore, none of them
could be executed except in part. Considered as a
whole, the simultaneous transport of these three raw
materials in quantities sufficient to meet German needs
is an assignment which obviously the Soviet railways
cannot execute.
Taking the foregoing and other considerations
into account, Russia cannot give decisive aid to Ger-
many in a short war of big offensives. But if the
present siege war lasts for two years, without major
battles, so that there is a minimum expenditure of war
materials in the field, and granted that Germany has
time to accumulate war stocks and reorganise Soviet
industry and transport, then Russian aid might well be
decisive in determining the military outcome in the
West. This presupposes, however, that Germany’s in-
ternal structure could withstand a two-year siege, and
that Russia would be willing to sacrifice domestic
needs in order to aid Germany. Which is by no
means certain.
The answer to the general question of the decisive-
ness of Russia’s aid to Germany must therefore be con-
ditional. The longer the war lasts, the more effective
that aid should become. But Russia is not likely to
make real sacrifices for Germany unless the internal
situation there becomes ripe for deepening the brown
complexion of National Socialism to the color which
Bolsheviks prefer.
The Allies and Finland.
[While dominant feelings in Britain towards Finland
are genuine sympathy and admiration —that is, apart
from Communists, who there, as in Australia, speak as
Moscow orders —very different views are held as to
what should be done. Generally the views fall into
two groups: on the one hand, that Britain’s whole
effort must be aimed directly at Germany, and would
be dangerously weakened by being extended elsewhere;
on the other hand, that Finland is fighting in the same
cause with the Allies, and for that practical reason,
to say nothing of reasons of sentiment, should be
assisted to the greatest extent possible. In the article
here condensed the editor of the “Nineteenth Century”
goes further, arguing that action taken against Russia,
in Finland and elsewhere, would be action directly
against Germany.]
There is just anger throughout the civilised world!
over the Finnish war, the barbarity with which thej
Russians are waging it and the hypocritical reason-
ing with which they try to excuse it. But the war has
an aspect that calls for dispassionate examination.
The conquest of Finland will give the German-
Russian coalition an ascendancy in Northern Europe
that may be very dangerous to the Western Allies. If
the Russians take Petsamo and command the Varangar
Fjord, the nickel mines will be at the disposal of the
Germans and the fjord will be a refuge, and per-
haps a station, for German commerce raiders.
Norway and Sweden fand, for that matter, and
in different circumstances, Holland) will have to pay
a fearful penalty for their Utopian pacifism and their
failure to rearm. The completer the Russian
conquest of Finland, the tighter the German grip on
Sweden. Threatened by invasion from the north,
Sweden will seek protection in that semi-dependence
on Germany which will at least assure her of semi-
independence. Norway, being more accessible to the
Western Allies, can be more strongly buttressed
against the German-Russian encroachments. Never-
theless, when the two Socialist despotisms have estab-
lished an ascendancy in Sweden they will subject
Norway to grievous extortions by joint pressure.
The dangerous character of the German-Russian
coalition is underrated because it is not an open mili-
tary alliance. If it were that and no more, it would
not be so dangerous. The presence of Russian troops
in Finland or Rumania is a greater menace to the
Allies than their presence in the Siegfried Line would
be. The longer the war lasts, the more valuable to
Germany will the Russian partnership become: if
the war lasts two or three years, German managers
and technicians may recondition Russian industry
and so produce an exportable surplus that will aug-
ment Germany’s stock of essential commodities.
By establishing an ascendancy in Northern and
South-eastern Europe, the German-Russian coalition
will, if its progress is not arrested, menace Allied
communications in the northern Atlantic and
eastern Mediterranean. In a last analysis, the Fin-
nish war and the threat to Bessarabia represent an
effort to turn the immensely extended flanks of the
vast front that sweeps in a curve from the Arctic
Ocean to the Black Sea, with the Maginot Line as
its apex.
In making this effort, the enemy keeps the
initiative which he has never relinquished. It is in
the strategic and political interest of the Allies that
Finnish independence be preserved. It is therefore
desirable that she receive as much help as can be
given without substantially weakening the Allied
forces in Western Europe.
If the Finns, with Allied help, withstand the
Russian invasion, the Allies will, in return, be
enabled to establish an ascendancy in Northern
Europe that will replace, or at least weaken, the
ascendancy of the German-Russian coalition, and
relieve the German pressure on Sweden. Such an
ascendancy may, if consolidated, acquire very great
importance when the time comes for the Allies to
take the offensive in the air—the threat to German
Baltic shipping and to Germany’s northern cities
would powerfully supplement the aerial offensive
in the West.
It is possible for the Allies, through their com-
mand of the sea, to impose upon the enemy an ever-
increasing extension and diffusion, and therefore vul-
nerability, of his forces, to lengthen and thereby
weaken his communications, to deprive him of the
advantage of internal lines, on condition that they
take the initiative —and keep it!
As much aid should be given to Rumania also as
can be given without substantial prejudice to the
Allied defensive or offensive on the Western Front.
The security of Allied warships in the Black Sea is
dependent on the closeness of the Turkish alliance and
on the command of the Mediterranean. That com-
mand is made to seem less challengeable than ever,
for, if recent experience is not deceptive, the air-arm
is not the decisive weapon in war at sea as some Italian
experts believed (nor is the lesson to be drawn from
the defeat of the Graf Spee inapplicable to the problem
of sea power in the Mediterranean).
It will be said that intervention in Northern and
South-eastern Europe may involve the Allies in war
with Russia. Intervention would, in the first place,
be directed against Russia as a means of striking at
Germany. The foe is Germany, not Russia —except in
so far as she is Germany’s partner in war. “Appease-
ment” or “friendliness” will not make Russia desist,
but will stimulate her into closer partnership with
Germany and into more extensive imperialist aggres-
sion. Every successful act of aggression by Russia is
worth a victorious battle to Germany because it costs
Germany nothing, whatever it may cost her partner.
If the invasion of Finland succeeds, Germany can
only gain. If it fails she will lose nothing, unless it
fails by reason of an intervention which will give the
Allies a foothold in Northern Europe.
Even if the Allies do find themselves at war with
Russia, they have nothing to fear from that war. It
is the permanent characteristic of Russia that she can
neither conquer nor be conquered, that she can neither
strike a mortal blow nor receive one. But she could
receive severe punishment at the hands of the Allies
without being able to retaliate. As a naval Power
she is almost impotent. Her White and Black Sea
ports and bases are highly vulnerable. Even Baku is
exposed to attack from the air. Her internal stability
would appear to be much more precarious than Ger-
many’s. Her Ukrainian, her Central A_siatic and her


Portrait of Hitler.
As presented by the former French
Ambassador in Berlin, M. Francois-Poncet, in
the official French Yellow-book dealing with
events leading to the war:—
I have no illusion as to the character of
Adolf Hitler.
I know that he is mercurial, a dissimu-
lator, contradictory, uncertain. The same man
of debonair mien, sensitive to the beauties of
nature, who set forth at the- tea-table to me
reasonable views on European policy, is capable
of the worst frenzies, of the most savage exal-
tations, of the most delirious ambitions.
There are days on which, standing before
a globe- of the world, he overturns nations,
continents, geography and history like a man
possessed of a mad demoniacal force. At
other times he dreams of being the hero of an
eternal peace, in the bosom of which he hopes
to build grandiose monuments.
Caucasian subjects are more prone to disaffection than
the Germans.
The paradox of German-Russian relations today
is that, in a conflict with the Western Powers, Germany
without Russia is stronger than Germany with Russia,
provided the Western Powers take the initiative.
Russia, if involved in armed conflict with the Allies,
would not only be unable to retaliate, she would be
unable to ease the Allied pressure on Germany. The
conflict would be an extension of the Allied blockade
of Germany. It would be the end of the German
hope of securing any considerable supplies ifrom
Russia, whose exportable surplus, which is small and
uncertain even now, would vanish altogether.
The Germans are thinking in terms of the “decisive
battle” in the West, now as in 1914. The blow will be
a heavy one. It is untrue that there is any weakening
of the German “home front.” Nor is there any evi-
dence of dissension amongst the National Socialist
leaders. The Allies, in the deadliest struggle of their
history, are compelled to make the maximum effort so
that the blow may be parried without fearful ravages
to themselves. The industrial effort, which falls mainly
upon Great Britain, has not acquired sufficient
momentum even now —and the blow may fall within
the next few months. Nor is it enough that the Allies’
preparations be no more than defensive. If they are
to win the war they must be able to take the offensive
in the West and in the North and South-east. No one
can foretell on what front the finally decisive action
will be fought (the war may be won and lost on the
home fronts). But a heavy and perhaps decisive con-
tribution towards final victory can be made in
Northern and South-Eastern Europe.
• * * * *
(As opposed to the foregoing argument, London
"Evening Standard,” in a leading article from which
the following extract is taken, insists that the job of
helping Finland is one for other nations, leaving the
reader to infer which nations.)
Britain is committed to war with the paramount
aggressor against European freedom. We cannot deal
with every less considerable adventurer who rides in
Germany’s shadow. And do the champions of ex-
tended commitment for Britain’s resources really de-
mand that having engaged to fight aggression in one
place we must fight it everywhere? They do not. Yet
consistency should surely require that they should
declare literary war on Tokio and perhaps even on
Rome, too, if Britain is to perform properly the duties
of policing the world. Let us keep to our beat. When
the chief burglar is under lock and key the best service
will have been rendered to the cause of law and order.
The Nazis desire nothing more than to extend
this conflict over new territories and by the implica-
tion of new States. Germany hopes that her two
opponents, the British Empire and the French
Republic, will be diverted from their declared purpose
of war with Nazism. If Germany’s interest lies in
world cataclysm, ours lies in limited combat. For that
reason Finland must continue to look to those nations
which are not already heavily burdened with the chief
responsibility for Europe’s freedom.
Opinions in Neutral U.S.A.
(From an article by a London “Times” special
correspondent.)
With the repeal of the arms embargo the United
States is restored to its historical position as a non-
discriminating neutral. That is the official Adminis-
tration view, though there is hardly a Congressman
who would deny that, after the effect of the hands-off
policy in Spain and China, the country has reverted
to something older still —to a frankly benevolent neu-
trality. As, by the latest finding of the most accurate
public-opinion poll, 87 Americans in every 100 want
to see the Allies win, Congress can claim that it has
correctly written into the law the active desire of most
Americans, in the words of one liberal editor, “to be
as unneutral as possible without getting into war.”
Washington will continue to keep its diplomatic
lights burning in a 24-hour “death watch” on Europe.
In this war men in the street sense what men in col-
leges and law offices tell them, that in a world of
credit, of submarines and aeroplanes, of illegal search
and of depression, neutrality is a very tender property.
The Allies start this time with the advantage of
an undisputed cultural argument. In 1914 it was pos-
sible for Professor Munsterberg to present a moving
plea for the support of American scholars and the
learned professions. Today no country feels more
directly betrayed by the cultural atavism of the Third
Reich. The uncomplaining presence all over the
U.S.A. of exiled German scholars and scientists and
doctors is a silent witness more eloquent than the
words of any Allied spokesman. The cause of the
German propagandist is, and will continue to be,
hopeless. He is already, one commentator has written,
“six years and ten concentration camps too late.”
Also, there is now nothing like the huge majority
of unabsorbed German immigrants that there was in
1914. Then the nation divided three ways into pro-
Allied, pro-German and neutral groups, and to be
actively sympathetic to the Allied cause was a privi-
lege political candidates were careful not to flaunt.
Theodore Roosevelt’s well-publicised sympathies lost
him the 1916 Presidential nomination. Americans are
united now as they never were in their loathing of
totalitarianism; they are determined
as they never were not to go to war in
Europe.
A common loathing of the totali-
tarian regimes does not presuppose
the same notion of a workable
peace. Americans constantly insist on
the word “totalitarianism” rather than
“Hitlerism,” for they see no difference
in Hitlerism and Stalinism, in Fascism
and Japanism, and tend to share the
opinion of a famous American military
man that to rid the world of “Hitler-
ism” would be “to exterminate almost
everything in the northern hemisphere
from the Rhine and the west coast of
Italy to the Pacific Ocean. It would
require also the purging of many im-
perial methods and of far more recent
treaty repudiation. It is a pretty big
order.”
This school of thought, which Is
considerable and very vocal when
Allied apologists try to convert the
political issue into a moral one, wants
to have proof that the psychology of
Versailles has been shamed to death.
It wants to be sure that, if Czecho-
slovakia and Poland were again set
up and American guarantees were in-
vited, there should be no underlying
intention of again ringing Germany
with a cordon sanitaire. It best ex-
plains the apparent paradox of passive
condemnation in this sentence: “We
hate Hitlerism more perhaps than any other nation,
but if we are to protect ourselves from it we ought to
be able to recognise it at any time in any color it may
for the moment wear.”
This is the crux of the argument which distin-
guishes between hatred of Hitlerism and its possible
threat to the United States. It allows Americans, often,
it must be said, out of convenience rather than con-
viction, to champion neutrality “whatever happens,”
and to envisage calmly in that phrase such an un-
pleasant contingency as the defeat of the Allies. The
American Institute of Public Opinion has polled the
country at monthly intervals to discover in what ex-
tremity Americans would be willing to fight. Although
the percentage of Americans hoping for an Allied vic-
tory has gone up since the outbreak of war, the per-
centage of those who would fight “if the Allies were
losing” has declined from 44 per cent, in late Sep-
tember to 29 per cent, in December.
*****
(From a London “Daily Telegraph” article written by
Cecil Roberts in the U.S.A.)
If the Allies should be defeated, what then? That
is a question Americans will not face. The Allies must
not be defeated. It is this sentiment which caused
the Neutrality laws to be revised. Thus far and no
farther goes American thought, for the present.
The best-informed people in the world, with listen-
ing posts in every European capital and radios blaring
in every household, they shy at the inevitable question
as to what might follow upon a Nazi triumph. For
the present America likes to regard Europe as a
bedlam of incurable racial animosities, and her New
World as immune.
There are signs that this mental immunity is as
untenable as the geographical basis of her physical
immunity. Travelling across America, I am sensible of
a stage approaching at which sentimental aversion to
war is giving place to an awareness of a great moral
issue, the survival of liberty for the human race, and
the supreme necessity of the maintenance of the demo-
cratic tradition, not only at home but throughout the
world.
This belief grows hourly, and yet it does not fore-
tell active intervention. There are certain causes,
which seem almost paradoxical, that tend to restrain
America from the course of intervention.
In a sense she is too near the war —she sees too
much of it, hears too much of it —to remain sensitive
to its appalling facts. By day and by night the fright-
ful savagery of the Nazi technique is almost visible in
the remotest American home. The horrors of the
Polish campaign were hourly imposed upon the
American consciousness, and yet by virtue of the
radio the carnage took on the unreality of the film —
it became almost a Hollywood creation.
There is a point at which the human nervous
system can react no more ; there is a Plimsoll-line
after which the mind cannot be loaded with more
sadistic cargo. Thus it was that the terrible Polish
chapter caused less moral indignation than the in-
vasion of Belgium in 1914, a much lesser tragedy. The
immediate participation in the horrors of war by verbal
transmission, to which, through the radio, America is
hourly submitted, is inducing an anaesthesia. Europe at
a distance of 3000 miles tends to become another
Hollywood studio putting on a stupendous scene.
Europe on Rations.
(From an article by a London “Times” correspondent.)
Britain is on rations ; but many other countries
in Europe are affected far more seriously. All over
Europe there is shortage, either because supplies of
certain things are not available and routes are closed,
or because Governments wish to conserve their re-
sources. Everywhere there are signs of a controlled
economy, and, if the war lasts a long time, it is likely
—“N 420,” Florence.
AS IT’S SEEN IN ITALY.
CHAMBERLAIN: “Here she comes. Let’s lock the door.”
DALADIER: “Perhaps it would be- better to leave it open just a little.”
that every nation will be forced to abandon laissez
faire policies and exercise complete control over both
production and distribution.
It is not only Germany that is saying “guns
instead of butter.” The great armaments which every
country in Europe is piling up, the expenses of mobili-
sation and preparedness, are reducing living standards
all round. Schemes of social reform, better education,
road-making (except military roads) are being changed
into plans for national defence, fortification of
frontiers and increase of military establishments. All
this comes down to the man in the street in the form
of shortage, rationing, and complete elimination of
certain well-loved articles of diet.
In England, so far, no one has laid hands on our
cups of tea and coffee. In Italy and Hungary both
these beverages are unobtainable. Palates must be
trained to tolerate all sorts of strange tastes and
flavors. In Hungary there is a ration enough for
two cups of tea a month, but the price has quad-
rupled and the stuff is often poor. Italy, Hungary,
Switzerland are all rationed for flour, oil, butter,
cooking fats and sugar.
Going a little farther east, there is still food short-
age, but for a different reason. Bulgaria has food
rationing and three meatless days a week. Everywhere
there are German agents buying up food from the
peasants and shipping it westward. There is distress,
as the Germans often wish to pay in goods of the kind
that are unwanted in Bulgaria ; but what other market
is open? In Rumania there is plenty of food, but
again train after train is going westward loaded with
produce.
The northern countries have also introduced
rationing of certain foods. Denmark has a voluntary
allowance of two pounds of sugar a week, in Holland
it is less —a pound in 18 days. Formerly a good deal
of food was sent through the post to friends in Ger-
many, but, as this is deducted from the ration in the
country, this practice is being discontinued.
In Spain the results of war are seen at their stark-
est. Even the tourist, generally the most favored of
mortals —since he brings what all nations desire,
foreign currency —is unable at times to get coffee, milk,
butter or sometimes bread. Towns are sometimes
without flour or bread for two or three days. There
is hardly any milk —herds of cows have been destroyed,
and where is the money to buy new stock? Olive
groves, orange groves, fields have been laid waste.
Petrol is rationed in Switzerland ; no private cars
were allowed for three months in Italy, though they
have been allowed again for certain purposes. Hol-
land has had seven Sundays when no cars might be
driven. Switzerland also has tried to limit Sunday
driving—late on Saturday night one sees cars piled up
with skis slipping off for the week-end. In Belgium
a doubling of the price of petrol has been more effec-
tive than coupons in reducing consumption.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Ajax blotted his copybook when beaten
by High Caste and Manrico in the C. F.
Orr Stakes at Williamstown, but circum-
stances were dead against him. As if his
disadvantages in weight and condition as
compared with his conquerors were in-
sufficient, a bad start topped off one of
the toughest jobs he has ever undertaken.
Detractors argued that an inside run
evened up the ground lost at the start, but
they overlooked the fact that Manrico set
off at a sizzling pace, soon had the field
strung out, and ran the first three fur-
longs in 35|. Ajax came from last to be
second, about two and a half lengths
behind Manrico at that point, and it
would be interesting to know Ajax’s time
for the first three. Badger was forced
to make tremendous use of him, and,
whatever Ajax’s time, it was fast enough
to sap the reserves of any great horse.
Manrico continued his whirlwind run,
and was directly responsible for High
Caste clipping a second and a quarter off
the course record for seven furlongs and
getting within a quarter of a second of
the Australasian record of 1.23. Ajax,
after being disappointed in going for an
opening at the turn, challenged gamely in
the straight, but his earlier exertions had
taken their toll, and he weakened to finish
just less than a length behind the winner.
It was only his second defeat in his last
24 starts, and, all things considered, it
would be premature to say that he has
slipped. His next race should tell defi-
nitely whether Ajax is still Ajax.
Any man who pays £7OOO for a horse
deserves a good return, and H. Tancred
has shown a profit of well over 100 per
cent, in prize-money alone since he gave
that sum for High Caste this time last
year. High Caste has won £16,520 for
that owner, and £17,800 in all. Despite
his defeat in both Derbies, High Caste is
one of the best three-year-olds seen out in
recent seasons. A gross fellow in the
stable, he thrives on hard work and rac-
ing, and his race in the Orr Stakes was
his fifteenth this season. Incidentally,
it was one of his best performances.
Ridden to perfection by Ted Bartle, he
waited for the last run, secured it between
Manrico and Ajax when the latter hung
out slightly, and was going away at the
finish. Trainer Jack Jamieson was parti-
cularly pleased with the colt’s perform-
ance, and naturally hopes that High Caste
will beat Ajax again in the St. George
Stakes at Caulfield next Saturday and in
the Futurity Stakes a week later.
Clash of High Caste and Reading, not
to mention Beau Vite, in the V.R.C. St.
Leger will be one of the big attractions of
the autumn carnival. Reading outstayed
High Caste in both the A.J.C. and Vic-
toria Derbies, but many good judges are
of opinion that it will not happen again,
that in future meetings High Caste will
beat Reading, irrespective of distance.
They might be right, but Jack Cush,
trainer of Reading, does not agree with
them. Jack has the utmost confidence in
his colt’s stamina, and at the same time a
high regard for High Caste. Reading
finished only fifth in the C. F. Orr Stakes,
but his starting price of 33 to 1 reflected
the fact that the stable considered him in
need of the race.
Trainer Jack Holt has good prospects
of winning one or more of the important
autumn sprints with Manrico and Pure
Gold. Manrico reproduced all his spring
brilliance in the Orr Stakes, and Pure
Gold equalled the course record for six
furlongs in winning the Marine Handi-
cap. Early last spring hopes were enter-
tained that Pure Gold would follow in
the footsteps of his full brother Hall.
Mark and win both Derbies, but sprint-
ing seems to be his forte. The fact that
he was all out to beat Rosado half a head
on Saturday may not sound impressive.
Rosado, though useful, is no champion,
but Pure Gold was having only his second
race, after a spell, and seems certain to
improve. Improvement will be neces-
sary as far as his Oakleigh Plate engage-
ment is concerned, foV several of the
horses which finished behind him on
Saturday will meet him on better terms in
that race. Among them is Panka, who
did well to finish fifth after losing several
lengths at the start.
Manrico impressed most of the Oak-
leigh Plate candidates which raced at Wil-
liamstown, but he will have to carry his
steadier of 10.2 all the way and may
have his work cut out to beat Chatsbury.
L. McCann, trainer of Chatsbury, con-
siders that his colt was entitled to less
than 8.6, and is better off with 41b. less in
the Newmarket. In fact, he considered
scratching him for the Oakleigh and re-
serving him for the Hawksburn Handi-
cap to be run at Caulfield a week later.
The winner of either of these races, how-
ever, becomes liable to a rehandicap for
the Newmarket, and it was decided that
Chatsbury should fulfil his Oakleigh en-
gagement. Despite any weight disadvan-
tage, Chatsbury will be hard to beat.
Comparative inexperience might tell
against him, as he has raced only five
times, but he has made amazing strides
during his brief career, and it is impos-
sible to tell where or when the improve-
ment will end. He is an ideal Oakleigh
prospect, inasmuch as he has the bril-
liance to be near the lead from the start
and the gameness to carry on at the finish.
Gladstone and Marengo were good
things beaten in their respective Williams-
town races. Gladstone was making a
forward move on the rails about three
furlongs from home in the Wyndham
Handicap when Lady Kooringal dropped
back and caused him to lose several
lengths. It made the difference between
success and defeat, as Gladstone, though
beaten by Bankshaw and Royal Jubilee,
was only a head and half-head away. He
is an improving stayer, engaged in the
Australian Cup with 6.12, and owner
A. E. Kimpton must be pleased that he
reconsidered his intention to sell him
some time ago. Henry Mornement stole
the race when he dashed Bankshaw past
Lady Kooringal near the three, and set
up a winning break.
With any luck at all Sydney
trainer George Price would have begun
his autumn campaign successfully
through the agency of Marengo in the
Newport Welter. Marengo, owned by
“Miss Lorna Doone,” was the medium of
solid support, but he began slowly from
an unfavorable barrier position, was last
after the field had gone a furlong, was
checked when making a forward move
near the half-mile, forced to go wide
when a long way out of his ground
rounding the home turn, and then ran
the winner, Montaza, to half a length.
Unfortunately for Marengo’s connections,
who lost their money, bookmakers will
not overlook the performance next time
the colt starts. Marengo’s engagements
include the Australian Cup with 7.10.
Montaza, who, after being bought for
80 guineas in 1936, was described by
owner J. Ryan as being “so miserable
that I sent her out for a spell and forgot
her for nine months,” has developed into
one of the hardiest mares in training.
Her race in the Newport Welter was her
fifth in 18 days, three of them having
been over middle-distances. She dis-
appointed over the longer journeys, and
apparently is more at home in welter
races of about a mile. As much as 10
to 1 was bet against her on Saturday, but
she firmed to sixes, and her lucky defeat
of Marengo was a blow to most ringmen.
Montaza is a five-year-old by Eastern
Monarch-Tsuma, but, even with 7.4, she
hardly appeals as a likely Australian Cup
danger.
Owner C. Ruwolt had bright hopes of
landing a double with Bureaucrat and
Harmonic Law, and everything looked
rosy when Bureaucrat fulfilled his part of
the contract in the February Trial. Har-
monic • Law, generally considered the
better proposition of the two, shortened
from 7 to 4 to 5 to 4 for the Newport
Welter, but, after looking dangerous
when he made a dash half-way down the
straight, he died in his run and missed a
place. Harmonic Law is engaged in the
Oakleigh Plate and the Newmarket, but
will need to improve if he is to follow
the example set by another of Ruwolt’s
horses, St. Ardent, who won the New-
market of 1929.
Many backers of Owen Roe considered
that horse would have beaten Bureau-
crat had he not broken down about 30
yards from the post in the February Trial,
but they were only “fooling” themselves.
Owen Roe, who had made all the run-
ning, dipped so suddenly in front that he
almost tossed his small rider, R. Elliott,
over his head, but, although he was very
lame in the off foreleg when he returned
to the enclosure, Bureaucrat had his
measure at the time of the mishap. The
only difference it made was that Owen
Roe would have finished second, instead
of being beaten for that position by
Windarvel.
General Havelock gave his breeder-
owner, Rupert Hart, his second metro-
politan win in 25 years when he finished
too strongly for Partoer and Aldwyth in
the Electric Handicap. Form did not say
much for his chance, even though he had
beaten a moderate field at Mentone four
starts earlier, but Hart considered that
the six furlongs would suit him, and took
a bet of £lOOO to £4O. General Havelock
(Portofino-Merrileas) eventually started
at 16 to 1, and vindicated his owner’s
judgment in refusing 160 guineas for him
as a yearling.
There were no counter-attractions of
note in Sydney on Saturday, and conse-
quently the Warwick Farm meeting at
Randwick was well patronised. With the
first five winners heavily backed, it
seemed as if the books were in for
another bad day, and when Morning Gift
won the last race it was the greatest
measure of relief they had experienced
at any meeting for a long time. Quoted
at 25 to 1 in the ring, Morning Gift’s
tote dividend was at the rate of a little
over 54 to 1.
Both divisions of the Maiden Handi-
cap were won by well-backed horses,
Pennywise and Guinness. Pennywise
finished strongly to beat Enchant
(Medieval Knight-Cyden), who led into
the straight. She recorded a quarter-
second faster time than Guinness, but
the latter, who was leading in his divi-
sion three furlongs from home, won in
easier fashion. Pennywise, who is by
Veilmond from Brown Sugar, by Cool-
trim, is trained by P. Riddle, and
Guinness (Denis Boy-Maltgilla) by B.
Payten. The owner and trainer of
Guinness were unpleasantly surprised by
the rush that set in for him at the open-
ing of betting, but there was never a
period at which Sydney backers and
bookmakers were better informed as to
horses’ chances.
In Pennywise’s division Enchant
showed a lot of pace, and the Night Raid
filly Corolla finished much better than
her more-fancied stable companion
Peekmond, who was prominent until well
in the straight. Beau Frere blundered
shortly after barrier-rise, and, as he
came from a long way back to finish
fourth, is worth another bet. Ashment
was second in Guinness’s division, but
never looked like troubling him, and did
not finish as strongly as Peter Pan’s
sister Tinker Bell. The latter’s dam,
Alwina, died when foaling to The Buz-
zard early this season. Like most brood
mares she threw only one topnotcher,
Peter Pan.
In addition to those mentioned, Denis
Lad, Barrier, Emulous, Majunga, Favor-
ite and Playmate ran fairly in one or
other of the divisions. Majunga is not
far off a win.
Flying Knight would not be selected
as a colt up to weight. Though shapely,
he is not exactly robust. However,
9.5 did not stop him in the Inglebum
Nursery, in which, after shaking off
Valve, he was first into the straight.
Three-quarters of a furlong from the
winning post he was headed by Yuletide,
but he then upset calculations by coming
again and defeating the latter a head.
Lady Neith, who was prominent through-
out, was a fair third, followed by Valve,
Duke Cullen and Sid Dennis. Duke
Cullen, who is in the same stable as Fly-
ing Knight, did better than at any of his
previous attempts, and may shortly pick
up a race. Costing 600gns. as a yearling
Flying Knight has won £1295 in three
starts. The yearlings to be offered on
behalf of the St. Aubins Stud at the
coming sales do not include anything
from Air Queen, dam of Flying Knight,
but the latter’s sire, Medieval Knight,
will have strong representation in the
Kia-Ora lot.
It would seem definite that Waireka is
scarcely as good as we supposed a little
while ago. First into the straight from
Denis, Diamond Wedding and Diogenes
in the Glenfield Handicap, she was in
trouble when Denis ranged alongside her
nearly a furlong from home. In fumbling
for his whip Waireka’s apprentice rider
lost control of his reins, but, even if that
had not occurred, she could not have
won.
Diogenes and St. Constant in the minor
places both gained considerably on Denis
in the last half-furlong, and perhaps J. W.
Cook may now give consideration to a
trip to Melbourne for St. Constant. He
has 8.13 in the Newmarket, and last year
was third in the Doncaster with 21b. less.
Of course, it is a bit against him that, as
a rule, he commences indifferently.
Diamond Wedding is evidently not as
good as she was. After being third at
the turn she dropped right out. Bill-
poster did sufficiently well down the
straight to make D. Lewis hopeful of win-
ning with him before long.
• • • • • •
Asnazu is now acting up to what was
expected of him earlier in the season. He
justified his favoritism for the Farm
Novice by getting to the front soon after
turning for home and winning from
Cryon, who did not have the best of luck
in running. It was the same with Ras
Desta. Bogan Boy, as usual, displayed
a lot of dash for six furlongs, and Rival
Spear also ran well. Good Earth and
Comely shaped wretchedly, and though
Fay B. was in the betting she did not do
much better. Conlon, who was not as
much fancied as his stable-companion
Roller Glide, ran well enough to make
him worth keeping in mind. As Asnazu
carried top weight, 8.10, a suburban
welter mile, at least, should now be within
his reach. J. Thompson, in winning on
Asnazu, forfeited his apprentice allow-
ance of 31b., but that should not stand in
the way of his getting plenty of riding.
D. Munro went in for “tactics” on
Bramol in the Warwick Handicap. He
took him to the front at the start, slowed
the-field down along the back and at the
straight entrance shot him away from his
nearest followers, Might Not and Sidcup.
A furlong from home he had a useful
lead, but Tusculum then put in his claim,
and a few strides from the judge’s box
looked a winner. However, Bramol hung
on so gamely that a dead-heat resulted.
Bramol’s backers undoubtedly owed a lot
to Munro’s horsemanship. Hedonic, after
being one of the whippers-in most of the
way, struggled into third place. The field
was stronger than that which he beat at
Victoria Park earlier in the week, and it
made all the difference.
Braidwood Boy also fell short of ex-
pectations, and, though Allunga finished
fourth, he was never dangerous. He is
not played out, but is receiving a little
more weight than he can manage.
Morning Gift’s recent efforts did not
point to her as the probable winner of
the Minto Handicap, but her couple of
runs evidently did a lot to improve her.
Joining Novice in the lead entering the
straight, she settled the latter at the leger,
and went on to win from Tickle, behind
whom The Kite, Novice and Dashing
Cavalier were closely bunched. The Bliz-
zard disappointed me. He galloped with-
out any dash in the early part, and had
no chance of getting through when he
tried for a run near the rails in the run
home. A mile and a quarter will give
him a better chance. Little excuse was
possible for Dashing Cavalier, nor for
Overbold. Sir Regent, looking burly, re-
appeared in this race, but, though he
departed from his old habit of stopping
at the post, he did not show up.
* * * *
There has been no more tragic hap-
pening at Randwick for a long period
than the accident which caused the death
of the leading apprentice W. Lappin on
Saturday. In two years he made won-
derful progress, and last season was de-
feated by only one win by M. McCarten
for the Sydney premiership. Apart from
his ability as a rider, Lappin called for
marked admiration in other respects, and
his parents have the sincere sympathy
of everyone associated with racing.
* * * *
Aurie’s Star is seven years old, but, as
at that age other geldings have raced
FOR CAULFIELD.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Oakleigh Plate: Chatsbury, 1 ;
Manrico, 2 ; Graceful Mover, 3.
St. George Stakes: Ajax, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; Reading, 3.
(By “PILOT.”)
Oakleigh Plate: Aurie’s Star, 1 ;
Chatsbury, 2 ; Manrico, 3.


"3
>
an
j
Give a Turn to the Wheels
of AUSTRALIAN Industry
Australia can make a most import-
ant contribution to the successful
conduct of the Empire’s war by
keeping the wheels of industry
turning. Encourage the use of
Australian products. By buying
Olympic Tyres you get the finest
tyre value obtainable and you do
a real service to Australia. Olympic
Tyres are made by
an all-Australian
Company, em-
ploying Australian
men and Aus-
tralian money.
OLYMPIC Tyres are
made by Australians
in Australia, and not
one penny of wages
or dividends goes
overseas
Choose
OLYMPIC
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
TYRES
is and tyre
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
SAVE MONEY
IT'S
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPIONS
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
and power. And much more
economy. Champions save
you money!
Art Empire product
—i made in Windsor, Can.
as well as at any other time, it might
be unsafe to put a third win in the
Oakleigh Plate beyond him. He won
in 1937 with 8.4, last year with 9.12, and
was also second in the Newmarket with
913 In next Saturday’s Plate he has
912* and as, according to track reports,
he Is galloping particularly well, he may
be a good win and place bet. Pamelus,
the 1938 winner with 9.11, and second
last year with 9.10, has 9.8, while
Unishak, third a year ago with 7.9, has
8.0. As he is only four, his age favors
sieater improvement in the latter than
fn either Aurie’s Star or Pamelus, though
he did not run well at Williamstown on
Saturday. The most weight successfully
carried in an Oakleigh Plate was
Woorak’s 10.5.
jjc
Chatsbury has proved himself suited
by Flemington and Caulfield, winning
the Standish and Tooronga Handicaps.
He had only 7.2 in the former, but 7.9
in the latter, and as he has shown im-
provement at each run he is not over-
burdened with 8.2 in the Newmarket. It
is 51b. less than weight-for-age, so in
that respect he is 121 b. better off than
Ajax when he won at the same age.
It may be too much to expect Chatsbury
to prove another Ajax, but the wins
referred to make him a galloper above
the average. In the Standish he finished
strongly, showing the hard six did not
trouble him, and, though he scored only
a narrow win, went too fast throughout
the Tooronga Handicap for a fast field.
He is in the Oakleigh Plate, and, if he
should win that, a penalty may dispose
of his Newmarket chance. Waltzing Lily,
in 1933, was the last to bring off the
double of Standish and Newmarket.
* * * *
Doncaster Handicap and Sydney Cup
double charts were issued at the same
■time as those for the Newmarket and
Australian Cup, prices ranging from
140 to 10,000 to 1. With the autumn
meetings in Melbourne yet to take place
it is a keen punter who is at all anxious
to “invest” on the Sydney double at this
stage. Some horses may incur extra
weight as a result of their form down
south, while others are sure to de-
monstrate they have little chance of suc-
cess at Randwick, no matter how
leniently the handicapper may treat
them. Last year Gold Rod, winner of
the Doncaster, was always prominent in
the quotations, but it was not until
after he won the St. Leger that Mosaic
was seriously considered for the Sydney
Cup.
* * * *
A. E. Cooper’s colt Gold Salute
moved in taking fashion over half a
mile in company with Early Bird and
St. Constant at Victoria Park, Sydney, on
Wednesday. He was going comfortably at
the finish, though, for that matter, so
was St. Constant, who had the advantage
of inside running. If Cooper runs true
to form it is probable he will have a
good bet on Gold Salute for the New-
market. The chestnut is not thrown in
with 21b. less than w.f.a., but, as he has
shown himself up to weight, 8.5 may not
seriously inconvenience him. If he is
worth anything near the amount re-
ported to have been paid for him he
should be very close to w.f.a. form, and
he will disappoint me if he does not win
a handicap of some kind during his stay
in Melbourne. St. Constant’s third in
the Glenfield Handicap at Randwick on
Saturday went further towards saying a
lot for Gold Salute’s gallop.
* * * *
One thing surprising to many people
who go racing is how various individuals
manage to gain admittance to the
saddling-paddock at many meetings.
They toil not, but they certainly do spin
—tales. Even more remarkable is the
fact that many of these find their way
to Melbourne on the occasion of im-
portant meetings. It makes you wonder
who finances them, and why.
* I * * *
It was announced that Beau Vite was
to be kept in Maoriland for autumn
engagements. A couple of races looked
soft for him, and then he could have
had a nice rest-up for spring racing.
The latest report, however, is that Beau
Vite is to visit Australia in the autumn,
owner R. Stewart evidently not yet being
convinced that Reading and High Caste
are superior to his colt, notwithstanding
they beat him in the Derbies. Stewart
must look to the longer distance of the
St. Legers to improve Beau Vite’s
chance of beating the others, and his form
at the Wellington meeting was first-class.
After failing by a neck with 8.7 in the
Wellington Centennial Cup he easily beat
12 others in the Summer Handicap, 1
mile 3 furlongs, in which he had 8.13,
those behind him including Beaupartir
8.9, Willie Win 7.13, and Moorsotis 7.0.
One thing that may tell against Beau Vite
is that he will arrive in Melbourne so
close to the commencement of the V.R.C.
meeting that he will have to be some-
what hurried in his final work for the
St. Leger.
* * * *
To anyone wishing to keep thoroughly
in touch with Maoriland form I can
recommend “N.Z. Raceform,” published
by Organ Bros., Ltd., Manners-street,
Wellington. It not only gives results,
owners, trainers and jockeys, but the
way horses ran in every race in Maori-
land. It would be difficult to improve
upon for completeness.
* * * *
H. N. Wiggins, who headed the win-
ning jockeys’ list in Maoriland for the
first half of the current season, recently
struck trouble in connection with his
win on Paxeno in the Suburban Handi-
cap in Auckland. The judicial committee
of the A.R.C. decided he had crossed the
field too quickly and suspended him for
two months. This will cost Wiggins a
lot of good riding, and may dispose of
his chance of finishing the season at the
top of the jockeys’ list.
Runners for the two divisions of the
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap at Vic-
toria Park, Sydney, included some fine-
looking fillies. One of the best-grown was
Myra May (Buoyant Bachelor-Myra
Tip), while others lacking nothing in
either size or looks were Kathleen
(Limarch-Lady St. Aubins), Victress
(Caledon-Havre), and Kenthelda (half-
sister, by Foxlight, to Defaulter). Peter
Pan’s sister Phoebe was in the first
division, but did not show form of any
account.
* * ■ * *
Disappointments are not unusual where
the quality of weight-for-age racing is
concerned, but at Randwick this autumn
events of that class should be interest-
ing. Probable Sydney-trained competi-
tors include High Caste, Gold Rod,
Mosaic, Seven Fifty, Reading, Allunga
and St, Constant, while the Maorilander,
Beaulivre, now in G. Price’s stable, may
have recovered sufficiently to run in
something. Royal Chief is sure to be
here, and Beau Vite may ; while if Ajax
gets through his Melbourne engagements
satisfactorily he will be a competitor.
Anyhow, it is not too much to hope for
some improvement upon last year, when
six ran in the Autumn Plate, four in
the All-Aged Plate, three in the Cumber-
land Plate and five in the A.J.C. Plate.
Defaulter won the Autumn and A.J.C.
Plates, Ajax the All-Aged Plate, and
Spear Chief the Cumberland Plate.
* * * *
It is reported that those N.S.W. clubs
which have not charged entrance fees,
and also allowed an owner to withdraw
his horse without paying anything, if dis-
satisfied with its weight, will be called
upon to change their methods. If
entrance fee is not charged, a payment
will have to be made when a horse is
scratched. Nor will the payment be so
small as to make the ruling body appear
ridiculous. For the A.J.C.’s classic
events no entrance fee is charged, but
£1 has to be paid to “get out” at the
date of first scratchings.
* * * *
“Why bother about form? Back
McMenamin” is a comment often heard
at Sydney meetings nowadays. Results are
proving the correctness of that idea, and
if, for the remainder of the season, he
does as well as up to the present, his
winning total will be remarkable for an
Australian jockey. McMenamin’s nippi-
ness at the start has been a great factor
in his success. As a rule he is so smartly
away at barrier-rise that you repeatedly
hear it said “He got a flying start.”
Balance, however, has a great deal to do
with his mounts finding their legs so
smartly as to give that impression. At
one time it was alleged against McMena-
min that he was a “weak finisher.” That
is not now said of him, even if he is not
quite the equal of D. Munro in driving
a mount home.
* * * *
The A.J.C. committee having departed
from that touch of obstinacy which for
a long time would not permit of a draw
for post positions on the day of accept-
ance, Sydney racegoers will in future be
able to find that information in the race-
books. The ruling body’s action has
given general satisfaction, but the sugges-
tion that the clubs will benefit in the way
of increased attendances seems to me to
savor of optimism. Although unpleasant,
the fact of having to crane their necks in
order to get early knowledge of post
positions from a semaphore has not
tended to keep many people away from
race meetings.
* * * *
Willie Win, second to The Trump in
the 1937 Melbourne Cup, subsequently
did a fair amount of racing in Maoriland
without success. However, at the C.J.C.
(Christchurch) meeting early this month
he proved he was not altogether a “has-
been,” winning the Midsummer Handi-
cap, 1| miles, by a length from Queen
of Song. Of the seven runners only one
received less tote support than Willie Win,
who led all the way over the concluding
mile.
# * * *
Ripley, who won a couple of handi-
caps in Sydney, has been passed for
racing in Maoriland. Owing to the sight
of one eye being impaired he was finally
barred in Sydney. He was taken to
Maoriland by F. A. Roberts, trainer of
Defaulter.
* * * *
In running over present-day catalogues
for yearling sales, it would be hard to
say with definiteness that any youngster
suffered on the score of breeding. Nearly
everything is directly related to a winner
or comes from a successful family. It is
possible to say of almost any youngster,
if it should turn out well as a stayer
or sprinter, “Why shouldn’t it be good?
Look at its pedigree.” However, the
difficulty of selecting something that is
sure to prove above the average remains
the same. When it comes to yearling
buying, acknowledged good judges can be
as wide of the mark as men who do
not claim to be authorities.
* * * *
Reading made a favorable impression
in the C. F. Orr Stakes at Williamstown,
and some of the critics are giving him
serious consideration for the St. George
Stakes on Saturday. They look to the
additional quarter-mile to do a lot for
him. It probably will, but nine furlongs
will not trouble either Ajax or High
Caste, and he will meet them respectively
71b. and 41b. worse. I expect to see High
Caste again defeat Reading, and the prin-
cipal question seems to be whether Ajax
will be sufficiently improved by his run
to down High Caste, who finished the
better in last week’s race. Ajax’s weight
drops from 9.5 to 9.2, while High Caste
goes up from 8.2 to 8.3.
* * * *
Defaults by bookmakers in Sydney or
Melbourne are unusual, but it was a
matter given consideration by the Vic-
torian Bookmakers’ Council last week.
The outcome was that it was agreed to
circularise all registered bookmakers in
the metropolitan area on a proposal to
relieve individuals of the responsibility
of guaranteeing other bookmakers. The
council’s idea is to undertake the guaran-
tee, but any bookmaker not guaranteed
by it can put up the necessary bond with
a racing club. Subscriptions to the
council’s fund are to be on a sliding scale,
governed by the positions members
occupy on the courses. The same system
has been in operation in Westralia for six
years.
* * * *
Writing before the declaration of
acceptances it is difficult to say a great
deal concerning the Oakleigh Plate, but
Williamstown running put J. Holt’s two,
Manrico and Pure Gold, in a good light,
and the former may be the stable-elect.
Of Aurie’s Star’s chance I have a high
opinion, and, now that it appears certain
he is to be a runner, it is difficult to
get away from Chatsbury as a possibility,
though I would sooner stand him for the
Newmarket. In Saturday’s race he has
a pound less than weight-for-age. Uni-
shak is expected to do better than at
Williamstown, and Gold Salute, Grace-
ful Mover, Operatic and Panka are
among those likely to have backers.
In such a short dash as five and a half
furlongs weight is naturally not such a
serious matter as in longer races, and,
though in the last ten years one winner
—Silhouette —carried only 7st., eight
others with weights ranging from 8.4 to
9.12 won during the same period. In
1931 and 1932 the race was run in divi-
sions, Merab (9.5) and First Arrow (7.13)
being successful in 1931, and Umbertana
(8.9) and Blematic (8.9) in 1932. Revert-
ing to next Saturday’s race, it seems to
me that a collection from which the
place-getters are most likely to come are
Aurie’s Star, Chatsbury, Graceful Mover
and Holt’s elect —Manrico or Pure Gold.
* * * *
The chestnut colt Rylstone (Hall
Mark-Lady Zelteers), who, in the joint
ownership of the late S. W. Philips and


H. S. Thompson, won two races, has a
new owner. R. F. Moses bought Rylstone
as a Derby proposition, and his ideas on
that score may not be at fault. Trueness
and Dark Elegance are exceptional
youngsters, but fillies have rarely shone
in the A.J.C. Derby, the last successful
being Picture, in 1898. It therefore seems
safe to discount fillies. Broadcaster, Fly-
ing Knight and Fearless Fox are good
colts, but at his last start Rylstone
finished ahead of Fearless Fox in the
December Stakes, and there is no reason
why he should not improve as much as
the latter. Ensign is very speedy; so
much so as to cause doubt as to whether
he will stay, though it might be unwise
to say definitely he would not. Pace
in a two-year-old has not always been a
bar to staying at three years. Up to the
present Victoria has no outstanding colt.
Lady Zelteers is by Zeltinger from
Lomond’s Cheer, by Lomond (son of
Desmond), and on the maternal side she
runs back to Memoir and La Fleche, both
English St. Leger winners. B. Payten
will continue to train Rylstone.
* * * *
It is never a certainty that a brother
or sister to some outstanding racehorse
is going to be as good, but any
breeder who has a well-related yearling
to offer can generally reckon upon get-
ting full value for it. Owing to the num-
ber of new sires used in 1937, this year’s
Randwick catalogue will include many
half-brothers and half-sisters to well-
known racehorses, but there are several
fully related to prominent performers.
Among the colts are full brothers to
St. Constant, Trueness, Pamelus, Had-
rian, Spear Chief, Valmiki, Royal Prince,
Sweet Myra and Lady Neith ; while in-
cluded in the fillies are sisters to Allunga,
Adios, Katanga, Trimmer and Homer.
* * * *
High Caste’s defeat of Ajax in the
C. F. Orr Stakes did not greatly surprise
many Sydneyites who saw him easily win
the Challenge Stakes with 8.12. That
form proved him to be as nearly as pos-
sible as well as last spring, and that gave
him a pull over a horse that had not
raced for several months and was meet-
ing him 71b. worse than weight-for-age.
Although F. Musgrave had expressed the
opinion that Ajax was as good as ever,
it worried him that he could not get any-
thing to gallop with the chestnut in his
work. That possibly helped to make a
difference, but it does not detract from
the merit of High Caste’s win, especially
as that colt ran the seven furlongs in
I. which was a second and a quarter
better than the previous best for Wil-
liamstown. Presumably Ajax will start
in the St. George Stakes next Saturday,
and as the longer distance will dispose
of the necessity for early bustling he is
nearly sure to be seen to greater advan-
tage than last week.
It was no secret when High Caste went
to Melbourne that J. T. Jamieson would
sooner he ran in the V.R.C. St. Leger
than in the Newmarket. High Caste’s
owner was not so definite, and perhaps
as a result of the colt’s win at Williams-
town he may now be inclined to give
the sprint preference. I suppose this
week’s market movements will give a
fair idea as to the trend of things. Until
the Futurity is run, presumably High
Caste will be restricted to a sprint
preparation, and with only a week inter-
vening between that race and the St.
Leger it will be rather late to start get-
ting him ready for a mile and three-
quarters.
Jamieson, however, is able to gauge
the full strength of the St. Leger opposi-
tion. Of the Australian lot Reading is
the only one from which High Caste has
anything to fear, and as Jamieson saw
Beau Vite race in Wellington recently
he will have a good idea of whether
the latter is really likely to prove much
better than when last in Melbourne. If
High Caste runs in the St. Leger the
price going against him is bound to be
decidedly cramped, and that may in-
fluence the decision as to the race in
which he shall run.
* * * #
The fact of Canterbury Park being
able to distribute a total £4500 in prize-
money for its two opening days suggests
that metropolitan proprietary clubs and
provincial clubs can scarcely be doing
as badly as some of the people promi-
nently identified with them would have
us believe. I have not heard it officially,
but it is understood that the clubs con-
cerned are likely to receive a hint that
it is up to them to increase their stakes.
If they fail to do so of their own accord
they may have it forced upon them. In
particular, the peanut prizes at some of
the provincial meetings do not tend to
clean racing. Owners are dependent upon
the betting market. By the time a man
with a leased horse pays his jockey, hands
over a third of the prize to the owner
and meets other items of expenditure,
there is not much left of a prize of a
little over £2O.
* * * *
It is time Sydney had another win-
ning turn in the Newmarket. The last
winner from this side was Greenline,
who, when he scored in 1930, made a win-
ner’s-weight record with 10.2. Since then
Winooka, Jacko and Dame Moab have
run second, and Greenline, Jacko and
Closing Time third. Last year Brazandt
and Hamurah represented this State, the
latter carrying 9.0. She was backed, but
had no chance, running sixth. The long
straight did not suit Brazandt, and he was
among the last lot to finish.
* * * *
Past results always have some bearing
upon possibilities in connection with
coming important handicaps. Therefore
it might be wise for backers to do a
little hard thinking before ending New-
market and Cup doubles with Maikai
or Rivette, who figure on top of book-
makers’ charts. Rivette won the Mel-
bourne Cup with 7.9 and Maikai was
second with 7.11. Now they have 9.2
and 9.4 respectively. A big difference,
especially as it is po certainty Rivette
is a great weight-carrier. Maikai may
shine more in that respect.
Spearfelt, in 1927, was the last Aus-
tralian Cup winner with more than 9.0.
He had 9.13, and earlier that season
won the Melbourne Cup with 9.3. Since
then Glare, the absolute topweight, and
“Can't We settle this thing in a friendly Way, Joe?”
Yarramba (who shared that honor with
Carry On) have been first favorites, but
neither ran into a place, and the fol-
lowing table, showing how heavyweights
have fared since Spearfelt, is of interest:
Topweight. Price. Result.
1928 Pilliwinkie, 9.7 .. 20 to 1 Unplaced
1929 The Banker, 8.13 .. 16 to 1 Unplaced
1930 — Mondiago, 8.13 .. 16 to 1 Unplaced
1931 Glare, 9.0 5 to 1 Unplaced
1932 Second Wind, 9.11 .. 10 to 1 Unplaced
1933 Yarramba, 8.6 .. sto 2 Unplaced
Carry On, 8.6 .. .. 20 to 1 Unplaced
1934 Ruach, 8.11 .. .. 12 to 1 Unplaced
Metallurgy, 8.11 .. 33 to 1 Unplaced
1935 Topical, 8.12 .. .. Bto 1 Unplaced
1936 Cuddle, 9.2 .. .. 11 to 2 Unplaced
1937 Cuddle, 9.5 .. .. 12 to 1 Unplaced
1938 Mutable, 8.5 .. .. 25 to 1 Unplaced
1939 Spear Chief, 9.2 .. 7to 1 Unplaced
Better, perhaps, to go for something
below 8.7 than take short-priced doubles
with Rivette or Maikai. Pageant, last
year’s winner, carried 7.8.
* * * *
In Australia, in conformity with
English custom, nominations for Derbies
and St. Legers close from 16 to 22
months before they are run. As they
are now for fixed amounts and do not
count as ante-post betting races, this
seems to be quite unnecessary. The Ken-
tucky and Santa Anita Derbies lose
nothing in interest in being closed a few
months before they are run, and save
owners, trainers and racing-club clerks a
lot of unnecessary worry. The only
reason that such procedure is not adopted
here seems to be that we do not like to
take a lead elsewhere than from England.
The Santa Anita Derby, of £A 12,500,
takes place in February, and entries
closed in December. There were 122, and,
though all the best two-year-olds of last
season are not included, many are. As
there are now no forfeits to swell the
prize it is certain Australian owners would
have no objection to nominations for
our classic races closing much later than
is now the rule.
In this year’s Kentucky Derby, which
will carry £A 18,750 added money, second
gets £2OOO, third £750 and fourth £250.
The trainer of the winner will get £750,
of the second £5OO and third £250.
Breeders are also to get their share, £5OO
going to first, £250 to second and £125 to
third. It is assumed that entrance fees
and sweepstakes for starters will assure
something over £A 15,000 for the owner
of the winner.
* * * *
There are 95 nominations for this
year’s Santa Anita £A25,000 handicap,
on March 2. Of these 13 are from
South America and three from Europe.
Seabiscuit, who has twice run second,
is to make his fourth attempt on the
race. He is top weight with 9.4, then
coming Kayak 11. 9.3, and Challedon
9.2. The minimum is 7.2.
* * * *
Trainers licensed to train jumpers in
England this year total 241. Few promi-
nent trainers of flat-racers are included
in the list.
* * * *
Charity race meetings are numerous
in America, and in this fashion Narra-
gansett Racing Association contributed
a little over £A 10,000 for two days. In
Sydney the proprietary clubs should com-
bine and do something similar. Perhaps
a stumbling-block to any such move is
the fear that too much light would be
thrown on the customary receipts of
tracks on which such fixtures might be
held.
* * * *
There is a lot of money in America
for high-class trotters as well as gallopers.
The champion three-year-old trotter last
year was Peter Astra, whose earnings
totalled £A 11,700. His best time for a
mile was 22\, and his most important
win was the Hambletonian Stake for
three-year-old trotters at Goshen, his
share being £A5290. The total prize-
money for the race was approximately
£ AlO,OOO, six of the 10 starters getting
a portion.
* * * *
Unless war developments stand in the
way England’s greatest w.f.a. race, the
Ascot Gold Cup, 2% miles, of £5OOO,
with the customary forfeits and sweep-
stakes, will be run as usual at Ascot in
June. There are 31 entries against 37
last season, and the added money is
again £5OOO. The Grand National
Steeplechase will also be held as usual
at Aintree, but this time it will be a
fixed prize of £5OOO and will not be
increased by forfeits and sweepstakes.
The owner of the winner will get £4lOO.
When Workman won last year, his
owner, Sir Alexander Maguire, received
£7284 10s. Another alteration in the
conditions is that horses placed in races
of three miles and upwards worth £BO
will be qualified to enter. Previously
the qualifying race had to be of the
minimum value of £2OO. The trainer of
the winner will receive a £5O cup, and
the rider one of £25.
* * # #
Ireland has more than one Derby.
Ulster holds one next July, and many
English owners have nominated. King
George has two engaged, and Lord Derby
three, but Miss D. Paget, with 11, leaves
both far behind. Her nominations in-
clude Walter Merry, who was one of the
best two-year-olds in Ireland. There are
61 in the race.
Sir Beau, who proved himself the best
two-year-old at the recent Wellington
meeting, is a Maoriland entrant for next
season’s A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger. At
Wellington he won the Wellesley Stakes
and the Nursery Handicap, six furlongs.
In the latter he had top weight, 9.6. and
scored in easy fashion. He is by Beau
Pere from Rose Ray, and is owned by
I. Lupton.
* * * *
In France it is common for the owner
of a winner of an important race to
notify that he has made a substantial
contribution to some charity. In Eng-
land and Australia such announcements
are decidedly unusual, though there are
some owners who do not forget to make
charitable use of a portion of their win-
nings. When R. E. Stewart won with
Beau Vite in Auckland he gave £5O to
the Red Cross Fund, and made a similar
donation after that horse won in Wel-
lington.
* * * *
W. Woodward has been racing a big
team in America for over 20 years, but
last year was the first he headed the list
of winning owners. J. Fitzsimmons, who
has charge of Woodward’s horses, led
the trainers in prize-money, but, as usual,
Hirsch Jacobs was first in number of
wins. American racing men have be-
come accustomed to Jacobs leading in
that respect. He has done so for some
years, and when any trainer can do that
it must be attributed to ability, even
though some of his fellow-trainers might
be inclined to put it down to luck. Jacobs
has had good material to work upon, and
has been able to make full use of it,
which is something many trainers can-
not do.
* # * *
Gordon Richards narrowly missed a
bad accident when driving from New-
market to his home in
Marlborough in a
blackout in December.
He ran into a lamp-
post, and sustained a
cut on the nose and
slight concussion.
Medical orders con-
fined him to bed for
a few days.
* *
Each year at the
end of the flat-racing
season Maisons-
Laffitte and Chantilly
trainers are requested
by the French
National Stud to pre-
sent entire horses in
training of which
their owners desire to
dispose as stallions.
Directions are given
to the trainers as to
conformation and
other details so as not
to waste time on
unsuitable animals.
Generally speaking,
good business results. The horses are put
through their paces, the members of the
commission examine them and, if satis-
fied, make an offer which has to be either
accepted or declined. There is no bar-
gaining. Premiums are allotted to those
considered most worthy from every point
of view. However, at Maisons-Laffitte
in December business was very dis-
appointing, as out of 12 presented only
one was chosen, and his price was only
40,000 francs.
* * * *
Fairway, who headed the winning sires’
list in England last year, is a remark-
ably sure foal-getter. Last season there
were 28 foals by him. As they do not
overuse high-class stallions in England,
it is improbable Fairway was mated with
more than 30 mares.
* * * *
It is unusual for a man figuring promi-
nently in horse-breeding and -racing to
run also a Sunday-school class for young
men. It was so with H. H. Cross, who
died recently in America. He had a rather
successful stable about ten years ago,
and continued racing until a year ago,
when he disposed of most of his stock.
In 1924 he started a Sunday-school class
for young men at a Presbyterian church
in Chicago, and made it so attractive
that its membership grew to approxi-
mately 850.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Louis Severely Tested
Tony Galento having floored Joe Louis
before Joe cut loose and rolled out that
two-ton barrel, Arturo Godoy, who had
twice trounced Tony, looked to have a
better chance of lifting the title than
anyone since Farr. He went reasonably
close ; in fact, many present at Madison
Square Garden, including one of the
judges, reckoned the title had at last


ft NEUI
THRILL/
YOU WILL GET IT
AT THE 1940 “ROYAL”
A new departure ... a new, daring
presentation ... a thrill-: —spec-
tacular in its wildness will be
presented for the first time in Aus-
tralia at the 1940 Royal Show.
You will see man Australian and
International versus beast, in
dazzling, human skill . . . watch
for particulars of the wild thrills
which are coming to you with the
BRAHMA BULLS
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MARCH 16 to 27.
10 DAYS AND 8 NIGHTS
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2323 of 1939.
BETWEEN EVELYN MAY GRAYSON Peti-
tioner
And LEONARD CYRIL GRAYSON Re-
spondent.
TO LEONARD CYRIL GRAYSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVELYN
MAY GRAYSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Seventh day of May One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of February, 1940.
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy, Registrar.
ALFRED MITCHELL & SON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
SHOOTING SEASON OPENS SHORTLY!
FULL BASS ASSURED WITH THE
NEW 'LIGHTNING' SUPER CHARGE
CARTRIDGE. 21/- per 100 (Freight Extra).
A 25111. Cartridge with Shot.
This new Cartridge has been designed to meet the need of
sportsmen who shoot under conditions where a heavy shot
charge, high velocity, and hard hitting at long range
are required. 33 grains ‘Neoflak 1 Powder, I'/i
ounce shot. The New 'Lightning' Super Charge
Cartridge is exclusive to MICK SIMMONS LTD.
dsf
w
ds
fds
A MEDIUM-PRICED QUALITY-BUILT D.B. GUN.
No 21— CERT D.B. B.L. HAMMERLESS GUN—I 2 Gauge, 32in Steel
Barrels, Choke, Greener Cross Bolt (A. &. D. Action) . . . PRICE £8
Carriage Paid.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY And All Branches
changed hands, but the casting vote of
the ref. gave the decision to Louis.
Godoy, who hails from Chile, proved
as hot and lively as the taste of his
address. Adopting a crowding plan of
campaign, he forced the fight on the
champion from the opening bell, drove
him against the ropes, stayed close in on
him, kept him pinned there literally de-
fending his title for a good part of the
scrap, not only stayed on his feet for
the full 15-round course but was chiack-
ing Joe and inviting him to fight in the
fourteenth —he even planted a kiss on
Jpe’s sweaty ebony dial —and wound up
grinning, as fresh as a colt.
However, a really tough customer em-
ploying crowding and spoiling tactics is
likely to crab any scrapper’s style. Joe
hit Arturo hard, heavily and often. As
the negro’s punches caught him on jaw
and chin Godoy’s head was jolted back
inches. Regarded as a mauling mill, the
fight was all Godoy’s, but Joe landed
the clean punches. Pinned against the
ropes as he was for much of the time,
he nevertheless boxed splendidly, scor-
ing well with shortened jolts and hooks.
Anyway, it’s as good as a law that a
champ, has to be conclusively beaten
before a title is taken from him, and
Godoy didn’t manage that. Both of them
were cut about the face, Godoy winding
up with a deep cut on the cheekbone, a
battered mouth, a pulverised boko and
a bunged-up eye. Their next meeting will
hoist the house-full sign outside the
Garden, which in terms of hard cash
represents a king’s ransom, or almost
enough to keep the world war going for
nearly a minute.
* * * *
Bad-tempered stunting in the ring is be-
coming common maybe an effect on
the Noble Art of what’s called wrestling.
Carrying on after the bell is the usual
line—no wrestling match is complete
without a bit of this, and it’s a rare
evening’s stoush these times that doesn’t
include a bit of it, too.
Further, one of the chief crowd-
pleasing ingredients of wrestling is the
variety introduced into the breaking of
whatever rules may be supposed to
govern it; so it’s only fair competition
when the scrappers touch their like ex-
hibitions off with a bit of variety also.
In last week’s return scrap between
Frank Farrington and Harry Summers
at Leichhardt this took the form of going
on with the good work after Farrington
had been disqualified. Farrington had
lost the fight anyhow, the Victorian being
well ahead on points. In their previous
meeting Summers had gone out through
the ropes, and was there counted out,
the Summers corner protesting that Far-
rington had broken all the rules ever
invented since the David-Goliath battle.
This time they both fell over, and Far-
rington, being first to his feet, socked
Summers as the Victorian got up. Ref.
Lacey thereupon disqualified Farrington,
and then the fight got going some more.
In the true wrestling tradition, corners
then swarmed in, collared their respec-
tive charges and bore ’em back.
Its conclusion apart, it wasn’t a bad
fight.
* * * *
There being now no Olympic or
Empire Games in sight, N. S. Wales
amateur bantam champ. Liam Wilson
has turned pro., and if he doesn’t turn
out an extra good little man there’s
nothing in promise. He’s an upright little
scrapper, with a pretty good punch in
each hand, better balance than is usually
seen these days, and less of a dancer
than most amateur graduates. He had
his first professional scrap at North
Sydney Stadium last week, beating an
uncommonly tough lad, Jackie Deakin.
Liam’s punching ability and Jackie’s
toughness were demonstrated, Jackie
bumping the canvas in no fewer than
five of the 12 rounds. Liam also tasted
the canvas—in the tenth —but came up
fighting. Liam’s boxing is of the snappy,
powerful sort, very pretty to look at.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
There are particular points in the golf
swing which, if a player concentrates
upon them, must improve his play. Of
these important elements I think the
body-turn, or pivot, is one to which every
golfer should pay attention ; on it hinges
much of the power and accuracy of every
shot in the bag.
To a large number of golfers this
matter of pivoting seems unimportant,
and it doesn’t receive the care it is en-
titled to. Actually, pivoting is in no sense
an artificial motion, but is one of the most
natural qualities of a stroke. Like most
outstanding features in the swing, the
pivot, while essential, is used in varying
degrees by each player. Some golfers
have more body-turn than others, de-
pending upon the particular style of play,
but many who have little turn at all are
usually on long handicaps.
There is a happy medium in almost
every golden rule of golf, and it is pos-
sible to over-pivot or not pivot enough.
The perfect body-turn is that which gives
the fullest amount of power to the shot
with the least possible movement. When
this ideal is reached not only is one’s
timing improved, but balance and con-
trol are assured.
The most common faults in pivoting
are lifting the club up on the backswing
with almost no shoulder- or hip-turn ;
turning and half-swaying the upper part
of the body without proper weight-shift-
ing ; and keeping most of the weight on
the left side and bending in this left side
in place of turning. These three errors
are very common among the general run
of golfers, and all tend toward incorrect
pivoting. The golfer of today is taught
along the lines of keeping his swing as
restricted as possible, and therefore his
body-turn is less than that used by a
player with a fuller and freer swing. In
glancing through some pictures taken of
my own swing some years ago, when I
had a much longer backswing than I have
now, I see my body-turn was con-
siderably greater, thus increasing my
chance of error.
The body-turn is essential for many
reasons. It should include the turn of
the left knee, hip and shoulder towards
the right. These all turn together as the
left ankle also gives toward the right,
and the left side of the foot or the left
heel comes from the ground, leaving the
pressure on the inner side of the left
foot. While it is necessary to let the
body turn with" the swing, as there is
no other way in which to get into posi-
tion to hit the ball, the club should not
go over the horizontal position, otherwise
the pivot may be overdone. By thus
regulating one’s backswing and achiev-
ing this sound hitting position a player
can also keep his body from turning too
much.
An upright swing has less pivot than a
flatter swing, for the club is taken back
in a much straighter line from the ball
and up compared with a round-the-
body swing. It is only after a correct
turn that the club is brought down to
the ball slightly on “the inside-out.”
Without such a pivot the player is almost
sure to bring the club across the ball
outside the line to the hole. The correct
turn puts the body in the back of the
swing, getting it more behind the ball
and adding punch to the shot. With the
body behind the club assisting it by
working in unison, good timing and
balance are acquired. It also releases the
hands, wrists and arms for the work they
have to do in swinging the clubhead.
In my own case, as I use the closed
or “shut” face at the top of the swing-*-
in which the club-face points to the sky
instead of more toward the onlooker —
my body-turn, when approaching the ball
on the downswing, commences much
earlier than usual, for I shoot the club
more out after the ball. At impact with
the ball my hips have turned well to-
ward the hole, thus assisting me to a
full and free follow-through after the
ball.
The handicap golfer is usually not as
relaxed in his body-turn as he might be,
and therefore he should cultivate a
natural pivot which gives him, when he
reaches the top of the swing, slightly
more weight on the right foot than on
the left. The main thing is to avoid an
upper-body sway to the right in the belief
that it is the turning of the body. The
pivot, properly carried out, is a natural
and necessary part of the swing, and it
cannot be left out of a successful and
consistent style of play.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Hassett (122 twice) is the eighth Vic-
torian to make two centuries in one
match, and the fourth to bring off the
double against N.S.W. Vernon Rans-
ford, greatest of all Victorian left-
handers, notched 182 and 110 in 1909 —
he also on a losing side. Ponsford had
110 and 110 not out 14 years ago, and
Rigg 100 and 167 not out.
* * * *
O’Reilly looks like steering St. George
to the Sydney premiership. Petersham,
second now, is eight points behind Saints.
O’Reilly’s men haven’t yet got to 300
in any one innings, and there isn’t an
inter-State batsman among them ; but only
once has 200 been notched against them
in the first innings (Petersham 228), and
then O’Reilly was absent. In grade and
Shield matches this season O’Reilly has
taken 105 wickets at an average of 11.
For St. George his 53 have cost only
eight runs apiece. Saturday’s effort
against Northern District brought his
bag for that match to 13 wickets for
76 runs.
* * * *
Colts’ bowlers got among the South
Melbourne batsmen in their pennant
match on Saturday. Hassett was run
out for 4 ; Lee, who got 11, alone made
double figures. Two other Victorian
eleven men went quickly—Miller (4) and
Johnson (a duck). Hassett closed with
eight down for 25 ; Fitzmaurice four for
12 and Loxton three for 11. The Colts
finished a good day by putting on 188
for nine wickets (Tonkin 52 not out).
H. Oakley with 77 topped for St.
Kilda against Essendon in a total of 257.
He keeps up form well. Last season he
scored 634 runs for St. Kilda in 10 com-
pleted innings.
* * * *
W. A. Brown hit up 167 in less than
2\ hours in the Brisbane Colts’ second
innings against East. A junior, T. J.
Cotton (72), helped him to put on 217
for the first wicket. Against West, Don
Tallon scored 66 out of 122.
* * * *
Western Australia began surprisingly
well against South Australia. The Perth
wicket has the reputation of being very
easy for batsmen, but S.A. was out for
249. Bradman (42) and Hamence (3)
were caught by wicketkeeper O. Love-
lock, who is having a great season in
Perth. K. Ridings topped with 46 ; Waite
contributed 38. The wickets were well
divided —C. Mac Gill three for 49, fast-
bowler Halcombe two for 53, Eyres two
for 81, and Zimbulis two for 36 with
his slows.
* * * *
Among the wicketkeepers, Walker had
the best figures in the 1939-40 Sheffield
season, with 14 stumped and 14 caught
in six matches. Sismey, the Sydney
colt, caught the greatest number, 15, but
stumped only one. At present he tries
to do too much in going for first slip
catches and in chasing the ball; all the
same, he has class and speed. Don Tal-
lon gathered in 17 (11 caught and 6
stumped); and Barnett caught 7 and
stumped 3. Batting honors were taken
by Barnett with 443 runs at 44.30. Tallon
was next with 393 runs at 29.75. Each
made a century. When he gets his eye
in Tallon rises to real heights in batting.
In Adelaide Westralian Percy Oliver
collected three more national titles,
having already won the 440 and 220
yards. In sluggish water he won the
110 yards in 62 3-ssec., the 110 yards
backstroke in lmin. llsec. and the 880
yards in llmin. 23sec. Oliver hasn't
been beaten i.n these championships. He’s
still only 20.
• • • • r »
A Victorian, Johnson, won the 220
yards breaststroke, beating Bamman
(W.A.). Miss L. Hawe (N.S.W.) cap-
tured the springboard- and tower-diving
events for women, and the Westralian
girl Dorothy Green was supreme in the
440 yards —Evelyn de Lacy (now of
N.S.W.) being unplaced.
* * * *
On Saturday Bruce Ryan added the
N.S.W. 220 yards championship to his
100 yards title. Burfein, of Queensland,
was second again, four yards away, in
22.45ec.; Dunn was again an absentee.
The mile went to the Victorian Back-
house, with two brothers, T. M. Gleeson
and J.P. (the holder), behind him. The
only record was established by Stubbs
in the 1500-metres walk —smin. 59sec.
* * * $
In 1920 a Balmain crew won the
N.S.W. champion eights. Afterwards the
club fell on evil days, and it wasn’t rep-
resented in the race again till last week ;
and then it won again, leading nearly all
the way. Haberfield, the title-holders, and
the Police boat did the chasing: four
lengths; three-quarters.
A policeman, T. Wood, collected the
sculls, beating Empire champion Turner
by 100yds. Cecil Pearce, last year’s
champion, did not start; he had concen-
trated on coaching the Balmain eight.
Nepean won the lightweight champion
fours —appropriately, for the races were
held on the Nepean.


GRACE BROS
■ •
:
:iPiy|»iltf
;
;....y. >' >
S* :
mmm
m
♦
0
«es
♦
6>
6
mac
m
*>
6 s
USUAL PRICE £B/8/-
LESS 10%
£7112
Without Exception !
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
SSSfc
W%
m
m
■yj
w
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506


KxFuJ
in. Ocu w
I SYDNEY
I Twice Oailu 230 6
'tKi?..
-y( cljuv-om xa.
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daily - 2 /S~ 6
AT THE.
“SPICE OF LIFE,” VARIETY REVUE.
Big New Company. Oversea Stars.
EEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
5 CLEVERES, GEO. WALLACE.
WIEE -MAHONEY,
EVIE HAYES and New Oversea Stai
in the Variety Revue,
“THE HAT TRICK/’
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Seven Days’ Leave”
Though the programme at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday declared “there has
been a swing towards light-hearted
‘cheer-up’ entertainment since the out-
break of hostilities,” it was difficult to
feel light-hearted at “Seven Days’ Leave,”
in which the story is sometimes sillier
than the dialogue and the dialogue some-
times sillier than the story.
There was nothing particularly cheer-
ing in the spectacle of the wicked Paul
Lamonde and his paramour, the Coun-
tess Euhlenberg, masquerading as Bel-
gian refugees in an English rectory per-
vaded by patriotic eloquence and comic
conscientious objectors. Nor did the
situation improve when Captain Terry
Feilding turned up from France with the
secret of the latest British field gun in
his head, and it transpired that all the
countess had to do was to seduce the
English officer from his English bride-
to-be, drug him and then swim out to a
buoy half a mile offshore, cut an electric
cable which would give the signal to a
lurking submarine, and then pop the cap-
tain aboard to be taken to Germany to
Have his secret tortured out of him.
Mayne Lynton, Guy Matheson,
Leonard Stephens and the rest are com-
petent actors, but the opus beat them.
There was mild enthusiasm when Colonel
Sharrow, of the British Secret Service,
came to the rescue, and some moderate
excitement when Betty Sampson, the
natatory heroine, disrobed to take the
plunge before the assembled villagers,
with the possibility of being shelled by
the British Navy.
Nancy Ford was ,the woman spy;
Stephen Staughton, as a duke who has
enlisted as a private, was funny.
* * * *
“The Student Prince”
A mainly local company made an
excellent job of “The Student Prince” at
Melbourne His Majesty’s on Saturday,
the choruses being particularly effective.
Mary Dempster offered a voice whose
tone was pleasing ; Sam Stern made a
good fist of Toni; John Howard as the
thwarted Prince Karl gave a distinguished
performance; and Tom Minogue gave
vocal brilliance to his lugubriously senti-
mental friend, Dr. Engels, but made
heavy weather of his acting.
* * * *
“Les Presages”
Colonel de Basil has in David Lichine
a fine dramatic dancer, vigorous, in-
tensely masculine, favoring stamping and
tragic gesticulation as a means of ex-
pression. Roman Jasinsky you could call
a melodious dancer, smooth, supple,
youthfully graceful. So that why Jasin-
sky was asked to dance the grotesque
and tragic Fate in “Les Presages” at Syd-
ney Royal on Friday—a part made for
Lichine—is as much of a mystery as it
was to ask Lichine to dance the Hussar
in the light, gay “Blue Danube” —a part
made for Jasinsky.
Nevertheless, these two ballets, with
repeat performances of “Protee” and
“Swan Lake,” made the finest programme
the company has yet offered. Jasinsky,
though a shade less commanding than
the role calls for, handled Fate very well,
and danced “Protee’s” sea-god superbly.
The “Blue Danube” dances were arranged
by Lifar, and he, Lichine and Ria-
bouchinska came in for enthusiastic
applause. Nina Verchinina’s interpreta-
tion of Action ip “Les Presages”—an
intriguing combination of flowing line
and the formality of an Egyptian mural
—was wholly delightful.
AT THE TALKIES.
“We of the A.1.F.”
After its extended season at Sydney
Town Hall this week, “We of the A.1.F.”
is to march to Brisbane and then on to
some of the country centres that have
been clamoring for it. Without much
publicity in Sydney, it has been drawing
packed houses, and it should be just as
popular wherever it goes.
When it shows men in action going
over the top and ploughing through no-
man’s-land, it can’t compete in vividness
with fake war films, partly because it
can’t give you the charging masses of
men that look so picturesque on the hills
of Hollywood, partly because it is filmed
at such a distance. You have to use
your imagination, and recall that actual
fighting is being shown. But it shows
the conditions under which men fought
with a startling clarity not to be matched
by any war book, any fake film, any still
photograph.
Where a single photograph of a ruined
village would show perhaps one broken
building and a background of chaos, this
film shows the whole scene, indescribable
desolation. You can read about the hills
of Gallipoli, but here you see them —
the strip of beach and the towering ridges
—and the job the Australians were asked
to do is there in all its appalling magni-
tude. You see the men in their dugouts,
and the burning scrub where hand-to-
hand fighting is going on.
Most dramatic of all are the scenes of
winter warfare in France, the whole
countryside white with snow, or the crazy
lunar landscape of mist and mud, with
an abandoned gun, broken trees, a dead
horse in the bog of a shellhole to give
the trappings of nightmare, and the
laborious business of war never ceasing.
The tone of the film is splendid. There
are no horrors and no unnecessary flag-
waving. With touches of light relief,
peace and comedy behind the lines, it
shows war as a tough business, won by
“You see, the price of wood is going up!”
men in the field. Merely as a show —
and it’s much more than that —this films
is too good to miss.
* * * *
“The Housekeeper’s Daughter”
It having been agreed that the best
way to film crime fiction is humorously,
the British turn it into comedy; Holly-
wood turns it into nonsense.
For all his humorous intent the British
filmsmith sticks as closely as a humorous
intent will permit to reality, or, at least,
fictional credibility. The Hollywooden
filmsmith says to the dickens with
credibility; the fun of the fiction crime
yarn now about to be translated to the
screen must be that it could never have
possibly happened on land or sea, except,
perhaps, when very much smitten by the
moon. As a result of all this, the British
filmsmith’s film of this sort is seriously
funny ; the Hollywooden filmsmith’s film
of the sort is preposterously funny.
Either way, the main thing is that the
film is funny. That adds up to quite
a lot in present scribe’s gratitude, and
the hope is that it adds up to as tidy a
sum in box-office receipts, so that pure
nonsense crime fiction films like “The
Housekeeper’s Daughter” may be as long
in the land as they like and as plentiful
as they’re long.
Seen at Sydney Mayfair, this particu-
lar film harks back to that lovely stretch
of nonsense “You Can’t Take It With
You.” It has no underlying sentimental
philosophy of living such as that film
had, but it has most of the other non-
sense ingredients, even including the fire-
works. A theatrical lass having been
poisoned before the eyes of the audience
and thrown from a houseboat into the
surrounding wet, the rest of the film
has to do with the efforts of a couple
of star newspaper men and an amateur
ditto to make something of the crime,
meanwhile making up to a lass who hap-
pens to be a housekeeper’s daughter—a
perfectly good nonsense reason for the
film’s title. It all leads up to an up-
roarious climax, with a household, in-
cluding the three newspaper sleuths —
two of them celebrating the Fourth of
July and armed with fireworks —bailed
up by a bunch of toughs, with bang-
bang-bang (real and festive) going on all
round, to say nothing of half the toughs
being wiped out by the same poisoning
method that started it all off in the first
place.
Adolphe Menjou, as one of the festive
scribes, and Joan Bennett, as the house-
keeper’s daughter, turn in capital jobs,
Menjou especially—Joan seems never to
quite get over the bewilderment she must
have felt when she first read the part.
* * * *
“Here I Am a Stranger”
There is probably a moral at the back
of this current Sydney Plaza item, but a
good deal of syrup would have to be
shovelled away to find it. Gladys George,
with infant son, walks out on lazy but
otherwise decent husband and marries
prosperous lawyer; son grows up and
eventually meets father and weans him
off the booze on to hard work. Son
then has to decide whether not to ruin his
stepfather or to stick to the principles
which, apparently, he inherited from his
genuine parent. A university is the main
setting and provides Roland Young with
a fine opportunity to characterise a pro-
fessor of English. Brenda Joyce, as his
daughter, figures to better advantage
than she did in “The Rains Came.”
* * * *
“Elizabeth and Essex”
The substance and dialogue of this
Sydney Regent offering remain much the
same as Maxwell Anderson wrote them
in his play, and that much of the film
is good. The story of Elizabeth torn be-
tween her love for Essex and her duty
to England provides a fluent narrative,
with some powerful dramatic highlights
when the two power-seeking characters
clash with each other.
. It’s a pity, therefore, that the acting
should make the film little more than a
Ruritanian romance. Most of the
secondary characters handle their roles
as though they were parts in a musi-
comedy, and Errol Flynn’s Essex differs
only in costume from his Robin Hood
and Captain Blood ; Mr. Flynn enjoys
action, but dramatic acting seems be-
yond him.
Bette Davis makes a dramatic figure
of her part without making it Elizabeth.
She infuses power, temper and mental
torment into her acting, but misses on
the essential point by not making a queen
or a monarch of the character. That is
the weakness of the whole film ; it is a
Hollywooden approach to English history
and tradition, and as false, probably, as
an English version would be of a corre-
sponding American scene.
Film is done out in brilliant technicolor
which, though it provides some gor-
geous pageantry, only adds further to
the atmosphere of unreality.
* * * *
“Honeymoon in Bali,” at Sydney
Prince Edward, is lively comedy, wherein
plantation-overseer Fred Mac Murray,
holidaying in N’Yark, meets big-busi-
nessgirl Madeleine Carroll, and tells her
that she’s a career-woman likely to de-
velop into a neurotic and frustrated spin-
ster. Running-time of the film is just
sufficient for him to prove his case and
save her from that fate. Both players
tiptop, plenty of comedy and some lively
dialogue. Some day a good drama will
be made on the same theme.
Artbursts.
The spacious art gallery on the top
floor of David Jones’s George-street
store, Sydney, is filled to overflowing
with an “exhibition of art for theatre and
ballet,” comprising mostly designs for
costumes and for scenery and other stage
settings. In its search for its atmosphere
of mysterious unreality the ballet has
resorted largely to those artists whose
strongest forte is imagination. Unfor-
tunately imagination doesn’t work well
on commission. Hence a big series of
young-ladyish costume designs by G. de
Chirico, weirdly repulsive sketches for a
drop-curtain by Epstein, and a variety of
quaiptly monstrous designs by 'Chris-
topher Wood. Of the hundred or so
more-or-less famous artists represented
the most businesslike and incomparably
the best draughtsman is George Shering-
ham. The nicest sense of humor is
shown by Doris Zinkersen, and the best
expression of rhythmic movement by
Dame Laura Knight.
* * * *
A “Show of Fives” (which means
pictures at £5 55.) at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, has drawn contribu-
tions from 30 artists, mostly Sydney
residents, and there is plenty of variety.
Will Ashton, Robert Campbell, Mary
Edwards, Isabel McKenzie and Helen
Stewart show worth-while oils, Lionel
Lindsay, Gladys Owen and Albert Col-
lins are among the water-colorists, and
there are etchings by Norman Lindsay
and Gruner. A Roland Wakelin im-
pression of Woolloomooloo and a pencil
drawing by Lloyd Rees represent oppo-
site poles. A very pleasing picture is
Dora Jarret’s “Old Curiosity Shop.”
* * * *
Paintings Too Dear?
“F. 5.,” more in sorrow than in anger:
Melbourne “Herald,” which got the biggest
advertisement of its career out of its “modern”
art show, has had the gall to print a leader
castigating Australian artists for charging too
much for their works and saying that there
was sense behind the suggestion of Bernard
Shaw that the Royal Academy should display a
notice: “Any colored picture can be purchased
for £5 and any plain picture for £2.”
The average Royal Academy picture isn’t
worth that much, and almost invariably decreases
in value as the years roll by, but that is beside
the point. The art patron who pays £lOOO for
an Orpen when Orpen is in fashion gets his
money’s worth in social prestige. If subse-
quently he finds it won’t fetch a fiver at
Christie’s because Orpen has gone out of fash-
ion he has no cause to complain unless he is
also prepared to act the other way about and,
when he buys an unfashionable painter’s picture
and the painter suddenly becomes great, is pre-
pared to go round to the artist and give him
the entire unearned increment.
Australian painters who know their own
worth—and there are a few —ask as much as
they think they can get or more than they know
they can get because they believe in themselves,
believe that their skill will increase, not de-
crease ; believe that they are not merely a fashion
but that they paint pictures that have some
universal value which will eventually be recog-
nised. If their pictures don’t sell they don’t
write laments in the dailies, but pull in their
belts or seek some other means of earning a
livelihood that does not interfere too much
with their painting. As they expect, rightly
or wrongly, that their prestige will increase,
they don’t expect their works to be used to
wrap sausages in, like the “Herald,” but to
be preserved and admired.
I know at least half a dozen Australian
painters who have acted like this. They asked
relatively high prices for their pictures and
didn’t get them; but they get them now, and
much higher ones, too. So their confidence
was justified. Others have, willy-nilly, had
to accept anything they could get, like Hilder,
who was glad to get a couple of guineas for
a picture that subsequently changed hands for
100 times that amount. The “Herald” lectures
the artist for not recognising that by lowering
his prices he defeats his larger end, which is,
according to the “Herald,” the reaching of
as wide a public as possible with whatever
message he has to give. All that this means,
it seems to me, is that the “Herald” wants
its readers to get their art on the cheap. But
you can’t get anything worth while on the cheap.
How much did the public get from being given
a cheap view of the “Herald’s” “modern” art?
It merely got muddled up, and the show ended
with a squalid controversy in the dailies on
the morals of the artists, which had no more
to do with their art than the color of their
noses or their hair.
If the “Herald” is really concerned about
the sufferings of the younger generation of
Australian artists, why doesn’t it start a cam-
paign to bring in a sensible law such as they
have in France? There the author of a work
is assured during his lifetime and his descen-
dants for fifty years afterwards of sharing in
whatever increment may occur in the commer-
cial value of the work.
If he works hard and works well and his
prestige goes up, up goes also the value of his
former work, and under the law he may get
a bit of the value added to it by his own
industry. Hence he has some inducement to
sell his early pictures at a low price.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
m
tfl
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMANS
LETTER
In these war days the Red Cross is the
reason for half the parties in and around
the city. . It was the reason for the re-
ception given at Government House last
Friday. This was in particular a cour-
tesy to the helpers of Red Cross Appeal
day, March 15. A suggestion by the
Marchioness of Willingdon (in the same
attire she had worn when being refreshed
by the E.-S.U. with cold meats and salad),
during a discussion on methods of keep-
ing the Red Cross flying, to nigke appeal
for jewellery and trinkets to be sold at
auction, seems good. In England recently
such a sale brought over £40,000. Now,
mind you don’t trip running to the wall
safe for those family emeralds! A very
pale pink frock and a violet-blue hat,
tiny and be-veiled, was worn by Lady
Wakehurst. One of the last notes from
Paris is a taffeta bow at the neckline, and
the Hon. Henrietta Loder finished off her
frock with one. The most noted thing
about Morna Mackenzie was her
new engagement ring—emeralds and
diamonds.
There’s no magic about it, but you
could take a tram ticket to Randwick
and get out at the Warwick Farm race
meeting last Saturday. What’s in a name,
anyway? Warwick Farm itself now
being in the army, so to speak, all its
fixtures at Randwick are within cosy
distance of Martin-place. The day being
what it was the tub frock was the chosen
grace. White was fashionable, but
always escaped the uniform suggestion.
Shirley Poynter, an all-white, was
among the cool-looking. Mrs. Jimmy
Bancks, too, wore white. Her suede
crepe suit was worn with a navy hat.
Philippa Stephen’s blue crepe, with light-
ning-streak zipper, was among the noted ;
also Marie Coen’s heavenly-blue attire.
How pound-foolish was the woman
who had not backed Pennywise! Part-
owner of the steed Mrs. S. A. Smith
(the other part is owned by H. V.
Cooper) was elated over Pennywise’s win.
And how do you divide a racehorse?
Left and right sides, probably. For if
one owner had the front legs and the
other the back, Solomon himself wouldn’t
be able to settle the disputes over prize-
money. Dr. Gwynneth Williams, of
Orange, was a racegoer. The day’s
brightness was clouded for all by the
accident to a young jockey who later
died of his injuries.
Of course you went to the Ballet last
Friday and saw “The Beautiful Danube.”
It’s a pretty, gracious creation, and it’s a
ballet liked by men as well as by
women. Mrs. Roy Buckland was one
of the most admired in the audience.
Her black lace frock wore its tiger lilies
in the grand manner. With her were
sons Jim and Bob. Stephanie Edye’s
sweeping frock was white to the knees,
when it flared into a deep hem of red
spattered with white coin spots. Barbara
Salenger wore her hooded cape of
Florentine-blue lace with a magnolia
satin frock. Patricia’s frock was a swirl
of black and white lace. Penelope Cay,
herself one of Sydney’s best dancers,
brought rose satins ; Ruby Adams was
distinguished looking in black. With
Bertie Kelly came daughter Mrs. Mac-
phillamy, of Bathurst, wearing organza
of peach-blossom pink. Its floating skirt
and little bolero were hand-embroidered.
Against the pink of the dress burned an
emerald. With them was Olive Kelso
King.
All the pearls will be out of pawn
and all the tiaras polished up for the big
Ballet night on Saturday. The takings
at the Royal that night are a response
to Lady Gowrie’s appeal for the Red
Cross, and the committee includes all
Sydney’s brightest and best from Lady
Wakehurst'down. The Governor-General
and his wife, Lord and Lady Wakehurst
and Lord and Lady Willingdon will add
glamor to the dress circle. “Coq d’Or”
will be presented for the first time this
season. Complete new outfits are being
assembled by every second woman. The
house should be as glittering as the stage.
Mrs. Ernest Watt is responsible for both
posters and flower arrangements. At
last Friday’s meeting she told that a
great cross of red and white flowers
would dominate the scene. The Fairfax
lady, who is president, swelled profits
by a cheque for £lOO. Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern, Mrs. Reg Bettington, Faith Mac-
arthur-Onslow and Mrs. Ellis Fielding-
Jones are busy in the cause.
Any day when you are tired of reality,
the roaring trams, the asphalt streets, the
Post Office clock, you can step into a
world of fantasy, of delicate artificiality.
In short, you can turn into the “Art for
Theatre and Ballet” show, and see people
poised on elegant toes as though about
to fly into, or as though just alighting
from, the unknown. The walls of the
gallery are covered with designs for
ballet, settings, curtains. Here are cele-
brated people of the ballet caught in
action in favorite parts, and shown in all
the colorful trappings of the character
portrayed. The designs for the house
of the Capulets have just the right air
for the birthplace of the romance of
Romeo and Juliet. Near by is a picture
of Norma Shearer as Juliet, her quilted
satin frock the color of a dark red rose.
The Epstein curtain for “David” is
one of the draws of the show. Jezebel,
one of the participants of the Epstein
assemblage, is queerly made up with deep
lines of red ochre along the cheekbones.
Well, perhaps that was how the glamor
girl did it in her day. There are designs
by Benois, by Messel, by Burra, by
Augustus John. John’s “Dancing Gita-
nas” is one of the most striking works
shown. Dame Laura Knight, Lord Ber-
ners and innumerable others have all
been stirred to artistic expression by the
stage, and have all worked towards its
general appeal. One of Sophie Fedoro-
vitch’s designs for “Lady into Fox” (of
course, it’s from David Garnet’s book)
appeals as much as anything. Little tight
black bodice over grass-green skirt and
jaunty green hat convey a hint of sorcery.
In spite of their associations, this Letter
found the old costumes depressing and
tired-looking. Stage costumes should
never be seen this side the footlights.
Mrs. Alice Brenac is the capable sec-
retary of the French-Australian League
of Help. The league’s dance was one
of the bright happenings of last week.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Loudon Sainthill, in face somewhat
resembling Christopher Wood, the English
artist, was the lion of the ballet art show.
A slim, graceful lion who might easily
take to ballet leapings at any moment.
Loudon is a Melbourne young man who
went off to London with the last ballet
company. He had a show in Bond-street
which was not only acclaimed but sold
out. In this show there are nearly 90
examples of his work, many of them
portraits of the dance importants now at
the Royal. Smiling on Loudon at the
opening was Mrs. Erik Fischer. She
was an early believer in his talent. An-
other of his barrackers was Mrs. R. G.
Casey. Other Australian names in the
show are Michael O’Connell, Eric Hud-
son and Robert Helpman. But Bobbie is
on the dancing side, and is shown in
action in “Apparitions.” Dora Jarret,
Bea Meeks, Mrs. Edye and her Stephanie,
Mrs. Frank Crane with Mrs. J. J. Rouse,
and Tatlock Miller, who brought the
show to Australia, were seen at the open-
ing, which was done by Colonel de Basil.
There’s nothing new about fishing for
bottles at a party, but it’s still fun, and
brings in the money. There was a lot of
champagne (a small sea of it as bottled
up as a certain navy) at the French-Aus-
tralian League of Help dance at Prince’s
last week. With hook and line these
were gradually brought to harborage,
and then it was hey, merry, merry!
Consul-General for France Jean Tremou-
let brought a party. An important of
the night was Romney Sedgwick. He is
official secretary to the High Commis-
sioner for the U.K. Mrs. Sedgwick was
there, too, her frock a glitter of gold
lame.
All the Consuls and their wives were
there. A breath of the ’nineties
was Mrs. Hector Livingstone’s striped
taffeta, with its bustle effect. Mrs.
Pao’s swinging skirt of black net was
admired. France’s Trade Commis-
sioner Felix Faure and his wife were
among the dancers. Secretary Mrs.
Alice Brenac was a rustle of black
taffeta. Very admired was the hood
to the jacket of Andree Pelletier’s
pale blue satin frock. The hood struck
a high note with its cherry lining. Deep
blue sheer was worn by president Mrs.
Jacques Playoust, who, with her husband,
entertained a large party. A lyric in
blue was Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones’s
frock. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who had
worked so hard for the party, was unable
to enjoy the fun. A bad cold and a high
temperature have kept her in bed for
over a week.
This is Tamara Toumanova, exquisite
ballerina of the present company at the
Royal. Her hands are almost as famous
as her feet.
E.-S. Onion circles have ceased to re-
gard Lord Willingdon as a person. To
them he is a personage. Therefore it
was quite a disappointment to many Syd-
ney members that he was unable to come
to Friday’s lunch. This was in Farmer’s
annexe, which by one o’clock was like
a field of flowers, so gaily patterned were
the summer frocks. Men’s tailorings
didn’t obscure the design very much,
because there were very few men there.
Knight Henry Braddon presided, and
handed to and accepted from Lady Wil-
lingdon a verbal posy. Two bright
sparks were lawyers J. J. Mulligan and
Aubrey Halloran.
Lady Willingdon, her cyclamen spotted
sheers sashed in a deeper tone and her
hat an uplift in white Baku, made a
sparkling speech (about two minutes in
length) in which she confessed to a love
of Australia, butter and aeroplanes. She
and her husband, who are on their way
back from Maoriland’s centenary cele-
bration, have not been in train or ship
since they left England. Mrs. James
Moyes (who was English lecturer Helen
Fraser), down from Dural for the event,
made a graceful speech. Mrs. Wallace-
Turner had affairs running like clock-
work. Dolly Hollander Moore, fresh
from the mountaintops, wore a mist of
white veil, a white hat and a flower-
patterned frock. Mrs. Searight and Miss
N. Veitch were there ; so were the Kelso
Kings, Mrs. James Law, whose pay-
master husband is off overseas with the
troops, Mrs. Ben Edye, her mind still on
ballet, Milford Wood and Mrs. Florence
Taylor.
The soldiers’ hut at St. Andrew’s is
now one of the busiest places in Sydney.
In the cathedral grounds, just above the
Town Hall station, it is a very handy
spot for the young man in khaki who is
in a hurry <to have a shower, swallow a
cup of tea and dash off to his appoint-
ment. Decorative scheme is in autumn
tones. There are showers. There is a
quiet writing room. Those great workers
and harmonic duo Mrs. J. L. Ruthven and
the Julius lady are in charge one day, the
C.W.A. takes another, and among the
helpers, very appropriately, is a group
from the Canadian Women’s Association.
Gifts of books and magazines would
be appreciated.
Isabel Sutton will supervise the running
of the kitchen at the hut for the first
month. That’s as it should be, for she
had the planning and equipping of it.
Isabel is a graduate of the Memorial
College of Household Arts and Science
at Kirribilli and is well known among
the habitues of Leadership camps. She
developed the domestic side and taught
dietetics at the Girls’ Leadership camps
which Lorna Byrne, of the Department
of Agriculture, promoted.
Jessica Chard is an ardent member of
Bryant’s Playhouse, and just now she and
a group of other girls are intent on the
making of their wigs for the ‘‘Troll
scene in “Peer Gynt.” The girls in this
Ibsen production are making all their
own clothes, which have been designed
by Thelma Thomas (Mrs. Max Afford).
The making of the wigs is a tough job.
Yards and yards of rope have to be
unwound and then sewn together to get
the right effect. In the latter end, as
the Irish say, the wigs will be dyed green.
Between fifty and sixty people will take
part in the play. There’s a small army
of electricians to manage the lighting
and sound effects. There’s also a com-
pany of costume mistresses and another
of programme sellers.
Altogether producer Beryl Bryant s
garden at 11 Parsley-road, Vaucluse,
should present a spirited scene on the
afternoon and night of February -4.
This Ibsen stuff is not for weaklings.
The play commences at 4.30 and goes on
and on. Apparently there will be an
interval for nourishment, for you are
instructed on the playbill to bring your
own sandwiches. Norman Maxwell, the
lad with the sort of memory that, it
general, would bankrupt the helpful
Pelmans, will be the wordy Peer Gynt.
Norman, as in “Man and Superman (he
was then Jack Tanner-Don Juan), will do
most of the talking. Dorothy Heming-
way will be Peer’s mother, Solveig will be
played by Mea MacDonald, and Anitra
by Jean Willson. Gregory Spencer,
A.B.C. music librarian, is taking care
of the musical end of the show. Looks
as though Beryl Bryant is about to pull
off another win.
John Young opened the “Show of
Fives” at the Macquarie Galleries last
week. This show Treania Smith, who
with Lucy Swanton runs the Macquarie,
points out was not spurred on by Bernard
Shaw’s recent advice to painters. It
was the second of the kind at the
Bligh-street address. John Young was
jocund and made merry speech, saying
that painters were a respectable part of
the community, good, honest, kind and
clean (or words to that effect), and that
seldom or never did you hear of one
of them being in gaol. Looking around
the walls you felt that if these particular
artists continued their good works they
certainly would never cost their friends
the tram fare to Long Bay.
The afternoon was indolent with sum-
mer, and the ten or so women whose
works were on the walls were blithely
clad. So were their friends. But not
a man artist had been game to come
along in shorts. Frank Wright was there,
very complacent over having scored for
private adulation Will Ashton’s “Luxem-
bourg Gardens” lyric. Dora Jarret’s
perfect draughtsmanship was shown in
“The Old Curiosity Shop.” But out of
no old curiosity shop came her smart
oufit that showed a flash of cyclamen
against its inky blue. George Duncan,
back after four or five years in London,
Spain, Paris and other corners of a pre-
war Europe, told of the indomitable
courage and humor of the Londoner
caught in the grip of Mars. Alison
Rehfisch was one of the smart of frock,
and Jo Collins, as usual, one of the smart
of tongue. Isabel Mackenzie’s “Apple
Blossom” is a pretty posy on Castle Hill.
The capable and nice-looking Scots
girl Morna Mackenzie, who is private
secretary to Lady Wakehurst, has just
become engaged to Philip Ashton, one
of the four famous polo-playing brothers.
Morna’s father is a doctor in Glasgow,
Scotland.
Tonight at the Town Hall Harold
Williams will lift his voice in his home
town. With his wife and twin daughters
Vernita and Veronica he has made tem-
porary residence at Hampton Court,
King’s Cross. The baritone is touring
Australia under contract to the A.B.C.
Music in London, he tells, because of the
blackouts has become an afternoon or
lunch-hour entertainment. Well, soon
we may get back to an earlier-ages idea
and have an orchestra with our breakfast.
Who remembers the Venetian Glass
Nephew who had musical accompani-
ment when he breakfasted on candied
chestnuts and champagne? Mrs.
Williams was a war nurse during 1914-
1918. She was at No. 3 British General
Hospital in France and at No. 1 Aus-
tralian General Hospital at Harefield,
England.
Many Sydney people knew Dr. Aeneas
McDonnell, of Toowoomba, and it is
no surprise to them to hear that he pro-
vided in his will for his Scots terrier
Sandy. Sandy has been left in the care
of Miss Annie Isabel Walker Hassell,
to whom for his maintenance an annuity
of £5O free of all duty will be paid.
Payments are to be made quarterly as
long as Sandy lives.


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
ts something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
Eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don't experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN'S
BACKACHE KIDNEY DIELS to-day.
Personal and Missing Friends.
FOWLES, Ernest William (son of James
Fowles, of Dalgety Street, Oakleigh, Victoria,
who died on the 9th October, 1920), please
communicate with THE TRUSTEES, EXECU-
TORS & AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
401-3 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
EVANS, Mary, who resided at 29 Walker
Street, Redfern, in 1917, or any person knowing
her whereabouts, is requested to communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Box 7a, G.P.O.
Sydney, in connection with the estate of WIL-
LIAM EVANS, a former employee of Mauri
Bros, and Thompson, Ltd.
Divorce Notices.
TO ARTHUR LEE formerly of Swan Hill in
the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown Carpenter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife SYLVIA
MAY LEE of 179 Nelson Place Williamstown
in the State of Victoria Married Woman has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the ground of desertion. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s office
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the
said State on or before the 6th day of March
1940 the said suit will proceed in your absence
and a decree for dissolution of marriage may
be granted and you may be ordered to pay
costs If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 15th day of March 1940.
JOHN FRANCIS CARROLL, of 4 Paisley
Street, Footscray, in the said State, Proctor
for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1342 of 1939.
BETWEEN CATHERINE FLORENCE HUNT
(formerly Catherine Florence Williams) of
Redfern in the State of New South Wales
Petitioner
And WILLIAM EDWARD HUNT in the
State aforesaid Motor Driver Respondent.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD HUNT late of Red-
fern.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
FLORENCE HUNT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three (3) years and
upwards without just cause or excuse and take
notice that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the First day
of May One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determned your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
St. James Buildings, 107-9 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 220 of 1940.
BETWEEN VALDA AILEEN VICKERS Peti-
tioner
And CHARLES WILLIAM ALBERT
VICKERS Respondent.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM ALBERT VICKERS
formerly of Murwillumbah and Newcastle
in New South Wales and of Renmark in
South Australia and of Red Cliffs in Vic-
toria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VALDA
AILEEN VICKERS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are requested
to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Seventh day of May One
thousand nine hundred and forty and in
the event of you not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this Ninth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
W. S. DAVIES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne is on the point of waking up
out of its summer torpor. The social
layers of the community, whose lives for
the last few months have consisted of
dozing on beaches and waking up to wear
snappy clothes and sandals round to one
another’s holiday homes for cocktails and
wings of chicken eaten in the hand, are on
the point of dragging themselves back to
town, and those who work for sweet
charity are taking a final breath before
getting down to the year’s job ahead. To
buck things up there’s a first night on the
horizon—“ Giving the Bride Away,” by
Margot Neville, to be seen at the Prin-
cess from the 24th to further notice.
Good wishes are extended to the joint
authors, sisters Ann Neville and Margot
Goyder, that the play will have an excel-
lent season.
Mrs. Neville and Miss Goyder have not
seen this their youngest brain child in
action. The war brought them back to
Australia, so that they missed the play’s
first night in Manchester in October.
Blonde actress Nora Peachey has come
from England to play the lead. On the
day of her arrival she parked her young
son at the Railway Creche (while ecstati-
cally wishing she were a child again to
play in such fairy-tale surroundings), and
betook herself to the theatre for a first
rehearsal.
Art shows fall thick and fast in the
winter and not at all in the summer, but
Lorna Schlank, of Adelaide, didn’t mind
being out of season. She put on her little
show last week at Riddell’s Galleries,
wisely kept her prices very moderate, and
collected several red seals. Among those
who arrived in time to hear Dr. Deborah
Buller Murphy‘s opening speech were
Mrs. Keith Falconer, Dr. and Mrs. Harley
Grover and the David Mackenzies.
A milk-and-roses bride was Dorothy
Fox when she walked the aisle of Mel-
bourne Grammar School chapel in a
gown of white marquisette with her
honey-colored hair gleaming through her
tulle veil. The ’groom who claimed her
was Geoffrey Mogg. The best man was
Thorold Irwin, and the ’maids in pastel-
blue were Nancy Cliff, Betty McConnell
and Judith Paterson. When Betty, who
comes from Sydney, is married in that
city later in the year to Peter Strong,
Dorothy is to be matron of honor. The
newly-married couple are motoring at
their leisure. Among their interests
in common are tennis, golf and
swimming, and Dorothy (who is the
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Fox,
of Windsor) also has talent for acting.
Their future home will give them no
problems about shortage of space; it’s
a two-storeyed house they have bought
in Glenhuntly-road.
The A.l.F.’s nurses and masseuses are
taking evening frocks with them, but the
garments are no dreams in chiffon or
satin; they are made of silk certainly,
but cut to uniform pattern exactly the
same as duty dresses worn in the wards,
the nurses’ grey and the masseuses’ beige.
The evening apparel, upon which epau-
lets and rank badges are also worn, is
intended to honor such an occasion as
an invitation out to dinner. Some of
the young women concerned are includ-
ing in their luggage a frying-pan. An oil
stove is on their quota of necessities; so
are a cup, saucer, plate and knife —all of
which seems to indicate that something
to cook in may be useful at some time
or other.
Just returned with ten months of im-
pressions of several countries are Mrs. J.
Wunderly and her daughter Merrice.
Mrs. Wunderly was a voting delegate
representing the Victorian Women
Graduates at the International Federa-
tion of University Women’s conference
held last August at the city of confer-
ences, Stockholm. Like most of the
other delegates she stayed at a pension,
and the more she saw of Sweden the
more she liked it. She also admired the
Norwegian scenery, and in Denmark the
fine city of Copenhagen.
A detail she mentioned in passing
when contrasting the Scandinavian coun-
tries was the strict Swedish rule regard-
ing sales of alcohol. A large slice of the
day is “after hours,” and women are
never permitted to buy anything by the
bottle. In Copenhagen is the largest
brewery in the world. A businessman at
his usual daily luncheon may have four
glasses beside him all containing some-
thing different. His wife may smoke a
cigar after her dinner, and perhaps her
tea as well.
Owing to the declaration of war Mrs.
Wunderly and her daughter crossed >o
the U.S.A. (where they remained three
months) without returning to England.
They went to Indiana to visit Blooming-
ton and Mrs. Wunderly’s friends Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Perley (Mrs. Perley is
writer Maie Clements, who has many
friends in Melbourne and Sydney). Mrs.
Wunderly has many interesting things to
say about university life in America. She
had an insight into its customs and con-
ventions through meeting members of
the staff and students of the Blooming-
ton University, a large institution of some
7000 students, its buildings almost smoth-
ered in beautiful trees.
While staying with Mrs. Perley she
heard a dramatic broadcast from an
American journalist on the heights of
Montevideo, who was watching through
his field-glasses the scuttling of the
Graf Spec. In Chicago Mrs. Wun-
derly heard much fine music. She says
that for choral and orchestral concerts
the performers don’t wear uniform all
white or black, but any color they like.
She approves of the idea.
Herewith a Broothorn photograph of
Mrs. J. R. Bell, commandant of the
Women’s Air Training Corps. Last week
the roll was closed for volunteers, but
those interested may join the waiting list.
Mrs. Bell explains that the corps is still
a young and experimental movement, but
in a few weeks’ time, when it is less un-
wieldy and when its squadrons have
commenced their regular training nights,
its worth will be easier to gauge.
In the meantime the Government is
considering whether it will take control
and make the corps an auxiliary of the
R.A.A.F. Its mission in any event is
to provide useful material to replace
ground-work men if necessary. Mrs.
Bell is the right sort of person to get
going in such work. Having qualified
as a pilot and a ground engineer she
knows a woman’s limitations and what
chances there are of her attaining effi-
ciency.
Mrs. Bell is a good organiser, and has
studied at first-hand the work of the
Women’s Royal Air Force. She lived
in England for many years, and has lived
also in N.S.W., Vic., Q. and in Tas.,
which is her birthplace.
Merrymaking among the young at
Frankston took the form of a “Boomps-
a-Daisy” Ball run on Saturday night at
The Fernery by a dozen or so of girls.
The charity concerned was the Craft
Hostel of the Orthopaedic Hospital. Those
who boomped had a chance of winning
champagne, and there were also prizes
for the survivors of an extermination
dance wherein the wearers of pink carna-
tions, of pink frocks, of pink-lacquered
toes, etc., succumbed gradually to the
weeding out. Dr. and Mrs. Galbraith
were present, and so were the Ortho-
paedic’s sponsors, Mrs. Edmund Collins,
who flourished feathers around her
shoulders, and Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, in
black.
Mrs. Mitchell’s daughters, Jean and
Betty, who had been up and about bright
and early that morning filling The
Fernery with hydrangeas, wore respec-
tively blue chiffon with beaded shoulder
straps and tulle of fuchsia tint. Among
brothers and sisters present were Jean and
Harry Ince and Peggy and David
Churton. The latter couple brought
along in their party Jean Speedie, a
Queensland visitor, who danced in blue
taffeta fluffed and flounced as to skirt.
Also in blue were Sonia Parrish, whose
elaborate gown was strewn with hand-
made flowers, diamente-centred, and
Peggy Ashton, whose frock of broderie
Anglaise went with a frivolously bustled
little coat. Sue Dennett was an excep-
lion to the prevailing color scheme in her
ashes-nf-roses crinoline
. _ , . . . .
A Broolhoin cameta made this portrai
of Mrs. Harold WiUiams, wife of the
Australian baritone who commences his
broadcasting season in Sydney this week.
Accompanying their parents, who are
among the very few people in the world
who can tell these twins apart, are
Vernita and Veronica, who will be re-
ceiving identical presents from Mother
and Dad on February 22, the day they
turn seventeen.
The foursome spent a busy few days
in Melbourne on their arrival from
abroad, meeting old and new friends.
Although they were born in England
the twins call themselves dinkum Aussies.
Mrs. Williams was born in the Sheppar-
ton district, where she has two brothers,
Claude and Clive Mason. Before her
marriage she was a nurse, and she
travelled overseas for 1914-18 war ser-
vice as Sister Dorothy Mason.
The twins are fond of all outdoor
sports. Their mother is interested in life
generally, with particular leanings towards
the theatre and a good hard game of
contract bridge. Since this war was de-
clared she has been back at her old job,
nursing evacuated children at Selsey,
England.
Melbourne did “The Student Prince”
music the honor of booking every seat in
the theatre for the first night. A contrast
to the glittering uniform worn by the
princeling and his retainers was the khaki
in the audience. Owing to much-appre-
ciated week-end leave from military
camps, the soldiery were present in large
quantities. Part of the feminine element
which cheered the landscape with color
was Jayne Harper, in lilac satin and her
longest of long earrings. Equally elon-
gated were the ear adornments of Mrs.
Gregory Kater, who wore very effectively
white satin with black lace scarf and
gloves. Mrs. Geoffrey Norris’s black lace
frock was ornamented at the throat with
twin clips of diamente.
The premiere “Student Prince” audi-
ence continued its night out with supper
around the town. Things were bright in
all the favorites among hotels from 11
onwards, and Bibron’s was booked out
for its opening cabaret. There Harry and
Una Vine, who gave an exhibition of the
tango (in which all went well, although
they said they had had no time for re-
hearsals), and W. Vernon received good
wishes for their new cabaret venture.
Congratulations seemed to be on all sides.
Those tables which were not celebrating
wedding anniversaries reverberated with
birthday felicitations. At least one pink-
iced cake appeared to do honor to some-
one’s natal day.
Amongst those present for supper and
dancing were the W. L. Cooks, Mrs.
Cook wearing a blend of purples and
cyclamen ; the Abe Silks, she all in white
foxes and sunray pleated satin gown ; the
Frank Foleys, Ella Bromley, the Eric
Taylors, John McMahon, Mavis Curtain
and Newton Goodson. Mrs. A. Wrath-
all, who has been on deck at Old Admir-
alty House for the last 18 years, wore
pale larkspur satin and a posy of water-
lilies.
A newspaper paragraph regarding the
eradication of silverfish has resulted in
numbers of calls at city and suburban
chemists for barium fluosilicate, which
when mixed with flour and water makes
a tasty and fatal morsel for silverfish
palates. But the chemical is hard to get;
some chemists have none at all, others
only a little and that is highly priced.
Eder Lindsay, who is more intimately
acquainted with silverfish than any other
young scientist of her generation, had
great success with the barium fluosilicate,
but she recommends sprays as a pre-
liminary to setting baits. There are many
good killers on the market, but all wood-
work cracks should be attended to.
Regarding storage of clothes Miss
Lindsay recommends wrapping and seal-
ing them in brown or white paper with
enclosures, for safety, of napthaline.
She would possibly be shocked into
dropping a test-tube filled with her lively
pets at one amateur way of coping with
the pests. It’s based on the principle of
feed your silverfish. Tissue-paper is left
around for the hungry little brutes to
gorge themselves on. With such fare
available they are likely to turn up their
noses at commonplace meals of artificial
silk.


THE FLYING COLUMN
The Air Scheme.
“Aileron”: The Commonwealth air
scheme has begun to take shape. Over
24 years the Government is to spend
£25,000,000 on aircraft construction and
maintenance. The work, a public enter-
prise, is to be controlled by a commis-
sion which will operate workshops to
build 3000 machines of all types from
trainers upwards, though orders will be
placed for subsidiary parts and material
with private firms. The commission will
be responsible not only for construction
but for maintenance.
Meanwhile, the air-recruiting scheme
has been opened. The committee in
charge is an inspiring one —every man
on it has a place in Australian fly-
ing and war history. The careers of all
are an inspiration, and they are repre-
sentative not only of distinguished fight-
ing men but of heads of the biggest com-
mercial flying services, air manufacturers,
aero clubs and the R.A.A.F. and Aus-
tralian Flying Corps of the last war.
Donald Cameron, D. 5.0., K.C.M.G.,
D.S.C., is director; the others are:
Geoffrey Hughes, M.C., A.F.C.;
Squadron-leader Hudson. Fysh, D.F.C.;
Squadron-leader A. W. L. Ellis; Flight-Lt.
Mulroney; Major Murray Jones, M.C.,
D.F.C.; Keith Smith; Captain Denis
Allen, D.S.C., A.F.C.; Flying-officer H. B.
Fletcher, D.F.C.
The objective of the drive will be for
“56,000 men —highly-trained technicians,
skilled pilots, air gunners, wireless opera-
tors and others —all of whom are key
men in their particular spheres,”
There will be 47,957 men for the
ground and 8500 for training as pilots,
air observers, wireless operators and air
gunners. Of the ground forces, N. S.
Wales will provide 25,721 ; Victoria,
10,253 ; Queensland, 3825 ; W.A., 3078 ;
S.A., 3457 ; Tasmania, 623.
The men will be got progressively. It
will necessarily be some time before ade-
quate machines are available for air
training, and while they are in process
of construction and when they are ready
mechanics will be needed. The first step,
therefore, is the enlistment of 10,000
fitters, who will be trained as aero fitters,
riggers and armor fitters.
The type of men required are those
between 18 and 45 who have served
apprenticeship or who have been several
years in the engineering trades. Recruits
will be put through a trade test and
accepted on a 60 per cent, pass, and will
then undergo two months’ specialist
training.
During training pay will be £2 16s. a
week for single men, 21s. a week addi-
tional for married men, and 7s. a week
additional for each child under 16 years.
A married man with three children will,
therefore, receive £4 18s. per week, plus
free lodging, messing, clothes and medical
attention.
It is too much to hope that 10,000
fully-trained fitters will be enlisted in the
time available, and it is proposed to fill
the gaps with partly-trained men who
can make a 40 per cent, pass in the trade
test. These must be between 18 and 35
years of age. Their wage will be ss. a
day during training, with the same allow-
ances as for senior men for wives,
children and keep. They will do a six
months’ course in special colleges, and
then, if able to make a 60 per cent, pass
in trade tests, will have their status and
wages increased.
When mechanical staffs are assured,
the flying and fighting personnel will be
enlisted. But there is no reason why
volunteers for those branches should not
get their names down in the meantime.
That Heinkel Fighter.
“Aldis”: Little has been heard of
that “new” Heinkel Hell 2 fighter (B.
7/2 / ’4O) in air actions, presumably be-
cause it is kept inside Germany for in-
terception duties. Hawker Aircraft engi-
neers consider that this single-seat fighter
is overrated.
Features evidenced by a recent descrip-
tion are the heavy armament and—for
so small an aircraft—the long range. If
engine power, dimensions and shape are
accepted, the quoted performance seems
optimistic.
Empty weight of the He 112 is 42001 b.
Weight of armament is said to be 2651 b.,
but examination of the type of weapons
carried shows two machine-guns with
mountings, feed chutes for ammunition,
two 20mm. short shell guns with mount-
ings, ammunition and other accessories,
totalling 4701 b. That shows 2001 b. weight
unaccounted for.
The Hell 2 is a cantilever monoplane
of small size, 30ft. 2in. span and 29ft.
6in. long. Early models —one was shown
at an exhibition in Zurich shortly before
the war —were fitted with the Junkers
Jumo 210 engine, but those in use today
have the Daimler-Benz 601 A engine. Top
speed is 354 m.p.h. at 14,760 ft., service
ceiling being 31,000 ft. Landing run is
415 yards.
Marine Targets.
“Don”: The Nazi raiders who prey on
shipping in the North Sea find ready
targets only when low-elevation attack
is possible, as in the
case of trawlers.
Such small craft
don’t carry much in
the way of anti-air-
craft weapons, their
armament, if any,
being perhaps a
couple of Lewis
guns. Where mer-
chantmen are con-
voyed it is different.
Destroyers and
cruisers have sharp
teeth in the shape
of multiple “pom-
poms” and 3.5 A.A.
guns, and dive-
bombing or low-alti-
tude straight bomb-
ing near well-armed
warships is a danger-
ous business.
Despite the theo-
retical accuracy of
modern bomb-sights
and methods, try-
ing to bomb ships
from heights of sev-
eral thousand feet is,
in 999 cases out of a
thousand, mere waste
of bombs. All really
successful bombing
attacks occur under
c o n d i t ions where
there is little or no
opposition. That was
shown in the Span-
ish war. But when
the air is full of bursting shell, or when
machine-gun bullets are zipping through
the fuselage, accurate bombing becomes
impossible. The most difficult of all tar-
gets is a ship zigzagging at sea.
Epic of the Air.
“Aileron”: The accident to the
Douglas airliner Bungana on February 8
will go down in history as an example
of the safety of modern aircraft in emer-
gency when skilfully handled.
The machine was making an early-
morning trip, Melbourne to Adelaide,
and was in the Nhill-Dimboola area at
6000 ft. Fortunately, flying conditions
were perfect.
Captain Croucher was in command,
with Pilot Lovell as co-pilot and an air
hostess, Mavis Matters, to look after
11 passengers, among them two women
and a child.
A bump was felt on tffe starboard
wing. The pilots judged that they must
have struck a bird, probably an eagle.
That type of accident usually is not
nearly so serious as it used to be in the
days of wooden props —Ross and Keith
Smith nearly came to grief through pick-
ing up a bag of feathers with one of
their sticks on the way from England in
1919.
The co-pilot looked twice, but could
see nothing. Then the starboard engine
cut out suddenly. The captain wirelessed
that he was landing at Nhill, but the
engine burst into flames. It seemed as
if a petrol pipe had been broken.
The captain put the machine into a
steep left bank to throw the flames up
the wing and away from the petrol-tanks
and fuselage. A landing-ground was
picked out, but getting there was a com-
paratively slow process. In the position
of the machine a wide arc of approach
was necessary. Coolly, with the flames
getting nearer the cabin every minute,
but holding the Bungana so as to slow
their approach, Croucher made for a
paddock. The air hostess moved through
the cabin tightening belts and reassuring
passengers.
The temperature became hotter. The
pilots wrestled with the knowledge that
the hydraulic control which lowers the
wheels was probably burnt through, and
wondered whether the emergency control
would work. Passengers sat still and
white, while flames licked round the
cabin. Presently a cabin window burst
and the fuselage was full of fumes.
Just as they were about to make a
landing on a field, the starboard engine
dropped out of the melted cowling. There
was a terrific lurch. Croucher righted
his ’plane, the landing wheels came down
and quite smoothly they were on the
ground pushing down a fence.
The child and the women were pushed
out first; the men followed. Pilots, pas-
“Hey, going down ?”
sengers and air hostess worked on the
flames, and the Bungana was saved be-
fore firemen from Dimboola arrived.,
though they came smartly.
The crew of the Bungana deserve an
A.F.C. each, if ever a crew did. One
moment of panic or one wrong move in
the cockpit during the eight minutes
which it took to land, and the end of the
story would have been written in a heap
of mangled remains.
Nazi Pusher-fighters.
“Canard”: According to “Aero-
plane,” German aero-designers have
turned to the pusher-airscrew principle
in their latest type of fighter, the Focke-
Wulf 198. From the description, the
machine is in the nature of a “flying-
wing”—nothing new to British aero-
engineers ; years ago the R.A.F. tested
a version known as the Pterodactyl.
Illustrated is an outline of a Dornier,
known to be one instance of German
investigation of the possibilities of the
pusher principle. In this case the machine
is a twin-prop, twin-engined job with a
rear pusher behind the rudder, additional
to the conventional tractor airscrew in
front. The rear engine is housed behind
the centre of gravity and drives the
pusher by a lengthy propeller shaft.
Difficulty of ground clearance has been
overcome by extending the fin and
rudder below as well as above the
fuselage, and fitting a tail-wheel in the
lower portion of the fin.
Effectiveness of Bombing.
In air war the bomb is the real offen-
sive weapon ; machine-guns and cannon
are merely auxiliary armaments. Air
forces use three main types of bombs
according to the variety of targets: high
explosive, incendiary and gas. Outside
service circles little has been revealed
about the development of bombs since
1918. The main construction was fixed
during the last war ; subsequent develop-
ment has been in the way of more
destructive explosives and methods of
fusing.
In the effect of bombs there are three
different problems to be considered:
impact energy, fragmentation effects and
pressure effects. Greatest danger of h.e.
bombs comes from the pressure effects.
The faster that high explosives such as
T.N.T. can be detonated the greater the
initial velocity of the surrounding air,
which is pushed away by the hot gases
developed by the explosion. Distant
effects can be more important from a
military aspect than those at the centre of
the explosion.
A German Government department
concluded that the pressure wave after
explosion of a 2200-pound charge
amounted to 42.67 pounds per square
inch at a distance of 165 feet from the
centre of the explosion. That is enough
to collapse a fairly solid brick wall.
Yet small concrete shelters with walls
14 feet thick are strong enough to with-
stand pressure from an even heavier
charge at a distance of half the diameter
of the bomb crater.
Hence the specially-designed portable
shelters turned out in English factories
at a speedy rate when this war broke out.
Such shelters are one-man affairs, in-
tended to house key personnel who must
be about their A.R.P. jobs at the height
of even the most serious raids. The
shelters offer complete protection from
fragmentation and are good protection
against concussion. A direct hit on the
apex would, however, be the end of
the story.
“Querex”: Radio aid to landing of
aircraft at airports in fog is one way of
tackling a problem. Artificial dispersion
may solve it. The idea combines the
burning of domestic gas or paraffin—to
evaporate water droplets with aero-
drome lighting by high-tension neon tubes
let into the runway at regular intervals.
Good results have been obtained in Eng-
land with apparatus at an R.A.F. ex-
perimental depot.
* * * *
“Stork”: In the 1914-18 war a group
of Americans served with the French in
the Escadrille Lafayette. Pilots respon-
sible for the formation were Rockwell,
Thaw, Chapman, Norman and Prince;
their exploits on the Western Front in
1916 and after made them almost legen-
dary figures. A member of the original
Escadrille, now Colonel Stehlin, has
offered to form an American squadron to
fight with the French Air Force in this
war. But there already exists in the
French Air Force a Lafayette squadron,
authorised by the survivors of the origi-
nal to carry the Sioux Indian marking
on their ’planes. This squadron is
equipped with the Curtiss single-seat
fighter.
The Air War Day by Day.
Feb. 7: British minelayer Sphinx, di*-
abled by German air action, capsizec
and sank while being towed to port
Fifty-two deaths; only two survivors
Feb. 8: “One Norwegian merchantman
was sunk; no British merchantman
was lost.” —Mr. Chamberlain, disposing
of German claim to have sunk 14
vessels in the bombing raid of Feb. 3,
when enemy admitted the loss of three
’planes.
Feb. 9: Another raid on British shipping
off the east coast. Enemy ’plane shot
down by naval anti-aircraft fire near
North Berwick, Scotland,and two others
damaged. Two British naval trawlers
sunk ; four officers and 18 ratings
killed. Several small ships damaged,
but reached port.


>•2
»•
®/>,
T. JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, Silt George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Quiet —Except in Finland.
“Ek Dum”: It is still quiet on the
Western Front, though fighting in Fin-
land is incessant. On Friday Sydney
“D.T.” had the Finns Cracking Up
Under Red Pressure. This tribute to “the
greatest fighting machine history has
ever known, the Russian Red Army,”
was premature.
The Maginot Line has been turned into
three lines which stretch from the North
Sea to Switzerland. The British have
built a large part of the northern sector
along the Belgian border, and are defend-
ing it. A French Military Mission in
London says that the fortifications have
cost France £600,000,000 sterling, and
that the French have 6,500,000 men
under arms —a fourth of the whole male
population. And Britain and France are
fast becoming vast war factories.
Britain’s armed forces number over
1,500,000, though a good many of them
are only in the early training stage. But
with five months gone since the first shots
were fired, the casualties so far are
scarcely more than those of a major
brigade-front raid of 1918. Five months
of the last war cost the French
army alone 720,000 casualties. In
five months of the present war French
and British casualties were 1500 killed,
wounded and missing.
Interest has shifted to the Middle East,
and the lifting of the censorship veil has
shown the extent of preparations there.
Weygand Foch’s right-hand man - -
is in command of a French army of
275,000 in Syria. Britain’s headquarters
are in Egypt, where large bodies of
Tommies and Indian troops are
gathered. Because we hold Pales-
tine, and have an unofficial suzer-
ainty over Irak, and because the French
hold Syria, with Turkey (so friendly that
it has taken possession of the Krupp
shipyards on the Golden Horn and is
sacking all German technicians) adjacent,
the strategical situation is very dif-
ferent from what it was in 1914, and the
bases are in better and healthier country.
At the same time, responsibilities are
as great, particularly in view of the de-
velopment of aerial warfare, the hostility
of Russia and the importance of oil and
of the oil pipeline which crosses the
desert from the Anglo-Iranian fields to
Haifa. A modernised Egyptian army
helps.
There is a large aid-force base in
Egypt and the weakening of the German
navy has enabled greater R.N. concen-
tration in the Eastern Mediterranean and
greater freedom in transport of troops.
The British Middle Eastern command
is in the hands of General Wavell, who
is in the third generation of Black Watch
officers to hold a major-general’s rank.
He is comparatively young—s6—thor-
oughly seasoned and familiar with every
foot of the terrain north of his head-
quarters. He was with the Russian armies
of the Caucasus early in the last war,
was attached to the Egyptian Expedi-
tionary Force afterwards, and com-
manded the British forces in Palestine
and Trans-Jordania in 1937-38. After
that till the outbreak of war he held
the English Southern Command.
A.I.F. Recruiting.
“Ek Dum”: It is proposed to enlist
2400 recruits per month as Sixth Divi-
sion reinforcements from the beginning
of March. The first reinforcements are
under training ; if the schedule is fol-
lowed the new lots will be in camp some
time in April. The problem of handling
them is somewhat greater than in the
original force because of the smallness of
the units, but enlisted men will be
affiliated and helped by parent militia
units, and, as far as possible, will receive
their earlier training in depots in the
districts in which they are raised.
Special encouragement is being given
to militia non-commissioned officers to
enlist.
The N. S. Wales quota will be about
800 per month, with numbers for other
States proportional to population.
“S.G.”: The defeat of the Graf Spee
and the achievements of those submarine
commanders who have torpedoed Ger-
man warships in German waters show
that the Dundonald spirit survives in the
Royal Navy. Before the war is over
we may see new Dundonalds, employing
devices which British mechanical genius
has placed at their service, doing in a
modern way what Dundonald did in
1809. A French squadron was block-
aded in Aix Roads by the Channel Fleet.
Ten line-of-battleships and four frigates,
with a gunship, were moored behind a
boom, half a mile long, in a deep channel,
their flanks covered by a shoal on one
side and by batteries on the other. On
the night of April 11, Dundonald went in
with fire-ships and frigates. An explosion
vessel broke the boom and scattered terror
and destruction through the French squad-
ron. Four ships of the line were taken
at their anchorage and blown up. The
remainder slipped their cables and ran on
shore. When daylight came, Dundonald
signalled to his admiral, Gambier, that
seven other vessels might be destroyed, but
Gambier thought the attempt too risky.
After that there was an unholy row, and
Dundonald was driven out of the Navy,
though he did wonderful things for the
Chileans in their war against Spain. He
died in 1860, and was buried in West-
“Yes, I spoke to him about it, sir, but he says he prefers it to walking.”
minster Abbey, universally regarded as
a hero who had had unmerited reverses.
During the Crimean affair he offered the
Government his “secret war plan for the
destruction of an enemy’s fleet,” invented
in 1811, saying he could destroy Sebas-
topol in a few hours. It was admitted
that his claim was not extravagant, but
the device he proposed was rejected as
too cruel. It remains a secret. With
another Dundonald, his grandson, many
Australians served in South Africa.
* * * *
“Ekmek”: Wellington won most of his
wars with bullocks —his Indian colleagues
of his younger days used to sneer at his
obsession with transport. Wherever our
lads go they will soon be obsessed with
socks. Socks, no matter what the unit,
can lose or win a war. The soldier with
cold feet or sore feet or wet feet or
bunions or blisters is only half a soldier,
whether he is in the infantry or on a
mechanised job. Right through the units
in the camps, when you ask if there is
anything they need, the answer is usually
“socks.” Routine organisations are doing
their best, but what is needed is more
bodies of hard-knitting womenfolk who
will take particular units under their
wings, remain in touch with the adjutant
or quartermaster and keep the supplies of
the right kind of foot-covering on the
flow. Surprising the number of socks
which will go west even in three or four
evenings of peace-time training.
* * * *
The Navy has got two more U-boats.
One destroyer did the job with depth-
charges, having raced up in response to
a signal from the leading ship of a con-
voy, which spotted a periscope.
* * * *
“Tee-entee”: Many newspapers, Aus-
tralian as well as British, “fell” for a
photograph which showed what was de-
scribed as a bomb bursting close to the
centre of the Firth of Forth Bridge. “The
War Illustrated” exposes that photo, as
a subtle piece of Nazi propaganda. The
“bomb-burst” is in reality the rocky islet
of Inchgarvie, and the German propa-
gandists took advantage of the curious
effect of lighting produced by the after-
noon sun to reproduce the picture wrong
way up. A Nazi airman certainly took
the shot, but orientated the photograph,
and the “Berliner Illustrierte Zeitung”
did the rest.
Around the Army.
THE SAPPER.
XIV.
He’ll push at a “banjo” or swing a “mad
Mick,”
But only, he’ll tell you, to keep in good
nick.
He’ll knock up a bridge or a fifty-foot
tower
And do it —according to him —in an hour.
But his forte is barbed wire; and the
coils he will sling
Round the landscape as if they were mere
balls of string.
Hung with duckboards and cutters, iron
sheets and the like,
He looks like a Christmas-tree doing a
hike.
The method of drafting recruits to
the engineers is simple. The “marma-
lades,” drawn up on parade, are ques-
tioned by a sar’-major or, if he’s not
available, by an officer.
“Smithers—you, isn’t it?—what was
your civil occupation?”
“Breadcarter.”
“Good! Engineers. Stand over there.
Now you, Perkins?”
“Bookie’s clerk.”
“H’m! How would you like the engi-
neers?”
“Do me.”
“Right! Stand over there. And yours,
Stevens?”
“Civil engineer, sir.”
“H’m! You’d be better in the artillery,
I think. Fall out over on the left there.
What about you, Jorkins?”
“Estate agent.”
“Know anything about construction
work, drainage, bridge building or the
like?”
“Not a thing.”
“Ah, well, you’ll soon pick it up. Stand
over there.”
The raw sapper is not expected to de-
velop pachydermatous shoulders straight
away, so he starts off by being given only
a few strands of barbed wire at a time
to carry. The weight is gradually in-
creased until eventually he can carry a
couple of coils on each shoulder for a
few miles. When at last he tosses them
down his shoulders look like pincushions,
but he doesn’t notice it.
The laying down of a duckboard track
represents the army engineer’s art at its
highest, for he must achieve a very deli-
cate balance of each board to ensure
that when an infantryman laden with full
pack and rifle, or carrying a couple of
petrol-tins of water, walks on to it
one or all of three things will happen:
{a) if he steps on the end of it the other
end will spring up and clout him in the
face or knock his tin hat over his eyes;
(b if he steps on to the middle of it it
will tilt sideways and deposit him in a
shell-hole full of slush ; (c) as he steps off
it the other end will rear up and dong
him in the back of the neck.
Sappers when venturing into the for-
ward areas to carry out heavy work
never go up singly. This is dictated not
by considerations of safety so much as
comfort. Obviously a man who has
taken half an hour to arrange about his
person a couple of hardwood battens, a
coil of barbed-wire, a spade, a pick,
cutters, a few sheets of iron and a bag
of straw can’t be expected to put them
all down every time he wants to scratch
at the chats that are operating—as they
always do at such times —fair between
his shoulder-blades. He wouldn’t lob on
the job until it was finished. So each
man keeps the pick in his hand. Joggled
up and down between his cobber’s
shoulders when the SOS goes forth, it
affords at best temporary relief with a
minimum of inconvenience. That’s why
sappers’ uniforms are always frayed at
the back.
The engineer is very fussy when
superintending the laying down of
barbed-wire by an infantry working
party. None of your happy-go-lucky
methods for him! He takes pride in
evolving a neat pattern. It may be: knit
2 strands tog., purl 1, then loop the loop.
The swaddie who slums this, or fails to
tie the ends to the stanchion in a natty
lover’s knot, will get roared up. When
the job is finished the sapper would
never think of leaving without having
personally tested its resisting powers by
charging on to it himself. And if there
is any time left before the party breaks
up just as the stars fade he will be found
assiduously filing up the points of the
barbs.
Other units often complain of the
long delays by the engineers in doing
jobs in which galvanised iron is used,
particularly where such jobs are situated
far from the dump. No sapper, though,
would think of carrying sheets of iron
against a headwind, or even a cross-
wind. So he waits until a not-too-strong
tailwind is available. If it’s some weeks
before this occurs, is that his fault?
Pontoon bridges built by the engineers
are usually described (by them) as
“strong enough to carry a brigade of
heavy tanks.” All the same, if the water
cart while crossing it breaks into a trot
the nervous tension among the sappers
will be terrific, and if the driver crosses
and it is afterwards discovered that he
had the temerity to fill up beforehand
the O. in C. will need a big double-
header to get his jangled nerves back
to normal.
S. W. K.


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
BUSINESS—AS USUAL, OR BETTER, OR WORSE?
WAR, INDUSTRY AND TAXATION
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS.
February Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2 /- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty„ Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Forgotten Land
Since the Commonwealth took over
the N.T. it has appointed numerous com-
missions to report on its ills. In almost
every case.the reports have been reported
on by fresh commissions and then con-
signed to dusty pigeonholes at Canberra.
The same with the reports of the fresh
commissions, now very stale.
Mid-1937 brought the Payne-Fletcher
Committee ; and it did the job thoroughly,
submitting its advice at the end of the
year. In mid-1938 came John McEwen,
then Minister for the Interior —presum-
ably to check up on the Payne report —
who promised “far-reaching changes” and
saw “a bright future for the Territory
as a great and prosperous pastoral coun-
try.” He unfolded his plans in the House
on December 8, 1938. But he was out of
the Ministry early in 1939, and on De-
cember 7 of that year he found that
“these Estimates (1939-40) are a com-
plete abrogation of the policy placed
before Parliament by me 12 months ago.”
It is illuminating, particularly for Ter-
ritorians, to examine a few of the details.
The Payne Committee advised that
“revenue considerations be entirely sub-
ordinated to production and develop-
ment” ; that settlers should receive, in-
stead of subsidies, Government advances
repayable over a number of years, thus
enabling the smaller men to gain a foot-
ing ; and that “the qualifications and
experience of persons appointed to the
Territory service must be of fundamental
importance.” In 1938 Mr. McEwen said :
A vigorous land-settlement policy, backed
up by the provision of direct Government
assistance to settlers, has been decided
upon, and an adequate, experienced and
trained administrative staff will be provided.
A vigorous developmental programme of
road and stock-route construction will be
put in hand.
Twelve months later Mr. McEwen
found that the money made available for
developmental work in the Territory was
practically nil, and that:
The thing which, above all, has ham-
pered development and occupation has
been the reluctance of successive Govern-
ments to make moneys available for ordi-
nary developmental services... .Almost all
of the assistance given to settlers has been
abolished, and no direct advances have
taken its place... .Efficient officials have
been appointed to administer development,
but scarcely a penny is being made avail-
able to implement that policy... .The
N.T., which is the sole responsibility of
the Commonwealth, is the only part of
Australia where no developmental work is
being carried on during the war, the only
part of Australia in which a man who
wishes to take up a block of land is
unable to get financial assistance from the
Government, and the only place where
there exist no provisions to enable a
workingman to obtain financial assistance
to build his own home.
The Payne Committee was also con-
vinced that portions of the Barkly Table-
land and the Victoria River district could
be converted from cattle to sheep to the
advantage of the N.T. It pointed out
that “the first requirement for the conver-
sion is the provision of railway communi-
cation,” and recommended that lines be
constructed from Dajarra (Q.) to Rankine
on the Barklys, and from Wyndham
(W.A.) into the Victoria River district.
Twelve months later, in December, 1938,
Mr. McEwen said :
Railway proposals will be further con-
sidered. Land and transport charges will
be tremendously reduced by a co-ordinated
sea, rail and road service. The conver-
sion of suitable country from cattle- to
sheep-raising will be adequately assisted.
Nothing has since been heard of rail-
ways or sheep in the N.T., and the only
mention of the “co-ordinated, etc.,” was
a plaintive cry from Blain, M.P., to the
effect that “the service has benefited only
one or two big firms.”
The Payne Committee found that “pro-
crastination and shelving of decisions
have characterised the Territory’s ad-
ministration,” and recommended that “the
powers of the Administrator should be
extended.” Mr. McEwen, 12 months
later: —
The administration of the Territory will
be from within the Territory. Major
matters only of finance and policy will be
decided at Canberra.
Again there was only another cry from
Mr. Blain —“the Administrator was not
given that power; he is not even in
charge of the Works Department at
Darwin within half a mile of the Resi-
dency.”
A report on the mining industry was
being made while Messrs. Payne and
Fletcher were in the Territory. There-
fore they confined their remarks on
“Look, Ma — Tarzan !”
mining to “no industry can better help
a pioneering community to become estab-
lished.” Mr. McEwen, 12 months later:
The mining laws will be brought into
conformity with the most modern State
mining laws, with a competent and vigorous
mining administration and reasonable
direct assistance to the industry.
The “encouragement” and “direct assist-
ance” to the industry for 1939-40 are in-
sufficient for maintenance, let alone
development.
To relieve settlers of some of their
burdens, the Payne Committee recom-
mended “freedom from taxation for 20
years except in regard to property in-
come such as bonds, bank deposits, etc.”
A year later Mr. McEwen said:
Freedom will be given for 10 years from
Federal and Territorial taxation on income
from primary production.
Buffalo hunters are still wondering
what their industry is if it isn’t “primary.”
There were other Payne and Fletcher
recommendations, and other promises
from Mr. McEwen, but they all seem to
have suffered a similar fate. Mr. Payne
said in his report:
After years of disappointment many
people are settling down to a kind of re-
signed hopelessness. They think that no-
body is interested in them; that nobody
cares unless it is to exercise some authority.
They have no say in the administration;
they cannot influence it in any way, and
every now and then they are subjected to
some autocratic decree or regulation.
They should be well and truly settled by
now.
Federal administration of the N.T. is a
long record of mismanagement and petty
autocracy, and it shows no sign of im-
provement. The voteless member is less
than a voice in the wilderness; in
Parliament he can move for only the
disallowance of a motion affecting Terri-
tory matters. The Department of the
Interior has most of its time taken up
with other matters, and the Minister is
tucked safely away in the drowsy sanctity
of the Senate.
The Territory should be administered
from within the Territory by people who
know the Territory. Otherwise, as Mr.
McEwen says, “Australia will stand
charged with keeping it vacant and not
utilising it.”
“Dungeness”: If the well-meaning city
folk who have been deploring the ex-
ploitation of the innocent aborigine in
money affairs were to meet my old
acquaintance Billy Flatfoot they might
alter their views. The boss wanted, a
piece of ground cleaned and hoed for
a vegetable garden. Billy undertook to
do the job for a quid, stipulating that
he be lent two hoes and that the monev
be paid in shillings. Next morning he
arrived with Jerry and Saddlebag from
the camp down the river. Handing each
a hoe, Billy sat under a shady tree smok-
ing and dozing while they bogged into
the hot job. On the third day the results
of their toil were inspected and duly
passed, Billy was given the 20 shillings,
and paid off his executives thus: “Five
tshillin’ blong you, Jerry; five tshillin’
blong you, Saddlebag ; ten tshillin’ blong
big pfeller Boss Billy, plenty savvy that
pfeller ” Everybody was satisfied.
* * * *
“El V.”: R. J. Carroll, secretary of
the central executive of Queensland’s
A.L.P., is dead. Irish-born, Bob travelled
the world —he was on the S’African
diamond fields for some years—before
he settled in Australia. Just before the
war he joined the staff of the Amal-
gamated Engineers and came into pro-
minence during the “Russian riots” in
1919, when he found his way into Boggo
Road after a Commonwealth prosecu-
tion and refusal to pay a fine.
He was then one of the Suicide
Club whom Ryan and Theodore had
selected to vote the Legislative Council
out of existence. There was a great row
when it was discovered that the Govern-
ment had allowed Robert a typewriter
while in gaol and had brought him out
to attend the Parliament House reception
to Jeliicoe. Time mellowed his politics,
and in later years he was a leader of the
moderates and a firm friend of Forgan
Smith. He became secretary of the
Q.C.E. in 1937 after the death of Lewis
McDonald. Before that he had been the
party’s State organiser.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Mackay (N.Q.) is
beginning to wonder whether there isn't
some sort of hoodoo on its million-pound
harbor opened only a few months ago by
Forgan Smith, Mackay’s own member.
First it was found to be shallower at
low water than had been expected.
Then some of Mr. Smith’s supporters
refused to work cargo on ships lying there
unless they were given free lunches and
other privileges. Shipping cos. refused
them, and lightering at Flat Top anchor-
age was resumed. Now the shipping
shortage caused by war conditions has
necessitated speeding up of coastal vessels
and Mackay has been omitted as a port
of call. If any denizen of the new
Harbor City wants a sea voyage he has
to go 200 miles by train to Townsville
to catch a boat. Bowen, with one of
the finest natural harbors in all Australia,
is about midway between them.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Queensland’s burst of rain
ended up with floods in the south and
centre. Washed-out railway lines, isolated
towns —Cracow was one —and broken
gas mains caused dislocations in a
number of areas. Brisbane had an old-
man storm, and the low-lying parts of
nearly all the northern and western
suburbs were under water. Agricultural
districts have no cause to growl. The
tempest obligingly missed districts where
it would have done serious damage to
crops, and some of them got rain which
was badly needed after the heat.
* * * *
“Titre”: Till September it was impos-
sible to get anybody in Canberra to listen
to suggestions that the power-alcohol in-
dustry would be worth developing. A
Commonwealth expert reported against
it on the ground of cost, and sugar in-
terests were not eager to see the field of
materials widened. Canberra is now
going to the other extreme. An official
statement places the additional potential
production of alcohol from molasses at
10,000,000 gallons. No mention of
other products, though sweet potatoes
would be a good bet.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: A sensible precedent in Lower
Court procedure was established recently
by an Ipswich (Q.) p.m. The case was
one of claim and counter-claim between
two motorists who had collided on the
main Brisbane road, each alleging negli-
gence. Their representatives told the
Court that they were agreed entirely on
the facts and would be content if the
magistrate would visit the scene, hear the
litigants’ explanations and give his
decision on the merits. Neither side
would appeal. With parties, witnesses
and lawyers the p.m. drove out to the
scene of the collision, and within an
hour the whole case had been presented.
Under ordinary conditions the proceed-
ings would have occupied the whole
day or longer.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
ITS IS
'MORE COMfORTAdW
IN SUMMER AND
WINTER
a
fog
•5?.
<Bf£
V* > CtL
WITH CANE-ITE INSULATING BOARD
USED as roof-insulation; built into
exterior walls, under the weather-
board, brick or stucco, or placed
under floors, Cane-ite renders your
home warmth-resisting in summer,
warmth retaining in winter, moisture
proof and sound-resisting all the
time. What is more, Cane-ite adds
to STRUCTURAL strength. White-
ant-proofed, amazingly durable,
Cane-ite is the most satisfactory yet
most economical solution to the
problem of insulation for new and
old buildings alike. Ask your branch
of the Building Materials Division of
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Limited for samples and full details.
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
DON'T
TOLERATE AN
UN-INSULATED
HOUSE!
jam*.
30/-
'i'll'711 fclT
CA-39-9
MASONITE, "The Wonder Board
of 1000 Uses", is the inexpensive
solution to countless building
problems. Ask for details.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin’’ has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought „ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
G.A.: Don’t like that fable... .P.H.:
Nearer, but it’s too thin E.G.S.: Try “The
Steel Link” as a talkie scenario... .J.K.E.:
Came close, but assayed too light... .M.T.:
Too much gloom R.C.: Put it into a
paragraph J.N.: Not that one, but keep
trying F.MacD.: Farewell to the bushman
who says farewell to his dog... .G.R.J.: Spare
us the kisses D.A.A.: If “Illusion” is
meant to be a poem it’s an illusion L.R.S.:
It’s as pugnacious as a bulldog and about as
beautiful A.M.H.: Thanks, but we don’t
reprint H.W.: Only response to “Thank
God for Memories” is praise Heaven for a
waste-paper basket G.L.: Chopped-up prose.
J.S.: “Advance, Sweet Australia!” Yes,
and keep going A.S.McD.: None of them
is a stayer A.R.8.: Just a few suitable
remarks E. 1.: Lightweights G.A.: Be-
ginning with “sable mantle” and ending with
“light and shadows play,” you have six
cliches in the first four lines P.S.: You have
all the correct sentiments about “Mother” and
“This Land of Ours,” but they are not ex-
actly original P.K.M.: Pretty in places....
J.F.: It got a grin... .J.W.: Try the second
part of “Fantasy” on a women’s paper
G.C.G.: She’s not funny... .R.N.W.: Not far
off—T.I.E.S.: Might click elsewhere....
J.P.: Both have their moments... .R.F.: Too
lumpy, too sarcastic. .. .S.J.: “A Yank’s
Tribute to an Australian” duly acknowledged.
L.F.P.: The “Wild Cat” editor is study-
ing “The Easy Road to Wealth”... .S.F.S.:
“A Fighting Man” couldn’t go the first round.
A.N.: Who is this “foreign 50d”?....
M.K.: Read it with interest till the hawker
died and the old brindle dog began to keep
his “vigil 10rn”... .0.A.P.: No, but it has its
point H.V.: Give it to the conqueror....
F.MacL.: The idea’s got as many whiskers
as Sam... .T.K.: Something to “Amour de
Ballet,” but all those “see—me—bee” rhymes
are no good J.E.S.: Can’t keep Priestley
out: —
Popular Mr. Priestley
Also thinks that war is beastly.
He thought up a Plan one day
In between finishing a new novel
And starting a new play.
. ...L.H.: No closer... .P.K.: Heaven help
Hitler if he ever reads that poem... .G.B.D.:
No interest in “Bank Account”... .C.L.R.:
Bright enough for a while, but it staggers to
a sickly finish... .G.L.R.: Tossed “Rats and
Mice” to the office cat... .C.B.R.: “The
Prophet” made his first mistake by coming to
this address B.R.L.: It doesn’t make a
yarn... .B.W.P.: “Birds of a Feather” need
more feathers... .F.B.R.: The first rule is not
to write in an exercise book, in pencil, and
on both sides of the pages T.G.: “The
Fishermen” are in fished-out waters... .L.R.C.:
Has its point, but it’s not for us... .G.B.R.:
Even with fifteen—no, sixteen —murders, it
doesn’t interest us F.B.P.: The daily papers
have stripped the subject of its interest....
P.L.E.: “A Good Fellow” is fraternising with
other occupants of the w.p.b B.H.R.: Don’t
worry; autumn often does that to people
L.R.S.: Leave it to Mr. Wodehouse V.F.K..:
Don’t waste your writing on second-rate plots.
....B.R.B.: That’s just ranting; you should
back your arguments with facts... .L.R.B.:
“Why Did I Do It?” Yes, why? H.G.H.:
“I have a serial written in similar vein.” Guard
it carefully F.B.R.: Briskly done, but it
needs more meat J.P.E.: There’s a yarn
there if you go to a bit more trouble
G.C.D.: You’re improving; come again
C. : Don’t write with a dictionary G.T.H.,
D. L.C., and A.S.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.M.: Man-in-the-moon cartoon suffered a
total eclipse... .G.R.: Gag is dead,and the sketch
misses by a mile C.D.B.: You made a fair
job of the Union Jack L.D.: It ended on
the scrap-heap H.E.J.: Didn’t we give that
same gent, his walking-ticket a few months
back? M.S.: Presume the character in
gaiters is a bishop, but who is the long-legged
cove in the background?... .J.T.: Not in the
market for illustrated Latin tags C.T.: Send it
to a prohibition paper S.S.: A shapely pair
of maidens, but humorless... .M.E.: Pay a
visit to the Zoo and see what a karlgaroo looks
like M.K.: It appears to have been drawn
with a crowbar... .T.J.: Let us see the finished
product, not rough-outs... .A.G.G.: Where’s
the joke? T.F.W.: It collapsed at the start-
ing post N.W.H.: Prefer them without all
those signposts F.S.: The old boy is in
safe keeping in the w.p.b A.R.F.: Leave
the Cousin Jacks to Oswald Pryor T.D.:
Crude and humorless R.G.: You’re a heavy-
handed penman and a dull jester... .W.W.:
Not enough zest in your work P.J.: Duds,
every one of them.
A MIXED GRILL.
When so much is being said about “the
need for conserving dollar funds to pay
for war material,” it is astonishing to
read of the arrangements made by box-
ing promoters to bring pugs from the
U.S.A. and the Philippines. Passage
money, at least,, has to be found in dollars,
and pugs are totally unnecessary imports.
Several have arrived lately, more are com-
ing, and it is recorded that a guarantee
of £3OOO was offered to a middleweight
and refused. He, it seems, is white, but
most of these bruisers are colored, and
some of them have been in Australia for
more than a year. They should all be
shipped back to their own countries.
* * * *
From a speech delivered on April 28,
1939:
The victorious hero of Nationalist Spain
is about to celebrate his festive entry into
the capital of his country. The Spanish
people will acclaim him as their liberator
from bands of incendiaries who are esti-
mated to have more than 775,000 human
lives on their conscience, through execu-
tions and murders a10ne....1f the sub-
human forces of Bolshevism had proved
victorious in Spain, they might easily have
spread across the whole of Europe.
Hitler, of course. Not five months later
the speaker entered into an arrangement
which enabled “the sub-human forces of
Bolshevism” to spread across half of
Catholic Poland and mass an army for
the conquest of Lutheran Finland, though
that particular bit of spreading has en-
countered astonishing checks.
* * * *
“J.G.”: “Atrax” (B. 17/1/’4O) hasn’t
far to look for the reason of the heavy
decline in the infant deathrate since 1904.
It was just about that time that local
health authorities woke up to the neces-
sity for pre-natal advice to expectant
mothers, followed up with advice after
the infant’s birth. Pre-natal clinics and
baby health centres sprang up all over the
place, and the deathrate of both mothers
and infants declined, and is still declining.
“Nakh”: H. G. Wells, who has been
demanding the immediate bombing of
Berlin, always was a fire-eater. I was in
England in 1914, and no sooner had the
war blast sounded than Wells demanded
that the Government should immediately
issue arms to the yeomen of England so
that they could defend their homes in the
event of a German invasion. It was ex-
plained to him that if that were done the
entire civilian population would be laid
open to enemy reprisals. Nothing daunted,
the literary lion announced that he had
sounded the feeling of the countryside, or
his part of it, and warned the Govern-
ment that if it did not accede to his
demand the yeomen would arise, raid
the arsenals and arm themselves, and in
the last resort would turn their plough-
shares into sword blades. The Govern-
ment remained unperturbed, and went on
with its preparations for an expeditionary
force to go to France. Whether Wells
got himself a gun isn’t recorded.
* * * *
“Athens”: Prince Christopher of
Greece, who died the other day, acquired
social fame late in life by becoming the
husband (in 1920) of the Princess Ana-
stasia. Anastasia was once Nonnie
May Stewart, of Cleveland, Ohio. She
divorced her first, husband, George
Worthington, to marry William B.
Leeds, who rose through railroads and
tinplate to a foremost place in Ameri-
can millionairedom. He died in 1908,
and his widow went to Europe and
broke into English society, where she
became known as “the dollar princess.”
After Mrs. Leeds’s marriage to Prince
Christopher the prince was offered the
throne of Lithuania, on the strength of
the Leeds dollars, but declined the honor.
Mrs. Leeds’s only son also married into
the Greek royal family, his wife being
a first cousin to the Duchess of Kent.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Queen Elizabeth the First is
said to have patronised Shakspeare. The
present royal family has always been
a pillar of conservatism in art and litera-.
ture, and there are few kings of Eng-
land who have bought pictures that did
not have the endorsement of the Royal
Academy. Queen Elizabeth the Second,
however, is reported to be having a war-
time portrait of herself painted by
Augustus John, until recently the enfant
terrible of British art, as much a thorn in
the side of orthodoxy as was Whistler,
Possibly the next equestrian statue of a
king set up in London will be something
monumental and amorphous by Epstein.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the. World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell" or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to handling manuscripts, wants typing
work; neat and accurate. —6136.
Young man, Sydney, smart and active, able
to do small repairs, seeks work as handyman.
—6139.
Youth (19), N.S.W., 12 months Hawkesbury
College, millk- and cream-testing, grading certifi-
cates, good butter-maker, seeks position butter
factory. Refs. —6185.
To buy copy of “The Dentist’s Den,” a
short play suitable for boy actors, which
appeared in the “Boys’ Own Paper” between
1915 and 1918.—6191.
To buy books of early Australian poetry.—
6137.
To exchange stamps with Bulletin readers.
(To Earn Dhanmanandh, Post Office, Nakoru
Sridhamaraj, via Penang, Malaya.)
Information Sought.
Will Australian army nurses be sent over-
seas ? If so, must one be a trained nurse or
could an inexperienced woman volunteer? —
5670.
Yes. Only nurses registered with the State
Nurses’ Registration Boards will be accepted
for service. Untrained women volunteers should
join voluntary aid detachment organisations,
which are at present in each State, and receive
training for the work which they would be
able to do in hospitals in Australia or over-
seas.
* * * *
Are recruits who wear spectacles permanently
accepted for enlistment in the transport
branches of the Second A.1.F.? —5686.
A recruit may be accepted for service even
if he has to wear spectacles permanently, pro-
vided the vision without glasses reaches a cer-
tain standard. The question is of the degree
of vision without glasses, not the fact of
wearing glasses.
h= * * *
(1) Do pilots for R.A.A.F. pay expenses of
training or is anything paid by the Govern-
ment ? (2) What qualifications does an appl-
cant need?' (3) To whom must application for
enrolment be made? (4) If applicant must pay
expenses of training, about how much would
it amount to? —5708.
(1) and (4) The whole cost of training is de-
frayed by the Government. (2) Intermediate
standard of education; English, mathematics,
physics or elementary science are essential sub-
jects. Physically fit and between 18 and 28
years of age. (3) Apply to R.A.A.F. Recruiting
Centre in any capital city.
He * * *
(1) List of shark attacks on Sydney metro-
politan beaches—year and location. (2) What.
sharks were responsible ? (3) Is there a greater
danger of attack on cloudy days? If so, why?
(4) Do sharks migrate as whales do? —6106.
(1) No complete record has been made. (2)
Not known. In the history of shark attacks
in Australian waters there were only two occa-
sions when the sharks responsible for the
attacks were subsequently captured. Both were
whalers. (3) It seems probable that more
attacks occurred on cloudy days than when
the sun was shining, but statistically the number
of records does not allow of definite conclusions
being drawn. (4) Sharks move about the coast
in pursuit of fish and in search of food
generally, but there does not appear to 'be
a seasonal migration such as is characteristic
of whales during the breeding season.
* * *■
I have a Fahrenheit thermometer with wet
and dry bulbs. Can you give me a simple
formula for arriving at the humidity of the air?
In what terms is the humidity measured? —
5935.
Humidity is measured in percentage of satu-
ration. When air is saturated the dry- and wet-
bulb readings are the same, and the relative
humidity is 100 per cent. When there is a
difference between the readings of the dry- and
wet-bulb thermometers that difference marks
the relative humidity. A table is published by
the Commonwealth Meteorological Bureau,
Melbourne, which shows the relative humidity
for readings of the dry- and wet-bulb ther-
mometers ; price 6d. These tables are also
obtainable at the Weather Bureau, Sydney.
* * * *
Your answer to inquiry No. 5990 establishes
that the widely-distributed Australian plant
commonly known as nardoo is evidently not
Marsilea drummondii. Previously I had been
under the impression that it was. The plant
known to the Australian bush-dweller by the
name nardoo does not produce seed, but
is propagated from a bulb or tuber —perhaps it
would be more correct to say a rhizome. Within
the range of my experience it is this bulb the
aborigines used to grind into flour. Is it possible
there are two distinct species of nardoo, or have
the bushman and aborigine confused the name
with an entirely different plant? —6lo4.
The plant commonly known as nardoo is
Marsilea drummondii, but the true nardoo does
not produce bulbs or tubers; it produces small
fruits (technically known as sporocarps). These
are borne close to the ground as a general rule,
but do not occur under the soil. The sporo-
carps are ground into a yellowish flour by the
aborigines, but cakes made from it are rather
astringent and not very digestible. One authority
states that the blacks will not touch it when
wheat flour is available, and it is said that
Burke and Wills starved to death on this so-
called food. Nevertheless, the flour does appear
to have been used by the aborigines in times
of need. The plant producing bulbs is very
probably a different species altogether.
* * * *
Where is it possible to obtain a course in
meteorology in Victoria, qualifications necessary
for the course, period and cost, and chances of
obtaining employment on completion ? —6OBB.
Training courses fqr appointment, promotion
and transfer to professional and sub-profes-
sional grades of the public service are held
periodically at the Central Meteorological
Bureau, Melbourne. A three years’ course for
the degree of B.Sc. (meteorology) is available
to matriculated students at Melbourne Uni.
The lecture fees amount to about £95. It is
also proposed to conduct short courses for
aviation pilots and ground staffs under the
University Extension Board. In addition,
courses are conducted at the Melbourne Tech-
nical College in preparation for the meteorologi-
cal sections of the examinations for commercial
pilots’ licenses conducted by the Department
of Civil Aviation. Positions advertised in the
Government “Gazette” are available from time
to time in Education Departments and the Com-
monwealth public service; applicants arc re-
quired to have university qualifications in mathe-
matics and physics, and those selected are
given a course of training before commencing
duty.
* * * *
Is it possible to change one’s names
( Christian, surname or both) legally, and how
to go about it? —6l77.
Yes; the correct legal procedure is to make
the change by deed poll. Any solicitor will
draft the deed for a small fee. The deed
should then be registered with the Registrar
of Births and the fact of the change advertised
in one or more widely-circulated newspapers.
* * * *
Some details concerning the British Drama
League (N.S.W.) ?— 6OBO.
The British Drama League (N.S.W.) was
founded in 1937. Its general aim is to assist
the development of the art of the theatre and
to promote a right relation between drama and
the life of the community. It provides for
the use of its members a library of plays and
books about the theatre; it organises festivals
and competitions; it answers queries on all
subjects connected with drama, and generally
assists the numerous amateur theatre groups
which are affiliated with it. Miss E. M. Tildesley,
joint hon. secretary, British Drama League
(N.S.W.), Room 14, Third Floor, 44 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, will furnish further par-
ticulars.
* * * *
(l) A woman and her husband quarrelled and
she left him and went home to her mother.
The husband has been paying her £7 per week
for years. Can the husband apply for a divorce
on account of desertion ? He has never seen
his wife since the day she left him. (2) In the
event of his obtaining a divorce would the
allowance which he has been paying her cease?
(3) The husband is deeply involved and he
thinks the bank may foreclose on him —in
which case he would be left without a penny.
Would the wife be able to put him in gaol if he
had to go bankrupt? —6l22.
(1) Desertion without reasonable excuse
during ■ three years and upwards furnishes
ground for a divorce in N.S.W. The person
seeking the divorce must at the time of the
institution of the suit have been domiciled
in that State for three years or upwards. (2)
Alimony—that is, an allowance made to a wife
out of her husband’s estate for her support —
is in the discretion of the Court, but a wife
is not entitled to it if she “wilfully leave her
husband without any just cause for so doing.”
(3) Non-obedience of an order of the Court
can be met by the bodily detention of the offen-
der until he has purged his contempt.
* * * *
(1) European population of (a) Papua, (b)
Mandated Territory? (2) European popula-
tion of Port Moresby, Samarai, Abau and
Tufi? (3) What banking facilities exist at Port
Moresby and Samarai? (4) What shipping
services operate between Port Moresby or
Samarai and the North Queensland ports ? (5)
Any newspaper published at Port Moresby?
(6) Average rainfall per annum in this region,
and when does most of it fall? (7) What
climatic conditions prevail in the Louisiade
Archipelago ? (8) Are the islands of the
Louisiade Archipelago permanently inhabited by
white settlers, are the natives employed on the
plantations, and what industries exist there? (9)
What steamers ply to the Louisiades? (10)
Are the islands administered from Port Moresby,
and any police force? (11) What forms of
taxation exist, and is land easily obtainable ?
(12) Are the islands healthy, is the soil fertile,
can tropical fruits and vegetables be cultivated
with success, and are cattle, pigs, goats and
fowls raised? (13) Names of any helpful pub-
lications 3—5921.
(1) (o) 1047 males and 561 females, total
1608; (,b) 3025 males and 1583 females, total
4608. (2) The present European population
of Port Moresby is between 600 and 700.
More precise information on this point and
also in regard to the populations of Samarai,
Abau and Tufi may be obtained from the
Official Secretary, Port Moresby. (3) Branches
of the Bank of N. S. Wales have been estab-
lished in Port Moresby and Samarai. (4)
Burns, Philp maintains a regular service. (5)
A weekly newspaper, the “Papuan Courier,” is
published at Port Moresby. (6) Port Moresby
has the lowest average rainfall of the Territory.
The rainfall. varies considerably, and the
heaviest annual average fall is at Kikori —
288 in. The average yearly rainfall of Port
' Moresby is 36in. The greater part of the rain
falls during the north-west monsoon, the wettest
months being as a rule January, February and
March. (7) The climatic conditions of the
Louisiades are practically the same as those
in the eastern part of Papua. The average
humidity is about 79 p.c. (8) Misima, Sudest
and Rossel are the principal islands of the
group and are inhabited by Europeans. The
principal industry is goldmining, but there are
some coconut plantations. The Papuan natives
are employed in both industries. (9) There is
a regular steamer service between Samarai and
Misima, and supplies are obtained from the
former. The residents of the other islands
depend on their own crafts or on those of
traders. (10) A magisterial station is estab-
lished at Misima. A magistrate and a detach-
ment of police are located there. From that
centre periodical visits are paid to other
islands of the group. (1) Land can be
obtained only from the Crown, on lease for
99 years. On areas less than 1000 acres no
rent is payable for the first 10 years of ten-
ancy. For the second 10 years the rent is 3d.
per acre. The land is reappraised every 20
years, and rent paid at the rate of 5 p.c. of the
appraised value. There is no income tax in
Papua. Customs duties range up to 10
p.c. ad valorem. . Many articles are, however,
admitted free of duty. (12) The climate on the
whole is healthy. There is practically no
•malaria on Misima Island. The soil is fertile
and all kinds of tropical fruit and vegetables
can be grown. Cattle are not raised as an
industry, but on large plantations in the Terri-
tory they are used for keeping down grass.
Fowls are reared wherever possible. (13) The
following publications may be obtained from
the Territories Branch, Prime Minister’s De-
partment, Canberra: Handbook of Papua (fifth
edition), 2s. 3d.; “Annual Report of Papua”
(latest published is for 1937-38), 2s. lOd.; and
a combined map of the Territories of Papua
and New Guinea, 2s. lOd.
* . * . . . * *
Particulars of play■ competitions being con-
ducted for Australian authors by the A.8.C.?
—6134.
The A.B.C. has decided ■: to award bonuses
to the authors of the best three plays purchased
in the usual way between January 1 and April
30, 1940. Australian broadcasting rights of
plays acquired will be paid for at the usual
rates by ayangement with authors'. Every play
purchased will be produced . within a stated
period, beginning on May 1. The plays will
be judged by a committee consisting of two
members of the A.B.C. sfaff and two members
from outside. Listeners also will be invited to
make their judgments by awarding. marks to
each play as it is produced. The preferences
shown by these markings will be taken. into
account by the judges when reaching their
decision. Bonuses offered to playwrights (in
addition to the purchase fee) will be: First,
£25; second, £10; third, £lO. Should the play
which ■ receives most marks in the listeners’
plebiscite not be awarded a bonus by the
judges, it will receive a special bonus of £lO.
Plays should be in radio form, not less than
25 minutes in playing time. No adaptations
from the works of other authors nor any stage
plays, scenarios, stories, etc., requiring radio
adaptation will be eligible. Serial plays will
not be included in the competition. Entries
not later than April 30, 1940, addressed to
the Federal Controller of Productions, A.8.C.,
264 Pitt-street, Sydney. All plays submitted
from January \, 1940, will be eligible.
* * * *
Method of producing a black or brown sur-
face on brassware which involves the use of
copper, silver or. arsenical salts ?-. —5937.
One of the most convenient methods of pro-
ducing such a surface is by the use of copper
carbonate and ammonium hydroxide. To
1000 c.c. of ammonium hydroxide (specific
gravity 0.94 approx.) add 125 grams of copper
carbonate, shake or stir well in a bottle or
other suitable receptacle and then add 500 c.c.
of water. Filter if necessary. The brass
object should be heated in a solution of
sodium or potassium hydroxide to remove
grease and oil, then well rinsed in clean water.
The brass is then immersed in the
copper solution, which may be previously
warmed to about 50deg. and allowed to remain
until the required tint is obtained. The brass
is rinsed in hot water and dried in sawdust.
The color produced is uniform, black and
tenacious —lacquering is not essential, but
would of course improve the lasting properties
of the coating.
* * sp *
(1) How many boxing contests did the late
W. L. (“Young”) Stribling take part in, and
what were their results? (2) When and where
did he die? —6008.
(1) 275; 214 wins (121 on knockouts and
93 on points), 11 losses, 15 draws, 32 no-
decison, one no-contest, one knocked put and
one disqualification. (2) Shortly after his last
bout with Rosenbloom in September, 1933,
Stribling was killed when his motor-cycle col-
lided with a motor-car at Macon, Georgia
(U.S.A.).
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of name of station property in South
Australia called Preamimma, and meaning of
name? —6176.
Brief Answers.
H.H.: A gas unit means 3412 British thermal
units gross, and a British thermal unit is the
quantity of heat required to raise lib. of water
one degree Fahrenheit... .K. 8.5.: Travellers to
the Mandated Territory of New Guinea must
have passports specially endorsed for travel
to the Territory or, in lieu, permits to enter
the Territory... .J.S.: The first Barnardo Home
boys were landed in Sydney in October, 1921,
and the first girls in May, 1923... .C.E.: At
December 31, 1938, there were approximately
36,000 Justices of the Peace in N.S.W., of
whom 1870 were women... .F.L.: Meemar
means “star”; Mirang, “camp”; Polona,
“hawk”; Wilgo, “a swamp reed”; Wirega,
“clear ground”; Euroka, “the sun”; Camira,
“wind”; Bunyan, “place of pigeons”; Belar,
“forest oak”; Aloomba, “spring”; Awaba,
“plain surface”; Bellata, “kangaroo”; Binya,
“big mountain” ; Calga, “stony ridge” ; Carawa,
“creek”; Dunedoo, “a swan.” All are N.S.W.
abo. place - names... .C.A.C.: In August,
1911, by resolution of the House of Com-
mons, provision was first made for the payment
of a salary of £4OO p.a. to members other than
those already in receipt of salaries as officers
of the House, as Ministers, or as officers of
his Majesty’s household. As from July 1,
1937, the salaries of members were increased
to £6OO p.a. This provision does not extend
to the House of Lords... .W.H.: English
sovereigns who were members of the House
of Hanover were George 1., George 11.,
George 111., George IV., William IV. and Queen
Victoria H.F.T.: (1) and (2) “Urban angle”
is not a recognised geometrical or mathematical
term. (3) To “urbanise” is to polish or refine,
or to make citified, and the verb cannot
properly be applied in any mathematical or
geometrical sense.... R. 5.1.: N.S.W. laws re-
lating to the protection of birds and animals
do not provide for professional egg-collectors.
Collecting is allowed only for scientific pur-
poses, and then only under a permit issued by
the department, controlling the Act. Bird- or
egg-collecting without a license is a punishable
offence, and it would be as well to refrain
from egg-collecting as a hobby... .T.A.M.: The
condition in the grape-vine is possibly the re-
sult of imperfect pollination, but no definite
diagnosis can be made without the inspection
of specimens in a fresh condition. Submit
specimens to the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, Sydney... .D.R.R.: Write to Head-
quarters, Northern Command, Victoria Bar-
racks, Brisbane, Q., for the information....
T.P.: Carbonate of lime is only one of the
raw materials of cement, and a deposit of suit-
able clay is also necessary. Even then the
manufacture of cement on a small scale is im-
practicable. Very high temperatures are in-
volved ; expensive rotary kilns, crushing plant
and electrical dust precipitators are only a few
of the items going to make up a modern cement
plant, and very careful chemical control is
essential... .D.I.F. and T.W.: There is a limited
market for good white burning clays for pottery
manufacture, very little being sold at over £2
per ton delivered. R. Fowler, Fitzroy-
street, • Marrickville, Bakewell Bros., Mit-
chell-road, Erskineville, McLeod and Co.,
Ralph-street, Alexandria—all Sydney —are buyers
of white clays B.B.: R. A. Rooney and Co.,
shearing contractors, 8 Spring-street, Sydney,
teach shearing and experting at their shearing
depot, Flemington. If experting only is re-
quired, Dangar, Gedye and Malloch, Ltd., of
•10-14 Young-street, Sydney, hold classes....
J.S.C.: (1) In most cases, it is found that the
sexes of lambs are fairly even at lambing time,
though cases are heard of where quite large
variations occur. (2) For the mark to be
placed in the wrong ear is an offence against
the Act, and it would be wise to report to the
local stock inspector that so many (number
specified) of a line of sheep bought are wrongly
marked. (3) This is a matter for a solicitor,
but it is very doubtful if such a claim would
be successful... .J.G.: You have either made
several mixtures of different shades or the first
coat has been applied over a darker foundation
than the color being used, with tlje result that
the first coat is not sufficiently heavy to
obliterate the dark ground. Painters would
describe such an effect as the “undercoat grin-
ning through.” If you apply the two coats you
propose to use on a clean surface and the
appearance be lighter than you wish, use more
Oxford ochre to deepen the tone L.W.:
Consult th e Encyclopaedia Britannica, available
most public libraries... .A.A.: Cannot trace.
A.J.G.: Frank Clune has written five books,
Try Anything Once, Rolling Down the Lach-
lan, Roaming Around the Darling, Dig and
Skyhigh to Shanghai E.R.: Umbangois a
N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “to gaze”...-
M.M.D.: Write Under-Secretary, Department
of Mines, Brisbane... .K. 8.: Australasian
Radio-Copyright Control Service Pty., A.M.P.
Building, Queen and Edward streets, Brisbane.
. L.D.P.: Compulsory military training in
Australia was suspended by the Scullin Govern-
ment as from November 1, 1929... .P.K.: Write
secretary, W.A. Retail Tobacconists’ Union ol
Employees, Fourth Floor, A.M.P. Chambers.
St. George’s-terrace, Perth... .A.J.C.: The sub-
ject is dealt with in an article in the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror” (2/2/’4O), “Grapes on the
Cuisine.” You can overcome the cloying sweet-
ness of grape jam and jelly by adding citric
acid to taste... .A. 5.8.: Cannot identify the
weed by the name you give. Submit a specimen
to the Agricultural Department, Hobart, with a
request for advice regarding control measures.
■ .L.M.K.: No statistics have yet been compiled
in regard to the comparative percentage of en-
listments of the various religious denominations,
but these will be prepared at a later date...
P.M.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .F.C.T.: (1) The High
Court has decided that gifts of Commonwealth
Bonds are liable to gift duty under the Q’lana
Gift Duty Act (1926). (2) The question ol
liability to gift duty of transfers of inscribed
stock has not yet been referred to a Court
for decision, so far as can be traced.. . .N.M- :
Melbourne —“Age” and “Argus” ; Brisbane—
“ Courier - Mail” ; Adelaide “Advertiser :
Perth —“West Australian”... .M.A.R.: Inquiry
is outside scope of Service Department...-
A.V.S.: See Whitaker’s Almanack for 1939.
page 224....J.F.: (1) India, 239,195,140
Hindus, 77,677,545 Mohammedans, and about
20,000,000 other religions. (2) Most Chinese
(not Mohammedans or Christians) profess and
practise one of three religions—Confucianism.
Buddhism or Taoism... .W.A.M.: Write Eric
Lowe, 79 Pitt-street, Sydney... .1.M.M.: Arthur
Yates and Co., 84 Sussex-street, Sydney.


PREVENT BONE-CHEWING.
Do not wait for evidence of bone-chewing and then seek a
remedy. Feed Tri-cal-os Bone Flour to prevent it and other
bone troubles, for much of our pasture lacks those essential
minerals, which the stock must have and which they seek
when they chew bones. Tri-cal-os is the best and most
reliable source of these minerals—calcium and phosphorus—
for all livestock feeding. Tri-cal-os contains over 70 9 o
tricalcic phosphate, having a guaranteed minimum of 32. 5%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime—and it costs the farmer less
and goes further.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
ez
5(
m
o
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal ar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LANP.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Time to Buy.
“Derrimut”: In 1914 the stud beef
cattle industry was just waking up after
a period of doldrums. Importation had
been dead for years. Then the war
made further imports impossible for
nearly five years. Round 1918 sales leapt
into the four-figure class. Breeders saw
a £2OOO imported Hereford and a
4000-guinea imported Missie Shorthorn,
and there was keen competition. The
Commonwealth was making good pro-
gress when the depression struck it,
owing to the work of a dozen stud
masters in both Shorthorns and Here-
fords. Since then there has been no
settled policy about breeds and types.
The voices of a hundred advocates have
urged breeders to go in for Polled
Herefords, Polled Shorthorns, Aberdeen
Angus, Brahman mixtures —anything but
the tough old standard breeds which have
been acclimatised for a century and a
quarter.
A change already is showing itself.
Sale of vealers, increased war demand
for meat, and stability under contracts
with the Imperial Government have
warned station buyers of breeding bulls
to look to the future. Prices as yet are
not high. But in a year or two they are
bound to move, and it is likely that
there will be a post-war period of in-
terest in stud beef cattle much like the
last. It would be a good thing if this
could be moulded to steady development.
The war should give the opportunity
to clean a lot of stations of their scrubs
and put them in a condition to rebuild
with good sires and a sound nucleus of
breeding cows. The basis of any im-
provement in the bull industry is better
sires and dams. Breeders will have to
be very careful that in meeting war re-
quirements for beef they do not destroy
the basic qualities of their breeding herds.
Rabbits in N.S.W.
“Ben C.”: Rabbits are on the increase
in those parts of N.S.W. where there is
heavy grass growth after the late-spring
and early-summer rains. The job of
keeping them down is more difficult in
summer than in winter, as the ground is
dry and loose and the danger of fire
too great to permit burning of logs and
other cover above ground.
Fumigation of burrows is still the most
effective way of reducing the pest, but
in dry, loose ground the fumes escape
much more readily than when the ground
is moist and packed ; so extra care is
needed to see that all cracks and holes
are tightly closed before the fumigant
is pumped in. Where liquid carbon
bisulph. is used, close tightly all but two
or three entrances, and down these throw
horse-dung balls well soaked in the bi-
sulph. A lighted match thrown in starts
them burning, and the openings should
be quickly closed. Stand away from the
entrance when throwing down the match.
As with burrows into which gas has
been pumped mechanically, an inspection
should be made a few days later to see
if any part of the warren has been re-
opened either by rabbits that got into
a pocket while fumigating was on or
by those away from home at the time.
Poisoning offers good chances of suc-
cess when the grass is dry, provided some
form of greenstuff—vegetable leaf or
apples—is used. The danger to stock
makes poisoning unpopular. Digging out
of burrows, though dear and hard work,
is most effective in country where every
hole can be turned up. Take care to
fill in trenches and level the ground
again.
These and other measures can only
be successful where the boundaries are
well netted. Before attacking your pests
make sure the netting is rabbit-proof all
round. Another sound method at this
time of year is that of netting the tanks,
allowing the rabbits in to drink through
funnels in the net, and dealing with
them there.
Grasshopper Methods.
“54-40”: With a fine contempt for the
Noxious Insects Act grasshoppers this
year swarmed over north-west N.S.W.
“What sort of a snake is this ?”
and well up into Queensland, and in no
time reduced a good stand of summer
feed to such a condition that stock had
often to be sent away on agistment or
hand-fed from fodder reserves.
The hoppers have appeared in eastern
Australia in plague proportions every
year since 1934, and heaven alone knows
what they’ve cost the country. Poisoning
only plays with the problem. Though
one district might decimate its hopper
population by this means, millions more
come in from somewhere else and gaily
chew up the pastures. The place to get
down on the grasshoppers is in their
egg-beds, where they can be destroyed
before they are hatched. Egg-beds are
not hard to find, but it seems to be no-
body’s business to worry about them.
Until it is, the pests will go on denuding
the country of grass whenever the seasons
are favorable.
“Bait”: The appeals of N.S.W. graziers’
and farmers’ organisations for the lift-
ing of the grasshopper-destruction levy
on stock have been rejected. At the end
of last financial year the Pastures Pro-
tection Boards concerned were in arrears
£lO,OOO to the Government for advances
made for poison-bait material. This is
also being added to on account of this
year’s campaign, in which 14 boards are
engaged. The rate for the current year,
however, has been halved, and is id.
per head large stock and l-24d. on sheep.
In all 34 boards, from the Queensland
border to the Murray, are being levied
for an expected total of about £BOOO.
204,000,000 Bushels.
“B. Cub.”: The Australian wheat crop
has panned out, according to revised
estimates, at 204,000,000 bushels. The
figure includes the Queensland crop of
6,000,000 bushels, which doesn’t enter
into export calculations. So far, about
80,000,000 bushels have been sold for
export, though getting it all away is an-
other matter. We’ll have to sell the rest
at the rate of about 1,000,000 bushels a
week if we are to get rid of it all before
next harvest. This may not be easy, as
world stocks are expected to tally 1200
million bushels by August, exclusive of
the Russian and Chinese yields.
The Queensland Wheat Board has sug-
gested that some of the Australian wheat
sold to Britain be shipped to the Can-
adian west coast, and that an equivalent
amount be sent to Britain from Canada’s
east coast. The idea may have its points,
but it apparently overlooks the fact that
Britain buys Australian wheat for blend-
ing purposes.
Bushfire Hints.
“De M.”: Don’t have trees or shrubs
too close to the house ; tall messmate-
trees with their highly inflammable
woolly bark cost us our home. Make
a firebreak —a good patch of ploughed
land is very effective ; neighbors sat in
the middle of an acre of ploughed land
while fires burned all round them.
Keep all valuables, such as deeds, poli-
cies, jewellery, in portable cases when
bushfires are about. I was away for the
day when my home went up, and all
these things were lost.
Plan the evacuation of all farm animals
beforehand. Don’t wait till the fire is
racing up the slope. Plan a general
course of action long before danger
threatens. And don’t be underinsured!
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Cattle-branding irons
are heated more uniformly in a small
portable stove than in an open fire. Clip
a patch of hair off the spot where the
brand is to be applied to avoid scorched
hair forming a coating on the face of
the brand.
“Goulburn”: For foot mange, which
attacks a horse’s leg, clip the hair to the
knee and hock, and burn it. Wash the
leg with soap and water, and, after dry-
ing, apply two parts of sulphur, one part,
of oil of tar, one part of potassium
bicarbonate and eight parts of lard. Rub
gently into the skin with a soft brush.
Apply three times at five-day intervals,
repeating if the trouble appears again.
“Yeno Ham”: Best fodder sorghums
are saccaline and White African. Plough
the land to a good depth, and make a
fine seedbed. Sow in autumn with lcwt.
to 2cwt. of super, per acre. On low-
nitrogen soils, use l|cwt. of super, and
icwt. of sulphate of ammonia per acre.
Use the cultivator often during growth to
keep down weeds and conserve mois-
ture. Shallow cultivation is essential, as
sorghum roots come within 3in. to 4in.
of the surface.
“Murphy”: Dry weather brings out
the potato moth. When the soil cracks
the moths and larvae find their way to
the tubers. Leaf blisters sometimes indi-
cate their presence. The best cure for
moth is tilth. Without cracks which give
approach to the roots the pests cannot
get at them. Hilling helps considerably.
“Mullengah”: Give dairy cows at least
four weeks’ rest before they calve. Start
drying off six to
eight weeks before
the calf is due.
Gradually reduce the
concentrates in the
ration, and increase
the intervals between
milkings. Give the
cow a ration to help
her feed the unborn
calf, and keep her in
a laxative, though fit,
condition. Start with
21b. to 31b. of con-
centrates daily for a
month before she is
due to calve, gradu-
ally increasing to 61b.
daily a fortnight be-
fore calving. Two
days before she is to
calve, ease off the concentrates and give
her a laxative. The cow improperly fed
before calving is most subject to milk
fever.
“R.N.”: It isn’t always wise to use
the sheep droppings from under the
shearing-shed as garden manure. We
tried it one year and got a splendid crop
of stinging thistles. Found the best way
to get rid of them was to pull old socks
over the hands and drag them out by the
roots.
“T.0.D.”: When you have to deal with
a few scattered burrs over a large area,
saddle a quiet horse and take a long-
handled hoe. You’ll see the burrs easier
from horseback, and will soon become
adept at cutting them below ground with
a single swipe from the saddle.
“Ovis”: Trials of Southdowns and
Ryeland crosses for fat lambs on the
Bowral highlands (N.S.W.) seem to put


SMARTLY-SHAPED
BOOTS
45 |-
10948
For the many men who still wear boots we have made this
smart square-toed model.
Made on an extended last in Black or Brown Calf and stocked
in full and half sizes. Price, 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
FIRE FIGHTING!!
ELTO” HIGH PRESSURE PUMPER
Pressures up to
951 b.
Distance up to
80ft.
*3
■iHiimim
A
©
ilJiJJJUilhiiiii
F
mimmiiil
a
WEIGHT
361 b.
PRICE
(Subject to
Rise)
SINGLE
CYLINDER
£3l/10/-
(Plus Tax)
TWIN
CYLINDER
£42/10/-
(Plus Tax)
Specially
Designed
for
Fighting
Australian
Bush Fires
HANNAN BROS. LTD.
FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE.
Tne^j^xilleforL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Hoes Not
Require Emptying;—Over 1100 Sold —Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Plus 5% increased cost of production.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridgre Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
dsf
A
the Southdowns ahead on average
quality if not on drop. Last February
250 first-cross Romney ewes, four-tooth,
were joined with Ryeland rams, another
250 being joined with Southdown sires.
Rams in both cases were 18 to 20 months
old, and in mid-March were taken out
and fed with oaten chaff and bran for a
week. Percentages marked after lambing
began in mid-July were 93.28 Ryeland
and 84 Southdown. Self-feeders were in
the paddocks from a month before lamb-
ing, and lambs as well as ewes were
given the free run of these until the
middle of December. Among the South-
downs there were only 7 p.c. of second-
grade lambs; among the Ryeland 29 p.c.
Tops alone were taken out. They showed
a middling amount of bloom. Ryelands
brought a conspicuously higher average
price—19s. lOd. against 18s. ll|d., but
this was due to a great variation in skin
values. It would have been more in-
teresting if the whole drop had been
marketed.
“Nagheer”: The cattle pioneers of
s.-w. Queensland wouldn’t know the
country nowadays. Since 1930 almost
every property along the Bulloo River
has been netted and changed over to
sheep. The Speedy Brothers began it
on Wongetta, and others followed with
such success that three years ago Kid-
man Estates, Ltd., sent the cattle from
Norley, biggest and best-known of its
holdings, to Bulloo Downs and con-
verted it to sheep. The co.’s first shearing
was completed last year. A little later
the neighboring Mt. Margaret, then run-
ning some 9270 cattle and 279 horses,
was similarly converted. The nearest
wool-scouring plant is at Charleville,
some 270 miles away, but most of the
clips are railed to Brisbane.
“Pappamosca”: Canadian Berkshires
may be admitted to Australian pig stud-
books, provided they are pure Canadian
in breeding and distinguished as “Cana-
dians” in entry. “Pure” means that the
pig involved must have four immediate
generations behind him or her, 100 p.c.
Canadian-type bred. The Stud Breeders’
Society recommends banning the regis-
tration of the word “Canadian” as a
stud name.
“A.A.D.”: The decline in horse-breed-
ing in N.S.W. is clearly indicated by the
fact that in the year ended March 31,
1939, foals reared numbered only 29,282
compared with 39,510 for the previous
year and 43,526 in 1937. In the present
season there is a noticeable paucity of
. foals on inland farms, and especially of
draughts in wheat areas. Somewhat para-
doxical is the increase recorded in the
general horse population from 528,625
(1938) to 548,355. The latter figure is
the highest since the total of 567,371 in
1929. There is a suspicion that last year’s
numbers may have been inflated by some
duplication in owners’ returns, due to
separate statements being required for
the first time—for horses four years and
over, and divided as draught, race types,
light horses and ponies. An encourag-
ing feature to breeders is that the war
has caused a revival in demand for mili-
tary horses of both remount and trans-
port types. Some thousands of these
have been purchased in recent months,
but the number is not disclosed by the
defence authorities. Veterinary officers
responsible for the inspection of horses
in various districts state that there is as
yet no shortage of suitable types. More
heavies than lights were offering, but,
allowing for that, there were quite a lot
of the latter still available.
Outback Occupations.
No. V.
Putting Down a Tank.
Provision of ample water on the farm
is recommended by all agricultural
experts, agents for scoops and delvers,
sellers of aluminoferric, plumbers and
water-diviners. These people profess to
be greatly concerned about assuaging the
thirst of stock and domestic animals,
though you can search Australia and not
find one person, except the farmer him-
self, prepared to recommend any measure
such as the provision of beer-vats to
assuage the thirst of man. Probably this
lack is just another manifestation of
the monopolistic ramifications of the
breweries.
In recent years there has been much
talk about cutting down the costs of
farming, yet nobody has yet thought to
breed a line of waterless ewes. Imagine
the saving such a breed would effect.
No dams, no tanks, no channels, no
court cases over water rights, no waste
of money to employ a Water Conser-
vation and Irrigation Commission. It
should be possible, too. Some sort of
crossing experiment with camels and Mil-
parinka wethers might give a basis on
which to work.
However, as we must have stock, and
stock must have water, it follows that we
must have a tank. This consists of an
abnormally large hole scooped out of
the ground from which run drains in
various directions, the object being to
catch and hold water. That many tanks
catch and hold the stock doesn’t alter
their original purpose.
First consideration is the site. It must
be free of large trees, roads, railway
crossings and other impedimenta, and it
must be somewhere where rain is likely
to fall sooner or later. Some people like
the tank close to the homestead, so that
they can go duck-shooting and do the
week-end washing, but they forget that
it encourages frogs, mosquitoes and other
fauna, and that it is not always easy to
remember just where the thing is when
driving home in the early morning from
the local cricket club meeting at the
Royal Hotel.
Next thing is size. Mathematicians
and agricultural experts can tell you all
about cubic capacity and the liquid capa-
city of a sheep per degree of tempera-
ture, salt content of the soil and so forth.
But the simplest way is to multiply the
number of stock by the number of cubic
yards you intend the tank to be and then
get to work.
Excavation is fairly simple. You
simply run the tank plough up and down
a few times, then hitch on to the scoop
and do likewise. In time there will be
quite a depression in the ground. Neigh-
bors passing on their way to town will ;
observe your activity, and stop to see
how you are getting on. Practically ;
everyone of them will say, “Sinkin’ a
tank, Bill?” whereupon you simply reply, i
“Not at all; I’m just testin’ the sub-soil,
f’r strawberry-growin’.” Soon the whole <
district will take to driving over your
way every Sunday to gather round the
work and point out its faults, but as this
adds to the conviviality of the thing it
should not be discouraged.
After some time—and money spent on
repairing broken scoop-toggles, swings,
drawbars, etc. —you will come to the
stage where the tank is deep enough.
This is easily proved by going to the
bottom. If a coo-ee echoes back from
the sides, the tank is finished.
You are a proud man now. Word
flashes through the district. “Bill’s tank
is finished. Must go over Sunday an’
have a look.”
They come in cars, a-horse, a-bike and
afoot. You reckon you’ll never be short
of again. They guess at its capa-
city, admire the fact that whereas most
tanks have only four corners yours has
five, and recall tanks they’ve seen sunk
or sunk themselves beside which yours
is only a posthole.
Then old McClodbuster, who is always
talking of how he made his start tank-
sinking in Queensland, says he don’t like
the white drift sand in the bottom be-
cause it means the tank won’t hold water.
You laugh nervously and tell him not to
be silly. Then young Bildad, who’s just
come from three years at an agricultural
college, suggests that while you have the
scoop it’d be a good idea to put down
a couple of trenches for pit silos. You
show interest, and he tells you the best
place is on the slope west of the new
tank.
After they’ve all gone you sneak down
into the tank, sift the drift sand through
your fingers, look at the sky, and wish
old McClodbuster had stayed in. Queens-
land.
Next day you get the scoop and start
sinking a couple of trenches for silage.
It’s now you realise that the poet who
called Nature a “fickle dame” knew what
he was talking about. The weather held
off bonzer while you got the tank down,
but now that you want to show the whole
district just what a beauty she is the
weather goes on holding off, and you
begin to have visions of carting water
from the railway tanks to see you through
the summer. The clouds come up by
day and go away by night, and dust
blows off the fallows into your lovely
tank. You go ahead. with the fodder
trenches, but think privately that they
ought to give the country back to the
blacks.
Then you wake one morning to the
roar of rain on the roof. You fly out of
bed and on to the front verandah. There
is a foot of water all round the house,
two drowned chooks float by, and the
one corner of the haystack is gone. What
do you care! It’s a and looks
as though it’s set in. After breakfast
you get into oilskins and make for the
tank. Each drain is a young torrent,
and there’s a foam-speckled, cocoa-colored
flood pouring into the tank and whirling
round in circles. You stand and watch
it for hours, rapt and enthralled. Only
hunger drives you home.
The rain stops that night. Next morn-
ing you are out bright and early, wading
through the slush to the tank. You
wonder if it’s a dream. There’s the tank,
but where’s the water? All you can see
is a slimy paste of mud on the bottom
of the tank, and in one corner a large,
dark, awful-looking hole. That’s where
the water went down. Across the road
you see where it came up again and cut
a great gully through the fallow. Wearily
you go up to see how the fodder trenches
are. There are no fodder trenches, but
two long, narrow tanks full to the brim
of lovely tea-colored water. You realise
there’s something in these agricultural
colleges after all.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
A forceful bit of writing from Gippsland (Vic.) wins double rates this week.
By request made for a sufficient reason—name and address are withheld.
No More of THAT Begging!
In 1914-13 the Victorian Education
Department raised a tremendous sum
—close on- a million pounds for
its Red Cross and War Relief funds,
but its methods were the ugliest and
worst form of competition. They drove
teachers, children and parents to distrac-
tion. District was set against district,
school against school, class against class,
pupil against pupil.
A schoolboy during the last war, I well
remember the anguish on the face of
the aunt who was my guardian when I
came home with daily appeals for money
and gifts. She was finding it a desperate
struggle to clothe and feed four small
children in the absence of their soldier
father without being tormented by the
relentless begging of the Education De-
partment. I also remember the bitter
pang when bouquets were handed out to
the children who brought in most money
and pointed reference was made to those
who brought little or nothing.
If sufficient money cannot be raised
by normal straightout methods of appeal
then let it be obtained by taxation. Better
the most stringent taxes than the wring-
ing of the last drop of blood from parents
who, as the war proceeds, will find it
hard enough to make ends meet. Any-
way, going around begging for money
is not children’s work. There is sufficient
woe in the present crisis without adding
to it the cry of the youngster.—Kings-
man (Vic.).
There’s a War On
“Of course we mustn’t be depressed,”
say the bright young things, “so let’s
have a good time while the war lasts.
On with the dance, etc.”
There might be some excuse for cheer-
ing up the fellows in uniform with a bit
of whoopee, but the habit extends to
thousands who have nothing to do with
the war except the whoopee part. As
a result studies are neglected, cash is
squandered, and health is ruined in a
non-stop merry-go-round of entertain-
ment. When despairing parents try to
put the brake on they are reminded that
“there’s a war on.”
All this rushing around is not
patriotism; it’s a kind of cowardice,
a refusal to face the facts and prepare
for realities. Riotous living, in the
circumstances, is simply sabotage, ruining
our physical and financial resources when
we should be preparing for the pinch
that is sure to come whoever wins the
war. —J. W. (S.A.).
Soldiers’ Pay
During the last war many women of
all ages who were in receipt of incomes
from various sources enjoyed themselves
by squandering the amounts of money
which soldier relatives allotted to their
use. This fact was disgraceful then, and
today other women are already doing the
same thing.
It seems a pity that soldiers’ pay,
secured by hard work, self-sacrifice, risk
and privation, should be so recklessly and
thoughtlessly wasted. Those childless
wives, more or less independent mothers
and wage-earning sweethearts to whom
the soldiers generously entrust portion of
their money should have to account for
every penny of it. If they do not need
it for the actual necessities of life they
should be prevented from throwing it
away on frivolities.
The handling of soldiers’ pay should
be regarded as a sacred trust. As much
of it as possible should be put aside for
the future use of those who are earning it
at such terrible risk.— P. Radwon (Vic.).
The Age Limit
“Andile Tellem” (B. 24/1/’4O) is won-
dering why men of 45 are not accepted
for military service overseas. He quotes
navvies and shearers as being particu-
larly strong and fit at that age. So, but
he should remember that the average
life span is about 55 years and that the
average man at 45 has passed his climac-
teric. I his was proved conclusively in
the 1914-18 struggle, when thousands of
men 40 and over left Australia. Many
of them had to be returned home simply
because they were unable to stand up
either to the rigors of the European
winter or to the strain and stress of
war.
A man of 45 may be doing an excel-
lent job at home where he has every
comfort, but to send him on active ser-
vice abroad is another proposition. At
45 he is more likely to develop con-
stitutional weaknesses than a man of,
say, 30. The sending of men of 40 and
over to the previous war involved the
country in a huge expenditure which
is still going on in the shape of hospitals
and pensions. Experts now seem to agree
that men between the ages of 21 and 35
are best suited for overseas conditions,
and our war lords seem at least to be
avoiding some of the mistakes of the
past.— Age Tells (Vic.).
Refugees
Austrian refugees are still coming to
Australia (and if the Minister for the
Interior insists otherwise I shall be glad
to supply names, and dates upon which
they are due to arrive in Sydney), despite
departmental assurances to the effect that
all foreign migrants have been debarred
entry for the duration of the war.
Whether this is a good thing in times
of peace I do not want to argue ; but
there is no doubt that it is positively fool-
hardy just now. The chances are that
refugees now en route to Australia are in
the same category as their predecessors,
running away from their torturers to one
of the very few countries that are willing
to have them. On the other hand, they
could easily be something quite different,
and the possibility of this difference, how-
ever vague, is too great to be disregarded
at the present juncture.
We democratic countries seem to be
far too easygoing in the matter of safe-
guarding our best interests, even in peace,
and it may have been just this weakness
that Goebbels had in mind when he re-
ferred to us as being “effete.” If British
migrants have been forbidden entry for
the duration of the war, an intelligent and
anxious public has every right to ques-
tion the policy of the Government that
continues to admit people who are
officially decribed as “enemy aliens.” —
W. Lynch (N.S.W.).
Propaganda
Every morning and evening paper
brings a crop of laments that Britain
does not indulge in propaganda.
Yet consideration of stage and screen
reveals that there has been a ceaseless flow
of clever propaganda from Britain. As far
back as “Sanders of the River” the flow
started. But the propaganda was of the
type which says “This is the greatest
Empire that ever straddled the known
world,” rather than that which screams
“We must have a place in the sun.”
What made it so hard to detect as pro-
paganda was the fact that the medium
was, first of all, rare entertainment. Only
when we have allowed ourselves to be
shaken out of our steady, long-range
technique have we debased our instru-
ment. “The Lion Has Wings,” for in-
stance, was an abject example of how
obviously propaganda is propaganda if it
is not clothed in habiliments of sheer
artistic merit.
Looking back over a period we find
several good films that were good pro-
paganda because they spoke so quietly
and with such artistic fidelity that they
gave the appearance of a certain simple
faith in the truth of the side they pre-
sented. “Lives of a Bengal Lancer,” for
instance, was accepted as truth, a truth-
ful representation of combat on the out-
posts of the nation. “The Drum” was
more propaganda; so were “Sabu” and a
dozen others.
The British propaganda machine com-
mands some of the biggest and greatest
of modern artists. They don’t screech like
some we know. The British propaganda
machine bought Alexander Korda and
Erich Pommer from Europe, Herbert
Wilcox and Flaherty from America.
Modern British literature consider
Maugham, Walpole, Mason, Buchan —
was turned loose into propaganda.
Buchan’s Canadian appointment shows
the close relationship between national
needs and propaganda literature.
Don’t say we know nothing about pro-
paganda! We know more about it than
anybody—the French, the Germans, the
Russians, anyone. Our propaganda
machine is doing a special job—it is con-
solidating a huge mass of people who
don’t need to be won over by blatant
posturings. Propaganda isn’t something
to be taken with fingers pinched on nos-
trils nowadays, and the sooner we realise
it and stop harassing Authority for more
obvious and blatant propaganda the
better. — Benn (Q.).
Dumping the Dominions
Mr. Lawson, Minister for Trade and
Customs, has asserted that after the war
Britain, with her purchasing power
greatly diminished, will be compelled to
secure her needs, including primary pro-
ducts, from foreign countries in order
to regain her place as the world’s lead-
ing trading country, and to help an im-
poverished Europe to some degree of
economic stability. Further, he predicted,
primary producers can expect unprece-
dented competition in the overseas
markets.
At the present time local primary pro-
ducers are pulling their weight with the
rest of the community to help win the
war. Wool and wheat have been com-
pulsorily acquired on behalf of the Brit-
ish Government at prices eminently satis-
factory to the British taxpayer. As a
result, trade that has come to Australia
in these commodities in previous years
has necessarily been diverted to other
channels, and whether it will be regained
on the conclusion of hostilities is proble-
matical.
Meanwhile, with the full resources of
the various Dominions at her call, Britain
is assured of a continuity of supplies for
the duration of the war, and at non-
profiteering figures. In the circumstances,
Dominion primary producers might well
expect some preferential treatment in the
matter of orders when things return to
normal.
Britain has played Santa Claus to too
many European countries, and now, while
her own family rally to her aid, she finds
the neighbors she has befriended sitting
back and giving a perfect imitation of
the three wise monkeys. Are Dominion
producers to be sacrificed for such as
these?
Working in unison, Britain and the
Dominions can safely weather any
economic storms that may follow the
war, but Britain’s duty is clear. She
has only to answer one question honestly,
and act in accordance with that answer.
Which has returned her the better divi-
dend—her European entanglements or
her colonial and Dominion ties? —
Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Food for Thought
One day recently the “S.M.H.” came
out with details of a scheme, thought up
by some sort of university spruiker, to
the effect that this country should send
away £10,000,000-worth of produce each
year as a gift to Britain. Next day the
“S.M.H.’s” little thob-thithter (Women’s
Supplement) came out with a full-page
article (straight from London) headed
“London Goes Gay.”
There were full details as to how the
Gay in London can still have a fair
average night-out for under £lO. It
seems that rationing makes no difference
to the gay diner-out in London. At one
of the most famous hotels in London,
according to the lady who cabled this
information to Granny, jun., they don’t
even have to bother about butter ration-
ing, for they have engaged a woman who
will do nothing but churn cream into
butter all day.
If the moneyed folk in London can get
all the eats described in that article, they
might well draw in their belts a little and
spend some of their spare cash distribut-
ing gifts of food to those who cannot
afford to spend £lO on a nigh Lout.—. —
Demoi (N.S.W.).
Story-writing Today
There is nothing wrong with Australian
literature when stories like the recent
“It’s Harder for Girls,” by Gavin Casey,
are being written. To my way of thinking
that is the best short story that the Ribald
Rag has published for years. Its pathos
and its humanity are reminiscent of
Henry Lawson, and that’s saying plenty.
But it seems to me that literature is
dying not from any intrinsic fault of its
own or any trouble peculiar to Australia
either. The tempo of twentieth-century
life militates against the contemplative
attitude that is necessary for the appre-
ciation of art, and literary art in particular.
Twentieth-century man is in too much
of a hurry to get God-only-knows-where
to spend time in reading. The result is
that what fiction he does absorb has to
be absorbed in a hurry. He takes his
stories in the shortest form possible, and
when the screen will present the story of
any book for him in an hour and a half
his mental processes are not required to
work very strenuously. This has made
us lazy and brought about the habit of
reading our books in pictures. Hence the
enormous popularity of comic strips in
the tabloid sheets and the atrocities that
adorn some of our weekly journals.
It is an awful thought, but it is not in-
conceivable that in some future age all
books will be written as a series of pic-
tures.—N. J. Gleeson (N.S.W.).
News in Pictures
This business of presenting the news
in pictures is making little children out
of adults. Is it because the public is
too lazy to read the news or is it be-
cause our literary taste has deteriorated
to such an extent that we do not appre-
ciate the beauty and value of the printed
word?
Cheap and nasty picture news maga-
zines under various names are doing
more than anything else to lower the
standard of literature in the country, and
they are getting a great hold. The pictures
generally include women in various stages
of nudity and sensual poses, and some-
times Harlem orgies and similar filth.
It is strange that this sort of thing
appeals to clean-minded Australians. It
is a case where the public must be pro-
tected from itself before our literary
and moral standards are lowered by these
cheap and nasty imitations of cheaper
American publications.— Thorn (N.S.W.).
Settling the Kimberleys
I’d soon settle the Kimberleys if I had
anything to do with it. I saw an Austra-
lian politician in the street the other day.
About two months ago he enlisted in the
militia as'a private. Now he’s getting
around dressed up as a captain, with two
medal ribbons on his tunic. He’s never
been near any war in his life, and those
bits of ribbon are for the baubles they
handed out to all politicians, public ser-
vants, etc., at the jubilee of George V.
and the coronation of George VI.
That’s the v6ry first man I’d send to
the Kimberleys, and with him would go
the public servant who said that Main
Road workers in N. S. Wales should not
have ten minutes’ morning-tea time. I
would also find a suitable niche in the
Kimberleys for Mr. B. S. B. Stevens.
I would rope in all the lounge and beach
lizards, of both sexes. I’d round up all
these dopey “socialites” and their gigolos.
All female radio announcers would be
yarded, together with a fair average
sample of the sort of “charitable” folk
that are always guzzling cocktails ’midst
a blaze of press publicity. I’d include a
sprinkling of university professors, a
batch of “sports” fans and all social
columnists. And that would comprise the
first batch of conscripts for the first ex-
peditionary force to take the Kimberleys
by assault. —P. A. U. (N.S.W.).
This Fertile Land
“Bill Ding” is right about the infer-
tility and general uselessness of West-
ralia’s jarrah country (B. 24/1/’4O), but
he doesn’t dispose of “Billy See’s” laud-
able contention that the State can sup-
port a much larger population than it
is maintaining now. Apart from un-
cleared land, much of what is cleared is
not cultivated, and it isn’t an exaggera-
tion to say that Westralia’s garden-land
yields only half of what it should.
A variety of reasons includes three
main ones: (1) ignorance, (2) laziness,
and (3) lack of population and con-
sequent demand.
Not only is the average farmer ignor-
ant of the best methods of securing the
maximum yield from his land ; he hasn’t
a true conception of what his land is
capable of producing. (I speak of the
fertile areas, scattered and sometimes
small, but collectively embracing an area
several times larger than the British
Isles.) Consequently he doesn’t use suf-
ficient fertiliser, doesn’t “work” his
ground sufficiently, and is satisfied with
comparatively poor crops.
Laziness, probably miscalled, is attri-
butable to the extent of the areas avail-
able for occupation. It is, admittedly,
easier to half-cultivate a large area—
where, by liberal spacing of the crop,
weeds can be more or less machine-
controlled —than to till thoroughly a
small area which must be continually
hoed. The results are that many farmers
grow “good” crops without utilising half
the productivity of their soil.
Population is a factor that is outside
the farmer’s control, but it has a
direct bearing on his activities. It is


useless, and folly, to flood a market of
half a million people with food for a
million. But let the population come,
preferably from British stock, and we’ll
feed it, never fear. We’ve got the land,
we’ve got the brains, the brawn and the
ingenuity.— Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
Develop the Country
After years of somnolence certain
N. S. Wales country centres are begin-
ning to make strong protests against the
centring of everything in Sydney. Gov-
ernments have given little encouragement
to the development of secondary indus-
tries in country towns, and, now that
many important defence and manufac-
turing projects are to be developed, some
of the country towns are demanding their
share. They are too late. Sydney will
get the plums because most of the new
enterprises will be developed from in-
dustries already established.
Even in its own activities the Govern-
ment has neglected country development.
For years the railway heads appear to
have been animated with the idea that
the proper thing to do is to close down
workshops in country centres and to con-
centrate the work in Sydney. One result
has been to rob country towns of popu-
lation and to take customers from busi-
nesses which support the railways by
paying freight on the goods they sell.
Private enterprise in America took the
opposite view. There the railway com-
panies spread their activities, adopting a
deliberate policy of encouraging indus-
tries in different towns. The aim was to
create as many important centres as pos-
sible, thus ensuring freight and passen-
gers between those towns.
There is machinery in several railway
workshops in the country which should
be working 24 hours a day. Some of it
is hardly being worked at all. Past Gov-
ernments are to blame for that particular
brand of foolishness which means that
practically every sheep and every head
of cattle eaten in Sydney has to travel
hundreds of miles by train so that it can
be killed in Sydney. No matter if quality
suffers the long journey means that
another board can justify its existence.
In some country technical colleges
there is sufficient machinery to employ
hundreds of men making tools and equip-
ment for war purposes. But the
machinery is used for a few hours on
a few days in comparatively few months
of the year.
To continue would be tiresome. The
policy, evidently, has been Sydney first,
last and all the time, and to hell with
the country.— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Scientific Jargon
As a practical farmer, I have a great
respect for the work being done on
behalf of men like myself by scientific
chaps; but some of them will talk and
write in a jargon which is utterly incom-
prehensible to men like me.
I was one of a party which attended
a lecture on pasture establishment and
management. The speaker knew his job,
and we learned a lot. But he kept refer-
ring, among other things, to a native
pasture plant called “danthonia.” On
the way home my two neighbors dis-
cussed this plant, and both said that they
didn’t know it. By chance I was able to
inform them what its common name is.
“Then why couldn’t he call it wallaby
grass?” they exclaimed.
I have before me a publication which
is supposed to aid us in identifying
noxious weeds. Just listen to how they’re
described: “Greyish stellate tormen-
tum leaves ovate irregularly pin-
nate .... Inflorescence cymose but ap-
pearance racemose....” But why go on?
The museums have given scientists a
lead in matters of this kind. The move-
ment started in America, where the direc-
tor of an institute happened to see an
old farmer and his wife looking at a case
of grasshoppers, and overheard the man
say, “Goodness me, Mother, just look at
what these fellows call an old grass-
hopper!” That set the director thinking ;
and thereafter every specimen was given
an explanatory label as well as a scien-
tific one, and all other museums have
copied the idea. — Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
The Fodder Problem
Along with development of fodder-
conservation in pastoral areas (B.
17/1/’4O), and with the prevention, of
erosion and further destruction of feed-
herbage, should go the reintroduction of
native grasses in more densely settled
areas from which they have been almost
entirely removed by senseless over-
stocking.
One plan that has been suggested is the
Setting aside of a certain proportion of
all lands as seed reservoirs. These areas
would not be stocked; native grasses
would be encouraged to grow on them,
and the seed would scatter from them to
the stocked areas. In time, perhaps,
many areas would return to their origi-
nal fertile state —so fertile, indeed, that
today it is almost impossible to imagine
it.
On the Adelaide plains and in the Wil-
lunga district of S.A., for instance, fodder
grasses of a hundred years ago grew
horse-high. Today, in the same areas,
grass of more than knee-height is rare.
Indeed, on the Adelaide plains almost
the only spot where native grasses are
to be found is in the West Terrace Ceme-
tery, Adelaide —comment enough in itself
on our policy of unthinking destruction
of valuable indigenous herbage.— lan
Mudie (S.A.).
Home
Modern girls imagine everything inside
a home is dull and monotonous routine,
while outside there are adventure and
freedom. It’s a pity that they don’t real-
ise that inside the home is the only place
where there is true liberty. Home is the
only place where you can alter arrange-
ments and do completely as you will. In
the world you can’t go about trying out
some whim or fancy or experimenting
with some idea. As G. K. Chesterton
once wrote, “Home is the one wild place
in a world of rules and set tasks.” —
Sheila Ryan (Vic.).
Canned Music
So “Anither” (B. 3 /1 /’4O) would rather
have the canned stuff. Well, I can re-
member the old-fashioned musical even-
ings, certainly without Mr. Gladstone,
but with a mother playing every
kind of music and everyone join-
ing in and having fun. Certainly
we had a few exhibitionists, but if
they got any further than the first verse
they were pretty lucky. And, what is
more, I’m willing to bet “Anither” that, if
he is game to put it to the test these days,
the sing-song round the piano would win
by a mile. Let him take his radio and
about 20 young people into one room and
put someone else at a piano with a song-
book in another. Inside five minutes
“Anither” would be the sole survivor. By
all means use the radio, but use it care-
fully, otherwise it will develop the same
kind of expression that we see on those
neurotics who use the talkies three times
a week. — Efftee (Vic.).
Henry Lawson Broadcasts
To “Eureka” (B. 24/l/’4O), who
wonders why the works of Henry
Lawson have not been adapted for radio,
I would point out that they have. If
“Eureka” had listened in to national
stations during the past 18 months or so
he would have heard a round dozen of
Lawson stories, all adapted by Edmund
Barclay. Here in Westralia these have
been among the most popular broadcast
plays, outstanding among them being
“Send Round the Hat,” “Telling Mrs.
Baker” and “Past Carin’.” — Henry’s
Ghost (W.A.).
Australian Films
There was one brancn of Australian
film production that certainly showed no
signs of infantile paralysis (B. 31/1/ ’4O),
yet the splendid box-office possibilities
were not exploited—in S.A. at any rate.
I refer to the Frank Hurley films of about
a decade ago, particularly his “South-
ward Ho! with Mawson.”
This great film was shown in Adelaide
at about the same time as an American
effort op the same subject. The Hurley-
Mawson product was streets ahead of its
rival in photography, entertainment and
educational value and general appeal.
But the Government-owned Australian
gem was available to the S.A. public for
one solitary week at a city cinema, while
the inferior imported film had an ex-
tended city season, many suburban
screenings and a life in the country towns
as well. It was carried on a wave of in-
tensive advertising and propaganda that
would have more truthfully fitted the
home product.
Hurley’s studies of life in the northern
tropical waters had a better go, but
would more than repay a revival. Where
are these splendid films now, and why
can’t they be brought out of the archives?
The schools may, or may not, have had
the benefit in the interim, but why not
the public which would like some relief
from imported mediocrity?— Peter Pen-
guin (S.A.).
Laugh at Them
Hollywooden inanities have often
stirred a self-righteous “0.F.M.” scribe
to white-hot rage, but I’m slinging a
bouquet now for the latest Garbo opus,
“Ninotchka.” Besides being a rare rib-
tickler, the film is the best bit of anti-
Red propaganda I’ve come across to
date.
You can denounce a creed so heartily
that you stir the faithful to even greater
enthusiasms yet leave the all-important
man-on-the-fence still undecided. But
hold the ideal up to ridicule, and nothing
will sting the faithful so much or win
over the odd man. After “Ninotchka”
I can’t see myself walking down Pitt-
street of a May Day holding a banner
decorated with a picture of the grim-
jowled Stalin. And there’ll be a good
many more who’ll see the film and
think along similar lines. — Bungarrer
(N.S.W.).
School Textbooks
The opening of the school year has
brought N.S.W. parents the expense of new
textbooks, for ever since the depression the
department has ceased to provide them.
Some schools have instituted a scheme
whereby, on payment of a moderate fee,
a pupil may hire the necessary books for
a year, and this seems to work well. But
in many schools very little consideration
seems to be given to the problem. Parents
must either bear the total cost or their
children are at a serious disadvantage.
Moreover, apart from those books
which are prescribed for the public
examinations, the choice rests with indi-
vidual teachers, and schools (even classes
of the same grade in the one school)
differ greatly in their selection. One class,
for instance, preparing for high school
entrance, will use Scholarship English,
another The Open Door to Primary Final
English ; one class studies Spaull’s history,
another that by Currey. In every sub-
ject there is similar diversity, so that it is
impossible for one member of a family
to make use of the books bought for his
older brother or sister.
Supervision by the headmaster, failing
direction from the department, would at
least standardise the books within a
school, and avoid the necessity for each
member of a family to buy a complete
new set of books at the beginning of
every year. —E. J. B. (N.S.W.).
Country Doctors
This sympathy for tne allegedly un-
fortunate medico who must be guaran-
teed £lOOO p.a. before he will deign to
set up in rural practice leaves me as cold
as it does “I. M. Patient” (B. 24/l/’4O).
An appalling lot of tripe has been
written and talked about the high cost of
getting established in medicine. But the
capital involved is not as much as the
average storekeeper requires before he
can commence dispensing groceries in
most country towns. And how many
stores show their proprietors £lOOO p.a.
cold profit? Yet they are absolutely
essential to the community.
How many chartered accountants in
even large towns are making £lOOO p.a.?
Yet their education has cost nearly as
much as that of any Bachelor of Medi-
cine. Most of them are quite satisfied
with £6OO to £BOO p.a. And how many
country lawyers in the smaller towns
knock out £lOOO p.a.? Ninety per cent,
of them are university men, and it has
cost them every whit as much as any
country medico to get established. As
far as grey matter in the skull is con-
cerned, my impression is that the Law has
it all over Medicine.
The plain cold facts of the case are
that lads decide to be doctors chiefly
for three reasons —bettering their social
position, they are attracted by the extra-
ordinarily high incomes and lives of
comparative leisure of many of the front-
rankers, and they want to be their own
boss. Just to save an argument, I shall
add that I spent 10 years managing
country banks, and know something of
the incomes of the professions quoted,
and what bush stores can and do make,
and how much is usually tied up in them.
A small percentage of doctors do qualify
to be of service to humanity regardless
of the cost to themselves. But that per-
centage is mostly found holding the fort
in wayback towns, attached to missions,
or in some similar capacity, quite happy
with £5OO to £6OO p.a. if they ever get
that much. Most of them don’t. — Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
Trinity of Tomfoolery
Characteristic of this day and age,
there are three phrases which make me
tired.
First, “My opinion is as good as
anyone else’s.” You will easily recognise
the bird whose characteristic call this is.
His textbook is the sporting column, his
encyclopaedia the picture paper. He has
never read a book, and boasts about it,
and yet is to be heard loudly raising his
voice on every question and at all times.
In an argument he is continually shifting
his ground. He disputes axioms, and
always refuses to admit any point scored
against him. Consequently a discussion
with him soon degenerates into a vulgar
brawl.
Second, “I have an open mind on
the question.” This is generally spoken
braggingly, as though an open mind were
something to boast about. It isn’t. The
open mind, consistently kept open, only
becomes a hold-all for stray and un-
related facts, so crowded in as to leave
no room for ideas or convictions, or
any original or decided opinions. The
function of the mind is not to accept
every idea presented to it, but to be
capable of weighing all of them and
rejecting the false or fallacious. To the
possessor of an open mind there is
nothing either absolutely good or abso-
lutely bad in life, for he always feels
that there is something to be said on
both sides, and consequently can give
no assistance in any public question. If
you mentioned abolishing the white slave
traffic to him he would be sure to deplore
the consequent loss of employment. An
open mind is a synonym for intellectual
uselessness.
Third, “Good luck to him if he can
get away with it,” or its sneering variant,
“Well, what would you do if you had his
chances?” This is a good illustration of
the common belief that mere cleverness,
even when dishonest, is to be com-
mended. It has a corollary in the atti-
tude toward a good-hearted or generous
man that he is a “mug” and a fool, and is
to be taken down when possible.
The foregoing are not in any order of
merit. — Anither (Q.).
It Can Happen
Scene, railway station 15 miles from
Perth (W.A.). The 9.30 arrives. Disem-
bark one carpenter with kit of tools, one
stout gentleman with superior air. Stout
gentleman (obviously a foreman railway-
man) palavers a space with station-
master, then beckons carpenter and both
move over in direction of station gate.
Carpenter laboriously opens kit of tools
and produces one hand-drill, one screw-
driver and one gate-latch. Stout gentle-
man, hands in pockets, supervises
operations with a bored air. Five
minutes’ work. Carpenter replaces tools
in kit and, accompanied by stout gentle-
man, wanders back to platform to await
the 11.30 to headquarters. Well, some-
body’s got to have a good job.—Rail-
way Snap (W.A.).
Suburban Bushfires
Except in the inner suburbs, where
everything but the front lawn is con-
creted, every town and city has areas
where dry undergrowth and inflammable
grass accumulate dangerously. Nobody
with first-hand knowledge of fires will
dispute the absolute necessity for burn-
ing this rubbish off in the spring of each
year, thus relieving householder and fire
brigade alike from unnecessary night-
mares throughout the following summer.
Try anything of the kind in practice,
and the very neighbors who are being
protected raise Cain and bellow about
risk of damage to their houses and
fences, not to mention enough threat-
ened writs to paper a wall. As they
cannot be expected to know if the fire-
lighter is competent to control his handi-
work, such an attitude is understandable
enough.
The difficulty seems to lie, in the Ma
State, in the drafting of the Careless Use
of Fire Act, governing burning-off, as
administered by councils. Its provisions
are clear and reasonable to all parties,
but unfortunately apply only to rural
conditions. Closely-settled districts can-
not comfortably adapt the Act to their
requirements.
What is needed is an addendum
covering the condition outlined. Of
many possibilities, there might be clauses
authorising nuisance inspectors to order
burning-off of dangerous areas under
adequate supervision or other safeguard;
insurance companies might be empowered
to insist upon or carry out the needed
work before writing business; or the
whole matter might be appropriately en-
trusted to the Fire Commissioners. The
main thing is that something definite
should be done. As things are, the care-
ful and the careless alike are exposed
to a common danger from which indi-
vidual effort cannot free them. —C. M.
(N.S.W.).
Unequal Pay
Much has been written about equal
pay for the same work as regards the
different sexes, but it is time something
was said about equal pay for the same
work as regards different ages.
In our office there is a girl of 15 who
is holding down a responsible senior
position. Originally she was not in-
tended to do so, but the firm, finding she
was so competent, gave her a job which
had previously been held by a gin
of 25. The 15-year-old lass is doing the
work even better than her predecessor,
but she is getting only 225. 6d. a week,
whereas the other girl was paid £2 15s.
People should be paid for the work
they do, not because they are a certain
age.— Roberta (S.A-).


#
Bilious
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling!
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
Dr. Morse’s
It
§
I
dsf
PILLS
SUNBURN
Relieved by
Mirpil
Sunburn and Windbum. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ds
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(<Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson
Banjo Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers. ,
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National .-oifi
Brian
Character.
500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage M
sd. extra).
s®
0°
e
<$ e '
\\&
*&*****
..* .♦* ,CvO e «^ v
*<-* ...•••■


Australia’s Most Progressive
Life Assurance Institution—
Xshe A.C.A.
THE COMPANY THAT GIVES THE BIGGEST FIRST YEAR'S BONUS
Regular and satisfactory
bonuses —they commenced
to flow from surpluses well
earned within a decade of
formation, a remarkable
achievement have long
since won this 18-year-old
the increasing confidence of
the assuring public, plainly
evident from the doubling
(almost) of premiums gath-
ered over the last five years.
The business now spreads
throughout N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland, S. Australia and
Westralia, and as it expands
so does the outlook for
both share- and policy-
holders brighten.
—“The Bulletin,” 31 /if 40.
\tw
5 JS®4
m
mm
m
'f
M
m SIT %
S ] 'A.M wm&L • l
m i
|x j [ES pi *J/ jwj rji ;
; pOTflk-t
■ kJ {rwl ■
i->., Iff iiilkMMiJ
/; fv|LL i ■ £Sf fill•• i f r
Itu, \\n
i
r
SMB
kv ii
iiffl
lii pill
r* ■ m
'i. ?- I
I ffl
iMife
If (Ml
TiJftif, |
&£ Lj i
41
IS J!
iff#
H; «
-
f f I ?i'
kM *ht=
> nij. ,
mm ,
Rtn :
M y -|
Wm !
I r : l
f( m
i k
te*f
nwi
W m
: a. r? ?«
S ku
Wi
m
cl!
kj a* ?i Ll ■' r-i s r^fr
S 3
-t
■ ■•... ..
Wff
v
Wk
DO YOU KNOW ? ? ?
That if a man aged 30 years
next birthday effects an Endow-
ment Assurance Policy for £lOO
with the ‘‘A.C.A.” for a term of
15 years, his investment will
yield a return of £l2 7 15 s.
(based on the present rate of
bonus) for a yearly outlay of
£6 i Is. 1 Od.
That if the same man opens a
Savings Bank account and
deposits the same yearly amount
of £6 11s. 1 Od. his investment
will yield £llB 4s. (based on
the preseru rate of interest) at
the expiration of 15 years.
That in addition to returning
an investment yield of 3 p.c.
compound interest the “A.C.A.”
policy provides for a payment
of £ 100 plus foonuses in the
event of death.
That if this man effects a
Whole-of-Life Policy for £ 100
with the A.C.A.” he will pay
an annual premium of £2 Bs. 6d.
and will receive an annual rever-
sionary bonus of £2 3 ss. (based
on present rates).
That the “A.C.A.” has
assurance contracts to suit all
requirements, and will be
pleased to send a representative
to discuss your needs with you.
A.C.A. BUILDING, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
A.C.A. BUILDING, 118-126 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
C. A. ADAMS, Resident Secretary.
WARWICK HOUSE, ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
B. MURPHY, Resident Secretary.
BRANCH OFFICES:
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
PARINGA BUILDING, 13 HINDLEY STREET, ADELAIDE.
F. C. LOCK, Resident Secretary.
A.C.A. BUILDING, 270-272 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
R. F. McHUGH, Resident Secretary.
DISTRICT OFFICES & AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE STATES.
