

“THE UNIT OF ENERGY ”
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
e
• >r jlr
. t 1
. ;!«*• i
jl/ili' !■ “f ' t
lilliillllli
. '■
M
*SK&J!
n
-.a
■.>vi;
g§ || I
K ! -| ■'!
iittii ■: ■
HI!
mr •• '
f , . j
. '4‘ 1 /\
!. I kw A
£v»»
#|l
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPART-
MENTS, AND SUPPLIED
EXCLUSIVELY TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS
—FOR EIGHTH CONSECU-
TIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for 11
years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES :
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
—DISTRIBUTION & SERVICE —
NSW-; ERG BATTERIES PTY,, LTD.,
156 Gou_lburn Street, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD,,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
Q’LAND: NATIONAL ELECTRIC PTY., LTD.,
224 Roma Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIA :ERG DISTRIBUT ORS, LAUNCESTON;
\SMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART,
NEW CALEDONIA: HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
NEW ZEALAND: BATTERY EQUIPMENT
MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND S.E.I.
FIJI: ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES Pty., Ltd.,
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone, MA 6188 (3 lines).
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/' Vol. 61. —No, 3165.
Wednesday, October 9, 1940.
The Japanese Puzzle
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Commercial Ar'
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of your
Home—Study Course in COMMERCIAL ART, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Same
My Address
S.B. 440
The Red Page
BEWARE OF REALISM.
In From These Roots (Cape, 1938), her
interesting study of the seedbed from
which many trends in modern English
and American literature have sprung,
Mary M. Colum says that developments
welcomed enthusiastically in Paris in 1890
arrived in New York about 1930. Had
she known anything of Australian litera-
ture, she might have added that some of
our literary practitioners and many of
our literary and social theorists, taking
their lead from America, are flogging
horses that have been dead for half a
century. That is one of the penalties of
cultural isolation.
There is little doubt that the strongest
trend in modern Australian fiction is
realism. It is equally true that this realism
has its roots in French nineteenth-century
naturalism, the creative naturalism of Bal-
zac, Flaubert, De Maupassant, even Zola,
which gave rise to the greater creative
naturalism of Dostoevski, Turgenev and
Tolstoy, and filtered into English litera-
ture through George Moore, Samuel
Butler and Arnold Bennett. Mrs. Colum
is not quite accurate in assuming that the
realistic trend did not reach America until
1930 ; but she is right if she means that
a powerful creative impulse, which ex-
hausted its virtues in the hands of a few
giants, reached America in a particularly
debased form during the late ’twenties and
the ’thirties. In this form it has since
begun to affect Australian writers.
The decay began with Zola, who, in-
spired by the socio-liter ary criticism of
Sainte-Beuve and Taine and adversely
affected by the social theories of Marx
and Lassalle, turned the novel into a
documentation of society, and into an
attempt to isolate the animal in man. The
De Goncourts, too, began to exploit the
proletariat as literary material in an
attempt to escape the increasing banality
of middle-class existence. The Parisian
proletariat of the late nineteenth century
was sufficiently exotic to make it the type
for succeeding proletarian writers and the
revolutionary hope of Marx and Engels.
The lowest common moral and intellec-
tual denominator became, paradoxically
enough, not only accepted as the working-
class norm, but the hope of a new and
better world- The Zolaesque realism
dabbled in the muck which collects at the
bottom of every community and, in
almost the same breath, proclaimed
romantic nonsense about the virtues, wis-
dom, natural culture and political sagacity
of the masses.
To condemn the debased form of
realism and to reject its influence here
does not revive the stupid, unreal wrangle
between realism and romanticism. Initially
and in their pure form both are literary
movements of fertilising power. In fact,
they are two sides of the humanistic
upsurge which displaced the classic stylism
of the eighteenth century. The roman-
ticists asserted thd uniqueness of man,
and flaunted his possibilities in life ; the
realists proclaimed his fellowship with his
species and with the earth that bore him.
Debased romanticism fills every lending
library with tall, handsome lovers and
sweet, pure heroines. But those who
thunder not unjustly against such litera-
ture of escape forget that realism can
become equally debased, and escape from
the individual to the mass or from the
normal to the abnormal.
It is significant that today best-sellers
are as often “realistic” as “romantic.”
American readers give millions to the
author of The Grapes of Wrath as well
as to the author of Gone with the Wind.
No sneer is intended at either book, both
of which are competent, intelligent work
in their own genre, but the stuff of litera-
ture is more than this. These books lack
the imaginative communication with the
possibilities and the realities of existence
which make great novels.
The realistic novel came to Australia
fairly soon after the initial impulse began
in France. Perhaps the first and greatest
realist in the new manner
was Henry Handel Richard-
son, whose The Getting of
Wisdom appeared in 1910.
Hers was realism against
a poetically-conceived background to
everyday life. The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony is realism which does not dis-
parage spiritual values but discloses
what happens to potentially good human
material if values are not provided by
society. The social criticism of The For-
tunes of Richard Mahony is subtle,
general and specific to Australia.
Henry Lawson, of course, was also a
realist, but one who found his inspira-
tion in real life as he saw it and not in
the theories of Taine, Zola or Marx. Tom
Collins, Dowell O’Reilly and Steele Rudd
were all, in their own way, realists, as
were Miles Franklin (essentially if not in
detail) and Louis Stone. Katharine
Prichard is realist in theory and romantic
at heart. One of her best and most
realistic books, The Wild Oats of Han,
she probably dislikes the most. In
Coonardoo there is some of the best
writing and most unreal “realism” in Aus-
tralian literature.
The best realists, Australian as well as
European, understand that realism is only
one way of looking at life. They have
not claimed, as the debased realists claim,
the exclusive dominance of realism as a
literary virtue. But the tendency in Aus-
tralia today, among those who have any
interest in literature as an art rather than
a trade, is to swallow whole theories of
the relationship between art and society
which originated with Madame de Stael,
rose to their creative height with Sainte-
Beuve and Taine, and descended to ludi-
crous levels with Engels, Trotsky, Lenin
and a host of neo-Marxian scribblers.
Lacking a broad national culture, Aus-
tralia, like America, needs a vigorous
literature of social criticism to awaken
Australians into cultural pride and
national activities besides material pro-
duction and sporting excellence. But the
social criticism which levels itself
exclusively at the “ruling class” is bound
to misfire. Our spiritual and cultural
poverty is far more deep-seated than that.
It is a matter of the inner life of mind and
spirit and has nothing to do with political
opinions or class divisions.
N. BARTLETT.
Rape, Murder and Tears.
That good novelist Ernest Raymond
once wrote a story about a murderer,
We, the Accused. He took a typical
suburban Little Man tied to a nagging,
malingering wife for whom he had, with
every justification, lost all feeling except
some compassion and a vague regret.
The Little Man became friendly with
another woman, fell gradually in love
with her, and at length, with many mis-
givings, she became his mistress.
He began to long to be free from his
wife. When she fell ill, he was horrified
to find himself wishing she would die.
He read of a case similar to his own
where the husband poisoned the wife
with weed-killer. The Little Man tried
to put the case out of his mind. His mis-
tress, unable to bear the humiliations of
an “affair,” left him ; his wife found out
about her and made the husband’s life
a misery. Then she fell ill again, with
symptoms not unlike those of arsenical
poisoning. The gardener had been using
weed-killer. The nice Little Man got
drunk on brandy and did what subcon-
sciously he had been planning to do for
months —poisoned his wife. There fol-
lows one of the most powerful narratives
in recent fiction —a manhunt, the capture
and trial of the Little Man, scenes in the
condemned cell, the executioner greeting
him with a cheerful “good morning,”
and finally the execution in all its pitiful
detail.
Because Raymond wanted to attack
capital punishment, the Little Man is
slightly sentimentalised. But the portrait
is fundamentally accurate, the final
scenes terribly moving, and both the
sociological statement and the fictional
drama are powerfully made without the
novelist’s once calling in the aid of
brutality or. sadism. The illicit relation-
ship is depicted tenderly and naturally as
a love-affair ; the wife’s death is described
as it happened, but instead of dwelling
on her agony the novelist passes on to
the husband’s immediate remorse.
This is an exc ople of a good realistic
novel. There is a perfect example of the
debased realism attacked in Mr. Bartlett’s
article to hand in an American version
of Ernest Raymond’s novel —Native Son,
a best-seller by Richard Wright, reprinted
by Angus and Robertson.
Native Son has much the same struc-
ture as We, the Accused —murder, man-
hunt, trial; the last page shuts with a
clang just before its negro hero is
electrocuted. It holds the interest, of
course. In newspapers, magazines or
novels that theme is invariably success-
ful. But between the handling of the two
stories is all the difference between good
health and morbidity, between the clear
stream of understanding and the gutter
of brutal sensationalism. From the
literary point of view, what is important
is that Native Son, for all its naked
horrors, is less moving than We, the
Accused in its typically English restraint.
Wright’s story is of a negro who, in a
state of drunken sexual excitement,
further inflamed by fear of discovery,
murders a white girl whom he was on the
point of raping. When he has smothered
her with a pillow he packs her body into
a trunk and carries it downstairs to a
furnace. The body won’t fit in to the
furnace, so he cuts off its head with a
knife and hatchet. All this is described
in the most bloody detail.
The next day the negro stokes the
furnace hard, and develops a plot to
extort money from the girl’s parents, his
employers, by pretending that she has
been kidnapped. Bessie, his black mistress
—“he had to have a girl, so he had
Bessie” —is forced to become his accom-
plice. Reporters find the bones of the
murdered girl in the ashes from the fur-
nace, and the negro goes into hiding with
his Bessie in a deserted building. When
he has raped Bessie —for she is no longer
complaisant—he bashes her head in with
a brick:
He lifted the brick again and again, until
in falling it struck a sodden mass that
gave softly but stoutly to each landing
blow. Soon he seemed to be striking a wet
wad of cotton, of some damp substance
whose only life was the jarring of the
brick’s impact. He stopped, hearing his
own breath heaving in and out of his chest.
Thinking the black girl was dead, he
threw her down an airshaft, but, it was
afterwards disclosed at the trial, she
wasn’t dead. She tried vainly to climb
out of the shaft and eventually froze to
death.
There is nothing in this bare outline
of the story to differentiate it from the
Yankee horror magazines. But Wright
purports to be writing a sociological
novel, and the negro’s crimes are ex-
plained on Marxist lines as being due to
his environment and to the negro’s lack
of opportunity in the white man’s world.
His background is one of squalid poverty,
perpetual disappointment and petty
crime. His employer is a millionaire
who tries to do good for the blacks but
goes little further than making futile
donations of ping-pong tables to negro
clubs. The girl is a Communist who
treats the negro as an equal, but he has
been so conditioned by his life that he
can’t respond, can’t understand even,
and hates her more than he hates the
ordinary white. At the trial the negro is
defended free of charge by a Jew-
Communist lawyer, who tries to have his
sentence reduced to life imprisonment on
the ground that society at large is
responsible for his state of mind and the
crimes that resulted from it. At the
end, the negro sees his two murders in
a rosier light than even the lawyer (Max)
cares to admit:
“I didn’t want to kill!” Bigger shouted.
“But what I killed for, I am! It must’ve
been pretty deep in me to make me kill!
I must have felt it awful hard to murder.”
Max lifted his hand to touch Bigger
but did not.
“No ; no, no .. . Bigger,, not that.. .”
Max pleaded despairingly . . .
“What I killed for must’ve been good!”
Bigger’s voice was full of frenzied anguish.
“It must’ve been good ! When a man kills,
it’s for something... I didn’t know I
was really alive in this world till I felt
things hard enough to kill for ’em . . . It’s
the truth, Mr. Max. I can py it now,
’cause I know I’m going to die. I know
what I’m saying real good and I know
how it sounds. But I’m all right. I
feel all right when I look at it that way.”
Which means, presumably, that even a
nigger who commits two ugly murders
and lj rapes has a heart of gold.
Dreiser never claimed that the boy
murderer of An American Tragedy
(who, caught in the toils of the laws
against abortion, was also driven to
crime by the “pressure of society”) was
a thwarted saint. Wright’s black martyr
is grotesquely sentimentalised.
However, it’s the book’s horrors, not
its politics, which will remain longest
with the reader. Steinbeck was the first of
the post-Hemingway sob-brothers to use
this Lefty formula of rape, murder and a
flood of sentimental tears at the end ;
an insignificant negro novelist, William
Attaway, was next with the bashings
and rapes and wistful weepings of Let
Me Breathe Thunder ; now there’s this
gem, written in the fashionable flat
journalese with sporadic gushes of purple,
crammed with long, stale lectures in
psycho-analysis and Marxist apologetics.
Native Son has collected a fine bouquet
of compliments from American critics
for its power, and power it certainly has ;
but there’s nothing clever in serving up
blood and guts piping hot. Any reporter
could describe a street accident that way
if he wanted to. Unless there’s some-
thing seriously wrong with the spirit of
America, these stink-lilies of rape and
murder are going to have a life as brief
as it is repulsive.
Poet Was Editorials.
Nicely made by the Bodley Head in an
edition limited to 500, Archibald Mac-
Leish’s America Was Promises is a lead-
ing article dressed up to look both
handsome and impressive. It says
America was always promises—promises
to Columbus, promises to the Pilgrim
Fathers, promises to the people by
American politicians, promises to the
countries under the shadow of Germany.
So America, sort of, is the Almighty’s
promise to mankind, and the Americans
had better hop in and do something
about it.
Good for Mr. MacLeish, Librarian of
Congress at Washington.
But the way he says it is not so
good. By putting a few plain statements
back to front, and by setting the editorial
out in lines of verse he has made it
look like a poem. Instead of saying
“There is Spain, Austria, Poland, China,
Bohemia. There are dead men in the pits
in all those countries. Their mouths are
silent, but they speak. They say ‘We
should live up to our promises,’ ” he puts
it like this:
There is Spain Austria Poland China Bohemia.
There are dead men in the pits in all those
countries.
Their mouths are silent but they speak. They
say
“The promises are theirs who take them.”
Leaving out the commas doesn’t turn
prose into poetry. Nor is poetry, as
MacLeish’s peroration would assert, a
matter of typographical bang-bang-bang:
America is promises to !
Take!
America is promises to
Us
To take them
Brutally
With love but
Take them.
O believe this!
MacLeish on pioneering in the States:
Man was to ride from the Tidewater: over
the Gap:
West and South with the Water: taking the
book with him:
Taking the wheat seed: corn seed: pip of
apple:
Building liberty a farmyard wide:
Breeding for useful labor: for good looks.
And Vachel Lindsay, who was a
poet, telling how his Johnny Appleseed
pioneered:
The chipmunk turned a “summerset”
And the foxes danced the Virginia reel;
Hawthorn and crab-thorn bent, rain-wet.
And dropped their flowers in his night-black
hair;
And his black eyes shone through the forest-
gleam,
And he plunged young hands into new-turned
earth,
And prayed dear orchard boughs into birth;
And he ran with the rabbit and slept with the
stream. ' .
And he ran with the rabbit and slept with the
stream.
And so for us he made great medicine,
And so- for us he made great medicine,
In the days of President Washington.
Tots for the Troops.
Maybe “tots” is too strong a word,
for it’s not easy to get the full richness
of rum into rhyme; but Kay Grant’s
lively verses in It’s ’Ard to Go Wrong
in the Suburbs (Angus and Robertson)
have just enough kick and just enough
of the flavor of what the wowser would
call impropriety to justify the compari-
son. Obviously the booklet is aimed at
the Army:
Pleese tuck me in, Sergeant Major,
Me palliasse is failin’ apart;
It only ’ad two strors to start with —
Now the dam thing’s just breakin’ me ’art.
There are observations on the mixture
that is coffee for breakfast and soup for
tea ; on the desirability of beer; on the
“hygiene bombardier”; and so on.
Whether or not the troops will like them
only the troops can say. They’re light,
bright, and only just redeemed from
doggerel by their neatness.
The verses in the vernacular are
labored. Better are the straightout risque
jingles on the themes of suburban re-
spectability and suburban reprehen-
sibility. Four lines from “How is Your
Appendix?”:
Thank you, I have no appendix, .
I lost it the usual way,
Thank you, I have no appendix,
I have no append!*; today!
Various draped and undraped illus-
trations are by Jean Cullen.
Kind Are Her Answers : Mary Renault
(Longmans, Green ; Moore’s Bookshop)-
Novel about a doctor who doesn’t !is e
his wife and does like a nice gel. “Sym-
pathetic” characters ; situations delicately
handled. Probably wouldn’t appeal to
professional wrestlers.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —plain facts, open dealing
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
■
:
m
mm
v- :
mm
mm
*
i
*
■
■
m
H
g HH
li
8 Gn. to 10 Gn. SUITINGS
E6ls'-
Special purchase of all wool super quality English and
Australian Suitings in smart new weaves and designs. Col-
ours of Greys, Blues, Browns and Greens. Tailored in our
usual thorough manner with pe-shrunk linings and inter-
linings. Personal attention given by our expert craftsmen
cutters. Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices, £B/8/-, £9/9/-,
£lO/10/-. SALE PRICE £6/15/-
Genuine
£priHf *
5/6 MEN'S WORK SHIRTS
Strong Work Shirts, made in our own
factory from, a reliable material. Black
and White stripe Oxford. Collar at-
tached, double sewn seams and pocket.
Size 14i to 18 inch. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 5/6. Sale Price, each 4/11
4ai
w
■ /
a
■m
,/ C U' ,\
' Tj
■ a
//
6/6 WHITE TENNIS SHIRTS
White mercerised twill Shirts with
collar attached and pocket. Double
sewn seams. Size 14i to 18 inch neck.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 6/6.
Sale Price, each
511
5/11
10/6 MEN'S PYJAMAS AT
A serviceable weight in these British
Poplin Pyjamas. Smart stripe designs,
square collar buttoning to neck or with
V sports collar. Sizes SM, Medium, and
OS. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
Price, pair
8 7 6
10/6.
Sale
8/6
e
3/3 POPLIN DRAWERS
Trunk Drawers of White
Poplin with elastic waist.
Will stand plenty of wear,
and quite a worthwhile re-
duction. Size 32 to 44 inch waist. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, 3/3. Sale, 2/11
8/6 Wool Underwear
Natural all pure wool Un-
derwear in light weight for
present wear. Nicely made
with soft finish. Undershirts
have short sleeves, and the Underpants
are full length. Sizes 34 to 44 chest or
waist. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
8/6. Sale Price, each S/6
6'6
211
Men's
Mercerv —Ground Floor, George Street.
in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Freight paid to all railway stations
Commonwealth.
• Men's Clothing and Tailoring-
-Cround Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway sattions in N.S.W,
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
★ Spring demands new /
SPORTS CLOTHES
69/6 SPORTS COATS
59'6
Buy now and save 10/-! Sports
Coats in handsome patterns and
colourings in new shades of Fawn,
Blue, Tan, Lincoln Green, Maroon.
Ideal for summer wear. Art. silk linings, pleated patch
pockets, and tailored or belted action backs. 57 differ-
ent fittings to fit men 9 to 19 stone. Anthony Horderns
Regular Price, 69/6. Sale Price, each 59/b
25/- SPORTS
1 S
6
fob,
tunnel loops, cuffed bottoms,
non-fray seams which are fea-
tures of these perfect slacks.
30 to 46 in. waists. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, 25/-.
Sale Price, pair 22/6
TROUSEI
/
Solid all
wool mid-
grey wor-
sted with
anale pockets
22
hip and
* * v
h
4
7
Pf
l(<
V
I VV ■ ' V*U / ;,
' _ ''V**
!«»«»


THE RECRUITING OF RICKI
BY CECIL MANN
h AAYBE it’s as true as they say that the bulk of
I y 1 the new A.I.F. have enlisted from more serious-
/ i minded motives than spurred early-comers
among the original Diggers. Still, many have
joined up in the old way and for the old reasons.
They have decided on the spur of the moment, on sud-
denly meeting a mate in uniform, or because the pull
of adventure had taken a sudden tug at them. They
have gone off to work, or to look for work, in the
morning, and finished up signing on for the duration
before lunch.
Even so, Ricki’s enlisting has some claims to be
considered impulsive.
An assessor with a proper sense of proportion
would take into the reckoning, first the slow, dragging
process of Ricki’s mentality, and next the still slower
tempo of Ricki’s lifelong environment. He would
need to know at first hand the even, unhurried rhythm
of its days and nights, of the tides in the river, of
life itself, as Ricki had unconsciously known these
things all through the level progress of his twenty-
five years. He would see Ricki at night standing, a
lone figure, far along the curve of the Twelve-mile
Beach, with one end of a jew-line in his hand and the
other end a hundred or more yards out through the
breakers; save for the sound of the surf, the brushing
of the wind, the twinkling of the stars, the sucking of
water over the pipis and crab-holes, the salt- and
heath-scented night at a dead standstill around him.
Or he would see Ricki lolling on one of Thompson’s
horses in a drift of dust, while Skipper did the real
work of shifting a mob of Thompson’s black poleys
out to the Grey Knob property or back from it to the
river paddocks.
And even without taking such things into account
the assessor could well add Ricki to the list of those
impulsive souls who rushed up to the barracks the day
war broke out, though, as a matter of fact, Ricki
enlisted only the other day.
j_l IS first personal contact with whatever exactly it
* * may be that Mars has in store for him did not
occur until the war was several months old. Then one
night he stood on the outskirts of the biggest crowd
the little town had known since the last war, and
heard the local member winning this war single-
handed.
The “Star” representative estimated those present
at “fully eight hundred.” Had he counted them pre-
cisely he would have left out Ricki and those standing
near him in the half-shadow beyond the crowd. When
the little town had its jubilee, there was a float
mounted on one of Stacey’s lorries bearing the legend
The Originals, and half a dozen potbellied and
spindle-shanked Binghis, naked but for swimming
trunks, had pranced on it with boomerangs and grass-
tree spears, the whitewash stripes on their bodies em-
phasising rather than disguising the fact that there
wasn’t a purebred among them. That was their one
moment of shining glory, and Ricki, being young and
having no exhibitionist Urge, wasn’t in it. But he had
had his own moments of glory.
There was the jewy that tipped the beam at 1201 b.
on Thompson’s pig-weigher. There was Pretty Annie ;
and, in this patch also, there was the fortune-teller
at the district show who told him he would get mar-
ried —a plurry fraud, that one; Pretty Annie, as fickle
as her parents both quite evidently had been, went and
lived with the overseer on the breakwater job. As
compensation, there was Skipper.
Ricki came across Skipper one day on the wharf
down at The Reach. Skipper was yelping puppy-
fashion, and the coastal boat he’d come ashore from
was heading down river to the sea. There was a small
collar on him, with a label addressing him to a cattle
station via a port further up the coast. Ricki threw
the label in the river and took the collar off, and
thenceforth they were man and dog together.
The tie might be said to have been stronger.
Blood native to the country ran in the veins of both
of them. In Ricki’s it went back tenuously to the
tribe that had hunted duck and possum and paddy-
melon in the cedar scrubs and ti-tree swamps, and
trapped fish up and down the twisting stream of the
river. Skipper, blue cattledog-kelpie cross, bore the
imprint of the preponderant blood of dingo ancestors.
There was class in Skipper; every line and movement
expressed it. Thompson had tried to buy him on
sight; others who knew a dog when they saw one
couldn’t understand such a beauty belonging to Ricki.
Ricki never enlightened them, and his prize wasn’t
for sale.
Skipper was with him on the evening the local
member won the war, but, for all the effect the
harangue had on Ricki, man and dog at his feet might
as well have exchanged skins. Ricki’s mind absorbed
only enough of the purport of it to hooray when the
crowd applauded and boo when it booed.
A S time passed on —if that is not too hurried an
*'• expression for it—soldiers on leave became a
common sight in the town’s business street, and the
School of Arts became a recruiting depot. Also, stand-
ing in the street at midday outside the three shops
that turned wireless sets on full blast for the war news
became the regular practice, Ricki often there along
with the rest. Whatever it may have been to the
more accredited citizenry, to Ricki all this was in the
way of entertainment. It was like lying on his back
near the hut out at Grey Knob watching flock pigeons
or a mob of duck flying through the dusk. They
would be too far away even for him to wish he had
a gun.
It should be said that no recruiting sergeant had
so far seriously approached Ricki, though under his
habitual, and dusty, gabardine trousers and grey
flannel shirt he was a fair enough specimen of man-
hood. He had played a rattling good game on the
three-quarter line. That was socially permissible, and
Ricki had accepted it as a matter of course, as he had
always accepted the status of semi-outcast in all other
respects, without either bitterness or humility: it meant
less to him than what being his dog meant to Skipper.
It was so, and so it was.
And then one night Destiny in person got behind
Ricki with a snare or two specially designed for him
and for nobody else on earth. When Ricki, having
done a day’s easy drafting, had turned Trump loose
and gone down to his humpy at the bottom of Thomp-
son’s Hill, there was no piece of liver there for Skipper.
The butcher had forgotten it, as butchers do, with
customers like Ricki.
Ricki was hungry himself, and after he’d eaten
his cold corned beef and bread, and thrown some
scraps which Skipper wolfed down, both of them were
still hungry. It would be exaggeration to say that
Ricki had a brainwave ; it just came to him as a
matter of course, without any thought at all, that at
this time of the year, with the school-jew in the river,
there would be someone fishing on Thompson’s wharf.
And as there would be someone fishing there would
be several well and truly cursed eels flung aside—
“Pais, friend —all's Well!”
“them ones roasted, best plurry feed in the world for
dogs.”
It was Arthur Jess fishing.
“Hullo, Ricki,” he said, turning a torch him.
“Like a fish? There’s a stingaree over there.”
“Got any heels?”
“What, d’y’ go the eels, Ricki? I’d rather eat
snake.”
“Want him for the dog, Mr. Jess. That butcher
forget him.”
“My word, Ricki, good job you’re not living over
there in Germany. Y’ know, I was reading in the
paper today that they’ve got orders from Hitler to
kill all their dogs.”
“What they kill ’em for, Mr. Jess?”
“No tucker to give them, Ricki. The paper
reckoned they’re goin’ to kill three million. Hey, get
to hell away from that bag, Skipper, blast you! Go
on, Ricki, there’s a couple of eels over there near
the pile.”
Ricki called Skipper away from the fishbag, and
groped for the eels. Dangling them in his hands, he
watched Arthur Jess’s darkly-silhouetted back for
several silent minutes. “Mr. Jess?” he said then.
“What, Ricki, didn’t you find them?”
“Heels? Yes, heels jake, Mr. Jess. That right,
those ones goin’t’ kill those dogs?”
“Too flamin’ right, Ricki. That’s Hitler for y\
He’d make you sit up if he came here, Ricki! He’d
make y’ work on the road, an’ he’d cut y’r dog’s
throat. He’s a proper stinkpot.”
Ricki struggled with’ this testimony at length
before pronouncing his verdict. There was a depth of
slow feeling in it. “That Hitler plurry murderer.”
A PUZZLED, hurt, worried Ricki made back to his
humpy and threw the eels on to the open fire. He
squatted down, as his remote forebears had done, and
turned Skipper’s grill on the coals with a stick. When
he judged one of them cooked, he tossed it across on
the grass, where the dog sniffed tentatively at it'
steaming promise. The other eel Ricki grilled longer.
He, too, had his gnaw of hunger to get rid of.
Picking a cut of it to pieces, blowing on it and
forking up the white flesh, he drove his slow thought
processes on a tortuous road to an ultimate, reluctant
decision. That Hitler no good. By cripes, he’d play
safe. Mr. Thompson own those steers by the plurry
t’ousand. Always tucker. Richest man on the river.
Halfway up the hill to Thompson’s residence
Ricki had reached another decision. Without Skipper
he’d have to come at some other work. He’d go
down to Flinder’s snapper-boat. This didn’t appeal
to him very much, but he’d tried his hand at it before,
and they’d take him all right. Anyway, it was a great
enough effort, coming on top of everything else, to
have thought of it at all.
Almost happy on account of that solution, he
went on up the hill, knocked on the back door, and
told old Beulah he wanted to see Mr. Thompson.
The richest man on the river came out rigged in
a rusty cardigan and patched trousers. “What is it,
Ricki?” he bellowed from the step.
“Well, y’ see, Mr. Thompson,” Ricki told him with
a little difficulty, “I like you to have this fella.”
“What’s that, Ricki? You’rre wantin’ me to hev
Skeeperr? Hoo much d’ye want fur him?”
“Don’t want nutthin’, Mr. Thompson. You have
him, you look after him. I’m goin’ ’way.”
“Huh,” Thompson said, bending down to make
sure Ricki hadn’t been on the pinkie. “An’ I sup-
pose ye’rr goin’ to enleest, Ricki?”
“By cripes, that’s it, Mr. Thompson,” Ricki de-
clared with instant conviction. He gave what Thomp-
son accepted as his considered reason, “That Hitler
a plurry stinkpot.”
They enticed Skipper into the kitchen, and Ricki
went down the hill to his humpy whistling. The sky
roofed the still night with a blaze of stars. There Was
no moon, but a faint run of light outlined the cleared
hill crests and the sentinel walls of trees around the
near and far horizon. Darkness blanketed the cattle
huddled asleep or standing in a doze about the flats.
Here and there about the benighted land stumps
glowed with smouldering fire and a distant window or
two were smail squares of light. All of this, and
scents of trees and earth and the occa-
sional cry of plover and squeaking call
of a redbill, left Ricki’s sensibilities un-
touched. A fanciful mind might have
imagined that Peace had come here for
; a refuge, but to Ricki it was no more
than his familiar world.
He stretched out, leaning on his
elbow, close to the fire, looking at the
coals. Presently beyond the glow he
saw the cattle-dog’s bright eyes fixed on
him.
“Here,” he said, “you go on run
home. You not my dog now, you kuow.


STAN
By DOUGLAS STEWART.
DROP the bait and take cover behind a shoulder
I of the ledge while Stan, first into the water as
usual, swings the sinker round his head. The
big swells go slap against the cliff and when
they rush back the green fragments look alive, milling
like a mob of cattle. There goes Harry’s line, and a
tangle as it goes. Can’t throw for nuts, old Harry.
Swing, swish, heave and away goes your own, and it’s
got Stan beat by a yard or two.
Gathering in the slack until the line’s tight and
you can feel the waves in it. Standing hand forward
ready to strike, expecting a bite straight away. You
always do it, Lord knows why. But you never know.
Maybe it’s their breakfast-time. The tide couldn’t
be better, right on the full, slapping away only twenty
feet below you. Sometimes when the water rushes
right back from the cliff, leaving a deep glassy valley,
the noise stops for a second ; then the next wave
comes up with a bang and the ledge shakes. The
water looks dark where the reef is, and then miles of
blue rollers with a few whitecaps. The mountain’s
hidden by the morning fog, but it’s clear to the north
—the white cliffs of Pukearuhe with the sun on them.
You feel a cramp in your back and straighten up.
Nothing much doing.
Isn’t there, though! Stan hasn’t said a word, but
he’s hauling in as hard as he can go, and there’s some-
thing decent on by the look of the line. Just like
Stan not to let on he had a bite. Trying to take us
by surprise.
You can see the fish swirl in the water, away
down. Not so big. A small snapper? No, a gur-
nard. Here she comes up the cliff, red back, white
belly.
First blood to Stan. He holds it up by the gills,
waves it round, pretending to skite. He probably is
skiting a bit, too. But he’s the goods all right. Nice
to see a bloke who knows how to fish and catches
them. Harry, now, he never gets a fish. Believe he’d
sooner clean ours for us than catch one himself.
Useless and happy.
Brightens things up to see a fish caught. You’re
keen again. Stan’s a bit of a pest coming up to cadge
some more bait just when you’re expecting a bite. Why
didn’t he take a supply the first time? That’s one
thing about old Harry, he always brings his own bait.
Seen him stop at Waitara and pick up a kahawai or a
stack of herrings from the Maoris by the blood-chute.
A bite? No, only the sinker shifting. There it is
again. You strike ; wait; strike hard as he bites again.
No good ; must be a little chap, another of Stan’s gur-
nards. He’s still at it. The line’s wet, the bit you’ve
hauled in.
That’s decent of Stan throwing Harry’s line out
for him. He tells Harry “That’s the way to do it,” and
then throws his own out again, right back where it was
before, where the gurnard are. Maybe Harry’d be
better off if he was straight out instead of over to the
left there. Still, anywhere ought to do.
Haul in and, sure enough, both baits gone.
Away she goes, and the same old expecting a bite
straight away, and after a while the same easing up.
Harry, sucking at his pipe, dangling his legs over the
ledge, not even holding his line. He’s tied it round a
nail and he’s yarning away to Stan.
There’s the mower coming round the side of the
hill, the old man shouting at the horse. “Git! Git!”
No rest for the farmers on Sunday.
“Where they all gone to, Stan? You must’ve got
the only fish in the sea.”
Egmont is showing up through the mist, the snow
still lying on the peak in February. The ranges, wild
country, spoil the mountain’s shape from this side.
Blue rollers and whitecaps all the way to New
Plymouth, breaking on beaches you can’t see—Waitara,
Bell Block, Fitzroy, oily Ngamotu. The waves smack
on the rock, explode into spray and Harry gets a
splash.
The old fool’s hauling in his line again. What
for? The baits must be all right.
Of course they are. He doesn’t even ask Stan
to help him this time. He bangs the sinker on the
rock. If it flies off it’ll hit Stan a hell of a crack.
What a throw! Now he’ll be happy, with a really
good tangle to fumble about with, and his line almost
plonk at the foot of the cliff.
A long time since anything happened. Every
time after the old man riding the mower has shouted
at the horse “Whoa, there! Whoa! ” it seems to be
quieter than before. A lark climbs up and sings over
the sea.
Stan, you’re a beauty! A real wag. Livens it up
to have a chap like that on a fishing trip. Poor old
Harry doesn’t know what’s struck him. Stan creeps
up behind him while he’s snoozing off theri and jerks
his line. Harry nearly falls into the sea. Thinks it’s a
fish, of course, gives a yell and jumps to his feet. “A
whopper,” was it, Harry? Never a squeak out of
Stan. Just that little grin at the corners of his mouth.
Harry spots it and looks a goat. He laughs and sits
down again ; lies down, turns his back on us ; pretends
to go to sleep. Maybe he’s a bit grumpy. But he’ll
get over it; good sport, Harry. It was funny to see
him jump.
Take Stan, now, nobody would ever catch Stan
napping that way. Remember that time we tin-canned
Anderson, and the skinflint only ordered a dozen
of beer for the lot of us,
and Stan slips off to the
pub and gets a nine-gallon
keg and charges it up to
Anderson. Laugh! He’s
a wag all right.
STAN has brought a
cold boiled fowl for
lunch, and we bring the
beer. The sun is high and
we have to squat against
the cliff for a bit of shade.
Water is drip-dripping
from the blue clay into
a basin of tiny white
pebbles. Each drop trickles
through a beard of slimy
stuff, hangs at the end for
a second, then splashes on
to the pebbles.
The tide is running
out and cross-currents*
meet and swirl over the
reef. In the hollow be-
tween the cliff and the
rocks —you can see their
shapes now, very dark —
the water is full of sand.
Harry, leaving his line set,
goes off up the steps cut
in the cliff to have a sleep
in the grass. Stan’s flat
out on the rock. Wearing
only his shorts, he looks
hard and fit, brown as a
berry. Keeps himself in
good nick for forty-five.
His hair’s going grey, but
his face is so brown you
hardly notice it. A face
all crinkles and wrinkles
like a clown. A long nose,
a long lower jaw, like a
dog’s. A hard face, when
you come to look at it
close. When he’s relaxed
like this, the corners of
his mouth, where the grin
comes, look tired. Maybe
Stan has his worries, too.
The sea rough and yellow over the reef, a rock
sticking its head out. Clouds sailing. It’s warm and
sleepy. They’re still working on the hill and that’s
the boy riding the mower. That one-armed kid who
comes down fishing sometimes. That’d be the life, a
farm running down to the sea and your own fishing
ledge to come to when you knock off. Wonder the old
man never comes down. But the kid’s as keen as mus-
tard, and a good fisherman, too ; wonderful with that
stump of an arm. The waves are breaking on the
strip of black sand at the foot of the cliff now. They
crash. This is the life all right, lying back on the
rock with a line in your hand, half asleep. Fishing
of a Sunday with your mates and all your troubles
fifty miles away. Low tide and you can smell the
seaweed.
Harry comes out of his dugout like a bear waking
up from the winter, Stan baits up and chucks well out
on to the reef, and we all have another beer. The
sun, still high, has moved into the west and the tide’s
on its way in again. We get interested in the fishing.
Stan throws out for Harry, hardly further than the old
boy could do himself; just heaves it in anyhow as if
it didn’t matter where it goes. It’s hardly hit the water
before Harry’s yelling “Got him!” He hauls at his
line as if he’s got New Zealand on the other end. A
snapper, and a beauty. Harry fools about with it,
pleased as a kid, touching it with his boot to make
it flap on the rock. We both sling off at him, and Stan
picks the fish up by the tail and pretends to throw it
into the sea.
The one-armed boy comes down the steps and
nods when we say good day. Never talks, that boy.
Thin face, dark hair, thin body ; wears faded dungarees
and an old coat too big for him, one sleeve pinned
back at the elbow. He wastes no time coiling and
baiting his line. Eel he’s using, by the look of it.
He swings the line smoothly and throws easily. It
fairly sizzles out, yards further than Stan’s best.
A bite. Again. Got him! A nice fat snapper,
too. They’re coming about again.
The boy’s got one! See him pulling it in, pulling
with his right hand, then holding the line against his
chest with his stump while he takes another grip.
Quick as greased lightning.
His line’s out again. Everybody’s excited. A
breeze is coming up and the water slaps hard on the
cliff. The sea is ruffled, the sun’s beginning to color it.
The boy’s got another!
Stan’s looking as if he’d like to jump in after them,
and even old Harry’s sitting up and taking notice. Not
a bite among the three of us and the boy’s hauling
them in as hard as he can go. Must be that extra
few yards. Stan’s got the same notion and he’s whizz-
ing the sinker round his head as if he wants to throw
to Australia. He gets it darn near as far as the boy.
Another! The kid’s uncanny.
Stan cadges a bit of eel off him. Might be that
that’s doing it, but the trout ought to be just as good.
“The mistress's compliments, sir, and could she have half a crown
to go to the pictures ?”
Can’t tell me that the snapper lie there waiting for a
bit of eel. The boy knows the exact possie, that’s
what it is.
You’d think it was hurting him to catch them,
or it’s just a job. Not a word out of him and he hasn’t
even got a grin on. Takes them off his hook and
shoves them in his sack and throws out again as serious
as if he was digging spuds. But it’s slowing up for
him, too ; he sits down and rolls a cigarette. Must’ve
been in a shoal.
Egmont’s showing up very clear ; it looks close
with the sunlight on the snow. There’s a nip in the
wind. Stan’s sitting hunched up, glum, and Harry’s
gone to sleep again. Anyhow, the pipe tastes good
and it’s an hour yet before we have to go home. Time
seems to be racing. Streaks of yellow on the backs
of the rollers and the spindrift colored like sparks.
Wish you’d brought an overcoat.
What the hell’s Stan up to? Ssh! Pointing to
the boy, who’s resting his chin on his hand,
staring at the waves. Stan tiptoeing over the rock
behind the boy. Got to put your hand over your
mouth to stop laughing. Stan sneaks up to the boy’s
sack, pinches a snapper, tiptoes over to his own bag
and shoves it away safe. That’s one more we’ll take
home tonight, anyhow. Harry’s got his snapper, I’ve
got one, and Stan’s got something better than the
gurnard now: a feed all round. Make them laugh at
home when we tell them. Think of the look on the
kid’s face when he gets home and finds he’s a snapper
short. He can’t need all those. Might have offered us
one, as a matter of fact. Surly little beggar. What a
laugh!
The boy catches two more snapper before he
goes and none of us gets so much as a nibble. As
the kid is going up the steps Stan pulls out the snapper
. he collared and smacks it with his hand, pretending to
be a fishmonger auctioning it.
The boy looks lonely going up the cliff face. It’ll
be dark before he’s home. That coat too big for him,
and the sack of fish over his shoulder. The sack puts
him off his balance and he finds it awkward climbing
the cliff ; he steadies himself with his stump. Poor
little beggar. Suppose he’s too scared to talk to us ;
~shy country kid. A hard life, working all day and
coming down in the evening for a bit of fishing.
Blast Stan! What’d he want to pinch the kid’s
snapper for? Suppose he wanted them to sell? Might
want a bit of pocket-money to go to the pictures. Stan’s
just a bit too funny sometimes. He might pick some-
one his own size.
“Had enough, Harry? I guess we'd better be
travelling. Gets cold these nights once the sun starts
to go.”
You draw in your line slowly. It’s a shame to
leave it, just when the tide’s getting right again. The
water, with that layer of sunset on it, looks full of
fish. Can’t help thinking about that kid. If Stan
doesn’t dub in for the petrol this time I’ll darn well
tell him about it.
Not that it’ll do any good. He’ll pay up and
sling off at you for being Scotch, and then next
Sunday he’ll “forget” to pay his whack just the same.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
Jf tfyrf mellcumcJdandl'caquet
DOVER.
London and Dover have for generations been regarded as, in a travel sense, almost interchangeable terms. Not without reason
Dover has been described as “London’s chief gateway for the Continent.” Dover is something more than an entrepot for travellers.
Its relations to defence have become of tremendous import. Independently, Dover is most picturesquely situated in a hollow between
two great cliffs. With certain modifications of detail, the scene it presents has stood for thousands of years. Near by Julius Caesar
landed, and since that time Saxon, Norman and Plantagenet have each laid their hand on this “front gate of the main route to the
Continent.” William the Conqueror raised Dover into the position of one of the Cinque Ports. At Dover King John resigned his
Kingdom to the Pope’s Legate in 1213. From this town Richard Coeur de Lion started to wage war against the Saracens. Here also
Henry VIII embarked for the tournaments at the Field of the Cloth of Gold. Charles II on his return to his throne landed at Dover.
At one time Dover was a walled town with ten gates. Its growth caused the walls to be removed, but their locality is indicated by names
of streets and other local marks. The cliffs on either side are called East and West. On the former is Dover Castle, whose rugged outlines
stand out in vivid distinctness. Adjacent to the Castle is the old Watch Tower built by the Romans. The Castle was built by the
Saxons and the Normans. The Church of St. Mary-within-the-Castle, attributed to the first century, is said to be one of the oldest sacred
edifices in existence. The remains of the once magnificent Priory, very few, are objects of interest. Then there is the beautiful old church
of Buckland, originally built by the monks. Outside the west door is a yew-tree, said to be 1000 years old. Few towns in England can
boast a closer or more important association with the history and progress of the country and the race. Dover enjoys high favor as a
seaside resort, although its importance in the last 25 years from the military side has overshadowed that entirely allied with the piping
times of peace.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3165
October 9, 1940.
TRIPLE ALLIANCE.
“Boo!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.Q.),
Wellington.
London : Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 40-43 Chancery
Lane, London, W.C.2.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
JAPAN AND THE AXIS.
On the face of it, the Japanese arrangement with our
European enemies is a nasty piece of work, but there
is no occasion for Australians to get panicky about it.
Neither was Mr. McEwen warranted in rushing in to
give his interpretation of it in ill-chosen words before
any other British Commonwealth Minister had opened
his mouth. In these matters the Commonwealth de-
cidedly prefers Mr. McEwen silent to Mr. McEwen
vocal. Whatever Mr. McEwen’s label may be, state-
ments on foreign affairs should be made by the Prime
Minister, preferably after consultation with the other
British Commonwealth Governments, and if the Prime
Minister considers they should be spiced with criti-
cism he can do the job very much better than Mr.
McEwen, primed though Mr. McEwen may be by
“the officers of his department,” or by officers of the
Department of Information, one of whom broadcast
a speech which was even clumsier than Mr. McEwen’s.
Possibly Mr. McEwen’s performance was
authorised by the Prime Minister. If so, it is curious
that the Prime Minister should have announced on
the same night that “Japan’s alliance with the Axis
Powers” would “not affect the decision to send a
Minister to Tokyo” ; the Chief Justice would “leave
to take up the post in accordance with the arrange-
ments made.” The Chief Justice is nevertheless stand-
ing by for consultations with the Government which
will result from the negotiations necessitated by the
fifty-fifty election. Some of his social engagements
have been altered and may be abandoned, but it is not
likely that his appointment will be cancelled unless
the situation renders his mission useless. In his own
view, this was not the case last week. “I still believe,”
he said then, “that in Japan there is a genuine feeling
of friendship towards Australia,” and while “the pact
with the Axis Powers has produced intense dis-
appointment in Australia there is no need here for
a feeling of dismay.”
From the Japanese Consul-General and from Tokyo
itself there have come assurances that Japan’s partner-
ship in the Berlin-Rome alliance is no threat to Aus-
tralia. Mr. Suma, the Foreign Office spokesman, pro-
fessed to be unable to see that it should alter his
country’s relations with the Commonwealth, and the
Konoye Government, he declared, is “speeding up” the
appointment of a Minister to Australia and another to
Canada. Mr. Suma and his chief, Mr. Matsuoka, have
also said that they have not abandoned hope of “re-
adjusting” Japan’s relations with Britain and with the
United States. Coming from a Government which
has bound itself to fight alongside the enemies of the
British Empire if the United States becomes a
belligerent, this attitude is incomprehensible to Aus-
tralians. Perhaps the workings of the Occidental
mind, as revealed in British Empire and American re-
actions to the treaty signed at Berlin, are as incom-
prehensible to the Japanese.
The Commonwealth’s position is that it wants to
be friends with Japan, but not at the sacrifice of any
measure of its devotion to the British Commonwealth
or the cause for which the British Commonwealth is
fighting. Australian friendship with Japan and
Japanese hostility to Britain are incompatible. If it
was in the minds of the parties to the alliance that
Australia or any other Dominion might thereby be
influenced into putting considerations of trade or even
considerations of safety above its loyalty to the
common cause, they deceived themselves.
According to the malevolent Ribbentrop, “the
pact is the creation of a bloc of common interests.”
It is difficult to see where the common interests come
in or how the Eastern partner could help or be helped
by the Western partners if the desire of Ribbentrop’s
black heart were gratified.
Japanese trade with Germany and Italy has
always been small. Its value in 1937, taking imports
and exports together, was 231,165,000 yep, of which
Italy’s share was a mere 11,527,000 yen. In the same
year, Japanese trade with the U.S.A. was worth
1,908,970,000 yen; with the Philippines, 105,542,000
yen; with British India, 748,863,000 yen; with
Britain, 273,712,000 yen; with Australia, 237,332,000
yen ; with the Straits Settlements, 135,229,000 yen ;
and with Canada, 124,728,000 yen. The trade with
some of these countries has, of course, suffered within
the last 12 months, partly because of the war and
partly because of the recent American embargoes. It
would all disappear in a night if Ribbentrop’s evil
expectations were fulfilled ; and it is very improbable
that conquest could supply the deficiencies, even if con-
quest were practicable. In any case Japan, unlike
Germany, has no near neighbors from which it could
draw or extort supplies of liquid fuel, metals or tex-
tiles sufficient for a war with adversaries much more
powerful than Chiang Kai-shek’s China.
The alliance was obviously arranged months
before it was signed, and just as obviously Dakar and
the imminence of the Presidential election had a great
deal to do with the dating of the instrument which was
to have staggered the world. The Americans, for
their part, don’t seem to have been staggered a bit- —
their Mr. Cordell Hull coldly remarked that certain
of his Government’s measures were taken in antici-
pation of what had come to pass—and, while
proceeding methodically with the election, which is
now confidently expected to result in a third term for
Mr. Roosevelt, are more determined than ever to give
the British Empire every assistance in their power
short of going to war. Active participation in war
is nominally barred by the platforms of both parties.
That of the Democrats has a plank to the effect that
“we will not participate in foreign wars, and we will
not send our army, navy or air force outside the
Americas, except in case of attack.” But, as the Axis
well knows, this has not prevented the Democratic
Government from entering into a military alliance
with Canada as one of “the Americas,” nor does it
forbid a most liberal construction of the words “except
in case of attack.”
As for Europe, it would be folly to calculate on
getting any support whatever from any part of the
continent within Hitler’s fell reach. Nowadays even
the Finns as well as the Swedes submit to demands
for the passage of German troops, and cowardly ruf-
fians of Rumanians manhandle defenceless British
subjects. The attitude of Spain is nevertheless en-
couraging, inasmuch as its much-heralded entry into
the war as a humble dependant of Germany and Italy
has been delayed so long that Rome finds it necessary
to issue explanations. Perhaps the proud Spaniard
resents taking orders from parvenu patrons and objects
to the company they keep. It seems likely also that
he has been more impressed by the power of the
Royal Navy, as shown by the blockade and the dis-
crimination exercised in his favor, by the prowess
of the Royal Air Force and by the heroic resolution
of the British people, which may recall to him such
episodes in his history as the siege of Saragossa, than
by the prospect of a Hitler war whose certain conse-
quence for Spain would be famine.
Hopes of Russia have revived among the wishful
thinkers, especially since Mr. Chamberlain’s retire-
ment. Some of the gentry are repeating the old story,
vouched for by a wandering reporter, that “Russia
offered to stand by its alliance with France to defend
Czechoslovakia,” and are even suggesting that when
Stalin “decided to abandon talks with Britain and
France and to substitute co-operation [co-operation]
with Nazi Germany,” he was merely the rejected
suitor dissembling his love for us, Mr. Chamberlain in
each case being to blame. Japanese accession to the
Axis certainly places Moscow in an awkward situation,
for, among other things, it will have to decide whether
to continue sending arms to Chiang Kai-shek, in spite
of the second article of the Berlin agreement (“Ger-
many and Italy recognise Japan’s leadership in the
creation of the new order of Great Asiatic Lebens-
raum”), or turn him down cold —sacrifice China to
Japan as it sacrificed France to Germany. Whatever
it may decide to do, it will assuredly be wholly in the
interests of Russian imperialism, in the service of
which so many confiding mugs have labored with
tongue and pen for so many years.
One thing is certain, that the new alliance was
inspired by fears of American action. Therefore it
may be taken as an admission of difficulties and
doubts rather than as an assertion of strength.
The “Times” is probably right: “Hitler’s private
conversation has been increasingly bitter against
America, and he has even wrathfully declared
that the British would have come to terms with Ger-
many in July if they had not had the promise of
America’s material help.” Neither the Blitzkrieg on
Britain nor the campaign in the Mediterranean and
parts adjacent is going according to plan, and the
prospect of an indefinite extension of the wars in
both Europe and Asia must be a prospect that appals.
Uneasy Paradise.
Probably nothing short of bombs actually falling on
it can be expected to bring war home to Australia or
to any other country. A round dozen countries have
been conquered, taken over or politically and economi-
cally merged into the Axis partnership since this war
started, with fair evidence that one or two more are
likely to be engulfed any day. There is no conclusive
evidence that any one of them —from Poland on the
one German border to France on the other —had any
proper appreciation of war —certainly not of modern
war —till it was brought actually home to them with all
its destroying horror.
All of them of course were —more than Australia
is, or could be expected to be —aware of war in a
vague, general way. A good many of their adults
hadn’t forgotten their experience of it and the destruc-
tion it wrought in their lands, to their own homes and
properties, last time. But even in those countries
another generation had meanwhile grown up with, at
the most, only a literary awareness of war, gained
from the mud-lice-and-slaughter war books, the great
bulk of these written to make a mockery of human
courage and fortitude —of all the once-glorified
qualities which for ages past had sustained men in the
superhuman endurance demanded by war and enabled
them to battle heroically for causes, reasons and
principles they considered good. The awareness of
war thus gained was naturally everywhere defeatist:
the war-book writers —whose works at the time were
believed by romantic simpletons to be epitaphs on an
at last mercifully dead and finally buried Mars —have
had to wait a decade or so to see the fruit of their
efforts. A sorry, Dead Sea fruit it must be to pretty
well all of them.
Those with that sort of awareness of war added
up to a tidy total in all the afflicted countries, but they
could have no realistic awareness of war till the bombs
started falling: one man in some hundreds of thou-
sands might be able to imagine it, and he would be
next door to the madhouse ; certainly he would be a
wretched soldier. But the great bulk of those living
even in the twice-afflicted countries would be, like the
great bulk in Australia and in other countries not yet
touched, only vaguely and very remotely aware of
actual war. Further, none of them —last-war survivors,
war-book readers, not even Diggers—could have a
properly realistic awareness in advance of this present
war. There is no real substitute for actual experience
in any war, and this one has its dive-bombers, massed
tanks and other horrors that even former soldiers
never tasted.
For all these reasons and others —including the
general will for peace and the pacific habit of mind
which this engendered in all these countries that did
not, like Germany, make force and war their gods—
the great bulk of people in the overrun countries were
blissfully unaware of the foul, hideous meaning of
war till it was brought homp to them. The evidence
would seem to be that, no less nor more realistically
aware than the rest of them, John Bull did not begin to
put forth his whole strength till the bombs actually
started falling. For all the means now available for
bringing it vicariously home here, what Britain has
been undergoing, and, more important still, the effect
of that experience on the British people, can at best
be only vaguely appreciated.
The proof of that is abundant. Despite the
censorship—ignorant to this day of the plain truth
that the Australian character, like the British, reacts
at its strongest and best to disaster —enough news of
the war on Britain gets through to bring the war home
in a fully realistic sense here if that were possible.
How hopeless a substitute for the actual experience
are press, radio, Department of Information, can
be at least vaguely grasped by comparing the present
general surface scene in Australia with some of the
things that are now happening in war-spurred Britain.
Under that general surface Australia’s war effort is
reputedly wonderful. Mr. Menzies and others have
said so often. Yet the fact is that is under the surface:
apart from what he has been told and such evidence
as comes to his eyes in the form of increased numbers
in uniform, the average Australian is largely unaware
of that effort. On the other hand he sees on the
surface that life generally in Australia has not altered
a jot.
There has been a general election, different from
any normal peace-time election only in that it has
seemed to drag on more interminably towards finality,
or lack of finality. The State Parliaments are either in
recess or as redundantly doddering over such business
as they have not delegated to countless boards. Seven
Governors, their retinues and establishments, go on as
usual, costing the equivalent of several vital ’planes
a week. Commissions are still sitting or about to be
appointed to make leisurely inquiries into matters that
have become stock subjects for inquiries by commis-
sions. Interested parties still squeal when their private
interests are affected, sometimes so effectually that
measures supposed to be urgent in the country’s war
effort are suppressed, shelved or rendered painless and
futile. There are still strikes.
Generally the Australian scene is as usual. Those
authorities who share the official view that Australians
react best to flapdoodle and mollycoddling can be
expected to object that the right place to look is not
on the surface but beneath it. That, however, would
be an admission that as yet this country’s war effort
is submerged beneath an unchanged general scene,
instead of being—as it may yet, unhappily, have to be
—the country’s whole life. In any case, how does
it compare with that of a country on which the bombs
are actually falling?
In Britain, a Royal Ordnance factory was due to
begin production last month: it was giving an output
of one million rounds of small arms ammunition in
the first week of the previous month. Has Australia’s
submerged war effort a comparable example? If
so, here are others. Where last April in Britain was
a green field another factory stands which was due to
begin production in December: it began in August.
Another factory was due to begin next April: it
began last month —seven months ahead of schedule.
The war-spurred effort in Britain can be
approached from another angle. The U.S.A. has been
told in a remarkable news-service report from Britain
that 10,000,000 factory hands working 12 hours a day
seven days a week for three months succeeded in
re-equipping the British Army with guns, shells, tanks
and other war supplies lost by the B.E.F. in the
retreat of Dunkirk. This effort has been so tremen-
dous that it has brought its own particular problem
—war-work fatigue. To overcome this, one munitions
factory allowed a pause of 10 minutes in the middle of
the morning, and immediately output increased 8 p.c.
In another factory a rest period of five minutes every
hour increased production 13 p.c. When a rest of more
than five minutes per hour was tried, production
slumped “because the workers cooled off and took
too long to warm back into the routine.”
Even if Australia’s submerged war effort was in
any way comparable to what those few examples indi-
cate, the general surface scene in Britain, altogether
apart from actual war havoc, makes this still look
what it is—a luxury land. As in the last war, life
in Australia, as far as full realisation of war goes, is


as yet untouched. Perhaps, by the very nature of
things, no such realisation of war is possible here, any
more than it was elsewhere, until the bombs start
falling. The censor can help by letting through more
realistic accounts of what is happening in Britain and
Egypt, and closer still. Information that is publish-
able in America should certainly be publishable here.
In the censor’s view it isn’t. Though some account of
the war on Britain is forcing its way through, the
reporting generally is loose and vague. A national
Government—which is what the 50-50 election
demanded—can help by insisting on the publication
of more realistic accounts, and by handing out less
cheer-up flapdoodle on its own account than has
been handed out since this war started. What is now
wanted in this country, in order to change it from
a fool’s paradise, is a general galvanising of the people
into as near as can be got to a realistic awareness of
the war, instead of the general vague remote awareness
which now prevails. It will be found that Australians
can take it. A common notion appears to be that they
can’t —a notion that in the past year contributed to
the collapse of more than one uneasy fool’s paradise
hag-ridden by similar official fears.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Menzies Is Right.
A 50-50 election it was here called on September 11,
and insofar as there will be 36 Ministerialists in the
House (23 U.A.P. and 13 U.C.P.) and 36 Labor
members (32 Official and four Non-Com.) 50-50 it
was. The other members with votes are Lord Mayor
Coles, who stood, with U.A.P. support, on a national-
Government platform for Henty (Vic.) and Mr. Wil-
son, who was returned for Wimmera as a nominee of
the Victorian C.P.
Early returns favored the Government, but pref-
erences went against it, particularly in N. S. Wales,
where the issues were confused by an idiotic daily-
press campaign in favor of “outstanding candidates,”
nearly all of whom crashed dreadfully. In that State
Ministers Thorby (Calare) and Nock (Riverina) were
defeated, as well as the members for Barton, Mac-
quarie and Watson, whose doom was evident at mid-
night on polling day. The member for Wannon
(Vic.) was also unseated, and after 19 years a Labor
candidate —father of the late member for Griffith —
regained Maranoa (Q.), held all that time by Mr.
Hunter, who has retired from politics. Helped by
A.I.F. votes and by a larger proportion of preferences
than he was expected to get, Mr. Pollard retained Bal-
larat for his party, though his majority was again
small. Ministerial gains were confined to Wake-
field (S.A.), Wilmot and Denison (Tas.).
Mr. Menzies has invited the leaders of the other
parties and groups to meet him, and discussions were
proceeding when this issue had to go to the printer.
Dr. Evatt’s idea is that the P.M. “should immediately
tender his resignation to the Governor-General.” That
done,
His Excellency would, no doubt, send for Mr. Curtin
as leader of his Majesty’s Opposition. After that, it
would be for Mr. Curtin as Prime Minister to consult
his party and the governing body of the Labor move-
ment in order to set up the War Council to which
both the Labor movement and Mr. Curtin are pledged.
The Bulletin can’t follow this reasoning. If Curtin
Labor can hold Kalgoorlie, whose unopposed mem-
ber died last week, it will command 32 votes in a
House of 74 members, and will be without a
majority in the Senate, even after July I—unless1 —unless
present indications are all wrong the party’s candidates
for the Senate have been soundly beaten in five States.
The four Non-Com. Labor members might support
Mr. Curtin on a vital division, but the fact remains that
he dismissed their group as “a ‘scab’ party” ; “Mr.
Beasley,” he said, “has no place in the Labor move-
ment.” All four Non-Coms, defeated candidates put
up by his party. So did all the 36 Ministerialists and
Mr. Coles and Mr. Wilson. Mr. Wilson might vote to
give a Curtin Government a precarious tenure of office ;
it is highly improbable that Mr. Coles would. If he
did, he would not long hold what is normally the
safest U.A.P. seat in Victoria.
Mr. Menzies has taken the proper course. Prece-
dent, the verdict of the people and the national
emergency support what he has done. If Mr. Curtin
and Mr. Beasley refuse to come into a national Gov-
ernment it is his right and duty to meet Parliament,
and let Parliament decide whether his Government is
to go on or get out. What “the governing body of
the Labor movement” may choose to recommend
(incidentally, three concerns claim to be “the govern-
ing body of the Labor movement” in Dr. Evatt’s State)
has nothing to do with the case. Nor, of course,
would the Governor-General be warranted in sending
for* Mr. Curtin unless such is the advice of his
Ministers.
o>
"Put in the Boot."
Turned 71 and a very sick man, Mr. Chamberlain
has resigned. Unable to resist either a last scurrilous
sneer at the old man or a chance to bolster up its
Moscow hero, Sydney “D.T.” came out with a gloat-
ing cartoon and with a leader which, for sheer non-
sense, must be about the limit.
He signed a pact of friendship with Mussolini while
Italian submarines were sinking British ships in the
Mediterranean.
It has been shown over and over again that most of
the alleged British ships that struck trouble were
blockade runners owned by foreigners; and the
allegation that Italian submarines sank any ships has
never been proved. With their whole submarine fleet
at work and the Atlantic and the Red Sea as well as
the Mediterranean to operate in, the Italians have
signally failed to sink British ships.
But it is in other paragraphs that the cause of the
“D.T.’s” hatred for Mr. Chamberlain is revealed:
He flew three times to see Hitler, but he did not fly
once, nor send his Foreign Minister, to see Stalin, a
potential ally.
The British people, if not Mr. Chamberlain, were
shocked to hear in August, 1939, that Russia had
decided to abandon talks with Britain and France and
to substitute co-operation with Nazi Germany.
Not a word about the fact that British and French
representatives were invited to Moscow by the Stalin
Government to discuss “co-operation,” or that it was
while they were actually there and still, as they thought,
negotiating that the Russian Government signed the
treacherous alliance with Hitler which let the Horror
loose on Poland, Europe and the world.
Stalin’s price for a promise of support which would
have been worthless anyhow was the Baltic States,
part of Finland aqd North Bukovina. Britain, under
Mr. Chamberlain, refused to sell the people of these
countries into Red slavery. Hitler accepted the terms.
In short, Mr. Chamberlain kept Britain’s name
unspotted. And nothing can ever take from his
memory his greatest performance: that, as the “Daily
Express” says, “he fought to save Europe from its
present horrors,” and in the process united the Empire
and gained for it a precious year of preparation —a
year whose value has been demonstrated over and
over again since the collapse of France. In the light
of that it is a pity that Australians should have read
claptrap such as that “Mr. Chamberlain believed he
could prevent war by throwing sops to the Nazis and
Fascists,” and that “the failure of that policy proved
to be his personal tragedy and the Empire’s gravest
peril.”
England, in Peril of Invasion.
Great-hearted England, mistress of the deep,
Before thy shores the hostile navies stand,
And threaten with their countless hosts to sweep
From end to end thy happy sea-girt land!
Woe to thy freeborn race! A thundercloud,
Pregnant with ill, hangs o’er it like a shroud.
Who was it that this priceless treasure gained,
And made thee Queen of all the nations round?
It was thyself, by tyrant kings constrained,
Who that supremest law of empire found—
That glorious Charter, which thy princes brings
Down to the ranks, lifts citizens to kings.
A million foes thine undisputed might
At sea has vanquished in unequal fight.
Let neighboring peoples own with one accord
Thy spirit wrought it, and thy trusty sword!
Unhappy land! Before these ponderous keels
With thunders charged, thine ancient glory reels;
The very earth stands gazing with affright,
And all free hearts beat faster at the sight,
And noble souls await with sorrowing shame
Th’ impending ruin of thine ancient fame.
But God, Almighty, watching from on high,
Saw thy foe’s eagle-blazoned ensigns wave.
“Shall I,” said He, “commit without a sigh
Mine Own dear Albion to a certain grave,
Witness the fall of this heroic stock
Which stems oppression like a wall of rock,
Suffer extinction from this rolling sphere
Of the one dam ’gainst Tyranny’s career?”
“Never,” He cried, “this cradle of the Free,
This home of manly valor shall go down!”
Th’ Almighty breathed, and over every sea,
To every wind the foeman’s might was strown.
Not a contemporary English or Australian poem,
despite its startling application to present-day events.
It was written over 150 years ago on the subject of
the Spanish Armada by a German, Schiller ; the trans-
lation (title and three words altered) is from the Library
of Famous Literature. How 1940 Germans must
wince when they read the stirring lines in the original!
Water on the Brain.
It is “understood” by Mr. Mair, the Sydney Premier,
that Sydney Water Board intends to “investigate” the
Snowy River scheme. Mr. Mair “believes” that
approximate cost of the scheme is estimated at
£30,000,000.
The part of the Snowy in N. S. Wales is confined
within a high pocket in the Alpine system in the far
south of the State. It is on the opposite side of the
watershed of the Murrumbidgee, the headwaters of
both streams being separated by the Monaro Range,
somewhere between 4000 ft. and 5000 ft. above sea level.
Actually the Snowy doesn’t become a real river until
it approaches the Victorian border, over which it
flows down to Gippsland and the sea.
All that has to be done therefore is to ( a ) build
a dam high enough to bring the waters of the Snowy
catchment —a hated word, this, for Sydney Water
Board —to a level sufficiently high to enable them to
flow over the Monaro Range and into the ’Bidgee
and Shoalhaven systems, or ( b ) install pumps capable
of lifting a huge stream over that same range, or (c)
persuade the Snowy waters to alter their course and
flow up the range instead of down.
Of course, proponents of the scheme may have
other ideas in their heads, which should have room
for them, but a fact that both Mr. Mair and the
Water Board should keep in mind is the latter’s
atrocious luck with catchment areas. Once let the
Water Board past Steeple Flat and the Monaro might
never again know a shower of rain.
If the board is determined to “investigate” this
scheme, why doesn’t it have a look at Wyangala? The
dam, which cost about £1,215,000, is already there and
holding about 304,000 acre feet of water, which, much
nearer Sydney than the Snowy, would only have to be
brought over the Blue Mountains —no difficult task,
surely, for a body such as the Water Board. Further,
Wyangala waters are just aching for someone to use
them, while the Snowy is busy watering east Gippsland.
Mr. Upton, the Water Board chairman, says the
Snowy River scheme is “a matter for the Govern-
ment.” Wrong ; it is a matter for the Master in
Lunacy.
Petrol Patriotism.
A remarkable demonstration of it was given by
Australian motorists on the last two days of Sep-
tember. Aware that the war will probably be won by
the side with the last million gallons of petrol and that
it is essential for every belligerent country to store as
much as possible —especially those which produce
none of their own —they made a concerted rush on
all available supplies..
Operators of petrol pumps at service stations
worked at a furious rate filling car tanks, drums, tins,
bottles and other receptacles. For two days and most
of two nights the stations were jammed with buyers.
Millions of gallons were carted away to be stored in
private garages and under the back verandah.
Obviously impressed by the lack of Government
storage facilities, private motorists gathered in all the
petrol they could, and by October 1 large quantities of
the stuff could be found stored all over the country.
For days the main topic of conversation among
motorists was how many gallons they got, how they
stored it. They retailed stories of what others had
done, telling with relish how this or that sturdy fellow
managed to overcome difficulties. Then, having
proved their patriotism to the last drop, as it were,
they went about their business.
No doubt many of them were inspired by the
campaign of the Victorian concern which circulated
the following stirring call under a skull and the word
Death : —■ ■
Any petrol rationing must undermine the economic
structure. Petrol rationing will kill industry and through
it the all-in war effort and the Australian standards we
know, perhaps the Australia we know.
That was before the election—evidently the message
went straight to hearts for which it was intended.
Pre-Dakar Flops.
“D.E.”: To me, as a humble student of history, back-
ing one French party against another is a hopeless
proposition for Britain, whatever the circumstances.
It has been tried many times and it has always failed,
the French being the kind of people who prefer to save
themselves by their own exertions or go to the devil
in their own way. In all ages British intervention
has aroused a national spirit which has given the vic-
tory to the party opposed by Britain, even where it
seemed to be the weaker party.
Dealing only with comparatively modern times,
there was the case of the first Duke of Buckingham,
who, in his way, was as dashing a figure as Mr.
Churchill. Buckingham supported the Huguenots
against Richelieu, in the process seizing a number of
French ships. Follows a bald record of the Bucking-
ham expedition:
In June, 1627, Buckingham sailed from Portsmouth
at the head of a numerous fleet and a numerous land
force to relieve La Rochelle. On October 29 he retreated,
and only 2989 troops out of nearly 7000 returned to
England.
So much for Buckingham.
Came the First Revolution, as scenario-writers
would put it, and the affair of Toulon. Toulon was a
prey to faction, but the monarchists prevailed, and
the port, with a fleet consisting of 17 sail of the line,
commanded by a certain Trogoff, of Russian extrac-
tion, was, on August 23, 1793, surrendered to the
British Admiral Hood, one of whose post-captains
was a seaman named Nelson. The place was besieged
by a republican army, whose artillery was directed by
a 24-year-old stripling from Corsica, Bonaparte. The
Corsican’s guns decided the issue, and on September 18
Hood quitted Toulon with as many of the French
vessels and inhabitants as he could carry away ; fire-
ships and gunpowder disposed of the rest of the fleet
and the naval depot. Masses of the Toulonese who
couldn’t escape were butchered by the winners.
Meanwhile the royalist peasants of La Vendee
were putting up a stiff fight for the Bourbons, and it
occurred to the English to help them. But “the
ignorance of the Government in all that related to the
position of the Vendeans was complete,” and though
it made leisurely preparations for a landing it kept the
Vendeans waiting until the poor wretches had to con-
tend with a Republican army of 200,000 braves, whose
orders were that “the inhabitants” should be “exter-
minated without regard to age or sex, the woods in
which they sheltered cut down, the habitations given
to the flames.”
The British Government at length roused itself to
make an effort. At the moment when the Vendeans
had recrossed the Loire, unable to maintain their position
in Brittany, an expedition under the command of Lord
Moira, with eight English battalions and 10,000 Hano-
verians and French emigrants, was dispatched to their
assistance. There was no signal from the shore. The
help had come too late.
Two other efforts were made two years later, with like
results:
Puisaye led the warlike members of the English
Cabinet to believe that La Vendde could be again roused.
A squadron under the command of Sir J. B. Warren
convoyed 50 transports having on board the royalists
and their stores. On July 3, 1795, they occupied the
peninsula of Quiberon. But Hoche was at hand. He
made a night attack, poured his thousands into the
peninsula, and by daybreak he was driving the wretched
emigrants into the sea or taking them prisoners, to be
doomed to death as traitors.
The Comte d’Artois (afterwards Charles X) came
with another expedition. He looked upon La Vendee
and consulted his safety by a return to England.
The English are a great people, but their politicians
never understood the French and never will under-
stand them. And from Buckingham to Churchill their
politicians have shown the same unfortunate pre-
dilection for half-measures and sideshows.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“The Pill”: The musical Beecham,
who has left us no illusions about our-
selves, encountered a defender of Aus-
tralia in a Sydney man who dropped him
a line. In his reply, Beecham repeated
much of what he had said in Perth
(W.A.):
You are unaware that there is a much
larger percentage of illiterate, unpleasant
and even vicious people here than in any
other civilised country known to me. To
tell me that the majority of your popula-
tion is intelligent, tolerant and well-
behaved in the sense we understand it in
Europe is sheer nonsense.
The spectacle of Europe being “intelli-
gent, tolerant and well-behaved” can be
observed at the present moment. Per-
sonally, after a close study of the Con-
tinent, past and present, I’m damned
glad to be an uncultured, half-savage
Australian.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Although the procession
organised by the amusement businesses
of Melbourne in aid of the Comforts
Fund netted £17,000, it was a grave dis-
appointment to many spectators, stirred
to expectation or indignation by an
announcement that Lady Godiva was to
repeat her ride. A minister of religion
went so far in his devotion to the cause
of morals as to remove his collar and
mingle with the multitude so that he
could get first-hand material for a burn-
ing sermon. But the lady failed to put
in an appearance. Presumably she had
been censored.
* H:
“Spokeshave”: Lord Lamington’s
horror of reptiles (B. 2/10/’4O) was
shared by a Victorian painter for
whom the Governor was sitting. One
day, absorbed in his painting, the
artist did not notice a lizard of
small dimensions creep out from behind
the skirting board and proceed to
bask in the warmth of the ray of sun-
light that fell on to the floor from the
studio window. Presently,’ however, he
saw Lamington’s expression alter and
his eyes, glazed with terror, fixed on an
object behind him. What happened next
lifted the repression on his sitter. The
artist, equally nervous of reptiles, rushed
to the door, opened it, stamped his foot
and shouted to the creature: “Get out!”
Lamington burst into a roar of laughter.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: How determinedly some poli-
ticians, papers and policemen are trying
to get Jehovah’s Witnesses declared a
forbidden and therefore secret and poten-
tially dangerous organisation! For some
years a branch of Judge Rutherford’s
fraternity operated in a Masons’ hall
a few doors from my house. Every
Sunday it boiled over with religious
fervor. Numbers of old men and
women, pimply-faced youths and pale,
neurasthenic damsels and bored children
sat in rows listening to the raucous voice
of the Judge belching fire and brimstone
over the world from a cracked old gramo-
phone record. A loud speaker relayed the
sage’s dreadful warnings down the street,
and his threats and admonitions were
awful enough to curdle the milk in a
dairy. The street remained as indifferent
to this frightful menace as the 400 police-
men in the barracks adjacent. Since the
p.p.p.’s took it up it has become front-
page stuff in the dailies and soon half
the women in the suburbs will be look-
ing under the bed for a Jehovah’s Wit-
ness.
* * * *
“Tuart”: What a difference a misplaced
comma can make! Thinking to give a
"No, the major-general's NOT in, Dig.”
literary touch to a national-Government
leader, a Sydney journalist quoted what
“Carlyle wrote in a famous passage on
Oliver Cromwell: ‘Without being as my
friend, Oliver said, well-being is impos-
sible.’ ” Hollow were his groans when he
saw what the comp, had made of it.
“Without being, as my friend Oliver said,
well-being is impossible.” Perhaps the
office is still demoralised by the frightful
slaughter of its “outstanding candidates.”
* * * *
“N.T.0.”: The million-to-one chance
came off when two ’planes of the
R.A.A.F. collided in mid-air over a
southern Riverina town. They finished
up exactly balanced one on the other,
so that the remaining pilot—all others of
the two crews had parachuted to safety
—found that by working the controls
of the top ’plane and using the engines
of the other, which remained in action,
he was able to bring them down and
make a good landing. That young pilot
must be a quick thinker, for he no sooner
discovered the miraculous balancing feat
achieved by the collided ’planes than he
decided to take the chance of bringing
them down intact, as it were. Such a
thing may never happen again.
* * * #
“Adelaide”: S.A. Supreme Court has
been unravelling a story all ready for a
novel. A lady of 60-odd claimed, from
a leading bank, Adelaide Steamship
shares worth about £2500. She said that
her uncle, an architect who had given
her a home from girlhood, managed all
her affairs, and ten years ago she handed
over, at his request, her shares with a
blank transfer and equitable mortgage,
the “purport of which she did not under-
stand”—till after his death in 1938 she
found that the bank held them as security
for his overdraft. Judge Parsons held
that it was “fraud of a heartless charac-
ter” by the uncle, and that the bank,
though not, of course, a party to it, must
hand back the shares to her. An appeal,
of course.
* $ * *
“Wodgil”: There are none so guileless
as eminent literary men when they accept
commissions to write on themes like war
and royalty. In the early part of the
year Somerset Maugham turned out a
series of official articles on the victories
that France was about to win. He swore
by all his plays and novels that the
French were in perfect shape, had a
generalissimo of genius, were joined in
another sacred union, and from President
to pitman were absolutely determined to
“finish the enemy this time.” Now the
gentleman has turned out another series
of articles “explaining” why it didn’t
happen. Still, he survived the ridicule that
his imbecilities brought on him, which is
more than John Drinkwater did. Poor
Drinkwater’s pen was hired by Bucking-
ham Palace in the time of the King that
was never crowned; and even when
preparations for the Second Divorce were
well advanced the confiding man wrote
in this fatuous strain:
Certain foreign papers have been busy
with our King’s private life. That this
happens to be one of singular charm and
generosity is beside the point. In no cir-
cumstances whatever can it be a proper
subject for public discussion or private
conjecture. We have on the throne a man
who looks like doing incalculable service
to kingship and to his people. Not to
respect the privileges of his private life is
disgraceful,
Drinkwater was a sensitive soul, and
in a few months he was a dead man.
* * * *
“Wester”: Four penitent chaps in
khaki were fined in Perth (W.A.) for
souveniring glasses, pots, vases, a bar
seat, pot plants and various other irrele-
vant articles during a celebration. I’ve
never understood this passion, though a
mate of mine had it in a virulent form.
In a tour by car, we got fairly inked,
with the result that the car gradu-
ally filled with a collection of»borrowed
items. At one pub a black metal dog
used as a doorstop was gathered in. At
another, 200 miles away, the publican
spent the rest of the day trying to dis-
cover where the new doorstop came
from. Next morning his eyes fairly
popped when he discovered the dog miss-
ing and a heavy railway-truck coupling
in its place. After that I lost sight of
my acquisitive pal for a couple of years,
and then encountered him, alone and
half-blithered, at 2 a.m. in a Sydney
street, struggling against a high wind with
a collection of newspaper billboards.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: Melbourne “Argus,” hav-
ing received a complaint from some nark
or other, draws attention to the preva-
lence of smoking in cafes and remarks
that “every time anyone complains it is
the unfortunate women who get all the
blame. Men never seem to get a jolt.”
The “Argus” misses the point, which is
that men seldom drop into a cafe seat,
give their order and light up. They
have the meal first and the smoke after-
wards. But lovely woman no sooner
hits the seat than out comes the fag
and clouds of smoke billow through the
place. It is a constant source of wonder
to the male, who is convinced that a
smoke immediately before a meal spoils
the appreciation of the food and the
appetite for it. Which, if you think it
over, probably explains the poor paya-
bility of average cafe tucker.
* * * *
“Sing 9”: According to Prof. Russo,
petrol rationing in Tokyo had little effect
on wealthy people. Tokyo has 20,000
taxis, and when petrol rationing came in
wealthy car-owners bought a handful of
taxis, stored them, and used their ration
tickets to keep their own cars going.
Before anyone gets a similar idea in
Australia let him be warned that the cost
of a taxi-plate here makes the hobby
too expensive.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Cherry Kearton, just
dead in London, at 69, was the fore-
runner of the Hollywood nature photo-
graphers, but, unlike them, was a first-
class naturalist. Twenty years before
the “Chang” film became a world-wide
box-office attraction he brought the first
film camera to Borneo and dropped in
at my station to seek information. He
was a quiet man with an inexhaustible
capacity to listen, and the local cog-
noscenti proceeded to fill themselves up
with whisky sodas and him with all the
cock-and-bull stories about the marvels
of the jungle which they themselves half-
believed in. With glistening eyes he list-
ened to the story of the orang-outangs
which carry native women into the tree-
tops and rear families by them and didn’t
betray, even by a twinkle, that he had
read the hoary old chestnut in Marco
Polo. Then he plunged into the jungle
with half a dozen carriers and his primi-
tive apparatus, returning six months later
with a moving picture of its actual won-
ders, which would be regarded even to-
day as outstanding, though it mainly
illustrated the strange habits of hornbills,
migratory caterpillars and other humble
fauna. He was the first man to illustrate
natural history books with photographs,
and his 35 volumes have been translated
into many foreign languages.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide is to be showered
with gifts under the will of Archibald
Watson, who formerly taught anatomy
in the University. The amiable but eccen-
tric Prof., who spent the latter part of
his 90 years at Thursday Island, proves
to have been far wealthier than was sup-
posed ; and bequests of £5OO or £lOOO
drop on a host of old students, men or
women now mostly themselves dis-
tinguished in medicine. There are smaller
gifts for former Museum colleagues, with
the thoughtful plan of a further £lOOO
to be distributed at the discretion of Dr.
Newland. Drs. Fiaschi, of Sydney, and
O’Sullivan, of Melbourne, receive £lOOO
each, the latter getting also all the surgi-
cal instruments. The notebooks and
letters deposited in Adelaide Museum are
to be burnt; there are even some small
legacies dependent on this being duly
done.
• * * •
“Private Spudpeeler,” for the defence:
Somebody wrote to “S. M. Herald” com-
plaining that in a broadcast of a talk between
Dr. Thomas Wood, author of Cobbers, and
two of the Young Diggers, the ether burned
with vulgar Australianese. Granny’s bosom
heaved, and she was delivered of a leader
condemning such goings on. The Diggers were
Bill Fleming, a Queensland swimmer, and
“Ribs” Murray, nephew of Harry Murray, of
Tasmania, Westralia and Queensland; V.C.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., D.C.M. Before he enlisted
“Ribs” was roaming Westralia, turning his
hand to mining, droving, cockying and any-
thing that was going. He’s as game and as
reckless as they come, and has the Australian
sense of humor. To the latter, I suspect, can
be attributed the breezy nature of the inter-
view. It’s a pity that “S. M. Herald” couldn’t
have read what happened just after that light-
hearted interlude. Murray and Fleming were
coming away when a high explqsive bomb landed
on a near-by roof; they heard another hurtling
their way and dived into a doorway, where they
shared their tin hats with a 8.8. C. man who
was with them. They were on the move again
when a bomb fell directly on a fire engine,
killing one of the firemen and injuring another
two. Fleming and Murray dragged the poor
fellows from the flaming ruins, administered
first-aid and, things becoming too hot, bore
them away on stretchers. I don’t suppose the
chaps they helped found anything to criticise
in their rescuers’ way of speaking.
NOT UNDERSTOOD.
“Sir Thomas Beecham has announced his intention
of publishing in England a booklet detailing the
slights and unpleasant incidents to which he has
been subjected during his Australian tour.”
Come, shining light among the world’s musi-
cians,
Illustrious baton-wielding baronet,
Did we not welcome you with ebullitions
Of rapture such as few may hope to get?
Did ever tourist from the Motherland
Meet with so good a press, so glad a hand?
Why should you quit our shores with such a
murky
Aspect of us enveloping your soul?
Did we not carve for you the fatted turkey
And in your honor brim the flowing bowl?
In any State or capital you choose
Weren’t you invariably front-page news?
And whatsoe’er the operatic lyrics
To which your swaying arm the measure
gives,
Did they not smother you with panegyrics
And rack their brains for glowing adjectives,
The chaps who make it their especial biz
To tell the world what real music is?
The petulance you sometimes showed so clearly,
The little tantrums into which you went,
Did we not tolerantly view them merely
As proofs of the artistic temp’rament
Or—Mr. Pickwick would have phrased it thus —
The eccentricities of ge-ni-us.
If crowded halls afford the best criterions
Of merit, you obtained them here in flocks.
Your concerts paralleled your dad’s aperients
As being rated “worth a guinea a box.”
In short, Sir Thomas, it must be allowed
Our cognoscenti fairly did you proud.
You, who are wont to tread your path ’mid
pasans
Of praise, should scarce with indignation
throb
At obloquy from some unknown plebeians,
Jabs from the unsophisticated mob,
Poor graceless loons who never learned the
ways
To tell an aria from a polonaise.
Yet, should you with that threatened book
bombard us
When safely back across the seas you’ve
flown,
Getting your sturdy henchman Neville Cardus
To add a bit of ginger of his own
Couched in the jargon that we know so well,
I candidly admit it ought to sell.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Why, they're magnificent, Mr. Barnacle. Do show us some more!"
“Uramao”: Credit it to a Maoriland
mayor: “Of all the dastardly things these
Huns have perpetrated nothing can equal
the bucking of Bombington Palace”!
* * * *
“Bo”: I can stomach puce shirts
and saffron ties and the eye-searing
latest-in-swim-trunks sported by those
square-jawed handsome models. Even
the gorgeously-flowered and/or bro-
caded dressing-gowns that the Hollywood
hero in his palatial home slips on over
his evening shirt to answer the ’phone I
can pass with scarcely a pang. But I’m
damned if I can suppress a shudder when
I see an unnaturally “sunburned” and
hefty waxen male figure clad in athletic
singlet and short underpants which a
label conspicuously announces as
“drawers.” When my beard was black,
to be told he was wearing what was
known exclusively as the fair sex’s most
intimate garment—though “they” are now
referred to by half a dozen different
names would have sent any he-man
berserk. But to see a bloke with a
spreading snout and cauliflower ears or
a portly businessman breast the counter
and brazenly ask for a “pair of drawers,
42 waist,” is as effective as an emetic to
me. I propose launching a campaign to
have the garment called “undershorts.”
“Rokko”: Sydney Water Board in the
midst of its water famine should be
cheered to hear of the effort of a junior
m a suburban school, recently arrived
from Shanghai. She was asked to write
down the names of three of the world’s
deserts, it being explained to her that a
desert was a place where rain practically
never fell. The damsel looked thought-
ful for a few minutes after writing down
Sahara and Gobi; then came a recollec-
tion that Australia also had a place
worthy of inclusion. She filled in third
place with Catchmentaria.
* # * *
“Hamer”: A Sydney store which is
decorating its windows with “a pageant
of history” in celebration of a centenary
might have touched upon the change in
shop ethics regarding finery. Long ago a
shocked letter appeared in the “S.M.H.”
headed “Immodest Shopkeeper”; the
writer’s indignation had been moved by
the appearance in a window of some
women’s undies “shamelessly displayed”
and a lure, the appalled letter-
writer alleged, for the eyes of salacious
young men who “in a most shameless
manner” hung around. The Bulletin
had a par. about it, describing it as “a
thrill.” It takes more than that to thrill
Sydney these days.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne will wave
a final affectionate farewell to its cable
trams any time now, it being only a
matter of weeks before the frayed strands
of the last cable part. In the last 55
years the picturesque old chariots have
carried 3,640,000,000 passengers, so they
cannot be said to have been an alto-
gether inefficient method of transporta-
tion. Moreover, in an age of soulless
machinery they had the saving grace of
being comic. When
they swept round a
corner a stentorian
shout from the grip-
man warned his cus-
tomers that they were
liable to be flung on
to the roadway. The
affection Melbourne
feels for its cable cars
is shared by the em-
ployees. On one
occasion passers -by
were astonished to see
one of the ancient
vehicles careering up
Bourke-street with an
obviously bibulous
conductor standing
on the platform
blowing kisses to all and sundry.
When the car reached the depot the
conductor fell off on to the roadway.
He was on his last trip before super-
annuation, and passengers had been solac-
ing him for his approaching bereavement
with liquid refreshment. After due con-
sideration the board decided to forget it.
* =K * *
“Chummer”: Years ago sundry pride-
ful Australians were heard giving tongue
over the penchant of newly-arrived Eng-
lish to shorten names. Thus Kyabram
became “Ky.,” Condobolin Ccndo.,
Warracknabeal “Warrack.,” and so on.
War hasn’t cured the English ; their air-
men refer to German anti-aircraft fire
as “Flack” —a combination, apparently,
of the initials of the German words for
it —and what was early called the Blitz-
krieg is now “Blitz.” Few Australians
suspect it, but it was really the English
who shortened them to Aussies. That
was in 1914-18.
* * *
“Feng-Shui”: Frenchmen, like
Englishmen, make their colonies
as much like their homeland as
is humanly possible. Conse-
quently Saigon, the capital of
French Indo-China, is a little
Paris. It has its tree-lined boule-
yards, its cafes with striped awn-
ings, its chairs in the streets with
sun-hatted Frenchmen sipping
aperitifs, while as good a band as
you will hear anywhere discourses
music. It has its grand opera
house with the sort of boxes de-
scribed in Balzac’s stories, and a
company from Paris subsidised
by the State playing “Carmen”
and “La Tosca.” The shops and
the women who shop there are
up to the minute. Step off the
end of the European quarter
and you are in Asia, and a
few miles inland is Cholon,
a walled Chinese ghetto which might
have been transported bodily from
Kiangsu or Honan. But the most char-
acteristically Parisian thing about Sa<~on
when I visited it was the row of l.ttle
boxes you met when you walked out of
the wharf godowns. Put a coin in the
slot, apply your eye to the peephole and
turn a handle, and you could see a little
French grisette disrobing for bed or bath.
There was an Annamite at every peep-
hole when I saw it, painstakingly trying
to get an insight into the manners and
customs of his alien conquerors.
* * * *
“Catti”: Australians, feminine, are be-
ginning to think seriously on the uniform
question. The Australian woman, smart
as she is, does not look her best in a
uniform, whereas the average English-
woman wears hers as to the manner born.
That is why the Queen, the Duchess of
Gloucester and Princess Mary all look
well in a war-time kit, while the Duchess
of Kent, usually acclaimed as the best-
dressed of the royalties, never looks at
home in hers. Also, the Englishwoman’s
stride goes well with a uniform. Aus-
tralian girls don’t stride. They toddle.
* * * *
“Hamer”: From “Bondi Mary,” who
prefers even in winter to sleep under the
rocks to the acceptance of the homes
offered her, to Parramatta’s nonagenarian
“Old Murray,” almost every Sydney dis-
trict has its queer dweller-apart. Rush-
“An' the road's that narrer, Mrs. Rafferty , the buses have t' stand still
to pass one another."
cutter Bay has just lost Old Bill. He
inhabited a huge drainpipe left in the
park behind the tram depot. It was only
when it was decided to tidy the park up
and remove it that it was discovered it
had become somebody’s home. It was
decided to leave it alone. Old Bill (his
name was Alfred Stapleton and he was
“somewhere about eighty”) lived there
for years like Diogenes in his tub, but
without the visitors who were reported
to have visited the old Athenian philo-
sopher. Old Bill was not given to con-
versation. He was found dead in his
sleeping place.
* * * *
“P.S.”: In a 8.8. C. talk W. A. Sinclair
expressed dislike for the word “morale”
and insisted that “guts” was a better
word. “It sounds more natural to say,
‘This country’s got guts,’ and I don’t see
why we shouldn’t say it.” Well, the
8.8. C. has only itself to blame if the
English suddenly call stomach-ache some-
thing else, decide that the local gor-
mandiser is one, and adopt the Australian
description of a fall through pride. The
word Sinclair favors, used in the way
he favors, comes from America and is
not nearly so expressive as the good old
English word “courage.”
* * * *
“C.R.”: Fifty chickens hatched at
Coburg (Vic.) had their first meal 1000
miles from their incubator parent. Con-
signed to a man in Kalgoorlie, they were
packed into a ’plane immediately after
their birth and disembarked 10 hours
later. It has been found that fledglings,
like some human beings, travel best in
the air on an empty stomach.
* * * *
“Gore Hill”: The earliest North Syd-
ney land grants were mostly exchanged
by their owners for rum, and so William
Gore, Governor Bligh’s provost-marshal,
obtained about 790 acres in the district.
He had received an original grant of
150 acres in 1810 which he named
Artarmon Farm. The greater part of the
Gore Hill estate came into the hands of
Thomas Broughton, and was subsequently
cut up and sold as the Broughton Estate.
Gore and his wife and daughter died
on the property, and with some quaint
notion that they must remain in visible
occupation the coffins containing their
remains presumably leaden caskets —
were placed on low trestles above the
ground in the middle of the holding at
the summit of Gore Hill. They re-
mained there until 1860, when the local
residents collected the bones and buried
them. Isaac Nicholls, Sydney’s first post-
master, held 900 acres west of Gore’s
grant, and got a further 300 at King’s
Plains (Chatswood) in 1805.
:Jc J*c * *
“Uncle S.”: According to my favorite
American newspaper, Chicago, probably
out of pure disgust at being unable to
maintain its reputation for noise and
sudden death against some of its trans-
atlantic rivals, has broken out in a rash
of culture. Why, bo, they’ve got kids
planting flowers and vegetables in little
plots all over the city park districts. It
is a sight for old eyes to lamp them
kiddies hoeing, weeding, watering and
generally coaxing nasturtiums, zinnias,
carrots and other fruits where one time
all that bloomed was the flame of guns
and the only plot a man could hope for
was a 6 by 2. But hell is likely to start
a-poppin’ when some of them bright
young guys gets into the seed-packet
racket. Guess I won’t go to Mexico
just yet.
EUPHUISMS.
“Directed by the Speaker to withdraw the word
“lying,” as applied to the Deputy Premier’s speech,
Mr. Lethbridge did so and substituted the word ‘un-
truthful.”—N.B. IV. Assembly.
Where estimable Weaver sits as sentry
To see that vulgar terms of speech are barred,
Such as might vex the souls of cultured gentry,
To know what he regards as Parliament’ry,
And what he doesn’t, seems a trifle hard.
To charge a chap with “lying” is the latter —•
A foul insinuation that, forsooth,
A word forbid in legislators’ patter —
But seemingly it’s quite a diff’rent matter
Merely to say he’s no regard for truth.
To dub some other fellow’s speech “men-
dacious”
Would bring immediate trouble, one con-
ceives.
To stigmatise the same as “unveracious”
(Though, one might hazard, just as efficacious)
Is clearly quite another pair of sleeves.
You’re like to find you’ve overstepped the
border
If you mention Ananias in your heat;
But I think the chances are the wigged recorder
Will hesitate to rule you out of order
If you hint that someone’s “got Munchausen
beat.”
Which words are noxious in the fitful fever
Of fierce debate, and which are comme il
faut
And needn’t raise the gall of the receiver,
I cannot tell. But put it up to Weaver.
He knows—or, anyway, he’s paid to know.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


CRAVEN A
..(tieso
é
El 868
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
ê
POLITICAL POINTS
Dr. Evatt is tremendously keen on
seeing Curtin Labor take office with 31
votes in the House—32 if Kalgoorlie can
be held, which in the present temper of
the Westralians is by no means certain —
and 14 in the Senate. He mightn’t be
so keen if he had a chat with Joe Cook.
After the 1913 election Joseph became
P.M. with 38 votes in the House (there
were 75 voting members then) and seven
in the Senate. He found the going so
rough that within 16 months there was
another election. It left him with 30
votes in the House and five in the Senate.
“The Prime Minister should immedi-
ately hand his resignation to the
Governor-General. Mr. Menzies asked
the people for an overwhelming mandate.
He has been severely rebuked.”—Dr.
Evatt. “The electors have given a man-
date neither for nor against the Govern-
ment.” —John Curtin, Dr. Evatt’s leader.
Come, come, boys, make up your minds
or you’ll have Lang saying something!
The U.A.P. story in Fremantle is that
Curtin was saved by “an alphabetical
fluke.” Clarke (U.A.P.), Curtin and Lee
(U.A.P.) were the candidates, and a suffi-
cient number of Clarke voters marked
their preferences in alphabetical order.
Much the same thing was done in other
electorates. In Hume, however, first
place on the ballot-paper and a substan-
tial lead on primaries gave Collins a seat
of which even his Country party had all
but abandoned hope.
Ungenerous to its defeated pets as it
was unfair to the opponents whose defeat
it prophesied so boisterously, the Sydney
morning press let Stevens and the rest
of its “outstanding candidates” go sitting
out without a chivalrous word. It didn’t
even sympathise with the public in the
loss of such an aggregation of unappre-
ciated genius.
“Mr. Spooner,” remarked Sydney
“Morning Herald,” “one of the outstand-
ing candidates, defeated Mr. Williams.”
This was for Robertson. “S.M.H.” doesn’t
let on where the rest of the “outstand-
ing candidates” are, and they, for their
part, must be bitterly resenting being
misled into thinking that Australians
could be told how to vote by city news-
papers. Even Spooner just scraped in
by 345 votes, and that on the strength
of a big list of preferences and much
cross-voting.
Victoria seems determined to do some-
thing about the dog-racing epidemic, and
a bill designed to reduce the number of
meetings, prohibit new clubs and bring
existing ones under stricter supervision
is going through Parliament. In N. S.
Wales, where the epidemic is far worse,
a Committee of Inquiry into the busi-
ness has not yet emerged from its winter
hibernation. Meantime, the Chief Secre-
tary is getting cheek from clubs which
were asked why so little of their revenue
has gone to charity and so much in wages.
Considering that they could all be wiped
out by suspension of their exemption
from the gaming laws, these concerns
are taking a chance.
“All Government deficits and surpluses
will amount to nothing if the Empire
loses the war,” said Michaelis (U.A.P.)
in the Victorian Assembly. But State
Government surpluses amount to nothing,
anyway.
Just when Coburg’s new member,
Mutton, was working himself up to a
dramatic denunciation of the “unseen
hand” that is “strangling Australia’s
search for oil,” Hogan had to spoil it.
“A gusher has been found in Mt. Gam-
bier, and a certain individual was paid
£35,000 of American money to fill in
the bore!” cried Mutton. “It’s a shame
how people pull your leg,” said Hogan
quietly, and another bore was plugged.
Three of the useless, mostly-adjourned
and mostly-broke State Governments are
to get the dole again this year—£l,ooo,ooo
for S.A., £650,000 for W.A. and £400,000
for Tasmania, all from a Commonwealth
“Stevens Will Not Quit. ‘I hold myself ready to
serve,’ he said.”
“I hope they won’t keep me holding myself too long."
which is urging people to buy sixpenny
war-savings stamps. It wouldn’t be so bad
if the Governments could be made to
work for it, but knowing they will get
the money they don’t see any need to
work.
Referring to the Dunstan Government’s
decision to reduce the unemployment-
relief tax by 15 per cent, and the state-
ment that it could not find full work for
Victoria’s 7800 unemployed, Carlton’s
Labor member, Barry, called it
“cowardly, unchristian, unsympathetic
and uncomprehending.” The Mair Gov-
ernment across the Murray, which has
over 30,000 unemployed, would probably
leave poor Barry stumped for words.
Just before “The Watchman” came out
for Flinders, A.B.C.’s “Weakly” certified
that “no man in Australia had ever had
such power over the nation’s mind,” and
while the count was in progress Sydney
“D.T.” repeatedly proclaimed him the
winner, saying he was sure to get most
of the Douglas Credit man’s preferences.
The genius got about a fifth, and
finished third, having only 14,920
primaries out of 54,784. Now presum-
ably A.B.C. will re-employ him to assert
his sadly-diminished power over the
nation’s mind.
Though its deficits are chronic and
awful, the Sydney Government is setting
up another fancy department—a Depart-
ment of Youth, no less, with “three
psychologists in charge.” This when it
has asked the Auditor-General, already
working with a reduced staff
(sixteen of his men are in
the army), to curtail his
very necessary work. It
has had the gall to tell the
useful man that the instruc-
tion is given “in further-
ance of our war effort,”
meaning that “our war
effort” will be “furthered”
if less light is thrown on
its rotten finance.
Two N. S. Wales men of
law will accompany Dr.
Evatt to Canberra as Curtin
Labor members —Falstein
(Watson) and Morgan
(Reid). Morgan, a Sydney
solicitor, has realised a
long - thwarted ambition.
Nine years ago he was
chosen by ballot as the
party candidate for Reid,
but the then Lang-con-
trolled executive gave the
nomination to Gander, who
was supposed to be a seat-
warmer for the Big Fellow.
Two or three months ago
Morgan nominated for an-
other Reid ballot, but was
dished by the Hands Off
Russia crowd, which, alleg-
ing that “confused records”
made a “full plebiscite” im-
possible, gave what it
thought would be the prize
to its leader Hughes. Then
Curtin Labor stepped in
and endorsed Morgan.
Hughes finished fourth,
and in the distribution of
his preferences Morgan
scored 2396 more than
Gander, finishing with a
majority of 2341. He
couldn’t possibly have
planned a prettier revenge.
Old Diggers did wonder-
fully well at the Common-
wealth election. In Vic-
toria Senator Brand got
more than half the votes —
a feat performed only once
before, by the late Tom
Givens in Queensland, 15
years ago—and in West-
ralia Senator Collett was
very nearly returned on the first count.
Other Great War veterans in Abbott
(New England), Duncan-Hughes (Wake-
field) McLeod (Wannon) and Ryan
(Flinders) got in as Ms.H.R., though in
each case the chances seemed against
them.
Mr. Mair, of the Sydney Government,
informed Mr. McKell, of the Sydney
Opposition, that in 1939-40 the Govern-
ment spent £89,000 more than it col-
lected from social services tax, and
£50,000 more than it collected from un-
employed-relief tax. Yes, but on what?
“In May, 1932, there were 150,000,
but on September 7, 1940, the number
had fallen to 30,753.” Greyhounds?
No, unemployed. It was a sort of a
boast by the Sydney Premier, Mr. Mair,
of eight years of U.A.P.-C.P. Govern-
ment, during which the number of civil
servants and relief-workers went up or
down according to the fuss they made.
Mair “understands” that the Sydney
Water Board is to “investigate” a
£30,000,000 scheme to beg, borrow or
steal the waters of the distant Snowy
River. Presumably the idea is that, if
the investigators report favorably, the
people will be asked to find the money.
It’s wonderful how blithely those who
run these huge wens can dig up costly
schemes at all times, even in the midst of
war, drought and unemployed.
From the August 1 issue of the “Trans-
pacific,” published in English at Tokyo
by B. W. Fleisher, and full of unpleasant
references to Britain, though there is
one cheerful suggestion that Germany
may plunge into the Ukraine “some
day”:—
A novel method of raising _ Govern-
ment funds is proposed in a petition filed
by a certain nationalist group. The peti-
tion refers to the number of concubines,
which it estimates at 200,000 in Tokyo
alone, and demands that a luxury tax of
1000 yen per concubine be imposed,
revenue thus obtained to be used to buy
fighting ’planes and tanks.
Pity the notion didn’t occur to a de-
jected nationalist group in Sydney. It
would have made an interesting addition
to the oratory discharged at King’s Cross,
and would have gingered up some of the
“Confucius say” stuff with which Parra-
matta was littered.
A so-called Youth Congress was to
have been held in Melbourne recently.
Having looked the delegates over from
north to south (some were from confid-
ing religious bodies), W. M. Hughes,
downy old bird that he is, vetoed it.
There was a Youth Congress at Wash-
ington in February, and it was attended
by Gene Tunney, now running a Youth
Movement of his own. Says Tunney:
I joined hands with Archie Roosevelt,
Stephen MacArthur and others in
putting forward a resolution to condemn
Russia for its invasions of Poland and Fin-
land Roosevelt and MacArthur were
thrown out bodily. Then the members of
this same Congress hooted and jeered the
President of the United States when he
told them that Russia was one of the most
absolute dictatorships in the world. The
gang of Communists and their stooges that
control the American Youth Congress have
no respect for any thing or person other
than Communism and Stalin.
It says much for Tunney’s sense of
restraint that he refrained from knock-
ing out the entire “gang” in one round.
As a Royal Commissioner Justice De
Baun was given power to “investigate”
the price of milk in Sydney. After a
lengthy examination of evidence from
all sides, he delivered his finding. In
part, that finding is regarded by the
responsible Minister, FitzSimons, as a
censure of his Milk Board. Is the Milk
Board to be rapped over the knuckles?
Not on your life ; it has been asked to
reply to the Royal Commissioner. Yet
there are people still found to assert that
these boards are responsible to Parlia-
ment.
The Director of N.S.W. State Market-
ing Bureau, a rather moribund institution
which markets nothing and is frequently
responsible for the issue of price-indexes
which mean less, came out with a bril-
liant thought anent the Australian Wheat
Board.
Is it destined, like 8.A.W.R.A., to be
thrown into the discard when peace comes?
It would be a pity if it were allowed to
pass without a permanent contribution to
the industry’s welfare.
The board has made its permanent con-
tribution by clearly showing that it is
of no earthly use to the industry.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.J


WELL MET—BUT FOR HOW LONG?


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
EXCESS-PROFITS TAX—
What Will the New Government Do About It?
October Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
v\
POPULAR
“ROOM ONLY” TARIFFS:
Singles—s/- to 10/- per day
Doubles —8/- to 18/6 per day
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
ni:lb3urne’s
MOST POPULAR HOTEL
Little Collins Street
(Next Town Hall)
S. D. Home Manager Jw
VI'S
PERSONAL ITEMS
Joe Abbott, who got in for New Eng-
land (N.S.W.), and Macartney Abbott,
who is very unlikely to be returned for
the Senate, are brothers of The Bulle-
tin’s Jack Abbott. The brand of the
coming man is on Joe, who, with an ex-
cellent record in war and peace, has de-
veloped platform ability and has still to
see 50. The sergeant-at-arms will be glad
of his presence on turbulent occasions, for
Joseph, 6ft. 2in. and 16 stone of sound
Australian manhood, is a skilful boxer.
But he is not the sort of man to want
to lay violent hands on a fellow-member,
however obstreperous.
Albert Ernest (“Texas”) Green, the
only unopposed M.H.R., was on his
deathbed when the election took place
and survived it only nine days. All
Kalgoorlie went to the State funeral,
for, as post-office clerk, State and Federal
member, “Texas” (so-called because of
a dim tradition of wanderings through
the U.S.A. and Central America) had
been associated with the place for up-
wards of 40 of his 70 years, and every-
one had a good word for the big, rough-
voiced, kind-hearted fellow. In politics
Curtin was his closest friend, and was
the first to congratulate him when he
was named Minister of Defence in the
Scullin Government, though Curtin him-
self was left out. Years later Green was
the first on hand with felicitations when
Curtin was made leader of the party.
“Oxmead” farewells an old friend:
When I first encountered “Texas” Green he
was issuing and cashing postal orders and notes
at the Kalgoorlie G.P.0., and he struck me
as one of the most efficient and courteous civil
servants I had ever known. He remained at
that job for years, and the longest hours or the
hottest weather never seemed to tire him. He
had plenty of outside interests, too; A.N.A.,
A.W.A. (precursor of the A.W.U. mining
branch) and Social Democratic Federation.
When “Texas” won the Kalgoorlie Assembly
seat in 1911—his predecessor was Norbert
Keenan, sometime mayor and Minister and
still M.L.A. for Nedlands—one of his
opponents for the party nomination was Ned
Hogan, then a goldfields wood-line union secre-
tary, afterwards destined to loom large in
Victorian politics. Hard fighter and determined
party man as he was, Green was no orator.
At one of the first speeches he made in the
Perth Assembly he drifted into such a tangle
of irrelevances that the Speaker threatened to
puli him up for not sticking to the point—
whatever it was. “But this is my peroration,
Mr. Speaker,” protested the new hand, turning
a hurt eye on the Chair. He was allowed to
conclude it.
A bit of war history has linked up
with Australia’s first Melbourne Cup,
won by De Mestre’s Archer. Peter
de Mestre, great-grandson of Archer’s
owner, has been awarded the D.F.C.
for his work with the R.A.F. Apparently
he is as good a flier as his great-grand-
dad’s neddy. The horseowner was a
Sydney merchant. A laneway where his
warehouse stood still bears the name.
William Fraser Connell, a senior
master at Barker College, Hornsby
(N.S.W.), goes to Broughton School,
Newcastle (N.S.W.), as head in succes-
sion to Dr. Wade, who has resigned. A
product of Melbourne C. of E. Grammar
and a B.A. of Melbourne University,
Connell was last seen deep in the throes
of educational research on the track of
a degree as Master of Education under
a grant from the Australian Council for
Educational Research. Athlete as well
as scholar, Broughton’s new head made
a name for himself as a uni. rep. in
swimming and in athletics for Trinity
College. While in Melbourne University
Rifles he passed an exam, for a commis-
sion in the A.M.F.
Cranbrook School, in Sydney, has lofty
ceilings and high doors, and that is just
as well, for its new headmaster, Brian
William Hone, overtops the school’s tall
Visitor, Archbishop Mowll, by some
inches. The new head was born in Adel-
aide, was S.A. Rhodes scholar for 1929,
owes his M.A. and his cricket and tennis
HEADMASTER OF CRANBROOK.
blues to Oxford, and latterly has been
Master of Marlborough College, Wilt-
shire, England. He’s an Anglican, married
to an Adelaide girl (a graduate of Adel-
aide University) and has two young
children. His hobbies are books and
printing.
This year’s diminished Royal Show at
the Exhibition Building in Melbourne
found Tom Patterson as interested as
ever. He was secretary from 1880 to
1910 and has attended 62 of the annual
outbreaks. He is 87.
W. A. Wynes, who becomes permanent
head of the Department of External
Affairs now that A. S. Watt replaces Keith
Officer in Washington, is a 32-year-old
Adelaide barrister who collected a heap
of scholarships and bursaries on his way
through school and university. Com-
mencing practice at 21, he was the first
to be admitted to the Honors Degree
LL.B. in S.A. two years later. Won his
doctorate and the Bonython Prize with
a thesis on aspects of the Constitution.
Lecturer in Law at Adelaide University,
he has written a book on powers of the
Australian Legislatures and Executives,
and contributed to legal magazines for
the last 10 years. He has been a mem-
ber of the Australian and N.Z. Society
of International Law since its inception.
Commander Warden, who succeeds
the Earl of Bective as A.D.C. at Adelaide
G.H., came to Australia to settle 20
years ago, after war service in the
Charybdis and Essex ; but was already
well known here as captain of the China
and other P. and O. ships. He has a
sheep-stud in the Adelaide hills, and is
connected by marriage with some of
S.A.’s leading families.
A much-travelled young man, Vaughan
G. Harris, has left Melbourne for an
aerial tour of the Federated Malay
States, Borneo, Sumatra and the N.E.I.
as the sort of commercial traveller that
Jules Verne might have dreamed about.
In small, light cases specially made for
the job, he will carry samples of our
liquors and beers, tyres, wire cable, spark
plugs, accumulators, paints, varnishes,
etc., in the hope of booking orders. The
trip is sponsored by T. S. Nettlefold and
Sons and will occupy six months. The
flying traveller is a son of a former
Indian Army officer and a nephew of that
Dunsterville who was Kipling’s original
of “Stalky.” Harris claims that he and
the G.-G., Lord Gowrie, are the only
two men in Australia entitled to wear the
tie of Kipling’s old school, the United
Services College at Westward Ho.
Squadron-Leader W. H. Garing, who
was in command of the Sunderland flying-
boat which spotted the 46 survivors of
the City of Benares in the Atlantic, has
had an adventurous career since he passed
out of Point Cook (Vic.) with a dis-
tinguished flying pass in 1931. After doing
a special navigation course at Calshot
(Eng.), he was posted back to Point Cook,
where he was in command of the sea-
plane squadron. In 1939 he was attached
to the R.A.F. Coastal Command as a
member of the Australian squadron. War
broke out and he was in the thick of
it. When the French collapsed a man
was wanted to fly Alexander, First Lord
of the Admiralty, to meet the French
Naval Staff, and Garing was selected.
He was born at Corryong, Victoria.
Pilot-Officer William Henry Milling-
ton, recently awarded the Distinguished
Flying Cross, is South Aus. by adoption ;
he came to Adelaide with his parents
when a child. Unable to get into the
R.A.A.F., he paid his fare to England,
and the R.A.F. accepted him in July,
1939. He gained his wings this year,
and in August, when flying a Hurri-
cane, shot down a. Dornier and two
Messerschmitts. During the fight a
cannon shell struck his cockpit,
setting fire to his ’plane; but as he
was then over a town he refused to bail
out, and made a crash landing. Milling-
ton is at present in hospital suffering
from slight wounds.
Gerald Albert William Pope, like
almost everybody else of any importance
in Adelaide, was born in S.A.—at Gawler,
65 years ago. Startecf work as a post
office messenger-boy in Mallala, joined
the Government Produce Department on
its inception in 1895, and since 1906 has
G. A. W. POPE.
been its general manager. He retires next
January. He has been chairman of
multifarious boards connected with
produce marketing, is a member of the
Australian Meat Board, and was S.A.
Trade Commissioner in London for a
while. He’s a familiar figure at every
big race meeting.
Melbourne has recently acquired a
school exclusively devoted to cooking.
It is in Latrobe-street, a handsome
modern building equipped with
laboratories, lecture rooms, a pastry de-
WILLIAM ANGLISS.
partment and a kitchen with devices in
it that would make any housewife en-
vious. It is claimed to be the first of
its kind anywhere, and is due to the
munificence of master butcher William
Angliss, who gave £23,000 for the erec-
tion of the building. Other individuals
and Government departments rallied to
the cause with £5OO ovens, and there is
accommodation for over 1000 students.
Angliss started in the meat trade with
an uncle in London. In 1886 he opened
a shop at Carlton, Melbourne ; then he
jumped into the frozen meat trade to
Kalgoorlie. The Boer War took him into
the international arena, and since then
he has launched a long list of meat and
subsidiary enterprises from Melbourne.
Since 1912 he has been M.L.C. for the
Southern Province. Every morning he
samples two of his own sausages in his
city office and passes strict judgment on
them.
J. G. Duncan-Hughes, who won the
S.A. seat of Wakefield for the U.A.P.,
first opened his mouth at Watervale 58
years ago. From Cambridge he was
called to the Bar of the Inner Temple in
1907. He was with the Royal Field Artil-
lery as a major in the 1914-18 war, and
was later A.D.C. and private secretary
to Munro-Ferguson, G.-G. Duncan-
Hughes represented Boothby from 1922
to 1928, and was elected as a S.A. Senator
nine years ago.
R. E. Thomson has just finished
50 years’ service with Mcllwraith,
McEacharn as superintendent engineer.
He joined the firm as third engineer
on the old s.s. Federal in 1890. During
his term as superintendent he has been
responsible for the design and construc-
tion of the passenger vessels Karoola,
Katoomba and Kanimbla, as well as
cargo vessels.
S. has lost another veteran, and one
of the founders of our navy, in Capt.
C. J. Clare, aged 87. Having seen a lot
of sea life before coming to Australia
in 1880, he was soon in command of
S.A. Marine Board’s Governor Musgrave,
looking after its many lighthouses. Then
he followed Creswell in command of
the S.A. gunboat Protector, seeing service
in China against the Boxers. Clare
was Naval Commandant in Westralia
during the 1914-18 war, and retired soon
after. A son is captain of the Cape York,
which now carries on S.A.’s lighthouse-
visiting.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
| NEW
CHAMPIONS
\
r
&
it
GARAGE
---si:
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
and power. And much more
economy. Champions save
you money!
An Empire product
—made in Windsor, Can.
SMOKE-OH!
A gold-digger never looks at a man
stonily until he is on the rocks.
4* 4' 4* 4 1
“Scientists have isolated a certain substance
which, so far, is known as U 235.”
British sailors have been busy isolating
substances with similar titles for the past
year.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The only men who know women are
those who know they don’t.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Only the white race has both straight and
kinkly hair; all other races have either one or
the other.” —Magazine item.
Or none at all.
4* 4* 4* ❖
“Dancing in front of glaring footlights natu-
rally imposes a heavy strain on chorus-girls’
eyes.”— Stage gossip.
And a heavier strain on the eyes of
elderly front-stallers.
4* 4* 4*
“A woman despises the spineless type of man
she can twist around her little finger.”
— Woman’s paper.
She much prefers the kind that will
twist something around her third finger.
4* 4* 4*
Actions speak louder than words, ex-
cept with politicians.
ë
“Lady St. David’s first son was a boy.”
— “Argus.”
Does she think she’s unique?
4* 4* 4*
“Fashions for the courts.” — Women’s mag.
Including no doubt some snappy
divorce suits.
* * * *
“Saved parrot’s life.” — “World’s News.”
That gives them both something to
talk about.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Even a girl who can’t spell her own
name knows there’s always a “man” in
romance.”
Ruled Out.
She hadn’t studied Art, but when
He sketched for her his rough design
She went as white as chalk, and then
She very quickly drew the line.
E.
4* 4* 4*
“What is the device known as “sprung
rhythm?” asks correspondent.
A dance by half-shot jitterbugs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Miniature circus at garden fete.”
—Society gossip.
They say well-dressed clowns pre-
dominated.
ē
Defensive Alliance.
They favor not gold in the bank;
Not they—they prefer the “new” barter.
They are mortally scared of the Yank,
And regard with suspicion the Tartar.
The strangest of bedfellows these;
But on this you can certainly bank. It
Will happen that two get the fleas
And the cold, and the third all the
blanket.
S.W.K.
ĕ
E.
Home Brew.
Firstly, there is the Puckapunyal
Parachute, which produces an exhilarating
effect upon its imbibers. You feel your-
self falling for about ten thousand feet
and then you have to be knocked on
the head to be stopped from making
after-dinner speeches. The recipe calls
for one gill of goanna oil and an equal
quantity of sheep-dip. Shake vigorously,
“ Remember , I'm a full colonel."
“ That's jonick with me, cobber — I'm a half-full private."
add a dash of bore-water, garnish with
a sprig of saltbush. It must be drunk
through a straw, otherwise if you go
to brush your teeth there’ll be none to
brush.
Bunyip Beer has a piquant flavor all
its own. Dissolve seven pounds of super-
phosphate in two gallons of painkiller,
add a tin of neatsfoot oil, sweeten to
taste with cocky’s joy and bring gently
to the boil. When cool, bottle imme-
diately in oxygen cylinders. For those
who prefer a less heady brew, dilute with
a little spirits of salt.
Cootamundra Cocktail has a velvety
bouquet as smooth as a vacuum-cleaner
salesman’s talk. Squeeze the juice of
two quandongs and a dozen Bathurst
burrs into a hogshead of liquid weed-
killer ; dissolve into the mixture the
gall bladder of a plain turkey and the
whites of two crocodile eggs. Shake well
and serve in shatter-proof glasses.
MELTON.
Rider.
1 sheem to know you; shtill, I’m not
Quite sure I do.. Sho fill the cup —
No doubt another little shpot
Will help to clear thish matter up.
Wait on ! I know you — yesh, 1 do.
You’re Jonesh, the chap who livesh
near by.
Well, now we’ve shettled you are you,
Pie ash tell me who the hell am 1?
T. W. NATHAN.
The Pill-and-Potion Profession.
“The layman cannot possibly realise what
a wide knowledge is required of the chemist
by customers who look upon him as physician,
veterinary surgeon, guide, philosopher and
friend.” —Pharmaceutical journal.
The trouble with these chemists is that
they are convinced theirs is a highly-com-
plicated job. Actually, of course, it is
one of the simplest of the professions—
just a matter of jostling up a few things
in a bottle, handing out jalap according
to taste, and possessing the ability to tie
a parcel with thin cord so that it will come
undone before the customer gets home.
I once clicked for a job as locum to a
chemist. That was in the good days
when they weren’t so fussy about quali-
fications and the like. I had done a bit
of horse-doctoring and drench work with
pigs, so I agreed to look after the fellow’s
business while he had a holiday. It was
the easiest cop I ever had.
I could see immediately that that
chemist had a very poor business sense.
The pub in the town shut at 6 p.m. and
stopped shut, the police sergeant being
a dead nark. Yet there were his shelves
stacked with hair stuff like bay-rum and
bitter-apples. I quickly altered the mix-
ture to dinkum Queensland rum and
Tassie hard cider, with a dash of cherry
brandy to tickle up the follicles.
Within a few days the entire adult
male population was undergoing an in-
tensive course of hair culture, even those
whose craniums had been as bereft of
hair as a dinner-plate for 20 years. It
got that way they’d line up at the counter
three deep at the picture interval, and
within a fortnight the milk-bar proprietor
next door was heading for the Bank-
ruptcy Court. For the convenience of
those who took their hair tonic on the
spot I installed a brass rail.
I didn’t encourage veterinary advice,
but when one old girl came in with a prize
bulldog which had got a tick I couldn’t
knock her back. I had poured some
turps on to the dog’s leg after slitting
the skin, and had turned to get the
tweezers when I heard a deep, rumbling
growl, and felt something snap on my
shin and hang on. I always knew it was
unwise to take a bone away from a dog,
but as it was mine I felt justified in
breaking a bottle of ether over the
hound’s head. It put the whole three
of us off for more than an hour, in which
time someone ratted the peter. After
that I barred veterinary efforts.
Likewise, I had to cram down on young
women coming in for advice, following
an ocular examination, about ingrowing
toenails. One clouted me across the
chops with a perfect backhander as I
was running my hand over her beauti-
fully-rounded knees to find the cause of
the trouble. She flatly refused to believe
that I thought she said she suffered from
housemaid’s knee.
My nerve tonic was, I can boast, the
most efficacious ever concocted. It was
my own recipe, and if I could remember
it I would make a fortune. I know that
it contained powdered T.N.T., mercury
fulminate, painkiller, molasses and gee-
bung juice, but there were more power-
ful ingredients which had rather strange
names. Two fingers of it taken in water
enabled a lolly-legged eight-stone fellow,
whom the town kids used to chiack with
impunity, to go home and clean up his
15-stone missus in one hit. I used to take
it myself before charging 4s. 6d. for a
prescription which cost 3 id. to make up.
As a matter of fact, I scored my great-
est success with prescription work. As
my Latin wasn’t so hot, being limited to
the knowledge that veni, vidi, vici meant
something about evil be to him who evil
thinks, I decided, being conscientious,
not to chance poisoning my customers
by going on the doc.’s prescription. I
therefore gave them all aqua pura with
a little aloes. The bitter faste satisfied
the customers that the stuff was good.
For the women I added coloring to match
their dresses, and it proved a great draw.
I had a marvellous range of colors in .
the cold-water dyes, and I was enabled
to give my aesthetic sense full play.
One day a fellow came and handed
in a prescription. I had been lashing
into a new brew of my hair tonic and
was feeling confident of interpreting even
the doctor’s handwriting. A glance at
it sufficed to confirm my expectation,
judging from the yellow look under the
patient’s eyes, that it was a mixture to
tone up a disordered liver. The mixture
of quinine, ipecacuanha, syrup of beet-
root, nux vomica, stinkwort, erica nut
and Condy’s that I gave him would, I
felt sure, not only tone up his liver but
get a few tunes out of it as well.
Next day the doc. came in, a panicky
look in his eye.
“That prescription you made up yes-
terday for Bung Lung Too —show it to
me. I don’t think I made a mistake
with the febrifuge. His temperature has
gone up to 109.”
I got the flimsy bit of paper on which
I had, for some reason or other, put a
duty stamp. As he saw it the doc. gave
a roar of anger.
“You blasted idiot,” he said. “You’ve
gone and made up a pak-a-pu ticket!”
That’s the trouble with the medical pro-
fession in its relation to the potion juggler
—too fussy. And, anyway, can’t a chemist
make a simple mistake occasionally?
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Colbun”: As the days warm up with
advancing spring the frog-choir along
the creek acquires each night a fuller
degree of melody. Could Sir Thomas
Beecham hear it he would surely with-
draw his parting remark that, so far,
Australia has failed to achieve anything
of the least musical interest. As the sun
dips below the horizon a resonant bass
soloist, a very Chaliapin of the frog
world, summons the choir to action with
“Roll up! Roll up! Roll up!” A
chorus of baritones replies “You nark!
You nark! You nark!” and the tenors
follow with “Norah Moloney, all
boloney,” which implied reproach against
the female sex is immediately overborne
by massed contralto and mezzo-soprano
voices announcing, fortissimo, “You men
are boloney, not Norah Moloney,” sup-
ported by sopranos in the upper registers
with “You liars! You liars.” The bari-
tones and tenors change to “Cut it out!
Cut it out! ” ; the contraltos and sopranos
reply “Get work! Get work!”; the
volume of sound rises to a climax and
ceases suddenly. In the quivering silence
comes again the rich, rolling bass with
“All rot! All rot! All rot!” Perhaps
he is referring to Sir Thomas’s views on
Australian art, literature and music.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I don’t recommend pipes
made from the roots of needlewood (B.
18/9/’40); they look all right and smoke
well enough, but within a week or so
you’ll wonder what has gone wrong with
your eyes. Something in the wood acts
as a strong irritant on them. But the
roots of the white mallee is every whit as
beautiful in grain as any French bruyere
for pipe-making, though thousands
of tons of it are burnt for firewood every
year. Select a sound root and shape it
up. The bowl can be bored out with a
metal drill ground on the point to suit
the shape required ; the stem with a small
Cleveland wood bit. An hour with saw,
files and sandpaper will finish the rest
off, and it works as easily as soft brass.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “I’m ’aving a few
drinks at the Shadder o’ Death,” said
the man with the wall-eyed dog, “an’ me
’ack is ’angin’ up ter the fence outside
w’en a bloke barges inter the bar an’
ses ter me, ‘That’s a damn’ fine ’orse
out there. Who does ’e b’long ter?’ ‘Too
right ’e is, an’ ’e b’longs ter me,’ ses I.
‘D’yer feel like sellin’ ’im?’ ses ’e. ‘Yes,’
ses I. ‘ ’Ow much?’ ses ’e. ‘Fifteen
quid,’ ses I, ‘an’ a chuck-in at that.’ ‘Will
yer give us a trial?’ ses ’e. ‘O’ course,’
I ses. ’E ops on ter the prad an’ starts
orf up the road, an’ I ’as another an’
waits fer ’im ter come back an’ clinch
the deal; but that’s the larst I see o’
that joker. About a coupla year later
I’m travellin’ out near the Queenslan’
border w’en up rides a flash bloke on
a fine upstandin’ bay. I reckernises the
’orse an’ the man in a blink, so I grabs
the bloke an’ pulls ’im orf the ’orse. ‘Wot
in ’ell are yer gettin’ at?’ ’e yaps. ‘W’y,
yer flamin’ thief,’ I ses, ‘you know damn’
well that’s my ’orse yer ridin’.’ ‘O’ course
’e’s your ’orse,’ ses ’e ; ‘but after givin’
’im a thurrer tryout I finds ’e don’t suit
me. Take ’im, ol’ man —take ’im.’ Now,
I arsks you, wot could a man do with a
bloke like that?”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The dollar birds have
returned from their far-northern winter
haunts to the tali dead grey-gum which
they use each summer as nesting-place
and lookout. Well into the dusk of even-
ing they do their quaint sudden aero-
batics in pursuit of high-flying insects,
then return to the tree, and after a few
rough, discordant “kreek-kreeks” settle
down for the night. Handsome folk both
of them, bravely garbed in blue and
green with bright red bill and feet, the
silver-blue “dollar” patch on each dark-
blue outer wing ; but they are fierce and
aggressive towards any other fowls who
venture to trespass on or even near to
their selected territory. From a place on
this S.Q. cliff-edge it is possible to look
directly into the hollow limb in which
they will soon be bringing up a ravenous
young family, working hard to collect
supplies of flying insects for stuffing
down the insatiable squawking gapes held
up directly the rattle of parental wings
is heard in the nursery. In February the
whole family will have left on the long
northern trek, perhaps to New Guinea
or even Java.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: I agree with most of what
“Bugs” says regarding flesh wounds (B.
11/9/’4O), though he,awakening suddenly,
failed to realise that I was discussing
amputations, something quite different.
For amputations, with one exception,
mean the severance of bone ; and when
a limb is rudely severed, toes in Dick
Smith’s case, the enveloping flesh and
skin inevitably shrink back, leaving the
end of the bone protruding. And the
wound, if left without skilled surgical
attendance, will heal that way —if the
sufferer does not die of gangrene in the
meantime. To reduce an amputation to
a condition favorable to healing, modern
surgery saWs off the protruding portion
of the bone, slices back the skin and
flesh to short flaps and then sews up,
being careful also to insert a drainage
tube as a'further precaution against gan-
grene. An aboriginal is tough enough
to heal an amputation even with the bone
protruding, but I doubt if any white man
could survive it, and especially a double
or triple amputation of toes. For the
white’s foot, enclosed so much in boot
and sock, is a highly favorable culture
bed for all sorts of germs.
=l= * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Leading a pony home
from the smithy one day I took a short-
cut across a paddock where a travelling
circus was about to set up. Suddenly
the moke stopped and nearly jerked the
halter out of my hand. As the only
animals in sight were ponies I couldn’t
account for my charge’s obvious fear —
until I noticed a completely shuttered
vehicle which bore the words “Danger
—Lions.” One of a herd of those kids
who seem to gravitate to a circus tent
asked: “What’s the matter with the ’orse,
mister?” “He must be frightened of the
lions,” I replied. “Aw, listen to ’im,”
scoffed the kid to his cobbers, “tryin’ to
kid us ’is ’orse can read!”
* * *
“Nor’-west”: Let me in-
troduce Jimmy Pannikin and
Big Tom on a catamaran
paddling slowly along the
edge of a reef. Originally
coral, this reef has cemented
into stone ; and on it coral
has grown again. The
water is as clear as gin, and
fifty feet down one sees the
sea-garden. Weeds, grass,
sea flowers, fish, crabs,
clams —and now comes a
turtle. Just a nice handy
size, about 2ft. across the
shell. Slipping overside,
Jimmy swims quietly down-
wards ; twenty feet, thirty.
The shellback takes no
notice —‘the dark form might
be a porpoise, of no in-
terest to him. Right over his quarry
Jimmy grabs, seizing the collar of the
shell, one hand on each side of the head,
while his knees find a grip down by the
tail. A pull upwards with the hands,
down pressure with the knees—and the
startled turtle finds itself aquaplaning
to the surface. There, kneeling on the
raft, Big Tom waits with the waddy.
He never misses ; one smack and turtle
is booked for dinner. It was this age-
old game of turtle-riding that had the
nor’-west nigger ready-trained when last
century his white conqueror wanted him
for skin diving.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: When I was down the
Murray I never went short of a tasty
cod for breakfast because I always had a
supply of the bait that will bring cod for
miles—bardi grubs. These big white
titbits live in tunnels bored into the gums,
and when you locate one a bit of thin
wire shoved into the hollow and given
a twist will bring it out. But don’t
imagine the grubs hang out signs ad-
vertising their presence ; they don’t. I
was young then and very keen of hearing
and, provided there was not too much
wind, I could place my right ear against
a tree and hear the grubs chewing away
in their holes. No chewing sound, no
grub. Strangely, I never could hear them
with my left ear, probably because it used
to catch most of the cold south-westerlies
that blew in those parts.
* * * *
“Runa”: Tawhiti arrived back at the
outback M.L. station after some months’
absence, and was immediately asked the
whereabouts of Mere, his wife. “Oh,
Mere, she tie,” Tawhiti explained. “She
. ’ ’.. „ 4tw ,
get te consumption Well, it must have
been very sudden, said the missus in
astonishment. I saw her in Napier not
many weeks ago I suppose it was the
galloping kind she had. Tawhiti re-
fleeted for a few seconds. No, tat
wrong he pronounced at last. Mere
no gallop. She only trot.
* * * *
“Wang”: “The deadliest terbaccer I
ever struck,” remarked “Bogan” Bob,
“wus smoked be ole Mick Grogan. Where
he got it or what he put in it nobody
knew, for Mick kept that a secret. And
no one wus anxious f’r the recipe. He
called it the Cadger’s Knock-back, an’
it knocked ’em back all right, an’ nearly
down too. I never knew anybody who
came at him f’r a second helpin’. When
he wus drivin’ a team of horses he never
needed a whip to urge ’em along. All
he’d do wus sit on the load behind ’em,
puffin’ his pipe, an’ the team would
pull like mad t’ keep ahead of the
smell from it. But that weed killed him
in the end.” “How? Yeller jarnders?”
asked someone. “No,” said Bob. “He
wus sittin’ fishin’ on the river bank one
night. He’s under a big eucalypt, puffin’
away, when we hears a thud. We’re
further up the river, o’ course, an’ as
Mick’s groan is follered by silence we
goes along. The poor cow had been hit
fair on top o’ the melon by a native bear
that’d dropped, gassed by Mick’s ter-
t>accer > from a branch 50 foot up. His
p ec k s broke—Mick s, I mean, not the
bears ’ , An the worst of it was Mick s
P>Pe M inter he river an poisoned evry
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Talkin’ of crays,”
said Bert the barman, “late one Sund’y
night a bloke carryin’ a chaffbag lobs
into the Anglers’ Club, where I’m workin’
at the time. ’E tips up ’is bag on the bar
an’ out scuttles a cray big enough to feed
a smoke-night mob. Talk about excite-
ment! Everybody’s tryin’ to measure the
thing, ’n’ one or two gets a nasty slash
from its rudder. In the middle of the
scrimmage the doorman slips in t’ tell the
bloke ’is missus is lurkin’ outside, an’ as
’e ducks out the back way ’e sings out t’
me t’ drown the cray for ’im an’ get it
cooked. Well, we cornered that flamin’
overgrown yabbie, but be the time we
scooped it into its bag the club was due
‘ Jock up, sso them eartless cows nicked
orf an left me alone with this ere sea-
deyil Putti that c into a bucket
was , ike tryin > f fit a bQtt i e o’ lager into
vest pocket . Luck’s my way ,
though> xhen y s an empty niner in the
corner> so j bas hes in the top, fills ’er up
ar p sboves the cray in. It’s a tight fit, so I
gets the biggest drink tray we gotj plonks
p an » we ighs it down with the anchor
ol’ Shandy McGuinness drug up outa the
bay one time. When I comes back with
me ’ a t an’ coat, the tray an’ anchor’s on
the floor, a winder’s smashed, an’ there
ain’t a drop o’ water left in the cask,
The cray ’ad drunk the lot an’ got clear
away!” There was a pregnant silence
while Bert polished a couple of glasses,
Then he caught my inquiring eye. “Yair!
The dogcart got ’im next mornin’ down
in Port Melbourne ’arf a mile from the
beach. We drowned the swine in the
city baths!”
“ That's carryin' this stuntin’ a bit too far.”
HOMAGE TO A HAT.
It’s far from ornamental and it’s served for
many years,
From the Border to the Gulf-land, keeping
sunburn from my ears.
You’ll find it on the long and lean, and on
the short and fat,
For there’s nothing much more useful than
the bushman’s old felt hat.
He can use it for a blinder when he’s saddling
up a prad
That regards him with suspicion from a rolling
eye and bad.
And once aboard the bucker, while the mob
howls from the rail,
The old hat does its duty as a painless kind
of flail.
When the sheep have got him speechless on
a hot and dusty day,
He can always grab the old grey felt and punch
his rage away.
Or, having wasted time and words upon a
footsore pup,
He can fall back on the flogging hat to force
the jumbucks up.
It becomes a useful holder when the quart-
pot tea is made,
An eyeshade or a headrest when he’s spelling
in the shade;
He may use it as a bellows when the wood is
slow and damp,
Or in a frantic effort when the grass burns
round the camp.
It blocks the bunny in the log or carries home
the eggs;
His missus commandeers it as a holder for the
pegs;
It serves the dog with water from the bag when
on the track;
It’s as useful as their heads, in fact, to those
who live outback.
Upon a nail inside my door—my spurs are
underneath—
Hangs the grey and shapeless emblem to which
I now bequeath
These lines in token of the days when I
discovered that
There’s a touch of the sublime about the bush-
man’s old felt hat.
Queensland.
H.P.M.


“Serves you right, Bill, for puttin' that old Robbery Park
galloway into a sulky. You hurt his pride!”
“Mat’s Mate”: Always an accommo-
dating sort, Mat didn’t say anything when
he found his new boss to be full of re-
ligion, joining in the morning and evening
prayers and the graces at meals with an
impassive countenance, though anybody
who knew him would have been sus-
picious of the glint in his eyes on these
occasions. One night after a heavy day
hay-digging in the paddock the boss made
the evening prayer a marathon affair,
and poor old Mat, with his head bowed
on his arms, dozed off. The boss had
been rather impressed by Mat’s acquies-
cence in the devotions, and decided this
night to repay him. Finishing the long
prayer he murmured, “Let us have a
hymn. P’raps Mat would like to lead.”
Mat, struggling back to wakefulness,
caught the last word and sat up. “Lead?
Me? Aw, righto, what’s trumps?” he
ejaculated. Sadly and sorrowfully that
family went to bed, leaving the sinner in
his agony.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The annual spring crop of
armchair naturalists is once more re-
proaching us ignorant Australians for not
abolishing our myriad mosquitoes by
importing “millions” fish from Barbados
to eat the larvae. As a matter of cold
fact and experiment, there are at least
six dinkum Aussie species of fishlets any
one of which is better at it than Gam-
busia affinis. Thirty years ago Australian
“blue eyes” were being exported to do
the job that “millions” had fallen down
on in the Dutch West Indies. The catch
in the whole business is that, although
larvicidal fish usually stage a strikingly
effective act after beginning under new
conditions, they get tired of the new diet
after a season or two and change over
to something else.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jimmy Hogan topped the
rise and spotted a deserted house stand-
ing back from the road on high piles.
Rabbits had burrows underneath it, but
that didn’t worry Jimmy. Soon he had
a fire going in the hearth and his nap
spread in one corner of an empty room.
Later, full of tea and cold mutton, he lay
and watched the fire die down and was
just dropping off to bye-bye when a
horrible, long-drawn moan went shiver-
ing through the place. Jimmy got up
and explored, being a man of little
imagination, but could find nobody. He
had a look out the front door, but beyond
a gusty wind stirring the trees all was
quiet. He was barely back in the bunk
when came another low moan. Jimmy
called a query. The moan died away, but
soon rose again. By this time what little
imagination James did possess was hard
at work, and when the next moan came
he gathered his gear and gat him hence
with speed, spreading his bunk under
some bushes a bit down the road. In
the morning he returned to the house,
determined to have it out with well,
whatever it was. But you can’t fight a
bloke with the d.ts., though he does lie
under a fireplace thinking Old Nick’s got
him at last. Jimmy gave him a sousing
with a bucket of water and the moans
became curses.
* # # *
“Tired Tim”: Sometimes Nature nods.
Brushing Noogoora burr close to a
lagoon, I came upon a wild duck’s nest
on the ground with nine eggs in it. In
the interests of our feathered friends I
left it alone. Next day the number had
increased by one. In the interests of
my supper I removed four. All proved
to be in an advanced stage of incubation.
No, there weren’t any cuckoos about.
HC 5jC S»S
“Nagheer”: According to a recent
write-up of A.I.F. training-camp life,
cooks are rated by the ribald soldiery as
cooks, cook’s offsiders and would-be
cooks. There can’t have been any out-
back shearers amongst the warriors
encountered by that scribe, or he would
have acquired a much more comprehen-
sive knowledge of the finer points of
Australian chef* classification as practised
in the Great Open Spaces. In average
shed-nomenclature, the printable grades
of babbler comprise cooks, cookies, triers,
b.bs.—short, it is presumed, for babbling
brook, but maybe not —poisoners, gut-
screwers and absolute blanky murderers.
* * * #
“Naturala”: The reason why the
bird’s egg has a hard shell while that of
most reptiles is soft,
though tough and
parchmentlike
(B. 4/9/’4O), is pre-
cisely that matter of
weight that so
troubled early avia-
tors. The reptile pre-
ceded the bird ; and
as it went on four
legs and its belly
weight was a matter
of small importance,
it was possible for the
reptile to carry 50 or
100 eggs in its interior
before feeling the urge
to deposit them. But
when the bird —
evolved from the rep-
tile—arrived, weight,
became a considera-
tion, so great that
Nature gave the bird
shell-thin bones empty
of marrow. Follow-
ing this trend, the
bird that laid its )
eggs just as soon as the first one was
ripe, the others following in daily sue-,
cession, was the bird that kept down to
minimum weight and thus could fly
better. And that was a vital matter
when speed in flight meant increased
ability to catch insect food and also the
better to escape
other winged
enemies. The eggs
thus laid had to be
preserved, so Nature
next evolved the cal-
careous shell, a
method of preser-
vation which enables
the egg to withstand
influences, physical
and climatic, that
would be destructive
to any soft-shelled
egg. It also pre-
serves the eggs so
that when the bird
starts its particular
method of incuba-
tion, sitting, all the
embryos have an
even go —as is
demonstrated by the
Muscovy duck,
which lays 18 eggs
before setting but
hatches all at the
same time.
* *
“O. Fay”: Indi-
genous trees can be
blasted by frost (B.
18/9/’4O) in even
normally temperate
zones. Hornsby
(N.S.W.) had a frost
which knocked tur-
pentines that were sheltering among other
eucalypts. There may be a scientific
explanation for the failure of the tur-
pentine alone to withstand extreme cold
—an explanation that would account for
the heavy mortality among nursery citrus
yearlings. My brother lost thousands of
lemon and orange trees (and the fruits
of a year’s labor) in that one freak night.
The youngsters split their bark from
ground-level to twigs and were dead in
a week. There may be a more involved
scientific explanation, but my own theory
is that expansion of frozen sap was the
cause.
* Hs * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A bush job that re-
quires skill as well as brawn is girder-
cutting. The operator begins by sounding
the selected tree with the back of his
felling axe to find out whether it is solid
or piped. He runs an experienced eye up
the barrel to judge length, size and
straightness. Standing with his back to
the trunk he looks up to the head to
ascertain the lean, then scans the ground
for levelness and suitability for working
on the fallen tree. If all are satisfactory
he puts in the belly cut on the side to
which it is to fall, taking care to make
the scarf deep enough to prevent splitting
or “roaring up” as the tree falls. If fell-
ing against lean it must be wedged over
to get a true drop. The tree down, he
measures off the required length, barks
it, saws off the head; rolls the log on
to skids with the canthook in the re-
quired position and saws off the “sloven”
where it left the stump. Then he strikes
two parallel lines with the marking line,
blocks in one side to them and hews it
square with the broad axe. The future
girder, from now a “stick,” is rolled on
to its squared side, two more lines are
struck and another side squared. From
each end of a centre line on one squared
surface a vertical line is drawn through
an 18in. circle clear of sapwood and the
two top corners blocked in. The stick
is then canthooked over, chocked up till
the vertical line at each end is plumb,
and the bottom corners blocked in. After
squaring off, the cutter puts his brand
on the girder and goes off to perform
another miracle of axemanship without
an equal in the world.
* * * *
“Berry”: Charles Shaw, in his story
“Bush Dog” (B. 25/9/’4O), has “The
Boss” leave sleeping Cohuna by train
en route to Melbourne, quenching his
thirst at Elmore I’ve often done the
same but to get that train through
Seymour he must have had a new line
built into Vic.’s railway system. The
closest Seymour gets to the Cohuna-
Melbourne line is about 40 miles, cross-
country.
* * * *
“Pinjarrah”: I came on him seated
beside a pool in the Westralian forest
meditatively watching the bees that
alighted to drink on*the piece of bark
that he had thoughtfully placed at the
water’s edge. A philosopher, obviously.
Then I noticed the tin of golden syrup,
the cotton-wool and the tweezers. A fine
stout bee, well laden with pollen, had just
finished her drink. Deftly the tweezers
placed a light tuft of syrup-smeared
cotton-wool on the end of her abdomen.
The bee rose, flew high, circled round a
couple of times, then took off in the pro-
verbial beeline. “No good; too far,”
commented the expert. The next bee
gave promise. Rising obliquely only a
few feet, it flew off without circling.
“That’s better; we’ll have a look for
that fellow.” On the way the expert
explained. “When they fly high and
circle, that means that the hive is at least
half a mile away. When they just rise
and go that means that the hive is close
handy.” And it was, for before long
we came on an ancient jarrah, from a
hollow limb of which bees poured in and
out. But the expert shook his head
doubtfully. “No good, after all,” he
said as he shut up his battered field-
glasses. But it looked good to me. “No
doubt. But to me it’s too clean around
the entrance. An old hive, full of honey,
has a dirty doorstep. A ring of dark
wax, the deposit left by the millions of
feet coming and going for months, per-
haps years. A clean doorstep means
that the hive has just started and there’ll
be nothing in the larder.” Thus the lore
of the sugar-bag hunter.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A little-known Australian
commercial product is attar of roses, the
tarry black viscid oil of which a single
drop will scent a room for days, and for
which there is a wide demand at prices
up to £9 per ounce. Chemically and
morphologically identical with that ob-
tained from roses, mostly in Balkan
countries, it is extracted by a secret trade
process from the leaves of Eucalyptus
Macarthuri. The deep green oil obtained
from E. citriodora, the well-known
lemon-scented gum, also contains a sub-
stantial percentage of attar but is more
difficult to treat. Macarthuri is a smallish
and less ornamental species with rough
grey bark and rounder and shorter leaves
which, when crushed, have a sweet smell
in place of the lemon odor of its hand-
somer relative. Its natural habitat is well
south, but it could probably be cultivated
in many areas of temperate Australia.
One hundred pounds of leaves yields
about 31b. of oil, said to refine down
under the special process employed to
rather less than half a drachm of attar.
Citriana leaves yield about the same
amount of oil, but only about a third
of the amount of attar can be extracted,
and at greater cost.
“If you think it's too big We might fix it with a gusset."
THE ROAD.
Upon a Road where Youth and Age,
Grave travellers or gay,
Must trudge or trip a destined stage,
I wandered yesterday.
A highway ’twas whereon, in truth,
Scant charm abode for me,
Yet there I chanced upon a youth
Who journeyed joyously.
So footworn seemed the miles, so grim,
So cheerless, seemed the Road,
I could not sing in time with him
As side by side we strode.
By lustrous goals lured on and led,
With love and hope in tune,
He sang of glowing leagues ahead
With bright adventures strewn.
On, on he paced, gay, gay of gait,
Like one who haply fares
All heedless of waylaying Fate
That clutches unawares.
Thus, thoughtful, I and, joyful, he
Awhile together strode,
Till suddenly he turned from me
And, smiling, left the Road.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day’s
uncertain conditions
JNEVITABLE fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions ex-
pressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that
you consult your Solicitor and have your Will
revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of
appointing The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment
gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a Company with more
than 62 years’ practical experience in the adminis-
tration of Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon appli-
cation.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 Bligh St., Sydney 401 Collins St., Melbourne
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided
Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1930.. 77,003 8 p.o. = 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 61,272 5 „ „ 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ „ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 .. .. 210,457
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ „ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 .. .. 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 „ „ 99,834 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 .. .. 321,834
1940.. 117,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
It was a far busier year for this co., the
Commonwealth’s premier yarn-spinner
and woollen and worsted manufacturer,
than those figures alone might suggest.
Though both the Abbotsford (Vic.) and
subsidiary Marrickville (N.S.W.) mills
worked to capacity, there were sufficient
orders on the books at June 30 to ensure
full-time operations well into 1940-41.
Not only has war enabled the manage-
ment to develop an export business, but
an increased civilian demand through
trade stocking-up has been superimposed
on heavy defence requirements, which,
of course, have first call on production.
Prices to the public are still pre-war rates.
Taking undistributed earnings of sub-
sidiaries —Globe Worsted Mills, Sydney,
is the chief —into account, the declared
net result was £124,955 (up £7009),
of which all but £9 belonged to
Y.F. After charging an extra £8374 for
depreciation (£52,162), gross earnings
(£225,441) shot up £54,894, notwith-
standing all-round increases in raw
material and other costs. A lift of
£47,885 in administrative exes., etc.
(£100,486), was primarily on account of
tax allocations —£59,316, as against
£18,813. That takes no notice of a
reduction of £7417 in the consolidated
carry-forward, presumably due to deduc-
tion of the accumulated debit of Byfas
Pty., a silk, etc., piece-goods offshoot
now treated in the accounts as a subsi-
diary.
On Y.F.’s million-pound share-register
the £124,946 called profit was 12.5 p.c.,
as against 11.5, 10.9, 12.2, 11.9, 11.3 and
11.6 p.c. back to 1934. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and the £24,946 by which
free reserves (£379,044) benefited lifted
them £39,235 higher than the figure in
the parent’s accounts.
Expenditure of £ 174,000-odd, of which
shareholders put up £150,000, one-third
premium, on mill additions, tc., during
1938-39 came in good time. There were
further extensions last term:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. .. £998,342 £1,000,000
Outside interests* . . . . 2,493
Overdraft .. .. .. 14,275 53.679
Sundry creditorst .. .. 212,275 356,264
S’taff fund . . . . . . 5,000 5,000
Freeholds 369,031 371,869
Plant, etc. 420,447 438,762
Stocks 591,936 756,153
Debtors 170,327 224,559
Shares . . ■ • . . 60,174 33,916
Cash, etc 26,841 21,221
* Including proportion reserves. + Including tax
provision.
Plant is kept tuned to a high peak of
efficiency, the amount written off last
year running to almost 12 p.c. of June
30’s book value. The management added
heavily to stocks (up £164,217) and
debtors (£54,232 higher), tacking £183,393
on to the debt to do so. It also ex-
changed its 35,500 Austral Silk shares
for £22,483 of scrip in Bradford
Cotton. Excluding these and other share-
holdings, there was a favorable move-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£591,990) of £29,436.
As for the current term, a new wage
award has added further to costs, and
taxation remains an uncertain factor.
Also, Australian manufacturers are
paying p.c. above appraisement prices
for raw wool, compared with a con-
tingency loading of Jfi. per pound for
last season’s. Though Y.F. is well
stocked up, the averaging system will
prevent much of the benefit accruing
that would normally result from the
board’s foresight in similar circumstances.
Defence production now accounts for
an increasing proportion of turnover,
too, and there is not the usual profit
in these orders among other things,
coarser yarns and wooltops have to be
purchased from outside mills. Still, the
div. looks in no danger.
The market takes a similar view,
pricing the pound shares, visibly covered
by 275. 7d. in net tangibles, to return
4.7 p.c. at 435. 6d. The public record
to date and the specialised nature of
activities suggest that the co. will en-
counter far fewer potholes than manu-
facturers of blankets and other woollen
goods, which normally are over-
produced, when readjustment from a
war- to a peace-time footing is again
effected.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends x
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 64,167 12,000 28,000 20,000 231,518
From inner reserves, £25,275 .. 256,793
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246,284
1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
5 p.c.
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6j p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
7i p.c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 30,000 ) 0 . 0
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. J
8J p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) fIQ ,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j u,oa,s
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 9Q r, cna
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . . +
1939.. 106,659 12.000 28,000 35,000 )
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. ) d ’
10 p.c.*
1940.. 112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) „. Q ao .
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . . J
* Including 1) p.c. centenary bonus.
In celebrating the centenary of the busi-
ness this £1,000,000 co. earned its best
profit yet, and the ords. were handed a
£5OOO (= \\ p.c.) bonus.
Joseph Farmer arrived from England
and started shopkeeping at Parramatta
in 1840 just as Australia’s first big
financial crisis, following the land boom
of the 1830’s, was ripening. When the
bubble burst, as soon it did, few escaped
loss, but most were wiser for the experi-
ence. From Parramatta the business was
soon transferred to a 24ft. frontage
leased in Pitt-street, Sydney, and has
remained there ever since. The premises
now cover 1J acres fronting Pitt, Market
and George streets.
Other names associated with the busi-
ness in its partnership days were Wiliam
Farmer, nephew of the founder, Messrs.
Williams and Giles, R. Painter, John
Pope, G. P. Fitzgerald and W. Seaward.
The present co., a London float, took
control in 1897, Sydney interests buying
in later. Headquarters were trans-
ferred from London to Sydney in 1916.
For the 13 years to the close of
accounts in 1929 the ords. averaged
11.3 p.c., sweetened with £lOO,OOO of
bonus scrip. The average for the next
seven very difficult years, of which three
were dry ones, was 3.4 p.c., since when
a steady 8f p.c. has been paid, with a
1| p.c. bonus added last term, making
10 p.c. for the year.
War altered trading conditions last
term. But after making a bigger but
unspecified allowance for contingencies,
including taxation, the board figured net
earnings £5672 better than the previous
year’s at £112,331. That was enough to
pay both lots of pref. divs. and show
a shade over 18 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 16.6, 16.3, '15.3, 12.5,
9.3 and 7.5 p.c. back to 1934.
As for the current term, there still
promises to be plenty of money about.
But the Government is likely to mop up
more of it in war loans, taxation and
savings certificates, and costs generally
can be expected to remain on the up-
grade, while imports, especially of
fashion goods, will become more difficult.
Much, therefore, will depend upon local
buying and upon the products of the
co.’s own factory.
When the books closed, stocks (up
£99,642) were heavier than at any time
during the last decade. The item has
been built up in order to ensure sup-
plies, and, unless something very unex-
pected occurs, it appears a sound move:
1931. 1935. 1939. 1940.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 500,000 +500.000 +490,000
Creditors*.. 181,952 215,017 206,902 300,399
Freeholds &
plant . . 1,436,822 1,403,636 1,467,511 1,441,523
Stock . . 313,077 326,959 373,644 473,286
Book debts 77,606 151,741 184,048 223,640
Cash and in-
vestments. 82,240 91,725 29,263 26,844
* Including unspecified provision for contingencies.
+ Mortgage.
More attention has also been given to
the extension of credit, debtors’ balances
being £39,592 greater than at the pre-
vious balance. To meet the outlay
£93,497 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, which includes an
unspecified amount for contingencies.
Leaving the mortgage out of account,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less iiquid surplus (£423,371) was £43,318.
The market prices both firsts and
seconds at 255. and the ords. at 275.,
compared with 245. 3d., 235. 3d. and
265. a year ago. At current prices the
returns are 4.8 p.c., 5.6 p.c. and 6.5 p.c.
on the basis of last year’s distributions,
excluding the bonus. The net tangible
cover is £6 14s. lid. firsts, £2 17s. 6d.
seconds and 375. 6d. ords.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 7,908 2J p.c. = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written oft shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO .. .. .. .. 95,280
1931.. 13,016 3i p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. •• 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions, £2OOO . . 96,990
1933.. 14,655 5£ p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£5OOO 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99.232
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 5,788 311,909
1937.. 29,297 Hi „ „ 22,500 1 - 197 117 106
Written oft. £l6OO. S ’
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 ) i 93.2 119 01S
Written off, £3806. 1 ’
1939.. 31,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 1 , qOO 120 qi«
Written off, £2383 j I,9 °° ’
1940.. 29,721 12 p.c. = 27,0-00 2,721 123,639
“Cascade” has been the native brew of
Apple Islanders for more than a century.
With a growing home and mainland de-
mand and more attention to its pub
properties, the co. is now showing good
dividends, notwithstanding that the
Speck’s beer consumption per head is not
much more than two-thirds that of the
Commonwealth average.
Whether the position is any better
than it looks depends partly on whether
Tasmanian Breweries Pty., the beer-
making subsidiary in which Cascade and
J. Boag and Son merged their interests
in 1922, and which was off the div. list
during 1927-33, is now passing on the
whole of its earnings or not. Apart from
the brewing co. and the hotels, appreci-
able Cascade revenue is derived from
the “soft” (cider and cordials) section,
where a larger and more efficient plant
installed in the 1939 term was further
added to last year.
Within the Speck consumption of the
hard stuff is approaching double the
depression low of 5.2 gallons per head:
f —Consumption— t—
’ooo Per | ’O9O Per
Gals. Capita. I Gals. Capita.
1924-25.. 1617.6 7.2 | 1934-35.. 1391.3 6.1
1930- 1294.6 5.8 | 1935-36.. 1666.7 7.2
1931- 1188.9 5.3 I 1936-37.. 1784.3 7.7
1932- 1193.6 5.2 1937-38.. 2080.8 8.9
1933- 1254.6 5.5 | 1938-39.. 2168.5 9.2
Figures for the latest term aren’t yet
available, but the barrel-rolling appears
to have been well maintained, despite
war’s incursion into the tourist traffic and
the difficulties of some exporters. Helped
by a maiden div. from Traders Pty., a
wholly-owned wine-and-spirits offshoot,
declared gross earnings (£69,717) headed
in the right direction to the extent
of £6558, but heavier costs of one sort
and another pulled the net result back
£1562 to 13.2 p.c. on capital, compared
with 13.9, 14.6, 14.6, 12.8, 9.4 and 8.8 p.c.
back to 1934. That was after charging
£21,384 (up £6586) for repairs and
taxation clumsy bookkeeping and
allowing for minor reserve adjustments.
The 12 p.c. sent out for the third succes-
sive term left £2721 for the visible lay-by,
now £123,639.
Balance of the co.’s hotel modernisa-
tion programme, which has cost £56,100
to date and produced “marked increases
in trade,” is being stood over till con-
clusion of the war with Germany. It
has been financed partly by new capital
but mainly on deposit moneys:
1931. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £200,0-00 £2O-0,009 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits . . 129,124 121,129 107,267 161,979
Other liabilities 10,976 2,433 4,819 5,274
Hotels, etc... 253.847 254,246 281,121 306,398
Plant, etc. .. 103,572 88,228 91,391 95,500
Stock. . . . 7,709 7,339 12.913 17,568
Book debts, etc. 24,801 18,296 12,516 38,643
Cash. etc. . . 312 10.340 14,850 14,170
Shares other cos. 70,809 65,196 64,646 64,646
Last year the debt grew by £55,167 owing
to net expenditure of £29,386 on fixed
assets and further advances of £26,127,
secured mainly on bills of sale, to debtors.
A result was a lift from £71,807 to
£96,872 in the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids.
To some extent loss of tourist business
and difficulties of the apple-growers,
among others, have so far been largely
offset by the better balance new industry


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Filter
c'miwmi'Sii'J
Cylinder
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
F I
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
' *
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . 4,739,012
10 0
0 0
10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend: Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ẅ
has imparted to the Tasmanian economy.
With costs rising, a lot will depend on
the degree to which Cascade’s mainland
trade holds. Meantime, immediate yield
from the 21s. shares paid to £1 is 6.2 p.c.
at 395. The net tangible backing per
share is 30s. lid.
Excitable yelling against a man by a
crowd often turns to “Fair go! Fair
go!” when someone does more than
merely yell at the fellow. Public
sympathy runs that way. Now that
Great Boulder’s change-of-domicile pro-
posals have been blocked by Govern-
ment action, “some sections of the Lon-
don financial press are modifying their
earlier attitude.” The “Financial News”
says the principle involved in the Treas-
ury’s opposition “is justified only in
war-time,” and the “Statist” says that
“even war conditions should not be
allowed to blind public opinion to the
inequitable and high-handed character of
the Treasury’s action.” The Treasury,
primarily for Great Boulder’s benefit, now
forbids transfer of a co.’s registration
from London without special consent.
The “Wild Cat’s” opinion all along has
been that double taxation —especially of
the drastic war-time kind —is unfair.
* * * *
Goldmining dividends distributed, in
Westralia during the eight months ended
August totalled £667,735, against
£709,054 for the same period of 1939,
though gold production (1,153,094 fine
ounces, as measured by Mint receipts)
rose 19,7400 z. Aggregate for 1939 was
£1,377,111, the most since 1909, when
£1,359,088 was paid. Valuing production
at £4.247 per ounce, the 1909 output was
worth £6,696,146 and the 1939 £5,047,518.
In the former year grade of ore treated
was 10.16dwt. and in the latter s.Bdwt.
Owing to the British Treasury demanding
its full pound of golden flesh from Great
Boulder and the dwindling of the earn-
ing capacity of South Kalgurli and one or
two others on the div. list, current year’s
distribution is likely to be lower than
that of last.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has a lot of
leeway to make up in the second half of
the current term if shareholders are to
avoid further cut in their income.
After paying for development, working
surplus for the six months to September
was £16,600, compared with £19,300 and
£33,400 for the two preceding half-years.
Tonnage and revenue figures have been
well maintained ; but the increasing diffi-
culty this old producer is experiencing
in keeping the volume of millfeed up,
combined with general cost-increases, is
exhibited in working exes. —495. 6d. a
ton of ore crushed, excluding residues,
for the past six months, as against
425. 3d. for the corresponding portion of
1939. Over the past 12 months the
ss. shares have fallen from 20s. to 15s.
6d. —in the circumstances less than what
might have been expected, until it is
remembered the co. is sitting behind a
nice swag of investments and has a poten-
tial second string in the Hainault block.
There is still over two years’ ore in sight
in the old mine.
* * * *
Last year Porphyry Gold formed in the
West to acquire the assets of Edjudina,
N.L., a small Adelaide concern which
let go, because of financial and treatment
troubles, a sort of laterite gold deposit
near Yarri and went into liquidation.
Now Edjudina’s liquidator is invited
to accept a second mortgage as security
for the balance of purchase money owing
by Porphyry. The Westralian Govern-
ment holds a first mortgage, and also a
bill of sale over portion of the plant.
Porphyry is trying to obtain a loan of
£lO,OOO from the Mines Department for
development.
* * * *
In the term to Sept. 30, Cocks Eldo-
rado, gold-and-tin dredging at Eldorado
(Vic.), handed shareholders £41,250 (3s.
a share), as against £13,750 in 1939 ; but
unless costs were something under 4d.
per c.y. it is likely past earnings were in
part drawn on to do so. Dredge turn-
over (2,427,200 c.y.) expanded 64 p.c. on
the previous drought year’s figure ; but
estimated mining receipts advanced only
£15,850 to £87,350, owing to a lower
gold contept —1.3 gr., as against I.7gr.
Mine costs at, say, 4d. a yard would
absorb £40,450, to which must be added
Melbourne outgo and depreciation—to-
gether £BlOO in 1939. Costs in that year
actually ran to 64d. per c.y. ; but there
were no lengthy close-down periods last
term, and the wash was expected to be
easier. The co.’s area is in two parts ; a
year ago there was estimated to remain
seven years’ work in the section now
being dug, and eight years in the second
(lower-grade) block if prices are right.
* * * *
Faced with a prospective annual loss
of £50,000 in freight charges, after the
railway had been especially extended
from Bungendore, and £25,000 in power
sales, State Premier Mair has come to
the assistance of Lake George Mines,
Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.), with carrying
and power concessions worth £15,000
over the next six months. London has
made a commendable effort to re-
open the old mine on a silver-lead basis,
putting up £600,000 in hard cash, but
troubles have been as thick as hail-
stones from the start, and the future of
550 employees and a township of 1700 at
present appears to hang by a none-too-
robust thread. By raising output by 50
p.c. it is hoped to keep the wolf from
the door, which suggests that the labor
and treatment position is improving.
At present the lead concentrates are
shipped from Kembla to the U.S., the
zinc to Britain,
* * * *
The Black Jack, Charters Towers
(N.Q.), goes on in an orderly way, both
as to ore underground and finances. Pro-
duction for 1940 more than doubled that
of 1938, and there was a corresponding
increase in distributions to shareholders.
The stopes between No. 3 and No. 5
south levels continue to supply good
average ore, and look well. A reef up
to 4ft. thick in bunches is being taken
out, but it is the narrow, heavily-
mineralised veins that are keeping the
values up. Morgan Lewis is testing out
the Lubra reef where it junctions in the
Black Jack shaft.at 410 ft. It will be a
second string if it proves of any quality,
but so far the Lubra has not made a
name for herself.
* * * *
“Peta”: Cloncurry is dying for a
smelter. Chillagoe, 900 miles away, takes
all Cloncurry’s copper ore above, say,
10 p.c. But there’s tenfold more ore
under 10 p.c., as any hard-bitten gouger
on the field will tell you, and it has to
stay “put,” chiefly because of those miles.
What Cloncurry needs is a Dr. Goebbels.
Its most effective propaganda would be
to exhibit a film showing a loaded ore
train groaning over that route to Towns-
ville, then on to Cairns —and especially
that track from Cairns to Kuranda,
where the line rises 1100 ft. in 15 miles,
and the loads have to be broken up to
make the grade.
* * * *
About six months ago B.H. Prop, took
up the ground containing the Mt. Miller
manganese mine, near Gladstone (C.Q.).
A working party was on the spot a few
weeks ago, but the mine has since closed
down. “It wasn’t quite suitable,” was
the clamlike verdict.
Exhaustion of the Trekelano copper
reserves, Cloncurry (N.Q.), caused some
surprise. A detailed examination of the
factual evidence resulted in recommen-
dations that marcasite may replace
chalcopyrite gradually in depth, .but not
so quickly that sinking below No. 7, the
bottom, level isn’t thought worth while,
and so it is ordained. The shoot- has
north and south of the present
levels, but repetitions are a possibility,
with preferences cast on the southern
end. It has been a fine mine. Its near-
extinction caused some perturbation be-
cause without its ore —well, Chillagoe
wouldn’t quite be the same.
* * * *
Efforts are being made to raise West-
ralian coppermining from the dead.
Copper was one of the first metals to
come into prominence in the West, its
production beginning at Northampton,
near Geraldton, in 1842. The first con-
signment of ore left the State in 1845 to
be smelted in Wales. Since, annual pro-
duction has shown great variation, rang-
ing from fairly large quantities to nil.
To the end of 1918 it was worth
£1,540,000. In the next 20 years the
aggregate value was barely £200,000.
Now the output is insignificant. Main
reason is probably the high cost
of production. Principal sources of sup-
plies to date have been Northampton
and Whim Well, near Roebourne, where
the largest and richest deposit yet dis-
covered in the State was worked for some
years.


ww/,
LUDOWICI CHROMOL
Tnoowici
Hhromol^
(MITE
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
FIRE BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leather
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness to
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTING
ŵ
ẁ
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Blade size Jin,
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, 3/6 -extra.
&. AITK.EN, 054 Georgje St., Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Mt. Morgan
Since details of mining and industrial
production may not be published, for
obvious reasons, the accounts of Mt.
Morgan are now less informative than
ever. But the year was a better one ;
to the improvement increased metal
prices, more favorable mining experience
and lower costs all contributed. This
table gives a bare idea of the financial
results:
June, Income. Surplus. Dividends.
1935 ..£347,900 £110,433 40 p.c. = £BO,OOO
1936 .. 390,821 104,961 55 „ „ 127,600
1937 .. 515,056 143,043 15 „ „ 40,333
1938 .. 628,566 116,064 30 „ „ 88,049
1939 .. 878,219 124,409 10 „ „ *40,882
1940 .. 989,815 255,895 20 „ „ *74,700
* Includes 8 p.c. to prefs.
The increase of £111,596 in total income
from mining, etc. (£989,815), was passed
on in full to net earnings, the surplus
before depreciation allowance being
£131,486 higher at £255,895. This was
possible because of a fall from 10s. 4d.
to 7s. 2d. a ton in the cost of mining
sulphide ore, a drop from 6s. lOd. to
ss. 9d. in sulphide treatment costs, and
a fall from ss. Id. to 3s. 6|d. in combined
mining and treatment costs in the oxide
section.
Mining costs were helped all round by
a change for the better in conditions in
the difficult opencut. The ratio of over-
burden to ore was reduced from 2.69
tons to 1.78 tons per ton of ore treated ;
the cost of removing and dumping
954,105 tons of overburden was £99,386,
compared with 1,099,614 tons costing
£123,706 in 1938-39.
Total sulphide mining and precipitation
exes, were £17,661 lighter at £241,763.
Concentration costs were £19,155 higher
at £180,742. Copper reduction at
£70,239 cost £37,973 more, but refining
charges (£75,231) were £42,503 lighter.
From these figures the co. deducts
£31,524 reserved against realisation
charges at the previous balance day, and
the net total is £536,451, against £571,011.
In the oxide section mining, treatment
and refining charges totalled £132,017,
against £146,660.
Federal gold tax cost the co. £34,080,
depreciation allowance was .£34,191*
against £29,757, the unchanged amount
of £2OOO was written off underwriting
commission capitalised, and £31,372 of
administration exes., etc., was charged
(against £36,139). An income of £6710,
being proceeds from copper above £72
a ton, was not included in p. and 1.
figures, but set aside, as arranged with
the Prices Commissioner, for stimulation
of copper output.
During the year the sum of £58,700
equal to 6d. per 2s. 6d. share was
handed to ord. shareholders, and the
prefs. were given their 8 p.c. (£16,000).
No difficulty was experienced in setting
aside £25,000 (2s. 6d. per £1 share) for
redemption of the pref. capital, and the
£lOO,OOO transferred to general reserve
was something less than the remaining
balance of the year’s net profit.
For the first time in the present co.’s
chequered history profits are beginning
to flow from the mine at a rate that
promises a reasonable return to share-
holders in the future. Overburden in the
opencut has weighed on earnings in the
past, and the effect of last year’s improve-
ment in this direction is clearly evident
from shareholders’ viewpoint. Whether
profits are to continue to move favorably
will largely depend on this overburden
question.
Plant, which has expanded greatly in
capacity in the last few years—the sul-
phide mill can treat about half a million
tons a year—gave trouble to start with,
but it is reported that in the 1939-40
term the sulphide plant “had a very
satisfactory run.” The ratio of concen-
tration was 29.9 to 1, compared with 22.7
in the previous year. Recovery of gold
rose from 61.95 p.c. to 66.7 p.c., and
copper from 82.7 p.c. to 85.6 p.c. These
figures show a very pleasing movement.
Re-treatment of tailings by cyanidation
had most to do with the improvement in
gold recoveries. The sulphide No. 1 mill
last term exceeded its designed through-
put, indicating the nature of the year’s
running experience.
A No. 2 mill to treat clean, low-grade
sulphide ore began in January and has
been recovering 59.6 p.c. gold and 77.4
p.c. copper. The ratio of concentration
is high at 74.7 to 1, helping smelting
costs.
The oxide mill had to cope with
material carrying more copper than usual,
and recoveries of metal dropped from
63.2 p.c. to 55.5 p.c. This mill has a
flotation section for sulphide tailings.
The smelter produced more than the
estimated amount of blister copper dur-
ing the term. Operating difficulties have
been overcome, “with the resultant pro-
duction of high-grade blister copper at
a satisfactory working cost.” Smelting
costs per ton of copper dropped from
£3l 6s. a ton to £l9 7s. 9d. The improved
ratio of concentration, which means that,
bulk for bulk, there was more metal in
the concentrates last term, helped in the
general improvement in this section.
Summarised, the known reasons for last
year’s better earnings are higher prices
for gold and copper, reduced mining costs
due to a lower overburden ratio, lower
treatment costs resulting from experience
and technical improvements, and reduced
smelting costs. The annual report does
not reveal the grade or quantity of ore
treated.
The better operating figures have had
a noticeably beneficial effect on finances:
1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. .. £493,500 £493,500
Reserves .. .. 136,419 299,118
P. and 1. balance .. 130,207 144,422
Cash, etc 1,258 55,961
Debtors .. .. 3,085 1,592
Unsold products .. 183,606 91,834
Stocks and stores .. 153,594 169,979
£341,543 £319,366
Liabilities .. .. 149,933 18,646
Surplus liquids .. £192,610 £300,720
Mine, etc. .. .. 53,420 53,420
Plant 509,096 578,900
Intangibles .. .. 6,000 4,000
Improvement in net liquid resources be-
tween balance days was £lOB,llO. During
the year £69,804 was spent on machinery,
more than half of it on the power plant.
There are 2,348,000 ords. of 2s. 6d. and
200,000 8 p.c. £1 prefs. issued. The ords.
are at Bs. 6d. in the market, the prefs.
at 20s. 6d. Valuation of the mine is thus
in the vicinity of £1,180,000, equal to
about seven times last year’s improvement
iri the liquid position, plus divs. It may
not be necessary to expend so much on
plant in future years ; in such a case,
provided the mining and treatment posi-
tion doesn’t worsen and metal prices hold,
the outlook for shareholders would
brighten further.
Though ore reserves are not given this
year—how such information would bene-
fit the enemy goodness knows —it is stated
that 74.6 p.c. of the ore treated came
from outside the acknowledged reserves,
as against 62 p.c. in the preceding term.
In view of the fact that a smaller pro-
portion of the ore mined was discarded
as useless this term, this information is
particularly encouraging. A year ago
sulphide ore reserves comprised just on
7,000,000 tons assaying 4.22dwt. gold and
I.Bldwt. copper. The nature of last
year’s operations and the profits there-
from suggest that, provided the most
acute difficulties of the overburden
problem have been overcome, the co.’s
best results are still ahead of it, with
at least 15 years of life at present mill
capacity.
Because of the Australian shortage of
copper the old oxide plant was converted
into No. 2 sulphide mill to stimulate
production of the red metal. Proceeds
from copper in excess of £72 a ton (last
year totalling the £6710 already men-
tioned) are set aside for this purpose.
With the smelter now working satisfac-
torily copper should be a profitable side-
line at present prices.
Forgetting a momentary uncertainty
following Japan’s putting into writing its
arrangement with the Axis Powers, the
sharemarkets continued to rise point by
point last week. It seems that Australian
markets have again come under the influ-
ence of Wall-street, which last week
recorded the highest prices since Hitler’s
May invasion. To the close observer
the well-defined trends of Australian
sharemarkets in recent years have been
an interesting phenomenon. Nearly
every sharebroker will tell you that busi-
ness is quiet on the whole, and periodi-
cally as dead as a doornail; but in spite
of this it would seem that there is enough
steam up to steer a definite course.
Trends are not confined to one or two
stocks; almost the whole share list is
affected. Which leads to the assumption
that operators are at work all the time,
and that the public is not primarily
responsible for “making a market.” It
has to be led to the Stock Exchange, and
the best method of leading it is to pro-
mote a buoyant tone in share prices.
Lack of initiative on the part of in-
vestors generally was shown before and
after France collapsed. Certainly the
wild selling at that time could not have
taken place unless there were also shrewd
buyers. But conditions for some weeks
around that period were highly favor-
able to buyers, and, since the slump was
almost entirely emotional in character,
calm heads and comfortable bank
balances were presented with a marvel-
lous opportunity for capital appreciation
later on. Subsequent recovery in the
market has shown that there were oppor-
tunities of making between ss. and 10s.
a share on dozens of stocks. But, in
spite of the fact that a large number of
investors bought at bargain rates during
this period, it took weeks before the
position sorted itself out. No leadership
was given to the market until some time
after bear operations were banned ; then
there was no stopping the recovery in
prices.
The present market is really an un-
interesting one to the astute investor.
It does not indicate any outstanding
opportunities. First-class stocks have
again become expensive to buy, B.H.P.
yielding under 3| p.a., British Tobacco
4 p.c., A.C.I. under 4 p.c. and Henry
Jones just over 4 p.c. Also, though ord.
shares have great merit as a war-time
investment, the taxation question has*
yet to be defined, and it may be found
that the Government eventually to take
the Treasury benches at Canberra will
be unfriendly towards monopolies mak-
ing large profits. It is such monopolies
and semi-monopolies that represent the
leading equity investments on the Stock
Exchanges. These concerns are usually
well able to look after their own interests,
but the market may be treated to some
excess-profits-tax scares before long. The
huge £177,000,000 defence expenditure
planned for 1940-41 will call for more
taxation than has already been an-
nounced.
Taking the long view, most Australian
secondary industries have attractive
prospects. But investors who trade are
not noted for taking long views, and it
is the opinion of some authorities
that the present even, upward tenor of
the sharemarkets will be broken by some
spectacular happening that has less bear-
ing on values than the economic develop-
ments which are occurring from day to
day. Active investors are no more seized
with the essential facts governing share
values now than they were at the time of
Dunkirk. They are being led along an
upward path, encouraged by the absence
of bears on the route.
Industrial share prices reached a high
point on Jan. 16, when the Sydney index
rose to 136.54. The Bulletin at that
considered the market to have gone too
high in spots. And that was without
any Blitzkrieg having eaten into Empire
revenue or upset defence-spending cal-
culations. At 128.16 last Thursday the
index was more moderate in its behavior,
though it compared with a “low” of
107.52 in June. All things considered,
timid or susceptible investors should hesh
tate about buying stocks that have been
prominent in the recent market recovery.
They may find themselves unable to
withstand a turn in the tide, however
temporary it may be.
* * * *
According to Keith Murdoch’s chief
paper, pig-iron production will start at
Whyalla (S.A.) next March. The same
authority credits B.H.P. and Australian
Iron and Steel with an outturn of
1,600,000 tons of iron and steel annu-
ally ; this figure has already been given
here as the capacity of these plants.
Output “is soon to be lifted to 1,720,000
tons.”
* * *
The U.S. Excess Profits Tax Bill last
week went to the President for signature.
On Sept. 14, when the bill left the Senate
for further consideration and revision,
it provided for a 25 p.c. tax on excess
profits of 20,000 dollars and under, rising
to 50 p.c. on excess earnings above
500,000 dollars. Under this bracketed
system the tax on excess profits of
500,000 dollars amounted to 204,000
dollars, plus ordinary taxes. Excess
profits were those above the average for
1936-39, or above .8 p.c. on “invested
capital”—the taxpayer had the option of
selecting either method. There were a
specific exemption of 10,000 dollars and
liberal amortisation allowances over a
five-year period on plant installed for
defence purposes. Last week’s cable said
that no limit had been placed on profits
from ’plane or warship contracts. There
are a number of provisions in the bill
to safeguard new cos. against undue
hardship under e.-p.t.
* * * *
In addition to income taxes of up to
17s. 6d. in the £, Maoriland is intro-
ducing a 60 p.c. excess-profits tax. It
applies to earnings of companies and
individuals in excess of the average for
1936-39, but does not apply to salaries
or wages. There is no e.-p.t. on in-
comes below £5OO a year. It is stated
that “a reward for personal exertion
used in securing the profits is allowed.”
The fact that the e.-p.t. is 60 p.c. and
not 100 p.c. differs from the Budget pro-
posals, but it is a wise concession, be-
cause under the British system of 100
p.c. e.-p.t. there is no incentive for a


BRIDGE the
MILEAGE GAP
with the
Zme
%
.
W*
ipp
tsm
m
25**$
Vi'.
'\ x
k * ,
r w
■
ili(li!ill!:iiiii
llllllillll
I
gggj
The Shell Company of Australia Limited (Incorporated in Great Britain)
■:W ME-' MB .' • WIWT* w—■■ mi ■ i mu ■ i ■■■ ■ »
co. to increase or speed-up production.
Curiously, it was a Labor man, Benson,
M.P., who criticised the British tax most
aggressively. He said it was a complete
abandonment of the “capitalist system,”
with its motive of profit. “Does anyone
really believe,” he asked, “that pat-
riotism, which in certain circumstances
can raise a man to heights of heroism,
will work when a man is at a desk?”
He added that a 100 p.c. tax was likely
to interfere with industrial efficiency and
would lead to wastefulness.
* * * *
The loss of £1424 shown by George
Farmer and Co., Ballarat bacon-curers,
compares with a profit of £5443 in the
preceding year and £4973 in 1937-38.
This co. ’s experience may give some
explanation of the fall in the div. of
its biggest competitor, United-Provisions,
Ltd. The Farmer management reports
that sales showed a reduction chiefly
because of intense competition, and
price-cutting narrowed profit-margins on
the reduced turnover.
Following an increased div. from
Koitaki Para Rubber, which operates in
Papua, Bukit Kubu Rubber Estates, of
Melbourne and the F.M.S., has
announced a 2\ p.c. div., compared with
nothing in the two preceding years. Jn
1936-37 a 5 p.c. distribution was made.
Rubber is now over Is. a pound in Lon-
don. P. J. Glass is chairman of Bukit
Kubu.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers has
carried out its construction and develop-
ment plan completely, chairman Hugh
Denison said at the annual meeting. Re-
sults have “achieved all expectations.”
Though the past year is said to have been
exceptionally difficult, it was the most
successful in the co.’s history. The war
has increased the demand for locally-
made paper and board, over 100,000 tons
annually now being consumed, and nearly
all of it is turned out by A.P.M. Before
last year all the woodpulp used was im-
ported, supplemented by pulped waste-
paper. In Oct., 1939, A.P.M.’s own pulp
mill at Maryvale, Vic., started work on
eucalypts, and it is now operating at
full capacity—3o,ooo tons a year. Out-
put is to be increased by another 9000
tons a year. The co. has big board and
paper mills at Botany (N.S.W.) and Fair-
field (Vic.), as well as at Maryvale. It
is said that if local demand should fall
off the co. is in a position to export
profitably.
Shares in the two chief holding cos. —
Australasian Paper and Cumberland
Paper—have been frequently advocated
here as a sound investment holding in-
teresting prospects. Australasian Paper
scrip has been in keen demand at firm
prices recently.
* * * *
0.T., Ltd., the cordial-manufacturing
concern, pays 6 p.c. this year compared
with 7 p.c. last term. It is an example
of a section that hasn’t benefited from
war spending.
* * * *
Funds held on June 30 by the Com-
monwealth Bank in London totalled
£41,629,792 Australian, compared with
£29,132,621 on Dec. 31 and £16,737,883
on June 30 last year. Improvement in
the 12 months amounts to nearly
£25,000,000. Judging by our trade
balance for 1939-40, the gain in the
bank’s funds isn’t all surplus naitional
trading revenue; apparently it repre-
sents mostly the concentration of the
trading banks’ funds with the central
bank, capital transfers to Australia and
realisation of external investments. With-
out assistance from credits of an unusual
nature it is doubtful whether the total
Australian funds available in liquid form
in London would have exceeded
£35,000,000 sterling on June 30.
* * * *
Out of each £lOO-worth of Australian
factory output in 1938-39, £2l 7s. went
in wages, £3 3s. in fuel and light, £56 4s.
in materials, and £l9 6s. in profits, in-
come tax, etc. The average annual
remuneration of male employees was
£231 175., female employees getting
£lO3 18s.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
THE U.S.A. AND JAPAN.
[The articles here condensed from U.S. sources
give information on U.S.A.-Japanese dealings and
relations, with comment on the increasing tension in the
two countries’ relationship that is typical of feeling and
opinion just now being widely expressed in the U.S.A.
Since these articles were published there has been a
considerable deterioration, mainly marked, so far, by the
extending of the U.S.A. part-embargo on export of scrap
iron to Japan to an all-in embargo, and the Japanese
pact with the Axis obviously aimed at America. First
of the items here given as examples of typical American
comment and opinion is condensed from an “American
Mercury” article by Robert Aura Smith.]
If Japan swings firmly into the saddle with an
avowed programme of driving us [the U.S.A.] out of
Asia, of destroying our billion-dollar Asiatic trade, of
seizing our quarter-of-a-billion-dollar fixed property
investment in China alone, of shutting off our access
to our supplies of rubber, tin, coconut oil, hemp,
quinine, antimony, tungsten and tung oil, of closing
our Chinese and Malayan markets, of taking over our
Philippine wards, of subjecting our nationals who are
rightfully in Asia to enough personal persecution to
get them and keep them out of the Far East, of
dynamiting our treaty structures and our Asiatic
foreign policy, that is all doubtless very distressing,
but we are supposedly helpless. We must not become
“involved.” We must wait until we have 2,000,000
soldiers and twice as many battleships as all the rest
of the world put together before we can say “boo” to
the Japanese.
The Administration in Washington, having
placated Japan in practice while supporting China in
words, must carry the largest part of the blame. It
resorted to economic half-measures, such as “moral
embargoes,” and high-sounding protests not imple-
mented by action, though it had —and has —decisive
forms of pressure at its command. It has closed its
eyes while American industry supplied to Japan the
very weapons with which Japan is now threatening to
drive us out of the Orient.
In the week in which Congress voted the first lump
of a ten-billion-dollar naval appropriation, the
Japanese placed the largest order on record in the
United States for scrap iron to build the Japanese
ships that make the two-ocean navy necessary. In the
week that the United States protested against the clos-
ing of the French railway from Haiphong into Yun-
nan, the United States sold Japan enough fuel oil to
take a Japanese fleet from Hainan into Haiphong to
see that the road stayed closed.
On the day Secretary of State Cordell Hull told
the Japanese that the United States objected to the
closing of the Burma Road, the Japanese factories
were working overtime to turn American ferro-alloys,
American copper, American chemicals and American
lead into the ammunition for the expedition against
Hong Kong, if the road were not closed. The very
American ship that hastily evacuated American and
British women and children from Hong Kong had
very probably unloaded at Yokohama, on the same
trip, American war materials to slaughter those same
women and children if they remained. Only at the
end of July did the Administration finally get around
to the preliminary step toward shutting off supplies of
oil and scrap iron to Japan ; it prohibited their export
without Government license. Then it embargoed ship-
ment of ’plane gasoline to countries outside this hemi-
sphere. Presumably Japan can still fuel its navy with
American oil.
Throughout this entire period in which we have
been painfully persuading ourselves that there was
“nothing we could do about it” we have systemati-
cally supplied Japan with the materials that have
created the problem. In 1937 Japan obtained 54.4 p.c.
of her total war materials from the United States. In
1938 this percentage had risen to 57.07. The onset of
the war in Europe caused an abrupt rise in Japanese
war material purchases in the United States. Between
August and October, 1939, Japanese purchases in the
United States jumped 21 p.c. For the year as a whole,
Japan obtained two-thirds of her imported war ma-
terials from us. Last year the Japanese spent just
about a quarter of a billion dollars in the United
States. Of that sum, 73 cents out of every dollar went
for war materials.
The United States in 1937 supplied 62.71 p.c. of
Japan’s petroleum, and at present is supplying 85 p.c.
In 1937 we supplied 88.01 p.c. of Japan’s scrap iron.
This rose to 95 p.c. In 1937 we supplied 79.53 p.c. of
Japan’s ferro-alloys. At present we are supplying 88
p.c. In 1938 we supplied 90.8 p.c. of Japan’s copper.
In 1939 we supplied 99 p.c.
The American conscience is eased by the glib
statement that if we didn’t supply those materials some-
one else would. Who would supply petroleum? Russia?
Japan is a hereditary enemy. Germany has first call
on whatever petroleum exports Russia can muster, and
Stalin has a few needs of his own. Netherlands India?
Forty per cent, of its oil production is in American
hands, so that is out. Of the remaining 60 p.c., almost
all is held by the British-Netherlands Royal Dutch-
Shell combine and is one of Britain’s major sources.
Will the British, in the midst of a fight for their lives,
deprive themselves of needed fuel to give it to the
Japanese? There is Mexico, and that famous pipe-
line —but it has to be built first.
Where will Japan get her scrap metal? Certainly
not in Europe, when the British are tearing down the
lamp-posts and the Germans are melting up the medals.
Where will the copper be obtained? South America?
If so, smelters will have to be erected. And more than
that, unless Japan will sacrifice the last dwindling
remainder of her gold supply she will have to pay
South America in goods, and the copper-producing
countries are not receptive, at the moment, to large-
scale dumping of low-cost Japanese manufactures.
The U.S.A. is not only Japan’s most important
supplier of war materials, but its only important cus-
tomer for the raw silk that brings in the necessary
foreign exchange. In 1939 total imports from Japan
were $161,082,000 ; raw silk imports were $120,852,000.
There is reason to believe that the urgency for
ending the “China affair” is based upon economic
conditions in Japan that are steadily deteriorating. We
do not need to fall into the fallacy of assuming that
the moment a nation’s bookkeeping looks bad there
will be an immediate military collapse or a revolution.
But, avoiding that fallacy, there is abundant evidence
that all is not well in Japan and that things have gone
from bad to worse.
The “Oriental Economist,” published in Tokyo,
gives increases in prices in the first two years of the
war: bleached cotton, 128 p.c. ; cotton flannel, 165
p.c. ; wheat flour, 19 p.c. ; beef and pork, 40 p.c. ;
starch, 34 p.c.; salted salmon, 69 p.c.; matches, 71
p.c. ; shoes, 82 p.c. ; absorbent cotton, 64 p.c. During
this past year there have been rice shortages, charcoal
shortages, power failures. Obviously, all is not well in
the land of the cherry blossoms.
It was in full knowledge of Japanese weaknesses
that Admiral Harry E. Yarnell, former Commander-
in-Chief of the United States Asiatic Fleet, said in
March of this year: “It would be suicidal for Japan
to engage in another major war with a powerful
enemy.” Admiral Yarnell, who saw the onset of the
more recent Japanese aggression at first hand, is
in a position to speak with authority.
The American policy has not only supplied Japan
with the materials to invade American rights, but has
also convinced the Japanese that they can do so with
impunity. The Japanese, of course, do not believe
— “PM,” New York.
NIPPON TO UNCLE SAM: U.S. VIEW.
“Maybe Hon. U.S. wish return of scrap iron, yes?”
that we are helpless. They know better. They faced,
with the most obvious anxiety, the prospect of an em-
bargo when the 1911 trade treaty was abrogated, and
they have repeatedly shown the most profound respect
for the United States Navy, whose marksmanship is a
tradition in the Far East. But the Japanese do believe
that Americans are peace-loving, gullible, soft, grasp-
ing and stupid enough to go on selling them war
materials and then to confine themselves to wordy
protests when those materials are used.
Obviously, if we intend to stop the Japanese, we
must convince them that their acquaintance with the
American character is inadequate and their judgment
of our emotional and wilful incapacity for action some-
what hasty.
* * * * *
The Drift in the Pacific
{Condensed from an “Atlantic Monthly” article by
Harold S. Quigley.)
When Admiral Taussig, speaking recently before
the committee on naval affairs of the [U.S.] Senate, said
that he did not “see how we can escape being forced
into an eventual war in the Far East” he was express-
ing an opinion formed after careful thought and
scholarly study of the long history of U.S. Far Eastern
policy. He may have had in mind also the dictum
of the German military historian Clausewitz, that war
is but the final argument of diplomacy. The rights
and interests of the United States are bound up by a
century of diplomacy with an independent China,
those of Japan with one or more dependent Chinese
States. If two great States are to avoid war in
these circumstances, one or both must give way. There
is no sign at present of yielding on either side.
History justifies a prophecy that the U.S. will
maintain the double-barrelled doctrine of equality for
its business relations with an independent China. As
the road gets more precipitous we put on more power.
The U.S. never has fought for the open door. We
have never felt the necessity of fighting. The new
elements in the situation are the apparent determina-
tion of Japan to dominate the Chinese State and the
apparent power of Japan to carry out that determi
tion. Japan’s announced purpose to brook. no „
pendent relations between China and foreign
offers no visible ground for compromise.
Although the open-door doctrine and its corol-
lary principle of an independent Chinese State pro
vide the dominant figures in the pattern of Chines -
American relations, there are other significant motiv
that have been woven into the fabric. Humanitarian
ideas, spread principally by missionaries, have stimu-
lated a unique regard for the Chinese people, particu-
larly in the Middle West. The influence of this grea
idealistic element, slow to comprehend the danger to
its interests, but moving with the power of a m° r at
crusade when it does identify a cause, may hardly oe
overestimated.
The United States was the first to accord recog-
nition to the Chinese Republic, doing so in opposition
to the wishes of Japan, where it was believed that the
Chinese were not suited to or prepared for a republic.
Hundreds of Chinese now prominent in the political
and business world were educated in American col-
leges in China and in the United States. These men
may not represent the ideas of the Chinese people as
a whole, but they do represent, in fact they are, the
reformist China, the Kuomintang. Between them and
American officials, businessmen and teachers the bonds
of mutual respect and regard are numerous and strong.
Americans have had an important share in China s
political development during the past 30 years. This
is being challenged both by Communism and by
Japan’s “holy war” to convert the Chinese to some-
thing resembling its own Kodo, the cult of the “divine’
imperial dynasty. In the U.S. the interest in democ-
racy supplements appreciably the humanitarian con-
cern for the preservation of China’s integrity and her
people’s freedom.
American opinion adds to our concern for
China and China’s economic development a desire
to maintain a balance of power in the Orient that
will assure our own immunity from attack. The
implications of this motive extend beyond the
assumed danger to our shores. The protection of
the Philippines remains an American obligation at
least until July 4, 1946, and the bill introduced
into the Senate with Presidential backing early in
1939, by which the President would be authorised
to enter into an executive agreement with the
President of the Philippines extending the period
of preferential trade relations until the end of
1960, would, if passed, extend correspondingly the
duration of our political interest in the independ-
ence of the Islands. Beyond that objective lies
U.S. dependence upon the East Indies and Malaya
for rubber, tin and other essential industrial com-
modities.
Last but not least among the desiderata of
America’s Far Eastern policy is the preservation
of a great nation’s prestige. President Wilson was
proved wrong when he said “We are too proud
to fight.” On the contrary, a great country may
be too proud not to fight. The emotional potential
that is latent in our century-old open-door doc-
trine, our assurance of inexhaustible resources
and power, our sensitiveness to slight by a smaller
State’s challenge to our rights, and our oft-voiced
devotion to international law and order are dry
tinder for the spark of appeals to national honor.
To those who are suggesting that the U.S.A.
—. should make its peace with Japan by sacrificing its
China policy it may be pointed out that they are ask-
ing the impossible. Our position in the Pacific is
incapable of separation into parts for bargaining pur-
poses. If Japan is strong enough to force our capitu-
lation respecting China, she is strong enough to take
the East Indies, the Philippines and the remaining
American territories in the western Pacific. She would
not need to bargain with us. Our authority in Pacific
diplomacy rests on our fleet, which must remain in the
Pacific unless we are prepared to concede hegemony
west of Hawaii to Japan.
Admittedly this judgment may underestimate
Japanese appreciation of the importance of continued
friendly relations with the United States. This coun-
try is Japan’s best customer and the principal source
of raw materials for her industry. It is her greatest
potential supplier of capital for the economic enter-
prises she hopes to launch in a “co-operative” China.
The United States has no desire to thwart true Sino-
Japanese co-operation or to obstruct Japan’s access to
markets and raw materials. Its protests against Japan’s
pressure upon France and Britain to close the Indo-
Chinese and Burmese routes into “Free China” are
but restatements of rights, interests and sentiments
which Japan must consider. One may hope that these
considerations will guide Japan. But one must doubt
very strongly that they will.
The “open door” is today but one aspect of U.S.
Pacific policy, destined to stand or fall according as
we demonstrate or fail to demonstrate a combination
of statesmanship and military strength competent to
maintain the balance of power. Whether we should
do so even if we could may already have been decided
—in the affirmative. If not —the sands are running
out.
* * * *
(From New York “Sun.”)
In his just published book Twin Stars of China,
Evans Fordyce Carlson brings to the task of explaining
the Sino-Japanese war the point of view of a military
man. Major Carlson states:
What I had seen convinced me that the military-naval
group which controlled Japan would inevitably bring
that nation to the point where she would one day
challenge the United States in the eastern Pacific unless
she were stopped.
If Japan wins it means a victory for autocracy.
There will be a short-lived demand for American
capital, raw materials and those consumers’ goods which


Japan is not able to produce. But as Japan’s industrial
empire takes shape these demands will disappear, and
Japan will establish a monopoly on all markets and
sources of raw materials in the Far East.
As her industrial empire grows, Japan’s army and
navy will expand. If she has not already taken over the
Dutch East Indies, French Indo-China and the Philippine
Islands, she will do so.
Secure in the western Pacific, she will then turn her
eyes toward the east. She is particularly interested in
fishing rights in Alaskan coastal waters, and she has a
definite interest in Hawaii. The eastern islands of the
Marshall group, over which she now has a mandate, are
only 2000 miles from Hawaii, which is the extreme
operating radius of a modern battle fleet.
Her subsequent actions are left to conjecture, but it
is well to remember that history has shown that con-
querors do not cease conquering until it becomes
physically impossible for them to continue.
* * * * *
(From an article by Harold Callender in New York
“Times,” 15/9/’40.)
In November the Hawaiians will say in a plebiscite
whether they desire Hawaii to become the forty-ninth
State. The two great questions affecting this part of
the world are:. First, if the United States gives up the
Philippines in 1946, how far eastward in the Pacific is it
going to withdraw? Second, what is to be the future
of the Hawaiian Islands in relation to American policy
in the Pacific?
Regarding the first question, naval opinion seems
to be against any withdrawal. This means arranging
for the right to use the British base at Singapore and
keeping a big fleet in the Pacific. Access to the Singa-
pore base is regarded as necessary for defence of the
Philippines and certainly for any major operations
against a possible Eastern foe, since the United States
has no great base nearer than Honolulu. With Singa-
pore available, naval control of the Pacific would be
“like taking candy from a child,” one officer said.
When one considers the high place of authorities
who have mentioned the question to this correspondent
in recent weeks in various Pacific lands, it seems clear
that the United States could have access to Singapore
for the asking and no one would be more pleased than
the British. Indeed the whole Pacific, from New
Zealand to China, anxiously awaits a sign of Washing-
ton’s intentions.
* * * * »
Mooted Deal with Stalin
(From New York “Sun.”)
Japanese newspapers, which undoubtedly reflect
official opinion, advocate a rapprochement with
Japan s traditional enemy, Russia. They speak quite
frankly of the gains both Powers might make in oppo-
site directions if once they could agree to live at peace
with each other. Translated into geographical terms,
it means splitting the Orient into two subjugated
spheres, one, the larger slice, reserved for Japan, the
other for Soviet Russia.
The suggested arrangement is strikingly reminis-
cent of the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact of August, 1939,
which was the springboard off which Hitler dived into
the present war. It is easy to foresee that, if Japan
were once relieved of the perpetual menace of an
attack by Russia through the back door, Japanese
action in China and southward could go ahead with
greater assurance and greater boldness.
Russia’s rewards in the bargain are not so easy
to perceive, but it is likely they would include Eastern
Turkestan, thus opening another gateway toward
India. It would be logical also if such a pact recog-
nised the North Pacific as a Russian sphere. The
Japanese would have every interest in creating conflict
between Russian and American interests in the vicinity
of the Bering Strait.
Considering the remarkable reversal of Stalin’s
policy toward Germany, the notion of a similar deal
with Japan cannot be dismissed a priori. The conse-
quence of the first pact was war in the West, and it is
to be feared that the one proposed in Tokyo would have
equally disastrous consequences in the Eastern world.
The Nature of Democracy.
(From a New York “Life” article by David Cort.)
What idiot mouthing is this that Nazism and
Fascism and Communism are “revolutions”? They
have a new lingo, but they are the oldest thing in the
world, the perpetual counter-revolution, the rule of
the many by the few for the supposed good of the
masses. We have had that before. In fact, that is all
that most of the dead men lying thousands deep in
the world’s past ever knew. They knew the Russian
Czars, Alexander, Baibars the Panther, the Ottoman
sultans, the Mogul rulers of India, the Mongol and
Manchu emperors of China, the Spanish conquistadors,
the Japanese shoguns, the Hohenstaufens and the
Hohenzollerns, the Borgias, Richelieu, the Bourbons
and Habsburgs, the Corsican bravura of Napoleon,
the bark of Bismarck.
Most of these men were known among their
friends for their high ideals. They were not villains
to themselves. But nobody now even tries to re-
member what those ideals were. In the history books
of Democracy we recite only the record of their acts.
So it is with Hitler and Stalin and Mussolini. A
hundred years from today, if there are still free men,
how many will read Mein Kampf or Hitler’s
promises” or what Hitler told the people he had in
store for the world? Nobody. It is hardly more useful
to read them today. There is some truth in them, but
oifiy a dark fragment of the truth there is in his acts.
Ut his acts we now know enough.
But we were on the track of something else,
what? The true revolution. The perpetual, self-
perpetuating revolution. Democracy.
Democracy is like health. It is nothing. It is the
absence of pain and sickness. It becomes something
only when pain comes and a man remembers how
Pleasant it was not to be in pain. It is being alive
° f bein § P art dead - Democracy is limited
merely by the ultimate potentialities of all men in the
world and all their descendants. It is the total sum
ot hopes, of faith and of charity. It is humble and
omnipotent.
Naturally it is harder to define Democracy at any
one moment than to define such crude obvious pro-
grammes as Nazism, Fascism or Communism. For
these are as limited as the brain of one man. They
have all been defined and explained. There is no
future in them whatever except the murder of every
other kind of brain.
The proponents of these programmes generally
do not like their fellow-men for what they are. They
feel with wonderful sincerity that they are able to
decide what is best for other people and they are
resolved to give it to them, whether the people like it or
not. Notice that they do not especially think of giving
it to themselves. They expect to be on the giving,
not the taking, end. They may be right or they may
be wrong, but there is to be no judge. In a world
where God will not speak they are willing to be God.
In the daylight of sanity these are sick people.
They are unhappy in their personal lives. They want
more power than they have. These sick men sincerely
want to see the world run right, just as Alexander and
Genghis Khan and Napoleon did. Anybody who
thinks they will run it right if they have the chance
should review the history of mankind.
First, it must be remembered that most of the
men who have ever lived have lived under a tyrant.
That is the customary thing, not the unusual thing.
These tyrants were sometimes overthrown by other
tyrants, but in general their tyranny worked if it was
brutal enough. Only when it softened at the top was
it overthrown by the people, as under the England of
1776, the France of 1789, the Russia of 1917. The
history books do not mention the centuries of enslaved
peoples who made no news, the massacred masses of
Asia and European Russia and Africa and the Mexican
or Peruvian or American Indians and the Turkish
Balkans and the people of India. Democracy had no
chance among them. It was not even a dream.
Democracy is a shy growth. It occurs only where
there is an absence of fear. It survives only where it
is protected by an overwhelming power. It has had its
great growth only since 1714, since England ruled
the seas.
The End of Neutrality.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article.')
One of the casualties of the war has been the
concept of neutrality. The rules of neutrality elabor-
ated by the zeal of international lawyers and the prac-
tice of States were tolerably well observed in the
spacious period of local and limited wars. The view
that neutrality was a safe, honorable and profitable
status survived until 1914. But the prospects of neu-
trality have been radically impaired by the coming of
totalitarian war.
In Europe neutrality has ceased to be a soft
option for small States. Almost everywhere it has
become the prerogative of strong or remote countries
whom dictators fear to attack or cannot reach. Even
the neutrality of the strong has ceased to be a passive
and impartial aloofness. It is no longer neutrality
proper, but “non-belligerency.” When war broke out
in 1914 President Woodrow Wilson exhorted the
people of the United States of America to be neutral
in thought as well as in deed. In 1939 President
Franklin Roosevelt expressed the almost unanimous
feeling of his fellow-countrymen when he declared
that the United States could no longer remain neutral
in thought or sympathy. The American press and
the utterances of American public men have become
more and more outspoken as the struggle has assumed
a more desperate character; and the assistance “short
of war” which the American people have rendered to
the Allied cause is a testimony more eloquent than
words. Soviet Russia has been inspired by a different
conception of neutrality. The Soviet Government
plainly does not believe that a passive neutrality in
such a combat accords with Russian interests.
But, if neutrality is hazardous for the strong, it
has proved still more dangerous to the weak. The
changed character of war has destroyed neutrality
as a refuge for small States. In the days when the
rifle was a weapon of attack and a fortress an im-
pregnable defence, a small country could hold its
frontiers long enough to give an aggressor something
to think about, particularly if the aggressor were
engaged against more powerful enemies elsewhere.
Now the resources a small country can muster are
no longer a deterrent. Neutrality, like any other kind
of foreign policy, is meaningless and dangerous unless
it has big battalions and big battleships to sustain it.
This is the lesson which hard experience—last
but not least that of driven home.
There was scarcely a small country in Europe whose
statesmen had not proclaimed their firm intention to
defend their territory to the last against any invader.
In some honorable cases this intention was carried
out. But nowhere was it, or could it have been,
crowned with success. The resources of small and
not heavily industrialised States are quite unequal to
the task of equipping an army to resist a modern
war machine.
The new situation will call in the future for new
remedies. The small house must not be allowed,
through its lack of fire-fighting appliances, to become
a danger to its larger and better-equipped neighbor.
When we come to build our new order, power must
be organised on a wider basis of co-operation and
partnership. That is in the long run the only answer,
and the only alternative, to the policy of Dr. Rosen-
berg.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The awe-inspiring courage of the British people
could not be sustained if along with their brave hearts
they did not also have clear heads. They fight on and
they are determined to fight back, not in the manner
of men resisting blindly but as men who know the
position, and the odds, and the real alternative. Only
a great people could do this. The British are a great
people, i hey have organised the largest security that
the world has known since the Romans, and with all
their mistakes they have extended more widely the
area of law and order than it was ever before extended
on earth. — Walter Lippmann; New York “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
In the course of replying to charges against the
Government of being too drastic in the internment of
enemy aliens, the Home Secretary, Sir J. Anderson,
said that under the conditions of possible enemy in-
vasion the position of these people, if at large, might
become one of the greatest discomfort and even of
peril. Members knew how quickly feeling could be
worked up and how tense was the situation through-
out the country in July. He had seen the beginnings of
the same sort of thing in mid-August when there were
rumors of parachutist landings on a large scale. The
worst thing that could possibly happen from the point
of view of a military commander, or of a responsible
police officer, .would be that at a time when they had
to deal with hostile elements their attention should be
distracted in order to prevent civil disturbance and
disorders behind their lines. It was most important
that there should be no risk of the military forces
being hampered by people who were normally law-
abiding feeling impelled to take the law into their own
hands at a time of great peril by dealing with people
who might be thought, rightly or wrongly, to be a
source of danger.— London “Times.”
* * * * *
A British flier’s description of how the balloon
barrage looks: “On a clear day as you head across
the sky it looks as if you were running into a slice of
currant cake. As you draw nearer it looks as if you
were meeting a herd of disappointed, disillusioned
elephants. Even on clear days you can’t see the cables
at all. But at night or in the clouds there is nothing
funny about them. You know that somewhere about
you is a nightmarish, grotesque herd held to the ground
by a thin wire that can cut you in half. It makes us
nervous even though we know where we are. It must
completely destroy the nerves of the German pilots.”—
New York “World-Telegram.”
* * * * *
Under the British Paper Control Order now in
. operation no more picture postcards are to be printed,
tubes of toothpaste will be unwrapped, tins of cocoa
will have only a narrow strip of paper round them.
Similar restrictions will apply to everything in tubes
and tins. No more confetti will be made for wed-
dings, no crackers, festoons or Chinese lanterns for
parties, no cardboard plates or paper cloths for
picnics. Laundry wrappings, gramophone record
cases, greeting cards, calendars and diaries will be
thinner. These things will be prohibited (some are
already): Newspaper posters ; papers and magazines
issued on “sale or return” ; wall posters exceeding
2400 square inches ; posters relating to moneylending,
betting and competitions; showcards and window-
display novelties ; compliment and visiting cards ; drip
mats (for public houses) and facial tissues (for women).
—London “Daily Express.”
*****
The poor old anti-aircraft gun hasn’t established a
very high reputation with the general public, though
anti-aircraft guns have put up a remarkable defence
against the Hitlerian assault on London. Perhaps the
trouble is that the average layman has misjudged the
primary mission of this gun. We have been asking it
to live up to its name, which leads us to expect it to
pick enemy aircraft out of the sky like a shotgun pot-
ting birds. Its main mission is to keep enemy bombers
flying so high that they can’t do precision bombing.
It has been carrying out that mission right well in the
defence of the British capital. I will venture the sug-
gestion that, had it not been for the anti-aircraft gun
defences, London would already be in ruins.— Dewitt
Mackenzie; New York “Sun.” '
* * * * *
It is even suggested that the fate of British resi-
dents in German-occupied France is more pleasant
than under the Vichy Government. French people
may be indifferent, but the official is often hostile. The
virulent attacks which the “Gringoire” of Marseilles
maintains daily against England are certainly not en-
tirely spontaneous. A similar trend is observed in
most of the press in unoccupied France. It may not
have any great effect upon the feeling among the ordi-
nary people, but it does offer an excuse for official
hostility to the British. — London “Times.”
*****
Mr. Pentelow, a Ministry of Agriculture natural-
ist, is travelling from place to place 1000 miles, show-
ing fishermen how to use silk nets to catch 2000 tons
of eels a year in British waters, so that, despite the
loss of Danish supplies, there may be no shortage in
the eel-pie shops —London “Daily Express.”
*****
German stories to the effect that the R.A.F. was
raining potato bugs on German fields in an effort to
starve the Nazis would appear to be in the nature of
an alibi, according to reports from Consul S. B.
Redocker at Frankfort-on-the-Main. At any rate, if
the British have not already dropped any potato bugs
they need not, because the native variety is doing very
well. Mr. Redecker said that the potato beetle has
become a serious menace to Germany’s most important
food crop, and the fight against it has taken on the
aspect of a national crusade. By far the world’s larg-
est producer of potatoes, Germany’s annual output in
recent years has amounted to some 50,000,000 metric
tons. This year it may not be so big— New York
“Times.”
*****
Elliott Roosevelt, son of the President, in a radio
broadcast, said: “We have taken a very dishonest
stand toward England. We cheer England and frankly
admit we hope she wins the war, but we haven’t
the courage to come out in the open and say:
‘Your battle is our battle. If you need 10,000 ’planes
and 20,000 pilots, you can have them. If you need
100 destroyers we’ll build them for you, and in the
meantime we will keep a watchful eye on the
Japanese. New York “Journal and American.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Conditions were ideal for the opening
day of the A.J.C. spring meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday. Consequently an
attendance of 69,000 and a tote turnover
of £80,560 were not surprising. Up to
last Thursday morning a heavy track
appeared certain, but it dried in such
rapid fashion that fast times were the
rule. High Caste’s 1.35| beat King’s
Head’s time for the Epsom by a quarter-
second, and was only a quarter-second
outside the Randwick record jointly held
by Peter Pan, Ramdin, Ajax and Sar-
cherie.
Overnight it was reported that, owing
to an injured foot, High Caste was a
doubtful starter for the Epsom. That
had the effect of temporarily paralysing
betting on the race, and on the course
Beaulivre opened and closed at even
money. Some backers were so confident
of their ability to pick winners that they
took 8 to 1 the treble of Valhalla,
Freckles and Beaulivre.
I met J. T. Jamieson early on Satur-
day, and he said a decision as to starting
High Caste would be arrived at after
the horse was taken to the course. The
foot had improved greatly since the pre-
vious day, and, though he was hopeful,
there was still the possibility of a race
being risky. However, High Caste did
not appear to be troubled after reaching
the course, and, though not absolutely
right, it was decided to run him, and, in-
cidentally, some fair-sized bets were taken
about him.
In winning, High Caste was responsible
for a remarkable performance. His foot
must have affected him to some extent
when he jumped away, as he galloped so
badly after barrier-rise that for the first
quarter-mile he was among the tail-
enders. It was not until the field had
passed the half-mile that his backers com-
menced to take heart. Coming to the
turn he could be seen rapidly making up
ground, and, though Bartle had to take
him round the horses ahead of him, he
came home brilliantly, outstaying Mil-
dura, who looked a sure winner when he
took the lead from Beaulivre halfway
down the straight.
• • » o • ft
High Caste was never seen to greater
advantage and, if all goes well with him,
Ajax will find him a hard nut to crack
when they meet in w.f.a. races in Mel-
bourne. High Caste made such hard
work of beating Buzalong in the Claren-
don Stakes at Rosehill that I did not think
he could improve sufficiently in a week
to win the Epsom. It was again demon-
strated that almost anything is possible
for a good horse. I heard excuses made
for Mildura, but the honors of the race
were undoubtedly with High Caste.
Beaulivre was well placed soon after
the start, and when he took charge from
Tel Asur and Geebung entering the
straight his backers thought the race as
good as over. Opposite the leger Munro
could be noted getting uneasy. He shook
the whip at Beaulivre, and a little further
on applied it in earnest in order to stall
off Mildura. Then came one of the most
remarkable collapses ever witnessed at
Randwick on the part of a hot favorite.
He could not respond, and stopped so
badly that his rider got off him imme-
diately after passing the winning-post,
evidently being of opinion there was
something amiss. Beaulivre walked back
to the weighing-yard soundly enough, and
veterinary examination failed to detect an
injury of any kind. The stewards, how-
ever, reported he was lame after the race.
St. Constant, as usual, was slow to get
going, and, a pronounced last for the first
three furlongs, a place for him did not
seem a possibility commencing the last
half-mile. It would be difficult to say
how far he was behind the leaders three
furlongs from home, and yet he finished
within two lengths of the winner.
The early pace was too fast for Buza-
long and Reading. They never really got
in it, while Gundagai, after being promi-
nent when the field settled down, was
squeezed back. He ran on well in the
straight, though without raising the hopes
of his supporters. Katanga came home
strongly, and needs a longer distance than
a mile to be seen at his best. He gave
promise as a stayer last season, and is
likely to fulfil it.
It was a surprise to see Captain Gore
carrying the field along for nearly five
furlongs, and backers will pay him
marked attention if he should run at one
of the mid-week meetings in the near
future. Red Thespian was another of
the rough division who was conspicuous
for a long way, as was Early Bird. Tel
Asur displayed lots of pace to be the
leader at the turn, where Geebung was
also one of the first flight. Although
the latter died away in the straight, he
should not go through the spring meet-
ings without adding further to his credit
account.
Mohican, without threatening danger
at any part, ran well enough to give him
a chance in some race of less import-
ance at a very early period. The
failures included Rex Felt, whose form
did not uphold the idea that there was
any reason for questioning his running
when he finished third in a race at Rand-
wick on Red Cross Day. He is seem-
ingly not as good as suggested by Mel-
bourne form.
It was, on the whole, a good-looking
A.J.C. Derby field, with Sun Valley the
smallest of the 10 runners. He did not
look up to 8.10, but he disproved that
idea. Form did not entitle War Trophy
to be a Derby candidate, but on appear-
ance he was not out of place. Lucra-
tive, Pandect and Tidal Wave lacked
nothing on the score of condition, nor
did Scientist. The horses were unruly at
the barrier, and Nightbeam eventually
held up the start for several minutes
owing to it being necessary to take him
back to the paddock to put a new plate
on one of his forefeet.
When the field did get away, with Pan-
dect last to move, the pace was so slow
that someone near me queried “Do the
jockeys think it is a walking match?” I
timed the first half-mile to be run in 57,
which gives a fair idea of the easy pace
at which the field was travelling. It
enabled Cook to take the slow-beginning
Pandect into second place to Nightbeam
at the mile, with Lucrative third and Sun
Valley following. Half a mile from
home Pandect went up to Nightbeam,
with Lucrative, Sun Valley and Tidal
Wave next.
Lucrative was going so comfortably at
that stage that it seemed as if he would
be able to run to the leaders when his
rider wished. Tidal Wave was still fifth,
and it was apparent none of the re-
mainder would have anything to do with
the finish.
Pandect was first into the straight from
Nightbeam, Sun Valley, Tidal Wave and
Lucrative. When fairly on the road
home Lucrative was hampered in trying
for a run a little wide out, and then
McCarten shot him over to the rails.
Meanwhile Pandect was going strongly,
and though Lucrative eventually got
through and moved up in a fashion that
made his chance a winning one Pandect
did the better in the last 50 yards. Sun
Valley fought on well to run third, with
Tidal Wave, who was not altogether
suited by the way the race was run, head-
ing the remainder.
Scientist did not do nearly as well as
expected, and though his trainer claimed
that interference and the slow pace
were responsible it is probable the scale
of weights was not to his liking. War
Trophy, Rimveil, Fur Trader and Fearless
Fox did not enter into calculations
over the final portion of the journey.
Fur Trader was galloped on, and re-
ceived some cuts, but he did not acquit
himself well enough to suggest that he
could have gone near winning, if he had
escaped all trouble.
The slow pace in the early part
thoroughly suited Lucrative, and most
of his backers contended he was unlucky
to lose. If he had got a clean run
through after turning into the straight his
pace might have carried him to the front,
but, as it was, he lost ground when he
had to veer from his course, and make
for the rails. Even then he did not
get an uninterrupted passage. Pandect,
however, was a little too good for him
over the last bit.
They will again meet in the Victoria
Derby, but, though many who lost on
Lucrative are bound to give him another
chance, Pandect will be favored by that
trying run over the last three furlongs
at Flemington. J. Wren has the pleasure
of not only owning Pandect, but of
breeding him. The Derby winner is by
Pantheon from Credit, for whom Wren
gave 550gns. The last five furlongs were
run in lmin., but the full distance took
2.37, making it the second-slowest Derby
in the last 24 years. In 1916 Kilboy won
in 2.39}, and Hall Mark took 2.37} in
1932. The record for the race is Phar
Lap’s 2.31}.
In the Melbourne Cup Pandect and
Lucrative have 7.6, and Sun Valley 7.4.
Of the three the last-named looks as if
he would be best suited by a light weight,
and, if he runs well in the Victoria
Derby, even if he does not win, is bound
to receive backing for the Cup.
Freckles has been mentioned as a pos-
sibility for one of the important Vic-
torian handicaps, and his trainer is
credited with being optimistic regarding
the Caulfield Cup. However, Freckles
will have to improve to reach that stand-
ard this year, notwithstanding he won the
Trial Stakes in 2.3} for the mile and a
quarter. Showing more pace than his
opponents, he led throughout, but the
result might have been different if Ever-
green had not lost ground at barrier-rise.
He was then pushed along to be second
to Freckles starting along the back.
The effort must have taken some-
thing out of him, as, though he was then
steadied into third place, and looked to
have a winning chance when he joined
Freckles in the straight, the latter held
him at the finish. As Freckles was con-
ceding only 71b. to Evergreen, who is
far removed from the front rank of
three-year-olds, Freckles will have to do
better to win the Caulfield Cup, even
with his light weight of 6.13. Veiled
Threat, in third place, ran a fair race,
while, as usual, Indian Emperor was
plugging along at the finish. Discipline
and Willie Green were well beaten, and
at present neither is superior to subur-
ban form.
Backers who laid 9 to 4 on Beau Vite
for the Colin Stephen Stakes did not have
any cause for uneasiness. After he
drew clear at the nine furlongs Beau Vite
had matters all his own way, and made
a Randwick record of 2.29 for a mile
and a half. He did the last three fur-
longs in 37}. When Beau Vite arrived
from Maoriland few frequenters of the
Randwick training tracks reckoned he
would be at his best for the A.J.C. meet-
ing, but he did so well that it now seems
as if F. McGrath will have difficulty in
improving him to any extent for his Mel-
bourne engagements.
Dashing Cavalier’s second was a sur-
prisingly good effort, notwithstanding he
had no chance against the winner. Up
to Saturday his record for the season was
a win, three seconds and two thirds
from seven starts. Last season he started
19 times for four wins, four seconds and
three thirds, so he has paid expenses.
As Mosaic could only dead-heat Old
Rowley for third it can be gathered that
he is still a long way from his best. Abbs
has not been hurrying him, evidently
having the Melbourne Cup meeting in
view.
W. A. Ross has not been in luck of
late, and it was a pleasant change for
him when Hydra went to the front soon
after the start of the first division of the
Kensington Handicap, and remained in
that position throughout. The favorite,
Clouston, had every chance, but was
tiring when he swung out wide entering
the straight, and finished fourth. Novice
was always second, and in getting third
Bestop made up ground from the bend.
Radical looks a welter horse, but his
10.6 pulled him up. Windbrook was
again too slow in finding his legs ever to
have a look-in, but Reunion did well
enough to make his partnership of three
hopeful of picking up a race with him.
Hydra is by Bullhead from Eager Air
(Redfern-Diamond Hill), a mare that
never raced.
Losing backers tried to recoup them-
selves by supporting Sigh for the second
division of the Kensington. The best laid
against her was 5 to 1, and she touched
half those odds. Badly placed entering
the straight, Munro rode her a most
vigorous finish, but she just failed to
reach Pierce, who also came from a long
way back at the top of the straight.
Opportunist, who has had a short let-up,
will shortly be at his best again, and
Edifice, who was rather badly checked
inside the last furlong, is worth follow-
ing.
Peekmond, absolutely last at the turn,
had to make his run on the outside, and,
in finishing fourth, did not do badly.
Aladdin and Guinness were the leaders to
the turn, but the latter, who is a weak
finisher, tired in the straight, and Alad-
din’s weight stopped him. Nothing ran
much worse than Anne, who evidently
needs more racing to bring her back to
last season’s form.
• • . • • •
An odds-on favorite for a Hurdle Race
at Randwick is unusual, but that honor
was accorded Valhalla in a field of nine.
The supposed “good thing” did not
materialise. Valhalla was going so easily
in third place at the five furlongs that it
looked as if he would have no difficulty
in running up to Masterpiece and Light
Dragoon. He passed Light Dragoon at
the half-mile, but in the straight never
looked like overhauling Masterpiece, who
had not raced over hurdles for a long
period. His time of 3.37} —a quarter-
second outside the Randwick record —
gave an inkling of what was to be ex-
pected in the flat races.
Ti Trol was a good third, running up
to his previous form, but Blackie Miller
fell in the straight the first time round,
and in blundering over him Mag Mort
lost his rider. There was some money
for The Freak, but a bad fourth did not
suggest an early return to his best form.
The A.J.C. was favored with another
perfect day on Monday, when the
Jamieson stable and E. Bartle continued
their Epsom success in the first event,
getting Gold Salute home a nice winner
in the Shorts. Since Alan Cooper paid
a fancy price for him when he was
brought over from Maoriland Gold
Salute has been gelded. Racing very
kindly, he ran down the pacemakers,
Vergure and Jazbeau, a furlong from
home and won comfortably. Cassar
unwound a grand finishing run, but was
unequal to overhauling Gold Salute,
finishing a fair second, with the three-
year-old Flying Knight third. The
Queenslander Lyndhurst was close up to
the place-getters.
Trained by F. T. Cush for E. P.
Walker, Yaralla (The Buzzard r Even
Keel) fully justified all the promise he
had given on the training tracks by
coming in the easiest of winners in the
Breeders’ Plate. The Harinero-Sweet
Silvius colt King Herod had much the
best of the start, and ran a capital race
in front, though having no chance with
the winner, who, moving along comfort-
ably in second place till then, was taken
to the front with a furlong to go ana
won by a clear three lengths. Manner-
heim (Corban-Moetta), whose track
work also had been promising, had t?
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
THIRD DAY—WEDNESDAY.
Craven Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: Cradle Song,
1 ; Whisper Low, 2; Adjust or
Limonite, 3.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
Randwick Plate: Beau Vite, 1;
Mosaic, 2 ; Old Rowley, 3.
Clibborn Stakes: Nightbeam, 1;
Evergreen, 2 ; Pinero or Ensign, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
1010 Welter: Silenus, 1 ; Alarm,
2 ; Sir Romeo, 3.
Debutant Stakes (colts and geld-
ings) : Leicester Square, 1 ; Aid-
gate, 2 ; Jack Again, 3.
Debutante Stakes (fillies): Beauty
Spot, 1 ; Vanessa, 2 ; Silver Light, 3.
Caulfield Guineas: Pandect, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2 ; Sun Valley, 3.
Herbert Power Handicap: Wilson,
1 ; Apostrophe, 2 ; Mac Rob, 3.
Toorak Handicap: Chatsbury, 1 ;
Hilton, 2 ; Carpentier, 3.


A PRODUCT OF TRADITIONAL CRAFTSMANSHIP
War has come and shattered peace , but
the women in the Outer Hebrides still ply the
spinning wheel and the loom to produce the
famous kandspun,handwoven Harris Tiveed,
the most practical and distinctive of all
fabrics for present-day wear.
m
HARRIS TWEED
TTARRIS TWEED was first made by the people of the Outer Hebrides
-I-A to protect themselves against the gales and mists which sweep across
these far-off isles. To protect the craftsmanship of the islanders, the
Harris Tweed Trade Mark has been registered by order of the Board of
Trade. The Trade Mark with the word HANDSPUN above it, stamped
on the cloth itself, is an absolute guarantee that the tweed has been
made entirely by hand from pure Scottish wool.
The yarn must be spun by hand on the spinning
wheel and woven by hand at the homes of the
islanders. Every process must be carried out in
the Outer Hebrides—the home of Harris Tweed.
The word HANDSPUN above the Trade Mark
is a definite assurance that the cloth so stamped
is a handspun Harris Tweed made in exactly the
same way as has been done for generations.
LOOK FOR THE MARK ON THE CLOTH
LOOK FOR THE LABEL ON THE GARMENT
vK: : :•*
&
M.
»W:j
HARRII TWEED
Issued by The Harris Tweed Association Limited, 5 Coleman Street, London, E.C.2
be bustled to make up for a moderate
getaway. He had moved up to third in
the straight, but at the finish that place
went to Dick Whittingon (Kuvera-Peal
o’ Bells).
Well away and galloping smoothly in
third place till they entered the straight,
the favorite, Beau Vite (Beau Pere-Domi-
nant), gave his backers no worry in win-
ning the Metropolitan from Reading and
Pantler. It was McMenamin’s second
easy winning ride of the day, Beau Vite
winning just as freely as Yaralla had
done. Dashing Cavalier was the first
leader from a splendid start, but at the
mile and a quarter Munro took Reading
to the front. So they went to the seven,
Reading leading Buzalong, Beau Vite,
Dashing Cavalier, with Old Rowley
handiest of the rest. Buzalong moved
up to Reading at the five, but Reading
kicked away at the turn. Reading, how-
ever, could not withstand Beau Vite’s
challenge in the straight, the Maorilander
landing the money by a couple of
lengths. Pantler, ridden by W. Cook,
came from the rear of the field to take
third money.
* * sjs *
Any doubts concerning True Flight’s
right to occupy a high position in the
Caulfield Cup market were dispelled by
his brilliant win in the Stand Handicap
at Flemington on Saturday. His Men-
tone Cup win at his previous start did
not exactly impress several keen judges,
but it was impossible not to be impressed
by his decisive defeat of Historian, whom
he met on Caulfield Cup terms and out-
stayed over a fast-run mile and a quarter.
Each horse carried 101 b. more than his
Caulfield Cup weight.
“Set” for the Caulfield Cup after his
defeat of Chatsbury in the Elms Handi-
cap at Flemington in the autumn, True
Flight was one of the first horses backed
for the first leg of the double. He has
been coupled for substantial amounts
with every fancied Melbourne Cup can-
didate, and his “ground-floor” backers
are in an enviable position. There was
no fluke about True Flight’s win on
Saturday. Historian looked like pulling
his supporters through when he hit the
front more than a furlong from home,
but, although he battled on gamely
enough, True Flight went away from
him over the last 100 yards, and won by
a length and a quarter. Only possible
excuse for Historian was that he started
second from the outside in a field of
20, and had to be used rather freely to
take up a fair position early. True
Flight, on the other hand, started from
No. 3. Both are four-year-olds, each has
started four times since returning from a
spell, and True Flight should be suscep-
tible to just as much improvement as
his rival.
Gladstone looked dangerous when he
made a dash about a furlong from home,
and, although not making any impres-
sion on True Flight or Historian at the
finish, will be all the better for the race.
Whether he will improve sufficiently to
be a Caulfield Cup prospect is another
matter, as in that race he will be meeting
True Flight and Historian 121 b. worse.
Maybe his best chance lies in the Mel-
bourne Cup with 7.8., or 61b. less than
his Caulfield Cup weight. Stand Handi-
cap running said little for the Caulfield
Cup chance of Tragopan, who cut up
badly after sharing the lead with Spear-
wings rounding the bend, but Ellison,
Royal Comet and Aurania, who finished
closest to the place-getters, all shaped
well. Particularly Royal Comet, who
was squeezed out at the start.
Pandect won the A.J.C. Derby for
owner John Wren, but Wilson did
not do as well for him in the
Stand Handicap. Wilson, now a gelding,
was having his first race since last year’s
Melbourne Cup, but his track work
assured him of solid support, and he
started second-favorite. He finished much
nearer last than first, but interference
when making a run about a furlong from
home completely settled his chance. He
looks well, and his form in his next race
should give a better idea of his chance
in the Melbourne Cup, for which he was
third-favorite before Saturday,
Stable hopes that Ajax will go through
his spring campaign unbeaten were
strengthened by the ease of his win in the
Melbourne Stakes. Galloping generously
throughout, he led over the last seven
furlongs of the mile, and was not ex-
tended to win by two lengths from Posi-
tron and El Golea. Only surprising part
of his win was his starting price of 9 to 4
on, after 2 to 1 on had been laid. He
was entitled to be at least 4 or 5 to 1 on.
First prize of £5OO increased Ajax’s earn-
ings to £39,925 for 36 wins, five seconds
and two thirds, from 44 starts. With the
best of the Maoriland and Sydney
horses due to arrive in Melbourne, Ajax
will have stronger opposition in his re-
maining races.
By way of a change, El Golea was not
runner-up to Ajax. His thunder was
stolen by the maiden three-year-old Posi-
tron, who, advantaged by an allowance
of 101 b., fairly worried El Golea out of
second money. Positron may yet be a
good substitute for Landlaw, who, raced
in the same interests, went amiss in Syd-
ney last week, but his forward showing
pointed more to the spring possibilities
associated with The Adjutant. Latter
clearly outstayed Positron over a mile at
Mentone a fortnight earlier, and some
good judges are tipping The Adjutant
to beat Pandect and company in the Vic-
toria Derby. More may be known of
him, however, after his race in the Caul-
field Guineas next Saturday.
At the time of writing it is uncertain
whether Ajax will be able to start in
the Caulfield Stakes. He was kicked
while at the barrier in the Melbourne
Stakes, and his hock was swollen and
sore on Sunday. In consequence inter-
ruption to his preparation may result.
Allowing that the distance of the Mel-
bourne Stakes, a mile, was too short for
him, Melbourne Cup favorite Maikai was
not exactly impressive. Half a furlong
from home he seemed certain to finish
second to Ajax, but, although T. Webster
drew the whip, he was making no im-
pression on Ajax at the finish, and was
doing very little better than Positron and
El Golea. He finished fourth, about a
neck behind El Golea, but his next race
over a distance will be more to his liking
and may restore him to his Cup pedestal.
Rivette, racing for the first time since
February and looking bright and well,
ran fairly without ever being dangerous,
and appeared to pull up soundly. Owner-
trainer Harry Bamber has hopes of a
second Melbourne Cup with her.
Tranquil Star won the Edward Mani-
fold Stakes in a style which suggests she
may go on to success in the Wakeful
Stakes and Oaks. This Gay Lothario-
Lone Star filly, who cost 600 guineas as
a yearling, was ridden a well-judged race
by F. Tocknell, and, drawing to the front
about a furlong from home, held off the
Sydney filly Session to win by almost a
length. Session has been under Jack
Holt’s care since her arrival in Mel-
bourne, but her regular trainer, Peter
Riddle, made the trip to saddle her for
Saturday’s race. Riddle returned home
on Saturday night, Session remaining
with Holt. Pauline shaped well in third
place, and Throttle made up a lot of
ground to finish fourth. Plana, fresh
from a series of good performances in
S.A., was very disappointing for a 6-to-4
favorite. She tired badly after disputing
the lead with Orteli to the turn, but
might have done better had a little less
use been made of her early.
Beauty Spot (Gay Lothario-Fine
Mouche) justified her favoritism for the
fillies’ division of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes, first Melbourne juvenile race of
the season. Owned by her breeders,
H. G. Raymond and H. B. Ranken, and
trained by R. F. Baldwin, she jumped
away smartly, and, although headed by
Running Sea halfway through the race,
won nicely from Silver Light and Van-
essa. Silver Light, a Pantheon-Lightness
filly trained by L. McCann, should be
worth the 170 guineas she cost as a year-
ling, while distinct' possibilities are asso-
ciated with Vanessa, a filly by Winooka
from Herminia. Vanessa started from
the extreme outside of the big field, on
the “slow side” of the straight track,
whereas Beauty Spot drew the rails.
Brisbane jockey A. B. Sinclair paid a
successful visit to Melbourne last
autumn, and he began his present trip
in good style through the agency of Tea
Cake in the first division of the Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes for colts and geld-
ings. Backed from as much as 10 to 1
down to favoritism at 7 to 2, Tea Cake,
who is trained by P. B. Quinlan, won
stylishly from Aldgate (John James-Love
Lane) and Portable (Portofino-Lyrical).
Tea Cake, a gelding by Manitoba from
Avert, cost 210 guineas, Aldgate 110
guineas and Portable 240 guineas. Liege,
a 160-guinea colt by Parenthesis-Estuary,
revealed good pace, and just missed a
place.
Probably because he had drawn the
outside of the field, Totonac eased from
7 to 1 to twelves for the second division
of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes for colts
and geldings. His barrier position, how-
ever, did not affect his chance, as he
shared the lead with Jack Again and
Clivedon a furlong from home, and
finished too strongly for that pair. Owned
and bred by A. R. Creswick, he is by
Aztec from Canon Law. His win, in-
cidentally, compensated for the defeat of
his well-fancied stablemate Theus, also
trained by Fred Foulsham, in the first
division. Jack Again, who started
favorite at 5 to 4, is a colt by Gay
Lothario from Donna Celesta, costing 300
guineas as a yearling, while Clivedon
(Sylvandale-La Pucelle) looks like being
a bargain at 90 guineas. Of the unplaced
runners, none impressed more than
Leicester Square (Piccadilly-Wonder
Worker). He was crowded out early in
the race, but ran on strongly in fourth
position.
Minim took his jumping record to
three starts for two wins and a second
when he beat Jangler in a close finish for
the October Hurdle. A protest on the
ground of interference rounding the
turn out of the straight was dismissed,
but Minim’s rider, A. Driscoll, was rep-
rimanded for having crossed Jangler too
sharply at that stage. Atticus, even-
money favorite, gave his backers a poor
run for their money. He hit almost every
jump, and dropped right out after a bad
blunder near the mile. For a newcomer
to the game Winterset finished a promis-
ing third, and will improve.
* * * *
J. Scobie, great jumping rider in his
day, and a leading trainer over many
years, died in Melbourne last week at the
age of 80. It would be impossible to find
space to enumerate his many wins, and
in the preparation of horses for distance
races he had few equals. Suffice to say
that his wins included four Melbourne
Cups, eight Victoria Derbies, four A.J.C.
Derbies, four S.A.J.C. Derbies, four Aus-
tralian Cups, four Williamstown Cups,
five Adelaide Cups and seven V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes. Altogether horses
trained by him won over a quarter of a
million in prize-money. A likeable man,
Scobie had a host of friends.
* * * *
Sarcherie, who shares with three others
the Randwick record for a mile, recently
foaled a chestnut filly to Sansovine. She
has a yearling colt by Leighton.
* * * *
True Flight is bearing out the good
opinion formed of him last season, and
as he has only 7.12 in the Caulfield Cup
against the 8.8 he successfully carried in
the Stand Handicap his chance is undeni-
able. He will again meet Historian at a
difference in his favor of 61b., and others
whose prospects he discounted were
Tragopan and Wilson. Excuses were
made for the latter, who was well backed,
and was supposed to have a good chance
in the Melbourne Cup. After all, Pan-
dect may be J. Wren’s best Melbourne
Cup representative. He has shown that
he is in form, while Wilson has yet to
do so. Perhaps both may run, as even
in a Melbourne Cup it is a good idea
for an owner to have two strings to his
bow.
Gladstone, in third place, did well in
the Stand Handicap. Figures, however,
are against him in the Caulfield Cup
by comparison with True Flight and His-
torian, as he will meet each 121 b. worse.
Gladstone had 7.7 when he won the
Flemington Centenary Cup, If mile, and
has 71b. more in the Caulfield Cup. Elli-
son and Aurania, with more than their
Caulfield Cup weight, shaped fairly in
the Stand Handicap ; while, though there
was backing for John Dory, he did not
do as well as expected. Last year’s Caul-
field Cup was a hard race, and the com-
ing one promises to be even harder. As
the last three Caulfield Cups have been
won by first favorites, a bookmaker
would be justified in taking a risk with
this year’s popular choice, no matter how
bright its chance might appear.
* * * *
Horses that ran in the Epsom Handi-
cap and are still engaged in the Can-
tala Stakes are as under:
Epsom. Cantala.
High Caste (1) .. .. 9.5 9.7
Mildura (2) .. .. .. 9.4 9.2
St. Constant (3) .. .. 8.10 8.10
Beaulivre .. .. ..9.4 9.1
Reading .. .. ..9.2 9.3
Buzalong 9.0 BA2
Mohican 8.8 8.8
Katanga 8.6 8.7
Rex Felt 8.5 8.6
Geebung 8.2 8.3
Tel Asur .. .. .. 7.5 7.3
Gundagai 7.4 7^9
High Caste can be rehandicapped up to
101 b., and Epsom form gives Mildura
a pull over the others mentioned.
* * * *
It is unusual for a trainer to be so
lucky as to have first-class horses put in
his charge shortly before the commence-
ment of spring racing in Sydney and
Melbourne. Such was F. McGrath’s
pleasant experience, and though he will
not go down in the records as the trainer
of Pandect, that honor going to F. Mus-
grave, he at least put the finishing touches
on that colt. Beau Vite figured in his
name, and when Pierce brought
McGrath’s Randwick score for the day


to three there was rejoicing on the part
of some of his older fellow-trainers.
“They say we’re too old,” commented
another veteran trainer, “but Frank’s suc-
cess shows that, given the right material,
we can still hold our own with the
younger division.” Well, with F. Mus-
grave still turning out winners in Mel-
bourne that claim is warranted.
* * * *
Positron’s second to Ajax in the Mel-
bourne Stakes will probably add him to
the list of Victoria Derby runners.
Although he had no chance against Ajax,
the fact of beating El Golea and Maikai
made his form good. Trained by L.
Robertson for C. Robbie, he is by Wind-
bag from Bahlaka. He is not in the Caul-
field Cup, but is a first acceptor for the
Melbourne Cup with 6.13.
* * * *
When Carbine beat Megaphone at
Randwick in the Craven Plate
he made an Australian mile-and-a-
quarter record of 2.7. On that occasion
Megaphone was sent to the front at the
commencement in the hope that, with
7.9, he would be able to run Carbine
(9.4) off his legs. It was a great race,
but Carbine outstayed the younger horse,
beating him three-quarters of a length.
Cetigne did 2.4 k in 1918, and Beauford
cut that down to 2.3 k when he won from
Syce Knight and Furious three years
later. That record stood until Phar Lap
ran 2.3 in 1931, and he beat that by a
half-second the following year. Phar
Lap and Chatham each won three years
in succession, the latter’s best time being
2.3 k. Talking did 2.3 in 1937 and High
Caste 2.4 last year. Admittedly, Rand-
wick has improved, but not to the extent
of accounting for the difference in time
between now and 40 and 50 years ago.
Other factors may contribute to the
faster times recorded, but perhaps it
would be only fair to admit that, taking
them all round, present-day horses have
greater speed than those of the last
century.
* * * *
Last year the time for the Randwick
Plate was 3.43 k, in consequence of which
the owner of the winner, Royal Chief,
received only £625, and the second and
third horses £lOO and £5O respectively.
The race has to be run in 3.35 or under
to avoid reduction of prize-money. Full
value this year is £760 for first, £l6O for
second and £BO for third.
* * * *
In the last 20 years the following horses
have brought off the double of the “two
Derbies” Salitros, Manfred, Rampion,
Trivalve, Phar Lap, Hall Mark, Theo,
Talking, Nuffield and Reading. They all
ran in the Melbourne Cup the same year
they won the Victoria Derby. Trivalve
and Hall Mark won, and Manfred and
Phar Lap were placed. The last-named
compensated the following year by win-
ning with 9.12, which, reckoning the geld-
ing allowance, was 151 b. over w.f.a. When
Carbine won as a five-year-old he had
141 b. above the scale. It was the same
with him the previous year when he
was second with 10.0.
* * * *
The books will be happy if the Final
Handicap at the A.J.C. meeting gives
them such a good result as last year.
Speardale, favorite at 4 to 1, was un-
placed, and the place-getters were Leif
(14 to 1), Pen Name (20 to 1) and Braid-
wood Boy (10 to 1) in that order. Earlier
in the day the Chester Handicap was won
by Caesar, a 7-to-l chance. He made
B. R. Payten’s seventh win at the meet-
ing, his other winners being Katanga
(2), Feminist, Climax, Own Folk and
Trueness.
* * * *
Last year’s place-getters in the Gim-
crack Stakes were Trueness, Dark
Elegance and Merry Smile. Trueness
cost 550gns., and that win alone returned
more than her purchase-money. Most
of the fillies engaged today were sold at
auction, their prices being as under:
Gns.
Justitia, by Beau Pere-La Justice .. .. 900
Belle Martian, by Beau Pere-Netley .. 700
Adjust, by The Buzzard-Calculate .. .. 550
Mildred, by Excitement-Tirlkledell .. 525
Belle Money, by Beau Pere-Money Spider 500
Heretrix, by Junior Counsel-Inheritance .. 400
All Love, by Double Remove-Beauvue .. 280
Chataway, by Chatham-Princess Rose .. 280
Harprey, by Harinero-Preyful .. .. 230
Cradle Song, by Double Remove-Golden
Lullaby 160
Vivien Leigh, by Christopher Robin-Maggie
Rau 120
Avocation, by Andrea-Eastacre .. ..110
Yellow Gold, by Lo Zingaro-Spearlette .. 110
Snowline, by Excitement-Sunlit Reef .. 100
Princess Freda, by Siegfried-Princess Bell .. 100
Snowdrift, by J. R. Smith-Winter .. .. 85
Tinsel, by Pentheus-Marcella .. .. 85
Limonite/ by Limarch-Dolly Miller .. 80
Redbreast, by Christopher Robin-Caranza 45
* * * *
A little while ago G. P. Nailon sent
a horse to Newcastle for a race, believ-
ing he would get a good price about it.
It opened and closed favorite. W. Kelso
had a similar experience with Tom’s
Pick last week. Sydney papers had not
given Tom’s Pick’s work special mention
—nor did there appear reason for doing
so; but Newcastle racegoers knew so
much about him that, never at better than
2 to 1, he closed at 5 to 4. He won, but
his short price must have been a shock
for his connections, and further empha-
sised the fact that neither Newcastle
books nor backers are to be caught
napping.
* * * *
As sire of Cantala Stakes winners,
Magpie leads with three Amounis
(twice) and Carefree. Imported winners
were Ethiopian, Violoncello, Claro, The
Night Patrol and Denis Boy. A good
record for 20 years. The best time for
the race is Mohican’s 1.35|. Claro,
Amounis (1926) and Vaals each carried
101 b. penalty for an Epsom win, and
Denis Boy 61b. for winning the Metro-
politan.
* * * *
Six of the last 20 Melbourne Cup
winners carried over 9st.—Poitrel 10.0,
Windbag 9.2, Spearfelt 9.3, Nightmarch
9.2, Phar Lap 9.12, and Peter Pan 9.10.
Up to this week there were four in the
Cup with more than 9st. —Mosaic 9.6,
Maikai 9.4, Reading 9.1 and Beau Vite
9.1. Each has lib. over w.f.a., Maikai
being a gelding.
* * * *
In Maoriland the New Zealand Racing
Conference granted conditional licenses
to five jockeys for three months, ending
October 31. They all appealed against
this decision, and the appeals of three
were upheld. However, those of two
prominent riders, W. J. Broughton and
H. N. Wiggins, were dismissed, and the
judges ordered that the £lO each lodged
on their appeals should be retained by
the Conference. The appellants were
represented by counsel.
* * * *
In the New Zealand Cup Royal Chief
is rated the best of the handicap horses
now in Maoriland. He has 9.6, next to
him being Willie Win with 8.12. Peerless
is more leniently treated by handicapper
Russell than she is in Australia, her
weight being 8.2, against the 8.7 allotted
her in the Metropolitan and 8.5 in the
Melbourne Cup. Stayers cannot be over-
numerous in Maoriland. The minimum
is 7.0, and, while 30 horses have that
weight, four 7.1 and three 7.2, only ten
are weighted above 7.12.
* * * *
English horses Greenwich and Moon-
ray are out of the Cantala Stakes, so it
would seem as if they had not done as
well as J. Holt could wish. That trainer
still has Pure Gold and Manrico to rep-
resent him, but the former has fallen
short of expectations when backed on
recent occasions, and, on his latest form,
Manrico does not appear to have much
chance with I.olb. more than he success-
fully carried last year. The best of the
Melbourne horses may be Chatsbury,
who with 8.9 has 51b. less than weight-
for-age. When he ran third in the New-
market he was giving Mildura 21b., and
is getting 71b. from him in the Cantala.
In addition the w.f.a. scale allows for a
few more pounds improvement in Chats-
bury than in Mildura during the interven-
ing months from February to November.
* * *
. In six years the Los Angeles Turf
Club (Santa Anita) has paid $9,887,000
in Federal, State, county and city taxes.
Some Australian clubs hold they are
much too heavily taxed, but they do not
approach those figures. Still, the Los
Angeles T.C. must be doing well to
be able to meet such taxation.
* * * *
At the annual dinner of the New York
Turf Writers’ Association, held in Sara-
toga in August, plaques were awarded to
Don Meade as the outstanding jockey
of 1939, and to L. Schaefer, developer
of Challedon, as the premier trainer of
the year.
* * * *
Birth certificates would appear neces-
sary to gain admission to some race
meetings in America. Under the racing
laws of Rhode Island no minors are ad-
mitted to Narragansett Park. A similar
rule would result in a marked falling-off
at meetings in Australia, notwithstanding
that one authority recently gave out that
middle-aged men were the principal
patrons of Sydney fixtures.
* * * *
At the Washington Park (Chicago)
meeting on August 24 C. S. Howard
again upheld his reputation as a lucky
owner, his colt, Porter’s Cap (The Porter-
The Blonde), winning the two-year-old
race, the Washington Park Futurity,
worth $30,780 for first, $5OOO for
second, $3500 for third and $2OOO for
fourth. In addition, the nominators of
the first three respectively received $lOOO,
$5OO and $250. As the winner was a
13-to-rl chance in a field of nine, his
form must have surprised even his owner
and trainer. After Porter’s Cap’s success
Howard’s stake winnings for the season
totalled over £A75,000, and his horses
had several more valuable engagements
before the close of the year. Porter s
Cap was a comparatively cheap yearling,
costing $l3OO.
jj: # *
Washington Park (Chicago) indulged
in some long-distance racing at its meet-
ing in August. A four-year-old gelding
named Winning Mark distinguished
himself by winning the Johnny Bullman
Handicap, three miles three furlongs, in
6.13 —an American record —with 7.6, and
the Marathon Championship. Handicap,
four miles, with 8.10, in 8.7 2-5. There
were only five runners for each race, and
a heavy track partly accounted for the
slow time in the Marathon.
Two other distance races at Washing-
ton Park were at 2f miles and 2\ miles
respectively. Shot Put won both. His
time for the shorter race was 3.54 2-5, a
track record, and for the longer one
4.48 3-5, an American record. In Aus-
tralia we do not run 21-mile races, but,
as the best for 21 miles is Marauder’s
3.471, we are well ahead of Washington
Park at that distance.
* * * *
Bimelech’s retirement in America was
resultant on breaking a small bone in
one of his legs when doing a sprint on
the morning of the Travers Stakes. As
a two-year-old Bimelech stood out as a
champion, and, though he was defeated
in two of his principal three-year-old
races, finished his career with $245,095
(something over £A63,500) to his credit.
=H * * *
The appended opinions expressed by
a knowledgeable American writer on
breeding and racing are not without
application in Australia:
The entry of a man of reputed wealth in
the arena of racing is the signal for a general
foray upon him. Everyone becomes anxious
to sell him a horse. In short, the new turf-
man is a mark—there is a belief that he has
“money to burn,” and no pains are spared
to relieve him of it.
Now probably there are no men as
credulous as gentlemen of wealth who enter
the field of racing. They may be men of
great shrewdness in the financial or commer-
cial world; many of them bear evidence
of that in the fact that they have been the
architects of their own fortunes. But when
they engage in racing or breeding they seem
willing to believe anything told them by
persons whom they believe to be ex-
perienced—persons who are able to make
an impression on them.
At the outset these gentlemen are very
apt to fall into the hands of every man who
wants to sell a horse, or, worse still, they
fall into the hands of some academic horse-
man whose only accomplishment is a
memory for pedigrees or a retailing
of second-hand opinions. With such a
tutor, the gentleman is indoctrinated into all
his tutor’s prejudices in favor of this strain
as against that strain of blood, of certain
localities for breeding, of certain crosses
and of some “system” or other. As might
be expected, the new owner is made to pay
pretty dearly for his experience.
M.Q. and Rafferty
If the welter title elimination series
at Leichhardt is being run under the
time-honored rule of losers out, not one
but two contenders were eliminated last
Thursday night, when Ron McLaughlin
met Jack Brander and both lost. After
four rounds of tig and other polite forms
of massacre, ref. Pearson in the fifth
took each by an elbow and translated
into a sermon for their benefit the sounds
of mockery coming from the bleachers.
Immediately thereafter Jack took a right
to the chin and fell on his knees, and Mr.
Pearson impatiently declared the whole
Porcelain Incident null and void.
Anyway, the crowd had nothing to get
shirty about, having earlier had so much
value from one prelim, alone that it
could hardly wait to the end of it before
pelting the ring with conscience money.
This scrap was Billy Fletcher (9.6) v.
Fred Osborne (9.4), Fred making his first
appearance in this particular ring and
Billy making his first appearance in any
ring. For a start it looked as if Billy
would fall to Fred’s more experienced
punching, but he’d evidently been taken
to the dentist two or three years ago
while still a baby and had his jaw filled
with concrete. It was his only form of
defence, and Fred’s wasn’t much better,
so, with both of them fighting flat out
every second of every round, things got
a shade crimson. By the time the last
round was being waged, it was clear to
all that only a ref. devoid of human in-
stincts could call it anything but a draw,
and all over the place the jingle of coin
being fished out of pockets could be
heard. When the ref. gave it its right
name the barrage started, and when this
was over two towelfuls of financial
missiles were harvested off the canvas,
with an additional Is. 2d. which a ring-
sider stopped with the back of his neck
and shook out of his pants.
As well as the foregoing there was the
first appearance at this address of the
promising lightweight Vic Patrick, who
wasn’t extended to beat A 1 Thomas, now
of the A.1.F., by technical k.o. in five
rounds. Patrick looks a heady customer.
He’s a nicely-balanced southpaw, stand-
ing more upright, closer up to his work,
and hitting shorter than most of that
breed. He does not appear to hit hard,
but he places his punches extra neatly,
especially the left to the body, wasting
no energy, though constantly at it, hit-
ting clean and fast. Thomas is tough,
but five rounds of that persistent punch-
ing left him as flabby as a fried jelly.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The United States professionals have
raised their standing to a higher level
than in any other part of the world.
Since my arrival here I have had an
excellent chance of playing and living
continuously with these men. They have
developed club sales and teaching to such
a high degree that at private clubs the
professional is able to earn many times
over the incomes of the best-paid Aus-
tralian pros.
He holds down the most im-
portant position, for through his shop is
controlled everything that is of any
importance in the club. Members buy
all their needs at his shop—clubs, balls,
bags, shoes, caps, sweaters, slacks, etc.
Some have sweet counters, poker
machines and the like. At the back of all
this lies strong organisation by the Pro-
fessional Golfers’ Association. Compared
with Australian conditions, the profes-
sionals here get much more assistance
from the manufacturers. While the com-
panies are forced to go after the huge
store business, they fully realise the im-
portance of the club professionals and
cater for their needs with lines sold to
them exclusively.
The pros, here, too, find it tough to sell
against the stores when it comes down
to the cheaper-type golf equipment, but
they realise their limitations and concen-
trate on the better-grade stuff.
When there has been a lull in tourna-
ment play I have been invited to many
of the professional meetings and golf
clinics. At the latter leading players
lecture to other pros, and golfers on
their ideas of play and the golf swing.
These meetings promote good-feeling
among professionals and keep them work-
ing together. Every Monday the Chicago
district professionals have either a meet-
ing or an amateur-pro. four-ball event.
Attending these gatherings each week 1
have listened to many great te’achers.
Lasting from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m., these
meetings, conducted at central points, are
attended by the pros.’ assistants as pupils.
During the afternoon a speaker will refer
to a brother professional’s way of play-
ing, pointing out his good points and
weaknesses, in the latter case trying to
give him some assistance. Never have I
seen an Australian pro. go out of his
way to try to improve another pro.’s
game. Instead of banding together and
strengthening themselves, the pros, in
Australia are too critical of one another.
In the United States the golfers as
a whole give professional golfers and
their tournaments more support than the
U.S. Golf Association itself, a result of
sheer hard work by the P.G.A. in build-
ing up its tournaments. An official of
the U.S. Golf Association has admitted
that the P.G.A. today really runs Ameri-
can golf.
Australian pros, are by far the weakest-
organised bunch of professionals in the
world. Underpaid and with small reward
offering for their undoubted ability, there
is plenty of reason why they should try
to improve the standard of their profes-
sion. I for one should like to see pro.
golf in Australia in the position I know
it is fitted to hold.
Miscellaneous
Familiar faces were missing when the
cricket season opened in Melbourne.
Hassett, Barnett, K. Miller, Fleetwood-
Smith, Gregory and others have taken
on the grimmer game in which the
Empire is putting up a stand against
some deadly bowling, and others were
what a Footscray barracker called “un-
present” for other reasons. There will
not be a pennant this year, and teams
will confine themselves to home-and-
home matches. Jack Ryder is to return
to Collingwood as a result of the decision
not to run the Colts’ team, which he led
last year. He began with Collingwood in
1906.


flow for that Cool
m
TOOTH » HAlf B ora«
lager
-K.IBBFP-
IN BOTTLES
ill
*i
mm
®i
|3SSP
wmm
v'"
Hi
Y'
w
ft
# ■■*■■■
.*•'7 :
sS-Sw^SSf:
4 ,
W.


Miscellaneous.
Student Letter Exchange.
1 non letters available. All interested, write
lUUU Box uBi ( Auckland, N.Z. Stamp,
addressed envelope and 20 used stamps with
inquiries.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single t
has often effected a cure, while m
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing That is
why it is equally successful in over
coming Eczema and other
complaints. But be sure you g
DOAN’St
A WOMANS
LETTER
The A.J.C. spring carrousel pitched its
stand at Randwick as it has been doing
ere ever the tote was born. It was a
grand show. There were fine horses and
ladies in finery. The sky was blue, the
sun was warm, the crowd enormous. It
was a real day out for the push. You
know —push your way along, and don’t
mind how many bruises you’re giving
your neighbors. Maybe the lady who
lost her silver fox cape got caught in one
of these inhuman whirlpools. There were
illuminating scraps of conversation in
the air: “I don’t call her distinguished;
just disagreeable-looking.” Once washed
by a super-wave of punters into a cprner
debs., sub-debs, and a few mothers
forgathered, this Letter caught a de-
feated murmur: “He may have admired
your hat, dear, but he didn’t take your
photograph! ” An optimistic younger
voice: “He says he’ll take it later,
mother!”
Young officers of the Navy were sifted
through the crowds; so were petty
officers and ratings. There were kilts
and khaki and Air Force blue. There
was a tall soldier in shorts and bare legs.
The Governor was there tying racehorses
up w’ith ribbons ; but Lady Wakehurst
was doing her W.A.N.Iy duty in the
Domain, where she was taking salutes
and so on from parading n.c.o. W.A.N.S.
If this Letter were asked to toss a few
apples, one would have gone to Mrs. Eric
Pratten, one to Mrs. Tim Osborne, one
each to Margaret Salenger and to Bar-
bara Munro, who was Barbara Salenger.
One would throw an oat of sympathy
to Nightbeam, who looked around at
the post, decided to be unconventional,
flung a shoe, so to speak, over the wind-
mill and went full tilt back in search of
his stall. Perhaps he’s just a simple
home-loving creature, after all.
Rosemary Budge, all decked with
orchids, and June Chamberlain, two pink
roses caught in some veiling on her head,
were woven into the decorative design.
Mayoress Crick wore the popular grey,
as did Mrs. John Collins, of Beaudesert
(Q.). The latter’s frock wore frills around
the hem of the skirt, and its bodice was
frilled, giving a little coat effect. Mrs.
Alan Bragg’s frock suggested Hawaii. Its
bodice was long, its skirt was pleated
and it was in cyclamen tones. The Mc-
Kelvey lady’s boater was of white
panama. Her frock was navy. Mrs.
Malcolm Mackellar and Margaret Dovey
were among the tallest women. Treasurer
Percy Spender was there with his wife.
Tan linen was smart on Mrs. Roy Buck-
land ; all spring was in the printed frocks
worn by Rada Penfold Hyland and Nancy
Burleigh. A large blue chiffon muff was
noted. Pat and Ella O’Shea put a sparkle
from Brisbane into the day. Miss Agnes
Williamson was among the day’s well-
appointed. Cornflower-blues and shades
of pink, simple and sophisticated, re-
curred with greatest frequency —Mrs.
Sam Hordern’s glamor hat was the tone
of a pink anemone.
Mrs. F. J. Davy, who, besides being
secretary for the Women’s Hockey Asso-
ciation, is one of the head serangs of the
Mayor’s Fund, had a little worried frown
on the brow on Australia Day. No,
it wasn’t due to her work on the stall
run by the Women’s Amateur Sports
Council, it was that the stocks of socks
at the Comforts Fund depot had run
low. During last week the fund distri-
buted 12,500 pairs, and the biggest re-
placement was the 2000 pairs from
C.U.S.A. If any knitter of socks has a
spare pair, please send them at once
to the Comforts Fund. You see, some
of the boys haven’t mothers and sisters
to knit for them, and to such the Fund
acts as mother and sister.
This Letter decided to go down into
the streets and see the troops march by
and was buffeted along waves of humans
from Hunter-street to Martin-place.
Adroit wriggling found a lookout be-
tween, and familiarly close to, the heads
of two women ; one had smoothed her
hair with French brilliantine, and the
other’s bisque make-up smelled faintly
of jasmine.
But that march-past was unforgettable.
The eyes of young men fixed on a steady
purpose, youthful lips pressed to a firm
resolve were there, line on line. They
marched easily and well, these 6500 men
of the A.1.F., while a city stood at gaze.
There were occasional bursts of clapping,
occasionally a child waved a flag. But
mostly down Hunter-street, along Pitt-
street and Martin-place and George-
street the watchers were content to say
in their hearts what an old lady near by
exclaimed with fervor, “God bring them
safely home again!”
A call at the Australia after the races
found Mrs. Keith Cudmore busy with the
decorations for the Sydney Hospital Ball.
Not only had she spent the whole of
that lovely spring afternoon arranging
great bowls of peachnblossom, lilies and
roses, but she had fashioned much of the
blossom itself. It looked very effective,
budding on great spikes of pussy willow.
In the annexe to the ballroom was an
immense fishpond. This was bordered in
red, white and blue, and bobbing about
were bottles of champagne, silk stockings
and lots of other good catches. Hun-
dreds turned up to the ball. The tables
filled the ballroom, dancing was in the
banquet-room and the overflow was
everywhere. There were two bands. The
Norman Paul lady’s chiffons were a peri-
winkle blue. The skirt was finely knife-
pleated. Committee’s president was Mrs.
H. Giblin. A good worker for the suc-
cess was Mrs. H. M. Cutler.
Racegoers of Auckland, Maoriland,
will at once be sure of the subject of
this photograph. She is Mrs. Thomas
Impey, whose husband is a well-known
Enzed sportsman and a steward and the
hon. treasurer of the Auckland Racing
Club. The two have been touring Australia.
This Letter’s good friend Wal Taylor,
of the Grosvenor Galleries, wants beds.
Not one bed, nor two, but twenty. He
doesn’t want to try them all, like Goldi-
locks in the story of the Three Bears ;
he wants them to add to the thirty
already in the crypt of St. James’s. This
is now a free hostel for soldier lads caught
in the city at week-ends without friends
or money for a hotel bedroom. The vicar
of St. James’s first got the notion of this
soldier sanctuary when he saw a lad
in khaki settling down for the night in
Hyde Park. Now, with some eager
helpers, he has furnished the crypt with
thirty beds, and there is need of twenty
more. In the morning the lads are given
a hot cup of coffee and biscuits. You
remember the crypt, don’t you? We all
visited it when the murals by the Turra-
murra wall painters were freshly done.
The frescoes illustrate an old Christmas
carol, and the journeyings of the Madonna
and the Christ child are worked in with
Sydney Harbor and its bridge in a heart-
lifting whole.
Shirley Ann Richards did not ride the
racehorse she was leading on the cover
of the programme into the spring meet-
ing parade at the Trocadero. That was
the only disappointment of the afternoon.
Shirley Ann, looking as violet-and-
lavender-sweet as her name, was her
prettiest in a frock of hyacinth blue worn
with a dusty-pink coat. There were
fashions for the clock round, and they
were all from Anthony Horderns’ treas-
ure house. The guest of honor was
Mrs. C. G. Miles, whose husband is
O.C. of the Eastern Command. With
her dark suit she wore silver fox furs,
and her very large posy of primroses
and pansies was envied by all. The
flowers had been grown in the garden
of Mrs. H. Macgregor Cutler, one of the
afternoon’s hostesses.
As a result of these prancing fashions
the Macquarie Group of the A.A.M.C
will show a cheery bank deposit. Presi-
dent Mrs. Clement Chapman, blithe as
a lark’s song in addition to being full
of patriotic works, wore sables with a
black frock so simple that only an expert
could have designed it. Her snugly-
fitting black velvet hat wore an ostrich
plume on its right side.
In the interests of Air Force House
a group of Sydney’s leading mannequins
displayed frocks, lingerie and what are
coyly known as foundation garments.
The modest term covers the corset and
brassiere, or corselette of other days —
sometimes wedded, sometimes divorced,
but always seal-sleek to the figure. These
mannequins are of excellent lineage and
wore their sports clothes, afternoon
frocks, summer furs and evening frocks
with grace, and their contours are such
that even walking about the stage in
lingerie caused them no self-conscious-
ness. A woman neighbor who had con-
sumed half a box of chocolates since
curtain-rise murmured suddenly to her
companion: “What’d the man say the
price of that rowing-machine was?”
Even the ragged banners of cloud
and the cold spatters of rain had failed
to keep the women from this show. The
Minerva was more than comfortably
filled. Bright-faced V.As. from Lindfield
sold programmes and tickets in competi-
tions, and W.A.N.S., Flying Girls and
National Emergency Service Girls did
their bit in sleuthing the coin, as well
as helping to give a dashing stage finale
for “Land of Hope and Glory!”
R.A.A.F. men from Richmond were at
the show. Notables of the Air Force
House committee, Mrs. Robert Dixson
among them, were in the audience.
The Royal Art Society has sent out
cards for its 61st annual exhibition. This
old-established art group is making a gala
of its opeping, which will be on the
evening of October 10. Judge Moffitt
will make the preliminary speech. In
addition there will be a social evening
on the 16th. The programme of events
promises to be entertaining, and the
Education Department’s gallery threatens
to be a happy hunting ground for artists
and their friends throughout the ex-
hibition
, ’ . x ,
Mrs- Rama Single, who, as Kama Me-
Phillamy, of Forbes, was one ot the bes -
known war workers of the 1914- 8 war,
was decorated recently by the Governor
Wltk } ke^f tu f Soldiers League goi
medal. This is the highest award given
by the League, and the gold medal carries
a design in relief of a soldier and a sailor.
As Miss McPhillamy, she was a popular
helper at the Kantara canteen, the place
of refreshment and peace along the Suez
Canal, for the boys of the A.I.F. Mrs.
Single, who lives at Woollahra, is now
a keen worker for the Karitane Mother-
craft Society. Norton Trevaire photograph.
Red-Crossers —700 or more of them —
crowded into the ballroom of the Aus-
tralia last Thursday morning. It was
the annual meeting of the N.S.W. divi-
sion, and Lady Gowrie, president for
Australia, was there in her khaki
uniform. Because of illness, the State
president, Lady Wakehurst, was not
on deck. The Governor-General’s lady
had a guard of honor of V.As., much
admired in their bright blue. Deputy-
chairman of the Australian Red Cross,
Dudley Turner, who with his wife had
come up from Melbourne for the meet-
ing, spoke with vigor of the necessity for
constant giving. He said he would rather
at the end of the war there was a surplus
of thousands and thousands of socks
and miles of bapdages than that the army
should fall short of one sock, one foot
of bandage.
General Miles made a “give-and-take”
speech. The Army, he said, could take
all the society could give. Lady Gowrie’s
remarks were on the virtue of direct
giving to a general fund. Half-past
twelve struck, and the meeting was still
on. At one o’clock it was still going
strong. Still later, Lady Gowrie presented
honor certificates to delegates from the
society’s branches.
“Wanted for Murder” was printed
across the document. It came in his
Majesty’s mails last week, and was a bit
breath-taking till you saw the sinister
little drawing of a bomb stamped with
Hitler’s features. It was sent by Mary
Kelly, who is putting the vigor and the
organising ability of the clan into the
younger group of the Polish Relief com-
mittee. It is about a month since Mary,
fresh from her English and American
committees, started her Sydney activities.
Her workers have already brought in
£lB 7s. Of this £5 has been voted to
the Australian Women’s Polish Relief for
comforts and £5 to the Consul-General’s
fund for the Polish armed forces. The
remaining £8 7s. will be spent on special
comforts for the Polish Air Force.
When Orient Co. magnate D. L. Dow-
dell married in 1920, he must have been
one of the most popular men of the sea.
The wedding presents he and his wife
received were as dazzling as a skyful of
sheet lightning when they burst on this
Letter’s gaze last week. Up in the co.’s
new building, with its silvered-steel fit-
tings, its floors of polished Tasmanian
oak, the former general managers silver-
ware was set out on long trestle tables,
on tables spread with lacy afternoon-
cloths. Mr. Dowdell has generously
handed all this solid beauty to a com-
mittee representing four different war
causes, and a super art union is the
result.
Douglas Ludlow Dowdell (to give him
his rich-sounding name in full) was born
in Tasmania. He married in 1920 a girl
with an equally beautiful name, Enid
Karin Oliphant. She died a year later.
Now her wedding gifts will benefit the
King George’s Fund for Sailors, the
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund, the City Tele-
phonists’ War Fund and the War
Veterans’ Home. There’s a Royal Wor-
cester set of coffee cups on a silver salver
that makes any woman of sensibility
smile for joy. There are cut-glass bowls
whose thousands of facets are a rainbow.
Entree dishes, hot-plates, a tea and coffee
service a queen might envy, whole ser-
vices of silver spoons and forks, and an
inkwell so large that one filling would
suffice to write a whole novel are among
the many beauties.
One of the maddest, merriest get-
togethers of this race week will be (so
the committee believes) the cocktail
roundabout at* the Australia. This is
set for Friday. It starts at six o’clock
and ends at midnight. For the entrance
charge of 12s. 6d. you are entitled to
four drinks, which is a very good set-up.
Beatrice Meeks and Mrs. Bill Dawson
are the secretaries for this gaiety, which
has a serious purpose—to help the Syd-
ney Industrial Blind Institution. This
is to be the outstanding effort of the
Women’s Auxiliary for 1940, and the
workers are out to make a good haul.
The Davidson lady is the president, Mrs.
Dudley Hardy the treasurer.
Knight Henry Braddon made pathetic
appeal to the women at the meeting for
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital for
a “competent fortune-teller.” No, he
wasn’t in search of tips for the spring
meeting. He was on the lookout for a
palmistry wizard for the hospital’s fete
in November. This will take its pitch
on the ground before Elizabeth Bay
House, and, lest a blade of grass may be
of different stature from its brethren, Mrs.
Robert Dixson is going to have a gar-
dener barber the lawn. Marie Burke,
who knitted throughout the meeting, has
promised to peddle farings with the aid
of a donkey and an Italian costume.
There will be cocktails at the sunset
hour within the house.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimented radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL THOMAS HENRY COX, late of Tangil
Bren, Gippsland, and Little Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, please communicate with HALLI-
DAY, BUDD & STAINLAY, Solicitors, Mur-
willumbah?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1570 of 1940.
BETWEEN CATHERINE ELLEN DOORN-
BUSCH Petitioner and
ARNOLD WALDEMAR DOORNBUSCH Re-
spondent.
TO ARNOLD WALDEMAR DOORNBUSCH
(also known as Nelson) late of Sydney
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
ELLEN DOORNBUSCH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
the dissolution of her marriage on the grounds
of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Twenty-seventh
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and forty and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition in this suit
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 30th day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN H PEOPLES, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 77-79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1686 of 1940.
BETWEEN OLGA MURIEL BLEASBY Peti-
tioner and
ALBERT EDWARD BLEASBY Respondent.
TO ALBERT EDWARD BLEASBY late of
36 Boronia Road Concord West in the
State of New South Wales Cook.
TAKE NOTICE that the said OLGA
MURIEL BLEASBY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or ex-
cuse wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left her continuously so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the First
day of February One thousand nine hundred and
forty-one and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Second day of October, One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CURTISS, DEZARNAULDS & EDWARDS,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 67 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
HARRY LEE, late of Byford, in the State of
Western Australia, Farmer, Deceased, In-
testate.
TAKE NOTICE that all persons claiming
to be creditors or next-of-kin of the above-
named deceased are hereby required to send
by post prepaid to the undermentioned solicitor
at the address given below so as to reach
him on or before the 25th day of November,
1940, their full names, addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims, and
in default thereof they will be excluded from
participating in the distribution of the estate
of the said deceased.
PHILIP S. DURSTON, 105 Saint George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia, Solicitor for
the West Australian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Company, Limited, Administrator of
the estate of the said deceased.
Melbourne
Chatter
Flemington on Saturday was like a pre-
liminary canter for the big race meetings
ahead. A large and cheery crowd was
present, and the lawns were alive with
khaki, sailor suits and the blue of the
R.A.A.F. —the lads all out for a little
gamble and a get-together with their
friends. Among the hundreds in uniform
were Harry Minogue, Everard Baillieu,
medico John Ray (with wife Dr. Peg
Mackay and parents from Adelaide, Dr.
and Mrs. Bill Ray) and A.C.I. Robin
Rothwell. If the weather is right for the
big meetings hats are going to be giddy
as they never have been before, so that
the saucy little headpieces that have been
bought for all the numerous afternoon
weddings will have another chance to
come out of their tissue-paper.
Marjorie Austin’s garden of flowers
aloft was meshed in pale-blue veil. Mrs.
Guy Pleasance wore a veritable garland
of camellias upon her head. Pat Chap-
man’s frock and vizor of flowers struck
a forceful note in purples. Accent on
line rather than on trimmings was given
by Mrs. Gordon Snow, who wore a
vintage-purple tip-tilted straw hat with
a black dress, and Cherry Walters, who
spent the afternoon with Rome Benton.
Both girls were in black frocks, and
Cherry’s was yellow as a canary’s wing.
The Cavalcade of Empire has arrived
at the Princess after much work and
preparation. It’s a very special sort of
achievement, for over 600 people pass
through the producer’s hands according
to plans within one clever woman’s brain.
Gradually over the last few weeks the
oddments found their places in the jigsaw
puzzle, the thing took shape, and the first
night it reached the stage on time and
finished on the tick of eleven. Miss Mina
Shelley deserves a blue ribbon for organ-
ising. For the first performance, when
hitches might have occurred as a matter
of course, there were none. And there
were no speeches, except a couple of sen-
tences from General Brand —Miss Shelley
emerged from her hiding place but re-
fused to talk. The flowers, too, went up
backstage.
The cast was gathered from all walks
of life and all suburbs, and all services
were given free. Voices don’t grow under
gooseberry-bushes, nor do personalities to
match, but some talent has been over-
looked. Where has the warm voice of
Selma Bergstrand been hiding itself? She
was the Maori girl in the episode spon-
sored by the M.L. Women’s Association,
in which she received adequate support
from a group of poi dancers and from
Newton Goodson, who had cast off the
nervousness that nearly laid him flat as
Bobbie Burns in the Scottish episode.
The voice of Keith Manzie was a use-
ful acquisition, and he looked the goods
as Essex (in the English scene) and rol-
licked away merrily in the Navy League
contribution, an effective story of the
Sons of the Sea with young cadets as
Britain’s mightiest sailors. Four young
drummers did their part with skill.
Young dancers from various schools
contributed to the pageant, but it was
given to Borovansky’s school to portray
the episode “Australia.” They did it de-
lightfully in a bushfire ballet. After a Red-
skins’ war dance by the Footscray Boy
Scouts (the youngest ones very unreliable
young scalp-hunters) Canada was pro-
duced also, in ballet, skating and skiing.
Appreciated also was Wilma Berkeley’s
artistic soprano in “Pale Moon.”
There were cheers for the South
African soldiers in their own episode and
for the troops of today, the Navy, Army
and Air Force, who marched on to the
stage for the finale, a scene of homage to
Britannia from every member of the
British Commonwealth of Nations.
Soprano Vera Higginbottom carried
Britannia’s shield. Under Hector Craw-
ford’s baton the Melbourne Conserva-
torium Symphony Orchestra was snappy
off the mark, and co-operation of a high
order was forthcoming from the Orpheon
Choir, who sang in the semi-darkness of
the dress-circle boxes and the front rows
of the stalls.
The nimble wit and indefatigable
larynx of Ivan Menzies stood him in
good stead when he ran a Dutch auction
among “One Hundred Years of Child-
hood” in Myer’s Mural Hall. He jollied
the crowd, packed like sardines so that it
could scarcely breathe, first of all into
mud animation and finally to bigger,
better and faster bids. The prize, for
which £34-odd was raised, was a child
portrait by Dora Wilson, the name of the
sitter to be nominated by the winner.
Early in the piece dapper little Ivan
parried the offers of sixpences with “No,
you can’t do that, this isn’t church,” in-
sisted on bobs and gradually worked the
bidders up to ss. and 10s. jumps. As an
accountant he did pretty well, adding up
the total as he went along.
The Kindergarten Union sponsored the
show, which Lady Dugan promised to
open, but her health is not as good as
she’d like it to be these days, and Dame
Enid Lyons deputised with one of her
usual fluent speeches. Other speakers
were Mrs. Harry Creswick, Mrs. T. A.
a’Beckett, Miss M. Lush and a couple
of clear-minded young senior students
from the Kindergarten College.
Poor little trussed-up cocoons were the
kids of yesterday, overdressed, stifled
with stale air for fear of draughts. Even
the dolls were stuffed away into four-
posters under starched quilts covered
with finicky embroidery. Two nurseries
were on show, of today and of grandma’s
era ; the latter heavy with prayer, a copy
of “Bubbles” and “What Is Home with-
out a Father?” The repressed infant
couldn’t even escape the odor of sanc-
tity in his crib ; texts lay heavily over
him, printed in colors upon his quilt.
Today’s child browsing over the horrors
of yesterday should certainly come away
a chastened little animal.
At the show there was a rogues’ gal-
lery in a glass case —victims all of photo-
graphers who did their worst. Smothered
in lace collar and cuffs and wearing a
cherub’s smile was the small boy who
eventually grew into Alan Newton, sur-
geon and knight. Another pretty little
pet also fluffed up in lace is now the
Director of Medical Services, Rupert
Downes. General Chauvel, as was, had
lace-edged pants coyly peeping beneath
a fabrication of tartan. Knight Julius
Bruche is also present at the kindergarten
age; so is Mrs. Harry Creswick with
bucket and spade, black stockings and
an unbelievable hat. Dr. Constance Ellis
is there in pastels befrilled and pearl-
buttoned. The Norman Brookeses’ trio
of daughters are small plump steps-and-
stairs in white fur coats modestly hiding
their chubby knees. Prof. Heinze and
George Lush (George is an LL.B. and a
sergeant in the A.1.F.) are victims of the
sailor-suit era; according to George’s
portrait this persisted up till 1919. J. R.
Darling is shown as an inoffensive little
boy with a fringe of fair hair.
Herewith the chatelaine of the Country
Leave Club, Mrs. Norman Martin, who,
out of thin air and from the at that time
not very solid walls of the Green Mill,
created a Sunday fixture of entertainment
for the troops in town. In the two
months of its existence the club has
become a hit with the boys. The
Sunday sessions are for 12 hours or
longer, and a record was reached lately
when 1500 meals were served between
11 a.m. and 11 p.m. A programme of
music is always on tap, table tennis and
other games are popular and so are occa-
sional picture shows, and last but not
least among the attractions are the 50 girls
on the roster who are passed as volun-
teer helpers after a month’s probation.
They are housemaids-waitresses-host-
esses, cooks if necessary, and technically
also kitchenmaids, though in practice it’s
always the Navy, the Army and the Air
Force to rise to the occasion of soapsuds
and tea-towels. Much appreciated addi-
tions to the club personnel are two
barbers (male) and three women chiropo-
dists, who give their services free right
through Sundays in their newly-erected
cubicles.
In organising the club, Mrs. Martin
had experiences to draw upon from the
last war, when she assisted in similar
work in England. Today she has her
young daughter Della to help her. She
is loyal in her praise of co-operation
from the Green Mill’s directors. The
building had been condemned, and the
Country Leave Club looked like having
to pitch its tent in the King’s Domain,
but the directors met and agreed to
spend £lOOO on propping up the building
for the duration —it’s a foregone conclu-
sion that it will come down straight after-
wards.
Wirth’s Olympia offered its shelter for
the couple of Sundays which were clut-
tered up with the alterations. Mrs.
Martin and Della have a regular Satur-
day programme starting at midday, when,
with market baskets, they do the rounds
of the stores and cafeterias which make
them gifts of perishable goods. Dona-
tions for Sunday’s lunch and supper are
also collected at a depot at the Town
Hall. The troops as a body have a sweet
tooth, so that any cooks who can man-
age to bake an extra cake during the
week-end may be assured that the last
crumb will be eaten with relish if they
make it a gift to the Country Leave Club.
Mrs. Martin’s portrait is from Dickinson-
Monteath.
Broothorn made this portrait of Grace
Crotty, leading lady of the current
Gregan McMahon production, Bridie’s
“The King of Nowhere,” set in Scotland.
Miss Crotty plays the role of Miss
Rimmer, who, having passed the age of
40 and lived a life of repression, comes
into a fortune. She founds a model State
and things begin to happen. Melbourne
playgoers appreciated Miss Crotty’s act-
ing as Judith Lot in “Lot’s Wife.” She
returned 18 months ago from abroad,
where she gathered considerable experi-
ence with the Gate Theatre in Dublin.
She is schooled also in Gilsullivan lore,
and some years ago went on South
African travels with a G. and S. Co.
A blue ribbon party will be celebrated
on the 18th under a marquee upon the
lawn of 3 Whernside-avenue after the
marriage of the important young woman
of that house. Peg Tronson, to Lieut.
John Davis in Melbourne Grammar
School chapel. Peg will be a bride in
traditional white, but has sworn her
family to secrecy over the details of her
gown. As there is so much space to
spare under the family rooftree she will
come back home to live when John goes
abroad. For the immediate future plans
are uncertain. A rustic pub is on the
cards; so is dossing in a two-couples
cottage at Albury or some other village
booming overnight into a military town.
A good scout is the Governor, who
rose to an occasion last week. Lady
Dugan was not well enough to keep her
promise to open Septimus Power’s show
at the Athenaeum, so Sir Winston came
instead, performed the official offices,
stayed around and talked to friends and
newly-introduced acquaintances and
studied the pictures at his leisure. A
painter like Power and a vice-regal
presence should have meant a well-
populated gallery, but only a handful of
people arrived, which all goes to show
how seldom artistic talents and business
instincts go hand in hand. Mr. Power
is all painter and no salesman skilled
in the art of advertising. He has given
two pictures, one a large canvas of
horses, the other, smaller, of springer
spaniels, to the Red Cross, for which there
will be an auction by Jos. McClelland
in the gallery tomorrow, 10th, at 3 p.m.
The Harry Lawson family and painter
Miss A. M. E. Bale have many things in
common after starting off on the right
foot—Castlemaine is God’s own good
town. Knight Harry opened Miss Bale’s
show at the Velasquez, and more Lawson
support was given by his good lady and
daughter Jean, who in childhood days
was known as Ginger and who some
three weeks ago became Mrs. Rene
Yuncken. For Rene, who’s in the A.1.F.,
final leave came fast upon the short
honeymoon. Present at the show was
Lieut. Reuter Hall, who, although on the
brink of going overseas to collect a debt
from Britain’s enemies, managed to see
an art exhibition now and then. He was
a sculptor and architect before joining
the A.l.F.’s engineers. Miss Bale is
generously giving 50 p.c. of all sales to
defence funds.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE SERVICE MAN
In Western Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: Troops and supplies are
still pouring into Egypt, and there has
been constant activity around the
Mediterranean. Air attacks over the
whole vast range of littoral from Aden
to Tobruk continue on both sides. Inland
Abyssinian and British Sudanese stations
have had their raids, but decisive opera-
tions are still to come.
According to the Rome schedule, the
Italians were to have reached Alexandria
on September 18. If mutual reproaches
are in order, they can point to the Ger-
man failure to carry out the invasion
of England, which was to have synchro-
nised with the Egyptian offensive ; in any
case, Marshal Graziani has held off.
While in northern Europe every day
makes fighting conditions worse, in
Egypt they improve as winter approaches
and cooler weather sets in.
The Italians, 75 miles from their
Libyan bases, are still 300-odd miles
from Alexandria and have scarcely made
contact with anything but British
skirmishers and ambush troops and, of
course, with the R.A.F. and R.N., which
are always with them.
Graziani’s assault will probably be a
thing of stages —of blows followed by
consolidations and attempted expansions
of salients. He might try an outflanking
movement southward instead of making
a deliberate straight drive along the coast,
where he has to face not only concen-
trated land defence, served by a railway,
but continual flank attack. A screen of
outpost troops keeping the country
to the south clear of ambush and light
artillery would provide him with a shield
behind which he could make his prepara-
tions to drive in his main spearhead,
and might enable him to move his main
line of direction further from the coast
out of range of naval guns.
The establishment of such a screen to
any depth would, however, amount to a
major operation which it would take time
to carry through. And the deeper his
front, the slower will be his advance
unless he succeeds in a penetration south-
wards so deep a.nd on such a man-power
and mechanised scale as to enable him
to attempt a pincer movement in the
approved German fashion. To succeed
along the coast he would need naval
aid or some diversion to draw off the
British fleet.
There seems to have been some attempt
to achieve this. While on a sweep of
the central and eastern Mediterranean
between Sept. 29 and October 2, British
naval air units sighted a strong Italian
flotilla 100 miles from the British fleet,
which had been consistently shadowed
by Italian reconnaissance ’planes—four
were shot down. The Italian fleet turned
and made for its harbor.
Meanwhile, Hitler and Mussolini are
reported to have had a meeting at the
Brenner Pass. It may be that plans have
been concerted to transfer the main
theatre of war to the Middle East to
relieve the air pressure on Germany and
enable German land forces to be used
where they might be effective. Unless,
however, the dictators are prepared to
overrun both Spaiti and the Balkans and
Turkey, the transfer on a large scale is
a difficult job.
What all the airy talkers about the pos-
sible change of direction of the Ger-
man effort forget is that so soon as the
Germans turn that main effort towards
the Mediterranean the African war be-
comes governed by German and general
European winter conditions.
It is just as true as in Wellington’s day
that transport and supplies are the gov-
erning factors in war. To rush additional
forces from Sicily to Africa under cover
of darkness might be feasible, even though
it would cost the Germans and Italians
dearly. But when the forces are across
they must be fed, munitioned, fuelled and
armed and provided with reserves and
reserve equipment on a grand scale.
With Britain in command of the sea
all this movement would have to be
accomplished from Germany and
Northern Italy over hundreds of miles
of snow-choked and windblown railways
and by air through an atmosphere like
frozen blotting-paper for the first part
of the journey.
Meanwhile, the British can pour in
troops and supplies at will by sea from
two directions, and overland up the
Nile railways from the south.
If the Axis armies decided on attack
via the Balkans and Turkey, their job
would be even heavier. They would
have to subdue or cajole Hungary—the
easiest part of the task —Bulgaria, Yugo-
slavia, Turkey, Syria and Palestine to
reach Suez; and Iraq and Greece would
be both necessary to them, since they
could not leave those small countries in
a position to provide flank landing-places
for Britain. Iraq would be worth strik-
ing for in any case, because the capture
of its oilfields would be a severe blow
to Britain.
On the map the land campaign may
not look so difficult. But from the great
German western and north-western in-
dustrial centres to Suez by land is over
3000 miles, and the journey divides itself
into distinct stages.
On the first, to the Black Sea, the
Danube roughly follows the route, but
in winter it is frozen over for a great
part of its length and parts of it may be
blocked by several feet of ice.
The roads through the Balkans are
relatively very good indeed till they
reach Yugoslavia—German effort and
capital have carefully put them in fine
military order in the last few years and
made them adaptable for modern cam-
paigning. But after that there are
passes full of snow, countryside as diffi-
cult as the blacksoil country of western
Queensland. Then, when Istanbul is
reached, all the vast paraphernalia of the
army would need to be ferried across the
Bosphorus, a job comparable with mov-
ing it across Sydney Harbor from Rose
Bay to Manly. If the armies elected to
cross the Dardanelles, their task would
be heavier and more dangerous, es-
pecially since the R.N. would be about.
The second stage then commences
with the negotiation of a difficult climb
through tortuous and slippery hills along
the Ismid Peninsula. In early winter,
creeks and rivers through this country
begin to run a banker, which becomes a
double banker as spring approaches and
the snow water comes down from the
heights. By road or rail, the invaders
would climb to a plateau, about as poor
a piece of country as it is possible to
imagine, 4000 to 6000 feet high, swept
by rain, sleet and wind from the high
surrounding mountains and paved with
a mixture of glue and hominy.
There is a railroad across this bleak
expanse which persists for hundreds of
miles till it comes up against the wall
of the Taurus Mountains, into which it
dives where the peaks of the Ala Dagh
soar up 17,000 feet overhead.
At this point the third stage begins.
Imagine crossing the Blue Mountains (if
they were several thousand feet higher)
along the flanking wall of King’s Plateau
inclined downwards in places with a
grade of one in seven, and finally emerg-
ing at the Cilician Gates.
The roads are carved out of the moun-
tain sides, which go up on the left several
thousand feet and down on the right an-
other couple of thousand in places, and
there are plenty of sharp bends. Finally,
the road shares a narrow pass through
the Cilician Gates with Cleopatra’s
Cydnus, which was full of German
motor-lorries last time the writer saw it,
the 1914-18 war having provided no widen-
ing of the pass.
By road the journey through the Cili-
cian Gates is like travelling through the
old Macquarie Pass into the Blue Moun-
tains if it were hundreds of feet deeper
and steeper than it is.
The railway takes its own course, but
it would be a herculean task to fit it
for large-scale transport needed for
modern armies.
After the Cilician Gates the travelling
armies would have to cross the Giaour
Dagh and the Kurd Dagh—a worse cross-
ing than the Blue Mountains—and nego-
tiate 1300 miles of various track and
road, threatened from the sea all the way
on the Mediterranean flank, with a
communication line which has to be
maintained rolled out in an ever-lengthen-
ing stretch behind.
If Hitler contemplates tackling that
task he must be smitten with an ambition
to outdo Napoleon.
The British forces in Egypt are re-
ported in fine fettle. They have had
plenty of time to become seasoned to
the desert conditions. Their camps are
being made bomb-proof as far as pos-
sible. They must be considerably better
fed than their enemies.
The A.I.F. is doing its share. Our
fellows are operating in some of the
brown, wadi-scarred, treeless country
along the Egyptian littoral into which
the winds from the south bring liberal
helpings of desert sand. They have been
chosen for roving commissions on patrol
and for the handling of communications
—work for which they are specially
adapted. They compose the crews of all
the trains carrying supplies to the front,
and they have about 100 miles of desert
communications besides to keep open.
The greatest hardship which they have
to face is water shortage.
They were inspected last week by
General Wavell, the British c.-in-c., and
no doubt when they are moved to
the actual front it will be a signal that
the real fighting is about to begin. At
present theirs is a more important task
than being on watch in the front line.
The future battles may turn on the
celerity with which the work of bringing
up supplies is done at this stage.
John Bull Hangs On.
“Ek Dum”: To read the daily press
during the past few days, a stranger to
this storm-tossed world might have
imagined that the war had reached
stalemate.
But there was no stalemate, save one
of efficiency. Some of the German air
attacks on Britain were the heaviest and
most concentrated of the war. But they
were characterised by a new caution and
a new respect for the R.A.F. which
whittled down their casualties. On the
day on which 1000 of their ’planes drove
for the heart of Central London, they
lost only 10 machines, faced as they were
with an ever-increasing variety of British
fighters and ground weapons. They
claimed to have dropped 5000 tons of
bombs on Britain on September 29 ;
but when September closed they had lost
1132 ’planes in 30 days, against 319
British. Their losses from Aug. 8 to
Oct. 2 were 2184 against 609 British.
The R.A.F., on the other hand, made
its longest and most determined attack
on Berlin with five waves of bombers.
Western Germany and the North Sea
and Channel invasion ports lived under
a constant rain of bombs and machine-
gun fire.
A single day’s operations showed the
breadth and vigor of this offensive. The
battle raged over a belt of continental
Europe 600 miles long and 200 miles
deep, on such a scale as to justify the
conclusion that the main front line was
no longer in the Home Counties but
along the fringe of the lands held by
Germany.
The air battle has been fought among
the racing clouds and rain and sleet
storms. On Wednesday, October 2, and
in the early morning following, Berlin
was under cover for li hours, while all
the north-western industrial portion of
the city cringed under a shower of high
explosives. Yet that raid was only an
incident in the widespread attack. As
the R.A.F. struck, the oil tanks of Ham-
burg, Stettin and Botrop were under
fire ; the spires of Cologne were wreathed
in smoke ; the industrial and armament
works of the Ruhr had their share of
damage, and railway junctions on the
lines which connect the great Siegfried
ring of industrial centres with the coast
were dealt with. A long string of bombs
fell along the German, Dutch, Belgian
and French coasts all the way from
Wilhelmshaven to Ushant.
It has been officially announced from
Vichy that the British bombing has
caused heavy military casualties in the
German-held ports and among the
barges, which now seem to be perma-
nently immured in them until the winter
is over.
The destruction which British bombers
have been wreaking will become difficult
to repair as winter closes roads in Ger-
many and hampers continental railway
services. British loss of materials, how-
ever, can be replaced, since Britain com-
mands the seas and has only begun to
draw seriously on. the man-power and
resources of Greater Britain and India
and on the manufacturing output of the
•United States.
Nevertheless, the German submarine
campaign continues with unabated fury,
doing serious damage in fits and starts.
In the week ended September 22 Britain's
sea losses were three times the weekly
average since the war began —19 British
vessels, 131,000 tons ; eight neutral and
Allied ships, 28,000 tons. The German
High Command claimed that two U-boats
alone had sunk eight vessels of 50,000
tons and that others had been damaged
or set on fire by bombers.
Game as ever, though the incessant
bombing is trying the nerves of the
stoutest, as well as taking toll of life
and property, London is making grim
preparations for what is to come. A great
evacuation scheme is proposed, since
housing has already become a problem
Thousands of country houses and subur-
ban homes are taking on a new aspect
as troops are removed from their tents
in English fields and installed in billets
out of the way of the biting winds and
snow and sleet of the winter.
Here, again, England is at an advantage.
Home space is more plentiful as a whole
than in Germany, where cattle are stalled
under the houses and inns during the
long, snowbound season, and the roads,
as a general rule, are blocked over a
great part of the country, unless they
are regularly cleared by snowploughs.
Even when cleared they are usually
covered by a coating of hard, slippery
ice which becomes like a well-polished
skating rink under the impact of heavy
traffic.
The real testing-time of the peoples of
the Continent is about to begin. They
will need to be tough-fibred to bear up
against what the winter has in store
for them—famine in France and other
occupied countries, a ceaseless fight with
the elements and against aerial attack
in other parts, and a general interruption
of commercial traffic, intensified by the
sealing of the ports.
In another month war of a decisive
type will be scarcely possible any longer
until March except in the Mediterranean
countries, where the British Navy bars
the way to all traffic save Britain’s own.
Accidents in the R.A.A.F.
“Aileron”: They are becoming pain-
fully frequent again. It is only a couple
of months since one of them cost the
lives of 10 persons, among them Aus-
tralia’s greatest soldier, Lt.-General
Brudenell White, the Air and Army
Ministers, Messrs. Fairbairn and Street,
and Minister Gullett. Between Sept. 29
and Oct. 1 there were three others.
The first mishap was a remarkable
mid-air collision over Junee (N.S.W.) in
which two double-engined reconnaissance
’planes collided in mid-air at 1000 ft. and
locked together with a perfect centre
of gravity, so that for all practical pur-
poses they became one machine. In view
of the low altitude, there seemed to be
Buckley’s chance of a landing, and the
height was even low for safe parachute
jumping. Each machine was controlled
by two pupil pilots from the Wagga
R.A.A.F. school, and as the interlocked
machines, which together were worth
about £40,000, went into a slow spiral
three of the four bailed out. Aircraft-
man Fuller decided to try to land the
machines. This he did after a five-mile
glide which brought him down in a pad-
dock, with only minor damage to the
’planes.
The feat has been hailed as one ot
the most amazing in the history of flying.
It certainly was; but in a year when
young pilots have been bringing home
machines with three-foot holes in their
wings, with rudder gear shot away and
with other damage, across a few hundred
miles of hostile country, miracles are
the order of the day.
The second accident is due for inquiry
A flight of machines left Laverton
(Vic.) to fly to Orange (N.S.W.) in bad
weather, crossing the dangerous B u
Mountains on the way. Two or
pilots had no maps and no wire
operators, but were instructed to follow
their leader. Over the mountains ra
into sleet, snow and heavy cloud, ri
Officer Webber became separated from
his mates and found himself


BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely refgve-
note you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
T.JONES
MEN!
rm
CLANO
TONIC
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
ẃ
Gillette shave.
• GILLETTE SETS 2/6 to 45/-
ẅ
• BLUE GILLETTE BLADES 5 for 1/6
below ridge level, and in danger of run-
ning into his companions in the mist.
In trying to climb he threw his ’plane
into a spin and dived. He jumped at
1000 feet and landed safely, but £30,000
worth of aeroplane was strewn over half
a mile of the Megalong Valley.
The third accident was outside Bris-
bane, where a cadet pilot pushed through
a fence in his Tiger Moth and turned
the machine over. A second pilot
brought his machine down to see if he
could help, hit a bump with his wheels
and turned over.
The A.I.F. Marches.
“Ek D.”: Two A.I.F. marches were
held through capital-city streets on
October 4 —one in Sydney, where 6500
men of the Eighth Division paraded, and
the other in Adelaide, where 1500 men
were under arms. Big crowds turned out
to see both.
In Sydney the atmosphere was generally
silent and in keeping with the grimness
of the men, who varied in type from
those in the earlier marches. There were
more bushmen among them ; and every
company was leavened with a few Old
Diggers who had succeeded in remaining
young. They were all in splendid shape.
Major-General Gordon Bennett, who
commands the division and was with the
Governor-General at the saluting base
at the Town Hall, remarked afterwards
that they looked better than the old
A.I.F. at the same stage, probably be-
cause many of their officers were A.I.F.
veterans who understood training in the
light of war.
As a display of fine young man-
power, the march was a great show ; but
as a ceremonial it would have been more
impressive if the authorities had shown
the same efficiency as the men. The uni-
forms which are being served out are
uneven in material. There were some-
times half a dozen different colored hats
in the same section.
And the arrangements in general were
in keeping with the equipment. There
were not enough bands, and, except at
the saluting base, the march was often
congested in a way which prevented the
ranks from showing their paces.
The War at Sea.
Not much is said about naval activities
in the Mediterranean. Between Sept. 29
and October 2 a sweep was made by
the British Fleet from the African coast
to Malta. The Italian fleet was sighted
by naval scouts 100 miles away, but
turned back to its base, four enemy
reconnaissance machines being shot down.
A naval unit bombarded the Italian air
base at Stampalia in the Dodecanese on
Oct. 2. On Oct. 4 the Admiralty reported
that the submarine Osiris (Captain
J. R. D. Hardy) had sunk a 966-ton
Italian destroyer, the Curtatone, built in
Leghorn by Orlando in 1922, and a
3000-ton Italian supply ship. Outside
this, seven U-boats and two Italian sub-
marines were damaged in recent naval
actions. The wreckage of another Italian
destroyer, the Palestro, has been dis-
covered off the Yugoslav coast. The
Italians claim to have sunk two British
submarines.
The Admiralty admits increased de-
struction of merchant shipping, German
control of the western French ports
having given the U-boats a new advantage
m operating on Atlantic steamer routes.
The biggest German sea “victory” dur-
ing the week was the torpedoing of a
14.000-ton liner, Highland Patriot, in mid-
Atlantic, but all save three of the 172
persons on board were rescued. The ship
had previously fought off one U-boat
before she was sunk. A Sunderland sank
a U-boat in the vicinity. A second mer-
chantman, the Corrientes, was wrecked
by a U-boat, but the crew is safe. On
the other hand the German motor
freighter Weser (9176) tons, believed to
have been used as a base for refuelling
U-boats, has been brought to Vancouver
after having been captured by the H.M.S.
armed merchantman Prince Robert.
The curse of the sub-editor hath fallen
upon the A.I.F. abroad, whose members
have been urged by tastefully-printed
slips to instruct their mothers, wives and
sweethearts to write in “clear, unambigu-
ous language” and “well-spaced, legible
type- or handwriting.” Their letters
should also be on “good-quality paper,”
not of “undue length” and on one side
of the paper. Thus are carried into the
front line the full traditions of the
bureaucrat.
* * * *
“S.”: I speak for thousands, all boil-
ing. What bug of frantic folly is biting
the censor that he should allow Sydney
dailies to publish laughing, friendly,
thumbs-up photographs of bub-blooming
internees arriving in Australia from Eng-
land, and what virus of bad taste is in
the dailies that they should use the
things? Most of these internees sneaked
into England as refugees and foully
abused England’s hospitality. In Sydney
“Sun” the thumbs-up photograph coin-
cided prettily with the story of the rescue
of the last pitiful survivors of the City
of Benares horror. I and my boiling
friends will disappear in a cloud of steam
if we’re invited any more to admire the
smiles of spies and Fifth Columnists who
are safe for the duration.
* * * *
“Aileron”: The Navy Office has re-
leased another story of the prowess of
the crew of H.M.A.S. Sydney. On June
21, during the attack on Bardia, the
ship’s Seagull ’plane, commanded by
Lieut. T. M. Price, son of the Federal
member for Boothby (S.A.), was engaged
at 9000 ft. spotting for warships when
she was attacked by three Italian fighters.
They dived on her in formation. By
1940 standards the Seagull is slow but
very steady, and has a kick like a mule
in combat. The Italian fire severed her
aileron control wires, and before Price
knew where he was he was in a steep
dive 2000 ft. down. He regained control,
and, failing to make a forced landing
at Solium, about 15 miles away, he
waddled off wagging a badly broken tail
and nursing a damaged main spar. Thus
handicapped he brought his craft down
on one wing-tip without loss of personnel
at Mersa Matruh 100 miles further on.
It must have taken some doing.
* * * *
Australians have figured prominently
in recent war honor lists. Acting Flight-
Lieut. H. C. Olive, Brisbane, gets the
D.F.C. —“a splendid example of fearless-
ness and cool courage,” the citation said.
Sub-Lieut. Thomas Cree, R.A.N.V.R.,
Able Seaman W. S. Woolmer, of
H.M.A.S. Stuart, and Able Seaman A. E.
Browne, of H.M.A.S. Voyager—all of
them Australian anti-submarine experts —
have been mentioned in dispatches for
courageous enterprise and devotion to
duty.
* * # *
“R. McGeddon”: The M.L. Compul-
sory Military Service Act will not apply
to Hori, Henare and co. Voluntary
enlistments from them have provided
four Maori battalions, and there are an-
other 3000 Maoris waiting instructions.
Last war it was the same —no conscrip-
tion for Hori. He’s proud of the fact
that on a population basis his enlistments
top the poll for the British Empire.
The Air War Day by Day.
Oct. 1-2: Five large-scale German
attacks on London, and one on the
Bristol Channel area. At night, 30 points
in outer London bombed. British esti-
mate of machine casualties, 56 German,
22 British; German estimate, 14 Ger-
man, 38 British.
R.A.F. makes five-wave raid on Ber-
lin lasting 5 hours 8 minutes ; also visits
French invasion ports, Fokker aircraft
works, Amsterdam, and western Ger-
many.
Italians report R.A.F. raids on various
African objectives, including Tobruk.
They claim two British ’planes, and prob-
ably a third, shot down ; also to have
bombed desert tank units and to have
seen oil patches in sea where British
battleship was hit.
Oct. 2-3: Raids over Britain by 1000
German machines, which made desper-
ate daylight attempts to reach Central
London but were driven off. Air fighting
over Britain almost continuous during
24 hours; 10 German machines and one
R.A.F. ’plane destroyed.
R.A.F. bombs Berlin (72-minute raid),
Hamburg, Wilhelmshaven, Essen, Rot-
terdam, Ostend, Calais, Cherbourg and
Ushant. R.A.A.F. Sunderland drives off
three attacking Messerschmitts near
Ushant.
R.A.F. continues to pound Italian
west Egyptian lines of communication
and bases.
Oct. 3-4: Germans announce that
R.A.F. has made 1471 attacks on Ger-
many and German-occupied territory,
and dropped 7542 bombs, of which 1.6
per cent, caused military damage and
50.4 per cent, civilian deaths or damage.
Berlin radio admits that raids for two
nights caused 2543 casualties in Ger-
many, also loss of 12 German machines
to one British on Wednesday—first ad-
mission of superior German losses. De-
spite unfavorable weather, R.A.F. attacks
Dunkirk, Rotterdam and other harbors,
oil depots near Cherbourg and an in-
dustrial plant near the Weser.
Frequent daylight raids on London on
Oct. 4. Immured under heavy mist, Lon-
don enjoys quietest night for three weeks.
A few bombs dropped in suburbs and in
southern England.
R.A.F. raids Eritrean stations and
makes four raids on Assab.
Oct. 4-5: Many hit-run raids round
London held off by A.A. fire of new
type, so heavy that in two hours only
two bombs dropped inside defence area.
Others fell round suburbs but damage
light. Eastern and s.-e. counties also
lightly bombed. On Oct. 5 enemy loses
23 raiders against nine R.A.F. fighters.
Germans claim to have destroyed 30
British machines against their own loss
of seven.
Smashing R.A.F. raids on Germany,
chiefly in Ruhr; Krupps (Essen) among
objectives attacked; also shipping and
warehouses at Brest and barge and motor
concentrations at Gravelines. Germans
report attacks on North Germany frus-
trated. Ships attacked off Norway and
several hit. U-boat sunk by Sunderland
in Atlantic. Total British raids on Ger-
man objectives during the week, 158.
Italians unsuccessfully attack Malta.
R.A.F. raids on Tobruk and Benghazi
main features of general raiding over
whole war area by both sides in Middle
East. R.N. bombards air base in
Dodecanese. Italians claim to have de-
stroyed a Gloster Gladiator and a Hurri-
cane over Malta, heavily bombed British
troops near Mersa Matruh and shot down
R.A.F. ’plane, also to have attacked
Perim.
Oct. 5-6: Further general raiding over
the continent and Middle East by R.A.F.
A howling gale, with heavy rain, blow-
ing in Channel, reduces German raiding
of Britain to minimum.
In the week to Oct. 5 German losses
over Britain were 104 machines and
250 men; British losses, 40 machines
and 19 men.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. Ilarrison, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. • • 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., P^ ll
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Qantas, Twenty Years Old
“Aileron” reports an anniversary:
Next month Qantas —now Qantas Empire
Airways—celebrates the twentieth anniversary of
its foundation. Westralian Airways beats it
by a few months in age, but Qantas was the
first company in Australia to run a regular
commercial air service.
Its genesis was typically Australian. At the
end of 1919 the Government sent Hudson Fysh,
just back from the war, and P. J. McGinniss
to survey an air route from Darwin south-
wards, and to lay down supplies for competi-
tors in the England-Australia air race. The
pair lightened their labors with dreams of a
service which would cross Australia and link
its coasts with Europe.
On a hot Sunday they found Fergus Mc-
Master, a Central Queensland native, grazier
and veteran of Amiens, Villers-Bret. and Hamel,
trying to find the floorboards of his car,
which were sitting on the sand of the Clon-
curry River bed. The three set to work to
get the car out, and when they had finished
the preliminary plans for Queensland and
Northern Territory Aerial Services, Ltd., had
been mapped out. A year after Ross and
Keith Smith had pioneered the air route across
the world, the company was registered in
November, 1920.
Its early days were perilous and adventurous.
Several times the company nearly failed for
want of capital. The spectacle of Fergus
McMaster perambulating the observation car
of the old Brisbane-Sydney mail urging friends
to buy a tenner’s worth of stock became
chronic. Many Central Queenslanders, seeing
that head office was Longreach, marked their
cheque-butts “donation.”
The original fleet consisted of a BE2E, which
carried a passenger and a pilot in open cock-
pits at 65 m.p.h., and an Avro 504, which
managed to lift two air-blown passengers as
well as the pilot.
By November, 1922, it looked as if a funeral
would be in order.; but the indomitable Mc-
Master succeeded in squeezing a mail contract
and a subsidy out of the Government for the
Charleville-Cloncurry route of 577 miles. On
the strength of this, war-time DH9c’s, which
actually provided shelter for three passengers,
were introduced. The route was covered in
two days —266 miles the first day, 311 the
second.
In 1924 the first four-passenger cabin ’plane
was bought, and S. M. Bruce became the first
P.M. to use air travel on an official journey.
There followed an extension to Mt. Isa, and
in 1926 Qantas built a four-passenger 80 m.p.h.
DHSO, the first commercial aircraft of such
size to be produced in the Commonwealth.
Lord and Lady Stonehaven flew across Aus-
tralia in it. Ten years after the genesis of the
company, it moved its headquarters and work-
shops to Brisbane, having completed 1,000,000
miles of safe flying and extended its operations
over routes 1500 miles long. It was then in
negotiation with Imperial Airways for a joint
survey of the Darwin-London route, opened
by the Duke of Gloucester in 1934.
Then the old Qantas routes merged into the
main overseas route, and DHB6’s, carrying
two pilots and ten passengers and flying an
average of 135 m.p.h., were put into service.
In July, 1938, a thrice-a-week service to London
was opened by the joint companies with Short
“C” flying-boats, carrying two pilots, radio
officer, flight clerk and steward, 15 passengers
and 2} tons of freight and mail. Head office
was moved to Sydney. In April Qantas
achievement was crowned by the opening of
the service to Auckland with the 21-ton boats
which are civil counterparts of the Short Sun-
derlands. .
Hudson Fysh, youthful and vigorous, is still
managing director; Fergus McMaster, still
chairman. And their huge concern even in
these times of thin services receives over
,£300,000 a year in mail subsidies, and keeps
its big machines shuttling backwards and for-
wards across three continents, though much
of its strength has from time to time been
diverted to military purposes and many of
its distinguished pilots wear the uniform of
the R.A.A.F.
Its policy throughout has combined enter-
prise with conservative management, and its
flying record has been almost free of accident
—wholly of serious accident. It has been
godfather 'to a host of other concerns, which
have joined it in revolutionising the life of
the outback.
On Qantas ships oysters and strawberries go
to Singapore, the sick are carried from interior
stations, Indian officers come and go on leave.
It has become not only a national institution
but a vital link in the commerce and defence
of the Commonwealth. No other air-travel
company in the world can boast a finer per-
formance. And its part in Australian histoiy
is all the more intimate to national life because
it was born in the brains of Old Diggers and
brought to greatness through their native
tenacity.
“Balander”: This compulsory voting
might be all right where you can walk
up the street to the polling booth or
have an “outstanding candidate” call for
you in a posh car, but it leads to bother
“O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?"
in far places. A couple of old-timers
were making back to camp after voting
at Laura, out from Cooktown (N.Q.),
when a tree fell on one, fracturing some
ribs and causing other injuries. His
mate managed to lift the log, then
tramped 15 miles into Laura and re-
turned with a trooper, reaching the
injured man next morning. While the
trooper remained the mate went back
to Laura to telephone for a medical
’plane. That message went over the
wires to Cooktown, by radio to Towns-
ville and again by wire to Cairns and
the ’plane. Although a runway had to
be cleared at Laura, the patient was in
Cairns hospital by six o’clock Sunday
night.
* * * *
“Rankine River”: People who don t
know the Territory have a harmful habit
of regarding it as an almost limitless
source of undeveloped wealth. Actually,
“more than half the lands are useless
according to the economic standards of
the rest of Australia, and are of neg-
ligible value even if measured by the
lowest standard of the civilised world.”
Hence it annoys me when a southern
daily comes out with a heading like
“Wealth of Vast Mica Field,” and runs
on to a glowing account of the Hart’s
Range field and what it means to Aus-
tralia. Of course, there’s mica at Hart’s
Range, and of course it’s valuable to
Australia provided it is mined and
marketed properly. But enthusiastic
articles in the daily press, which knows
less about the N.T. than it knows about
international affairs, are apt to bring
about a repetition of the history of
Tennant Creek, with Hart’s Range as the
setting. When gold was discovered at
the Tennant speculators and others
rushed in with too much enthusiasm, and
many fingers were burned. After that
nobody would touch the field with a
forty-foot barge pole. Tennant, however,
managed to live down its bad name and
is now producing steadily. But the
initial setback it received from over-
ontimistic reports did a great deal of
harm, and it would be a pity to see the
same thing happen at Hart’s Range.
* * * *
“N. 8.8.”: Queensland is to have two
by-elections, for Merthyr and Herbert,
about the end of the month. The seats
formerly belonged to the late J. P. Keogh
and the late Percy Pease. Dr. P. J.
Kerwin, who was Merthyr’s member
from 1929 to 1932, is to stand again for
the U.A.P. Herbert, which was held by
Pease for 20-odd years, has been Labor
since Billy Hughes was a boy. The
Country party intends to have a crack
at it this time.
* * * *
“Meri-meri”: A former inhabitant of
the Cloncurry district whose previous
life %was about as monotonous as could
be finished up in a blaze of excitement.
Engaged by a K.N.I.L.M. pilot to keep
down the grass round his home m Java
the Queenslander was flown to Bandoeng
and put to work. There he developed a
passion for bananas, and made them
almost his sole article of diet. About a
fortnight after his arrival he was in the
compound when a black panther down
from the hills on a foray grabbed him,
lifted him over a 6ft. fence and carried
him off. Thus was the Cloncurry merino
brought to a sad end in a far countiy.
* * * *
“23-4”: The fact mightn’t seem im-
portant to you blokes down south, see-
ing that your own crops have copped
it, but the late rain has pulled our wheat
out of the soup, and the estimate is for
the normal average of 4,000,000 bushels
or bdtter. Queensland wheat doesn’t
need any more rain, and harvesting will
begin about mid-October. High winds
or thunderstorms are about all we have
to worry about now. All the same, until
the rain came few of us expected more
than seed.
* * * *
“Darwarb”: The forthright Judge
Wells had something to say on the re-
lationship between white men s law and
tribal custom when two Mullik tribes-
men were being tried for killing a lubra
who trespassed on sacred tribal ground.
Both admitted it, pointing ou * , at 11
was required of them under tribal law,
they being guardians of the ground.
“Whether a breach of tribal law de-
mands the death penalty or not, His
Honor told the jury, “a murderer
honored by tribal custom must still face
civilised justice. Some people may mink
it good to let the natives go on kill-
ing each other.
They are wrong.”
He paused, and
added mordantly,
“Though it cer-
tainly would solve
the aborigine
problem.” Five
years apiece.
“Norther”: A
fishing party that
left Tweed Heads
(N.S.W.) in a 32ft.
motor - launch
caught a bigger
fish than was in-
tended and nearly
ended in a watery
grave. The launch
was cruising
about eight miles
off Currumbin
(Q.) when it ran
bow-on into a
50ft. whale rising
to the surface.
The whale indig-
nantly retired to
the depths again,
and the three men
in the launch had to jam blankets and
coats into the leaking seams and bail
and pump for dear life as they headed
for shore. For one of them, who has
had 16 years’ professional fishing, it was
the third —and worst —encounter with a
whale. If he doesn’t look out his mates
will begin to look on him as a Jonah.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
xj 4 ■ „ hnctilp character') will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
No notice Except of a hostile the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
Na ] m^, n a r n < t submitted and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
ifaddrZedt , he EdZr. no, w members of the s.aff personally.
The charge of the pens:
yhall we be those to panic scared
By boastful lies a foe prepared.
Till we are feeble victims snared
By stratagems most odd—
We who have been in freedom reaied.
Not if we trust in God!
W.M.: w
But Britain sprang to meet him-up sprang
To Bdtain" s gS sidT’they mustered—to the Motherland
They h crossed' the sea and shouted, “We’ll stick to
If need of stickers, by Gum we’ll stick
to you ! ”
£ .
Messerschmitt, Messerschmitt where have' , n g ° ne?
“I saw it,” said Tommy, “alight on our lawn.
Whom will ye thank when the ?
Whom will ye praise when we ve beaten the H -
Be ve Gentile or Jew, hats off unto tnem.
Now fill up your glasses, toast women and men—
Munition Workers!
It is fitting that such in his filthy brain he;
For ’twas spawned down in hell in the blacKest or
It fitting that you should go into ;he hay.
So, go forth, then, iny son, go and join them today.
G.W.K.:
This time ’twas not a Kaiser Bill
Who caused the world to rock;
A painter left his window sill,
And promptly did his block.
E.W.R.:
When II Duce threw a glance
At our old Sydney,
He didn’t wait for Buckley s chance,
But' fled swiftly.
F.CiD.: No vacancy for anyone “totally
inexperienced in any type of newspaper work.
All contributed matter is paid for
Ornis and H.C.W.: On the crude side....
G.E.: Melodramatic... .M.D.M.: If it wasnt
for that wooden metre, the broomstick might
burst in... .C.V.M.: “Aussa”! ..... P.NIcD.
“ ‘l’m going back some day,’ he said. So s
the pome... .F.M.: A bit remote... .R.V.J. :
Some feeling, but the versification’s strained.
.V.S.: A woman’s paper, perhaps
HB A : That story is as old as horse-racing.
J.G.: No M.H.: A castaway
D M S.: Those “fly cemeteries” are out of
bounds... .E.A.M.: We’ll give him a vote,
but that’s a 11.... V.8.J.: Blast him, we say.
M.L.J.: We shuddered more than Janet.
P R.D.: O. Henry copyists should at least
be ’brief P.A.8.C.: We’re looking for a re-
liable insecticide for jitterbugs A.T.: Try
a “thriller” mag 8.E.W.: Couldn’t follow
the mad hatter... .8.F.: Too sticky a finish.
. .G.F.L.: Throw it into “that great, black,
endless, widthless, bottomless void of eternity.”
N.R.D.: “I don’t want this altered in any
way whatsoever.” You have nothing to worry
about L.P.Y.: At least it’s the first yam
we’ve had about an Australian “dude ranch.
R.D.L.: Old material bandied in the same
old way.... A.R.F.: Not ours, but it should
find a home... .5.N.0.: Wilbur, the perform-
ing flea, had a weight tied to his neck and was
cast into the depths of the inkwell... .L.G.S..
Harrowing picture of an opium fiend made us
swear off the stuff....A.S.D.: “Spirits of d ie
Night” need more water with them... .M.H.Tg
You’ve been reading “The Ancient Mariner.
N.T.D.: “Demolition” complete..-
S.R.G.: “An allegedly humorous dissertation
describes it perfectly... .M.S.L.: Not quite;
it might stand a chance at half the length
N.R.P.: Whoever told you that we would print
that yarn knew less about short-story-writing
than you d 0... .M.F.8.: Tie it up with blue
ribbon and keep it as a sample of “the dear,
silly little things one does”... .S.W.J.: “Foul
foul D.L.W.: Original, perhaps; publish-
able, no.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.P.S.: The pun is outrageous, and the
drawing matches it perfectly... .J.S.: Study
them, certainly, but don’t imitate... .A.N.:
Du 11... .P.T.: Didn’t raise the faintest grin
C.F.S.: Is it an umbrella, a wooden leg or a
mattock handle? ... .M. 8.: If you must use
wash, dip a brush into it, not a pen....
R.D.L.: Be less prodigal with your space and
keep a keener eye on perspective... .W.M.A.:
No abo. of our acquaintance ever had feet shaped
like an office flapper’s... .M.A.C.: You’re still
groping in the foothills of art; there’s a whole
range of Kosciuskos to scale before you hit
publication level... .Will F.: You’ve ideas, but
your technique’s wobbly; try a life school... •
8.C.: This week’s grimiest.... Henry T.: De-
clining that microscopic picture of dissolute
gent, rebuking lady apparently afflicted with
elephantiasis in both legs... .J.N.: The forget-
ful-professor joke is worse, if possible, than
the 1758 that have gone before it.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The King of Nowhere”
Vivaldi, a great actor and the idol of
London, at the zenith of his career gets
it into his head that the Communists
are after him. His wife becomes terrified
of his obsession and calls in the doctors,
who decide that he is the victim of
persecution mania and induce him to
enter a mental hospital for treatment.
Dr. McGilp, a rationalistic Scotchman,
assures the wife that, if all goes well,
her husband should be out in twelve
months, but this does not suit the lady,
who has taken a lover. Action then
shifts to a lonely house on the Scottish
moors where a spinster of 40' has just
lost a millionaire uncle who has left her
his fortune. All the 20 years she was
nursing him she had nursed a hatred of
him and solaced herself with a fantasy
that she was destined to bring about a new
social order. All she needs is some great
masculine dictator whose magnetic
oratory will put her ideas before the
public. The actor, having escaped from
the mental asylum, walks through the
French window.
She immediately transfers all her hopes
to the victim of persecution mania. He
sees himself i.n the most magnificent part
of his professional career, better than
King Lear, playing to a capacity house
only limited by the dimensions of the
planet. They start a secret movement,
and an audience of 10,000 of their fol-
lowers assembles outside the manor. He
delivers a grand oration, a la Hitler,
which hasn’t any relation to anything
whatever, and then staggers back into the
house to be confronted by his wife, who
has discovered what he is up to. She
is the memory to him of past achieve-
ments in the theatre, he forgets the
Cause and his spinster patron, falls at
his wife’s feet and has the usual nervous
breakdown which always follows a suc-
cessful performance.
The spinster lady becomes intensely
jealous, kicks the wife out and hides her
dictator, but Dr. McGilp turns up and
saves the world from this new menace
to the established order by carting him
back to the mental hospital. In the last
scene he is in his usual role, entrancing
his fellow-patients with dreams of a great
international brotherhood to be estab-
lished by battleships and bombers. His
spinster patron makes one last attempt
at rescue, but he doesn’t want to be res-
cued, for outside the walls of the asylum
are millions of Communists bent on his
assassination. She is finally convinced
that he is as mad as a March hare and
allows the doctor to send her potential
dictator off to his bedroom.
This satire by James Bridie was ad-
mirably presented by Gregan McMahon
at the Melbourne King’s, and as well
cast as usual. Alec Pratt, since Oscar
Asche the largest actor seen in local
circles, was the actor-dictator. He raged,
ranted, wept and swore for two hours
and forty minutes, conveying the requisite
impression that Vivaldi doesn’t really
know himself whether he is making his
grim jokes with his tongue in his cheek
or with conviction. Grace Crotty was ex-
cellent as the deadly-in-earnest spinster.
Some of the minor characters were
afflicted with faulty enunciation.
* * * *
Adelaide
A notable show is “This England”
pageant, a long series of historical
tableaux presented at St. Peter’s College.
It ranges from Magna Charta, through
Agincourt, the Armada, Churchill’s an-
cestor at Blenheim, and Trafalgar, to
Florence Nightingale, Gallipoli and Dun-
kirk. The enormous cast was well
handled by Robert Matthews, of the
Repertory, and Muriel Marks (Mrs.
Matthews); and efficient authorities
looked after costuming, music, history
and occasional dialogue.
The Royal is having a successful
season with Ben Travers’s mildly scan-
dalous “Banana Ridge,” of the youth
with sundry fathers. Frank Bradley (who
learned his art as an Adelaide amateur)
and Yvonne Banvard head a merry show.
The Repertory has given its Junior Sec-
tion a real chance in “The Rising Gen-
eration,” a quaint comedy of easygoing
parents who leave home for the young
people and guests to have a shot at run-
ning it. The big Tivoli was crammed,
and Vivienne Oldfield, producing, un-
earthed a whole host of talent for the
Rep.’s future benefit.
ARTBURSTS.
Mixed Water-colors
A little show of water-colors by vari-
ous painters at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, is headed by John Eldershaw’s
nice picture “The Alhambra.” Other
drawings not likely to be displeasing to
the majority are Maud Sherwood’s
posterish “Italy,” a couple of charming
English sketches by Daryl Lindsay,
Lionel Lindsay’s glowing “Outskirts of
Caceres,” Thea Proctor’s “Octoroon,” a
beautiful beach study, “After Rain, Dee
Why,” by Robert Campbell, and suave
bits of composition by Gladys Owen
and Douglas Dundas. Ronald Steuart
misses a good picture by being afraid to
accent his figures.
John D. Moore has a foot in both
worlds with a prosaic, competent sketch
“ Maggie , where the devil are you?”
of some gear on a steamer’s deck and a
landscape, “Near Ross-on-Wye,” depict-
ing trees that don’t look a bit like trees.
Frank and Muriel Medworth exploit the
current flippant English water-color style,
all slapdash lines and etiolated tints.
What is claimed to be contemporary
art is represented in full flower in Donald
Friend’s “Wild Horses” and Paul
Haefliger’s “Samson and Delilah.”
* * * *
Septimus Power’s Show
There is enough patient industry and
pigment in one of the huge pictures in
Septimus Power’s current exhibition at
Melbourne Athenaeum to serve an entire
show of those contemporary paintings
where half a dozen brushstrokes are a
liberal allowance for a portrait. Con-
sequently Power’s show looks strangely
out of fashion. The artist still displays
the old affection for draught-horses as
large as mountains, and turkeys and dogs
with young ladies in attendance, and his
viewpoint is unvaried. The effect of so
much smooth technique is apt to be over-
powering, and the eye tends to linger
least on the works the artist would
regard as most important and longest on
two small sketches of Pago Pago and
a sparkling little view of boats and sun-
light on the Yarra.
* * * *
Miss A. M. E. Bale (Velasquez Gal-
leries, Melbourne) is a matter-of-fact
painter. She likes the Castlemaine Gar-
dens, and has painted them from most
aspects, much as the average layman
would see them. She has an equal affec-
tion for flowers, and sees them much as
the housewife who likes the look of a
bunch of gladioli in the sitting-room
would see them. She is a sincere and
careful worker.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Dark Command”
At least it can be said for this current
item at Sydney Capitol that it does satis-
factorily enough what it sets out to do,
which is more than can be said for the
other offerings set loose this week. It’s
a western, but a cut above the usual
stretch of ridin’ and bang-bang-bang in
that the acting is a good deal better than
most westerns call for and the plot is a
little less hackneyed than the plots of
most westerns are.
Story deals with a schoolteacher who,
during the American Civil War, took
up organised pillaging and destruction,
adopting whatever colors best suited his
purpose at the moment. Walter Pidgeon
takes the role and makes a good fist of
it. Claire Trevor is the woman he
marries, but she turns him down in time
to preserve her chastity and splices her-
self to John Wayne, marshal of Gun-
smoke or whatever it is. Wayne is an
actor coming up closely behind Gary
Cooper; he has the same easy natural-
ness, and it would be good to see him
tried out in something other than
westerns.
He * ♦ ♦
“The Man I Married”
Joan Bennett is the wench who majries
him, but he’s a German living in N’Yark
and takes her back to Germany and turns
Nazi on her. He’s Francis Lederer and
manages to impart a breath of fanaticism
to his role, but the sensitive acting and
emotional intensity that the situation
needs to give it any convincing drama
are lacking. Odd scenes, such as Czechs
being made to pick up rubbish from the
streets, of Austrian laborers herded into
railway trucks under armed guards, are
mechanical and like afterthoughts stuck
into the film.
Lloyd Nolan is the Amurrican news
hound stationed in Berlin who saves Miss
Bennett from whatever fate hangs over
that city; Otto Kruger is one of the old
German regime; Marie Ouspenskaya
appears briefly as wife of the victim of
an internment camp ; and the once much-
publicised Anna Sten figures capably
enough as a female adherent of the Nazi
creed.
Some day some fine drama should
come from the story of the rise and fall
of Nazi Germany, but, rather than from
Hollywood, it will more probably come
from England, possibly from France, or
even, perhaps, from Germany itself. The
present effort is at Sydney Mayfair.
* * * *
“The Sea Hawk”
Errol Flynn’s latest, and is it crook!
Errol is an Elizabethan sea-hawk, carry-
ing out acts of rank piracy with the
Queen’s unofficial approval. Elizabeth is
an elaborately made-up female flouncing
around in the latest Hollywood period
outfit. Whenever she has anything to
say she takes up an aggressive stance,
one foot forward and one hand on her
hip and shoots de woiks. Mae West
makes a much better job of the same
style of stuff.
Another gem is a Spanish Inquisition
Court scene. Courtroom and personnel
might have been borrowed direct from
any gangster film, while the Chief Judge,
elbows on bench, fingertips meeting judi-
cially and spouting “our records show”
from the corner of his mouth, is a
“pinch” from the “Crime Does Not Pay”
series.
Errol dashes about in his usual dash-
ing manner, skewering crooks right and
left and having no trouble in dealing
with two, three and even, in one beau-
tiful scene, four opponents at the same
time. So it proceeds, with the ever-
present feeling that members of the cast
have just stepped out of their latest
model cars and are in a hurry to step
back into them, and with Errol on hand
at the finish to save the country and nab
the goil.
At Sydney Regent, and, though a good
deal of work has gone into one or two
scenes of Elizabethan naval encounters,
the production generally is almost a bur-
lesque.
* * * *
“South of Samoa”
If the bloke who pleaded to be taken
somewhere east of Suez were taken as
far as the scene of these current doings
at Sydney Prince Edward he would prob-
ably spend the rest of his life wishing
to high heaven that he’d never gone past
Gibraltar —the sight of Robert Preston
sunk in woeful determination to drink
away the last four months of his life ;
the sight of pearler Lynne Overman
saving him from such a light sentence
by shanghai-ing him by the elaborate
method of starting a pub brawl so that
Mr. Preston could be knocked cold; and
the sight of them both going a-pearling
in a broken-down submarine should send
any east-of-Suez addict scuttling back
west with all possible speed.
If it didn’t, he could witness the sub-
sequent doings, with the sub. being
wrecked on some tropic isle and Mr.
Preston and Mr. Overman coming ashore
to find bewchus Dorothy Lamour sharing
her habitat at the top of a lofty tree with
an ape, and done out with plucked eye-
brows, lipstick, mascara and the very
latest in Hollywood sarongs.
If the eastward
traveller didn’t then
flee far enough west-
ward to live resign-
ed 1 y in cowboy-
crooner country for
the rest of his life,
he could see Mr.
Preston, now also
clad in sarong, with
Mr. Overman and
Miss Lamour, be-
sieged by forest fire
started by some vil-
lainous piece of
goods, saved from
that roasting by the
timely advent of
typhoon and several
tidal waves, and
then returning to
civilisation complete
with ape and a for-
tune in pearls which
Miss Lamour had had stored away in
her dillybag. Then your east-oLSuez
addict could bolt for the North Pole and
sign up on pineapple juice for the rest
of his natural.
“If I Had My Way”
Yet another screening of that much-
overworked theme of a bunch of people
who solve their financial problems by
starting a night club with their own old-
time vaudeville talent as a floor show.
The soulful Bing and cheild Gloria Jean
are the chief offenders in this effort.
There is, however, one old-timer whom
it is pleasant to see again, the Swedish
clown El Brendel.
Bing and Brendel are a couple of
builders left in charge of Gloria when
her father is killed. They take her to
N’Yark to relatives, but some sort of
rot has set in on family relations, and
they will have none of the cheild. A
poor but honest uncle takes pity on her
and provides food and shelter, and all
goes well until the Brendel blows their
savings on a white elephant restaurant
business. Thereafter solution is obvious.
At Sydney Lyceum, and supported by a
mystery thriller which is one of the
worst seen for years.
* * * *
Even out of the war the English docu-
mentary-filmsmiths can make one of those
quiet landscapes that are about the most
pleasing things to be seen on the screen.
“Squadron 992,” a Department of In-
formation job, previewed at Hoyt’s
Theatrette, Sydney, all about the British
balloon barrage, brings in poachers,
dawgs, hares and beautiful studies of
foggy countryside. Then it dramatically
re-creates the first air-raid on the Firth
of Forth. It’s a bit too quiet in key, a
bit slow-moving; but that’s partly be-
cause a film about balloons can’t possibly
whizz along like a film about aeroplanes.
As the commentator observes with great
accuracy, “a balloon on the ground looks
like an elephant that’s had bad news.”


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
; n two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. : Wm. A. Jolly. Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street. SYDNEY
8W1421.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, own typewriter, exp. typing
MSS., desires work; neat and accurate; charges
reasonable. —7887.
To buy “Worker” Cookery Book, on sale
in W.A. during 1914.—8405.
To buy The Promise, by James Hendryx.—
8632.
Information Sought.
(1) Who are the present claimants to the
French throne descended from (a) the Orleans,
(b) the Bourbon and (c) the Bonaparte families ?
(2) What following have these parties in
modern-day France? —7988.
(1) (a) The present claimant to the French
throne is the Comte de Paris, son of the Due
de Guise (who died recently) and great-grand-
son of King Louis Philippe. ( b ) The last Bour-
bon claimant was the Comte de Chambord
(son of the Due de Berry, son of Charles X),
who died in 1883 without an heir, and ceded
his rights to the Orleans representative, the
Comte de Paris, grandson of Louis Philippe.
(c) The present claimant is the Prince Napoleon,
born in 1914, descended from the youngest
brother of the first Napoleon (Jerome, King of
Westphalia). (2) The royalist party has a cer-
tain following, perhaps 10 p.c. of the popula-
tion, especially among students and representa-
tives of aristocratic families. The Bonapartist
party has had practically no following since
1898.
* * * *
Is the degree L.R.C.S. (Dublin) considered
on a par with a similar degree at Sydney,
London and Edinburgh ? Would it be easier
to obtain this degree at Dublin than at the
other cities ? —8256.
The L.R.C.S. (Dublin) is not a university
degree but a licentiate. It is not considered
to be equivalent to the joint L.R.C.S. and
L.R.C.P. of London and Edinburgh. A similar
qualification is not obtainable in Australia.
It would probably be easier to obtain the
Dublin licentiate than that of Edinburgh or
London.
* * * *
How to distinguish malarial from other types
of mosquitoes ? —8207.
Malaria is carried only by certain mosquitoes
of the group known as anopheles. These may
be distinguished from others by several
peculiarities, the following being easily recog-
nised: When biting, the anopheles mosquito
holds its body at an angle to the skin on
which it rests, appearing to stand almost on its
head. Hence the name “upender” sometimes
applied in the Northern Territory. Also these
mosquitoes usually have spotted wings. Anoph-
eline mosquitoes may also be distinguished
in the “wriggler” stage, as they have no breath-
ing tube, and when at rest lie parallel to the
water surface. The larvae of other species lie
head downward from the surface, suspended
by the breathing tube at the tail-end. Of the
anopheline mosquitoes only four species carry
malaria.
* * * *
(1) A few details of the marsupial tiger?
(2) Habitat? (3) Is it possible to see one any-
where ? —Bl5l.
(1) The marsupial wolf or tiger is probably
the largest flesh-eating marsupial that ever
lived, equalling the size of a cattle-dog. It is
known as marsupial “wolf” because of the re-
semblance developed by similar habits, and as
the “tiger” because of its color protection
stripes. It naturally preys on native animals,
but is hunted almost to extinction because it
destroys poultry and sheep. It threatens man
only if cornered, but fights dogs to the death.
Usually four young are carried in the mother’s
pouch. (2) It inhabits rocky caverns in deep
gullies in Tasmania, having become extinct on
the Australian mainland. (3) Because of noc-
turnal habits and rarity it is seldom seen in
the wild state, but there have been specimens
in Taronga, and, until recently, it was always to
be seen in the Hobart Zoo.
* * * *
A few details concerning the catbird
(Ailuraedus viridis), said to be closely allied
to the bower-birds? —8123.
The catbird is a member of the bower-
bird family. A. viridis is the green catbird,
and is found in the coastal scrubs of s.-e.
Queensland and eastern N. S. Wales, where
it feeds on fruits and berries. Its rather loud
call, “Me-ow,” is not unlike that of a cat.
The nest is bowl-shaped and constructed of
long twigs and stems of climbing plants, lined
with dry grass, and generally placed near the
top of a low, bushy tree, sometimes as much
as 40ft. from the ground. Eggs, two or three,
cream or pale creamy white. Season, Septem-
ber to January.
& sH
In poker, a player has been dealt the 8,9,
J. and Q. of diamonds and one other card in
a school of six players. What are the odds
against his buying the 10 of diamonds ?
8311.
Hoyle Up-to-date gives the chances as 47 to 1
against, the reasoning being that you hold five
cards and there are 47 other cards to pick
from. The number of players doesn’t alter
the odds in the slightest. In all cases they’re
exactly the same as if you were playing poker
solitaire. The chance that one of the other
players holds the 10 of diamonds is included
in the odds stated.
* * * *
What quantity of coconut fibre is imported
into Australia, principal source of supply and
landed value? —8217.
Importations of coconut fibre for the year
ended June 30, 1939, were: From United
Kingdom, 7cwt., value £92; Ceylon, 38,798 cwt.,
value £7,926; India, 2,474 cwt., value £537;
other British countries, 1168 cwt., value £318;
foreign countries, 394 cwt., value £105; total,
42,841 cwt., value £8978. Value includes 10 p.c.
impost.
* * * *
Can a trustee and executor of a will in Vic.
charge a fee for administration of same, he
being a beneficiary? If so, what amount?
—8271.
Under Victorian law an executor or adminis-
trator is allowed a commission out of the
assets of a deceased person for his work in
connection with the estate. The amount to be
allowed is fixed by the Court or chief clerk.
The usual practice is to allow 2£ per cent, on
corpus and 5 per cent on net income.
■k * * *
How to renovate or topdress a cement path
which is cracking badly? —B224.
A concrete path which has been badly
cracked cannot be successfully repaired except
by removing broken material and reconstruct-
ing another path to a slightly higher level than
the original. If the cracking is not too severe,
a serviceable job can sometimes be made by
treating the surface with a mixture of two
parts of fine sand to one part of cement and
sufficient water to make a creamy consistency.
This mixture should be well rubbed into the
cracks, previously cleaned, and the path kept
damp for some seven to ten days.
* * * *
How can / make poster ink from the dry
powder (to make for immediate use and to
keep in bottles )? —8140.
Presuming ink for poster- and ticket-writing
is meant (printer’s ink used for posters has
to be milled and cannot be made without
machinery), the simplest way is to mix £lb.
vegetable black with loz. of ground gum-arabic,
blending both dry materials. When required,
add water to make up to required consistency.
This ink is suitable for indoor work. For an
ink to stand the weather, mix the black with
casein instead of gum, and liquefy with lin-
seed oil and a very little benzine (exercising
the usual care with regard to fire). For blue,
use ultramarine in powder; for green, emerald
green; white, flake white; red, vermilion, lake
or carmine; yellow, chrome yellow.
* * * *
Method of clarifying beef or mutton fat for
use in cooking or making soap? —B23o.
After using fat for cooking it is a good idea
to clarify it when finished with; simply add a
little boiling water to it before pouring it into
a receptacle. To clarify a large quantity, put
it into a large saucepan, add an equal quantity
of water and boil for an hour. When cold turn
out, scrape underside of fat clean and bring
to the boil again. When cool it should be pure
fat.
* * * *
How to wash down glossy-painted walls
which have become soiled from kitchen fumes ?
—8221.
Take lib. soft soap, |lb. powdered glue,
two liquid ounces ammonia and two quarts soft
water. Melt soap in the water, add glue and
■ammonia and mix all well together. Into a
bucketful (about 1| gallon) of hot water put
two tablespoons of the solution, and, using a
soft rag, begin to clean the walls, starting at the
bottom.
* * * sk
Method of clarifying the water in a mud-
bottomed pond without injury to flora and
fauna ? —8025.
The clearing of the water in a pond can be
satisfactorily carried out by adding either sul-
phate of alumina alone or a mixture of sul-
phate of alumina and lime. Sometimes the
sulphate of alumina alone will work satisfac-
torily, but if the water is acid then it is neces-
sary to add lime. The quantity of sulphate
of alumina should be somewhere about one
grain to four grains per gallon of water. It
is suggested at first that two grains be used.
Where lime is necessary, about half the quan-
tity of lime should be used as sulphate of
alumina. The sulphate of alumina should be
dissolved in water and spread as evenly as
possible over the surface of the pond.
If practicable, the contents of the pond should
be stirred by such means as dragging a tree
branch through it several times. The addition
of the sulphate of alumina with or without
the lime will cause clearing of the water, the
suspended matter settling to the bottom. If
the pond is shallow, then it is possible that
murkiness will return if the surface of the
water is disturbed by strong winds or the water
agitated in other ways. After such agitation
the water will generally clear on standing for a
while.
* * * *
How to make household and toilet soap from
coconut oil? —8192.
For household soap take 121 b. of coconut
oil, 21b. castor oil and 71b. caustic soda. For
the toilet soap flake the plain coconut oil soap
into a kero .-tin or boiler, add a pint of water and
heat gently, stirring as the mass dissolves.
While warm (do not make too hot) add l|oz.
of cinnamon oil, 2\ drams oil of cloves, five
drams oil of bergamot and loz. oil of lemon.
Any other perfumed oils may be used. Blend
perfumes and beat soap till thick, then rnould
into cakes. A good idea is to experiment, being
careful with use of caustic. For oils and
coloring, write Elliotts, 20 O’Connell-street,
Sydney. .
* * * *
Recipe for quick-drying varnish? —8275.
Take }lb. shellac, ilb. sandarach, ioz. mastic,
loz. Venice turpentine, 10 grains camphor, - 2; oz.
oil of turpentine, 1 pint methylated spirit.
Shake well over gentle heat and carefully
strain through muslin before using; apply with
a camel-hair brush in a fairly hot room.
For less important articles, such as cheap
furniture, try this: Two ounces of resin, ylb.
shellac, 2oz. benzoin, 1 pint methylated spirit.
Both varnishes are quick dryers; they go on
better if container is partly immersed m a
larger tin containing hot water.
* * * *
How to obtain white wine vinegar from dried
raisins ? —8252. . . ,
Wine vinegar is obtained from wines, and
white wine vinegar is simply vinegar without
coloring matter. You can make vinegar irom
raisins by first soaking a barrel or wooden
tub with hot vinegar, drawing that off, putting
in the raisins and adding cheap wine till
cask is half full; when fermentation ceases,
draw off the liquid. The whole process is ex-
pensive and wasteful; far better to make wine
from the grapes first and proceed with vinegar.
If you intend to make it for commercial pur-
poses ask Agricultural Department of your
State about it.
* * * *
Instructions or directions for cleaning and
improving the appearance of a brick fireplace
and surround? —8112.
Impossible to go into details without knowing
whether the bricks are smooth or rough, large
or small, and nature of hearth. _ If plain brick,
the most effective treatment is tuckpointing
throughout, fire being burnt in wrought-iron
basket or on “dogs.” If colored plaster,
consult one of the oil- and colormen as to
mediums.
* * * *
Recipe for tartare sauce? —8248.
Into a large basin put one egg-yolk, |-tea-
spoon sugar, dash of salt, mustard and pepper
(in that order), stir all well and add one tea-
spoon vinegar. Beat for a moment, then very
slowly, in drops, add one cup olive oil (South
Australian oil is excellent), whisking the while;
if added too quickly the mixture will curdle.
Taste, and if necessary add vinegar to get a
piquant flavor, then add one teaspoon capers,
one teaspoon gherkin and one small chilli, all
chopped and blended before stirring into the
sauce. Put sauce into crystal bowl or sauce-
boat and keep cold. Serve with fish, or may
be used as salad dressing. For other recipes,
see The Woman’s Mirror Cookery Book, price
3s. 6d. from Bulletin office; 3s. Bd. posted.
* * * *
Recipe for cloudy ammonia ? —BOOB.
(«) Shred }oz. of castile soap into two quarts
of boiling water and when quite cold add one
pint of strong solution (.880) of ammonia. Be
very careful of the fumes; keep well stoppered
with rubber. (h) Shave finely eight grains
common yellow soap, add 20 drops lavender
water and 6oz. of (.880) ammonia; add water
to make one pint. Pour all into a bottle and
shake occasionally till soap dissolves. Strong
solution (.880) can be bought only from a
chemist, and must be carefully handled.
rji if * *
What are the residential qualifications as
applied to playing in Sheffield Shield matches ?
—8209.
Sheffield Shield Rule 7 states: The residential
qualification shall be three months provided
that no player shall be eligible to play for
more than one State in any one season.
Should a player who has represented his State
in any international, inter-State, second XI or
colts’ match transfer from his State to an-
other State, he shall not be eligible to play for
such latter State in the Sheffield Shield com-
petition until he has resided in such latter
State for one year, unless he has first obtained
permission to play prior to the expiration of
the period of one year, either by majority
vote at an inter-State conference or by a
majority consent of the associations of the
competing States.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Bill Lang and Bill
Squires fight each other —with what results ?
(2) How many times were Lang and Squires
heavyweight champions of Australia? —8258.
(1) Four times—twice in 1909, once in 1910,
and once in 1911. Lang won all contests on
knockouts. (2) Squires beat Tim Murphy for
the Australian heavyweight championship in
1906, and held this title until Lang defeated him
in 1909. Lang reigned as champion until Dave
Smith outpointed him in 1913. These are the
only occasions on which Lang and Squires held
the Australian heavyweight championship.
* * * *
What are the quickest knockouts on record
in important boxing contests ? —7972.
The quickest knockout on record is that of
(including count) taken by A 1 Foreman
when he defeated Ruby Levine at Montreal in
1928. Other quick knockouts were: 12sec.
(including count) when Battling Nelson defeated
Willie Rossler at Harvey, 111., in 1902; 18sec.
(including, count) when Dal Hawkins defeated
Martin Flaherty at Carson City, Nev., in 1897;
and 18sec. (including count) when Jack Demp-
sey defeated Fred Fulton at Harrison, N.J., in
1918.
* * * *
What titles did Dave Smith, the boxer, hold?
Is Smith still alive, and does he teach boxing?
—7940.
Smith won the amateur middleweight cham-
pionship of Otago (M.L.) in 1906, and the
amateur heavyweight championships of N. S.
Wales and Australasia in 1908. Turning pro-
fessional, he defeated Bill Lang for the Aus-
tralian heavyweight championship in 1913, and
retired with that title. He returned to boxing
in 1917, and won the heavyweight championship
from Albert Lloyd. He now lives at Katoomba
(N.S.W.), where he conducts a guest-house.
He has not taught boxing in recent years.
Brief Answers.
5.8.: Apply secretary, Journalists’ Club, 166
Phillip-street, Sydney... .M.J.M.: (1) The mili-
tary authorities advise that to their know-
ledge there is no comforts fund which looks
after the interests of the Ist A.G.H. (2) The
Sydney Lord Mayor’s Fund and the A.A.M.C.
Comforts Fund, 135 Macquarie-street, Sydney,
are the only two funds which undertake to
send parcels to individuals. Red Cross comforts
are, of course, for sick and wounded only,
and are sent in bulk to the overseas base
where the Ist A.G.H. is established... .WJ.:
Katoomba means “falling water”. . ..A.D.:
Write Heiron and Smith, Ltd., 141 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .J.J.: It will cost 14s. 6d. to
re-dress, plus freight. Anthony Hordern and
Sons, George-street, Sydney, will do the j0b....
E.R.W.: Write Griffith, Hassel and Griffith,
Asbestos House, York and Barrack streets,
Sydney A.J.8.: Write Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, 314 Albert-street, East
Melbourne G.F.D.: It is not in the inter-
est of national defence that such information
should be made available... .F.C.T.: Battles
and Leaders of the Civil War, edited by
R. U. Johnson (£4 45.), obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .G.M.C.: Secre-
tary of Victorian Shop Assistants’ Union says
that this story has been circulated for a
long time but there is nothing in it. Generally
speaking, girls at the first place mentioned work
under same conditions as those at the second
place, only difference being that a girl at the
first place takes an order, fulfils it and wraps
up the item but does not try to interest a cus-
tomer who cannot find what she wants, in
other lines, as is done at the second place.
The only differences are in the awards worked
under, but as a rule most firms like the first-
named pay salaries slightly in advance of the
award rates... .C.W.E.: The tree tomato
(Cyphomandra betaced) is an ornamental shrub
which, in warm districts, grows to 12ft. It
bears egg-shaped fruit with a passion-fruit
flavor, not very palatable. It has no commer-
cial value; and is unsuitable for frosty areas.
. ...T.M.: There were 474,228 broadcast lis-
teners’ licenses in force in N. S. Wales at
July 31, 1940 J.T.: Webster is a perfectly
sound guide on such matters. Better ask the
radio announcers yourself where they get their
notions of English from... .H.A.G.: Yes. Any
player who has made any call has a right to
make a further call of any sort ... .T.S.: The
record attendance for a football match in Eng-
land is 149,547 at the Association International
between Scotland and England at Hampden
Park on April 17, 1937. The largest gate re-
ceipts were £27,776 at the Association Cup final
at Wembley Stadium, April 28, 1923, between
Bolton Wanderers and West Ham....L.5.:
Australia won the British Empire Games held
in Sydney in February, 1938. Canada was
second, England third, S. Africa fourth and
M.L. fifth....S.M.F.: H.M.S. Royal Oak was
sunk at Scapa Flow by a German submarine,
which escaped, on October 14, 1939. Of the
ship’s complement, 424 were saved and 810
105t....W.C.: Pope Pius XI died on February
10, 1939... .J.R.: Block chocolate at Is. 3d.
per pound (1001 b. for Is. per pound) can be
had from Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Edward
and Mary streets, Brisbane. “Australian
Woman’s Mirror” of 7/6/’32 (containing
article on chocolates) can be posted for lOd.
. ...F.W.L.: Your description fits only the
Scottish terrier. The standard permits of the
following colors: Steel or iron-grey, black-
brindle, grey-brindle, black, sandy and wheaten.
Addresses of reputable breeders can be given
on application... .A.A.: (1) Translated from the
Spanish the passage reads: “In the silence of
the night, broken by the stirring of the scented
breezes from the jasmines, dreamily the guzlas
accompany the serenades and diffuse in the
air ardent melodies and notes as gentle as the
swaying of the palms in the high heavens.”
(2) A guzla is a one-stringed instrument. (3)
Pronounce the “z” like the “th” in theme. (4)
The “s” is sounded sharp, as in send....
E.G.: Presume you refer to a verse entitled
“Australia Day, 1915,” beginning “The sun
breaks bright in Warren, the flags stream on
the air,” which was circulated at the time of
Australia Day, held on July 30, 1915. It was
written by the late Sydney Walker, of Neckar-
boo station, Cobar (N.S.W.). A copy will be
sent if you forward - your address... .S.H.: You
refer to a relative in possession of the estate
in England. He may or may not be the true
heir to the “castle,” etc., but having been in
possession of it for so many years it would be
difficult to oust him. There is an old adage
that “possession is nine points of the law,” and
a claim to be “the lawful heir” would have to
be supported by substantial and convincing
evidence. After the lapse of so many years
it would be very doubtful wisdom to expend
good money in prosecuting the claim... .A.W.:
Without the qualifications required of a seaman
under the Navigation Act the chances of obtain-
ing a position aboard ship at present are very
small. Since war broke out merchant ships’
officers when selecting their crews are very
careful as to the applicant’s previous and prac-
tical experience at sea. But there are oppor-
tunities at present in the R.A.N T.J.F.:
The best dictionary for the purpose required
would be A New Chinese-English Dictionary.
which may be obtained from the Commercial
Press, Hong Kong. A copy may be seen at
the Chinese Consulate-General, Sydney, during
ordinary office hours... .8.M.8.: One of the
conditions of the Station Hands’ Award operat-
ing in Q’land is that preference of employment
is to be given to financial members of the
A.W.U., and that employees who are not finan-
cial members of that union are to become
members of it within 14 days of their commenc-
ing work.


Young stock is an investment for future production
FEED 3L\-GxA-G*.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
siv ?!°T mS S k° Ck t 0 b f anC , e the mineral ration. Tri-cal-os Bone Flour
condition 118 R° n T SUppleness and vitality and good all-round
bone 1 t0 Tl dlSease I 18 strengthened, bone chewing and
of ano Bt ° Ck Can make UBe of the poor fodders
SeaS .°. n ' J":®® 1 "®? contains a guaranteed minimum of 33%
Z a i 40 1 hme> a f “ un<^ou btedly the best source of
he essential minerals, calcium and phosphorus, for young stock.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
«
O
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
w. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Queensland Farmers’ Wool.
“D.A.G.”: In the past three seasons
the Agricultural Department’s wool-
handling scheme has put through
577,9521 b.—in 1937-38, 155,6771 b.; in
1938-39,192,4381 b.; in 1939-40, 229,8371 b.
The object is to help small growers have
their wool properly classed.
Where a farmer is running only a few
hundred sheep the quantity of wool is
not sufficient to be skirted and classed
into bulk lines on the property. There is
no need for skirting. All the farmer
need do is remove wet stains, roll the
fleece and pack it in a good pack. Bellies,
locks and sweepings are kept separate, or,
if packed in the same bale, partitioned off
with paper or other light material. Bags,
butts, fudges and parcels of any size and
shape are received under the scheme.
It is available to holdings of fewer than
1500 merinos; wool from crossbreds or
British breeds from any holding ; bags
and butts from any holding and star lots
forwarded from selling agents. The
owner of fewer than 1500 sheep may for-
ward all or any portion of his clip.
Sixty per cent, of the estimated value
of the wool plus cartage and freight is
advanced free of interest to owners run-
ning fewer than 1500 sheep, and if the
owner advises that he is shearing a given
number of sheep and consigning the wool
to the department the wool is covered
by insurance from the sheep’s back to
shipping.
As the wool is classed it is weighed
and placed in its respective bins. The
bins are filled until the accumulation is
sufficient to go into bulk lines or until all
that particular type of wool is classed.
The wool is then pressed, the bale
numbered, weighed, entered up in the
bale book and branded “DA” in
diamond, class number. The number of
each bale is recorded on the bin card,
so that when the card is passed on to
the accounts branch the name of each
grower who has wool in a given class is
shown. No commission is charged by
the department.
The classing is comprehensive. Whereas
a station clip would probably be classed
into 14 or 15 lines, the wool handled
under the department’s scheme is classed
into no fewer than 86 lines, including
merino, comeback and crossbred. The
grower thus gets full value for his wool.
As woolpacks are now expensive,
growers are advised to brand bales with
initials and numbers on the top only, so
that the same pack may be used again.
Coastal Lamb Raising.
Ghanam”: South Queensland coastal
armers are turning their attention to-
wards lamb-raising.
There is no reason why lambs should
not form an ingredient in mixed farm-
ing except where the rainfall is above
normal. The best breeds are the British
preferably Romney Marsh rams on
crossbred ewes or Corriedales, the ewe
offspring making good dams for the next
generation.
The season s work should begin with
lamb-marking in August, ewes should
be shorn a month later and lambs should
be ready for market before the end of
the year. After that there should be a
good market for ewes carrying four
months’ wool, which should fatten inside
a month.
Coastal breeding calls for more than
usual care in protection against foot
diseases, but a few animals should be
a great asset to a mixed dairy farm,
especially where there are nooks and
corners with choice and tender feed.
Bloat in Cattle.
“Mookau”: A good stack of dry hay
made available to stock before and after
they’re on green feed is one of the best
means of preventing bloat.
When the disease comes it calls for
quick handling. There is little or no
“I want a room on the ground floor, please."
warning. The stock begin to arch their
backs, show signs of pains and swell
quickly, especially on the left side;
breathing becomes labored, the animal
goes into convulsions and dies.
Where cases are not acute, try keeping
the mouth of the animal open with a
piece of smooth, greased timber a couple
of inches in diameter, used as a bit.
Massage both flanks strongly with the
fists up and down —particularly the left
one. Keep the rear of the body downhill
while the job is being done.
Piercing the rumen with trocar and
canula is a standard measure. The trocar
should be pushed into the left flank
halfway between the hip and the last rib.
A sharp blow is needed to push it through
to the rumen. It is then pulled back
slowly from its sheath so that the gas
may come out slowly.
When gas has ceased to flow the canula
should be left where it is, corked and
kept in place with a bandage. At inter-
vals the cork should be drawn out to
allow any further gas to escape. When
the canula is removed only a small
puncture remains, and an iodine dressing
completes the operation.
——
A Dry Season.
n » -ri u ■ i
C Q gh w nC T ,° h
/ a " d N- f, Wal “
™ must have been
£ P l ■“ reCen ‘
5S nnlS wS™ Cr ° P ? C
£ jf ’?he c?ou exceeds TtZconnn
E 5 P exceeds 100,000,000
a T* tt i bu V°
tr^rf ra ?| f '^ e^ la «k for K the
mam crop areas tn all wheat States have
had a severe drubbing from drought and
dry winds, especially in early spring.
Except in the wet Queensland districts
month by month falls of rain have been
below average, and though October came
in with rainstorms in the east a lot more
is necessary to put grazing land in good
heart for the summer.
January falls were below average in
Queensland, except on odd parts of the
coast, around Dalby, Toowoomba and
Warwick, and from the Gulf down to
Urandangie. February brought heavy
falls and floods —Isisford (C.Q.) got lOin.
above the monthly average, Winton 9.8,
Julia Creek (n.-w. Q.) 12, Warwick (Dar-
ling Downs) 2j, Burketown (Carpentaria)
sj, Boulia 8, and the coast ran well into
double figures. March was wet between
the coast and a line from the ’Dangie to
Donor’s Hill, Julia Creek, Stamford,
Anakie, Angelalla and south through the
Downs, and April was dry except on the
central coast, far north and central-west
into the Territory. May was slightly
below normal everywhere, with good
falls on the Downs ; June was dry except
from Townsville to Port Douglas and into
Mt. Garnet, with the Downs and south-
west well below average. July told the
same story, and August was a fair
month.
S.A. began 1940 with normal rains,
but February was dry in the Murray
Mallee, Yorke Peninsula and West Coast
March falls were low except in a half-
circle out from Smoky Bay to Lake
Everard and back to Port Elliston. Good
rains fell in April in grazing and crop
districts, but failed to reach the northern
part of the Broken Hill railway. May
and June were very dry, July brought
good rains to the south-east, from Arno
Bay to Port Elliston, and south, from
Hoyleton across to Bute and down the
peninsula. August falls were well below
average, and S.A. was still looking for
rain when this was written.
Victoria has been dry for practically
eight months. April gave the State and
its wheat and pastoral areas their only
break, when falls were as high a$ 91 per
cent, above average in the Mallee. May
and June were droughty, there was very
slight relief in July, August was below
average everywhere and September rains
were mostly too late for wheat.
Useful rain from Collarenebri across
to Tenterfield and narrowing south to
Nundle was the only good report in N. S.
Wales in January and February; the
north got more rain in March, spreading
out to Angledool from the coast and
south to Tamworth. April rain was
generally good except from the Man-
ning out to Mogil and down about Went-
worth. May, June and July were drought
months that were felt right into the heart
of Sydney. August was no better, but
relieving rains in September may have
saved some of the crop and grazing
country.
Westralia has fared no better than the
others. There was good rain in the Kim-
berleys and along a narrow coastal strip
in January ; in February there were no
rains except in North Kimberley. March
was little better and April almost as bad.
In May the south coast had up to
and some useful showers inland from
there ; June gave the south-west fair falls,
with the rest still below average. In July
fair rains swept across a belt inside a
line from Eucla to Geraldton, up the
coast to Carnarvon and back south of
Meekatharra in a zigzag line to the Bight.
There were more handy falls in the
south-west in August, but generally the
rest of the State was thirsting for mois-
ture.
Most of the grazing country needs
good falls to make summer feed and re-
plenish tanks ; more is still needed on
the surviving wheat. By next sowing
there will be a need for fodder crops
to rebuild the sadly-depleted stores of
conserved feed in stacks, silos and bins.
Mice and Hay.
Granova”: The recent mouse plague
in the Riverina has shown up the weak-
nesses of various types of fences used
to mouse-proof haystacks. Straddles have
proved very effective, but are expensive
and necessitate the building of very high
stacks.
The chief drawback of iron fences is
that mice may burrow underneath, par-
ticularly in soil which cracks open in
dry weather. To overcome this, use wide


/lililKp
FOR EVERY TYPE OF FIAT t» PWEIIINC ?
ŵ
FITTINGS FOR COMFORT,
CONVENIENCE, GOOD
APPEARANCE AND SUIT-
ABLE PRICE.
Here are fittings supplied to 87
modern flats (Macleay Regis') at
Potts Point, Sydney, and to
many other recently built flats
ẁ
Ho t Water
Supply
throughout
by “White
Rose” C.l.
Sectional
Boiler at ap-
proximate
cost of two
hot baths for
one penny.
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
324-330
Pitt St.,
Sydney.
w
391-403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
è
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. ————————————————
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
iron and bend over a six-inch-wide strip
at the bottom, then sink the iron six
inches into the ground. Another method
is to lay a strip of concrete where the
fence is to be erected and place the sheets
of iron in position on the wet concrete,
Corrugated iron is cheaper than plain
and it is easier to make the joins mouse-
proof. Great care must be taken at
corners and joins arid a flap of iron
placed upon each of the joins. A really
well-built stack of hay will be proof
against serious damage by mice for a
number of years, particularly if it is high,
A cyno-gas fumigator can be used to
drive the mice out of a badly-riddled
stack. Do not drive a crowbar into the
stack and put the hose of the fumigator
into the hole, but simply place the hose
in a few inches and work gradually from
one end of the stack to the other. The
construction of the stack causes the mice
£ Pe ° P COVCr
the ridge of the roof. ,
Silage Cuts
under iormaT’ to
ten tons, and an acre of good sub. clover
carries from eight to ten tons. Lucerne
should make an average of round four
tons per cut, and under favorable con-
ditions up to six tons. Yields depend
largely on fertiliser and care of the
meadow.
A comparatively small pit silo will hold
a considerable weight of good feed,
Heavy crops run as much as a ton to
60 cubic feet, lighter ones a ton per 80
cubic feet, so that a pit 6ft. deep, 18ft.
long and 12ft. broad should hold about
22 tons of heavy silage to ground level,
Pits should be moderate in size, with
length in preference to breadth, and
situations should be avoided where there
is likely to be underground water.
Quality and tastiness are improved by
spraying the silage as it is put in with
water sweetened with a little molasses.
Hints ror the rarm.
“Sunnyside”: Common experience of
concentrated foodstuffs feeders is that
barley is a better fattener for lambs than
oats Starch-content figures show that
barley has about 72 p.c. and oats about
59 p c Although untreated barley is
easief t feedj lambs fatten on i ess
badey jf crushed. Never feed grain to
§b of any age on dry i and by running
P y 8 abo ut
4in. apart in semicircles or “S’,” In this
way little is trampe d into the soil and
the weaker animals soon learn to cut
off corners and get a fair share of the
2s«.‘
and 21b. of tal J,^ s H cu ® , t f
well-prepared seedbed and with lcwt of
super. Keep the pigs off the pasture
until the grass roots are well established,
Harrow after each grazing,
“Nogrum”: Mange in pigs often begins
near the head and spreads over the body.
Long crusts form and the skin becomes
wrinkled and scabby. The bristles some-
times fall out. Isolation of the pig is
necessary and sties should be disinfected,
Scrub Dennis with soap and warm
water, and after drying rub in a solution
of two parts sulphur, two parts euca-
lyptus oil and 10 parts fish oil Leave it
for three days, then wash it off and rub
in some more.
“Clyde”: It takes a sturdy feed-box to
stand up to the knocking about it gets
from clumsy’ draughts. The 40-gallon
oil-drum makes a beauty. Cut the drum
in two —a cold chisel or plumber s hack-
knife will do it —then turn the edges m
with a screw-wrench and flatten them
with a hammer. A hole or two in the
bottom to drain off casual water and you
have a box the nag can bunt and paw to
its heart’s content.
“Bundalinga”: To make a bag or bale
hook from an old pitchfork, heat the
prongs and turn them downward, taking
off a section of the fine point. Fitted
with a long handle and turned down in
the same way, they are handy for weed-
ing the garden, for pulling flood rubbish
from fences, heaping briars and thorns
for burning.
“Yellow D.”: Seed selection of maize
isn’t a sure guarantee against disease in
the crop, but it does reduce the danger
by ensuring that seed doesn’t come from
infected cobs. Fungi responsible for the
principal maize diseases are not always
seed-borne, and usually live over from
season to season on old stalks and rubbish
left in the paddock after harvest. All
stalks and rubbish should be heaped up
and burnt, and it is advisable to sow a
rotation crop between maize crops. This
gives the paddock a good chance to rid
itself of disease fungi, and the following
maize crop a good chance of being
healthy.
“J.W.R.”: Recent experiments in Eng-
land with the new sulphonamide drugs,
which have proved so potent in human
medicine, have resulted in a real cure
for pneumonia in horses. Sulphanili-
mide in one-ounce capsules is given in
sufficient amount to prevent the normal
life of pneumonia germs in the blood-
stream of the horse. British vets, advise
a dosage of about half an ounce of sul-
phanilimide to each hundredweight of
horse. In Australia the drug can be sold
only to a registered practitioner, so a vet.
is necessary.
“Nagheer”: Queensland’s winter of
1940 is the most curious on record.
Northward from a little above the 25th
parallel of latitude—a line drawn across
the State at Tambo just hits the actual
dividing line —all districts are enjoying a
splendid season. South of it conditions
range from poor to very dry, and actual
drought prevails over large areas. In the
southern section of the Warrego district
scrub is being cut for sheep feed, and
through the south-western area artificial
feeding is general. Butter production
declined 23 p.c. in June from the previous
year’s figure, frosts have checked young
wheat, and autumn potato crops were
below normal on account of early rain
damage. But in the north-west it is the
best season for many years, with enough
feed showing to carry on to December if
light rain does not blacken the grass
meanwhile.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXVIII.
Shire Councillor (1).
Just alter tea one night Jordan, Jones
and Malaterre arrive at your place.
Slightly suspicious, you receive them.
They talk about weather, crops, taxes,
the war and the blanky Wheat Board.
You talk, too, though you know that
isn’t what they’ve come about.
Suddenly there is an uncomfortable
silence. Jones and Malaterre look hard
at Jordan. He clears his throat. “Look,
Jack, the shire election’s about due and
we was wonderin’ —I mean we reckon
the East Riding needs some new blood.
Ol’ Benson’s been our councillor f’r over
fifteen years”
His words blur together while you
think. All three are good neighbors, but
you don’t believe any of ’em would make
a better councillor than old Benson.
Besides, he’s had the experience, and —
“so we was sorta hopin’ you’d give it
a go, Jack.”
“Who, me?” you blurt out, astounded.
“Yair, you bin here a good while now
an’ you know how things stand around
here. We reckon” Shire councillor?
Councillor J. Fordcubbin! A mental
picture of the local paper flashes before
you: —•
At the Shire Council meeting on Tuesday
Cr. Fordcubbin insisted that charity began
at home. There must, he said, be ade-
quate —adequate —adequate
“Adequate man to fill the position,
says Malaterre. He’s got French blood
in him and speaks very well for a man
of his size.
With just the right amount of sell-
depreciation, you agree. Your wife gives
them supper and they depart. Your wife
gives you a look and says “Well, councillor,
I suppose you’ll need a new size in hats,
but she gives you a kiss, too, and some-
how you find your shoulders squared and
your chest stuck out.
It costs you £2 Bs. for an advertise-
ment in the local paper in which are set
out your claims to be elected. You got
the schoolmaster to write it. Old Benson
takes it well. Says he’s glad to get rid
of the thankless job ; it made him more
enemies than friends, and took a lot of
his time for nothing. Adds that there’s
no room in a shire council of the kind
this district has for a man with brains,
originality and the gumption to see a
hole in a ladder, and he’s certain you 11
serve the riding well and make as good
a job as any of the other galoots who
think they’re fit to guide the district’s
destinies, and so forth.
So you are elected, and the day of
your first council meeting arrives. The
meeting begins at 11 a.m. You are up
at 5 a.m., much to the annoyance of the
family. Your best suit is hanging out to
air, the missus has produced a new shirt
from somewhere, the boys are cleaning
and polishing the car; you offer a fer-
vent plea for heavenly aid to avoid cut-
ting your chin on the same old spot when
shaving. It’s a half-hour drive to the
town, and you’re ready, trying not to
look nervous and excited, by 9.30.
You want to go at 10, but the missus
deters you. She deters you again at 10.5,
10.10 and 10.15. At 10.19, in an agony
of fear that you may get a puncture or
something, you throw aside all restraining
influences and head the car for the town.
It is 10.45 by the post office clock when
you pull up in front of the Shire Cham-
bers. There is about the Chambers an
air of silence and immobility that reacts
on you like cold water. Somehow you’d
had an idea that the president, the coun-
cillors, the shire clerk, his typist and the
messenger boy would be on the verandah
watching for you. All the verandah con-
tains are a long-handled shovel and a
brindle dog, sound asleep.
“If I go stamping in there now,” you
advise yourself shrewdly, “I’ll only look
a blanky fool. I’ll drift outa sight f’r
a bit.” Keeping your eyes averted from
the Chambers, you stroll down the
street, nodding to acquaintances here and
there. One or two people look at your
get-up and appear puzzled, and Dick
Byrne, the butcher, wants to know if
you’re going away.
You know the other councillors by
sight and keep a wary but hidden watch
for them. They don’t appear. After
getting tired of drifting up and down the
street you go back to the car, lift the
bonnet and, while pretending to examine
the engine, study the Council Chambers
again. The long-handled shovel has de-
parted but the brindle dog sleeps on.
It is now 11.10. Puzzled, you get in
the car and make a quick tour of the
town, searching for signs of councillors.
Not a hair or a hide of them shows up.
Back again in front of the Chambers you
begin to sweat. Probably the meeting is
well on its way and they’re wondering
where you are.
You make for the shire clerk’s office.
It is closed. On the door is a notice:
Owing to the absence of the Shire Clerk
at the annual Local Government Confer-
ence, the Shire Council meeting set down
for today has been postponed to Tuesday,
October 14.—T. C. Jagwitten, Shire Clerk.
You sneak quickly to the car, climb in
and roar out of the town, hoping to all
you hold holy that you can swear your
family to secrecy.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
A Victorian’s tribute to a band of ladies to whom war work is not just another
thrill goes on top this week.
Gepp Girls
Recently the first batch of 250 women
who had completed the short course of
training in engineering principles under
the Gepp scheme assembled at the office
of Australian Paper Manufacturers in
Melbourne to obtain examination results.
There were women of all ages, all types
and all strata of society.
In five groups of 50 they had been
raced through elementary mechanics,
simple tool-making, elementary electricity
and workshop routine. In A.P.M.
workshops they had used chisels, saws,
planes, drills and dies. They had been
trained to read gauges for precision work
and by moving pictures to recognise
“safety first.”
At the Ruwolt and MacPherson engi-
neering works the textbook lathes,
planers, shapers and jigs came to life.
It was curious to notice how the attitude
of the men on the machines altered on
contact with the girls.
Sly amusement ceased and battery-fire
of questions was followed by battery-fire
of answers. A workman gave the points
of his capstan lathe, showed its powers,
its tricks, on terms of equality. Here
and there was latent hostility—“women
after our jobs”—but on the whole the
men recognised us as another line of
defence.
Many of the girls have joined a
further class of engineering drawing, held
at the University by Prof. Burchell. If
that emergency does come and our men
are rushed to check an invader, Gepp
girls are ready to drop gentler occupa-
tions and step into the workshops with
at least the ‘‘greenness” rubbed off. —
One of Them (Vic.).
Women
Women clamored for the vote and got
it. What good have they done with it
anywhere?
The equality stunt hasn’t worked.
When asked where their Morell Macken-
zies and Pasteurs and K.Cs. are, femi-
nists will say that they have not been
long enough in those businesses to pro-
duce stars. But turn to the place where
women have dominated the roost from
the year one —the kitchen. While for
every male cook there are 10,000 females
who dabble with condiments and cookies,
it is men who are employed by all the big
hotels and restaurants. Again women-
folk at all schools dabble with the paint-
brushes and colors. Where are their
Michelangelos, Titians, Rembrandts,
Turners? Women have also dealt in
the spinet and the piano, in the ratio of
one man to 1000 women, so we may
ask where are their Paderewskis or com-
posers such as Beethoven, Mozart,
Wagner, Haydn, Schumann, Handel and
Chopin?
Again we can see women’s estimate of
themselves by the avidity with which
they read the reports of balls and races
and other social functions, which, when
boiled down, are merely catalogues of
what Mrs. Nextonothing wore. —F. T. C.
(W.A.).
A Farmer’s View of the Birthrate
That “fill more cradles” stuff appear-
ing lately in “0.F.M.” pages leaves me
as cold as would a “Wear More ‘Woll-
stra’ ” campaign.
I am the eldest of six children whom
my mother bore in 10 years. She was
absolutely a slave. Up before daylight
(and I don’t mean sunrise); toiling till
all hours; never quite finished, and
never quite reconciled to seeing things
left undone; struggling with heat and
flies; frequently short of water and
usually short of vegetables ; salt beef our
staple food and butter (at least in the
summer) an occasional luxury ; either the
last baby or the next a continual drain
on her vitality, mother drove herself day
after day, year after year, to the utter
limit of her physical endurance. A good
old-fashioned mother of an old-fashioned
bush family.
For our part, we older children had
our early years made miserable by house-
hold drudgery, particularly by the ever-
lasting job of minding babies. Crawlers
who must be kept on the verandah and
not permitted to eat green grapes or
dead moths or stray fish hooks ; toddlers
who must be taken for walks and pro-
tected against snakes, waterholes and
bulldog ants ; year after year of it. It
is a wonder we have not hated children
ever since.
When wool prices recovered somewhat
after the Depression, I married; and
my wife has had three babies in five
years. The recession caught us before
we could get the home fixed to our
liking, and war-time restriction of credit
keeps us poor. We can’t afford to em-
ploy a station cook now, so my wife
cooks for the family and a station hand
or two. She has not had a month’s holi-
day since her honeymoon, and has never
had £1 a week dress allowance in her
life. Sometimes she has help in the
house ; more often we cannot afford it.
“Any vacancy for a society entertainer for the troops ?”
The maiden aunts of our generation are
doing men’s work in the city.
The summers are hot out here; 90-
odd on the verandah at 9 a.m.; still
90-odd at 9 p.m. and anything up to
116 at midday, day after day. Hell in
that iron-roofed kitchen. Day after day,
month after month, I see my wife toil-
ing early and late; cooking, washing,
sewing, trying to keep the home and the
kids a bit clean ; always a bit behind
with the work, always worried about it;
struggling with heat and ants and flies ;
driving herself to the limit of physical
endurance, getting a little faded, a little
soured ; slowly being broken on the same
old wheel.
We wouldn’t be without those kids,
or any one of them, for the world ; but
there will be no more until my wife can
have (a) an insect-proof kitchen and
dining-room (the law compelled me to
gauze the shearers’ quarters months
ago); (b) a modern “freezer” safe ; (c),
efficient help in the house as a steady
thing instead of sometimes ; and ( d ) a
few weeks on the coast each summer.
—A. Acombe (Q.).
Windjammers Must Have Canvas
The idea (B. 4/9/’4O) of building
wooden sailing ships in Australia has a
fatal flaw. The windjammer must have
sails, and sails mean canvas. And the
Empire is rather short of canvas for war
needs. During the lasi war some of the
schooners and ketches employed in the
Australian coastal trade and it impos-
sible to procure canvas a.ml had to fall
back on old sails patched eornsacks.
Similar conditions rule iou MJ .
During that same war the U.S.A. built
a lot of wooden steamers, hut before they
could be used the war was over and
freights had sunk to bedrock, so these
wooden hulls were rigged as schooners,
and used in the timber trade. The ex-
perience gained showed that, where
timber is very cheap, these wooden hulls
can be turned out very quickly and could
make an effective stopgap during war-
time. As steamers or motor vessels, if
engines were available to fit them out,
wooden ships built of Australian hard-
woods would outlast those built of
American softwoods by 12 years or more,
but unless we could use galvanised-iron
sails the windjammer idea is out. —
Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
Carriage of Phosphate
As a ship’s officer who until July of
this year was employed in vessels owned
by the British Phosphate Commission, I
have no use for the notions of “Two
Strand” (B. 4/9/’4O).
The British Phosphate Commission
owns only four ships, all of which are
still engaged in their ordinary duties of
bringing phosphate rock from Nauru
and Ocean Island to Australian and
Maoriland ports.
In peace-time there were about 30
ships under charter, approximately 20
being British. The 20 British ships have
been commandeered for overseas service
by the Admiralty; but to offset this
numerous coastal cargo ships have made
voyages between the Islands and Aus-
tralia.
The idea of small sailing ships being
constructed to increase the service is, in
my opinion, impracticable. The amount
of cargo that could be carried in a small
sailing ship would be something like 2000
tons as against the average of about
8000 tons now carried. The round
voyage from Melbourne to Nauru takes
23 days in the modern motor-ships in
use at present. This gives 24 hours’ load-
ing time in Nauru. Sailing ships would
take at least 36 days to do this voyage,
so it would require about six of these
small vessels to do the same amount of
work that one ship is now doing. The
initial cost, upkeep and crews’ wages of
these six ships would be just as great
as, if not greater than, the cost of char-
tering one steamer, even at the present
time.
Fifty per cent, of the cargo ships
owned by the U.S.A. are now tied up,
and I have no doubt the owners would
be very pleased to have some of them
out on time charter. — Mariner (Vic.).
Turn Back the Page
Whilst attempts have been made to
produce artificial Utopias, wars have
become more numerous and more intense.
The League of Nations failed because it
ignored certain principles of Christianity
which it thought to be unpalatable;
Federal Unionism will fail for the same
reason.
A real Utopia is the reflection of a
Christian community. An example of this
can be found in Europe during the
twelfil centurj when all things, includ-
ing the lives of the people, were based
on Christian principles, and as a conse-
quence of this there was practically no
war or unemployment.
A Return to the ideals of twelfth-
century Europe is the only means of es-
tablishing a lasting peace. This would
be hard, as immorality has become a
habit; it would entail the abandonment
of vice and vested interests whilst impos-
ing the love of God, brotherly love and a
fair day’s pay.—J. Sobbi-aski (N.S.W.).
Culture and Governments
I cannot agree with “V.J.” (B.
18/9/ ’4O) when he writes “History does
not justify the assertion that culture pro-
duces systems of government.” If he is
right, how, then, is he to explain the
British system of government? If not on
culture, what is it founded on? Certainly
not on a system of fixed rules. Close
examination will show that the British
Constitution has been built up, piece-
meal, on the cultural development of a
community. Such development, as it
became articulate, served to frame the
laws best fitted to govern a free people.
A nation’s culture is expressed by the
masses when the people elect their own
leaders and frame their own laws. Culture
comes from the people, not from their
rulers. And the Government the people
elect is the clearest expression of the
national culture. There are, as we know,
in Europe countries less fortunate than
Britain ; countries where self-expression
finds voice only in the dull murmur of
revolt.
Thus the culture the average refugee
brings to Australia has needed, in most
cases, a bloody revolution to overthrow
it. It might be as well if we asked our-
selves: What has the culture that flowed
so easily through the (now-locked) gates
of Ellis Island done for the United
States? A wise Congress has put a period
to the national hospitality; and its
humanitarian principles will not be ex-
tended even to its newest guests, the
English children, beyond the duration of
the war. — Frank Harvey (N.S.W.).
To Save Petrol
The thing about the steam car which
people like “Plum” (B. 18/9/’4O) seem
unable to grasp is that the consumption
of liquid fuel is much higher than in the
petrol unit, plus large quantities of dis-
tilled water. The objections to the
electric vehicle are the weight of the
accumulators, the time taken to charge
them, and the short radius of action.
The steam lorry is a different propo-
sition. In the form of the coal-burning
Foden (recently discussed) and the coke-
burning Sentinel, they could handle most
of our essential road transport if
modernised and fitted with condensers.
At the same time the chap who spoke
airily of crossing the continent on a
couple of gallons of water, which a 20-
h.p. unit would waste in an hour, was
an optimist.
If we really are serious about reducing
oil imports, and I’m inclined to doubt it,
why not use coal instead of oil on the
railways, steamers instead of motorships
on the coast, trams, trolley buses, or, best
of all, an electric railway in the cities
and a high-tension grid system for rural
and agricultural power? The motor
trade wouldn’t like it, but does that
matter? — Engineer (N.S.W.).
Why a Foreign Sculptor?
I was shocked to read in the press re-
cently that the new Public Library In
Sydney’s Macquarie-street is to have
various embellishments executed by a
foreign sculptor who arrived in Australia
a year or so ago. Surely it is too incon-
gruous to have figures of Australian ex-
plorers and navigators modelled for us by
a foreign artist, capable though he may
be.
In Australia we have sculptors, includ-
ing Daphne Mayo and Arthur Murch,
who are quite capable of doing all the
work, and doing it exceedingly well. —
W. G. Buckle (N.S.W.).
Literary Fund
Well, the O.F.M. has introduced me
to the Commonwealth Literary Fund,
and it (the fund) does not impress me.
With honest laborers looking for work
it is surely downright waste to indulge
such extravagances.
Bohemians and others notwithstanding,
there is still but one inspiration for letters
—humanity. And the best way to meet
humanity is to work with it, share its
pleasures, sorrows and achievements. It
is simply because the moderns have not


the courage to seek this inspiration that
they dilly-dally around with funds.
Novels are being produced every day.
Some are given all the ballyhoo of Holly-
wood publicity and the world calls them
“great.” Some are given the ballyhoo of
Bohemia and Mayfair and literary circles
call them “great.” But there has not been
a single novel in the last 20 years that
has given humanity the lead it is crying
out for. Shaw and Wells, men of another
generation, are still literary lions un-
challenged by any younger man. In Aus-
tralia we seemed to stop producing
original poets when Lawson died. Cer-
tainly no other poet speaks for the great
body of the people as Lawson spoke.
Why? Our writers have forsaken
humanity. They have left the hurly-burly
of street, workshop, office, pub, behind
them. They worship at the shrine of
every “ism” that comes along. Send
our authors back to work! —I. Literati
(N.S.W.).
Artist and Critic
“8.C.” (B. 4/9/’4O) gives a good
example of sweet reasonableness, but he
makes the mistake common to most
debaters of the subject by discussing the
purpose of art as a whole instead of the
specific purpose of a “piece” or picture.
A gargoyle cannot be judged by the
same standard as a portrait, or a colored
photograph compared with a work of
imagination. Each may be sublime in
its proper place and ridiculous when out
of it. It is when the artist tries to foist
a caricature on the public as a serious
likeness that confusion becomes worse
confounded. If the wax model in a
window increases the sale of lingerie it
has fulfilled the end of its being and the
intention of the artist, which is not to
produce emotion but dividends. A jewel
in a swine’s snout would not excite tender
emotion for the wearer, though it might
do so on the neck of a fair lady.
In a recent number of an art magazine
devoted to the work of “modern” artists
every one of the illustrations was a mon-
strosity, yet each was praised as an ex-
pression of genius. Pride of place was
given to a “self-portrait” showing three
separate heads growing like excrescences
on a frightfully distorted body. Next in
order was a “portrait of a lady” with
only one eye and no nose. And so on.
Such work is not art at all: its aesthetic
value is nix, and its proper place is the
incinerator.
There is no reason why art should be
divorced from commonsense, for it is
to our senses that it appeals. A huge
mass of marble, rough hewn by a name-
less sculptor into a grotesque totemic
image, woulld be laughed at by high- and
lowbrows alike. Why should a similar
waste of time and material be classed as
inspired art because it bears the name of
a man who has attained notoriety by such
outrages?
There is no universal standard of art
that will cover its expression from the
Cro-Magnon to the surrealist, but there
are individual standards by which we can
measure the value of each example
according to its time, place and purpose.
A cow should not be like a poached
egg, nor a cloud like a whale ; neither
should any critic apply the honored name
of art to a silly muddle of paint simply
because it is on good canvas, bounded
by a frame and signed by someone who
is somebody. — Iconoclast (S.A.).
Chaucer Said It First
Many years ago I listened to boring
university lectures on the “well of Eng-
lish undefiled” and learned a few points
about affixes and suffixes. Recently I
have followed the mob in an intensive
study of psychoanalysis. Last week l
dug up my old copy of the Canterbury
Tales to verify a quotation, and for the
first time became really immersed in the
“well.” Not hidden at the bottom, but
in every inch of its depth I found ihe
Truth which Freud and Jung and Adler
are supposed to have distilled in their
modern retorts. r
Full of enthusiasm over my find, I
looked round for some kindred souls
with whom to share it, but found that
Chaucer’s English was even deader than
Greek and Latin to our reading public,
and my powers of interpretation were
too limited to elicit more than polite
tolerance.
Among the Other Fellows there must
be some who have seen the light that
has just dawned upon me, and who
wonder why the “well” has been left so
long without a windlass and rope to
serve those who are thirsting for the
knowledge it contains. We are no longer
squeamish about its sexy flavor. Marie
Stopes is much less reticent than the
“Wife of Bath.” The only bars to our
enjoyment are the archaic form and the
notion that the poet’s only use is the test-
ing of examinees.
There is now a brilliant opportunity
for some genius to produce a best-seller
by writing a revised edition —not bowd-
lerised —in modern English undefiled.
Such a book would be as up to date in
its outlook as Maugham, and more read-
able than Shakspeare.
Boccaccio, from whom Chaucer bor-
rowed some of his plots, is available in
modern prose, and is widely read even
by the comparatively illiterate, though
his stories are shallow and sordid. The
borrower not only clothed the plots in
beautiful language ; he gave each of his
characters a psyche and analysed it ex-
pertly for the readers of his own day.
He is immortal, but lives in a cold, aloof
pantheon of scholasticism while he is
worthy of being received in the homes
and in the clinics of the mind-researchers
of our day. — Iliad (S.A.).
£ s. d. Is A 1
Josephine Scollan (B. 25/9/'4O) says
“if we gave more and coveted less we
should all be happier.” That’s nice
theory, but it works out only if you
need but sixpence and have ninepence.
Usually the position is reversed. In the
average home there is just enough cash
to go round, and none to give away, even
though the desire be there.
The only time money loses its all-
importance is when you have too much
of it, and there are only about two in
every ten in that fortunate state. Then
you may discover, as Lord Nuffield says,
that you’re happier when you give it
away. But no millionaire I know of
has had the good of mankind or the faith
in poverty so much at heart that he kept
twenty quid for himself and gave the
remainder to charity.— Elm (N.S.W.).
The Simple Life
Most women have to come back to
the simple life (B. 10/9/’4O) as soon as
they have had a baby or two. And
they’re then content, tTO loTiger yearning
for the fleshpots of gaiety, violent sports
and the other drugs of which so many
childless women feel the need. Only a
few —those that have not shaken off that
horrible, old-fashioned, feminist, Vic-
torian longing “to be like men” and “to
do things”—keep whining about babies
being a tie and their whole lives being
ruined. I pity their husbands, their babies
and, most of all, them. — Bokko (S.A.).
Responsibility for Illness
Commenting on the custom of sen-
tencing alcoholics to imprisonment, a
Melbourne medical authority pointed out
the other day that we readily recognise
the absurdity of sentencing a man to
prison because he has the misfortune to
contract pneumonia and yet we do ex-
actly the same thing when we gaol the
alcoholic addict, who is just as much a
victim of illness. But is one any more
absurd than the other? Samuel Butler
in Erewhon imagined a society where
illness is treated by punishment in the
form of a gaol sentence, and doctors
are beginning to call pneumonia and
even cancer diseases of discouragement
— i.e., a person loses hope when he is
confronted by some problem he lacks the
skill to solve, his resistance is lowered
and he becomes an easy host to a germ
that may have existed in his body all his
lifetime and did not develop from lack
of opportunity.
The discouraged individual’s sickness
excuses him from further effort because
nothing is expected of a sick man.
Hence his sickness protects his amour
propre just as effectively as solving the
problem would. If he took to drink he
would be regarded as disreputable by
society, but if he takes to sickness every-
body thinks him unfortunate and hos-
pitals are built to accommodate him at
enormous expense to the public. Butler
was far in advance of his time as a
thinker, and perhaps he was much nearer
the truth than the Judge who sentences
a habitual drunkard to prison for beating
his wife and is sorry, like the Melbourne
medico, for the husband who becomes
a habitual invalid and is treated with the
utmost care and consideration by his
family. This by way of comment on
the fact that Melbourne at the present
moment is spending upwards of a million
pounds on fresh hospitals.— Pawang
(Vic.).
T.B.
A wise system of lectures to t.b.
patients on the care and treatment of
their own cases and detection of symp-
toms in those ostensibly free from the
dread bacillus is in operation, but the
result extends to a comparatively small
proportion of the public. This know-
ledge should be made so readily acces-
sible that it cannot escape public notice.
For the great majority knowledge of the
subject is expressed in an almost super-
stitious fear of the disease, and an equally
unenlightened conviction that it is in-
curable.
There are very many citizens pursuing
their normal activities who are already
in the grip of the disease, and do not
know it. The symptoms are readily dis-
cernible, but they are very easily con-
fused with those of much lesser ills, and
when the sufferer eventually receives
proper treatment it is often too late.
“Good mornin', ma'am—which department, please ?”
There are many who, aware that they
are affected, are prevented from seeking
treatment by their fear of the sanatorium
and their reluctance to face up to their
danger. In their case, also, they are too
far gone to put up the necessary resist-
ance when their sufferings finally force
them to accept treatment.
Definite, permanent cures are invari-
ably achieved when the patient comes
under treatment while the trouble is still
in the early stages. Given the determined
co-operation of the sufferer, all that the
doctors need do is to direct the treatment,
and, if the patient obeys orders impli-
citly, he can look forward to emerging
from the ordeal with a clean bill ot
health.
Worry is one of the deadliest adver-
saries of the sufferer, and when he is un-
able to make provision for present and
future needs of dependants he cannot
free his mind from anxiety. There are
countless cases of men who have left the
sanatorium too soon in order to get back
to their jobs. By so doing, they throw
away the battle, for they inevitably
return for further treatment in worse
condition. And such cases give point
to the generally accepted conviction of
incurability.
If the public were told how to detect
t.b. and treat it, the mortality rate of
the disease would be halved. It is cur-
able, but only if caught in time. In most
cases, given knowledge of the subject
and warning of the elementary pitfalls
to be avoided, it would be contracted in
so mild a form, if at all, that sensible
home treatment would be sufficient to
establish a cure, — Nairb (Vic.).
Then and Now
Half a century ago or thereabouts I
cast my first vote. It cost me sixpence
for an elector's right and I had to walk
miles to the polling booth ; but a lot
more had to hoof it a lot further.
Those old electors took the job seri-
ously. Voting then was much more in-
telligent than it is today. “Informals’
could often be counted on the fingers
of one hand. Now they run into six
figures. Of course, the cumbersome
system has something to do with it; all
the same, I think such of the old-timers
as remain don’t make a mess of their
ballot papers.
In any place of any size nowadays
you can meet hundreds of people who
have not the slightest knowledge as to
what the elections are for, or how they
are going to vote. All they know is that
having to vote at all is a damned nuisance.
This was the attitude of many Germans
prior to the rise of Hitler. And the same
thing to a large degree resulted in the
collapse of France. —J. Grills (Moonee
Ponds, Vic.).
Water Famine
Instead of screeching for the public
to develop “water consciousness,” Syd-
ney Water Board officials should have
developed theirs years ago.
As new sewers are laid down and old
pipes replaced, lay a second line of pipes
at the same time. Into this second pipe-
line run all rainwater from house roofs,
which at present runs to waste or into the
sewer. At the lowest levels small reser-
voirs could be built and a pumping station
installed. Cost of purifying would be
almost negligible.
Hundreds of thousands of gallons could
be collected in this way, even from small
isolated showers, which the Water Board
admits are useless to run water into dams,
which it bleeds the taxpayer to build and
which remain empty.
In districts where this would not be
practicable councils and shires should be
compelled to include the following in
their building regulations for all new
premises: At least one 1000-gallon tank
to be installed for the storage of rain-
water. Tank to be high enough off the
ground to enable water to be laid on to,
say, the laundry or the bathroom or both.
This would ensure its use. A reduction
in the water rate should then follow, or
the board could contribute to the
cost of installation. — Water Conscious
(N.S.W.).
A Word for Binghi
We have no compunction about
recruiting the Black Australian to fight
for us. He comes in on the very same
footing as his white brother, eats the same
food, wears a similar uniform and moves
and fights and has his being without any
distinction of color. Yet this same abori-
ginal is not entitled to a vote, nor are
any of his kin entitled to old-age pensions
and other services which are the right ot
the rest of the community.
If indeed we are fighting for democ-
racy, then why on earth are not these
Black Australians given full democratic
rights2— Dabkie (N.S.W.L


é
ê
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and
will, so are his personal efficiency and
his standing with his fellows. If these
habits are good he will be strong and
successful in his undertakings.
A Doctor writes: “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. I am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence,’ a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “I am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control or self-reliance. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. I am easier to live with. I do not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon over-
come. Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. I realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work ”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “l have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which I pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: -“I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing.”
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A iSank Officer writes: “Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 7fi pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives f
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
14,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
Pelmanism is approved by the Army
Council in London. 160 Admirals
and Generals and nearly 100,000
other ranks have taken the Pelman
Cotirse.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions,
and enables residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
w
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
103
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
‘THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT/’ by A. B. Patersoi
Banjo Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postal
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS/ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
&
&
&
iP
v l .
4S>
cP
&
0®
gk' Sst* 1 ••••■
\V® 9\' .-••■' ..•••'
..•'* o*? i° •v^s'i^V


ReS
■ M
INCORPORATES
AUSTRALIAN PRODUCED
Users of ‘Purr-PulV have
had ample opportunity to prove
the claim that 4 Purr-Pull 9 is
truly the spirit of economy .
Amongst motor fuels standardised by the Government to meet
national need, 'Purr-Puli' has demonstrated its basic superiority.
The new Super 'Purr-Puli' Crystal Clear Spirit is the natural outcome
of the Government's demand that we utilise Australia’s own products
to produce a truly Super Spirit giving a high octane rating equal to
the best pre-war petrols,
Th is new Australian blended spirit now takes its rightful place on
the market as the ideal super spirit to replace imported super petrols.
To those motorists who insist on a high octane petrol—'Purr-Pull 1
offers an unequalled product blended in Australia.
Super 'Purr-Puli' is the anti-knock fuel scientifically designed for the
modern high compression engine.
Try Super 'Purr-Puli' in your car.
S'4L®W:
THE SIGN OF THE
APPROVED PURR-
PULL RESELLER,
PURR-PULL
“Jhcdth thm Spirit "
ALWAYS INDEPENDENT
SUPER PURR-PULL' CRYSTAL CLEAR
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES LTD,, FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
P Ml
