

G
N
*
l
tL3
t
mr-M
E
4«t
D
E
H
I
r*S\v
T
! v !
Kgs®®®*
T
m
\>
*«s
=/i
V 1 '
N vC V^^’' tVs
T
' rV J> «.o'-
C o '
V'°
ggS
P**
»T-X
sasa
%MM
fig
II
FOR “THAT TIRED FEELING
DRINK...
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN
AS FOR MEN
Now, perhaps more than at
any other time of the year,
Wolfe’s Schnapps plays an
important part in maintain-
ing good health. Its mild
tonic action and unique
medicinal properties provide
that little help and correc-
tion so necessary to keep
the system functioning
normally through the trying
summer months.
Cool and cooling, possess-
ing all the distinctive flavour
and aroma of genuine
Schiedam Schnapps, Wolfe’s
is undoubtedly the most
beneficial and pleasing of
summer drinks. Yet, at
the same time, it is more
than this —for in character
and constituents Wolfe’s
Schnapps is essentially a
Health Drink.
ŕ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3128.
Wednesday, January 24, 1940.
General Blarney’s Jolt
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as’a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
‘ 424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
WORDSWORTH ON HITLER.
Wordsworth’s political verse at one
period he was much more interested in
Napoleon than in the daffodil —is apt to
be confusing these days. “High deeds,
O Germans, are to come from you!” he
observed in 1807 ; and sapient Germany
lying deprest beneath the brutal sword
two years later, with her haughty
Schools blushing, moved him to one of
his most grievous “Alas! what boots?”
The long, laborious quest of moral
prudence, he decided, booted nothing.
He admonished the French, “Fly,
wretched Gauls! ” ; he noted Russian
blood “lavished in fight with desperate
hardihood”; and, prophesying the re-
nascence of Italy, he was more optimistic
about it than a modern English poet
could be while Mussolini keeps the world
guessing: —>
Yet why prolong this mournful strain? —Fallen
Power,
Thy fortunes, twice exalted, might provoke
Verse to glad notes prophetic of the hour
When thou, uprisen, shalt break thy double
yoke,
And enter, with prompt aid from the Most
High,
On the third stage of thy great destiny.
Yet, if you make the appropriate
changes, most of the poems fit the present
situation with extraordinary exactness.
The fine sonnet “October, 1803,” is as
topical as today’s newspaper:
When, looking on the present face of things,
I see one Man, of men the meanest too!
Raised up to sway the world, to do, undo,
With mighty nations for his underlings,
The great events with which old story rings
Seem vain and hollow; I find nothing great:
Nothing is left which I can venerate;
So that a doubt almost within me springs
Of Providence, such emptiness at length
Seems at the heart of all things. But, great
God!
I measure back the steps which I have trod:
And tremble, seeing whence proceeds the
strength
Of such poor Instruments; with thoughts sub-
lime
I tremble at the sorrow of the time.
Two things conditioned Wordsworth’s
loathing of Napoleon: the Englishman’s
innate hatred of tyranny, and the more
personal antagonism he felt towards the
man who symbolised the degeneration
of the French Revolution into brutal
militarism, destroying his private hope
for the betterment of mankind. An
obvious comparison can be drawn with
the Hitler tyranny and the collapse of the
League of Nations ideal. From being
an ardent supporter of the Revolution
Wordsworth moved to the stage when
he thought “Perilous is sweeping change,
all chance unsound,” and Napoleon’s
career of violence stirred him to fury.
He found expression not only in the
unhappy exclamation “How dreadful the
dominion of the impure!”, but in a
sonnet that showed he wouldn’t have
been greatly disturbed if some equivalent
of the Munich bomb plot had been suc-
cessful :
Look now on that Adventurer . . .
Curses are his dire portion, scorn and hate,
Internal darkness and unquiet breath;
And, if old judgments keep their sacred course,
Him from that height shall Heaven precipitate
By violent and ignominious death.
He refused to admire Napoleon for
his achievements; it was “an accursed
thing to gaze on prosperous tyrants with
a dazzled eye.” He went to history to
prove that the dictator was an egotist,
and a futile one at that:
Go back to antique ages, if thine eyes
The genuine mien and character would trace
Of the rash Spirit that still holds her place,
Prompting the world’s audacious vanities!
Go back, and see the tower of Babel rise;
The pyramid extend its monstrous base
For some Aspirant of our short-lived race
Anxious an aery name to immortalise.
A counterpart to practically every
aspect of the present war can be found
among these verses. There is a passage
in a triumphal ode that might have been
written to define the technique of Nazism
and the mounting exasperation of Eng-
land: —
Opposed to hopes that battened upon scorn
And to desires whose ever-waxing horn
Not all the light of earthly power could fill;
Opposed to dark, deep plots of patient skill,
And to celerities of lawless force.
His sympathies were kindled for the
peoples enslaved by these “celerities of
lawless force” ; earth, he said, had no
worse bondage than that of
nations compelled to “wear
their fetters in their souls.”
The “Feelings of the Tyro-
lese” sonnet speaks equally
well for the Finns:
The Land we from our fathers had in trust,
And to our children will transmit, or die . . .
That which we would perform in arms—we
must!
We read the dictate in the infant’s eye;
In the wife’s smile; in the placid sky;
And, at our feet, amid the silent dust
Of them that were before us.—Sing aloud
Old songs, the precious music of the heart!
Give, herds and flocks, your voices to the
wind!
While we go forth, a self-devoted crowd,
With weapons grasped in fearless hands, to
assert
Our virtue and to vindicate mankind.
While the Tyrolese, thus rather oddly
encouraged by the bellowing and bleating
of their domestic animals, were fighting
for freedom, Wordsworth imagined a
“high-minded Spaniard” (read Czech)
voicing his indignation at the hypocritical
generosity of the conqueror:
But when of bands
Which he will break for us he dares to speak',
Of benefits and of a future day
When our enlightened minds shall bless his
sway;
Then, the strained heart of fortitude proves
weak;
Our groans, our blushes, our pale cheeks
declare
That he has power to inflict what we lack
strength to bear.
England, he declared in one of those
outbursts of honesty that make poets
unpopular, was no paragon ; if any good
were designed for Greece, Egypt, India
or Africa, he said, England would step
between. However—
Far, far more abject is thine Enemy:
Therefore the wise pray for thee, though the
freight
Of thy offences be a heavy weight.
He was certain that the English culture,
whatever its faults, was worth fighting
for; the “most famous stream” of
British freedom was not to be lost in
“bogs and sands.” He wrote a frank
recruiting poem, appealing to all parties:
Come ye—whate’er your creed —O waken all,
Resolving (this a freeborn Nation can)
To have one Soul, and perish to a man,
Or save this honored Land from every Lord
But British reason and the British sword.
Even his descriptions of the fighting
have their topical significance. There is
a verse telling what the Russians and
the weather did to the French that applies
very well to what the weather and the
Finns are doing to the Russians:
Fleet the Tartar’s reinless steed,
But fleeter far the pinions of the Wind,
Which from Siberian caves the Monarch freed,
And sent him forth, with squadrons of his
kind,
And bade the Snow their ample backs bestride,
And to the battle ride.
No pitying voice commands a halt,
No courage can repel the dire assault;
Distracted, spiritless, benumbed and blind,
Whole legions sink —and, in one instant, find
Burial and death: look for them —and descry,
When morn returns, beneath the clear blue sky
A soundless waste, a trackless vacancy!
And there is a magnificent sonnet de-
scribing the guerrilla warfare being waged
by the smaller peoples against the giant:
Their sword is at the Foeman’s heart;
And thus from year to year his walk they
thwart,
And hang like dreams around his guilty bed.
He speaks with the same clarity and
power when he encourages England at
war:
What if our numbers barely could defy
The arithmetic of babes, must foreign hordes,
Slaves, vile as ever were befooled by words,
Striking through English breasts the anarchy
Of Terror, bear us to the ground . . .
Nor discipline nor valor can withstand
The shock, nor quell the inevitable rout,
When in some great extremity breaks out
A people on their own beloved Land
Risen, like one man, to combat in the sight
Of a just God for liberty and right.
Though he wrote vividly of “horror
breathing from the silent ground” of
Waterloo, his poems celebrating the vic-
tory were not in the class of the war
sonnets. But —since history does repeat
itself —its pleasing to learn that “the
tubed engine felt the inspiring blast” ;
that, as a lesser man would put it, they
played the organ at the thanksgiving
service.
Aldous in America.
The latest trouble about Aldous
Huxley is that, having invented his own
religion, he has all the enthusiasm of a
convert; and everybody knows that con-
verts to anything, from golf to Com-
munism, are the world’s prize bores. To
Ends and Means, that admirable tract,
there could be no objection, because it
never pretended to be anything but a
tract. But After Many a Summer (Chatto
and Windus ; Angus and Robertson) pre-
tends to be a novel, and there is no
excuse for page after page of this sort
of thing in a novel:
No iron necessity condemns the indi-
vidual to the futile torment of merely
being human. Even the swarm we call the
soul has in its power temporarily to in-
hibit its insane activity, to absent itself, if
only for a moment, in order that, if only
for a moment, God may be present. But
let eternity experience itself, let God be
sufficiently often present in the absence of
human desires and feelings and preoccu-
pations: the result will be a transforma-
tion of the life which must be lived, in the
intervals, on the human level. Even the
swarm of our passions and opinions is sus-
ceptible to the beauty of eternity; and,
being susceptible, becomes dissatisfied with
its own ugliness; and, being dissatisfied,
undertakes to change itself. Chaos gives
place to order—not the arbitrary, purely
human order that comes from the subordi-
nation of the swarm to some lunatic
“ideal,” but an order that reflects the real
order of the world. Bondage gives place
to liberty Violence and mere inertia
give place to peace—for violence is the
manic, and inertia the depressive, phase
of that cyclic insanity which consists in
regarding the ego or its social projections
as real entities. Peace is the serene activity
which springs from the knowledge that our
“souls” are illusory and their creations
insane, that all beings are potentially
united in eternity. Compassion is an
aspect of peace and a result of the same
act of knowledge.
These are elegant words, and no doubt
it’s nice to know that all is well with
Mr. Huxley’s Mr. Propter: but from the
point of view of craftsmanship it’s a
pity he can’t ride his hobby horse with
a tighter rein through a novel that’s
supposed to be concerned with the re-
pulsive millionaire Mr. Stoyte, and his
repulsive mistress Virginia, and her re-
pulsive lover Dr. Obispo, and the ineffec-
tual Leftist Pete, and the ineffectual
scholar Jeremy Pordage. Though there
is an unrepulsive and satisfactorily in-
tegrated Mr. Propter to do most of the
philosophising, he’s a useless nonentity as
far as the story is concerned.
The new Huxley’s Mr. Propter liqui-
dated, the familiar Huxleys of Point
Counter Point and Brave New World
make After Many a Summer a novel
that’s both an interesting story and a
telling satire. Point Counter Point’s
Huxley writes of the seduction of Vir-
ginia by the wicked Dr. Obispo with all
his old luscious distaste for the more
private human activities. Mr. Stoyte’s
baboons make the appropriate biological
comment; and Mr. Stoyte, in a fury of
senile jealousy, shoots the innocent Pete
by mistake.
The novel is set mainly in California,
and the Huxley who used to revel in
descriptions of architecture, furnishings,
music and sculpture has the time of his
life with Mr. Stoyte’s sham medieval
castle —“the el Greco in the hall, the
Vermeer in the elevator, the Winterhalter
in the butler’s pantry; then Virginia’s
Louis XV. boudoir, with Virginia her-
self, in an orange kimono, drinking a
raspberry and peppermint ice-cream soda
at her own soda-fountain.” Beautiful,
too, is the Beverly Pantheon, Mr. Stoyte’s
Personality Cemetery “the Children’s
Corner with its groups of alabaster babies
playing with bronze rabbits, its lily pool
and an apparatus labelled The Fountain
of Rainbow Music, from which there
sprouted simultaneously water, colored
lights, and the inescapable strains of the
Perpetual Wurlitzer — whose music was
broadcast by concealed loudspeakers all
over the cemetery.”
The Brave New World Huxley works
out an ingenious scientific conceit to
make a statement of savage satire. Dr.
Obispo is employed by Stoyte, who is
abysmally afraid of death, to search for
a method of prolonging life. When he
has reached the conclusion that the intes-
tinal flora of the carp have something
to do with its longevity, the scholar
Pordage, who has been cataloguing manu-
scripts for Stoyte, discovers that the
eighteenth century Earl of Gonister, who
also feared death, had chanced on the
same elixir. At the. end of the book
Stoyte and Obispo have a nightmare
meeting with the 200-year-old Earl in the
catacomb in which he still lives. The
Earl, hairy and gibbering, is a horrible
sight. Ordinary human beings, the doc-
tor explains, are anthropoid apes whose
development has been arrested ; the Earl
has had time to develop. Mr. Stoyte is
appalled. But the impulse to cling to
his disgusting existence, at whatever cost,
is too strong for him. “How long do
you figure it would take before a person
went like that?” he begins. “I mean, it
wouldn’t happen at once . . . And once
you got over the first shock ...”
Mr. Stoyte, though a familiar type in
those American Big Business novels, full
of crime and sex, is a good character-
study. But Huxley isn’t satisfied for him
to be just that; Mr. Propter remarks on
the tedium “to an adult mind” of:
AH those merely descriptive plays and
novels. All the innumerable, interminable
anecdotes and romances and character-
studies, but no general theory of anec-
dotes, no explanatory hypothesis of
romance or character. Just a huge collec-
tion of facts about lust and greed,
fear and ambition, duty and affection;
just facts, and imaginary facts at that,
with no co-ordinating philosophy superior
to commonsense and the local system of
conventions, no principle of arrangement
more rational than simple aesthetic ex-
pediency.
Yet there was a gentleman called
Shakspeare who wrote pretty satisfactory
plays without ostentatiously getting in
touch with the infinite every two minutes.
And Huxley’s collection of facts about
lust and greed, fear and ambition, though
they make an entertaining novel, would
have made a much better one if simple
aesthetic expediency hadn’t been sacrificed
to (artistically) inferior philosophy.
The First War Novel.
Announced by the publishers as the
first novel of the present war, Philip
Gibbs’s Broken Pledges (Hutchinson;
Angus and Robertson) is about as flimsy
in construction as it’s possible for a novel
to be. Sometimes by direct reporting,
sometimes through the mouths of a num-
ber of tailor’s-dummy characters repre-
senting Youth, Age, Conservative, Leftist
and so on, he records events in Europe
from the occupation of Prague to the
outbreak of war, making the not very
original comment that international
affairs affect the security and happiness
of the individual.
The style is bad. When he is attacking
Hitler, Gibbs can speak plainly enough,
but every time he has to talk about one
of his women characters he simply
dithers: “He was dissatisfied with his
own image, which seemed hardly likely
to fascinate a flower of English beauty
named Lady Anne Ede with whom he
was to have the honor of dining that
night with a group of friends in a
Jermyn-street restaurant.” Near the end
of the book his American reporter hero
marries the blossom, but the nuptials are
about as uninteresting to the author, the
reader and apparently the parties them-
selves as they would be to Hitler.
The book is rescued from futility by
the fact that the discussion of events
leading up to the war is both full and
fair and by the fact that the story does
reflect the fate of the individual under
present conditions. But it’s a tame piece
of work. It ends with the lady declaring,
“We shall have to go through with it,”
and the American replying, “Before the
end my people will be with you.”
An Australian Essayist.
Alan D. Mickle has a habit of begin-
ning his sentences with “And.” And that
is a very bad way of beginning a sentence,
for it gives the impression that he is
explaining things to the cat. And more
cultivated visitors than that should be
tempted to call at his Apartement in
Brussels (Robertson and Mullens).
Laid out there for inspection are Ned
Kelly and Hitler, the cats of Paris and
blondes with blue eyelashes, a bright and
pleasant “dark and stormy” Elsinore,
Bradman, Shakspeare, Victor Hugo and
Mussolini and a hundred other interesting
people and places, all the subject of
thoughtful and quietly humorous com-
ment. It’s typical both of his humor and
the range of his interests that the essay
on Hitler should end with an account
of the Kellys; Mr. Mickle’s father was
an eyewitness of the round-up at Glen-
rowan and reported that Kate Kelly was
the only person whom he had heard use
worse language than Ned. Mr. Mickle
reflects that Maid Marian may have
sworn just as horribly in the forest of
Sherwood.
One of the most attractive things about
the book is its lack of pretentiousness;
the essays are like a steady flow of good
conversation. It is, too, unmistakably
an Australian’s conversation, and an
essay on cricket with some W.G. anec-
dotes and a hilarious account of country
cricket in Victoria is the pick of the
collection.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in Every Act
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
"THE SENIOR STORE”
HOBDERNS’
LOW PRICES
#4
'lierfi'll
r
ŕ
WRITE FOR A COPY
OF OUR 112 PAGE SALE
CATALOGUE.
SENT POST FREE
ON REQUEST
/
/
fIHCH-SDPPORTED “TREE EZY” SHOES
If you are troubled with fallen arches, try a simple, inexpensive
change to a shoe with special arch supports. There are 10 "Tread Ezy '
styles in full and half sizes. Tan Calf and Box Calf.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 27/6
SALE PRICE 22/6
22 ; 6
OT“TREE” BRAD OFFICERS'BOOTS
The soldier who is standing all day needs boots which
will allow for the swelling of his feet, with soles of a
thickness to give protection from the roughness of the
ground and a style worthy of his khaki. "Tree" Brand
Officers' Boots are made in Tan or Black, full and half
17/11
sizes, with screwed and sewn soles. Regular Price 18/11
SALE PRICE 17/11
Also Tan Willow and Black Box Calf with genuine Welted Soles.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 30/-. SALE PRICE 27/6
«
• Men’s Footwear Ground Floor
George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and sea-
ports in the Commonwealth.
PATENT EVENING
SHOES, FULL SEWN SOLES
Sewn soles, full and half sizes.
Recrular Price 10/6
SALE PRICE 8/11
Best grade Patent or Glace Kid
with genuine pump soles. Anthony
8n
Horderns' Regular Price 18/11. SALE PRICE 17/11
27/6 HORDORA SPECIAL ASBESTOS
SOLED VITALITY HEALTH SHOES
We guarantee the leather and workmanship in these
"Hordura" Special Vitality Health Shoes in Box Calf
Glace Kid, Tan Calf and Havana Brown. Fifteen
sizes, including half sizes. Soles are asbestos fitted,
to prevent heat and dampness. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 27/6. SALE PRICE
25'-
25/-
ANTHONY HORDERN
& SONS LTD. SYDNEY
'mone:
Postal Address:
M 2401, Day or Night,
Box 2712 C t <?,P,O,
mm
~lmn llfll
tWHILE I LIVE I'u GROW
ym
m
ms
m MEN’S “TREE” BRAND SHOES
Good shoes are an economy—and a double economy
when you can get them at Sale Prices. "Tree'' Brand—
Anthony Horderns' own brand Shoes are made of
leather with a "kind feel". They fit snugly, yet allow
free movement of the joints and toes. Brogues in Tan
296
and Black, extra stout soles, wide welts and stitched heels,
popular Bespoke model on the Ace last. Full and hall sizes.
Horderns' Regular Price, 32/6. SALE PRICE
Also the
Anthony
29/6


FOUR IN 49
BY A. C. HEADLEY.
“ /VA ONEY ” 1 said to
Iy \ Skinny, “is something
I l you think is only to be
got rid of.”
I’d been saying that, or some-
thing very like it, for about three days, on account of
the fact that someone had told Skinny about a horse
that was a world’s certainty, a moral and a rod in
pickle for a picnic race meeting.
“Listen, Scut,” said Skinny, “I got this on good
authority. This feller”
“Yeah,” said I, “I’ve heard it. He’s the third
cousin twice removed from an aunt of the boy that
used to do the stables.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “you’ve got no faith in
human nature. I was told this ’orse out of gratitude.”
“I don’t care who it was out of,” said I. “I’ve
lost my interest in racehorse breeding. Listen, Skinny,
we’ve got dough now ; where’s the sense in using it to
line a bookmaker’s bag?”
“Me mind is made up,” said Skinny.
A week before the meeting we turned up in the
bush town, complete with glasses and a form guide.
I wanted to take a good look at the horse before we
invested our dough, so the morning after we arrived
•we were down at the local track watching the gallops,
and I began to feel a little better after I’d seen Skinny’s
“information” do a gallop. There was no doubt about
it, the thing did a fair sprint, and the way it pulled up
made me think that whoever had named it must have
known something: it was a bay gelding called Never-
tire. We had plenty of time to study its track form,
and after a couple of days I began to feel as though
our dough was pretty safe.
About that time we met Mr. Litsey. At least it
was Skinny who met him: he brought him into the
pub and introduced him to me. He was twice as big
as Skinny and I put together, but mostly in one direc-
tion—his stomach. He was standing a couple of feet
away from the bar, but even so a good six inches of
it was hanging over the counter.
“Mr. Litsey,” said Skinny, “has been tellin’ me
about his mare.”
There were no people in the bar, but it didn’t
stop Mr. Litsey from grabbing Skinny by the arm,
putting his finger to his lips, and saying “Ssh!”
Skinny dropped his voice. “Scut,” he said, “oppor-
tunity is knocking again. Mr. Litsey tells me that
this mare ’e’s got can do four in forty-nine, and ’e’s
trainin’ ’er ’imself. ’E’d like us to give our opinion on
’er chances. ’E’s trainin’ ’er on a private track ’e’s got.”
“He couldn’t have come to a better place,” said I.
“She’s a good mare,” said Mr. Litsey. “Before I
broke me watch she could do four furlongs in forty-
nine.” And he brought his broken watch out of his
pocket.
I stared at it. “Is that what you time it with?”
I asked. It was an ancient “boyproof” with a second
hand.
“It was a beaut, watch,” said Mr. Litsey, “but
youse gents can bring your own watches an’ give it a
try. If you got a stop-watch that’s better, or if you
ain’t p’r’aps you could hire one or buy it. There’s a
jeweller’s shop along the street. It’d only be fair to
do the thing proper.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “I’ve been thinking of it.
There’s times when we need a stop-watch.”
“I’ll see you in the mornin’,” said Mr. Litsey.
“You’ll be glad youse come when you see me mare.
She’s a beauty.”
Later in the day Skinny bought a stop-watch.
The way the jeweller greeted us you’d have
thought we were the only customers he’d had for years.
'“FHE mare was called Blood and Bone. And the
* next morning we took the watch and went down
to have a look at her. As far as looks were concerned
she was no champion, but Mr. Litsey started talking
about her points as though she was Ajax.
“I’ll git me son to give ’er a bit of a gallop,” he
said, then whistled and a hook-nosed kid came out of
the house. He must have weighed about eight stone.
“Whad’yer want?” he demanded in a way that
made it sound as though he wouldn’t do it anyway.
“The gents,” said Mr. Litsey, “wants to see ’ow
good a jockey you are. They wants y’ to give Blood
a gallop.”
The kid didn’t give any answer, but he took hold
of the mare, and Mr. Litsey helped him into the
saddle.
“Young Alf,” he said, “I want y’ to see ’ow fast
you can make ’er go.”
Young Alf gave a dismal spit. “Whad’yer want,
over the ’urdles or on the flat?”
“The flat,” said Mr. Litsey.
After the last bit in the conversation Skinny
looked at me.
“Mr. Litsey,” he said, “do you mean to tell me
you been trainin’ your mare over the ’urdles?”
“Sure,” said Mr. Litsey, “it’s a good idea. I see
they orfen do it a lot in the city. They races ’orses in
flat races an’ in ’urdles, too. It’s a good idea.”
“But,” said Skinny, “if this mare of yours can
do four in forty-nine!”
“What’s the difference?” asked Mr. Litsey.
Young Alf had the mare round by the other side
of the track by this time and was waiting for the
signal. Mr. Litsey raised his hand and let it drop.
Blood and Bone jumped off all right and belted round
the course towards us. A moment later and she was
past us. I looked at Skinny. He was staring at the
watch.
“Fifty,” he said —“fifty dead.”
“I dunno,” said Mr. Litsey, shaking his head.
“You dunno what?” asked Skinny.
“Fifty,” said Mr. Litsey. “I don’t know wot’s
wrong with ’er.” He paused. “I’ll tell youse what,”
he said, “youse can come back this arvo an’ ’ave
another look at ’er. I’ll give ’er some trainin’ all the
mornin’.
Skinny looked as though he could have choked.
SKINNY was still a bit dazed when we got back
to the pub. “Scut,” he said weakly, after the third
schooner, “did you hear what I heard? Did you see
what I see?”
I nodded to relieve his mind.
“Scut,” he went on, “a feller with a mare that
can do four in forty-nine and ’e gives ’er two-mile
gallops, half a dozen sprints and tops it off by school-
ing the thing over jumps. Is that what you heard?”
“It is,” said I.
“A mare,” said Skinny, “that even a third-class
trainer might be able to turn into a champion. It’s
“I fancy the gentleman up above wants you for something or other.”
a sin, and it’s up to us to save
Blood and Bone from a fate worse
than death.”
I took a long gargle of beer.
“Skinny,” I said, “has it occurred
to your simple mind that the four furlongs that Blood
and Bone does in forty-nine might not be four fur-
longs? Mr. Litsey’s ideas of distance might be on a
par with his ideas of horse-training.”
Skinny blinked. “Scut,” he said, “I knew there
must be an answer.” And he settled down to enjoy
the beer. But after a while he started to get thought-
ful. “Scut,” he said, “supposin’ you’re wrong?”
“There’s a hardware store along the road,” said
I, “where they’d be pleased to sell you a measure.”
When we went out to Mr. Litsey’s place that after-
noon Skinny had the measure with him. Mr. Litsey
was glad to see us.
“It’s orright, Mr. ’Azlitt,” he said, “I got Blood
’n’ Bone all nicely tuned up. She’s orright now. I
been at ’er all the mornin’.”
Skinny spoke his piece. “Mr. Litsey,” he said,
“I don’t want to ’urt your feelin’s, but I been thinkin’
since this mornin’ that forty-nine is pretty fast time.
I was wonderin’ if maybe you ’adn’t measured out the
course a bit wrong.”
Mr. Litsey scratched his head. “P’r’aps youse is
right,” he said. “We did it with string an’ young Alf’s
ruler.”
“It might be a good idea,” said Skinny, “if we
took a run over it before the gallop.”
“I’ll git young Alf’s ruler,” said Mr. Litsey.
“There ain’t no need,” said Skinny, “I brought
out a measure.”
So we went to work. I had a piece of paper and
took down the measurements, keeping my eye on Mr.
Litsey all the time so that he couldn’t crib a few yards.
When we got to the four-furlong mark I started to add
the measurements. It was hard to believe the answer.
But there it was. The four furlongs measured eight
hundred and ninety yards. Ten yards over the half
mile!
Mr. Litsey grinned. “There youse are,” he said,
“I knew there must be something to account for Blood
runnin’ bad times.”
“Would youse like to see ’er ’ave a gallop?” said
Mr. Litsey.
“Yeah,” said Skinny, still looking as though he
didn’t believe my figures.
“Orright,” said Mr. Litsey, and sticking a couple
of fingers in his mouth he let out a terrific whistle.
Young Alf came out of the house and went into
the stable without looking our way.
“I told ’im to be ready,” explained Mr. Litsey.
Mr. Litsey, Skinny and I cut across to the finish-
ing line.
“After this,” said Mr. Litsey, “I’m gonner give
’er steady work till she’s ready for the race.”
“You’ve got ’er in a race?” said Skinny.
“Yeah,” said Mr. Litsey, “on Wednesday, so I’m
just gonner give ’er steady work like you read about
trainers givin’ ’orses in the papers.”
“What kind of steady work?” said I.
Mr. Litsey waved his arm. “Oh,” he said, “I’ll
prob’ly give ’er a five-mile run in the mornings and
another in the afternoons. That oughter keep ’er in
trim.”
This time Skinny clocked the gallop, and when it
was over he showed me the watch. It read forty-nine
and three-quarters. Mr. Litsey looked at it and shook
his head. “She’s goin’ orf a bit,” he said dismally.
Skinny was thinking of the same thing as I. “Mr.
Litsey,” he said, “you wouldn’t like to sell Blood and
Bone now that she’s going off and probably won’t be
much good as a race’orse? You see, I’m just lookin’
for a nice quiet ’orse for my son to ride, who has
just recovered from a long sickness. It would make
’im very ’appy. I’d give you ten pounds.”
“Mr. ’Azlitt,” said Mr. Litsey, blinking, “I’m very
sorry f’ y’r infant son, and I would like to oblige
you, but it is me ambition to own a ’orse that wins
races and to git me name in the paper. Ten pounds
ain’t enough.”
“Twenty,” said Skinny, “and the gratitude of a
poor ailing boy.”
“For two ’undred quid, which is a fair price con-
sidering wot ’orses are bought for at sales, I would
sacrifice me ambition and me ’eart’s desire,” said Mr.
Litsey.
Skinny took a fair-sized swallow.
“Listen,” he said, “the thing ain’t even ’ad a race.
We can’t tell if she’s any good at all.”
Mr. Litsey stood back on his heels. “There was
a ’orse I read about in Sydney what couldn’t even do
four in forty-nine an’ wot do they git for it?” He
took a deep breath. “Three ’undred guineas. If I let
Blood go for less’n two ’undred quid I’d be robbin’
meself.”
Skinny looked thoughtful. “Mr. Litsey,” he said,
“we’ll think it over.”
But we hadn’t gone far when Skinny gave a yelp.
“Scut,” he said, “I’ve got an idea.” And he dived
back to Mr. Litsey. I caught up with him just as he
was asking Mr. Litsey if there was a track at the
next town.
“I’ve read about it,” said Mr. Litsey.
“You’ve never been there?” asked Skinny.
“Not as I remember.”
Skinny took a deep breath. “Mr. Litsey,” he said,
“tomorrow we’ll take Blood and Bone to that track
and give ’er a test.”


“Wot’s up with the course ’ere?” said Mr. Litsey.
“The racecourse, I mean.”
Skinny grinned. “Mr. Litsey,” he said, “race ’er
’ere and we’ll have all the touts on to ’er if she shows a
good gallop. Then what price would we get on
Wednesday?”
“Wot’s wrong,” said Mr. Litsey, “with racin’ ’er
’ere in the paddick?”
Skinny stroked the side of his nose. “I’ll tell
you,” he said. “It’s the atmosphere. I’ve seen ’orses
that was champeens in their home paddicks an’ put
them on a racetrack an’ what ’appens to ’em?”
“Wot?” said Mr. Litsey curiously.
“It’s the atmosphere,” said Skinny.
“Orright,” said Mr. Litsey, “but you better bring
your watch. Mine ain’t fixed yet.”
“Skinny,” said I when we’d got away from him,
“what’s it all about?”
Skinny shoved his hands into his pockets and
grinned. “Scut, it came to me in a flash.”
“All right,” I said, “what?”
“Scut,” he said, “you’ve seen a bush race track,
and you’ve seen how they mark off the furlongs with
bits of pegs?”
“Yeah,” said I, “and usually there’s a bit of a
grandstand and a bit of a judge’s box and a bit of a
barrier.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “what would there be to
stop us from payin’ a midnight visit and movin’ the
posts in the four-furlong stretch out a bit?”
“If there’s a reason,” said I, “I haven’t thought
of it.”
“Orright,” said Skinny. “Mr. Litsey thinks ’is
mare is good and wants two hundred quid because
of it. Orright. What if we move the furlong pegs
and the mare takes about fifty-three seconds to make
the trip, maybe we can kid ’im that she ain’t worth
nowhere near that amount. ’E’s never seen this track
and ’e’ll never know where the posts were. It’s a
gift, Scut.”
“Skinny,” said I, “I take back everything.”
WHEN Mr. Litsey brought Blood and Bone out to
the track there was a change in her form. Instead
of running four in forty-nine she was taking fifty-two
and fifty-three.
“I can’t understand it,” said Mr. Litsey.
“It’s just what I told y’,” said Skinny; “it’s the
atmosphere or the surface of the track is ’arder than
paddocks. I’ve known it to ’appen before. At any rate,
you can stable ’er ’ere and we can give ’er another
go tomorrow.”
Next day it was the same.
“Maybe,” said Mr. Litsey, “it’s the way I been
trainin’ ’er. Anyway, I’ve got a offer of a ’undred quid
for ’er. I think I better take it before the feller finds
out she ain’t so good.”
I saw Skinny give a jump. “Scut,” he said, “how
much dough ’ave we got?”
“Roughly,” said I, “a hundred and twenty pounds
eighteen and six.”
“Mr. Litsey,” said Skinny, “the offer is a ’undred
an’ five.”
“But,” said Mr. Litsey, looking startled, “you
seen she ain’t so good on real racecourses.”
“Maybe,” said Skinny, “it’s wot you said about
not trainin’ ’er proper. Anyway we’ll take a risk. A
’undred ’n’ five.”
“I’ll take it,” said Mr. Litsey.
Skinny couldn’t have been quicker finding him a
receipt to sign, and then we said good-bye to Mr.
Litsey.
“Skinny,” said I when he’d waddled out of sight,
“has it occurred to you that the dough you just passed
to Litsey was intended to be invested on the chances
of a horse called Nevertire?”
Skinny gave a laugh. “That was somethin’ that’s
’ere tomorrow and gone today. This is the oppor-
tunity of a lifetime. This is the best ’orse I’ve ever
’ad anything to do with. And, Scut, we’re keepin’ it
’ere till race day. Besides, Blood and Bone will walk
this race in and then we can invest the stake-money she
wins on Nevertire, and the stake’s worth fifty quid.”
A couple of days before the race we brought
the pegs into the right spots and Blood and Bone
reeled off a couple of forty-nines. Then came the
race day, and we took her to the track. Skinny had
found a boy to ride her. The books were calling tens
and Skinny took a fiver’s worth, and we settled down
to watch the race.
Blood and Bone got the jump and took a two-
length lead, and I saw a grin hit Skinny’s face. But
inside two furlongs the grin was gone. I’ve never
seen a horse fall back through a field so quickly. In
another furlong she was last and looking for horses to
fall back on.
“Something must have ’appened,” said Skinny.
Just then up came Mr. Litsey. “Gee, Mr.
’Azlitt,” he said, “I’m glad you let me see Blood
wasn’ much good yet. If you ’adn’ I’d ’ave done me
coin. Now I’m gonner ’ave a good bet on Nevertire.
I got the oil.” He dived off into the crowd.
“Never mind, Skinny,” said I, “w'e’ve still got a
good horse out of it cheap. With a real trainer on it
we ought to win a few races.”
“I’d feel better,” said Skinny, “if we ’ad a few
quid on Nevertire.”
Nevertire won in a walk.
\\I E hadn’t been more than a couple of hours in
the city when we bumped into Snowy Fallon.
He’d been in the race game all his life, and Skinny
started to unburden about the wonderful horse he’d
bought. Snowy took it on the eardrums for about
ten minutes and then he waved his hand.
“Orright,” he said, “where is this wonder of the
turf?”
“We left ’er back in the bush,” said Skinny, “till
we get enough for the freight. Mr. Litsey is looking
after ’er.”
Snowy wiped his hand feebly across his forehead.
“Did I hear you say Litsey?” he asked.
“You did,” said Skinny.
Snowy started to laugh.
“A Mr. Litsey who broke his stop-watch and who
asked you could he borrow yours to time the gallop?”
Skinny gave a yelp. “ ’Ow did you know?”
“And when you told him you didn’t have one,
he suggested his horse was so good it might be worth
your while to buy or hire one from the jeweller,
who happens to be his son-in-law?”
“The which,” I gulped.
“Listen,” said Snowy; “Litsey’s been breaking his
stop-watch for years. Skinny, if I was you I wouldn’t
bother about no trainers for your horse.”
ACCEPTED AS QUEEN'S EVIDENCE
BY WILL LAWSON.
Tales of brutality and cruelty abound in the
records of the traffic in kanakas for use in the cane-
fields of Queensland and Fiji, but no such story rivals
in sheer horror the tale of the brig Carl, owned and
commanded by a mad doctor named Murray, which in
the year 1871 voyaged among the Solomon Islands
and the New Hebrides.
A DEATHLY silence filled the courtroom as the
Judge took the black cap in both hands and
slowly adjusted it to his head. None but the two
men in the dock, standing between warders,
seemed to breathe at all, and their breathing was like
that of drowning men, hissing in and out in dreadful
gasps, as their eyes, wide-open and filled with fear,
roved from the Judge’s face to that of a man, the chief
witness in the case, who sat also between warders.
But in his case this precaution was for his own pro-
tection. The man’s face was more deadly white than
those of the prisoners. It was lined horribly and
twitched and trembled, like his hands and limbs, for
he had just sent to the gibbet two men who had
killed at his bidding.
Once during the trial one of the prisoners in the
dock had shaken off his guard’s detaining hand and
shaken the bars in a futile attempt to reach him.
' “You murdering, snivelling cur! ”he had shouted.
“You made us do it. Now you’ll go free while we
swing. As God lives I’ll come back from hell and
kill you!”
“Order! Order! ” an usher chantedthen came
the Judge’s words, solemn as a funeral bell: “Joseph
Armstrong, first officer of the brig Carl, and Charles
Dowden, second officer of the brig Carl, you have
heard the verdict of the jury. You have been found
guilty of wilful murder on the high seas. Before
I pronounce the just sentence provided for such a
crime, have you anything further to say?”
All eyes swung now to the men in the dock,
where Joseph Armstrong, silent hitherto, had begun
to speak in a clear voice: “This is not justice, your
Honor. We were not in command. That man
there” —his accusing finger was levelled at Murray —
“ordered it all. From the time we left Melbourne”
THE brig Carl cleared Port Phillip for the Solomons
and New Hebrides in June, 1871. Besides her
officers and crew she carried several passengers, all
friends of the owner, Dr. James Patrick Murray. They
were seeking good, able-bodied recruits, men who
would fetch big prices, for, though the Fijian and
Queensland Governments fixed the price of each
kanaka at £22 10s., secret commissions were given
to secure good workers.
They sailed from Levuka for Boa Passage between
the islands of Buka and Bougainville. Here the natives
were very wary and not to be cajoled into signing
on as “blackbirds,” even though one of the party went
ashore dressed as a missionary with the object of
enticing the native teacher on board, where his flock
would have followed him.
The Carl carried two guns, not mounted but
slung innocently over the side, which disarmed the
natives into believing that the vessel was honest in
her purposes. They came out in canoes to trade.
As soon as the canoes were alongside the cannon
were dropped through their bottoms, still attached
to ropes for their recovery. Lumps of pig-iron were
flung from the decks into other canoes. All but two
were swamped and their crews left struggling in the
water, then two boats fell swiftly from their davits
filled with men carrying clubs. As the natives swam
they were clubbed, hoisted on board and flung into
the hold, which had been specially fitted with a steel
grating below the hatches so that air might enter
without any fear of the prisoners breaking their way
out.
Eighty-five kanakas were thus taken and confined
in the hold, the utmost brutality being shown by
Murray and his friends in their handling. When his
officers and crew protested he waved a revolver and
threatened them with death. The Carl then weighed
anchor and stood off towards Fiji.
After the first fierce, desperate outcry from the
captives they appeared to settle down. They slept
on the first night. Next day one big chief jumped
at the grating, shouting in the native tongue, but he
soon quietened down again, and returned to argue
quietly with the others.
On the night of September 13 there was sudden
activity in the hold. Sounds of breaking timbers
came to the ears of those on deck as the natives
smashed the benches, intending to use them as batter-
ing-rams to break out. When the outbreak started
Murray seemed to lose all control of his senses.
“Mutiny, is it?” he yelled. “Serve out arms and
ammunition. Shoot the dogs lest they escape and
murder us. Serve out grog, too, for it will be a bloody
night.” Then with Armstrong and Dowden and the
passengers he loosed a wild fusillade of bullets into the
mass of black men in the hold. For a whole two
watches the cruel game went on, from eight o’clock
at night till four in the morning—madmen above
fired off their guns into men below made mad by
terror. <
Murray led the killing, dancing and shouting
about the decks meanwhile. The scene was indescrib-
able in its horror. Screams and yells rose from the
hold above the shooting on deck while the massed
black men heaved against the hatches. Groans from
the dying and piteous appeals for mercy from the
wounded and terrified savages fell on deaf ears. Every
man on deck was drunk, wildly, madly drunk, and
revelling in the butchery.
The killing ceased at eight bells in the morning
watch, and a reckoning was made of the damage done
in the hold, but not till the wounded had lain there in
blood for hours. When at last a count was made it
was found that fifty kanakas were dead, sixteen
dying and nine wounded, leaving only ten unhurt.
First the dead and the dying—in the doctor’s
judgment—were thrown over to the sharks. Those
remaining, a mere handful, were patched up in one
way or another and the bloodstains hosed off them
as they lay on deck. The hold was still deep in blood,
which had to be pumped overboard with the bilge-
pumps, leaving a scarlet wake behind the brig. When
all was snugged down the hold was whitewashed and
the surviving kanakas put back into it.
By this time the brig was off the New
Hebrides, where H.M.S. sloop Rosario was patrolling.
She approached the Carl, signalling her to heave-to.
No notice was taken at first, till a gun was fired,
when Murray stopped his ship and a naval officer
came on board. He saw no signs of the carnage
which had taken place only two nights previously.
It was stated later that a close inspection would have
revealed such signs, but on the other hand naval
officers claimed that they had to be circumspect in
reporting even suspicious cases, as some of them had
been sued for damages by shipowners. At any rate
the Rosario gave the Carl a clean bill and she went
her way to Levuka.
There whispers soon began to circulate about the
doings in the Carl, Murray’s behavior helping to sub-
stantiate rumors. He had become a nervous neurotic,
excitable, drunken, and subject to shivering fits and
wild outbursts of speech. As more and more rumors
reached his ears he became panicky, and at last he
went to Captain March, the British Consul in Fiji,
and offered to turn Queen’s evidence and relate the
whole story of the case, right or wrong. March
accepted him as an informer, and after that nobody
could violate the promise of pardon which March
had given him. However, public feeling was indicated
in the fact that the sentences of death passed on
Armstrong and Dowden were commuted to imprison-
ment for life, the first three years in chains.
In a dispatch to the Colonial Office dated
December 30, 1872, the Governor of New South Wales,
Sir Hercules Robinson, wrote:
The capital sentences passed upon Dowden
and Armstrong, two men convicted of murder
of kanakas in the brig Carl, have been com-
muted to imprisonment for life.
It was the opinion of the Executive Council,
in which I concurred, that it would have been
improper to have executed these men, seeing
they were in the service and acting under the
orders of Dr. Murray, owner of the brig, and
that he, the instigator and most active perpetra-
tor of the murders, had escaped all punishment
by being accepted as Queen’s Evidence against
his own employees.
Mount and Morris, two passengers, received sen-
tences of fifteen years each for wilful murder, five
of the crew got two years for assault on the high
seas, while two others, Turner and Wood, were found
not guilty.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
,/f ffhll < ~Hine oflake mellcii'ncJd andlfcuqmi
LOMBARD STREET IN SUNDAY GARB.
No street in the world is better known than
Lombard Street. London being the financial
centre of the world, Lombard Street may be
regarded as its “inner core.” In times of inter-
national financial stress, such as war produces,
its power is assuredly not in the inverse ratio
to the gravity of international developments.
Lombard Street today may be regarded as an
outward and visible manifestation of the
“superlative power of wealth.” The illustra-
tion shows this comparatively insignificant
thoroughfare in the sombre atmosphere of its
Sabbath environment. Its workaday activi-
ties produce a scene vastly different from the
purely human standpoint. Lombard Street can
boast of a hoary antiquity, an antiquity wherein
the proverbial evils of what has been termed
“money greed” are by no means absent. It
took its name from Lombard merchants, the
great money-changers of early times, who
came from the four Italian Republics of Genoa,
Lucca, Florence and Venice, anterior to 1274,
and settled in England during the reign of
Edward I. (1272-1307). Being extremely rich,
and the necessities of the English monarch im-
pelling him to grant them protection, they
exercised, as the historian has it, “notorious
extortions.” Having advanced money to the
King, they obtained thereby such exclusive
privileges that decent, or fair, London traders
were regarded as subservient to their views.
The extortions of these Lombard gentry be-
came so excessive in the reign of Edward 111.
(1327-1377) that the King seized their estates.
Shrewd gentlemen, they quickly surmounted
this misfortune, and, returning to their old
evil practices, “prospered prodigiously.” In
the reign of Henry VI. (1422-1471), they were
so opulent as to furnish that unhappy monarch
with “the needful,” though not until the
Customs duties were mortgaged to them for
the sums advanced. In Lombard Street these
“money merchants” remained until the reign
of Queen Elizabeth, when the measures set on
foot by Sir Thomas Gresham, “the father of
the Royal Exchange,” defeated their projects
and finally caused them to leave the country.
They have a memorial heritage in the three
golden balls, still the insignia of those who
“find the ready for a tangible consideration.”
When the Lombards left, eminent bankers
resided in this thoroughfare, really living on
their business premises. All is now changed.
The street remains, altered materially beyond
all recognition. The spirit, or power, asso-
ciated with its genesis—the power of money—
is as of yore, and will be in all human proba-
bility until “time shall be no more.” The
visitor to London in traversing Lombard Street
walks through a section to which the whole
world pays financial “tribute.”


RETURN OF THE VIKING.
“In defiance of threats, Swedes, Norwegians and Danes are actively helping Finland, and Moscow demands for the muzzling of the Swedish press have been curtly rejected.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; Gordon & Gotch (Ams.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
BLAMEY'S JOLT.
Mr. Menzies gave a straight tip in declaring that
“before Australia is six months older the Empire will
be fighting for its life,” but it required the bluntness
of an experienced soldier, General Blarney, to make
it a jolt: -
This war is not going to be a walkover. It is going
to be the most terrible thing the world has ever seen.
New methods of waging warfare have created a terrific
mass of fire. It is my prayer that we can stave off the
full horror until next summer, when the forces of the
Empire may have been built up to a higher level.
Germany has had its practice in this method of war-
fare, and its terrible efficiency has been shown by the
swift and horrible destruction of Poland.
Then came Minister for Information Gullett, warning
that “this was the critical year, because of the very
great superiority at present possessed by the Germans
in the air,” a superiority “they were likely to possess
for quite a long time” ; he “found it difficult to believe
that the quality of German aircraft was markedly
inferior to that of British and French aircraft.”
Where now are the scores of newspaper and radio
windbags who were urging the Empire to get into war,
not in the coming summer, by when General Blarney
hopes its forces “may have been built up,” but last
summer and the summer before that, and against what
would have been double the force that now has to be
faced? All that now incredible and stupid urging was
the result of windbags having themselves come to
believe in the misinformation they were dishing out
to their readers and listeners. The flood of misinfor-
mation is still pouring forth, with a difference. Hitherto
it sprang from “ideological” causes, news —as in the
Spanish civil war, and foreign-affairs reporting gener-
ally—being all but eclipsed by views of the then
approved shade, ranging between Parlor Pink and
Red. The present flood is a volume of wishful think-
ing. The notion behind the “ideological” flood was
that people are fools and can be fooled indefinitely.
The notion behind the present flood is that they are
cravens, likely to panic if told plain truths; therefore
needing to be dosed with dope.
Hence —as an outstanding example—the indus-
triously cultivated notion that Hitler is off his head.
In the sense that, with Stalin’s connivance, he has
started a world war, no doubt he is a lunatic. But
that is not the cultivated idea. This is, in Mr. Wells’s
finding, that he is certifiably a lunatic in the meaning
accepted by asylums. Self-qualified alienists like Mr.
Wells brought in the same diagnosis on the ex-Kaiser.
Newspapers which accepted that diagnosis as they now
accept the same pronouncement on Hitler not long
since produced the ex-Kaiser to testify, in an alleged
interview, to the certifiable lunacy of his successor.
There is plenty of that sort of “evidence” ; of
proof there is not a scrap. On the contrary, even in
Hitler’s speeches —apart from his practical perform-
ance and standing in Germany —there is the strong-
est evidence of a powerful mind and will. Few read
his speeches; millions read the babblings of the dope
pedlars. These have him not only mad but dead: a
book has been written —served up to Australia in
serial form by a leading organ of enlightenment—-to
“prove” this. In cartoons he is served up as comic ;
a figure of fun. The net result of all this is a widely-
prevalent dream state of mind in which a dangerous
foe is most dangerously underestimated. This sort of
wishful thinking—in its hundred variations —plays
right into the enemy’s hand. In Mein Kampf Hitler
attacked the same mistake in German propaganda,
1914 vintage:
It was a fundamental mistake to ridicule the enemy.
An idea of the Englishman was gradually formed
which led to the worst kind of self-deception. The
result was an undervaluation for which we had to pay
a heavy penalty. I can vividly recall the astonished
looks of my comrades when they found themselves per-
sonally face to face with the Tommies in Flanders.
This dope is still being freely dished out, but not
in Germany. The cultivated wishful notion is that the
German army is weak, its soldiers unwilling and their
officers untrained. Cables carry the suggestion that
the German troops are on the verge of mutiny. One
recent cable told of a battalion forced to repeat an
attack “as punishment” for failing at its first attempt.
This sort of thing apparently finds takers despite the
performance in Poland. General Blarney, along with
the rest of the Diggers who came up against them,
has no illusions about the Germans as fighters ; but
the notion cultivated is that the present Germans are
different Germans —weaker, disaffected ; nothing like
the former lot who held out against the world for four
years. While this misleading dope pours out in flood
proportions, reports such as this one by a New York
“Times” representative are not published:
The years have changed the outward appearance
of the German soldier but little. He is still a sturdy,
stocky figure in heavy leather boots, baggy breeches
and coat, and potlike steel helmet. Well uniformed and
equipped, he is younger than Tommy or Poilu, and
imbued with Hitler’s philosophy. He is not just a
man in uniform, but a highly-trained soldier. He has
behind him the practical experience of the Polish <
campaign, which proved beyond doubt that he knows
how to put to practical use what he has learned.
That is substantiated by a Swiss observer lately in
Germany: “equipment excellent; discipline as strict
and perfect as ever ; the army as a whole efficient and
smart.” By inference General Blarney agrees, and he
is right. The former German army was eventually
beaten in the field, and what was done then by the
fighting quality of the Allied soldiers can be done
again. But it was done only after a terrific struggle,
and undervaluing the strength of the enemy won’t help
it to be done now.
Most persistently hawked of all this wishful-
thinking is the notion that Germans are on the verge
of revolt against the Nazi regime. Every day this is
served up in one form or another; sometimes by in-
sinuation, sometimes blatantly. Germany is represented
as a house divided within itself. Miners and factory
workers are reported to be disgruntled over their
long working hours, poor food and worse conditions.
The regime is represented as one imposed on the
people against their will; therefore, the legend runs,
they will rise against it when they begin to feel the
strain of war.
There is not the slightest real evidence for any of
this. It is largely inspired by the legend that it was
internal revolt, not defeat of its army in the field,
which beat Germany last time. No doubt there is
some opposition to the Nazi rule ; there is opposi-
tion to the established form of government in all
countries ; but the truth for the present is that the
Germans —imbued with the “Nazi philosophy” and
regarding Hitler as a demigod; more favorably, in-
deed, than they regarded the former Kaiser —are Hitler
men so nearly to a man that the notion of an early
internal revolt should not take in a kindergarten. The
Germans broke up last time when the army had been
defeated in the field and had given in, but not until
then. They will no doubt break up when the army
has again been defeated, but not before then.
Yet another lot of false hopes are being built up
on the notion that Germany is short of food and
war materials. This is largely based on the fact that
rationing is strict and severe. But all that this means
is that the lesson of the last war has been learned, as
in Britain, where rationing is also already in force,
though Britain, like Germany, has enormous reserves.
In both countries rationing at this stage signifies only
a determination to reserve the necessary means of
carrying on the struggle until it is finally decided where
wars are still decided —despite all the “blockade war”
and “propaganda war” theories to the contrary —that
is, on the battlefields.
General Blarney’s bluntly realistic appraisal of
the situation will be one of the most effective contri-
butions towards winning this war so far made in Aus-
tralia if it has the effect of preventing people from
being any longer taken in by the popular lines of
wishful-thinking. If his plain speaking came as a jolt
to many people that could be only because they had
been so befuddled by the ilood of misinformation
that they had forgotten what the Germans did last
time, when the Allied line-up included Italy, Russia,
Japan and eventually America, and when Germany —
though possessed of a navy which is not there this time
—had nothing like its present available sources of
supply.
The P.M. and General Blarney and Mr, Gullett
have done well in giving out some clear, if hard,
truths at a time when most that is given out is a muddy
flood of humbug. Australia would do well to accept
the warning now, and let it sink in deep. The effort
needed —both in the field and on the home front—
to defeat Germany is not going to be raised by under-
estimating that country’s strength on both fronts. It
demands the supreme, combined national effort of
every country whose task it is, including this country.
For that reason —to stir up the necessary national
effort —the P.M.’s and Mr Gullett’s warnings and
General Blarney’s jolt were overdue. It was about
time, too, that the notion that people will panic if
told the truth was dropped in favor of a right appre-
ciation of the courage underlying quite natural anxiety.
Australians will take much worse than General
Blarney’s jolt on the chin, and go on fighting.
Australian Shipbuilding.
Shipbuilding is an old Australian industry, almost the
oldest. The first craft to take shape in these waters
was the Rose Hill packet, a ten-tonner, launched in
October, 1789. The sloop in which Bass and Flinders
circumnavigated Tasmania in 1798 was a Norfolk
Island product. By 1805, there were 23 locally built
vessels on the sea, pioneering Australian commerce to
as far away as Tahiti; the largest was Underwood’s
185-tonner, a sizable ship for those days.
In the eighteen-twenties, a 300-ton ship, the Aus-
tralia, took the water near Pitt Town, on the Hawkes-
bury. The first steamer seen on Sydney Harbor—in
1831 —was built by Marshall and Lowe, of Clarence
Town (N.S.W.). In 1851 the first Australian screw
steamer, City of Melbourne, appeared from the yards
of Ward, Cole ; in 1853, the first Australian iron ship,
the Ballarat, came off a permanent slip at Pyrmont,
Sydney, and in the same yards there was built, in
1863, H.M.S. Waikato, a gunboat. Nine years before,
the first dock at Cockatoo had been opened. In the
early ’seventies the Admiralty commissioned five
schooners in Sydney and armed them for the South
Sea patrol.
The industry had its dull and its busy periods.
After the international crisis of 1911 business was
brisk. In that year the Warrego, a destroyer shipped
from England in pieces, was put together. Between
1913 and 1915 the destroyers Torrens, Huon and Swan
were launched at Cockatoo. Then the 5100-ton cruisers
Brisbane and Adelaide were finished.
W. M. Hughes gave a new start to the mercantile
side of the industry in 1917. He suggested to the
Colonial Office the building of unsinkable wooden
steamers, and the Admiralty approved and helped.
Though it was a costly experiment in one way, it led
to the construction of steel steamers. In 1918 con-
tracts were let for two 5500-tonners at Cockatoo, six
at Walsh Island, four at Walkers’ at Maryborough
(Q.), and four at Poole and Steele’s at Port Adelaide
(S.A.). B.H.P. undertook to supply plates at half the
price then ruling in Britain. In all, 21 steel steamers
of round about this tonnage were built.
With the fall in the price of materials overseas
and the relief of British yards from war-time conges-
tion, Australian shipbuilding languished. Though in
the process of years several vessels of about 3000 tons
were constructed, the 1937 output was only 74 net
tons of registered shipping. A list compiled by Mr. J.
Leary, an Amalgamated Engineers organiser, shows
that, between 1919 and 1937, 137,238 tons of shipping
ordered by companies and 14,153 tons by Common-
wealth and State Governments were built abroad for
the Australian trade. And overseas orders were not
confined to large vessels. Most of the ships imported
(108 in the period named) have been between 100 and
1000 tons. Some of the smallest have been bought by
Harbor Trusts located next door to Australian yards.
Within the past two years, naval building revived
with the construction of R.A.N. sloops and auxiliary
vessels and the reconstruction of cruisers at Cockatoo.
There followed the laying down of Tribal destroyers,
which, small as they are —under 2000 tons —present
intricate problems and call for workmanship and fabri-
cation equal to the world’s best. Then it occurred to
the Government that it might be a good thing to resus-
citate the construction of merchant ships, by means of
bounties ; and last session Parliament passed legisla-
tion which offers a bounty of £l2 10s. per ton on ships
of 100 to 750 tons, declining to £lO per ton on vessels
of 1500 tons. But total payments are limited to £50,000
p.a. And there is no present offer of a bounty on ships
of 1500 tons and over, building of which has become
important to the Empire and thrice important to the
Commonwealth, which would be in a serious position
if it were necessary to rely on our own bottoms to
carry our produce overseas. Even now transport of
wool and wheat abroad is hampered by shipping
shortage.
The Customs is engaged on the investigation of
shipyard resources, and it should have no difficulty in
discovering that supplies of labor and materials are
ample. Since 5000-ton ships could be fabricated 20
years ago when the iron and steel and machine indus-
tries were only in embryo, the laying down of deep-
sea keels presents no insoluble problems now. Den-
mark, which has to import coal and iron, maintains
noted shipbuilding yards—some of the crack 10,000-
ton Norwegian freighters which take away Australian
wool come from Odense. Australia can do as well
and better.
It is largely a matter of labor cost and industrial
tranquillity. Time, circumstances and public opinion
are favorable. Still, it does not inspire confidence in
those who will have to find the money to read that a
Mr. Thornton, Federal secretary of the Ironworkers,
on which they must depend largely for labor, has
gone on a Communist platform in the Sydney Domain
and attacked them and championed the “Australian”
Communist party in these terms:
Every employer in Australia is using this war in
an attempt to take from the employees the wages and
conditions we have fought for over many years
The trade-union movement is going to support the
Communist party in this fight, is going to fight for free
speech.
Free speech, of course, meaning the right to fly
Soviet flags, denounce “British and French and Fin-
nish imperialism” and tell the Australian worker that
his first loyalty is to the U.S.S.R.
Neither does it help to see the Trades and Labor
Council represented at such a meeting, as a result of
“the unanimous vote of the executive,” by a vice-
president, Mr. Wright, whose favorite expression seems
to be “we Communists.”
Australia needs a shipbuilding industry, not
merely as a war precaution but as a permanent
measure of national necessity. Rightly ordered, it
would be a great purchaser of raw materials and a
great employer of mechanics and metal workers. And
the unions concerned can have it if they bind them-
selves to strict observance of arbitration awards and
tell Communists and near-Communists to get off the
industrial map and go to their doctrinaires’ paradise,
where there are no employers but Stalin, and no arbi-
tration machinery but the Ogpu and its firing squads.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Jews for North Westralia ?
For three or four months of last year the necessity
for an alliance with Mighty Soviet Russia was the
favorite theme of “commentators” employed at
“national” stations. The necessity for a Jewish settle-
ment in North Westralia seems likely to take its place.
Three unnamed “commentators” discussed the
new craze one night last week. At first a show of
criticism was made by one, but before they had fin-
ished the three were harping on the same note —that
the Jewish settlement Must Come and would be a
Wonderful Thing for Australia.
After nearly 60 years of settlement there are not
1000 electors in the Kimberley electorate, but one of
the commentators was sure that the part of the Kim-
berley electorate chosen for the site of the settlement
could accommodate 100,000 Jews. And what would
the 100,000 produce? “Oh—er —maize, and (pause)
lucerne and —er —corn” (at least it sounded like
“corn”) “and—er—cattle and sheep.” From the be-
ginnings of settlement Kimberley has been reckoned
unsuitable for sheep ; but A.B.C. “commentators” are
not to be expected to know that.
And the Jewish settlement, it seems, is to reach
the exporting stage in a matter of 18 months. Ship-
ping and markets may be difficult problems, but the
“commentators” didn’t mention either. Sufficient for
them and their public to know that some organisation
unnamed would provide all the settlers and find all
the money.
And where would the settlers go if the experiment
failed as the South Westralian group-settlements
failed? How could they be kept from swarming into
Australian cities? The “commentators” were not ready
with answers, but left it to be inferred that the
question of failure did not arise, success being mathe-
matically certain. As for city migration, the settlers
would assuredly prefer to remain in their tropical
paradise, the notion that the Jew is a city-dweller hav-
ing been shown in Palestine to be all wrong.
Has it indeed? On June 30, 1938, there were
399,807 Jews in Palestine. Of these 140,000 (“all Jews”)
lived in Tel-Aviv, 77,000 in Jerusalem and 58,000 in
Haifa. So more than two-thirds of the Jewish popu-
lation of Palestine dwelt in three cities. The figures are
from the Statesman’s Year-Book. During the last
turbulent twelvemonth the proportion of city-dwellers
has probably increased, and it would increase enor-
mously if by some magic an Australian city like Perth
or Adelaide could be transferred to Palestine.
The Jewish refugees that Australia has taken
since the beginning of last year don’t make for the
open spaces, but crowd into places like King’s Cross,
Neutral Bay and Bondi. From this brief experience,
Australians are satisfied that, were a Jewish settlement
established in any part of the north, most of the hardy
pioneers would turn up in the cities if they had to
burrow under wire netting.
The American Attitude. *
Whatever judgment history may pronounce on
British foreign policy in the third decade of the
twentieth century, it will have to admit that September
3, 1939, found the Old Firm operating in the old
spirit at the old address. Though the League failed
him and Russia betrayed him, John Bull proved him-
self game. It is improbable that history will be as
flattering to Uncle Sam.
“No entangling alliances!” was Washington’s
counsel to the United States. It was wise counsel;
unquestionably what the Swiss and Dutch call neu-
trality and the Americans isolation is the right policy
for the U.S.A. But it must be neutrality in word and
deed. It implies restraint —a restraint which Washing-
ton himself practised during the quarrels which con-
vulsed Europe when he was President.
Restraint has not been practised by Americans of
the present generation. They are claiming the advan-
tages of neutrality, but the duties which are part and
parcel of it they ignored.
If they had let Europe alone, it is conceivable that
Europe would have reached some settlement of its
troubles, or at least arrived at a lucid interval during
which a settlement might be discussed. But they
wouldn’t let Europe alone.
American politicians, novelists, columnists,
magazine-writers, film-makers and radio spouters
interfered ignorantly and provocatively in the dis-
tracted affairs of the Continent. Muckrakers concen-
trated on the private lives of dictators, their sub-
ordinates, and, in some cases, their womenfolk.
“Famous” correspondents with little knowledge sped
through Europe picking up trifles and rumors and
fashioning them into sensational stuff. Threats were
issued by members of the Washington Cabinet; the
President himself talked of “quarantining aggressors.”
Fiction-writers with a Moscow bias boisterously
championed the Spanish Stalinists, the Austrians and
the Czechs, and branded the English as cowards
because the English wouldn’t fight for them. The
highest-paid newspaper writer habitually referred to
the country of his ancestors as “Britain, once Great.”
Germans, of course, were described as monsters of
cruelty and depravity, and were warned that, since
the degenerate English and the frightened French were
incapable of coping with them, the he-men of 48
States might be obliged to go Over There and clean
them up again.
The war brought an immediate cessation of taunts
and warnings, and a nation-wide return to neutrality,
which has taken various strange forms. Belligerent
ships of war were forbidden to operate within 300
miles of American coasts, a zone now to be extended
to 800 miles ; but Congress agreed to let belligerents
buy American weapons and munitions, provided they
paid cash on the nail and carried the purchases at
their own risk. An Administration spokesman pleaded
that this traffic was necessary, since without it there
would have been many business failures and a disas-
trous increase in unemployment. Cash-and-carry and
non-intervention have also been justified on the ground
that Britain and France, the only customers for aero-
planes, cannon, ammunition and the like, didn’t pay
their Great War debts.
The latter “argument” won’t wash in the case of
Finland. Even while the Finns were defending their
country against the barbarous invaders from Muscovy,
they paid their interest to Uncle on the due date. The
Allies, though outnumbered on the Western Front,
and having also to reckon with “very great German
superiority in the air,” are sending “substantial help” to
the Finns. This was said by Mr. Chamberlain after
he announced the loss of three submarines in Heligo-
land Bight. On the same day—the forty-eighth of
Finland’s agony—President Roosevelt sent a message
to Congress proposing that the United States should
give Finland credit for the purchase of “non-military
commodities.” Simultaneously it was announced that,
thanks chiefly to shipments of oil, aircraft and metals
to the Allies, all carried in Allied bottoms, the U.S.A.’s
December export trade was the highest for 10 years, and
greater by $92,000,000 than that of December, 1938.
This is not the America of Woodrow Wilson and
the first Roosevelt, much less the America of Abraham
Lincoln. Chivalry, heroism and idealism seem to have
gone out of fashion.
Sane Recruiting.
“E.V.”: If, as Minister Gullett says, enlistments for
the Second A.I.F. are “not overwhelming” and the
response from the militia is “disappointing,” the fault
lies with politicians and departments rather than with
the young men of the Commonwealth.
There are few men of military age who would
not be ready to rush to the ranks if they believed they
were seriously wanted. But there has been no rousing
campaign for recruits, and the comprehensiveness of
the exemption lists, including as they did radio uncles
and others as little necessary to the maintenance of
industry, conveyed the impression that the need for
men was small.
Moreover, when men see a great war general like
Glasgow, young enough for divisional or corps com-
mand, appointed to a civilian job in Canada, and
Charles Rosenthal, one of the most inspiring of com-
manders, relegated to Norfolk Island, they are apt to
wonder whether there is any urgency.
Maoriland got its first 6000 men almost overnight
on the outbreak of war, and already has secured
enough recruits to fill the second overseas echelon.
It would be stupid to suggest that Australians are any
less eager to help in a war in which the Prime Minister
declares we shall soon be fighting for our lives.
All that recruiting needs to make it succeed is
proper organisation and the creation of a proper atmo-
sphere. If war leaders whose names are history were
charged with the job of forming district battalions or
brigades, the sons of the men who were with them in
the last war would be proud to follow them. There
would be no doubt, for instance, of the response that
would be given in N.S.W.’s New England to a call
from Don Cameron of the 12th Light Horse.
Men of this type with hard fighting experience are
most capable of assessing human fighting material and
of choosing the best and weeding out the worst.
The Air Minister, Mr. Fairbairn, is appointing an
organiser to promote the training plan in which he is
specially interested.
There will have to be close co-operation between
Air Ministry and A.I.F. recruiting authorities, if the
best results are to be obtained. It might be better to
have one scheme which would gather in men for all
types of military service and select those most suitable
for individual arms from the bulk. If this is not
done, there is a risk of clashing and competition.
But whatever is done, it is certain that all that
is needed to secure a satisfactory response is an effi-
cient method of approach to possible volunteers.
A sensible preliminary would be the institution of
all-round compulsory training for home defence.
They Never Mention It.
“Pa wang”: Soldiers are inoculated with half a dozen
serums for the prevention of typhoid, paratyphoid and
other diseases, and the subject is discussed openly by
the public, scientifically by the doctors and dis-
passionately by the daily papers. The much more
important subject of venereal disease is not discussed.
Archbishops and prohibitionists have been pas-
sionately demanding protection for the soldier against
the evils of drink and even smoking. They don’t say
a word about protecting him against v.d.
Yet would anybody say that v.d. is not as great
a menace to the health of a human being as typhoid?
Would anybody say that the possibility of acquiring
it is more remote than the chance of getting typhus?
Would a newspaper editor say that the experience
gained about paratyphoid in the last war should be
used for the benefit of the soldier and that the experi-
ence gained about v.d. should not?
Nobody has proved that alcohol did much damage
to any army during the last war. It has been proved
up to the hilt that venereal disease took toll of all
armies.
A little Maoriland woman, Ettie Rout, made her-
self unpopular by bombarding the authorities and the
newspapers with propaganda on behalf of wholesale
prophylaxis. She achieved some measure of reform
according to the scientific data then available. Her
chief opponents then were doctors and dailies.
Some time ago a Melbourne specialist on the sub-
ject presented a plan which was an advance on Miss
Rout’s, inasmuch as it took into account the ad-
vances since made in scientific knowledge. Before
going on leave every soldier was to receive warning
and instruction, and on returning was to be compul-
sorily examined and, if necessary, treated prophylacti-
cally. By these means, the specialist contended, the
great majority of soldiers could be safeguarded against
the disease, and in respect of the minority who con-
tracted it the effects could be practically negatived.
Nothing more has been heard of this wise and humane
plan.
The Cabinet is ready enough to let the public
know what it is doing for the economic welfare of
soldiers’ dependants. Minister Street has no hesita-
tion in describing the elaborate precautions he is tak-
ing to protect the army’s teeth. If he and the Gov-
ernment are paying the same amount of attention to
this other menace to the health of soldiers and the
welfare of soldiers’ families, they are keeping dashed
quiet about it.
The Richmond Crash.
The last has not been heard of the lamentable crash
at Richmond (N.S.W.) on December 18, in which
five R.A.A.F. men bound for Melbourne lost their
lives.
The coroner’s inquest brought out facts which
reflect on R.A.A.F. ground organisation. The Anson
bomber involved was one of two which took off in the
dark. It was piloted by Flight-Lieut. Watkins, who
had 840 hours’ flying experience—4oo in Ansons. His
companions were Flight-Lieut. Horner, Flying-Officer
Fitzgerald, Flying-Officer Mclnnes and Aircraftsman
King.
The Anson’s flying lights were seen to circle. Two
minutes after it left the ground the machine crashed
on the Richmond golf links, ploughed 100 yards across
the fairway, crashed through a fence and toppled into
a ditch, a total wreck. Nobody saw the accident from
the ground.
Sydney “D.T.,” notorious for its transports of
admiration for the Red Army and the Red Air Force,
came out with a report headed with these words:
“Five Airmen Guests at Marriage of Comrade Thirty-
six Hours Before Fatal Dive.” It would have been
natural for the young men to attend a friend’s wed-
ding ; but headlines and natural inference were
referred to with indignation by relatives who gave
evidence.
Dr. Watkins, the pilot’s father, said that his son
had arrived in Sydney from Melbourne on December
16. He had refused a drink at home. He had “taken
no drink during the two days prior to the accident, and
had not attended a wedding party”:
1 want to clear my son’s memory of a scurrilous
attack on it by a not over-punctilious daily newspaper.
Flight-Lieut. Horner’s father said that any sug-
gestion that his son had been to the party was “abso-
lutely incorrect.” Mr. A. G. Allen, to whose daughter
the pilot was engaged, testified that his son and
Watkins had refused a drink at his house at 9.15 on
the night .before the accident and that Watkins had
remarked: “I never take that stuff before a flight.”
A brother of Aircraftsman King also denied that his
brother had been to the wedding party or had taken
drink.
The “D.T.” published part of this evidence, but
did not withdraw its assertion, much less apologise
to the living or the dead. Perhaps its Red Army rhap-
sodies have affected its attitude to the R.A.A.F. In
May, 1939, it shrieked that one of its photographers
had been subjected to a “cowardly assault” when he
pushed his way in to take a picture of the mangled
remains of a machine, under guard, in which four
R.A.A.F. men had just been killed. “Bashed by five
airmen” it said the photographer was. The photo-
grapher’s misfortunes seemed more important than the
loss of four young men, dead in the service of Aus-
tralia.
Other evidence placed on record at Windsor was
to the effect that Flight-Lieut. Watkins had complained
to several persons of the engine misfiring badly and
giving a lot of magneto trouble on the way up from
Melbourne. At Richmond the machine was put under
repair supervised by an Air Reserve officer, after
Watkins had insisted on an overhaul. The officer
“noted the repairs necessary on a scrap of paper,” but
the scrap of paper had been “mislaid.” The pilot had
been “mildly reprimanded” for not being there but
had expressed himself satisfied with the repairs done
to the starboard engine.
The coroner returned a verdict of accidental death.
He said that there seemed to be “some laxity in the
system of checking over ’planes and engines before
flight.” Coroners are not experts, but this criticism
was warranted. If the method pursued is a sample
of R.A.A.F. mechanical routine, it needs very stringent
revision.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“She insists on wearin' the strides from the start!”
“Mac Hoots”: Sometimes I think I am
mad, and sometimes I think the Sydney
“Morning Herald” is. What on earth
did the Old Girl mean by telling fisher-
men that they were to be allowed to
catch larger fish: “An amendment of the
fishing regulations to permit of larger
fish being caught was announced by the
Chief Secretary, Mr. Tonking”? The
Chief Sec. explained, said the “Herald,”
that after a conference between fisher-
men and the department it was decided
that “increased lengths were desirable in
some instances.” No doubt the catchers
of snapper, garfish and whiting will be
glad to know that they don’t have to
chuck the big ones back any more, but
I still feel that one of us should consult
a specialist.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: When an English magis-
trate was investigating the claims of con-
scientious objectors there was almost a
riot in the court and the dignity of the
Bench and the temper of the crowd were
seriously impaired. A Melbourne artist
who was living in London dealt with a
somewhat similar situation in peace-time
much more adroitly. He believed in that
New Testament dictum “Judge not, lest
ye be judged,” and he found himself the
recipient of a summons to serve on a
jury. Being a genuine man of peace, un-
like most conscientious objectors, who
seem more belligerent than the most
extreme of warmongers, he made no
attempt to argue the matter on a question
of principle. He simply put it this way:
“I am content to serve on the jury, but if
a majority of my fellow-jurors find the
prisoner guilty, I will find him not guilty ;
if they find him not guilty, I will find him
guilty.” It was decided that no good pur-
pose would be achieved if he were em-
panelled, and he was excused and dis-
missed in the friendliest possible manner.
* * =K *
“C.R.”: Moliagul (Vic.), where the
Welcome Stranger nugget was discovered,
is in for a revival, a prospector having
dug up a fresh nugget. Compared with
its distinguished predecessor, it is a baby.
The Welcome Stranger weighed 2284
ounces and was worth £9534. At the
present price of gold it would cash in at
£24,267 10s. The latest find is a mere
7oz. 15dwt., and is worth £B2. There
was another sensational find lately in
the neighboring town of Bealiba. A
store was being demolished, and when
the floor was pulled up heaps of gold
dust were revealed. In the good old
lavish days miners used to pay for their
goods with bags of gold dust, and, in
slamming them down on the counter in
their carefree manner, in the course of
years evidently spilled enough through
the cracks to bring about a minor gold-
rush.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The recent discovery in Mel-
bourne of an old picture by a German
master turned out to be of no financial
value to the owner, at least at the present
moment. For obvious reasons nobody,
and certainly no institution, wants to buy
it. If the artist had been someone of the
calibre of Rembrandt it might have been
a different matter; but for some reason
or other Germany has never shone in
depictive art as she has in music. A
critic of one of the dailies remarked that
the fact that there was no sale for the
picture disproved the dictum that art has
no nationality. But he was wrong. Art
has no more nationality than mathema-
tics.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: These Russian military
gatherings have a flavor which no A.I.F.
reunion can achieve. My Moscow news-
paper reports a banquet at the Kremlin
at which Comrade Stalin entertained the
troops and at which Hero-of-the-Soviet-
Union A. V. Belyakov replied to a toast
on behalf of the footsloggers—how the
Second A.I.F. would enjoy a few sam-
majors or jacks with names like that!
And how they would have enjoyed the
proceedings! Concluding his speech,
Comrade Bellyache said:
Comrade Stalin! Allow me to do
something that everyone present here
would like to do: allow me to em-
brace and kiss you.
And “the enthusiasm knew no bounds”
and there was a “thunderous hurrah” as
Comrade Stalin enfolded the young man
“in a fatherly embrace.” Every person
present, it is recorded, “felt in his heart
that Stalin had embraced and expressed
his love for every fighter in the Land of
Socialism.” Any volunteers who want
to be embraced or kissed by Bob Menzies
or W. M. Hughes?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: I was waiting for the
protest of “Atrax” (B. 17/1/’4O) anent
the reason for Australian architects wast-
ing so much good space in the roofs of
houses, and it confirms my belief that
the profession is following a convention,
and that the low-roofed bungalow is not
a conscious adaptation to the Australian
climate. If the sharp-pitched roof was
developed by English farmers to allow the
snows to slide off, why are roofs in Siberia
and Scandinavia, as I have seen them,
invariably low-pitched? Why do we see
both high-pitched and low-pitched roofs
in Switzerland in about equal propor-
tions? There is more snow in those
places than in England. The fact is, as
I have stated, that the high-pitched roof
provided living space for the farmer’s
growing family, and, to save the cost of
raising the wall-height, he added a bit
on to his rafters ; and he got, not just
one attic, but sometimes two or three
out of it. Moreover, the high roof can
be made to give beautiful proportions,
and the lower rooms are made cooler in
summer. Attics are usually only used
at night-time, and cool down very
quickly. So from all those points of view
the high-pitched roof has great advan-
tages for Australia. Yet every architect
in Melbourne to whom I have spoken
on the subject trots out “Atrax’s” old
snow theory as the only objection.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Not only the medical
fraternity in Melbourne is concerned
about the alien influx. A Melbourne
architect was asked how the “Business
as Usual” principle was working as far
as he was concerned. “As well as can
be expected considering the severity of
the competition I get from my profes-
sional colleagues,” he replied, “but I
haven’t struck any refugees yet.”
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: The month’s hard
which has been doled out by a Jersey
Court to a local Boniface for having
exhibited himself spreadeagled in a
bathing-suit so as to form a cross should
be a reminder to intending residents that,
though the Channel Islands are grand
places in which to avoid income-tax, they
are about the worst bits of country on
the earth in which to try to go gay. All
sorts of “crimes” which pass as almost
respectable in these days of the fillums
make the villain who commits them liable
to the direst penalties. Only just before
the last war Lord Haldane, as Lord
Chancellor, had one of the hardest fights
of his career to save the life of a local
lily who had mistaken somebody else’s
husband for her own and been caught at
it. The argument as to whether she should
or should not die for her sin almost
reached the dimensions of an inter-
national incident.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: It may sound rank
blasphemy to dispute the existence of
Hollywood but in sad truth there is no
such place. It is merely an undefined
part of outlying Los Angeles, not men-
tioned in any gazetteer. The port of
Hull —in Yorkshire parlance “ ’Ooll oop
th’ Oomber” —is equally non-existent,
although all the Seven Seas know it.
The municipal authority is the final
arbiter on the subject, and it calls it
Kingston-upon-Hull. King Edward I.
named it King’s Town in 1293. In days
of peace fashion columnists and novelists
fairly oozed with accounts of the gay
doings of the fashionable world on the
Riviera or the even more exalted Cote
d’Azur. Both are only nicknames. Postal
address for the alleged Riviera is “A.M.,”
meaning Alpes Maritimes, and the Cote
d’Azur is a bit of the little principality
of Monaco. And, to put Romance’s pot
well and truly on, soulless geographers
ignore the very existence of the South
Sea Islands.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Prince Henry’s Hospital
in St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, used to be
known as the Homoeopathic Hospital.
Those were the days when homoeopathy
claimed to transcend all other forms of
healing. It was a system of medicine
formulated by Hahnemann in the 18th
century on the principle that “like cures
like,” and its practitioners prescribed
minute doses of such medicines as would
produce in a healthy person the symp-
toms of the disease treated. A faint relic
of it subsists in the modern treatment
of syphilis by dosing the patient with
malaria. Gradually the homceopathists
came in line with the main body of
scientific medicine. The new Prince
Henry’s is an affair of 13 storeys replete
with every modern device —the tallest of
Melbourne’s buildings up to date.
* * * *
“T.”: A characteristic of the mug is
that he won’t admit that he is a mug,
even when exposed as such in the sight
of the world. To credulity he adds a
stubbornness that has its roots in vanity.
Hence it is that not a word of recan-
tation, much less contrition, has come
from the extraordinary band of simple-
tons who were taken in by Stalin and
his associated propagandists and white-
anters who call themselves “fighters”—
from the bishops who maundered about
the spiritual side of Communism and
its white-souled champions; from the
professors who proclaimed it the hope
of the world; from those other pro-
fessors and editors and radio rhetoricians
who thundered for an alliance with the
Mightiest Power on Earth ; or the writing
boys, literary ladies, lawyers, doctors and
trade-union officials who joined Left
Book Clubs, Leagues against War and
Fascism and Leagues for Peace and
Democracy and let loose cocksure clap-
trap on all the foregoing features of
the Marvellous Revolution and a lot
more. So far from confessing that their
hero of the Democratic Front was just
a cunning Oriental faker, and expressing
penitence, some of these worthies are
now railing at the Finns. Fly-fla£s run
in all shapes. In that respect they are
like horses. But the trouble with a lot
of our intellectuals is that they lack
horse-sense.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Strange it is how often
important discoveries have evolved from
accidents. When Baekeland’s cat knocked
a bottle of formaldehyde off a laboratory
shelf and soaked a piece of cheese in
a mousetrap she involuntarily manufac-
tured the first of the casein-plastics, now
a huge industry. Benedictus clumsily
dropped a bottle of dried-out chemicals
on a concrete floor. It starred, without
breaking, on account of the strong trans-
parent film inside. He mixed the same
chemicals and produced the first sheet
of safety glass. Harry Brearley was ex-
perimenting to get a rust-resisting steel
alloy for rifle barrels during the last war
and threw out one mixture because it con-
tained too much chromium. The scrap-
iron collector was delayed by illness and
an assistant noticed that weeks of rain
had not rusted the metal bar —hence
stainless steel. The man who really in-
vented blotting paper got the sack from
a paper mill for spoiling a vat of pulp
by a stupid mistake. The absorbent
qualities of the spoiled vat content were
discovered some weeks later, but by then
the sacked person had died.
THE TINKLE OF THE TELEPHONE.
What is it makes the world go round?
The hunting of the nimble pound?
Love, some will confidently tell,
While others tip the dinner-bell,
Or stress the sermons parsons preach;
And something may be said for each.
But to my mind the motive force
That drives us all along our course
Begins and ends in this alone:
The tinkle of the telephone.
Can you conceive how, years agonc,
Our rude forefathers carried on,
And made their deals and backed their gees
Sans any gadgets like to these?
Our grand-dads rather, for you know
It’s less than sixty years ago
Since first was wafted o’er the air
The crisp inquiry “Are you there?”
And on defenceless ears was thrown
The tinkle of the telephone.
A fuller life, the world agrees,
Comes with these modern luxuries,
These aids to converse that efface
Distance and make a mock of space.
And yet—will anyone aver
We weren’t a trifle happier
Before the knowledge that there might
impinge upon us, day or night.
The summons that you can’t disown,
The tinkle of the telephone?
I sometimes crave, I must confess,
A lodge in some vast wilderness,
A quiet possie in the snow-
Bound igloos of the Eskimo,
Or in some monastery set
Among the mountains of Tibet,
Secure from all the mild torment
Of this tyrannic instrument,
Where never radios blare and drone
Or o’er the ambient air is blown
The tinkle of the telephone.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hamfat”: The cable announcing that
a film actress has made her third
venture into matrimony with a man who
had three previous trips to the altar
reminds me of Guy Bates Post and his
fourth marriage. The lady had divorced
three husbands. The invitations to the
event contained a warning to be on time
because “this is no amateur performance.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: Touching the soft-hearted
treatment of bad eggs in the P.M.G.’s
Department, the N.S.W. branch especially
(B. 3/1 /’4O), 14 N.S.W. cases of “de-
fault and irregularities” are mentioned
in the Auditor-General’s last report. The
sums involved totalled £378 12s, lid. In
one case there was no prosecution, the
offender being merely sacked ; in another
an assistant in a “non-official” office was
“charged, convicted and fined £10” ; in
a third an acting postmaster (“non-
official”) was “charged and convicted ;
amount made good ; office removed to
other control.” In all the others the
culprits were “charged, convicted and
bound over” and “dismissed” from or
“debarred from further employment” in
the service. The other five States re-
ported a dozen cases altogether. In three,
sentences were imposed and were not
suspended: a Queensland postmaster who
was £503 short got 18 months’; a South
Australian who ran a “non-official” office
had to do three months’; a second
Queenslander, also in charge of a “non-
official” office, was “sentenced to three
months’ on charge of stealing, also con-
victed charge of arson and sentenced to
12 months’,” but “second sentence sus-
pended.” At the other end of the scale
was a Westralian postal clerk who,
charged with “fraudulent use of de-
faced postage stamps and misappropria-
tion of proceeds” (£27 18s. lid.), was
“fined £1 and costs, and restitution
ordered; dismissed from the service.”
“Only a pound!” as Banjo Paterson
sang of the faithful steed sent to the
auction yard.
“Ente Marid”: Next time a select com-
mittee has nothing to do it might find
out for me the principle on which the
N. S. Wales Government institutions
select their flags for public buildings.
Over the Treasury as I write flies a
rent blue ensign, which looks as if it
might have been captured at Ticon-
deroga. It has a faded yellow symbol
on it, which at first looks like a lemon-
squeezer with a lemon in it, but it turns
out to be the N.S.W. armorial emblem.
Opposite, the Conservatorium of Music
only runs to three parts of an Australian
red ensign—the rest has
been blown away. The
Art Gallery manages a
whole one. The Public
Library boasts a British
blue ensign, which looks
as if an Indian dhobi
had just washed it.
Bruxner’s Transport
Department is always
much beflagged just
now it has both the blue
and the red ensigns;
and the Union Jack
waves gloriously over
the Chief Sec.’s Depart-
ment, while Lands offi-
cials work beneath its
folds and those of an
Australian blue ensign.
I suppose that it is all
meant to be decorative,
but it would be much more so if a few
bob were laid out on new materials.
* * * *
“K.P.”: At first I didn’t recognise the
chap who, with slurred guttural voice
and fixed staring eyes, told me that he
wanned t’ gerrinter the A.I.F. an’ they'd
turned him down. “You know I’m all
ri’, Doc.,” he said. “You sheen me fi’.
Wanner she if c’n try ’gain.” Then I
knew him for that splendid young athlete
who mopped up all our district amateur
fistic talent, turned pro. and worked
himself up among the big money. The
broad flattened nose and cauliflower
ears showed that his speed and adroit-
ness in avoiding punishment had gone
this long time. As he pulled his shirt
over his head he swayed, on his feet, and
it was plainly a mental effort for him
to concentrate on answering simple ques-
tions. He was hopelessly and incurably
punch-drunk. It is useless to tell such
unfortunates the truth about themselves
—often risky. A moderate deafness in
one ear provided the explanation that all
A.I.F. men require to be physically per-
fect. “Tryin’ milisha,” he said, lurching
off. Can’t something be done to prevent
such wastage of fine human material?
* w * * *
“Lord Luvus”: In Melbourne the other
day a man was charged with being an
idle and disorderly person because he had
twanged a banjo and raised his voice in
song in a side lane, and had gathered
alms thereby. It turned out that his
. serenade so charmed his hearers that the
casements of city buildings flew open and
coins showered at his feet. Ihe
S.M. ruled that the charge fell down
on its terminology, but fined the seren-
ader three quid for obstructing the
pavement. They have a better idea about
“I’m off to lunch early, Jim, so you’ll ’ave to ’ang around till I get back.”
“I don't care what it is, captain—I won’t have it in MY cabin!"
the uses of pavements in Belgium. In
Ostend years ago I walked into a cafe
and asked for a bite of lunch and a glass
of wine. The proprietor nodded to a
waiter, who took a table out on the side-
walk, placed a chair alongside it and
arranged two cypresses in barrels on each
side of the chair; then he invited me to
take my seat in this charming glade, and
proceeded to serve my dejeuner. As a
Melburnian I felt a bit embarrassed at
obstructing the pedestrians’ right-of-way,
but the pedestrians, instead of calling a
gendarme to have me chucked out, took
peacefully to the gutter so that this single
wayfarer could eat his meal in sunny
serenity. It is a matter of values, I sup-
pose, but I have never met a Melbourne
citizen who didn’t hate his native streets
and, if he has seen them, doesn’t love the
streets of France and Belgium.
* * * *
“El V.”: One thing I like about the
bloke who answers medical questions for
The Bulletin’s Service page is his
cautious conservatism. To the question
(B. 17/1/’4O) “is there any truth in the
belief that an eight months’ child has
very little hope of living to 14, or will
be of bad health?” he replies that such
children are often delicate and
require careful nursing, but they “may
and do attain adult life.” My colonial,
they do —Winston Churchill is one of
them, though there are some people who
wonder whether his mind is really adult
even yet.
* * * *
“Perry”: Mention of the insolence of
moneyed damsels at exclusive schools
recalls the case of a young woman who
got even with the ringleader of a senior
class in a very expensive seminary near
Sydney. The chief offender belonged to
the wealthiest clan in the district, and
proved a hideous thorn to the teacher,
who couldn’t afford to lose her job.
Teacher went home one night in despair
and related her woes to the family and
some visiting relatives from the country.
The name of the rich girl’s family re-
vived memories in an elderly aunt, and
teacher went to school next day armeu
for battle. As usual, she found the purse-
proud 15-year-old incorrigible, but
instead of chiding her she said kindly,
“Now, Gwendolen, do behave yourself.
Your conduct is so unfair to your grand-
parents, who were very respectable, hard-
working people.” “What do you mean?”
demanded the astounded damsel. Oh,
I know all about them, dear,” continued
the teacher in the same kind manner;
“when my grandparents came to Aus-
tralia they brought yours out as carters.
And splendid workers they were.” It
was the end of Gwendolen. Her mana
was broken, and the other girls, possibly
fearing revelations concerning their an-
cestry, gave no further trouble.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Amongst recent suc-
cessful applicants for divorce in American
courts was a deaf-and-dumb man who
claimed that his similarly-afflicted wife
nagged him beyond all endurance in sign
language. Another husband had found
his wife in a tattoo saloon having initial?
put on her legs—not his initials. A wife
who complained successfully of her hus-
band’s habit of keeping a pet bear in
their bedroom celebrated her freedom by
marrying the proprietor of a troupe of
performing fleas. Another got her decree
because her fingers had been injured
while searching for money in her hus-
band’s trouser pockets after he had gone
to bed —the brute had set a steel trap
there. Another heartless spouse had
soaped the bathtub in the hope that his
wife would slip and hurt herself. The
man whose wife secured a separation be-
cause he hadn’t had a bath in 15 years
wouldn’t have thought of that. A long-
suffering lady had condoned fireworks
being thrown at her on the Fourth of
July and being smacked with the Thanks-
giving turkey, but when he hit her with
the Christmas-tree it was just too much
—decree granted.
* * * *
“Old Doodley”: One of our local rags
announces triumphantly that “one of the
largest manufacturing firms in England”
—a cotton-weaving and fabric-printing
concern in Manchester —is proposing to
transfer to Australia the whole of its plant,
valued at “more than £1,000,000.” Even
a dozen years ago Dunlop’s plant near
Birmingham was so large that it needed
a 12-mile walk to see all of the factory;
and big motor-car, aeroplane, chemical
(1.C.1. without subsidiaries is capi-
talised at over £60,000,000) and elec-
trical, steel and textile firms regard
a million as chicken feed. I remember
conveying to Lord Hirst, head of
the British General Electric Co.,
the sad news that his firm had lost a
Bunnerong contract for £690,000-odd
in circumstances which were not the
most conducive in the world to good
temper. His Lordship, at the moment,
was wading heartily into a plate of steak-
and-kidney pudding,' and the catastrophe
did not even seem to put him off his
stroke. “Are you going to protest?” I
asked. “Tut, no,” said he, delaying a suc-
culent lump of kidney half-way to his
interior, as he twinkled his eye at me.
“Sometimes you get these contracts; some-
times you lose them. It’s all in the day’s
work. My business is an empire.”
THE INTERPRETER.
“Dfsn ration, tinged with a feeling of disgust,
warned to be registered in the fierce swing from which
Bradman° was 'caught at long-on on the
N.S.W.-S.A, match.
All strokes that leave your bat, my son, you’ll
who with appraising eyes regard us
Siiscest a certain attitude of mind,
Although it’s only birds like Neville Cardus
Can give them— what’s beyond less gifted
Their proper musical equivalents.
The dour stonewaller, sitting on the splice,
Exhibits qualities you may assess
As something hard as iron and cold as ice,
A sort of dogged conscientiousness.
And scorn of those upon the Hill who sit
And yell vociferously “Have a hit!”
The flashing cut, the sizzling drive that flies
Pursued by panting fieldsmen to the fence,
Bespeak illimitable enterprise,
Mostly allied with sturdy confidence.
In short, you get a line on lots of blokes
In cricket by the way they make their strokes.
But never, son of mine, before your eye
[ s in—however fast the wickets fall
And whatsoe’er your rating—never try
To knock the cover off the blinking ball !
A savage swipe like that, it’s obvious, must
Be born of desperation and disgust.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


vm
m
m
3013
r
HB—MM M •• »•*
CRAVEN A
every day
quality always tells!
10 for Sd 20 for 1/6
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Beyond hinting that Hore-Belisha’s
“very great qualities” made that gentle-
man hard to get on with, Chamberlain
did not explain why he had made the
change at the War Office, and the sacked
Minister’s speech revealed nothing. Nor
did Churchill throw any light on his visit
to G.H.Q. in France before the sacked
Minister had actually quitted office.
Evidently he and his colleagues had been
told to keep their mouths shut.
The week-end found Churchill barging
away in an Empire broadcast—dwelling
on the “military incapacity of the Red
Army and the Red Air Force,” so recently
the subject of his rhapsodies; offering
“the neutrals” a Grand Alliance —it had
beeh a week of great anxiety to Holland,
Belgium and Sweden and, with a
Hertzog-Malan peace motion coming on
in the Union Parliament, giving “the
liberation of Warsaw, Prague and
Vienna” as Empire war aims. James the
First was “the wisest fool in Christen-
dom,” and Churchill is the most eloquent
messer.
The Hore-Belisha business had our
Glorious Press on the horns of a dilemma.
It wanted to be kind to him, but couldn’t
be too kindthat might have meant
having a go at another idol, Churchill.
Tt relieved its feelings at the expense
of a former idol.
Crowds surged round Mr. Hore-Belisha
when he left the War Office. His popu-
larity outshines that of Mr. Eden even
during Mr. Eden’s best days.
Mr. Eden must be rapidly approaching
his worst days.
There has been another Loan Council
meeting in Melbourne, and, though the
discussions were not reported, some of
the State excrescences must have asked
Menzies to “have a heart.” Anyway, he
said after the meeting that balancing of
States’ Budgets was necessary, and “this,
in some instances, may involve an in-
crease in taxation.” Why should it? Why
don’t the excrescences cut down their im-
mense expenditure, beginning with them-
selves?
Why should 80 Westralian State poli-
ticians get £6OO a year for three or four
months’ “work”? Why shouldn’t N.S.W.
Ministers and Assemblymen return the
£25,000 p.a. they gave themselves when a
J O'" ~
surplus of £7795 was promised and a
deficit of nearly £3,000,000 was the actual
result? Why should the N.S.W. taxpayers
have to find nearly £2OOO p.a. for a super-
fluous Minister of Health called up for
A.A.M.C. service? Increase of State
taxes, if perpetrated, will be a fraud on
the nation.
Saying that he didn’t think it would
“constitute or threaten to bring about
any so-called involvement in European
wars,” President Roosevelt suggested that
Finland should be granted loans for “the
purchase of non-military commodities.”
Perhaps the good man imagines that the
Finns can beat the barbarians by throw-
ing biscuits at them.
Almost exactly a year after the dread-
ful week when reports of 46 deaths in
a single day were rolling in, the Victorian
Forests Commission was said to be sub-
mitting to the Executive Council regula-
tions for provision of dugouts in all
dangerous forest areas. A year ago
Premier Dunstan was prompt in an-
nouncing that the Government would
not only deal with the immediate situa-
tion but take measures to prevent a
repetition. Forest men are almost unani-
mous in saying that the mpuntain ash
forests are specially dry and dangerous
at the present moment with shattered
logs, fallen trees, limbs and bark for
kindling.
According to a Sydney “Herald”
enthusiast, the hopeful souls who pro-
pose to plant a Jewish settlement in
North Westralia pin their faith to “an
area of 1J million acres now owned by
Connell, Doherty and Durack.” Con-
nor, Doherty and Durack had it half a
century ago, and never went beyond
cattle. The projectors are certain that
sheep will thrive on the place, also,
maize, cotton, hemp, flax, tropical fruits,
sugarcane and the usual vegetables; soya
beans, peanuts, linseed, castor and tung oil,
pigs and so on. In addition there is a
great deal of poorer grazing country which
would support goats, mules and other
hardy animals.
In fact, almost everything except poli-
ticians.
“Russia should be regarded as one of
the greatest nations, and the more we
know about it the better we shall be
able to estimate the value of its mighty
experiment for the future of the world.”
Bishop Burgmann said that in August,
“ROLL OUT THE BARREL ”
“Soldiers are quoting a Maoriland Minister’s report that wet canteens are working
satisfactorily in his Dominion.”
1936, when a Society for the Promotion
of Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia
was formed by professors and others in
Perth. Does the bishop now know
“enough about it to estimate the value
of the mighty experiment” to, say, Poland
and Finland? He has grown singularly
silent on this subject, though still copious
on others.
Broken Hill line fettlers are on strike
again—against a Commonwealth arbitra-
tion decision this time. Instead of being
ordered back to work, they have been
cheered on by their Red-run union,
which is also threatening enforced cus-
tomers of other sections of the bankrupt
railways with regulation strikes. The
Miners’ Federation for its part is threat-
ening “a Commonwealth-wide coal
strike,” and the Board of Reference set
up under its arbitration award has
been declared “black” or something by
Nelson, the president, who speaks from
Communist platforms. Still, the Sydney
daily press can’t reasonably complain.
Hasn’t it just been telling its public that
Reds should be free to say and do what-
ever they please?
When five R.A.A.F. men were killed in
that December crash at Richmond
(N.S.W.), Sydney “D.T.” asserted that
they had been “Guests at Marriage of
Comrade,” leaving its readers to draw
their own conclusion. The assertion was
refuted at the coroner’s inquest by con-
nections of the dead lads ; but the “D.T.”
did not apologise, nor did it report an
indignant father’s denunciation of it. In
autumn of last year it erupted in angry
columns and worked up a Parliamentary
agitation when one of its photographers
fell foul of R.A.A.F. men who were
guarding a wrecked ’plane. Possibly the
trouble with the R.A.A.F. is that it isn’t
part of the Red Army, “the greatest fight-
ing machine that history has ever known,”
with cpuntless and unconquerable legions
and “over 6000 ’planes.”
Sydney “Daily News,” for which a
Moscow news service was arranged when
Reds were in control, repords with a
suspicion of a sneer that “the 19th Red
Army Division has been awarded the
Order of the Red Banner for what is
described as its ‘exemplary execution of
battle tasks assigned to it by the High
Command in the struggle against the
Finnish White Guards.’ ” When counted
before the war, male Finns of all ages
numbered just under 1,900,000, and the
Moscow story is that the men are divided
into two camps: (1) Oppressors, organ-
ised as White Guards, and (2) Corns. Yet
with the Mighty Red Army, drawn from
a population of 180,000,000, placed at
the service of the Corns., the White
Guards continue to lord it over them in
the eighth week of the war. An obvious
inference is that the Red Army can’t
fight.
Session after session, the Parliament at
Canberra has shirked its job of review-
ing A.B.C. policy and expenditure, but
two things will thunder for its attention
when it meets again. One is that waste
of money and paper the A.B.C.
“Weakly,” the other is rocketing staff
salaries. Staff salaries mopped up
£33,031 in 1936-37, £37,744 in 1937-38,
and £42,076 in 1938-39. Seeing that
the P.M.G.’s Department issues licenses
and “undertakes the provision of all
technical services associated with the
transmission of programmes,” and that
amiouncers, lecturers, producers, pro-
gramme officers, artists, orchestras, bands-
men and accompanists are not listed as
staff, the public is entitled to know why
so much money is spent on the staff, and
who gets it, and what for.
Ex-Premier Dwyer-Gray, of the Speck,
who is still its Treasurer, went to the
Loan Council meeting in Melbourne,
blithering once more about “the utilisation
of national credit through the Common-
wealth Bank.” Its other name is Inflation,
and it has become the perfect cure-all to
mendicant or otherwise embarrassed
State Premiers. Australia won’t take the
medicine.
Asked by the Teachers’ Federation for
a huge grant to the State Governments
for expenditure on schooling, the P.M.
said he would ask his colleagues what
they thought. For himself, he believed
that “a Government which raises money
should be responsible to the people for
spending it.” That ought to be the end
of the matter until the Teachers’ Federa-
tion goes for Commonwealth control.
Taxation by the Commonwealth for
expenditure without responsibility by the
States simply won’t do.
Dismissed from the Maoriland Labor
Ministry and condemned by the national
executive of the party for writing an
article in which he
described his sick
leader as one of those
“pathological demo-
crats who too fre-
quently pull their
parties with them into
the grave,” Lee, M.P.,
discovered that his
article was “ungener-
ous and unfair to Mr.
Savage,” and promised
to be good in future.
It took him a month
to make the discovery
and the promise.
There is still the pos-
sibility of a party
split, with Lee lead-
ing the minority, if
the Government de-
cides on national ser-
vice, as it may.
With its head down
a sewer-vent or some-
thing, Melbourne’s
Metropolitan Board of
Works announced
that it was planning
to pay a pension
of up to £lOOO a
year to each chairman of the board on
retirement. It lately bestowed the maxi-
mum figure on David Bell, after a bare
12 years’ service on a far from niggardly
salary. The highest-paid officials in the
State service draw a maximum of £312
p.a. on retirement, and have to contri-
bute to a superannuation fund, which
chairmen of the ornate Board of Works
don’t. Dunstan has promised to look
into it. He knows there is a war on;
apparently the board doesn’t.
Friends of Mr. Boom, sometime ot
the Sydney “Sun,” who wanted to fight
Japan and Italy, as well as Germany,
are alarmed for Britain and Australia,
since Mr. Boom has taken to waving his
tomahawk in all directions. In a late
outbreak he announced that Chamberlain
must go and Bruce must go—the latter
because of his “Pommy tactics.” For the
present, France seems to be safe. Any-
way, Mr. Boom spoke as “an Australian
militia officer” at a gathering of French
notables, who were so overcome by Mr.
Boom’s pugnacious eloquence that next
time Mr. Boom goes to Paris he will
have more invitations than he knows
what to do with. At least, Mr. Boom
says so.


THE TRIER.
“Jumping frogs held the spectators breathless with excitement in a novel contest at Darwin.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •• 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
€idj
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE DUBIOUS BOOM IN SHARES.
WAR-TIME ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
AND THEIR EFFECTS.
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH'S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS.
January Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney and ill Statn.
yOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL.. .
But even with approx. £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry ...
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B s2<?4
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia need not be ashamed of the
oratorical powers of R. G. Menzies. He
is more than a smooth and polished
speaker. So it must have been atmo-
spherics, plus some quaint ideas about
Australian ethnology, and not impolite-
ness. that caused a Montreal daily to
report that in his overseas broadcast on
Australia’s part in the war the P.M.
addressed the people “in pidgin-English.”
The Bulletin has an interest in the
1939 Act of Parliament in S.A. which
splits up the Public Library, Art Gallery
and Museum Board of Adelaide into
three separate bodies. The old board
was mainly elected by the University
and various learned societies. S. Talbot
S. TALBOT SMITH.
Smith, for the last 40 years The Bulle-
tin’s local art and dramatic critic, and
now about its oldest contributor any-
where, was for some years president, and
Alex. Melrose, who writes both prose and
verse for it under a pen-name (and who
gave £lO,OOO for a Melrose wing to the
National Gallery), was vice-president at
the end. The three new and small
boards, all Government nominees and
to be revised every two or four years,
start with S.T.S. as chairman of the
Library, and Melrose as chairman of the
National Gallery. Harvey Johnston,
famous in Queensland for dealing with
the prickly-pear pest before he moved
to Adelaide University as Professor,
takes the chair at the Museum, with
Douglas Mawson of Antarctic fame as
his chief supporter.
“C.M.”: In that terrifying film “The
Lion Has Wings,” Melbourne theatre-
goers might have recognised a one-time
fellow-citizen in the officer in charge of
the Coastal Command in Britain if the
characters hadn’t been actors. The man
actually directing that amazing organi-
sation is an Australian, Air Vice-Marshal
Richard Williams, who was Chief of the
Air Staff in Melbourne until he was
lent to Britain. He was born in Moonta,
S.A., and began work in a bank.
“Quillo”: Behind the bare statement
in the “S. M. Herald” that “Mr. Joseph
Hambley, a butler, formerly of Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, left an estate of
£9174” is an unusual story of more than
half a century’s devoted service to a
family and its generous recognition.
Joe Hambley was only 14 when, after
being shipwrecked, fortune directed his
steps to the home of the Brown family,
later to acquire great wealth as coal-
owners in the Newcastle and Maitland
districts. The lad by manhood had
graduated to the rank of butler. The
story is that each member of the family
remembered Joe in his will. These bene-
factions, plus his capacity to save,
accounted for his fortune. He buttled
finally for Stephen, last surviving mem-
ber of the Brown family, who lives in
Macquarie-street.
Joe Riley, just dead in Adelaide at
72, was as a youth right-hand man to
the old-time stalwart John Creswell, at
whose death 30 years ago Riley took
over the secretaryship of S.A. Cricket
Association, Agricultural Society and
Chamber of Commerce. He then helped
all three to grow into bodies too big for
any combined office. He himself stuck
to the C. of C. till his health broke
down two years back. He did good
work also for the Vinegrowers’ Asso-
ciation.
G. H. Mackley, who has shut off
steam after 40 years’ service with M.L.
railways, of which he has been g.m.
since 1933, is a native of Port Chalmers
and held important appointments before
he climbed to the summit. For a
time he represented the department
before the Railways Appeal Board. His
successor is Eugene Casey, who stepped
into Mackley’s shoes in 1933 as assist-
ant g.m. He was on the engineering staff,
and under him many big engineering
works were carried out. Casey, who has
a reputation as a
speaker, is the
youngest head the
service has had.
Dr. G. W. F
Alberry, the flying
doctor who, with
his pilot, K. C.
Berry, had a forced
landing between
Gregory Downs
and Burketown
(Q.), and was the
subject of a long
search, is a gradu-
ate of Melbourne
University. He was
M.O. at Burketown
until 1933, when
he joined the Aus-
tralian Inland Mis-
sion. He became a
flying doctor when
its service was
taken over by the
A.A.M.S. Doctor
Alberry spoke for
Australia in the
Empire broadcast
in 1939, when the
King and Queen
visited Canada.
Vic. Nat. Gallery
trustees are arrang-
ing a memorial ex-
hibition of the works
of their late art director, W. B. Mclnnes,
and are inviting owners to lend
pictures. There was no more prolific
painter than Mclnnes. His facile tech-
nique enabled him to turn out portraits
at a great rate, and many Australian
notables were painted by him. Almost
every Australian gallery has examples—
there are several at Canberra—and he
won the Archibald Prize six times. Yet he
used to say that he hated painting por-
traits, and the one thing he longed for
was the time to paint little landscapes.
Max Meldrum, of Melbourne, winner
of the Archibald Prize for Portraiture
for 1939, can claim to be the only Aus-
tralian who has founded a definite and
distinctive school of painting. Being of
Scottish extraction (he was bom in Edin-
burgh), he can defend his views with
faultless logic. He has lived most of
his life in Melbourne, but had 14 years
in Paris in early manhood, while about
10 years ago he took his gospel to the
U.S.A. and promulgated it in a series
of forceful lectures. He was 64 last
month.
The honoring of knight George Julius
with the degree of Doctor of Science
by the Maoriland University is a tribute
to a versatile scientist. The son of
Archbishop Julius, of Christchurch, he
was educated at Melbourne Grammar,
Canterbury College (M.L.) and Sydney
University. He was engineering on Wes-
tralia’s railways as far back as 1896.
Individual research made him an
authority on Australian hardwoods and
economic problems, and he has done
yeoman service to Australia as president
of the National Research Council and
chairman of the Standards Association.
But in the home of the Melbourne Cup
he is most likely to be remembered as
the inventor of the automatic totalisa-
tor. George Julius is 67 and was born
at Norwich, in England.
The first Canadian Air Force man to
land in England was an Australian. He
was Lieut. Frank Coates, who was born
at Ballarat and graduated from its School
of Mines to a metallurgical appointment
at Trail, in British Columbia. He was
one of the stars of Canadian ice hockey,
and was president of its association. His
father manages one of Hoyt’s theatres
at Bondi Junction, N.S.W.
There’s room for argument whether
Captain Frank Hurley, Sydney-born 49
years ago, is the best photographer who
ever became an explorer, or the best
CAPTAIN FRANK HURLEY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
explorer who ever became a photo-
grapher. He did splendid work in both
capacities with the Mawson and Shackle-
ton expeditions, of which he was a mem-
ber ; made photographic history in two
senses as an official war photographer
with the A.1.F., and has since, it would
appear, exhausted all the possibilities of
both static and cinematographic photo-
graphy in the course of constant travels
in Australia and elsewhere in the Pacific.
Roland Clarence Atkinson, of Sydney, is
the stipendiary magistrate who presides
over the tremendously lengthy conspiracy
case arising out of some of the trans-
actions of Woolcott-Forbes. His Worship
is 58, has been in the public service for
ATKINSON, S.M.
over 40 years, and is one of the strong
pillars of Anglicanism in N. S. Wales,
being a lay canon of St. Andrew’s and
an officer of the Diocesan, Provincial and
General Synods. When not investigating
tangled cases or serving his church he
relaxes with golf or tennis.
Dr. C. H. Kellaway and his assistants,
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in
Melbourne, who were lately engaged on
research for a universal snakebite serum,
are now being co-opted for the biggest
blood-transfusion organisation in Aus-
tralian history. Medical officers of the
Second A.I.F. are taking tests of every
soldier, and dispatching them to the
laboratories. There the tests will be
divided into four main types and the
results put on record in every paybook
and a check number engraved on the
backs of all identification disks. If any
man gets wounded and needs a trans-
fusion the blood bank of his detachment
will be able to supply the correct type
of blood immediately. All Victorian
soldiers’ blood will be “typed” at Dr.
Kellaway’s institution. Kellaway was a
major in the A.A.M.C. in the last war,
and was Army Director of Hygiene from
1927 to 1931.
Victorian-born A. G. Strickland, Chief
Horticulturist to the S.A. Agriculture De-
partment, has returned to Adelaide
after representing the Commonwealth at
the Eighteenth International Congress on
Agriculture, held at Dresden just before
war broke out. He was elected a vice-
president from amongst nearly 2000 dele-
gates from 54 nations. Strickland got his
M.Agr.Sc. degree at Melbourne Univer-
sity, and then had seven years’ service
with the Victorian Agriculture Depart-
ment as horticultural research officer.
“Dick Tafone”: Dead in Melbourne
at 93, Madame Weigel, for more than
two generations a household name
amongst Australasian women on account
of her paper-pattern dress designs. She
came to Australia as a bride. A woman
acquaintance complained about difficulty
in getting a satisfactory fit from her dress-
maker. With some sheets of paper, scis-
sors and pins, Madame solved her prob-
lem. Melbourne women got to hear
about the newcomer’s talent, and soon
afterwards Madame took up pattern-
cutting as a business. Her enterprise still
flourishes and has clients all over the
world.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
>w;-
m
Mill
!! Wiß
if fill
ill
HUM
HIM
111
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
" METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“My husband invariably annoys me by telling
the same old jokes every time we have visitors.
What should I do?”— Correspondent.
Get him a job as a radio comedian.
•b *b *b
“Can anyone recommend a safe method of
slimming?” asks correspondent.
Yes—try boarding.
•J* *f* 4*
“Is it a caddish streak in a man’s nature
that enables him to hide things from his
wife?” — Women’s mag.
No, a streak of genius.
■* *b 'l* 'b
“Is women’s modern bathing costume really
popular?”— Women’s paper.
The eyes have it.
•fr *i*
“There is the sort of young man who would
cut off his nose to spite his face.”
—Women s paper.
He’s the same sort of young man, no
doubt, who has a down on his chin.
4* 4*
“In Topeka, Kansas, a law limits each
household to five cats.” — “Worlds News.
This prevents all female relatives barg-
ing in at once.
“The land around London was 60ft. to, 70ft.
higher in the Stone Age than it is now.
—“Worlds News.
Since then, of course, golfers have had
their diggings there.
•b *b *b
“Remember, when you’ve got, twins you ve
got something.”— “Sunday Sun.”
At least, you’ve got the perfect excuse
for celebrating with double whiskies.
•b *b *b 4*
“My mother had been living with me. One
Sunday at dinner my wife said, T have had
enough of your mother.’ ” — “Sun.’
Any other intending cannibals - should
thereby realise a ma-in-law is a tough
dish.
•b »b »b *b
Then there was the King’s Cross
flapper who could say “No” in 49 dif-
ferent languages.
è
"MOUSE!"
“£lOOO damages for author.”— News item.
So writing occasionally does pay!
“Swaybacked horses on the screen always get
laughs.”— “World’s News.”
Instead of drawing gigs they draw
giggles. ,
•f* •b *l* *J* _ M
“Panama had 53 revolutions in 52 years.
.— “World’s News.
The extra one was probably thrown
in as a sort of peace offering.
•b •b •b 'b ......
“The King has decided to suspend all civic
honor lists during the war.” —Sydney paper.
Knight starvation!
** * *
“What the stars promise for 1940.”
. —Astrological blurb.
A few good films, we hope.
•j. •b "b *l*
Science and Sport.
“Galileo discovered isochranism of the pen-
dulum in 1581 by observing that the swinging
lamps in the cathedral of Pisa took the same
time to complete the arc through which they
swung regardless of the distance they were sus-
pended from the ceiling.”—From Swinging
Into Golf,” by Ernest Jones.
The analogy between Galileo’s great
discovery and the mug golfer’s wonder
as to why his swing hasn’t improved
new becomes perfectly clear; it is that
his indigestion arising from the hurried
eating of a pork chop immediately be-
fore hitting off so induces constriction
of the pectoral muscles that his breath
intake per swing-second creates a tem-
porary vacuum in the line of arc, thus
causing the clubhead to descend obliquely
at a given ratio.
Let this be x. Then Time = Pi
multiplied by the square root by the
length divided by the gravity. The re-
sult of this equation, when divided by
the number of square feet of air dis-
placed by the golfer, will naturally equal
the number of foozles per sector of the
arc before the club commences its
follow-through. The golfer who can
work this out mentally while he is
rudely addressing the ball, and skilfully
apply the result to his problem of how
to swing so as to get a 350-yarder straig
down tHe fairway, is half-way , to be "
coming a scratch man. He wont have
a hope of getting the other hall-way
until he has also mastered the inn
Calculus in its relation to the slice.
Few golfers, as they breast the nine-
teenth hole, pause to consider that had
it not been for the genius of some
obscure Chow back in the Gee Bung
dynasty they might have never accom-
plished their record round of 114, toi
it was the invention of gunpowder which
so greatly influenced the development or
the explosive shot out of the bunker.
As explosive force is directly propor-
tional to the heat of combustion, and
the volume of gas and vapor calculated
at Odeg. C. and 7.60 pressure and in-
versely proportional to the specific heat
of the mixed products, this means that a
player with his knees bent at an angle or
73deg. would, if his eye, the ball and the
top of the bunker form an isosceles
triangle, and he happened to have a
bone-handled penknife in his pocket (yuie
Noble and Abel, Researches on Ex-
plosives), on an applied pressure of 160
atmospheres to the foot-ton, and assum-
ing that the gravimetric density of the
substanoe is unity, explode a perfect
shot, provided always that the “factor
of effect” and the muzzle velocity to-
gether equalled par. Those who are
constantly in bunker trouble should
bear this in mind. . .
So ignorant are the vast majority ot
billiardists that few are aware of the
vital influence Archimedes had on the
screw shot. The ancient Greek was
working out a problem one day when
a friend who was half-shot came in
and kept on telling Arch, the only three
jokes he knew. Gloomily asking him-
self why he had to be
bored by someone
“screwed,” the great
mathematician’s mind
followed the train of
thought thus started
by the coincidence of
the terms.
Flinging his inter-
rupter out on his neck,
Archimedes hopped
into the discovery that
if a spiral blade were
to be enclosed in a
cylinder, whatever was
put in at one end must
be drawn against the
grinding teeth. This
naturally led him to
reason that a body
immersed in a fluid
loses as much in
weight as an equal
volume of the fluid.
Previsoning the
time when billiards
would be invented, he
came to the conclusion
that if the feet of a
man wielding a cue were convex in-
stead of concave at the moment of the
cue’s impact with a solid, and if Uranus
were in conjunction with Scorpio at the
time, the solid must screw off at a
tangent. Not until amateur players be-
come more Archimedes-minded, and
fully study the principles underlying his
great inventions, will they completely
master the screw shot.
Ike Newton, when he watched an
apple dropping, little knew the profound
effect his discovery of gravitation was
to have later on wrestling. The matman
who has taken a ’varsity course—and
which of them, according to the flapper
press, haven’t?—knows that a body
dropping from a point above the earth’s
surface always falls in a straight line
towards the centre of the earth. Thus,
when he slings his opponent upwards
and over the ropes he is aware that the
soaring body must eventually fall on to
the press table. He knows, too, that if
Ike hadn’t discovered the law of gravity
his opponent would keep on going up
and up, and it would have been de-
clared “no contest” and he wouldn’t
have got his cut of the “house.” Thafs
why the great scientist’s name is
honored wherever grapplers forgather.
The influence that James Watt had on
tennis is crystallised in his invention in
1769 of the steam engine. Watt found,
after much research, that a flywheel
running hot in a smokebox will, if the
cylinder nuts are counterpoised by the
boiler steam, produce a stroke-drive.
The lesson to be learned by the beginner
at tennis is manifest: by applying this
vital principle when he runs in to hit
a ball tossed at him from an acute angle
and dropping sharply in humid atmo-
sphere he must have his feet at right
angles to the net, his right elbow de-
scribing a parabola and the entire weight
of his body balanced on his big light
toe. He will then be in the position to
stroke his drive without pulling it to-
wards the side-lines.
80.
The Speed Hogs.
“Ouick-thinking rather than concentration
is the secret of success of^amptons^
As tomcat contemplates the tit
And licks his feline jaws,
So over chess the masters sit
And hum and ha and pause.
They stroke their chins and yawn and
blink
And ponder. Then, to prove
That checkmate’s wrought by quickened
thought,
They fall asleep the while they think
It is the other’s move!
P.O.M.C.
Hollywood Relations.
“There are connections, of sorts, between
the majority of the screen stars in Hollywood.”
-—"Sunday Sun.”
“That poor girl!” said my friend
Horatio Hogbottle, who, although he is
back in Australia for a holiday, has been
so long in Los Angeles that he is thor-
oughly Hollywooden. “That poor girl!
Fancy her tying herself up for life for at
least four or five months with a black-
guard like that! His last marriage lasted
only forty-eight hours; it finished be-
cause, being absolutely soulless, he ob-
jected to Paula Paulotski being tempera-
mental and breaking the vases over his
head. The swine!
“I have a personal feeling over this:
poor little Gloro is a sort of connection
of mine. A niece in a manner of speak-
ing, and I’ve always taken an interest
in her.
“You see, my third wife’s fifth
husband was married (she was his second
wife) to Babe Foodlesticks, whose
seventh husband’s fourth wife was mar-
ried at some time or another (nobody
has been able to count Blango Blather-
skite’s marriages) to Joe Higswool. Joe’s
sister Hettie is Gloro’s mother.
That sort of makes Gloro a kind
of niece of mine. A charming little girl
she was, and as a young woman —well,
when after four weeks my marriage with
Mariana went wrong, I found Gloro’s
girlish sympathy so charming that she
was nearly becoming the ninth Mrs. Hog-
bottle. But we decided to let the niece
relationship stand.
“Do you wonder I am upset? Tying
like that! Still, I’m buoyed up by the
herself up for eternity with a blackguard
thought that I’ll be able to resume my
avuncular relationship as soon as she s
r
H.M.
Reverses.
Poor Marie had been unlucky in love.
The watchmaker was always giving her
a good time and was on the tick of pro-
posing when he was unfortunately com-
pelled to wind up his business. The
enginedriver had her thinking about a
nice train for her wedding dress, but his
thoughts ran off the marriage lines, and
he gave her the shunt. After a nodding
acquaintance with an auctioneer, she was
trying hard to penetrate his reserve when
another cat got a knock-down to him,
outbid her for his affections, and poor
Marie concluded she had been sold.
However, the dustman is now begin-
ning to dip his lid. Marie is shrewd
enough to know that only some powerful
emotional upset would force a dustman
to dip his lid after the Christmas-present
season is over. In appearance, he is not
too dusty, never talks rubbish and has
plenty of grit. Marie is sure that he is
going to remove a great load from her
mind by carting her to the altar.
D.McM.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Dan the Dabster,
humping the knot through Victoria,
found himself near a woolshed out of
St. Arnaud one threatening night. Wait-
ing until after dark, he crept into the
place, made a good bunk in one of the
woolbins and dropped off. He awoke,
but didn’t know why. He listened, but
could hear nothing. He was about to
drop off again when a pale radiance
appeared before his eyes. It surrounded
a cadaverous face which trailed off into
wavering shadows. Dan shivered. The
face continued to peer at him. “Who--
who the hell” Dan began, a quaver
in his voice. “You are in Paradise,” said
a sepulchral voice. “Wh-wh-what!”
yammered Dan. “You are in Paradise,”
affirmed the voice. Dan didn’t even wait
for his bluchers in his mad rush to get
out of heaven. Next morning he learned
that it was true. The shed was on Para-
dise run, and the voice was the rouse-
about’s idea of a joke. Dan didn’t think
much of it.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Black Brother had an
easier method of snaring a plain turkey
than that described by “E.S.S.” (B.
3/1/’4O). When he found a turk.’s nest
out on the downs he sprinkled hot
gidya coals about it. They’d last 24
hours or longer. Mum Turk., returning
to the nest, would try to sweep that
rubbish from her front door, using her
wings as brooms. The first sweep would
knock the grey ash off the coals. After
that they got in their hot work. By the
time the old hen had cleaned her porch
and swept her backyard her flight
feathers would be singed. The rest
would be dead easy. Her efforts to rise
would be futile, and no plain turkey
ever hatched could pace it on foot with
an abo. buck. In addition to getting
the eggs, the hunter also had the bird as
a second course.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: In the matter of the girth
of forest giants (B. 10/1/’4O) I nominate,
without fear of contradiction, the
Javanese waringin as the daddy of ’em
all. It sends down aerial roots which
in their turn become trunks so inex-
tricably mingled with the parent body
that any attempt to measure it except
on a wholesale basis is doomed to frus-
tration. In course of time one specimen
is capable of covering acres, and there
is—or was—one example in the grounds
of the Hotel des Indes in Batavia in
whose woody caverns and grottoes
linked by arched cloisters large numbers
of the native staff found accommodation.
When the management decided to build
a ballroom this patriarch was found to
be venerated as a spirit, so the ballroom
was built round it. In the mating
season the flying-foxes resort to the
waringin, upend themselves on its
branches and sleep or nag at one
another during the daytime. The famous
upas tree of the ancient voyagers, which
lethalised its victims by emitting a power-
ful poison, was probably the waringin,
and as late as 1870 an English magazine
solemnly reported that it functioned as
public executioner to the Sultans of
Java.
“West Wind”: While no Sandgroper,
with visions of his own karri in mind, will
admit that Victoria has all the big trees
in Australia, he does not mind the Cab-
bage Gardener pointing to an odd pole
or two with pride. But there is at least
some satisfaction in the fact that no Vic-
torian has yet been able to build a bridge
out of one single log. That can be seen
a few miles out of Manjimup (s.-w.
Westralia), in the heart of the karri
country. The One Tree Bridge over the
Donnelly River is formed from a single
log, spans 75 feet, and carries an Bft.
roadway. It has carried heavy traffic and
has had little need of repair in the 35
years or so it has been there. Can Gipps-
land beat that one?
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The seaside town of
Yamba (northern N.S.W.) is making ex-
“Stand to attention when you address an officer!”
cellent commercial use of the 15ft. croco-
dile alleged to have its haunt in the
Angourie Swamp three miles away. The
“Crocodile Walk” is now a feature of its
dance halls, crocodile-skin handbags are
fashionable wear for its damsels, croco-
dile “hunts” bring in good returns to the
motor transport industry, sales of fire-
arms and ammunition suitable for croco-
dilean targets have reached unprece-
dented levels, and a businessman has
offered a reward of £2O for the capture
of the monster, dead or alive. Nervous
visitors are willing to pay advanced rates
for upstair rooms out of reach of the
devouring reptile, the only man who has
seen it so far has become a celebrity, and
even the discovery of tracks confers
fame. And any low, jealous cow who
wants to make out that croc, tracks are
easy to fake had better keep away from
Yamba.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: I hear that my old friend
Jimmy Susu, of Torres Strait, is wonder-
ing whether he’ll be discovering any
more floating mines round his islands.
During the Great War a native pearling
cutter on its way back to Yorke Island
spotted a shiny object in the water some
distance away. “We think he one turtle
when we look first time,” Jimmy told
me, “but when we sail up close to we
see he ’nother kind thing, and he got
something all same compass along him.”
Having been previously warned to act
with circumspection regarding floating
objects that might prove to have a bite
in them, Jimmy pondered for a while
as to procedure, especially as he thought
it looked like a sketch of a mine that
someone had shown him. Then he in-
structed two of the native crew to dive
under the death-engine* carefully attach
a rope to a projecting piece, and fasten
it to a 25-fathom length of line at the
cutter’s stern. They towed the mine until
dusk; then, afraid that it might bump
a reef, they hauled it up on to a sand-
bank and went off to report the incident
to the authorities at Thursday Island.
A naval party duly arrived and exploded
the outfit, which proved to be of Ger-
man origin, and, although not fully
active, was not a dud. Jimmy and his
mates got a fiver reward.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Last week the ruler of this
household complained that another blue-
bag had disappeared from the wash-house
and that she couldn’t imagine who’d steal
such a thing. Even as she spoke the
thief was mimicking a butcher-bird in
the dense scrub below the cliff. Later I
found his playhouse, a quite substantial
structure of curved and interwoven sticks
and reedy-grass stems set in a small open
space beside a stump. In and about it
were four bluebags, a blue enamel
brooch which the female child of this
house missed months ago, several strips
of blue rag, the blue handle of an old
toothbrush, a knotted mass of blue twine,
a stub of blue crayon which I remember
as lost at a timber job, an empty tin
matchbox colored in blue and red, several
bits of blue-and-white china, six bluish-
purple flowers from the “potato-vine” in
our garden a blue wing-feather from a
P a rrot, mc ! s L curious of all, an old
torch battery with bhie-and-red covering
weighing at least a quarter of a pound.
The satin bower-bird responsible for the
such waste material over the cliff edge-it
could no, possibly carry such a heavy
and smooth object. I retrieved the two
best bluebags and the brooch, but left a
whole arm of an old shirt of brilliant
blue in exchange. Next week I’ll sneak
down and see what use he has made of
so rich a treasure.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Those who pessimistically
aver that the breed is slipping must think
in terms of cocktail-sucking flappers,
There’s still good fibre in the fair sex out-
back. Witness 21-year-old Edna Aubrey,
who, assisted by her brother Dave, aged
18, set out from Lake Wanaka, in the
centre of Maoriland’s South Island, to
punch a mob of 160 half-wild cattle over
a 200-mile journey. The trek took the
youngsters three weeks to accomplish,
and the cattle were safely delivered at
their destination without a loss or even
an injury. Averaging about 10 miles a
day over anything but easy country, the
casual backblockers handed over their
charges, spruced themselves up and went
straight to a picture show.
“Marsh”: When they pair, bullocks
travelling in a mob on the stock-route
become almost inseparable mates, and
although during the day when feeding
one might get up near the lead and the
other remain on the tail of the mob,
night camp will see the pair together.
When one lies down the other will stand
on vigil until with a friendly nudge with
its horns the standing one will intimate
to the other that it’s time positions were
reversed. I once knew of a bullock
that was missed after the mob had been
on the road a fortnight. It was found
with a mate it had had since weaning
time, and to get to it that ox had to
negotiate half a dozen fences in a trek
of over 150 miles and pick its pal out
of a herd of twenty thousand cattle.
“W.D.McC.”: Affection between
animals will often go to great lengths.
My four-months-old kelpie bitch has
shown a great liking for two Jersey
calves with which she plays all day long.
The bawlers readily respond, and allow
the pup to pull their ears while they
endeavor to slobber bovine kisses over
her. It became necessary to move the
calves across the river, which is 50 yards
wide, \well above summer level, with a
current running at about eight or nine
knots, and the bridge closed with g gate.
Ten minutes after shifting the calves the
pup was playing with them, and on taking
her back she immediately plunged in
again and swam across to them. Now it
has become part of her daily routine,
* * * *
“Tasma Jun.”: The Forrester River,
in n _ e Tasmania, takes its name from
an j ma ] 0 f th e kangaroo species which
is stil[ t 0 be £ound in fairly large num .
b fa that districb xhe f< / rrester rosty .
with the old . man
T lh f rePUt , at 7 0f b , ein do a t' 0 th g e h ame
°™. er 10 . meet alone • 11 Th
? t C ? 0 S * h uar ters^^The antoal ifa fo™
a f, os f uarters TT . e an ™ al 1S a tornciicl
able ad . ve j? a y- H , ls
a *°° d b '" dt l uar,er would Kelgb £rom
0
* * * *
“Yarri”: A drover’s reporter was rid-
ing ahead to give notice to squatters that
travelling stock were approaching their
boundaries. While crossing a creek his
horse blundered and dropped him in a
pool of liquid mud. After catching his
horse he dived into a waterhole and then
stripped off and washed his clothes. His
time being limited, he couldn’t wait till
the togs dried, so he hung them on his
horse s neck and rode along naked until
they were fit to put on again, meantime
keeping a sharp lookout fore and aft.
Only an old swagman loomed up on the
road, and when he got an eyeful of the
rider and his caparisoned mount he
bolted for the scrub. We heard at the
next station that he had met a hatter
who had taken off all his clothes and
dressed his horse with them.
ODE TO A TOAD.
ř
N.S.W.
DHAS.


“Glen Eden”: Sheep-
stealing is still a popu-
lar pastime in our
Queensland district, so
when everyone along the party line
got dragged out of bed the other night
by a series of frenzied calls from a
neighbor’s wife the sheep-cockies thirsted
to be in at the kill. Her husband had
spotted lights on the range, and was off
to do a spot of shepherding with a gun,
and would we please rally round? The
boss’s particular rally was a three-mile
walk along a dry creek-bed delightfully
mattressed with sharp stones. The clans
met at the appointed place, and an ex-
cited neighbor —with a £5O reward in the
back of his noodle —led us to where a
station-hand kept watch on a silhouetted
ridge. “They’re working along the top.
I c’d spot the light when I walked down
the yard a while back. Come over here.
Look! There y’are! See it?” And he
had the hide to go crook when the boss
cussed him out for chasing a particularly
low, red star that winked from between
the ringbarked trees as he moved about.
Sheep-borrowers can have a free go up
here for a long time to come.
* * * *
•Flight”: For long it had me tricked
as to where Willie Wagtail procured the
cobweblike material with which he laces
the nest, for I have never seen that
cheeky bird ratting a spider’s home to
do it. Now observation has convinced
me that Willie gets that webby stuff from
a gland in his or her own body. Unlike
the duck, it doesn’t carry that gland at
the butt of its tail. Watch the Willies
building next time. Every few seconds
the one on the job will probe with its
bill into its breast or at the base of the
v/ing. As soon as it does that it will
weave like blazes while the application’s
wet —that’s my idea of the necessity of
the action. That liquid solidifies into
strands as soon as it’s woven into the
frame of the nest.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The karnie, or sand-goanna
(Varanua gouldii), is reckoned a delicacy
by many whites as well as blacks. While
droving from West Queensland one of
our company—a stockman from Nappa
Merry—often came into camp in the
evening with a karnie hanging to his
saddle-dee. He spent hours of his boss’s
time tracking goannas, and was 'some-
times half a mile behind the cattle, dig-
ging one out of a sandhill. During the
evening meal he would roast it in the
ashes, then hang it in a tree near the fire.
That was for his supper when he came
off watch at night. “It’s tastier than all
yer oysters,” was his verdict.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of nicknames,” re-
marked Dan, “I useter know an ol’ bloke
who wus called The Dasher. He wus a
wizened-up, untidy an’ not-too-clean ol’
coot, near 70, an’ his nickname didn’t
strike me as very fittin’. One night,
yarnin’ t’ him, I asked him how he
got his fancy tag. He gives me a
hard look, an’ ses, sorta hesitatin’
an’ apolergetic-like, ‘Well, I don’t
s’pose yer’ll b’lieve me, but in me young
" I was going to get a brassiere type, bat George insisted on this. He’s
TERRIBLY old-fashioned !”
days I wus a great feller with the girls,
an’ they useter call me The Dasher, an
it stuck, see?’ The explanation seemed
reasonable, for y’ know how some blokes
alter when they get old. A few days later
another old chap drifts inter camp an’
gets a job helpin’ the cook, an’ I notice,
after a bit, him an’ The Dasher seem t
be very cobbery. He tells me one day
he’s known The Dasher since he wus a
kid. ‘Y’ wouldn’t think t’ look at him
now he’d been a lady-killer in his day,’ I
remarked. The old bloke laughed hearty.
‘Him!’ he ses. ‘Whatcher givin’ us? Why,
he wus the biggest gawk with wimmen I
ever knew. Got married when he wus
20 to a woman 15 years older than him-
self. Him a terror with the girls! Cnpes,
she wus the on’y woman he’d ever had
anythin’ t’ do with, an’ she gave him a
hell of a life! Sometimes he’d get wild
about her t’ some of the blokes he knew,
an’ he’d let himself go. “Dash her,” he’d
say, “she makes me life a misery.” That’s
how he got that nickname of his, y’
know.’ ”
* * * *
“Myzomela”: There are as yet many
unsolved problems regarding what con-
trols the distribution of birds, and though
food is one of the principal factors de-
termining the range of a species there are
many unexplained peculiarities even in
that field. A common and widely-dis-
tributed species like the seagull will be
found on one coast and, though identical
conditions and food are present on a
coast close to it, the bird seldom or never
visits that area. In New Caledonia the
same species of gull which is so com-
mon about our shores is also present in
large numbers, yet, across a 60-mile
strait, in the Loyalty Islands, it is never
seen. This is admittedly near the extreme
north of its range, but why a 60-mile gap
should deter it from visiting an area with
identical food and habitat seems strange,
especially as many other species of shore
and sea birds cross the gap frequently ;
and at the season when sea birds are fol-
lowing northward-travelling shoals of fish
one would expect the gulls to continue the
pursuit of easy food as the other species
of birds do. Yet the gulls keep to the
New Caledonian coast, which at its
northern end is 25 miles further into the
tropics than the most northerly point of
any part of the Loyalties and a great deal
further north than their southern
portions.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: The coastal abo. bucks
in the N.T. are not too scared of spirits
to hunt at night (B. 13/12/’39). On
some occasions after the catch of trepang
had been dealt with, my “boys” went
out afer dark and hunted in canoes the
dugong and turtle. In my buffalo camp
old Ned, the head “boy,” often went
hunting on his own after tea, not coming
back until the small hours. But the
lubras—no, for in the Far North the
dreaded “doctor blackpfeller” stalks
“Are you sure you used CARAWAY seeds?
abroad after dark looking for women,
especially young ones, and the gins are
terrified of this mythical figure.
* * * *
“Jeidisee”; That introduced pest the
Bathurst burr, which riots like Jonahs
gourd, is a libel on the City of the Plains.
Timor burr it should be, for a century
ago Cummings and Ford, graziers ol
Clear Creek, imported a number of
Timor ponies with a view to horse-
breeding experiments. So intent _ were
they on the project that they paid no
heed to the burrs which matted the
ponies’ manes and tails. Soon, though,
burrs were making growth all oyer the
Clear Creek holding, and the classic 1844
Macquarie flood did its bit by carrying
the burr seed inland.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: It didn't take much
to start a goldrush in W.A. 40 years ago.
A party led by Don Munday, returning
to Hawk Nest, where they had left a
show to join the Darlot rush, struck
Carr Boyd, the explorer, and his mate,
Woodhouse. Carr Boyd had heard ol
a rich find at Mt. Black,
and suggested, as Mun-
day’s party had a dry-
blower and all the
necessary equipment,
they should pool re-
sources and make for
the new find under his
leadership. As none of
the party had ever
heard of Mt. Black the
offer was accepted, and
at Stone Soak, about
two days’ travelling
further inland, Carr
and Munday went on
alone to look for tracks. After two days’
further search they returned, Carr decid-
ing to make straight for Mt. Black itself.
But during their absence Stone Soak had
grown. The day after Munday’s party
left Darlot news of the Mt. Black find
had drifted in, and it was unanimously
decided that Munday had received prior
news and had gained a start. Nobody
knew where Mt. Black was, but obviously
Munday did. So they followed him, and
now half Darlot was at Stpne Soak wait-
ing their return with news. Munday
explained the position, and now, pressed,
Carr admitted that he also had no idea
where the mythical Mt. Black was. Jeal-
ous of his reputation as an explorer,
rather than admit unfamiliarity with any
of the interior, he had offered to lead
them in the hope of striking tracks lead-
ing to the find. Carr and Woodhouse
struck east, and eventually reached South
Australia, and the miners scattered, all
looking for Mt. Black. Neither it nor
the perpetrator of the rumor was ever
found.
* * * *
“Kurrambee”: The mind of a brumby
is hard to fathom. Doing a mustering
job out on the Barcoo, the overseer
asked me if I could stick a couple. I
said I might, provided they didn’t get too
high He gave me a stocky little brumby
not more than 14.2. I noticed the boys
were interested, but there was nothing
doing. He was a gentle little chap. L
rode him off and on for over three
months, and he never humped his back ;
in fact, we got to be great pals. Then
one frosty morning as I was mounting,
and just before I got my off foot in the
stirrup, my quartpot fell off. He got
to it then, a couple straight up. Then
round, and round like a humming-top he
went, squealing like ten thousand devils.
I stuck to him just a little too long ; he
was too good for me. A stray one caught
me as I came off, and he flattened a 4oz.
tin of Capstan tobacco in my pocket
as a wheel of a dray would have done.
I got a fortnight in the hut over him.
We were none the worse pals when I got
right, but gone were my childlike faith
and simplicity.
“Jeidisee”: In a country where place
nomenclature is mainly either abo. or
in honor of past politicians, Governors
or statesmen of varying degrees of worth
and attainment, it is refreshing to find
one bit of our land named after a horse.
The owner of the nag was not, if history
be authentic, particularly horsy. He
was that dour Scot Thomas Livingstone
Mitchell, and at that time occupied with
the making of the pass over the moun-
tains which bears his name. ‘ Farmer”
(just the practical sort of name you’d
expert Mitchell’s nag to have) deserted
his road-designing master and went ad-
venturing in search of pastures new, and
because the straying beast’s owner was
of the calibre to get things done, that
grey gallivanter was quickly found. He
was cropping virgin grass by that rippling
rill which rises near Clarence and runs
westward past the Lithgow coalfields to
link up with the Cox. Farmer’s Creek
thenceforth Thomas insisted its name
should be.
ONE BIG LAUGH.
“Lazio Schwartz, a Hungarian caricaturist and
columnist, considers that outback Australians afford
an excellent example of our country s true hum >r,
although he admits that for drawing-room use, it
frequently has to be ‘disinfected or
Whether he tends the sheep that gently grazes,
Or of its lacteal juice the cow deprives,
The cove who toils in rural parts amazes
By demonstrating just how he derives
Pleasure from life; how he can laugh like
bJ aZeS
His humor’s hearty. On it, too, he thrives.
But, though it gives a clean K.O. to gloom,
It must be toned down for the drawing-room.
When tick or pleuro gets among his cattle.
And crows and dingoes all his lambs destroy;
Or when with drought or flood he wages battle,
He doesn’t let such trifling things annoy.
No, sir! He laughs until his back teeth lattle,
His witty words are redolent of joy.
But, though they would by humorists be prized,
For social use they must be Bowdlerised.
His mortgages will always set him grinning,
And if his haystack disappears in smoke,
And bushfires round his home the fight are
winning, ...
He takes it as a quite Homeric joke.
Each time he sees another year beginning
With taxes looming up, this joyous bloke
Says things that have the humorist in tears,
But might give some offence to gentle ears.
The chap who drives a quill in office musty
Has, in comparison, but little cheer.
His sense of humor’s gone completely rusty.
If real fun you wish to see and hear
The mulga-dweller has it. Good and gusty
His humor foams and froths like new-drawn
beer.
But—ere into the drawing-
room it’s blared,
It must be disinfected,
fumed and aired!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
O’CONNELL SfttEEr
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 188 S.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
, The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F, E. Bryant (Chairman): Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. »Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
u
UCAS
KING THE ROAD
IATRI
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
Leather
Portfolios with
Zipper Fastener.
Sizes:
15in. x lOin.
and 16in. x 11 in.
Prices from:
16/6 to 32/6.
ŕ
Ideal for
Documents,
Catalogues,
Music,
Reports.
C. E. KITCHING
Pty., ltd.,
319 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: 8W7133.
(A'ear Wynyard
Station.)
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £ £
1929. . 4.941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1981.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 ) q(U
Trans. Invest. Res., £429,451 )
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 ) ,
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 ) I,UDX, ‘* D
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 .. ) q
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 )
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932,541
* Excluding income tax and rates.
Outstanding feature of the latest
accounts is the provision made by the
management against war contingencies,
of which more will be said presently.
Last term the co. shared in the general
experience. Drought in many parts of
Australia, economic malaise in Maori-
land, international tension in Europe and
developments in India, where the co. has
ceased to write new business, all con-
tributed to make progress less marked
than in the previous term. The con-
traction in the amount of new contracts
written (£10,158,497) was £1,360,316. The
business in force, however, increased
£3,828,875. The growth in premium in-
come (£4,081,689) was £110,631, and in
consideration for annuities £23,503: —•
1936. 1938. 1939.
Policies . . 31,350 31,263 28,382
Amount .. £11,348,578 £11,518,813 £10,158,497
Av. per policy 362 368 357
First premiums 384,030 381,501 332,922
Renewals . . 3,166,036 3,568,106 3,718,145
Single premiums 33,788 21,451 30,622
Annuities . . 40,176 63.350 86,853
Interest, etc. 1,689,507 1,767,680 1,830,367
Interest turned in an extra £62,687 net,
making the growth in total income,
after deducting £67,765 of reassurances,
£190,768. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., £1,932,541 (up £363,938)
remained, of which £515,000 was added
to the investment fluctuation reserve, and
the balance lifted the assurance fund to
£45,575,865. Also, £lOO,OOO was taken
from the investment reserve (now
£1,750,000) to write down the book value
of house property. This reserve, which
belongs to policy-holders, helps to supple-
ment returns from the assurance fund,
and therefore contributes to bonuses, as
well as being a shock-absorber for any
potholes that might develop in the book
value of assets.
Though the mortality experience—56
p.c. of expectation—remained the same
as for the previous term, less was paid
away in claims, owing to a lighter crop
of endowments maturing. Another
heartening feature was that exes., after
allowing 3 p.c. for consideration for
annuities, ran away with only 13.4 p.c.
of premium income as against 14.3 p.c.
for the preceding year ; the shut-down
on new business writing in India helps
to explain the improvement. The ex-
pense rate allowed by the actuary in his
calculations is 15.2 p.c. The net interest
return was a trifle better at £4 3s. 9d.
p.c., whereas the office assumes that its
funds will turn in only 3 p.c. net.
The heavy transfer to the investment
fluctuation reserve was reflected in a
slight reduction in rate of bonuses to
policy-holders, which, however, are still
handsome; they ranged from 38s. p.c.
to 60s. p.c. on whole-life policies, accord-
ing to the age of the policy, in 1938.
Exactly what effect the war will have
upon the business remains to be seen.
Appearances are that policy-holders’
bonus rates are likely to be further
affected; and the experience promises to
be a general one. In common with other
Australian offices, the National has can-
celled all war conditions on policies in
existence prior to Sept. 25, 1939. In
the past one effect of war has been to
concentrate deaths at the earlier ages.
What effect the growth of the air arm of
the forces will have upon the death-strain
is yet to be observed. A real measure of
the death-strain is not the amount paid
in claims, but the difference between the
sum assured and the reserve held in
respect thereof.
As for returns from investments, the
chairman says:
The normal tendency of interest rates
to rise under conditions of war must be
checked. Indeed, that tendency must be
reversed, and interest rates reduced under
direct control. In Australia steps to this
end have already been taken... .and there-
fore not only in its support of Government
borrowing, but in its relation to its new
investments in all other directions, the
association over a. period to which at
present no limit can be placed will find
its interest-earning power considerably re-
duced.
To the effect of this must be added the
burden of taxation, and the tendency
of costs generally to rise—wages in Aus-
tralia move in more or less direct ratio
with the cost of living, while ordinary
expenditure on books, paper and other
materials can be expected to go up too.
What can be said definitely is that the
co. is very well equipped to meet what-
ever contingencies may develop. Con-
sider these figures:
r- -1938 v 1939 %
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,780.142 3.8 £ 1,694,337 3.5
Public securities . . 23,324,590 50.4 24,333,302 50.7
Mortgages . . . . 10,018,212 21.7 10,641,640 22.2
Foreclosures . . 325,034 0.7 316,369 0.7
Loans on policies.. 5,387,818 11.6 5,449,406 11.2
Other assets .. 5,438,753 11.8 5,600,307 11.7
Last year’s growth of £1,008,712 in public
securities reflects the co.’s support of
Australian and Maoriland Government
securities on the London as well as the
local market. A lot of attention is given
to financing house-purchase business
(mortgages were up £623,428), which is
very helpful to policy-writing, too. The
growth of £61,588 in loans on policies
reflects economic conditions.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 29,972 10 p.c. = 29,063 909 37,777
1929.. 51,511 124 „ „ 39,488 12,023 49,t00
1930.. 34,027 74 „ „ 25,397 8,030 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6 „ 21,000 3,302 61,731
1932.. 32.538 8 „ ~ 28,000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ ~ 24,796 1,779 68,048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74,309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ „ 33.300 6,182 80.490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ „ 37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 96.130
1937.. 47,690 10 p.c. = 39,178 8,512 104.642
1938.. 51,875 11 „ „ 44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed, £30,429 .. 82,088
1939'.. 59,891 121 ip.c. = 50,000 9,891 91,979
The Great War of 1914-18 provided
this co. and many other good Aus-
tralian manufacturers, too —with the pro-
tection the politicians failed to give ; and
it has never looked back since. During
the decade to the close of accounts in
1929, £200,000 of fresh capital was
gathered at par, £25,000 of bonus scrip
was issued, and regular divs. averaging
13.3 p.c. p.a. were paid. At the same
time a growing trade with Britain, Canada
and southern Asia was opened up, new
lines were added to the list of manu-
factures, and new factories were erected
at Rosebery and Windsor (N.S.W.),
Adelaide (S. Aus.) and Risdon Park
(Tas.). Then the big change in conditions
generally brought the div. down to 6 p.c.
in 1931. But the business kept on
expanding, a controlling interest in
Jonathan Reeve Pty., Ballarat (Vic.), was
acquired and another factory, to treat
berry fruits, was put up at New Town
(Tas.). As conditions improved, earnings
and divs. responded.
What effect the present European con-
flict will have upon the business remains
to be seen. Much will depend upon what
happens in connection with costs, in-
cluding taxation. Locally the scope for
expansion will not be so great as during
and after the Great War, though the
co.’s Australian turnover can be ex-
pected to expand steadily. Fresh oppor-
tunities for the sale of Australian canned
foods are occurring in Asia, but British
duties make prospects in the English
market doubtful, though an order from
the British Government remains an en-
couraging possibility. Another feature
is that the co. is well equipped, financially
and otherwise, to take advantage of
whatever opportunities present them-
selves.
Last term the fruit season was the
poorest experienced for some years,
owing to drought conditions in N. S.
Wales and Victoria. Still, the co.’s turn-
over stepped along in fine style. Gross
earnings (£219,345) were £22,373 better.
After increasing the provision for taxation
(now £17,000) by £6OOO, and setting aside
an extra £1289 for depreciation (£12,407),
the net result benefited by £BOl6 of the
increase, reaching 14.9 p.c. on capital
as against 12.9, 12.1, 11.8, 10.6, 9.7, 7.5,
9.2, 6.9, 10 and 16.3 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was stepped up from 11 p.c.
to 12| p.c., and looks like remaining
there—for the current term, at any rate.
Considering the growth in turnover,
balance-sheet movements were most
heartening:
1930. 1935. 1938. . 1939.
Capital . . £350,000 £370,000 £ 400,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 150,187 15,878 49,678 39,350
PteSTetC. } *241.039 *228,153 *239,121 {
Stock.. .. 261,088 202,254 286,925 221,385
Debtors . . 76,880 73,037 89,384 69.93 S
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 5,007 6,224 1,767 88,599
* Including goodwill, etc., now disclosed at £30,429.
A reduction of £65,540 in stocks and
of £19,446 in debtors’ balances was
accompanied by a shrinkage of £10,328
in the comparatively small outside debt
and a growth of £86,832 in cash, etc.
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£340,572) was £12,174.
At 50s. 6d. (41s. 6d. a year ago) the
pound shares return 4.9 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. Visibly the net tangible
cover is 245. 7d. The comparatively low
figure at which plant appears, the strong
liquid position and high earning power
of the business suggest the chief earning
assets are conservatively valued in the
books.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends q To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,915
1930.. 64,224 6 p.c.* Nil 6,610 67,614 140,629
Loss.
1931.. 26.260 t Nil Nil 114,269
Profit.
1932.. 16.616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26,577 6* „ 4 p.c. 31,579 112,567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 6J „ 22,217 458 113,025
1935.. 29,349 6* „ Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,880
Bad debts recovered, £2500 .. .. 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
f r '°B. .18 6 r, 2 6*., 11 p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
1939.. 11,787 6 „ lV „ 15,989 64,756
"■ ncludes 5 p.c on old profs., 2825 in 1930, now
240. t After making special provision (£59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts. Jlneludes arrears.
The demand for fertiliser is governed
partly by the price of wheat, and that
adds to the speculative nature of the scrip
as an investment, notwithstanding the im-
portant place the co. occupies as a factor
in primary production. For the half-
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1936, aggregate losses (£72,081) exceeded
aggregate profits (£65,868) by £6213.
Wheat-farmers’ debts, the drop in the
price of the grain, reduced demand for
fertiliser and price-cutting, partly on ac-
count of competition from Victoria, were
mainly responsible.
On the selling side, however, the trade
is in a much stronger position than it
used to be. About three years ago the
three fertiliser-manufacturing cos. in S.
Aus. decided to go on the market to-
gether, and a jointly-owned selling co.,
which handles factory outputs on a quota
basis, was formed for the purpose. But
the co.’s Geelong works are faced with
fierce competition, which partly takes the
form of heavy rebates. Still, most of the
factors governing demand and costs re-
main outside the management’s control.
Last term the average export price of
grain was 2s. 9.2 d. per bushel, compared
with ss. 7.7 d. and 3s. 7.7 d. for the two
preceding terms. This and unfavorable
seasonal conditions caused a reduction in
the output of super. Still, the board
wrote gross earnings £12,655 better at
£81,091. Including £5OOO transferred to
the bad and doubtful debts reserve and
£lOOO added to the tax reserve, exes,
took all the increase and £6845 besides.
Enough remained to pay the pref. divs.
and show 0.8 p.c. on the £622,200 of
ord. capital as against 2 p.c. for the
previous term. The div., however, was
kept at li p.c., reserves being tapped for
£4202 to do it, reducing the lay-by to
£64,756.
The movement in the financial position
was retrograde:
„ 1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £734,679 £734,679 £733,165 £733,165
Liabilities . . 132,709 256,466 307,509 323,501
Freeholds and
plant . . 453.735 509'.485 572,098 587,369
Stocks . . 136,818 123,739 161,499 190,933
Shares in other
_ cos. . . 90,000 90,005 90,005 90,005
Debtors . . 209,468 202,930 176,124 143 790
Cash, etc. . . 61,043 140,458 87,155 75.103
Farm property, etc. 41,737 54,212
During the year £15,992 net was added
to the outside debt, of which £200,314 (up


SEWtRACf
&
y.
GUARANTEED
BY THE GOVERNMENT OF N.S.W.
THE
Sydney Water board
LOAN OF £1,000,000
OFFERS
ISSUED AT PAR gfg| WMM f liyti CURRENCY 12 YEARS.
CUMULATIVE SINKING FUND: 10/- PER CENT. PER ANNUM
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE SECURITY IN NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
AND TASMANIA
YOUR SECURITY:
The Boards
rating powers
over all property in the Sydney Metropolitan Area,
with a population of 1,465,000.
The Board has power to levy up to maximum rates of
1/6 in the £ for water and 1/6 in the £ for sewerage
on properties with an annual rental value of approxi-
mately £33,000,000. Present rates, however, are only
half of the maximum scale, and the Board has a
reserve Rating Power of £2,300,000 per annum. The
Board has other sources of revenue, and the total
revenue in 1938-39 was £2,927,426, as against an
annual interest charge of £1,577,000. Therefore, apart
from the Government guarantee , the revenues and
rating powers of the Board furnish unchallengeable
security for its indebtedness.
STATUS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD.
In point of capital assets, the Board is the largest semi-governmental
undertaking in Australia. Under statutory authority it is responsible for
providing water, sewerage and major drainage services for the whole or
the Sydney Metropolitan Area. It serves 69 municipalities and shires,
including the City of Sydney.
Capital Outlay to date £43,000,000
Buildings supplied with water 351,252
Buildings sewered 261,640
FURTHER DEVELOPMENT ESSENTIAL.
Since July 1, 1936, when the Board commenced a 5-year plan of intensified
activity, the number of additional houses connected to water supply was
25,231, and for sewerage 28,671. There are still 90,000 houses which
have water supply but which are awaiting sewerage facilities. Progressive
extension of the Board’s activities is essential and inevitable.
EMPLOYMENT.
The operations of the Board have an important effect on the maintenance
of industrial activity and employment as the Board is one of the largest
employers of labour in the Commonwealth.
LOAN NOW OPEN
Closing not later than Wednesday, February 14, 1940.
ALLOTMENTS WILL BE MADE DAILY AND SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE PAYABLE IN FULL OR BY INSTALMENTS AS DESIRED.
INTEREST ACCRUES IMMEDIATELY FROM DATE OF PAYMENT OF SUBSCRIPTION AND INSTALMENT MONIES.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION £5O: IN DEBENTURES OR INSCRIBED STOCK.
APPLY WITHOUT DELAY
to any office of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
or to
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
Loan Underwritten by J. B. WERE & SON.
NO MORE ATTRACTIVE RATE OF INTEREST IS LIKELY TO BE OFFERED IN
THE NEAR FUTURE ON ANY INVESTMENT WITH EQUIVALENT SECURITY.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman), Orwell Phillips (Deputy
Chairman), Robert J. A. Massie, Geoffrey F. Hughes,
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
m*.;-
Then Choose
GOODWELD
SPIRAL W£LDED PIPE
•
FOR
SLUICING,
DREDGING,
AIR DUCTS,
WATER
SUPPLY.
•
Suitable for
Water, Oil, Gas,
Air and Steam,
.tii&o t.vpes for
industrial and
a g r i c u ltural
use.
If you need pipe for a short
run or a line of several
miles, Goodweld Spiral Steel
Welded Pipe will show you
direct savings.
Goodweld pipe is low in first
cost. Freight and haulage
charges are smaller, for
Goodweld is light in weight
—an advantage that also
helps speed up handling and
laying and makes installing
easy even in close quarters.
Finally, Goodweld strength
and resistance to corrosion
means longer pipe life.
Industry is finding profitable use for Goodwelo
pipe ... in mines, in steel works, in oil
refineries; for piping water, gas, air, oil or
steam.
We’ll be pleased to give you full particular*
of tlie Four Types available covering light
and heavy duty service, together with details
of protective coatings and linings. Send us
your specification or brief outline of working
conditions.
<S»
A.E.EOODWIN PTY.LTD
RAILWAY PARADE
lidcom b E . N.S.W.
PHO ri EUX 7463 (l LINES)
AND AT PORT KEMBL A
THE
lIIIITCn iNSURANCE
Ulll I Lll COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. V. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
£66,856) was coming to the Westralian
co., for which the parent acts as banker.
Freeholds and plant increased by £15,271,
stock by £29,434 and farm property, etc.,
by £12,475. Debtors’ balances were re-
duced by £32,334 and cash by £12,052.
Book debts, stock and cash together ex-
ceed outside liabilities by £86,325, or
£30,944 less than at the previous balance.
The Westralian co. (paid capital
£338,541, of which the parent owns
£90,000) continues to make a much better
showing than the parent, thanks largely
to the absence of aggressive competition:
CRESCO FERTILIZERS (W.A.).
Not , —* ——Dividends- Re- Re-
June, Profit. Prof. Ord. Total, selves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 13,459 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 13,059 409 10,728
Unexplained addition, £3500 .. •• 14,228
1936.. 12,13 G 0 p.c. 4 p.c. 13,057 - 13,307
Unexplained addition, £4OOO .. .. 17,307
Tax reserve disclosed, £7500 . . . . 9,807
1937.. 20,719 0 p.c. 5 p.c. 15,885 4,834 14,041
From bad debts reserve, £16,000 .. 30,041
To depreciation reserve, £6OOO .. .. 24,041
1938.. 24,896 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,975 5,921 30,562
1939.. 24,558 6 „ 6 „ 19,667 4,891 35,453
Last year’s profit (down £338) was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
7.3 p.c. on the £311,366 of ord. capital.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
As for the current season, the recent
sale of wheat to Britain and Japan has
brightened the outlook for the co.,
growers and traders generally. Britain
has taken 56,000,000 bushels, half on the
basis of 3s. llfd. per bushel f.o.b. for
bagged and 3s. B|d. per bushel for bulk
parcels. In addition Britain has taken
150,000 tons of flour —equal to 7,000,000
bushels of wheat —on an equivalent price
basis. The price for the other half of
the wheat purchase has yet to be fixed.
Also, Japan purchased 7,500,000 bushels
at the end of October last at 3s. 2d. per
bushel f.o.b. bagged and 3s. per bushel
f.o.b. bulk — 4id. per bushel above prices
then ruling.
Of the £733,165 of capital, £110,965
is preference, all but a handful carrying
6 p.c., and participating with the ords.
to 9 p.c. At ss. 3d., the market prices the
pound ords. to yield 5.7 p.c. on the basis
of current divs. For the prefs., 19s. Bd. is
offered, which would return 6.1 p.c. The
backing is respectively 235. lOd. and
£7 3s. lOd. in net tangibles.
Sydney Water Board Loan
For the second time in its current finan-
cial term, Sydney Water Board is on the
market, this time for £1,000,000 at 4f p.c.
in 12-year stock or debentures at par. A
trustee security in N.S.W., Queensland
and Tasmania, the loan is secured upon
the income of the board and is further
backed as to both interest and capital by
the N. S. Wales Government. In-
terest, payable free of exchange, accrues
from date of allotment, and, as in the case
of existing indebtedness, a sinking-fund of
10s. p.c. p.a. will be established. The issue
has been underwritten by J. B. Were and
Son, Melbourne.
The board is the largest semi-Govern-
ment undertaking in the Commonwealth,
capital outlay at June 30 amounting to
£43,370,000-odd. For 1938-39 revenue
came to £2,927,426, of which the interest
bill absorbed £1,577,000. Statutory power
to levy up to Is. 6d. in the pound each
for water and sewerage services, or
double the existing charges, gives the
board a reserve rating power at present
of £2,300,000.
Though current offer is at 2s. 6d. p.c.
less than the rate on the last loan
in September, when about a third
of the million and a half sought
was left with the underwriter, the return
obtainable is a trifle more attrac-
tive than on similar-term Water Board
securities bought on the open market,
and should appeal to institutional in-
vestors. The money market is strong at
the moment —the September issue is now
at £lO2, buyer—thanks to the increment
in our London funds, defence expendi-
ture and, principally, controlling action
by the Federal Government, and the im-
mediate course of interest rates for public
borrowings is more likely to be down
than up. Among other things, the board
uses its sinking funds to buy its loans
should they fall below par in the market,
thus providing an additional prop for the
market value of the security.
Bradford Cotton Mills
Bradford Cotton has published the
prospectus of its new £239,964 ord. share
issue (one for one), last mentioned in B.
17/1/ ’4O. J. B. Were’s have underwritten
the issue at 6d. a share. Capital has ex-
panded by the offering of 53,750 £1 ords.
at par in Feb., 1938, following the allot-
ment of £21,500 in bonus scrip, by the
offering of £20,000 of 6 p.c. first pref.
money in April, 1939, by the issue of
93,088 6 p.c. second prefs. and 42,964
ords. for most of the shares in Austral
Silk and Cotton later last year, and by
the allotment of 34,258 ords. to Barnet
Glass Rubber in part-payment for its old
factory at Footscray (Vic.). Another
20,000 ords. are to be handed to Barnet
Glass in full settlement in June, 1941. At
date of prospectus (Jan. 9) paid capital
was £393,052 in 239,964 ords., 60,000
6 p.c. first prefs. and 93,088 6 p.c. second
prefs. The new issue will double ord.
capital, carrying total paid capital up to
£633,016.
Besides its own large spinning and
weaving factory in Sydney and the yarn
factory of Austral Silk in Melbourne,
Bradford Cotton controls C. and D. Mills
(paid capital £5006), a new canvas and
duck flotation, and Sanforising Services
of Australia (capital £8003), holder of
the Australian rights for pre-shrinking
cotton goods by the sanforising process.
The capital now asked for is wanted
to expand existing plants and to extend
the business to States other than N. S.
Wales and Victoria. The acquisition of
the Barnet Glass factory gives Bradford
Cotton a link with Dunlop-Perdriau
Rubber, “a large consumer of cotton
yarns and fabrics,” and also, incidentally,
' of tyre cord, on which a duty of 6d. a
pound British and a bounty of 34d. a
pound has been granted. It has not been
specifically stated that Bradford Cotton
is to make tyre cord.
Bradford made a net profit of £25,501
last year, equal to 14.05 p.c. on ord.
capital after providing for pref. require-
ments. It paid a 124 p.c. ord. div. The
weight of new capital may to some extent
upset ord. divs. this year, but if the ex-
tended plant can get to work while the
present shortage of cotton goods lasts the
new capital should soon be earning its
keep. The co. has been very shrewdly
managed to date. Ex rights, the old ords.
are now quoted at 375. 9d.
Kingston (S.Q.), an opencut proposition
now in the hands of S.Q. Mines, has
been taken over by Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia under a testing option. Broken
Hill South also holds an interest in the
option. The most extensive low-grade
deposit yet unearthed in the Brisbane
schists, it has had a struggle over the
past 10 years, operating under opencut
conditions on a grade of 2dwt. to 3dwt.
The formation is a siliceous and man-
ganiferous schist of, possibly, enormous
extent, values apparently following small
seams and intersecting joints which, up
to the present, have been tested only
to superficial depths. Poor recovery by
cyanide from slimes hampered its de-
velopment in the early stages, but it was
an obvious choice for complete testing
in these days of 2dwt. shows. The last
600 tons has yielded 2120 z. of gold
bullion, less than ldwt. per ton coming
from amalgamation. Values of cyanide
bullion are not stated. The deposit is
about 30 miles from Brisbane, and if
the outcome is successful it should give
a fillip to mining around Brisbane, as
there are several others of the same type
hanging fire at the present time.
* * * *
The Cedar Ridge mine, at Mt. Hector,
Proserpine (N.Q.), crushed 70 tons for
2610 z. fine gold. It has been a pros-
perous little show since Abe Stevenson
and his party, who represent the syn-
dicate, took over. It is a particularly
flat reef —too flat for cheap working-
ranging up to 2ft. wide, though most
of the high-grade ore is confined to
heavy mineralised quartz on one or
other of the walls. Values occasionally
run to 4oz. or soz. in the sulphide ore,
which is treated at Chillagoe.
* * * *
The Canberra, the best recent tin
pipe on the Herberton (N.Q.) field, is
prospecting at the 250 ft. level with small
patches of ore showing up. It is
following slime tin in the search for the
faulted portion of the lode. Recent pro-
duction included 67 tons ore for six
tons oxide, value £lO2O. The Cornish-
man, on the same field, is raising 7 p.c.
ore and looks like continuing indefinitely
on it. It has proved to be one of the
most continuous ore-bodies on this field
without being near the richest.
* * * *
Analysis of working results of North
Kalgurli (W.A.), as disclosed by the
“Wild Cat’s” records (Aust. currency):
1938. 1939.
Milled tons .. .. 132,667 135,671
Revenue . • . . .. £452,440 £455,851
Per ton . . .. 68s. 3d. 675. 2d.
Working; costs . . . . £188,966 £186,755
Per ton . . .. 28s. 6d. 275. 6d.
Surplus £263,474 £269,096
Before paying for £45,298 of develop-
ment and diamond-drilling outgo, the im-
provement in the operating surplus was
£5622, increased millings, a higher price
for the output and a cut of Is. a ton
in unit working costs, the last partly a
result of improved haulage, combining to
offset the lower grade of ore crushed.
When the new flotation mill on the low-
grade Croesus block, capacity 6000 tons
monthly, commences contributing to
profits in the current term, improvement
on existing 100 p.c. divs. appears a
reasonable expectation.
* * * *
Westralia’s 1939 gold yield at 1,214,238
fine ounces was the highest since 1914,
when 1,232,9770 z. was produced. In
1903, the record year, 2,064,8010 z. was
won. Average yield of ore mined then
was 17.88dwt., compared with 6.24dwt.
in 1939. In 1929 the output had shrunk
to 377,1760 z., the smallest return for 12
months since 1896. Gross value to the
State per annum has increased in the
interim from £1,602,142 to £11,842,964.
Practically every goldfield has contributed
to the expansion, although East Cool-
gardie, East Murchison, Murchison, Mt.
Margaret, Yilgam and Dundas have
done best. Compared with 1938,
nine fields showed increases and
eight decreases. East Coolgardie con-
tinues to furnish nearly half the
output of the State. Dundas increased
its yield from 24190 z. in 1929 to
69,2080 z. in 1939. This field takes in the
Norseman mines, which are responsible
for nearly the whole of Dundas’s pro-
duction.
* * * *
Past few years have seen some inter-
esting changes in the composition of
Westralia’s annual yield. In 1933 Lake
View and Wiluna, both of which were
producing more than 100,000 oz. annu-
ally, contributed 46 p.c. of the State’s pro-
duction ; but by 1938 their joint contribu-
tion had fallen to 24 p.c. In that year
there were 47 producers in the 500-
IOOOoz. range, 202 producing from 100
to 5000 z., and 432 yielding lOOoz. each.
Such figures for 1939 are not yet avail-
able. Great Boulder, whose yield has
been gradually expanding for some time,
is now, next to Lake View, the largest
producer in the West. To December 31,
1939, the State’s gold production aggre-
gated 45,587,5760 z.
* * * *
Perth Stock Exchange asked Freney
Co. (W.A.) for a report the other day
and got one stating that the mine staff
were “fishing,” not in the sea, but in the
deep borehole, for casing which had
jammed. Consulting geologist Dr. Wade
was quoted as having said that the mishap
“was not serious, but the usual type of
difficulty to be met with in drilling.” It is
now 20 years since Freney began to
search for gushers.


THE STOWAWAY.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Time to Get Together
Trade is a civilised nation’s lifeblood,
and the maintenance of trade is an
essential to a great Empire’s successful
participation in war. The German Kaiser
had hopes in 1914 that Britain, a
“nation of shopkeepers,” would not in-
terfere in his designs on the Continent
because a war would upset England’s
premier position in world trade and
finance. Adolf Hitler appears to
have had similar thoughts. In
both cases the first hopes of these
ambition-drunk German leaders have
been dashed. Britain has preferred
to fight. But in 1914-18 the Old Country
was almost brought to its knees, and
there were years of slow recovery after-
wards. A lack of co-operation and
understanding between labor, industry
and capital brought about a vicious form
of inflation which, followed by a policy
of deflation after the war, crippled
British exports and led eventually to the
abandonment of the gold standard and
the old policy of Freetrade.
In Britain now confusion seems
to exist following the transition from
peace to war, but discussions between
labor leaders and the Government are
taking place frequently. In Australia a
“Get Together” movement also is essen-
tial for the looking-after of every per-
son’s interest.
The successful management of Empire
finances is second only in importance
to the successful conduct of the war.
“Export or die” is the dictum of in-
dustrial leaders in Britain, and, in Aus-
tralia’s case, to export we must keep
costs stable, especially as a price has
been fixed for wool covering the full
period of the war. Metal and some
other prices have also been fixed, though
metal contracts with Britain have a
clause dealing with price revision should
costs rise.
The time is due for a clear policy of
national financial action. The idea Of
price-fixing, introduced shortly after the
outbreak of war, is to prevent unreason-
able profits being made. This principle
should be enforced all round, and it
should be resiolved that no excessive
profits be allowed to be made by
importers, manufacturers or other pro-
ducers, and that no further increases in
Arbitration Court wages be permitted on
a rising cost of living without calling
evidence from the price-fixing commis-
sioner.
It must be made perfectly plain to all
Australian industries that, in the event of
their making excessive profits during the
war, such profits shall be virtually con-
fiscated by drastic but equitable taxation,
due account being taken of increased
capital and labor employed, and of varia-
tions in the buying power of money. In
the case of previously struggling indus-
tries, a maximum up to which profits
may be increased without incurring
E.P.T. could be fixed. Dealing with the
profiteer is admittedly difficult there
should be free access to the Courts for
appeals against E.P.T. —but a definite in-
dication of the national policy now would
be a strong corrective to any tendency
to inflate prices. Manufacturers and
other businessmen would surely prefer
to win the goodwill of their customers
by charging reasonable prices than to
attract the attention of the Taxation
Department by charging excessive prices.
The idea of excess profits tax is not
that Governments should be pro-
vided with the Wherewithal for an in-
glorious waste of money. The danger
of that happening under the present
uninspiring administration undoubtedly
exists. But our aim should be that, as
we must spend large and as yet un-
known sums in this war, we should rely
on borrowing to the smallest possible
degree.
In peace-time money matters are
second to none in importance so far
as the material affairs of a nation are
concerned. In time of war they are dis-
placed only by actual hostilities them-
selves. In monetary affairs are wrapped
up the organisation of industry and
trade, and since time began the chief
occupation of man has been to labor
and barter. To labor with trade well
organised may be objectionable
enough to some of us; but to
have to labor with trade dis-
organised is discouraging and
utterly dispiriting to a nation.
We know how hundreds of
thousands of Australians suf-
fered during the depression.
The same sort of calamity can
again engulf us if we neglect to
act drastically with all forms
of waste and spiralling costs
and prices. Profits and wages must be
dealt with so that there is a minimum
fall in the standard of living with a
minimum rise in the cost of living.
During the depression Australia be-
came a house divided against itself.
Labor fought with Capital because of
lack of understanding and because of the
goading of Communist agitators. In
Britain now, closer to the war in every
sense than we are, a certain amount of
nagging is already going on between
trade unions and the Government fol-
lowing a sharp but still not extensive
rise in the cost of living.
Nagging amongst ourselves is no way
to win a war, and the enemy knows it.
In peace-time economic management has
been Britain’s strength ; in war-time
lack of co-operation between classes
following the shock of hostilities may
become a grave weakness. So the
sooner Australians get together—through
intelligent representatives on the
economic problems that must arise, the
more effective our punch will be in fight-
ing this war on all fronts.
The sharemarket received a setback in
the middle of last week. On Wednesday
the industrial share index (Sydney) fell
from 136.5 to 134.2, and, though there
was a steadying to 135.6 on Thursday,
there was a wide range of small falls
among stocks not included in the index.
Sharpest reactions of the week were in
8.H.P., which fell from a high of 84s. 6d.
to the equivalent of 81s. on an ex-bonus
basis, Felt and Textiles ords. (down 25.),
Electro. Zinc prefs. (down 25.), and Carpet
Manufacturers shares, mentioned in B.
17/1 /’4O, which fell 2s. 6d. Tooth shares,
recently up to 545. 6d., sold at 535., and
Carlton scrip weakened, though this
stock is still near its record price.
Castlemaine, Perkins shares were
“This camp life must be healthy , boays — I never see 'ee look so Well ”
strong at 225., an interim div. being due
shortly. A.C.I. shares, cum motor-car
monopoly, subsided to 375. 9d. Though
Adelaide Steam, an attractive stock, was
strong at 365., the market generally re-
pented its recent hotheadedness last week.
The Australian economy is in a state of
flux at present, and, though this paper
strongly advocated the holding, and some-
times the buying, of good stocks during
the depressed period the market went
through earlier this year, it has been dis-
trustful of the boom aura surrounding a
large percentage of our leading indus-
trials, which admittedly are good invest-
ments —at lower prices.
* * *
The market for B.H.P. shares seemed
to be going off its head early last week.
On the strength of rumors that the big
steel organisation might become in-
terested in the building of ships the scrip
rose an additional 25., adding just an-
other £700,000 to the market’s valuation
of the undertaking, which at 84s. a share
was £29,195,000. First quotes on an
ex-bonus basis on Tuesday were 515.,
“Ah—my lucky number !”
dropping later to 495. 6d., which was
equal to 81s. cum rights. On Monday of
last week 5200 of the old shares changed
hands in Melbourne and 2100 in Sydney.
“Strong rumors” that B.H.P. had con-
cluded an agreement with the British
Government for the building of ships
were not confirmed.
By reason of the fact that B.H.P. has
no competitors in Australia, that it has
excellent iron-ore leases and efficient
plant and management, and that it is
by no means overcapitalised, it has
been able to make an outstanding suc-
cess of the Newcastle works and most
of the allied enterprises. The fact also
that Australia is a growing country re-
quiring increasing quantities of steel,
combined with the other attractions, was
responsible for B.H.P. shares being ad-
vocated as a sound investment here
when at much lower prices during the
past four or five years. But there is
a time when high sharemarket quotations
take a stock out of the investment class
and place it among the speculative
order, leaving it in that order until
punters’ hopes are realised or until they
are not —in which latter case a falling
market restores the investment quality.
At 50s. ex rights last week B.H.P. shares
were a spec. At 40s. they would again
be classifiable as an investment.
Unless any shipbuilding venture
B.H.P. takes on has unusual profits tied
up to it by contract or bounty, investors
had better accept the possibility of a
B.H.P. shipyard with less enthusiasm
than has recently been displayed. Ship-
building in Britain is not highly profit-
able, though that may be due to over-
competition for orders. Cammell Laird’s
written-down ss. shares are only a little
over par, and Swan Hunter scrip is at
a premium of 50 p.c. John Brown’s
10s. shares at under 30s. recently were
highest of the lot. It may be said,
against this argument, that in Britain
the steel industry generally is not out-
standingly prosperous, and that in the
U.S.A. it fluctuates from profits to losses,
yet B.H.P. has done remarkably well
out of steel in this country. In this
connection it is worth recording that,
in addition to B.H.P.’s sources of
strength already mentioned, the man-
agement has for a long time concentrated
on building up subsidiary businesses
turning steel into various types of what
might be called “consumer goods,” as
against the “capital goods” which the
steelworks themselves turn out. Whereas
wire-netting, nails, wire, steel sheets,
galvanised-iron and the projected tin-
plate, etc., are used in commerce and
industry from day to day, rails, beams,
etc., fluctuate in demand according to
construction activity. By going into
shipbuilding B.H.P. would be deflecting
some of its capital back into the heavy
industries, which usually require large
plant and are extremely susceptible to
trade fluctuations.
If B.H.P. goes into the shipyard
business, of course, it is likely to have
given the matter full consideration
beforehand and to be looking a long
way ahead. The venture, too, should
be eventually a real national asset. But,
as in the case of its venture into aircraft
manufacture, B.H.P. may expect no
great profits therefrom for some years
to come. The chief virtue (to the co.)
of such a new industry may be as an
additional customer for steel.
* * * *
Further cheering news came to hand
from Britain last week. Accepting the
assertion that it is a case of “export or
die,” British exports for December indi-
cate that Death has been held at arm's
length for the time being. They were
valued at £40,169,000 sterling, compared
with £37,360,000 in November and
£39,099,000 in December, 1938. Imports
at £86,582,000 were the highest for any
month since December, 1937. In any
circumstances other than those now pre-
vailing that might be disquieting. But
during a war a nation has to live on its
reserves to some extent, and the fact that
supplies are reaching Britain, whatever
their cost, is in itself a victory.
* * * *
In November, 1939, 300 British motor
vehicles were exported daily, an increase
of 26 p.c. on the same month of the
preceding year. In the first two months
of the war Australia bought 31 p.c. more
cars than in the corresponding part of
1938. These figures are highly encourag-
ing to those who see more ways of
winning the war than merely in killing
Germans.
* * * *
Australian Cement, which balances to
Nov. 30, is the Victorian holding co. in
Australian Portland Cement Pty. Kan-
dos, representing the N. S. Wales arm
of the control, closes its books on June
30. Australian Cement shows a profit
of £98,752 for its last term, a decrease
of £358. Apparently income from the
operating co. was unchanged, and the
holding co. maintains its usual 12i p.c.
div., calling for £95,050. Sales of cement
showed an improvement over the pre-
vious year, it is reported, and Australian
Portland “is well equipped to meet any
possible demand for cement in the next
few years.”
Australian Cement £1 shares were
changing hands at 375. 9d. last week,
yielding 6.7 p.c. on the present div.
basis. Kandos Cement 16s. shares, which
fell below 275. in December, are now
up to 30s. again. An interim at the
rate of 12£ p.c. p.a. is payable by
Kandos in February. At present market
prices both cos.’ scrip give the same
immediate yield, but Kandos shares
represent the better buying because the
holder of 100 shares has an 111 p.c.
greater equity in the operating co. than
has the holder of 100 shares in Aus-
tralian Cement. Certainly no cash
benefit has yet come along to Kandos
shareholders by reason of this greater
equity, but it is there just the same.
* * * *
Profit of Imperial Chemical Industries
of Australia and N.Z., Ltd., and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries was £388,483
during the year to June 30 last, compared
with £370,581 the year before. War
effects did not enter into the result.


jL (This is not a Prospectus within the meaning of the Companies Act. The whole of the
n shares in the undermentioned issue are being offered to the holders of ordinary shares
of Bradford Cotton Mills, Limited, and ho shares are available for subscription by the public.;
BRADFORD
COTTON MILLS
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales.)
★
Registered Office: 77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Authorised Capital: £1,250,000. Issued: £393,052
Issued and Paid Capital consists of 60,000 £l six per cent,
cumulative First Preference Shares, 93,088 £l 6 per cent,
cumulative Second Preference Shares, and 239,964 £1 Ordinary
Shares.
Issue at Par of 239,964 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
★
DIRECTORS:
Sir Walter Massy-Greene, 360 Collins-street, Melbourne, Company
Director (Chairman).
A. W. Keighley, 77 York-street, Sydney, Company Director.
F. M. Keighley, Bowral (N.S.W.), Company Director.
R. J. Webster, 77 York-street, Sydney (Managing Director).
H. van de Velde, Feltex House, 261 George-street, Sydney, Company
Director.
MANUFACTURE OF COTTON TEXTILES.
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd., is one of the largest manufacturers of
cotton textiles in Australia, operating spinning mills at Camperdown,
N.S.W., and weaving mills and dye plants at Newtown, N.S.W.
The Company holds practically the whole of the share capital of
Austral Silk and Cotton Mills Pty., Ltd., manufacturers of cotton and
cordage yarns, Abbotsford, Victoria.
It owns the whole of the share capital of C. and D. Mills Pty., Ltd.,
now pioneering the manufacture of canvas and duck cloths, Sydney, and
of Sanforizing Services of Australia Pty., Ltd., Sydney, which holds
and operates the Australian rights to the sanforizing process for the
pre-shrinking of cotton cloths.
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd., has recently purchased from the Dunlop-
Perdriau Rubber Company, Ltd., the Barnet Glass Rubber factory at
Footscray, Victoria, the consideration being 54,258 fully-paid £1 shares
in Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd. The Dunlop-Perdriau company is a large
consumer of cotton yarns and fabric, and the directors of Bradford
Cotton Mills, Ltd., believe that the association of the two companies
will prove to be mutually beneficial.
EXPANSION OF MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS.
The new capital now being raised is required for the purpose of
increasing the capacity of the Company’s existing plants, and to establish
new plant and buildings for weaving, spinning and dyeing.
The Australian market provides ample scope for expansion of the
manufacturing operations of the Company. Canada uses more than
250,000 bales of cotton per annum, whereas Australia consumes only
about 40,000 bales a year.
Australia manufactures only approximately 6 per cent, of the cotton
goods required annually in the Commonwealth. The imports into
Australia of raw cotton, yarn and cotton piece goods in the year ended
June 30, 1939, were valued at nearly £8,000,000 in Australian currency.
THE GROWTH OF THE COMPANY.
The Capital of the Company has grown from about £lO,OOO in 1927
to £126,000 in 1936, and to £393,052 at January 8, 1940. The new
issue now being made will raise paid capital to £633,016.
OFFER TO HOLDERS OF ORDINARY SHARES.
The 239,964 new ordinary shares of £1 each now being issued are
offered exclusively to holders of the ordinary shares of Bradford Cotton
Mills, Ltd., in the proportion of one new share for every ordinary share
as registered on January 8, 1940.
The new shares are payable 5/- per share on application (closing at
5 o’clock p.m. on January 31, 1940), and in instalments of 2/6 per
share on each March 30, 1940; June 29, 1940; September 30, 1940;
December 31, 1 940; March 31, 194 1 ; and June 30, 1941.
The new shares will rank for dividend upon 5/- per share as from
the date of allotment and thereafter upon the amount of capital from
time to time paid up and as from the respective due dates of payment of
instalments of such capital.
The whole of the new issue of 239,34*4 & 1 ordinary shares has been
underwritten by J. B. Were and Son, members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne, Capel Court, 375 Collins-street, Melbourne, and M.L.C.
Building, 44 Martin-place, Sydney.
LISTING ON THE STOCK EXCHANGES.
The 6 per cent. First Preference, 6 per cent. Second Preference and
Ordinary Shares of the Company are listed on the Stock Exchanges, and
early application for the listing of the new shares (when issued) will
be made.
The rights to the new issue are being dealt in on the Stock Exchanges.
THE PROSPECTUS.
Copies of the prospectus of the new issue, for purposes of general
information only, may be obtained free on application to the office of the
Company, The Grace Building, 77 York-street, Sydney, or from the
Underwriting Brokers, Melbourne and Sydney.
January 9, 1940.
R. J. WEBSTER,
Managing Director.
Loan Council Meets
Last Friday the Loan Council at its
meeting decided to leave to the Com-
monwealth Government the date, terms
and size of the loan to be raised shortly.
The meeting, according to reports, was
“one of the most amicable which has
been held for years,” and when Tas-
manian Treasurer Dwyer-Gray urged “an
extension of national credit through the
Commonwealth Bank of at least
£15,000,000,” adding that “if financing
was conducted on these lines any war
loan in the immediate future could be
raised at less than 1 p.c.,” it is recorded
that he “received no support.”
A substantial proportion of the new
loan will be for “works” other than de-
fence, which may account for some of
the amiability at the meeting. But in
any case the time calls for co-operation,
not bickering and aldermanic pipe-
dreams about fancy finance.
Mr. Menzies mentioned that 1939-40
outlay on defence is now budgeted at
£73,000,000, up £12,000,000 on the last
estimate. Equipment, etc., of the Second
A.I.F. and the participation in the Empire
Air Scheme caused the rise. He also
said that outlay on defence had reduced
unemployment, trade-union returns show-
ing a percentage of 9.5 for the December
quarter, against 10.4 p.c. for the Sep-
tember period.
This reduction in employment already
indicates that when all employable per-
sons are in jobs an excess of borrowing
and spending will only produce inflation.
Our war effort is limited to our man-
power, civil and military. Credit man-
agement should be conducted with full
acknowledgment of this.
During the December quarter of 1939
the nine Australian trading banks, ex-
cluding the Commonwealth Bank, added
£604,000 to their fixed deposits and
just under £11,000,000 to their deposits
on current account. Compared with the
December quarter of 1938 £2,120,000
was added to fixed deposits and
£8,200,000 to current accounts. The
effect of this additional money, largely
a result of £25,672,994 having been re-
ceived for wool during the first half
of the season, as compared with
£18,595,895 in the same half of 1938,
shows up in this comparison of move-
ments in the principal aggregations of
the banks’ liabilities and assets:
Quarter ended >
Dec. 31, Sept. 30, Dec. 31,
1938. 1939. 1939.
£ £ £
Fixed
Deposits 197,717,457 199,236,160 199,840,801
Current
Accounts 119,065,301 116,358,441 127,258,638
Australian
Notes 32,182,114 28,499,698 34,889,640
Government
Securities 19,195,942 21,949,958 23,501,538
Advances 289,637,199 294,420,603 292,853,183
Most striking thing is that borrowers
haven’t been granted any of the
extra liquidity, advances being down
£1,567,000 compared with three months
before, though £3,216,000 up on the
figure for Dec., 1938. The ratio of
advances to deposits has fallen from
91.43 to 89.53 over a year, and from
93.5 over the quarter.
The banks’ increase in liquid funds
is partly represented by a growth in
the holding of Government lOU’s and
a bigger quantity (up about £6,400,000)
of cash in the till. This position may
have been arrived at in order to help
the next Commonwealth defence loan —
the increased holding of Consols and
Treasury bills influencing the market,
and the actual cash retained being held
in readiness to assist the new flotation.
The banks would feel more secure,
however, if more of the increase in their
deposits was in the shape of fixed
accounts. Current-account money isn't
a good credit base.
The small growth in fixed deposits is
perhaps due to the pegging of interest
rates at Aug. 31 levels and the oppor-
tunities which have offered for money-
making by gambling in industrial shares
on the Stock Exchanges over the past
three months. It is an unfortunate fact
that a lot of the additional money
coming ino the country lately has been
flowing into the big gambles offered by
Pitt and Collins streets. In this case
gambling has turned investment stocks
into speculations by sending prices to
precariously high levels. A sort of
boisterous optimism has been engendered
by war-time developments. These
developments inevitably have their roots
in war’s waste, which has to be paid
for, preferably by all classes.
* * * *
Pengana Motor Industries Pty., Ltd.,
which had been investigating the possi-
bility of making cars in Australia for
some months before the Federal bounty
of from £3O to £2O a car was decided on,
is proposing to increase its nominal capi-
tal from £50,000 to £2,000,000 “to under-
take large-scale manufacture.” Already a
deposit tias been paid on the Hupmobile
plant for turning out eight-cylinder cars
in Detroit, U.S.A. If the Treasury
grants the co. permission to ask the public
for the capital, and the public responds,
the Hup. plant will be transported to
Australia and installed in a factory near
Melbourne. Among the co.’s rather am-
bitious plans is the proposal to turn out
a £2OO car in its range, and it is hoped
to start production within 18 months.
Directors of the Pengana co. are J. T.
Buckingham, J. C. Dillon, M.L.A., and
W. L. Lee. The co. is relying on the
Treasury’s permission to sanction its
proposed issue of capital by virtue of
the announcement that Australian Con-
solidated Industries, which has been
handed a castiron monopoly of Aus-
tralian car-manufacture packed in cotton-
wool, would be prepared to relinquish
its agreement with the Government pro-
vided any other Australian organisation
with £1,500,000 or more of capital was
prepared to make car engines without
any exclusive rights.
• • • • • *
Canberra, which is usually most em-
phatic when it backs a wrong horse-
trade-diversion and national insurance, to
wit —last week indicated that it was un-
likely to review the monopoly granted to
A.C.I. Certainly there is no guarantee
so far that the Pengana co. or the South
Australian syndicate also in the field
can do the job any better than A.C.I.
But the principle on which A.C.I. was
granted a monopoly is utterly wrong.
That is the whole point.
* * * *
Though A.C.I. has been roundly
criticised by a great body of opinion
following revelation of the terms on
which it is prepared to manufacture
motor-cars, investors are not wise in
paying extra for A.C.I. shares as a re-
sult. Extensive plant is needed, and
making cars isn’t as simple as blowing
bottles. The Glass Co., it should be
remembered, in the past has been ex-
tremely lucky.
* • * * *
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney caused a surprise last week by lifting
its interim div. to the rate of p.c. p.a.
The preceding five half-yearly distribu-
tions were at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
It was disclosed last week that Britain
is paying 4s. Hd. a bushel, f.0.b., for
bagged and 3s. bulk for 400,000
tons of the 1,500,000 tons of wheat
bought from Australia. For 350,000 tons
4s. 0.6 d. and 3s. 9.6 d. respectively are to
be paid. A price for the remaining
750,000 bushels will be fixed later.
* * * *
The cost of living during the last three
months of 1939 showed an increase in
all States except Westralia. The pre-
ceding quarter included only a month
of war, so the figures to Dec. 31 are the
first fully applicable to a war-time
period. In Melbourne and Hobart
living costs lifted 1.5 p.c., in Sydney 1.1
p.c., Brisbane 0.9 p.c. and Adelaide 0.3
p.c. In Perth there was a drop of 0.6 p.c.
The rise, all things considered, is moder-
ate, and no effort should be spared to
keep further rises “moderate” or, better
still, avoid them altogether.
* * * *
G. J. Coles reports increased sales and
profits for the half-year to Dec. 31, and
the interim ord. div. is unchanged at 7£
p.c., payable Feb. 2.
* * * *
Yellow Cabs of Aust. has declared an
interim div. of 6 p.c., payable February
22. Last year’s interim was 5 p.c., final
5 p.c., bonus 2 p.c. The 7s. 6d. shares
have firmed to 10s.
* * * *
Keith Docker, the Sydney sharebroker
who went bankrupt after the col-
lapse of the gold-share boom three years
or so ago, has been discharged, subject
to a suspension of the order for two
years. In granting the discharge, Lukin,
J., said that, although Docker had been
guilty of very grave folly in the matters
which led to his bankruptcy, in the sub-
sequent proceedings he had testified with
frankness, had given every assistance to
the Official Receiver, and his estate had
paid 17s. in the pound, with the possi-
bility of 18s. eventually being paid. His
Honor, in explaining why Docker’s dis-
charge had been suspended, said that for
months after the broker knew himself to
be insolvent he went on with his business
trying to straighten out a hopeless situa-
tion, and actually borrowed £13,000 in
two direct loans, both unsecured. He
prejudiced his creditors by taking up on
his own behalf scrip bought for clients
when they complained that the market
had fallen against them and against
Docker’s judgment when he advised them
to buy. He had committed “the final
and most serious folly of all” in lodging
with the bank scrip held in trust by him
for various clients.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CHALLENGE TO PROPHETS OF
DOOM.
(Condensed from an article in the New York “Times
Magazine” by Geoffrey Crowther, editor of London
“Economist”)
On every hand we are being told that the
economic consequence of war is not merely destruc-
tion and sacrifice while it lasts, but a generation or
more of impoverishment after it is over. Whoever
wins the next war, we are told, the world will be in
ruins. “Another war in the West,” said Lord Baldwin
years ago, “means the end of civilisation as we know
it.” And there was an echo of the same idea when
President Roosevelt spoke to the special session of
Congress of the need to maintain in America a citadel
in which European civilisation could be kept alive.
If these gloomy forecasts are true, then sensible,
civilised people are waging war for no purpose. So
lar from fighting to make a better world, they are
not even fighting to preserve a world as good as it is.
They are going through hell with no higher expecta-
tion than that of surviving into an exhausted and im-
poverished peace only a degree or two less repulsive
than war itself. If this is true, then there will, indeed,
be little incentive to keep the flame of sanity alive in
the dark days to come.
I believe that at the other side of the valley of
the shadow of death there is a peaceful country in
which life can be as prosperous and materially as
well endowed as in that we are now leaving behind.
There is something for which sane and civilised men
can fight in the hope of attaining—not, perhaps, with-
out optimism but at least without fantastic self-
deception.
The last war will serve well enough as an
illustration. It was no picnic. For four years,
all the great Powers of Europe, and most of
the smaller Powers, were engaged in a struggle
which exhausted every available resource, killed
the flower of their young manhood and left
two-thirds of a continent starved and riddled
with disease. If war brings permanent impov-
erishment, there should have been some trace
of it after such an orgy as this.
In 1919 and 1920, Europe was, admittedly,
exhausted and impoverished. It could hardly
have been otherwise. But when the talk is of
“generation-long impoverishment” or “the end
of civilisation,” something more must presum-
ably be intended than a year or two of prostra-
tion. To make a fair test, let us take the year
1924 —10 years after the outbreak —and attempt
to measure the impoverishment.
If the war of 1914-18 had resulted in any
substantial degree of impoverishment, it should
have shown itself in the income of the average
Englishman in 1924. But in fact the British
national income per capita in 1924, after all
adjustments have been made for changes in
the value of money, was almost exactly the same
as in 1914. The average worker in work was,
indeed, enjoying a larger real income than in
1914, but the greater volume of unemployment
just about offset this improvement so far as the
average of all citizens together is concerned.
At first sight, then, Britain might seem,
as a result of the war, to have skipped a
decade of progress, to have stood still, in terms
of material wealth for 10 years. The wealth of the
average citizen of Great Britain was advancing, before
1914 at a rate somewhere between half of 1 per cent.
l n i V*! Per “"T ,^ e
had cheated the average Englishman of a 5 to 10 per
cent, increase in his income which he could otherwise
have expected to enjoy by 1924
Even this would be a very different thing from. im-
?2m nsh a m .B“‘ “ ,gnores one vital factor. Between
1914 and 1924 the average hours of labor .in British
industry were reduced by at least one-tenth. Instead of
having his material income increased by a maximum
of 10 per cent., the Englishmans efforts had been
reduced by the same proportion Economic progress
in other words, had not even been stopped it had
merely been diverted into a new channel. There is no
convincing sign Of even relative impoverishment.
But Great Britain, you may object was not devas-
tated. Apart from a handful of bombs, no high ex-
plosive did destruction in England. Let us, therefore,
look at the case of France, a large, populous and pro-
ductive part of which was destroyed with a thorough-
ness no other country has ever suffered
Statistics of French wages and of the national
income are too deficient to permit of a direct com-
parison, but an indication can be obtained from the
production figures of some of the industries that are
important in the devastated areas themselves. By 1925
France was producing 12± per cent, more coal, 131
per cent, more iron ore, 28 per cent, more pig iron and
20 per cent, more steel, and she had 28i per cent, more
cotton spindles than in the same territory before the
war. There is little evidence here, either, of a perma-
nent impairment of the power to produce or to con-
sume.
Both Britain and France, however, were victors,
How did the vanquished fare? Germany, it is true,
took longer to recover than the Allies, partly because
she was in undeniably worse state when the war ended,
partly because her recovery was impeded by the great
inflation. But by 1929, Professor James W. Angell,
of Columbia University, found that the income of the
average German, in real terms, was 15| per cent,
higher than before the war. Not all Germans, it is
true, had gained equally; the workers and the capi-
talists had both gone ahead more rapidly than the
average, while the middle class had been wiped out by
the inflation. But Germany as a whole was not
poorer 10 years after the war ended than she had been
when it began ; she was 15i per cent, richer in spite
of the inflation, in spite of the reparations payments
she was then maki
™ s conclusion-that the war brought little or
no perceptible impoverishment, once it was .over, to
the three main European participants—is not, after
all, so surprising. That the contrary opinion is so
widespread is, indeed, the more surprising fact, since
there is so little evidence to support it. The truth is
that the human being’s ability to produce depends very
little on systems of government, or on extent of terri-
tory or (in general) on access to raw materials. It
depends much more on a simple technical fact—on the
amount of capital equipment by which he is assisted,
on the number of mechanical horse-power working
with the average pair of hands.
The last war, highly destructive though it was in
the ordinary sense of the word, did very little destruc-
tion to the productive capital equipment of the belli-
gerent nations. That capital equipment was, it is true,
diverted while the war lasted to the manufacture of
engines of destruction, and the ordinary man and
woman consequently derived no benefit from it. But
after the war the equipment was still standing and
could be turned back again to its normal uses. It
could produce as much wealth after the war as before,
It follows that the only way in which the new war
can bring unavoidable impoverishment to the belli-
gerent nations is by destroying their physical capital.
Indeed, the possibility is even narrower, for lasting
impoverishment is caused only if that part of the exist-
ing capital which itself actively assists in production is
damaged. If a dwelling house is demolished, the com-
munity is, admittedly, to that extent poorer. But the
Wilmington "News,” U.S.A.
FELLOW-WORKERS, ARISE!
community’s productive capacity—which is what really
matters —is unaffected.
When the matter is analysed in this way, it will
be seen that even the new destructiveness of the air
weapon is very unlikely to affect productive capacity
very materially. What fraction of the area of a country
is occupied by productive capital? It must be a very
small proportion indeed. The biggest concentrations
of productive capital—large factories and so forth—
are likely to be the targets of air raids, but they are
also likely to be the most aggressively defended.
When it is remembered that bombing fleets are
limited in size by current output, that each ’plane
makes only a limited number of flights in its life, that
ground defences will make target bombing extremely
hazardous and that hits are far fewer than misses, any-
body who likes to do the calculation will come to the
conclusion that the actual destruction of irreplaceable
productive equipment will be comparatively small.
It is quite certain that the destruction wrought by
air bombing cannot be a tithe as severe as that pro-
duced in France by the daily pounding of massed artil-
lery. And yet France’s productive capacity was re-
stored in a very few years. Unless the new war is far
more terrible than the last war and far more destruc-
tive than there is any present ground for expecting,
the damage it does to the belligerents’ productive
equipment will also be put right by a few years’ work.
Uncle Sam Builds Planes.
{From a New York “Times Magazine” article by
Frederick Graham .)
The lights are burning all night now in the air-
craft factories of the United States. There is a 24-
hour shift for the head-splitting thunder of the drop
hammer, the staccato snarl of the rivet gun and the
whine of the drill. Parking lots around the factories
are black with the automobiles of the workers; fender
to fender they stand for eight hours, and when they
move out it is only to make way for the cars of the
men on the next shift. Payrolls are long and lengthen-
ening daily. And men still stand in long lines at the
factories, seeking work, getting work if they are fitted
for it.
Airports adjoining the factories are alive with
activitv. 'Planes fresh from the assembly lines receive
final check-ups before being partly dismantled and
crated for shipment. Test pilots climb into new types
of ’planes and put them through punishing, tests to
determine how well designers and engineers have done
their jobs. Mechanics putter over waiting planes ;
engines roar in final tune-ups. # .
The scene is much the same in factories from
coast to coast as the American aviation industry pre-
pares to fill the orders piled up by the U.S.A. s own
expanded air force programme, the demands of com-
mercial airlines and the requirements of France and
England for ’planes to use in the war.
There are 45 airplane plants in the United States,
and 13 aircraft-engine companies, of which three turn
out all the American engines of 1000 or more horse-
power. These 58 plants are now producing about
$18,000,000 worth of equipment a month. By late
spring they are expected to boost that production to
$50,000,000 a month. Their present capacity, accord-
ing to the Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce, is
15,000 ’planes and 16,000 engines a year; within an-
other year this capacity is expected to be increased
to 23,000 ’planes and 36,000 engines. The industry
is on the march. United States airplane and aircraft-
engine plants have on their books orders for more
than $500,000,000 worth of business. France and Eng-
land are building up their war forces with American-
built ’planes. The industry has its work cut out for
it, but it feels confident it can meet any demands.
The U.S.A. and Finland.
(i Condensed from an article in London “Spectator” by
Erwin D. Canham, Washington.')
The invasion of Finland made a tremendous dif-
ference in the American attitude toward the European
situation, and the end is not yet. It was seen
as stark aggression, with the grisly ogre of
Bolshevist imperialism behind it. A great wave
of national sentiment on behalf of Finland
swept the country. The Administration, con-
cealing its satisfaction at the wide-open breach
it caused in the ranks of the isolationists, at
once set about devising stronger policies. The
President simply ignored application of the
Neutrality Law. One short month after the
law was finally passed, it is blandly pushed
aside and there is no protest at all in the coun-
try ! The result is that American munitions and
supplies can be shipped freely to Bergen, Nor-
way, whence they can be transhipped to Fin-
land.
The important point in all this is the volte
face of the isolationists. Former President
Hoover, who had been one of the most severe
critics of the Administration’s policies of
“measures short of war” —he had advocated
full-fledged isolationism —is now heading a
vigorous Finnish relief agency. Money is roll-
ing in, and all sorts of valuable commodities
will be on their way to Finland. Other isola-
tionists are splitting the heavens with their de-
nunciations of Moscow. There is no longer a
“war party” and a “peace party” in the United
States —the New Dealers and the opposition
respectively—there are two “war parties.” And
if the two have slightly different objects of
their spleen, it does not greatly matter. Neither
group is any longer isolationist in emotion.
Everybody is now reacting to Finland as they
once did about Belgium.
All this sympathy for Finland springs from
various interesting causes: it has “paid its debts” ;
there are many Finns in the United States, and many
Swedes and Norwegians ; and nearly everybody, the
Right Wing in particular, dislikes Soviet policy.
The invasion of Finland completed the downfall
of the Communist party in the United States. What
remnants had survived the Nazi Pact —and a certain
scattered re-formation along the party line had been
possible—are now dispersed. The “fellow-travellers,”
those well-intentioned Liberals who made up the
democratic front and co-operated with various Com-
munist organisations, have gone back chastened to
their earlier affiliations.
Meantime, Washington is intensely interested in
the prospects of a negotiated peace. President Roose-
velt himself would very much like to round out his
place in history by becoming a great peacemaker. It
is reasoned that peace may be negotiated either after
an overwhelming victory or after a stalemate. Either
when one side is so powerful as to be able to impose
its terms, or when there is a sufficiently even balance
that no one can dictate terms. The first set of circum-
stances is far from being in sight. The second may
be in the making.
For Washington believes that Russia has emerged
on the German side of the scales as a counterweight
of such magnitude that a total Allied victory becomes
less easy to count upon. If a genuine mediation oppor-
tunity comes his way, Mr. Roosevelt will probably
forget about the third term and throw all his energies
into the struggle for peace.
The U.S.A. in the Pacific.
(Erwin D. Canham, Washington, further explaining in
London “Spectator” the change in United States
opinion brought about by the invasion of Finland.)
If Russia obtains temporary security on the west
all the way from Finland down the Baltic to Poland
and thence perhaps into Rumania, and with Turkey
immobilised, will not the Russian colossus turn East
once again? Here the pressure of Soviet expansion
touches American interests immediately, in China. And
if Russia and Japan join hands in an unholy looting
of China, the American frontier on the Pacific is far
from secure. Americans can visualise ways to deal
with a Japan-dominated China, but a Red-controlled
China seems distinctly worse to many of them. This is


French Reds.
Leon Blum’s endorsement of the French
Government’s action against Communists, as
reported in the “New Statesman,” London:—
“We are in a state of siege, and the Gov-
ernment has done nothing unconstitutional.
What would you have done if, just after a war
had begun, one of your biggest parties, which
had won its votes largely on patriotic anti-
Nazi slogans, suddenly switched round and de-
manded immediate peace? You in Britain can
treat your Communists as a joke or a luxury :
we have to deal with them as a serious menace,
the instrument inside France of a foreign and
unfriendly Power.”
Since then action has included a bill to
unseat the remaining Communist Deputies.
yet another reason why the invasion of Finland has
brought Conservative and Isolationist Americans
around to a pitch of high moral indignation.
* * a * *
(The strongly isolationist “Saturday Evening Post” is
also concerned about the Pacific .)
We in the United States have been so hysterically
busy with Europe that we have paid very little atten-
tion to the curious manoeuvres going on in the Far
East. They merit more of our attention.
If the Japanese ever do take the Russian hook,
our situation in the Pacific will be extremely compli-
cated. Today, whatever our feelings about the Fili-
pinos, we are, as a nation, responsible for the pro-
tection of the Philippines. Aviation has made Alaska
a close neighbor of Siberia —we are too inclined to
overlook the fact that the distance which separates
United States territory from that of Red Russia is less
than the distance from New York City to Princeton,
New Jersey. Hawaii actually is the keystone of our
security in the Pacific.
The fact is that our most dangerous frontier is in
the Pacific. In our excitement over the highly drama-
tised events in Europe, we have overlooked that. We
cannot afford to overlook it for very long, ever.
*****
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by Hallett
Abend, Shanghai.)
Having kicked John Bull around until the seat of
his pants is full of patches, having fought the Russian
Bear until serious wounds need a lot of licking, Japan
has been picking on Uncle Sam. Americans living in
the Far East have long foreseen such a development.
Three events made it inevitable. First, there was Wash-
ington’s abrupt abrogation of the 1911 trade treaty
with Japan. Second, there was Washington’s curt
announcement that the American Government would
tolerate no unilateral establishment of a “New Order
in East Asia.” Third, there was the outbreak of war
in Europe.
The abrogation of the trade treaty has scared and
angered Japan. She fears being cut off from her main
sources for essential war supplies, and is dumbfounded
at the threat of having to lose her best market for her
major export, silk. American opposition to Japan’s
grandiose plans for a New Order in East Asia implies
serious and determined efforts to block her dream of
dominating China. The war in Europe means sharp
curtailment of Japan’s European trade, automatically
terminates her imports of war necessities from Europe,
and leaves the United States in the position of being
the only country in the world which could —if it would
—give Japan credit. Credit the Japanese Empire must
have, if it is to carry out the development and rehabili-
tation of China, but credit will not be forthcoming
from American sources as long as the American Gov-
ernment so thoroughly disapproves of Japan’s actions
on the Asiatic mainland.
Inauguration of Japan’s anti-American policy co-
incided with the landing at Yokohama of Mr. Yaki-
chiro Suma, for about two years counsellor of the
Japanese embassy in Washington. Mr. Suma told
Japanese newspapers that the people of Japan do not
realise how hostile the American people feel toward
them, that the prevailing toast of younger officers of
the American Navy is “Remember the Panay,” that
the war in China had deprived many missionaries of
employment, and that these missionaries had “insti-
gated the women of America and influenced public
opinion.” The returning diplomat told the Japanese
public that the feeling of the American Navy toward
Japan is “unusually bad.” He declared that the abro-
gation of the trade treaty was “as a bolt out of the
blue, or a surprise hit in a baseball game.”
The day after Mr. Suma landed in Japan, the
powerful “Hochi Shimbun,” mouthpiece of the
“younger officer” group in the Japanese army, took
occasion to warn the United States editorially that
“the Pacific will be turned into a theatre of battle”
unless America quickly “amends its attitude toward
Japan.”
Not only the rigidly-controlled Japanese news-
papers joined in a unanimous and apparently inspired
assault upon the United States. An unnamed official
spokesman declared that if America assumed “the
self-imposed role of watchdog of the Orient,” the “re-
lations between the United States and Japan are bound
to become worse. In any event, the Japanese must be
prepared to face any situation which may arise.”
The “Hochi Shimbun” then sounded this
ominous warning: “Neither Japan nor the United
States wants war, but it is easily imaginable that Japan
may be compelled to safeguard her right to existence.
It is also possible that a war crisis will arise between
the two countries in case the United States persists in
its oppression of Japan, who, however, will never
swerve from her devotion to the cause of the construc-
tion of a New Order in East Asia.”
The influential “Asahi” and the “Yomiuri” printed
almost identical editorials, declaring it evident that
America intends to “succeed Britain as the watchdog
in the Far East.” Then the Tokio “Nichi Nichi” inter-
preted as hostile toward Japan the transfer to Manila
of the U.S. aircraft carrier Langley, the dispatch of
new submarines to take the place of outdated craft in
the American Asiatic Fleet, the flight of more than a
dozen heavy bombers from San Diego to Manila, the
advancing of the date for naval manoeuvres in the
Pacific the proposal to broaden the Panama Canal,
and the decision to begin work immediately upon air
bases in Alaska, Hawaii and at Midway and Johnston
Islands
There is no freedom of the press in Japan. If
there were, the foregoing quotations might be dis-
missed as having been culled from irresponsible news-
papers But the Japanese press never embarks upon
campaigns of this kind without official inspiration.
L, 6 t .i ■ t i__ t tTtv'lp Sam ic nnw
The result of all this is that Uncle Sam is now
regarded by the Japanese public as the big bad man
of the world No mention is made of the two years
of American official patience and forbearance during
which there were more than 600 flagrant violations of
American rights and properties in China. Ihe
Japanese public has no knowledge of the fact that
more than 600 American protests are on file in Tokio,
and that few of these cases have been adjusted. The
list grows longer every week.
The American Government is too well aware of
Japan’s ultimate design to drive the white man out
of Asia to sit idly by and see the British, French and
“Arquivo National,” Lisbon.
PORTUGUESE VIEW OF THE WAR (SO FAR).
“All of them hanging around Peace, but none can make up his
mind to make an open declaration.”
other Europeans driven out. The better informed of
the Japanese leaders realise that the abrogation of the
1911 trade treaty was the beginning of action, and
that unless there is a change of policy on the part of
Japan before January 26 more serious developments
may ensue. These Japanese know that once the treaty
is out, it might take years before a new treaty would
be ratified, for it takes a two-thirds vote of the Ameri-
can Senate to ratify such a document. If senseless
anti-American propaganda continues, and leads to new
attacks upon American interests, there would be such
intensity of feeling on the part of the American public
that ratification would be out of the question for a
very long time.
America has remained scrupulously neutral during
more than two years of the China-Japanese hostilities,
even though American sympathies have been over-
whelmingly on the side of the Chinese. This neutrality
has been carried to the extent of continuing a trade in
war materials and supplies with Japan. There is only
one thing which would drive America to a reluctant
abandonment of that neutral attitude. This would be
deliberate and intolerable provocation on the part of
Japan herself.
Nazi Broadcasters.
[The identity of “Lord Haw-Haw” (or “Hee-Haw”),
who broadcasts in English from Germany, has not been
established, though there have been plenty of guesses.
Judged by letters in the “Times” and elsewhere he
must have numerous listeners in Britain, and their
letters, as well as other newspaper comment, give him
all the advertisement he could wish for. His identity
will no doubt be settled in time; meanwhile the
“National Review” identifies one Nazi broadcaster.]
The men who broadcast on the German short-
wave length to England and the Empire have attracted
attention. Some of them are British renegades, but
the strangest of these perverts is not of our race. He
is a South African Jew who goes by the name of
Eric Holm.
Born in 1907 on a farm in Cape Province, he is
a double traitor to his race and to his nation. His
grandfather was a Rabbi, and his uncle a well-known
surgeon in Germany. These facts have been vouched
for by the South African Union Government Infor-
mation Department, which takes a great interest in
him owing to the fact that he was born and educated
until he was 16 in the Union. After that he went to
Germany, but in 1934 he appealed to the Union Gov-
ernment to lend him the money for his fare to come
home. This was done and he became a teacher in a
Government school.
On March 20, 1939, Holm went back to Ger-
many, leaving his debt to the Union Government un-
paid. He became a broadcaster at Zeesen, from where
he issues the most atrocious misstatements. One of
these is that General Smuts is a Polish Jew! Holm
has, of course, sunk innumerable British battleships,
and he has also charged a Boer crowd on Kruger
Day with English cavalry. Holm’s broadcasts have
been published by the Malan Nationalist press in
South Africa.
French Aims in This War.
[Condensed from an “open letter to ‘Time and
Tide,’ ” written by Odette Keun. In another “Time and
Tide” letter the same writer mentioned finding it
“singularly perplexing to read the asininities of Mr.
G. B. Shaw, the insanities of Mr. H. G. Wells and the
droolings of Mrs. Naomi Mitchison. One would think,
listening to a goodly portion of the Left-Wing intelli-
gentsia in England, that their burning desire is that
England (and France) should be defeated.”]
The English proclaim—they have even proclaimed
it officially—that one of their chief objectives is to
“rescue” the German people from the tyranny of a
Government that has “misled” them, and that this war
is a crusade to Win Germany Back to Democratic
Civilisation.
The French, having had the Germans
on their backs for centuries, and seen them-
selves invaded three times in less than 70
years, think that the Germans cannot be
Won Back to Democratic Civilisation, for
they never practised Democratic Civilisation,
and have not yet even begun to outgrow, as
a nation, the mentality of the early medieval
barbarians who put their faith in the tribe,
the autocratic leader, might, arms, ruthless
domination and treachery whenever it
seemed expedient. It is not possible, say the
French, to educate forcibly a European
race that organically loves to be savage ; the
thing to do is to reduce it to military im-
potence once and for all.
I do not believe for a moment that
France will wish to exact crushing penalties
from Germany after victory, if only because
the consequences of Versailles proved con-
clusively the futility of “reparations” ; but
most certainly she feels that a system must
be found by which German imperialism and
the preponderant German vices will not have
the slightest chance to function again.
Everything I come across bears me out
in this summary of the extremely resolute
French views—conversations, letters, the
press, the articles of reputable writers, the
comments of unbiased English observers
who visit France. I present this summary
as a warning. It is vital that English public
opinion should be acquainted, from the very
outset of the war, with the inflexible aim of
France, and check its chronic propensity to
wander off among incoherent visions which
the French cannot comprehend and that are
becoming a source of perplexity, and of
some irritation, to them. Identity of pur-
pose with France is even more essential than
political and economic co-operation, for the
plain truth is that the winning of this war
depends more on France than on England, since it is
France, not England, who is being incessantly and
ardently adjured by Germany to make a separate
peace. There is a possibility of disgruntling the French
by indulging overmuch in the speculations about peace
aims which are current in England—and it is a possi-
bility that contains grave eventual dangers.
Do the English seriously suppose that France,
who has five million men under arms ; several million
women struggling single-handed to raise their families,
keep up trade, dig and sow the fields ; a national
economy infinitely more disrupted than England’s ;
individual financial difficulties and emotional stresses
incomparably more numerous (for everybody in
France, not only a part of the population, is shatter-
ingly affected by the mobilisation), is going to ask
from this war —and obtain — anything short of com-
plete physical security ? I repeat that she will insist
upon, and carry out, whatever the method, such
guarantees as will make a fourth aggression of Ger-
many literally impossible. Impossible for good.
Assuredly I do not say that the French reject the
notion of a European Federation, but they are not
making it a fetish as the English tend to do.
Can nobody, can nothing prevent the English
from striving perpetually to escape reality by taking
refuge in sloppy-mindedness, a bathetic sentimentality,
a maudlin Utopianism! Can they never foresee the
ineluctable and cope with facts in time? Here they
are again at their old tricks of mawkish and befuddled
pity, of senseless wishful-thinking, exactly as when
they grieved over Germany in 1918, blamed her self-
made misfortunes on the Treaty of Versailles, and
sponsored the wickedly mischievous thesis that the
latter (which freed some four-fifths of the oppressed
minorities of Europe) was the most iniquitous machina-
tion of modern times.
Often I ask myself whether there exists in the
world today a people as naturally good as the Eng-
lish, and as immeasurably stupid. My prayer to what-
ever democratic gods there be is that the English
may continue to be good, but should stop being stupid,
and make a start in this much-to-be-lauded direction
by looking the obvious, the factual, the inevitable in
the face —and, instead of just resisting, at the very
last minute, the catastrophes they call down upon
themselves (and others) by their lazily optimistic, de-
liberate blindness, think out the future realistically and
not abstractedly in the vaguest and loosest of rambling
verbal dreams. For the sake of the entire world, I
urge them not to moon about trifling with those in-
effectual arabesques they like to dub their peace aims,


and for which, until more concrete plans can be made,
the French, very rightly, have not the faintest use.
Swiss Report on Germany.
[London “Sunday Times” comment: “Recent issues
of the Zurich newspaper ‘Tages Anzeiger’ contained
a remarkably vivid and unprejudiced account of war
conditions in Germany by a Swiss journalist who knew
Germany well in pre-war days, both under the Republic
and since the Nazi Revolution.” He has lately been
in Germany. Extracts from his articles are here given.]
My first day in Germany was a meatless day.
There are two meatless days a week, and in winter
two Eintopf (one dish) Sundays. In the restaurant I
went to there was a choice of three dishes: sour her-
ring (cold) with boiled potatoes ; mixed vegetables with
boiled potatoes ; or soused eel with boiled potatoes —
all three preceded by vegetable soup.
Many women who have to go out every day in
search of food come home without anything, as only
too often the reserves give out before everyone has
been served, and the possession of ration cards is no
guarantee that the quantities to which the holders are
entitled are available.
On the other hand, it seemed to me that Germany
must have enormous reserves of wheat and cattle, and
that the reason why bread and meat were being so
severely rationed was the desire to make the reserves
last as long as possible and to lay in provisions against
bad harvests.
* * * * *
Tt struck me in Frankfort that not a single build-
ing was protected by sandbags. Owing to the acute
shortage of jute, jute sacks may not be used for this
purpose. Under the terms of special Government
decree, sacks made of paper have to be used.
* * -Is * *
In Cologne for the first time I saw large detach-
ments of German infantry. The army of the Third
Reich is efficient and smart. The equipment is excel-
lent, the average height of the soldiers impressive,
their bearing a delight to a soldier’s eye, and the dis-
cipline as strict and perfect as ever.
There is, however, a great difference between the
soldiers of the Third Reich and those of the old
Imperial Germany. It struck me again and again how
very much the relations between officers and men had
changed. The old Junker officer spoke to his men only
in order to give them orders in an arrogant and un-
friendly voice, but now there is real comradeship and
an admirable esprit de corps .
This is due in the first place to the new system
of the Third Reich of recruiting its officers from all
classes of the population. Any young man who shows
an aptitude for leadership can become an officer; his
origin is no bar.
Secondly, modern methods of fighting demand a
high degree of independent thinking and initiative of
every soldier. The Third Reich no longer regards and
treats soldiers as numbers and cannon fodder, with the
result that it has produced something that the old
Imperial Germany did not manage to produce, namely,
an army which is not merely an unthinking machine,
but is a perfect combination of human intelligence and
mechanical precision.
Thirdly, the National-Socialists knew that they
had to make the army and militarism popular. The
army, navy and the air force have privileges not
accorded to civilians with regard both to food and to
treatment.
* * * * *
Many shops are open for a few hours a day only.
Most of the amenities of life have disappeared from
Germany. Nothing now remains but the most prosaic
necessities. The Germany of today looks as joyless as
Geneva must have looked under Calvin. In Cologne,
one of the most beautiful and gayest cities of the old
Germany, which is inhabited by genial Rhinelanders
who are Catholics and fond of the good things of this
life, I visited several of the best known beer houses.
In the old days these were always full, morning, noon
and night. Now the tables are empty. Beer and wine
are out of the reach of the purses of many people.
* * * igf 4s
For some time past empty toothpaste tubes, etc.,
have had to be kept instead of being thrown away and
are collected, so that the tin may be used again. Copper
and nickel are also extremely short, and this shortage
of important metals will, in my opinion, have a greater
effect on the war than the difficulty of importing suffi-
cient quantities of iron ore or the acute shortage of
fats and oils.
*****
There is hardly any motor traffic. The many
enormous black limousines with National-Socialist
flags on both sides in which the rulers of present-
day Germany used to tear up and down have dis-
appeared. Motor traffic, both public and private, has
fallen to 15 per cent, of the pre-war figure, and only
small cars which use very little petrol are allowed. Not
even the party leaders or the members of foreign
embassies and legations may use their big cars.
Cars may not be used for pleasure or week-end
trips. If a businessman lives in Berlin and owns a
factory in one of the suburbs, he may receive permis-
sion to drive to and fro in a small car. Should it, how-
ever, occur to him one day to dine in a restaurant in-
stead of going straight home, he is “joy-riding.” If
he is caught, which he probably will be, he not only
loses his license, but has to pay a large fine.
The strictest economy is practised, but I was told
that the reserves of petrol which have been accumu-
lated during the last two or three years are really enor-
mous, and that the amount of synthetic petrol pro-
duced is much greater than is generally believed.
*****
A 25-year-old Munich youth, Johann Weiln-
hammer, has been executed for stealing sandbags,
valued at just over five shillings, under cover of the
blackout. A special Court condemned him. It is also
announced that two other persons have been executed
for robbery during the blackout, another for attacking
women during the blackout, and two more for set-
ting fire to barns and crops. This last form of sabot-
age in the country districts is growing increasingly
common, and executions are announced almost every
day.
For listening to a foreign radio station a German
has been sentenced to four years’ imprisonment. It is
not only forbidden to listen to enemy stations, but also
to neutral countries. The Judge added that punish-
ment would be more severe (even execution being pos-
sible) if people told others what they heard. [The
“Times” Copenhagen correspondent on Dec. 17 re-
ported: Special Courts in Germany yesterday passed
sentence on several persons who had listened to foreign
broadcasts. In Berlin a 42-year-old man was sen-
tenced to four years’ imprisonment with hard labor
and two years’ loss of honor. The Judge declared that
he would have inflicted a higher sentence but for the
belief that the offender had not listened to foreign
broadcasts with the object of circulating false news.
If he had he would have been sentenced to death.
In other cases the sentences varied from one year's
to 18 months’ imprisonment with hard labor.]
* * * * \ *
An enormous kitchen has been opened in the
suburbs of Berlin to provide 30,000 people with free
meals during the winter. The manager is a woman.
X s * * * *
A Swedish Report
{From Manchester “Guardian.”)
The Berlin correspondent of the “Svenska Dagh-
ladet,” Sweden, reports that the German people do not
like war, and those searching for war enthusiasm will
seek it in vain. Nevertheless, hasty conclusions should
not be drawn from this. There is much grumbling,
but there is also strong discipline. The German people
are ready to bear sacrifices as a matter of course which
the British would find burdensome.
Rationing is severe in the case of food and severer
still for clothes. There is no pure coffee at all. Cars
lie in their garages without tyres. Taxes are high.
“World Telegram,” U.S.A.
HOLLAND THREATENED—AMERICAN VIEW.
“Lady, you have a job on your hands.”
Evenings are dark. Peace is far away. The individual
is powerless. If the State does not send him to the
front it can send him to work. It can force the Berlin
shoemaker to close his. shop and go into a factory in
Dusseldorf. It has done this sort of thing with mil-
lions of citizens. But while they grumble they obey.
Although food is severely rationed, the Swedish
correspondent does not depict a great shortage: The
German people started the war with minimum rations,
and the fact that the tiny butter ration has been in-
creased twice since the outbreak of war has had a
favorable psychological effect. Many people do not
buy all that their ration cards entitle them to.
He notes the ruthless interference with private
enterprise. Shops, workshops and even factories have
been shut down. Owners and staffs have been put on
State work. Innumerable members of the Labor Front
are undergoing retraining courses. Small businesses
disappear into large ones. Everything is rationalised.
“The State rules everything and soon will own every-
thing.”
War Changes in Palestine.
[One of the curious side-issues of the war is its
sudden halting of the strife between Arab and Jew
in Palestine. The position there, as depicted by Arthur
Merton in the article here condensed from London
“Daily Telegraph,” is strangely different from what
it was up to only a few months ago.]
Anyone returning to Palestine after three months’
absence, as I have just done, would scarcely recognise
it as the same country.
Life in the towns and villages has become quite
normal. Shops are open everywhere. There is con-
siderable traffic on the high roads. Gone are all the
controls which made even the shortest journeys bur-
densome. You can travel anywhere without a permit,
though it is advisable to carry your passport or identity
card with you.
The fields are no longer deserted. The confusing
series of curfews in some of the urban areas no longer
exist, though you must not be on the road after dark.
One striking outward sign of improved conditions is
the rural postman trundling along on his bicycle as in
the halcyon days before the situation made it neces-
sary for mails to be carried in armed cars.
Everywhere, be it in Jewish colony or Arab
hamlet, on the road or in the town, you find an atmo-
sphere of intense relief. The people show it in their
faces. The cessation of disturbances has come as a
welcome relief to all, whether they be Jew or Gentile.
Small bands are still operating. But they are
actuated by neither anti-Jewish nor anti-British senti-
ment. Either the men can get no work in their villages
or there is a price on their heads. So they continue
in the hills, descending on the plain whenever they
need supplies. Slowly the military are eliminating
them.
Although public security has improved and the
police are taking over their normal work from the
military, it is essential that for some time the present
strength of the military should be maintained. Their
presence has encouraged the villages to resist rebel
pressure and afford information which has greatly
facilitated the tracking down of terrorist bands.
The cessation of factional fighting has been in
direct response to the High Commissioner’s appeal for
a truce on the declaration of war. Both sides wel-
comed the opportunity, for they had had enough of
the struggle. Both offered their services to Great
Britain.
The outbreak of war has afforded an impetus to
Arab-Jewish co-operation. A joint committee of Arab
and Jewish growers appealed to the Government re-
garding the citrus position. The purchase of news-
print is being organised under the control of a com-
mittee of Jewish and Arab publishers. Arabs and Jews
are co-operating in the A.R.P. organisation established
by Commissioner Pollack at Haifa, whose position as
an industrial and oil-refining centre exposes it to
attack.
Economically, of course, Palestine is suffering
sorely. And small wonder in view of the three hard
years of strife and chaos from which it has just
emerged. It is surprising that the position is not much
worse.
There has been much difficulty in finding shipping
for the exportable citrus crop, estimated at half the total
of 15,000,000 cases. All things considered, however,
Palestine should be able to come out of the present
war, if not a rich land, at any rate with her economic
life considerably enhanced by reason of her position
as an industrial producer.
Generalissimo Gamelin.
o Condensed from a London “Times” article .)
Maurice Gamelin, born in Paris on September 20,
1872, is of mixed Northern and Lorraine stock, and
comes of a family rich in military tradition. At 19
he entered the Military College of St. Cyr, and two
years later passed out at the top of the list. In 1899
he entered the Ecole de Guerre, or Staff College, where
Foch was instructor at the time, and passed out with
the note “very good” in 1901. In 1906 Joffre took
him on his staff. The outbreak of war in 1914 found
him on the operations staff of Joffre, now Com-
mander-in-Chief of the French Armies.
In the difficult early days of the war, by his cool
judgment and technical skill, he proved a tower of
strength to Joffre, and was largely responsible for the
operation orders for the Battle of the Marne. Then,
with the Battle of the Marne and the race to the sea
over, Gamelin, now promoted to lieutenant-colonel,
began to chafe at the inactivity of staff work in con-
ditions of stationary warfare, and pressed for a com-
mand in the field. At first Joffre refused to let him
go, but finally yielded, and Gamelin went off to com-
mand a brigade with the rank of colonel. Promoted
to brigadier-general in December, 1916, he was re-
called by Joffre to serve on his staff, but Joffre’s super-
session followed, and Gamelin was shifted to the
post of Chief of Staff to General Micheler, command-
ing the Group of Armies of Reserve, the instrument
with which Nivelle carried out his ill-fated offensive.
In May, 1917, he took over command of the 9th
Division —a post he held until the end of the war.
Under his leadership the division gave a splendid
account of itself, putting up a particularly fine fight
before Noyon in March and April, 1918, when the
German armies made their most dangerous and effec-
tive offensive of the whole war. His division was mag-
nificently commanded ; holding its ground doggedly
but always doing what the enemy least expected, it
established a record of skill in defence which has since
been constantly studied. It again did splendid work
later, notably during the counter-attack by the French
Fifth Army on July 18, 1918, and the passage of the ■
Vesle on September 20.
In 1925 Gamelin was sent out to Syria, with the
difficult job awaiting him of putting down the Jebel
Druze revolt. Acting with energy and speed, he re-
occupied Sueida, besieged Damascus, and finally broke
down the resistance of the tribesmen.
Returned to France in 1928, he was given com-
mand of the XX Corps (Foch’s command in 1914),
and his progress was rapid, until on January 23, 1938.
he occupied the newly-created post of Chief of the
General Staff of the National Defence. On the out-
break of war, in accordance with a previous Anglo-
French agreement, he became Generalissimo of the
Allied Armies.
He bears the supreme responsibility for the con-
duct of operations by land in the present war. Retiring
in manner and habit, modest to a degree, he never-
theless possesses powers of rapid and energetic de-
cision which leave no room for hesitation around him
when they come into play. Almost in defiance of
French military tradition, he has been able to do
that most difficult of all things— to wait.


SPORTING
NOTION
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Rosehill meeting provided some
excellent racing, and, as four of the six
events were won by favorites, presumably
a majority of backers found it enjoyable.
I have known bookmakers to stand down
for a time at some courses after paying
their licenses, and several were sufficiently
hard hit on Saturday to make them con-
sider a day’s fishing in preference to
fielding at Rosehill’s next meeting.
The Maiden Handicap had an unsatis-
factory ending. Third to Ashment and
Evertrue rounding the home turn, Brazen
Lad led half-way down the straight and
then ran greenly, twice hampering Pros-
pector when the latter tackled him.
Prospector was unbalanced, and over the
last bit Brazen Lad did the better of
the two. A protest was certain, and the
thing that surprised me was that some of
the books laid 2 to 1 against Prospector.
It would have been difficult for the
stewards to dismiss the objection, and, as
they suspended Knox for two months,
they were seemingly of opinion he did
not do all that was possible to control
Brazen Lad when he took an erratic
course.
Evertrue and Grace Woods (who again
played up at the start) finished nearest the
place-getters, Beau Frere failing to do
as well as at his previous run, but he
was a little unlucky. Khancoban and
Mineral did not improve upon their
earlier efforts. Prospector is by Constant
Son from The Earth, a half-sister, by
Leighton, to Gay Ballerina. “Miss Lorna
Doone” paid 270gns. for him as a year-
ling, and at two years his six starts gave
one second.
Fearless Fox stood out from his
Quality Nursery Handicap opponents in
appearance, and landed the shade of odds
laid on him. After going nearly three
furlongs he was sufficiently far back to
suggest that it would trouble him to over-
haul the leaders, Roxford and Phalaran.
Roxford led into the straight, but was
unequal to stalling off Fearless Fox, who
looks like continuing to improve. He
was a 600gns. yearling, and is by Fox-
bridge (Foxlaw - Bridgemount), who
showed excellent form in England. Eager
Rose, dam of Fearless Fox, is by Day
Cornet from Wee Rose, and won several
good races in Maoriland. Fearless Fox’s
two wins have returned £690 in prize-
money.
Little excuse was possible for Our
Barney this time. Coming to the turn he
made a sharp run, but weakened before
reaching the winning-post. He is now to
get a spell. Other Rosehill hopes in
Mark Twain and Hydra did not give any
trouble, but Air Link did better than at
Moorefield, and is sure to win races.
Fearless Fox is not engaged in the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, owing to his sire
not being nominated, but is in the Cham-
pagne Stakes.
Gundagai gave “Miss Lorna Doone”
her second win of the afternoon, and it
was an effort that said a lot for that colt.
Last at an early stage of the Novice Han-
dicap, and ahead of only three or four at
the straight entrance, he finished bril-
liantly to win from Good Earth and
Bona Fide, with Mortine next. A furlong
from home Woolooga and Good Earth
led from Bona Fide, and it seemed as if
the winner would come from one of that
trio.
Nothing ran much worse than the
favorite, Roller Glide, who could not
muster any pace in the first half-mile,
and never raised his backers’ hopes.
Asnazu failed to repeat his Randwick
form, and Padua is seemingly not quite
as good as he looks. Bogan Boy (late
Naterra) did well for a long way, and,
when he resumes hurdling, a win at a
mile and a half should be easy for him.
Peekmond shaped promisingly. Gundagai
is by Pantheon from llatait, who raced
with marked success in pony races a
few years ago, and also won at “horse”
courses.
Since the idea of selling Adios at
auction was first contemplated he has
won three races in succession, carrying
a total of £B3O in prize-money. With that
amount in hand, and Adios’s value en-
hanced as a racehorse and potential sire,
“W. Staplemore” has reason to be pleased
he is still his owner.
A little while ago Adios had G. Price
worried, and, though Price was hopeful
that everything might come right, he was
not exactly optimistic. The chestnut has
gone on better than he anticipated, and
it is doubtful whether Adios ever showed
better form than in the Flying Handicap
at Rosehill on Saturday. Dagmar and
Merry Smile made the early running, the
latter leading round the turn. Then
Adios made a sharp forward move, and
quickly put the result beyond doubt.
Good Morning finished well in second
place, and, improving upon her recent
efforts, Early Bird cut Merry Smile out of
third money, the distance being beyond
the latter. Early Bird, who is now trained
by E. Fellows, jun., for W. Devon and
A. E. Cooper, is one of the finest-looking
mares racing in Sydney, and it is prob-
able the coming autumn will see her back
to her best. June was nasty at the bar-
rier. getting away too badly ever to have
a winning chance, and Anne was well
beaten a long way from home.
Gold Spark can always be relied on
to run well under a light weight, and an
allowance of 71b. dropped her to 7.4 in
the Rosehill Handicap. Going to the
front in the first furlong, she was not
after headed. Bobby was fairly close to
her three furlongs from home, but she
slipped away from him rounding the
bend, and was not in danger of defeat
after ente, ing the straight. Kurrawid
finished gamely, but without the slight-
est chance c F overhauling Gold Spark.
Bobby hung on well to get third, and
Cable Boy did best of the others, though
without ever looking a winning possi-
bility. Still, he is improving a little, and
may pick up a race before long. Runners
included Maorilander Yours Truly, but
he did not greatly flatter his trio of joint
owners, knight Thomas Gordon, W. A.
Freeman and F. W. Hughes. A longer
distance, under a lighter weight, will be
helpful to him. It was a fast lace, being
only three-quarters of a second outside
the Rosehill record.
Sigh is proving profitable for R. F.
Moses. In the Carlingford Mile she regis-
tered her fourth win this season, and did
it so well, in excellent time, that another
turn for her should not be long in com-
ing. When Lucullus Lad shot away from
Climax near the three furlongs his
backers were hopeful, but Sigh had no
trouble in running him down in the
straight. Last Chance and Black Fern
both did well enough to give them win-
ning prospects in the near future, and
Braidwood Boy will not be long in again
striking form. He looked burly, but, after
whipping in for some distance, finished
fifth. Hilarious ran indifferently, as did
Micawber, the most stylish-looking horse
in the field.
* * * *
One of the early favorites for the Oak-
leigh Plate and Newmarket will be
Manfred’s 14-years-younger half-brother
Chatsbury, w'ho followed his Standish
Handicap success by winning the Toor-
onga Handicap.
Leading from the half-mile, he only
just lasted it out to win narrowly from
Bursary and Amiable, but he ran wide
at the _ turn and shifted about in
the straight. That was due to green-
ness. Chatsbury has raced only five times
for three wins and a third, and the
rapidity of his development into one of
the most promising sprinters Melbourne
has known for years is best reflected in
the fact that he did not have his first
race until November 1. That was in a
Novice at Kyneton, where he lost con-
siderable ground at the start, and finished
last.
Shin soreness was responsible for Chats-
bury’s not racing as a two-year-old. He
was placed in work more than once at
that age, but had to be turned out each
time, and even now he is not free of
the trouble ; L. McCann, who trains him
for F. Carr, still has to treat the shins
after each race. A son of the Caulfield
Cup winner High Syce, Chatsbury cost
Carr 260 guineas as a yearling.
In addition to Chatsbury, relatives of
famous horses to run at Caulfield in-
cluded Distinction, a half-brother, by
Constant Son, to the £19,000 horse Talk-
ing, and Big Warwick, a half-brother, by
Madagascar, to Hall Mark. Both con-
tested the first division of the Holiday
Stakes (for two-year-olds), and Distinc-
tion did the better of the pair. He
showed a nice turn of speed in finishing
sixth, and, considering that it was his
first race, improvement can be expected.
Jack Holt trains both colts, Distinction
being owned by Mrs. G. M. Robinson,
who paid 750 guineas for him as a
yearling, and Big Warwick by his breeder,
C. B. Kellow.
Derby hopes centred around Hall
Mark’s brother Pure Gold after he had
hung up a string of wins early last
spring, but he lost form suddenly and
was sent for a spell. He resumed racing
in the Tooronga Handicap at Caulfield,
but the betting did not suggest that the
stable was keen on his chance, and, after
a smart beginning, he finished -seventh.
Pure Gold is engaged ip the Oakleigh
Plate and Newmarket, as well as the
V.R.C. St. Leger. Although trainer Holt
has not said so, it seems unlikely that
Pure Gold will be stacked up against the
best of his age in distance races.
But for a change of plans, Lady Mon-
tague would have been at the stud instead
of winning the £7OO Anniversary Handi-
cap at Caulfield. Lady Montague always
gave good promise, but several months
ago, when she was a three-year-old,
owner A. E. Kimpton announced her
retirement from the turf and arranged
for her to be mated with Enfield at St.
Alban’s Stud, Geelong. Trainer Bill
Burke, though he has no interest in Lady
Montague, who is under the care of
A. Murray, advised Kimpton to give
her another chance. Kimpton fol-
lowed the advice, and had the satis-
faction of seeing Lady Montague
record .the best performance of her
career in winning the Anniversary.
She was a long way out of her ground
early, but swept up to the leaders soon
after entering the straight, and won run-
ning away from Prince Sion and Gerald.
Lady Montague was ridden a well-
judged race by leading apprentice J.
Purtell, who, but for a serious accident
early last spring, would have had the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cup mounts on
Rivette.
Backers sustained severe reverses when
Bas Rhin, equal favorite for the Haw-
thorn Hurdle, and John Wilkes, favorite
for the Anniversary Handicap, broke
down in their respective races. Bas Rhin
was making a forward move when he
had to be pulled up near the half-mile,
his trouble being in the off fore fetlock.
There is a chance of his standing another
preparation after a long spell, but it
is doubtful whether John Wilkes will
ever race again. John Wilkes occupied
second position for the greater part of
the trip, but was beaten at the turn and
finish seventh. Because of suspensory
trouble in the off foreleg, he was in a
bad way when he pulled up. Winner of
the Williamstown Cup of 1937, John
Wilkes’s suspensory ligament gave way
when he dead-heated for first with
Cathartes in the A.J.C. St. Leger the
following autumn. He was gelded sub-
sequently, and trainer Dave McNamara,
who then took him over, did remarkably
well to patch him up for a win at Gee-
long last October, and another in the
£l2OO Bagot Handicap at Flemington on
New Year’s Day.
Owner G. L. Scott expected to win a
Caulfield double with Junta and Aspire,
and the former duly landed the second
Holiday Stakes division. But Aspire
failed in the Tooronga Handicap.
Bad luck has dogged Aspire since his
win at Caulfield on Boxing Day. A kick
received while at the barrier settled his
chance in the Standish Handicap, and on
Saturday he kicked continuously during
the float trip from Pakenham, where he
is trained, and skinned himself in places.
The trouble was insufficient to prevent
his starting, but probably the experience
upset him. Juma, a Gay Lothario-Donna
Celesta colt, for whom Scott paid 1150
guineas as a yearling, probably was lucky
to win his race, for Tatts ran wide at the
turn, and then was beaten only half a
neck. Quick thinking by Ted Preston
was responsible for Juma getting a rails
run in the straight, but the colt responded
well under pressure and was going away
right at the finish. Officially his time was
a second and a half slower than that of
All Veil in the first division, but he has
raced only twice for a win arid a third,
and is a fine stamp of a colt who seems
certain to improve.
Royal Jubilee, one of the best weight-
carriers in Melbourne, failed in his at-
tempt to repeat his double of a year
earlier —the Summer Handicap at Warr-
nambool and the Rowena Welter at
Caulfield—but he was unlucky. He stood
flat-footed at the start of the Rowena
Welter, was quickly lost in the ruck in •
a field of 14, was forced to make his run
round the field, and even then looked
like winning when he hit the front at the
top of the straight. The effort took some
of the steam out of him, however, and
he failed by half a head to withstand
Suliman’s challenge. Suliman was backed
from tens down to 6 to 1, and, in a race
in which riding was restricted to steeple-
chase jockeys, was piloted by J. Maher,
son of the winner’s owner-trainer.
Eligible, formerly owned by Eric Con-
nolly but recently purchased by E. Lea-
royd, a Tasmanian, added to his many
failures. Betting suggested that he would
win first up in his new colors, but he was
beaten when he was squeezed out in the
straight. He has not won a race for
almost two and a half years.
Improving on the form he had shown
at his previous start, All Veil (Veilmond-
Water Gipsy) moved up second to
Madame Coue rounding the turn in the
first Holiday Stakes division, and went on
to win easily from Damocles and Pauline.
Last-named was backed from 10 to 1
down to fives, and, although beaten, long
odds will not be bet against her at her
next start in similar company. All Veil
was bought privately as a yearling by
G. J. Barton, and, although a little money
caused his price to firm from 20 to 1
to 16 to 1, his win was a great result
for bookmakers. Barton almost did the
books another good turn when his Maori-
land-bred colt Bursary ran Chatsbury
to a head in the Tooronga Handicap.
Recent defeats in weaker company said
so little for Bursary’s chance that 50 to
1 was offered without takers, but he had
been accustomed to carrying weights up
to 8.12 among horses of his own age, and
the drop to 6.10 on Saturday accounted
for his surprisingly good performance.
His autumn engagements include the
Oakleigh Plate and Newmarket.
Form was hit to leg when Wheat
Slump, a 25-to-l chance, won the Koaka-
ribb Trial from another outsider, Yeo-
ford, and Olorus. At his previous start,
in the Hanging Rock Cup on New Year’s
Day, he had been beaten into third place
by Route March and Detour, but the
last-named pair finished many lengths
behind Wheat Slump on Saturday. Wheat
Slump, an aged gelding by Comus-
Anklet, was sixth or seventh for the
greater part of the trip, and finished too
well for his rivals. Riding was restricted
to apprentices, and Wheat Slump was
piloted by A. Angus. Dame Swift,
favorite for the race, was a big dis-
appointment. She had every chance, but
weakened after being one of the leaders
at the home turn.
Conceding 251 b. to Ken and 211 b. to
Imitari, Dornford, carrying 11.7, easily
beat those horses into the minor places
in the Hawthorn Hurdle. He hit the
front over seven furlongs from home,
and won in quite his best style. Dorn-
ford has been a fine moneyspinner for
owner-trainer Fred Hoysted, Saturday’s
win adding £350 to an already sub-
stantial total. In view of the many
opportunities, and good prize-money for
jumpers in Melbourne, it seems strange
that more Sydney hurdlers are not tried
there. In recent months Cheery Jack and
Winning Post have shown what Sydney
jumpers can do when given the chances.
* * * *
Last year there were 14 runners for
the Challenge Stakes, and it is doubt-
ful whether that number will be exceeded
this time. If Brazandt runs it will be
his third attempt to win this race, but
his latest form has not suggested that he
is quite as good as at one period of his
career. Of those with over Bst. Trimmer
and High Caste strike me as having best
chances. Both are well up to weight, but
it is possible Trimmer still needs more
racing to bring him to his best.
It may be the same with Hamurah,
though with 9.0 she is not overweighted.
When she was defeated half a head by
Bodley Head (7.7) in the La Perouse
Handicap at Randwick last autumn she
had 9.2, and those behind her included
Micawber 8.0, Ctesar 8.4, Creditor 8.11
and Delmestor 8.13. A repetition of that
form would put her a long way in this,
but she may be scarcely ready. Merry
Smile and Tarn are probable runners,


but I think both will find the race a trifle
difficult, and Diamond Wedding failed
badly at Moorefield.
Bradford has 41b. less than when he
won last year, and though he has been
disappointing in his most recent races
it would be unwise to wipe him off. He
is better at six furlongs than any other
distance. If the track should be soft,
and there is always a chance of that at
Anniversary time, Denis is a place pos-
sibility. If, however, the going continues
as hard as at present owing to lack of
rain, it will be all against him.
In not having made earlier reference
to Waireka, I am keeping the best until
nearly last. She had only 7.5 when she
ran third to Bahwing (7.10) and First
Prize (7.0) in the Stradbroke Handicap
in Brisbane last May. On Saturday she
has 71b. more, but she is now a much
improved filly, and 7.12 is not a weight
that should greatly trouble her. She has
51b. less than weight-for-age, and if she
is of the class most of us believe she
should win. G. Price could not do right
in the spring, but his luck has taken a
marked change for the better during the
last few weeks, and that is something
which counts with any stable.
Caesar may again prejudice his chance
by commencing slowly, and though Jaz-
beau and Pen are bound to run well they
may be just short of being good enough.
Waireka reads like a winner, and High
Caste, Denis, Bradford, Jazbeau and
Trimmer may be her most troublesome
opponents.
If Waireka should win the Challenge
Stakes her stable-companion Mildura will
be at an almost prohibitive price for the
Anniversary. The odds were not tempt-
ing, but it was a double that found par-
ticular favor immediately after Mildura
won the January Handicap at the War-
wick Farm meeting at Randwick. The
mile and a quarter did not trouble Mil-
dura, and in a similar field, with 91b.
less weight, an extra quarter-mile should
not be beyond him.
Gold Spark, who was second in the
race referred to, again meets him on
similar terms. With 7.0 she may last
ionger than she did with 7.9., but I
expect her to be beaten again by Mil-
dura. Own Folk is going on the right
way, and if we have rain during the next
few days he is bound to give a good
account of himself. There is no doubt
as to a mile and a half being within his
compass.
There does not seem much hope for
Santa on latest form, and Bringa may
be the mainstay of Webster’s stable. As
he was not entered for Rosehill, nor for
the January Handicap on the first day
of the Anniversary meeting, I thought
he might have been eased up with a
view to autumn racing. However, he is
working, and, with only 51b. more than
when he won the Summer Cup, will be
running on when many of the others
are stopping. Braidwood Boy may
scarcely be ready, and, though she has
next to nothing to carry, Hilarious can-
not be recommended after the way she
ran in the Carlingford Mile at Rosehill.
Kurrawid’s chance, on Rosehill run-
ning, may not appear quite as good as
that of Gold Spark, but there is the
chance of the extra distance suiting him
better than the mare. I cannot see that
there is much hope for the Maorilanders
Round Up and Yours Truly, and would
prefer a shorter distance for Sidcup.
Rival Hit may do better than some of
those receiving greater mention, but
though I do not like selecting favorites
I shall not go beyond Mildura for the
winner, with Kurrawid, Own Folk and
Bringa best of the others.
* * * *
Taking Rosehill running as a guide,
Anne and Climax would not appear to
constitute dangerous opponents for
Waireka in the Adrian Knox Stakes,
even though many followers of racing are
a trifle dubious as to whether the last-
named will be quite suited by a mile. For
my part, I do not fancy that distance will
trouble her against horses of her own
age. Anne was in a handy position early
in the Flying Handicap, but three fur-
longs from home it was apparent she
had no chance of winning. She tired
greatly from the turn, and never made a
less-impressive showing. Marked im-
provement in a few days will be neces-
sary to give her a fair chance of winning
the Adrian Knox Stakes.
The same applies to Climax. It may
have been against her that, after draw-
ing the rails in the Carlingford Mile, and
jumping out smartly, Munro had to force
her along to avoid being chopped back
at the first turn. Then Lucullus Lad
joined her, and kept her going to such
purpose that he had her beaten three fur-
longs from home. Munro tried to get
another effort out of her from the turn,
but she failed to respond, and was ahead
of only a few at the winning-post. It
is difficult to visualise a win for her in
the Adrian Knox Stakes.
F. W. Hughes contemplates running
two in that race, but Magic Riftg’s dis-
play in the Carlingford Mile was de-
cidedly poor, and she cannot be accorded
as good a chance as her stable-companion
Good Morning, who, in running second
to Adios in the Flying Handicap, made
up a lot of leeway in the straight. She
was in receipt of 81b. from Anne, but
she beat the latter all that. At the time
of writing the Victorian filly Riviera has
not arrived, but in view of the indifferent
form of some of the fillies at Rosehill it
seems safe to put her down as a runner.
Even if she cannot win, second money
is £175 and third £75. Either would pay
expenses, and Riviera has credentials
good enough to give her a chance for
first.
High Caste is doing quite a lot of
fast work over short distances, and per-
haps he may be a Challenge Stakes
runner. He has 61b. over weight-for-age,
but he is such a strong colt that 8.12
will not be such a serious matter for
him as for most of his age. He will
be ready for his Melbourne engage-
ments, and should run a great seven fur-
longs in the Futurity Stakes. Of the
last 12 five have been won by three-year-
olds, Mollison 9.3, Ammon Ra 9.3, Syna-
gogue 8.5 and Ajax 9.6. There has been
only one two-year-old winner of the
Futurity—Palmer 5.12.
At the end of last week a demand for
High Caste caused him to share
favoritism with Waireka, but on Mon-
day the latter was a definite favorite. Next
in order was Trimmer, then Caesar, fol-
lowed by Bradford and Tarn. Mildura
headed the Anniversary list, with Own
Folk next, and then Allunga, Bringa,
Gold Spark and Yours Truly in a bunch.
* * * *
Bookmakers’ sources of information
take a wide range, and, whenever some
horse that has been running indifferently
is well in the market as soon as betting
opens, probabilities favor it showing
much improved form. From nearly
every stable there is leakage, and, while
some trainers are quickly down on' em-
ployees whom they suspect of passing
out information, others are more tolerant.
“They don’t get much in wages,” I heard
a well-known trainer remark, “and if
any of my boys have sufficiently good
judgment to get a bit ‘on the side’ out
of anything in my stable I don’t begrudge
it to them.”
There are also trainers who often
know more about other people’s horses
than their own, and information sup-
plied to either bookmakers or backers
can mean grateful cash acknowledgment.
* * * *
Horses are not always trying, but if
you took heed of some racing men the
percentage that are out to do their best
in an ordinary race is small. My experi-
ence is that, of horses really possessing
chances, comparatively few are “dead.”
Many fields include horses that are get-
ting educational runs, but as it is recog-
nised their chances of winning are neg-
ligible racegoers do not lose on them.
After failure in some races I have often
seen some supposed non-trier sent away
for a spell, or sold at auction for less
than the value of the prize for some
event in which it was allegedly “a bad
case.” In the belief, however, that their
reputation for “cleverness” is enhanced
by telling of the non-triers they have
seen during a day’s racing, some men
are prone to exaggeration on that subject.
J. Wren has been a good contributor
to the Wellington (Maoriland) sales for
the past three years. He gave 1050gns.
for Wilson two years ago, 1400gns. for
the latter’s brother last year, and last
week paid 2000gns. for the Bulandshar-
Tea Tattle colt, outstaying G. Tancred,
who, in making an effort to secure the
youngster, would probably be acting on
the advice of J. T. Jamieson. Tea Tattle
is by Tea Tray from Bouvardia (Marble
Arch-Pretoria), a sister to Freesia, dam
of Cheval de Volee, winner of the last
two Auckland Cups. C. Wheeler was
acting for Wren, who, it is likely, was
the buyer of some of the other four colts
knocked down to the former. E. J. Watt,
W. Longworth, J. T. Jamieson, Dr. C.
Nigel Smith and J. Matthews were among
the Sydney buyers. Twenty-two colts
were bought for Australia at a cost of
8790gns. Among Maoriland buyers
G. D. Greenwood gave 700gns. for a
colt by Foxbridge from Rose Latour,
who is a half-sister to Eager Rose, dam
of Fearless Fox. It is to be hoped
Greenwood has a good one, but the odds
are against his having secured another
Defaulter.
* * * *
A Melbourne visitor recently told me
that several bookmakers over there
would like to remove to Sydney. They
say that business expenses are much
heavier in Melbourne than Sydney, and
that a bookmaker must have a lot of
luck on his side to make a profit in the
southern capital. “If I could get the
same weekly return on my capital that.
I have to pay in expenses I’d quickly
drop out of the business,” remarked a
prominent layer. “I’ll admit I got my
money out of the game,” he added, “but,
saddled with heavy expenses and the
tote growing in favor, it would take
a very smart man to make much now.”
* * * *
Beau Repaire must have greatly bene-
fited by his trip to Australia. Since his
return to Maoriland his form has been
consistently good, and at Wellington on
Saturday he defeated Royal Chief in
the Racing Club Handicap, 11 furlongs.
There was only a head between them,
and Royal Chief’s form was good
enough to warrant another trip to Syd-
ney in the autumn. Weight-for-age races
are not going to be easy to win here
in March, but Royal Chief has succeeded
in paying expenses in his previous trips,
and no doubt he will again, if only in
place money.
It is interesting to read in a recently-
published book that Admiral Rous, who
was the “Turf dictator” of his day in
England, was not among those who be-
lieved there were no horses like those of
the past. Admiral Rous’s contention was
that the thoroughbred was always im-
proving, and that the horses of his own
day were as much superior to Eclipse,
if not more so, as was Eclipse to his
Arab forebears. In Australia, according
to the ideas of some authorities, we have
been practically at a standstill for 40 or
50 years, and, as in the case of England,
we are repeatedly told we “breed too
much for speed.”
Well, no one wants a racehorse not
possessed of that quality, and as of
recent years races all distances from
six furlongs to two and a quarter miles
have been run in times that would have
been considered almost impossible even
35 years ago, it seems to me that pro-
gress has been satisfactory. Much more
thought is now given to the question of
suitable mating than in earlier days, when
it was so often a matter of sending a
mare to the nearest stallion available,
owing to difficulties associated with
transport.
Speed, and more speed, is the primary
object of breeders who pay high prices
for stallions, and they are meeting the
requirements of buyers hopeful of win-
ning races, whether at five furlongs or
two miles.
* * * *
Women owners have increased con-
siderably in numbers in Australia during
the past few years, but it will be a long
time before as many indulge in racing as
in England. They’ll leave it to their hus-
bands. There was less racing in Eng-
land last year than the previous one, but
winners under Jockey Club Rules (flat-
racing) for 1939 included 113 women.
The most successful were Miss D. Paget,
18 winners, 22 races, £5180; Mrs. V. C.
Arkwright, one winner, three races,
£4005 ; Mrs. Lionel Corbett, three win-
ners, five races, £3154; and Miss H.
Cowley, six winners, eight races, £2259.
The winnings of several others ranged
from £IOOO to £2OOO. They are also
strong supporters of National Hunt
(jumping) and pony-racing.
* * * *
The Aga Khan was one breeder who
had reason to be satisfied with results at
the yearling sales at Newmarket last
month. He sold 19 for a total of
36,710gn5., top price being 4000gns. for
Selim Hassan, a colt by Hyperion out of
Blanc Mange. Four were bought for
America, their respective prices being
3500gn5., 3300gn5., 3200gns. and 520gns.
Miss Dorothy Paget gave 2600gns. for a
three-quarter brother to Bahram, and the
same afternoon sold eight of her own
breeding. Their ages ranged from three
years down to foals, and the highest she
received for any was 125gns., one of the
foals being sold for 7gns. Miss Paget has
a great collection of high-priced mares in
her stud, but it is no certainty she will
have more luck in breeding than buying.
Sir Abe Bailey fared as badly as Miss
Paget. Of his 16 of various ages, the
majority either two or three years, only
two made three figures, llOgns. being the
highest for any of the younger horses.
Most were by stallions commanding high
fees.
* * * *
The departure of their male relatives
for the war has caused more than one
small English stable to come under the
superintendence of a woman. In refer-
ring to the win of Tetray in a steeple-
chase at Cheltenham, a London paper
said it was a success for a young society
girl. Miss Jill Muir, who took over the
management of her brother’s stables after
he rejoined his regiment. At the same
meeting, D. Morgan, who is now a
gunner, but rides when he can get away,
won two races for I. Anthony’s stable.
* * * *
In Maoriland there is supposed to be
no betting away from racecourses, with
the tote as the sole medium. That is as
good a joke as the supposed non-existence
of “off-the-course” betting in Sydney. It
is almost unnecessary to write that
Maorilanders do not confine themselves
to tote betting, and double-layers, in par-
ticular, do a big business. A week prior
to the running of the Centenary Cup at
Wellington last Thursday, Old Bill, Beau
Vite and Gladynev were fancied in that
order. It was wonderful picking,'con-
sidering the size of the field, as they
filled the places.
Four-year-old Old Bill (Siegfried-
Liaison) with 8.5 defeated Beau Vite
(8.7) a head, with three-year-old Gladynev
(7.11) only a neck further off. Beau
Vite ran a great race, and the time, 2.3 If,
was three-quarters of a second faster than
Defaulter recorded last year, when he
won with 8.11. It is to be regretted that
Beau Vite is unlikely to be in Sydney in
the autumn, as, on the form he has shown
recently, he would make things unsettled
for Reading and High Caste in the A.J.C.
St. Leger and also stand a good chance
in w.f.a. races. I do not suppose his
owner will change his mind about an
Australian trip, as Beau Vite appears to
have a couple of easy races ahead of him
in his own country, and then can have a
nice rest before being given another trial
in Australia in the spring.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bennell v. McLaughlin
Pat McHugh staged this engagement
for the welter title at his old stamping-
ground at Leichhardt, and it packed the
place to the rafters. Judged by the row
it kicked up, the crowd must have gone
home as exhausted as the scrappers, and
exhaustion was what these mainly
suffered from. For one thing, it was a
sweltering night; for another, the scrap
was ever 15 rounds —very unusual in
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Trial Hurdle Race: Mag Mort.
Novice Handicap: Peekmond, 1 ;
Gradgery, 2 ; Vulpine, 3.
Bondi Handicap: Overbold, 1;
Beau Mari, 2 ; Padua, 3.
Widden Handicap: Panchio, 1 ;
Yuletide, 2 ; Ensign, 3.
Challenge Stakes: Waireka, 1 ;
High Caste, 2; Bradford or Jaz-
beau, 3.
January Handicap: Rival Hit,
1 ; Gold Spark, 2 ; Sigh, 3.
Paddington Handicap: Breeze, 1 ;
Curiosity, 2 ; Pen Name, 3.
SECOND DAY.
ADRIAN KNOX STAKES.
Waireka 1
Riviera 2
Good Morning 3
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP.
Mildura 1
Kurrawid 2
Own Folk 3
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Niddrie Handicap: Florin, 1 ;
Heart’s Desire, 2 ; The Aisle, 3.
Cranmallan Trial Handicap:
Companion, 1; Contact, 2;
Decurio, 3.
William Reid Stakes: Manrico,
1 ; Unishak, 2 ; Aurie’s Star, 3.
Tweedside Handicap: Hectare,
1 ; Lord Walla, 2 ; Ore, 3.
Caldermeade Handicap: Old Ser-
pent, 1 ; Royal Jubilee, 2 ; Winter-
set, 3.
Warrook Highweight: Royal
Jubilee, 1 ; Silver Collar, 2; Suli-
man, 3.
FOR WILLI AMST OWN.
Laverton Trial Hurdle: Strath-
roy, 1 ; Frisco, 2; Kong, 3.
Foundation Handicap: Pauline,
1 ; Damocles, 2 ; Juma, 3.
Maiden Plate: Bureaucrat, 1 ;
Fort Macquarie, 2 ; Havers, 3.
Australia Day Cup: Plymouth
Hoe, 1 ; Lady Montague, 2 ; Prince
Sion, 3.
Anniversary Handicap: Atlas, 1 ;
Sir Romeo, 2 ; Lord Walla, 3.
A.N.A. Handicap: Bursary, 1 ;
Kanuri, 2 ; French Gem, 3.


tj°Coiwta
¥ TH€Ftflf€CT
STOCK WflHP_
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
Xo. 14—16-plait handle, 6ft. x 13-
plait thong: 34/6
3*o. 15—16-plait handle, 7ft. x 13-
plait thong: 36/9
No. 16—16-plait handle, Bft. x 13-
plait thong: 39/-
KINGFISHER
_ STATION
STOCK WHI-PS
KANGAROO RIGHT THROO
AND
STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. B—lo-plait handle, 7ft. x 10-
plait thong: 19/6
No. Ba—lo-piait handle, Bft. x 10-
plait thong: 31/-
Postag;e 1/3 each.
WALTHER & STEVENSON [7Z:
39SCE0RCE ST. SYDNEY
//CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
Even the best spark plugs
wear Q,ut. Replace them with
new Champions at lea3t mice
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and bad.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
SAVE MONEY
W ITS
| THRIFTY
M TO INSTALL
“ NEW
CHAMPIONS /
m
m
mk
i
\\
these effete days; and, for another, it de-
veloped, despite the night, into a hard,
smelling mill.
Hockey Bennell, 10.2£ ; Ron McLaugh-
lin, 10.44 —that is, when the scrap
started; when it was through they might
have had a go at the bantam title if they’d
had the energy left. As it was, they
lacked real snap. No doubt it was the
night, but they looked and fought like
a couple of hard-working lads to whom
this was so much extra hard work. They
certainly turned on a rough-and-rugged
stretch of stoush, but it lacked any
dramatic peak, any really definite shape
or conclusion to justify the gruelling
effort that went into it. With just that
bit extra added, it would have been a
topnotcher.
Hockey had it all over the blockier-
built Ron in reach and craft, but fought
all the way like a title-holder literally
defending his title; Ron, on the other
hand, fought all the way like a chal-
lenger attacking a title-holder —and that
was the fight in a few words.
What Ron took coming in was almost
sinful; pretty well every time Hockey
connected with a short inside-right jolted
to jaw or left eye, or with a short upper-
cut. This form of welcome made no
difference to Ron. The corner of his
left eye was cut as early as the third
round, and kept up a steady trickle
throughout, and his countenance other-
wise became as lumpy as a drover’s duff ;
but he kept wading in, bullocking Hockey
back on to the ropes, punching away
with both hands whether a target offered
or not, and occasionally getting through
the defences.
That was the affray from Ron’s point
of view. A solid, game, honest customer,
he deserved to have a lot chalked up in
his favor for pluck and hard yakka.
Evidently his share was chalked up.
Hockey, content mostly to counter,
took the bulk of what got through his
defences on the broad of his tummy. It
never looked like seriously damaging
him, but it had a wearing effect. He
began as if he proposed to put Ron
through a boxing lesson, but the form
of attack and the persistence of it took
so much out of him that the usual spark-
ling Hockey was an absentee over the
latter half, and the rounds he then won
he won by copying Ron’s bullocking
methods. Even then his punching was
cleaner, and all through the scrap he
landed at least three clean punches to
Ron’s one. Given a 40-acre paddock
to fight in and the sliprails down he’d
have won in a canter. Twice—with a
long right to the point at the opening of
the third, and with a left hook and right
to the jaw in the twelfth —he nearly
scored a knockout. At the end of the
tenth he failed to hear the bell—very hard
to hear above the din —and waded into
all and sundry, including the ref.
Mr. Lacey must be a forgiving soul.
He took a wallop in the ribs, but, if
anything, seemed to enjoy it, and finally
called the engagement a draw. Fair
enough. Hockey won it on a strict
appraisal, but the persistence and pluck
of Ron’s battling attack also deserved
its reward.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
In B. 15/11 /’39 I dealt with pitch-shots
in general. There is one that deserves an
article on its own—the high approach
shot to the green that bites into the turf
on landing and pulls up dead in a few
feet. Admired by all golfers, it is one
of the most valuable and impressive shots
in the bag.
Tossed high into the air and drop-
ping sharply on to the flag, it is a match-
winning stroke. Few players master it,
as it calls for firm and deliberate
shot-making backed up by confidence in
one’s ability to play it. While the loft
of the club has a lot to do with a success-
ful stroke, backspin is needed to stop the
ball quickly once it finds the green.
Applying backspin has been tried by
every golfer at some time or other when
he has attempted to cut the ground from
under the ball in order to stop it sud-
denly. Little knowledge of backspin and
disastrous results from occasional efforts
have made the average golfer very
wary of playing this shot. I have
read many articles devoted to backspin,
most of which have been too technical
for the ordinary golfer, who wants simple
explanations. To many golfers backspin
is a mystery which they have never been
able to fathom, yet after seeing such
masters of the shot as Joe Kirkwood, who
is capable of bringing the ball back
toward himself after it has landed on the
green, they begin to puzzle how such
shots can be played.
One of the golden rules in golf is
always to allow the club to make the
shot, never to try to assist the clubhead
to hit the ball, and this applies especially
to shots with backspin on them. One of
the fatal errors in trying to put “stop”
on is attempting to overdo the shot by
forcibly cutting underneath the ball. To
begin with, the player should always place
his trust for backspin in the loft of Ihe
club. The average No. 7 or No. 8 iron
has sufficient loft when contacting the ball
anywhere below its centre; unless the
direction of the blow be markedly up-
ward a certain amount of backspin must
be imparted. The club should be the
major means of producing backspin,
coupled with a Light variation in
the swing. Kirkwood has magnificent
control over the ball, which he reveals in
his well-known trick-shot of playing a
ball oyer his head to the flag after facing
in the opposite direction.
With such clubs as dynamiters and
heavy niblicks at one’s disposal I have
found it quite a simple thing to stop a
ball quickly, these clubs being so ad-
mirably suited to the shot. The most
important thing for a player to re-
member is that by striking the ball an
upward blow he is defeating his very aim.
The ideal shot is played with the club
descending upon the ball, squeezing it
away.
I find that by slightly opening the club-
face when addressing the ball, and begin-
ning the buckswing by swinging just out-
side the line, it is possible to get the
clubhead to come down to tl e ball and
cut across the projected line of flight.
This, combined with a downward blow
crushing the ball off the turf, puts on a
maximum of backspin, making the ball
stop suddenly on landing. The slightly
open club-face has the tendency ;o elevate
the flight sharply, while hitting down puts
the necessary stop on, mixing the two
into an ideal combination.
Many golfers make too much of an
effort to cut beneath the ball instead of
concentrating upon bringing the club-
head down on it. In many respects this
shot can be likened to an explosi< >n from
a bunker ; there is a striking resemblance
in the way the shot is played. As a con-
sequence of hitting down on the ball
slightly I have discovered that by playing
it an inch or so nearer the right foot than
usual —that is, about midway between the
feet—it is easier to manage. The lobbing
pitch struck upward may attain a greater
elevation, but unless the green be water-
soaked and soft it will not stop nearly as
quickly as one struck firmly downward,
although the latter may fly on a lower
trajectory.
In effect, the shot with backspin on it
calls for practice, as it can be readily
imagined how essential confidence is in
playing the stroke. A few shots before a
player goes out on the course will soon
give him confidence. But, it is worth re-
peating again, it is useless to try to put
backspin on the ball if any attempt is
made to help the club. Let the club do
the work and forget everything else but
to swing slightly outside going back and
come down on to the ball.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT."
(Formerly of the "Referee.”)
In the most interesting Sheffield Shield
match seen on the Sydney C.G. for
many years N.S.W. defeated S.A. by 237
runs: N.S.W., 270 and 311 (Saggers 57,
McCabe 55, Cohen 70, Mudge 57. Pepper
26 and Barnes 25 ; Grimmett 5-112, Ward
4-120). S.A., 211 and 133 (Bradman 40,
Badcock 20; O’Reilly 4-62 and Pepper
5-49). The aggregate attendance, 75,765,
and gate, £4915, were Sheffield Shield
records in Sydney.
When Bradman reached his 1000 for
the season the Hillites started the
plaudits. They had been counting the
runs. Don’s scores are: 76, 64, 251
not out, 90 not out, 138, 267, 0, 97, 39
and 40.
Bradman’s twelve Australian seasons
(he missed 1934-35 after an operation
in England) saw him reach the 1000 in
all save two, and make 200 or more
in an innings in each of the last eleven
seasons. He averaged more than 100
runs six times. In his first season
(1927-28) his figures were 46.22, and the
lowest since is 61.63.
Grimmett closed his Sheffield Shield
campaign with 49 wickets at 24.79. In
eight of the twelve innings he had a
century in runs hoisted against him. This
shows how he was kept up to the collar.
It became inevitable on the easy pitches
with no champion wicket-getter at the
other end. Grimmett’s bowling in Sydney
was one of the features of the match.
Walker went through the S.A. cam-
paign without mishap. His susceptible
left-hand had been protected by a special
glove-fitting. His keeping against N.S.W.
was superior to anything ever shown
before by him in Sydney; he wound
up with seven stumpings and two catches.
His season’s bag is 14 caught and 14
stumped—great work in six matches.
Had Badcock not been hobbled by
sciatica, results might have been different.
In Adelaide against Queensland Badcock
rattled up 236. He could not play in
Brisbane. When they brought him into
the eleven in Sydney he had to field at
first slip with the rigidity of a lone
sentry. His running between wickets
was that of a very lame man. Though
S.A. was not entitled to have a substitute
to run or field for him, this was waived
in the first innings. Then Bradman ran
for him, but Don did not seek runs with
the ordinary Bradman dash. That was
sporting.
In the second innings Badcock did his
own running and was more elastic. His
off- and cover-driving was peppery, his
defence easy and sound. If he gets rid
of the sciatic tendencies in coming
seasons, Badcock’s batting should be in
keeping with best expectations formed
a few years ago.
Some of the old brigade thought Brad-
man might have made more use of
Klose’s bowling. They thought him good
enough to practically plug one end up
(with occasional aid from Burton and
Waite) while Grimmett (and Ward)
operated at the other. However, Brad-
man handled his team shrewdly. His
field-placing saved lots of runs, par-
ticularly when his bowlers were able to
keep a length. Many McCabe strokes
travelling with speed past third man
and behind point were cut off. Here
Klose fielded splendidly; his fast left-
hand throw was low and true.
* * $ *
Queensland’s 244 against Victoria at
Brisbane was a disappointment, con-
sidering the start given by Brown (60)
and Cook (64). Allen’s 42 and Baker’s. 34
were helpful, but the bowling was too
much for the others. Ring got 3-71,
Johnson 3-16, Fleetwood-Smith 3-77 and
Barry-Scott 1-52. Victoria closed at 9 for
435, Lee (90) and Barnett (92) putting on
152 for the first wicket. Beames con-
tributed 55, Ring 45, Miller 37, Sie\«rs
55 not out and Scott 33. Ring and Scott
were very lively. On Monday Queens-
land had four down for 216.
Ben Barnett, as Victorian captain, con-
ceived a bold idea when he opened at
Brisbane with two left-handers —lan Lee
and himself. It paid handsomely. Lee
brought off many sizzling off-shots. The
South Melbourne left-hander has made
over 2000 runs in the Sheffield Shield at
an average of well beyond 40. Now
seasoned and a consistent run-getter, he
might become the left-hander Australia
needs for Test cricket. It is time we
had another Bardsley, Ransford, Darling
or Clem Hill to offset Paynter—we are
hardly likely to see Leyland again in
the role.
Barnett’s 92 is his biggest Brisbane
innings against Queensland. He went
still closer to the century in Melbourne
in 1931, when he finished with 94 in the
second innings. Captain’s responsibility
seems to have stiffened the batting of
Barnett, whose recent 66 was also his
highest against N.S.W.
Ring continues to demonstrate that
his all-round qualifications are very good.
Up to Saturday his last three innings
were 32, 41 not out and 49; with 26
wickets he has been the most successful
bowler this season for his State. There
is room in the Tests for an all-rounder
of the Ring stamp.
In successive Queensland innings
Brown and Cook topped the century in
the opening partnership—l 43 against
S.A. and 112 against Victoria. Queens-
land needs a little more seasoned bat-
ting half-way down the list.
Bon Tall on batted so well in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide that runs were
expected from him on the home ground.
Two ducks there, following one in Syd-
ney, have brought him a full dose of bad
luck. Last season he closed differently
with 115 and 44.
* * * *
N.S.W. v. Victoria in Sydney, com-
mencing on Friday, will decide the desti-
nation of the Sheffield Shield. Outright
victory for N.S.W. would give it the
trophy; Victoria needs only a first-
innings win. Any other result gives
South Australia the Shield. Of the
last 11 Vic.-N.S.W. matches Victoria
won eight—a stubborn fact for McCabe,
O’Reilly and co. to masticate. However,
the defeats of Queensland and S.A. have
revived N.S.W. confidence.
$ *l*
In Sydney club matches Pepper took
8-90 for Petersham, Minter rattled up
50 not out in 13 minutes for Balmain,
and McCabe’s 86 not out for Mosman
were made in 44 minutes. McCabe hit
28 off an over from Cant, with three
sixes. Minter beat that, scoring 30 off the
last over of the day. This little man has
a following. His fireworks two years ago
included a century in 34 minutes, and
last season he got 207 in two hours 20
minutes.


HOW A GREAT NEW DISCOVERY HAS CONQUERED
RHEUMATISM
ENGLISH CHEMIST’S SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENT
DEFINITELY ENDS RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
NEURITIS, SWOLLEN JOINTS AND KINDRED TROUBLES
: i .u
mmm
m 3
Mr. Douglas Curzon offers Free
Instant Relief and Guaranteed Free-
dom from Rheumatism to all who
send the form at the foot of this
announcement.
"URIC ACID HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH THE PAIN, SWELLING AND
STIFFNESS ASSOCIATED WITH
RHEUMATISM ... THE TRUE BASIC
CAUSE IS TOXINS IN THE BLOOD,”
DECLARES DOUGLAS CURZON.
Knee Joint showing the
effect of Rheumatic deposits.
OFFERS FREE INSTANT RELIEF
AND GUARANTEED FREEDOM FROM RHEUMATISM
TO EVERY READER WHO SENDS
FORM BELOW
TYPICAL REPORTS PROM FORMER SUFFERERS
“Your treatment in my case has accomplished all you claim for it. I had Rheumatism
in my right elbow with very severe pain. Improvement was noticed from the first day in
taking your remedy, and now the symptoms have entirely disappeared. The general health
is also improved. I will recommend the treatment to my friends who suffer from this
most painful malady.” — R.J.R., Woodville, S-A.
‘‘l am completely cured of the Insular Rheumatism in my thigh and legs, the twisted
toes and enlarged joints of my fingers are gradually becoming normal, since taking your
course, and I have not had a recurrence of nerve storms where my arm was amputated
(I am a limbless soldier) which I had suffered since 1917. Your treatment is a wonderful
blessing to all who suffer from Rheumatism in any form, and I intend to recommend your
Treatment wherever possible. Please accept my heartfelt thanks.”’
—Robt. C. S., Guildford, N.S.W.
‘‘l have now completed your Treatment and am writing to let you know that I have
improved 100 per cent. The results of your treatment have been amazing.”
—Alf. B. R., Burra, S-A.
“The result of the Treatment is very satisfactory. All aches and pains have gone and
feeling very well. I am sure it is the best treatment yet, and I have recommended it
to several others and wish you every success.” C.H., Strathfield, Svd^ev.
‘‘After suffering for ten years from Rheumatoid Arthritis,
not being able to use my hands or even hold a pen, and the
pain,in my hip so great that I couldfn’t walk from one room
to another, I am most grateful for your wonderful treatment,
which I consider surpasses all I have
heard of and tried, as it not only re-
lieves but permanently removes the
trouble if given a fair trial.”
—Mrs. A.E.D., Albert Park,
Melbourne.
“I must say how very grateful I am
for the great benefit I have obtained
from the Douglas Curzon Treatment. I
feel a different woman and for the
last five weeks I have done my own
washing and sewing, a thing I haven’t
done for some years. So you may
know how thankful I am.”
—Mrs. AS., Petersham, Sydney.
Rheumatic toxins are
first produced in the
deep veins of the legs
and are then carried
by the blood to every
part of the body, re-
sulting in (l) slug-
gish circulation, (2)
congestion, and (3)
pain and swelling.
FREE INSTANT RELIEF
FOR RHEUMATIC SUFFERERS
Mr. Douglas Curzon,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories,
62 Margaret Street (Box 4242 XX), Sydney.
Please send me the Free Instant Relief supply promised, comprising Analgesic Tablets
and Rheumatoxin Eliminant, together with Health Handbook, free of charge and obligation-
NAME
ADDRESS
(Please print name and address in Block Letters and enclose 2d in stamps for return postage.)
i
B. 24/l/’4O. I
JT will come as a pleasant surprise
to the thousands of people who
are suffering unnecessarily from the
pain, swelling and stiffness usually
associated with Rheumatism that the
true basic cause of this distressing
ailment has been discovered, and
an entirely new, different, harmless
and remarkably effective treatment
formulated by Mr. Douglas Curzon,
an English chemist, which per-
manently banishes every form of
Rheumatism by removing the causa.
Mr. Curzon found, as a result of
careful investigation, that, although
there are many forms of Rheu-
matism, with differing symptoms,
the fundamental cause is the same,
and now that this important dis-
covery" has been made, Rheumatism,
Arthritis, Neuritis, Synovitis, Lum-
bago, Sciatica and associated
ailments will soon be a thing of
the past.
THE TRUTH ABOUT
RHEUMATISM.
Mr. Curzon states that although
uric acid is present in the body it is
not responsible for Rheumatism;
that the real cause is the presence
in the blood of toxins which cause
the stiffening of the muscles and the
hardening and enlargement of the
joints by becoming localised at
certain parts of the body, and there
producing exactly the same sort of
inflammatory thickening of the
tissues as the results from a boil,
ulcer or any similar localised in-
flamed condition.
The pain is generally increased
by exposure to cold, dampness or
wet, because temperature changes
cause a contraction of the blood
vessels, which in turn gives rise to
capillary congestion. This makes
the circulation erratic, resulting in
coldness of the hands and feet,
numbness and a prickling sensation.
It is the irritating effect of these
toxins on the nerves or set of nerves
and their distribution that is respon-
sible for the shifting pains so familiar
to rheumatic sufferers.
To remove the cause of Rheu-
matism, it is necessary to ( 1 ) relieve
the pain; (2) eliminate the poisons
from the blood, and (3) to build
up the nervous system.
Mr. Douglas Curzon* s new
development scientifically combines
and provides these essentials, and
by its speedy, safe and certain action
not only definitely banishes the
pain, swelling and stiffness, but by
ENDING THE RHEUMATIC
TENDENCY assures immunity from
future attacks.
Under the beneficent influence of
this new method swelling subsides,
pain ceases, stiffness disappears, and
Rheumatism, whether in the head,
neck, shoulders, arms, back or legs,
is soon forgotten.
Genuine Free Trial.
Arrangements have been made
with Anglo-Australian Laboratories
of Sydney to make this wonderful
medicinal combination available for
Australian sufferers. Mr. Curzon,
therefore, invites every reader of
this journal who suffers from Rheu-
•matism to send the form at the
foot of this announcement and
immediately receive free of charge
and obligation:—
(1) A trial supply of Analgesic
Tablets to give instant relief in every
crse of mr scalar, nerve, or arthritic
Rheumatism. These tablets are
guaranteed to be absolutely harm-
less, yet remarkably efficacious in
relieving Rheumatic pains, wherever
situated.
(2) A trial supply of Rheuma-
toxin Eliminant. This scientific
combination tones up the liver,
stomach and digestive organs. By
its direct action on the blood it
quickly and safely reduces swelling
and stiffness.
(3) An interesting Health Hand-
book entitled “THE ONLY WAY
TO END RHEUMATISM,” with
offer to completely banish your
Rheumatism under a genuine guaran-
tee of speedy, satisfactory results or
the complete method will cost you
nothing.
If you desire to say good-bye to
distressing and heart-weakening
Rheumatism, with interrupted sleep
and constant suffering, you simply
must not allow past disappointment,
discouragement, prejudice, or lack
of faith to stop you from forthwith
taking the first step on the road to
permanent freedom from Rheu-
matism.
Send the form now.


O-CU^V,
ŗ
WMWmWLM
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-Q
Commencing Monday, January 29.
“SPICE OF EIFE,” VARIETY REVUE.
Big New Company.
OVERSEA variety.
East Week.
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “MOTHER GOOSE.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Salaoi’s Pn poets & Stars at Roth Shows
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
The “Prince Igor” Ballet
When “Les Sylphides” is on the pro-
gramme any other ballets should be
labelled “also started,” but Colonel de
Basil’s company at Sydney Royal on
Friday turned on a brilliant “Prince
Igor,” a colorful “Fire Bird” and a “Syl-
phides” that came nowhere. Nothing
was wrong with Antal Dorati’s Chopin;
the white costumes froze at the right
moments into faultless designs; Ria-
bouchinska and Anna Volkova were
models of grace. But Tamara Touman-
ova’s dancing was cold and the perform-
ance as a whole lacked emotional depth
and unity.
As the bird of fire Toumanova was
much more in character. Lichine, sinister
and gorgeous, really was a wiz. of a wiz.
if ever a wiz. there was. The decoration
was rich, and Dorati fully earned his
ovation for his handling of Stravinsky’s
fireworks. The story, of course, demands
that the prince should liquidate the
wizard by the smashing of an immense,
supernatural egg, but there should be
some way of suggesting that without
actually doing it. The ballet is genuinely
dramatic, but the smashing of an egg,
unless one is in a balletomane’s trance,
is just funny.
Between “L’Oiseau de Feu” and
“Prince Igor” Serge Lifar’s faun had his
afternoon with Debussy and the nymphs.
It’s a ballet that jutted out from the pro-
gramme as the rock on which the faun
reclined jutted out from the stage, but it
was a harsh interpretation, stylised into a
crudity that’s not to be found either in
Debussy’s music or Mallarme’s poem.
“Prince Igor,” with the Borodin sound-
ing like a thunderstorm, was male dancing
at its best, a triumph of vigor and color.
Lazovsky was the right man to dance the
warrior, and Grigorieva and Nelidova
gave him good support.
* * * *
Ben Fuller has started to infuse some
life into the dry bones of legit, with a
season of light comedies at Melbourne
Princess.
This playhouse opened before Christ-
mas with a revival of “Charley’s Aunt,”
with results that were surprising even
to those who remembered how the late
Frank Neil once resuscitated his fainting
fortunes with the same aged farce. The
chances of the “Aunt” running for the
duration of the war at present seem
bright, but if and when she expires she
will be succeeded by “Giving the Bride
Away,” a comedy-farce by two Mel-
bourne-born women who sail under the
joint cognomen of “Margot Neville,” and
who have so much fame abroad in the
confecting of agreeable running comedy
that their work is snapped up by man-
agements almost before the ink is dry.
“Giving the Bride Away” has the dis-
tinction of having been given the first
night of the present war. It was rushed
out of London and produced in the
provinces in the first week. Subsequently
it returned to St. Martin’s Theatre in
the West End. It was being played in
Edinburgh when the German bombers
were dropping their eggs on the Firth
of Forth. The Margot Nevilles have
done most of their writing in Melbourne,
going to London periodically to launch
their brain children on the world.
* * *. *
Artbursts.
Archibald Prize
The 1939 field of candidates for the
Archibald Prize was large, but the aver-
age of merit was lower than for years
past. Even on the end wall, where the
runners-up surround the winner like
satellites around a sun, there are a few
entries which in a better year would have
been herded at the other end of the
room.
Max Meldrum’s win with a portrait
of Speaker Bell, painted in his charac-
teristic broad style, is popular. Mel-
drum’s great sincerity and the devotion
with which he sticks to his unconven-
tional principles are widely appreciated,
but this critic has never been convinced
that the Meldrum method is a good one
for portraiture; and the judges’ decision
on this occasion doesn’t alter that view.
Meldrum is the ninth artist to win the
prize, which went six times to Mclnnes
and five times to Longstaff.
There are some fine portraits among
the also-rans. H. S. Power’s picture of
a professor in his academic robes has
dignity and gives a sense of physical
and spiritual strength. R. A. Morrissey,
a Meldrum disciple, makes an arresting
splash of color with a schoolgirl in
navy blue gripping a vermilion chair.
Tempe Manning’s priest in black soutane
stands out, and there’s quality in a
water-color figure study by Muriel
Pannett.
Buckmaster, Norman Carter, Hanke,
Leslie Walker, Will Rowell, Aileen Dent,
W. A. Dargie and H. T. R. Rousel show
worth-while work, but the best painted
portrait in the collection is Esther Pat-
terson’s (No. 13). Pose is excellent,
painting of furs and other textures is
admirable, still-life accessories are
snappily done, and composition couldn’t
be bettered. But thirteen always was
an unlucky number.
Lord (Stan) Laurel about to heave fellow-grad. Oliver Hardy out of the ’Varsity
in “A Chump at Oxford.” Gordon Harker and Alastair Sim, detectives in
“Inspector Hornleigh on Holiday” Both films at Sydney Mayfair.
Wynne Prize
The Wynne Prize, for about the first
time since it was established, has had
entries from quite a bevy of distinguished
landscapists. Syd Long, J. R. Jackson,
John Salvana, Howard Barron, Norman
Carter, Lloyd Rees, H. S. Power, Ernest
Buckmaster, J. Collins and Will Rowell
have put their best work forward. But
the prize goes to another well-known
painter, Will Ashton, whose “Morning
Light, Middle Harbor” (said to be the
only picture he painted in 1938) captures
very charmingly the early-morning haze
that lends magic to the lands round Syd-
ney Harbor.
AT THE TALKIES.
“A Chump at Oxford”
The present scribe hastens to confess
that he bellowed so loud over this odd
chunk of damfoolery at Sydney Mayfair
that if p.c. of a crowded house
hadn’t been doing likewise he’d have cer-
tainly been run out and perhaps run in.
But maybe he’s no proper judge, being
one of those who start licking their lips
as soon as the names of the world’s lead-
ing brace of prize clowns appear on the
screen. It doesn’t matter to such addicts
what Stan and Ollie do so long as they
do it, and here they do it for about half
the bill; and the other half some will
rate even better.
How that great unguessable quantity
the Filmgoing Public is likely to take it
may be another matter. It begins nice
and inoffensively, with Laurel and Hardy
hitchhiking in search of work, doing a
bit of street cleaning, and ending up
down and out. Having a snack on a
bank steps, they accidentally bag a
bank-robber, and are taken before the
manager for their reward. There was
a time when this would have been the
extent of a Laurel and Hardy film ; and
fair enough, too. But nowadays they
have to make a Feature Film, which is
a production mainly judged by how long
it takes to run it off. They’re quite
equal to that demand, and there are
plenty of hilarious moments between this
point and the end.
Yet the thought would keep cropping
up about the Great Filmgoing Public.
How would it be likely to take it? The
answer to this seemed to be that if it
would take this it would take anything.
For this is burlesque, and it’s burlesque
of something hitherto considered sacred
—that lush and lovely stretch of senti-
mentalism “A Yank at Oxford,” in which
Robert Taylor was so perfectly cast.
That it would have some reference to
that film was, of course, to be expected.
But it becomes a very rude piece of
aebunking of Hollywood in its most
highly regarded vein.
In a way it’s somewhat overdone.
Once Stan and Ollie reach Oxford—
elected to be educated as a reward —
and the inhabitants of that seat of learn-
ing are discovered plotting a hot recep-
tion for them, the sort of thing likely to
lie ahead can be guessed with complete
accuracy. It duly begins happening to
them, and though a note of originality
comes in when Laurel proves to be a
former lordly athletic resident who lost
his memory when a window fell on his
head and who now recovers it by the
same process, the ragging is all a bit
long drawn out. However, even that
has plenty of bellow to it, though it’s to
be feared the Great Filmgoing, etc., may
perhaps resent it. Even present paid
addict, who thinks watching Laurel and
Hardy the easiest form of work ever de-
vised, has to admit feeling that a more
fully original opus would have been
more worthy of their exceptional talents
than such a complete welter of burlesque,
particularly as in his humble opinion
Hollywooden sentimentality isn’t worth
such superb powder and shot.
It’s almost sure to have the further
criticism heaved at it that it’s good in
patches; but, then, what Laurel and
Hardy isn’t built that way? This addict,
for one, is grateful for the little relief
afforded by the hollows. It makes the
peaks ail the more welcome.
* * * *
Accompaniment’s a Gordon Harker
Inspector Hornleigh opus, the very best
of its kind so far. Harker’s fast becom-
ing a sleuth first and a funny man next,
but he’s still enough of the latter to keep
things bright and breezy.. The plot’s a
topnotch mystery, and treated humor-
ously by all hands it’s excellent film
fare. The production is English film-
making at its best—a fast-moving, divert-
ing flow of entertainment, uncommonly
well put together. Asa specimen of
film-making it licks “The Chump” hollow,
and Harker and Alastair Sim between
them purvey a continuous supply of
humor that many will no doubt prefer
to that of Oliver and Stanley.
* # * *
Also on this good bill, and seen, too,
at the State Newsreel, is a fine photo-
graphic record of the scuttling of the
Graf Spee. If the sound effects are all
natural, a ship like that makes a devil of
an amount of noise about going under.
A Gaumont-British effort, the film’s
r
ŕ


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
sMI
>/-
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal .surround-
ings and delightful atmospheie. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
★
Forbes Street, Darlinghurst,
RIVER ROAD, GREENWICH,
AND MOSS VALE
Day and Boarding School
For Girls of All Ages from Sub Primary to Leaving
Certificate Honours.
The schools are ideally situated, excellent cuisine,
qualified mstresses, good examination results. The
school of Mass Vale is in 382 acres, with special
facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
Armidah, N.S.W.
3300 feet above sea level.
Boarding and Day School for Boys from
Primary Standard to Leaving Certificate Honors.
Next term begins Thursday,
February Ist, at 1.30 p.m.
New boys attend Wednesday,
January 31st, from 9.30 a.m.
For prospectus and information application
should be made to the Registrar, The Diocesan
Registry, Armidale.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was quite a flutter at Rose
Bay when the Marquis of Wiilingdon
and his Marchioness arrived by flying-
boat. _ The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie and Lord and Lady Wakehurst
were down to meet the visitors. There’s
something Don Quixotish in Lord Wil-
lingdon’s long, narrow, sensitive face.
But he doesn’t tilt at windmills: he plays
cricket (or he used to). He was captain
of both Eton and Cambridge elevens.
Lord and Lady Wiilingdon can truly
be said to have had a life filled with
color. He has been Governor of
Madras, Governor of Bombay and Vice-
roy of India. They also know China,
for Lord Wiilingdon was there on a mis-
sion connected with Boxer indemnities.
Canada has known him as Governor-
General. The Marquis and Marchioness
(and, let it be noted by Enzed women,
she has a reputation for smart dress),
accompanied by Viscount Errington, went
off by flying-boat to put a permanent
curl into the rest of Maoriland’s cen-
tenary celebrations. There Lord Willing-
don will represent the British Govern-
ment.
Both our titled visitors remember Syd-
ney of the ’nineties. In those days Lord
Wiilingdon was A.D.C. to Lord Brassey
(his father-in-law), who was Governor
of Victoria. One of the functions never
forgotten by Lord Wiilingdon was the
grand wedding in Sydney, for which Lord
Brassey brought his State coach and six
horses up from Melbourne. The wed-
ding was that of the Hon. Margaret
Brand, a daughter of Lord Hampden,
then Governor of N. S. Wales, to Cap-
tain Ferguson, of the 2nd Life Guards.
The horses, incidentally, put on quite a
spirited show of their own outside the
church.
This Letter is not surprised to heai,
after its glimpse of the pleasant Lady
Wiilingdon, that she has no intention of
embarking on a volume of memoirs
There have been so many books of
memoirs, and, if they are not pointless,
the points are often but so many thorns
pricking needlessly when the blooming
of life for everyone mentioned is nearly
done.
Favorable reports on the civic fathers’
efforts to beautify the already good-
looking Perth are brought by Mrs. John
Henry Snaden. Before her marriage she
was clever Lucy Hayward (daughter of
The Bulletin’s “T. the R.”). Matrimony
having proved no deterrent to her brain-
content ; in ten minutes’ conversation
she gave a neat and complete picture of
her home city coupled with some shrewd
remarks on world events, explained her
reactions to the different sorts of heat in
East and West, and threw in a comment
or two on reading. With her on the
holiday she brought small daughter
Coral.
The Arthur Champions and the George
Merivales got busy on behalf of the
Comforts Fund of the 2nd/Ist Battalion,
and last Friday turned the grounds of
their adjoining homes into a beer garden.
Beer and sausage were the refreshments,
and the party seemed to thrive on them,
judging by the fun. Miss Rose Meri-
vale, who helped in the entertainment,
wore cool white frocking.
To go to the Ballet to see Tamara
Toumanova is always exciting. At last
Friday’s change of programme the
exquisite creature, airy as a cloud, floated
in and out of the pattern of “Sylphides.”
Her “Fire Bird” burned and sparkled, a
creature of faery. Her dancing is like
the conversation of a brilliant person
who carries his knowledge lightly and
with simplicity. All the women loved
Lifar as the faun. For his graceful,
poignant movements with the scarf alone
after he has returned to his lonely rock he
deserved the applause that kept the cur-
tain rising again and again.
Among the admired in the audience
were Mrs. Volterra in her flowing white
chiffons, Mis. Vincent John Flynn in her
mistlike blues and Pat and Margaret
Salenger, a contrast in their Parma-violet
and white chiffons. Mrs. Leon Lyons,
Barbara Knox and Rada Penfold Hyland
were among the applauders. Sparkling
with diamente pins was Mrs. Alexis
Albert’s hair. Beatrice Meeks’s crepes
were hyacinth-pink. Mrs. Erik Fischer
(Sydney’s original “Fire Bird”) sat in the
circle, her frock all blue and silver bro-
cade. Mrs. Eva Wunderlich and Mrs.
A. E. Grace, who never miss a first night,
again compared notes. Mrs. Harald
Bowden watched the show while her hus-
band, with Claude Kingston and E. J.
Tait, so to speak, watched the numbers
go up.
If it has been the dream of your life
to own a racehorse, here is your chance.
The first prize in the art union to aid
the Red Cross is Medlar, a filly given by
Arthur White, of Belltrees, Scone.
Imagine winning her if you lived in a flat
at King’s Cross. Still, training around that
quarter should certainly make her step
out. The only trouble would be they’d
have to turn the Melbourne Cup into a
quart pewter before she’d really stretch
out to grab it.
The Alaxandei Gordon lady took the
meeting, which was at the Australia, and
went with a zing. Regardless of her feel-
ings the fiUy’s age was much discussed.
Somebody said she was three, Banjo
Paterson nicked a year off that, but
present owner Mr. White said Medlar had
passed her third milestone. Penfold
Hyland has offered to pay half the price
of a car, and the committee will be at
home any flay to receive the other half
from kind friends. The car would be
second priap. A diamond ring is another
bauble to be won. Tickets can be had
at 11 Bond-street.
Off to Mexico with her husband, who
was Consul-General in Australia for Den-
mark, went Mr 6. G. L. Host. Probably
no Consular pair have had more farewell
parties given in their honor. The Consul-
General far China and Mrs. Pao gave
one of their celebrated dinners. This
was a very Consular assemblage. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Doris Clarke, only daughter of Mrs.
Iva. Clarke, for several years one of
Sydney’s well-known presswomen, made
a pretty bride last Saturday. In a frock
of rose-white chiffon she became the
wife of Sub-Lieutenant Walter Haddon
Burke, R.A.N., by benefit of St. Mary’s.
Wedding meats were served at the
’groom’s home in Neutral Bay. ’Groom’s
father pilots the destiny of the Swan
pen in Australia.
“Life is real and life is earnest,” said
the French-Australia League, shook off
its Christmas lethargy, and held vigorous
meeting in the Australia. Things dis-
cussed were the just-around-the-corner
dinner-dance at Prince’s, a France’s Day
that might possibly yet be linked up with
Poland and Finland and emerge as an
Allies’ Day, and a successful invitation
festa in one of the ships of the French
Navy. Whether Finland is technically
an ally was a disputed point.
But first and foremost, came the
arrangements for the dance. Something
like £4l) worth of tickets has already
been sold, which indicates very good
salesmanship during the holiday dol-
drums. Donations are dropping like
manna out of the blue. There are to
be bottle-fishing and a sale of dolls, prob-
ably dressed as ally nationals. Tickets
are a guinea each. The idea of the dolls
was received with the coo of approba-
tion, because it was remembered that
the doll given by Mr. Pellier had brought
the League no less than £74 of the £4OO-
- scooped in by its Ballet matinee.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs. Andre
Brenac, secretary Mrs. Alice Brenac,
Mrs. Pierre Remond, the Jordan lady
and Consul-General Tremoulet were
some of those present. Mrs. Andre
Brenac tells of father and mother, the
popular Henry Segaert couple, back
once more in their ambassador setting
amid the glories of Siam. Though, of
course, we mustn’t call it that now, its
new name being Thailand. Mrs. Andre
Brenac was also smiling over the arrival
of a baby daughter to sister Mrs. Fraser
Coss.
Annie Laurie McGarrity is one of the
small company of women masseurs who
have gone overseas from N. S. Wales for
service with the A.I.F. You can guess
there’s Irish and a dash of Scots in the
G. H. McGarritys, of Strathfield, since
they called one daughter Annie Laurie
(she’s known as Laurie) and the other
daughter Glenn. Glenn is well known as
a pianist and a composer. She says that,
if Laurie had not been a natural-born
masseuse, she’d have been an excellent
pianist. Laurie is a product of the
Methodist Ladies’ College, Burwood, of
St. Gabriel’s, Waverley, and of Sydney
Ui.i. Her experience has been gained in
Wollongong Hospital, at Guy’s, in Lon-
don, and in Brighton Hospital when she
went abroad for further study. Rand-
wick and the Military Hospital at Hobart
have also known her soothing ministra-
tions.
Americans are going to have a good
long look at some of England’s treasures
owing to the dangers of travel by sea.
Originally sent over for N. York World’s
Fair, according to a New York paper
Magna Charta will be exhibited in Wash-
ington in the Library of Congress, its
neighbor the Bill of Rights. The gold
and silver of the City of London will
be shown at Yale. The Henley Grand
Challenge Cup, the oldest rowing trophy
in the world, has found temporary harbor
in the Harvard Club of Boston.
The Women’s Pioneer Society is pre
paring a party for Governor Phillip as
usual this year. It will be a mid-
afternoon reception in the clubrooms,
and its date will, of course, be January
26. President Mrs. Wentworth Gray-
son and Carlotta Doyle both speak with
great a limation about this beginning-of-
the-yeai all-Australia function.
Cricket was runner-up to the war as
item of conversation last week, and
Sheffield Shield audiences included the
Governor-General and Lady Gowrie. In
the Admiralty House group was Ivie
Price. South Australian batsman Dick
Whitington and his wife were among
the noted in the stands; so were the
Ernest Watts and the Alan Footts, of
Melbourne. Mrs. Syd Smith, wife of the
N.S.W. Ciicket Association president, sat
with the vice-regals. Battalions of
schoolboys in the stands and knitting in
the hands of almost every woman were
part of the stand decor.
Knowing Lady Gowrie’s fondness for
mus e, you wonder if her guest Lord
Wiilingdon “obliged” with a song or
two Old Sydney annals tells that when
he was aide to Lord Brassey he had a
pleasing voice, and the writer adds that
this was not to be wondered at, since
Goring Thomas was an uncle. Lord
Wiilingdon himself is the composer of
some songs.
The Karl Gablers (until her marriage
last week she was Betty Cohen, of
Cremome) will live after their honey-
moon at Southport (Q.) at Castle Hill.
They have bought the home of the late
E>r. Hordern, famed “googly” bowler.
’Groom comes from Zurich, in Switzer-
land ; and he and his bride plan to build
a sunken garden overlooked at one end
by the bougainvillasa-covered garage.
There are 10 acres of gardens surround-
ing the spreading, friendly house which
still holds many of the antique pieces
with which its late owner furnished it.
The wedding was rounded off by a
family lunch at the Australia. Henry
Hordern was best man.
Finland’s meeting was housed in the
ballroom of the Australia last Thursday.
It started just as the French-Australia
League was dispersing till the third
Thursday of next month. The Finnish
Relief Fund, which already has nearly
£4OOO in the bag, was vested in a com-
mittee of which Prof. John Peden is presi-
dent and the Consul for Finland the
patron.
Perhaps because of his middle name,
which sounds as soothing as the memory
of a childhood lullaby, as fantastic as a
fairy tale, this reader has gone back to
her old friend William Makepeace
Thackeray. Of the ballet and the gossip-
writer, which have begun to be looked
upon as almost exclusively the pet and
pest of modernity, he discoursed in the
“Cornhill” of his editorial days.
Even in those remote days there were
theatre frequenters as enamored of the
ballet as any balletomane of today.
Thackeray, by innocently making a little
gold-digger of one of his tales a ballet-
dancer, brought on himself a positive
snowstorm of letters of protest. His
correspondents declared that the corps
de ballet were virtuous and well-con-
ducted girls, and that villas in Regent’s
Park were not taken for them. One
indignant writer accuses Thackeray of
deliberate falsehood, calls him a vile
libeller, and speaks of his “malicious
spite.” In vain he protests that in the
same pages as the wicked dancer, other
little ballet-dancers are wearing homely
clothing, doing their duty and carrying
their humble savings to the family at
home. There seem to have been quarts
of ink at boiling-point in defence of this
pet of the theatre even in the middle of
the nineteenth century.
Neither must we think the gossip-
writer the particular evolution of cafe
society. Thackeray ends up a page
of neat disdain on him in his essay,
“On Screens in Dining-rooms.” He
says: “Put up your notebook; leave
gentlemen alone who would be private
and wish you no harm.”
“G.L.D.”: A family living in a suburb
of Melbourne, finding the usual notice
on the gate ineffective in discouraging
hawkers and canvassers, replaced them
with the following one: “Beware of the
Agapanthus! If attacked, do not run
but walk slowly backwards.” Reported
100 per cent, efficient.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: According to the Gov-
ernment Statistician Victorian women
who have passed 70 have an amazingly
greater expectation of further life than
Victorian men of the same age. Seventy-
three women have touched the century,
as against a couple of men. Their 95th
birthdays have been celebrated by 1178
women and only 578 men ; the figures for
85 are 16,425 women and 9752 men.
When you get down to the lesser ages the
proportions are naturally more equalised,
though the discrepancy at 70 is still as
59 to 50. A local medical explanation is
that men live more dangerous, more
strenuous and less sheltered lives, but it
must have been given by an individual
who holds to the notion that human
beings wear out like machines. My own
opinion is that it is the mental atti-
tude which most largely governs the
will or lack of will to live. Traditionally
less is expected of women than of men,
and when men have their illusions
shattered they tend to lose hope, their
loss of hope lowers their resistance and
they are then a more congenial host for
disease. A woman who has been fulfilled
as a mother and never had her illusions
shattered as a wife can live to a great
age, and anybody who cares to read the
utterances of female centenarians when
interviewed on their 100th birthdays will
find that they almost invariably come
under this category.


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
JF you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Personal and Missin? Friends.
ROGERS. —Information required as to the
whereabouts of EDWIN JAMES ROGERS.
Last heard of in Sydney about 1925.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO.
OF S.A., LTD., Adelaide.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
OTIFFNST AND
TO KATHLEEN MARY SUTTON EN-
TRIKEN formerly of 113 Kay Street
Carlton in the State of Victoria but whose
present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
Queensland by writ of summons numbered
606 of 1939 by Claude Entriken your husband
in which he claims a dissolution of his marriage
with you and by his petition filed herein he
alleges that since on or about the Tenth day
of May 1934 you deserted him without cause
and have continuously so deserted him for
five years and upwards and it has been ordered
that service of the said writ and petition on
you be effected by filing and sticking up
on the notice board in the Registry of the
said Court an office copy of the said petition
and a copy of the said writ by the insertion of
this notice once in each of the following news-
papers namely the “Courier-Mail” published in
Brisbane in the said State the “Argus” published
in Melbourne in the State of Victoria and the
“Bulletin” published in Sydney in the State of
New South Wales and by posting by prepaid
registered letter a copy of this notice to you
at 113 Kay Street Carlton Victoria If you
desire to defend this action you must within
Sixty days from the date of the last act done
in pursuance of the said order enter an appear-
ance at the said Registry and in default of
your so doing the plaintiff may proceed in
the action by leave of the Court or a Judge
thereof and judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
DATED the Tenth day of January, 1940.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
and likes mystery plays if the mystery is
as obvious as the kick of a mule.
Every now and then an unusually good
film turns up at this cinema, and these
rarities as often as not pass by the very
public which is looking out for such
things. So much does the reputation of
a theatre condition the playgoing habits
of the public that the spectacle is some-
times presented of audiences allowing
themselves to be bored by expensive
million-dollar futilities at the more
fashionable playhouses when there is
better entertainment at the Lyceum.
On one occasion Paul Robeson passed
through the Lyceum in one of the best
pictures he has ever appeared in—
“ Emperor Jones” —and his presence was
almost totally ignored.
Not long since two good films
turned up at this theatre on the same
bill. “Husbands on Trial” —it should
have been “Fathers” —was an attempt to
show up American paternal tyranny.
The daughter of a rich man wants to
marry the young man of her heart’s
desire, who works in a garage but has
invented an aeroplane. The extra-
ordinarily snitchy and puritanical father
forbids her even to see the young man,
and this increases her obsession. They
make a breakaway and marry, but, being
minors, are haled before the Court at the
instance of paterfamilias and the mother
of the lad, and the marriage is annulled.
The relevant parties refuse to accept a
legal fact which contradicts their own
desires, and the young man breaks into
the father’s house in order to see the
young lady who is his wife in the eyes
of God if not of the law. He is popped
into a reformatory for six months, and
the girl is to be posted off to Europe
to enable her to forget her passion but
conveys the information to the young
man, who once more breaks out of con-
finement, grabs the girl and spirits her
away in her father’s automobile.
A nation-wide hunt ensues, the couple
are run to earth and the persistent hus-
band gets another year in gaol. He
escapes once more, is bagged and this
time comes up before one of those Judges
who, if Hollywood is to be believed, crop
up in America sometimes and have some
of the characteristics of human beings.
He turns the tables on the repressive
parents, reads them an improving lecture
on their barbarous behavior and releases
the young man.
The actors all play their parts very
well and with an unusual emotional
sincerity. None of them is a star, and
they are probably all the better for not
being stars. The father is particularly
good.
The other film, “Bad Lands,” depicts
the plight of a dozen frontier policemen
somewhere in America who are trapped
by Apache Indians in a heap of rocks by
the edge of a waterhole, and who get
picked off by their unseen besiegers day
by day and one by one. The film is over-
slow, but the differing characters of the
doomed battalion are well conveyed, and
their grim fate, which must have been
the fate of hundreds of forgotten indi-
viduals, is felt all the more for the
absence of all the usual trappings of
the hero type of film.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Western District was present in
quantities at the marriage of Gordon
Stevenson and Jessie Violet (or “Gee”)
Sleeman, celebrated at St. John’s, Toorak,
and followed by a buffet supper at
Menzies. As the years roll on Gordon
will not, unless he is very unlucky, neglect
to send the customary box of flowers on
the day of the year—the wedding anni-
versary which is also his wife’s birthday
—a date which no husband who values
the happiness of his home forgets. The
bride wore white tulle veil and gown
of ivory lace over palest pink.
Sister Daisy attended in lily-green ninon
and Charles Forrester looked after the ring
and read the telegrams at the reception.
The bride’s equally blonde sisters, Mrs.
Tom Laidlaw and Heather Sleeman, were
there, Heather particularly glamorous in
a gown of shot taffeta which she bought
in Budapest only a few months ago.
Hope, the fifth member of the honey-
headed quintet, is still abroad, and doesn’t
seem to mind travelling in Europe in
spite of the war. After a short honey-
moon in Melbourne the newly-married
Gordon Stevensons will make their way
towards Woorooma East, Moulamein,
N.S.W.
February 3 will be a busy date for the
padres, whose services are being sought
by a number of brides and ’grooms,
among them Patricia Scott and Kenneth
Sturdee, who have an appointment in
Melbourne Grammar School chapel,
Margaret Brookes and Major (otherwise
Dr.) John Colquhoun, who will meet
at St. Mary’s, Woodend, and Meredith
Buchanan and Captain Michael Buring,
who have a longer aisle to tread, that of
St. Paul’s Cathedral.
Meredith has always had an affection-
ate spot in her heart for St. Paul’s, par-
ticularly when it comes to weddings, for
her grandparents on her mother’s side
were married there and she will wear
her grandmother’s veil of Limerick lace
and become the tenth bride to do so.
Among the others were her mother and
two elder sisters, Mrs. A. W. Knight and
Mrs. Stuart Pixley. Meredith will be
attended by two more sisters, Lindsay
and Elizabeth, wearing delphinium-blue
and carrying deep-red flowers. Bride-
groom Michael is going abroad with the
A.I.F.
A spot more sentiment than usual will
be attached to the marriage in St. John’s,
Toorak, of Clare Fellows and Stewart
Catomore on April 3. Clare’s grand-
father, the Rev. Walter Fellows, was
the first incumbent of St. John’s, and
she is being married by the Rev. Dr.
Law, who will be assisted by Rev. John
Drought, son of the second incumbent,
Canon Drought. The birthplace of
Clare’s father, the late H. H. Fellows,
was at the vicarage next door. The
fourth generation of the Fellows family
has been christened at St. John’s font
in the persons of Mrs. Harold Ward’s
two children and Mrs. Jack Cordner’s
baby son.
Clare and Stewart will live in Toorak.
They already have their eyes on a home
only a stone’s-throw away from St.
John’s, for they are among the lucky
brides and ’grooms who can live where
they like. Their house is to be a wed-
ding present from Stewart’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. C. S. Catomore. Clare, who
recently relinquished her job in the
Union Bank, will “be a bride” in all-
white gown and veil, will be attended
by sister “Tim” and given away by
brother Howard. Melbourne Grammar
School is well represented in the family.
It’s the alma mater of Howard and
Walter. Tim’s time has yet to come, but
all her three sisters have shown their
preference for Old Grammarians as hus-
bands.
Between Royal Melbourne Hospital
and the Eye and Ear Hospital there
has been some interchanging of the
names of Jones and Johns. Matron Lucy
Jones has retired from the latter insti-
tution after many years of valuable
service, and is succeeded by Matron E. F.
Johns, ex-tutor sister of Royal Mel-
bourne. Following her to that tutorial
position is Sister Gwen Jones.
Matron Jones has bequeathed her tabby
cat, Teddy, an imperialistic and rather
upstage old warrior, aged 16, to her
successor. Beyond going off his chopped-
up steak for a day or two he has shown
little disapproval of his change of owner-
ship. Matron Johns is looking forward
to her new work. Though the Eye and
Ear is an old building she says it is in
a good state of repair and there is
ground available for any extensions that
might be required in the future. She
is not relinquishing altogether her tuto-
rial work, for according to the new
regulations girls who do a year at the
Eye and Ear (while waiting to be called
up to some other hospital) may count
that year as six months of their general
training.
The idea, Matron Johns says, is
useful in the case of very young girls:
probationers are now accepted when they
are only 17. Matron Johns considers
that nursing is a good career for a girl
who is temperamentally as well as physi-
cally suited for it and who likes the
work. If she is interested and keen
enough she is sure to succeed. Matron be-
lieves in moving with the times, and is in
favor of improvements in training, of
shorter hours, better pay and uniforms
that are comfortable as well as service-
able. Her own white linen uniforms
are not too long to be smart and they
have pin tucks to give a suggestion of
fitted squareness to the shoulders.
Dickinson-Monteath made this portrait
of Valerie, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. O’Dell Crowther, who recently be-
came engaged to George, youngest son
of the late Robert G. Beggs and of Mrs.
Beggs, of Buln Gherin, Beauford. The
date of the wedding is not fixed, but it
will take place probably later in the year.
Miss Crowther is at present at Buln
Gherin, where she is no stranger, having
been made welcome on many other
occasions by her future relatives. In
addition she has a number of school-
friends living in the district.
Violinist Elise Steele will be back
again among the Symphony Orchestra’s
first violins when the season opens in a
couple of months’ time. She returned a
few days ago after 12 months’ study
abroad. Miss Steele left Australia on
the Arendskerk, and had booked
to return by the same Dutch ship,
but the war upset her plans and she came
by another line earlier than she expected.
It was with a sense of personal loss that
she heard that the Arendskerk was tor-
pedoed last week.
Miss Steele studied in Switzerland with
Professor Adolph Busche (born a German
and naturalised a Swiss). For a time she
was at Basle, where the professor has
his home, and from this frontier town
she and a friend went on a walking tour
of the Black Forest. She continued her
lessons with Busche in Lucerne, where
she lived in a convent (for neither
the nuns nor their pupils objected to
her practising six hours a day). Through-
out August the murmur of war grew
louder, the children went back home one
by one, sent for by parents in every
country of Europe. At last Miss Steele
was the only non-religious left in the
convent
She thought about going to the
mountains, a terrain considered safer,
but woke up one morning to find that
Switzerland had mobilised, that the trains
were all running late and that no one
would change her English money. For-
tunately she had her return ticket, got
across France in one of the last trains
before war was declared and crossed
from Calais in the last ship for a fort-
night which carried civilians.
Before she went to Switzerland Miss
Steele visited Germany especially to
see her friend Isobei Carter, ciarionetist
in the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
until four years ago, when she went
abroad to study and found, incidentally,
romance. She married another clarionet
player, Hugo Sockigt. Her home is in
Hamburg, and she is much occupied
lately with a baby son.
Miss Steele enjoyed a great deal of
music in London before she went to the
Continent. When the war came music
ceased, as theatres did, but only for a
time. Miss Steele often attended the
daily lunch-hour recitals in the National
Gallery. The great domed gallery is
denuded of its art treasures, and the
acoustics are excellent. Pianist-composer
Myra Hess inaugurated these recitals, at
which celebrated musicians appear and
are heard for the modest sum of Is. per
head. Their fee is one guinea, and pro-
ceeds go to the Artists’ Benevolent Fund.
The girl with the smile and the dimple
in her chin is Katherine Bonython, of
Adelaide, who is at present visiting Mel-
bourne. Her fiance, Colin Verco, has
joined the R.A.A.F., and is at present
stationed at Pt. Cook. No plans have
yet been made for the wedding, which
is sure to be a time for many parties
and much rejoicing—friends and relatives
of both families are scattered through
all Australian States. One of Katherine’s
talents is for fine needlework. Of out-
door sports she likes skiing best of all.
Dickinson-Monteath photograph.
Margery Nicholas’s St. Bernard dog
will not become a resident of St.
Leonards when Margery marries Bill
Gluth on February 20. She has presented
the hound to Joan Trood, whose home
offers all the space of garden that even
a large dog demands. Margery and Bill
have leased two top-storey flats in St.
Leonards; being table-tennis fans they
want extra room for the appointments
of this popular game. These newly-com-
pleted flats are provided with air-
conditioning, particularly in the kitchens,
which contain shut-away stoves, electric
fans, etc., and bathrooms in an assort-
ment of colors with tubs that are square
instead of oblong.
Last week a faint breeze stirred to
break the monotony of the social dol-
drums. The Lady Forster Kindergarten
committee was first to come up for air.
It has made its presence felt by round-
ing up its members to discuss plans for
mannequin parades on March 14 and
15 and a Froth and Bubble at Menzies
on the evening of the 15th. This week
for the A.I.F. march and Comforts
Fund drive the city has sprung to life
again after its summer slumber, when
the social population departs en masse to
mountain and beach in its fastest sports
cars and with its numerous suitcases
filled with snappy sports clothes.


***2SBk!
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 30/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
t ;eatment.
T. JONES &CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
SAM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalg jorlie 500 watts
Sit. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus-
tralian equivalent of 15 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
THE FLYING COLUMN
Something About Guns.
“Aileron”: Efficient guns and place-
ment are more important in the present
air war than in the last. Stressed skins
and self-sealing tanks are the plague of
gunners. Speed and manoeuvrability
allow for swifter and better positioning
of machines in combat, and call for
quicker operation.
The rifle-calibre gun is a short-range
weapon, because, beyond short ranges in
the air, its bullets show a sharp drop in
trajectory.
The perfect fighter-bomber now carries
mixed calibres. There are plenty of
types to choose from, including the
explosive-shell-firing types. Of these,
Britain is now building 20mm. Hispano
Suizas, which throw 300 shells a minute ;
and the Browning 13.2 mm little over
iin.—which fires 1000 shots a minute, is
coming into use. This is comparable
with the fire rapidity of the normal
Browning rifle calibre (7.9 mm.), which is
fitted to Spitfires and Hurricanes, and
gives a blast of 1300 shots a minute. A
machine which comes within the con-
centrated fire cones of eight 7.9 Ameri-
can Brownings would look like a giant
flour-sieve afterwards.
The Danish Madsen factory makes
aerial guns up to 23mm. This type
weighs 551 b., and can fire up to 400
shots a minute. The American Arma-
ment Corporation produces a l|in.
cannon capable of 100 shots a minute.
Weight of ammunition and space are
the two main factors in choosing guns
for aerial combat. Only the largest types
of machine can afford to carry armament
of this type, and only in attack on giants
are they needed. All the combatants
seem to have settled down to a convic-
tion that for practical pur-
poses a 20mm., for which
armor-piercing, tracer and
bursting shells are avail-
able, will deal with 99 per
cent, of all the types of
craft now in use in air-
fighting, and that all the
ground- and ship-strafing
needed can be done with
quick - firing automatics
below that calibre.
Imagine what must hao-
pen to a crew on the deck
of a small ship blasted
for even a fraction of a minute by a
13.2 mm. Browning, of which the bullet
weighs more than an ounce. Or by a
Belgian type Browning 7.9 mm., which
has the fastest fire in the world--1800
rounds per minute. This mode of attack-
ing small ships is utterly brutal and
ruthless; but nothing can daunt men of
the merchant navy and the fisher-fleet.
Aviation and Radio Research.
“D.8.K.”: Over a period of 22 years
aviation radio engineers have reduced
steadily the element of human error in
flying, and have pushed the horizon of
danger well back. With radio-telephonic
communication between aircraft and
ground, or between aircraft, at a high
pitch of efficiency, concentration is now
on the problems of “blind” flying and
landing. Some of the latest develop-
ments of American engineers in this
field are noteworthy.
A new type of blind-landing equip-
ment is under trial. Three radio-actuated
dots appear on the surface of a cathode-
ray oscilloscope set in the instrument
panel. When these dots line up horizon-
tally with the middle dot exactly
centred, the pilot is on course. Advan-
tages are compactness and the employ-
ment of a substantially straight glide
path.
Recent research has produced the
ultra-high-frequency radio range, the
ground direction finder, the automatic
radio compass, and the terrain clearance
indicator. The u.-h.-f. radio range sub-
stantially eliminates storm static and
provides more trustworthy course indi-
cation. The ground direction finder
combines regular two-way communica-
tion with a visual indication on the
screen of a cathode-ray tube, and is
automatic in action. When the auto-
matic radio compass is tuned to a
particular station a dial needle points
immediately the direction of that station,
and will continue to give the bearings
automatically even when the ’plane passes
over the cone of silence.
But the most conspicuous result of
aviation-radio research is the terrain-
clearance indicator. Compared with this
the barometric altimeter is inaccurate.
The new device employs an ultra-high-
frequency radio wave which it bounces
off the ground. The time of the wave’s
excursion from ’plane to ground and
back again is indicated almost instan-
taneously in feet on a meter in the
cockpit.
“Querex”: Mr. Chamberlain’s latest
review of the war emphasises a feature
not previously stressed. Those raids over
“Are you SURE this is the mob we slated out with ?”
German naval bases have other aims
than the mere destruction of objectives.
Bases such as Borkum are nests of the
seaplanes that drop mines from the air.
The reported presence of R.A.F. bombers
has resulted in rigidly enforced black-
outs at these lairs. Night operation of
seaplanes is virtually out of the ques-
tion without the guidance of landing
lights, and R.A.F. raiders must be ham-
pering operations considerably.
» * ■* *
“Aileron”: Australia will get some
of the most modern of warplanes in
the Fairey Battles. They are the “maids
of all work on the Western Front, seen
everywhere—under hedges, behind hay-
stacks and barns, among French fighters
and half out of little woods.” They are
clean-lined, low-wing, two-seater bomber-
fighters, engined with Rolls Royce
Merlins, and capable of carrying a
10001 b. bomb with guns fore and aft.
Their speed at 10,000 ft. is round 270
m.p.h., and they have a high ceiling.
As a counter to attack from the sea
the Fairey Battles are ideal craft —as
fast as any long-range bomber, formid-
able against warships and able in
a scrap. Over naval seaplanes of any
known type they have a superiority in
speed, and their range and air stability
make them just the thing for coastal
patrol under Australian conditions. The
single engine promotes economy in
maintenance.
» * * *
“Ek D.”: There is no lack of enthu-
siasm among R.A.A.F. volunteers. In
the first week of 1940, 1114 offered for
ground work alone ; in fact, since recruit-
ing offices were opened for ground staff
22,000 have put down their names. They
will all be needed when the air-training
scheme gets going. Indeed, it is a pity
there is not some scheme to take youths
with a mechanical background of edu-
cation and start to train them for the
time when they reach enlistment age,
even n that time is two or three years
ahead.
* * # *
“Enno”: Air Chief Marshal Burnett
is no stranger to Australians. At one
stage of his Great War service he was
in Palestine, serving alongside No. 1
squadron of the A.F.C., of which Ross
Smith was a member ; then he took over
a brigade and became well-known to
Chauvel and other Light Horsemen.
* * * *
“Spinner”: Should the campaign in
Finland lead to an all-in war, German
aircraft assisting Moscow will be up
against an identification problem. The
swastika has been Finland’s marking for
aeroplanes since 1918. The difference is
that the Nazi swastika is black, in a
white circle on a red background; that
of Finland, blue on a white background.
Nazi ’planes carry crosses on the wings ;
Finnish ’planes the swastikas. In a murky
atmosphere mistakes could occur easily.
“D.8.K.”: Identification of Allied and
German aircraft was a fairly easy busi-
ness in 1915-18. Nowadays, with the
similarity of many types of modern aero-
planes, especially when flying at high
altitudes, it is not easy. On the English
coast and in France, R.A.F. ’planes
have come under fire from over-
enthusiastic archie-gunners. * About five
years ago the familiar red, white and
blue striping on tail-fins and rudders was
abandoned by the R.A.F., the “target”
on the fuselage and wings being retained.
A British aviation correspondent with the
R.A.F. in France relates that he saw air-
craftsmen of one squadron near the
Maginot Line busy painting in colored
sections on the rudders of Fairey Battles
as a result of unwanted A.A. attention.
* * * *
“Amatol”: I read that R.A.F. recon-
naissance raids over north-west Germany
compelled the Bremen and Hamburg
broadcasting stations to close down. No
doubt if raiders were, in the immediate
vicinity of broadcasting transmitters the
staff would take to air-raid shelters;
all the same, the close-down may be
attributed to a different reason. The
carrier-wave of a broadcasting trans-
mitter makes an excellent direction-
finding aid for aircraft fitted with
“homing”-type radio equipment. It
works both ways. 8.8. C. would be most
unlikely to leave high-power stations
radiating if a really serious Nazi raid
on England occurs.
* * * »
“Ailo”: Germany is making intensive
efforts to find a new fuel for aero engines.
Four recent patent specifications cover
inventions for mixing powdered fuel with
air and conveying it to the combustion
chamber, and for direct injection systems
for powdered fuel. The latter appears
to be an extension of the German prac-
tice of using direct injection heavy oil
and petrol engines in certain bombers
and airliners. British engineers consider
that much research and experiment must
be done before direct injection systems
for aero engines can be satisfactory. An-
other German invention, by Junkers,
concerns a method of exhaust ejection
that imparts a slight degree of propul-
sion to the aircraft.
*** * V
“Don”: The idea of employing tele-
vision in military aircraft is not purely
imaginative: more than 18 months ago
a combined British and French test was
undertaken with a Marcel Bloch-200
combination fighter-bomber reconnais-
sance machine equipped with a television
camera and transmitter. It is known that
it was found possible to transmit images
of “enemy” positions to military staff
headquarters; there, the images were
projected on a screen. Secrecy would
naturally veil the success or otherwise of
the test, but it stands to reason that the
established basis of any scientific develop-
ment can always be improved upon.
* * * *
“Aldis”: France has followed Ameri-
can design in adopting as standard a
four-engined bomber. It is the Bloch
162, intended for night flying, with a
crew of five. Power units are four 1000-
h.p. HispanO’Suiza radial engines. Weight
in war trim is 21 tons, and a height of
17,000 ft. can be reached in 19 minutes.
Speed is nearly 300 m.p.h., but the effec-
tive range is comparatively small, being
less than a thousand miles. Four-engined
bombers went out of fashion in the
R.A.F. years ago.
* * * *
“Ailo”: In the Imperial War Museum,
London, there may be seen many per-
sonal relics of 1914-18 fighters, including
McCudden, Ball and Richtofen. Not the
least interesting is the display of photo-
graphs, covering air operations on all
fronts. Special museums will be needed
to house the wealth of material accumu-
lated from the present upheaval. This
war has been mainly started in the air,
and may be decided in that element.
* * * *
“Amatol”: An excellent air photo-
graph of Merseyside docks, obtained
through a neutral source, has appeared
in some daily newspapers. It was
taken early in December by a Nazi
reconnaissance ’plane which had crossed
the east coast of England at a
great height and eluded the Archie
defences. Though the ’plane was so high
that it could only be heard and not seen,
the photograph is remarkable for detail,
and ample proof of the efficiency of
the technical side of air photography to-
day. The infra-red process must have
been employed. Photographs taken by
R.A.F. ’planes in flights over Germany
are now to be published; they show
harbors, docks, coastal defences, canals,
inland aerodromes and factories.
The Air War Day by Day.
Jan. 14: German reconnaissance ’plane
attacked by two French fighters and
forced to land in France. Crew of
three taken prisoners.
Jan. 15: German ’plane forced down in
Belgium. Information gleaned from
documents carried results in increased
tension on Belgian and Dutch fron-
tiers.
Jan. 16: Squadron-leader Kellett, leader
of the Vickers-Wellesley flight from
Egypt to Australia in 1938, receives
D.F.C. and promoted to wing-com-
mander for able leadership of raid over
German naval base in December.
Jan. 17: U-boat reported destroyed by
R.A.F. coastal reconnaissance ’plane.
Jan. 18: Reported R.A.F. raid on Ger-
man seaplane base at Sylt denied by
Air Ministry.


JJhtfitfjfef-eht
TONE QUALITY
mars
radio enjoyment
The brilliance and tone fidelity of
to-day's radio programmes may be
completely marred by worn-out
valves.
Studio realism, broadcast by mod-
ern stations, can be reproduced in
your home only when the valves in
your radio function efficiently.
To secure the full pleasure of listen-
ing, ....
Re-valve with
RADIOTRQN
VALVES
Sealed fo
or /oar protection
£
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Suicide Club.
“Nobby II.”: Three British sub-
marines, Undine, Starfish and Seahorse,
have been lost in Heligoland Bight.
Four officers and 26 men from
Undine and Starfish, the Germans say—
were rescued and are prisoners of war.
They and their intrepid companions were
engaged on “hazardous service,” the
Admiralty reports.
Hazardous is right. The Bight is the
nightmare of the “Trade.” It is shallow
and it is turbulent, a blend which leads
to what is known as “pumping.” When
a submarine pumps the sensation is a
combination of those induced by being in
a very small aeroplane in a very large
air pocket, alternating with split-second
excursions in a big dipper. This motion
goes on for hours.
The Bight, moreover, is sown with
mines, nets, loops and other impedi-
menta, in clear weather is constantly
under aeroplane observation and there
is not enough depth in it in most places
to allow a spotted machine to get beyond
depth-charge range.
In the last war British
subs, got all sorts of
bags round that area. It
was watching subs,
whose work began the
Battle of the Bight,
when the Mainz, Koln,
Ariadne and other Ger-
man ships were smashed
up. The E-31, off the
Frisian coast, actually
brought down a Zep-
pelin, and also popped up suddenly
and fished a German seaplane. She was
eventually trapped by the Germans,
having got into a bay too shallow on a
falling tide to admit of escape.
The gallant souls who cruised in these
subs, sometimes disobeyed orders and
went off on hunts of their own if they
thought there was prey about. In July,
1916, young Varley, in the H-5, drew a
position in the Bight which didn’t satisfy
him, so he started off on a private
ramble. He got a bearing on Terschel-
ling Light, dived off Borkum and was
forced to come to the surface off Aussen
Jade Light to fix a jammed periscope.
He found that he had as neighbors a
flotilla of German destroyers. He
attacked them without damage and got
away whole.
The destroyers turned up again and
he had to crash-dive to save himself.
He was barely at periscope depth again
when he spotted an enemy submarine
at the very mouth of her own harbor.
He torpedoed her and, in order to
have evidence, came to the top again
to grab a German.
Destroyers, still buzzing round like
bees, took exception to this open display
of contempt for their deadliness. So he
had to sit on the bottom all day in shal-
low water while the scraping wires
banged against his hull and the crew
listened to depth-charges. On his return
home Varley reported that he did not
feel it advisable to attack the destroyers
because of his stiff periscope, and hoped
that he would be excused for his “slight
transgression of orders.”
He was decorated with the D.S.O. after
his depot captain had given him a tongue-
lashing.
The classic job of the war by a British
sardine-can was, however, done by the
ancient C-3 in the attack on the Zee-
brugge Mole. All her crew had to do
was to approach the viaduct which joined
the Mole to the shore, head her into the
trellis-work, leave in a towed motor-
boat a hundred yards or so from the
objective, and set a fuse to blow up sub,
and viaduct.
What they actually did was to jam
their tub into the trellis-work and then
escape under the fire of hundreds of Ger-
man rifles and several machine-guns.
When they came to push off, the pro-
peller of their motor-boat refused to
work, while a lighted fuse a few yards
away sputtered towards tons of high
explosive.
They pulled away with their oars and
were still within 200 yards of her when
the old C-3 went off with a bang, killing
hundreds of Germans.
Every C-3 man was wounded except
Howell-Price, second in command, who
had put off his wedding to be in the fun,
and who pulled like the strokes of Oxford
and Cambridge combined.
Sandford, the commander, got the
V.C. Howell-Price stepped ashore un-
scathed, and a few hours afterwards
claimed his bride.
That happened on St. George’s Day,
1918.
The enemy seems to do his dirtiest
work at sea after Churchill makes a
speech. Churchill made one on Satur-
day, and Sunday brought the news that
a destroyer, the Grenville, had been tor-
pedoed or mined in the North Sea, with
the loss of 81 lives. She was one of the
new flotilla leaders.
“Any of you blokes seen a troopship anywhere about?
Members of the A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
abroad may send letters up to 4oz. free
of postage. Naval and Air Force men
afloat are to be given the same privilege.
Members of the naval, military and air
services in camp will in future pay half
usual rates for trunk-line telephone calls.
* * * *
“Enno”: When all experimental radio
transmissions were suspended the Wire-
less Institute, N.S.W. Div., offered to
train telegraphists for any arm of the ser-
vices, and train them free. The only
stipulation is that students attending the
Morse classes join up as wireless
operators. Good work is being done also
with signalmen already serving in militia
units who may be on the slow side in
operating speed. Many militiamen are
attending the classes to take advantage
of the facilities to improve their Morse
code speed. The secretary can be
reached at Box 1734JJ, Sydney G.P.O.
* * * *
“Querex”: The Air Force believes in
getting on with the job in comfortable
service dress. R.A.A.F. officers at train-
jpq- schools look, feel and are cool in
open-neck khaki shirts, topee, shorts and
Storings, snorts are ostensibly correct
dress in the army, but the decision seems
to rest with the C.O. of any unit. I did
a month's training in a militia unit under
sweltering conditions, and, although offi-
cers and many men had shorts with them,
the rig was taboo. We endured in heavy
breeches, leggings and boots. Reason for
the ban? Nobody really knew, but the
C.O. wouldn’t have looked well in shorts.
* * * *
“Nobby II.”: Some ambitious poli-
ticians are urging Uncle Sam to build
60,000- to 80,000-ton battleships armed
with numerous batteries of 20-inch guns.
A worthy ambition, but before it is ful-
filled large bits of the ocean will have to
be deepened. The world’s biggest warship,
H.M.S. Hood, draws only a normal 28ft.
6in., and with a load aboard she stirred
up the mud all the way up Sydney
Harbor. The Barham and her kind draw
a normal 31ft. Even a 60,000-ton battle-
ship would be well over 1000 ft. long and
too big for most of the world’s jetties
unless she were tall enough to present a
target like a skyscraper. A 20in. gun
also would be some pumpkins. The larg-
est built during the last war were the Brit-
ish 18-inchers for mounting on monitors.
They weighed 150 tons and threw
a 33201 b. shell for roughly 30 miles when
elevated to 45 degrees. Hadfields, who
made the ammunition, found that the
shell at point-blank range would pene-
trate the equivalent of 54in. of unhard-
ened steel. At 10 miles their penetration
was 20in. of armor, of which the -m.
face was of glass-cutting hardness. But
there was a headache in every shell made.
The job of tempering 10,000 cubic inches
of steel by plunging it into o* l ana_hard-
ening from the plasticity of 200 Brinell
to 600 to 700 Brinell, at which it was like
a diamond, is the sort of thing dreamt
about in nightmares. As for the effect
on a battleship—well, imagine a 300-ton
concentrated express train travelling at
65 m.p.h. brought up short and sudden in
a few feet by an obstruction, before ex-
ploding several hundred pounds of h.e.,
and you can make a pretty good guess at
results.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Since the war-gong sounded
again war-dreams are worrying some ex-
Diggers. They will pass off as the sub-
conscious mind quietens down again ; and
the cold sweats, churning insides, quick-
ened hearts, panting and after-wakeful-
ness are only Nature’s mechanism for
meeting sudden dire emergency in man s
primitive days. A sweaty body slips
easier out of a foe’s grip, sweaty hands
give a better grip on club or stone, sweaty
soles are less liable to slip in taking
off. The churning inside is partly the
suprarenal glands pouring the stimulant
adrenalin into the blood, partly the liver
accompanying it with glycogen, most
powerful of muscle-fuels. The heart
speeds up to drive the enriched blood
through the tissues, the lungs go faster to
charge the corpuscles with more oxygen.
Around the Army.
XI
THE "JACK."
The colonel may, according to the ranker,
Be partly swine and partly mule; the
“loot”
Be deemed a “proper adjectival-blanker,”
The R.S.M. a cranky sort of coot.
But one there is whom swaddies all
elude as
They would a snake; whom all have
“in the gun” —
The Military copper. He is viewed as
All other so-an’-sos rolled into one.
The private commencing his leave,
especially while on active service, dons
the clobber that he’s either had specially
tailored or has got from the Q.M. store
—in the latter case, by issue according
to King’s Regs, or Ned Kelly technique.
Cashed up, he sets out blithely, feeling
so full of joyee de veever that, in his
own words, he “wouldn’t call George
Woodbine his uncle.” After a few lash
ings of suds, and in the regrettable
absence of the entire German Army to
hop into, he naturally feels that he’d
like to tell several brasshats off. In a
grand burst of defiance, he strolls, cigar-
ette in mouth, hands deep in pockets and
tunic open at the neck —the better to
display the officer’s collar and tie he is
wearing—past as many red Tabs as he
can see. Should there be a peppery
field-marshal or two to fail to sling a
salute to so much the better.
This kicking over the martial traces
puts him in the frame of mind that would
appear to render certain his enjoyment of
his leave, but a large fly will quickly
bog itself in the ointment of his bliss —
two, in fact, for M.Ps. always hunt in pairs.
On his first day, having quickly put in
some good work, the private on leave
will just be diving into a teashop, elbow-
steering a good sort, when two bulky
forms, with the black-and-red insignia
of their authority on their armbands,
will loom up to bar his path. On their
peremptory demand to see his pass, his
first impulse will be to pull off his tunic,
while he discourses at large on “a
couple of big useless cows who ought to
be hanging on the end of a rifle instead
of pulling up blokes who’ve been doing
all the stoushing while they hold down
cushy jobs”—and much more to the like
effect. But a restraining feminine hand
will save him from the boob so early
in the piece, and he will grudgingly give
them a look at his leave pass.
Thereafter the Jacks —different ones,
of course, every time, for there is never
a shortage of them —will pull him up
coming out of theatres, in boozers, get-
ting on the tube —indeed, he’s even likely
to receive a visit from them while snor-
ing off. For the prospect of picking up
a private whose leave expired some days
before is one so fascinating for the M.P.
that he pursues it in all manner of odd
places. By the time the swaddy’s leave —
that is, his official leave —is up a Jack and
a Prussian Junker are to him distinguish-
able only by their uniforms.
The many skirmishes he has had with
the M.Ps., however, will have rendered
the man on leave valuable experience, so
that when he enters upon his a.w.l.
period— i.e., assuming he still has any
money left —he will have developed a
sixth sense that makes him aware of it
if a red-and-black armband is within a
square mile of him.
A Digger, after one or two leaves in
London, may get so fed up with having
to dodge these eagle-eyed cops of the
army that he will decide to get some real
peace. So he takes the train for Scot-
land and then makes for the most obscure
place he can see on the map. He picks on a
tiny village out of Thurso, in Caithness, up
near the Orkneys. As he steps off the train
a couple of bulky forms will confront
him and demand to see his leave pass.
Nobody could ever accuse the Jacks
of being hasty and impulsive; their
examination of a leave pass is a model
of deliberation. First they examine the
dates. If these are in order they turn
it over with deep suspicion, and then
•have a closer look to see if it discloses
any erasure marks. Ten minutes’ sur-
veillance and consultation ended, they
may condescend to hand it back with a
warning of the dread consequences of
overstaying leave. After sternly looking
him over to see that his buttons are all
done up regulation fashion, they hand him
back the pass that he has probably
written out himself, and allow him to
go his way, satisfied that the saving of
their country could be in no better hands
than theirs.
S.W.K.


ŕ
st. Stanislaus’ College
Bathurst
A Catholic school for boys in the bracing
climate of Bathurst.
Complete Secondary Course.
Conducted by Vincentian Fathers.
Apply to THE PRESIDENT.
Telephone: Bathurst 39.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A, MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Win. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
For Fortune-tellers Only
“Q.C.R.”: My tip to any astrologer
who is setting-up business in Queensland
this year is to tell ’em to beware of the
numbers five and three and their com-
binations.
The open holiday season for motorists
began with three killed in Christmas
week and three injured in one accident.
Total number of injured was 20. In
one crash two of the victims were 20
years old, the other 18.
Next road-accident list that came out
brought totals to six killed and 33 in-
jured.
Then the Commissioner of Police issued
a notice under the heading “Three Don’ts
for Safety”—don’t take - a risk, don’t
speed and don’t walk on roads.
Following on the heels of this came
another casualty list—“three killed in
week-end; holiday toll now six dead,
50 injured.” In the main crash of the*
week three were smashed—one of them
dead. v
Next was “six hurt in collision,” and
the injured list went up to 66. And a
smash in which three were hurt when a
car struck a post followed.
The sequences were true to form when
a sailor and a girl were killed outside
Brisbane and four were injured in the
smash—total, six.
Next item was “six hurt in truck
smash,” and the same day three went
to hospital after a car collision on the
Brisbane-Southport road. Casual hos-
pital cases that day were five —a doubly-
fractured skull, a fractured thigh, burns,
internal injuries and another skull frac-
ture. And in the first week-end of 1940
five houses were burgled in Brisbane.
Now came “live-wire burns five ; five
others injured.” Among the ten there
were six would-be rescuers, who had
found the other four electrically tied to
a clothesline which had become charged
through contact with a power line that
hadn’t been used for three years.
After that, “five hurt in crossing
smash” and five injured in truck capsize
last week sounded quite natural to
Queenslanders. The truck which cap-
sized went over a six-foot embankment.
“Albert Bar”: Flying-doctor Alberry
and Pilot Berry, who were marooned in
the Gulf Country for five days, declared
themselves fit and well when rescued ;
but Berry’s trip for help was a night-
mare over flooded country which finished
up with a 50-yard swim through a creek
infested with crocs. The pair made no
attempt to fly out, because inches of
rain during the week-end spoiled the
chances of a take-off. Local opinion is
that they are lucky to be alive. The
A.A.M.S. is now out to raise money to
buy a two-engined ’plane. Much of its
flying is now done in whatever hired
machines are available, and the extent
of its operations justifies a better arrange-
ment than that. The contract with
Qantas is for 54,000 miles p.a., guaran-
teed at Is. a mile, and costs are bound
to go up under war conditions.
* * * *
“Phildee”: Not only the Katherine
River (N.T.) spread over its banks (B.
17/1/’40); the Roper rose 60ft. over-
night and people living by its banks were
lucky to escape with their lives. Three
abos. brought the news over 100 miles
of floodwater to Roy Chisholm’s Roper
River valley station. Down at the
Roper River Mission four whites with
several half-castes and natives fled to
near-by hills, where they were marooned
without shelter, but with plenty of tucker.
The mission was 20ft. under water
and its 50ft. lugger is a complete loss.
Twenty miles further up the river Con-
stable Jim Mahoney—a short, nuggety
chap, and one of the most resourceful
coppers in the N.T.—took 30 natives and
beat it for Telegraph Hill, about two
miles from his station. He made six
trips in a dinghy to the station to rescue
natives who were clinging to treetops,
and to save stores, a pedal wireless set
and other Government property. On
each trip crocodiles threatened his small
boat and grabbed several horses which
were swimming on leads behind the
dinghy. Mahoney once said to me of
“Not too much, Ma. Save some of the branches in case the drought lasts.”
another copper, “He’s the gamest man
the Territory.” He can’t be far off
(bat ranking himself,
* * * *
“Jeb”: Exit, in Brisbane, one of
Queensland’s smallest and best-known
solicitors, C. B. Fox. He was one of
the most brilliant of a brilliant lot of
scholars at the Brisbane Grammar School
in the ’seventies, a champion rifleshot
a nd a great footballer—he played Rugby
for Queensland for two years during the
’eighties. In later years he became a
yachtsman. One of his sons, almost the
living replica of himself, carries on the
family tradition in the legal profession,
* * * *
“Zedo”: Bingo (B. 17/1 /’4O) seems
to have received its coup de grace in
Queensland as a result of the stand taken
by various towns and cities. Gympie
City Council firmly banned the game,
and Forgan Smith says that no new per-
mits have been granted since December
20, and that every permit will expire at
the end of January.
* * * *
“Scat”: Blain, M.P., apologising for
McEwen, who when Minister for the
Interior inspected the Northern Terri-
tory and made some plans for it, but
was out of the Ministry before he could
do anything about them:
I have tried to break down the feeling
against him among my constituents by
explaining that he was not allowed to do
what he desired to have done. 'The Minis-
ter who would receive a welcome in the
Northern Territory is Mr. Perkins, who
is now at the table.
Territorians remember the Ministers
who have visited them in recent years:
Parkhill, June-July, 1932 ; Perkins, June-
July, 1933 ; Paterson, April-August,
1935; McEwen, July-August, 1938 ;
and Foil, 1939. Small good came of
any of these visits, and he’s an optimist
who predicts a “welcome” for a second
Perkins expedition.
* * * *
“Dip”: If Phil Ward, of Tennant
Creek (N.T.), isn’t kissing his shovel at
the moment he should be. His Blue
Moon mine has yielded the field’s
record crushing—436 tons of ore aver-
aging soz. 13dwt. of gold per ton over
the plates. He got another ounce to the
ton in the cyanide, bringing the total
value of the ore to £28,000. And the
Blue Moon had already yielded £50,000-
worth of the yellow stuff.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: They mature ’em tough
and early all right in the North. Some-
body rolled into the Nambour (Q.) Golf
Club a few days ago and bagged the
cashbox, afterwards refreshing himself
in an easy chair with rum and a medi-
tative pipe. Sherlock Holmeses set out
to track the villain, expecting to catch
up with a seasoned old thug who would
greet them by their Christian names and
swap reminiscences about his dirty deeds
in the past. They got their man —he
is 13.
* * * *
“Mollie A.”: Jarengoorli, head of a
once-populous tribe that inhabited the
north-east shores of Roebuck Bay
(W.A.), died on January 10. A tall old
fellow with silvery hair and whiskers
and a commanding voice, he had a color-
ful career. Two deep scars on the inner
side of each thigh testified to an old
argument with a shark. Jarengoorli was
hauled out of the water and sewn up with
an ordinary needle and thread. His
brain was keen to the end, and his exit
was dignified. Sitting up in bed, he
looked calmly out at the rising sun. Then
his gaze turned to his woman, and as she
handed him his tea he said slowly “This
is the last time I will drink with you.”
Then he put down his pannikin and lay
back on his pillows.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Do you want to visit
an abo. art gallery never previously
publicised and, from the many I’ve seen,
as good as any of ’em? Then here are
the directions. Go from Warbreccan
station (s.-w. Q.) out to Lillerie dam.
Head more or less west for an old-man
mulga standing by itself on top of the
low range four or five miles away. Pass
the mulga ; keep on going. As it’s all
top-rock country there are no water-
courses or other natural features to guide
you. Presently you’ll head a bit of a
gutter which might make into a creek.
It does. Follow a mile or two to a
rocky hole and a rock fall. One wall
of the hole is just like a schoolmaster's
blackboard. It has a ledge running along
at the bottom of it, almost at water
level, and that makes a fine canvas about
50ft. by 10ft., on which the old-time
R.A. could practise his art. He chipped
into the rock with gusto and flying
sweat. Black Brother depended to a
great extent on his ability to track. All
his illustrations are tracks of animals,
from a baby emu no bigger than a
bantam to the marks of one that never
strode this earth, so big are they. There
are ’roos in numbers, human beings,
dingoes, all sorts of tracks —some faith-
ful, some grotesque, all easier to under-
stand than modern art.
“Dickie Beech”: South Queensland
waters are offering promising early
material for a successful big-game fish-
ing season. An angler making his first
attempt at swordfishing hooked a 2401 b.
marlin 20 miles off Mooloolaba and
brought it to gaff after a fight of two
hours. The next day another angler
on the same fishing ground fought a
7561 b. bronze whaler shark on rod and
36-cord line (breaking strain 721 b.) for
nine hours and 20 minutes before get-
ting it alongside. The launch was towed
for 25 miles, and the duration of combat
was the longest in Queensland Game
Fishermen’s Association history,
although the captive fell short of the
State record by 1431 b. Should anyone
desire a spot of crocodile shooting, a
grazier has bagged two 16-footers in
the Fitzroy River, 50 miles from Rock-
hampton. And tracks of a second croc,
have been found at Angourie Swamp,
near Yamba (northern N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Few are more adept than
the Torres Strait abo. who takes lo
sneak-thieving. He will place a bag of
the boss’s flour on a blanket and then
laboriously and patiently flail the sack
till enough for a small damper is dusted
through its texture. When sugar is
wanted, a stout tubular grass stem is
found and inserted between the stitching
at the mouth of the bag and the grain
laboriously siphoned out. The N.Q.
grasses have stems as thick as a man’s
little finger and serve admirably.
Strangely enough, Binghi, whilst regard-
ing the maki as fair game, is scrupulously
honest in his dealings with his own com-
patriots, as witness the unattended garden
plots which are the rule under the near-
communal system of the T.S. Islanders.


“You go on lookin' for water while I keep me eye on this mirage."
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.C.McK.: Not a yarn, and too much for
a par D.F.: It doesn’t even glitter....
K. : A laugh for the classroom
H.P.R.: “Hadst Thou Stayed” we must have
fled C.W.J.: It’s funny... .8.C.D.: Even
though “its merit is purely physical” it’s still
not up F.8.D.: Only needs a soapbox and
some tub-thumping to make it complete
F.8.R.: “Mary’s Dilemma” touched everything
but our pockets... .R.C.8.: Obvious....
C.D.G.: Well, either you are wrong or Cham-
berlain is G.N.R.: One of these days you'll
probably write a dictionary 8.F.L.: “In my
particular case what are the main obstacles
to a career of short-story writing?” Your
short stories M.W.P.: Yes, but where’s
the yarn? G.N.8.: You’ve slung it together
too roughly D.M.: We’ll shoot anyone
else who sends us a “Summer Fantasy” when
the temperature is around 80deg. and the
humidity is 80 p.c Z.V.W.: Elsewhere,
perhaps T.8.D.: Amateurish... .H.M.R.:
Have you heard the one about Red Riding
Hood? EA.S.: Well written, but joff our
beat A.8.C.: Might make an article for a
daily or a kennel magazine... .W.S.E.: Of
“Moustache or Marriage” we’ll have neither
W.R.D.: Even sung to the tune of “Hey
Diddle Diddle” it doesn’t tempt us G.T.R.:
“Private Higgins” is confined to the w.p.b.
... .R.D.L.: Have you ever seen a dingo?
F. : We were out when “The Debt
Collector” called 8.R.L.: We had hoped
that 1940 would be free of drought-ridden
farmers... .F.8.R.: You should be able to
turn 6000 words to better use than that
L. : A stamp will rescue “Freddie”
G. L.R., P.W.L., R.T.D.: Missed....
G.C.-W.: Unexciting, though you might place it
elsewhere H.C.8.: The ending’s weak....
G.T.A.: Not far off E.P. and O.B.: Joint
effort very much underdone... .M.G.: It stops
before it starts H.W.: The rhymes are
labored A.W.: Someone else might like the
“dark and handsome beau” T.G.: “Ring
out the old, ring in the new” is just what
you don’t do A.M.N.: On the whole, we’d
sooner have had “the hectic adventures of one
Rowley the Ram”.... J.J.F.: “The great lone
West” has now 27,465 poets clasped to its
breast W.F.K.: We led William gently to
the door by his coy ear C.W.: Afraid that
“words awaiting music” will also have to
await print P.C.W.: Slight....J.D.S.: You
might avoid phrases such as “proud Austral’s
seed”... .T. 8.: Lightweights... .A.S.: If you
mean you’ll have a beer, don’t say you’ll
“let an amber trickle find the thirsty throat.”
... .F.L.K.: Sing-song... .R.D.: Nearly....
G.B. and J. 1.: Missed S.F.: “Always a
Blunder” is a blunder into bathos.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K. 8.: When we last saw that bathroom gag
the gent, was a plumber... .F.L.: Those
bathing beauties will not disport themselves in
our pages... .D.R.: Next time that deadbeat
arrives he will be received with guns....
M.M.: No use for the old cove with birds
nesting in his beard... .G.S.: Ten arrived, ten
went back 0.5.: Looks like an uncompleted
jigsaw puzzle M.A.: Viewed from any
angle it is a hopeless misfit... .K.T.: Char-
coal sketches reached us in a shockingly
smudged state M.A.S.: A stale wheeze and
an inferior sketch... .J.W.: “The Heat Wave”
is cooling off in the w.p.b 8.A.: Not
unlocking the cashbox for the obese punster
and his adoring lady friend E.N.:
Phil May beat you to it by 56 years C. 8.:
Worthless R. 8.: Digger gags were all coined
years ago H.L.F.: The lad shows promise;
send him to an art school C.C.: You’ve
done better S.L.: No opening for colored
work here.
“Campoven”: A Bulletin contributor
mentioned the fact that modernists talk
particularly about their private -and
unique inspiration, and fully believe in
it, although they paint extraordinarily
like each other or like the latest Paris
fashions. A Melbourne composer had
been trying for a long time to make some-
thing of a musical idea which had
entered his brain apparently from no-
where. He tried it out in this way and
that way without getting any further.
One night he awoke from the first un-
troubled sleep he had had for a long
time, and found that the whole theme
of his opus had come unravelled and
stood so clearly before him that all he
had to do was to translate it into musical
characters. In a state approaching trance,
he got up and worked till daylight, and
then went to bed again. When he woke
up it was close to midday. He leapt up,
put his score down on the piano and
began to play it. He had not played
four notes before a dismal doubt assailed
him, and by the time he had played ten
bars his doubt became a certainty. He
had written down a movement from
Beethoven’s Fifth.
A MIXED GRILL.
Morning papers have gone cold on
Famous American Correspondents, per-
haps because they have been turning up
their cocksure pronouncements and pre-
dictions ; but Sydney’s “Sunday Sun” still
keeps a corner for them. It allowed one
Gedye to protest that sneering at the
Russian war effort was ill-advised or
something. Gedye was in Central Europe
when —as he wrote in the inevitable book
—the Russian Ambassador at Prague
assured Benes that “Russia would fulfil its
obligations to Czechoslovakia even if
France did not” ; and was simple enough
to believe it. Does anyone out of Bedlam
believe it now?
* * * *
For the benefit of posterity, the
“United Australia Review’’ has preserved
the P.M.’s tribute to Stevens as “truly a
great Australian,” who “fortunately had
an itch to accomplish something in Par-
liament, something which I cannot help
admiring profoundly.” Does Menzies
never read the N.S.W. Auditor-General s
reports? He should turn up the latest,
in which he will find that the surplus of
£53,800 claimed for 1937-38 by Stevens
was actually a deficit of £418,500 ; that
instead of the surplus of £7785 promised
by Stevens for 1938-39 £2,895,000 was
added to the accumulated deficiency,
making it £33,529,100 ; that Stevens in
the same year borrowed £1,000,000
from the Superannuation Board and
spent £8,789,000 of loan money besides ;
and that “since 1931 the loan liability
to the Commonwealth has increased by
£71,735,200”—t0 £359,843,900. If Menzies
ever models his finance on that of
Stevens, his finish will be as sudden as
Stevens’s was.
* * * *
Allowing that, for good and sufficient
reasons, there will be a loss by migra-
tion in 1940, the population of Aus-
tralia should reach 7,000,000 this year.
The official estimate in September was
6,977,345.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The most individual of all
metals is tin. Bend a strip of the pure
stuff and it emits an obvious complaining
sound, the “cry of tin.” Pure tin occa-
sionally suffers from a wasting disease of
its own. In the Middle Ages it was called
the “devil’s metal” because of its capa-
city for changing the qualities of other
metals. Melt it with copper and you get
bronze —whose hardness, elasticity and
better resistance to oxidation brought
mankind out of the Stone Age 20,000
years before Herr Hitler’s ancestors began
the Middle one. Cornish tinmines have
traded with Europe since 1000 8.C., and
there was a tinplate industry in England
at the time of the Norman conquest,
* * * *
“C.Q.”; Lawrence Power, the S. Aus.
cricketer who turned singer (B. 10/1/’4O),
was sur passed in originality by Frederick
william Dennett, the Melbourne tailor.
governing director of Henry Buck’s,
g OYernor G f the Vic. Storekeepers'
Association, director of innumerable
other companies, and unofficial sartorial
djctator tfae
men of the Victorian
capital. He began his career as a solo
pianist and toured the world as such. As
dictator of Melbourne’s male fashions he
bas i a t e ly prognosticated that business-
men w j d SO on be going to their offices
j n sa ndals, short pants and open shirts,
and a prophecy by Dennett is in the
na ture of a ukase or decree,
* * * *
« Cape York „. TeU « Cape Vo ltaire” (B.
W n l'39) that Japanese divers working
J® Darnley Islands grounds n.-e.
Thursday Island, dive to 4. fathom.-,
(270 feet), wearing only helmet and corse-
let. The “protective” air cushion must
obviously be at the same pressure as the
water outside (about 1401 b. per sq. inch
at 40 fathoms), and the body is there-
fore subjected to this pressure of air,
which Japs claim is more injurious than
straightout water pressure. Less “stag-
ing” is required without the complete
suit. With training, escape apparatus for
submarines is quite feasible, the staging
being accomplished as in the British
Davis escape apparatus by means of a
rope attached to a float. The escapee
eases his ascent by clinging to the rope.
* * * *
“Vj c Toe”: New war slang, is it?
The army in France is prepared to get
anything “buttoned up,” or to have it
“laid on.” Comes an order to deepen
a trench or indent for equipment;
“Right; we’ll get that buttoned up.”
Comes a request for transport or ammu-
nition ; the answer is that it shall be
“laid on.” The R.A.F., for its part, is
prepared to “organise” anything—raid
on Berlin, estaminet tour or football
match. War correspondents, back in
their London offices, report that every-
thing they needed in France was well
“laid on,” details of their itinerary were
perfectly “buttoned up,” and the enter-
tainment was excellently “organised.”


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tq hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy Jack London and Hawaii and Voyag-
ing in Wild Seas, by Mrs. Jack London. —5905.
Will exchange Euclid (P. M. Egan’s), Books
1 to 6, and Hamblin Smith’s Elementary
Algebra, with Key, for works on inorganic
chemistry, metallurgy or mineralogy (not
primers).—s94B.
Words of verse, published at the time of
the Boer War, beginning:
Laugh, little folks, with glee to think that Britain’s
sun has set.
-5957.
Information Sought.
Where was Kingsford Smith’s ’plane, the
Southern Cross, built; what type was it; was
it new when he flew the Pacific in it, and, if
not, what was its history? —s96s.
The ’plane was built by the Atlantic Air-
craft Corporation in the U.S.A. in 1925 or
1926. It was a three-engined Fokker-type
monoplane, equipped with Wright-Whirlwind
J 4 (200-h.p.) engines. It was sold to Hubert
Wilkins, the Australian polar explorer, and
used by him for survey flights in the Arctic
regions. In 1927 the machine had been
damaged, and was sold by Wilkins to Smith
and Ulm. They had it reconditioned by the
Douglas Aircraft Co. of California, and the
J 4 Wright engines were replaced by J 5 Wright-
Whirlwind engines of the same power as the
old ones.
* \ * * *
Whereabouts in N.S.W. is Mount Wingen?
What causes it to burn, and how long has
it been burning ? —5968.
It is about 208 miles from Sydney, and is
passed by the N.S.W. main northern railway.
A thick seam of coal is slowly burning, emit-
ting through fissures, over about half an acre
up the southward hillside, more or less smoke;
the emission is not always visible. The
presence of sulphur-compounds and vapors
suggest that sulphur oxidisation generated heat
which started the fire If miles north of its
present site, over 2000 years ago.
jp $ * *
Who was Louis de Rougement and for what
reason was he described as “the greatest liar
on earth” ?— 5971.
He was a Swiss who became a valet to an
Australian Governor in the ’seventies, and was
later cook on a pearling schooner. The journal
of Stockdale, a bushman and explorer, came
into his possession, and with this as a basis
he invented wild stories of adventure which he
swore were true. He published an article in
the “Wide World Magazine” in 1898, and lec-
tured on his alleged explorations to London
audiences. Being promptly bowled out, he
visited South Africa as a lecturer, billing him-
self as “the greatest liar on earth.” A similar
tour in Australia was a frost. De Rougemont,
whose right name was Henri Grein, died in
an English workhouse in 1921.
i’fi J|c * #
(1) Who was the first Australian to win the
V.C. in the Great War, and how did he earn
it? (2) Where can I find a full account of
his deed ? —5974.
(1) Capt. Albert Jacka (then private). On
the night of May 19, 1915, at Courtney’s Post,
Gallipoli, he and four other privates were hold-
ing portion of a trench and were attacked.
Jacka’s four comrades were killed or wounded
and single-handed he disposed of seven Turks,
shooting five and bayoneting the others. (2)
In Dr. C. E. W. Bean’s The Story of Anzac
(Vol. 11. page 150).
* * * *
How many hours slower than Greenwich are
the various standard times observed in the
U.S.A.? At what points do the times change?
—5925.
The time in the Eastern, Central, Mountain
and Pacific zones is reckoned from the 75th,
90th, 105th and 120th meridians west of Green-
wich, the time being slower than Greenwich
time by five, six, seven and eight hours re-
spectively. At the latitude of New York the
15deg. time zone corresponds to about 784
miles. Because of the inconvenience of chang-
ing the time by the necessary amount of one
hour at every point on the time zone boundary
lines, the more convenient practice has usually
been followed by making the change at some
approved point near the boundary. Time
zone and State boundary limits rarely coin-
cide, and many States have two standard
times. Further particulars will be found in
The World Almanac.
* * * *
What is the meaning of the term “White
Russia” ? —5913.
The White Russian Soviet Socialist Republic
was formed on January 1, 1919. At present
its territory covers 126,790 square kilometres
(48,940 square miles), and includes the former
provinces of Minsk, Vitepsk, Mogilov and a
section of the Grodno provinces as well as the
Gomel province. On January 1, 1933, the
population numbered 5,439,000, of which the
urban population was 890,100. White Russia
forms one of the constituent republics of the
U.S.S.R. But the term “White Russians” is
usually taken to denote all that portion of the
Russian nation (mostly emigres) who are
opposed to the Soviet regime.
Some details regarding the career of Nurse
Cavell prior to the outbreak of the Great
War 3—5950.
She was born on December 4, 1865, at
Swardeston, Norfolk, England, the daughter
of the Rev. Frederick Cavell, vicar of that
parish; educated at various schools in Eng-
land and in Brussels, and entered the London
hospital as a probationer in 1895. After five
years at the hospital she was successively night
superintendent at the St. Pancras infirmary, assis-
tant superintendent at Shoreditch infirmary, and
matron at the Ashton New Road district home,
Manchester. In 1907 she was appointed the
first matron of the Berkendael medical insti-
tute, Brussels, founded by Dr. de Page as a
pioneer training school for Belgian secular
nurses. The institute became a Red Cross
hospital on the outbreak of the 1914-18 World
War, in which Belgian, German, French and
English soldiers were accepted as patients.
* * * *
(1) Is there a Seamen’s Union in Australia?
(2) Where does it operate? (3) What are its
objects 3 (4) Address of head office and name
of general secretary 3—5837.
(1) Yes. It is registered under the Arbitra-
tion and Conciliation Act and its members’
wages and conditions aboard ship are gov-
erned by an award of the Federal Arbitration
Court. (2) In all the principal ports of the
Commonwealth and M.L. it has branches and
agencies. (3) Too lengthy to quote here.
List has been posted. (4) W. J. Daley, General
Secretary, 12 King-street, Sydney.
* * * *
What rules are suggested for the preven-
tion of fire in bush and scrub territory by the
N.S.W. Bush Fires Advisory Committee? —
5922.
(1) Be sure that your match is out. Break
it in two before you throw it away. (2) Be
sure that pipe ashes and cigar or cigarette
ends are dead before throwing them away.
Never throw them into scrub, leaves or litter.
(3) Before building a fire, scrape away all in-
flammable material from a spot sft. in diameter.
Dig a small hole in the centre and in it build
your fire. Keep your fire small. Never build
it against trees or logs or near scrub. (4)
Never break camp before your fire is out.
Stir the embers while soaking them with water.
Turn small sticks and drench both sides. Wet
the ground around the fire. If you cannot get
water stir in earth and tread it down until
packed tight over and around the fire. Be sure
the last spark is extinguished. (5) Never burn
bush or scrub in windy weather nor while
there is the slightest danger that the Are wifl
get away. Burning, however, must be re-
stricted to those periods during which, it is legal
to burn.
* * * *
A few details concerning Florence Barclay,
author of “The Rosary”? —s93B.
Her maiden name was Florence Charles-
worth. She was born at Limpsfield, Surrey
(England), in 1862, and was the daughter of
a clergyman. In 1881 she married the Rev.
Charles Barclay, vicar of Little Amwell, Hert-
fordshire. Her first novel, The Wheels of Time,
appeared in 1908, but she is best known by
its successor, The Rosary (1909), which reached
a circulation of close on a million copies, and
was translated into many languages. The
combination of religious feeling and strong
love interest which characterised most of her
novels appealed to a. very wide public, and
she enjoyed for some years an immense popu-
larity, the total circulation of her books ex-
ceeding 2,500,000. Later novels included The
Mistress of Shenstone, The Following of the
Star, The Broken Halo, In Hoc Vince and Re-
turned Empty. She died at Limpsfield in 1921.
* * * *
1 have built a new house (under Government
supervision ) and in some of the spotted gum
timber the borers are boring out dust. I have
been told that these are only sap borers and
as soon as they eat out the spotted gum sap
they will die, and that they will not touch
the pine or other dry timber. Is this so, or
must these borers be treated? If so, what is
the best method to use in exterminating them 3
—5816.
There is a borer called the shothole borer
which attacks unseasoned timber. There is
also the powder post beetle which damages the
sapwood. There are, of course, other borers
which attack seasoned timber and can do a
great deal of damage. Spotted gum timber
is not highly susceptible to attack by these
latter borers. The best method of treatment
is to use a solution of paradichlorbenzene in
kerosene and to inject the solution by means
of a small force pump. In view of the possible
seriousness of the infestation it is recommended
that you write to the Technological Museum,
Sydney.
* * * *
Is it incorrect to place a preposition at the
end of a sentence? What is the attitude of
the authorities towards the practice? —s9B7.
It is usually condemned as inelegant, but
Fowler in Modern English Usage defends such
sentences as Cowper’s “A state of dejection
such as they are absolute strangers to” and
Ruskin’s “Any more wasted words I never
heard of,” and says the preposition at the
end may be used when it “sounds comfortable,”
or, even if it doesn’t sound comfortable, if it
has “compensating vigor.” As Fowler shows,
Shakspeare, the translators of the Bible and a
score of other classical masters of English have
used the preposition at the end when it has
suited them.
(1) How much plumbago is produced in Aus-
tralia annually? (2) From what countries does
Australia import plumbago, and value of such
imports? (3) Uses of plumbago? (4) Where
can plumbago be marketed in Australia 3
5541.
(1) Australia’s production of plumbago is
very small, averaging little more than 15 tons
p.a. during recent years. (2) —
-—1937-38—. —1938-39—.
Suppliers. Cwt. £Stg. Cwt. £Stg.
U.K 1,476 2,180 862 1,334
Canada .. 528 603 7 54
Ceylon .. 10,912 4,492 10,490 2,964
Germany .. 358 371 1,080 751
U.S.A. .. 72 355 49 335
Other .. .. 1,174 498 1,139 297
Total .. 14,520 8,499 13,627 5,735
(3) It is used extensively in the production
of high-class steel, in armament manufacture,
for electroplating, in dry-cell batteries, for
lubricating purposes, in the manufacture of
black paint, for lead pencils, and for various
minor purposes. (4) Communicate with Mc-
Leod and Co., 5 Ralph-street, or Minerals, Ltd.,
318 Botany-road—both Alexandria, Sydney.
* * * *
What is the “Kreutzer” Sonata ? —5979.
Beethoven’s Op. 47, for piano and violin,
dedicated to his friend Rodolphe Kreutzer,
violinist and composer. Tolstoy discovered
in this work an intense eroticism (probably not
intended by its rather ascetic composer), and
wrote a novel on the subject. The sonata was
first performed in 1803 by Beethoven (at the
piano) and the violinist Bridgetower, and later
became very popular.
* * * *
What is nardoo, and how do the abos. pre-
pare it for food? —5990.
Nardoo is the abo. name for the spore-cases
of a small plant, Marsilea drummondi, a mud-
loving or aquatic fern. In summer the swamps
in which it abounds dry up, and the plants
wither away, leaving the fruit-cases on the
ground; these are collected by the aborigines,
ground between two stones and made into a
paste for use as a food. It contains little
nutritive matter, and is generally liberally mixed
with finely-ground stone.
* * * »
(1) What are the best Australian native song-
birds ? (2) Are any other birds capable of
mimicking sounds as the lyrebird does? —5961.
(1) Opinion varies considerably. Many of
our warblers have a very pleasing song, also
some of the song-shrikes, such as the olive-
whistler. The crested bellbird and the butcher-
bird also have melodious voices. (2) All the
bower-birds are great mimics, while among
the smaller species the noisy scrub-bird and
the scrub-wrens are perhaps the best. The
ground-lark and even the silver-eye are also
good mimics.
*. * * *
What is the Australian “cream of tartar”
tree like? Where does it grow, and. can its
fruit be eaten ? —5999.
It is an endemic species confined to
Northern Australia and hardly distinguishable
from the baobab-tree of South Africa. It is
a large tree with a girth out of proportion to
its height; some specimens attain a circum-
ference of 80ft. at 2ft. from the ground. It
grows on sandy plains and low stony ridges
lrom the Glenelg River to Arnhem Land,
rarely above 100 miles inland. The huge trunk
acts as a storage reservoir of food and moisture.
The fruit, which resermbles a small gourd, is
about 6ft. long and fin. in diameter; its dry,
acidulous pulp has an agreeable taste and is
peculiarly refreshing in the sultry climate of its
habitat. It consists of gum, starch, sugary
matter and malic acid, and is said to taste
like cream of tartar.
f * * *
Correct way to cut and lay linoleum ? —5710.
A sharp knife and a straightedge—preferably
one with a metal edge—are necessary. All
measurements must be accurate, and should be
marked on the lino for cutting. Study the pat-
tern so that when cut pieces have to meet —as
in awkward corners —a casual glance will not
reveal the cut. Old newspapers or sheets of
brown paper make a good underlay, and the
floor should be gone over carefully for tacks,
etc., beforehand. Main essential for a good job
is extreme care and checking of measurements
before cuts are made. In awkward recesses it is
sometimes advisable to make a paper pattern of
the floor space.
* * * *
Method of preventing decay in a wooden
gate 3—5721.
Thin out some white lead with a little boiled
oil and mix in enough red lead to color it a
light pink. Mixture should be just thin enough
for brush work. Apply freely to all wooden
surfaces. When joints are made tight some of
the lead should squeeze out. Some use it as
an adhesive for joints, but it takes a long time
to set hard and even then is not very efficient.
Better to use ordinary joining agencies such as
wedges, screws, etc. Afterwards a coat or two
of paint assists in the good work.
* * * *
How to protect tapestries against moths and
silverfish ? —5620.
Sydney Technological Museum’s method is to
spray the tapestry twice or thrice a year with a
solution of Thymol in methylated spirits. To
keep these materials in cases the best repellent
is paradichlorobenzene, but if the tapestries are
hung the spray should be sufficient. Spray now
and in winter and early spring.
* * * *
Simple method of oxydising brass ? —5696.
Make up a solution consisting of one part of
copper carbonate, eight parts of clear ammonia
and two parts of water. The brass to be treated
must be thoroughly clean, polished and free
from grease. Immerse in the solution for 10
minutes, wash in hot water, and dry in sawdust.
* * * *
Method of twisting wire to make bottle
brushes ? —5542.
A length of wire slightly longer than double
the length of the finished bottle brush should
be bent round a mandrel or piece of dowel-rod
and the ends clamped in the chuck of a twist-
drill. If the drill is now rotated the wire will
be given a tight uniform twist. The shaft of a
screwdriver placed between the wires may be
found useful in controlling the amount of twist.
Recipe for making honey and almond cream
at home? —5773.
Two tablespoons honey, one teaspoon lemon
juice, six to 10 drops almond oil. Beat all
together till creamy.
Brief Answers.
J.S.: See Volume VI of the Official History
of Australia in the War of 1914-18, written by
Ernest Scott... .S.T.H.: Information not avail-
able from ordinary sources. You would need
to apply to him direct J.D.: (1) John Win-
throp Hackett was an Anglican born in Ireland.
(2) Cannot say....H.S. (Lithgow): The Bulle-
tin Reciter is obtainable from the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney A.E.H.: Better pay the
balance and risk it. There were sales of these
bonds at near their purchase price before war
broke out. The proposition is essentially
speculative but well enough handled... .J.T.J.:
The Lamplough goldfield is about five miles
from Avoca (Vic.) and gold was first discovered
there about September, 1853. Awards of £lOO
for the find were paid to D. Brown, G Bell,
senior, G. Bell, junior, and J. Cox... .A.8.J.:
To qualify as a veterinary surgeon in N.S.W.
students must pass the matriculation exam,
prescribed for entrance to Sydney Uni. and
complete five years of study for the B.V.Sc.
degree. There is no other way of obtaining
a registrable qualification. The prospects of
the profession are extremely favorable....
T.M.: Ingredients for lemon beer are one
sliced lemon, loz. ginger, one teacupful yeast,
lib. sugar. Add them to one gallon of boiling
water and allow the mixture to stand from
12 to 20 hours before bottling... .A.F.W.:
Among the future events planned in the cricket
world are the following tours (some alteration
is likely owing to the war): 1942, Australia
in England; 1942-43, M.C.C. in West Indies;
1943, India in England; 1943-44, M.C.C. in
South Africa; 1944-45, M.C.C. in Australia;
1945, South Africa in England; 1946, Australia
in England; 1946-47, M.C.C. in New Zealand.
E.R.S.: Use Walmer’s paint and varnish
remover (Is. 6d. half pint and 2s. 7d. pint, from
any oil and color shop). Caustic soda is too
drastic, affects the timber and endangers hands.
Apply remover with brush and scrape off'with
blunt-edged tool T.A.A.: Cannot trace
adherents of the sect in Sydney A.E.K.:
Montagu Norman, Governor of the Bank of
England, is the eldest son of the late F. H.
Norman, of Hertfordshire, England
D.E.O’R.: Your recipe seems good. Can’t
give formula for anyone’s special “mix,” as
they’re trade secrets jealously guarded, but
here’s a very good ice-cream: Bring one quart
milk to boil. Meanwhile mix \\ tablespoons
arrowroot with a little cold milk and add it
to the boiling milk. Sweeten well with white
sugar, add grated rind of two lemons, boil
up and strain into one quart good cream.
When partly frozen add juice of two lemons.
This quantity serves 16... .A. 5.8.: Write
James Sandy, Ltd., 268 George-street, Sydney.
. ...T.W.C.: Write or see Mr. G. E. Green,
398 Pacific Highway, Crow’s Nest (N.S.W.)
P.C.: Official rain records at Tyringham
(N.S.W.) have been taken during the past
three years only. The totals for each year
were as follows: 1937, 6937 points; 1938,
5738 points; 1939, 6311 points. Generally
speaking, the most rain occurs at Tyringham in
the months December to March inclusive
D.S.: Information not available at present....
C.J.8.: The Bulletin Reciter and The Bulletin
Book of Humorous Recitations, N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney A.L.: Information can be
obtained from (1) Inter-Democracy Federal
Union, C/o J. M. Ahern, 333 George-street,
Brisbane; (2) Federal Union, 44 Gordon-square,
London, W.C.I; (3) Inter-Democracy Federal
Unionists, Union House, 445 West 23rd-street,
New York, N.Y., U.S.A D.J.W.: Adam
Lindsay Gordon shot himself at Picnic Point,
Port Phillip (Vic.), on June 24, 1870 H.G.: In
1921 Sydney Uni. established a Cancer Re-
search Committee, for which funds were made
available by contributions from the Common-
wealth and State Governments, and by private
donations and bequests. Laboratories were
equipped within the Uni., research workers
engaged to conduct investigations locally and
abroad, and treatment centres were established
within certain hospitals. In April, 1938, these
activities were suspended, and operations have
since been confined to the issue of radium
only A. 8.: In terms of the N.S.W. Scaffold-
ing and Lifts Act, 1912, the use of scaffolding,
lifts, cranes, hoists and derricks is subject to
supervision in order to minimise the risk of
accident. In the metropolitan, Newcastle and
Wollongong districts, where the Act is operative,
regulations have been promulgated regarding
the construction of scaffolding, lifts, etc. Lift
attendants and crane-drivers must obtain cer-
tificates of competency, which are issued by the
Department of Labor and Industry R.M.F.:
Ten rabbits will eat the equivalent amount of
food that one sheep wi11... .T.F.: (1) Unable
to advise regarding any suitable non-mechanical
method of haulage other than a whim, whip
or windlass. (2) Consult Peek’s Mining
Engineer’s Handbook, procurable from the
Tait Book Co., 349 Collins-street, Melbourne;
price, about £4. lon L. Idriess’s Prospecting
for Gold also has some details about whips,
whims and windlasses W.S.: An applica-
tion form and all information in connection
with the issue of an auctioneer’s license may
be obtained on application to the Clerk of
Petty Sessions, Court House, Ryde (N.S.W.).
A copy of the N.S.W. Auctioneers’ Licensing
Act, 1898-1934, may also be inspected at that
place A.T.8.: There is no economic method
for treatment of bore water to render it suit-
able for watering plants and crops G.D.:
From the hon. secretary, the Koala Club of
Australia, Twyford House, 17 Gastlereagh-
street, Sydney (1) A general account of
producer-gas equipment is contained in a
brochure now being issued by the Department
of Information, 83 William-street, Melbourne.
Write for a copy. (2) The compression of
your engine would not be too low, but unless
it were raised the power developed would be
some 70 p.c. of the power obtained with petrol.
(3) Perhaps the simplest way to raise the com-
pression would be to use a modified cylinder
head. (4) If the compression were raised too
much, trouble would be experienced when
running on petrol. For this reason many people
are putting up with the loss of power following
the use of producer gas. (4) Yes; quite a few
people have, in fact, already adopted this pro-
cedure E.N.: Battlefields, by Mary Gilmore
(55.), Poems, by Hugh McCrae (65.), Chris-
topher Brennan, by H. M. Green (55.), and
Tales by Australians, a collection of stories by
26 Australian writers (7s. 6d.), all obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.


HITS
LYS
a
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Out MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
# a
.
**
mt
■
»
■Sjfihit
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT' S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Year So Far.
“Ghanam”: The Central Wool Com-
mittee’s computation puts the half-year’s
sales at 1,471,000 bales appraised and
return at £25,299,000, which works out
at 12.16 d. per pound —1.27 d. less than
the guaranteed average. Total letuin,
however, is £7,077,100 above that for
six months of ’3B-39, when the average
price was 10.4 d.
It must be remembered that little
scoured wool is included in the figures,
that more scoured will be dealt with in
the last half of the season and that the
greater part of spinners’ wools is yet
to come. Meanwhile, growers can only
hope that appraisement prices will keep
pace with permitted tops prices in Brad-
ford. At present they are at about the
existing averages—3l |d. for 70’s merino,
30}d. for 64’s, 25{d. for 56’s fine cross-
bred but on March 1 the control price
of merino 70’s will be 43-Id., 64’s merino
41jd. and 56’s fine crossbred 35Jd. for
internal use. Export control prices are
much higher than those for internal use,
a fact which has a steadying effect on
the business.
It is obvious that the U.K. Govern-
ment is seeking to build up reserves of
apparel wools for uniform purposes, and
to maintain a policy which tends for the
present to militate against internal ex-
pansion of wool usage. At 43id. pence
level, tops will be at their highest point
since Sept., 1928, when they reached
54d. In September, 1937, they reached
39|d. In that month average for greasy
was 14.4 d. for greasy and scoured 18.6 d.
In Sept., 1928, greasy averaged 16.6 d.,
greasy and scoured 17.4 d.
Cheesy Gland.
“Murrawong”: Regulations were
gazetted years ago rejecting ior export
all sheep carcasses showing signs of
caseous lymphadenitis (“cheesy gland”),
and a fairly general effort was made to
check the spread of the disease. For
the past few years, however, attention
has been focused on other things. The
danger to-day is as great as ever.
Cheesy gland is highly infectious and
incurable. It is seldom noticed until
shearing, when the large abscesses of
greenish pus projecting from the skin
are found and sheep cannot be shorn
without opening them. Prevention should
be aimed at and the precautions con-
tinued from year to year. If done
thoroughly, the disease can be wiped off
a property. The annual cost will be
small and the improvements entailed will
go far towards preventing tetanus and
blackleg, etc.
Shearing sheds and yards are the
original sources of most cases of c.l. in-
fection. The organism is often present
in dust from yards, in dark corners un-
derneath sheds and particularly in shorn-
sheep pens. The germ must enter the
sheep through a wound. N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department test showed that all
cases Of cheesy gland in a certain flock
was due to infection picked up in the
chutes, pens or yards of the shed through
shearing cuts. Carefully shorn sheep in
the same flock were free of the disease,
and so were sheep with the average
number of shearing cuts which had been
let out of the shed by the woolroom door
straight into their paddock instead of
going through the usual pens and dusty
yards.
Greatest danger of infection is in those
sheds where chutes and counting-out pens
are underneath sweating pens. There is
less danger with pens completely open
to the sunlight. Before the start of
shearing or crutching the shearing board
should be thoroughly scrubbed down
with hot water and strong disinfectant.
Sweep off the surplus water, then sprinkle
plenty of disinfectant and let it lie.
Catching pens and chutes should be
thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. Old
grease and dirt should be removed and
the board should be washed down every
week-end during shearing.
Under counting-out pens the top layer
of soil should be removed for 4in. to 6in.
“ Adn't We better drink some of it to lighten the load?
and the floors concreted. Fences and
gates should be liberally sprayed with
strong disinfectant. If pens cannot be
concreted the soil should still be taken
out and the fresh surface liberally treated
with unslaked lime.
The sooner sheep get out to a paddock
after being shorn the better. They should
be branded after each run and let out
straightway. In the shed all shearing cuts
should be dressed with non-irritant dis-
infectant before the sheep go down the
chute. Shearing machines may also spread
infection, and it is wise to mix disinfec-
tant with the water in the tin in which
the shearer drops his used combs and
cutters.
Much can be done to prevent the
spread of cheesy gland by shearing the
youngest sheep first, as they should be
free of infection. When a c.g. sheep
comes on the board and abscesses are
opened, don’t put the sheep down the
chute with the others —that is the quickest
way to spread infection. Give the shearer
a spare handpiece to carry on with and
stick the used machine in disinfectant
for a while. A supply of disinfectant
broken down with water in which hands
may be washed after handling infected
sheep will also be worth while.
Pig Experiments at Roseworthy.
“Gumeraka”: Latest pig-feeding trials
held at Roseworthy Agricultural College
(S.A.) showed encouraging results from
the use of dried whey as a substitute for
skim milk. Sixteen pigs of uniform age
and size were divided into four lots on
a liveweight basis and fed:
Group 1: Wheat, 50 p.c.; skim milk,
50 p.c.
Group 2: Wheat, 92 p.c.; meatmeal,
8 p.c.
Group 3: Wheat, 90 p.c.; dried whey,
10 p.c.
Group 4: Wheat, 82 p.c.; meatmeal,
8 p.c. ; dried whey, 10 p.c.
Wheat and skim milk proved the most
economical ration. The wheat-meatmeal
ration was 37 p.c. less efficient; wheat-
meatmeal-dried whey, 15 p.c. less effi-
cient.
The addition of dried whey to the
wheat-meatmeal ration resulted in a
saving in feed (271 b. dried whey added)
of 841 b. wheat and 71b. meatmeal per
1001 b. of liveweight increase; reduced
the time to take 701 b. pigs to bacon
weight from 12 weeks to 10 weeks; re-
duced the amount of dry matter required
per pound of liveweight increase from
3.581 b. to 2.951 b.; and increased the
growth of the pigs from 1.211 b. to 1.491 b.
per day.
No green feed was given, its place
being taken by small quantities of cod-
liver oil.
It seems that dried whey should prove
a wholesome supplement for use in
wheatgrowing and cheese-producing dis-
tricts where skim is not available.
Flag Smut.
“A.A.D.”: Flag smut is no longer a
major wheat disease in N.S.W., but
enough has been in evidence this season
to indicate that it still takes a toll on
yields.
The introduction of the Nabawa
variety from W.A. gave the first definite
check to the disease, which at that
time caused losses of up to 50 p.c. of the
yield. Other resistant varieties consoli-
dated the good work. Lately, there has
been some swing back to smut-liable
types, with the discarding of Nabawa and
Geeralying.
Of the varieties officially recommended
for next season’s sowing, Bencubbin
alone is highly resistant. Ghurka stands
next. Ford, Pusa IV, Pusa 111, Apollo,
Dundee and Eureka are “moderately”
to “fairly” resistant; while Gular, Ranee,
Waratah and Bobin are all susceptible.
Of varieties listed for further trial, Tola-
gin, Bordan, S.H.J., Carrabin, Minflo and
Sutton possess a high degree of resistance,
but Baldmin, Gluford and Sword are
highly susceptible.
The smut spores are capable of retain-
ing vitality for years. Some maintained
at the biological laboratory of the Agri-
cultural Department for the last 16 years,
when tested recently were found to ger-
minate as profusely as when first col-
lected.
Control of the disease on the farm is
difficult, but a helpful factor is that it
does not affect any other crop or grass
species. Rotation of crops may starve
the fungus out of the soil. Thus, after
wheat, ring the changes on oats, bare
fallow and perhaps pasture before re-
turning to wheat.
Early preparation (of the seed bed
assists in the conservation of moisture
and in the germination of spores prior
to sowing wheat. Flag smut is usually
worse with a dry sowing. The stubble
of badly affected crops should be burned
to destroy spores and lessen infection.
It has been proved that spores of this
smut can pass uninjured through farm
animals, hence a danger in diseased hay
or straw.
Pasture Work in Autumn.
“Wundi”: Early topdressing will be
necessary in most places. Long-continued
rains followed the break of the drought in
February, 1939, and subsequent growth'
made a big drain on the soil, with the
result that heavy applications of super.
are called for in most
pasture districts.
There is no fear of
sufficient leaching to do
any damage—in fact, loss
of potash will be little or
nothing. The first few
points of rain after the
dressing will impregnate
the soil with phosphoric
acid, leaving only a lime
sulphate residue above
ground. Heavy rains
will not carry the phos-
phoric acid down through
the soil; it remains in
the 3in. surface crust
unless there is scouring.
Early topdressing en-
courages both growth
and, in Wimmera rye and
sub. clover, germination
and rooting. If the
season should be bad, pasture which
has had a good start will stand up better
to unfavorable conditions.
Eighty pounds of super, per acre is
recommended in low-rainfall sheep dis-
tricts, but lcwt. can be applied with
safety and advantage and will help to
increase carrying capacity. In higher-
rainfall areas not less than a bag should
be laid down every year, and heavy
carrying paddocks can do with up to
4cwt.
Hints for the Farm.
“R.N.”: If you have most of the ewes
and lambs in the yard and the last six
or seven break away and bolt down the
paddock, the only thing to do is let the
other sheep out again and drive them
quietly along until the escapees are picked
up. If you try to round them up with-
out this, they’ll run you and themselves
ragged. All trouble can be checked by
running out netting or hessian wings
from the yard gates before bringing the
ewes and lambs up.
“Canbelego”: To remove warts' from
the nose and mouth of a horse apply
2 p.c. potassium bichromate solution.
Use the lotion carefully, as it is poison-
ous Select a small area —about 2in.
square—for each treatment. Surround
the spot with vaseline, and carefully
paint the exposed part with the lotion.
The vaseline prevents the lotion from
spreading. Repeat treatment every two
or three days, selecting a fresh area each
time.
“Yeno Ham”: Rest implement for
renovating sod-bound paspalum pastures


GIVE YOUR BOY ABBEY ORTHOPAEDICS .
Let his feet grow naturally and remain free from foot troubles which
cause so much pain and discomfort.
Growing feet need Orthopaedics to help them develop into happy,
healthy feet.
Made in Black or Brown Calf with strong welted soles and heels,
medium and wide fittings and in full and half sizes.
PRICES: 13 to U, 21/-; 2 to 5, 23/6; 6, 25/-.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 53 Castlereagh St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.”
FOR SALE
A VICTORIAN STATION PROPERTY
containing 8000 acres with
HOMESTEAD WOOL SHED OUTBUILDINGS
(Has been in the present family’s possession for 80 years.)
The district lias an Assured rainfall—no droughts.
The property is within 00 miles of Melbourne and close to a big city.
Good roads. Kailway passes through.
The property shears from 6000-8000 sheep regularly.
IT IS ALL FREEHOLD.
THE PRICE IS £4/15/- PER ACRE.
Very liberal terms can be given by the Estate.
Stock can be taken at valuation if desired.
Further information from
CHAS. WALKER & CO., AUCTIONEERS, BALLARAT.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income oV
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
TTie'^xxllefz/rt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FEEDING LAMBING EWES
If you could experiment by feeding some of your lambing ewes a few weeks before
and after lambing, you would become an annual customer, whether the season is good
or bad.
Have you ever considered this seriously?
Two tons will feed 200 sheep well for 80 days. It is worth that much to notice
the difference in the growth of the lambs, without considering the benefit to the mothers
and the wool.
CAUTION!
As Riverina Sheep Nuts are made from the richest foods only, in a very concen-
trated form, it is not advisable in the early stages to overfeed starving sheep, but to
give them a gradually increasing ration, to 2 ozs. per day (say, 1 bag of 1251 b. per
1000 sheep per day) for the first couple of days, gradually increasing to a full ration
of 4oz. per day (2 bags per 1000 per day), on which they will thrive, improve in
strength, and show a marked improvement in condition and growth of the wool.
From any wool firms or direct from—
RIVERINA SHEEP NUTS LIMITED
NARRANDERA
TELEPHONES:
Narrandera 29
Sydney, BSSS2, 85178
Toctlinwal 35
SYDNEY OFFICE:
10 Martin Place, Sydney.
BRANCH OFFICE:
C/o Wise Bros., Etd., Tocumwal.
TELEGRAMS:
Riverina Nuts, Narrandera.
Wise Bros., Ltd., Tocumwal.
Purity, Sydney.
is the mouldboard plough. Turn a pas-
palum paddock over every five or six
years in March or April, using a stump-
jump cultivator on areas too rough to
plough. Apply lcwt. of super, per acre
after renovation and every autumn to
encourage growth of white clover--
needed to balance the ration. Keep the
pastures short and clear of trash to
obtain best results from fertiliser. Har-
rowing every fortnight from summer
until Marc wi c ear up the trash and
distribute droppings Mow the pasture
,f growth is more than 4in high before
topdiessing, and keep it short to give
the clovei a c ance. Apply the super.
in autumn without waiting ioi rain the
pasture will get away rapidly as soon as
ram falls it it as received super. To
ensure fresh, succulent pasture, subdivide
the paddocks into small areas.
“Yeno Ham”: To establish pastures
on country where timber has been newly
killed, harrow in 41b. of sub. clover
mixed with lcwt. of super, per acre
directly after the first good autumn rain,
Topdress again with lcwt. of super, per
acre the following spring. Lightly harrow
the land the next autumn, introducing
one bushel of perennial rye grass per
acre at the same time. If the land is
fertile, sow the sub. and rye together,
Repeat the harrowing and autumn top-
dressing every year.
Veteran”: The premium wheat Gular,
evo i vec j a t Cowra Experiment Farm,
N.S.W., is proving of wider climatic range
than was originally hoped for In t g e
dr j er ear jy districts of the north-west
and west d das gi ven consistently good
yj e i ds as an early maturer. Now it is
]ikely to spread to the Murrayj and is
recommended for late sowing in the
outer sou th-western slopes and north-
central Riverina to supplement Ford,
Dundee and Bencubbin.
The Victorian Executive Council has
proclaimed a danger period, which will
extend till March 15, during which
throughout the State, except in the
Mallee, fires must not be lighted in the
open except with stringent precautions.
The Forest Commission has reported
that there is an abnormal growth of
grass which is rapidly drying off, and
this makes the danger of a conflagration
very real.
“J. Want”: N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment has issued a reminder that
during the last war there was a serious
shortage of ergot for the manufacture of
drugs used in obstetric and hemostatic
medicine. Ergot—a horny, bluish-black
formation, which replaces grains—is
fairly common in cooler districts. It
affects wheat, but rye and the fescues
most extensively. During the last war it
brought up to 255. per pound overseas.
Outback Occupations.
No. 11.
Tending Sheep.
One thing about sheep is their health.
In a dry season they’ll die of starvation
and thirst; in a good season all you need
fear is entero-toxaemia, pulpy kidney,
blowflies, footrot, lung and stomach
worms, fluke and scours.
Which helps us to understand the well-
known chorus which sheepmen carol
when they gather for a mortgagee burn-
ing or the public hanging of an A.W.U.
organiser:—•
Ashes to ashes and dust to dust;
]f the drought don’t get ’em, diseases must.
A lot of people run about with the
idea that sheep are stubborn. This is
wrong and libellous. Sheep are just
obstinate. They are docked, de-tailed,
dogged, drafted, dipped, driven, drenched,
dosed and damned from year’s end to
year’s end. Half of what they have to
go through would turn their critics into
maniacs or physical wrecks ; yet the sheep
never loses heart, but persists in remain-
ing a sheep until its death, when it might
become anything from a sausage to a
pound of fertiliser, a fate reserved for
few men.
A thing that has baffled psychologists
is their absolute lack of expression. You
can study 1000 sheep faces all looking
at you, and I defy you to tell whether
they are happy, thoughtful, full of revolt
or about to burst into song. But there
is no doubting the effect of their person-
ality. Let any normal man go west for
five years and live among sheep, and on
his return he will not only be woolly but
will talk sheep, think sheep, buy sheep,
sell sheep and even eat the things.
And if anyone should ask him about
the western girls, it’s a bale of wool to
a bindi-eye he’ll look sheepish.
It has been said that crowds of city
people act like sheep. Another libel.
Sheep are very original animals, and
resent being ordered about. City crowds
will walk meekly across narrow bridges,
through open gates, and when ordered
to do so will divide into smaller crowds.
They will submit to being fleeced by
lawyers, company promoters, politicians
and other non-union shearers, and will
even boast about it.
The moment sheep become aware you
wish them to cross a bridge they baulk.
Show them a gate, and they will rush
in every other direction but through it.
Left alone they will divide into groups.
Let them think you want them to do
it, and they persist in trying to remain
in one group. And any company pro-
moter who tried shearing a big western
wether would be shown a wrinkle or two,
and would catch the next train back to
the city.
In America men who own flocks are
called sheepherders and looked upon
with contempt. In Australia they are
called graziers, and the country is proud
of them. It ought to be, for they get
their name from having grazed bank-
ruptcy so often, a characteristic which
enables many country bank officers to
retain their jobs.
One of the most diverting pastimes on
a sheepery is dipping. The dip is a long,
narrow concrete bath, nearly full of dirty
brown water, bad smells, dead flies, dust,
cigarette butts and defunct mice. The
sheep are bathed in this to make them
appreciate clean water when it rains, and
are thus encouraged to ruffle up their
wool in a shower. It’s a sight to
see a gang of sheep career across
country trying to keep up with a
passing shower and ruffle their wool
at the same time. Onward they sweep,
wiping out towns and villages in their
headlong stampede, their hooves thun-
dering on the plains like the drums of
an army, the mountains echoing to their
wild blaring. Strong men blench at that
sound, and scientists in distant obser-
vatories telephone the newspapers about
earth tremors.
At the dip men are lined along the
sides to bathe the sheep as they swim
past. It’s fairly easy to scrub a ewe's
back and wash her ears, but should a
ram give a sudden twist then you join
him in the dip. Do the sheep care? Not
they. Far from objecting to this mixed
bathing they come on, swimming over
you, washing dip into your throat and
ears, rolling you over and over. Pres-
ently you struggle out, and from close
observation of your workmates discover
how really diverting this dipping is.
The main breed of sheep is the merino.
You will see pictures of him in the
newspapers, but they call him an “aristo-
crat” or “king of the west.” Main pur-
pose of the merino is to supply fodder
for the great blowfly population of Aus-
tralia, whence comes the national expres-
sion “living on the sheep’s back.”
Then there is the Border Leicester.
This animal is about two-sheep high and
one-and-a-half-sheep long, and the
womenfolk are noted for wearing low-
necked, knee-length dresses. It is recom-
mended for use on wheat-farms, no doubt
to prevent wheatgrowers from sleeping
too much by its habit of jumping the
fence at midnight and being nine miles
away at dawn, bloating itself on some-
body else’s green oats.
Another interesting form of sheep life
is the Corriedale. This is a parasitic
form which, unless controlled, attaches
itself to paddocks in large numbers
and bites all the grass away. Fortunately
it no sooner develops a couple of teeth
than it displays a determination to take
sea voyages, generally in the direction
of the Japanese islands, a factor which
probably contributes largely to the diffi-
culties with which the hardy islanders are
faced.
Then there is the tick. The tick lives
on the sheep, and stock inspectors com-
pel sheepowners to get rid of it. Why
this should be nobody knows, because no
sheepowner could live without tick. This
is partly what is meant when Australia
is called a land of paradoxes.
Still, a lot of money is made out of
sheep by men who gather in big rooms
in the cities and scream unintelligibly
at a man with a gavel. It is noteworthy
that none of them ever go near a live
sheep, yet these are the blokes who own
private yachts and smoke good cigars
and seem to have a lot of fun.
ROM NEY.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at 2£d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited.
A forcible reminder to young people that there is really a war on earns a
Sydney writer double pay. He doesn’t want his name or address published.
This Is WAR
What’s the matter with the spirit of
this country? Has patriotism gone out
of fashion? “The Empire is in deadly
danger” means nothing to Bill Smith with
his safe job in the city, his surl over the
week-ends, and “pitchers Sat’dee night.
There has been some talk of white
feathers being handed out by young
girls. All the young girls I know have
played the opposite game—threatened to
hand back the engagement ring if the
boy friend enlisted. Young Brown, who
joins up, is a “mug” ; young Jones, who
says he is not going to “rush into any-
thing,” is regarded as shrewd and steady.
A few are honest enough to say “I’m
not tossing in a good job to become a
soldier.” The majority have two lines
of argument. The first is, “I don’t think
any men should be sent out of Australia
—it leaves the country open to attack.”
The attacking country is. never named,
but these smart young men probably
expect an invasion by South Sea Islanders.
Even at that, they are not “flocking” to
the militia units to fit themselves for
home defence. The second argument is,
“England has enough men. Australia’s
job is to keep up supplies.”
It is time that every able-bodied young
man woke up to the fact that this is
a real war, and we are in it. Our enemy
is fully trained for war, has a magnificent
military history and nearly double the
population of Britain. Simple facts
these, worth more than all the appalling
tripe that is being written about how
easy it is going to be for us to win.
Neither the Australian nor the British
Government would countenance the
sending of an Australian force overseas
if such an action would leave Australia
“open to attack.” Neither would they
tackle the enormous task of sending a
force of men thousands of dangerous
miles if there were “nothing for them
to do” when they got there. Govern-
ments do some damned silly things, but
not that damned silly. — Crem (N.S.W.).
Fit for Service
“Aussie” (B. 3/1 / ’4O) seems to think
he proposed an extreme case in citing a
Light Horse recruit who could not ride.
In a cavalry outfit stationed at a Vic-
torian remount depot there were not
only some recruits who could not ride,
but even a number who could not saddle
a horse. They joined to learn, and they
did learn.
Many a gallant trooper under a waving
plume has never thrown leg over an ordi-
nary stock saddle, and would possibly
cut an amusing figure on a station pony
half the size of cavalry mounts. Oh the
other hand, many who were perfectly at
home on hacks and stock ponies had to
forget all they knew about riding and
learn the true cavalry style of handling
a mount.
Certainly, it seems strange that some
men who love the sea cannot support
themselves in it, but that does not make
them any less efficient as seamen. If
“Aussie’s” complaint is to be taken seri-
ously, our defence system is sadly in need
of revision. What a microscopic army
we would mobilise if we turfed out all
recruits who had never previously fired a
rifle or stuck a pig! And what do you
want in our Air Force, “Aussie”? Sea-
gulls?—Nairb (Vic.).
The Age Limit
Officers and men of the First A.I.F.
who have turned 45 are reckoned too
old to be fit for active service. Yet
consider navvies and shearers. Of
all laborious tasks, none demands a
greater degree of grit and physical
fitness than theirs. And the man who
can do a navvy’s job and keep on
doing it well and the chap who can con-
sistently fire the biggest tally of j urn-
bucks down the shearing-board chute are
generally among the ranks of those whose
hair is streaked with grey. Many similar
examples can be taken from other strenu-
ous civil occupations in which the chap
lacking in physical fitness lingers not.
Why is it different when it comes to
warfare? Does anybody really know?
Our war lords are emphatic that the
middle-aged chap is next to useless when
it comes to scrapping, but beyond their
bare assertion there’s no evidence to
support the claim. Andile Tellem
(N.S.W.).
Allegiance
That so many German refugees should
profess themselves anxious to serve the
Allies against the land of their birth :s
not to their credit. People who will
change their allegiance so readily are no
asset to any country.
It is true that the present German
Government is not one which these
refugees have any reason to love, but
that Government is not Germany. It is
merely in charge of Germany for the
time being. , .
A patriotic citizen may hate the regime
in control of his country, but that will
not prevent him from loving his people
and their traditions. If the regime
happens to be of a despotic character, he
may be forced to flee to a foreign land.
If he is worth his salt, however, he will
not renounce his citizenship until he
feels that there is no prospect of his
returning to his homeland. Further-
more, he cannot help feeling pleased,
despite himself, at any achievement of
the hated Government that substantially
benefits his country.
Whatever may be the real aims of
Hitler and his associates, they ostensibly
commenced this war because there was
an intense desire among both the Dan-
zigers and the German people for Dan-
zig to be reunited to the Reich. Defeat
of Germany in this war will mean that
Danzig will again be forcibly separated
from the Reich, which is almost certain
to lose other territorial acquisitions of
recent years. The true German, what-
ever his feelings towards Hitler, must
hope that Germany is not beaten.
When any decent Australian reads of
German refugees clamoring to join the
Second A.I.F. or asserting after only a
few months in this country that they are
good Australians and as anxious as any-
one to see the country that was so lately
theirs soundly thrashed, he had better
tread warily.— Tom (N.S.W.).
Take Refugees
Australians seem unwilling to accept
the refugee from Europe. Labor thinks
that every refugee robs an Australian of
his job. The old idea of the wages fund
expounded by the economists of last
century has fallen to the ground since.
The conservative element is not unlack-
ing in anti-Semitism. In between, some-
where, is a belligerently Australian group
that still wants us to proclaim our
nationality by swinging black billycans
and waltzing Matilda.
Whether we like to admit it or not,
the refugee may prove to be a turning
factor in Australian industrial history.
The process of centuries ago, when
Britain, even as Australia is today, was
an agricultural and pastoral country
struggling hard to build a home industry,
may well be repeated today in Aus-
tralia. British textile industries and many
other of her modern industries were
founded by the skilled artisans of
Flanders who fled to England from Con-
tinental oppression and in agricultural
England set up their mills and their
spinning wheels.
The European refugee is a skilled
artisan. The Czech, particularly, has
exhibited rare technical genius. The
accumulated experience of centuries is
being carried by the refugees over the
face of the earth. They are looking
for somewhere to use it. We can use it
for them here. In the past we have been
prepared to pay overseas experts
immense salaries to come here to train
our technicians. Now the overseas ex-
perts are coming here looking for work
at any price we are reluctant to pay
them even a living wage. White Aus-
tralia was never meant to operate that
way as a policy.
We often fail to realise that the refugee
brings with him his wants and is, there-
fore, a potential market for the products
of Australian workmen, for the refugee
cannot be entirely independent of local
industry. Most of them have lost their
kin in Europe and have no reason to
send money away. They must spend it
here. Is money any different when a
refugeS handles it from when an Aus-
tralian does? — Benn (Q.).
The Cunningham Station
Early in the last war A. H. W. Cun-,
ningham, of N.Q., collected cash and
cattle sufficient to establish a small cattle
station in the Bowen (Q.) district. Since
its establishment the Diggers station
has prospered, and thousands of pounds
have been distributed throughout the
North towards alleviating distress among
returned men and their families.
Mr. Cunningham has acted in an ad-
visory capacity, but all employed on the
station are Diggers, and its prosperous
reign is in marked contrast to the losing
enterprises lorded over by red-tape
officialdom after they were launched by
the respective Governments supposedly
for the benefit of Diggers.
Now that a Second A.I.F. is to go
overseas, the lead given by Mr. Cun-
ningham over 20 years ago might well
be followed in other States. But unless
free from all Government control any
such enterprise would be best left in the
incubator.— Walkabout (N.S.W.).
What of Repatriation?
1 call it the Sixth Division of the
A.I.F. In the natural order of things
some of its members will return in-
valided, and others will follow, in-
capacitated with wounds. During the
1914-18 war there was a confused state
of affairs until, in 1919, Repat. got the
business into order. Some leadswingers
had huge helpings of public assistance ;
others, who were good soldiers, got
nothing.
Repat. still stands today, adjusting the
stray ends of the benefits promised re-
turned men for their service in the Great
War. It will doubtless be useful again,
being now a well-organised machine. But
as the need will arise almost immediately
for new repatriating on a small scale,
gradually becoming larger, the time to
act is now.
As an ex-repatriator, one who was
able to see the whole system and judge
the defects, I would strongly urge that
something should replace the “sustenance
whilst awaiting employment” item, which
cost millions. It was a benevolently-
intended waste, and it probably made
hundreds of ex-Diggers derelicts.
Thousands of warriors took that two
guineas a week dole for as long as it
lasted (six months) and enjoyed a loaf.
In spite of allowances for wife and
children, it was not enough to live on
decently, especially when the recipient
was holidaying instead of working.
Keeping the men in the army with
some sort of regular routine and control
until they, are replaced in civil life seems
to be the most obvious alternative. What
is to be done to see that there are places
in civil life for them, and that peace
does not become more terrible than
war? It is certainly not too early to
consider the whole question of the new
repatriation now.— Spare Corp (N.S.W.).
“Another ’Plane Down”
Almost every month newspapers record
the crashing of an R.A.A.F. ’plane,
with or without loss of life, but
always with very heavy financial loss
to Australia. Latest case was when a
’plane flying in formation near Laverton
(Vic.) stalled and crashed, killing the
pilot-officer and an acting-sergeant.
The photograph of the officer shows
him as pitifully young. He was, it seems,
just 20. He joined the R.A.A.F. as a
cadet last lanuary, so one newspaper
says, and got his commission nine months
later.
His companion was acting-sergeant.
But he was a qualified engineering fitter ;
had served his five years’ apprenticeship
in railways workshops, and after that had
worked for some years in the aircraft
industry. His reward, presumably, was
a wage about half that of an officer, plus
the risk of being killed by the first inex-
perienced officer-boy who took him up.
There’s something cockeyed about
R.A.A.F. organisation, judged even on
that one sample. — Kiwi (M.L.).
Subsidies for Doctors
Thirty years ago a young Aussie
medico spent his last few pounds on a
brass plate and a buggy and pair and
set up in a thinly-populated district. He
had to work night and day to build a
practice, but in a few years, with the
co-operation of the residents, he had
built a hospital and proved himself
worthy of his diploma. Then he came
to the city and took his rightful place
among the specialists. Many others have
followed the same rough track.
No one would deny that the doctor
is worthy of his hire, but very few tax-
payers can see any reason why any
medical man, refugee or native-born,
should be highly paid for services he
has not rendered, and for which there is
no demand. To turn doctors into spoon-
fed civil servants, with no necessity to
compete for the honors and emoluments
of their high profession, is more than any
of them deserve, no matter where' they
come from or how high their degrees. —
I. M. Patient (S.A.).
Why Call Them “Dr”?
“Peter Piper” (B. 10/1/ ’4O) is quite
right in suggesting that a medical man
should have some title to enable him to
be located easily and quickly, but why
should that title be “doctor”? It does
not distinguish him, nor should he be
entitled to make use of a term which
members of other professions haye to
earn by doing something very special in
their particular profession. The loose
use of “Dr.” by all medical men is most
confusing.
If every medical man may use the title
“Dr.” then it should be quite all right
for every legal man to use the same term
or for every engineer, scientist, clergy-
man, etc., to use it also. In all profes-
sions except the medical profession only
those who have had the degree conferred
upon them make use of “Dr.”
If “Piper Piper” thinks that “Dr.” dis-
tinguishes medical men from others he
should have seen an incident at a holi-
day resort recently, when a woman
rushed her sick child to a week-end cot-
tage because she had heard that Dr.
Blank was living there for the time being.
Dr. Blank was a Doctor of Laws.
We have Dr. Bradfield, Dr. Evatt,
Dr. Ross, Dr. Page, Dr. Micklem and
Dr. Allan. Which one would “P.P.” rush
for if his son developed appendicitis?
These doctors are respectively an engi-
neer, lawyer, literary man, medical man,
clergyman and dentist. —W. P.T. (N.S.W.).
Australian Writers
One important thing which is lacking
in Australian literary life is virile criti-
cism. Without this stimulant, art of any
sort will decay. There is scarcely a jour-
nal in this country which features regular
reviews of Australian works —in that
respect the Red Page of The Bulletin
seems to stand alone.
Unfortunately our writers work in any-
thing but a congenial atmosphere. To
the average Australian the art of writing
is something beyond his comprehension,
and the bloke who writes is a strange
animal. Until this attitude gives way
to acknowledgment of literature as a
profession and a business, writers will
continue to struggle against heavy odds
and take to other trades in desperation.
The plain needs for the development
of a young nation’s literature are encour-
agement from the book-buying public, a
fair deal from editors and publishers,
and the unbiased attention of critics.—
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Approach to Classical Music
Instead of moaning about the indiffer-
ence of the general public to classical
music, why not make the approach to
it easier by removing some of the
bunkers? One of the worst and deepest
is musical jargon. Newspaper critiques
and programme annotations are nearly
always written in a manner which tends
to make the average person develop a
violent inferiority complex, and to feel
that only the most trivial of music is
within his mental grasp. Writers on
music so complicate and obscure the
whole subject that it is not hard to see
why people shy off it, feeling that, if it
is difficult to read about, it must be a
lot more so to listen to.
Another obstruction in the fairway is
the would-be music-lover’s feeling that
he ought to think what he is told to think
about music. Every listener must have
his own individual reaotions to the music
he hears, but critics like to tell him what
he ought to feel and what the music
should convey to him. They also persist
in treating music as though it were a
difficult intellectual exercise instead of
an appeal to the emotions. An example
of this was in a recent newspaper report
which stated that a “Mozart item placed
no great strain on the intellect.”
Dr. Artur Schnabel, when in Aus-
tralia, said that there was no need for


anyone to be taught appreciation of
music, and I believe that to be true. If
he will clear his mind of the interpre-
tations and intricacies of the critics, and
forget all about “understanding” it, the
average man may listen to great music
and be certain of his reward.— Anither
(Q-).
Wrong Thinking
In the Middle Ages, and earlier still,
one subject in the curriculum considered
to be most important was logic. Hardly
any scholar, no matter what his occu-
pation, had not earned his doctorate
of philosophy, the basis of which is
logic. And every scholar applied this
logic in his everyday life. Result was
clear thinking.
Logic today is hardly ever spoken of,
even in the schools. Result is loose
thinking, evidence of which is seen all
around us. One simple example is in
advertising: “If Miss Blank, the well-
known screen star, offered you a cigarette
it would be a Gasper.” It surely is
illogical to reason that this or any other
star, because he or she is a first-class
entertainer, is also a first-class judge of
a cigarette.
A thousand other examples could be
quoted. So let our educationists, before
it is too late, remedy this evil by re-
introducing elementary logic into our
schools. One result may be to offset the
influence of syndicated news and pictures
which do our thinking for us. What is
urgently needed is individual thought.—
Lange (Vic.).
Radio in Papua
Away from the whirl of King and Pitt
streets we gain a clearer view of things,
but the cacophony of the radio still pur-
sues us. Thrilled with such exploits as
those of the Exeter and the Achilles,
it hurts me to be suddenly assailed by
the voice of some announcer describing
the skill and valor whereby some lad or
lass beats another in the task of past-
ing a rubber ball across a net to the
cheers of a crowd of men and flappers.
I don’t want to be a spoil-sport, but
if large numbers of the community wish
to make whoopee when men are dying
for them on land and sea, why can't
they do it without broadcasting the fact?
I listened-in to Bishop Burgmann, of
Goulburn (N.S.W.), on Christmas night.
He tried to put us right about most
things, but when he declaimed that “war
destroys all that is beautiful in life,” he
was a bit off the mark. As one who
gave four years to the 1914 chaos, I
would inform the Bishop that any re-
turned man can tell him of beautiful
acts of unselfishness and mateship.
Though war is a horrible thing, its
darkness is brilliantly lit at times with
such acts of beauty.— Main Range
(Papua).
Radio Serials
Most of our radio serials so far have
been of the Dad and Dave type or the
cheap and nasty imported American
brand. One cannot help wondering why
some of these radio producers do not
adapt the works of Henry Lawson,
J. H. M. Abbott, Marcus Clark, “Banjo”
Paterson and other Australians to radio.
I have read most of Henry Lawson’s
works, and a large percentage of them
should be ideal for radio, and would
provide an insight into the real Austra-
lian outback such as only Henry Lawson
could give.
For interesting historical serials I can
think of nothing better than some of
J. H. M. Abbott’s work that has appeared
in The Bulletin.
Perhaps radio producers prefer to work
on an author who has been dead so long
that his work is open to anyone without
fee, but I venture to assert that the sta-
tion that features Henry Lawson’s works
will have more listeners than all the other
stations combined. He is one writer who
appeals to the university man, the unedu-
cated laborer, the city flapper and the
Bondi surf god and the drover outback.
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Spare the Politician
It is the fashion to sneer at politicians.
The stage, the radio and the press, in-
cluding The Bulletin, all make wise-
cracks at their expense. Of course, many
of our politicians are stupid, dull and
inefficient, and I agree with The Bulle-
tin that their number is excessive. But
some are intelligent, capable and sin-
cere. We, who pride ourselves on our
political superiority to Fascism and Com-
munism, should beware of bringing into
contempt those very democratic insti :
tutions of which we boast. By belittling
Parliament and Parliamentarians we are
undermining democracy itself.—E. J. B.
(N.S.W.).
Wake Up, Labor!
What’s wrong with the Labor party?
It seems to have lost the missionary zeal
for which it was once noted, and the
country is the poorer for the loss. Years
ago the gospel of Labor was preached
wherever a handful of people could be
gathered together, even in the most re-
mote country centre. Outside election
time, no such meetings are held today.
As a result of this lethargy, Govern-
ments are doing things they would hardly
dare attempt if a militant, virile Opposi-
tion had the ear of people all over the
Commonwealth. Governments did not
give the Opposition such chances for
propaganda in the days when Labor was
an active force. The unearned increment
of land was more heavily taxed than it
is now, when more than 10 times the
amount of revenue is being raised. New
devices have been invented to make re-
cipients of the dole contribute from their
paltry funds, but big incomes have re-
ceived remissions of taxation.
Beyond some talk from one or two,
Labor appears to be more concerned with
its own faction fights than with excess
profits that certain interests may make
out of the war. Labor, too, appears to
have abandoned its plank for the aboli-
tion of State Parliaments, although the
time was never more favorable.
With a virile Labor party holding the
confidence of the people, the Government
would think twice about hanging out the
sign “No Australians need apply” when
filling the big jobs in the fighting services.
Labor must have lost its vigor, or Cain
would have been raised because Federal
Parliament is getting such long holidays
when the Government of the country is
left to the handful in Cabinet. Labor
members once took more interest in their
jobs—they wanted a say in how the
country was to be run, and, by having
that say, ensured a better deal for the
people.— Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Equal Pay for Women
The time is ripe for introduction of
equal pay for the sexes. Women gained
their first foothold in commercial and
industrial spheres during the 1914-18 war,
and with more men leaving for overseas
more of the weaker sex will be again
used to fill the gaps.
It is only equitable that these girls should
receive the same pay as the males whose
jobs they occupy, and that on their return
the soldiers who fought for their country
should not have to compete for their
positions with lower-paid females.—
Crusader (N.S.W.).
Housing
Near Sydney there is a holiday resort
called Yowie Bay, a pretty inlet lined
with neat, tiled week-enders with all mod.
cons. When I asked if it were possible
to take up permanent residence in one
of these, I was officially informed that
the council forbade such a thing if it
were shown that the resident ate, slept
and entertained in the one room, no
matter how large it might be.
I thought at once of a row of dingy
slab-built shacks that line the foreshores
of the Hunter River at Hexham. These
are permanent residences, sometimes con-
taining as many as three complete fami-
lies, separated from each other by a piece
of hessian and kerosene-boxes. The
houses are half in the mud, and at high
tide the water comes up through the
wide cracks in the paling floor. Some-
times marine plants poke their heads
through and have to be snipped off with
a pair of shears. Three families were
living in a disused tramcar.
One of these dwellings recently be-
came vacant, and when the owner
advertised it at 7s. 6d. per week 15 fami-
lies applied for tenancy. Add to these
discomforts the myriads of famous Hex-
ham grey mosquitoes and you have an
ideal setting for the development of Aus-
tralian family life—l do not think.—
Celt (N.S.W.).
Light Wines
“Sandpatch” objects to my idea of
issuing light Australian wines to our
troops (B. 10/1 / ’4O) and asserts that they
are merely stimulants and not thirst-
quenchers.
Even so, many people are partial
to tea only because of its stimulating
effect, and I fail to see how a beverage
served steaming hot and liberally dosed
with sugar can be much more effective
in assuaging thirst than a light wine.—
Petermac (N.S.W.).
Submerging Our Entity
It is possible that, with the war as a
smoke screen, Australia will find herself
reverting, to all intents and purposes,
to the status of a Crown colony. To-
day we find all the defence arms under
the leadership of Englishmen, apparently
a matter of principle with our Govern-
ment, which refuses to see anything good
in the local product, despite the Aussies
who have won fame and fortune over-
seas. The only Australians capable of
carrying out their duties seem to be
Prime Ministers and Cabinet Ministers.
The majority of official announcements
are nothing but repetitions of some
earlier British bulletin. We “tune-in to
Britain,” and seem to be afraid to offer
sound constructive criticism lest we be
branded disloyal.
As a fully-fledged member of the Em-
pire we are conscious of and determined
to fulfil our obligations. But we must
not allow our whole-hearted co-operation
to become mere subservience. — Ricardo
(N.S.W.).
Where?
Will “Cocky” (B. 13/12/’39) and other
guarantors of the intense fertility of Aus-
tralia tell me where I can find these vast
uninhabited tracts? Full address, please,
as I intend to buy some of this rich
land and make a living thereon.
Naturally it must be within reach of
a market and it must not be of a type
that would cost £5O an acre to clear
and then be worth only £4O.
I have travelled fairly extensively in
eastern Australia and have yet to find
any attractively fertile land that did not
have its hard-working farmer struggling
to make a living with the help of his
wife and family.
For 10 years I have been industriously
and energetically trying to scratch a
living out of an orchard situated in one
of the most fertile parts of N.S.W. So
far I have shown no sign of succeeding,
and still look with envy upon my appar-
ently rich and comfortably-off neighbors
who live on the dole.—D.l.M. (N.S.W.).
W.A.’s Fertile Lands
“Billy See” (B. 27/12 / ’39) takes rather
much for granted when he thinks that
the jarrah lands of W.A: are fertile
enough to carry a large population. Land
that grows giant jarrahs is very old—
forestry scientists have recently asserted
it is among the oldest in the world —and
carries but little of the humus necessary
for intense cultivation. It is gravelly—
the years’ crushings of immense beds of
ironstone—very hungry-looking and very
dry in the long summers. Where the
perfect marketable jarrah grows one
would hardly raise a cabbage.
In the creeks and flat regions, where
the centuries have swept down the decay-
ing vegetation and built up some loose
soil, cultivation can be carried on, but
farms and orchards are not numerous
or extensive. Down in the lighter, less
harsh soils of the karri country hus-
bandry is more successful, for there water
is available in abundance—tobacco cul-
tivation proves that.
Where the jarrah and karri are not
dominant but are generously mixed with
redgum (marri), banksia, hakea and the
many smaller trees and shrubs which
cast plenty of leaf year by year and build
up a generous humus, orchards and
farms can flourish.
Eucalyptus leaves are not of them-
selves beneficial to the earth. They lie
hard and intact for years, and are only
serviceable to the land when a fire re-
duces them to ashes—and the Forests
Department takes care that fires are few
and far between. — Bill Ding (W.A.).
Station Teachers
Why can’t something be done about
the way many station folk treat pro-
fessional people who go out to the bush
as tutors and governesses? Most of us
have spent years in getting the necessary
training. Bit by bit we are urged
or coaxed into becoming dry nurses and
odd-job experts.
The pay runs to 305., sometimes £2,
a week. We teach anything up to four
children of varied grades for approxi-
mately six hours per day, five days a
week. Out of this we have to pay high
prices for any little necessities we obtain
from the nearest town, and very few of
us can count on saving even half of the
pittance. And some employers, after
getting us hundreds of miles away from
the capitals, jib at being asked to refund
the second-class rail fare after six
months’ hard service.
Usually the impositions are brought
about by a subtlety worthy of a better
cause. In my own case one of the bones
of contention was this. On the first day
the lady of the house came to me and
said, “Oh, Mr. Irvine, I’m not feeling
very well this afternoon. Would you
mind bathing C for me?” The
second day, “Oh, Mr. Irvine, do you
know if C has had a bath?” The
third day, “It’s time for C— —’s bath,
Mr. Irvine.” I jibbed, but there are many
who won’t or can’t. On another occasion
repeated suggestions were thrown out
to me anent milking and gardening. I
refused to hear them, not because I’m
lazy, but simply that I knew from ex-
perience that once I started there would
be no ending.
At a recent Brisbane meeting of a
dozen of us the men’s list of objections
included menial work about farms,
nursemaiding of children, additional
work such as bookkeeping without extra
pay, lack of even ordinary considera-
tion for comfort, inadequate laundry
provisions and difficulty of occasional
transport to a township. The women’s
lists were similar, but included some
further exquisite refinements of imposi-
tion peculiar to the sex.
Admittedly there are sometimes in-
competent persons to be found in these
jobs. But, under some of the conditions
stated above, is it to be wondered at?
—John Irvine (Q.).
Five Minutes Would Do
The official touch is no gentler than
it was 23 years ago, judging by “A
Mother’s” description of a grateful coun-
try’s farewell gesture to S.A. troops of
the Second A.LF. (B. 3/1 / ’4O).
I wonder how many readers of this
page witnessed just such a heart-break-
ing little scene in July, 1917, at Broad-
meadows (Vic.) railway station, when
troops to entrain there were marched
past their waiting relatives without a
minute’s pause for a farewell word.
The men who left that day were des-
tined for the hottest spot in the crack-
ing line in front of Amiens, and lons
after the grief of losing them has been
softened by time there must rankle the
bitterness of that “most unkindest cut
of all.” —Memory (Vic.).
News Values
Funny, isn’t it? Every tinpot little
happening overseas gets oodles of space
in the daily thunderers, while things that
really affect the lives of mere Australians
are ignored.
In Queensland the other day Amiens,
Pozieres, Bapaume, Messines and Pass-
chendaele, soldier settlements with
memories in their names, were in the
path of a terrific hailstorm. Every
orchard for miles around, half of them
uninsured, was wiped out. This follows
on three bad seasons suffered without
complaint by the fruit-cockies, and the
plight of most of them now is pitiable.
Unless Government assistance is forth-
coming for rations and seed and replant-
ing costs, many will have to walk off
their properties.
But such is the way of things. The
patrol work of a handful of men in
France today seems more important than
the battle for very existence where the
very names remind us of Aussie deeds
in the 1914-1918 war. — Glen Eden (Q.).
“Judgment Set Aside”
A Judge, by his calling, should be able
to give a decision that is incontrovertible.
If he cannot, then his right to adjudicate
should be challenged. It’s a sorry sight
to see one learned Judge disagreeing from
an interpretation of the law by two
brother Judges, and a sorrier sight when
the opinion of a Chief Justice is dis-
counted by two or three puisne brothers.
And, where there is unanimity on the
bench of the High Court of Australia, no
appeal to an overseas tribunal should be
permitted.— Aussie (N.S.W.).
The Real Reason
Russia’s grab at Finland is not purely
a matter of reaching out for more terri-
tory (B. 27/12/’39). A glance at a map
of the Baltic States will show that strategy
is the paramount cause of this assault.
At the head of the Gulf of Finland
stands Leningrad. On the northern
shores is Finland; on the southern,
Estonia. Near the entrance to the Gulf
are the Aland Islands, belonging to Fin-
land. In the event of war with a western
Power, which Stalin has evidently con-
sidered likely, Russia would be easily
accessible by way of the Gulf, with the
Alands as a convenient base for the
attacker.
Joe offered the Finns some remote ter-
ritory in exchange for a slice of their
homeland. Refusal led to slaughter. Is
it any wonder that Estonia has been shak-
ing at the knees? It seems that inno-
cent peoples are not only at the mercy
of seekers after gain, but must also be
the pawns in a huge game of chess. Fin-
land’s plight is due mainly to the fact
that she is a potential gateway to an
apprehensive Russia. —A. F. (Vic.).


Mainly Mail-Order
“54 Common
Errors in English”
The lip-perfect method
of correction by imitation,
repetition and reasoning.
The training corrects the errors so
definitely and conclusively that the
pupil speaks correctly without thought
and without selt-cousciousness. The
chapter “Easy Speaking” shows how to
find the proper pitch and how to im-
prove intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post,
lars from E. H. Welford, 396
Lane, Melbourne.
Particu-
Flinders
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
6 *K*Moft|
57/6
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
llin. wide, Sin.
deep, 6in. high—
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
'INCHESTER
SKATES
ŗ
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
New
Shipment
Just Arrived.
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
still offered to “Bulletin-”
readers for 5/6. Honest
Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “Levysown” Quality
Tobacco at 7/- lb- —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 do/.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
ř
No increase
in Pvice.
SOL LEVY,
Tobacconist, Est. 39 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D . if desired.
DEAF
r
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid—
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 6018, City Mutual
Blflg.j cnr. Hunter and
Bligh Sts.j Sydney.
MEMORI« |THEA _ sE
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
>
2
V)
“Will u quit following me around?
THE
HANOI
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35/-
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
ŕ
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
T. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
1«1 CASTI/EKHAGW STREET. SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
V
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
ŗ
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. are
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
AUST R.AUAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production -
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
THE IDEAL SOLDIER’S WATCH
Dustproof, Waterproof, Shockproof. Not affected
by Tropical Climes. 17 Jewel Movement. 12
months’ unconditional guarantee.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
60/-
p
Wsszmi
DIAMOND
&. WATCH
SPECIALISTS
$MJz4<JtdA
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
OPP DAVID JONES
ř
comfort.
14 DAYS FREE TRIAL
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 271. 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DEAF!
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block. 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Why Are Your Tools Stolen?
Because you do not
engrave your name on
them it is very easy to
do so. Let U 9 send
. you a block of ETCHO
and you can write your
ordinary signature or
your initials on any
metal: the hardest steel, brass, copper, etc.
It can be done in five minutes. Failure is
impossible. The tool will have to be practically
destroyed before the engraving can be erased.
If you mark them “Stolen from” with your
name, the boldest thief will not steal them.
Hotels and cafes can ensure their cutlery and
plated ware against theft by branding them
The complete ETCHO outfit, with full directions,
costs only 1/6 post free, and is enough to
engrave quite a hundred articles.
THE UNION MEG. CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
mm
PRGE
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street. Geelong, Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
SI
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stoc-kproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarenee Street, Sydney.
NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
24111*40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss *
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


PAID JOBS
FOR DIESEL
OPERATO
Trained by the Diesel Engineering College
Read These Typical Examples: —
FILE No. 34a. OBTAINED POSITION 28/3/’39. WAGES £7 PER WEEK.
Formerly earning £4/5/- per week. Commenced training June, 1938. Received Diesel Engineering
College Diploma February, 1939. Obtained above position 28/3/’39.
FILE No. 35a. OBTAINED POSITION 5/6/’39, SALARY £3O PER MONTH
AND KEEP. Completely trained by the Diesel Engineering College. Appointed Diesel 2nd
Engineer, Island Vessel, 5/6/’39.
FILE No, 36a. OBTAINED POSITION 29/6/’39. SAURY £9 PER WEEK.
As Diesel salesman. Had no former engineering knowledge. Completely trained by the Diesel
Engineering College.
K 5
K
4
BIG CHANGE
OVER TO DIESEL
MORE OPERATORS WANTED.
To-day is the Diesel Age!
There has been a pronounced swing to Diesel
engines during the past few years.
With many truck manufacturers the bulk of
their output is now Diesel, while more and
more Diesel-powered buses are being placed
in service every month. Because of its greater
economy, moreover, a large number of mines
and power plants are changing over to Diesel.
As a result of the overseas position it is
expected that the number of power users
changing to Diesel will be greatly increased
in the immediate future because Diesel fuel
is safer, easier to transport in time of war
and more economical.
Instruction in Diesel for
mechanised military units
In war-time as in peace-time it’s the skilled men
who get the best pay. Specialists in the army get
far more pay and enjoy far better conditions than
unskilled men. The fact that Diesel engines play a
big part in the mechanised armies of to-day is just
another reason why you should qualify as a Diesel
operator.
YOU
Can Qualify As a
Diesel Operator In Your
Spare Time At Home
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high educational
standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole subject, covering both
transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants).
The course has a been prepared with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the
Diploma awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the
coupon below and full details will be sent you by return.
The Diesel Engineering College MAKES
LEARNING EASY - NO TEXTBOOKS
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does it
fill you up with a lot of complicated mathematics. It teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol, practical coaches take
you in hand. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and
diagrams. Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for positions in as short a period
as four months. The fees are low and payments easy.
THE D.E.C.TEACHES DIESEL ONLY
All the Efforts of the Diesel Engineering College are devoted to Diesel Students
r
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious men who get in early with the proper training.
But you must be properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students at Government examinations
tells its own story pf the thoroughness of training at this College. As the Diesel Engineering College maintains
branches at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth students are assured that they will obtain individual attention
wherever they live.
ŕ
Those who get in early reach
the top first. Tear off and post
this coupon now for the free
booklet describing the Diesel
Engineering College course. There is no obli-
gation, so don’t put it off! The best intentions
in the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS -
24/1/’4O
DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH
