

Famous Old En§Kj
j r
v
The "Barley Mow’
i " hong Wittenham Berkshire
The beauty of this
cottage alehouse is in
tune with the quaint
homes clustered around
it in this old world
village on the River
Thames.
ns
..
TTf
Host Holbrook says:
"My Worcestershire Sauce
will add a delightful zest to
(11 the simplest meal.
"If you are serving a cold
meat for luncheon, a chop
or steak from the grill, a
stew or even, maybe, a
hurried repast of bread and
cheese, add a few drops of
my Worcestershire Sauce/’
OJRRJES.ORAVU?:
3J
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3127.
Wednesday, January 17, 1940.
Unborn Australians
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia,, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
freelance Journalism
atHOMfr
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B 240
The Red Page
A POET'S NOVEL
Edward Thompson’s latest novel, John
Arnison (Macmillan), is this in more
senses than one. Its hero is an inarticu-
late poet, in the sense that he is inwardly
on fire with the heat from which poetry
generates, and as a novel it has the faults,
as well as the quality, of the kind of fic-
tion poets usually write.
John Arnison lives in a period which
it is the writer’s main preoccupation to
depict, and his particular experience
belongs largely, though not wholly, to
that day—the curious little period slipped
in by Time, as it were, to fill a gap
between two greater eras, the Victorian
and the present. But Arnison is not
peculiar to his day, though his particular
line of experience to some extent may be.
He stands for any young man who feels
that there’s something he can do in the
world and for it; who finds himself
alone facing up to the problem of how he
might express himself, on which road
and in what degree he can retain, or
rather earn, his own self-respect.
John Arnison himself has a deep-
rooted moral integrity. His particular
problem is a religious one which the
author puts forward as peculiarly difficult
in Arnison’s day. The son of a Non-
conformist parson who has died, he
begins earning a living in an East End
branch of a sweatshop London bank
early in this century. As far as the
author’s depiction of the bank goes, he
might have lifted its entire staff and para-
phernalia out of Dickens. It loses nothing
of realism by that; is, in fact, more real
than the bulk of the novel’s people and
settings. It serves as a symbol for the
overwealthy, sweatshop England in
which militant Socialism was rising on
the warpath, with, as it thought, victory
at hand. John Arnison’s particular prob-
lem is in deciding between adherence to,
and even preachership in, the religion of
his people, or crossing over to the infidel
Socialists.
The author uses the license of a poet
who is writing a novel to make a personal
appearance in his pages without knocking
whenever he feels he can be helpful.
He enters to explain that that prob-
lem was then, not what it might be today,
but something immense. For a time then
religion genuinely mattered in England.
Nonconformity counted really and
strongly counted. For the first time since
Oliver Cromwell died, it was alive in
national affairs. He says of it, with sig-
nificance for the present moment:
If we ask, Was this reality?—remember
the years that followed. Could anything
except some deep centre of moral decision
and earnestness have carried England
through such peril and suffering as she had
never dreamed could threaten her island
peace? We shall know soon if she has
still a strength within that can bear her
through another testing.
Further (this time from his preface, in
which he speaks of Nonconformity as
standing, 40 years ago, for an explosive
force such as England had not known for
more than 200 years):
Something of that explosive force must
remain somewhere, and it may matter
again. I have tried to show how it
influenced the age that preceded ours, and
how it worked in suppressed lives and
starved minds that carried a load of inhi-
bitions which, because they were sublimated
into religious belief and emotion, led to
no disturbance outside themselves.
In John Arnison it led to the deepest
disturbance ; an inner personal upheaval.
Family considerations his mother’s
hopes sentimentally centred in him —•
made it still more personally real, and
also complicated. Socialism, with its
challenging and, as it was held, infidel
voice, was also real. He made contact
with it at street political meetings where
he lived ; closer contact by striking up an
acquaintanceship with two of its young
apostles, man and girl. Then he had what
was represented to him as a Call, and
became a village preacher, as a step
towards eventually donning his father’s
collar. Here, brought up against
humanity existing in dull poverty, part of
his problem was resolved for him: he
could never be a preacher. He cut adrift
and, drifting, drifted into Socialism.
There the author, not very satisfactorily,
leaves him.
In all this —the quality of its characters,
the intellectual and spiritual nature of
its theme —it is a poet’s novel from the
reading point of view. It is that also in
the writing. It might be
said to lapse here and there
into realism —by sheer acci-
dent, or the force of situa-
tion on the writer. But
generally it has the sort of
reality that belongs to poetry. A sub-
sidiary character or two come startlingly
to life ; the leading characters never do.
They are symbols—very effective symbols
—but they are not alive.
Nor is their setting, except for some
odd chance occasions, any more real than
they are —even allowing the whole period
to be in a general sense unreal. It reads
like an imaginary world created by, and
peopled by, an imaginative poet. For the
reader it is a world seen in a strangely
clear twilight, and peopled by talking
ghosts. The burden of their talk is a dis-
tant prelude to what is happening now in
a world that seems even more unreal and
fantastic than their own.
Art Without Effort .
In his autobiography It’s Too Late
Now (Methuen), A. A. Milne has “a
very clever young man” telling Rein-
hardt how to produce Shakspeare. None
of this elaborate spectacle or scenery;
just simple black curtains. That was the
way to do it: so much more artistic.
“It is also easier,” sai'd Reinhardt.
Mr. Milne submits that “also easier”
is the signpost to pretty well everything
today, from feminine beauty achieved
by buying complexions and painting toe-
nails, to creative effort based on the
handy formula of omitting what is dif-
ficult. He instances a former drawing-
master who used to go round the work
of his pupils saying to each one as he
compared the work with the model, “It
is always a good thing to be something
like.” It is also, Mr. Milne comments,
a difficult thing.
Modern technique, both in painting and
sculpture, avoids the difficulty of being
something like.
He contemplates the poets, who
formerly “said what they had to say in
song, which song demanded rhyme or,
at least, rhythm from its devotees, and
in consequence was hard work.”
It was obvious, therefore, that if you
were going to improve poetry you would
improve it most comfortably by omitting
the things which were difficult to manage
—rhyme and rhythm—and concentrating
on what might come to anybody, inspira-
tion.
Formerly, also, a novelist who “wanted
to put down the thoughts in his hero’s
mind would spend hours of hard work
reducing them to an orderly grammatical
sequence in which they could be easily
followed.”
The modern, so much admired, technique
allows you to throw them on to the paper
just as they came into the hero’s mind
(which means just as they came into the
author’s mind), and if there is any hard
work to be done, it must be done by
the reader.
Mr. Milne proceeds:
It is as if democracy had said, not:
“The arts and graces shall be open to
all,” as it has every right to say, but:
“Achievement of the arts and graces shall
be the perquisite of all,” which is nice for
all of us, but not so good for the arts and
graces.
And he suggests it is a pity that, having
gone so far, “we do not go further and
say: ‘Achievement in sport shall be the
perquisite of all.’ ”
But alas! in sport you can only feel
superior to the champions of the past by
beating them at their own game and under
their own rules. In the arts you can
denounce the target, change the rules,
aim in a different direction, hit nothing,
and receive the assurances of your friends
that you are the better man.
But can you? And what of it if you
can? Is anybody really deceived? Does
anybody really class the most fashionable
crooner with Melba, the most typo-
graphically ingenious of “modern” poets
with Keats, the most indecipherable of
modern novelists with Dickens, or the
ugliest of “modern” art with Rem-
brandt’s? Is it not rather the fact that
Bradman and Lindrum are acknowledged
as supreme simply because they are
supreme and not because different stand-
ards for real achievement apply in sport
and art?
Leaving Mr. Milne to consider alone
the more delicate question of the art
of exterior decoration as applied to
ladies’ toenails, is not all this art with-
out effort that he sees about him better
defined as effort without art? Is laziness
—“also easier” —a satisfactory finding on
the evidence? Is it not nearer the truth
that the effort —misdirected, perhaps, and
ridiculous in its results —is almost without
precedent? If no works of genius are
being produced by it, is not the reason
simply that there happens to be a present
dearth of geniuses? In short, is anybody
really taken in by the parade of make-
believe? Obviously Mr. Milne, for one,
is not.
Mr. Milne finds his way to the foregoing
considerations via another addition to the
autobiographies in which the writer aims
to recapture not only the incidents but
the accents of the nursery. Perhaps this
is to be rated an achievement in its way ;
but present reader, after eight chapters
of it, understood it better when Mr. Milne
further told him:
Just as the practised public speaker
singles out one man in the back of the
audience and speaks solely to him, so I
have singled out one hypothetical reader
who is interested in me, and am writing
solely for her.
However, for the second half of the
book Mr. Milne happily forgets her.
Here he is done with the very minor
matters of schooling in his father’s
boarding- and day-school and going to
bed with his hair in papers. He has
moved on to Cambridge and to London,
is making a crust as a freelance jour-
nalist, joining “Punch” as assistant editor,
soldiering a while in France, and then
setting up again in London as author
and playwright. All this he makes very
interesting. His title is not intended,
as it may sound, as a self-pitying lament,
but means only that, since heredity and
environment make the child, and the child
makes the man, and the man makes the
writer, it is too late now for him to be
a different writer.
Being the kind of writer he is, his life
story is told with humor and good-
humoredly.
Writing of his experiences on “Punch,”
he recalls among the clippings from other
papers that used to be sent in one which
said of George V. on his yacht: “The
King has a delightfully keen sense of
humor, and it is a joy to hear his hearty
laugh when a sailor runs across the deck
and catches his toe in a ring-bolt.” How-
ever, he adds, “Punch” was “much too
loyal to print this sort of thing.” Per-
haps he himself has been much too loyal
to his own standards of reticence and
restraint to write anything like an out-
standing autobiography, but he has
written another very pleasing book.
More Oxford Pamphlets .
From the Melbourne branch of Oxford
University Press, five more Oxford Pam-
phlets: Czechoslovakia, by R. Birley;
Propaganda in International Politics, by
E. H. Carr; The Blockade, by W.
Arnold-Forster; National Socialism and
Christianity, by N. Micklem ; and Who
Hitler Is, by R. C. K. Ensor (sd. each).
The Blockade is easily the best of this
batch. The others are competent pam-
phlets; this one is a calmly historical
treatment of a big and very interesting
subject. Considering that Mr. Arnold-
Forster does his job inside 32 pages, it is
extraordinary how thoroughly he covers
the field. He knows what he is talking
about. He was an Admiralty represen-
tative on the Contraband Committee,
1914-16; for the rest of the war he
worked with the oddly-named Black List
Committee and the Restriction of Enemy
Supplies Department; at the Peace Con-
ference he was a member of the Block-
ade and Raw Materials Section of the
Supreme Economic Council.
As well as possessing those qualifica-
tions, he has the right talent for pam-
phleteering. Unlike many of those who
try their hand at this job, he is not out
to build up a case at all cost. In a most
readable style he lays down his facts,
interprets them, and is mostly satisfied
to let the reader draw his own conclu-
sions. And they are especially interest-
ing facts just now.
The total war losses of Allied and
neutral merchant ships throughout the
last war amounted to million tons
gross; six million of this was lost in the
one year, 1917. Before that war was
over about half the entire neutral ship-
ping of the world was in the direct ser-
vice of the Allies. When it was over
some 230 million people were facing the
prospect of the worst famine since the
Thirty Years War, and Europe’s
economy was so paralysed that these
people could not save themselves of their
own exertions before the harvest of 1919.
In Germany the deathrate from tuber-
culosis had doubled, and rickets was
general amongst children. The whole
world had been swept by a severe type
of influenza, and typhus was killing mil-
lions in Russia and Eastern Asia. The
notion that has been cultivated by Nazi
propagandists, and by others not so Nazi,
that the Allies looked callously on at
this appalling state of affairs is utterly
false. The fact was that no sudden ces-
sation of Europe’s suffering was possible ;
the injuries caused by four years of
world-wide war were far too serious for
that. The need was enormous, the diffi-
culties of relieving it were extraordinary;
but the attempt was made.
At first there was extreme shortage of
shipping, as a result of the submarine
campaign. Despite this and other diffi-
culties, a colossal work of relief and pro-
visioning was in fact carried out. Be-
tween December 1, 1918, and August 31,
1919, no less than 4,178,448 tons of food
and clothing was delivered to hard-hit
European countries, not including Bel-
gium, for which there was a separate
scheme. Germany received the largest
share —1,215,000 tons, all of this food,
except 110,000 tons of clothing and medi-
cal supplies. The rest was split up
among Austria, Northern France,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Rumania, Fin-
land, Yugoslavia, Armenia, Estonia, Bul-
garia, Turkey, Lithuania, Latvia.
Thus under this relief scheme large
amounts of food went into Germany
before the end of August, 1919. So
much for the widely propagated notion
that the hunger blockade was maintained
with little or no relaxation till peace was
signed, and that Germany’s continued
suffering was due to the deliberate policy
ol the Allies. The cause was the war,
the effects of which could not be rectified
overnight. Surveying what that war and
the blockade and counter-blockade had
done to Europe, General Smuts declared
that “it is the most awful spectacle in
history, and no man with any heart or
regard for human destiny can contem-
plate it without the deepest emotion.”
And now it is all on once more.
The Original Gita: “The Song of the
Supreme Exalted One, with copious Com-
ments and Notes by Rudolf Otto,” trans-
lated and edited by J. E. Turner (Allen
and Unwin). This is the Bhagavad-gita,
which in India “occupies the exalted
position that the New Testament, and
especially the Gospel of St. John, holds
in the religious world of the West.” Shorn
of its accretions of doctrine and com-
ment, it’s a simple epic poem, rather like
a Norse saga, about a fratricidal war.
If it be to your interest to know how
to pickle mullet, keep cabbages fresh,
blanch almonds, curl ostrich feathers,
renovate shabby bedsteads, make war
on the louse, dish up rabbit d la Bretonne
—in fact, do anything in the household
line whatever, cook meats, vegs., cakes,
puddings, make sandwiches, pastes,
salads, and so forth and so on, all of
it will be found detailed and indexed in
Lady Hackett’s Household Guide
(Robertson and Mullens, 155.). Dr.
Deborah Murphy (Lady Gowrie acknow-
ledges) is giving the profits from this
edition of her book to the Red Cross.
It’s a big vol.—nearly 1000 pages—and
a topnotch book of its kind.
Everyman’s . Latest additions (respec-
tively 955 and 956), Ovid: Selected
Works, edited by J. C. and M. J. Thorn-
ton, and W. H. Hudson’s Far Away and
Long Ago. It bears repeating here that
the present get-up of Everyman’s makes
it one of the neatest as it has long been
the very best inexpensive library.
The First Six Months Are the Worst:
Harold F. Hutchison and James Fitton
(Peter Davies). Warranted to make
womenfolk bellow, they having a com-
prehensive sense of humor which nothing
tickles more nearly than some cooing,
bawling counterpart of this hilarious
tome’s generalised hero, who is followed
irreverently through his first six months,
nothing about him being sacred to Mr.
Hutchison’s pen or in Mr. Fitton’s
drawings. The same brand of humor
exactly had women leaping four feet
out of theatre pews at a recent film. No
doubt some learned mind has deduced
before this that the ability of women
to see a comic side to baby-rearing, while
their comparatively humorless mates are
filled with homicidal rage, is just part
of the Great Plan for the survival of
the race.
The Everlasting Hills: J. Waller
(Blackwood). Special for people who like
climbing mountains ; extra special if they
happen to be in India. Good appeal also
for those who like contemplating beauti-
ful photographs of mountain crags with
snow on them—64 of these, and nothing
seems to photograph better.


h
1
m
mm
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
tfaty t/early genuine
£Bl5/-, £9/9/-, £lolo'- HIGH GRADE CHGLISH
AnD HUSTRRURII FIRE QUALITV ALI UIOOL
SIIITinGS mfIDE TO VOUR mEASURE FOR
A special purchase—English and super grade Australian Suitings
in the latest styles. The range and assortment is extra large and you
can select just the colour and pattern you require. Correctly tailored
to your measurements. Regular Prices £B/15/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
SALE PRICE £6/19/6
9/6 1/93
m LIGHTWEIGHT
TWEED SPORTS COATS
Tailored by Anthony
Horderns'. Plain or action
backs, pleated patch pockets,
all wool lightweight tweeds
in new and interesting
designs. Anthony Horderns'
each -
SALE PRICE
Regular Prices,
47/6, 49/6
26/9
269
• Men’s Clothing and Tailoring-Ground Floor—George Street.
Freioht paid to 'all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in
the Commonwealth .
REDUCTIOnS on WORK TROUSERS
.
“Heavy Duty” Trousers
The toughest cotton tweed woven, khaki pock-
ets—our own make, which we guarantee and ■ /
will replace if unsatisfactory. 1 Q
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price lb/b IsJ JJ
SALE PRICE 13/9 w
6/11 Drill Overall Trousers How
Navy or Khaki. Strong British cloth, cut and made
for ease and comfort whilst on the job. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 6 / U
SALE PRICE ----- - 4/11
4 ; ll
14/0 “Hordura” Work Trousers
These are probably the best known Work Trous-
ers in New South Wales. Cut and made by |flj /
Anthony Horderns' and fully guaranteed. Best I B/Q
quality, smooth-faced Australian cotton twist. lal II
Dark Grey, Fawn or Olive, Khaki, pockets, etc. iw W
30 to 46in. waist. Regular Price, 14/6. SALE PRICE 13/6
RIITHOIIV HORDERR & SOnS LTD. SVDREY. BOK 2712 C G.P.O.’PHORE m 2401


OUT OF THE
PAST
THE RAID
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
‘ ‘ NE of the most extraordinary things I ever
I 1 witnessed,” wrote the Baron Von Big in
Vy his “Memoirs” somewhere about the year
1865, “was the raid on Bathurst made by the
late Benjamin Hall’s organisation of banditti on an
October evening in 1863. My presence as a spectator
when that remarkable event took place was entirely
fortuitous, but I have never ceased to shudder at the
risk I took in allowing my curiosity to get the better
of my discretion to the extent of actually accompany-
ing the outlaws into the town. It was, I think, the
maddest thing I have done in a career that has not
at any time been innocent of daring indiscretion.”
“I was riding into Bathurst on this particular
afternoon from my station, Salamanca, when, at a
bend in the road where it ran through a belt of dense
timber, I ran into a group of splendidly-mounted
horsemen, all of whom recognised me as quickly as
1 recognised them. They were Ben Hall’s men, and
their leader hailed me jovially, for it was only a
couple of months since they had visited Salamanca
professionally and been well entertained. The party
consisted of Hall, Gilbert, O’Meally, Burke and Vane.
“ ‘Good day to you, Baron,’ cried their handsome
young leader, ‘and where may you be bound?’
“ ‘l’m going into Bathurst, Ben,’ I replied.
“ ‘Well, so are we,’ he laughed. ‘You’d better
ride with us and see the sport. We’ve got a wig and
beard we took from a travelling theatrical company a
short while ago, and can completely disguise you.
We’re going to stick up the town.’
“I gasped with amazement. But when I looked
at him, despite the laughter in his face, I realised
that he meant what he said.
“Hall saw the look of incredulous astonishment
in my face, I suppose. He called over his shoulder
to Gilbert. ‘Johnny,’ he cried, ‘come up here and
tell the Baron what we’re thinking of doing. He
doesn’t believe me. It’s a fact, isn’t it, that we’re
going to give ’em a flutter in Bathurst? I’ve told
him he can come along if he likes and see the fun.’
“Gilbert, a good-looking youngster, a Canadian
by birth, dug his spurs into his horse and bounded up
beside us in a couple of reefing bucks. He nodded to
me merrily. ‘That’s right, Baron,’ he laughed. ‘We’re
going to carry the war into the enemy’s country —
that’s all. Fred Pottinger won’t know where he is
after we’ve done it. They’ll be so taken by surprise
that they won’t know where they are until it's all
over. Better come with us, Baron.’
“I could find nothing to say. The sheer audacity
of the scheme dazzled me. Was there any ‘Hastiness’
these men were incapable of? They had attended
race meetings at which the police had been present
in force, had helped themselves to the arms and ammu-
nition in police stations, had taken a horse from
Superintendent Morrisset himself, had time after time
done the most daring things with no other motive
than pure ‘flash’ foolhardiness. It was as if they
only wanted something to brag about before their
friends and admirers throughout the districts they
were holding in a veritable state of siege. But this
mad idea of riding into Bathurst itself! It was fasci-
nating in the simplicity of its impudent boldness.
“Here's mud in your eye, Mrs. Chumiey."
-‘ I HAVE often consoled
* myself for the part I
took with them in the piece of
mad folly with which I was to
be immediately concerned by
the excuse of mere curiosity,
but I am afraid I must admit
that the real cause of my being
with them when they so rashly visited Bathurst that
night was much the same as that which had made my
companions adopt their brief careers as highwaymen
—sheer, uncalculating recklessness and a taste for ad-
venture. I was old and experienced enough to know
better, but am not sorry I was there —though, by the
Lord, I might have been sorry!
“They disguised me in beard and wig, and I went
with them. It was a lovely calm evening, just after
dark, when we came riding down William-street at
a walk. I was some fifty yards or so behind the rest
of them—Hall, Vane, Gilbert, O’Meally and Burke—
but knew what they were going to do, saw most of it,
and, of course, heard the true story of it afterwards
in every detail.
“They left young Johnny Vane, as a sort of out-
post, in a lane leading off the main street, and Hall,
O’Meally, Burke and Gilbert crossed over to the gun-
shop kept by a man named Pedrotta, which they had
planned to raid first of all in search of the latest pat-
tern firearms. Hall and Gilbert dismounted and handed
theii* reins to Burke and O’Meally, who remained in
their saddles with revolver holsters close to their right
hands, ready for any sudden emergency.
“They knew that Mr. Pedrotta was not person-
ally 'acquainted with any of them, so the two bush-
rangers walked into the shop with ample confidence,
and to the gunsmith must have presented the appear-
ance of quite ordinary and usual customers.
“ ‘Good evening, gentlemen,’ said the unsuspicious
shopkeeper; ‘pray, what may I have the honor of
showing you?’
“ ‘A man has to be armed these times,’ said Ben
Hall with sly humor, ‘with all these bushrangers
knocking about. You never know when you may not
be stuck-up along the road. We’d like to see some
of the latest things you’ve got in the revolver line.’
“ ‘Oh, certainly—with pleasure,’ said Mr. Ped-
rotta. ‘I think I can promise to show you something
suitable for dealing with Ben Hall and his mates.
Take a look at these, gentlemen. You may find some-
thing to suit you.’
“He opened one of the showcases behind the
counter and took down a number of weapons of
different makes and sizes, which he laid out for their
inspection. Hail and Gilbert examined them care-
fully.
“‘Have you any revolving rifles?’ asked Hall
after they had taken a good look over the firearms
he had displayed to them.
“Mr. Pedrotta shook his head. ‘No, I’m afraid
I haven’t,’ he said. ‘You see, they’re a new inven-
tion, and hardly on the market yet. There’s been no
demand for them, so far, in these parts. However,
there’d be no difficulty about ordering you a couple,
gentlemen, if you will kindly leave your names and
addresses.’
“ ‘Oh, we’re merely travellers passing through
Bathurst,’ answered Ben Hall smilingly. ‘I don’t think
we’ll trouble you to do that, sir.’
“ ‘Say,’ asked Gilbert, ‘have you got any of those
double-trigger six-shooters? I sort of reckon one
of them would be a handy kind of gun to have in a
mix-up with the bushrangers. Got any o’ that sort,
mister?’
“Mr. Pedrotta regretted politely that it was out
of his power to supply these somewhat exacting cus-
tomers with that sort of weapon either, but suggested
they ought to find something useful in the collection
they saw before them, which, he assured them, were
all very modern and reliable weapons.
“They took another look over the pistols dis-
played on the counter, but without seeing anything
quite of the sort they required.
Finally, Hall shook his head and
turned towards the door.
“ ‘Well,’ he said, ‘I don’t see
anything here. However, when
we’re passing through Bathurst
again we’ll give you a look-in.
Maybe by that time you’ll have
something to suit. Good night,
sir.’
“ ‘Oh, good night and thank
you kindly for calling, gentle-
men,’ responded the gunsmith.
“ ‘Good night,’ said Johnny
Gilbert politely as they walked
out on to the footpath. ‘We’ll
see you again. Good night.’
“Outside in the street, as
they were mounting their horses,
Ben Hall whispered to the
others. ‘Nothing better in there
than we’ve got. Come along,
we’ll call on old man McMinn.
We might find something there
that the girls would like. Johnny
and I will go inside again. Keep
a sharp lookout, you two.’
‘ ‘ A LITTLE way down the
street was the establish-
ment of a watchmaker and
jeweller named McMinn, and
they rode towards it in leisurely
fashion. I followed on foot well behind them, leading
my horse and passing by the lane where I knew Jack
Vane was waiting. They came to McMinn’s place, and
again Hall and Gilbert dismounted and went into the
shop, the other two holding their horses’ reins.
“It was market day in Bathurst, and, after a busy
afternoon, most of the shopkeepers were having a be-
lated supper. The McMinn family were refreshing
themselves in a room at the back of the shop, and
there was only a young fellow, hardly more than a
boy, in charge of the valuable stock displayed beneath
the glass-topped counters and in the showcases.
“They adopted different measures this time.
“The youngster bade them ‘good evening’ civilly
as he came up to the counter to inquire after their
requirements, and was suddenly dumbfounded to find
himself looking into the barrel of Hall’s revolver.
“ ‘Not a word! ’ commanded the leader of the out-
laws. ‘Go into that room behind you—and stay there.
Is there a door leading out of it?’
“ ‘No,’ gasped the astounded assistant —‘only a
window looking on to the street.’
“ ‘Well, don’t attempt to get out of it,’ warned
Hall sternly. ‘There are others of us outside, and if
you try to get away you’ll be shot dead at once. And
don’t sing out for help, or I’ll deal with you myself.
Quick, Johnny,’ he said in a low tone, over his
shoulder, to Gilbert —‘get what you can out of the
showcases. We can’t dawdle here—the room at the
back is full of people. Be as sharp as you can.’
“Hurriedly, Gilbert set to work. But the show-
cases were locked, and he was afraid to break the glass
tops of any of them for fear of giving the alarm. So
far everything had been done in the quietest fashion,
and they could hear the jeweller and his family laugh-
ing and talking in the room behind, utterly unaware
of what was happening.
“Abandoning the showcases, Johnny started to go
round the counter. He had reached the end of it,
when the proceedings were interrupted. The door
communicating between the shop and the room where
the McMinn family were at supper suddenly swung
open, and a young woman appeared on the threshold
—standing petrified and speechless for a few moments,
whilst her startled eyes took in the unaccustomed
sight.
“Gilbert told me, later in the evening, that Miss
McMinn’s face was a study in amazement. He couldn’t
help, he said, smiling and nodding at her in the few
seconds that elapsed before she gave the alarm. The
way her chin dropped and her mouth sagged open
was funnier than he knew how to describe. But it
soon closed up with a resolute snap, when she started
back, screaming out loud enough for people in the
street to hear: ‘Oh, oh! Help— robbery — thieves!
Quick, dad— quick! They’re robbing the cases!’
“Nothing was possible to be done by the two
bushrangers but to make their escape. Ben Hall
came hurriedly out of the side room where he had
the shop-assistant bailed up, and the two of them
ran out to the footpath, climbed hastily into their
saddles and wheeled their horses into the middle of
the highway. Vane had come out of his place of
concealment in the lane a little way up the street,
and had rejoined Burke and O’Meally, waiting out-
side the jeweller’s establishment. The five of them set
off down the street at a jog, Hall warning them not to
give the show away by hurrying. I remained on foot,
holding my bridle reins, in the shadow of a vacant
wall across the street, and saw it all. I did not know
what to do —whether to rejoin my brigand companions
or remain where I was. At once the problem was
solved for me.
“They had only moved off a few paces when the
jeweller’s wife, Mrs. McMinn, came to the front of
the shop, and began to scream out a warning to the
people in the street as to the true character of the little
party that was riding away from her doorstep.
“ ‘Stop them —stop them!’ she shrieked. ‘They’ve
robbed us —they’re bushrangers. Don’t let them get
away. Go for the police. It’s Ben Hall’s gang.’
u JN a moment people came running into the street
1 from all the neighboring houses, and this was too
much for the raiders’ coolness. They put spurs to
their horses and set off at a gallop, making down the
street in the direction of the police barracks. They
were a little confused, and hardly knew which way
they went —so long as they might escape from the
swarm of angry and astonished people behind them.
“I did not, of course, attempt to follow them, but
led my horse out into the roadway, and asked the
first man I met what all the excitement was about—
just as if I had but arrived on the scene at that moment.
He gave me some wonderful information.
“ ‘Ben Hall! ’ he gasped. ‘He’s just been into
McMinn’s the jeweller’s and shot him dead. They’ve
captured the town —that’s what they’ve done. They’re
off now to rob the Bank of New South Wales.’ 1
thought it best to edge away as quietly as possible,
and when I came to the first corner I mounted my
horse and rode down a dark lane, making for the
outskirts of the town.
“On the corner of Howick-street, Hall, Gilbert
and Vane turned into that thoroughfare, but Burke
and O’Meally continued straight on in the direction ol
the barracks. Hall looked round and, seeing the
trap they were unwittingly riding into, drew his re-
volver and fired it in the air, so as to attract their
attention. It was most amusing the way the citizens
rushed for cover when the report of the pistol-shol
rang out on the still evening air—each of them prob-
ably imagining himself to be the target of the bullet.
o Continued on next page.)


“Hall’s shot checked Burke and O’Meally, and
they immediately came back towards their com-
panions. The whole party rode out of Howick-street
into the square and got into George-street, along which
they headed for the upper end of the town. They
rode hard, until they came into a quarter that had
not yet been alarmed, when they drew rein and held
a consultation.
“Here they decided not to leave the town just yet,
but to pay a visit to a hotel called The Sportsman’s
Arms, whose proprietor was Mr. De Clouet, an aider-
man and a well-known racing man of the western
country. They had an idea of getting hold of his
racehorse Pasha, and taking him away with them.
However, as it turned out, their quest was unsuccess-
ful, Mr. De Clouet having hidden the horse in an-
other part of the town.
“Bathurst by this time was in an uproar, and
pulsing with excitement. Word had been sent to the
police barracks, and before long every mounted man
available had been turned out. They only numbered
five, the majority of the local force being in chase of
the bushrangers elsewhere. They headed in the direc-
tion the raiders had taken, convinced that they would
be flying from the town. So they galloped away along
one of the roads leading out of Bathurst, on what was
to prove nothing but a wild-goose chase. Actually,
the troopers rode past the very place where the bush-
rangers had left their horses whilst they went to stick
up The Sportsman’s Arms.
“The town was now thoroughly roused. Although
the bushrangers, a week or two previously, had made
a sort of bet with Surveyor Machattie that they would
visit Bathurst, no one had actually imagined that they
would have the audacity to carry out their threat. And
now that they had done it, nobody knew what to
expect next. Many of the shopkeepers put up their
shutters, and almost literally, for an hour or two, the
town was in a state of siege. People gathered in groups
in the streets, whilst the women and children mostly
took refuge indoors.
“Presently the news began to be passed round
that the bushrangers were still in the town, and had
had the impudence to hold up Mr. Alderman De
Clouet’s hotel. They searched the stables, realised
that the horse was not there, and then decided to get
out before the place became too hot to hold them.
They rode away from Bathurst in the direction of
Caloola.
“Such is the story of the Baron Augustus Von
Big’s participation in the bushrangers’ raid on Bathurst
in October, 1863, truthfully narrated by himself, but
not at present designed for the public ear. Oh, indeed,
no! Nor for those of Superintendent Morrisset or
Inspector Sir Frederick Pottinger, his highly esteemed
friends.”
CHOICE
BY HENRY G. LAMOND.
White Stripe never hesitated. He knew he had to
fight for his mate. He launched himself with the sud-
denness of an arrow released. The dogs reared as they
came together, with white fangs clicking as they met,
with hot breaths mingling, with hate in their reddened
eyes and murder in their hearts. They wrestled for a
few seconds as each tested the other’s strength ; then
they dropped to the ground with rumbling growls
deep down in each throat. The hair along each back
was raised in a bristling hedge ; both walked proppily
on tiptoes ; they were alert; lips drawn back, muscles
tensed and taut, they circled each other to seek an
opening.
The bitch was interested ; more, she was enter-
tained. This was a worth-while spectacle. She sat at
the base of a tree, licked her chops, composed herself
and prepared to watch her champions fight for her
favors.
The dogs sprang simultaneously. There were a
pair of blurred red lines drawn in the moonlight, the
thud of bodies meeting, the clash of fangs striking.
They whirled in an eddy of sprayed dust, a maelstrom
of tossed leaves and spurned grass. They slashed and
tore, striking with pecking motions of a snake stab-
bing. An aura of sprayed blood showered above
them ; deep breaths came from them ; hair and flesh
were torn in streaking ribbons.
Then they stood back by mutual agreement. They
were panting, dishevelled, with flanks pumping great
gallons of fresh air to burning lungs through parched
throats. They reeled as they stood ; but their eyes
were as red as before, their wills as determined.
White Stripe was in a deplorable state. Owing to
his recent full feed his breath came in strangling sobs;
his glazed eyes rolled ; his legs shivered as he shook
to the gasp of his pantings. But he was the first to
commence the fight again.
He lunged at the other’s throat, lunged and ripped,
all in one action ; then, as the other quivered, he stood
with a spray of blood spouting from inside his front
leg, with a strip of skin hanging from his shoulder,
with the exposed nerves in a raw wound quivering as
the air bit them and played on them. He was spent,
braced on four widespread legs, exhausted to the point
of finality.
Without hesitation the bitch went to the victor.
She licked him tenderly, whimpered softly as she told
her sympathy, played about him. She lay beside him
when he rested ; sprang to defend him when any
strange movement or sound disturbed her.
As the sky in the east was reddening slightly she
coaxed the dog to his feet to follow her. She led the
way slowly, picking her way carefully. White Stripe
followed. He was sore, stiff, weak from loss of blood,
exhausted by his efforts. But he was the victor. He
followed his mate as she led him to her home.
As they ran up a broken gully a strange dog
stepped out from behind a boulder. He advanced to
meet the pair. He was a big fellow, a blue with brindle
markings. He approached the bitch, his eyes shining,
with a low whimper of desire sounding deep down in
his throat. He had but advanced his nostrils to hers
and sniffed but once when White Stripe sprang at
him —sprang with the same zeal as before, but with a
little less of the dash and ginger with which he had
commenced his previous fight.
Bluey reared as the other lurched through the
air. He caught the red dingo in his arms,
him while striking his balance. Then he threw the
red dog from him and let him roll over and over on
the ground while he turned his attention to the bitch.
White Stripe came again to the attack. By all
the laws of his caste he had earned his mate —slain
for her, fought for her, won her on his merits. And
as he charged his sore leg stumbled as he tripped on
WITH the first keen touch of winter which
came on the endless wind from the south-east,
the wild dogs began to seek new habits. The
packs split as the bitches roved singly. They
sought places which provided good hunting near at
hand, which were handy to secluded gorges in which
burrows could be dug, places in which a litter of pups
could be reared in reasonable safety.
The moon hung half-high, the stars twinkled like
chips of illuminated ice, the winds poured in a con-
stant stream, shivering the grey gidyas and shaking
the coolabahs on the creeks. A dingo bitch sat on
her haunches, merging with her surroundings, as she
told her longing in a mournful howl. She pointed
her nose to the skies, bellied her cheeks, drew her
flanks and poured forth her long-drawn wail of desire.
Softly, plaintively, rising and falling, it floated on the
air. Mellow, yet crisp, it spread even as ripples widen
on water, and almost by its intensity the bitch poured
her soul into that call.
The reply came from a thick patch of gidyas at
the base of a distant hill. The bitch replied, her call
seductively plaintive, alluring, soft yet penetrating. The
reply was dominant, bell-like in its clarity, impatient,
masterly. The bitch listened, sitting motionless, show-
ing as nothing more solid than a deeper shadow in
the shades. The call sounded again. This time it was
nearer. She replied softly, rose from her haunches
and nervously turned and trotted towards where the
call came.
"T HEY met. She was timid, sensing her surroundings,
* trusting to her nose and other finer senses rather
than to her eyes, darting from shadow to shadow,
hiding behind tree-trunks and rocks ere she showed
herself. He was eager, daring yet fearful, and, though
he cringed like a snake in open spaces, he stood up
boldly and showed himself in the shadows.
He was a red dog with a slash of white over one
shoulder —the scar of an old-time wound —massive
without being heavy ; muscular without being cum-
bersome. She also was red, with a white tuft on her
tail, lithe where he showed strength, quick on her feet,
alert to every sound and smell. She hesitated as she
went to meet him.
The dog advanced with eager strides, his neck
arched, his eyes shining, whimpering softly, his tail
held jauntily while his flanks were drawn. She pre-
tended to cringe in terror from him. She offered her
nostrils to his ; she cowered, almost seeming to shrink
in on herself, as the dog towered above her. She
submitted him to nose her affectionately, and then,
jumping away, she fled, bending her backbone with
an exaggerated elastic action as she raced. But she
galloped in a circle. No matter by how much she
outdistanced her pursuer, she never got any further
away from him.
The dog tired of that game. He dropped to his
belly, his forepaws crossed in front of him, laid his
jowls on the ground and was motionless. She under-
stood: she, too, dropped to the ground and gazed at
him. When the dog rose and came to her she trembled
in pretended fear of him ; wriggled her four legs help-
lessly in the air as she rolled ; twisted suddenly and
bounded to her feet. She picked up an old bone lying
on the ground. She clawed at it as she galloped in a
circle, tossing it in the air and pouncing on it again
as it fell to the ground.
He was expected to play. He did. But he short-
cut her on one circle, took her on the ribs with his
shoulders, sent her spinning to the ground. The game
was over. She picked herself up, looked back at him
over her shoulder as she trotted away in the direc-
tion of the hills. He had courted her ; he had been
accepted. He turned and ran by her side.
'T' HE pair stopped suddenly as the heavily sweet
* scent of sheep came to them. They ran up that
track in the wind, slipping from place to place almost,
it would seem, merely by the power to wish them-
selves there —no sound was made, no action notice-
able, and the dingoes were only discernible when they
stood at one vantage point to pick out the next place
at which they would halt.
When they came to the mob the dog swung in
with fine abandon. He took one sheep by the throat,
left it gasping on the ground. To show his prowess,
and to satisfy his killing instinct, he raced up the
wing of the stringing sheep and laid body after body
in a twitching heap on the grass. When he was satis-
fied he returned to the bitch. She was starting to
tear chunks of flesh from the first sheep he had slain.
White Stripe had other notions.
Though he took only a flashing grip in passing,
the rich blood which spurted from one particular sheep
had tickled his palate. He led the bitch to it,
shouldered her from other bodies on which she would
feast, ripped the skin from the shoulder of his selected
meal, stood back and obviously invited her to eat.
She tore slivers of quivering flesh from the warm
corpse, gulped them hideously, gorged to swelling
obesity. When she had finished, the dog had his turn.
He ate till he was bloated, till he gasped as he
breathed, till his swollen belly was an ill-balanced
thing supported on four legs.
They waddled as they ran together towards the
gorge. And they had no more than left the body of
the sheep a hundred yards behind them when another
dingo showed in front of them!
a pebble. He fell to his chest, skated along the ground,
looked up as he slipped. His mate which he had won
had her back turned to him while she fawned upon
the blue dog which had usurped his place. White
Stripe blundered between the two dogs, separating
them. He turned to the bitch as he slipped from
beneath the charge of Bluey—his eyes had picked up
a break in the gully through which they could both
dodge, evade the blue fellow and get away.
White Stripe looked back over his shoulder as he
slid through the gap in the gully. He half-turned, ex-
pecting to find his mate beside him. Then he limped
dejectedly from the place, of no further interest to
the two dogs on the creek bed below him. The bitch
was fawning upon the new dog, playing before him,
inducing him to chase her as she ran from him.
“Break it down, executioner — tiggy-touchwood!"


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j4 dhi Hme cf late melloumcM and Jmiq/uet
CAPTAIN COOK'S STATUE.
No statue in London calls forth deeper feelings of patriotism in the heart of every Australian and New Zealander than that of Captain
Cook, a noble example of the genius of Brock, facing the splendid Admiralty Arch. Here it was fittingly placed in that eventful year-
-1914 —which was to see the challenge thrown down to the right to exist of that Empire which the Great Navigator had done so much to
establish, a work to which he gave his life. It is fitting this monument to one to whom the Dominions in the Southern Seas so largely
owe their existence should be in such close proximity to the noble pillar in Trafalgar Square perpetuating the work of another Great
Empire-builder—Nelson. Both men belong to the Empire, in differing forms admittedly as relates to the class of work performed, but
none the less important on that account. How true it is that London is in every way the very core of Empire. Citizens from its most
distant parts here are reminded in numerous manners of all this. And it may be asked if herein is not one of London!s greatest
attractions in the appeal thus made to, and the essential spirit of unity engendered in, every son and daughter of the British race
wherever their domicile may be. London has been likened to a loadstone, in an Imperial sense, and correctly. Further, it belongs not to
Londoners or those who reside in the British Isles, but equally to all who live under that flag, at once the symbol of British freedom. In
the remote sections of this far-flung dominion of ours “London Calls,” and will continue so to do, while patriotism and racial pride
remain. Cook, Nelson and the host who have passed on did not labor in vain.


IN DARKEST AMERICA.
“Mr. Casey is to be sent to Washington as Australian representative....The U.S.A. ‘neutrality zone’ is to be increased from 300 miles to 800 miles.”
"Dr. Livingalone, I presume?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252138; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; Gordon & Gotch (Aws.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire'): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign );
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. U rated Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
COMRADES, IT HURTS. BUT
In Australia, as in Britain and elsewhere, the Com-
rades are secretly very sore with Comrade No. 1. Up
to the time of his open alliance with the “brutal
fascist murderers” they had made progress inside the
pacifically camouflaged Trojan horse that surprised
even themselves. True, their advances had been re-
buffed from time to time by the solid body of British
and Australian Labor, which they had paid the dubious
compliment of regarding as the easiest section to use
for their purposes— i.e., the easiest to fool. But,
though officially spurned, they had nevertheless made
surprising progress in that section’s ranks. In the sec-
tion that hangs about Labor’s fringes—the intellectual
radicals —they had been more successful still. This
section unanimously took at face value the cunningly
fashioned mask of Peace and Democracy which the
Comrades on instruction from Moscow had adopted.
Great, therefore, was the surprise all round when
Comrade No. 1 suddenly dropped the mask without
consulting anybody. On the announcement of the
alliance with the allegedly hated Nazis, the consider-
able host of near-converts became as suddenly shy.
With the attack on Finland, they bolted, and a tidy
number of converts bolted with them. Today there
remain only the genuine Comrades ; those whose lives
are dedicated to service in Moscow’s foreign con-
spiracy. They have the job in front of them of be-
ginning all over again.
No wonder they are sore. Exposed in all their
shabbiness, they are for once objects of real con-
tempt. Their term of mutual greeting, “Comrade,” has
become a synonym for hypocrisy, and a fine word has
been lost to the language in the process. With the
war they professed to be against now well launched
by the First Comrade, even their source of funds is in
risk of being cut off. They might well give up the
ghost, if it were not that this same war holds out the
only hope they have of regaining the position its
beginning cost them.
That is not an extravagant hope. Communism
flourishes in just such conditions as the strain of
long and wasting war brings about. Dimitrov, de-
fining the tasks and tactics for Communists in all parts
of the world, laid down that “all the deviations and
all the ins and outs of our tactics are directed to a
single end —the world revolution.” The scheme was
further defined in a Communist Congress resolution:
Communists will endeavor to draw the opponents
of war, organised to serve the cause of peace, into
the struggle to transform imperialist war into civil war
against the fascist instigators of war, against the
bourgeoisie, and for the overthrow of capitalism.
That is the Comrades’ constant programme.
They trust to the effects of war on the general body of
people—the disturbance to public morale that might
be caused by disasters and wastage inseparable from
war ; by growing war weariness—to enable them to
carry out that programme. To take any opportunity
to change the war against a foreign enemy into a
civil war —that is the acknowledged standing aim of
Communism. The present mask —which will be shed,
as others have been, when convenient —is that Com-
munism aims not only at the establishment of peace,
but at altering the systems of government it opposes
by peaceful methods. Like the bulk of Communist
profession this is cant pure and unashamed. From
their official handbooks in current circulation they
understand what are their real aims—these, like the
jargon they use, decided by Moscow: —-
The masses must realise that they are going into a
bloody and desperate armed struggle. Contempt of
death must become widespread among the masses, so
as to make victory secure. Their watchword must be
attack, not defence; their objective, the pitiless extermi-
nation of the enemy.
That, not the peace cant, is what leading Comrades
pass on to their rank and file. For their own reward,
they have the privilege of first out of the barrier if
(he civil war happens to go wrong, as in Spain. More
than one writer has contrasted the speeches of La
Pasionaria, urging the workers to die on the field of
battle, with her own precipitate flight to sanctuary in
France. There, too, were observed pretty well all the
other Communist leaders easily beating to the frontier
the duped troops they had deserted. This is their
privilege. Contrast with it again the part allotted to
the rank and file in the hoped-for civil war:
Street fighting, aiming at the physical extermination
of the enemy, should be absolutely without quarter.
Any sign of human feeling from the proletariat to its
class enemies during the armed struggle merely creates
v fresh difficulties, and may, if circumstances go against
us, lead to the failure of the movement. '
That, too, is to be seen in active operation in the
records of the Spanish war —records set down by such
witnesses as John McGovern, M.P.: —■
The plain truth is that the Russian Cheka have their
thumb on the Government. There are two International
Brigades in Spain, one a fighting force and the other
an International Cheka which is responsible for arrests,
tortures, imprisonments, abductions and murders.
The instructions supplied by Moscow to leading
Comrades for passing on to the rank and file have a
military exactness in their details. Their formulators
may be as fighters among the world’s worst, but they
are plotters in a class with any crew that ever brought
off robbery with murder. In the closest detail they
instruct leaders of the foreign conspiracy in other
countries how to employ strikes as a means of testing
and of breaking down what resistance is left in war-
wasted countries, as a prelude to civil war. The possi-
bilities of civil war having been tested in this and
other ways and found good, leading Comrades move
on to Schedule B, Nature of the Revolutionary Opera-
tions during the Insurrection:
When the attack can begin, the reconnaissance
agents, in view of their familiarity with the ground,
will be detailed for special duty, what is known as
diversion: (a) Destroying magazines, bridges, crossings,
railways, etc.; ( b ) attacking and disarming small groups
of soldiers; (c) organising mutinies among the troops;
( d ) misinforming the enemy (spreading reports favorable
to the insurgents); ( e ) intercepting telephone calls. (Ex-
perience shows that women and children, can be very
useful in this intelligence work.)
With everything thus ready,
The attack should be made by surprise, and all the
leaders on the other side should first be assassinated,
and all who might oppose the success of the under-
taking exterminated.
There is no word for all this, and for those who
are now working to put it into operation, except that
employed by the U.S.A. Dies Committee —it is a
foreign conspiracy, and a vicious and dangerous one.
There could be no more foolish attitude towards it
than that advocated by Sydney’s smug daily news-
papers, telling the readers whom in other ways they
have misled for years that Communism is insignifi-
cant, that it can be ignored. Certainly at the moment
it stands exposed, not only as a foreign conspiracy,
but as a shabby one. It has a tremendous amount of
ground to regain in order to recover the positions it
held as recently as six months ago. It is counting on
the war, and if the war develops as it increasingly
threatens to do,.it is as certain as sunrise that Com-
munism will find opportunity for recovering its lost
ground, and more. That is, if, as the smug dailies
advise, it is ignored—or, to go back to the root of
the word, treated with ignorance.
Indian Summers for Sexagenarians.
This has been a grand summer for elderly gentlemen
in Sydney—at least, some elderly gentlemen.
At 62, Mr. Hartigan was reappointed Commis-
sioner of the bankrupt Government railways for seven
years at £5OOO a year. At 61, Mr. Newell was
reappointed Commissioner of Main Roads for seven
years at £2500 a year. At 68, Mr. Forbes Mackay
was named Censor of Communications in N. S. Wales
for the duration of the war at a substantial salary.
Mr. Forbes Mackay was general manager of the
Sydney municipal lighting department (now run by
a so-called County Council), and recently quitted that
position with a retiring allowance of £9OOO.
To admit of Mr. Hartigan and Mr. Newell being
continued in their positions public-service regulations
were violated. In most of the Government depart-
ments 65 is the retiring age, and officials approaching
that age who have qualified for “extended” leave are
expected to depart at 64. In the Railway Depart-
ment many employees have been told to go at 60. This
apparently by way of economy, though it seems to
be the only sort of economy that is ever practised.
A small railway surplus was claimed in 1937-38. The
Auditor-General abruptly dismissed it from his calcu-
lations, which, covering the period from July 1, 1925,
are, in effect, that expenditure on the railways for
14 years has exceeded legitimate earnings by
£26,000,000, although expenditure has been under-
stated because of omission to provide proper allow-
ances for depreciation, reconditioning, insurance and
so forth.
Perhaps because bureaucratic influence is not so
strong in a country with only one Parliament and
one Government, they order these matters differently
in Maoriland. There the rule js that Government
railwaymen must retire after 40 years’ service. Mr.
Mackley, the general manager, completes his 40 years
on January 31, and it was reported that the Labor
Government had a notion of keeping him on. Natu-
rally desirous of promotion for men who have quali-
fied for it, the Railway Officers’ Association objected,
and the next the public heard was that Mr. Mackley
had “requested permission to retire as from January
31,” and that “Cabinet had decided to comply with the
request” and promote the assistant g.m., Mr. Casey.
Mr. Mackley, who was trained in the traffic
branch, and has been g.m. since 1933, is 56. Mr.
Casey, who was chief engineer before he became
assistant g.m., is 52. He joined the staff as a cadet
in 1902. Mr. Hartigan is an accountant, and has
been 47 years in his department.
In an age when so much lip-service is paid to
the claims of youth, it is remarkable that so much
reverence should be felt in Sydney for elderly officials.
As in the case of the one-Parliament system, the
Maoriland way is much the better way..
Unborn Australians.
In 1901 the Australian birthrate per 1000 of mean
population was 27.16; in 1938 it was 17.46. The number
of live births in Victoria in 1901 (population, 1,202,000)
was 31,008; in 1938 (population 1,867,000), 30,344.
A member of the medical profession tells me that
abortion is such a common practice in Victoria that
fashionable abortionists have as many as 40 cases to
deal with in a week-end. A chemist informs me that
a very fashionable practitioner, now dead, had patients
admitted through his garage, where they were blind-
folded so that they would not see any of their fellow-
patients or the operator, then anaesthetised, and after-
wards taken to a restroom for an hour or so, seldom
being kept under observation for longer than 24 hours.
These reports may be exaggerated, but that is not
important. What is important is the general attitude,
and one only needs to start discussing the subject,
even in a drawing-room, to find out what that is.
Abortion has become prevalent among the well-to-do
and the socially respectable more than among others,
and is resorted to as much by the married as by the
unmarried.
Among people who regard themselves as
“modern” it is considered quite old-fashioned to call
abortion murder. They see no reason why a woman
should not abort a child if she does not want it. If
you ask them why she should not want it they give
all manner of reasons. She might hate the idea of
bearing a child ; a child might interfere with her com-
fort and convenience ; if she were unmarried it would
earn her social obloquy and therefore be a disadvan-
tage ; a married woman might already have more
children than her husband is able to support, and a
fresh child would be an added burden ; the husband
might be the objecting party, and he would be quite
justified in objecting if he thought a baby would be
a disadvantage ; it would also be a disadvantage to
the mother if it lost her the affection of her husband.
In short, the attitude to abortion has changed pro-
foundly, and merely to become indignant about it is of
little use.
“If a woman decides that she doesn’t want the
baby, and if she can have an operation, successful
and secret, I can’t see that anybody has been affected
by it.” Thus one young husband to me. “It is far-
fetched to call it murder to prevent an organism that
has not yet reached consciousness to attain to con-
sciousness.” But the woman must be affected. An
operation for the removal of a baby is in a different
category from an operation for the removal of a
tumor. The woman knows she is breaking the law of
the land, and, if she belongs to a religious denomina-
tion, breaking the law of God. She must review what
she has done, and we all have a tradition. If she
reviews it through the eyes of tradition she will feel
herself to be a sinner.
People feel differently even about buying a drink
after six from what they do about buying one before
six. For one thing, they don’t flaunt their desire in
front of a policeman. How much more vitally will
a girl be affected by being a party to an outrage on
her maternal instinct!
In anti-Christian Russia she would be within the
law. The Russians have legalised abortion. Not
because they think it is a desirable thing, but to mini-
mise its ill effects. They regard abortion under super-
vision as less detrimental than abortion “under the
lap,” and by making it legal hope to eliminate it alto-
gether except in pathological cases. The woman is
warned that under the best hospital conditions an
abortion may be more dangerous than a birth, and
that a live baby is better than a dead one.
So if a girl wants an abortion in Russia she goes
to a doctor who is recognised by society. Here she
goes to an individual who is outlawed by society (or,
if he is not, his act is), so if she does not regard her-
self as sinning she is the occasion of sin in another.
Hence, when she reviews what she has done she will
review it differently from how a Russian girl would
review it. To be the occasion of sin is as demoralising
as sinning.
When I put this point of view before the young
husband he said; “I think you exaggerate people’s
feelings. I know plenty of women who don’t share your
horror of abortion and would regard you as morbid.”
Possibly they would. But if a girl in our society
goes to an abortionist, does she go with the same
confidence as she would go to a doctor of repute for
an operation for appendicitis? Would the operator’s
hand tend to be as steady in performing an illegal
operation as it would when performing a legal one?
Would a husband be as proud to talk in society about
his wife’s successful abortion as he would about a suc-
cessful operation for appendicitis in his family? If
his wife had an operation for appendicitis and it was
unsuccessful, he would not object to talking about that.
But if she died or fell ill as the result of an abortion
would he be as confident about publicising that?
A married woman of my acquaintance, an excel-
lent physical specimen, has had two abortions* and now
has bitter regrets. A longing for maternity has
come when maternity is no longer possible. The same
thing might have happened if the woman had had a
perfectly respectable operation for the removal of a
tumor, but if that had destroyed her ability to bear
a child she would not have been running counter to
scientific opinion and she would have reviewed her
misfortune quite differently.
If my child falls sick and I refuse to call in a
doctor and the child dies, I cannot help feeling re-
sponsible for the child’s death. It is precisely the same
thing with this childless woman. She has paid too
high a price for her comfort and convenience, her
husband’s affection or whatever other benefit she was
seeking when she had her illicit operations. As for the
unmarried mothers, if their reasons are a fear of
social obloquy they are paying too high a price for
respectability. The privilege of being received in Mrs.
Somebody’s set isn’t worth the violating of anybody’s
biology.
PAWANG.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hore-Belisha and Churchill.
It is instructive to read that British newspapers are
publishing “advertisements, issued by an anonymous
group, demanding the immediate recall of Mr. Hore-
Belisha to the War Office” and that the advertisements
are “reminiscent of the posters demanding that Mr.
Chamberlain should give Mr. Churchill a portfolio.”
That sums up both politicians. Both are limelighters
and publicity hounds ; and each hates the other so
much that the harried Prime Minister seems to have
decided at last that there wasn’t room for the two in
the same Cabinet. So Mr. Hore-Belisha was sacrificed
to the Minister who had the greater social, journalistic
and cross-Channel pull.
The gentleman who is now First Lord and the
gentleman who was Secretary for War were on bad
terms long before they sat at the same table. A cer-
tain Captain Sandys, M.P., married the eldest Miss
Churchill. The gallant and honorable member was
accused of having used as a politician information
gained by virtue of his military position, and when
he was carpeted his father-in-law made a House of
Commons matter of it. If the object was to drive Mr.
Hore-Belisha out of office it failed. The Secretary for
War was then engaged in modernising and democratis-
ing the army. Indeed he seems to have done as
much for the army in some ways as Lord Haldane did
in others, and, like Lord Haldane, he was sacked
without having the satisfaction of seeing his work for
the army justified on the field of battle.
When Mr. Hore-Belisha’s resignation was required,
and before he had left the War Office and surrendered
the seals of office to the King, the First Lord rushed
over to France. He had no business to be there, but it
is an old game of his. Lord Esher, who knew him inti-
mately (French, Kitchener, Fisher, Asquith, Balfour
and King George, too), recalls that it was his practice
in 1914-15 to “go off for his week-end at the Front.”
These excursions, according to Lord Esher, were alto-
gether mischievous.
Churchill’s visits to General Headquarters are a deep-
seated cause of trouble. He discusses matters with
Sir John [French] which should be, and are, exclusively
within the sphere of Lord K.
Matters became so unpleasant that Kitchener threat-
ened to resign; and because of the Dardanelles opera-
tions, of which Fisher had “disapproved from the be-
ginning,” and because Churchill “had dangerously
weakened the Grand Fleet by sending to the Darda-
nelles a naval force stronger than the German High
Seas fleet,” that great seaman did resign. In the present
instance, Mr. Churchill contrived to be present at
G.H.Q. when Generals Gort and Ironside were deco-
rated by the French. Considering that Mr. Hore-
Belisha, though under dismissal, was still in the War
Office, and that the British public was ascribing his
dismissal to “pressure from Army quarters,” not only
British but French, this proceeding was in the worst
possible taste ; but it was characteristically Churchillian.
One of the ugly features of an unsavory affair is
the discovery of a letter, written on War Office paper,
demanding Mr. Hore-Belisha’s head because he is the
son of a Jew. It is impossible to believe that this
disgraceful invocation of anti-Semitism would have any
effect on Conservatives like Mr. Chamberlain and Lord
Halifax. They can no more have forgotten Disraeli
than Australia has forgotten Monash.
But the most alarming outcome of the Hore-
Belisha affair is the suggestion that Navy, Army and
Air Force may be placed under a unified administra-
tion with the farceur of Antwerp and the arch-bungler
of Gallipoli at its head. From that calamity may
God save the Empire!
Mr. Casey Goes to Washington.
On Christmas Eve, it was given out that Mr. R. G.
Casey, the Minister for Supply, had been nominated
to the U.S. State Department for approval as the
first Australian diplomatic Minister to Washington—
or any other country. Last week, with due —perhaps
excessive—solemnity, Mr. Menses announced that
Mr. Casey had been appointed for five years at £2500
p.a. and an allowance of the same amount. Mr. Casey
will have a counsellor —there is already one at the
British Embassy.
Promptly returning the compliment, Uncle Sam
appointed Mr. C. E. Gauss, one of the eight U.S.
Consuls-General in China, as first Minister from any
country to Canberra.
According to Mr. Menzies, “the appointment
represents a great step forward in the development of
Australian national policy,” and, although the de-
parture of Mr. Casey means a great loss to the
Cabinet, “the overriding consideration is that our
first Minister at Washington should have qualifica-
tions so outstanding as to make it clear to the Ameri-
can Government and people that we attach the high-
est importance to the future relations between our
respective countries.”
Rather reminiscent of the eloquence of Mr. Jef-
ferson Brick; but there is work for Mr. Casey to do
in Washington if he can make himself heard above the
hubbub raised by the 60 senior diplomats whose happy
band he is to join. There is work to be done in another
Pacific country whose good relations with the Com-
monwealth have survived the blunders of the trade-
diversion policy and the intrigues of Communists. The
Japanese Foreign Office long ago expressed its willing-
ness to exchange Ministers. The sooner that diplo-
matic link-up is made the better for everybody, Com-
munists excepted.
The Bureaucracy Decides.
In N. S. Wales about £8,500,000 of good loan money
has been sunk in the construction and equipment of
Government tramways, many of which have never
paid. At the rate at which Government trams are
being scrapped and Government buses substituted, it
looks as if the whole £8,500,000 will have gone west
in a few years.
This month George-street-Erskineville has been
added to the list of abandoned Sydney tramlines, all
of which are Government-owned. It cost £65,400
£29,600 a mile. A few months ago The Spit-Manly.
Manly-Harbord and Manly-Narrabeen lines were added
to the list of impermanent and unreproductive works.
Eleven miles 48 chains long, they cost £223,200 —
£19,245 a mile —apart from £16,300 laid out on low-
tension feeder cables. Sydney-Northbridge is another
recent disappearance. Its fate was previously shared
by Arncliffe-Bexley, Summer Hill station-Hurlstone
Park, and McMahon’s Point to Miller and Blue streets,
all electric tramways, and by the steam tramways from
Sutherland to Cronulla and Kogarah to Sans Souci.
“Success of the first real tryout of an all-motor
transport system in Sydney will be followed by the
expansion of bus services and the scrapping of trams
as far as finances will allow.” That appeared in a
newspaper which claims to be in the confidence of the
Transport and Tramways Department, a privilege
denied to the “Parliament” which authorised construc-
tion and equipment of the tramways thus doomed by
bureaucratic decree —as a rule, on the strength of
Parliamentary Public Works Committee reports
specially paid for —and voted the loan money.
Every week or so new Government buses are
placed on the roads, to burn imported fuel in war-time,
whereas tramways do use N.S.W. coal. In its 1938-39
report the department complacently mentions that “a
total of 78 new vehicles was added to the fleet” during
the twelvemonth. Here, again, the “Parliament” is never
consulted ; and, although people in districts deprived
of trams grumble that at peak hours they can’t
get seats or even standing room in Government buses,
they, too, are ignored. Incidentally, overloading of
private buses is punished with prosecution, and fines,
but it is a regular feature of Government buses, the
department making and “enforcing” the regulations
itself.
On Government tramway, trolley-bus and omnibus
services a profit of £14,505 was claimed for 1938-39.
Interest, exchange and sinking-fund payments were
found but not taxes, though operators of private
buses have to meet three income taxes alone. For
the current year, a loss of £48,000 is anticipated. So
there is no possibility of tax-relief in the substitution
of buses for trams. Inasmuch as 'Government buses
are beginning to compete with Government trains it is
far more likely that more losses will have to be made
up out of taxes. On Government railways, £1,171,500 is
admitted to have been lost last year, and “earnings”
included a contribution of £BOO,OOO from the Treasury.
If the “Parliament” were worthy of the name, it
would demand to have a say in transport policy, par-
ticularly with regard to the probable loss of £8,500,000
of loan capital, less what can be got in a bad market
for scrap. But where commissions are concerned the
“Parliament” has surrendered its functions. It lets
the Railway Department and the Transport and Tram-
ways Department do what they dashed well like.
A Premier in Sydney's Never Never.
From one who lives on the fringes of it:
Doctor Arthur, M.L.A., must have smiled Over Yonder
if he heard that N.S.W. Premier Mair had been .shocked
at the plight of the denizens of Paddington and Surry Hills,
in the very heart of Sydney.
Years ago. Dr. Arthur led an expedition through the
district, and somebody sneered that slum-dwellers had no
time to talk to reformers because they were all busy with
their wireless sets getting the s.p. results. Conditions were
worse then, but even now nobody can look at them without
feeling a rising flush of shame and indignation. From,some
of the highest parts of Sydney round Paddington and Surry
Hills to low-lying Glebe, there are 3000 to 4000 children to
the square mile.
Surry Hills is a typical area. It was laid out in broad
streets, connected by narrow byways and lanes, in the thirties
of last century, and in any city with foresight it would be
a sort of acropolis, commanding as it does a superb view all
round of mountain and bay and harbor. It has gradually
lapsed into depressing slumdom. The little streets which pour
down towards the Central railway station and Waterloo are
full of blackened, terraced houses, most of them divided into
two flats. They are interspersed with untidy grass and castor-
oil-tree allotments, on which rubbish-pickers prowl, and a
rising tide of laundries and factories.
Children play in hordes in the lanes. I counted 70
on Christmas Eve —Australian, Italian, Chinese, all as merry
as grigs—in a filthy lane not 25ft. wide. In the evening their
parents come and sit in the gutters to watch them play in
their pyjamas. They do not like sitting in gutters, but there
is nowhere else to sit and nowhere but the dangerous street
for the children to play in.
And these people are decent workingmen, whose hours
start before the dawn and who must live near their work.
Here, alone of all the parts of Sydney, you will hear the
old children’s games with choruses that have come up from
Roman times. Here on Guy Fawkes night you find the masks and
the grotto and a-penny-for-the-Guy and fireworks. On Christ-
mas Eve, the Santa Clauses were abroad in ermine and the
air was full of the blare of tin trumpets.
The houses are old and battered and unkempt, with here
and there new paint to show that somebody is trying to
retain his pride. Inside, most of them are clean. You rarely
see a police uniform in Surry Hills.
The very amenities of the place bespeak its poverty-
mission churches, boys playing ping-pong on a dirty school
verandah, the dingy headquarters of the “First Surry Hills
Wolf Cubs,” charity hospitals, clinics, dosshouses.
For adults, the facilities are neither better nor worse
than for the children. A pub which is just a pub on almost
every corner. Outside, you see groups of fine young Aus-
tralians. If you are alone, they eye you curiously and go
on heading ’em. Two tall men approaching together will
melt a corner crowd like a raindrop falling on the Stony
Desert. You boil as you think of what might be done.
Where is the workingmen’s club that these districts might
have, like that at Mildura, where men might repair for a
glass of beer, dominoes and other games, a hot bath and
facilities for writing and receiving letters? There is nowhere
for the men of Surry Hills to amuse themselves in reach of
their own houses save their crowded tenements, the pubs, the
two-up school and the sly-grog shop. In the homes there
is no room to move, and the numerous ones who wish to
indulge the human longing to own a dog and a bird must
keep them on the cluttered verandahs.
It must not, however, be said that public conscience of
the Great City of Sydney has not stirred sometimes over this
unhealthy congestion. Only last year anew Surry Hills park
was dedicated. It is in Crown-street, a depressing rectangle
of brown grass 120 paces long, 34 paces wide, hemmed in
with a piping fence. On one side there are backyards with
washing hanging in them. The central feature of the other
is a pub.
The park is furnished with a few bare seats, a beer
bottle, several miserable cottonwood and poplar saplings.
At the main entrance is what looks like a pagan altar
raised in granite. So that the feet of worshippers may not
be contaminated by contact with grass, a solid concrete slab
has been let into the ground, and on the pedestal is a
thick bronze plate with an inscription to the local gods:
SHANNON RESERVE.
Officially opened
by
The Right Hon. the Lord Mayor of Sydney,
Alderman Sir Norman Nock,
August 19, 1939.
Alderman E. S. Marks, C.8.E., Vice-chairman
of the Health and Recreations Committee.
Aldermen of Flinders Ward:
Alderman Thos. J. Shannon, M.L.A., Alderman J. J.
Carroll, Alderman the Hon. Donald Grant, M.L.C.,
Alderman Daniel Minogue.
A. H. Garnsey, Roy Hendy,
City Engineer. Town Clerk.
A large notice declares that “no person shall in any
park beat, sweep, shake, brush or clean any carpet, drugget,
rug or mat, or any other fabric retaining dust or dirt.” And
“flying kites and balloons” is forbidden. So is the playing
of games.
On Friday nights, near by, Communists point the moral
of the place to crowds of listless men who find them a change
from the other diversions.
Mr. Mair and his colleagues should spend a good deal
more time in these suburbs.
Tragedy in Turkey.
“Twenty-three thousand persons were killed and 29,000
houses destroyed in the Turkish earthquakes, according
to the first official estimates. Further tremors are reported, -
and the weather continues to hamper rescuers.”
—Sydney “Sun” cable.
“Ekmek Bey” : The sympathy of every Australian will
go out to the Turks in the series of misfortunes which
have struck them. The Turks in the last war proved
themselves hard, often chivalrous, fighters and good
losers.
The Armistice left them with scarcely a foothold
in Europe. They had lost four-fifths of the territories
they held in 1913, and their population was down to
14,500,000. Foreign troops were in their capital. But
by 1923 they had driven the Greeks out of Asia Minor
and consolidated the new frontiers against Bolshevism.
The period of Turkish renaissance has lasted 16
years. The disappearance of the Armenians and the
driving out of the Greeks left the country almost
united racially, with anew form of government. They
sensibly withdrew their capital from fevered sub-
European Constantinople to Angora, and kept well
away from Mandated areas, save in one or two inevit-
able incidents.
They had a dictatorship under Kemal Pasha, but it
menaced nobody. After the Treaty of Lausanne in
1923, they carried out their agreements to the letter
and concentrated on the development of their own
land. It was no easy job ; but in three years the
Government achieved an astonishing order and dis-
cipline.
A civil police was established. The Swiss Code
ran as law. Schools were opened throughout the
country. Foreigners were under surveillance, but those
who were friendly received friendship. To be British
was to have a welcome everywhere, to be Australian
was to be given the village. Not that there was much
to give, for most of the houses were of only one room.
The whole population was rationed on black bread.
Fires were damped down with ash to make them last in
the bitter winter of the high plateaux of which most of
Anatolia consists. Domestic life had been disturbed
by the abrogation of Mohammedan laws and plural
marriage.
Yet during two months which I spent in Turkey
in the hardest winter which the country had known
for 40 years —that of 1926-27 —there was not a growl
to be heard. Laughter was the keynote of the vil-
lages. There was something in the air of all com-
munities like that of an Australian outback town in
drought. Men lived how they could and shared what
they had with hapless neighbors.
During the 16 years that have elapsed since the
Treaty of Lausanne was signed there have been amaz-
ing changes. The currency is sound, the debt is small
and on a revenue the equivalent of £50,000,000 sterling
there are maintained a peace-time army of 200,000, a
navy and air force —at present being trained by a
British mission headed by an Australian. The popu-
lation has grown by 3,000,000 and has been redis-
tributed in a farsighted way, the great coastal vilayets
losing and the interior gaining. The friendly relations
established with France and Britain have brought back
the sanjak of Alexandretta, and, with the Dardanelles
again strongly defended, the Republic has resisted
Russian and German pressure.
Its troubles come at a time when it can least
afford them, and in places which could not be worse.
The defensive zone nearest the Russian Black Sea
border has been ravaged from end to end by earth-
quake, fire and flood. The naval base at Ismid, in a
great scoop of a valley, at the head of the Gulf, has
been flooded out, which means the cutting of the rail-
way line from Istanbul to the capital. But there is no
growl from the Turks. They are bearing their troubles
with their usual dignity.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“X.S.”: A well-dressed man parked a
car on the Macpherson Robertson
Bridge in Melbourne and, mounting the
railing, informed passers-by that if any-
body attempted to stop him he would
throw himself into the water. After being
a centre of attention for an hour he was
undone by a plainclothes policeman.
P.C.P., passing him casually, asked him
for a match, and when he hesitated for
a moment took the opportunity of put-
ting a half-nelson on him. Thev
do these things differently in New
York. There, a youth who had been
jilted by a girl climbed out on
the balustrade of a skyscraper and
threatened to jump over. The situation
was dealt with with typical American
thoroughness. Moviemen stood about at
a distance ready to record the fatal leap,
his mother was sent for and used her
powers of persuasion, and eminent psy-
chiatrists solemnly tried to psycho-analyse
him out of his intention, while below the
fire brigades waited to catch him. In
the end he went to his death before the
eyes- of tens of thousands of people.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Unknown Australia? Not
so long ago a radio announcer told a
quaint yarn of the Victorian Mallee, de-
scribing how shy and primitive whites
came to town, slipped furtively about the
streets, and then faded into some un-
known retreat in the scrub and sand.
Melbourne “Argus” beats this with a
tale of what it calls “hillbillies” in the
uncivilised interior of the Speck. These
primitives live on trapping and shepherd-
ing and are complete even unto their
feuds —“shootings of which the police
can learn next to nothing.” It recalls my
trip into the snow country of the Wil-
liamstown Ranges, where the untutored
inhabitants wore their boots inside out
because they didn’t know bettier and
drank bottled snake-juice, the effect of
which was to make them hiss in picture-
shows after dark.
*- $ $ $
“Feng-Shui”: Young women like, the
Hon. Unity Freeman-Mitford are a com-
mon phenomenon in history. When they
find an individual who seems to fulfil
their conception of a hero they attach
themselves to him with a desperate
tenacity. Gandhi had dozens of young
ladies following him after the same
fashion, one of them the daughter of a
British admiral; but he found a use
for them. He made them learn spinning
and weaving and other simple native
crafts, and then sent them out as mis-
sionaries to the ryot. Consequently they
have never given him any bother.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Some Rationalists were
celebrating on Christmas Eve in a Mel-
bourne suburb, and, running out of beer,
they drove into the city for reinforce-
ments. On their homeward way they
encountered a corps of carol singers at
the top of Bourke-street, and were so
charmed with their singing that they in-
vited them along to the jollifications.
Nothing loth, the singers accepted. They
warbled “Good King Wenceslas” and
other traditional numbers on the lawn
of the house where the party was being
conducted —so delightfully that the
Rationalists were stirred to the roots of
their being and somebody started to take
up a collection. Not merely bobs but
quids went into the hat, and the total
amount reached a respectable figure. The
host handed the carolers the cash and
then said, “Come and have a drink before
you go. There’s a keg in the sitting-
room.” “Thanks, we don’t drink,” said
the choirmaster. “We’re Salvationists.”
* * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Courts have been
tossing the phrase “without lawful
excuse” from one to the other. A man
was fined for having been found in a
house w.l.e. He appealed to the Supreme
Court on the ground that his excuse
was a perfectly good one, as he had gone
there to see his wife. The owner of the
place, who is her father, argued that this
was no excuse at all, as she had “sought
asylum” there from her husband, who
had then been “forbidden” the house.
The Chief Justice thought the point subtle
enough to be referred to the Full Court
for decision.
* * * *
“D. Aitch”: Australia’s first builders
were not particularly partial to high-
pitched roofs (B. 3/1/MO). The early
Australian house, like the contemporary
English late-Georgian house on which
it was based, generally had the low,
Italian form of hipped roof. Many late-
Georgian English houses had flat roofs
and in appearance bore a resemblance to
modern style. Elizabeth Bay House
(Sydney) and Wingecarribbee House,
Bowral (N.S.W.), have flat roofs.
Wingecarribbee House was built in 1857
by one of the Oxley family, and is still
owned by an Oxley. It is constructed
of iron, having been made in England
and sent to Australia in sections, like the
N.S.W. Leg. Council faqade.
“Atrax”: “Chevroford” (B. 3/1/’4O)
barks up the wrong architectural tree
when he ascribes the high-pitched roofs
of early Australian builders to a wise
foresight in providing space for more
rooms as the family grew. The real
reason was that it was the only kind of
roof that they knew how to build. In
England roofs of those days had to have
a sharp pitch to allow the winter snows
to slide off before their weight increased
to an extent which would deflect the
timbers, sag the roof and make it leak
when the thaw came. Our boneheaded
forefathers just went on building the
same kind in snowless localities, just as
with unlimited space, material and labor
available they built exact copies of Lon-
don terrace-houses even where they had
to chop the indispensable basement and
area out of solid rock instead of London
clay soil. Military architects favored the
bungalow style on account of Indian
service—hence the gloomy draughtiness
and inconvenient detached kitchens of
the barrack quarters they built in
Hobart’s bleak climate early last century.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Another suicide epidemic is
worrying the Sydney police. In recent
weeks half a dozen middle-aged women
have thrown themselves over the Gap
and other high places of the kind. As
always, one set the example and the
others, who had read all about the case
in the papers, followed in short order.
Seven years ago the netting of the Bridge
ended a plague of self-destruction from
that ten-million-pound engineering
achievement, but you can’t net miles
of rocky coast. A ban on newspaper
reports of suicide cases would no doubt
be effective, but if it were even suggested
the papers would shriek louder than
Freedom did when that flapper-press idol
Smigly-Rydz didn’t wait to fall.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Citizens of Altona, on the
shores of Port Phillip, are agitated at
the proposal for a pipeline to discharge
chemical waste from the ammunition fac-
tory at Deer Park into the bay, and they
remain unconvinced by the assurances of
the chemists that the discharge will be
as pure as snow. A few years ago they
were equally concerned about the dis-
charge of the effluent from the Werribee
sewage farm. One of the local Bumbles
asserted that the effluent was not only
noxious but probably lethal, and said
that several bathers who had swallowed
it in quantities when mixed with salt
water had had to be rescued and pumped
“When are you going to have this lock repaired ?”
out by lifesavers. The engineer there-
upon offered to drink a glassful if the
councillor would follow his example. He
tossed the beverage down as if he liked
it and showed no ill-effects whatever.
Then he handed another glassful to the
councillor. Before he could put it to
his lips the Bumble’s stomach began to
heave, and up came his breakfast.
* SK * ¥
“Strict Veg.”: The Seventh Day
Adventists, who have been holding an
immense camp at Royal Park in Mel-
bourne, do not smoke, eat meat or drink
beer or tea. There is little else that
differentiates them from other Christian
denominations, but on this simple basis
they have built a world-wide religion
which sends missionaries everywhere.
On the other hand, Father Divine,
of Harlem (U.S.A.), believes in hearty
living, and his disciples sit down to
a 300-course dinner, and wash it down
with several brands of wine with a per-
fectly good conscience. The dusky
Father has made sufficient converts in
Melbourne for a local branch to be
formed, and if it grows on the same scale
as the Adventist movement the annual
convention ought to be worth seeing.
$ s[* Jjc
“Sparks”: Was shipmate once on the
Queensland coastal run with a skipper
who was no good to the laundries but a
goldmine to the mercers. As soon as his
apparel was on the grubby side he would
pitch it over the ship’s side and haul out
new clobber from boxes of it he kept
stored in his cabin. One day when the
Old Man and I were doing the pubs in
Cooktown, I observed breezily, “Cap-
tain, instead of tossing your dirty duds
to the sharks, how about passing them
over to me? I’ll get Sam Sing to wash
’em and they’ll do me fine.” The Old
Man was simply staggered at the sug-
gestion. “What!” he exclaimed. “You’d
wear gear that had been worn before
and laundered! Strike me pink! Here,
come in here,” and he yanked me into
a mercer’s shop. “Fit Sparks here out
with a new rig from stern to peak,” he
ordered the shopman, “and send the bill
to me.” And when the outfit was
assembled and ordered to be sent to the
ship he yanked me out of the shop again,
saying “Let’s get goin’, Sparks. It’s time
for another pot.”
4* 4* * #
“Oran”: This fast air travel is going
to complicate things for unsuspecting
wives. Witness the case of a Victorian
businessman who told his wife he was
going for a few weeks to Western
Queensland to visit a friend. As he
would be travelling about most of the
time, the b.m. said, he would not
communicate with his wife until he
got back to Brisbane again. Wife
saw him off at the railway station.
At Brisbane her spouse parked most;
of his luggage, and caught the flying-
boat to London, where, three days
after his arrival, he gave away at
her wedding a daughter by a former
marriage which had been dissolved when
the girl was a child. He was back in
Brisbane well within the stipulated time.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne’s public schools
for boys have been accused of ineffable
snobbishness, but some of the smaller
schools for girls can beat them hollow.
A young woman teacher got a job
at a very aristocratic seminary whose
pupils all come from plutocratic fami-
lies. One day teacher had occasion to
correct her class of well-bred young
ladies. “Don’t speak to us like that,”
admonished one of the damsels. “Don’t
forget it is our fees that keep you. We
can get you sacked if we want to.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: In January, 1899,
a four-horse bus, carrying passengers as
usual, did the trip between Circular Quay
and Waverley Council Chambers (Syd-
ney) in 17 minutes 10 seconds by the
stop-watch of a sporting passenger who
was interested in a bet. It was a common-
place for the cumbersome old vehicles,
bn roads which were full of holes and
depressions, to do the journey in 20
minutes, and that’s faster than the
time of the modern electric trams.
On lunch-hour and some of the
evening trips those four-horse expresses
used to tear along at a great bat, and the
drivers would curse if a hail by a woman
passenger caused them to pull up ; that
is, unless they could ignore the signal.
Male passengers were expected to jump off
and on while the caravans were moving.
Oxford-street was half its present width,
and if two trams were abreast there was
little room to pass, but the Jehus watched
the opportunity to shoot ahead of the
rail-bound lumberers. A journey on the
swaying top of one of those old buses
going full tear, whilst cyclists ahead, as
they heard the clatter of horses’ hooves
behind them, steered for the kerb, was
a thrill this generation has lost.
MATING CALLS.
“Companionable woman wishes meet honest man
with means.” — “S.M.H.” view mat. ad.
Mostly a certain sameness you’ll discover
About the adjectives employed as bait
By dames or damsels who require a lover
As prelude to the matrimonial state,
But no intriguing epithets illumine
This artless invite from behind the scenes:
It’s simply a companionable woman
Who wants to wed an honest man with
means.
She may be slim and dark, or fair and weighty;
What use to guess at what she doesn’t tell?
She claims no charm except in being “matey,”
Or, in her phrase, “companionable.”
Of camaraderie she’s learned the science,
And all she’s asking as a quid pro quo
To balance this in conjugal alliance
Is mainly honesty combined with dough.
No luring birdlime here, no honeyed hooey,
Such as in ads. like these is often met,
Only across the air a wistful eoo-ee
Of what she’ll give for what she fain would
get.
The impulse, after all, Is merely human
(In leap-year, too, no rule it contravenes).
Here’s luck to the companionable woman
Whose fancy’s for an honest man with
means!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“D.E.”: Does anyone now remember
Richard Le Gallienne? He was a poet
of the Naughty Nineties, and as hand-
some a poet as was ever painted or
photographed. I can still recall a full-
page portrait of the dazzling fellow that
appeared in the old “Sketch” ; but of his
lines I can remember only these:
The cry of the Little Peoples goes up to
God in vain;
The Czech and the Finn and the Pole and
the Schleswig Dane.
They were written two-and-forty years
ago, and they began humming in my
head again when I read that the Finns
had rung the bells of Helsingfors after
the victory of Suomussalmi, announced
in one of the tersest war bulletins on
record: “Our main object was to repulse
the 44th Red Division. This we achieved
by destroying it.” For the present the
Czech and the Pole have been con-
quered, but the cry of the Finn hasn’t
gone up to God in vain. As the Italian
suggested shrewdly, the new serf haled
from a collectivist farm or factory, living
in a collectivist shed or a ninth allotment
of a collectivist flat, with nothing to look
forward to here or hereafter, cannot pre-
vail over the freeman who fights for
home, race and religion.
V ♦ * *
“Runa”: Yes, some hobbies do lead
finally to profitable results (B. 10/1/’4O).
Maoriland’s first Government entomolo-
gist began as a country schoolmaster.
He trained the youngsters of the district
to bring him every unusual insect they
discovered. Processions of small boys
with small boxes or bags used to arrive
at school on Monday morning, ex-pupils
farther out forwarded more specimens,
and those who had gone far afield re-
membered their old headmaster’s obses-
sion when they chanced on anything out
of the way. He and his collection
achieved fame, and when the Government
wanted the right man to classify and keep
a tag on the country’s insects he was an
unassailable choice. As “Broun the
Beetle Man” he became known far be-
yond the hamlet of Howick, where he
labored for many years.
:js * *
“Bughouse”: I should like to see some
international authority make an analysis
of the atmosphere just to ascertain if any
marked change has taken place in its
composition, a change that would account
for the madness which seems to afflict
this generation. An increase in oxygen
might do it. And the amount of that
stimulating gas that has been liberated
this past half-century must be prodigious.
Take the tremendous increase in iron
production. Iron-ore is ferric oxide
(oxygen and iron). With the iron reduced
to a metallic state, where has the oxygen
gone to? Certainly it entered the atmo-
sphere as carbonic acid gas, but vege-
tation should speedily have absorbed the
carbon and liberated the oxygen. Though,
again, possibly all available vegetation
has been overtaxed and perhaps has
fallen down on the job owing to the
excessive outpouring of carbonic gases
from the internal combustion engine. So
possibly the world is on a carbonic-gas
drunk. Consider the placidity of the
people of, say, Tristan da Cunha, where
the air remains the normal mixture of
nitrogen and oxygen.
* * * *
“Motor Mike”: My prize for cool con-
fidence this week—an order for flowers
—goes to the game Australian who was
discovered by the police on a Wollongong
(N.S.W.) road enjoying the evening air
with his best girl. He was steering with
his right hand, the car zigzagging
all over the road. His left arm was round
the girl, and she had both arms round his
neck. Hauled before the Beak, he pro-
tested that if he had been caught in a
jam he could easily have taken his left
arm from the lady. Fined a pound, with
Bs. costs.
“Bluey”: Easily the most novel excuse
ever put forward by a motorist caught
“Take it further down the yard—you know how Dave hates the sight
of blood.”
speeding was that of a Sydney man
who said he was rushing to the bedside
of a dying dog. He even produced
a letter from the officiating vet.,
which said that his timely arrival
saved the dog—a Borzoi —which, so the
vet., said, is a one-man type, is highly-
strung, and makes little effort to recover
from shock. The tyke had been run
over by a car. A grand champion, worth
(so the defence said) £2OO, it recovered.
The prize plea was put forth by defen-
dant’s solicitor, who said that his client
was on a humanitarian mission, and that
a doctor hurrying to save the life of a
pa.tient was permitted to exceed the speed
limit. However, the unsentimental Beak,
no doubt reckoning that 50 dying dogs
were scarcely worth the risk of one
human life by rushing through populous
suburbs at high speed, acidly reminded
the defendant of a previous conviction
for dangerous driving, threatened to sus-
pend his license if “he keeps coming
here,” and fined him £7.
“All I said Was ‘Are you Mr. Simpson ?’”
“Ente Marid”: “T.’s” yarn (B.
10/1/’4O) about the young briefwagger
who turned up in court in a private’s
uniform and a spot of bother isn’t the
only classic of the kind. One of those
thrown up from the last war concerned
a collection of plumbers and other
skilled magnates who were told off to
inquire into certain events at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) camp. To them, as a witness, was
brought a large, dark, grimy, dungareed
young fellow with a bucket, whose
present occupation seemed to be more
sanitary than warlike. The committee
proceeded to put him in a right mood
of humility with a few well-chosen ques-
tions and adjurations. In return they
were told that they knew nothing about
the laws of evidence, that their procedure
was ultra vires and in effect (but with
a highly respectful polish to the intima-
tion) they could all go and stick their
heads in the young man’s bucket. Then
it occurred to the chairman that he had
better identify his victim a bit more
closely. “Where do you come from?”
he roared. “Sydney, sir,” said the
victim meekly. “What’s your address?”
“Last address Hotel Australia, sir.”
“Um! What’s your work in civil life?”
“Associate to the Chief Justice of the
High Court, sir.” The young man is
now a Justice himself.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Cabled from the U.S.A.,
where the Last Trump would be com-
mercialised, that the Dionne quintuplets
may replace the Russian pavilion at the
New York World’s Fair this year, the
justification for putting the children on
exhibition being that the funds will go
to the Canadian Red Cross. The people
responsible for this stunt apparently
haven’t considered the effect that
is likely to be produced on their
helpless wards. The enormous fuss
that has been made about them
cannot help but give them a ficti-
tious sense of their own importance,
and nothing stands more in the way of
success in life than a feeling that suc-
cess has been already achieved. As far
as I have been able to discover, there is
only one recorded case of even twins
becoming first-rate —that of Romulus and
Remus. And the jealousy of one caused
the other to kill him.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Reported that Charles Laugh-
ton has refuged to impersonate Dr.
Samuel Johnson, having found that the
celebrated lexicographer never did any-
thing except “sit on his fat rump and
make cruel remarks about other people.”
This has raised the ire of the secretary
of the Johnson Fraternity, who has re-
torted that Mr. Laughton knows nothing
about Dr. Johnson, that there was no
more kindhearted man in his day, and
that there is nothing to indicate that his
rump was any fatter than Mr. Laugh-
ton’s. Probably the secretary gent, has
got nearer the mark than he imagined.
The cherubic film actor’s annoyance may
partly be due to the prime physical con-
ditiqn which more and more restricts
his choice of historical
personages. But if this
isn’t his real objection,
why doesn’t he have a go
at Handel, who weighed
about half a ton, and
always had meals for three
persons cooked and then
sat down and ate the lot
of them? Towards the
end of his days Oscar
Asche got into a similar
predicament. There was
some historical justifica-
tion for his Falstaff, but
none for his Othello or his
Shylock, who may have
been as thin as matches
for all the evidence to the
contrary.
* * *
“K.P.”: British research
chemists are busy on the
job of finding some simple
and economic method of
removing -fuel oils from
cotton and other fabrics.
When the survivors from the tor-
pedoed Simon Bolivar were brought
into East Anglian and London hos-
pitals they were still covered with
thick black oil from the ship’s fuel
tanks burst by the explosion. Their
condition made bathing impossible, and
when they were put into bed the oil
was absorbed by sheets and pillow-cases.
All known laundry methods failed to re-
move it and four big hospitals were faced
with a sudden and serious shortage of
bed linen, necessitating a public appeal
for contributions by housewives. Another
line of inquiry made necessary by the
Bolivar and other cases is for a non-
poisonous and non-irritant fluid which
will enable skin and hair to be cleaned of
the beastly stuff.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Seventy-one years ago a
telescope which was a wonder of the age
was installed at the Melbourne Observa-
tory. It was 40ft. long, with a 48in.
mirror, and astronomers all over the
world waited to hear what it would
reveal of the secrets of the starry heavens.
For the last 20 years its unwinking stare
has been cut off by an unopened cupola.
Modern lighting in Melbourne set up a
dazzle which made observation difficult,
and political considerations of economy
refused salaries for the two astronomers
and assistant required to put the giant
into operation. In fact, for a long time
the only thing the “observatory” has been
good for is the provision of a time signal
to broadcasting stations. The Canberra
people want the fine instrument for their
observatory at Mount Stromlo, and the
State Government isn’t likely to raise
any insuperable obstacles to its going,
along with its equipment and the observa-
tory records. It will be brought up to
date with electric motors, though its
original clockwork mechanism was once
the pride of Melbourne and the envy of
overseas astronomers.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A happening which has
puzzled vital statisticians for a quarter
of a century and still remains unexplained
was the sudden heavy fall, in 1904, in
Australian infant mortality, which has
continued to decrease ever since. In 1903
the under-one-year deathrate per 1000
registered births was 111.36; by 1904 it
had dropped to 81.77. In 1938 it was a
little over 38. In 1899 it was over 127, and
it was under 100 in only one year be-
tween 1870 and 1904. Immigration had
nothina to do with it —Australia lost
population from 1903 to 1906. Nor was
there any material difference in the
national birthrate. It certainly cannot
be explained by any sudden improve-
ment in general sanitation or in the treat-
ment of infants. Attempts have been
made to explain it in this way for some
States and localities, but the fact that
the same thing was found to be happen-
ing a little later in most European coun-
tries and the U.S.A. blows them out
completely. If any ambitious young vital-
statistic merchant wants to make a name
for himself here’s his chance.
INDISPENSABLE.
“There are N.S.W. towns without libraries, but
none without a cinema theatre” (B. 10/l/’4O).
We can do without books (barring those that
we’ve got), .
Regardless of whether they re classics or not;
We°hold it no blame not to read or have read
The writings of chaps who’ve been centuries
dead; „ ....
The modern best-sellers whom cities discuss
Have little appeal or attraction for us.
But ever our keenest attention we fix
On the movies, the talkies, the films, and the
flicks.
They give us, on screens picturesquely unfurled,
A vie.v of who’s who and what’s what in the
world. .
Love, poverty, war, as you 11 all be aware,
Are ’incidents featured indelibly there.
In the Hollywood fashion? Well, possibly so,
But what, after all, doesn’t Hollywood know
Of the sweets and the bitters, the kisses and
Enshrined in the talkies, the films and the
flicks?
We eat our boiled mutton sans capers—as lief
We’d call for horseradish to garnish our beef.
For those from plain living who’re not so
exempt
We’ve a feeling that’s almost akin to contempt.
Let highbrows and bluestockings rave of the
lure
And bleat of the blessings of literature;
There are more, one suspects, who would rate
it for nix
Compared with the glamor of films and of
flicks.
No envy they feel for the person who delves
For profit or pleasure in library shelves.
Our Jacks and our Jennies, our Daisies and
Get a livelier line upon life from the flicks.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
WM
1
§j
% for m
M m
CRAVEN'A"
H!Nel : so nmch smoother
TSf*"*
Yaayl
X
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS 28 i8
POLITICAL POINTS
With characteristic bad taste, Churchill
went to France once more “to visit the
British forces on the Western Front”
while Hore-Belisha was removing his
papers from the War Office. Had
Churchill been the dismissed Minister,
and had Hore-Belisha chosen that
moment to visit the Grand Fleet, the
British press would have given him beans.
On Churchill’s gross offence against poli-
tical decency it was as dumb as a drum
with a hole in it.
In returning the commission handed to
him, Justice Gavan Duffy reported that
questionable funds were raised by Vic-
torian moneylenders and milkmen while
legislation in which they were interested
was going through the State’Parliament,
but there was no evidence of any bribe
having been offered or received. In the
case of the Milk Board Bill, though “an
agreement to bribe some members of Par-
liament” was “the proper inference to
draw,” it “unfortunately remains a matter
“ADOLF, WHERE ARE YOU?"
for conjecture only whether any members
asked for bribes and whether any bribes
were actually given.” Dunstan has
handed the report to the Police Depart-
ment for “appropriate action.”
People waiting at their receiving-sets
to hear the P.M.’s globe-shaking an-
nouncement that Casey was to be sent
to Washington got the news from Lon-
don an hour before Menzies reached the
microphone. It had been known in Aus-
tralian newspaper offices for weeks.
There is a suspicion that the hope of
Kooyong has fallen in love with the
sound of his own radio voice. He cer-
tainly has a good one, and perhaps he
is destined to succeed “The Watchman”
as A.B.C.’s “chief commentator,” leaving
Cameron to run the country.
The British Parliament is back on the
job, and many Britons protested that the
Commons should have been summoned
last week to debate the Hore-Belisha
affair. Australia has seven Parliaments,
and not one of them is in action or will
be for months. Yet the leader of one —
the Sydney show—stands committed “to
relieve the people from certain burdens
immediately the House meets.” In other
words, his Government imposed out-
rageous taxation at the source of in-
come, and every it delays removing
the “certain burdens” amounts to a
denial of justice.
Not a month back from Britain,
“where he represented Australia at im-
portant discussions on war problems,”
Casey is to be sent to Washington as
Minister. Only a few weeks back from
a glorious wander-year in which he had
the company of his secretary and a
Government architect, FitzSimons, the
N.S.W. Minister of Health, has been
called up for A.A.M.C. service. And
Hay, the N.S.W. Agent-General, who has
been in London only long enough to
have his bill for expenses mentioned in
the Auditor-General’s report for 1938-39,
is returning. They do throw our money
about, these politicians, don’t they?
In 1934 Arthur Blakeley, M.H.R. for
Darling (N.S.W.), lost the seat he had held
for 17 years. He was the only member
who lived at Canberra, and it was de-
cided that something had to be done
for him, so he was appointed a Govern-
ment inspector “to police arbitration
awards.” Now he bids fair to become
head of a new department; anyway, six
more Government inspectors are to be
appointed “to police arbitration awards”
at £5OO a year. “Put a Government
clerk at a table with a blotting pad and
a file and in no time he will have a
department around him.” Henry Parkes
said that or something like it. He knew
the ways of politicians and bureaucrats.
Plans for increasing the already
colossal cost of government are for
ever working in the heads of State Ad-
ministrations where all else is vacancy.
Cain, of Northcote (Vic.), is now drawing
another £5 a week for being leader of
the third party. FitzSimons, of Lane
Cove (N.S.W.), is to go on drawing £1945
a year for being Minister of Health —
the seventh of the litter while doing
A.A.M.C. work on home service. And
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Public Works
Committee is to be resuscitated so that
members left behind in the rush for
loaves and fishes may “earn” special fees.
Before it was consigned to a well-
deserved doom, the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Public Works Committee recommended
all the lines that have made the Railway
Department hopelessly insolvent and all
the tramways that are abandoned every
few weeks. Now it is to be brought to
life again, with the deficit at £6,676,200
for six months. This Sydney Government
seems to have gone clean off its onion.
According to Chamberlain, “Anglo-
French collaboration in finance and
economy” will “prove so valuable that
when the war is over neither will want
to give it up.” Perhaps so; but the
Dominions will want to know more
about it, and to have doubts resolved,
before they will consent to come in. If
it means their being tied to French
policy for all time, they will beg to be
excused.
“In 15 country areas regional doctors
—all of British nationality are being
appointed by the N.S.W. Government,
which will subsidise them up to £lOOO
a year,” Thus “S. M. Herald” ; but was
Granny pleased at the thought of country
places getting medical services and Aus-
tralian doctors decent incomes? No ;
it shrieked that “Prejudice” was
“Triumphant” because Germans and
Austrians hadn’t been appointed. Granny
doesn’t find room for refugees on her
own staff; but she seems to think every-
one else should make a point of em-
ploying them.
Rationing of food was not resorted to
in Britain till the third year of the last
war. So it is not exactly reassuring to
read that butter, bacon and sugar have
been rationed already, and that butcher’s
meat is to go on to the list presently,
even though a Minister explains that these
measures were decided upon before the
outbreak. The lesson for Australia is
that Australia must build-ships and the
sooner the better. Australians have
proved that they can build ships; and
good ships, too.
The smoothness with which the enrol-
ment of twenty-year-olds for home train-
ing and service has worked shows what
madness it was to put conscription to the
vote in 1916-1917. Then, as now, Aus-
tralians aged from 18 to 60 were liable
to be called up in time of war, and
young men in the 20-26 age group were
actually in training. Extension of the
call-up to men beyond that age-limit
would have produced no political storm,
and many of the trainees would have
enlisted in the A.I.F. As it was, the nation
was divided, and the scars left by the long
contention can still be seen.
Lawson, the Minister of Customs, tries
to justify the unjustifiable:
As to criticism of the so-called monopoly,
may I point out now that this question
hardly arises, as the organisation which
has undertaken to manufacture cars is pre-
pared to relinquish its right if some other
Australian organisation, in the opinion of
the Government with sufficient capital and
competent to embark on the enterprise, is
prepared to do so without exclusive manu-
facturing rights for a period of five years.
This means, if it means anything, that
A.C.1., late Australian Glass, has offered
to give up the monopoly granted to it —
in spite of the Prime Minister’s express
assurance that there would be no mono-
poly—if another company of which Law-
son may deign to approve agrees to make
cars without a monopoly. Menzies should
tell the young gentleman to dry up.
Vinton Smith is out for Corio, Casey’s
electorate, as a supporter of the Govern-
ment. A Digger with a good army
record, he was a Young Nationalist
M.L.A. and had the pluck to come out for
national training for Australian service
when the average U.A.P. member was
roosting on the highest available fence.
Vinton Smith foresaw then what has
come about, that young Australians
would patriotically accept a war-time
obligation legislatively provided for be-
fore they were born.
Possibly hoping against hope that the
Red Army will yet justify the office de-
scription of it as “the greatest fighting
machine history has ever known” (April,
1937), Sydney “D.T.” reported that the
“Soviet Steamroller” was “driving with
great force on the Salla front,” and that
Swedish newspapers proclaimed it “the
most important advance since the war
began.”
The sudden tightening of the Finnish
censorship is taken as evidence that the
Finns regard the situation as critical.
Next day the “D.T.” announced that
“the entire Soviet 44th Division” had
been “smashed,” and in its agitation it
gave the Finns “one hundred thousand
prisoners.” “Extension of the Anglo-
Russian pact to Eastern Asia” can’t now
be as “urgent” as the “D.T.” said it was
in July. 1939.
In the last three or four years platoons
of politicians, commissioners, Govern-
ment clerks and so forth have been sent
abroad “to make investigations.” The
recent jaunt of FitzSimons, of Sydney,
one of the seven Ministers of Health,
was typical; there were three in the Fitz-
Simons party, exclusive of ladies. Soldiers
and airmen who could have learned
something abroad were excluded from
the list of travellers. Now politicians
are giving this deprivation as a reason
for refusing soldiers and airmen the pro-
motion which they had every right to
expert.
One L. P. Fox, one of those secre-
taries of Leagues for Peace and Democ-
racy, has been baited into explaining why
“we have been silent about Finland.”
It is because “the Finnish Government is
not democratic, as the Finnish trade-
union movement has twice been banned
since 1918” (the gentleman doesn’t say
by whom); also “Mannerheim led the
White Terror in 1918,” and “Finland is
receiving help from the British and
French Governments, so that the war has
become in many senses a war between
capitalism and socialism.”
We consider that material aid at present
is best directed toward the Spanish refu-
gees in France and the relief of the
Chinese people. The Chinese people are
fighting the fight of the Australian people,
and they deserve every support.
Foxy; but it won’t go down.


THE SHARK.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
■*#!<
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE DUBIOUS BOOM IN SHARES.
WAR-TIME ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
AND THEIR EFFECTS.
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS.
January Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all State
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Monsignor Matthew Boevich, desig-
nated the new Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop of Adelaide, is Melbourne-born,
having seen the light at Carlton 43 years
ago. He was educated at the Nicholson-
street Convent and the C.8.C., North
Melbourne, and before he commenced his
studies for the priesthood was for a while
an employee in the telegraph branch of
DR. M. BOEVICH, Archbishop-elect
of Adelaide.
the Post Office. He’s a doctor of both
Divinity and Philosophy, was ordained
in 1922, and since 1924 has been Director
of R.C. Education in Victoria. Aus-
tralian Rules football has always held
his keen interest, and his translation to
Adelaide robs Carlton of a loyal bar-
racker whose knowledge of the club's
history is encycloptedic.
The statement that no Briton outside
the fighting services has yet won the
Empire Gallantry Medal needs correc-
tion. When the monoplane Southern
Cross was flying the Tasman in 1935
Captain P. G. Taylor won the medal
when he climbed on to a wing and saved
the crew by remedying a defect. Taylor
achieved some of the most amazing feats
in aviation history, and they were all
done in civilian service.
His old friend Dr. Robert Scott
Skirving unveiled a memorial to the late
Brigadier-General T. H. Fiaschi, who
died in 1927, at Waverley Cemetery last
week. The attendance testified to the
extent of the old general’s friendships
and the affection in which he was held.
A Florentine, Fiaschi came to N.S.W.
in his thirtieth year to practise as sur-
geon. He soon made himself an Aus-
tralian in spirit, and eight years after
arriving joined the A.M.C. When the
S’African war broke out he took No. 1
Field Hospital abroad and was specially
mentioned by Lord Roberts for his ser-
vices at Paardeburg and with the M.I.
in the field. Returning, he became
P.M.O. in N. S. Wales, having meantime
been awarded the D.S.O. Though one
of the Commonwealth’s most dis-
tinguished surgeons, his heart was in the
land, and his Tizzana vineyards on the
Hawkesbury were a notable contribution
to the progress of viticulture in Aus-
tralia. He left a son to carry on his
work —Dr. P. Fiaschi, who took over
the paternal practice, is among the best-
known doctors in Sydney. Though
he counted himself an Australian and
taught his son to regard this country as
his native land, the elder Fiaschi kept
touch with Italy and did much to pro-
mote Italo-Australian friendship and an
interest here in Italian culture. He was a
Knight of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus
and a commendatore of the order of
the Crown of Italy.
John Hetherington, who will represent
the evening dailies of Australia with the
Second A.1.F., is a young man of 32
who has had 15 years’ experience on
Melbourne “Herald,” Australian news
cable services i.n New Yorlc and London,
and on English papers. Lately he has
been magazine editor of the “Herald.”
In his spare time he is a prolific writer
of short stories.
Pedagogues from all over the Com-
monwealth went to Melbourne for the
Teachers’ Conference, and for the third
time a Tasmanian is president. He is
M. A. S. McNeair, principal of the A. G.
Ogilvie High School, which used •to be
New Town but was renamed in honor of
the Speck’s late Premier. His school is
a baby of two years of age but already
has 400 pupils. It is the only commercial
high school in Australia.
There are few people who look less
like a professor than Walter Murdoch,
who greeted 1940 by retiring from the
Westralian Uni. —it would be a pardon-
able error to mistake the slight grey-
headed figure with twinkling blue eyes
and a Rudyard Kipling moustache for a
Scotch engineer.
Before Murdoch
came to Australia
in 1884 he spent
the first 10 years of
his youth in “a
fishing village on
that part of the
coast of Scotland
that looks straight
up at the North
Pole” and where
“our chief recrea-
tion in winter was
watching ship-
wrecks.” He was
educated at Scotch
College, Mel-
bourne, and at
Melbourne Uni.,
where he took his
M.A. and first-class
honors in logic and
philosophy. In
1898, “being a
schoolmaster, mar-
ried and finding
daily difficulty in
making ends meet,”
he began contribut-
ing to the “Argus,”
and so acquired a
habit which neither
he nor the “Argus’
has been able to
break over the past
40 years. Though
more widely known
as an essayist, Murdoch’s university
teaching has always mattered most to him,
and he was probably the most popular of
all lecturers at the W.A. Uni., where he
took over as Professor of English in 1912.
His essays are like the man—warmly
humorous and gently but accurately
critical of things ranging from ordinary
suburban humbug to the faults of our
education system. Apart from his books,
his recreations are his pipe and Edgar
Wallace.
Pressmen who reported the Empire
Producers’ Conference in Sydney in mid-
-1937 gave thanks to whatever gods they
hold sacred for the advent there of
Richard J. F. Boyer, a Queensland
grazier, who in his speeches cut out
the cackle and got down to tin-tacks.
His appointment as one of the three new
members of the A.B.C. is therefore wel-
come. Owner of Durella, near Morven
(Q.), he is a M.A. of Sydney Uni., has
represented Australia at Geneva and the
woolgrowers at many conferences at
home and abroad. He was with the
first A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in France.
W. H. Schneider, expert and lecturer
in mechanical engineering at Hobart Uni.
and Technical College also for the last
15 years, is only going back home when
he moves to similar duties at Adelaide
School of Mines, where he earned his
diploma, and incidentally a B.E. degree
at the ’Varsity alongside.
Don Bradman is the first cricketer in
the world to get an extended notice in
Who’s Who —he is reckoned worth 20
lines, which is seven more than are
allotted to Hore-Belisha. But Australians
don’t need to read reference books about
Bradman. He’s the Admirable Crichton
of Australian sport—a sound golfer, a
dab at tennis (both lawn and squash),
handy with a billiard cue, and an in-
veterate winner of all games on ship-
board. Also he’s a clever pianist, can
make a witty after-dinner speech and can
write fluently and readably. All his gifts
are of value to Australia when he’s sent
abroad, but there’s a growing school of
• thought that considers he should be
handicapped when he plays cricket at
home. No score by him under three
figures should count, and he should be
permitted to make no more than 14
consecutive fours without interspersing
a six. A special Commonwealth statute
should declare his innings closed when
DON BRADMAN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
he reaches 200, and when fielding he
should have a 41b. flatiron attached to
eac h ankle.
Zadea Lazarus, president of the Legacy
Club, Sydney, is a partner of Lazarus,
Rosenfeld, Ltd., importers of china and
glassware, and has been an active worker
for the Legacy Club since its beginnings
Born in Sydney 44 years ago, he was
educated at the Sydney Grammar School,
and served with the old N.S.W. Lancers
before the Great War of 1914-18. At
Z. LAZARUS.
the age of 20 he enlisted with the 42nd
Battery, A.1.F., and saw two years of
fighting in France.
Walter Young, dead in Adelaide at 67
after long illness, was a quiet citizen
whom an instinct for finance brought
steadily to the front. He went into the
Elder Smith Co. at 15, was its general
manager at 40 and managing director
at 57. In the last war the Commonwealth
made use of him on the Wheat Board,
the Wool Committee and the Shipping
Board, sending him also on an official
visit to the U.S.A. Later he was chair-
man of the executive negotiating with
Britain the wool carryover. But his
greatest score came in the depression,
when successive Governments of S.A.
gave him the post, unique for a private
citizen, of financial adviser till he told
them the Premiers’ Plan was sufficient,
and retired. He was latterly chairman
of the 1.C.1. and director of various pas-
toral cos., but was always happiest when
he could get away to the stock and the
crops of his own place behind the Adel-
aide hills. He never married, but leaves
brothers and sisters all about Australia ;
and one, Fred, a former S.A. Agent-
General, earned a title (as did Walter)
and went into the Commons.
“R.L.D.”: Laurie Power (B. 10/l/’4O)
was chosen to play for South Australia
in inter-State cricket, and he played for
the State against Douglas’s 1920-21
English XI, making 44 in the second
innings before going l.b.w. to Woolley.
And Power played baseball for the
Adelaide Uni. team, being a capital short
stop. He was-in training fo? accountancy
when he won the “Sun” aria competi-
tion at Ballarat.
From the “Office Antiquary”:
Unless the distinction can be claimed for
a two-column portrait of the managing director,
the most important illustration in Melbourne
“Herald’s” account of its century of journal-
ism” (B. 10 /1 / ’4O) was “On the Block in 1888
with Famous Cartoonist Phil May.” The
original, with three rows of figures, appeared
in The Bulletin of August 18, 1888. The
1940 “Herald” reproduced one row, didn’t
know two of the nine characters and was re-
duced to guessing at the identity of a third.
Acknowledgment to The Bulletin there was
none.
Nor was there any mention of The Bulle-
tin in a long reference to C. J. Dennis. Any-
one reading it would imagine that the “Herald”
had brought him out. In point of fact, “Den.”
did all his good work for the old Red Rag,
and nothing he wrote for the “Herald” was
ever republished in book form or ever will be.
In the story of the “Herald’s” growth to
commercial success a complacent account was
given of publications that came up against it
and failed. For its “Punch” venture it spared
one uninformative line. In 1925 it bought
“Punch” and bought up about half The
Bulletin staff, intending to knock out The
Bulletin. It was “Punch” that was knocked
out.


c
&
'Mj
only
to haccos
arc
. smoke
„ is «-
b :»/ ** ,o - ia i
Z - r r=J
1/“
77 4
:v.
M
■j U t *
777
4
pm
f
K
o
5/4 r
?ts
391 G-1.40
10 for 6d.
20 for I'-
/Viscaceile Wrapped for fresher flavour


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “The narrerest escape I ever
had from passin’ in me chips,” remarked
Dan, “wus one time when I wus perched
on the top of a Guv’ment stone quarry
watchin’ the blokes at work below. It
wus a sheer drop of a coupla
hundred feet from where I wus ;
but I had plenty of nerve in them
days, an’ sat there with me legs
danglin’ over the edge, quite un-
concerned. There’s a big iron-
roofed crushin’ shed down below
with an engine goin’ hard in it.
Suddenly I see a mob of blokes
come tearin’ outa the shed, an’
rushin’ orf in all directions. I’m
wonderin’ what all the fuss is
about when I sees steam shootin’
outa the shed in clouds. I dunno
zackly how it happened—must’ve
bent forward a bit too much in
me excitement; but the next
thing I know I’ve overbalanced
an’ was on me way down
t’ be smashed to bits on the stones
below. But I’d on’y gone a coupla
feet when there’s a tremenjous explosion
down in the quarry, an’ the next thing I
know I’m back on the top agen, a bit
winded —but safe and sound. When I
get me wits back I look around me an’
find I’m lyin’ on the roof of the crushin’
shed. If I’d fallen a second before I did
I’d most likely have been blown t’ bits, or
broken me neck on the roof as it met me
on its way up!”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: With the increasing
importance of producer gas the relative
values of charcoal from different timbers
have given rise to much argument, here
in W.A. at any rate. Most of the char-
coal procurable around Perth is from
jarrah, although some burners are now
turning out whitegum also. It’s probably
slightly superior, but more difficult to
burn. There’s a widely-accepted theory
that the harder timbers of the wheatbelt
—salmon- and white-gums, etc. —yield
better coal than the relatively soft jarrah,
and that the roots are better than the
timbers themselves. My vote goes to the
wodgil-charcoal they burn on the gold-
fields ; and wodgil is a hard wood.
* * H= *
“Bogaduck”: The deep-sea crab is
usually only landed by blind chance, and
rarely. 1 got one when angling for
snapper in the deep water off Beachport
(S.A.). Feeling something pulling steadily
at the line I gave a jerk, thinking that
it was an octopus, and hauled up.
Landed on the cutter's deck, it proved to
be cream-and-chocolate-colored, with a
body about 4in. through and 15in.
across; its big claw was like a man’s arm
for size and held more meat than a
couple of crayfish. We cooked it in a
washing copper and took over 121 b. of
meat out of it; a dish fit for a king.
**. * *
“Old Camp”: Romantic names for
goldmines? From Northam to Coolgardie
in ’94 was over 300 miles. Behind the
scores of freight-wagons “swampers”
tramped. On one wagon rode Cool-
gardie’s first piano. At night, the camp-
fire glowing, pipes lit, “Dry blower”
Murphy—poet and journalist (but lately
departed to Valhalla) —would open this
piano. Dave McGregor would sing.
Songs then were worth the singing, and
“Queen of the Earth” (beautiful woman
enthroned) was the moment’s favorite.
The setting was desert silence, loneliness
ringed round like some vast mystery,
cloudless sky, brilliant stars, “Dry-
blower’s” music and McGregor’s fine
voice singing a song to touch the hearts
of virile men. Coolgardie reached, Mc-
Gregor, Roxburgh and Weston, repre-
senting a syndicate in Cobar (N.S.W.),
went prospecting. Four months passed
without winning a ’weight. Desperate,
they headed for Mt. Catherine, just dis-
covered, 150 miles out from the main
camp. Again weeks without sign of
gold. Then McGregor, out one day
alone, came on a boulder that glinted
“If you don’t stop winding in that hawser how're we going to tow you in ?”
y e n OW- On the surface alone they gar-
nerec j £2OOO. There could be but one
name for such an El Dorado—Queen of
t jj e garth. A hundred thousand was
their price. But the Londonderry “golden
hole” had only recently petered out. So
for 16 months McGregor camped on top
of the reef, finding no buyer. Then,
goaded by sneers, they sank a shaft,
Thirty tons of ore yielded 29380 z. But
at 20ft. the reef was barren. As with the
beauty of many a woman, the richness of
the Queen of the Earth was only skin-
deep.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Tourists go to a lot of
trouble to visit the Dead Sea, in Pales-
tine, in order to swim in water so buoy-
ant that you cannot sink in it. But there’s
no need for Australians to do so ; they
C an enjoy the same thing at home in
our numerous salt lakes. Best-known one
is near Beachport (S.A.). An almost
circular pool some 300 yards across,
lying among the dunes at the back of the
ocean beach, its waters are crystal clear,
but it is salt enough to pickle meat,
When you dive into it you bob up again
like a cork, and then you can float
around all day if you wish, with your
head, feet and hands clear of the water.
* ' * *
“Nakh”: Some sympathy is called for
on behalf of the forest authorities in
Victoria. Last year the danger was in
the great virgin forests. This year it is
in the grasslands. The phenomenal rain-
fall has produced a great growth of
herbage, and a feature is the thistle, which
has produced a 6ft. variety. With a
hurricane like the one which caused the
holocaust last January a grass fire can
outdistance the fleetest runner. New
measures of prevention include flammen-
werfers modelled on the beastly things
the Germans used in the last war. They
have proved very effective for making
firebreaks. Every area in the State is
now covered by fire brigades except the
inaccessible and densely-timbered coun-
try. Dugouts have been built at timber
mills and, generally speaking, only ex-
traordinary conditions could bring about
a repetition of the 1939 catastrophe.
Still, that affair was due to extraordinary
conditions.
* * * »
“J.D.”: Tell “Turk” (B. 3/1 / ’4O) that
the spouse of his late gobbler is a dis-
grace to her sex, and was obviously prac-
tising birth-control, otherwise she would
not have put up such a poor effort. The
male turkey is necessary for fertility
only during a short honeymoon, after
which he can literally “go to pot” as far
as the lady’s needs for posterity are con-
cerned, for all her eggs will be fertile
throughout the whole laying season.
Many small farmers who go in fo_r only a
few turkeys keep no gobbler at all, but
in season the hens are left for a week at
a farm where a gobbler is kept, after
which the ladies can produce several
clutches of eggs each, every one of which
is capable of hatching.
7 *
“Greenhide”: These coves who moan
about import restrictions on city goods
ought to come bush-carpentering and
-engineering with me for a spell. It’s
years since a butterbox of real boxwood
or dressed-timber kero.-cases were last
seen upcountry, and the plywood tea-
cases from the store disappeared at the
outbreak of the scrap for some unknown
reason. Kero.-tins themselves are scarce
and well guarded by the owners, and
bowsers have long since cut off the all-
purpose petrol-tin. The craftsman is
forced back to his jumping-off point,
barbed wire and greenhide; but with
entanglements all over the military land-
scape, and slaughtering, with hides on,
all done in abattoirs, those staples will
be scarce. Still, there’s always Binghi’s
standby—plaited stringybark coverings
and tea-tree frames ; so the trade is safe.
* * # *
“Waranbini”: Apart from cormorants,
I give the belt jointly to the musk duck,
the blue-billed duck and the little “bob-
down diver” as the champion feathered
submarines. These three will stick to a
lagoon all day despite disturbance. They
won’t fly while they can escape by div-
ing ; they disappear in a flash, to reappear
at a considerable distance from where
they submerged. The blue-billed duck,
which is the musk duck’s nearest rival in
diving, when menaced will disappear
under water until the danger has passed.
It dives under reeds or lily leaves, where
only the nostrils and eyes are thrust above
the surface. The little bob-down divers —
dabchicks or grebes—keep well out in the
clear water. They dive to a great depth,
being bottom feeders, remaining below
for some time, and often come up at the
same spot; but when disturbed they bob
down and reappear 100 yards away.
These birds suggest the submarine more
than anything else in feathers except the
darter. Darters can submerge the body
till nothing is seen but the long neck,
stretched up like a periscope above the
surface.
* * * *
“Bufo ’: It is high time that the C.S.
and LR. got busy on some of our home-
grown labor-saving resources now that
military needs require so much of Aus-
tralia’s man-power. Why can’t the big
grubs which bore inch holes in trees be
trained to do the same job on posts for
wire fences? Bred larger and applied in
suitable containers, they could also do
valuable work in rail-mortising. The
committee’s attitude towards white-ants
is entirely hostile —why? Modern scien-
tific research should be capable of evolv-
ing a species which would gnaw through
the stems of sugarcane at the right
season, thus releasing thousands of men
from cane-cutting and saving the grower
much trouble and expense. Considering
what moths have done to my best suit it
should be a simple matter for any real
entomologist to persuade them to make a
better job of getting the wool off a jum-
buck than Jackie Howe ever did. There
are lots of other possibilities, but these
will do to go on with.
* * #
“Jayem”: Red Victor had talked poli-
tics for an hour and a half. “That’s the
situation in a nutshell,” he declared at
last. “Cripes, Vic,” said Long Harry as
he went out for a breath of air, “what
size is the nut?”
* * * *
“Arev”: It was a hot, dusty day as
the dog inspector rode up the hill to
Wilson’s farm. Only the knowledge
that there were at least six dogs on the
property encouraged the official to go
so far off the main road. Several bare-
legged youngsters looked out, then ran
to the house. When the inspector reached
the sliprails the only bark was from a
small dog that was obviously under age.
Jack Wilson came sauntering
from the house. “I’ve called
about the dog licenses,” said the
inspector. Jack leaned over the
sliprails. “I’ve had bad luck
with me dogs,” he said. “They
was poisoned last week —all of
them but this little bloke.”
“That so?” said the official.
“Funny how all the dogs get
poisoned the week before I
come round.” “Yes,” said Jack.
“I reckon the poisoner must
have you set.” The inspec-
tor nodded; it was bad luck to
have climbed the hill for nothing.
He cracked his whip loudly as he
moved off, but only the yapping of
the pup greeted his efforts. Shortly
after he had disappeared behind the
clump of trees at the side of the hill the
persistent barking of a fox brought from
the drain in the Wilson paddock five
excited dogs, fiercely barking, while a
tribe of young Wilsons vainly tried to
restrain them. The inspector turned his
horse. • Wilson was still at the sliprails,
towards which the dogs were making as
fast as they could go. “This is really
a remarkable device,” said the inspector
as he pulled up at the sliprails and held
up a small instrument. “It’s already resur-
rected thirty poisoned dogs in the dis-
trict.” He took out his pencil. “Five
dogs, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Many of the notable
teamsters of the big carrying days in
western N.S.W. have their last camp in
the cemetery at Hay, on the Murrum-
bidgee. One is Mick Quinlan, who
gained renown among the fraternity by
colliding with the solitary gum that gave
the name to One Tree Plain. It was
the only obstacle in the great open space
that his wagon could hit. Mick blamed
the hot weather, the bullocks getting out
of hand and rushing for the only shade.
Another was “Paddy the Priest,” the
most profane driver on the western
roads. It was said out there that it was
Paddy’s language that killed the old gum.
The local poet commemorated him thus:
In the boneyard down at the back of Hay,
In a suit of colonial pine,
Old Paddy is sleeping the sleep of the just,
And his mate is here on the wine.
Paddy’s rival was Jacky Lea, the “Booli-
gal Blaster,” who was blamed for stir-
ring up the duststorms. According to
legend, one argument they had at the
One Tree Hotel, when they started to
outcurse each other, caused the soda-
water bottles to blow their corks.
GERMAN CHARLIE.
Dey galls me Sherman Sharlie; 1 am shoost
a handy ploke
Who knogs apout der packplocks, mendin’
dings vat haf got proke;
I’m goot at schissors-grindin’, an’ I solders
bots an’ bans;
I can batch ub poots an’ shoeses for der
vomans, schilds or mans.
But some volk now nod schpeak der me —I do
nod know vat for —
Dey galls me Sherman Sharlie . . . but 1
didn’t schtart der var.
I haf a leedle dachshund, an’ he vollers me
aroundt:
A vaithful leedle feller, dough his legs yoost
reach the groundt;
So ven a pully schwears at him an’ svings
his plucher poot
An’ kicks him in der schtomach, I schoudt
oudt “You pig galoot!
Abologise alretty, or I drow you drough der
door;
My name is Sherman Sharlie . . . but / didn’t
schtart der var.”
Der pully galls his cobbers, cryin’ “Now
dere’ll be some fun—
Yoost schtand aroundt an’ vatch me vile I
baralyse dis Hun! ”
But Pilly Prown say “Gut it oudt—he’s nod
a Hitler schpy;
An’ if anypody hid him veil, I means do
haf a fly.
I ton’t gare if he’s Sherman born or gomes
from Labrador;
He’s dinkum, is ole Sharlie ... an’ he didn’t
schtart der var.”
I vish dot eff’ry von I meedt vould tink der
same as Pill,
An’, dough I vas a Sherman born, vould pare
me no ill-vill.
If oder beoples schtart a row avay agross the
sea
I ton’t see vy der plazes dey should plame
id on do me;
A goot Australian mans am I, an’ loyal do der
gore;
My name is Sherman Sharlie . . . but I didn’t
schtart der var.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Joe was interested
in the whale that came ashore on a S.Q.
beach recently. “Just as well it wus a
dead ’un,” he said. “Ever tell yer ’bout
my brother Sam an’ the whale? Well,
one day Sam goes down to the beach
ter see if ’e can’t get a bit o’ fish, an’
there wus a fair snodger uv a whale
aground. Sam aims sticks at it, an’
wades out an’ gives it a coupla kicks, an’
it don’t move, so ’e reckons ’is forchun
wus made, what with the oil ’e’d get
outa it and maybe sellin’ the skellerton
to the museum. Back ’e goes an’ fetches
’is bullicks, sixteen ’ead uv ’em, gets a
sniggin’-chain round the blankard’s tail
an’ starts the flamin’ team. D’reckly the
strain come on, bust me if the big cow
don’t come alive an’ start wallopin’
round a treat! Stone the crows, Bill,
if that there blasted whale didn’t clear
out ter sea with the whole blanky team!
Long as Sam lived yer’d only ter men-
tion whales ter ’ear wot a dinkum old-
style bullicky could do in the way uv
langwidge.”
* Hi * *
“Walkabout”: A swan’s nest we
located the other day in a dry swamp
can’t be compared for size with the nests
of sea-eagles and scrub turkeys (B.
20/12/’39), but for ingenuity and fore-
thought the builders’ work will take some
beating. Constructed from sticks of all
descriptions, the pile was sft.
high, the hatching chamber
being 2ft. above water-level
when the flood was at its
peak, as was indicated by
debris and the marks on
trees. As it was “water,
water everywhere” when the
long-necked birds com-
menced to build their nest,
what dodge was used to lay
the foundation and make it
“stay put” under water? And
how did the birds keep the
dry sticks from rising to the
surface before the eventual
weight of the pile above
water level kept them in
position?
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: Slaughtering
his first calf or sheep is
generally a sickening experi-
ence for the newchum. I
remember the first time I spilt
blood. The old man decided
that 14 was old enough for
a boy to be “useful,” so I
was dispatched with a
butcher’s knife and a sinking
feeling to “fix” Bully. But
just as I’d steeled myself for
the job the calf turned' his
soulful eyes on me. That settled yours
truly; I decided the old chap’s boot
couldn’t hurt me as much as those eyes.
Strangely enough, my parent took my
conscientious objections quite calmly.
“All right; turn him loose in the
ten-acre,” was all he said. An hour
after, however, he seemed to change
his mind. “Pen him up again,”
he ordered. Then the fun started. For
over an hour I chased that lump of
bovine cussedness around the paddock.
When at last I caught him the old man
was waiting with the knife. “Will y’ kill
’im now?” he asked. “My oath!” I
growled—and I did.
* * * X
“Cooramin”: Is there an easier way
of carrying an infant than the lubra’s?
She makes a netted bag from the inner
bark of the kurrajong or sycamore, and
in that she tucks the baby and slings
him on her back. Usually the sling is
held round the forehead. When shifting
camp she loads the rugs and blankets
loosely on her back, with the exception
of o.ne ; then the bagged infant is slung
on top of them, and the other blanket
wrapped over him, leaving only his head
showing. Fler hands are thus free to
carry the billycan and firestick and attend
to her pipe. By this method she can
tramp for hours without a spell, whereas
she would soon knock up on a hot day
if she carried little Binghi in her arms,
even without the blankets. Her spouse
doesn’t carry his son and heir until he
is able to toddle, then the youngster is
straddled across his neck —and that’s an
improvement on “piggyback.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: A Red Page note on
Eugene N. Marais’s My Friends the
Baboons (B. 3/1 / ’4O) says Marais holds
that the Australian parrot reputed to have
gone from bad to worse, accidentally ac-
quiring a taste for mutton while just
stealing a little wool to line its nest, has
nothing on the baboons. I never heard
of any Australian parrot using wool to
line its nest; all the younkers I ever got
were squawking on some rotted wood in
the bottom of a hollow. Marais was
probably thinking of the Maoriland killer,
the kea, which tackles sheep for their
kidney fat.
“Can any of you blokes lend me a comb?”
“ Aren't you one of them brass'ats I goiter salute?”
“Dusty Way”: Ingenious are the stunts
practised in desert country for the con-
servation of water. Knew the wash-lady
or a tair-sized mining camp who was the
despair of the local condenser owner.
Only occasionally did she get in a fresh
100 gallons. Yet she washed for all-
comers and was ever ready to extend her
clientele. Lime was her secret formula.
With the suds dark and thick at the end
of a day’s “wash” she would drop a hand-
ful into each tub. By next morning all
soap would be precipitated, floating at
the bottom of the now-clear water in a
mass of light flakes. Carefully decanted
off, the mother fluid was as good as new
—with the addition of ample soda. The
good lady did not know that lime in
solution plus common soda forms caustic
soda, but she was always enthusiastic
over the way the resurrected fluid
“brought out the dirt.” Entirely excelling
her were dry-area battlers who employed
a save-all. Merely a five-gallon drum in
which all waste liquid, not excluding tea-
leaves, was stored. Working on the
system of a septic tank, the process of
fermentation eventually produced a clear
fluid. Not fit for drinking, of course, nor
entirely suitable as a complexion lave, but
handy enough to assist in putting through
the meagre weekly wash. A handful of
clay materially assisted the final clari-
fication.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: On a tour of Gippsland we
pulled up at a likely-looking spot for a
shot, and found the cocky milking. “Any"
rabbits about?” we asked. “Not one
on the place,” he told us emphatically ;
then, spotting our guns: “Oh, crikey, I
thought you were them cows selling
rabbit poison. Go up past that old gum
and you’ll find the place is lousy with
’em.” And- so it was.
* * * *
“5.W.5”: Forty-odd years ago an
owner-manager of a large sheep station
in C.Q. was hit with a brainwave: why
use timber to build sheepyards when
piles of stones were lying about on the
downs? Timber cost money, was Scarce,
open to attacks by ants, dry-rot and fire ;
stone was imperishable, was there in end-
less quantity and cost only the trouble
of gathering it. That was the theory. In
actual fact the cost of gathering was
greater than the cutting and carting of
timber. The job continued, and a really
slap-up affair it was—cemented, lined and
levelled. The day of the opening arrived.
About 10,000 ewes were yarded ; a select
party gathered ; whisky was dribbled on
the gates as a christening ceremony. The
sheep were left in the yard, secure in the
knowledge they’d be there in the morn-
ing, and the parties drove home. Next
morning the overseer returned on the
wings of the wind to report that all but a
miserable few of the sheep were dead.
A thousand things were suspected. Finally
it was agreed the stone yards allowed no
bottom ventilation, and, in reality, the
sheep had literally been suffocated. Now,
though the stones still lie on the downs
in endless quantity, they stick to timber.
* * * *
“F.R.A.S.”: “Toheroa’s” par. (B.
6/12/’39) recalls investigations of past
Maoriland ’quakes. From 1848 to 1934
6078 were recorded ; most were feeble
affairs. Taking the ’quakes as a whole,
the maximum frequency was in June and
July, which is certainly not spring, as
“T.” claims. Even taking only the 62
destructive shakes there is still a slight
preference for winter, although their
seasonal distribution is more uniform.
But these major shakes do prefer the
hours from midnight to noon. In 1922
the Taupo district suffered almost con-
tinuous shocks for a long period. Leaving
these and big ’quakes out of account,
the remainder show a preference for
autumn equally with spring, and also
again in December. A lot of the shakes
recorded are of submarine origin. There’s
a marked relationship between the
’quakes and the stillness of the atmo-
sphere. Thus this popularly-held belief
in M.L. is well supported by scientific
investigation, which shows that low wind
velocity and temperature are preferred
by shakes. The Japs got the same result
from their study of their seismic
afflictions..
* * * *
“Edjudina”: When quite a few years
ago I first made acquaintance with the
W.A. desert blacks I was impressed by
their weird wildness of appearance,
almost amounting to a general aspect of
insanity. Conveying such impressions to
Old Ned, my preceptor, he agreed. “And
do you know just what it is? It’s their
eyes ; instead of turning their head when
they follow your movements, as a white
man does, they merely- move their eyes.
Queer! The product of a thousand
generations of huntsmen, stalking the
most suspicious and most active of game
with nothing else than wooden throwing-
weapons. Creeping up over open ground
with the utmost stealth, the black hunter
is prepared to ‘freeze’ should the quarry
show the slightest sign of alarm. Stand-
ing rigid as a statue, hoping to be taken
as a fixed feature of the landscape, he
moves only his eyes as he follows the
stalked animal’s movements.” Difficult
to do, but probably the main reason
why, even in extreme age, the aboriginal
suffers little of that deterioration of sight
so common to the white. Oculists have
a theory that the sight degeneration
which begins in the average white at
about 40 could be staved off indefinitely
if he systematically exercised the muscles
of his eyes. With the wild abo. in his
prime the eye muscles were as flexible
and as constantly exercised as the muscles
of his arm.
THE CHAMRS.
Said Bill the Bot, “To ’ear 'em talk, you’d
think the on’y ones
’Oo’re in the race for speedy work was out-
back shearer ‘guns’
An’ coves up north ’oo sock the cane; but—
starve the flamin’ spags!
Beside a reel good fencer any snagger merely
lags.
“I know, ’cause fencin’ was me game —my
oath! A champeen team
Was me an’ ‘Split-rail’ Sam, me mate —once
we ’ad got up steam
We fairly tore. Now, take the time when,
out from Barringun,
We lands a contrack fencin’ Noo South’s
biggest cattle run.
“We’d pitched our camp beside a creek that’s
near the forty-mile;
At sparrer-chirp nex’ day we starts, an’ goes
in snifter style;
An’ this despite a temp’rachur a ’undred in
the shade,
An’ ground we ’as to dynamite—too ’ard t’ use
a spade.
“We goes all day without a break—yair, we
was pretty tough—
An’ w’en it’s just on dark we think we’ve ’ad
about enough
An’ turns for camp, with appetites a gourmant
would’ve prized;
But, ’Struth! ’ow flamin’ fast we’d gone we
’adn’t realised!
“We walks all night, an’ all nex’ day, an all
that blanky night,
An’ still of that there camp of ours we ’adn’t
got a sight.
The first day Sam gets panicky; we’re nearly
mad with thirst.
’E aims to strike ’cross country if the worst
comes to the worst.
“The second day is just the same. We’re
givin’ at the knee,
An’ fence, an’ nothing else but fence, as far
as we can see.
The third day we’re so flamin’ weak we crawls
on shins an’ mitts,
An’ still there’s mile on mile o’ fence. Sam
started chuckin’ fits.
“It wasn’t till the fifth day out, by w’en we’d
give up ’ope,
The rescue party got us as we staggered up a
slope.
That’s speedy yakka for y’! An’ them rescuers,
what’s more,
’Ad started out on horseback from our camp
two days before!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


9 :
ITS 15
'MORE COMFORTABLE <
IN SUMMER AND
w/zm/?
3
f
*3
at.
Jt£.
r
nv^
WITH CANE-ITE INSULATING BOARD
ViituouA Hafnz mlfa Gmfofffate
USED as roof-insulation; built into
exterior walls, under the weather-
board, brick or stucco, or placed
under floors, Cane-ite renders your
home warmth-resisting in summer,
warmth retaining in winter, moisture
proof and sound-resisting all the
time. What is more, Cane-ite adds
to STRUCTURAL strength. White-
ant-proofed, amazingly durable,
Cane-ite is the most satisfactory yet
most economical solution to the
problem of insulation for new and
old buildings alike. Ask your branch
of the Building Materials Division of
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Limited for samples and full details.
STRUCTURAL INSULATION
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth
DON'T
TOLERATE AN
UNINSULATED
HOUSE!
d
CA-39-9
MASONITE, "The Wonder Board
of 1000 Uses", is the inexpensive
solution to countless building
problems. Ask for details.
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/t>
Double Room, from •11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modem a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
Dividends Towards
Pref. Re- De-
July, Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 33,179 8,179 20 p.c. = 18,216 6,784 28,928
1930.. 31,981 9,378 20 „ „ 20,850 1,753 27,175
Loss.
1931.. 12,025 Nil Nil 39,200
Dividends N
A Pref. B Pref.
Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord.
1932.. 511 Nil 38,689
1933.. 12,214 11,723 Nil Nil 38,198
Loss Launceston freehold, £2020 .. 40,218
1934.. 23,951 11,723 8,611 Nil 36,601
14 p.c.
1935.. 29,546 11,723 17,222 Nil 30,000
7 p.c.
1936.. 60,835 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 12,245 7,744
Reserves.
1937.. 63,563 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 12,245 2'*.°"'
Reserves capitalised, £8164 .. .. 15,076
1938.. 65,597 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 16,2/6
1939.. 60,567 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 27,782 56,514
This co. is in the clothing, drapery and
furniture trades, and it operates largely
on a t.-p. basis, the mail-order section of
the business being a feature of the organ-
isation. Large self-contained branches at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Laun-
ceston and Newcastle now feed a chain
of 36 smaller shops in all States except
Queensland. The number of branches
in each State is Victoria 10, Westralia 14,
Tasmania six, South Aus. five and N. S.
Wales seven, of which three—one each
at Wagga, Tamworth and Maitland —
were opened last term.
It has been an extraordinary develop-
ment. Starting in Fitzroy (Melb.), the
business spread to Adelaide and Laun-
ceston, and in 1925 it was split into three
separate cos. Then, to attract more capi-
tal, a holding co. was formed, and turn-
over bounded along. Slump inter-
rupted a short run of 20 p.c. divs. in
1931, when a loss of £12,025 (the only
thing of its kind to date) showed up,
and for the next four years the ords.
went hungry. Meanwhile, the outside
debt was worked down, more capital was
gathered, thus putting the business on a
sounder financial footing, and the four
separate cos. were welded into one. As
economic conditions improved, the board
adopted a policy of expansion, and the
ords. have had a steady 15 p.c. for each
of the last four years, with wide margins.
Last term turnover was a record. But
heavier tax and wage bills, and non-
recurring costs connected with the open-
ing of new branches and the extension
and transfer to larger premises of others,
left the net result £5030 less than the
previous year’s at £60,567. This was
enough to meet the first and second pref.
requirements (together £20,334) and show
21.7 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
41.8, 53, 49.6 and 11.3 p.c. for the four
preceding years. The £12,451 that re-
mained after paying divs. lifted the lay-
by £56,514 in excess of goodwill
(£42,070), which is not treated as an asset
herein.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1930. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £208,500 £372,126 £425,189' £492,539
Pverdraft . . 34,657 36,023 93,592 117,704
Mortgages, etc. 26,423 94,027 93,524 116,952
Deposits . . 163.956 —•—
Creditors . . 50,756 11,482 22,080 14,265
Premises, etc. 59,387 123,161 171,874 204,116
Plant, etc. . . 23,805 32,016 40,209 54,233
Stocks . . 70,761 71,916 96,265 103,494
Debtors . . 331,875 345,995- 405,572 480,276
Cash, etc. . . 255 2,641 1,738 2,174
The £67,350 of fresh capital gathered
during the year, together with £24,112
added to the overdraft and £23,428 to
mortgages, went mainly into debtors’
balances (up £74,704), premises (up
£32,242), plant (up £14,024) and stock
(up £7229). The movements chiefly
reflect the opening of new branches and
completion of building operations at
Hobart, Adelaide and Broken Hill. When
the books closed more or less liquids
exceeded the outside debt by £337,023, or
£42,644 more than at the previous
balance.
The board has now decided to follow
a policy of consolidation, a pro-
posal with which discerning shareholders
will not disagree. Since the close of
accounts 323,278 new ss. ords. have been
put out, two for five, at par, raising issued
capital to £573,359 in 167,475 £1 A and
123,015 £1 B prefs., both 7 p.c. cumu-
lative, and 1,131,474 ss. ords. On this
lot the pref. divs. and 15 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £2207 more profit than was
claimed last term.
As for the current term, Government
expenditure on war and defence account
should help to maintain turnover, but
increased taxation and other costs can
be expected to bite into earnings, and
Government loans will presently begin to
mop up some of the public’s savings.
Still, 15 p.c. to the ords. looks like re-
maining within reach. What will happen
in the less-immediate future nobody can
say definitely at the moment.'
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the ords. at Bs., at which figure
the return is 9.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. The first and second prefs., at
235. 6d. and 225. 3d., yield 5.9 p.c. and
6.3 p.c. respectively. The net tangible
cover is £3 15s. 2d. firsts, £3 15s, Id.
seconds and 6s. ords.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
, Dividends
, Pref. x
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
*. £ £ £ £
1930.- 26,298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,548
1931.. 27,521 9000 8000 5 „ „ 10,000 74,127
Transferred contingency res., £1500.. 75,627
1932.. 26,945 7481 f 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275 f 6500 6J „ „ 1'3,000 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £13,019 .. 50,627
1934.. 42,406 9000 8000 10 p.c.■= 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 29,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. .. 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 .. 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. = 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. .. 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 . . . . 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 . . . ■ 7,289
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. - 25,375 l x Q2l
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. \ ’
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 }
Written off, £lBB5 .. .. . . j- 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. ..j
1939 . . 40,094 6975 f 6200 t 6 p.c. = 16,800 1 g 776
Special depreciation, £5OOO . . .. t ’
* Nine months. f Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
Increased costs, newsprint and taxation
being not the least, were chiefly respon-
sible for the drift of £14,469 in net
earnings, at £40,094 the poorest since
1933. That was despite a lift from
3d. to 4d. in the price of the co.’s
main publication to cover expansion in
the services offered readers expansion
which has apparently failed to earn the
results expected. Costs, particularly of
newsprint, have continued their upward
way since the close of accounts, and
newest addition to the management’s
problems is the entry of Consolidated
Press into the Sydney Sunday field. Pub-
lication of the new “A.B.C. Weekly” for
the Broadcasting Commission should help
jobbing earnings, however.
The profit-slip is also attributable
partly to the heavier allowance for depre-
ciation—£l4,99B, against £9840. Though
the £40,094 claimed represented an all-
round 8.3 p.c. on capital at work, ord.
div. was cut from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c., and,
under the N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act,
the first and second pref. from 9 p.c.
and 8 p.c. to 6.9 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. re-
spectively. After earmarking a further
£5OOO for special depreciation making
£26,000 over the last half-dozen years—
reserves benefited by £5119, leaving them
£8776 in excess of the £89,616 valuation
placed on goodwill.
It is all reflected in a sharp fall in the
market for the scrip—100,000 9 p.c. first,
a like number of 8 p.c. second prefs.
and 300,000 ords. are on issue. In 1939
recorded sales of the ords. fluctuated
between 265. 6d. and 215., first prefs.
between 295. and 205., and seconds be-
tween 255. 7d. and 235. Last week-end
the prices were 20s. (sellers) ords., 21s.
firsts and 20s. 6d. (sellers) seconds. At
those figures immediate returns are re-
spectively 6, 6.6 and 6 p.c. Combined
with their div.-participation rights, the
yield obtainable gives the first prefs.
attractions. Minimum div. was nearly
six times covered by the latest showing,
while net tangible backing is £5 Is. 9d.
firsts, £4 Is. 9d. seconds and 20s. 7d.
ords.
The co. was formed in 1925 to take
over the newspaper business carried on
by the late John Norton’s trustees. Two
journals—“ Truth” (weekly) and ‘ Sports-
man” (twice weekly)—are published in
the Commonwealth, while all the ords.
were acquired in 1936 of Truth (N.Z.)
Ltd., paid capital £125,000 in 50,000 7
p.c. cum. prefs. and 75,000 ords.,
at present returning nothing to the
parent. The N.S.W. edition is turned
out by modern plant at Kippax-street,
Sydney, those for Victoria, South Aus-
tralia, Westralia and Tasmania from
presses at Latrobe-street, Melbourne, and
plant at Brisbane produces the Queens-
land issue. The freeholds housing the
equipment at each centre are all owned
by the co.
Balance-sheet figures clearly indicate
the extent of recent expansion and the
method of finance:
1926. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Pref. capital. . £75,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Old. capital.. 170,007 230,000 260,000 300,000
Mortgage .. S 7 ’ 670 l 286 012 246,888
Other liabilities 14,320 20,811 j ’ ** ’
Freeholds, etc. 41,567 174,398 272,088 278,460
Plant, -etc. . . 85,367 151,462 246,818 258,305
Investments . . • 96,050 100,651 101,846
Stocks .. 25,507 27,628 91,177 68,579
Debtors . . 35,527 50,728 67,088 67,355
Cash, etc. . . 22,723 2,272 7,048 10,016
The £40,000 of new capital gathered
early last term went in reduction of the
debt, all but £24,713 of which is secured.
A further £17,859 more than written off
was spent on fixed assets, making a
total of £210,905 in three years, during
which the growth in the debt has been
£188,407. Most of the outlay has been
incurred in respect of Vic. and Queens-
land activities. The drop of £22,598
in stocks indicates that the co. is not so
favorably situated with newsprint sup-
plies as 12 months ago.
The new capital lessened the strain on
finances, the excess of liabilities over
more or less liquids being reduced from
£120,699 to £100,938. That excludes in-
vestments, £68,192 of which represents
the equity, backed mainly by earning
power only, in Truth (N.Z.).
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Reserves
Transferred
June, Profit. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 10 p.c.= 27,500 15,000 104,380
To Reserves.
1930.. 24,909 74., „ 21,740 3,169 107,549
1931.. 23,412 74 „ „ 21,745 1,667 109,216
1932.. 22,689 74 „ „ 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 74 „ „ 21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 74 „ ~21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 74 „ „ 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10” „ ~ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36,716 .. .. .. •• 162,033
1937.-42,674 124 p.c - 36,250 1 2 42 , i 64 457
Pension fund. £4OOO j ’
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 31,628 10 ~ „ 29,000 2,628 167,489
This co., which is in the wool- and
produce-broking and stock-and-station-
agency business in N. S. Wales, is well
dug in, financially and otherwise. From
the investor’s point of view, the position
is more attractive than the last line in
the table suggests. Consider these figures:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft . . 54,304 208,530 230,435
Sundry creditors 69,030 75,399 28,213 32,611
Freeholds, etc. 154,240 154,174 154,250 154,421
Advances, etc. 90,219 161,667 256,824 282,480
Liquid assets 260,382 300,236 301,116 301,103
In view of the very strong liquid posi-
tion, last year’s growth of £26,303 in
the outside debt and of £25,656 in ad-
vances suggests that the latter are readily
self-liquidating. When the books closed
advances and liquids together exceeded
liabilities by £320,537 (equal to 225. Id.
per share), of which £200,000 was repre-
sented by Consols at or under market
value, £lOO,OOO by fixed deposits, and
£llO3 by shares in other cos. and petty
cash.
The board has never given any hint
whether it is likely to find other em-
ployment for the large sums it has in-
vested outside the business. What is
plain is that the co. could return half
or more of its capital without any appar-
ent danger of hamstringing the business
financially or seriously impairing its earn-
ing capacity.
The board doesn’t broadcast the
physical or financial volume of turnover.
But seasonal conditions were unfavor-
able last term, and the State’s wool
cheque was £2,621,829 lighter at
£15,521,245, or £l3 3s. lOd. (down
£2 18s.) per bale; the price of cattle
and sheep strengthened a little as the
year advanced. No mention is made
of any rebate to clients, whereas 10 p.c.
of the commission oh sale of wool was
handed back in the previous term. The
declared profit from trading was £23,205
(up £4706), and deposits turned in £3OOO


A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
Many a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
when the responsibility fell on him, or because he tvas dishonest.
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It
may be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company’s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Lieut.-C'ol. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
K. de L. Cudmore; It. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. I’. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £56,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman), Orwell Phillips (Deputy
Chairman), Robert J. A. Massie, Geoffrey F. Hughes,
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
He * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
■—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLT,ISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
Coreful will consider
•FIRST AUSTRALIAN; UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
V&hqres of : 20 Cdriripanies. |; -f;.-.
Custodian Trustees for investors
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Writ* for a free Booklet to
' the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SyDN£V
TELEPHONE: B 5294
and Consols £8024. Allowing for an
unexplained reduction of £2601 in re-
serves, the net result from all sources
(up £2224) was 10.9 p.c. on capital as
against 10.1, 14.7, 10.1, 8, 11.8, 7.7, 7.8
and 8 p.c. back to 1931. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c.
As for the current term, seasonal con-
ditions favor a larger volume of pro-
duction, and the British Government has
bought the clip at an average price of
13.4 d. per pound—the 1938-39 clip aver-
aged lOfd. per pound—f.o.b. Australian
ports. Further, the British Government
has agreed to hand back 50 p.c. of any
profits it makes from the sale of wool
outside the U.K. It all looks very
encouraging for the earnings of Pitt,
Son and Badgery and others in the wool-
broking business.
Last year the price of the co.’s pound
shares, covered by 31s. 6d. in net tan-
gibles, fluctuated between 455. and
375. 6d. in the market. At 425., the
scrip now returns 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, with prospects.
Katu Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Continued efforts to secure a revision
of this co.’s assessment have been with-
out success ; and so it remains at 480
tons tin oxide p.a. That is based on the
initial digging capacity of 100,000 c.y.
• monthly, whereas the dredge, a self-
contained Diesel-electric unit, has since
been remodelled to handle up to 160,000
c.y.
Burma-Malay-sponsored and -con-
trolled —the parent holds 25.5 p.c. of the
capital—the co.’s property is near Tong-
kah Harbor, West Siam. A tough clay
overburden and water shortages were
early difficulties which appear to have
been largely overcome. At June 30 there
was 337 acres remaining to be dredged,
estimated to contain 21,000,000 c.y. of
fib. wash. Working to capacity, that
would provide 11 years’ digging—pos-
sibly more, as both values and yardages
indicated in the bore plan have been
considerably bettered to date.
Last term the co. worked under a
50 p.c. quota, as against 67 p.c. in the
preceding term. Though ore sales were
made at a price equal to £2lO 10s. for
metallic tin, the bulk of the production
was apparently sold in the first half of
the term, the net realisation per ton of
oxide averaging £l5 ss, less:
, Profit —— v —■ Div. —^
June, Revenue. Exes. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1937. . £44,850 £25,107 £19,743 2/7 2/-£15,000
1938.. 59,248 30,027 29.221 3/10 4/- 30,000
1939.. 38,604 25,107 13,497 1/8 1/6 11,250
Combined with increased unit costs owing
to the incidence of restriction —the co.
worked only 48.2 p.c. of possible dredg-
ing time—it helps explain the fall of
£15,724 in net earnings (£13,497). Again
no provision was made for depreciation
of the plant, regularly reported in good
order throughout; “extensive overhaul
and maintenance,” however, were carried
out in the close-down periods.
Here is a comparison of results from
another angle:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Cubic yards dug .. 1,654,000 1,747,000 971,000
T. 0., tons . . . . 331.6 511.5 380.9
Assay, p.c. . . . . 73.5 73.4 73.2
Recovery per c.y., Ib. 0,45 0.65 0.87
Mine costs, c.y., pence 2.95 3.20 4.92
Av. price metallic tin,
ton .. . . £226/17/10 £204/8/7 £2lO/10/7
Oxide real’n, ton. . . £l3l/2/-£ll2/8/- £97/3/-
As for the current term, signatories
to the control scheme have had the bene-
fit of a 120 p.c. international quota since
the end of June, .Siam’s domestic release
now being 77 p.c. of assessments, plus
whatever bonuses may be allotted. In
general, however, most producers are
working to capacity. For Katu there
should also be some surplus on its con-
tribution to the buffer pool, taken in at
cost (£4436). Recoveries to date have
been around the average for the prop-
erty, but production is likely to be ham-
pered for some months owing to the
necessity to cross a main road, which
must be remade, in order to reach the
northern area.
Up to 345. and down to 255. in 1939,
Katu’s pound shares now fetch 31s. 6d. ;
there are 160,000 on issue. At June 30
the co. had more or less liquids of
£22,560 and owed £3291. Divs, of
Is. 6d. per share have so far gone out
this term.
For Cuthbert’s Misima, near the ill-
fated G.M. of Papua, Misima Island,
1939 was the best crushing year yet,
36,828 (up 3308) tons going through the
mill. But gold yields slipped from 5.73
to s.oBdwt. a ton, the total yield being
2510 z. down at 93570 z. Owing mainly
to labor shortages, treatment has yet to
reach the designed 50,000-tons-p.a. capa-
city of the plant; still, the position is
gradually improving, and on the basis
of crushings for the past six months
close to 40,000 tons should be handled in
the current term. The last ore-reserve
estimate (end-1938) indicated eight years’
profitable,work in oxides in the southern
section alone ; in the northern section a
further 300,000 tons is thought to be
available, apart altogether from the sul-
phides in both sections.
* * * 4=
Lead, zinc and copper have been more
of a bane than a blessing to the gold
reef of Georgetown (N.Q.) ; hence their
now-uniform treatment at Chiliagoe.
None the less there is a remarkable series
of well-defined fissures in the granite-slate
contact belt which, in the mass, form
a steady contribution to the State’s gold-
production. Recent production figures
by the Mines Department reveal the
existence of some wonderfully rich gold
shoots, in nearly every case carrying
heavy mineral values as well. The City
of Glasgow, for example, started off with
a 70z.-per-ton crushing, and has recently
followed it with 110 tons averaging 4oz.
fine gold. That old steady, the Inter-
national, which has long been in the
hands of the Schaffer family—old iden-
tities of the Etheridge mining fields,
keeps its end up on one-ounce crushings,
plus silver-lead quotas. Last year its
1000-ton output sagged to half an ounce,
but there has been a recovery in grade
during the current year.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) will have sub-
stantially more available for dividend
this year—9d. sterling has so far gone
out. For the term just closed treatment
shows a lift of 89,121 to 403,909 tons,
while the working surplus has gone up
from £222,975 to £360,599 Aust. Out of
that, £123,650 of capital expenditure has
to be met, but that is £25,600 less than
for the preceding term, and should be
substantially reduced again in the current
year. The increased tonnages started to
roll through the mill in earnest in July,
the average monthly crushing for the
second half of the term being 38,500
tons. It is reflected in a drop from 345.
to 295. Aust. a ton in the year’s average
working costs, including regular develop-
ment. For December the figure was down
to 275. 4d. As a result the co. is now
showing over a pound profit per ton of
ore milled, as against 15s. 7d. in February
last. On the basis of the last quarter’s
showing, an operating surplus of
£A460,000 is indicated for the current
term, provided ore values keep up.
*• $ * *
Operations of the Sons of Gwalia, at
Leonora (W.A.), have assumed something
of the stability of an industrial concern
of recent years. Over the last three,
average gold yields have varied no more
than a tenth of a pennyweight, and the
annual tonnage by little more than 2000.
For the latest term the co. should show
much the same financial result as for
1938 before taking taxation into the
reckoning, despite a lift of 6d. to 275. Id.
(Aust.) a ton in working costs. Though
millings were 2246 tons lower at 152,448
tons, the gold yield (45,6150 z.) was prac-
tically unchanged, thanks to a lift from
s.9dwt. to 6dwt. in recoveries, and the out-
put was worth more. The Gwalia is one
of the deepest and oldest working mines
in the West. Though the last estimate
put ore reserves (grade 6.38dwt.) six years
ahead of the mill, the co. is one of the
few major Westralian shows to have
made no appreciable lift in plant capacity
of recent years. Doubtless that will
follow once the proposed new incline
shaft from No. 30 level is in commis-
sion.
* H= . *
Lake View and Star’s quarterly pro-
duction reports are impressive. The
latest, to Sept. 30, gives revenue in
sterling at £344,151, ordinary working
and development expenditure at £195,487,
and profit at £148,664. Special develop-
ment took £4609, and plant and
machinery £16,011. During the period
6497 ft. of driving, 2137 ft. of crosscutting,
2160 ft. of winzing and 6782 ft. of
diamond-drilling were done. Lake View
South Extended leases, which adjoin the
Imperial block and which comprise a
total area of 52 acres, have been bought,
with equipment, by the co. for £3500
(Aust.).
* H= * *
Chairman C. S. Beale, who recently
visited the mine, spoke of the achieve-
ments and prospects of Paringa (Kal-
goorlie) to shareholders in London on
Dec. 14. Co. had expended £240,000
cash in mine development, surface
equipment, milling plant, broken ore re-
serves and new adjoining mining areas.
This figure didn’t include the value of
Paringa mine, which had ore reserves of
a gross value in gold content of £940,000
Australian. There were five definite
shoots exposed at five levels, the main
of which were of big width and, at the
present price of gold, comparatively high
in value. Beale added that the co. had
bought outright 76 acres, making the
Paringa holding a compact block of 100
acres. Increase in mill capacity from
4000 tons to 7500 tons a month had
been nearly completed. The right to
acquire a controlling share-interest in
Mt. Charlotte mines has been secured,
and also to treat up to 500,000 tons of
profitable grade ore on terms satisfac-
tory to both cos. A 20 p.c. dividend
on Paringa’s Is. shares was paid last
year, when mining and treatment cost
245. 7d. per ton.
Various opinions have been expressed
regarding Wiluna. Here is the official
one given by chairman F. H. Hamilton
at the Wiluna Gold Corporation meeting
in London on Dec. 12:
Results from intensive development and
exploration can only be regarded as disap-
pointing. No important fresh sources of ore
have been disclosed, and in the section
known as the main mine the evidence
plainly indicates progressive impoverish-
ment down to the 3000 ft. level. In the
opinion both of Binns, our consulting
engineer, and our general manager, Carroll,
it would be foolish to expend large sums
on further exploration in this section of
the mine at least, and on the evidence
before the co. it seems difficult to contest
this conclusion, unwelcome as it is. Develop-
ment in the Bulletin section has also failed
to disclose any new substantial sources of
ore. There is good ore at the 600 ft. and
1200 ft. levels in the Happy Jack,
but from work so far done it would be
unwise to think that results at these two
points will compensate in any important
degree for the falling-off of values in the
main section. 1 think it best to consider
the mine from the viewpoint of a salvage
proposition.
Hamilton said that Wiluna Gold Mines
(the Aust. operating co.) had now oven
£5200,000 in hand. He had been asked
why this co. didn’t pay a dividend which
could be passed on to shareholders of
Wiluna Gold Corporation (the London
holding co.). The short and conclusive
reply to that was that working profits
which the mine was making were not in-
come but represented a return of capital,
and when the mine was exhausted and
Wiluna Gold Mines liquidated it would
be able to return its cash to Wiluna
Gold Corporation.
“O.B.”: Viewed as a salvage proposi-
tion, Wiluna shares, now priced in ster-
ling at 4s. 9d., look cheap ; but owing
to exchange restrictions investors would
require money in London to buy them.
Operating co. (Wiluna Gold Mines) has
£A250,000 laid by and probably invested
in gilded securities. Holding co. (Wiluna
Gold Corp.) has £lO,OOO cash and 220,000
fully-paid ss. shares in Gold Fields Aus-
tralian Development, which paid its
maiden div. of 1\ p.c. last June. Its
shares are quoted at 3s. 6d. sterling.
Then, apart from a highly payable block
expected to be developed at 1800 ft. in
the main workings and a substantial
quantity of ore lately opened up at depth
in the northern (Happy Jack) section,
there are more than 1| million tons of
reserves of 40s. average, and the sale-
able second-hand value of the huge,
costly plant and equipment is to be taken
into account. Even if not another ton
of payable ore is exposed in the mine
(150,000 tons was opened up last year)
the break-up value of Wiluna’s shares,
with gold not extractable, costs of pro-
duction, bullion realisation, taxation and
other charges taken off and interest on
investments put on, is variously estimated
at from 13s. to 14s. each in Australian
currency.


SYDNEY’S NEWEST SPECTACLE
A Musical
Marine Fantasy.
Water Hal lets.
Starring
ANXIOTTE
KKLLERMAN
Nth. Sydney Olympic Pool,
February 3, 8.15 p.m.
Marine Tableaux. Stage Presentations.
Box Plan Polings, Australia Hotel, Kippax Sports Store.
Proceeds in aid of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital.
THE.
AT
Crury^
TIVOLI
f
iE- A
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “CINDEREELA.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Will Mahoney and Stars at Both Shows.
AFTERNOONS ONLY:
Pantomime “MOTHER GOOSE.”
EVENINGS: VARIETY REVUE.
Salad’s Puppets & Stars at Both Shows
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Back of the Ballet
There’s a bird that never was on land
or sea, the sort of creature Baron
Munchausen might have brought home
for the pot, and it lives behind the scenes
at Sydney Royal. It’s a swan in black
tights. There were dozens of them
bobbing about when “Swan Lake” was
being rehearsed on Friday.
Four black swans —Golovina, Leskova,
Neiidova, Razoumova high-stepping
and ducking in the “dance of the little
-swans”; waddling off in their huge,
awkward ballet shoes while Antal Dorati
got his orchestra in order; prancing
across the stage again; doing it again
and again until the stylised little oddity,
so witty a representation of the grotesque
grace of young creatures, became the
charming item it was when they were
white swans before the audience at night.
At close quarters the most impressive
feature of the dance was the head move-
ments. There is no letting the head flop
about on the shoulders like something
that got there by accident, nor is it held
rigid. It is in motion the whole time and
in control the whole time, quite as impor-
tant as the legs in creating the pattern
of the dance.
Nothing short of perfection seems to
satisfy the Ballet. Dorati, sometimes
trying a new effect, sometimes insisting
on the crisper definition of a passage,
would stop the orchestra, explain exactly
what he wanted, and then burst into
song to show how it should go. Colonel
de Basil and Serge Grigorieff watched
every minute detail in the ensembles.
Each swan must stand just so; each
huntsman must hold his bow at just this
angle. When the ballet suddenly freezes
into an oil painting you can guarantee
that there’s not a toe out of place. When
the corps de ballet was rehearsing there
was a running fire of interjection.
“Ou est la plume de ma tante ?” the
regisseur-general would cry. “Marie est
derriere la table!” the reply came from
the stage. But Serge Lifar had his own
opinion: “ Un, deux, trois, quatre, cinq!”
“Ah, no, no, no, no!” from Antal
Dorati; “you must go bim-bim-BOM
tra-la-la! ”
Possibly that’s not quite correctly re-
ported, but it was all in French anyhow,
which should prove to the doubters that
there are plenty of foreigners in the
company. Asked about it, somebody said
that only two Australians have been re-
cruited.
It wasn’t much use trying to interview
anybody backstage. They all seem to
live on hot bricks. Serge Lifar, crackling
with energy and high spirits, said that
“Cimarosiana,” the new ballet, was a
very light affair. Yura Lazovsky, re-
membered for his outstanding displays of
agility, comedy and dramatic intuition in
“Petrouchka” and “Carnaval” last season,
agreed that ballet in Australia was hot
work. Both he and Sono Osato forgot
to say that their lively tarantelle in
“Cimarosiana” that evening was to be
one of the highlights of the show.
Toumanova, who had just been care-
fully rehearsing her “queen of the swans”
dances with Lifar, fluttering and swoon-
ing with the utmost conviction in spite
of the fact that a couple of sceneshifters
were moving mountains about behind
her, said she was a bit uneasy about it
as she’d never danced “Swan Lake” with
Lifar before and had had only three
days to rehearse it. She needn’t have
worried, for they made an excellent pair.
She’s a strikingly beautiful person,
Tamara Toumanova, and when she and
her mother said the Yanks made the
ballet a social function but Australian
audiences were really intelligent, Frith
was so impressed that, in lieu of a sonnet
to her eyebrow, he gave her an insulting
caricature of the Fiihrer.
As well as “Swan Lake” and “Cimaro-
siana,” “Cinderella” and “Protee” were
on the change of programme. “Cin-
derella” is an enchanting thing for its
color alone ; Riabouchinska gave it grace,
Algeranoff’s Ugly Sister and Sobinova’s
Cat gave it humor. Lichine’s rather
sombre rendering of the ballet of his
own composing made “Protee” the best
of the night. He was very ably assisted
by the nymphs who sat around like Greek
sculpture and then got up and danced
the spirit of Debussy. Joyce Lang proved
to be one of the few women one likes
to hear harping.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Star Maker”
Viewing the thousand-odd infant prodi-
gies in this current Sydney Prince Edward
offering and contemplating their curls,
bows and ribbons a la Temple, their pig-
tails a la Jane Withers, their lace panta-
BACK STAGE AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
The spirit of Ballet at Rest {centre), with Lichine {top left), Col. de Basil
(top), Lifar (after chasing black swan on left), and Sono Osato with streamlined
head rest.
loons a la Breen, their hair a la Bartholo-
mew and all their other odds and ends a la
fond parents’ conception of what a great
cheild star should look like, it struck
this commentator that film moguls are
possibly being done a great injustice.
No producer would risk his reputation
and perhaps even his life and limb by
deliberately subjecting audiences to such
an array of juvenescence. There must
be some force without driving him against
his own will. And then it dawned like
a great light that all the infant wonders
who have assaulted the screen for several
years are not the fault of producers
at all.
Suppose that away back at the begin-
ning of things some unwary and foolhardy
film magnate gave the daughter of his
wife’s sister-in-law a part in a film. From
there it would have been but a short step
to the appearance in several studios of
whole hordes of nieces, nephews, cousins,
etc., of unfortunate producers. And
then, like the historic snowball, the move-
ment gathered force and passed beyond
the sphere of relatives. Myriads' of fond
parents with their offspring descended
on Hollywood to besiege casting offices,
and so the plague started.
Imagine some mild-mannered little pro-
ducer about the proportions of Mr.
Zanuck being cornered in his office by
15 stone of devoted parent towing a
curly-headed babe behind her. Imagine
Mr. Z. being held at bay by mother while
infant bawled “Mother Machree” at him
or tapped her toes and squealed “I Gotta
Have Love.” Imagine that happening
several times daily, week in and week
out, and so on into years. No producer,
however case-hardened, could stand it.
indefinitely ; some' small kink in his armor
must give way, and thus another cheild
star would be born.
Why blame the producer for that?
Much fairer to regard him as a sort of
lock holding back the great sea of infant
prodigies! Isn’t it an act of rank ingrati-
tude to castigate him for his occasional
moments of weakness when, probably
under irresistible pressure, he allowed
the least dreadful of several thousand
children to reach the cameras?
But producers are only human, and
constant brickbats from the film public
have probably frayed their nerves a bit.
So, as a reprisal, comes “The Star
Maker,” with its eloquent message from
the producer: “You howl about an occa-
sional dose of Breen or Temple or
Withers; well, see what I’ve gotta put up
with all the time.” And then the film
unfolds a story of a booking-agent who
went from town to town in America
actually advertising for juvenile talent
until he had collected it from all over
the country and had hoof-tapping, yawp-
ing children performing in every city in
the U.S.
The story, though, doesn’t matter a
scrap ; it’s obviously a cloak to the pro-
ducer’s message. He has overrun the
film with children merely to show that
they are but a small section of what has
to be tolerated in Hollywood. He says
plainly: “Cheild stars aren’t my fault;
in your comparative freedom from them,
look upon me and sympathise. Pity the
poor producer.”
P.S. —An alternative thought, that
Hollywood producers might be starting
a great campaign to placate all the
parents of all the cheild stars in Holly-
wood by featuring as many of them as
possible in succeeding films, is too hor-
rible to dwell upon.
* * * *
There’s nothing very new or original
in “Two Bright Boys” at Sydney Capitol,
but it’s a clean-cut melodrama with neat
if undistinguished work from Jackie
Cooper and Freddie Bartholomew. Mel-
ville Cooper and Bartholomew are a
couple of confidence artists paid by
rascally oil baron to swindle Jackie of
his oil well. There’s some stoush and
some wrecking, and fair measure of
humor and sentimentality.
Billed as a comedy-drama, “A Win-
dow in London,” at Sydney Lyceum,
might more aptly be regarded as ?n
authentic tragedy—one in which the
final disaster, instead of being preceded
by the usual stretch of gloom and fore-
boding, is led up to with a light, almost
careless representation of everyday
people. Crane-driver Michael Redgrave
sees, from a passing train, a man stab-
bing a woman on the balcony of a small
apartment. He interrupts in time to pre-
vent the tragedy, and finds himself drawn
into a mad whirl of theatrical people
wherein the central figures are an illu-
sionist and his wife, whom he is slowly
torturing to distraction by his tempera-
ment and open cruelty. Succeeding events
are surprising, but logical and carried
out with the utmost naturalness; the
psychology of the main roles is remark-
ably good, and the players, Redgrave,
Sally Gray, Paul Lukas and Patricia Roc,
bring them very much to life.
ARTBURSTS.
Anthony Horderns’ spacious art gal-
leries, commandeered for pantomime
purposes at Christmas time, have got rid
of the Thespian invasion and are cele-
brating their return to their proper usage
with a show of English and Continental
oil-paintings and etchings, and a vast
array of prints of the works of French
post-impressionists and their English
disciples.
The print show, coming on the heels
of the Modern Art exhibition of pictures
brought to Australia by Basil Burdette,
is a reminder that, though that show had
some more or less characteristic can-
vases signed by Van Gogh, Matisse,
Gauguin, Monet, Cezanne, Renoir, Degas
and Signac, only Gauguin was repre-
sented by some of his “great works.” The
really famous pictures are all in the
Hordern print show, and the reproduc-
tions are -admirable. Van Gogh, of
course, dominates the collection with his
queer allegories of magnetic lines of
force, but the rest make splashes of color
into which the imaginative may read as
much as they please. There’s this to be
said for a modern “fine art print”—it
may lose 10 p.c. of quality and 50 or
75 ,p.c. of size compared with the original
(though in some cases it really adds a
bit to the quality), but the price shrinks
to 0.001 of the valuation of the original.
The etchings are a well-varied lot,
representative of the best modern English
technicians. Lately-dead W. L. Wyllie
and Joseph Gray portray the sea and
ships, Vernon Stokes caters for the dog-
lover, J. M. Patrick limns Scottish moun-
tains, and Frank Gillet excels in charac-
ter studies. There are also works by Lee
Hankey, Komjati, Louis Rosenberg,
Edgar L. Pattinson, Leonard Beaumont,
David Robertson, W. Walcot and E. S.
Lumsden. Prices have been cut to half
or a third of pre-war markings.
In oils there is a lot of conscientious
work by hoverers on the outskirts of
fame. Landscapes by Creswick and Ver-
milien depict the leaves of trees
somewhere brown, somewhere blue, but
never green; chalets on Swiss lakes,
polished like jewels in the matter of
color and composition, represent the
work of Bouvard. Julius Olssen shines in
a glorious sunset at sea—melodrama of
a sort not now openly admired. There’s
a Venetian scene by Maignan, a costume
piece by Caraud. Five “modern” problem
pictures form a group of their own.
Standing very bravely in such com-
pany is a little band of Australians. A
figure composition by Rupert Bunny,
painted in the days when his work
was understandable by anybody;
glimpses of the Sydney waterside by
James R. Jackson; two pictures by
Will Ashton, as good as he ever painted
(and his best climbs high), and some
flower pieces by R. W. Phillips, past-
master of his metier.
* * * *
Esme Farmer’s paintings at the Mac-
quarie Galleries represent the first really
successful attempt shown in Sydney to
apply certain post-impressionist methods
in depicting the Australian rural land-
scape. Mrs. Farmer paints sincerely;
her eye for color is excellent, and she
stops painting when she gets her effect.
“The Cedar Tree” and “Houses Through
Trees, Mona Vale,” took this critic’s
fancy. Some of the other sketches of this
genre seemed to click less definitely. A
couple of portrait studies are crisply
painted and look as if they were good
likenesses.


MARIE BRIZARD
(1714-1801)
The founder of French
Liqueurs.
LIQUEURS
CREME DE CACAO, 10/11 large bot.
(Marie Brizard’s.) (Usually 18/6.)
GREEN KERMANN, 6/11 17oz. bot.
(Marie Brizard’s.) (Usually 12/-.)
YELLOW KERMANN - - - 12/- litre
(Reverend Father Kermatin's.) (Usually 25/-.)
CHERRY WHISKY 10/11
C Marie Brizard’s Special Liqueur.) (Usually 18/6.)
WHISKY
ROYAL KONOBO.
Royal Konobo Whisky is 15 years old.
USUAL PRICE 21/-.
Due to a remarkable purchase by our London office we
are able to sell this superb whisky at
12/6 bottle.
FULL PRE-1914 WAR STRENGTH AND QUALITY.
We are so confident that this whisky is the finest w’hisky procurable
in the world that we will give you a sample free to test our claim.
Obtainable ONLY at
THE PLAZA HOTEL
THE HOTEL FOR THE CONNOISSEUR.
MAIL ORDERS: No. 3 BOTTLE DEPT., WYNYARD STATION, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
F. 0.8. or F.O.R. Sydney—Free Delivery City and Suburbs. BW3UIS.
■ L
SMOKE-OH!
“Wives get a raw deal.” — Women’s mag.
Husbands on the other hand complain
that everything they get is overdone.
♦l* *l> -h *b
“The modem woman is an artist.”
' —Beauty column.
And the majority of her efforts are
self-portraits.
*!•
The new typist thinks a major offen-
sive is a military officer who uses bad
language.
■b *b *b *b
“Are you nervous when the front-door
bell rings?” — Women’s paper.
No, not since we paid the final instal-
ment on the wireless.
•b *b *b *b
“More nations still are likely to be emboiled
in the war.” : — “Sun.”
That indicates that half-baked measures
will not do to cook Hitler’s goose.
•f* *b *b *b
“I think it would save many embarrassing
moments if the bachelor were known as
“Master” and the married man as “Mister.”
— Correspondent, women’s paper.
Then a “Mister” would be a mastered
“Master.”
»b b b *b
Moidered Masterpiece.
“AI Knight, negro actor from Hollywood,
wants to break into Australian films.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
The company was on location on the
Nullarbor Plain, all set to shoot the first
scenes in that stirring Australian epic
“Dad and Dave at the South Pole.”
The best swing bands had been gathered,
glamorous girls in wide hats and ex-
quisitely-tailored riding trousers were
there, the hero was hung with revolvers
and crisscrossed with cartridge belts —
nothing had been spared to give the true
Australian outback atmosphere.
A leading negro star from America had
been chosen to play the support as rajah
of the Arecanuts, the fierce Nullarbor
race that was to aid the two Australian
explorers in their attempt to climb
Bunker Hill, topmost peak of the Ganges.
Suddenly the assistant-producer came
galloping up on his white emu (14 men
and two dogs lost their lives seeking its
haunt in the wild glens of the Footscray
Alps) with an annoyed look. “Bawss,”
he cried, “hold everything. Them gol-
blamed Arecanuts have started a sit-down
strike. They refuse to play with this yere
Amurrican negro as their rajah!”
The producer fought his way clear of
reporters and candid-camera fiends. “Spill
it, wise guy,” he roared. “What’s the
dope? Why won’t they act?”
“They draw the color-line! ” answered
the a.-p.
With a moan the great producer col-
lapsed and the company stood in silence
as the sands of the desert grew cold.
Liar Bird.
“O’Reilly Again—Back with Club.”
— “Sun” heading.
“Yair,” said the bandaged barracker,
“it was a great match. Nothin’ much
doin’ till Bill comes back, and he waded
inter ’em with his club. He caught two
on the boundary an’ knocks ’em for
sixers, an’ gives Bradcock a square cut
over the point. They pull up stumps an’
rush him, but he swings a few from both
sides an’ cracks a couple down the gully,
catches another on the leg, an’ bumps
down two more. ‘Knock ’em over, Bill! ’
I yells, then some silly coot bowls me
with a bottle an’ I’m run out be the
ambulance blokes. But it was a great
match.”
S.
“Phew! I wish this Was beer!"
“There’s no excuse for bad hands.” — Advt.
Not when you deal yourself, anyway.
*b .j* *
“What does the word ‘petrify’ mean?”
—‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Stony; refers not to financial con-
dition but to look given by the wife when
you unexpectedly bring a half-shot
cobber home for tea.
•b *b v *b
“There are now many teetotallers in the
navy.”— “Sun.”
Still, even they like to sink a few when
they get among the enemy.
•b *b *b *b
“Amazingly few men have been killed where
these vast armies are facing one another. Yet
the soldiers are not idle.” — “S. M. Herald.”
They’re killing time, anyway.
•b *b *b *b
“Authorities estimate that different
languages are spoken in the world.”
—‘‘World’s News.”
For “world” read “King’s Cross.”
•b *b *b *b
“Several hundred people at the corner of
Springfield?avenue and Darlinghurst-road ”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Apparently a questionable area.
“What’s in a car?”
—Adelaide ‘‘Express and Journal.”
All the wife’s relations usually.
•b *b »b *b
“Women win all awards in drama contest.”
— Women’s paper.
They’re always good at making scenes.
Sad Confession.
When first I looked into her eyes,
So deeply, so divinely blue,
I whispered, to her vague surprise,
“There’s nothing I could keep from
you.”
And sour and sad regrets have / :
For now I realise , perforce,
There isn’t —and perhaps that’s why
She’s suing for divorce!
DOUGAL.
Good Work.
“Each to his own trade.” — “Sunday Sun.”
They tried that plan in gaol one day,
But it got a nasty jolt.
For Joe , a locksmith, made a key,
And then he made a bolt.
E.
Longing.
Quite frankly, I’ve,[ little ambition,
I seek not empty fame ;
I just want a cushy position,
With M.P. after my name.
PATON.
The Real Thing.
“The Australian Broadcasting Commission
plans to send a mobile unit away with the
Second A.I.F. to broadcast the war from the
battlefield.” — “S.M.H.”
“This is the Orstraylian Broadcasting
Commission.” Ding! Dong! Ding!
“That numbah we just interrupted was
‘Mai baby sure thinks Ai’m a swell
gazoop,’ played by Basil Pansy and his
orchestra.
“Now, may we remaind you that the
A.B.C. ‘Weaklay’ will be on sale every-
whayer tomorrow? It contains quaite
a brilliant article on the popular Molo-
tov. It discusses the famous Soviet states-
man’s bizarre fondness for devilled sand-
worms, which he imports specially from
Baloochistan, and gives the insaide story
of his glamorous and gifted waife’s raise
to the Commissarship for the Soap and
Perfume industry. Othah excaiting
features are ‘Advaice on How to Tatt a
Milk Jug Covah’ and ‘The Confessions
cf a Middle-aged Plumbah.’
“Now we are crossing ovah to our
representative at the front, who will give
a straiking shell-bay-shell description of
an encountah with the enemay that is
pending. The next announcement will
come dayrect from the short-wave
ststlop ,,
“Hello, hello, Orstrayliah! This is the
Orstraylian Broadcasting Commission’s
war reportah broadcasting from some-
where in Somewhere. You are about to
heah a description of a hopovah. This
sector we are in has frequently been
mentioned in recent communikays, and,
brieflay, the operation is to straighten out
a horseshoe salient, whatevah that is.
uxr n.
Now, ! 1 H f h t v, P -Y: ’
so to M m the taime befoah. the mam
part of the broadcast, and to give you
an ideah of how our men prepayah for
battle, Ai shall just put the maicrophone
at the mouth of the dugout and listeners
can heah just what is going on. There
we are”.
“I wish that stupid blankard’d hurry
up with the rum, Blue. I’m as cold as
the top of a Laplander’s ig100.”... .“Sling
over that bag o’ Mills bombs behind y’,
Splinter.”... .“Yair, and the tinny cow
sits on an ace and a swinger and clicks
for three m0re.”.... “How did y’ get on
with that little tabby in the boozer at
that last joint we were in, Joe? Did
you put the” ... .“Blime { someone’s
half-inched me gas mask ; some o’ youse
cows’d snavel y’r own missus’s weddin -
ring.” “H’m! Two green flares over
an orange one —Jerry’s gettin’ windy
about the barrage.”... .“What did you
get when you ratted that lardhead officer
you took yesterday, Steve?”... .“Don’t
give us the dingbats, Snow, Cunnamulla’s
nowhere near Longreach.”... .“They tell
me the R.S.M. was awarded a ‘duck-
board’ for that last stunt we were in ;
he musta been first in when they dished
the last lot up with the rations,”.... “How
about coughin’ up that twenty onks y’
owe me, Willo, before y’ go over? A
man’d be stiff enough for you to get an
issue.” “Who’s that dopey-lookin’
bloke that’s been muckin’ round here
with a microphone lately?”...
“Er—well, listeners, there is only about
a minute or so to go before we come to
the real haighlaight of the broadcast —
the actual hopovah itself.
“Ai have been told by
some of the old originals
heah that in these hop-
ovahs, after having
marched across no-man’s-
land, keeping in perfect
ordah, ayes raight and
chests out sort of thing,
and befoah getting down
into the enemay’s front-
laine trenches, our chap-
pies all form up on the
parapet and execute a
savage-sound-
ing war-dance, probably
a variation of the Maori
haka. The fearful incan-
tations they shriek are
calculated to inspire the
enemay with terrah, and,
according to our men, this
is what reallay happens.
Instead of putting up a
faight, he comes out of
his dugouts chanting
‘Kamarad,’ and forthwith
surrenders. Thus our
troops effect a great
saving in grenades, and
keep their bayonets from
becoming stickay.
“Well, everything is in readiness now,
and they are only waiting for the signal
that will send them ovah the top. I just
heard an officer tell some men to make
sure they had a very light pistol. Whay
they should use a thing like that when
they have very heavy raifles appeahs
rathah strange. Ai should have imagined
the heavier the bullet the bettah. How-
evah, they are all lined up on the fiah-
step. Now, if you listen closelay, you
will heah the long blast on the whistle,
and then we will follow the progress of
the men as they make towards the
enemay’s trenches. Now the hopovah is
just about to commence. There goes
the”
Ding! Dong! Ding! “This is the
Orstraylian Broadcasting Commission.
You have just been listening to a descrip-
tion, from the front laine, of a hop-
ovah. Ower next realistic fighting broad-
cast will be tomorrow week, when ower
special wah reportah will give a descrip-
tion of a working partay putting doan a
barbed-wire entanglement. And now
heah is a new numbah: ‘Mammy’s gone
all haywire since her Mose kain’t croon
no mo’,’ written by AI Snoopstein and
Butch Dorpspieler, and played by Sol
Finkelberg and his Hot Crotchet
Burners.”
BO.


m
IN SYDNEY—STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines a
full measure of courteous service with modern appointments that
make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms
and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
u
MACLURCAN: Managing Director
U|
II
SYDNEY
df
ds
fd
f
st. Stanislaus’ College
Bathurst
A Catholic school for boys in the bracing
climate of Bathurst.
Complete Secondary Course.
Conducted by Vincentian Fathers.
Apply to THE PRESIDENT.
Telephone: Bathurst 39.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Consols, Shares and War Taxes
The average yield, including re-
demption, on Consols being down to
£3 14s. 3d. per cent, last week—largely
as a result of official market support —
Canberra prophets were prepared to tip
that the next issue would be at 3f p.c.
and for £20,000,000, sometime in Feb-
ruary. The Loan Council meets on Jan.
19. There is more money about now
and the investment market is strong,
though interest is mainly confined to ord.
shares in chosen industries ; pref. shares,
mortgages and ords. in importing, re-
tailing, building, newspaper, banking and
finance concerns are noticeably dull.
A great deal will depend on how the
loan goes off. It deserves wide support,
provided always that the Government
does its part when investors have done
theirs. The people are being warned,
and rightly, that the war must be carried
on with a minimum of inflation on their
account. Can Governments be relied on
to strive toward a similar end?
We have been only four months
at war, and were far from a war-time
footing before, so disorganisation and
loose ends were inevitable to start with.
There has been plenty of muddle, young
men offering their services and in some
cases their lives with the Government
unable to put a decent uniform on their
backs in many instances. But that sort
of thing must disappear, otherwise the
Government of the day will itself vanish.
The war, however, will have to be pur-
sued irrespective of the shape our Gov-
ernment takes.
It is the policy of the present Federal
Government, no doubt acting upon
counsel given by the Commonwealth
Bank, to finance the mortgaged part
of our large war effort at a low
rate of interest. A definite pro-
gramme of interest-reduction has been
introduced, the National Emergency
Regulations being availed of as well as
the National Debt Sinking Fund. Bank
rates have been limited to Aug. 31
levels, and conservation of overseas funds
has been insisted upon. On Nov. 30
the Acting Treasurer said “it is expected
that the Government’s policy will ulti-
mately result in interest rates reaching,
and being maintained at, a satisfactory
and acceptable level.”
The revised estimates of Nov. 30
showed that in 1939-40 £46,000,000 was
to be spent out of loans on defence. The
Commonwealth Bank and the trading
banks have already kicked in with
£10,000,000, and about £36,000,000 is still
to be raised.
From revenue £13,780,000 was to be
spent on defence this year ; with the loan
money already mentioned and £2,053,000
from the Defence Trust Account the total
outlay was put at £62,014,000. Now
Mr. Spender announces that this esti-
mate will be exceeded by “some millions
of pounds.” Whether the extra is to
come from loans or taxation he didn’t
say. At present expenditure is at the
rate of £6,000,000 a month.
During the current year, according to
the Nov. 30 declaration, Canberra does
not intend to ask for more than
the £8,000,000 extra taxation already
budgeted for. But, by the same
authority,
this does not indicate an unwillingnesss
on the part of the Government to use
taxation for financing the war effort. Of
“I still cant see anything Wrong with your car , Mr. Fizzerdith!”
all forms of war finance, well-planned
taxation spreads the burden most equitably
and has the least harmful repercussions.
Whereas credit expansion used to excess
causes the burden to be distributed un-
fairly and in a disguised way, taxation
enables us scientifically to place the burden
where it can best be borne and where it
will interfere least with the basic needs
of the people.
The prevailing wave of speculative
buying among industrial stocks on
’Change may not be helpful to the Gov-
ernment’s financial policy. It seems lo
be badly judged in any case. Speculation
always brings about influences that tend
to undermine economic stability. Stock
Exchange speculation is particularly un-
productive of anything except trouble,
since no new industries start from
gambling in listed stocks, and no new
employment or national revenue is
created. At the same time it may distract
the ordinary investor’s attention from
loans being raised to defend the Empire
and for other essential purposes.
The following comparison (Sydney
figures) of some developments over the
past twelve months is interesting but
puzzling:
Jan., 1939. Last week.
Av. Consols yield, p.c. £3 17s. Id. £3 14s. 3d.
Pref. share index .. 104.35 92.82
Ord. share index .. 122.85 129.24
Industrial ord. shares 127.93 136.00
Silver-lead shares .. 172.60 179.43
General mining .. 129.88 143.41
While Consols have risen in price to the
extent that their yield has dropped by
nearly 3s. per cent., preference share
prices have fallen by over one-tenth in
a year, and their yields have risen corre-
spondingly. Conflicting trends of market
favor among certain classes of fixed-
interest securities also extend to
mortgages; here interest rates have risen,
as with pref. shares, but: contrary to
Consols. The banks, as mentioned before,
have had their rates fixed. It all sug-
gests a state of financial affairs at odds
with itself, and destined for a straighten-
ing-out later.
In industrial ord. shares speculation
has been most apparent, though there
has been some recovery in silver-lead
and a rather pronounced rise in mining
stocks generally, largely due to improved
prices for tin and gold. The prices of
ord. shares, on the average, are the
highest for over two years, and there
are particular stocks that have gone to
exceptional levels.- It seems that specu-
lators are not fully awake to the possi-
bility of orders coming into factories
only in fits and starts after the first war-
time rush of stocking-up by retailers has
passed, or to the probability of heavy
excess profits taxation being availed of
to make war financing operate smoothly
over all sections.
If the Government is resolved to spread
the burden of war equitably, and to
maintain sound money in Australia, the
wide difference between the prices of
some ord. shares and some fixed-interest
securities (Consols excepted) will lessen
at no distant date. Action has already
been taken to prevent mining cos. making
excessive profits out of the war. Metals
for domestic consumption and Empire
munitions are being sold at below world
parity. Wool has been disposed of at a
moderate price, and most other primary
products are “regulated.” Now it is clear
that future subscribers to Consols will
be asked to accept a lowered rate
of interest. Taken together with the
price-fixing regulations now in force,
these developments should represent
a warning to speculators in manu-
facturing-co. scrip. The logical assump-
tion from what has already been done
with regard to metals, wool, etc., and
interest rates is that excess profits will
be taxed solidly later on. And the obvi-
ous time for such a development would
be towards the end of the first financial
year under war conditions.
For the first six months of 1939-40
Australia’s favorable balance of trade on
account of commodity imports and ex-
ports amounted to £3,807,000 sterling,
against £718,000 for the first half of
1938-39. Imports totalled £47,294,000
sterling, down £3,401,000, while exports
were £51,101,000, down £312,000. Move-
ments of gold, etc., have not been dis-
closed since the beginning of the war,
but six months’ gold production would
be worth about £6,500,000 net, giving us
a favorable trade balance for six months
of about £10,000,000 sterling, slightly
more than the total for the whole of
1938-39.
It has been suggested that the favorable
balance of Australia’s overseas trade,
including gold production, may reach
£35,000,000 sterling for 1939-40. The
volume of our exports up to Dec. 31,
the end of the half-year, was not up to
1938-39 standards; foregoing figures
show that even values were slightly less,
the improvement in the balance being
mainly due to reduced imports. But
export prices in November were up 18
p.c. on the average for 1938-39, and, with
a record wool clip, greater production
of butter and gold, and wheat now more
readily marketable, the value of exports
during the next six months should greatly
exceed those to Dec. 31. Three-fourths
of our wool had then still to go.
Britain’s war-time contracts have
been of great benefit, and the fact
that wool is paid for 14 days after
appraisement means that money
is coming into this country for
the staple perhaps before it leaves
port.
Between October and the end of De-
cember 1,450,000 bales of wool were
appraised under the British Govern-
ment’s purchase scheme. A little more
than half this quantity was shipped dur-
ing the same period. The average
appraised price was 12.16 d. (Aust.) a
pound on a greasy basis, and the total
value was £25,299,147 in Australian
money. Of this, £21,435,860 was paid
to Australia by Britain during the period,
and the value had been handed to wool-
growers, less 10 p.c. payable at the end
of the season.
* * * *
The association between Bradford
Cotton and Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber
(B. 27/12/’39) has been followed by
“preliminary discussions” between Olym-
pic Tyre and Rubber and Davies, Coop
and Co., both Victorian cos. with inter-
state branches, concerning the formation
of a separate co. to turn out tyre cord,
on which a bounty of 3|d. a pound has
been granted. No finality has been
reached, says F. J. G. Beaurepaire,
Olympic’s chairman. Davies, Coop
recently bought General Motors-Holden’s
old factory at Marrickville (Sydney) for
the purpose of turning out tyre cord,
canvas, duck and other cotton textiles.
It is at present offering 100,000 ords. to
shareholders, and its N.S.W. subsidiary
is asking the public for £50,000 of 6 p.c.
pref. money. Olympic Tyres is in the
market for £162,000 in ord. shares. Brad-
ford Cotton, which has not yet actually
announced an intention to make tyre
cord, though the relationship with Dun-
lop-Perdriau seems obvious, is offering
239,964 £1 ords. to shareholders (one for
one), and recently issued 34,000 ords. to
Dunlop-Perdriau in part-payment for the
Barnet Glass factory at Footscray.


BULLETIN OF COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
MILLS PTT. LTD., PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
y
V ' ' •>
V . ■ *
. ::
OUR “PROXY
Once your product leaves the plant it
has to stand on its own feet . . tell its
own story. You can't be there to stress
all its points of beauty, its superiority
of "build." If the selling-points aren't
self-evident . . if the quality doesn't
speak for itself in terms of performance
. . how are you going to compete with
lines which leave nothing to chance?
Take refrigerators. The exterior finish
will endure in ratio to the quality of
the steel sheets beneath the enamel.
The porcelain enamel lining is only as
good as the iron you put inside. Your
reputation and your future depend on
your choice of raw materials. And
that's where we can help.
Accurate to 1/1000"
The huge 15 ton rolls which are basic equipment
in the rolling mill must be accurate within the
limits of I/1000th of an inch. Rolling steel bars
and sheets is no sinecure, even for a specially
tempered 15-ton steel roll, and after a limited
amount of use the rolls are set in the machine
illustrated for calliper tests and then ground
back to perfection. The quality of steel sheets
depends largely on the accuracy of rolls. It is
interesting to note that C.R.M.'s roll grinder is
the most modern available and the only one of
its type in the Southern Hemisphere.
100 Tons of Rolls
Man becomes quite an infinitesimal item when
he wanders near the C.R.M. Roll Rack, where
rolls are stacked’ before and after grinding.
Quick movement of rolls from mills to rack and
vice versa is handled by overhead electric
cranes which traverse the entire length of the
plant.
Manufacturers who use or
propose to use Steel Sheets
are invited to submit their
problems to our technicians
for helpful advice.
LTD.
P T Y.
(THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION )
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
CR2O-9
The rapid rise in sharemarket quo-
tations continued last week. Felt and
Textiles ords. were prominent in a lift
to 395., and B.H.P. added a few more
pence more to its tall-poppy appearance.
In the table which follows, last week’s
prices of some leading stocks are com-
pared with those ruling in January last
year. In the last column the rise per
share is multiplied by the number of
shares already issued:
Rise on
31/1/ ’39. 11/1/ ’4O. Capital.
B.H.P 54/6 82/6 £9,731,000
British Tobacco .. 47/3 50/9 1,423,000
Henry Jones .. 48/- 58/6 750,000
Electro. Zinc, ord. 44/- 60/6\ -7 nsn nnn
„ „ pref. 47/9 62/-J' 2 ’ USU,U
A/asian Paper, ord. 28/9 36/91 <nn non
„ „ pref. 35/6 36/-J 500,0UU
Davies, Coop .. 24/- 34/- 200,000
Felt and Textiles 30/9 39/3 250,000
Fairymead Sugar 30/3 37/6 180,000
W. R. Carpenter 41/- 46/- 200,000
Yarra Falls .. 36/6 41/9 250,000
In B.H.P.’s case the increase of £9,731,000
in market capitalisation is the equivalent
of nearly seven times the co.’s net profit
last year. British Tobacco’s rise is about
\\ times last year’s profit, Henry Jones's
nearly four times, Electro. Zinc’s five
times, Australasian Paper nearly four
times, Davies, Coop three times, Felt
and Textiles 2i times, Fairymead Sugar
nearly four times, W. R. Carpenter nearly
twice, and Yarra Falls more than twice.
* * * *
It is very hard to pick anything worth
buying in a sharemarket that seems to
be riding for a fall. Importing, furnish-
ing, retailing and some building con-
cerns are very dull, and so are banks,
finance and newspaper concerns. The
rest of the share-list, in the investment
section, anyway, has gone particularly high.
Among stocks that have weakened since
war occurred may be mentioned Arthur
Cocks, Gordon and Gotch, William
Adams, Edwards Dunlop (all importers),
Beard Watson, Bebarfalds, Farmers and
Anthony Hordern (furnishing and retail-
ing), and Wunderlich, General Industries,
Australian Gypsum and Ormonoid Roof-
ing (building). Many more of the same
order have neither weakened nor
strengthened. Some of these stocks,
especially Arthur Cocks, Gordon and
Gotch and Edwards Dunlop, may hold
their present price better than some of
the industrials on which there has been
a cornbeef rush.
* * * *
Those who imagine that a country in-
volved in a war to “the last man and
the last shilling” can expect the war to
bring prosperity had better listen to this
portion of Mr. Chamberlain’s speech at
the Mansion House last week:
Great Britain must increase her exports
as much as possible and simultaneously
reduce those imports which are not essen-
tial. Only thus can the nation conserve
the reserves of gold and foreign currencies
which it will need if the war proves a
long one.
Taxes on the wealthy have been increased
already to and beyond the stage where
they might be called the conscription of
wealth. But two-thirds of the consump-
tion of the people of Britain is by people
who have smaller incomes. Therefore
these people must make more sacrifices
similar to those demanded not only in
totalitarian Germany, but also in France.
I do not mean by that that there must
be no increase in wages, but it would be
a mistake to tie up wages and costs. That
would benefit no one, because it would
only give a violent impetus to the vicious
spiral of alternately rising wages and
prices.
Empire countries have two economic
alternatives in the matter of facing war’s
waste. They may either maintain stability
in industry and finance by accepting re-
duced incomes and/or higher taxes, or
they may befuddle themselves and the
national economy by attempting to
escape from war’s toll through passing
their share of the cost on to someone else.
The second course involves rising costs,
depreciating currency, chaos in industries
and unemployment, with the burden of
war doubled. The second course is the
one Australia pursued during and after
the last war. It would be perilous to
attempt it again.
* * * *
Remarkable the ideas some people are
capable of getting into their heads around
the matter of war-time finance. Some
think that war brings “prosperity”;
others that there is no waste of money
in a war, the amounts spent being
circulated again and again and increased
employment given. . To get the correct
picture of war and finance together, it
is just as well to have the thought planted
in the back of the head that money is of
no physical value at all, and that it is
simply an acknowledgment of value
received, and for which the same
value may be given again and again
provided all parties honor their obli-
gations. Money merely represents
good (in some countries bad) faith in the
exchange of goods and services. It is
“organisation” more than anything else,
made necessary by the growth of large
communities. The substance of real
wealth is materials and services.
Where a country well supplied
with raw materials is also so well
organised in its monetary and poli-
tical affairs that the labor of its
people is capable of being directed
towards a maximum production of neces-
sities and luxuries, and those goods are
fairly evenly distributed for consump-
tion, then that country can be called
prosperous. On the outbreak of war,
assuming that the population was work-
ing to capacity before, it is plain that
the withdrawal of workers to fight in-
stead of work means that there will be
a falling-off in the outturn of ordinary
goods. A proportion of the workers not
fighting will have to make munitions
(which are shot away into the air),
and that means a further decrease in
necessities and luxuries available. Plainly,
monetary management cannot do better
than assist men’s efforts toward full
possible production. But badly man-
aged it can do a lot worse. Those who
increase their wealth as a result of war
do so only by increasing the sufferings
of others.
Imagine two ant-beds a few yards
apart. Most of the year both lots of
ants spend their time improving their
habitations, storing up food and “im-
proving their standard of living.” Then,
for some reason, the two communities
go to war. These industrious insects,
which generally strive to live and keep
alive, are now devoting much of their
energies toward killing each other. The
workers have to do more work as well
as draw on their, stores in order to keep
the ant armies in action. The ants have
no money system to confuse the issue,
being agreeable community workers, so
in this case the waste of “effort and
treasure” and standard of living are much
more apparent than in human society,
But in essence the cases are the same.
* * * *
Britain is to take 56,000,000 bushels of
wheat and 150,000 tons of flour (the
equivalent of 7,000,000 bushels of wheat)
out of the Commonwealth’s No. 2 Wheat
Pool. Price has not been disclosed,
though 3s. 9d. a bushel, f.0.b., has been
mentioned. Shipments may be spread
over 12 months
over 1Z months. „
A deadlock has occurred between
Whakatane Paper Mills (formerly
Timberlands Woodpulp) and the Maori-
land Government. According to man-
aging-director Horrocks, “the refusal of
the Price Tribunal to give reasonable
consideration” to prices asked for by the
co. may result in 232 men being put
off, £l4OO a week in wages being lost
and the co.’s mill closed down. The co.
is making cardboard, for which box-
makers have been refused import licenses.
* * * ,
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd., the Sydney
co. that had piles of stocks on hand
before war broke out and which showed
a profit of only £1937 in its last term,
now finds business so brisk that paid
capital (£72,847) is to be doubled by a
new issue of shares. No divs. have yet
been paid, but Sydney brokers seem to
have made an active market in the stock,
and 295. 6d. was paid for the £1 shares
last week. There has been extensive
spec, buying in the shares for about three
months. Under existing conditions the
co. should be doing quite well, but two
or three years is hardly enough time
for a new industry to establish itself
firmly. Special circumstances have aided
the co. lately, but the future, though it
has encouraging aspects, is obscure.
* * * *
The boom in Victorian, gold shares was
steadier last week, though Bendigo issues
were bought at recent top prices for the
most part. The Deborahs in particular
continued to be keenly sought, and the
dredging and sluicing shows at Eldorado
firmed over the week. Chewton also moved
up. South Virginia, at Bendigo, weakened
So did Wattle Gully, A 1 Consolidated
and Morning Star. On Melbourne
Change Loloma (Fiji) mounted to 335.,
though Emperor was quiet at the recently
increased price of 14s. 3d. Mt. Morgan
and Golden Plateau, Queensland stocks,
wer? both , lack . was a tendency
for interest in Westralian stocks to revive,
Boulder Perseverance, North Kalgurli,
Triton and Lancefield being active,
though the last-named was inclined to
weaken.
’ * ’ .
In Sydney interest in goldmining shares
slackened toward the week-end. Emperor,
Mt. Kasi, Lancefield, Mt. Morgan,
Placer Development and Wellington
Alluvials were all down slightly. Bulolo,
Cuthbert’s Misima and Loloma were up,
and so was Wentworth Lucknow—one
of . . the Marshall shows near Orange
wh,c . h '. hlnk ? has found somethlns
P revlous y nusse .
* * * *
Adelaide Cement has declared an
interim div. of Is., plus a bonus of Is.,
making 2s. per £1 share. The interim
is the same as for last year, when a final
of 3s. made 25 p.c. for the year the
co. called 10 p.c. div. and 15 p.c. bonus,
Large reserves of profit made out of the
cement business in former years, plus the
retained portion of income from these
invested reserves, help the co. to even out
any fluctuations that may occur in in-
come from the cement section of the
business. The co. is a regular nugget
among Australian cement investments,
In other States the top div. is 15 p.c.,
paid by Goliath (Tas.). Kandos and
Australian Cement pay 12i p.c. Adel-
aide Cement shares are priced at
around 565.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE STRANGE WAR IN FINLAND.
[Apart lrom having won the admiration of the
world at large, the heroic resistance of the Finns
against the extravagantly boosted Red Army has special
Mgmhcance to “small countries,” including Australia
anti Maoriland. Evidently it is being rather better
icpoited in cables than were the one or two wars that
occurred when “news” was mainly Parlor Pink views
and reports had to be dished up accordingly. The
items here given throw further light on this extraordinary
conflict, in which the defenders as a nation are out-
numbered by not less than 40 to I.]
“Strangeness and Heroism Together”
(From comment by “J.L.G.”—no doubt J. L. Garvin—
in London “Observer.”)
In the Baltic north the few hours of light flit
like a phantom. For strangeness and heroism together
the fight of the Finns will not be forgotten in a
thousand years. These memories have an immortal
power of their own as history knows. They would
contain the sure and certain promise of national
resurrection even if Finland went down for a time.
Before it comes to that they will stagger the
world for months yet. Among fights for liberty
this is the great thing. Its background at this season
is wilder than Macbeth” and it will leave a legend
like Tell and Hofer.
In the land of a thousand lakes, and countless
woods of pine, fir and birch, the country is snow-
bound and ice-locked. In the northern and central
regions much of this spectral fighting has to be done
by searchlights and flares. Russian losses of all kinds
have been heavy, but they have suffered three times
more from frostbite than from gunfire. This grisly
toll will increase as the rigors grow harsher. The
Czars used to say that their best commanders were
Generals January and February. They may be even
better commanders for the Finns.
The Finns are not fighting blind. Though
their physical fibre and endurance are the
toughest, they are a romantic people in a stern
way. Theirs is a reasoned and spiritual struggle.
When they took up arms at any hazard against
colossal tyranny they meant it. They knew that
if you dare to face odds of fifty to one, half-
courage is useless, and competent desperation
is the only wisdom.
The struggle is grim and bound to become
grimmer, but the courage and ability of the
delence could not be surpassed. The Finns
have held their own, for all main purposes, in
conflicts ranging over a thousand miles and
threatening them along half a dozen lines of
attack. Where they have been pressed back
lor a time by weight of men and metal their
counter-attacks have recovered lost ground
again and again.
The object of the invaders is double. On
the one hand, they would cut the country in
two, so that the northern half would be en-
tirely theirs, while the southern half would be
enveloped and crushed. On the other hand,
Finland would be sheared off from Sweden. To
annul her natural connection with the Scandi-
navian States is a* main aim of Moscow. To
prevent this the Finns are using all their fight-
ing-craft and their unsurpassed physical train-
ing. They have allowed the invading columns
to advance along miserable tracks until the
invaders' lengthened communications in a
wilderness became more vulnerable. Then the
Finns have counter-attacked and swept back the
danger. Their lighter forces on skis are all round
the stolid Russian battalions hugging the tracks and
with no zest in the business.
This campaign of the defenders to maintain their
connections with the upper Baltic and Sweden is an
epic within an epic. The best aids of the defenders
are stark cold and prevailing night. In this guerrilla
warfare the Finns are indomitable, and they are deadly
marksmen.
There is no doubt that Moscow, from its own
standpoint, has bungled the business. Even the puppet
Government set up on the fringe of Finland at Teri-
joki has been a set of marionettes without a hand
to work them. This ludicrous imposture has been
an affair of wood and wire without the squeak. The
Kremlin will call someone to account. If Stalin had
to do it again he would do it differently. Molotov
and Voroshilov, whichever is most to blame, could
not have done it worse.
What has been exposed to the world is the cer-
tainty that in no respect is the quality of the Red
Army equal to its size. The unfavorable impression
has deflated everywhere the prestige of the Soviet
Empire. None are more pleased at this than the Nazi
double-crossers. They push Russia on with delicious
Schadenfreude. As Hitler shows in Mein Kampf—
and it is the bottom of his doctrine—they desire to
weaken every Power by comparison with themselves,
and in their heart of hearts they want the weakening
of Russia above all
* * * * *
“Human Searchlights”
[This picturesque account of the fighting was sent to
the “Corriere della Sera” (Italy) by that newspaper’s
correspondent in Finland, Signor • Indro Montanelli.
Journalists know that, provided it makes a “good
story,” an isolated occurrence is often represented as
general practice. Whether or not that applies in this
case, it is certainly a “good story,” and its “atmos-
phere,” at least, is convincing. It is here included for
the light it throws on conditions.]
In the Arctic darkness the difficulty of the Finnish
troops is, quite literally, seeing to fight. As far as
mere movement is concerned, the Finns can float like
bats through the fir woods, and silently on their skis
reach the Red positions. But there is not sufficient
light by which to aim a rifle.
Human searchlights” are therefore employed.
Two or three men in each platoon are caparisoned
with powerful dry-battery electric projectors, which
hang flat upon their chests. When the raiding party
has reached its objective one of these men separates
from his comrades, and after an agreed interval and
from an arranged direction switches on the current
of his searchlight. A beam is thrown upon the sur-
prised Communist troops, who generally are found
in dense formation, huddled together for warmth.
Meanwhile the remainder of the Finnish raiding
party have crept to close range, and from the deep
shadow on each side of the lane of light they pour
ni a rapid and murderous fire on the dazzled Rus-
sians. They use a special type of weapon, the Berg-
mann, which is more of a sub-machine-gun than a
rifle, each of its chargers holding 25 rounds, a gun
of the character made familiar in American gangster
films. With this scores of the Red troops are mowed
down.
All this is done with intense rapidity: the “human
searchlight” then snaps his light off as quickly as he
snapped it on. That is to say, if he has survived,
for obviously the beam makes him a perfect mark
for any of the enemy who chance to be in a flank
position outside the zone of light. The “human
searchlights,” indeed, are “men predestined to death.”
When the searchlight has been extinguished the
raiding party makes off in the darkness into which
the Russians cannot follow them, and repeat their
exploit presently on some other point of the front,
miles away. More like ghosts than men, in fact, they
haunt everywhere the ill-clad, famished Russian line,
materialise themselves an instant, stay, and are gone.
The Russian insistence on mechanised units tells
against them always. The Finns, if possible, never
Philadelphia "Inquirer," U.S.A.
UTOPIA MUSCLES IN.
go into the open. They keep within the fir woods,
which the Russian armored-cars cannot penetrate,
while the Finns use their sturdy little horses to drag
light artillery on sledges along paths between the trees.
The cultivation of immobility, where the very
air is stiff with cold, is part of the ghost-tactics of
the Finnish Army, so that, silent and invisible, they
may ambush the Reds.
*****
“Quality Against Quantity”
(George Soloveytchik, in London “Daily Telegraph")
Terijoki, where the Soviet has set up its “Gov-
ernment,” used to be a popular summer resort of
the St. Petersburg bourgeoisie. Twenty-one years ago,
when Marshal Mannerheim had only just swept out
the Red troops, I was in Terijoki, and found it quite
unrecognisable. Before retreating the Reds had de-
stroyed most of the villas, and the whole place was
a pitiable sight, A year or two ago I visited it again.
The Finns never rebuilt the village, for they considered
it to be uncomfortably near the Russian border.
No puppet Government set up by the Soviets
has any chances of success among the Finns —a singu-
larly stubborn, patriotic and tough race —least of all
that now headed by the Moscow Communist and
Finnish traitor Kuissinen. The choice of a deserted
ex-Russian pleasure resort as its nominal seat only
serves to emphasise the hollowness of this enterprise.
It would not be to her discredit if Finland were
to founder in the present unequal struggle. But there
is an old saying that the Finns can never give up their
independence —“Soumen kansa ei voi luopna itsenaisy-
ydestaan.” A few years ago they conducted the most
exhaustive “tree census” ever known to ascertain the
full extent of their forest wealth. As the result they
virtually “know” every tree, every bog and every
topographical danger spot in their country. They can
now use that knowledge to full advantage.
They know what weight the frozen lakes, of which
there are 100,000, and the icy rivers and swamps can
carry; the Russians do not. It is,,possible for the
Finns to ski over highly treacherous thin ice, whereas
to the Soviet troops, with their heavy ammunition,
this will represent a never-calculable deathtrap.
As to man-power or equipment, it is definitely
a question of quality against quantity. Finland has
a pretty good stock of ammunition, partly manufac-
tured at home and partly bought in good time from
Great Britain and Sweden. If communications with
Sweden can be maintained —though there is little
doubt that the Bolsheviks will do their utmost to
prevent it —the Finns can rely on a steady inflow of
fresh equipment, supplies and even man-power.
(London “Daily Telegraph” correspondent in Finland.)
Having myself been a voluntary lieutenant in
the Finnish Army during the War of Independence
against the Russians, I was already acquainted with
the deadly shooting of the Finns. Such shooting as
the Finnish marksmen are now producing, however,
I have never seen before. If the Russians do not
huddle together they die of cold. If they do crowd
together round their campfires Finnish snipers pick
them off without wasting a shot. The Russians are
bad rifleshots, as their aim is nearly always too high.
(“Times” Helsinki correspondent.)
Discomfiture of the Soviet troops has been largely
due to overmechanisation. They have attempted to
improvise hard roads through the snow for their
tanks, but their efforts have been hampered by the
difficulty of transporting enough oil fuel. They have
achieved some success by watering the snow, which
rapidly freezes into a usable roadway, but it is quickly
destroyed by heavy traffic. Frostbite is responsible
for very serious losses in man-power among the in-
vaders, possibly even more than direct fighting.
* * * * *
Prisoners
(From a report by the “Daily Mail” correspondent
in Finland.)
Finland has a problem in dealing with masses
of Russian prisoners. The Finnish Army is well
equipped, well fed and well housed, but the
Finns cannot conveniently spare clothes, food
and accommodation for another miniature
army and provide the numerous guards,
doctors and nurses required to look after them.
Many prisoners when captured were pros-
trate with cold or weak from disease and frost-
bite. These men had to be carried on stretchers
through terrible country behind the lines, and
the Red Cross staff has been almost over-
whelmed. Valuable medical supplies have
been used up, and beds prepared for Finnish
wounded rapidly filled.
Hygiene seems to be unknown in the Red
Army. Some of the captured Russians were
grimed with dirt. Special precautions have had
to be taken to prevent infection. Few of the
captured men are worth questioning. They
have no idea of Moscow’s war aims, and can
give information on nothing except their own
hardships.
(London “Daily Telegraph” correspondent’s report.)
A Russian prisoner, aged 27, whom I inter-
viewed was terribly emaciated and ill-clad. He
said: “I was called up seven months before we
came to Finland and sent to Brest Litovsk, in
Poland. Before we were transferred here we
were weeded out by political commissars, who
told us we should have to fight only for a fort-
night against England and France, who were
backing Finland in her attack on Russia.
“We had no hot food at all,” he said, “and
no tents to shelter in. When we tried to dry
our boots, which were of bad quality, they
cracked and fell to pieces. We nearly all have skin
diseases and frost-bite.”
I talked with some of the miserably-clad Rus-
sian prisoners in the Petsamo area. One of them
had only trousers and jacket. Only officers have vests
and underpants. Many corpses have been found clad
in women’s underclothes looted from a co-operative
store outside Petsamo.
(London “Sunday Times” correspondent.)
Prisoners taken by the Finns were in the most
wretched condition, their clothing being mostly cotton r
totally unsuited to warfare in such a climate.
They complain that their army is badly fed. They
also say that the heavy losses of tanks through Fin-
nish land mines caused the Russians to drive their
own men across the mines in advance of the tanks
at the point of machine-guns, man-power being
cheaper than tanks.
*****
The Intense Cold
(From a “Times” article by a correspondent lately in
Finland.)
The Soviet Army chiefs both underestimated the
fighting qualities of the Finns and paid too little
consideration to the difficulties of campaigning in the
Arctic winter. On firm and level snow the Finns can
maintain a six-mile-an-hour pace for hours on end
on their skis. In a hurry they would be capable of
10 miles an hour for several miles. To the Russians,
except in the northern forest regions and in Siberia,
skiing is merely a sport. The Finns, wearing white
overalls, would be invisible a couple of hundred yards
away in broken country. In wooded country the
Russians probably cannot see them at half that
distance.
Up to about the middle of January the sky is
usually heavily overcast and snow falls almost con-
stantly, covering up all tracks almost as soon as made
and making it difficult to keep to the paths that wind
through the forests and marshes in the most perplex-
ing way. For this reason it may be imagined that


Russian tanks, guns and transport are continually
finding themselves ditched.
But what is most likely to bring the Russian
advance to a halt is the intense cold which begins
about the middle of January. The temperature can
fall to 50 degrees below zero. Unless one has experi-
enced such cold it is hard to realise what it means.
It is impossible to touch metal with the bare flesh,
and an unprotected hand becomes frostbitten in a
few minutes. Ordinary leather boots are no use at
all. The feet must be protected with thick felt. Unless
the Russians are equipped with special windproof
outer clothing, with thick woollen underclothing, which
is practically unknown in Russia, they must wear
sheepskin shuhas, which make long marches terribly
exhausting and skirmishing practically impossible.
[An even more realistic impression of the intense
cold was conveyed in a “Times” copyright article
from a special correspondent who reported having
seen, after one engagement, 2000 Russians and
between 200 and 300 Finns who had been killed
“locked in an embrace of hate and death,” the soldiers'
torches “giving the scene the semblance of a frozen
inferno.” He reported also: “One cook lies beside
a pot of frozen soup, the spoon frozen in his hand,”
and that “No wounded men survived the battle.... the
wounded were frozen into rigid blocks a few minutes
after they fell.”]
The “Two Germanies” Fallacy.
[When the war started the keynote of British policy
and propaganda, struck by Mr. Chamberlain, was that
this was “a war against Hitlerism; we were not fighting
the German people.” Some still hold that this outlook
should be persisted in; others (including Lord Milne,
speaking in the House of Lords last month) have warned
against “the dangerous theory that we are not fighting
the German nation, dangerous both from the larger
aspect of the war and the subsequent settlement, and
from the lesser aspect of its possible effect on our
fighting men.” The earlier official view has been
swamped in a flood of written and spoken comment
on those lines, the - items here given from various
acknowledged sources being representative.]
(From a speech at a London Press Club luncheon
by Sir Eric Phipps, formerly British Ambassador in Paris
and Berlin.)
“There is one very important aspect of future
Anglo-French relations on which it behoves us to
clear our minds. It concerns the theory of the ‘two
Germanies.’ When the French say il faut en finir
the great majority of them mean the end, not only
of aggression by Herr Hitler, but of aggression by
Germany. They regard as fallacious the belief in
the existence of two Germanies, the one gentle and
carpet-slippered, the other militarist and aggressive.
They maintain that when the pinch comes the gentle
carpet-slippered German we have all known and
liked has the unfortunate habit of disappearing down
a trapdoor, and being replaced by a heavily-armed
gentleman whose chief object in life is aggression
and slaughter.
“Dr. Stresemann was generally regarded as a
representative of the ‘good’ Germany, and Sir Austen
Chamberlain and M. Briand certainly did their best
to give him every chance. After Dr. Stresemanns
death, however, his memoirs showed that his apparent
moderation was a mere cloak under which to prepare
an eventual policy of force. Herr Hitler, the French
say, is not an isolated phenomenon thrown up as
a result of our ‘brutal’ treatment of poor defenceless
Germany since the war. He is merely a successor
to Frederick the Great, Bismarck and William 11.,
under whose regimes our carpet-slippered friends like-
wise failed to prevent a policy of aggression.
“In 1933, when I was appointed Ambassador at
Berlin, I entered upon that important mission with
the firm desire to work for an honorable and perma-
nent understanding with Germany, without which the
maintenance of peace seemed to be highly proble-
matical. Before very long I reached the regretful
conclusion that no such understanding was possible.
However friendly conversations with Nazi leaders
might be, their gist was always on the Nazi side, ‘lf
Germany and Great Britain can reach agreement
they can rule the world.’ To this I invariably replied
that we had no wish to rule the world.”
(G. Ward Price, in London “Daily Mail.”)
This, we say, is a “war against Hitlerism.”
Twenty-five years ago we likewise spoke of the “war
against Kaiserism” —as if Germany’s greed for expan-
sion were the creation of the men at the head of that
country. “Get rid of the Kaiser and the General
Staff,” we told each other from 1914 to 1918, “and
European peace will be assured.” “Once the Nazi
regime is overthrown,” say many people today, “the
German people will return to sanity.”
The first of these theories proved an illusion.
The second may be one also. German aggression has
caused five European wars since 1864. It must be
regarded as a permanent characteristic of that nation.
The ruthless and far-reaching ambitions for which
Hitler stands are no more than a revival of the tradi-
tional pan-German objectives of the nineteenth
century.
(Major-General G. P. Dawnay; “Times” letter.)
Perusal of the French press, together with some
knowledge of French opinion, shows that some danger
exists lest a real divergence of opinion should arise
between our two peoples through stressing the views
of those who believe, no doubt sincerely, that the
German people can be detached from their leaders.
The German people have a number of admirable
qualities, in particular the virtues of industry, dis-
cipline and adaptability to organisation. These quali-
ties, however, though excellent in themselves, happen
also to be among the marks of a slave mentality ;
and consequently it is dangerous to blind ourselves
to the fact that the Germans have the defects of those
qualities in that they are always prone to be domi-
nated by unscrupulous leaders.
History speaks: 1870, 1914, 1939. Three times
in 69 years. Once every 23 years since the Germanies
were allowed to coalesce into a single entity as a
great German State. It is too much. So long as
60 or 80 millions of German people, with the good
and bad qualities aforementioned, exist as a single
entity under a single control, we may be faced with
the problem of their subordination to unscrupulous
leadership once every quarter of a century.
“With malice towards none” of the German
peoples, there is probably only one way to safeguard
Europe. That is to reconstitute the old German
kingdoms and principalities, if necessary under some
measure of control and supervision by their several
neighbors ; the creation, possibly, of a Catholic South
German and Austrian State, which would be unlikely
to coalesce with its northern Protestant neighbors;
and, in fact, the re-establishment of the Germanies
which for centuries constituted no danger to Europe
before their absorption into a single entity began
under the leadership of Prussia.
(Sir George Clerk, P.C.; “Times” letter.)
I am in continuous contact with Germans in this
country, many of them of the civilised and liberal-
minded type; one and all agree in saying that it is
the young people who are Hitler’s most enthusiastic
supporters. There are probably some
13,000,000 young Germans between
the age of 16 and 24 to whom Hitler
is God, Himmler is his prophet. Thir-
teen million young fanatics take a deal
of crushing, but until they have learnt
their lesson there is no hope of a
reasonable Germany. And that is
why this war will be long and bitter.
(George A. Greenwood; “Times” letter .)
Recantation is never easy, but the
events of the past 15 months have
compelled me, a lifelong pacifist,
severely to modify my views. It is
futility to attempt, in the light of
present knowledge, to discriminate
between the Nazi Government and the
German people, for there is a vast and
accumulating mass of information to
show that, despite the heroic opposi-
tion of a tiny minority, the overwhelm-
ing majority of the inhabitants of the
Reich support both the Flihrer as a
personality and his policy as an instru-
ment of the German will. I find it im-
possible to escape the conclusion that,
whatever opposition there might be in
Germany to the war as it has now de-
veloped, the nation was complete in
its acclamation of the rape of Czecho-
slovakia and of Poland, and that, if
these atrocities had been implemented
without the issue of the greater con-
flict developing, not only would there have been no
word of criticism, but the nation would have whooped
with delight. I fear it is true that this is a revelation
of the root of the German character —“the lust for
dominance through force.”
For these reasons I believe that an Allied policy
of declaring to the world that, while at war with
Hitlerism, we have nothing but friendliness and sym-
pathy for the German nation is a capital mistake,
mainly because when the issue has been resolved we
shall have to act very differently or we shall have
striven and spent in vain. We can only make a peace
of condign retribution, indicating quite plainly that
the world will no longer permit a nation of 80,000,000-
odd people to plunge it into war at will, if we are
honest about the matter at the beginning. Our present
declarations do not, it is true, make that impossible,
but they lay us open as a nation to the charge levelled
against us for a century, which will certainly be
levelled again, of hypocrisy and congenital incapacity
for saying what we mean, and what we mean to do.
* * * *
A French View
(From an article in “La Depeche de Toulouse,” by Paul
Bastid.)
What I am afraid of is that we should fall again
today into certain illusions well known in 1914. At
that time we used to say: “One man alone is guilty,
William II.” Today we are saying: “One man alone
is guilty, Hitler.” Mr. Chamberlain said that Eng-
land had no quarrel with the German people, except
for the fact that it allowed itself to be ruled by a
Nazi Government. Such statements as this may be
interpreted in a dangerous manner. If they simply
mean that we have no hatred for the German people,
well and good. But it is the same people which, with
an interval of twenty-five years, has allowed itself
to be abused first by William 11. and then by Hitler ;
and if we think that it will be enough to overthrow
Hitler for everything to be nicely settled, we are
laying up for ourselves a very cruel disappointment.
That is the danger which I perceive in proclaim-
ing a distinction between Hitler’s regime and the
German people. I am all for directing the most
powerful blows against the Fiihrer. But first of all it
would be foolish to believe that the present policy
of Germany is the work of one man; if he dis-
appeared, Germany’s armed might would remain in
its entirety if the Reich had not undergone any reverse.
On the other hand, even supposing the regime were
abolished, it would be rash to think that every threat
against the peace of Europe would vanish. Let us
be generous, but let us not be imprudent. We cannot
after an initial success declare that European tran-
quillity is re-established and allow a new awakening,
a new explosion of German dynamism to be prepared.
Such illusions have already cost us dear enough ; and
neither France nor even Great Britain can afford the
murderous luxury of a war every generation. It will,
therefore, be important to take every useful precaution
to avoid the repetition of such catastrophes which
cause surprise only in the naive. That does not mean
that we shall have to submerge the German people
or to inflict vexatious injuries on its pride, injuries
which at best are ineffective. But we are face to
face with a permanent danger against which we muse
use other weapons than humanitarian homilies.
France at War.
(Condensed from a “Round Table” article by a
correspondent in France.')
The Frenchman has not gone to war for what is
now called an ideology. He thinks that every man is
free, free even to renounce his own freedom ; and he
also thinks that “French blood belongs to France
alone.”
But it happens that the German Government has
piled up a series of falsehoods by which nobody has
been deceived. The Frenchman, whose attitude of
mind is essentially critical, has a horror of impostures
and a still greater horror of being hoodwinked by
them. He has shrugged his shoulders at the lie of
“race,” knowing that Germany is a mosaic of peoples.
He has shrugged his shoulders at “living-space,” a
theory which cannot be harmonised with the policy
“Daily Mirror," London.
“ Don’t worry — we’ve disqualified him!”
of domestic colonisation, so fashionable not long ago
in Germany. Then he has seen the true purposes
emerging from under the cloak of these absurdities.
He has realised what ambitions those theories con-
cealed. He has remembered the anathemas against
France in Mein Kampf. He has been profoundly
stirred by a disinterested sense of indigation and a
selfish longing for security. Those two emotions have
developed in him side by side. An honest historian
must mention both.
I am not concerned now with the opinions of a
political party, but with the reactions of an average
Frenchman, say, in a small way of business, who looks
at things from the standpoint of his own trade and
often takes little interest in politics —at least in foreign
politics. Motoring through France on a fine summer
day and seeing a man seated at his door smoking his
pipe, one cannot think without a smile of politicians
spouting their orations to such quiet, comfortable folk,
kings of their own tittle realms. They did not feel
themselves affected by events in the outer world until
the first mobilisation last September. And then it was
astonishing to see how easily and quickly all French-
men, just because needs must, consented to be torn
from their homes. They were neither eager nor
despondent. They had realised that danger was at
hand and that, whether they liked it or not, bon gre,
mal gre, it had to be warded off. They marched off
bravely enough, and, once in barracks, coming as they
do from an old race of soldiers, they quickly resumed
that childlike insouciance which is part of a soldier’s
life.
The number of those Frenchmen who do not feel
the strength of the ties that bind them to their country
is infinitely small. On the plateau of the Durance a
writer named Jean Giono —a man of great talent, en-
dowed with a sense of epic and pastoral genius—has
collected a group of disciples who are conscientious
objectors or, to put it more precisely, ardent votaries
of life, whose creed is to refuse obedience to war.
But Frenchmen generally have formed a
conviction that the menace is perpetual and that the'
situation is intolerable. Hence this peculiar example
of a war being made without France having anything
to ask from it. She is fighting only for her life. This
opinion is firmly fixed today in the minds of the
39,000,000 of her inhabitants ; and they will fight with
grim energy. There is a tendency to misunderstand
the depth to which the National-Socialist doctrine has
penetrated into German life. I never hear threats
against the German people, nor any evidence of
national hatred. The word Boche is quite out of use.
The universal feeling is that expressed by Mr. Cham-
berlain, that it is impossible to go on living with the
German Government, the curse of Europe.
The women have taken the place of their absent
husbands. They did so in 1914, but with a good deal
of hesitation and misgiving. Now they know they
can run a business as well as their husbands and
sometimes better.
The absence of the men who have been called up
has been made good for the most part by those who


have remained behind—men over military age, men
who have got le fascicule bleu, i.e., orders to stay at
home, women and children. The peasants in particular
have turned to helping one another. The problems of
different individuals or groups lose half their weight
by being treated as opportunities for mutual service.
An important part in this work on the land has
been played by the 100,000 French Scouts. These boys,
14 to 19 years old,'work in patrols of six each. They
do not accept any pay. The farmer has only to pro-
vide board and lodging. The interfederal office cir-
cular says: “It is understood that the boys will sleep
on straw ; that the minimum diet shall consist of a
substantial breakfast, a snack at ten o’clock, a dinner
with meat in the middle of the day, tea and supper.”
Evacuation has raised a multitude of problems.
To abandon one’s home and belongings is naturally
very distressing ; but at least everything the evacues
have left behind has been scrupulously respected. War
correspondents in the zone of military operations have
seen towns like Strasbourg completely empty ; but
inside the houses nothing had been touched, and the
inhabitants could have returned there tomorrow.
Pillaging is a capital offence.
The general spirit is summed up in a letter from
a soldier a spirit of “cold resignation and implacable
resolution.” “The sacrifice has been made, we have
thrown our lives, our hopes, our possessions into the
crucible. The will to have done with German
domination is in all our hearts.”
Confused U.S.A.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” leading article .)
The first reason given for lifting the arms embargo
was that it worked in favor of Germany by depriving
England and France of access to the arsenals of the
United States. If it was lifted, it would be lifted for
all belligerents alike, of course, in the name of neu-
trality ; nevertheless, such access would be impossible
for Germany, only England and France would be
benefited.
And why should we be wishing to give England
and France that advantage? It was not a sufficient
answer to say that such was the shape of our sym-
pathies. That was, of course, true. But it was said
that England and France were fighting the battle of
humanity and civilisation ; it was said that if the British
navy was lost, our own first line of defence would be
gone ; it was said that if Germany won, the banner of
aggression would cross the Atlantic.
So, lift the embargo. For such reasons lift it and
give England and France access to our arsenals in
order that they should be able to buy from us the
means with which to defeat the enemies of civilisa-
tion and freedom. But on what terms? Only on such
terms as to make sure that we ourselves should not
get into the battle ; only provided the defenders of
democracy, the keepers of our own first line of defence,
should come and get the arms in their own ships and
pay for them cash down.
How fortunate to be able to take the side of
humanity and civilisation, how fortunate to be able to
help save the principle of free institutions, how fortu-
nate to assist at the defeat of the aggressor before he
can make it our turn —and to do it with perfect safety
and some profit!
We do not subscribe to any part of the argument.
For if the argument were true, it would be our war,
too, and instead of selling arms to those on the battle
line we should at least be willing to give them without
cost and deliver them at our own risk.
What was the apex of the argument against lift-
ing the embargo? We should abandon our legal right
as neutrals to sell arms to whom we like, or to all
alike who could cross the sea and get them, for fear
the one belligerent who was thereby put at a dis-
advantage might come and bomb our industries.
Fear is the ignoble matter here —fear of being
neutral, lest the wrong side win, in which case we might
see the British navy in German hands, with the Ameri-
can fleet needed in the Pacific ; fear, on the other hand,
of being unneutral, lest we be dragged into the war
against our will. If the historian does not gloss this
over, our children may not understand it.
What saves it for us is that we know we are not
that kind of people. We are not afraid of war. Why
then are we involved in this contradiction?
First, the American people have been pursuing a
fantasy held out to them by a false evangel of softer
living, a more abundant life for less exertion, and,
above all, security. The word “security,” which was
new among us, has worked a deep injury to the Ameri-
can spirit. It has meant everything—economic security,
social security, physical and moral security, immunity
from war by passing a law in which we abandoned all
the neutral rights we had once been willing to fight
for—and all the time it meant nothing, for there is no
such thing in this world as either immunity or security.
.Secondly, the American people have been led to
believe they could keep their fancied security and still
exert their moral and material power in world politics.
They were told there was much they could do, more
effective than words and short of war, to uphold the
principles of freedom ; that they could indulge their
moral passions against the aggressor, threaten to em-
ploy decisive economic weapons against him, threaten
to quarantine him, in fact; and all "with perfect safety.
For had they not passed a law to keep themselves
out of war?
Suddenly all that fantasy breaks down. It' is
realised that means more effective than words and yet
short of war are perilous means, if they are means at
all. The rest is confusion. In confusion there is
panic. Now we talk of putting a 300-mile zone of
neutrality around a hemisphere, knowing as we talk
of it that we have not in being the power to defend it.
If we want it we can have it, but we shall have to
prepare ourselves to patrol it, defend it, fight for it.
Absolute security we can never have. Practical security
we can have if we want it.
What we need for purposes of practical security
is first of all a new word. The word is “impregna-
bility, or a state of supreme defence. We need more
than a bigger navy. We need two, one for the Atlantic
and one for the Pacific, each incomparable. We need
an impervious anti-aircraft wall. We need to be able
to meet not any aggressor but any combination of
aggressors.
Then we may be sure that the principle of free
institutions as a basis of modern civilisation shall
have, beyond the solace of our words, a time yet to
live in this world. Then we may create a world of
our own, or finish the one we started, dedicated to
peace and freedom, indestructible. The cost would
be very great, but our fantasy of security without price
has already cost us more.
Conflicting Views in Holland.
(Condensed from a “News of the World” article by its
former Berlin correspondent, now in Holland .)
Public opinion in Holland is sharply divided on
the war. The Dutch know what a Nazi victory would
mean for themselves, but they are so closely bound
by business interests and -racial affinity to their Ger-
man neighbors that they are keenly feeling the conse-
quences of both Allied and enemy action.
An American banker friend writes from Zurich
saying that “all the Swiss in this war are much more
pro-Ally than they were in 1914. They see the mis-
takes that were made, and that the only hope for the
small States is that Britain continues to play the role
she has had for the last 150 years.” It would be
New York "Times,”
UNDER TWO FLAGS.
mere wishful thinking to imagine this is the Dutch
attitude. , There is no sympathy for the inhuman
actions of the Nazis, but one frequently hears the
hope that the war will end in stalemate, since other-
wise the smaller neutral States stand only to lose,
whoever wins.
The Dutch are concerned first, foremost and all
the time with two particular interests. One is the
preservation of the neutrality which they have enjoyed
since their struggle with Belgium a century ago. The
other is the reduction to the narrowest limits of their
economic losses.
Holland is in the unenviable position of being
on the direct route from Germany to Britain. She
knows that the Nazis long to establish air bases here
from which to attack Britain. She realises also that
her military unpreparedness was such that only Bel-
gium’s determination to stand by her saved her from
attack a few weeks ago.
Everything is being done to maintain the strictest
neutrality. Whatever certain sections of the popu-
lation may think, a very careful official eye is kept
upon afl public expressions of opinion, whether on
the platform or in the press. Even the cinema news-
reels dealing with incidents of the war, or which show
up the Allies or the Germans in too favorable or
unfavorable a light, are omitted so as to avoid expres-
sions of public sentiment.
The Nazis are subjecting Holland to heavy pres-
sure of different sorts. There is the German press
campaign, which incessantly accuses* the Dutch of
being too passive towards the Allied contraband
policy and of making only “paper protests” against
alleged British violation of Holland’s neutrality. Black-
mail is also indulged in through indirect business
channels, and there is always the fear that some day
the common saying, “Hitler breaks his promises, but
always keeps his threats,” will be fulfilled. And since
the Allied blockade of Germany’s imports and exports
has meant that Holland is no longer an extra “lung”
for the Nazis, the fear continues that Hitler may
attempt an invasion.
The Dutch attitude to Britain is naturally gov-
erned to a large extent by the fact that the blockade
has hit Holland very badly, particularly her shipping.
Apart from the loss of ships, 80 per cent, of Rotter-
dam’s trade was with Germany. That has now prac-
tically ceased. Holland’s own exports are down about
70 per cent. What the average Dutchman thinks
about the Allied blockade will not always bear repro-
duction. The old adage that “where two quarrel, the
outsider is always the lucky one” has been altered
lor the Dutch to read that “where two quarrel, the
third gets the blows from both.”
Improving Democracy.
(From a speech by Lord. Lothian, Britain’s Ambassador
in America, reported in the New York "Times.”)
Lord Lothian said the primary task for the democ-
racies was not merely to check “totalitarian imperial-
ism of all kinds” but to set “our own democratic house
in order.” A triumph of totalitarianism, whether it be
Communism, Fascism or National Socialism, would
herald revolution and warfare unprecedented in all his-
tory for its terror and fury as mankind began a new
struggle for personal freedom. The way forward was
not to “surrender” to “Communist imperialism” or to
the ‘‘brutal intimidations and violence” of Fascism,
but “to recognise the weaknesses in our free civilisa-
tion and remedy them.”
A weakness of present-day democracy lay pre-
cisely in its inability to make an appeal comparable
in imperativeness to that which totalitarianism had
made to youth. “Democracy made endless promises
of more comfort, less work, more pleasures, often, it is
true, unfulfilled, but it seldom made the appeal for
service in self-sacrifice. Democracy is right in its
insistence on liberty and personal responsibility, but in
practice the free peoples have abused the freedom it
has given them. They have used it to pursue frivolity
and ease and wealth with a deficiency of profound
thinking and working for the well-being of others. And
one consequence of that concentration on individual
interests has been an equivalent concentration on
national interests, with its consequential dis-
regard for the well-being of humanity as a
whole.
“Hence the democratic world is suffering
from moral and other sicknesses which always
arise from selfishness, from the class conflicts
which follow the maldistribution of wealth and
its excessive use not for public but for private
ends, and the wars which are inherent in the
anarchy which necessarily follows universal
insistence on national sovereignty.
“Totalitarianism, of course, does not offer
the true solution for these evils. The weakness
of latter-day democracy merely explains why
totalitarianism has captured modern youth in
certain countries and turned them into docile
instruments of new forms of tyranny.
“It is the unemployment, inequality, inter-
state antagonisms of the democratic world
which give totalitarianism its argument and
chance. If we could overcome the weaknesses
of our own liberal and democratic world, so
that it offered to the rest of the world a spec-
tacle of unity, order and peace, of equal work
and sound prosperity for all, of private free-
dom balanced by universal public service,
totalitarianism would soon be conquered, not
by war, but by example.
“The world’s problems, however, could
not be solved until the balance was restored
between Church and State. The root disease of
modern society is its dethronement of religion
as the governing motive in society.” Assert-
ing that troubles became fatal when the
Church started assuming the duties of the State or
when the State began taking over the duties of the
Church Lord Lothian cited totalitarianism as “a very
clear illustration of the evils of the latter perversion.”
“What else is totalitarianism, whether in its Com-
munist or its Fascist or its National Socialist forms,
than the assumption of the functions of the Church
by the State? The totalitarian State claims infallible
authority and universal obedience. It enforces its own
interpretation of life and history. It forbids individual
thinking and, still more, private or organised propa-
ganda about first and last things. It will only tolerate
the Church provided the Church teaches opinions
about the next world which have no relation to the
politics of this world.
“The totalitarian State is a church as well as a
State, and the dictatorial parties which, in practice, con-
trol its politics and its citizens claim and exercise the
rights of infallibility, including the right to suppress the
expression of truth if it challenges their doctrine.”
In a democracy, as well as in totalitarian States,
Lord Lothian said, people confused the roles of Church
and State. “It is still the true function of the Church
to turn the citizens into men and women of character
and principle, who are unselfishly willing to put the
public interest before their own private interests. And
unless there are enough such people in any demo-
cratic community, people who are capable of resisting
appeals to envy and hatred, internal and external, and
of distinguishing between wisdom and folly, right and
wrong, democracy itself, as we have seen many times
since 1920, collapses into anarchy or surrenders to
some form of totalitarian violence.
“It is the duty of the State to create the condi-
tions in which the citizen is protected in his right to
live and practise Christianity, both as an individual
and as a Christian.
“It is the same with war. Christianity naturally
regards war or any kind of killing with abhorrence,
and Christianity is the only power which, in the end,
will produce the spirit and the brotherly love which
will make it possible to abolish war from the earth.
But it is the function of politics to create the practical
conditions in which the appeal to violence will be for-
bidden and prevented. The creation of these condi-
tions is the peculiar and special function of the State.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of 17,500 and a totali-
sator turnover of £24,612 at Rand wick on
Saturday was satisfactory to the A.J.C.
L heard it remarked that the attendance
would not have been so great if South
Australia had won the cricket toss, and
there had been certainty of seeing Brad-
man in action. Perhaps, but I doubt
whether it would have made much dif-
ference. The possibility of winning some-
thing is much more attractive to race-
goers than even Bradman’s batting.
Prospector, favorite for the Maiden
Handicap, tried to win all the way, but
Aznazu, who was with him entering the
straight, had. him beaten a furlong from
home. Then Evertrue ran up to Aznazu,
and looked like disposing of him, but
Munro squeezed enough out of the latter
in the last few strides to give him a half-
head win. Brazen Lad, in third place,
made a good showing, and is worth fol-
lowing, as is Mineral. Prospector weak-
ened at the end, but will win at six or
seven furlongs.
Bred by H. A. Taylor, Aznazu is out
of Nazetha (Pistol-Marie Hall), who has
thrown several other winners, including
Caramba, winner of the 1931 Breeders’
Plate. Evertrue is a half-sister, by
Heroic, to that speedy filly Trueness.
Brazen Lad is by Brazen from Peeka,
whose sister, Kapuya, is the dam of
Brazandt. Aznazu is trained by F.
Dalton, who had fared so badly
for a long time that he must have
been wondering whether his luck was
ever going to turn.
In accounting for the colts and geld-
ings’ division of the Nursery Handicap
Yuletide ran very gamely. Half a fur-
long from the winning post it seemed cer-
tain Welcome News would get him, but
just at the end Yuletide did the better.
Panchio (a Harinero colt) and Our
Barney were the only two reasonably
close to them at the finish, but the latter’s
slowness off the mark settled his chance
at a very early stage. Panchio ran
greenly, and is bound to improve.
Black Banter, a Silverburn colt trained
by D. Lewis for P. and R. A. Reynolds,
quickly got to the front, but the last fur-
long proved one too many for him;
as he has a lot of speed, a winning turn
for him is sure to come. Air Link did
not do as well as at his previous appear-
ance, and though Air Mail (by Peter
Pan), in the same ownership as Panchio,
is a neat colt, he did not show anything.
Yuletide, who is by Christopher Robin
from Cheer (Heroic-Flammula), cost
Miss “Lorna Doone” 325gns. as a year-
ling.
Rosy Morn landed the odds laid on her
for the Nursery Handicap, but the luck
of the race was on her side. She got a
clear run through when Decree went
wide entering the straight, while Celebra-
tion was hampered by Kenthelda (De-
faulter’s half-sister) when making a dash
inside the final furlong. Rosy Morn and
Celebration were leaving the others at
the finish, but Lady Pav (daughter of the
Sydney Cup winner Contact), Connette,
Drava and Kiwi were unplaced runners
that are sure to improve.
Adios was recently catalogued for sale,
but he saved himself from auction by un-
expectedly winning the New Year’s Gift
at Tattersall’s meeting, and on Saturday
he added to his credit account in the
Sefton Handicap. The combined value
of the two races was £640, and as it is
general knowledge that Adios is a
“roarer” it is improbable he would have
made that much at auction. Fourth to
Melrose, Tarn and Petruchio into the
straight, he had the race in hand nearly
a furlong from home.
Caesar jumped away smartly, dropped
back when the field settled down, and
when running third-last at the half-mile
was conceding an impossible start to the
leaders. In the straight he put in his
usual good run, but, though he finished
second, never looked like overhauling
Adios, whom Coutts kept on the move to
the winning-post. It is a pity Caesar is
such a poor beginner, as it makes a six-
furlongs race short for him, and he seems
unable to quite get a mile.
*‘*' * ' ,
Tarn s form should put her a long
way ln any sprint handicap at a mid-
week or Saturday suburban meeting, but
she finished very little in advance of
Merry Smile and Sigh. Although she has
. recent ly when backed, Mei ry
Smile is worth another bet, and at a mile
another winning turn for Sigh should not
be far off. Queenslander Seven Fifty was
one of the field, but he could not be
seriously considered at six furlongs, nor
could Maorilander Round Up, who, with-
out being showy, is a nice, strong type of
horse. He has proved himself a stayer,
and is up to weight, his last win being
with 9.3 at a mile and a half, run in
2.31 3-5.
Petruchio though so greatly fancied
did not strike me as looking so bright as
the previous week, and, as he was very
tired at the finish, possibly his hard run
in the Peter Moore Cup took more out
of him than supposed.
* 4 *■ iJ . *'■ , L
Mabson had an easy win in the Farm
Encourage Handicap. Monte Carlo was
the early leader, but Mabson, who was
with him heading for home, settled him
without any difficulty half-way down the
straight. Bona Fide, who was always
nicely placed behind the two leaders, cut
Monte Carlo out of second place in the
i ast couple of strides, but she is only
moderate. Will Rogers was heavily
backed, but though he looked like going
on when he made a fast run at the three
furlongs he stopped badly. Trained by
N. Quigley for “W. Biey,” Mabson is by
Constant Son from Ascham.
' * * * *
Mildura won a mile and a qua iter
race in Brisbane in fast time, but with a
comparatively light weight. He failed
subsequently in Melbourne at that dis-
tance, but, though he had 9.0 in the War-
wick January Handicap, the weakness of
the opposition made that race look a fair
thing for him. He started at a short price,
but, with Gold Spark making the run-
ning at an easy pace, Cook had Mildura
near the rear for six furlongs, then
moved hill up smartly approaching the
turn, and had the race won at the leger.
Korimako, after whipping in with
Gimme for the greater part of the trip,
looked like giving trouble when she shot
up a furlong from home. However, a
mile and a quarter at Randwick would
seem a trifle far for her, as she tired
before reaching "the winning post, and
Gold Spark outstayed her for second
place. The latter is evidently herself
again. Sidcup, who moved short in his
preliminary, ran fairly, but Santa has not
improved since he ran in Tattersall’s Cup,
and though there was a lot of cash sup-
port for Cable Boy his backers were wide
of the mark. He looked as if he needed
a little more racing, and ran that way,
too.
Pen Name beat a smart field in the
Berala Handicap, in which Scarlet Circle
a id Bramol were the minor place-getters.
Bramol ran a great race under his
10.12, outstaying Sign On for third.
Spear Arrow, who was hard ridden to
get to the front early in the piece, stopped
to nothing at the finish. Dagmar came
home strongly, while Flaring and Over-
bold were pronounced failures. Nothing
in the field looked fitter than the last-
named, and that he beat only a few
home was probably due to getting into
an unfavorable position at an early stage,
Magic Ring tired, after being Spear
Arrow’s nearest follower at the turn, but
she did well for seven furlongs. Camsion
should be good for another win at a
mid-week meeting. Beaucaire did not
show any signs of an early return to his
best two-year-old form. After going a
furlong he was in a handy position, but
was among the whippers-in at the win-
ning-post. Pen Name, who had the race
won nearly a furlong from home, was a
20-to-l chance, but, according to reports,
was heavily backed away from the course.
If the amount alleged to have been won
was correct, starting-price betting in Syd-
ney must still be very much alive, not-
withstanding the police were supposed to
have practically killed it.
* * * *
Arthur Newman and his aged horse
Prince Sion have squared accounts with
thieves who broke into the former’s home
last week and stole the £lOO trophy
attached to the Adelaide Birthday Cup
won by Prince Sion last June. As if to
show his resentment, Prince Sion put his
best leg forward in the Inverness Handi-
cap at Ascot on Saturday, and, with a
long-sustained run, beat Morvren and
Gerald for first prize of £350. Much of
the credit for his win goes to globetrot-
ting jockey Neville Percival, who,
although able to go to scale at 7.3, has
the strength of a miniature Samson.
Prince Sion is a sluggish type who goes
best for a hustling rider, and Newman
had that in mind when he engaged Per-
cival. Latter did not let up on the horse
at any stage, but he might have been
somewhat lucky to beat Morvren, who,
despite the small field, was forced to
cover a lot of extra ground. Prince Sion,
now seven years old, has contested 102
races for 12 wins, eight seconds and 13
thirds.
Ascot defeats of Gerald and Operatic
tended to discount the value of Adelaide
form. Gerald was only a moderate when
last he raced in Melbourne, but in
between times he hung up a string of
wins in Westralia, and at Morphettville
(Adelaide) on New Year’s Day carried
8.12 to success over a mile and a half
in time which equalled the race record.
“He’s at least a stone better now,” de-
clared his enthusiastic followers, but, with
only 7.13, Gerald failed to justify his
heavy backing for the Inverness Handi-
cap. As he came from last to finish third
Operatic was an even bigger disappoint-
ment. Winner of several races in Queens-
land, this chap came to Melbourne fresh
from two wins in race-record time against
Adelaide’s best sprinters. He was solidly
backed for the Chesterfield Handicap, but
finished last after leading the field to the
home turn. Maybe the tricky Ascot track
upset him, but vast improvement will be
necessary for him to be an Oakleigh
Plate or Newmarket hope.
Track gallops can be very deceiving at
times. Pargoon drew attention to his
immediate future by running second to
Happiness at Mentone recently, but he
worked so badly subsequent to that race
that his trainer, P. Fergus, let him run
unbacked for the Ascot Effingham Handi-
cap. Easing from sixes to 12 to 1, Par-
goon recorded a remarkable performance.
He and Nocturne cleared away from the
field coming to the turn, but, instead of
rounding it, they veered towards the out-
side fence. Each lost many lengths
thereby, and it did not say a great deal
for their opponents that Pargoon went
on to success, with Nocturne third. Hot-
favorite Happiness split the pair, hail
a neck and a head separating them. Hap-
piness was accounted unlucky by her sup-
porters, but, even allowing that she dwelt
at the start, she had her chance when
the leaders swung off the course at the
turn. Pargoon is a chestnut by
Parenthesis-Lagune, and cost H. Tasma
220 guineas as a yearling. Trainer Fergus,
who states that the colt could have been
bought for £5O recently, has a much
higher opinion of him now.
Jockey A. Breasley and apprentice T.
Griffiths have a big public following as
a result of recent successes, b. ‘ *hey met
with the displeasure of the stew a ds at
Ascot, and each was stood down for a
month for interference. Saturday was
unlucky for them in more ways than one,
Breasley riding three seconds and Grif-
fiths a second and a third. Breasley is
only behind Harold Badger on the Mel-
bourne winning jockeys’ list this season,
while Griffiths has a slight lead over his
co-apprentices.
An Ascot double with Narrama and
Con Naru gave trainer H. Kilfoyle his
most successful day for some time. Nar-
rama, who runs his best races at Ascot,
won the first division of the Anglesey
Trial Handicap, and Con Naru the
Chesterfield Handicap. An unlucky third
at Moonee Valley a week earlier prompted
solid support for Con Naru (Consulta-
tion-Naru), who, ridden by Neville Per-
cival, moved up third at the home turn,
took charge when fairly on the way for
home and won nicely from Kanuri and
Miss Burn. Last-named did web con-
sidering that she misred the stai and
had to be hard ridden to move into
second place at the half-mile. Arm,
a five-year-old, has always been trained
by Kilfoyle, who has transformed him
from something of a weakling into a solid
sprinter.
Recovering from an ailment which
necessitated the growing of a new foot,
Prince Ronald has developed into one of
the most consistent restricted-class per-
formers in Melbourne. He developed a
seedy toe after entering Tom Bradfield’s
stable about 15 months ago, the affected
part of the foot had to be cut away, and
Prince Ronald had to remain in his box
for about four months. It took about six
months for the foot to resume normal
size, but Bradfield’s perseverance with
the gelding has been well rewarded.
Prince Ronald’s win in the second
Anglesey Trial Division at Ascot was
his fourth from his last seven starts.
Always well placed, he cleared away in
the straight to win as he liked from Over
the Top and Jetette, and, being an im-
proving four-year-old by Ronsard, he
should not have much difficulty in win-
ning in open company.
Jockey Stan McKee demonstrated his
versatility by landing a hurdle and flat
double at Ascot. He won the Normanby
Trial Hurdle on Kong and the second
Anglesey Trial division on Prince Ronald.
Latter was to have been ridden by the
stable apprentice J. Stirzacker, but Stir-
zacker would have been burdened with
over 2st. dead weight, and a switch was
made. McKee has had a great “trot”
lately, Prince Ronald giving him his fifth
win from his last six rides. His other
winners were Don Miguel, Silver Collar,
Metabus and Kong, his remaining mount
finishing second.
Although Ascot bookmakers summed
up the situation correctly when they
offered 3 to 1 against Mamburdi being
awarded the Normanby Trial Hurdle, a
protest against Kong was not unexpected.
The horses did appear to collide after-
crossing the last jump, Kong (on the
inside) seeming to veer out, but evidently
the stewards were of opinion that Mam-
burdi also contributed to the interfer-
ence. A hearing of almost 20 minutes,
however, caused plenty of anxiety among
backers, who sent Kong out favorite.
Kong was selected and purchased by
T. Branigan after he had inspected three
horses running in a paddock at Ruther-
glen about four months ago. Others were
Fighting Cock and Gracstello, who were
taken over by other owners, the former
beating Kong in a hurdle at Ascot last
month.
Derby hopes once centred around
Strathroy, who carried the Sylvandale
colors of “Miss Lorna Doone,” but he
did not develop as expected, and recently
was bought by Melbourne owner E.
O’Brien. First race in his new colors
was in the Normanby Trial Hurdle at
Ascot, and a minor plunge, which re-
duced his price from sevens to fours,
indicated that he had been well schooled
at Werribee, where he is trained by Steve
Murphy. Strathroy failed in his attempt
to lead all the way, and was beaten into
third place by Kong and Mamburdi, but
he will be all the better for the experi-
ence. He is a four-year-old, and there
is room forimprovement.
Gunambah having put the starting gear
out of action when he dashed through
FOR ROSEHILL.
(By “PILOT.”)
Maiden Handicap: Evertrue, 1 ;
Brazen Lad, 2 ; Mineral, 3.
Quality Nursery Hand'cap:
Panchio, 1; Celebration, 2 ; Dawn
Mary, 3.
Novice Handicap: Roller Glide,
1 ; Aznazu, 2 ; Brave Bird, 3.
Flying Handicap: Sigh, 1 ; Anne,
2 ; Diamond Wedding, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Lord Valen-
tine, 1 ; Gold Spark, 2; Miss Lin-
bul, 3.
Carlingford Mile: Climax, 1 ;
Curiosity, 2 ; Overbold, 3.
FOR CAULFIELD.
By “SENTRY.”
Hawthorn Hurdle: Bas Rhin, 1 ;
Dornford, 2 ; Imitari, 3.
Holiday Stakes: Juma, 1 ; Florin,
2 ; Neutron, 3.
Anniversary Handicap: John
Wilkes, 1 ; Plymouth Hoe, 2;
Elanage, 3.
Rowena Welter: Eligible, 1 ; Con-
tact, 2 ; Silver Bond, 3.
Koakaribb Trial: Strathroy, 1 ;
Swettenham, 2 ; Dame Swift, 3.
Tooronga Handicap: Chatsbury,
1 ; Riviera, 2 ; Aspire, 3.


JSHBs&jttd
>
J
Give a Turn to the Wheels
of AUSTRALIAN Industry
Australia can make a most import-
ant contribution to the successful
conduct of the Empire’s war by
keeping the wheels of industry
turning. Encourage the use of
Australian products. By buying
Olympic Tyres you get the finest
tyre value obtainable and you do
a real service to Australia. Olympic
Tyres are made by
an all-Australian
Co mpa n y, em-
ploying Australian
men and Aus-
tralian money.
dsf
OLYMPIC Tyres are
made by Australians
in Australia, and not
one penny of wages
or dividends goes
overseas
Choose
OLYMPIC
TYRES
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
AUTUMN MEETING, 1940.
ENTRIES for the following races close at the
offices of the Y.R.C., Melbourne; A.J.C., Sydney;
S.A.J.C., Adelaide; W.A.T.C., Perth; Q.T.C.," Bris-
bane; 0.J.0., Christchurch; W.R.C., Wellington;
AR.C., Auckland; D.J.C., Dunedin; T.R.C., Hobart;
and T.T.C., Launceston, at 3 p.m. on Tuesday,
23rd January, 1940.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP (Run Satur-
day, 2nd March, 1940), £3OOO. Six
furlongs.
AUSTRALIAN CUP (Run Saturday, 9th
March, 1940), £3OOO and a trophy
valued £lOO. Two miles and a
quarter.
ALL ENTRIES TO BE ACCOMPANIED
BY £l.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary, V.R.C,
"No raider's going to spoil MY fun."
the tapes, Norman Wood resorted to a
handkerchief start for the Sandhurst
Welter Handicap at Ascot. Gunambah
easily beat his rivals off the mark, but
he ran out of steam before the home
turn, and Pine Peak, carrying a penalty
of 51b. for his win at Pakenham two days
earlier, went on to justify his favoritism.
He won from Buoyancy and Trimon,
and, in recording 1.31 i for the fur-
longs, cut three-quarters of a second off
Beau Spear’s course record. Maybe the
absence of the barrier had something to
do with the fast time, for there was no-
thing flatfooted about the start. Pine
Peak has struck a patch of excellent
form, having won three of his last four
races, but on Saturday he might have
been lucky to beat Trimon. Latter
finished only third, but it seemed that
insufficient use was made of him early.
That may have been explained by the
fact that he received a severe kick on
the inside of his near stifle while wait-
ing for the start, but even then he might
have won had he not been disappointed
in going for an opening at the home turn.
* * * *
Last week doubt attached to Waireka
being a runner for the Challenge Stakes,
but now, all going well, she is to be one
of the field. The race should thoroughly
wind her up for the Adrian Knox Stakes.
She is a pronounced favorite for the
Challenge, and, with 51b. less than
weight-for-age, I expect her to beat
Trimmer, who is second in demand. If
the going is not too hard Price may
have another runner in Denis, who is
going on well. Caesar. is third in the
quotations, but I am afraid his slowness
in finding his legs in the first furlong
will again tell against him. Bradford,
Brazandt, Denis and High Caste, on the
same mark, follow Caesar.
Numerically there will not be a strong
field for the AJ.C. Anniversary Handi-
cap, and Mildura, as a result of his easy
win in the Warwick January Handicap,
is the present favorite. He drops 91b.
in weight, and though he has yet to
tackle a mile and a half he would not
have found that distance beyond him in
last Saturday’s company. A fast pace
from the start is improbable, and his
rider will be able to wait with him.
Allunga and Round Up have plenty
of weight, and on their form of last
week the stablemates Santa and Will
Rogers can scarcely be recommended.
If Bringa were to start he would have a
better chance than either, but the fact
of his not being entered for any other
race prior to the Anniversary suggests
the possibility of his being reserved for
the autumn. Old Rowley can be counted
out. Yours Truly is doing useful work,
and may be a runner. Hilarious can
get the distance, but though Gold Spark
has 91b. less than in the January Handi-
cap she will again meet Mildura on the
same terms.
Own Folk must be given a chance,
likewise Kurrawid. The latter was not
far behind the placed horses in Tatter-
sail’s Cup. Rival Hit might stay, but
in looking for the second leg of a double
it seems to me that it is difficult for
backers to go beyond Mildura, Kurra-
wid, Own Folk, Hilarious and Bringa,
if certainty attached to the last-named
being a runner. To reduce it further,
I shall go for Mildura, Kurrawid and
Own Folk.
Own Folk’s trainer is hopeful of rain
before the Anniversary meeting, as that
horse will be better served by a track
that is a little on the soft side than one
that is really hard. Own Folk is to be
Cook’s mount. As McCarten will be
back from Maoriland, he will be on
Mildura.
* * * *
Acceptors for the Adrian Knox Stakes
include Riviera, who has been showing
excellent form in Melbourne. As she is
engaged at Caulfield on Saturday next,
a trip to Sydney would be rather hurried,
and she would have little time in which
to become accustomed to the reverse
way of going. It was so with other
Melbourne representatives, and in the
circumstances the odds seem against
Riviera being a runner, especially as
Waireka is likely to be at her best.
Climax, Anne and Progress are still
among Waireka’s probable Sydney-
trained opponents, and the way Anne
shapes at seven furlongs at Rosehill next
Saturday should give a fair idea as to
how she will be suited by a mile.
* * * *
Recent opinions concerning Ajax have
differed. Some Caulfield pessimists be-
lieve we have seen the best of him, and
that a third successive Caulfield Futurity
Stakes will not go to his credit. In
1938 he won with 9.6, last year
with 10.6, and this time his weight will
be 10.7. There is one man, however,
who has no fear as to Ajax’s future.
That is F. Musgrave. Last week a lady
closely related to one of Ajax’s owners
took a trip out to see the chestnut, and
as Musgrave knows the deep interest she
takes in the horse it can be taken for
granted that his assurance to her that “he
was never better” was his genuine con-
viction. Ajax will shortly have a race,
and that will be a test of his trainer’s
opinion. High Caste, one of his prob-
able opponents, is doing as well as could
be wished at Randwick, and G. Price
can be relied on to have Beaulivre at
the top of his form. So it seems as if
Ajax will have to “be as good as ever,”
if not “better than ever,” to win the
Futurity. Gladsome and Ajax are the
only horses that have twice won the
Futurity, so the latter will be after a
record. Eudorus, as a five-year-old, won
with 10.7, and in addition to Ajax others
successful with 10.0 or over were
Amounis 10.4, Phar Lap 10.3, Top Gal-
lant 10.2 and Gothic 10.0.
* * * *
It is stated that Cracknell was confi-
dent he won the Warwick Farm Maiden
on Evertrue, but where it is only a
matter of a few inches the odds are
always in favor of the judge’s opinion
against that of a jockey. Of course,
judges occasionally err, but when a
jockey is hard at work getting the last
ounce out of his mount it is difficult for
him to speak with certainty as to the
result. Nor can onlookers always be cor-
rect, but from where I viewed the finish
in the official stand it seemed to me
that the best for which backers of Ever-
true could hope was a dead-heat.
* * * Jft
An occasional trip to the country is
good for horses and men, and a worth-
while meeting to be held on the 7th, Bth
and 9th of next month is that of the
Armidale and New England Jockey
Club. The Gold Cup, of £5OO and a
£5O trophy, is the principal race, next
coming the City Handicap, of £250.
Entries close next Monday. Last year
Beau Ercil won the Cup from Tickle,
and the latter landed the City Handicap.
An additional incentive for metropolitan
owners is that there is always a good
betting market.
* * # *
The yearling sales are nearly on us
again, and naturally breeders are worry-
ing as to whether prices will be influenced
to any marked extent by the war. I do
not think there is much to be feared
this time; next year it may be different.
The highest-priced youngsters of last
year at Randwick have not yet distin-
guished themselves, the bargains up to
the present being Flying Knight at 600
guineas, Broadcaster 450 guineas and
Trueness 550 guineas. Breeders were not
afforded the opportunity of bidding for
one of the best, Dark Elegance.
* * * *
The fact that G. Tancred had sold
Respirator to an Indian buyer occa-
sioned surprise. But it is a wise owner
who sells when a horse has reached the
top of its value. Many have regretted
not doing so. Respirator is a good horse,
but, while falling just short of weight-for-
age form, he would have received plenty
of weight next autumn and spring, and
that would not have made him a good
proposition for his ex-owner, who bets
in a big way. Probably better at a mile
and three-quarters than anything further,
the Viceroy’s Cup is a race that will suit
Respirator. English opposition may be
fairly strong in India at important meet-
ings during the coming year, as during
the past two months several well-per-
formed horses have been sold to go to
the latter country. Finalisf, the best
stayer in India, is a gelding and now
eight years old, while Terror and Spot
Barred, the minor place-getters in the
Viceroy’s Cup, are also geldings, and
each is six years.
* * * *
While flat-racing may be restricted to
some extent in England this year, there
will be no lack of jumping meetings.
Most of these are patronised by “battling”
owners, and it must have been a relief
to them when it was announced there
would be at least four days a week under
National Hunt Rules in January, Feb-
ruary and March. Several cross-country
riders have “joined up” since the com-
mencement of the war, but it was antici-
pated that they would occasionally be
allowed off to do some riding.
* * =i= *
Wellington Centennial Cup will be run
tomorrow, with Royal Chief top weight
of the acceptors. With the minimum 7.0,
he has 9.6, against the 9.9 he carried in
the last Metropolitan at Randwick.
Bottom weight in that race was 6.7. Beau
Vite’s 8.7 is 41b. less than Defaulter car-
ried when he won the Wellington Cup
last January, and as the mile and a half
will not trouble him he is bound to be
one of the fancied runners. As Malagigi
has the same weight he carried when he
narrowly missed Tattersall’s Cup at Rand-
wick, and the minimum is 71b. higher,
he will take a lot of beating. Maori-
land critics think highly of the chances
of Old Bill (a four-year-old by Siegfried),
Sly Fox and Centrepoise.
* * * *
It behoves owners to accept freely for
the Widden Handicap for two-year-olds
on the opening day of the A.J.C. Anni-
versary meeting. As it stands, the prize-
money is £5OO, but if acceptances are
numerous the race will be run in divi-
sions, each carrying £4OO. I am unaware
how many acceptors will be necessary to
cause a division, but last year and the
previous one only 14 started. Because
of nominations for the Trial Hurdles fall-
ing down, the club is evidently hopeful
of making the programme more attrac-
tive than might otherwise be the case.
* * * *
Six-year-old Merry Mathew, who is
now being trained at Randwick by
J. King for knight H. R. Denison, was
once proclaimed England’s best three-
year-old, and there was lamentation be-
cause of the fact that his engagements
did pot include the Derby. However,
he did not fulfil expectations, though he
won four of the seven races in which
he ran at three years. At four years he
won the Newmarket Spring Plate, beating
a solitary opponent, but subsequently ran
last in the Doncaster Town Moor Handi-
cap, 7 furlongs, with 9.6, and at his final
start in England was unplaced with 9.7
in the Liverpool Autumn Cup, l\ miles,
which was won by Black Speck (8.13).
When he was later sold at auction he
realised 2200gns. He has not been over-
raced, his starts during the whole of his
career totalling only 14.
y #
It was thought Binnia Hero’s win in
Tattersall’s Cup might make him an
A.J.C. St. Leger candidate, but his owner
has decided to give him several months’
spell. Perhaps that is the wiser plan, as
even his latest win scarcely carried Binnia
Hero up to High Caste and Reading.
Disappointing at two years, Binnia
Hero’s breeder-owner, L. J. McMaster,
and trainer, W. Henderson, now have
reason to be satisfied with him. Tatt.’s
Cup was Binnia Hero’s fifth win


BRANDALER’ r S
p*'
G*
K.V
PPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBANDAOER * CO* LMU BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Bargains in profusion! ... at
MURDOCHS
"FAIR
DEAL"
il
/
Snap these up!
14/6, 18/6 GOLF SHIRTS
English broadcloth, poplin-de-luxe,
Seal-island poplin and latest English
Catopa golf shirts for men. Two collars
to match. Latest woven stripes.
25/- MILITARY HATS
Slightly imperfect fur felts, in assorted
shades. Shady brims distinctively
shaped.
8/11 PYJAMAS, sale
Amazing stock clearance of good-
wearing poplin-de-luxe pyjamas for
men. Fast colours, 2-way collar.
Sizes, S.M., M., O.S.
14/6 WORK TROUSERS
Men’s excellent-wearing fawn covert
trousers heavily reduced to clear!
Strongly made, side and hip pockets
and cuff bottoms. Ready for service.
12/6 KHAKI JODHPURS
Saving of 5/- on men’s excellent-
wearing quality jodhpurs. High-grade
quality drill, in sizes 6, 7 and 8.
CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to Desk “B” for your free
copy . . . you’ll save handsomely!
7 / e
10-
69
IQe
ia
m
im
Srfe*
.
m
m
£6/17/6 Suits to Measure
with Extra Trousers
You cannot afford to miss
this remarkable suiting
offer! Mark this with
the suit you obtain extra
trousers without cost.
Materials include the latest
patterned pure woo 1
worsteds and pure indigo
dye serges. Perfectly
tailored by Murdoch experts
to your measures.
Sale
4196
PA
ppE&
POK
coup92-—^
t W dncy ‘ tnB Prices
®*VV ' a K»e tftfgjj BttiUe °"
»*• bSSV/S^**®/ 1 ® 76 ' ....•••••
......- • .....
® ea VuvAV
Cd>
•£an ie
MURDOCH’S, LTD., PARK
in the middle of the me
ST., SYDNEY
*’s wear centre.
of the season, three being at Randwick,
and, with the addition of minor place-
money, his three-year-old earnings total
the respectable sum of £2150. As there
is always discussion as to the age at
which brood mares are at their best,
Coolpa was twelve when she threw
Binnia Hero.
* * * *
As Beaulivre was physicked shortly
after his arrival in Sydney, little in the
way of galloping will be asked of him
for another few days. In color he is a
rich brown, has great girth, excellent
quarters, and in height is about 15.21.
His run in the Clifford Plate at the
Auckland meeting ‘tended to discredit
him slightly as a stayer, as, though he ran
up to Beau Vite just after entering the
straight, the latter then held him, beating
him a half-length in 2.7 3-5 for the mile
and a quarter. Beaulivre was favorite,
despite his Derby defeat. Auckland
critics are naturally of opinion that Beau
Vite’s Australian trip improved him, and
believe that, if he runs in the A.J.C. St.
Leger, Reading and High Caste will find
him a much stiffer proposition than in
the A.J.C. Derby. It is reported, how-
ever, that he is remaining in Maoriland
for two autumn classic races which look
very easy for him. H. Wiggins, who
headed the Maoriland jockeys’ list for
this season after the Auckland meeting,
was highly praised for his handling of
Beau Vite in the Clifford Plate. Ellis
won the Derby on Beau Vite, and it
was inability to do the lighter weight
of 8.2 that prevented him from taking
the mount in the Clifford Plate.
* * * #
The Foxbridge gelding Lou Rosa must
be a really good two-year-old. Subsequent
to the Great Northern Foal Stakes he
won the Royal Stakes, of £5OO, from
nine others at the Auckland Cup meeting.
The race is for two- and three-year-olds,
and Lou Rosa (7.13) finished strongly
to win from the three-year-old Stylist
(8.1).
* * * *
Seven wins out of 16 races on a two
days’ programme is good for any owner,
but that was T. A. Duncan’s score at
the Marton (Maoriland) New Year meet-
ing. It was profitable in every way, as
the smallest amount for first in any race
was £llO, and one was worth £240. The
winners were Royal Sign (2), Laughing
Lass (2), Ecstatic, Wings of Song and
Royal Consort. Each is by the Aus-
tralian-bred horse Laughing Prince, by
Quantock from Martian Princess, by
Martian from Two Step.
* * # *
When Miss D. Paget gave 15,000gns.
for the Fairway-Golden Hair colt as
a yearling it was thought probable she
had at last got hold of something that
might win her a classic race. However,
he was difficult to train, and last year it
was thought he would have to be retired.
After a long spell he was given another
chance, and this season, as a four-year-
old, he has won a couple of races of a
little over £lOO each. His second win
was a mile race of £122 at Manchester
in November, and notwithstanding
Gordon Richards was his rider he started
at 7 to 1, after opening at fours. Miss
Paget has an unenviable record in one
respect. It is doubtful whether any
buyer has had less success over a long
period with high-priced yearlings.
* * *
A Calcutta correspondent writes me
that the field for the Viceroy’s Cup was
one of the poorest that contested the race
for several years. Backers generally
must have shared that opinion, as, though
there were nine runners, Finalist was at
2 to 1 on, while Gay Talkie and Multis-
simo, the others most prominent in the
quotations, were at 8 to 1 each. Finalist
took charge nearly half a mile from
home, and won as he pleased by two
and a half lengths from Terror, who
beat Spot Barred three. The war has
not affected racing in Calcutta, the crowd
being one of the largest that ever wit-
nessed a Viceroy’s Cup.
H. Jones rode Finalist, and though
W. Scanlan’s mount, Multissimo, cut up
badly that rider won on Dinah’s Son the
same afternoon. The previous day of
the meeting Scanlan was on Show Girl
(20 to 1), who deachheated Barn Dance
for the Christmas Plate (div. II); and he
won the Christmas Plate (div. I) on
Orelton, a 6-to-l chance. In the big
race of the day, the Mayfowl Cup, Scan-
lan rode Panaster, who was second to
Phakos. Scanlan evidently did not make
a mistake in deciding to try his luck in
India. W. Sibbritt was another jockey
who was doing well in Calcutta.
* * * *
Money must be scarce, even for racing,
in Maoriland. With the exception of
the Auckland Cup meeting, there was
a decided drop in totalisator invest-
ments at most of the Christmas and New
Year fixtures. Auckland was ahead of
the previous Cup meeting, that being
ascribed to the A.R.C. going in for win
and place betting instead of win only.
* * * *
Where the running of any horse is
inquired into by the stewards, it seems
to me that a trainer is putting forward
a dangerous defence in alleging he backed
it away from the course. He would feel
himself harshly treated if the A.J.C. with-
drew his license or permit, but he cer-
tainly takes that risk. However, it is not
only little owners and trainers who do
not observe the law or the A.J.C.’s oppo-
sition to “off the course” betting. While
they make a fuss about prize-money not
being as liberal as it should be, they do
not hesitate to do something to keep
alive a business that must lessen race-
course attendances, and consequently the
revenue that should go towards stakes.
In racing, as in any other business,
there is a deal of selfishness, and, as
occasion arises, everyone does the best
for himself, without consideration of the
general good. Another thing is that
when you hear of commissions being sent
to racecourses by starting-price layers to
certain commissioners, it seems a pity
that some step cannot be taken to bring
it home to the latter that their presence
and operations are undesirable. There
would, of course, be difficulty in actu-
ally proving they were working for start-
ing-price layers, and that is probably one
reason why nothing is done.
* * * *
There were results of interest at Vic-
toria Park last week. Waireka looked
as if she would be all the better for
another race, but she outclassed her
opponents in the first division of the
Flying Handicap. Fiddler upset ealeu-
lations by winning the second division
of the Flying, but Hilarious and Mitsui,
two he defeated, will shortly re-enter the
winning list. As a three-year-old Mitsui
was smart, but since then he has done
comparatively little racing, being hard to
train.
In Ensign F. T. Cush has another
smart two-year-old in his stable. He is
by Andrea (Solario—Persuasion), winner
of the Ascot St. James Palace Stakes, ot
£5300, among other races. Winsotis
(Chatham-Spelthur) also impressed in
Ensign’s race. He was an indifferent
third, but was so far back at the straight
entrance that he did well to get a place.
Foxora and Minchin dead-heated for the
second division, but Rimveil (Veilmond-
Rima) may turn out better than either.
* * * *
It has been suggested that the tact ol
there being only three entrants for the
Trial Hurdle Race at the A.J.C. Anni-
versary meeting was the outcome ot
owners’ disapproval of the decision of
the A.J.C. to charge 2s. 6d. each foi
visiting horses to be schooled over the
jumps at Ran iwick. I should be sur-
prised if that were so. It would say
little for the intelligence of trainers of
jumpers if they took that stand. The
A.J.C. has done a lot towards encourag-
ing hurdling, and provision was made
that clubs should put on a certain number
of hurdle races or jumpers’ flat races
each season. If the ruling body entirely
dropped that regulation it is certain the
minor clubs would give the jumpers
little consideration. They would put on
flat races that tended to a greater num-
ber of runners and heavier tote specu-
lation. The small entry was probably
due to there being few hurdlers in
training at the present time, and the con-
ditions rendered some ineligible. Trainers
of two of the three entrants were not
approached by anyone with a view to
taking part in a boycott, and I do not
suppose the other was. At last year’s
Anniversary meeting there were six
starters for the Trial Hurdle Race, and
a similar number for the open hurdles
on the second day. The latter will prob-
ably attract a similar field this year.
It is unusual for a horse to be unsexed
after a classic win, but John Wilkes,
who dead-heated Cathartes for the
1938 A.J.C. St. Leger, is now a gelding,
Some time after that race it was decided
there was little likelihood of a great
sire being lost in John Wilkes if he
were gelded, and that his prospects
of further distinguishing himself as a
racehorse would be improved if that
step were taken. He started only once
] aS { season, and that the operation and
res j- we re beneficial was demonstrated
he won the Bagot Handicap at
Flemington on New Year’s Day. States-
man was gelded after he won a Mel-
bourne Cup, but he did very little racing
subsequently, and was unsuccessful,
* * * *
Long association with racing tends to
cynicism. Whenever I read about the
“love of racing” attracting large attend-
ances it makes me wonder how many
would be present if there was no betting.
That applies equally to the various en-
ciosures ft j s no t admiration for the
thoroughbred but the hope of getting
a ]j tt ] e “ eas y m oney” from a winning
that is the major attraction. And,
m y wa y 0 £ thinking, it would be
a bsurd to contend otherwise,
. . .
The search for “information” likely
to lead to a winner always amuses me.
You see professional men, prominent
business people, racing committeemen,
an d others who are not actually in want
of money fairly humbling themselves to
individuals they would not wish to know
away from a racecourse. This in the
hope of being put on to a winner. If
they only knew how cheap they make
themselves appear they might refrain,
Yet I am not sure of that. The desire
to win a few pounds causes some men
to lose all sense of dignity. It is aid
that the racecourse has an equali '.ng
tendency, and you cannot help agre <ng
with that when you see social lights
treating “undesirables”—or very close to
it—like long-lost brothers,
* * * *
Maoriland horses have repeatedly done
so well in w.f.a. races and handicaps in
Australia that an occasional disposition
by backers to overrate some is not sur-
prising. Despite his defeats by Beau
Vite at a mile and a half and a mile and


a quarter at the Auckland meeting,
Beaulivre will not lack strong support
lor the Futurity Stakes. While he may
not be a genuine stayer there is no doubt
as to his being a high-class colt up to a
mile. In G. Price’s stable he will have
some good trying tackle, and before
he goes to Melbourne it should be pos-
sible to form a fair idea as to his pros-
pects over there.
Yours Truly, who has done a fair
amount of useful work since he joined
F. Dalton’s team at Randwick, is another
Maorilander whose appearance will be
awaited with interest. Although a win
in the N.Z. Cup with 7.1 in the fast
time of 3.22 2-5 proved him a stayer,
he failed a few days later with 8.3 in
the Metropolitan Handicap, \\ miles,
won by Centrepoise, 8.7. Beaupartir
(9.2) was the topweight of the starters,
and in the Canterbury Cup, also a mile
and a half race, Beaupartir had no chance
against Royal Chief when in receipt of
41b. The price paid for Yours Truly
was substantial, but according to the
reckoning of Maoriland handicappers he
is far from being out of the ordinary.
In the Auckland Cup he was weighted
at 7.11 against Catalogue’s 9.3.
* * * *
In Sydney a longer interval than half
an hour between each race is not appre-
ciated. Consequently our racegoers would
find meetings in Auckland somewhat irk-
some. With a programme of eight races
during the Cup meeting intervals between
races ranged from 45 to 50 minutes.
Proceedings commenced at 11.45 a.m.
and closed at 5.30 p.m., the programme
being made up of eight races. The long
intervals would, of course, be in the
interest of the tote.
* * * *
It is not unusual to hear the remark
“So and-so [referring to some trainer] has
twenty horses in his stable. If he is get-
ting £3 10s. a week for each he must
be doing well.” That idea is somewhat
erroneous. To start with, the board for
each man or boy in the stable costs about
£1 a week, the older stablehands get
from £1 to £1 10s. a week—the foreman
gets considerably more —and the appren-
tices at least 10s. Then there are
incidentals, and by the time a horse is
properly fed there is little remaining for
the trainer. Unless a trainer can turn
out winners, there is not much money
in the business for him. How trainers
make ends meet with three or four horses
is difficult of comprehension, and if, in
the hope of getting a little on the side,
they “tell a tale” to a punter about some-
one else’s horses it is almost excusable.
* * * *
The Auckland Cup winner Cheval de
Volee must be a true stayer. In 1938
he won that race, and when he scored
again recently he led from the first fur-
long. Catalogue appeared to have a
chance a little over a furlong from home,
but then his 9.3 pulled him up. As
Cheval de Volee is now bound to get a
full share of weight in all Maoriland
races of importance, it is probable he
will be given a trial in Australia. It
may be the same with Bronwen, winner
of the six furlongs Railway Handicap
of £lOOO. She is said to be the most im-
proved sprinter in Auckland. Bronwen
was ridden by H. Wiggins, and it was
that jockey’s third successive win in the
Railway Handicap.
According to American experts, the
legalisation of totalisator betting in New
York State will permit of the racing asso-
ciations there offering stakes that cannot
be matched by any other State in that
country. It is also contended that the admis-
sion fee to race meetings in New York
State should be lowered from the present
two dollars 50 cents to one dollar or one
dollar 50 cents at most.
I do not know whether there has been
any alteration since I was in New York
nearly 16 years ago, but at that time
there was one enclosure for everyone—
equivalent to the saddling paddock in
Australia —at Belmont Park. No leger
reserve or flat, as at Randwick, and the
charge was then higher than two dollars
50 cents. On my commenting on the
stiffness of the charge, the reply was to
the effect that people not in a financial
position to pay about 15s. for admission
should not be at race meetings.
Ideas have changed on that score.
“Roamer,” in commenting on the possi-
bility of reduced charges in New York,
wrote as follows:
Racing in America has outgrown the
era when it was a relaxation of the rich —
it is now the sport of the general public, and
without the support of the general pub-
lic it is doomed. This was proved to all
and sundry who were alive in 1908 when
Charles Evans Hughes brought about the
passage of the Hart-Agnew laws which
prohibited wagering and thereby brought
about the abolition of the sport in this
State for two years.
At least one prominent French trainer
is doing his best to avoid war risk that
might result from bombing. “Faraway,”
the Paris correspondent of the “Horse
and Hound” (London), recently wrote
as follows, in commenting on trainers
and other racing men in connection with
the war:
I hear that the dugout which George
Batchelor has constructed in his garden is
the admiration of all Chantilly. It has befcn
built under the goldfish pond, which had a
concrete bottom, and sandbags have
replaced the water, and the only sufferers
would appear to be the goldfish. The
shelter is concreted in the interior. It is
close to the house, and provides accom-
modation for twenty people comfortably,
and is carpeted and furnished, well lit and
centrally heated, so there is room for the
whole of his family and friends. When-
ever there is an alarm Claude Halsey,
another leading trainer, sprints across from
Green Lodge, which is on the opposite
side of the road, and says that he finds
it an excellent way of keeping fit. It is
already rumored that the local town
council hopes to acquire the dugout after
the war as'a public attraction for visitors
and tourists.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
The game of golf has moved along
swiftly over the past 15 years. The
standard of play is at a level hardly
dreamt of by golfers of the early 1920’5,
who w'ere content to break their 80’s con-
sistently and to treat the sport in a casual
manner, with the 19th hole perhaps the
most important one of all.
Where golf was once a sedate after-
noon’s enjoyment for portly gentlemen it
is now the “worry” of both young and
old. Like tennis, it has become a vigorous
and strenuous sport. Much of this im-
provement can be traced to players tak-
ing golf more seriously and playing it in
a keener manner. It has become a game
that taxes and develops the powers of
concentration to the full.
But assuming that a player possesses
a reasonable amount of knowledge on
how to play the shots of golf, it is amaz-
ing to note how little he may know of
the finer scientific points, which are as
important as any physical ability to swing
a club. I suppose in the last 10 years I
have had the experience of playing with
the widest variety of opponents one could
meet. From those who turn in the
Bradman-like score of 161 to those with
rounds below 70, I have watched many
players. Apart from the common, every-
day faults, which could be gradually
cured, the main drawback is usually lack
of confidence. .
Lack of mental control can ruin even
the best of players, so it can be realised
how serious nervousness can be to a
beginner. He will play safe, over-
hit, try to guide the ball and
generally worry over any and every
shot, when concentration upon hitting the
ball and forgetting everything else would
solve his problems. Whenever the doubt
arises in a player’s mind as to the ulti-
mate result of the shot, in seven times
out of ten the stroke becomes a bad one.
Recently I played with a golfer on a
single-figure mark who heeded ordinary
figures over the last few holes to equal
par; but instead of playing his natural
game, as he had done for three-fourths
of the round, he began to “close up.”
Result: He dropped four strokes in three
holes.
Tautness leads to many faults.
The best shots always come from
a relaxed and free swing, where
timing and balance predominate. While
admitting that there is a natural
tendency to try to play with care when a
good score is in sight, a fault which I
have been guilty of myself on occasions,
aggressive golf pays in the long run. The
handicap golfer should always try to play
the game, whether he is in a good posi-
tion or not, in his normal way. When
difficult shots are called for some players
unconsciously hold the club in a vyce-
like grip, immediately locking the wrists
and allowing no freedom of movement.
As each shot is best struck firmly to
obtain a maximum of length and accu-
racy, there are several points to keep in
mind to make sure that the ball is
hit well. Swing the club back deliber-
ately and smoothly; never jerk it away
suddenly. Every champion has a
sound backswing. Wild hitting comes
from a rushed backswing. The wider
the arc of the swing the less chance
of error; therefore it is best to
keep the clubhead on the line of
flight as long as possible both going back
and coming through. Always make an
effort to push the clubhead well out- after
the ball. Try to imagine that the ball is
still attached to the club-face and you
are endeavoring to make it stay on the
line all the way to the hole.
Too many golfers today suffer from
lack of “punch” in their game. This is
easily overcome by paying more atten-
tion to their swing. By following up their
games with keen and regular practice
aimed at gradual improvement along
recognised lines, anyone can make head-
way.
I have seen too many golfers, both
in the championship class and on long
handicaps, make the fatal mistake of not
playing aggressively. It is best to go for
one’s shots in a confident manner, think-
ing only of hitting the ball. The time to
worry about one’s faults is on the prac-
tice tee, where there is time to try to
eliminate the errors. I have learnt
through experience and watching the
world’s best exponents of the game to
play at the game, not to it. If a certain
score is to be achieved, the best way is
to go out and chase it. Nothing ever
came to the player who just “hopes.” One
has to be always on the attack in golf.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Making a grand recovery after the
batting collapse which saw six wickets
fall for one run, Queensland (133 and 8
for 350) beat S.A. (230 and 252) by two
wickets. Christ (3 for 87) bowled nobly
in S.A.’s second innings, only Bradman
(97) playing him with confidence, though
Dixon (3 for 33) and Stackpoole (3 for
66) secured better figures. Brown (111),
Cook (54) and Rogers (74) gave Queens-
land a splendid start, but 8 were down
for 305 when Watt, who is only 19, was
joined by Dixon, who, it was thought,
couldn’t bat a bit. Dixon kept his end
up while Watt made the runs. The
youngster ended with 59, made in 90
minutes, and Dixon with 14. An
excited crowd cheered them all the way
to the pavilion, and brought them out
again and again to bow their acknowledg-
ments. Always excepting Bradman,
Queensland was a bit the better with the
bat, the ball and in the field.
The Queenslanders’ victorious recovery
after their first-innings breakdown laid
bare a deficiency in the S.A. attack.
It was Queensland’s fifth win in 30
matches against S.A. and followed 10 con-
secutive defeats. All five wins were
gained in Brisbane.
Queensland is developing a habit of
going down cheaply in the first innings
and making a tough fighting effort in
the second. This has happened in four
of its last six matches with S.A. —193 and
426, 131 and 311, 222 and 377, and 133
and 8 for 350. Brown must diagnose the
malady and find a remedy.
Brown has not been slow to eclipse the
Shield-centuries record for Queensland
held by solid Cecil Thompson, who made
six.- Of course, Thompson put in a lot
of grand work for his State before it won
Shield recognition ; he made eight hun-
dreds against N. S. Wales alone, and two
against Victoria, both on the Melbourne
ground. Brown’s four centuries against
S.A. were all second-innings affairs (132,
174, 156 and 111). His two against
N.S.W.- were also second innings (168
and 137).
A very satisfactory element in Queens-
land cricket is the continuous success of
Rogers, the left-hander. His 74 in the
second innings against S.A. caps an even
bunch of scores. There is a touch of
Joe Darling lustiness in his driving.
Watt struck a lean time in Adelaide
and Sydney. Some State selectors might
have given him a rest after that. But
he came good at the right time. His
59 not out in such a ticklish position
after five single-figure innings shows that
he has the right stuff.
* * * *
When Queensland collapsed against
N.S.W. and the match was over in two
days, Sydney officials had reason to
lament their ill-luck. They looked gloomy
again on Saturday morning when clouds
sprinkled light rain, and when Bradman
and his boys took refuge in the pavilion
from the zephyr squalls things again
looked glum. But the crowds had
gathered early; there was no more rain,
and when official figures were hoisted
they showed that 30,180 had paid
£2057 17s. 3d. for a good day’s cricket
with a thrilling finishing touch—Bradman
revealing his genius in a light that had
become murky.
Those who came early saw some grand
batting. N.S.W. had 130 up for one
wicket, McCabe and newcomer Cohen
making light of the attack —fast, slow,
left-hand. Stan was 59 with luncheon in
sight. Then Grimmett tossed up a gentle
leg-break outside the otf stump. Mc-
Cabe walked out to it and pushed his
bat gently towards the ball as though
expecting a nice single to make the 60.
It spun away and left him stranded for
Walker to unship the bails.
Cohen, for his part, set most of his
mates an example in watching Grimmett.
He let his strokes flow naturally and
concentrated better on the job of making
runs without bothering unduly about the
name of the bowler.
But after lunch what a . change!
Barnes moved swiftly to 34 ; then Grim-
mett rapped his pads with a sfraight-break
and craned his neck to note the line of
the leg stump. He did not appeal. Next
ball the pad again stopped the ball pas-
sively, and on appeal umpire Borwick
signalled exit to Barnes.
.Chipperfield came in. He did not try
to play the first ball, and it ran in straight
to hit his pads. Again the Borwick signal.
Saggers, playing his first big game, frus-
trated the hat-trick. Then Cohen tried
to cut a good-length ball from Klose,
snicked and Walker held it. Cohen was‘
74 (top score), and from 2 for 189 it had
become 5 for 189.
Earlier in the innings Grimmett had
bamboozled Mudge. That returned
traveller played well forward, expecting
a leg-break turning from the centre to
outside the off stump. It bosied the other
way and passed behind the groping bats-
man, who floundered and fell. Walker,
on the leg side, took the ball and flicked
off the bails.
Four 1.b.w., four stumped by Walker
and two caught at the wickets by him.
It was the best form behind the sticks
he has ever shown in Sydney.
The hitters were tamed by Grimmett
and themselves. Pepper went quietly
1.b.w., trying a sort of pull. O’Reilly tried
a lash or two before adopting the
cautious role to Grimmett’s off-side
length balls. In this steady game he
was not at home. He went out of his
ground to push defensively at a slow,
only to be stranded. Meanwhile Saggers
was keeping his end up. His 45 was so
good in style and crisp in execution that
the hillites took him to their hearts. They
can be satirical and noisy, but they know
the game.
N.S.W. all out 270. Klose and Rid-
ings, opening for S.A., were back in the
pavilion with 8 on the board, victims
of Lush. Whitington (23) and Bradman
(24) kept going till the light failed.
The weather threatened to spoil Mon-
day for cricket. It cleared in the morning,
and the N.S.W.C.A. got another good
crowd. At the beginning the wicket was
doing a bit, and Bradman was never
quite at his ease. When he had made
39 (out of 77) O’Reilly tricked him with
a ball that kept straight, and out he went,
l.b.w, Whitington (37), useful, though
very slow, then scooped up a wily one
from William into the eager hands of
Barnes at silly mid-on; four for 101.
Badcock (40) and Hamence (27 n. 0.)
made a sturdy stand, but it was 7 for
170 when rain brought a stoppage.
dc $ f
S.A. has an all-rounder of uncommon
promise in Klose. Tall, slim and springy,
he bats right-hand with sound defence
and infinite patience, and bowls left-hand
with an accuracy recalling that of J. C.
White, and pots the ball down at
aggravating length. A close-in fieldsman,
he picks up sharp shots off the bat and
returns smartly left-hand with a sort of
wristy flick. Pity those canvas covers
are run out when the mists that are
called rain sweep up. It would be a
change to see so accurate a left-hand
bowler as Klose operating for an Aus-
tralian side on a sticky pitch.
Kendall, beaten by a touch by Bid-
dulph i.n the N.S.W. 110 yards swimming
championship, reversed that decision in
the 220 yards. The margin was the
same; the time (2min. 17sec.) two
seconds slower than the American
Medica’s Australian best. Biddulph won
the half-mile easily.
* * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide, which was much
hurt by being twice refused leave to hold
the swimming championships of Aus-
tralia, has now brought itself right up to
date. The new structure, on the old site
between Railway Station and Govern-
ment House, is 165 ft. by 50ft. and 16ft.
deep, with the conventional diving-towers
up to 10 metres, and a stand for 650 spec-
tators. Details possibly unique are
observation-windows in the wall of the
deep end for watching divers, and a
fairly comprehensive view of the bathing
crowd from Elder Park.


Johnson Iron Horse
GENERATOR
Gives You
Dependable ELECTRIC LIGHT
For Approximately 1/“ Per Week
•300 Watts •12 Volts
(Double the Usual Capacity.)
Lights 12-25 Watt Globss
(1
m
HM
ÜBHUNS
m
Don’t be any longer without the
boon of to-day’s civilisation—
Electric Light, which is now
available to every country resident
with this low-priced dependable
generator, Charging operates
immediately the electric starting
button is pressed, and by turning
a knob the output is controlled
from nothing to 300 watts. Elec-
tric Light (with the Johnson
Generator) costs you less than the
messy, dangerous old-fashioned
lamps— you can use 3 lights for
3\ hours every night at a cost of
approximately If- per week.
ds
Here are some of the more important features. —
inn watts—l 2 volts—lights 12-25 watt globes—electric starting—
full r ange control—special built-in generator powered by a Johnson
Iron 4 cycle petrol engine-automatic cut out disconnects
runnfng-quiet operation-minimum vibrat,on-shielded
ignition —suction carburettor.
Cash Price
r vibration —shielded
£34/10/-
/rtattorips extra.)
SPECIAL TERMS FROM £lO DEPOSIT:—
For a deposit of £lO approved country residents can obtain
immediate possession. No charge is made for
interest if the balance is paid within 1J
months. The small weekly payments
amount to no more than
the average city —'
V,fD;
G.^ u ”
»/S
f t ue im oi^° nT
ot J, u \a^
fo*^ a « Uovse . .
■p\caB e otv ” **? ..••**
••••■■" .•-•■•"
casV v . . . • * ~.••*
e *.* ' ’ ...*•'“ ....■••••"■
A dare ss •'**...•••••••■"■
B.V 40 ”"’
Socks kirbutd
Postal Address... BOX 4750 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY
773YEAR.S
U 0 p nnrtrj
• mm
SEVENTY years of success is reflected in the Annual Report
of the 'National Mutual.'
Funds have grown from £6/0/10 in 1869, to the impressive
total of £45,575,865 at 30/9/'39—an amazing record of
progress. The Association is purely mutual: there are NO
shareholders.
Total income for Year 1938-39 - _ -•- -£6,164,576
28,382 New Policies issued, assuring __ 10,158,497
Payments to Policyholders for the year 3,513,380
The above figures relate to ordinary Assurance Business only. The
Association does not transact Industrial Assurance Business.
EFFECT YOUR ASSURANCES THROUGH THIS PROGRESSIVE OFFICE
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD.
(Inc. in Victoria) ESTABLISHED 1869
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
&
ONCE only a business man's phrase,
but now on the lips of peoplfe in all
walks of life, who have found that it is
more convenient to pay by cheque—and
more economical too.
You can transact your business safely
and speedily by cheque . . . and remem-
ber, it's a simple matter to open a cheque
account at the Head Office or any
branch of this bank.
Interest-bearing fixed deposits from £5
and upwards are also accepted.
Mitral
a v te tb w
O V W WAfcE
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank —Serving you—Serving the State
KNOW THE VALUE OF
THE FOOD YOU EAT
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
COOKERY BOOK
400 PAGES AND NEARLY 3000
TESTED RECIPES.
Food Value in Proteins, Calories, Vitamins, etc., given by a
Well-known Woman Doctor.
Advanced medical opinion to-day subscribes to the idea
that most of the diseases of civilisation are due to an
ill-balanced diet. This book shows you how to choose
well-balanced meals without faddism.
rhe food value, in proteins, calories, etc., is shown alongside each recipe, also
he vitamin content of the various dishes.
rhis scheme, introduced by the Mirror for the first time in any Recipe Book,
gives additional value to what is already acknowledged by thousands of satisfied
readers as the best offer of its kind ever made to the housewives of Austialia
and New Zealand.
If you have not already ordered your copy send to the Mirror Office 3/6
(Post Free 3/8), together with your name and address, and receive a copy by
return post.
Mark envelopes "Mirror Recipe Book” and address to the Manager,
THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN’S MIRROR,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
-Vi 4 •
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids
Qualified matron and 'staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application,
lelephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
££ ce °LJ£ rustees * 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771. J
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
Armidale, N.S.W.
3300 feet above sea level.
Boarding and Day School for Boys from
Primary Standard to Leaving Certificate Honors.
Next term begins Thursday,
February Ist, at 1.30 p.m.
New boys attend Wednesday,
January 31st, from 9.30 a.m.
For prospectus and information application
should be made to the Registrar, The Diocesan
Registry, Armidale.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENCLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
★
Forbes Street, Darlinghurst,
RIVER ROAD, GREENWICH,
AND MOSS VALE
Day and Boarding School
For Girls of All Ages from Sub Primary to Leaving
Certificate Honours.
The schools are ideally situated, excellent cuisine,
qualified mistresses, good examination results. The
school of Moss Vale is in 382 acres, with special
facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools
A WOMANS
LETTER
In spite of Test cricket and Don Brad-
man, Randwick had a fairly populated
look for its Warwick Farm race meet-
ing. Saturday’s skies were grey, and the
air had a dash of cold, so frocking was
a mixture of furs, woollens, waterproofs
and the thin silks, laces and flower hats
of the intrepid ones who dress by the
calendar and not by the weather.
Philippa Stephen’s grey angora suit was
bright with wool embroideries. Grey
and violet were the printed silks worn
by Mrs. Leonard Dare under her grey
tailored coat. With her was Mrs. H. D.
Cary, powder-blue and amber her outfit.
Cyclamen was Mrs. Joe Coen’s summer
suit, and bright blue daughter Marie’s
hat and frock.
Mrs. W. Parsons wore a long spray
of delicate orchids on her navy and white
coat. She grows them herself from a
plant brought from Singapore. Margaret
Cary guarded her flowered silks under a
poinsettia-red raincoat. From Moree
came Mrs. Hector Livingstone, whose
triple necklet of gold beads glinted above
black marocains. With her was Claudia
Beazley. Her suit was checked in greys,
blues and browns. Fair-haired Phyllis
Adams wore grey and black with good
results, Joan McDermott's gloves and
handbag were rose-pink. Mrs. Roger
Forrest Hughes, down from Menangle,
wfere son Roger is in camp, wore cool
p; ited silks. Princess Radziwill wore a
grey Breton sailor with her red suit. Mrs.
Ralph Huntley and Sadie Budge were
busy with book, horse and tote.
Among the fascinations of this week’s
ballet are the “Cinderella” curtains. The
one that makes the youngsters round-
eyed with admiration is that depicting the
coach being drawn through space by six
winged white horses, while clouds of
fairies go flying after. Even grown-ups
took joy in this at the first night of the
present programme. Ballerinas, off their
toes for the night, were among the well-
dressed women crowding the Royal foyer
last . Friday. Among them was Vera
Nemtchinova, with her medieval page
look and green-and-black feather fronds
spraying from the shoulder of her black
frock. The fair Nina Verchinina was
with Olga Philipoff. Assistant conductor
Max Gobermann was also one of the
audience.
How dependent on the story-teller’s
art is the ballet is exemplified by the
new number “Cimarosiana.” The danc-
ing in this is brilliant and gay, the color-
ing as bright as a cluster of bon-bons,
but it lacks the golden thread. Exquisite
was the word for Serge Lifar in “Swan
Lake,” which held all its old enchant-
ment. Applauders of the show who
might have been applauded for their own
appearance were Mrs. Ruth Wilson and
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar. Lilac chiffons
were worn by the former and chrysanthe-
mum-brown tulle by the second. A Flor-
entine-blue feather cape was worn by
Ba-'-r.ra Knox with her black chiffons 7 .
—y s - V. V. Walker’s black nets had large
white daisies appliqued about its waist-
line. Again Mrs. Eva Wunderlich, Mrs.
A. E. Grace, the Bertie Kellys and the
smiling Salenger family sat in their accus-
tomed places.
For three mornings last week, as is the
custom, Sydney’s Mayoress was at her
post in her reception rooms, saying “How
do you do?” to callers. Last Wednes-
day, aided by a small daughter and Miss
Wedlock, she greeted hundreds, and the
scene might have been a bit of ballet
decor, so bright were the colorings of
summer frocking, so brilliant the zinnias.
Quite a Gainsborough effect was gained
by Mrs. Florence Taylor in her pastel-
toned chiffons and large straw hat. Mrs.
Norman McLeod’s sharply upturned
Breton was of palely gold Baku. Mrs.
F. J. Davy sifted tones of cyclamen as
she moved from group to group. The
Julius and Barlow ladies and Mrs. J. L.
Ruthven were among the much-greeted.
Mrs. Harry Twigden’s white sailor was
worn with navy and white. Turquoise
blues mingled with white in Mrs. Vernon
Cole’s outfit. Mrs. E. H. Salenger was
escorted by Barbara. Good-looking Miss
Tennyson Miller was there ; so was Dr.
Mary Booth, in her company the new
principal of the Memorial College at
Kirribilli. Josephine Marks wore gar-
denias in her black frock. Mrs. Hamil-
ton Lewis came. She was still thrilled
with the “all purposes” hat she had seen
on an American visitor to Sydney. This
particular one was grey with a drooping
brim and no trimming at all. Its wearer
explained that it was worn so for recep-
tions ; for gayer occasions you could tilt
it to one side, while for sports occasions
you could turn up the brim and wear
the hat on the back of the head. Two
Melbourne callers were Mrs. Lilley and
her daughter. They were with Mrs.
Harrie Vale.
Smart was the word for Annie Laurie
McGarrity and her three companions,
Shirley Ogilvie, Joan Maclean and Jean
Black, when they stepped brightly into
the Australia one afternoon last week.
The four have been picked to go over-
seas as masseurs to the A.I.F. They will
wear navy uniforms made with a Norfolk
jacket, trig with pockets, military buttons
and maroon shoulder tabs. In the
maroon ties the A.I.F. badge is pinned.
Their small navy felt hats are smart as
well as serviceable. Altogether they
make an attractive foursome. All the
girls have had hospital experience, and
all face whatever the future holds for
them with smiling courage. The gather-
ing at the Australia was for the purpose
of being farewelled by their friends.
Here is a Norton-Trevaire photograph
of Mrs. C. L. A. Abbott, wife of the Ad-
ministrator of the Northern Territory,
taken on a recent visit to Sydney.
Jenny Ranken, making a first-class
speech at the opening of Esme Farmer’s
show in the Macquarie Galleries, proved
again how many and how bright are the
facets of her brain. She has just recov-
ered from an illness, but was looking as
blooming as the spray of roses on her
black sheer frock. She introduced Esme,
whose sunlit paintings mostly reproduce
the beauty of Mona Vale. “Cabbage
Tree Cottage” and “White Gums in the
Early Morning” are grand advertise-
ments for this peaceful spot.
The artist, who is Mrs. Farmer, is Aus-
tralian by virtue of residing in this con-
tinent since the age of five. Before that
mature age she lived in Bristol (Eng.),
where she was born. As a child she
lived in Westralia, and then she came to
Sydney and studied her art at the Sydney
Tech., with Fred Leist as her teacher. At
the Tech, she had the distinction of win-
ning the important figure-painting com-
petition. Then she trekked to London,
where she worked hard at the Royal
College of Art, South Kensington, and
at the St. John’s Wood Art School, but
claims she learned most from study of
the paintings in the great London gal-
leries. A portrait of her small son Bill
is one of the cleverest works in the show.
Bill was present with father till just
before the opening speeches.
It would seem that every second person
in Sydney is becoming a sugar-daddy or
-mammy to friends in England. The
easiest way to send the sweet stuff is to
go to a grocery shop and order a packet
of 81b. With insurance, freight, packing
and other overhead this costs something
like 10s. lOd. If you have two or three
friends in England who live near one
another, or, at anyrate, near enough to
share up, you can send the packet to,
say, Surbiton this month, and to Maida
Vale next month. Every square of loaf-
sugar sent helps to give energy to
England.
Here’s the daughter of the most-quoted
man in this State. She is Myra Mares,
and her father is D. J. Mares, the weather
man. He’ll simply have to ordain “fine
and sunny” on the day of Myra’s wed-
ding to Matthew Read, of the Royal Aus-
tralian Engineers. Engagement has
recently been announced. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Not only the friends of the bride and
the ’groom went to St. Mark’s at Darling
Point to see the wedding of Betty Munro
and Tim Osborne. The usual romance-
hounds were at the church door to gaze
with fervent eyes on Betty’s entrance to
the holy estate. She was worth gazing
on in her shimmer of satin and tulle and
stephanotis. Both the bride and her
sister, Mrs. Clive Ogilvy, who was
matron of honor, are among our best-
lookers, and as they passed there was
a sigh of satisfaction among the waiting
crowds.
Mrs. Ogilvy’s frock of palest pink mar-
quisette was very full and flowing, and
her bonnet was a charming trifle of pink
straw and marquisette. The Charles
Munros did the right thing by their
daughter in the reception at Elizabeth
Bay House. During the evening Lorraine
McPhi flamy, of Darling Point, added to
the night’s thrills by announcing her
engagement to Paddy Griffin, of Eliza-
beth Bay.
This Letter must congratulate Mrs.
Sturt Griffith, who was Winnie Marshall,
of Sydney, on the spectacular and miracu-
lous escape of her R.A.F. husband and
his two comrades last week. Sturt’s
’plane met with disaster above Kurri
Kurri, but the three drifted to safety in
their parachutes. Though Winnie and
her flight-lieutenant husband now live at
Laverton (Vic.), they both belong to this
city. He’s an old “Shore” boy, and a
son of ex-Cabinet Minister Arthur
Griffith.
New president of the P.E.N. Club is
knight Robert Garran. Former president
Elliot Napier had been in indifferent
health for some time last year, and re-
signed from office. Now the equally
pleasant and gentle Robert Garran is the
club’s head. Friends of Elliot will regret
to hear that at present he is nursing a
fractured hip.
Anybody thinking of giving Guenda
Bainton and artist Harold Abbott a pic-
ture for a wedding present can hold her
hand. The two have as many paintings as,
or more than, they know what to do with.
The wedding is going to be even more
hush-hush than the embarkation of our
soldiers. Last week Harold and Guenda
were busy hanging oils, water-colors
and etchings. The Norman McLeods’
gift is to be a white glaze vase in which
bright flowers will look all the brighter.
The South Coast town of Thirroul will
be en fete for the opening of the new
Olympic pools on Saturday, January 20.
The baths, which are white-tiled, have
underwater lighting, diving platforms,
spacious dressing-sheds and a kiosk.
Prior to the opening a two weeks’ carni-
val is being held on the brilliantly-lighted
promenade. Here are gay stalls, a merry-
go-round and chocolate-wheels. The
annual surf carnival coincides with the
opening of the pools.
It will be a pity if Sydney does not
have at least one pianoforte recital by
Qualtiero Volterra. Like himself, his
wife (who was Patricia Kelly) is a pianist
of concert calibre, though not of long
experience. Mr. Volterra has given
many recitals in Paris and London, and
but for the war would have been giving
concerts in Paris this winter. He was
saying one day last week that for the
perfect concert, both from the listener’s
and the performer’s standpoint, the small
hall with good acoustics is much better
than the hall that holds its thousands.
Chopin is his favorite composer.
This Letter bids regretful farewell to
Mrs. A. U. Tonking, of Orange, wife of
the Chief Secretary, who met untimely
death at her home outside Orange. She
was small, bright, vivacious, with a droll
wit and a merry smile, and she will be
missed by innumerable friends in other
parts of the State as well as her home
town. At the inquest a verdict of acci-
dental death was returned.
The teapot is working overtime these
days for farewell parties to Mrs.
Baume. She flies to England at the end
of the month to join husband Eric, who
is there on a newspaper assignment. The
schoolgirl daughters will remain at
S.C.E.G.S., and the son of the house at
Scots.
They are tough, those old Australian
Thespians. Helen Fergus, a beloved
“lead” for former generations of Aus-
tralian audiences, who now lives at
Randwick, celebrated her eighty-first
birthday by notifying the film producers
that if they had any suitable old-lady
roles she was ready to tackle them. Her
daughter, Nellie Ferguson (Nellie Ogden
when she was Australia’s most pro-
claimed child actress), died last year, but
the mother goes on, although 20 years
ago she was told she had only a few
months to live. May Robson (from
South Australia) maintains in Hollywood
the reputation for continued virility of
the aged Australian mummers, but of
course Flelen Fergus is much older.
Pretty Clare Spruson, who until a few
weeks ago lived and had her being in
Neutral Bay (the Spruson cottage was
one of the pleasant households of the
northside suburb), has become engaged
to Peter Lister, only son of the L. A.
Listers, of Vaucluse. Since her father’s
death Clare has lived with her mother
at Bellevue Hill.
Dr. Sterling Levis, back in Sydney
after seeing Europe before the war, and
England just after hostilities brought on
the blackouts, reports his family as
busily occupied in London. Medical son
Miles is specialising. Joan is contemplat-
ing a plunge into the profession of beauty
culture, with a course in New York to
finish off. Mrs. Levis, even in war-time
London, finds many outlets for her
literary and musical tastes.
No. 11 Corfu-street, East Sydney, is
the new address of the children’s library
run by Loreto ex-pupils. If you want to
make a call on the library, 11 Corfu-
street is reached either from Bourke-
street or Forbes-street, and is close to
the William-street tram.
Evelyn Lorna Hean did nice work in
the leaving certificate examinations, gain-
ing the highest pass among metropolitan
girls and boys, with first-class honors in
three subjects, second-class in another
and first-class passes in two other sub-
jects. Evelyn, a girl with a bright smile,
lives at Strathfield.
Mrs. E. Whitaker, the new principal
of the Memorial College of Household
Arts and Science at Kirribilli, was head-
mistress of Normanhurst previous to tak-
ing this new appointment. Before that
she was principal of Kobeelya, the C. of
E. Girls’ School at Katanning, in W.A.
And that’s in the wheatbelt. Kobeelya
is said to be an old native word and
means place of peace. Mrs. Whitaker is
a B.A. with honors of London Univer-
sity.


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait ! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Personal and Missing Friends.
DOUGLAS, David Robert—Will this brother
of Mary Ann Watson, deceased, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please write to the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney?
Legal Notice.
The Public Curator Acts, 1915-1938.
NOTICE is hereby given that on or after the
eighteenth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty it is my intention in accord-
ance with the provisions of Section 56a of the
abovementioned Acts to execute a transfer in
favor of GEORGE PETER CAMPBELL of
the land hereinafter mentioned of which JOHN
PHILPOT is the registered proprietor namely
All that piece of land situate in the County of
Stanley Parish Kedron containing 22 acres 3
roods 8 perches being Portion 86 and being the
whole of the land described in Deed of Grant
No. 11581 Volume 63 Folio 95.
Dated this Ninth day of January, 1940.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
The Public Curator of Queensland.
MESSRS. NICOL ROBINSON & FOX,
Solicitors, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2094 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARIE MARTHA GILMORE
Petitioner
And JOHN WILLIAM GILMORE Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN WILLIAM GILMORE late of
Hamilton and Moore Park in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARIE
MARTHA GILMORE has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse; and take notice that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Tenth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event of
vour not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of January, a.d.
194 °' (L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Thirty-eight sisters and staff nurses and
six masseuses are Victoria’s feminine con-
tribution to the Second A.I.F. Matron
Anne Sage, who is matron-in-chief of
the contingent, was recently matron
of the Baby Health Centres Association s
Training School. Sister Margaret Tis-
dale comes from Geelong, is an old girl
of The Hermitage and an Alfred trainee.
Sister Dorothy Vines also derives from
Geelong and The Hermitage, and was
recently theatre sister at the Alfred. Sister
Marjorie Vasey, another Alfred trainee,
was surgeon Alan Newton’s nurse ; her
brother, Colonel Vasey, is on the perma-
nent staff of the Defence Department.
He also is going abroad with the A.I.F.
Staff Nurse Dorothy Scholes is well
known to patients of Hamilton Russell
House, where she has been a staff sister
for some time. Ex-patients of Vimy
House will watch with interest the career
of Staff Nurse Anna Elizabeth Whiteside,
whose pleasant smile has often cheered
them when things looked black.
Of the masseuses there were to have
been seven, but Margaret Mack will
travel as a Tasmanian, she having worked
in the island of trout and cider for some
time. Of the six remaining, two have
yet to be chosen. The four who are all
set to leave when the bugle blows are
Helen Todd, who is in control, Cynthia
Duigan, Marjorie Farnbach and Helene
Forster. Miss Todd has done exacting
work in connection with the infantile para-
lysis epidemic and its aftermath. With
her headquarters at the Children’s Hos-
pital she organised the campaign from
the point of view of massage, massage
inspections, etc., for most of the metro-
politan area. Helene Forster, known to
her friends as “Dick,” comes originally
from W.A. She also has been doing
“polio” work at the Children’s.
Marjorie Farnbach too has had “polio”
experience. Previously she did five years’
post-graduate work in England, where
she was attached to orthopaedic hospi-
tals. Cynthia Duigan is as well known
for her cheery personality as for her
competence. It’s safe to say that before
she gets her electrical gadgets focused
on a sick soldier he’ll be feeling that a
war isn’t as bad as it might have been.
She has been in private practice, and did
part-time work at the Alfred during the
epidemic. She also is an old girl of
The Hermitage.
Masseuses -went to the last war, but
not in a separate unit as they will serve
in this one. Though they come under
the eye of the matron-in-chief, they will
have their own mess. Their uniform con-
sists of. a navy woollen suit (of pleasing
color but difficult length ; the coat almost
reaches the knees), worn with pale-blue
blouse, cherry-red tie and blue felt hat
with badge. For duty they will wear
beige dresses with rank epaulets and
white linen coats. If the weather is
unduly warm they are hopeful of having
white uniforms. Little pale-blue capes,
navy cardigans, overcoats and raincoats
are etceteras. Stockings will be beige
or grey and shoes black with flat or
medium heels. Like the nurses, the
masseuses’ luggage allowance is a cabin
trunk, hold-all and kitbag containing cup
and saucer, plate, knife, fork, spoon and
a small oil stove, which, no doubt, will
be worth its weight in gold for boiling
up water for tea or hot bags in tents
on cold nights. Each nurse and mas-
seuse receives a £3O allowance for her kit.
Some of these young women are let-
ting their heads go in the matter of
underwear, which can be a contrast to
the rest of their severe get-up. The more
frivolous gifts in that direction are, the
more welcome they will be. Silk stock-
ings will also be taken along to “wear
in the privacy of the tent.”
. These feminine applicants went through
rigid physical tests, and had to be as fit
as fiddles before being passed. Teeth,
eyes and feet had to be found guiltless
of imperfection. Each candidate had to
show that she was still supple by doing
a few bending exercises, touching the
floor without bending the knees, etc. The
examiners were people without souls.
“Hair. Brown going grey,” was a ver-
dict of brownette locks with a few hardly
noticeable streaks. “Complexion. Sal-
low,” was yet another dash of cold water
to a young woman who is justly proud
of her beautiful suntan.
A recent Western District engagement
is that of Peg Hood (photograph by
Dickinson-Monteath), daughter of the
late R. R. Hood and of Mrs. Hood, of
Merang, Hexham, and Neil Roderick
Calvert, only son of the L. Neil Calvert
couple, of Hopkins Hill, Chatsworth.
The Countess of Bective says that she
always hoped to return to her own coun-
try of Australia, but she little thought
that a war would bring her out here with
scarcely enough time to pack and attend
to all the details of an “evacuation.”
Last week, all unheralded, she arrived
in Melbourne with her daughter Eliza-
beth Clarke, whose father was baronet
Rupert. By her first marriage, Lady
Bective also has two sons —Rupert, the
heir to the title, who is at Sandhurst, and
Ernest, who is at Cambridge.
Lady Bective’s plans for the imme-
diate future include visits to the Robert
Knoxes at Frankston and the George
Landales at Dahwilla, Deniliquin, and
her return to Adelaide at the end of the
month to the house in Medindie that she
and her husband have leased from Dr.
and Mrs. Stanley Burston.
When war broke out the Earl of Bec-
tive, having been refused for active ser-
vice on medical grounds, accepted the
position of A.D.C. to South Australia’s
Governor, Sir Malcolm Barclay Harvey.
Embarkation with his family followed
almost immediately, and he commenced
his new duties a few weeks ago. He and
Lady Bective have two children, Lord
Kenlis, aged eight, and Lady Olivia
Taylour, who is 10.
Lady Bective has career instincts as
well as those well tuned to the social
swim. Four years ago she got her finger
into the pie of her husband s electrical
contracts firm and produced a showroom
in Mayfair with accent on lighting. Her
speciality was lighting for both old and
modern houses on systems that are rest-
ful to the eye both physically and artisti-
cally. Lady Bective did her spot of war
work during the Munich crisis, when she
organised her own land army, furnished it
with overalls and spades and had it dig up
eight acres of gardens surrounding her
Hampshire home. Food for the hungry
in the form of vegetables was planted
where roses and sweet Williams used to
perfume the country air. _
Katherine Bonython, of Adelaide,, is
paying Melbourne a short visit, staying
with the Colin Campbells and their
daughter Beth. Katherine s fiance,
Colin Verco, is attached to the R.A.A.F.
at Point Cook, so at the moment is most
appreciative of any hours off duty which
come his way. The engagement was
announced at Christmas time. Katherine s
ring is a beauteous sapphire with sur-
roundings of diamonds.
Good wishes are being offered to
Hilary Hay and Phil Hudson. Hilary,
who is well known among the younger
masseuses practising in Melbourne, is
the elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. A.
Hay, of Portrush, Barwon Heads, and
Phil is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
Tom Hudson, of Kensington-road, South
Yarra. Among interests in common of
this couple is tennis. Both like a hard,
fast game. One of the first parties to
which Hilary wore her sapphire ring was
given in her honor by Phyllis Balfour
with cocktails late on Saturday after-
noon, to which a handful of intimate
friends were invited.
Jean Campbell’s new brain child of
novel length is on the bookstalls, having
just missed the Christmas sales in Aus-
tralia. Her title, The Babe Is Wise, comes
from Edwin Arnold’s poem “The Light
of Asia,” and the quotation continues
“ who weepeth being born.” Jean
wanted to name her book with the latter
phrase, to which suggestion her publishers,
Hutchinson’s, replied that in that case she
should follow it up next year with a
further novel called Life Is Good,
Brother. Setting of the book is in Russia,
Germany and Australia. Regarding ac-
curacy of foreign settings the author had
it well vetted. Miss Campbell has written
all her five novels with one copy only,
in an exercise book, with a pencil. A
genius among typists deciphers each
opus. Her next activity will be some
histrionic relaxation in the Little
Theatre’s forthcoming production of
“Queer Cattle.” She will be a female
explorer just returned from a savage
country and preparing to write her
memoirs.
An acquisition to Darwin will be Mrs.
Alex. Fyson (Broothorn photograph), who
recently left for the N.T. by flying-boat
to join her husband, who has been
appointed accountant to the Adminis-
tration. A young adventurer of seven
will follow his parents all alone by air
in three months’ time, when their home
will be completed. Mrs. Fyson means
to entertain a good deal, and as she and
her husband always have a good word to
say about warm climates they should
be happy in their new domicile. Mr.
Fyson’s previous appointments in the
Treasury have been in Brisbane, Canberra
and Melbourne. Furniture collected for
these southern homes has been stored for
the time being. Mrs. Fyson will choose
things in cane and seagrass that are cool
and comfortable but decorative neverthe-
less.
Betty Taylor is an attractive brunette
who recently returned to Melbourne after
gathering three-and-a-half-years’ worth of
interesting experiences abroad, which in-
cluded the job of hostess at the Aus-
tralian pavilion at the ’Frisco Exposition.
She left Australia at her own expense
but with the inducement of a position
ready for her at the A.N.T.A. in Lon-
don—at the time she already had had
two years in “Travel” in Australia. In
England her work was primarily to paint
a tempting picture of her own country
to people who had an urge to go travel-
ling. For those with limited incomes she
mapped tour expenditure down to the
nearest pound.
Miss Taylor • wishes that travelling in
Australia were less costly and that youth
hostels would spring into being. in
Europe she often sampled these institu-
tions in a hiking suit with a rucksack
on her back.
In ’Frisco she worked from 10 to 5.30,
including week-ends, but with some time
off during the week. Her line of talk,
given without too large a dose of statis-
tics, was to give visitors the impression
that they were welcome in Australia.
Numbers of inquiries came from men
between the ages of 20 and 30 who felt
the crowding-out of their own country.
Miss Taylor and her mother shared
a “down-town” apartment with all mod.
cons., including refrigerator, hot water,
disappearing beds, etc., for about £9 pei
month. With the exception of meat,
which is expensive, she considers that
food costs much the same in ’Frisco as
it does here. She always did her shcp-
ning in the markets, delicatessens being
practically non-existent in that particular
Californian city. These markets are °Pf n
every day and they sell everything edible.
All goods are under glass refrigerator
windows. Customers serve themselves,
often even weighing their vegetables, and
they pay as they leave the stalls.
Mrs; Taylor and her daughter also tried
the interesting experiment of housekeep-
ing in Honolulu, which they enjoyed
immensely during six blissful weeks at
a cost which was very little more than
their living expenses in ’Frisco. They did
all their own cooking and housework
in a cottage almost smothered in hibiscus
right on the beach at Waikiki. They
found their neighbors friendly, and soon
had a host of acquaintances in the cot-
tages near by. Betty, whose coat of
suntan would do credit to any beach,
must have looked well on a surf board.
She managed to stand up on one dur-
ing her first morning’s surfing. At present
she and her parents arc down at Rosebud
leading the simple life under canvas,
where she is getting a lot of fun out of
doing more difficult chores than cutting
bread. All the time she was in the U.S.A.
she didn’t cut a single slice of bread.
Every loaf in its air-proof wrapper is
already sliced in thicknesses required.
The R. G. Casey couple are wearing
beatific expressions. They don’t attempt
to wipe the smiles from their faces. To
say that they are pleased with their new
plum in jobs is to put it mildly. The
Caseys have two children, Jane, aged 11,
and Donn (called after Irish writer Donn
Byrne, whose work Mrs. Casey admires),
who is eight. Mrs. Casey is a versatile
woman with several dissimilar interests.
Not many of her' contemporaries, for
instance, would go up for a flying lesson
or practice in the morning and attend a
painting class in the afternoon. She be-
longed to George Bell’s school and ex-
hibited on several occasions, the last
time at the Athemeum, when Mr. Bell’s
students farewelled him with a show of
their work. She can also make a tactful
speech when the occasion arises, and last
year opened several art shows. She is
known as a buyer of pictures, and several
Australian artists of modern persuasion
are represented in her collection.
The popular American Vice-Consular
couple, the Wales Signors, are the nucleus
of much American hospitality. They are
being farewelled with “old-fashioneds,”
with mint juleps, with waffles and maple
syrup for luncheon, with buffet dinners.
In their place have come the Frederick
Jandreys, who in a few short weeks have
already seen something of Brisbane, Syd-
ney, Perth and Melbourne. Mrs. Jandrey
is young and attractive and appears to
be interested in everything. Among her
hobbies are languages and art. She can
appreciate old masters and modern
painters. She is toying with the idea of
attending the University, and has made a
New Year resolution to read up some
Australian history. She plays tennis,
swims and ice-skates, and new clothes
give her a thrill.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLO AGE .
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
TO-DAY
w
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Fast Work in Finland.
“Raller”: The war or hunt or what-
ever it is in Finland moves with a verve
and elan which must please even the
most blase of Famous American Corre-
spondents.
On December 5, Moscow announced
—by courtesy of Sydney “Tribune”—that
the “masses of the people of Finland
meet with tremendous enthusiasm and
welcome the valiant and invincible Red
Army, being aware that it is marching
to Finland not as a conqueror but as
friend and liberator of our people.” At
the same time, a hot war message gave
names of towns captured which showed
that the Mannerheim Line had already
been passed. A week later the Glorious
Army of Communism was 16 miles be-
yond it. The First Army Corps was
given the honor of hoisting the flag of
Communism in the town square of the
new capital.
What has become of the First Army
Corps since then has not been disclosed,
but the history of another army corps
is on record. Christmas found the Ninth
Army Corps opposed to the north-
eastern line of the Finnish defences. The
Finns unsportingly set on two of the
three divisions which composed the corps
and wiped them out as units. The 44th
Division then rushed to the rescue, with-
out being aware that the masses of troops
which they proposed to succor were dis-
integrated.
The Finns turned on the 44th, killed
7000 men, wounded 1000 and carried off
immense quantities of arms, ammuni-
tion and tanks. ‘ The rest of the invin-
cibles took to the scrub. By January 7
the Ninth Army Corps had ceased to
exist.
It is now reported that the Russians
are digging in in a Molotov Line on the
wrong side of the Mannerheim Line and
reni. ,mg their drive near Salla with a
“crack corps of unusually mobile troops.”
hey will need to be more mobile than
tne last lot, if they intend to escape.
The war has not been without suc-
cesses for the invaders. According to
President Kallio they have dropped 4000
bombs on 100 places, killing 269 civilians
and wounding 479 at a cost of only 170
machines destroyed. But the exchange
of one fighting machine for every 1.5
civilians killed seems to be a bit too
heavy a bill even for “the greatest bomb-
ing force the world has ever seen” to pay
for its murders.
News from Moscow.
“Tovarish”: Latest copies of “Moscow
News” (Nov. 20) to reach Australia are
full of good tidings. Russia was evidently
in high spirits. Comrade Stalin was going
around greeting everybody, particularly
the Red cavalry, which had just cele-
brated its twentieth birthday. Mr. Stalin
greeted Budyonny, Voroshilov, Kulik,
Timoshensko, Shchadenko, Gorodovikov,
Apanasenko, Tyulevev, Cherevichenko,
Yeremenko and some others who “trans-
formed the cavalry into a formidable
force.” He also declared the army of
Poland “famous,” and proceeded merrily:
Greetings to our cavalry, which covered
itself with glory in the battle for the
liberation of Western Ukraine and Western
Belorussia from the oppression of the
Polish gentry !
When the cavalry was engaged in its
heroic operations the Communist party
of Australia, incidentally, was telling its
dear public:—-
The Red Army is now engaged in
saying White Russian and Ukrainian
minorities from the Nazi invasion and its
accompanying horrors.
For all the mention in his speeches,
Comrade .Stalin has never heard of a
Nazi, but the Polish gentry seem to have
been formidable enough. For vanquish-
ing them, Marshal Budyonny got the
Order of Lenin. “High honors were con-
ferred on 16,145 Red Army men and
commanders” for their services. For
“exemplary fulfilment of military tasks
and for heroism displayed therein,” 38
officers were declared Heroes of the
Soviet Union. Some of them held those
well-known military ranks “battalion
commissar” and “political instructor.”
Corps Commander Y. V. Smushkevich
is now not only one Hero of the Soviet
Union, but two Heroes. The Russian
press proudly prints his picture, sporting
his two diploma medallions side by side.
However, in the hour of triumph it
was obvious that the leaders of the
Brotherhood of Man at the Kremlin had
not forgotten their weaker brethren.
This is evident in a long statement,
which explains why Finland must yield:
Owing to the military weakness of Fin-
land in general she is almost totally unable
to conduct any defence in the North,
and the peninsulas [there] are in grave
danger of being taken by an enemy....
It is perfectly obvious that neither the
armed forces nor the economy of Finland
permit her to solve the problem of the
defence of the entrance of the Gulf of
Finland and of the Rybachy and Sredny
peninsulas... .Ever true to the policy of
peace, the Soviet Government will find
ways and means necessary for guarantee-
ing the impregnability of the sea and land
frontiers of our country....
And there is the comic section. One
drawing is of an old lady saying: “My
“’ Struth , Blue—a U-boat .”
children are aviators, snipers, army doc-
tors.” “And are those their pictures?”
asks a visitor. “No, their husbands’,”
says the dear old dame.
“T.”: In the process of throwing mud
at Finland, mud being their only effec-
tive weapon, Reds are quoting an Encyc.
Brit, reference to “the White Terror in
which Some 15,000 men, women and
children were slaughtered in cold blood.”
With characteristic trickiness they don’t
quote the words that precede this state-
ment (“The terrible cruelty of the Reds,
however, led to the White Terror”) or
the close of the Encyc. Brit, paragraph
(“By June 27, 1918, 73,915 Red insur-
rectionaries, including 4600 women, were
prisoners of war”). Neither do they give
these extracts: —•
The Bolsheviks were really bent on
precipitating civil war in Finland and
poured arms, munitions and troops into
the country... .Whole trainloads of revolu-
tionary soldateska arrived from Petrograd.
Having massacred their officers and any
bourgeois element which remained among
them, they entered the so-called Finnish
Red Guards and ransacked the country.
Russian troops and hooligan elements
seized the opportunity to sack a part of
Abo. Helsingfors was seized. By Feb-
ruary 8, 1918, the coup d’etat was accom-
plished and Whites and Reds were in brutal
conflict everywhere.
In other words, the White Terror was
the answer to the Red Terror, and in
the same circumstances it would have
happened anywhere.
* * * *
“Philp”: The Murray breed, for whom
Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, V.C., C.M.G.,
D.S.O. and bar, D.C.M., C. de G.—“the
most decorated man in the A.I.F.” —won
distinction on Gallipoli and in France,
will be represented again in this affair.
When I last met him in Westralia, “Bill”
Murray was hanging on to the end of a
Holman 500 ft. underground; when I
met him in Sydney he was Private
Henry Beresford Murray, of the
Second A.I.F. He’s a nephew of
Harry, and amazingly like him on top
—or as Harry was in 1914: wiry,
upright, black hair, brown eyes set
deep under heavy black brows, and a
good cleft chin supporting a firm but
expressive mouth. “Bill,” who has a
brother in Westralia even more like the
many-medalled Digger, has a pair of
itchy feet that have kept him roaming
all over the West for 12 years or more.
He’s earned his tucker at office work,
selling insurance, mining, droving, fish-
ing, carpentering, painting, transport-
driving, butchering and any other trade
that happened to be going at the moment.
As I knew him in the West he was reck-
less and game enough for anything, with
all the initiative in the world. And that
was Harry’s reputation as a 16th Battalion
machine-gunner before he had been a
fortnight on Gallipoli.
* * * *
“Jamwood” dips into history:
If Hitler is keen on a winter campaign in
France the season, bitter as it may be, need
not stop him. It was on Jan. 1, 1814, that
Bliicher crossed the Rhine on the march that,
■■ua. . i u-
after many vicissitudes, was to take him to
Paris three months later. On Jan. 25 he took
Nancy; in February his army was in full
retreat, having been licked by the French at
Montmirail, Champ Aubert and Etoges. Join-
mg forces with Bernadotte founder of the
reigning house in Sweden—and having nearly
four to one, he beat Napoleon at Laon. Even
then the Emperor might have forced a peace
if he hadn’t to encounter at the same time
Schwarzenberg and 200,000 Austrians—who, by
the way, had invaded France by way of Basel
and Neu Breisach—and keep 100,000 men in
the region of the Pyrenees to fight Wellington.
There were Russian invaders, too, some of them
armed with bows and arrows like the High-
landers whom Dugald Dalgetty refused to
command on that account.
XT i . i,
That was Napoleon s most marvellous cam-
paign, but numbers and the exhaustion of the
French nation settled him. In 1813 he had
called up 1,140,000 conscripts. They were
nearly all boys. Youngsters died like flies in
the campaigns in Germany; multitudes deserted,
and there weren’t enough veterans to stiffen
the ranks of the survivors.
Around the Army.
x.
The Padre.
The crown-and-anchor seminary he
avoids;
When swi-up’s on, a different direction
He takes. He’s voted, though, A1 at
Lloyd’s:
Quite often he’s regarded with affection.
A devil of a job he has to win
A flock of any size at all about him.
He’ll take a “damn” or “blanky” on the
chin,
But someone singing flat will quickly
out him.
One would naturally expect a padre
to pick for his batman an ex-Sunday
school teacher whose expletives were
limited to “Dash!” and “Blow!” In
point of fact, the “green” padre does
make such a selection, but it is not long
before he rectifies this bloomer, usually
on the advice of some other chaplain
whom experience has made hardheaded.
Not only is the ex-s.s.t. pretty useless
for scrounging or getting in first for the
best billet possies, but he can completely
mislead his boss regarding sermons.
Thinking along the same line as the padre,
he becomes merely a “yes” man.
“How do you think that sermon will
go, Thistlethwaite?” the padre asks, after
he has read it out to him.
“Simply superb, sir. I think the in-
effable beauty of your thoughts on loving
our enemies will make a particularly
strong appeal to the troops, sir.”
“Ah! You don’t think they’ll regard
it as —er —insufficiently strong? I feared
that perhaps the spirit of true brother-
hood may not have been quite—er—
meaty enough for them.”
“On the contrary, sir, such an exquisite
message cannot fail to make a deep im-
pression on every man.”
Of course, it’s a flop, and next church
parade sees a sharp falling off in attend-
ance, as most of the congregation either
become “converts” to another and more
obscure denomination or even prefer to
do some spud-barbering fatigue in lieu
of devotions.
So, on the advice of the h.h. padre long
schooled in the ways of Diggers, he picks
for a dingbat a real tough bird, one
whose advice on the spiritual consola-
tion to be offered the troops will, even
if it be brutally frank, at least be accurate.
Such a hard-doer ’bat can even be in-
duced in time to take quite an interest
in the sermons, except perhaps on the
morning after a night “on the sherbet.”
Thus: —
“Well, how do you think that will
appeal to the troops, Johnston?”
“Ar, it ain’t too bl Yair, it ain’t
bad in patches, but you ain’t put enough
guts into it. You know, sock into the
b I mean, just belt into the cows
as if y’ meant it. They don’t mind what
y’ say, but it’s got to be somethin’ to
make ’em sit up an’ take notice, see?
Cut out this wishy-washy stuff about this
Enoch bloke and give ’em that bit about
Samson swipin’ them Philistine jokers
with a goat’s shinbone.”
And, if he heeds what his hard-doer
dingbat advises, the padre will attain a
popularity he could never have achieved
in the humdrum life of listening to catty
squabbles among deaconesses or hearing
about old Mrs. Philpotts’s gallstones.
But if the padre is wise he’ll keep a
bottle of whisky on tap, even if he doesn’t
indulge himself. Then, if he were to
listen-in to a conversation between two
batmen, he might be privileged to hear:
“G’day, Johnno, how do you like ding-
battin’ for Pontius?”
“Don’t you worry! He’s not such a
bad old blankard after all when you get
to know him.” No padre could wish
for higher praise.
It is in the rustling up of various
amenities for him, though, that the padre
realises the advantage of having a doer
as a dingbat. He may, for instance, wish
to travel several miles to another unit,
and will express his regret that he hasn’t
been issued with a bicycle. Within ten
minutes his ’bat will make the laconic
announcement: “I’ve got y’ a grid. It’s
just outside the hut.”
“Splendid, Johnston! How did you
manage it?”
“Ar, just scrounged it.”
“I beg your pardon?”
“You know, snavelled it. It’s a
souvenir. You can have it for keeps.
The cove who used to own it doesn’t
want it any more.”
“Thank you very much, Johnston.
And can you thank him for me, too?”
“Yair, I will —if I see him.”
And the good man pedals off, bliss-
fully unaware —or kidding that he is—
of the method his servant has employed
to procure him the iron steed.
S. W. K.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth „. . 500 watts
Northam . . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
GOVT. URGES USE OF
PRODUCER
GAS ENGINES
“The Commonwealth Government is
urging operators of trucks, vans and
tractors, especially in the country, to
make use of this cheaper method ot
running (Producer Gas),” said the
“Herald,” 18/12/’39. Since then Sir
Frederick Stewart has announced that
the government itself has decided to
accept tenders for the manufacture oi
400 Producer Gas units.
Authorities agree that before the eno
of 1940, Producer Gas units will be in
general use throughout the Common-
wealth to a degree previously undreamed
of and that petrol for trucks, tractors,
etc., may be almost entirely replaced.
Be a
PRODUCER —
GAS EXPERT
The simplified Producer Gas home study
course of the Kingsford Smith College
makes it possible to gain a thorough
knowledge of Producer Gas engines in
your spare time at home. The course
covers all phases of the subject.
• MANUFACTURE
• CONVERSION
of Engines From
Petrol or Oil
• SERVICE
It also teaches the preparation of the
charcoal which produces the gas. This
alone will offer a big field of employ-
ment. There will be a wonderful
opportunity in every district to make
good money for those who learn about
Producer Gas engines early. Whether
VOU intend to get into the field of Pro-
ducer Gas manufacture, conversion or
service or require this knowledge to
CONVERT AND MAINTAIN
YOUR OWN VEHICLES
to Producer Gas, the Kingsford Smith
course is the quickest and most effi-
cient method of obtaining the know-
ledge you need. Everything is made
clear by simple easily followed dia-
grams and instruction sheets, and the
course includes coaching by Producer
Gas experts to suit the individual re-
quirements of every student. A prac-
tical course for practical men ! An
essential for every garage man and
service station owner ! No big cash
outlay. Post coupon immediately.
KINGSEORD SMITH COLLEGES,
Dept. 14, 255 a George St., Sydney.
Please send me Particulars of your
Producer Gas Course.
NAME
address
B. 17-1-40.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Air-speed Records.
The world’s speed record, 469.2 m.p.h.,
was established by Germans in a Messer-
schmitt 109 R. An Italian machine had
done 440.7 m.p.h. in 1934. Before that
Britain held the record.
What can be learned of German tech-
nical quality from this success? Not
much. The Germans claim that the
record was made with a standard singl'--
seater fighting ’plane, shorn of arma-
ment, but otherwise resembling those in
use in the Nazi squadrons. This is too
much to swallow. In all probability a
special ’plane and a special engine
specially tuned were used.
Racing is the best test of technical
prowess —■ fur better than recoid-
breaking. In this field Britons and
Italians are distinguished. Britain won
the Schneider Trophy outright by the
three victories of 1927, 1929 and 1931.
Italy was first, second and third in the
race from France to Syria, beating the
French machines hollow. And in arriving
at an estimate of the technical quality
of standard types in use in an air force,
range must be considered as well as
speed. The world’s record for distance
in a straight line is held by Britain, 7159
miles. Obviously R.A.F. aircraft operating
every day and carrying full military loads
are incapable of a range so great. But
most observers agree that in range
standard British machines lead all others.
The strength of an air force rests to a
large extent on the swiftness with which
the industry behind it can transfer techni-
cal advances to the production side, and
to introduce into standard types features
incorporated experimentally in record-
breaking machines. Since the war in the
air commenced nothing has been seen or
heard of the type of Messerschmitt that
cut the speed record, although some of
the technical features have been incor-
porated in the twin-engined type Mel 10,
encountered by R.A.F. bombers over
Heligoland.
The Messerschmitt Me110.
“V/. Toe”: Our Glorious Press has
discovered that British secret service
agents have smuggled out of Naziland
1. Messerschmitt Mel 110, for fighting,
light bombing and, ground attack.
2. Side and nose aspects. Slim fuselage
with transparent cover at top; no
transparent window in nose; water-
cooled V-12 engines.
3. Sharply tapering wings and long
cockpit enclosure are revealed.
4. Note monoplane tail with twin fins
and rudders. The wheels retract into
the engine nacelles.
complete plans and specifications of the
Messerschmitt Mel 10. Evidence of the
fact that British aeronautical engineers
already possessed much information on
the Mel 10 is shown in the accompanying
illustrations published in “Flight,’
16/11/’39. Several actual photographs
of the Mel 10 have appeared in the
. “Aeroplane.”
The New R.A.A.F. Scheme.
“E.D.”: The R.A.A.F. training scheme
will be well under way by March 1, by
which time Air Chief Marshal Burnett
will have arrived. By the end of the year
several thousand men will have completed
their service training, and the P.M. says
that the intake of trainees will be about
15,000 a year.
The job will take some organising, and
the work of training the ground staffs is
“Now, per'aps, We can finish our game in
peace."
not a light one. At present about 5000
men are employed on the ground by the
R.A.A.F. This number will swell to
nearly 30,000 when the new scheme is m
full swing. • ,
A course for radio men wul be opened
on January 15. This will be additional
to the existing routine training course
at Point Cook. Air electricians are
already undergoing instruction at Mel-
bourne Technical College.
Meanwhile, elementary flying schools
are opening in all States. No. 2 was
initiated at Archerfield, Queensland, last
week, and a squadron leader and 16
flying officers began work on 24 cadets
from Victoria, W.A. and S.A. at Parafield
(S.A.), while 100 fitters are being trained
at Canberra Trades School.
The course of the flying cadets will
begin with generalised instruction in the
routine of the fighting forces, bacKed by
physical training. An elementary course
of from eight to ten weeks, mainly in
simple biplanes, will prepare cadets for
advanced instruction in service machines.
Their uniforms will be issued after a
probationary period of about three weeks.
Courses are strenuous. The day be-
gins with a pyjama parade at 5 a.m.,
followed by six hours of flying and
ground instruction and an afternoon oi
fectures, rifle exercises and sport.
The types of volunteers who have so
far come forward can stand it. They
are the pick of young Australian man-
hood.
“D.H. 60”: Last -week saw the usual
interchange of courtesies between the
air forces of Britain and Germany —
Germans machine-gunning and bombing
fishing boats, a lightship and some
steamers; reconnaissance machines over
the Firth of Forth at a great height Brit
ish machines flying unmolested over the
north-west of Germany, and the inevitable
“fiercest fight of the war over the Ger
man seaplane base on the island of Sy h
with Messerschmitts engaged with British
bombers and odd casualties ont each side
Seaplane raiders and bom^ rs se tal
to be concentrating on small coast
vessels of types placed out of range of
legal attack by The Hague Conventions.
Typical attacks included one on th
1000-ton Upminster. She was assailed by
two German bombers which med
machine-guns as well b °™ bs ‘ hombs
Northwood (1146 tons) had 40 bombs
aimed at her, and the ship was then
machine-gunned, but nobody was hurt
The ship’s machine-gun damaged one ot
the ’planes. The captain of the Oak-
grave (1985 tons), which had her baptism
of fire in the Spanish war, was killed by a
bomb. Generally speaking the actual
damage done to shipping from the air
seems to be scarcely worth
the price of the bombs.
And the moral effect is not
enough to prevent British
seamen from keeping to
the sea on their lawful,
occasions.
* * *
“Amatol”: Much is
likely to be heard of the
Boulton Paul Defiant, a
British fighter. The De-
fiant is in service now, but
little has been allowed to
leak out about it. A low-
wing monoplane of all-
metal structure, with the
lines of a Spitfire or Hurri-
cane, it might be reckoned
a two-seater version of the
latter. Wings and fuselage
have a stressed-metal skin,
and flush riveting provides
a very smooth surface. A
slight taper has been given
to the centre-section and
wing-panels. Split flaps
are fitted to the inner por-
tions of the wing, and
Frise ailerons are mounted
on both panels. Elevators
and rudder are partly bal-
anced and have trimming
tabs. The retractable
undercarriage folds in-
wardly into the centre-sec-
tion and is provided with
panels for closing the
wells. The observer has a Boulton Paul
power-driven turret; the engine is a
Rolls-Royce Merlin with a three-bladed
variable-pitch airscrew. No details of
armament are known.
* * * *
“Don”: “The German air force and
army are much greater than those of
France and England combined.” Thus
Minister Casey before his appointment to
Washington was officially announced.
Touching the air force he might have
mentioned that the enemy got going in
a big way in 1935 while Britain was
marking time and France, demoralised
by its Popular Front, had only the
shadow of an air force. Now that the
vast resources, talent and industry of
the British Empire have been mobilised,
the balance will be redressed, and in time
the position will be reversed. Despite the
removal of the U.S. arms embargo and
the placing of huge orders for American
aircraft by the Allies, the flow from
factories there is not for some time likely
to be as huge as many hoped. As
far as aircraft are concerned U.S. re-
sources are probably greater than those
of any other country; but time for de-
velopment is required. When war was
declared the American aircraft industry
was smaller than either the British or the
French, but those in control had been
preparing for considerable expansions.
sj: ♦ ♦ *
“Ailo”: Though dive-bombing has
been introduced since, hitting a target by
bombing from high elevations is as un-
certain a business as it was in the last
war. A direct hit is the exception rather
than the rule. A raid on a British convoy
in the North Se a is vividly portrayed in
a British newsreel now showing in Syd-
ney. An officer aboard a destroyer had
a movie camera and took excellent
pictures of salvos of bombs bursting
repeatedly near a cruiser. There were
no hits. Theoretically bomb sights have
been improved to a degree where the
chances of direct hits should be high, but
they can’t overcome the vagaries of strong
cross-currents of air, which are sufficient
to deflect the heaviest bombs. U.S.A. is
supposed to have the ultimate in bomb-
sights. In 1914-18 the R.N.A.S. had one
which was a work of art, providing for
aiming and calculation of drift. But
in actual combat the heads of two nails
hammered into the side of the fuselage
at about 45 degrees did about as good
a job as anything.
“Aileron”: Reported from U.S.A.
that British purchasing agents have
stated that 10,000 U.S.A. ’planes will be
needed by Britain during the next 18
months to assure superiority over Ger-
many. British and French production is
round 1500 a month, and it is expected
that British output alone will shortly pass
the 2000-a-month mark. It is quite
credible. Britain turned out 27,000
machines in 1918, and, though they were
not in the same street in size, armament
and complication as modern ones,
materials. were scarcer, ’plane mortality
heavier and processes of manufacture
less regimented and more laborious.
Moreover, the fringe of the usefulness
of aircraft is even now only touched.
The Air War Day by Day.
Jan. 8: Three Nazi bombers attacked
five ships off north-east coast of Eng-
land ; one hit by bomb. Two uniden-
tified ’planes over Firth of Tay. Light-
house vessel bombed and machine-
gunned by Heinkels in North Sea.
One dead ; 31 injured.
Jan. 9: Unidentified ’planes over town
on English south-east coast and
Thames estuary.
Jan. 10: During R.A.F. reconnaissance
flight out over North Sea, formations
of Messerschmitt Mel 10 long-range
fighters engaged in combat. One R.A.F.
’plane lost; one Mel 10 down in flames
and one down in Denmark.
More bombing raids on small
steamers in North Sea, one sunk and
four seamen killed.
Jan. 11: Nazi raiders crossed English
coast at various points from Scotland
to Thames estuary. No bombing, but
several towns showered with shrapnel.
Steamer set on fire off Norfolk coast.
Jan. 12: British ’planes over German
bases in Heligoland Bight. Other
British aircraft drop leaflets over
Vienna and Prague. German ’planes
again over east coast of England.
Jan 13: Heinkel bomber shot down
near Firth of Forth. Pilot rescued by
launch.


HERE ARE THE REASONS WHY I PURCHASED THE
IMPERIAL
‘‘Good
Companion”
Portable Typewriter
I saved at least £4 because it enters Australia FREE
of duty.
I found that all my friends who had a Good Companion
had never spent a penny for mechanical trouble.
It only weighed 12Jibs. . . . POUNDS lighter than any
other STANDARD portable.
It has every modern feature, including ' KEYSET
Tabulator.
It’s made in ENGLAND . . . and leads the market for
value.
Write or call at y,our nearest agent.
L. Dobell & Co, Pty., Ltd., 47 Creek Street, BRISBANE;
Jackson & O’Sullivan, Queen Street, BRISBANE. Dobe.l
Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Koneo Co., Ltd.,
21'Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Johnson and Hey, 3i
Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Itaitt & Co., Ltd.,
467 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; John Withers & Sons,
210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE. Holdswortli & Co.,
Ltd., 51 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE. Burndge &
Warren, Ltd., 69 King Street, PERTH. J. Walcli &
Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie Street. HOBART; J. C. McPhee
Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street, HOBART.
TO-DAY Buy the Typewriter made in ENGLAND.
C'f v 3
r.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every week six to nine
patterns are featured.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Epic in the North
“Albart Bar”: On Tuesday of last
week an A.A.M.S. ’plane —a small single-
engined Fox Moth—piloted by K. C
Berry, of Qantas, and carrying G. W. F.
Alberry, one of the flying doctors, left
headquarters at Cloncurry for Burketown,
on the Gulf. The weather that day and
since was the worst the North had to offer.
The terrain over which the machine was
flying flattens down into a huge plain,
almost impassable around its southern
limits in wet weather, and petering out
into a nightmare of salt pans and man-
grove swamps on the Gulf side.
From 11 a.m. on the day the ’plane
left nothing more was heard of it. It
had called at Gregory Downs, where the
doctor attended two patients. It was
then about 40 miles from Burketown.
Five machines, one piloted by Captain
Brain, set out to search, and thousands
of miles of country were covered in the
next three days. The lost machine was
sighted late on Friday afternoon in the
middle of the black sea of mud which
at the moment forms the Plains of
Promise. Pilot Berry was beside it.
It came down 26 miles from Gregory
Downs and 10 miles from Almora. It
was found that Dr. Alberry already
had reached Punjaub station, to the east,
where there was no wireless, and a land
party was on the way to the rescue when
the ’plane was sighted. Donaldson, in a
D.H.86, who found the Moth, dropped
food.
As I know from a short sojourn spent
with horses in somewhat similar condi-
tions on near Gregory Downs 29 years
ago, the local mosquitoes and other in-
sects will long remember the good times
they enjoyed during the second week of
January, 1940.
Few southerners can realise either the
risks of carrying on ’plane services
with small machines in the rainy season
of the Gulf regions or the hardship of
ground conditions likely to be suffered
by men marooned in the rains there with-
out shelter.
“Emp.”: Darwin, where they built a
£12,000 house for 12 Administration
typists, owes its excellent library mainly
to the generosity of the Carnegie Trust.
As a gesture of appreciation the Ad-
ministration has housed it in an insig-
nificant and totally inadequate building
hidden at the end of a blind alley. Books
continue to arrive by every boat, and
their accommodation is becoming an
acute problem. To politicians and
bureaucrats all over Australia books don’t
matter.
# * * *
“Dungeness”: The latest amusement
for the flasher kind of Port Moresby lad
of the village is to run suddenly across
the road in front of a passing car, and
then grin at the startled driver. A
damaged car, two badly upset white-
woman occupants and a wrecked hut
were the score in a recent prank. Another
game is to walk in the middle of the
road so as to make approaching cars
swerve and * toot, the player’s success
being acknowledged by grinning and put-
ting out the tongue. When the inevitable
collision does occur, the benefit of any
magisterial doubt may, of course, be
given to the poor ignorant native, who
is always a believer in his luck. Added
to the steadily-growing evidences of dis-
respect and impudence towards whites,
this latest effort in bumptiousness indi-
cates the need for a firmer administrative
hand. Preferably, the hand should grasp
a stout cane for application in the right
place.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Queensland’s bingo racket is
coming up against local-authority law,
with strange results. The Government
approves of bingo as an easy mode of
adding to political funds, but a lot of
councils don’t. Burrum, on the central
coast, struck a blow by making by-laws
which nullify the permits issued by the
Justice Department; curiously enough,
the Governor-in-Council has confirmed
Burrum’s regulations. Maryborough has
followed suit: no new licenses for either
bingo or bagatelle will be granted there.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: The N.T. is suffering
the worst floods within memory. The
Katherine and Roper both broke their
banks, and the waters of the former
river swirled into„ Katherine town-
ship, which normally is about 70ft. above
"It's that Woman next door again, Ma; she's popped over fr a cup o’ sugar."
winter water ievel. The Roper, in places,
was 12 miles wide, and inland towns,
including Mataranka, which old-timers
knew as Bitter Springs, and which is next
door to Mrs. iEneas Gunn’s Elsey and
not far from the dried swamp on which
Ross Smith landed, were not heard from
for days. If the McArthur has risen like
the others, there won’t be much left of
Borroloola, which lies on a flat only a
few feet above water level and right in
the path of the flow of rain-water from
the Barkly Jump Down.
* * * *
“Murruni-mungo”: The so-called
Aborigines’ Progressive Association made
a bad bloomer when it sent a deputation
to the Minister of the Interior to tell
him that blacks in Queensland are treated
like slaves. The Minister was asked to
have abo. administration taken over by
the Commonwealth. If there is any
country East of Suez where a more
tender regard is shown for the native and
where he is more reasonably free than
in Queensland I have not seen it. The
gentle Bleakley, who runs the depart-
ment, is one of those rare men who under-
stand abos., as he should after a life-
time devoted to them. And native policy
throughout the Commonwealth would be
improved rather by handing all abos.
under Commonwealth judisdiction over
to Queensland than by giving the Com-
monwealth control of the Queenslanders.
* * * *
“0.L.”: Queensland is about to
acquire two more prison. farms —that
makes three. Those who go to them will
be either long-termers or juveniles be-
tween 17 and 21 years. The expansion
follows experience at Palen Creek, near
the N.S.W. border, where “prisoners of
the non-criminal class” have been accom-
modated. At Palen Creek, nobody is
locked up in a cell, there are no warders
or armed guards, and there have been
no escapes in five years. In eight years
the number of prisoners in the State has
declined 50 per cent.
* * * *
“Toowong”: An earnest argument is
going on in Queensland as to what pic-
torial design should grace the stamp
which is to commemorate the centenary
of free settlement. Forgan Smith
favors “something indicative of pastoral
activity.” The Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment “supported and passed on” to the
P.M.G. Philatelic Society suggestions
which embody the Kangaroo Point
Bridge, the City Hall, the Parliamentary
buildings and the Queensland coat of
arms. The Premier is right. A wool team
bogged on the black soil, a woolgrower
up to his neck in three kinds of taxes,
wool-committee legislation, transport red-
tape, accumulated interest and dust would
strike a homely note outback.
.-)!***
“Clayfield”: Other States might take
example by the Queensland Forestry
Department both in the matter of timber
reservations and of national parks. In
five years reservations have increased at.
the rate of over 100,000 acres a year, and
areas treated for natural regeneration
from 109,000 to 294,000 acres. Yet log
sales have more than doubled. They
took out 80,819,000 super, feet of logs
in 1933-34 and last year.
Output of sleepers has increased in the
same time from 215,000,000 s.f. to
594,000,000 s.f., and all other types have
increased in sawings by leaps and bounds.
Profit on forestry to the State is nearly
£200,000 a year, but through protection,
rehabilitation and replanting the value
of the timber asset goes up all the time.
Largely the department’s success is due
to the fact that politicians don’t meddle
with it, and that it has a well-trained
forestry man in charge—Victor Grai-
ning. He is one Rhodes scholar whose
trip abroad was of benefit to the State
that bred him.
* * * #
“Ek D.”: Darwin troops have a pay
tangle of their own. R.A.A.F. men get
full peace-time rates plus tropical allow-
ance. Permanent mobile troops are on
peace pay—£3 15s. sd. per week plus
tropical allowance. Darwin militia get
£2 16s. a week plus tropical allowance ;
two lots of militia from the south—
long-standing and short-standing enlist-
ment —£2 16s. and £1 15s. respectively.
Costs are so high in Darwin that special
conditions should be established for
troops there.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A genuine triumph of
photographic art is the striking camera
portrait by H. Chargois of old Seymour
in the Christmas number of the “North
Queensland Register.” The finest type
of indigenous Australian, Seymour was
born in the high country back of Cairns
(N.Q.), more than 70 years ago. For
many years he was drover for Carman
Bros, from their Cashmere property to
the coast. Permits and waybills had no
mysteries for him, he picked his own
helpers from his own people, and the
outfit’s horses, gear and camps were
always in first-rate condition and order-
liness. Now retired from active work,
Seymour is the acknowledged leader and
chief of the Cairns district abos.
* * * »
“Rus”: Mention by “Tension Nut”
(B. 3/l/’4O) of cycling shearers recalls
the hectic “blade” days when almost
every jumbuck barber hoisted a leg-
o’-mutton sail on his iron steed. When
the wind was fair the level terrain be-
tween Longreach and Winton (C.Q.) sug-
gested a dryish version of Sydney
Harbor as hordes of shearers with their
grids under canvas scudded along before
the breeze in the mad race for pens at
the big sheds. Pneumatic tyres were pro-
tected against burrs and bindi-eyes by a
layer of wool stretched around the entire
circumference of the wheel. An
occasional “one-lung” motor-bike could
be seen towing bikes that were either
becalmed or battling against headwinds.
“Flight”: There’s nothing like smoke
to appeal to the stomachs of birds. On
the western Queensland downs, when the
first, wisp of a bushfire sends its curl of
smoke to the skies, the kitehawks gather
as surely as boarders hear the ringing of
the dinner-bell. They know that fire is
going to raise quail, groundlarks, ’hoppers
in numbers and other eatables, while the
kestrels bring up the rear, knowing the
carney lizards and others are going to
.be an easy prey on the bare ground.
There’s a recklessness about their hunt-
ing then which would indicate the har-
riers seem to know the quarry is half-silly
with smoke. On the islands and coastal
areas, as soon as a fire makes itself
known by smoke, the blue martins seem
to have a wireless message sent them:
they gather from everywhere. Those
knowing little cusses have an inkling that
fat ’hoppers which could otherwise defy
them in heavy grass are going to make
easy hawking when lifted in the air,
dopey with smoke.


Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by corre-
spondence :
ENGINEERING COURSES.
Motor Mechanics, Fitting and Machining,
Engineering Trades Drawing, Engine Driving,
Boiler Attendants, Diesel Engine Operation,
Suction (Producer) Gas, Electric and Oxy
Welding.
TRADE COURSES.
Electrical Trades (Electrician’s License), Car-
pentry and Joinery, Building.
PRINTING COURSES.
Composing, Printers’ English and Arithmetic,
Linotype Operation.
SANITATION COURSES.
Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing, House
Drainage.
RURAL COURSES.
Agriculture, Care of Animals, Wool Classing,
Station Bookkeeping, Farm Science, Farm
Arithmetic, Farm Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL AND SECRETARIAL
COURSES.
Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial Law,
Bookkeeping, Business Principles, Shorthand
and Typewriting, Commercial Correspondence.
ART COURSES.
Ticket and Showcard Writing, Dressmaker’s
Art, Elementary Art.
HOME HANDICRAFTS COURSES.
Dressmaking and Millinery.
CERTIFICATE COURSES.
Health, Meat, and Food Inspection, Local
Government and Shire Clerks.
PUBLIC EXAMINATION COURSES.
Nurses’ Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists"
and Intermediate Certificate.
SECONDARY COURSES.
English, Mathematics and Mechanics (to
Leaving Certificate Standard).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT PER-
SONALLY ATTEND EVENING CLASSES
AT SYDNEY OR COUNTRY TECHNICAL
COLLEGES.
FEES.
255. a year or 10s. a term: Single subjects.
Half fees to students under 21 years and
receiving less than 30s. weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Secretary, Correspondence Teaching
Division, Sydney Technical Colege, Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the correspondence
course.
Name:
Address :
B
MMMI
2fP
| -f , *‘*! ; ;
* * A . 7^
... .... • Jk i ...njimafe. ;'..
■l
7
Showing MeClary Electric Range
in Mr. H. F. Satchell’s residence,
Strathfield. Mr. S. W. Booth,
Architect; Messrs. O’Hara and Hardy,
Builders.
Modem design with advanced engineering features.
Better and harder Enamel finish. Economical.
Plenty of Oven and Boiling Space.
Low or High Oven—a size for every service.
Call and inspect our wide range of models, also electric lighting fittings
and general building supplies.
PHONt M 6505 (l&LlNfcS> LATE: SHO PPING. FRIDAY. 810 PAA.
JOHN DANKS AMD SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED 4incoapor atiimnvictoria!
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney. M 6505. 391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. M 2381
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
■ be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.A.P.: Funny poem about bathing costumes
is not funny... .T.H.M.: It’s flying 0n....
BOD’ Plot’s not bad, but the setting couldn’t
be more false... .E.R.8.: Gave “The Weary
Steed” enough dope to carry him home
8.5. D.: Why not break some new ground?
V.C.D.: “The Blue Mountains” never rises
above sea level K.M.: Advise you to put an
end to ' “Life”....W.R.McK.: “The Graf
Spee” sank to the very bottom of the w.p.b.
J.W.W.: “100 Percent.” isn’t... .M.A.C.:
Not for these chaste pages K.McD.:
Admirable sentiments J.J.J.: The poem
hardly looked like the fruit of “one week’s
work” G.L.D.: “Swiftly She Fled” lingered
for a moment J. 8.8.: The last line needs a
wash.. K.S.C.: Thin J.H.J.: Lightweights.
A.B;: “And yet it seems that something
lacks” E.E.C.: “Oh what a great big
beautiful land is Sunny Australia fair.” You’ll
make it blush M.L.C.: Not here F.W.:
For children A.G.J.: “But an army fails
if its bellies ache.” True, but not poetic
K.McA.: He can’t hobble here... .A.McD.:
“The Old Bush Track” just follows the old
bush track.... H. 8.: Say it in prose
A.W.D’O.: Try elsewhere... .H.8.R.: It
dodders W.D.W.: Why the three “frees”?
T.E.McC.: “Is all a cursed piece of
drivel?” Very nearly... .C.F.L.: Two lines,
even if the family do “assure you they’re
awful”:
In a fortnight or so as the haggis got riper
It came to the nose of a far distant piper.
C.S.: “Exploration” doesn’t get anywhere.
... .G.C.G.: Too long and too flat... .5.H.8.:
Weak E.L.: And “A Rummy Ode” it is.
F.C.: They’re excusable if you’re very
young... .A.E.W.: Old Bill’s been haunting
this office for years... .A.H.G.: It’s ruled by
its rhymes W.A.H. r We’ve seen happier
verses than “Australia Felix”... .W.H.: Sorry,
we’ll have 1 to return the poem as well as
the greetings... .1.A.P.: The last line sounds
like a description of a bad talkie... .D.J.C.:
“A Thought” was criticised here. Both have
their moments.. . .W.E.L.: Sing, then:
He who wrote Mein liampf
Whilst thinking himself champ
Did aim to encamp
All the minor champs
Into one vast camp,
To be able, a la feudal,
To make himself King Noodle.
... .H.S.: Do you really mean to say that your
“other me” has a 12-inch jaw and ears “like
devils’ horns”? ... .M.K.G.: Try elsewhere....
PS.: Keep at it....H.L., C.M.S., A.W.T.,
C.J., A.D., R.J.R.: Missed D.E.W.: .It
takes more than facetious dialogue to make a
yarn... .S.M.T.: “Storm in the Bay” just a
breeze G.8.P.: “All I need is a itt e
instruction.” A little? T.R.S.: Evidently
only you and the detective know who really was
the murderer... .T.P.R.: Too many prospectors
have died on that desert... .C.R.P.: Your
ghostly skeleton is rattling homewards
W.W.H.: “When Casey Rides the Range” our
doors are locked... .8.H.R.: Lose it ,m some
out-of-the-way place.. . F.L.R.. All right as far
as it goes D.8.R.: The five pages of intro-
duction are unnecessary and there s no need
to tell it in the first person.... D ■ ••
Interest too 10ca1... R.BXT: Good material
keep at Jt F.V.D.: Pardoned as a first
offender ... , S .H.R.: Below even w.p.b. stand-
Bs c . Well writ ten, but there’s little
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
else to it 8.R.5.: A borderliner; forget
the scenery and come again ... .R.L.D.: Your
mystery stories remind us of the chap who
made up riddles without bothering to make up
answers for them... .8.G.E.: Too short for a
yarn, too long for a par S.D.: Take it
elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.K.: First time we’ve met a scarecrow which
could talk J.G.: Uneven work badly
balanced C.C.: Doesn’t resemble the man
we know by that name Anon: Presume you
declined to sign that masterpiece for fear the
mermaids would sue you for libel J.M.:
We get few as rough and crude as that....
H.N.K.: We’re getting a little tired of chasing
that nipper off the premises T.L.: Another
square yard of good drawing paper wasted
J. : Sketch dashed off in five minutes was
rejected in as many seconds W.D.H.:
You’re a trifle young and inexperienced to be
allowed to do us a “couple of full pages every
week”... .F.R.: Hard to say which we dis-
liked the most, the bailiff, the boarder or the
sozzled landlord with the one eye J.J.8.:
a misfit from whatever angle it is viewed....
K. : Pug was licked before he left his
corner D. 8.: Your “Bargain Hunters” were
trampled underfoot by more vigorous com-
petitors P.H.: Don’t want faint pencil
scribbles.... G. 8.: A stock gag poorly illus-
trated. ~ -8. L.: Neat and tidy sketch, but no
punch to the gag.... W.A.M.: We admired
your picture of a bunch of worms engaged in
an all-in fight R. 8.: You must think ,we
are easily amused... .F.W.C.: It didn’t pass
the office censor P.W.: That .rather dubious
gag was all the rage in Sydney early last
September W.Y.: Your nag won’t gallop
across our pages... .8.W.: And your swagmen
haven’t changed for the better since we saw
them last T.J.: Passion for putting facial
likenesses of American film actresses on the
bodies of your rural characters won’t carry
you f ar E. 8.: Not in the market for illus-
trated riddles J.A.: Heartless father was
ordered off our doorstep S.W.: Safebreaker
is now imprisoned in the w.p.b T. 8.: 100
far-fetched.
“J.”: It seemed strange to read of 2000
Italian volunteer's reaching Finland before
there was any word of Americans, save
Finns homing from Canada and U.S.A.
There is an impression that Italians will
never stand the climate; but many
Italians served under Murat in thd 1812
invasion of Russia, and they endured the
winter that settled Napoleon rather better
than the French and the Germans. And
a lot of them were Neapolitans. Murat
was King of Naples, “by grace of the
Emperor and the blood of Frenchmen,”
as he was told by the grim Davout
before he threw up his command and
bolted back to his kingdom. There, three
years later, he was shot by a firing squad.
FROM CHINA TO PERU
Churchill wrote a ponderous book to
prove that John Churchill, Duke of Marl-
borough, was the Perfect Patriot. The
documents on which he came to this com-
fortable conclusion were read and
arranged for him by a certain Maurice
Ashley, employed as research assistant.
Now Ashley has written a book which
“John o’ London’s” describes as “a most
damning exposure of Mr. Churchill s
attempt to whitewash his ancestor.”
It shows Marlborough as he was —mean
and treacherous and contemptible... .He
betrayed in turn everyone who trusted him.
His meanness and avarice extended to
peculation.
John Churchill began his career by living
on and robbing one of Charles ll.’s dis-
carded mistresses. He not only sold
James to William and William to James,
but, according to the Ency. Brit., “the
forgiven traitor” betrayed to the French
“the intention of the English to attack
the town of Brest.” So much for the
author of Grand Alliances.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Archie Cameron, M.H.R.,
tells a good yarn to illustrate the amount
of respect conceded by troops in France
to the first of all British Departments
of Information. Moving up to Peronne
among the jetsam of battle, our Ist Bat-
tallion came on a large immobilised
steamroller by the roadside, steam up.
There was plenty of chalk available, so
the advance guard branded it “Captured
by the Ist Battalion, A.1.F.” The next
man with a bit of raddle amended it:
“Captured by the Ist Battalion Jacks,”
The rear files made another correction :
“Captured gloriously by the W.A.A.Cs.”
South Australians added the final touch:
“British Official: ‘Brought down in
flames.’ ” Nobody in the succeeding
legions felt he could better that.
* * * *
“Commo”: Mrs. Djugashvili’s only son
had a birthday the other day—his sixtieth.
Mrs. D. dedicated him to the service of
the Church and got him christened
Joseph. At home he used to answer to
the 'name of “Soso,” and, according to
Mrs. D.’s account, Soso was always a
good boy and she never had to punish
him. Soso’s father was a cobbler in
Gori, Georgia. Soso spent the years
between his fourteenth and eighteenth
birthdays in the Theological Seminary at
Tiflis. Expulsion turned him into a
revolutionary, and at 23 he was clapped
into gaol and kept there for two years.
Thereafter he passed under several aliases
—Koba, Nizheradze, Ivanovitch, Chiz-
hikov and Stalin (“Man of Steel”). At
present Mrs. Djugashvili’s only son,
under his latest alias, has got a job in
Moscow, at the Kremlin, where he
attends to liquidations.
* * * *
“Zedo”: An interesting fact about the
abortive North Sea cruise of the German
fleet was the presence of the two latest
10,000-tonners, Bliicher and Admiral
Hipper. Laid down in 1937, they are com-
parable to the Australia and Canberra,
carrying the same size and number of pri-
mary guns and built for the same speed,
but with four more torpedo tubes —12
in all. There are two more of the type
building.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The Anatolian earthquake
disaster was another major tremor in the
Mediterranean - Himalayas fault - chain
which has contributed 53 p.c. of over
160,000 ’quakes analysed by seismolo-
gists. Of the remainder, 38 p.c. occur
along the other great tremor-chain from
the Andes to Japan and Malaya, the odd
9 p.c. in scattered localities outside both
—Maoriland, for example. Australia is
probably the most of all
inhabited countries; Japan, with a shock
or tremor every day in one part or an-
other of its islands, the shakiest. In a
few minutes the Sasami ’quake in 1923
killed 99,331 people, injured another
103,733 and destroyed Yokohama. The
fires which followed slew another 43,476.
The greatest recorded loss of life was in
India in 1737, when over 300,000 were
killed. The most serious European dis-
aster of this century was the total de-
struction of Corinth in April-May, 1928.
Although Maoriland, only 1200 miles
away, has suffered often and severely, no
life has been lost in Australia as the
result of earthquakes.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with yon, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’COKN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE it DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genera!. Manager— l). S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 111 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank otters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Elderly drover or stockman with extensive
knowledge of areas west of Birdsville and in
to 'Charleville (Q.) wanted to act as guide to
scientific expedition. Refs, required.—sBBl.
Intelligent youth (17), N.S.W., quick, accurate
at figures, prepared to study, wants clerical
position, day or night. Intermediate; refs.
—5873.
To buy clean copies of Chunuma and All
About, by Elizabeth and Mary Durack. —5900.
To buy “Times” Atlas as'issued in parts,
complete, in good condition; state price.
—5BBB.
Whereabouts of John Gregg, who left Fort
Bourke station (N.S.W)) last September. (Reply
to manager, Fort Bourke, Bourke, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
What papers in Australia accept (1) short
stories, (2) serials? (3) Average length of
serials required in Australia ? —5807.
(1) According to the last edition of the
Australian Authors and Artists’ Handbook the
following buy short stories: Sydney, “Art in
Australia,” “Australian Home Budget,” “Aus-
tralian Home Journal,” “Australian Woman’s
Mirror,” “Australian Women’s Weekly,” “B.P.
Magazine,” The Bulletin, “Fashion and
Society,” “Man,” “Rydge’s Business Jour-
nal,” “Smith’s Weekly,” “Sunday Sun,”
“S. M. Herald” (Women’s Supplement),
“Woman” and “World’s News”; Melbourne,
“Adam and Eve,” “Argus,” “Australasian,”
“Australian Journal,” “Everylady’s Journal,”
“Leader,” “Life,” “Table Talk,” “Weekly
Times” and “Woman’s World”; Brisbane,
“Sunday Mail” and “Telegraph”; Adelaide,
“Chronicle,” “Express and Journal,” and “S.A.
Homes and Gardens”; Perth, “Sunday Times”
and “Western Mail”; Launceston, “Saturday
Evening Express.” Since some may have ceased
buying stories recently, it would be wise to
study contents before submitting MSS. (2) and (3)
The following list is taken from the same
Handbook (in a number of cases length of
serials required is not stated): “Advertiser
(80,000 words), “Age” (40,000), “Argus”
(40,000-50,000), “Australasian” (60,000), “Aus-
tralian Journal,” “Australian Woman’s Mirror”
(about 60,000), “Australian Women’s Weekly”
(40,000-50,000), “Chronicle” (30,000-40,000),
“Everylady’s Journal,” “Launceston Examiner,”
“Express and Journal” (up to 80,000), .Mel-
bourne “Herald” (up to 80,000), “Land,”
Sydney, “Leader” (60,000-80,000), “Stock and
Land,” Melbourne (60,000), “Sun-News Pic-
torial,” Melbourne, “Sydney Morning Herald,”
“Table Talk” (30,000-50,000), “Weekly Times,”
“Western Mail,” “Woman” and “World’s
News.” Many of the papers which state they
will buy short stories and serials by Australian
authors will be found to prefer syndicated fiction
from overseas. Since some of them occasionally
buy local fiction their names have been included
in either or both lists.
•i* H* H*
(1) Period of human gestation ? (2) Longest
and shortest possible periods? (3) Is it possible
for an eight months’ or eight months and one
or two weeks’ child to be born ? (4) Is there
any truth in the belief that an eight months’
child (if such a thing is possible ) has very
little hope of living to 14, or will be of bad
health 3—5814.
(1) The usually accepted average' is 280 days,
and this is the period allowed in ordinary
clinical tables provided for medical use. (2)
According to many authorities there is no
satisfactory or full evidence of gestation having
been prolonged beyond 293 days. The French
Code, which allows 300 days, must be regarded
as very liberal. At the other end of the scale,
children born at the seven-month stage or less
have frequently survived. (3) and. (4) Such
children, though often delicate at birth and
requiring careful nursing for some time, may
and do attain adult life,
* * * *
I arranged with a carpenter to make a kitchen
fitting for me and pointed out exactly what I
wanted done. To avoid any mistake I made a
note of what 1 required and gave him a copy,
leaving him to measure up and so on. He was
to give me a price and did so, and 1 agreed to
it. Now, when the job is finished, he says
it took more work than he reckoned on and
has sent in a bill about ten per cent, more
than the contract price. Must I pay? —sB6B.
No. Where a man contracts with a trades-
man to make an article at a fixed price for
him the property- in the article passes to the
purchaser when it is completed and ready for
delivery. The tradesman is not entitled to
repudiate his contract, and if he does not hand
over the fitting you can sue him.
* * * =K
When 1 married my first wife I made a will
leaving the whole of my properly to her. She
died childless and I married my present wife.
Should I make a new will, the provisions in
which would be practically the same as in the
old one, or would the old one be sufficient?
—5874.
You should make a new will. The first one
was revoked by y_our second marriage. In
the event of your failing to do so your widow
would, if there were any children of the second
marriage, take only one-third of the estate and
the remainder would be divided equally among
the children.
* * * *
(1) Number of Roman Catholics in Holland?
(2) Provinces or districts where they predomi-
nate ? —5586.
(1) In 1930 (last census) there were in Holland
2,889,792 Roman Catholics, about 36 p.c. of
the population. (2) They are predominant in
the provinces of North Brabant and Limburg
in the south, and are also numerous in the
southern part of the province of Gelderland
(Guelders) and in the “bulb country” between
Leyden and Haarlem along the coast. Roman
Catholic communities are found in all important
cities and town& and in most parts of the
country.
* * * *
I have a -}-h.p. petrol engine in which 1 wish
to use coal gas in place of petrol. It has a
self-lifting carburettor. Instructions wanted for
making a charcoal gas producer for this motor,
also one for a National model Chevrolet car.
—5809.
Get in touch with the Director of Mechanisa-
tion, Department of Defence, St. Kilda-road,
Melbourne, who will send a copy of a pub-
lication the department has recently prepared
giving details about different types of pro-
ducer gas equipment, their peculiarities, limi-
tations, possibilities under Australian condi-
tions and the names of Australian manufac-
turers. In addition, further information of a
rather more technical nature is given in an
article by E. J. Rennie in the “Proceedings
of the Institution of Engineers (Australia),” Vol.
11., page 101, 1930, an article by Dr. M. W.
Woods in the “Transactions of the Institution of
Engineers (Australia),” March, 1938, page 89,
and an article by Bosworth Goldman and N.
Clarke Jones in the Journal of the “Institute
of Fuels (Great Britain),” Vol. 12, February,
1939, pages 103-140, under the title of “The
Modern Portable Gas Producer.”
* * * *
(1) Where is Nauru situated and what is the
climate like? (2) Population, white and
colored? (3) How does the cost of living com-
pare with Sydney ? (4) Are there any shops ?
If not, what is the source of supply of food
and other essentials? —5787.
(1) Nauru is an island situated long. 166 deg.
east and 26 miles south of the Equator. The
average rainfall for the five years ended
December 31, 1938, was 51.86 inches. The
climate is healthy. The average shade tem-
perature ranges between 72deg. and 95deg. F.
and the average humidity between 70 p.c. and
80 p.c. (2) At April 1, 1939, 187 Europeans,
1680 Nauruans and other Pacific islanders
and 1516 Chinese. (3) The cost of certain
provisions imported into Nauru would be
about 25 p.c. higher than in Sydney, but, taking
into account the provision of free quarters,
electric light, fuel and water, it is estimated
that the cost of living generally is about the
same as Sydney. (4) Stores for the supply of
general commodities are conducted by the Nauru
Co-operative Society, under the control of
Nauruans and' by the British Phosphate Com-
missioners.
* * * *
Number of deaths annually in N.S.W. from
diabetes? Is the disease taking a greater toll
of life nowadays than in previous years? —s9l4.
The proportion of deaths due to diabetes
has been growing during the past 30 years.
Although the disease is responsible for less
than 2 p.c. of the annual number of deaths
the rate of mortality from diabetes has in-
creased, the average for the last five years
being 92 p.c. higher than that for the period
1906-10. The deaths due to diabetes in 1938
numbered 443, equal to a rate of 1.63 per
10,0,00 living. The rate for males was 1.06
and for females 2.21 per 10,000 living of each
sex. Most of the deaths occurred after
middle life, 405 out of 443 deaths in 1938, or
91 p.c., being persons over 45 years of age.
* * * *
When was the Presbyterian Church estab-
lished in Australia, and who were the first
regular ministers 3—5908.
The first free Presbyterian settlers in Australia
were emigrants from the Scottish borders who
settled near Portland Head on the Hawkesbury
River (N.S.W.) in 1802, James Mein, an elder
from London, acting as catechist. Governor
Bligh mentions him as the only minister who
was not an official chaplain. He conducted
services in private houses or the open air,
until in 1809-10 the settlers put up a substan-
tial stone building (the Ebenezer church) which
cost over £4OO and was the first church built by
voluntary contributions in Australia. It was
enlarged in 1817, and is still used for public
worship. Its first settled minister was John
Cleland (1831-39). John Dunmore Lang arrived
in May, 1823, preached his first sermon
on June 8, and in the following year
held thg first Presbyterian communion
service in the colony, in 1823 the first pres-
bytery was formed, consisting of Dr. Lang,
John Gregor, John Cleland and K. D. Smythe.
* * * *
Some biographical details concerning Will
Lawson, the author ? —5920.
Will Lawson was born in Newcastle-on-Tyne
(England) in 1876, and came to Australia as
a child. He was educated at the Brisbane
Grammar School, and was a clerk in the A.M.P.
Society at WellingtOT (M.L.) until 1912. He
was on the editorial staff of the “Evening
News,” Sydney, for four years, was engaged
in Maoriland press and publicity work for seven
years, then joined “Smith’s Weekly.” Later he
visited California, and then rejoined the “Even-
ing News. ’ Since 1929 he has been engaged
in travel and travel publicity and the writing
of novels and short stories. He has written
several books of verse, including Red West
Road, Between the Lights, Stokin’ and Other
Verses, and Three Kings and Other Verses;
Steam in the South Pacific, Pacific Steamers
and other maritime histories and novels, and
descriptive works, including The Laughing Buc-
caneer, In Ben Boyd’s Days, When Cobb and
Co. Was King, Old Man Murray and Har-
poons, Ahoy! He now resides in Sydney.
♦ * * *
' A number of persons with a common interest
constitute themselves a society for literary, social
and kindred purposes. They appoint a chair-
man and committee. The latter authorises
a member of the society to sell on its behalf
a number of tickets for a social entertainment
to fellow-members and the public. He does
so, but fails to account to the committee for
the money paid to him. What steps can the
society take to enforce payment to it of the
money collected on its behalf in view of the
fact that it is not incorporated? —s9l6.
An illegal society or company—that is, one
not legally incorporated under the Com-
panies Act —cannot sustain an action to re-
cover money due to it “nor even for a fraud
practised on it” (Waller v. Gibbs, 6 N.S.W.
L.R. Eq. 123).
* * * *
Can a minor in N.S.W. be married without
parents’ consent if a medical certificate prov-
ing pregnancy can be shown and prospective
husband can show ability to support a wife ?
What procedure should be adopted? —sB69.
Apparently not. In N. S. Wales if either
party, not being a widower or widow, is
under the age of 21 years the law provides
that the marriage shall not take place with-
out the production to the person about to
celebrate it of the written consent of the
father, or, if he is not in N.S.W., then of a
guardian appointed by him. If there be no
such guardian in N.S.W., then by the written
consent of the mother. Where there is
neither parent nor guardian in the State the
required consent may be given by a police
or stipendiary magistrate or some justice of
the peace appointed for that purpose, who shall
make inquiry on oath as to the facts and
circumstances of the case before giving his
consent.
* * * *
I have been asked to read a paper on
“Psychology and Modern Literature.” Can
you give me a list of books which will assist
me in the preparation of the paper? —s79o.
Unless you are already well versed in psy-
chology and in modern literature you are faced
with a long task. A complete list of books
on the subject would take pages. Here is a
selective list: Freud’s Collected Works, Jung’s
Psychology of the Unconscious and Two Essays
in Analytical Psychology, Klages’s The Science
of Character, Prinzhorn’s Psychotherapy,
Rivers’s Conflict and Dream, Nicoll’s Dream
Psychology, Burrow’s The Social Basis of Con-
sciousness, Heard’s Social Substance of Re-
ligion, Mann’s Essays, Blake’s Collected Works,
Lane’s Talks to Parents and Teachers, Law-
rence’s Psycho-analysis and the Unconscious,
Fantasia of the Unconscious and Studies in
Classical American Literature, Lytton’s New
Treasure, Alexander’s Use of Self, Groeddeck’s
Exploring the Unconscious and The World of
Man, Read’s Form in Modern Poetry and Art
Now, Richards’s Principles of Literary Criti-
cism, Bodkin’s Archetypal Patterns in Poetry,
Graves’s Poetic Unreason, Bergson’s The Two
Sources of Morality and Religion and Bene-
dict’s Patterns of Culture.
* . sfc * *
(1) In what British Empire Parliaments has a
Minister the privilege of addressing the House
to which he does not belong for the purpose
of explaining bills or other matters passing
from his House to the other? (2) What is the
position as regards the N.S.W. State Parlia-
ment ? —5489.
(1) In the Legislatures of Victoria, Eire,
Northern Ireland and South Africa. (2) Section
38a of the N. S. Wales Constitution Act reads:
“Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Act, any Executive Councillor who is a member
of the Legislative Assembly may at any time,
with the consent of the Legislative Council,
sit in the Legislative Council for the purpose
only of explaining the provisions of any Bill
relating to or connected with any department
administered by him, and may take part in any
debate or discussion in the Legislative Council
on such Bill, but he shall not vote in the,
Legislative Council... .It shall not be lawful
at any one time for more than one Executive
Councillor under the authority of this section
to sit in the Legislative Council.”
V * sfc SF
(1) Meaning of the native name Wallangulla ?
(2) Any other aboriginal name suitable for a
residence at Avalon IN.S.W.}? (3) Is there an
aboriginal name for 0pa1? —5660.
(1) Wallan means “strong,” and gulla “a net.”
(2) Akuna, “flowing water”; Banyandah,
“home on the waters”; Iluka, “near the sea”;
Immama, “camp”; Attunga, “high place”;
Barina, “summit”; Miolong, “tide coming in”;
Illira, “shelter hut.” (3) Can’t discover any.
* * * *
I put some crystallised fruit in an ice-chest
which afterwards developed a very disagreeable
odor. Scalding and drying the chest seemed
to take away the smell, but on placing ice
in it the trouble developed again. Cure?
—5835.
Wash chest with a quart of hot water in
which a heaped tablespoon of borax has been
dissolved. Wipe dry, leave open for 24 hours,
then use pure cold water and wipe dry again.
*** * *
During a game of tennis a spectator gets in
the way of a player, who fails to return the
ball. May the player claim-a “let” ? 5169.
Yes, if in the umpire’s opinion he was
obstructed by circumstances beyond his control.
For instance, if the ropes or the seats are
allowed to be so near to the court that a player
is interfered with by them, the point should
not be played again, because the ropes and
seats form part of the arrangements of the
ground. If, however, a spectator passes in
front of those seats or places his chair nearer
than the original line and so interferes with a
player, the point should be replayed.
Brief Answers.
D.C.: War losses of British mercantile shipping
from 1914 to 1919 amounted to 7,759,090 tons
merchant ships and 71,765 tons fishing ships....
M.A.: The Journalists’ Club, 166 Phillip-street,
Sydney 0.J.W.: Roper, 1 for 26 (three
overs); Cheetham, 1 for 33 (seven overs);
O’Reilly, none for 29 (10 overs); Pepper, 1
for 31 (eight overs); and Walsh, none for 33
(22.2 overs). There were no maidens in the
50.2 overs... .J.D.: (1) Australian Literature,
by Dr. JE. Morris Miller (price 425.), to be
published sortie time in February or March
by the Melbourne University Press. (2) It is
described as a “bibliographical and descriptive
survey of books published by -Australian
authors from 1795 to 1935, in the class divisions
of poetry, fiction, drama, essays, criticism and
anthology, and including biographical and
literary sketches, together with additional works
issued during 1936 and 1937” A.S.: Write
Chief Librarian, Public Library of N. S. Wales,
Bent and Macquarie streets, Sydney... .F.Y.M.:
(1) and (2) N0....5.5.: Any ship sunk at sea
would settle on the bed of the ocean. Water
is only slightly compressible, and its specific
gravity, therefore, is not materially increased
in the deepest part of the ocean M.E.8.:
Appointments are made from applicants who
are trained nurses, preferably between 21 and
25 years of age, weight not exceeding Bst. 81b.,
and height not exceeding sft. 4in S.W.:
Italy has no aircraft carriers, and her navy is
dependent for its air work on the air force,
using aircraft carried in battleships and cruisers
or from shore bases J. 8.: Capt. P. G.
Taylor flew the Guba, a special Consolidated
PBY flying-boat, from Sydney to Mombasa,
a distance of 7600 miles across the Indian
Ocean, in June, 1939, in 80 hours... .N.J.: Miss
S. Bauer swam the English Channel on August
27, 1939, in 14 hours 55 minutes... .G.W.T.:
Siegfried Sassoon, the poet, is 53, and was
educated at Marlborough School and Clare
College, Cambridge. He served in the Great
War of 1914-18, and wrote some of the most
notable poems published in war-time. Author
of The Old Huntsman and Counter-attack and
other works. He received the Hawthornden Prize
for The Memoirs of a Fox-hunting Man. His
latest book is The Old Century... .E.S.H.:
World’s boxing champions are as follows:
Bantamweight, Sixto Escobar (Mexico); feather,
Joey Archibald (U.S.A.); light, Lou Ambers
(U.S.A.); welter, Henry Armstrong (U.S.A.);
middle, Fred Apostoli (U.S.A.); light-heavy,
Billy Conn (U.S.A.); and heavy, Joe Louis
(U.5.A.)... .L.S.: At the end of 1937 the world
population was estimated at 2134 millions, of
wnich more than half lived in Asia. China is
estimated at 450 millions, India at 375 millions,
Soviet Russia at 178 millions, U.S.A. at 130
millions, the Japanese empire at 100 (Japan
proper 72) millions, and the South American
countries at 90 millions, nearly half of which
belong to Brazil... .C.C.: “Moral rearmament”
is a phrase originating in literature issued by
the Oxford Group Movement, calling for a
renewed religious outlook on international
affairs... .K.T.: Lebensraum is a word used
by Hitler and other German speakers demand-
ing “living room” for the German people;
i.e., extension of their areas. (2) “Wishful
thinking” is a phrase introduced by an
American writer to signify optimism not always
founded on reality 5.A.8.: The original cost
of Burrinjuck Dam (N.S.W.), including land
resumptions, was £1,733,839, and the amount
spent on remedial measures to November 30,
1939, was £231,442... .G.C.W.: Being odd
volumes they have no commercial value....
W.P..L.: Application for registration of a trade
mark should be forwarded to the Registrar of
Trade Marks, Trade Marks Office, Canberra.
The cost of registration is £5.... J.S.M.: (1)
There is no adjustment between countries of
postage on letters, etc. The sending country
collects the postage and retains it, but bears
the cost of transport to country of destination.
The latter meets the cost of internal distribu-
tion. (2) The allocation of bands of fre-
quencies between lOkc. and 200,000 kc. (30,000
and 1.5 metres) was laid down by the Inter-
national Telecommunication Convention held
at Cairo in 1938. Germany was a party to the
Convention T.L.: The Local Government Act
(N.S.W.) provides that the local council “may
control and regulate the draining of any lands
or premises,” and may “require owners of
premises to construct, repair or reconstruct
drains as may be necessary for the proper
drainage of the premises.” You should see
the local engineer or Inspector of Nuisances
and obtain his advice... .R.G.P.: The 1939
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize was won by Stella
Miles Franklin and Kate Baker for their joint
work “Who Was Joseph Furphy?” The 1940
prize is open to any unpublished prose work
by an Australian author W.W.F.: Peapes,
Ltd., 285 George-street, Sydney... .A.S.H.:
Echelon, used as a military term, means an
arrangement of a body of troops with its units
drawn up in parallel lines, but each somewhat
to the left or right of the one in the rear,
like a series of steps J.T.: Aksum was the
ancient capital of the Ethiopian Empire
P.G.Y.: Apply Victoria Barracks, Oxford-
street, Paddington, Sydney R.H.: (1) Many
children who dislike milk may be induced to
take it if small quantities of cocoa or choco-
late are added. In other cases, the addition of
sugar overcomes the difficulty. (2) Technical
details of manufacture are too lengthy to be
given here; but one of the best-known brands
consists of a mixture of dried milk (50 p.c.),
wheat flour (26$ p.c.), barley malt (23 p.c.) and
bicarbonate of soda (| p.c.). This contains no
unaltered starch when mixed... .E.S.: Cannot
attempt to prescribe remedies offhand without
knowing more about your physical condition.
Best plan is to undergo medical examination.
J.S.M.: Use any good shampoo two or
three times a week, and follow the washing
with thorough brushing (with a stiff brush)
and massage of the scalp. Treatment requires
patience and persistence. Some forms of light
treatment are helpful. Combs and brushes
should be sterilised by placing them before
and after use in a 50 p.c. solution of alcohol,
easily obtained in the form of bay rum. *


Make the best of the dry season with
cJAjI-GxJL-Ch~
BONE FLOUR
The immediate outlook for pastures is not satisfactory, but
remember that in dry seasons stock can make good use of the
poor, coarse fodder available if fed Tri-cal-os Bone Flour,
which provides the essential minerals that the dry pastures
lack. This ample supply of calcium and phosphorus maintains
health and production—Tri-cal-os is the efficient mineral
supplement for the dry season.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
£(-6/
m
o
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded, exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Weaners and Worms.
“Serang”: It’s necessary to avoid
checks during the growing period of
young sheep, and precautions against
worms must be taken early.
The main danger areas are those that
have had good rains since last autumn.
Feed is plentiful and sheep are mud-
fat ; worms have been breeding all the
time. Sheep have been picking up more
worms than usual, as they have been con-
centrated on smaller areas in attempts to
keep the grass down or to avoid grass-
seed, and the weather has been ideal for
hatching out worm eggs.
In one typical case in s.-w. N.S.W.,
where conditions have been excellent for
the past nine months, three-month-old
lambs began to go off just before Christ-
mas. They lost their bloom, went off
their feed, and a number scoured badly.
A sample of their droppings, sent for
analysis, disclosed an infestation of over
2000 worm eggs per gramme.
The two chief species of worms are
the large stomach worm or barber’s-pole
worm (Hcemonchus contortus ) and the
black-scour worm (T richest rongy l us
sp.). The former is found in the fourth
stomach and can be controlled by
drenching with carbon tet., double
strength.
The black-scour worm is the more
dangerous, as it is so small that only a
practised eye can detect it. It is found
in largest numbers in the first Bft. to
10ft. of the small intestine below the
fourth stomach. Carbon tet. is useless
against this worm. The most reliable
drench is bluestone and nicotine sulphate,
lib. powdered bluestone to 16 fluid oz.
nic. sulph. Dissolve these in five gallons,
water and regulate the dose according to
age. For weaners eight to twelve months
old give 1 fluid oz.; four to eight months,
; lambs under four months,
For grown sheep make up the drench
with half the amount of water (2|gal.),
and give a more concentrated dose. Two-
tooths should get of this mixture
and all grown sheep Joz. If sheep are
weak give the drench in two half-sized
doses with a week between each.
As bluestone-nicotine is effective on
the large stomach worm as well as the
black-scour worm, it is the most suitable
drench for this time of the year. Remem-
ber that these drenches kill only adult
worms, and the dose must be repeated
once a fortnight in bad cases during the
danger period to catch those missed
previously and reinfestations. The N\#se
man drenches as a preventive while his
sheep are in good nick.
Swelled-head Disease.
“J.R.D.”: The heaviest losses are in
young rams, usually in summer and
autumn. The germ is identical with the
black-disease organism which is found
over a wide area. Losses occur in dry
inland districts as well as on the table-
lands, and the germ abounds on sheep
camps. It passes through the bowels of
the sheep and is voided to mingle with
the dust.
Unless the skin is broken so that the
organism can enter there is no danger.
Wounds on top of the head caused by
rams fighting produce right conditions.
The head swells and death comes quickly.
As with black disease, there is no cure.
The disease may be prevented, however,
by inoculating with 2 c.c. of b.d. vaccine.
As the trouble is chiefly confined to
young rams, only animals under two
years need be inoculated. Complete pro-
tection is not obtained until three weeks
from inoculation, so sheep should be
treated at least a month before the
danger period. Losses could be cut out
by inoculating young rams regularly in
December of each year.
The animals may be turned up and
inoculated under the forearm or on the
bare patch of skin inside the thigh, but
it is equally effective and much simpler
to inoculate them standing up in a race.
“Farmers short of cornsacks are resorting to desperate expedients.”
"Whip his pants off, boys — they'll hold a coupla bushels !”
Fill the race tightly and have each ram
held by the horns while being treated.
Pick up a fold of skin well behind the
shoulder-blade and insert the needle at
the base. Vaccine should be injected
just under the skin, and care should be
taken not to puncture or scratch the flesh
underneath or an abscess will result.
There is no need to disinfect the skin
at site of inoculation with this method,
but if done under forearm or on thigh
a patch of skin should be cleaned by
rubbing with cotton-wool soaked in
metho. Boil syringe and needles before
commencing to inoculate, and avoid dust
during operations. Black-disease vaccine
contains a thick sediment of alum, and
this should be kept thoroughly mixed so
that each animal gets an even share of
the alum precipitate.
There are two other types of swelled
head in sheep which may be confused
with this disease. One is known as
“yellow big head” and is met chiefly
on the Murray. It is a form of toxsemic
jaundice. The other head-swelling results
from the eating of certain plants and is
due to photosensitisation. To diagnose,
lance the swelling with a sterilised knife.
With toxaemic jaundice and photosensi-
tisation, a yellow fluid will ooze out, but
swelled head caused by the b.d. organ-
ism secretes a clear, watery fluid.
Cattle in N.S.W.
“Yarrunga”: The cattle population of
N.S.W. continues steadily to decline. At
the peak in 1935 the total of all sorts was
3,482,831, as compared with 2,812,000 in
1939, 207,500 fewer than in the previous
year. Both beef and dairy cattle have
regressed. Since 1935 the number of
cows in registered dairies fell from
1,174,000 to 1,069,000, and other cattle
(mostly beef breeds) from 2,309,000 to
1,743,000.
A point has been reached when a
greater number of calves are being
slaughtered than are reared ; the excess
of killings last year was over 20,000.
While since 1934 the number of calves
slaughtered rose from 370,739 to 458,613,
those reared dropped from 615,590 to
437,800.
More than half the calves disposed of
last year were slaughtered at local centres
in the dairying districts. A total of
225,000 was handled by five works, three
co-operative, from the Manning to the
Tweed, overshadowing an aggregate of
185,600 passed through the abattoirs in
the metropolitan area and Newcastle.
The increasing demand for boneless veal
for export as well as local sausage manu-
facture, in the last three years, is the
factor behind the big development in the
turnover in “bobby” calves from the
dairy farms. One time the unwanted
dairy calves were knocked on the head
as soon as born, and presumably boiled
down as pig feed. Now these bobbies
have ready sale and a cash value. Of
the calves submitted for examination as
export vealers in N.S.W. last year 185,000
were heifers and 67,000 males!
Wheat Conscription.
“8.C.”: Though there has been a good
deal of argument about conscription
lately nobody apparently has thought it
worth notice that among the first to be
conscripted were the wheatgrowers. All
wheat harvested this season belongs to
the Commonwealth Government, and
must be delivered to licensed receivers of
the Wheat Board. There are three exemp-
tions: —
Growers may have up to 100 bushels
gristed for their own purposes.
They may sell seed-wheat to another
grower, but not for resale.
They may keep wheat on the farm for
their own use.
A point that may cause some bother is
where a grower, having earlier in the year
and before the acquisition Act came into
force given a lien on his crop, cannot de-
liver to the holder of the lien wheat to
meet his obligation. Nor can he deliver
wheat to the receiving agents on account
of any person or organisation which holds
his p.ns.
Growers must deliver all wheat to the
licensed receivers in their own names.
These receivers are responsible to see that
the proceeds of such wheat are alienated
to their proper destination.
In one way it should simplify things
for the grower, who can tell pressing
creditors that they had better see the re-
ceivers about it.
Those growers who have worked up a
remunerative little sideline supplying
wheat to poultrymen and piggeries for
cash now find that outlet blocked. Those
who used to exchange wheat for live-
stock can do so no longer. If Jones buys
Bencubbin seed for 6s. a bushel from
Brown and is later offered 6s. 6d. by
Smith because Bencubbin is scarce, he
cannot take his little profit. Smith will
have to go farther afield for his seed and
probably pay more, plus freight. Black,
who has been grow-
ing Durum wheat
for a biscuit firm,
now has to put it
into the pool.
Grow Our Own.
“Chawing”: If
this war pans out
like the last Aus-
tralians can pre-
pare for a big in-
crease in the price
of tobacco. In
1915 a popular
brand of cigarettes
was retailed at 3d.
the packet of 12,
by 1918 the price
was 6d. for 10.
Pipe tobacco rose
prop ortionately,
and the prices have
never since gone back. Whether or not the
present war has a similar effect, Australia
should make an effort to invigorate its
tobacco industry. In 1937-38 ( Year-Book
figures) this country imported tobacco
worth £2,011,004, most of it from U.S.A.
Suitable leaf can be grown in various
parts of the Commonwealth, and before
1931-32 it had been tried with varying
success on a total area of about 2500 acres.
In that year Australian tobacco manufac-
turers came to an agreement with the
Commonwealth Government to buy
7,200,0001 b. of suitable leaf at 2s. 3d.
per pound. The number of growers in-
creased from 650-odd in 1930 to 2774,
and produced over 10,000,0001 b. from
17,738 acres, for which they received an
average price of 2s. l|d. per pound. In
the following year, there were 5527
growers and over 26,000 acres under
tobacco. But blue-mould disease reduced
the crop to 9,723,0561 b. The agreement
was not renewed, and in 1936-37 only
11,572 acres were sown to produce
500,0001 b.
In 1933 a select committee recom-
mended an annual grant of £20,000 for
five years to finance economic and


REGULATION
OFFICERS’ BOOT
A high-legged Military Cossack for the
use of mounted Officers.
Made in best grade Brown Calf and
Leather lined throughout, with stout
soles.
The leg of this boot is specially
cut to fit any type of legging.
Stocked in full sizes.
- m
50
/
Abbey Boots are sent to all parts of Australia and the British Empire.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HE ALTII
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold—Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
tasau!.'
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28. Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
fsd
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin’’ has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer s’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
JTuT&i'tlle&n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
sr§
M
LOTI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
HjAjßos^^Co^ty^LtdjjKin^tjjSydney
scientific research. Of this sum. the C.S.
and I.R. got £5OOO a year and soon dis-
covered a means of preventing blue
mould. But there has been no increase in
growers or production.
Tobacco-growing offers scope for the
“small” man. From five to ten acres is
as much as one man can manage. A
tricky crop, it demands close attention at
every stage of growth. It must have a
loose, friable loam, dry and warm, and
the ground should be sheltered. Seed is
first sown in beds, then transplanted to
the prepared field, where it has to receive
constant attention until maturity. When
picked, the leaf has to be carefully cured
in kilns, graded according to color and
baled for sale.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: When tailing lambs grasp
the tail firmly, push the skin back to-
wards the root and bend the tail to-
wards the lamb’s body. Sever it with
one quick movement. A small portion
of tail skin and wool should overlap the
severed bone-joint. To minimise the
chance of tetanus, the knife should be
often dipped into an antiseptic solution.
“B-gar”: A hospital paddock is in-
valuable during blowfly periods. It need
not be large, but should have a small
yard, watering facilities, shade, and be
used only for invalids. Any suspicious
cases, badly-struck sheep or any that re-
quire daily attention should be kept there
until thoroughly cured. Where footrot
is prevalent a bath should be erected
and bad cases given thorough attention.
“Roana”: Whey alone is not reckoned
a suitable ration for pigs, but B. B.
Wilhelm, Mt. Torrens, S.A., has main-
tained his for 12 months almost solely
on that feed. While suckling, sows’
rations were supplemented with a 51b.
jam-tin full of equal proportions of
bran and pollard divided between two
sows daily. At 15 weeks, three pigs of
one litter realised 545. as porkers, and
the remainder of the litter were equal
in quality and type. Sows and litters
consumed up to 12 gallons of whey
daily, and the porkers required up to
six gallons a day.
“Bad Australian”: Don’t credit the
statement that linseed grows only in cold
climates (B. 3/1 / ’4O). Linseed is one of
the staple crops of the Argentine, pro-
duced chiefly in the provinces of Buenos
Ayres and Cordoba and parts of San
Luis, Entre Rios and the southern
pampa. In 1938 Argentina, after provid-
ing for home consumption, exported
1,367,208 metric tons of linseed. From
observation of Argentine soil and climate
it appears to me that there is very little
difference in the conditions under which
linseed is produced in Argentina and
those obtaining in Riverina, except pos-
sibly a slightly better rainfall in the more
northerly sections of the linseed belt.
“Corn Cob”: Biologists and agricul-
turists sense a risk of bringing in Ameri-
can maize smut and bacterial blight, the
world’s worst diseases of corn, in crops
of U.S.A. seed planted this season in the
Hawkesbury, Burragorang, Tamworth
and Armidale districts (N.S.W.). Maize
smut has already appeared in the com-
paratively isolated Bathurst district,
where last year it was detected in five
different areas. The farmers concerned
have refrained from planting maize this
season as a precautionary measure.
“Porcine”: Dairy-farmers in the Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.) area last year made
good use of low-priced wheat for pig-
feed. From the Lismore centre 40,866
bags, bought collectively at an average
cost of 2s. 10+d. per bushel, were dis-
tributed. As a result, buyers and bacon-
factory managers report considerable im-
provement in the quality and type of
pigs received at saleyards and factories.
“Valerin”: Temora farmer Giles’s
handling of skeleton wood (B. 3/1 /’4O)
seems to me not so.much eradication as
making the best of it. This may work
on a 3600-acre holding, but on the aver-
age-size farm it is too risky, and, as
every working adds to cost, wheat values
have to be considered also. On a large
farm sheep are a regular and important
source of revenue, on a small one a side-
line with the inevitable winter “pinch”
ahead. Whether constant grazing im-
pairs to any serious extent the viability
of s.w. is questionable, and certainly is
governed by seasonal conditions. My
experience is that sowing lucerne on in-
fested areas is one sure way of control-
ling the pest and at the same time main-
taining soil fertility.
Outback Occupations.
No. 1.
Wheatgrowing.
“Ben Cubbin”: First of all you have
to go out in the dark and wake your
horses up. Some fire guns to do this,
but the best method is to have a bucket
of water and sponge and soak each
sleeping equine face. Then you have
to dress them and give them their break-
fast. Later, having snatched some half-
cooked porridge and a shovelful of eggs
(fried) yourself, you tie the horses on
to a machine, invite them to proceed,
and begin riding up and down the pad-
dock. This is called working the land.
After some days at this, you tie the
horses on to another machine. It has
a box on it, and in the bottom of the
box dre stars that revolve. You may
have some doubt as to what they mean,
but a letter to any of the recognised
newspapers will bring a quick response
and the dinkum oil from the staff
astrologer. He knows all about stars.
With this information you proceed with
this machine as with the former one.
It is a good idea, by the way, to pul
some wheat seed and artificial fertiliser
in the box with the stars. This makes
the machine steadier to ride upon. It
is called seeding.
With both these machines, when you
have finished the paddock, just leave
them where they happen to be. They’ll
rust a bit and get rather weather-beaten,
but it saves pulling them back to the
shed. You now pray for rain. If none
comes you go into the town and ask
your bank manager if he can spring a
few quid, and warn the storekeeper not
to be hard or you’ll get a stay-order —
a thing invented by the Government
inside which nobody can touch you. Be
careful not to come out if there’s any-
body about to whom you owe money.
This is called financing the crop.
If your prayers are answered and a
lot of rain comes you go into the town
and ask your bank manager if he can
spring a few quid and warn the store-
keeper not to be hard or you’ll get a
stay-order. This is called looking for-
ward to a good season.
About this time the paddock will be
covered with green grassy-looking stuff
and your horses start to break down the
fences, your neighbor’s cow suddenly
turns into a steeplechaser, and a lot
of rabbits which you hadn’t noticed
before come and dig holes under that
part of the fence not broken down.
You have to go out at night and chase
the horses or the cow, and you hear
the rabbits chewing up the green growth,
and it’s dark, and you fall over the
machine with the stars in it and life
becomes just one long burden. This
is called nursing the crop.
Somebody says you ought to eat the
crop off. So you try it, but the grit
gets in your mouth and the greenstuff
stains your teeth and you get a pain.
Then somebody else explains that what
the first bloke meant was you ought to
get sheep to eat it off. So you see the
bank manager again and he lets you
buy some old ewes. They eat the crop
all right—right to the ground—and they
get the scours and the blowflies come
and you find that you have to be a
shearer, too. You look at the bare pad-
dock and think this sheep idea is a trap
for young players, and you get rid of the
sheep and get the willies thinking about
that bare paddock. This is called check-
ing the crop.
More rain comes. It washes out a
big gully in the middle of the paddock,
and suddenly the grassy stuff is there
again, and before you know it it’s as
high as the fence and things, like whiskers
appear on the stalks, but everybody says
they are ears. Then the wind blows and
the crop falls down in large lumps and
lies on the ground. The sun gets hot
and all the beautiful green fades into
a sickly yellow and the whiskery things
go brown. People say your crop is
badly lodged, and you wonder what
boarding-houses have to do with it.
This is called getting ready for harvest.
Word comes from the railway station
that your header has arrived, and you
go for it. Your horses regard the great
red-and-yellow thing with grave doubts,
and when you tie them on to it the
skittish off-side filly snorts and tries to
sit down. You prod her and she jumps
forward as though it’s a five-lfurlong
race. The machine heels over and the
horses drag it on its side, scratching off
most of the nice new paint.
A lot of blokes come into the railway
yard and help you straighten everything
out, and you have to go and see your
btnk manager for a quid to buy them
drinks.
About two days later you get the
thing home. You don’t know where the
skittish filly is, and the machine seems
to have lost a wheel. However, an agent
comes out and gets it going by using
what he calls duplicates. When you get
the bill you realise that it’s cheaper to
buy a new machine than to buy dupli-
cates.
Eventually you get it into the crop.
It won’t go! You ’phone for the agent.
He’s out at Red Creek, 30 miles away.
On Wednesday night he turns up, irrit-
able and tired, looks carefully over the
header, shakes his head, and says you’ll
have to put him up for the night.
Next morning he gets up late, yarns
for a while, then goes to the machine,
pulls a lever, and away she goes.
Exultant, you seize the reins. Your
crop is coming off at last! Y°u envision
the bags piling up, the bank manager’s
smile, the storekeeper’s obsequiousness.
You hear a crash. Half the machine
stops, the other half goes on. Something
hits you behind the ear. You have
collided with the machine with stars in
its box. All the stars come out and
circle round. You sleep.
Later you awake. The nurse is cool
and efficient. She tells you all the
neighbors have formed a working bee
to take off your crop but that a big grass
fire has just reached your fence. You
close your eyes.
This is called harvesting the crop.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at 2|d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited.
For writing trenchantly on “sanctuaries,” in the interest of the dumb creation
and not in that of those who exploit it, a Victorian gets double rates.
“Sanctuaries”
Surely it is time a halt was called in
the extravagant expenditure on so-called
“sanctuaries for the preservation of Aus-
tralian fauna.” Is it right to call a place
a “sanctuary” where the animals and
birds are continually exhibited to the
close-up gaze of thousands of daily
trippers, and where even their nocturnal
disportings are subjected to ‘'search-
lights” and other disturbing illuminations
for the benefit of “night tourist parties”?
What started this sudden interest in
the preservation of our animals, any-
way? I don’t know what’s been going
on in other States, but in this tourist
district there arose, about five years ago,
an active agitation on the part of board-
ing-house keepers for the establishment
of an Australian animal sanctuary. News
was scarce at the time and the “sanctu-
ary” scheme was well backed by the
press.
The upshot was the expenditure of
much sorely-needed shire council and
Government money on a project which
has little to do with saving our native
animals, but a great deal to do with fill-
ing boarding-house keepers’ pockets.
The animals are in a zoo, not a
sanctuary. The meaning of sanctuary is
a place where animals are left alone and
undisturbed in their own natural sur-
roundings. There is, as far as I know,
one genuine animal sanctuary in Vic-
toria. At Wilson’s Promontory, a re-
mote, sequestered peninsula, teddy bears
and other marsupials live unmolested by
sightseers and inquisitive foreign tourists
with their movie cameras.
But elsewhere the play is on, and pub-
lic money is being ladled out in handfuls
in “popularising our unique fauna” (vide
A.N.T.A. literature). This popularity, as
any true naturalist and animal-lover
knows, spells nothing else but death to
the shy and timid creatures of our wilds.
—M. Hodges (Vic.).
M. (Morwell) Hodges writes from
Nicholson-street, Healesville.
T.T. Races
S.A.’s annual T.T. races look like be-
coming an annual rendezvous with death.
For the third year fatality has shadowed
the contests. A mo bike-sidecar outfit
crashed the fences at 80 m.p.h., killing
the passenger and making a (probable
lifelong) mess of the driver. And in
the car race a would-be record-breaker
hurtled off the course ; and one more
good man goes to hospital with grave
internal injuries.
Allowing for the possible need of
professional “hell drivers” to try out the
products of manufacturers on their test-
ing grounds, can there be any excuse,
other than the untenable ones of gate-
money and morbid thrills, for these
record-slashing contests? If daredevil
deeds are to be done, there is need
enough in the fighting services for the
superb nerve, skill and judgment that
speed-racing requires.
When petrol stocks are precious, and in
view of the perils contingent on bringing
the “juice” over the high seas, reckless
expenditure of first-class spirit during and
while practising for the races is folly.
The risks to onlookers when one of
the juggernauts rockets off the course
are frightful, and that consideration alone
should force officialdom to act.— Keel
Row (S.A.).
“The Greatest Fraud of All Time”
To The Bulletin my hearty congratu-
lations and good wishes; and why?
I have travelled more than half a mil-
lion miles and have studied and followed
the plague of Communism through every
important country —and in Russia,
Siberia and China.
In the last three years I have witnessed
the cancer of Communism eating into
France and Spain. Exactly 12 months
ago I saw the result. I saw at the foot
of the Pyrenees half a million victims of
Communism who had escaped the fate of
more than 50,000 who had perished in
the crossing.
The most amazing and unique dis-
covery in all these years of travel I found
in returning to Australia. Here I found
the only paper which had not been fooled
and bluffed by the most extensive legpull
in history.
Hence my hearty congratulations and
good wishes. —M. M. (Vic.).
Could you not republish “The Greatest
Fraud of All Time” in pamphlet form at
a nominal cost, so that every industrialist
in Australia could have an opportunity
of digesting the contents and thereby be
allowed to form his own judgment on the
conduct of the Russian Communists?
You could supplement the issue with the
known condition of Russia and what a
nation of spies would mean to the
workers of Australia.
We have heard how the workers of
Russia are well fed and secure in em-
ployment. So is the bullock in the wagon,
but his independence of action is regu-
lated at the end of a greenhide whip, a
torture made out of the hides of his own
“comrades.” What worker in Australia
would care to have his independence of
thought emasculated by the tyranny of
an Ogpu and his womenfolk yoked up to
give effect to the drudgery?
We have an advanced system of educa-
tion, and surely our people must not be
so depraved of intelligence as to allow
Red propaganda to continue to insult
our reason. — Australian (Q.).
European Federation
A Federation of European States is
being suggested in various forms by
editors, novelists turned foreign affairs
“experts,” news commentators, professors
who should know better and others whose
enthusiasm for such an institution has not
been lessened by the dismal failure of
the League of Nations.
These optimists seem to lose sight of
the fact that there exists between many
European nations deep-rooted hatreds of
each other which no amount of propa-
ganda will eradicate and which will pre-
vail for all time. It is folly to think that
Germans, after the war, will consent to
be partners in a Federal scheme to place
them on an equal footing with others
whom they have been taught to hate.
As after the 1914-18 war, England will
most certainly help Germany in her re-
covery, and some arrangement will have
to be made with regard to her politics.
While not weakening or relaxing in the
prosecution of the war, we should re-
member these things, as we might then
find it easier to adjust the German people’s
outlook to a more orthodox level.
Outbursts from irresponsibles, such as
Churchill’s infamous references to
“hordes of Huns” and so on, are not going
to make it any easier when the time
comes for the setting up of a rational
Government in Germany.
Then, too, we might keep in mind the
possibility of an alliance with Germany
at some future date, in order to stop the
spread of Bolshevism. —W. G. M. (Q.).
The Home Front
The remarks of “L.J.R.” (B. 27/12/’39)
about white feathers and women who
shirk their responsibilities cannot be taken
as a reflection on Australian womanhood.
Our declining birthrate is a result of the
system under which we are living, and
which does not provide for, nor encour-
age, the reproduction of our people. For
example, the decline in our birthrate will
be accelerated by the war; why, then, is
the Government spending £l6O millions
in two years on defence without making
provision for a sound system of social
reform, which would cost only a few mil-
lions?
Urgent reforms are necessary if Aus-
tralia is to survive this war with any
margin of safety. Encourage marriages
by granting loans to newly-married
couples on the understanding that part of
the principal will be abandoned upon
the birth .of each child. Establish
settlers on fertile land and encourage
their children to remain there. Then
Australia could give the Empire the
wholehearted support which she has the
right to expect—J. Sobbi-aski (N.S.W.).
Letting Off Steam
On New Year’s Eve in Sydney Domain
I witnessed the amazing spectacle of a
strong squad of N. S. Wales police vir-
tually aiding and abetting self-avowed
supporters of Stalin and the Red Army
to hurl abuse at the cause for which
Australia and its associated nations are
fighting. Admittedly, soldiers retaliated
with rotten tomatoes and oranges and
suffered the arrest of four of their num-
ber, but why is an organisation so mili-
tant and antagonistic to public opinion
as to need police protection permittee
to flourish and provoke ugly disturbances
in a public park?
Free speech is the birthright of the
Australian, but when the privilege is
abused to the extent of glorifying high-
handed invasion of an ally of Britain
and of a friendly neutral; inciting young
men to refuse service on their coun :
try’s behalf; openly threatening to
force, by violence if need be, the Soviet
doctrine on a people whose living condi-
tions under constitutional democratic
government are the fairest on earth;
and cheekily boasting from a stump in a
public place that the cult of Communism
enjoys not only police protection but
police support, then it’s high time that
such speech was effectively gagged.
When a private citizen lets his tongue
wag provocatively enough to disturb the
peace or incite his fellows to riot, he. is
peremptorily arrested and charged with
the offence. Why, then, is an organisa-
tion of such private citizens mouthing
foreign dogmas and seditious principles
privileged to commit the same offence on
a raised platform behind a cordon of
police and before a crowd of 15,000
people?
Freedom of speech may be the safety-
valve of the people, but one of these
days a nasty explosion will occur in the
Domain and Parliament will learn too
late that a boiler with a faulty or
neglected safety-valve eventually bursts.
—P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
They Should Not Leave
“The back-country is contributing a
specially fine type of recruit” is the
almost daily finding of our newspapers.
Cold facts prove that for some years
these boys from the backblocks will be
irreplaceable. After the war there will
be tens of thousands of immigrants. They
won’t come to the back-country.
People from the cities of Europe soon
make themselves at home in our cities,
but their physical and mental make-up
is not such as to fit them for outback
life.
Of the thousands of young horse-, cattle-
and sheepmen, shearers, miners, farmers
and ordinary laborers who poured away
from west of the Divide during the 1914-
18 exodus, how many returned to take
up their bush life again? The unin-
habited areas of today give mute answer.
They made good soldiers and were placed
at the spearhead of attack, so their
numbers were greatly diminished by the
ravages of war.
The Defence Department has listed a
number of special trades and professions
from which men are not encouraged to
recruit for overseas service. The men
of the outback should be among them. —
Kesem (Q.).
Wheat Restriction
The most indignant opposition to the
wheat-restriction idea has been based on
the argument that there are people in our
midst who are underfed. That scarcely
hits the nail on the head, as Australia
grows three ,times more wheat than all
her population would consume if every
breadwinner in the Commonwealth re-
ceived £lO per week.
If the world had more wheat than re-
quired to satisfy all its people, restriction
would be a sensible idea. But as the
world will be crying out for our wheat,
restriction does seem a tragic proposition.
The reason for the congestion is that we
can’t find shipping to carry it away ; to
suggest restriction on this ground seems
a defeatist attitude. A resourceful
country certainly should find a way to
beg, borrow, buy or build the necessary
shipping for the job.
As one who grew wheat for years, I
can well imagine the chagrin of the
farmer who, after years of struggle to
extend his area, is now forced to limit it,
only to find that the year has brought a
drought, reducing his yield to half, while
the possibility of a world shortage lifts
prices to tantalising levels. Don’t be mis-
taken ; after the good yields we have had
for several years, we are due for the ever-
recurring drought period. It will do all
the restricting we need, and more.
G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Fodder Conservation
A tour of N. S. Wales tablelands and
coastal districts revealed a shocking
waste of good stock fodder. Thousands
of acres of grass and herbage have been
allowed to go to waste, and paddocks
are now covered heavily with dry feed
which, in itself, is a menace, as it is
likely to provide fuel for destructive
fires that may sweep the countryside.
There were very few evidences of
attempts to conserve the heavy pasture
growth as a fodder reserve, except on
some small, intensively worked proper-
ties. The country carrying the feed is
mostly cleared, offering no difficulty for
use of mower or binder. In some places
the grass was almost 2ft. tall. The
growth had been too prolific for stock
to cope with it, so it was allowed to
waste.
Although no prophet, I’m on a cer-
tainty in saying that the stock on those
same holdings will be short of feed
within a very few years. Landholders
were urged, week after week, by Depart-
ment of Agriculture experts, leaders of
farmers’ and graziers’ organisations, and
local, daily and other newspapers to take
advantage of the good season by con-
serving the lush growth of pastures. Few
followed the advice.
Comparatively little work and prac-
tically no expense were involved —the
pasture growth could have been mown
(or even scythed), raked up and con-
verted into hay or silage (in stacks or
pits, which cost nothing) and forgotten
until it was needed. It would have kept
stock in condition, prevented losses from
starvation and been worth many times
its cost, as the few who did go in for
conservation will prove in the inevitable
time of need.
It seems that the war is going to be
a long business. As the campaign drags
on the need for Australia to provide
more and more primary products to feed
Allied populations and soldiers will be
intensified. Fodder for stock, therefore,
will be more important than ever. The
sight of thousands of tons of herbage
rotting, burning and blowing away would
be tragic in normal circumstances,
but it is an unforgivable waste as things
are now. — Mullengah (N.S.W.).
Family Facts
Many people, influenced by modern
ideas of pleasure, self-development and
selfishness, frequently bewail the folly of
those who are brave enough to have
several children. Any more than one or
two, they assert, will be undernourished,
repressed and poorly educated, and will
not get a fair chance to make a success
of their lives.
It might sound convincing, but, when
facts are faced, one is impressed by the
progress of those with the bigger families
and the comparative failure of members
of smaller ones. Big-family offspring
are usually smarter, more industrious and
capable, better mixers and more likely to
show initiative and to battle for them-
selves than others. They appear to be as
happy as, if not happier than, sheltered
only ones, and when it comes to holding
positions they very often get more worth-
while Jobs than their small-family rivals.
A policeman down our way reared
seven sons, and all became professional
men; a warder brought up six
boys who, with very little cash to help
them, won their way through a university
and eventually obtained excellent jobs ; a
small-town insurance agent reared nine
daughters, all of whom got a fair school-
ing and suitable employment when they
were old enough for it. There are
numberless other instances to prove that
big families are not the dreadful error it
pleases some to think. —P. Radwon
(Vic.).
Legal Absurdities
In Sydney on New Year’s Day a man
rode a horse shortly after it had been
injured in an accident —so seriously that
a vet. ordered the destruction of the
animal. It was reported to have both
front knees smashed, a deep gash on a
hind leg and an injured stifle. The
offender was fined £2.
As a contrast consider the case of a
sly-grog artist who went up a couple of
months ago, and who will be struggling
for some time to pay off his £3O fine. If
he is caught again he will bring £lOO.
In my opinion, the penalties should
have been reversed—l consider the pur-
veying of a few flagons after hours to be a
far less serious matter than the deliberate
infliction of pain on our four-footed
friends.
I am constantly coming across news-
paper reports of cruelty to animals, fre-


quently of a sadistic nature, and I’m long-
ing for the day when I shall read of the
perpetrators of these brutalities being fit-
tingly rewarded with a real fine of £5O or
£lOO.—P. S. C. (N.S.W.).
Perjury
Admittedly there is perjury (B. 3 /1 / ’4O)
in our courts, but the indictable offence
in regard to false swearing is that the
offender “knowingly” gave false evidence
under oath. The law takes a tolerant
view of human frailties, and there is an
excuse for the witness who may actually
believe that what he swears to is true. The
greatest discrepancies occur in cases in
the matrimonial jurisdiction ; yet the fact
remains that warring husband and wife
may each be fully convinced that his or
her version of any particular incident is
the correct one. Their errors do not
constitute wilful perjury.
That is the difficulty. Where perjury is
wilful and deliberate in a plain fashion
action is taken ; for swearing falsely on a
mere matter of a date a man was given
three months only the other day. It
would be hard to tighten up the law with-
out being harsh to people who are inno-
cent of deliberate intention to give, false
evidence.
In any case perjury does not pay. There
are always inconsistencies in perjured
testimony which can be detected ' by
skilled examination, and made the most
of. Once the tendency to false witness is
exposed the witness’s evidence becomes
valueless —except to the other side. —
Sixenate (N.S.W.).
The clerk of the court approaches the
witness in the stand, tells him to take
the Bible in his right hand, then indif-
ferently gabbles at fourteen to the dozen
“The evidence which you are about to give
isthetruththewholetruthandnothingbutthe-
truthsohelpmeGod.”
This formality is simply empty phrase-
ology. Either the oath should be more
deliberately presented by the court’s
official or the system of taking it in its
present form should be scrapped and a
brief but terse warning re perjury ad-
ministered in place. I don’t say that it
would entirely abolish the evil, but would
go a long way to discourage it. —
Geoffrey S. Shepherd (S.A.).
Government Employees
From Darwin to the Speck a Govern-
ment position is commonly regarded as
“a job for life.” Once a man has achieved
the status of a permanent Government
employee, he may sit back and muddle
along in his job without ambition or effi-
ciency, and without much fear of losing
it. He will be hoofed out only if he
commits a particularly flagrant breach of
the civil code.
Promotion depends on seniority, length
of service and proficiency at “pulling
strings,” none of which is of much help
in balancing the Budget. There are,
naturally, many able and ambitious men
in Government employ, but they are so
securely trussed up in red-tape that they
rarely survive to occupy an executive
chair.
Place men of proven business ability in
key positions, give them a reasonable
period to straighten out the mess on the
understanding that they must eventually
show a profit or resign, and give them
power to weed out the hopelessly ineffi-
cient, the lead-swingers and the friends
and relatives of members. Do that, and
the astonishing spectacle may yet be wit-
nessed of a Government department
announcing a true profit.— Nairb (Vic.).
May I take up the cudgels on behalf of
that unsung hero the overworked Gov-
ernment servant?
Just one example. An unfortunate
clerk in a branch of the Defence Depart-
ment has just returned from a paltry three
weeks’ holiday on full pay. He has been
temporarily transferred to one of the
munition factories a few miles out of
town, and is allowed extra time to travel
there, and is met by a taxi at the station.
The same taxi transports him back to
town at 4.45 p.m. after a heavy day.
And though we are at war there is no
work Saturday morning.
What a devil of a bill we are running
up for posterity when we think of the
thousands working under similar condi-
tions!—lago (N.S.W.).
Australian Talkies
Admittedly we receive yards of cine-
matic rubbish annually (B. 3 /1 / ’4O), but
we can learn a good deal from Holly-
wood studios in their uncanny skill in
selecting character types and subtle
methods of provoking mirth.
I have been favorably impressed by
Australian films, but have detected an
absence of polish and attention to detail
that makes all the difference. And, an-
other thing, many Australians think that
good looks and good diction alone are
necessary to become a film idol. The
road to success in dramatic art requires
hard work and tons of courage.— Noham
(N.S.W.).
Country Signposts
Motoring through N. S. Wales I have
noticed many discrepancies when com-
paring distances on official signposts and
on those bearing advertisements.
Speedometer checking has revealed that
official posts are invariably accurate, but
others are not. The difference is as much
as eight or nine miles. Such carelessness,
besides creating a bad impression with
visitors, is apt to cause inconvenience and
miscalculation of the consumption of
petrol.— Petermac (N.S.W.).
New Year Resolutions
Doubtless the first batch have all
been broken by this, but if there are
any folk really in earnest and in con-
scious need of improvement, let them
get hold of their Bible and get an eyeful
of 1 Cor. xiii. In that first chapter of
Corinthians is all that is wanting to
make democracy really workable. If a
man reads those lines beginning “Though
I speak with the tongues of men and of
angels” down to “but the greatest of
these is love” once every day for a
month, with sincere endeavor to under-
stand what they really mean, there will
be a definite change for the better in
that man’s life. That, after all, is the
biggest thing in the world. If even 50
people in Sydney began tomorrow to
address themselves to this one thing, it
would work a definite change in our
community life.
There is little use in a proportion of
our fellow-citizens being willing to die
for the cause of democracy if we, who
are not called upon to make such a
sacrifice, are unwilling to make the
necessary effort to live sincerely for the
same cause. What we are really fighting
for is not democracy as it is, but de-
mocracy as it ought to be. Democracy
is as yet in its infancy, and is being
defended not for what it is but for what
it may become.
Most of us have a sort of sentimental
respect for the other fellow. But that is
not enough. If we really wish to over-
come totalitarianism we must oppose the
totalitarian conception with something
that is really existent. Could anyone
really and truthfully say that the central
core of democracy, as we know it here
in Australia, is a sincere regard for the
welfare of our fellow-man?
Are we true democrats? Have we any
wish to become true democrats? Are
we willing to make the necessary effort
to transform ourselves, as individuals, in
order that we may fit into a real de-
mocracy? If it is so, then the war is
won. If it is not, then the war is lost.
The issue will not be decided on sea,
land or air, but in the heart of the
individual man.
Are there even six readers of The
Bulletin who will take up their Bible
when they have finished reading this and
try to understand what Paul really
meant? It is well worth while. —•
Damascus (N.S.W.j.
Men’s Clothes
Every summer the clothes reformer
waves a • figleaf at his fellow men and
“Uramao” (B. 3 /1 / ’4O) fills the breach
in the O.F.M.
Whatever flappers may do, men are
quite sensible about their clothes. The
vagaries of our climate are such that it
may be hot in the morning and cool in
the afternoon, and clothing worn by men
generally provides for this contingency.
Commonsense cannot be ostracised.
Collars and vests which are charged with
being articles of torture are not guilty by
verdict of the majority.
On a sweltering day it is very notice-
able that those who are garbed (or dis-
garbed) on the reform pattern are the
most affected by heat. Psychological re-
action, no doubt. — Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
Long Life
“A.S.K.” (B. 27/12/’39), when stating
that “as a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he,” is eloquent but unpractical.
Spiritually speaking, a man may be
“mental,” but physically he is dust, and
to dust returns more or less rapidly ac-
cording to bodily heredity and material
environment. Bacteria or bullets, heat or
cold, privation or surfeit have a mechani-
cal and chemical influence on his life
that no thoughts of his heart (which is
merely a pump) can modify.
The expectation of life has been con-
siderably raised in recent years by sani-
tary engineers, surgeons and food in-
spectors. Epidemics, once the subject of
useless humiliation and prayer, are now
prevented by soap, scrubbing brushes,
scavengers’ brooms and disinfectants. An
aching tooth will not cease through ab-
stract thought, but will do so when
abstracted with forceps.
As a man does and eats so is he. When
he is warmed and filled he is capable of
high thinking. The absence of loaves and
fishes, or even of the vitamins A, B and
C, is often responsible for low ideals.
I recently heard a most eloquent
address delivered through a mike and
loudspeakers. The theme was a con-
demnation of materialistic science as
opposed to spiritual faith. Particular and
sarcastic mention was made of Sir Oliver
Lodge, Darwin, Edison, Crookes and
others of that class and calibre. The
lecturer had a “hearing aid” in one ear,
a pair of Crookes’s lenses on his nose and
false dentures in his mouth. Con
Sistent (S.A.).
“Refs. Essential”
I want to go a lot further than “OT.”
(B. 3 /1 / ’4O) in condemning references.
They become, in practice, an instrument
of tyranny. The boy of 16 starts with a
clean slate and may forget about an odd
job or two if he is sacked quickly, though
the reference system forces him to be well
entrenched by his next birthday. For the
rest of his natural life one back answer,
one refusal to work overtime without pay,
a single act of resistance to “aggression,”
justified or not, may mean the “sack
without a-reference,” unless there is a
union to butt in.
Suing the employer for an unde-
servedly cold reference is useless, and the
publicity for the ex-employee is sufficient
to spell “no more job.” Staff managers
have their own jobs at stake, and cannot
afford to take on referenceless or poorly-
referenced applicants.
The only way to start again is to incur
a short gaol stretch deliberately, and rely
on the Prisoners’ Aid people for a fresh
kick-off in a job where they know you
have no refs., and why. But you can’t
strike people like that in the ordinary
job-hunt, unless they reckon that a known,
criminal is safe, as a forewarned propo-
sition, while a referenceless, workman or
clerk is labelled “danger.”
I’ve seen men sacked for jerking
hydraulic goods lifts up from ground
floors without first climbing aboard, being
prevented by a crowd from punching the
bundy to time, knocking down a fore-
man who manhandled them without
authority, not selling goods that the boss
could not supply, and other odds and
ends that show Jack that he is not in the
same street as his master. In a real
democracy, of course, employers show
their references for. sobriety, fairplay and
solvency to the employee, and can’t get
staff if they misbehave. It can’t happen
here.—C. MacP. (N.S.W.).
More Natural Announcers
Why can’t radio announcers be more
natural? I know one. Off duty
he is a likeable and popular young man
with a pleasant voice and considerable
wit in ordinary conversation.
When on the air, however, he adopts an
obviously affected and atrociously incor-
rect accent, as well as a smooth, oily
manner. When he attempts to crack a
joke over the air he sounds childish.
He is a well-built young fellow, an ex-
cellent hockey-player and footballer and
a member of the militia. Yet any listener
who didn’t know him personally would
gain the impression that he was a sissy.
—Bop (N.S.W.).
One for Them
If the A.B.C. journal is wanting in
everything else, it at least has courtesy.
In these times, when the freelance is
generally treated pretty shabbily, having
to suffer stolen, lost or mutilated manu-
scripts, it was indeed pleasing to have
two ordinary pars., for which one would
look in a few issues and then forget,
promptly returned with the editor’s
“regrets.”—F. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Why Doctors are Cynics
During my Christmas holiday tour I
called to see an old friend and found him
lying on a sofa with the left side of his
body paralysed. He was paying £1 per
week to a fellow who says that
his trouble is due to “a nerve being
pinched between two of the spinal verte-
brae” and that he can “effect a complete
cure by adjusting the bones.”
I know a woman who suffers from a
dropsical condition, and the honoraries
at a public hospital have informed her
that her condition is incurable. She is
in the hands of a quack who says that
her trouble is due to “congealed blood
blocking the tubes of the stomach.”
For years I suffered from a persistent
illness very similar to influenza in its
symptoms. I was poor enough to be
eligible for treatment at a public hos-
pital, where I was herded about as if I
were a sheep. But the cause of my
trouble was soon located. After thorough
examinations and a series of X-rays I
was sent to the dental department, where
a confirmatory X-ray was taken and then
a dozen teeth whose nerves had been
removed were extracted. The attacks
have never recurred. I know scores of
people who have regained health through
the work of public hospitals in the same
way ; a quack would have humbugged me
and them out of the last of our money
without discovering the cause of our
troubles.
Public hospitals should publicise their
work and let the public know just what
modern diagnosis, treatment and surgery
can do. It is little short of miraculous. —
Tompion (S.A.).
Fruit Wines
Wine of good quality can be made
from almost any fruit, and, as there is
frequently a large surplus of various
fruits in this country, steps might well be
taken to put it to good use by making
wine out of it. This would be a welcome
change from grape wine, and, as it could
be produced very cheaply, it would pro-
vide a cheap, healthful drink for people
who cannot afford to drink good wine at
present prices.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Juvenile Crime
With the year-end dailies renewed their
pious pratings on juvenile crime. They
condemned the lack of boys’ clubs, they
advocated more reformative institutions,
they marvelled and called upon everyone
else to marvel at the enormity of the
problem. But few of them got down to
tin-tacks. They found plenty of excuses
without producing one thoughtful reason.
It’s true that there is need for more
institutions of a reformative nature,
rather than punitive. It’s true that if you
kept some boys off the street there might
be less crime. But it’s equally true that
reformative institutions become as bad as
prisons for hardening the callow trans-
gressor. They have the aroma of a
prison in the mind of a youthful law-
breaker and all his associates. In the
mind of the public they are prisons. And
once you send a man —or a boy—to any-
thing he calls a prison, or the public
regards as a prison, you make every suc-
ceeding crime easier.
To the cleanskin, the idea of going to
gaol is completely repugnant. But once
he has been there, he feels that it doesn’t
matter that the broad-arrow has been
stamped on him, leaving nothing for him
but to flock with others who do not
regard going to gaol as a disgrace.
Until a man first goes to gaol, gaol is
a deterrent. But not afterwards. And,
strangely enough, it is not the man’s
fault, but ours. He has a big psycho-
logical struggle to surmount the notion
that he is in disgrace for the rest of his
days. We, as a society, have a bigger
one in accepting him back. If we win
our battle we are helping him towards
winning his. But we must win first.
The ex-prisoner who has expiated his
wrong we must accept naturally, and
not in the patronising manner of certain
well-intentioned individuals who hand out
Christmas cheer to poor families in the
glare of a battery of flashlight cameras.
The man who is struggling for self-respect
doesn’t want maudlin sympathy and
patronage. He wants you to put him on
a normal footing with everyone else.
So it is with our youths who fall into
crime. The process is always the same.
First a small offence, induced by misfor-
tune or by lack of sense of what is right
and what is wrong. Then a sentence of
some kind. Then a consorting charge.
And more consorting charges. The whole
story of a “criminal” career is told there.
The world doesn’t want him. Other
criminals will have him because the more
there are to huddle together the warmer
the world is.
Never in a long time of court report-
ing have I seen a youth in the dock who
was not of sub-normal intelligence. At
school he was a problem child. His atti-
tude towards life has been continually
defensive. Then it has suddenly become
aggressive.
The appearance in the dock could have
been obviated by the application of a
little psychology on the part of the State
before the child was old enough to do
wrong. The cradle —not gaols, prison
farms, reformatories or prisoners’ homes
—is the place to prevent juvenile crime.
—Benn (Q.).


mm m tA V if
&•••», V # v >•*
r<?
SB
Livery
Weather
Calls for
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Does this present humid weather, with
cold snaps sandwiched in between,
make you feel washed out and devoid
of energy?
Do you go home from work with a
“liver” and perhaps find the family
similarly affected?
If so, a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found most
beneficial. They stir the liver to
healthy action and stimulate the flow
of bile, regulate the bowels, and correct
indigestion. Try them to-night!
They make you feel brighter
R
3
(
0
r
0
o
D
ua
uVER
boßttf£
SUNBURN
Relieved by
Mirpil
Sunburn and Windburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
N
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
«.< <
.o'-
6*°y
■t-y
,^>-y
,;o®
-s
,jX
at
-ry
/
X
»»»; c^ e
' >«*■
#•
S ‘
..-*’ ..*■
-•• * a >V^ o ’
.-•*


HORRID FLIES!
KILL
them ALL with
jn
Quick Insect Destroyer
Mow down those horrid disease-spreading Flies
with the new super death-dealing Fly Spray,
QID —Quick Insect Destroyer. QID contains
the latest potent Fly Killers —Pyrethrum
and Derris —and brings certain death
to all Flies. QID is pleasantly per-
fumed, non-poisonous, and will not
stain.
Boz. Bottle, 1/3
16oz. Bottle, 2/-
The Sheldon Drug Co. Pty. Ltd., SYDNEY
DOUBLE ACTING—PLEASANTLY PERFUMED
