

si
,T a L
ck
‘.'.A
' 0
IIIfWiWWWJMIWMra
jliffil*wr l.i*z#vtvzsf
am mi. jf^pj
JUWVfWI// UiilMHii lummj
war
M
W
*r
■■'
I l\M
sg?
I
::
■-
m
a
■•» J'Av
il
sss-a
."S’JS
pf
&
'ims
tn
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Radnorshire Arms, Presteign, on
the border of England and Wales, is a most
interesting old house. Its secret passages
and hiding places are the centre of a num-
ber of local stories and legends of the
Bradshaws by whom the house was built
as a residence in 1616. John Bradshaw,
of this family, presided at the Republican
Court which, in 1649, condemned and
executed Charles I.
A century and a half later the House of
Holbrook was founded in Worcestershire,
England. To-day, 150 years later still, it
is known far and wide for the quality of
its products.”
MlrMf. Aj)j)eA
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
A
smm
WORCC.STc^f.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3154.
Wednesday, July 24, 1940.
Churchill v. Hitler
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Trecloftce
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B 240
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMO£K’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
SAMSON v. NIPPON .
This protracted and at times exciting
contest began in the early 1930’5, when
the British Hope, Gerald Samson, finished
off in Sydney the training he’d had on
the roast beef of old England, and leapt
into the fray in the pink of condition.
The extent of the ring called for ex-
traordinary stamina and agility. It
embraced not only Japan but Japan’s
Pacific mandate, as well as Manchukuo
and slabs of China. Nippon won the
early rounds by a street, but, according
to Samson’s account of the contest —
recorded in Warning Lights of Asia
(Hale, Ltd.) —Nippon secured that ad-
vantage only by resort to a succession
of fouls.
That was in the infighting, when
Samson, having taken boat at Sydney
to bring him to close quarters, found
himself just a bit too close for hjs com-
fort or safety. As a counter-move,
Samson took another boat, and, though
forbidden to do so by Nippon—who, in
these early rounds, seems to have had
the referee in his pocket went off
poking his aggressive chin into the out-
lying regions of Nippon’s mandate. This
did not profit him very much at the
time, and subsequently, when he returned
to Nippon’s mainland, it brought him
into positive danger. He was suspected
of resorting to the foul business of spy-
ing, and, under cover of a hullabaloo
in Nippon’s corner —the 1936 mutiny of
sections of the army and the consequent
proclamation of martial law in Tokyo
—he was caught in a hold that even
the late Rafferty would have condemned
as disgraceful, and was thrown into a
vile and verminous prison.
All Samson’s efforts to attract the
attention of his own corner in order
to get himself extricated proved un-
availing. He arranged for word of his
plight to be conveyed to the British
Consul, but either it wasn’t? or the Consul
was unresponsive. When he did get out
after several weeks of third-degree tactics
and other foul work, he was a red rash
all over from the bites of the bugs, lice
and related antagonists that Nippon had
tacitly contrived to have sooled on to
him. Moreover, Nippon still retained
a foul grip on him, having arranged for
his deportation instanter.
As Samson details these rounds of the
scrap, Nippon’s dirty fighting was both
unscrupulous and uncalled for. He him-
self was fighting clean —according to his
own lights. Certainly, he had ventured
to stray round Nippon’s Pacific man-
date “in the teeth of official prohibition,”
but what of it? He had a right to do
so, he considered. He wished to learn
the truth about those islands—-whether
or not they were being heavily fortified,
as alleged. “A general air of secrecy
pervades the islands” ; he was shadowed
and openly followed everywhere he went,
and may have missed a lot. 'However,
his account of this part of the contest
makes capital reading, and, next to his
hair-raising record of Nippon’s foul treat-
ment of him back pn the mainland, is
quite the best of his book. The bugs
and so on have not yet bitten him, nor
has he as yet fallen under the spell of
Madame Chiang Kai-shek and the
Chinese people and their cause. Neither
here, nor at any other stage of his record,
does he try to force himself as a notable
exhibit on to the reader’s notice in the
overdone manner of latter-day writers
of similar books. It does come out that
he has curly hair; that Japanese young
ladies can’t believe it’s natural and ask
for the address of his hairdresser; but
that crops up almost by accident.
On his mandate venturings he com-
piled a diary, which, confiscated, had the
effect of confirming Nippon’s suspicions
that he was not merely up to no good
in a private capacity but was a hired
and official spy. Being a freelance jour-
nalist —until he became a Reuter special
correspondent in the Orient—he refutes
that harsh impeachment
with loud laughter. How-
ever, he records that Nippon
stuck to his foul grip on
him, and—no help coming
from the Consul or any others who
should have been in the corner of the
British Hope—there was no option but
to be shanghaied to Shanghai.
While in close grips he noted, among
other curiosa, that the influence of
foreign movies in Japan was very strong,
especially on the ladies, and that “the
influence of our ballads and jazz music
on domestic compositions has been far-
reaching.”
Altogether his experience of encounter-
ing Nippon at close quarters—the prison
experience must have been frightful—
would have been enough for any but
the most determined and enthusiastic of
scrappers. Not for Samson. He next
closed with Nippon up in Manchukuo,
and was soon in the toils all over again.
A scurrilous sheet published an account,
with photo., of the early rounds in
Japan, as seen through eyes which held
that it was Samson who had been guilty
of the foul work. The sheet made no
bones about coming out with the head-
ing: “Samson Is A Dangerous British
Spy.” The comment of his guide,
“From now on things will be very diffi-
cult for you in Manchukuo,” was tp
prove an Oriental classic in understate-
ment. He was able to gather, however,
that, as a contribution towards solving
Japan’s problem of Lebensraum, Man-
chukuo is a washout. - •
Eventually, after infighting second
only in fierceness to what he’d been
through in Japan, Samson got out of
the grip and back to China. From here
on, judging by his record, he must be
considered an easy winner of all the re-
maining rounds. He rocks it into Nippon
right and left. He takes up the cause of
China with a missionary zeal. There
are photographs of the Chiang Kai-sheks,
“China’s Amazon Brigade on the march
singing rousing war songs,” and other
heroic subjects. There is, his finding
(made after considerable travel and
observation, including—specially topical
at the moment travel in Indo-China,
along the Burma road, and inland to
the Chiang Kai-shek headquarters):
A first glance at the Sino-Japanese war
map is very apt to give the impression that
Japan has already conquered vast portions
of China. In reality the armed forces of
Nippon control merely the principal cities
in these areas and some five miles on
either side of the railway tracks
connecting them For some time it has
been evident that the Sino-Japanese hos-
tilities have resolved themselves into an
economic endurance and financial struggle
in which, under existing conditions, the odds
are clearly on China. She is fighting for
her natiopal independence, and long-term
resistance is growing daily more popular
with the masses... .The Japanese people, on
the other hand, has not only lost its initial
enthusiasm for this war of conquest, which
was supposed to be all over in a few months
without any serious fighting, but is heartily
sick of it Finally, China can concen-
trate on overcoming one adversary: Japan
has several potential foes, with herself as
her own worst enemy.
If all this and Samson’s other findings
are correct, Nippon must be feeling very
tender about the solar plexus.
A Bad Bird .
Herma was a skua. Freya was his
wife. Olaf, the lesser blackback, was a
villain. Olaf killed one of the skua’s
chicks and Herma killed Olaf in revenge.
Old Paettie, not a bird but a Shetland
Islander, shot the golden Freya and
Herma buffeted him with his wings till
-the wicked old man fell over the cliff.
No more would Herma lead the old
merry life of courting and mating and
robbing the gulls of their herrings ; “a
new Herma, a‘killer, was loosed upon
the islands that night.”
Margaret Maclennan, the holidaying
schoolmistress, lay sunning herself on
the turf, and down came that blinking
bird and pecked off her nose. At least
it tore out her hair and bit her ear and
she ran “shrieking with terror from this
devil bird.”
Herma took a new wife to his bosom
and killed her because she wouldn’t eat
a herring. Then yon daamt Bonxie kellt
an aegle which the islanders were hoping
would kill him. For Herma, in evil
alliance with Kraa the hoodie crow, had
been killing lambs and sheep and poultry,
and neither Old Nicolson the shepherd
nor anyone else could ever get near
enough to shoot him. Herma took a
dislike to young Jamie, and one day when
Jamie and Looie were walking along the
cliffs Herma swooped. Looie fled in
terror, yelling “Aah! Th’ Bonxie’s
kelling my Cheemie!” The beastly bird
drove Cheemie over the edge and
Cheemie grabbed a stump. The beastly
bird bit a great hunk out of his ear, and
Cheemie would have been the second
man he had murdered if Old Nicolson
hadn’t rushed to the rescue.
Herma became a legend. Old Paettie,
whose favorite phrase was “Gie me a
piece o’ irron and let me tearr it,” had
been a terror to the children, and the
islanders became convinced thafi his spirit
had taken up lodging in the skua.
The crofters became apathetic in their
care of the flocks, for despite themselves
they were beginning to know fear. Isbister
alive had been bad enough; Isbister dead
and flying about murdering children—
“Naa, naa, stay home and laeve him be.”
Had it not been for a falcon named
Aak, that there blasted burrd might be
terrorising the islanders today. But Aak
made things very aakward for him and
finally rushed at him with a sound like
escaping steam and broke his back. “At
last the scourge of the crofters was gone.
Herma would kill no more.”
All of which absurdities are a great
pity, for Leslie Brown’s Outlaw of the
Air (Geoffrey Bles ; Moore’s Bookshop),
quaintly illustrated with photographs of
actual gulls and skuas, is really a charm-
ing book. The author has obviously
made a close study of the bird life of
the Shetland Islands, and some of his
descriptions of migrations, aerial com-
bats, nesting and feeding activities have
a tender verisimilitude that reminds you
of Williamson’s superb Tarka the Otter.
And a bird, no doubt, can become em-
bittered. But when Herma. chases the
schoolmistress, when he wages blitzkrieg
on Cheemie’s ear, or when Old Paettie
mutterrrs “Gie me a piece o’ irron and
let me tearr it,” —naa, naa!
Sailors and Such.
William McFee’s Watch Below (Faber
and Faber) is labelled fiction and is
peopled by fictitious characters—captains,
mates, engineers and some members of
crews of the tramps that did John Bull’s
carrying business over the Seven Seas
towards the end of last century and dur-
ing the present one up to about the last
war period.
Mr. McFee is a rattling good hand at
the depiction of ships and sailormen, and
from time to time most of the people
and the ships come visibly alive. The
sailormen have their adventures—hard-
working adventures aboard ship, and
bawdy adventures ashore. But for not
less than 214 pages the author is in con-
flict with himself —whether to make it,
as the blurbist describes it, “a rattling
good story” or write a purely factual
book. And 214 pages of even as good
a writer as Mr. McFee in such toils are
enough to test the patience of the most
Joblike rattling-good-story addict on
earth.
Unless, that is, he brings to the read-
ing a personal interest in the sea and
ships and sailors; or unless, again, he
has also a personal interest in s sound
writing, and can enjoy reading a writer
who writes with certain sureness of touch
and such complete knowledge of what
he’s writing about that what he’s writing
about practically ceases to matter.
Mr. McFee is writing about the psy-
chology of sailormen. He wants to clear
away false impressions about them
created by romantic literary folk. He
wants the reader to see them realistically
as they are. So he takes the reader on
voyages with them, mostly in European
waters and in the Mediterranean ; he has
the reader sit at their elbows while they’re
ploughing for a mate’s or an engineer’s
ticket; he lets the reader hear them talk-
ing together aboard ship and ashore.
Arid all this is admirably done. As a
representation of seafaring life in its
period it has a classic quality.. But no-
thing yet put together on paper was less
like a story.
It begins with a chapter which is a
good critical article demolishing fallacies
in literary conceptions of sailormen and
their life. Next it turns into a first-person-
singular narrative, in which the narrator
is a small boy going about on ships with
his father from England to the Conti-
nent and'back again. Presently char-
acters that sound fictitious begin to in-
trude, and with their entry the first-per-
son-singular character moves from im-
mediate view. However, either he or the
author hovers about, ready to lead the
reader off on a digression whenever the
narrative looks likely to take on the
nature of continuity.
These digressions, taking the book as
a serious psychological study of sailor-
men with merely accidentally fictitious
trappings, are always authoritative,
clearly stated and nearly always surpris-
ingly interesting. But their effect on a
rattling good story needs no pointing
out. As a story —even from when, on
page 214, it does start to move—the con-
struction is like one of the tramps it deals
with, lumbering from chapter to chapter
as they lumbered from port to port. It
is heavily encrusted with discursive bar-
nacles ; its own pipes burst, from the head
of argumentative steam; it carries an
astonishingly mixed cargo of literary
gems and spices and coal and old iron.
So much for it as a narrative, which,
making all allowance for the freedom of
method properly claimed to themselves
by fiction writers, seems to be carrying
realistic effect a bit too far. It’s as if a
writer, having turned out a long work
on gutters with fictitious street sweepers
inhabiting them, should regard his work
as a failure if you couldn’t smell it. Not
that there is anything malodorous about
Mr. McFee’s book. He keeps such a
strong brake on even his sailormen’s ex-
pletives that when, at intervals, they
come out, as they must, it’s with explosive
effect.
Probably Mr. McFee’s book should not
be treated as fiction at all, though it’s
definitely so labelled, and though a story
of sorts does lumber in fits and starts
through it. The proper approach to it
is perhaps to regard it as a serious piece
of factual writing, the fictional trappings
there merely to help the author do his
job. In any event, those trappings do
provide a certain measure of light relief,
and without them no doubt the book’s
appeal might be considerably limited. As
it is, any general reader might read it
with pleasure and amusement; to any
reader with a very strong tang of salt
in his veins it will probably come as the
book of the year.
Prayers of Citizenship : Kenneth T.
Henderson (Longmanns). The author, in
Anglican Orders, is a leader-writer on the
“West Australian.” Each group of
prayers is prefaced by an essay on some
aspect of religion in the present situa-
tion. “It seems to me that as Christians
we can pray for victory with a good
conscience, having cleansed that con-
science first.”
Those Borgias : George Borodin
(Faber). Those books about the Borgias!
This one differs from the others only in
being especially superficial, and in being
cast in the form of a trial of the Borgias
on the steps of Heaven. Spicy facts and
spineless characters,
Mary Stuart: Mildred Criss (Harrap).
« F or young people from 12 up Well,
btde oneSj iif e isn’t quite like that, but
the aut h or to pretend it is, why
be cross with Criss?
Ghosts of the Goldfields: Henry H.
Neary (published by the author). She
called to my father and they stood watch-
mg m wonder the display of affection
and grief made by the mate of the dead
snake. It crawled round and round,
sometimes placing its head under that
« C down° againland^crawhng^away
7e°.urn t reperi
a tafes^grayfand
say ’ o£ ,he Turon (N - S W '’ Bold days -
The author was tbere as a youngs ter,
and little book covers a lot of ground
and makes ysstl y interesting reading,
_,.. , . ~
Grew of the Anaconda: A. G.
Macdonnell (Macmillan , _ Angus and
Robertson) Ssss spies! Yankee gang-
sters, in P a Y tb e Nazis, doing
deadly Fifth Column work in Britain,
Whole interest lies in finding the nigger
m die woodpile of the Defence Ministry,
and the ™SSer 1S so darned obvious that
Y°u have to pretend you’re an imbecile
*> get through the novel. Still chirpy
£ Places, but not to be compared with
F/ig/it from a Lady. *
Twenty-one Nights in Paris: Maurice
Dekobra (Werner Laurie). Grand tour
of the well-known and lesser-known
night-clubs, with a wisp of a love affair
running through it, and many light,
bright, daring anecdotes. As a guide-
book its interest is somewhat academic
at the moment.
Behind the Surgeon’s Mask: James
Harpole (Cassell). "Full of stories about
how they saved little Tofnmy and others,
a q told in a competent sentimental jour-
nalese. The author has a charming bed-
s{de manner, but too many doctors have
taken to “telling.”


■TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the unvarying policy of Anthony Horderns’.
THE SENIOR STORE”
«
toy. |
Sr
35
s
L
~••••'•
•••>,,
x
WSk
mm.
m
m
ss>
ft?)* -> 4
...4mm
mm
mm
mmz
/
i
m
1
Sf 88»
rrr-j
U
w
mm
M m
m.
m
so&mi
Mi
e
...PAY FOR IT
AS YOU USE IT
Nothing equals the permanent
charm of fine furniture, the
work of master craftsmen.
Make your choice from our
wide range, most of which is
made in our own factory, and
pay for it as you use it. We
make it easy for you to furnish
your home the way you want
it . . . and benefit by our
easy terms.
3 Rooms for
£39"
Modern 6-Piece Walnut Kitchen Setting
Six-piece Kitchen Setting, attractive
modern design, medium brown wal-
nut colour. 4ft. 6in. Cabinet with
centre leadlight doors, bread re-
£l2's'
ceptacle, cupboard space, cutlery and linen drawers. 4ft. 6in. x
2ft. 6in. table; 4 comfortable chairs. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price - - £l2/5/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit 24/6. 12 monthly payments of 19/4.
Two Tone 6-Piece Oak Dining Suite
Six-piece Selected Oak Dining
Suite, polished a two-tone mis-
sion brown colour. Comprising
a sft. sideboard, cutlery and
/01/ZI3
linen drawers, and ample cupboard space; sft. x 3ft. Table;
and four chairs with fabricoid seats and backs. . At Anthony
Horderns'. Price
EASY TERMS; Deposit 35/-. 12 monthly payments of 27/7.
3 -Piece Oak Bedroom Suite
Three-piece Oak Bedroom
Suite, consisting of a 4ft.
wardrobe, all hanging
space, with flush doors;
/S/63
3ft. 3in. Dressing Table with three large drawers
and rimless adjustable mirror; 2ft. 6in. Chest of
Drawers fitted with four large drawers. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £9/5/-
TERMS: Deposit 18/6. 6 monthly payments of 28/6.
• Furniture, Third Floor. Delivered free within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address: 2712 C,
G.P.0., Sydney.


WEDDING BELLS AT COOLAWONGA
BY HAROLD MERCER
< < OU will find wide horizons, and your own
\ J horizons will widen,” his Bishop had said to
y John Petherick shortly before he set out on
C his work for the Mulga Brotherhood. There
was a twinkle in the Bishop’s eyes. He had been
a Mulga Brother himself in days long gone. Uncom-
fortably Petherick felt the seasoned ecclesiast was
chiding his narrowness.
Out here, in the great open spaces, there was
good work to be done, thought Petherick, with the
lust in his veins for activity, his youthful enthusiasm
driving him out further than ever the Brotherhood
had reached before.
Probably confusing the gladness with which the
Great Outback greeted any visitors, he had taken
the warmth of hospitality extended to him as a sign
of the eagerness with which the arrival of religion
was welcomed. Coming away from the Caseys, who
had hailed him with approval, he felt an exultation
in the work he was doing. That he had been able
to stir the religious pulses of the Caseys, members
of an alien flock, was an achievement. And now
the Berrimans had invited him to their homestead.
There was joy in the sun-languid air as his
horse paced along the track on which he had been
set. Petherick almost dozed in the saddle with the
tranquillity of the day. He was roused by sight of
a stir of dust on the horizon; a horse, hard-ridden,
was coming in a direction that would head him off.
He jogged his own horse moderately to meet the
stranger.
He was a boy growing out of half his clothes
and into manhood. “You’re the parson, aren’t you?”
he asked. “Glad t’ meet yer. Me name’s Egbert—
one of Jacob Holden’s sons. They heard you was
coming to the Caseys’ an’ goin’ on to the Berrimans’;
so they sent me out ter meet yer. The old man’d
be glad if you c’d give us a call.”
“I’ll only be too glad, Mr. Holden,” said
Petherick. “When I leave the Berrimans’ ”
“Our place is about sixty miles south-west of
the Berrimans’,” said the boy. He was already dis-
mounted ; stooping down, he made a plan of direc-
tions in the sand which was confusing to the Brother,
though the details burnt into his mind.
“Y’see,” said Egbert, “ ’Arold an’ Mildred ’as
been thinkin’ of gettin’ married for three or four
years, an’ Dad says you might come along an’ git
it over. Apart from that, we’d be glad ter see yer—
at least, that’s what Dad says.”
Petherick sensed a lack of enthusiasm in the
boy’s manner and resolved to overcome his sus-
picions. “I’ll come along, Egbert,” he said, mindful
of the value of familiarity. .
“They call me Egg,” said the lad.
“Right-oh, Egg!” said Petherick heartily. “I’ll
be along to do the marrying. Harold’s your brother,
eh?”
“Yairs.”
“And Mildred?”
“Millie? Oh, Millie was old ParkhanTs daughter.
Parkham tried to run Bletheroo but it broke him ;
and when he died he just left Millie, ’oo was only a
kid of nine. She came to live with us.”
“Ah, a boy and girl affair! She and Harold
have grown up together?” suggested Petherick.
“Yairs, that’s about it,” said Egg. “If Dad calls
the weddin’ for Monday, will that do?”
“I’ll be there,” said the Brother heartily. “Now,
are you coming along in my direction? If so”
“I’ll be goin’ to the Caseys’ ter give them an
invite,” said Egg. “You might tell the Berrimans to
come along.”
|T was in this manner that Petherick received his
1 invitation to Coolawonga; and when he arrived
there on Monday he was accompanied by the Berri-
man people in sulkies and on horseback. For all
that, it had struck him that the Berrimans, who had
treated him royally, had shown some reticence in
talking about the Holdens, as if there was a coolness
between the families. Holden, he learned, was a
man who had pushed out into the wilderness, and
had never gone back on his tracks further than the
nearest township. His first wife, who had shared
his early battling, had died; the friend who had come
out to nurse her in her illness had remained, and
was the present Mrs. Holden. Any coolness that
prevailed notwithstanding, it was something like a
cavalcade that had set off to the Holden holding,
quite satisfied that the informal invitation was a
comprehensive one.
Petherick was astounded, on his arrival, to find
the homestead surrounded by parked vehicles. Spread
out as it was, it looked quite a considerable con-
course, and Petherick wondered where, in these un-
peopled wastes, the people came from. The Caseys
were there, and others he had met; so apparently the
invitations had been broadcast on a wide range. As
the Berriman party added its numbers to the crowd,
a bearded giant, his whiskers slightly greyed but
vigorous in bearing, detached himself and
approached.
“’Ow do, Jake?” said Berriman. “This is Mr.
Holden. Brother Petherick.” After effecting the
introduction he turned away to let the pair transact
their business.
“Pleased ter meet yer, mister,” said the bearded
giant, grasping Petherick’s hand in a tremendous
paw. “We’re all ready, y’see, and waitin’. The beer
arrived just before you did,” he said, jerking his
thumb towards where men were rolling kegs from
a light wagon, “so there ain’t no reason to wait.
You might want a rest and a wash-up first; but ’ow
long will it be, d’you thjnk, before you get on with
the ’itching?”
“Well” began Petherick ; but a big youngish
man in many ways like the bearded giant but less
matured, who had been lurking irresolutely in the
background, stepped forward with an interruption.
“As long as it don’t ’ang over another night,” he
said. “I ain’t goin’ to ’ave it ’ang over another night.”
“Mind your own blarsted business, ’Arold,” cried
Holden.
"It's O.K., lady — I'm jist collectin' waste for the Lord Mare's Fund."
Hearing the name, Petherick turned, hand ex-
tended. “So this is the bridegroom?” he said. “I’m
pleased to meet you.”
“Yes; I’m the bridegroom,” said Harold, “an’ I
reckon this is my business. Ever since it was arranged
that me and Millie should get married they reckoned
it wasn’t right that we should sleep together till the
job was done.”
“That you should sleep” The Brother gasped
it questioningly.
“Shut up, ’Arold,” roared Holden.
“I ain’t going ter shut up,” retorted Harold
sullenly. “Millie gits nervous sleepin’ alone.”
“Your horizons will widen.” Petherick could
see the Bishop, who had been a Bush Brother, before
him again ; he began to understand the simile. He
was shocked and troubled.
“Mister Petherick,” said Holden, “ ’Arold has
give the show away; but we was going to make you
wise to it, anyway. These young people grew fond
of each other, as young people will. When we found
out what was going on we made up our minds
to get them married at the first opportunity. Now
you know the position: they’d ’ave been married
before, legal, if there’d been a parson ter marry
them. Being young, they didn’t wait fer the parson.
Does it make any difference to you?”
After the first shocked struggle in his mind
Petherick knew it wouldn’t; he murmured that in
taking the right course it was better late than never.
He realised the position ; and this bearded hero, who,
as even Berriman had said, with some admiration,
had fought with the wilderness and conquered it,
had sprung right into his heart. There was bigness
in the man, sincerity, charity, which unquestionably
gave a home to the orphan. If there had been some
forgetfulness, it was not for him to discourage the
desire to right the omission by any signs that would
embarrass these people.
He assured both Holden and Harold that he
would lose no time in getting to business, and was
taken within thd homestead, meeting and shaking
hands with many people on the way, to be introduced
to Mrs. Holden. She was a large and genial lady
who was busy on the preparations for a big-scale
festivity. She had to wipe floured hands to shake
the one Petherick extended.
“ ’Ow about ’oldin’ the weddin’ on the verandah
where the people can stand down below an’ look
on?” asked Holden. “If we ’old it in the ’ouse there’s
not more’n a dozen can get a good look-in.”
“That will do admirably,” said Petherick.
AN hour later he found himself, arrayed in the
surplice he carried with his few belongings, stand-
ing on the weather-beaten and sun-dried verandah
facing a queer concourse. The white garment was
the sole religious touch to a picture wholly pastoral,
even down to the horses and poddy calves that took
a curious interest in the outposts of the gathering.
Harold stood stiffly uncomfortable beside the small
table provided from the household furniture as an
altar, and decorated, with an idea that that was
appropriate, with a decanter of water and a glass ; but
his father, obviously much out of the habit of wearing
a coat, looked even more uncomfortable. There really
was a considerable prettiness about the bride, Mildred,
which not even the out-of-dateness of her simple frock
could mar. The normally comfortable Mrs. Holden
was in a “best” dress that had no doubt fitted her
once.
As Petherick prepared to open the service, the
crying of a baby which had for some time provided
a monotonous annoyance burst out more furiously.
Petherick, concerned at a tendency amongst the
junior members of the congregation to giggle at the
interruption, wondered why the mother did not quieten
her offspring or remove it out of hearing. The
interlude held up the proceedings, and Millie looked
anxiously back towards the house, whence the sound
came.
A moment it lulled, and Millie turned again
towards the Brother; but immediately the yells re-
started with a doubled energy.
“It’s not a bit of use!” Mrs. Holden spoke sud-
denly. “Millie, I told you that you would have to
fix the baby before the ceremony, an’ I’m sure, now,
the reverend gentleman won’t mind waiting while
you attend to it. It’s hungry, poor thing. You
wouldn’t mind, would you?”
In a dazed way Petherick heard Harold mutter
an appeal to “get the thing over and done with”
first; he knew that his face was a flaming scarlet
as he nodded his assent to a delay, and Millie hurried
away to her maternal duties. Petherick was little
more than a boy; it was natural for him to be
embarrassed. In any case, he had never heard of
such another occasion.


“I_l didn’t know there was a child,” he stam-
mered.
“We were going to tell you, of course,” said
Holden awkwardly, “but we thought it best to wait
until ’Arold and Millie was fixed up reg’lar.”
“I will have to christen the child.”
“We was going to ask you—after—to christen
the ’ole three of ’em,” said Mrs. Holden.
“Three? There are three?”
“The eldest is four,” said Mrs. Holden with
grandmotherly pride, “an’ all fine children, too.”
Petherick was suddenly ashamed of being
shocked. It was not for him to judge these people.
He could not estimate the difficulties that stood in
their way in getting to the religious aid which had
hitherto found it impossible to get to them. Enough
for him that they had taken this first opportunity.
The infant’s cries had died down and shortly
Millie returned ; and, without hitch, but with some
bashfuiness on the part of the couple, and some
scarcely-suppressed tittering amongst the onlookers,
the ceremony went forward. Brother Petherick sub-
sequently went right on with the business of the
christening, and found it a bigger one than antici-
pated ; for there were many children present who
had not been formally admitted to holy church.
Some of the children, filled with the terrors of
the mysterious, were anything but passive resisters,
and had to be caught and pacified before they were
sprinkled and given their names in a Christian fashion.
“It’s as bad as branding a lot of young colts,”
commented Holden. “ ’Ere, Parson, catch ’old.
Y’ throat must be dry after all that; a mug of this
beer won’t ’urt you.”
Normally Brother Petherick did not drink, but
he took the liquor gratefully, and became aware that
beer had become general. The congregation had
dwindled during the last of the christenings; he
found that the men had commenced a procession
to the shed in which the liquor had been stored.
Now trays and glasses and tin pannikins were being
brought to the women, and eatables to stay appetites
until the real feast began were handed round.
T'HE Brother, feeling that some work had been
* done that day, was warmed by the spirit of
fraternity that prevailed amongst these people. There
might be an undercurrent or so of petty envies and
jealousies, but they were submerged in the general
feeling of neighborliness. The events of the day
had supplied a reason for the reticence the Berrimans
had shown in speaking of the Holdens; but Petherick
liked to remember they had said no word that might
prejudice the Holdens in his eyes.
In the big shed, where the feast was spread on
improvised tables and where the now-boisterous
crowd was waited upon by a party of women volun-
teers who helped Mrs. Holden and Millie, merriment
prevailed, and grew when the speech-making started.
There was rough banter, but a surprising delicacy
was shown in important matters.
The first speeches were made in an embarrassed
fashion ; but shortly everybody waited to say a few
words ; and Holden himself, inspired by the praise
of someone who, after his first effort, had declared
that he “oughter be a member of Parlyment,” rose
time after time to propose some new health and offer
a few words. He was enjoying himself properly.
The crash of a portion of an improvised table
as someone leaned against it, and the nodding of
heads heavy with the effects of food, excitement and
beer, at length presaged the finish of the feast. Once
more Holden rose to his feet. “I wan’ your ’tension,
all of you! ” he roared with an urgency which wakened
the sleepers. “I think everyone’ll admit this weddin’
party’s been a great success.”
A hearty roar of approval endorsed the state-
ment ; but his hand was held up for silence.
“We gotter thank the pars’n fer bringin’ us
together like this” —there was a salvo of approval—
“an’ fer doin’ things which should be done.” There
was a more noisy assent.
“Everything’s been so successful that I gotter
important announcement to make. Me an’ the
missus wants you all not to hurry away ’ome” (loud
applause—there was general knowledge that there was
at least a cask of beer still unbroached). “We want
y’ all to stay for another ceremony!”
The announcement was so portentous that a
hush fell on the noisy gathering, all intensely in-
terested. Brother Petherick felt the interest himself
and leaned forward to hear the next words. They
brought the worst shock he had received in a ministry
he now fully realised was liable to be full of shocks.
“Yes,” said Holden earnestly. “The ceremony
havin’ proved such a success the missus and I have
decided to get married, too.”
OUT when, as they drove away, Berriman showed
I —' an inclination to be apologetic for his neighbors,
Brother Petherick felt nothing but gladness for a job
well done, joy that no signs of disapproval had
given embarrassment to the Holdens.
“Fine people, as you say,” he said. “Honesty,
charity, and a desire for the right in their hearts.
The wider horizon,” he added, with another memory
of the Bishop. %
Berriman looked at him curiously.
Australian Explorers
By J.H.M.A.
ONE hundred years ago, though much had
been done towards opening up the continent,
there were still many problems to be solved,
It was the question of finding an overland
route between the eastern colonies and the far-off
settlements on King George’s Sound and the Swan
River in the west which attracted Edward John Eyre,
...... . • j • o j
, * Yorkshireman, he arrived in Sydney as a lad
of 17 in 1833, and at once oun wor ro n g P
and cattle to the Riverma country and into Mitchell s
Australia Felix, sout o _ e _ Uira^ /r n . .i
took a mob of cattle from t e PP e r Ulta y
new colony in South Australia, setting out on a
westerly course past Castlemaine, and eventually fol-
lowing the Loddon down o e uiray, an s
Adelaide.
Afterwards he made a couple of notable expedi-
tions in South Australia—from Adelaide to Mount
Arden, north of the head of Spencer’s Gulf, and from
Port Lincoln to a point beyond Streaky Bay and
back to Mount Arden. He determined that the best
field of investigation lay northward of the South
Australian settlement.
“Done a hundred thousand and doesn't need a
retread."
I N the first months of 1840 Eyre was for a short
* time in Western Australia, and made a droving
trip with sheep from Albany to Perth. Then he re-
turned to Adelaide to organise an expedition to the
north, with the ultimate object of reaching the centre
of the continent. He undertook to bear a third of
the cost of this enterprise if the Government would
pay the rest of it, and started from Adelaide on June
18. He kept along the western slopes of the Flinders
Range, and reached Lake Torrens, which turned out
to be only a huge salt marsh. Making his way round
if through stony hills, he came to a similar sheet of
water, which now bears his name, and found that it
blocked his further progress to the north. Disgusted
with his failure, he decided somehow to make good
before returning to Adelaide, and out of this resolve
was born the plan of his historic journey across the
Bight. He turned south-west to Streaky Bay, and
presently pushed on to Fowler’s Bay, where he formed
a provision depot, while he considered the task that lay
before him of crossing the desert to the western coast,
The only hope he had of negotiating this barren
immensity of sand and limestone plain was by maintain-
ing communication with a ship that would keep pace
with him at sea ; but Governor Gawler, pressed for
money, would not allow the vessel on which Eyre had
depended for assistance at Fowler’s Bay to proceed
any further in an enterprise that seemed little more
than a madman’s dream.
Eyre decided still to tackle it. He sent back all
his men, with the exception of an assistant named
Baxter and three blackboys, and, with a few horses and
a handful of sheep, faced the desert. He started on
February 25, 1841.
The explorer notes, in the record of his travels
that the two older boys had for some time been show-
ing signs of disaffection and mutiny. “They con-
sidered it a hardship to be obliged to walk as long
as any horses were left alive, though they
saw those horses falling behind and perishing
from fatigue; they considered it a hardship, too,
to be curtailed in their allowance of food as long as
a mouthful was left unconsumed ; and, in addition
to this, they had imbibed the overseer’s idea that we
should never succeed in our attempt to get to the west-
ward, and got daily more dissatisfied at remaining idle
in camp while the horses were recruiting.”
A horse was killed for food, and the increased
forget privationB> so they
t a not j on that they cou i d do better for themselves
- f thgy pushed Qn tQ the westward ahead of the party .
All Eyre’s persuasions were useless, and after break-
fast on the mo rning of April 22 they picked up their
spears and sulkily went off. The youngest boy wanted
tQ gQ bm Eyre prevented him .
However, a few days in the desert was quite
enough, and they returned to camp at dusk on the
evening of the 25th. Eyre served them out with
SO me bread and meat and tea, telling them that if
they behaved well they would be treated as they had
been before, and would get their allowance of “tucker”
as j on g as j t j as ted.
Qn the 27th Eyre determined to push on, and to
leave the waterhole where they had rested for four
weeks. “We had now,” he says, “entered
upon the last fearful push which was to
decide our fate. This one stretch of bad
country crossed, I felt a conviction we should
be safe. That we had at least 150 miles to
go to the next water I was fully assured
of. ...We had lingered day by day, until it
would have been folly to have waited longer.”
THE party left camp early on the 29th,
passing over a rocky plain covered with
low scrub. They had only enjoyed two scanty
meals a day, at morning and evening, but
that day, after a halt in the early fore-
noon, they took their second repast at mid-
day, since Eyre intended to travel for the
greater part of the night, in order to avoid
the heat of the day. They resumed their
march at four o’clock, and halted again at
dusk, with the intention of pushing on after
midnight. And then tragedy came upon
them.
“Tonight,” wrote Eyre, “the overseer
asked me which of the watches I would keep,
and, as I was not sleepy, though tired, I chose
the first. At a quarter past six, I went to
take charge of the horses, having previously
seen the overseer and the natives lie down
to sleep, at their respective breakwinds, ten
or twelve yards apart from one another. The
arms and provisions, as was our custom, were
piled up under an oilskin, between my break-
wind and that of the overseer
“The horses fed tolerably well, but
rambled a good deal, until at last I hardly
knew where our camp was. It was now half-
past ten, and I headed the horses back in the
direction in which I thought the camp lay.”
As he stumbled along through the scrub, Eyre
was suddenly startled by a flash in the blackness
ahead, followed by the sound of a musket-shot, hardly
a quarter of a mile away. At first he thought that
Baxter had fired to attract his attention, and coo-eed —
but no answer came. He began to fear that something
was wrong, and, leaving the horses, started to run
towards the camp. He had hardly gone a hundred
yards when he met one of the black boys running
towards him, terrified.
Eyre found Baxter lying on the ground, “welter-
ing in his blood, and in the last agonies of death.”
The other two boys were gone ; they had plundered
the provisions and taken all the firearms except a
musket which had a charge jammed in the barrel and
a pair of pistols. Eyre was left alone with the native
boy, Wylie, in a truly desperate situation.
“Upon raising the body of my faithful but ill-
fated follower,” he wrote, “I found that he was beyond
human aid.... and he expired almost immediately
after our arrival.... At the dead hour of night, in
the wildest and most inhospitable wastes of Aus-
tralia... .1 was left with a single native, whose fidelity
I could not rely upon, and who for aught I knew
might be in league with the other tw0....
“Three days had passed away since we left the
last water, and it was very doubtful when we might
find any more. Six hundred miles of country had to
he traversed before I could hope to obtain the slight-
est aid or assistance of any kind,
For week after week Eyre and Wylie toiled across
the desert, until their rations were all gone and they
were almost at their last gasp. Then, just as their
end seemed imminent, they found a French whaling-
ship anchored in a small inlet. Rest and assistance
restored them, and Eyre finished his 1500 miles across
the most fearful of Australian wildernesses by arriv-
ing at Albany on July 7. Most magnificently had he
succeeded in accomplishing a feat that was completely
useless.


ROYAL
PURPLE, PARA
tPcd Himcf'la'ie mellcumeMandlfouc^uet
TILBURY FORT.
(From an Old Engraving .)
When the historian of the future comes to record events of peculiar import during the year 1940 to London and its sea approach, the
huge docks established at Tilbury, so familiar to all travelled Australians, will doubtless be the subject of reference. Whether brief or
the reverse is another matter, dependent on many things. But Tilbury in an especial sense strongly appeals to the past, and in such
form and manner as to stir sentiments of fervent patriotism. The fort, a slight distance n.-e. of the docks entrance, which Clarkson
Stanfield, who died in 1867, made known to most by his famous picture, illustrated here from an engraving, is really today “a relic
of antiquity.” How it came to be erected may be thus told. In 1539 three strange ships appeared in the Downs, “none knowing what
they were or what they intended to do,” so the idea of building a fort at Tilbury arose. Henry VIII, alarmed at the presence of
the vessels, had erected blockhouses and bulwarks at Gravesend, on the other side of the Thames. Tilbury is associated with the defeat
of the Armada. While that great battle was in progress, Elizabeth hied to the coast at Tilbury to lead her troops in case the enemy
should attempt a landing. An important camp had been established, and here, mounted on a charger, with a marshal’s baton in her hand,
she reviewed the soldiery, horse and foot, delivering a stirring address from which the following sentences are taken:
“Let tyrants fear. I have always so behaved myself that under God I have placed my chiefest strength and safeguard in the
loyal hearts and good will of my subjects, and, therefore, I am come amongst you as you see at this time, not for my recreation
and disport, but being resolved in the midst and heat of battle to live or die amongst you all —to lay down for my God and for
my Kingdom and you, my people, my honour and my blood even in the dust. I know I have the body of a weak, feeble woman,
but I have the heart and stomach of a King—a King of England, too, and think foul scorn that any Prince of Europe should dare
to invade the borders of my realm By your concord in the camp, and your valour in the field, we shall shortly have a famous
victory over these enemies of my God, of my Kingdom and of my people.”
Elizabeth at this time was 55 years old, and had already reigned thirty years. Some writers have questioned the visit to Tilbury. From
a literary standpoint, Tilbury Fort claims notice, as it was here Sheridan laid the scene of the burlesque tragedy embodied in “The Critic.”
Architecturally the gateway of the fort is said by some to suggest a resemblance to London’s once-famous Temple Bar.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3154.
July 24, 1940.
NOT INTERESTED IN THE PRAHPOSITION.
“A strong anti-war platform was adopted at the Democratic Convention.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
CHURCHILL v. HITLER.
A strange war it was called during the seven months’
lull yvhich succeeded the campaign in Poland, and a
strange wrnr it remains, though in a little over three
months Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium
and France were struck down. Strange for this reason,
among others: that, though it is being waged by two
of the most highly organised modern nations with
the marvellous weapons and machines which twentieth-
century science and invention have placed at their
service, the leaders on both sides have, at best,
eighteenth-century minds. In some respects Hitler’s
mind is not even eighteenth-century. When he gave
the order for hell to be let loose on the Dutch, a kin-
dred people who never harmed his Germans, his mind
worked like that of a Tilly or a Wallenstein, and the
destruction of Rotterdam was as savage as the destruc-
tion of Magdeburg.
Our Mr. Churchill is an eighteenth-century
romantic. His Grand Alliance, now no more, was
unadulterated Marlborough. An American admirer
has compared him with Chatham, and, though he has
hitherto been as unlucky in war as Chatham was lucky,
he must be credited with the gift of imposing his
ideas on his generation by dint of a dramatic
eighteenth-century eloquence which moved even the
London “Times” to come out with a Grand Alliance
article a month before the Grand Alliance was
shattered for all time. Withal he has a Chatham-like
pride and dauntless spirit. '
But he must have been in a very exalted mood
of eighteenth-century romanticism when the Polish
General Sikorski was brought to him from France on
June 18, the day after the French surrendered. “S. M.
Herald,” whose editorial and London offices seem to
be full of romantics, recounted what happened:
General Sikorski said: “Tomorrow I return to face
my army. What am I to tell them?”
Mr. Churchill replied: “Tell them that we are their
comrades in life and death. We shall conquer together
or die together.”
General Sikorski said: “That is all I want to know.”
The two leaders shook hands.
“That handshake,” said General Sikorski afterwards,
“meant more to me than any treaty of alliance or any
pledged word.”
Very pretty, but hopelessly out of date and out of
touch with grim realities. Characters and setting
changed, and a few beautiful uniforms thrown in,
the whole thing, language especially, would do for
a painting of Marlborough and Prince Eugene before
Blenheim. But London in July, 1940, with England
in peril of invasion and the Channel Islands aban-
doned to the enemy, is no place for highflown senti-
ment.
With all their attractive qualities the Poles seem
fated to be a subject race, with a residuum of ardent
patriots who prefer exile to subjection. In exile some
of them have done wonderful things.
“I like the Poles,” Napoleon said; “their enthu-
siastic temperament pleases me,” and his Polish legion
followed him till the end. No doubt Sikorski and his
men will repay British support of their cause with
equal devotion. But even Napoleon shrank from un-
doing the work of the royal and imperial jobbers
responsible for the three partitions. Though .he had
it in his power to reconstitute the Polish kingdom
within its pre-partition limits, all he did was to place
part of it under a grand duchy, with a minor German
king, one of his satellites, as grand duke.
If Mr. Churchill’s rhetoric means anything, it
means that he proposes to restore the Polish republic
as set up at Versailles, Corridor, Danzig and all, and
give it another guarantee, with no time limit. As in
the case of his offer of a political union to France,
he reckoned without the Dominions. Though the
Dominions did not formally protest against the offer
to France —there was little time for protest anyhow
—they would not have been bound by the political
union had it come off; and whatever the result of
the war they are certainly not going to be tied to
Poland for all time. Mr. Churchill has never under-
stood the Dominions, and he and his associates have
not even bothered to invite their Governments to join
an Imperial War Cabinet, much less to sit in the
Supreme War Council alongside the representatives of
Poland and Norway. The Dominions are twentieth-
century, and he can’t rise above his conception of them
as eighteenth-century colonies.
All the same Britain is obviously right in sticking
to him, despite the failure of all his alliances and cam-
paigns. Its steady support for him has an old Roman
touch; it recalls the Senate that gravely thanked the
general, oft-defeated by Hannibal, because he had
never despaired of the republic. That is the spirit that
defeats invasion, actual or threatened. And, although
the Dominions have every right to complain of their
exclusion from British councils, if the dropping of
Mr. Churchill is a condition of Hitler’s offer of peace,
if it is an offer of peace —he calls it “my last appeal
to England”—the reply from all the Dominions and
all the Empire is a thunderous No.
Napoleon has been mentioned; and Mr.
Churchill’s antagonist has apparently taken the
Emperor as his model. He has certainly some
Napoleonic characteristics, including the power to
inspire the blind loyalty of a whole people ; and as
an invader he has been as successful as Bonaparte,
and as ruthless. His present position is comparable
to that which Napoleon had reached in 1809, when
he was master of the Continent, but not of England
or the seas. Even then shrewd Frenchmen like Talley-
rand and Fouche were whispering to each other that
the dazzling edifice he had raised was rotten at the
foundations, and were making their plans accordingly.
Taine is only a name to the present generation
of English-speaking people, but it will be strange if
Frenchmen in their distress of mind are not turning to
him again. Unlike most historians and nearly all
novelists, Taine had no illusions about the men and
works of the so-called Great Revolution or about
France as reorganised by Napoleon. Writing 50 years
ago of “the machine of the year 1800,” he said it had
“shaped and fixed us as we are, for good or for ill; if,
for a century, it sustains us, it represses us for a cen-
tury ; we have contracted the infirmities it imports—
stoppage of development, instability of internal bal-
ance, disorders of the intellect and of the will; fixed
ideas and ideas that are false.”
The great institutions which date from the Consulate
and the Empire have not reached their historic
term; since 1800 the social order of things, notwith-
standing eight changes of political form, has remained
almost- intact. Our children or grandchildren will know
whether it will finally succeed or miscarry. Thus far
four acts of the drama only have been played; of the
fifth act, we have simply a presentiment.
Since June 10 “our grandchildren” and great-grand-
children and their well-wishers everywhere (among
whom is still the ally that was betrayed) have been
dazed spectators of the fifth act, and the ninth change
of political form is in progress.
In a masterly study of Napoleon, Taine shows
how he was the architect of his own destruction. “To
subjugate the Continent in order to form a coalition
against England, such are his means, which are as
violent as the end in view, while the means, like the
end, are prescribed to him by his imperious and
impatient character.”
This course, once entered upon, cannot 5t0p....A1l
the ports of his Empire are closed against the English,
which leads him to close against them all the ports of
the Continent, to organise against them the Continental
blockade, to proclaim .against them a European crusade
... .a sort of net of which he draws the meshes tighter
and tighter every day, stifling not only his home con-
sumer but the producer and the merchant.
And all this sometimes by a simple decree, with no
other alleged motive than his interest, his convenience
or his pleasure, brusquely and arbitrarily, and with
violations of international law, humanity and hospi-
tality ; with what abuses of power, by what a tissue
of brutalities and knaveries, with what oppression of
the allied and despoiling of the vanquished, by*what
military brigandage exercised over populations in time
of war, by what systematic exactions practised on them
in fynes of peace, it would take volumes to describe.
Accordingly, after 1808, these populations rise against
him. He has so deeply injured them in their interests
and hurt their feelings to such an extent; he has
so trodden them down, ransomed and forced them into
his service; he has destroyed so many lives that nations
are still more hostile to him than sovereigns. Unques-
tionably, with such a character, nobody can live; no
barrier will restrain him; no treaty will bind him; peace
with him will never be other than a truce.
And if the war of 1812 against Russia had been a
triumph instead of a disaster, thh final result would
have been the same. There would have remained
“at best”
A European empire secretly mined by European re-
sistance ; an exterior France forcibly superposed on the
enslaved Continent; French residents and commanders at
St. Petersburg and Riga as at Danzig, Hamburg, Amster-
dam, Lisbon, Barcelona and Trieste; the entire male
population devoted to works of constraint... .as subal-
tern myrmidons and petty tyrants, raising contributions,
confiscating and burning merchandise, seizing grumblers
and making the refractory toe the mark In 1810,
160,000 of the refractory were already condemned by
name and penalties were imposed on their families to
the amount of 170,000,000 francs. In 1811 and 1812
the roving columns gathered 60,000 fugitives and drove
them along the coast from the Adour to the Niemen.
They desert at the rate of 4000 or 5000 a day.
Should England be conquered, garrisons would have
to be maintained there.
England was not conquered, and it will not be con-
quered by Hitler. The same forces which proved too
much for Napoleon are working against the German
dictator, and working with greater intensity, since
nationality, overseas trade, exchange of goods by land
routes and interdependent finance count for far more
than they did in Napoleon’s time.
Successful invasion is a simple business compared
with the task of making it profitable and permanent.
That may be possible in primitive parts of Africa,
Asia and South America, or even in backward parts
of Europe inhabited by a hotchpotch of races accus-
tomed to the boot or the knout; it is impossible in the
case of intelligent, spirited, resourceful nations like the
Dutch and the French. Nor in the thwarting of it will
it be necessary for resistance to take violent forms.
Social boycotts, deliberate industrial slackness, non-
co-operation bitterer and more ingenious than
Gandhi’s —these may be sufficient. Already the
Dutch seem to have entered upon a course of action
designed to make life unbearable for the garrison
troops and to bring it home to their masters that
conquest will never That brave pastor who said
to his mourning flock We are gathered together to
conduct a service for the 300 dead of Rotterdam, of
whom 800 died in this parish, lighted a fire which no
Hitler, Goebbels or Goring will ever put out.
The thing that amazed Metternich most about
Napoleon was that, with all his genius, he should have
had such utterly false notions of England and the
English. Notions as false are entertained by Hitler.
The English mind is a sealed book to him. “Even
today,” he said to the Reichstag on Friday, he cannot
understand why the English will not be friends with
him; “even at this hour I consider it my duty to
relieve my conscience and to direct my last appeal
to England , as a victor proposing a reasonable
peace, not as a victor demanding the capitulation of
the vanquished,” he asks England to stop the war.
“K England masts on continuing the war,” its fate will
be terrible, a world Empire will be destroyed, and
Mr. Churchill will have to take refuge in Canada. The
terms of his “reasonable peace he did not disclose.
When he threatens the British Commonwealth he
merely wastes his breath. Yet it should not be left
a 8.8. C. spouter, instructed by the rather exploded
Mr. Duff Cooper, to give him his answer (“We throw
appeal back in your teeth, Herr Hitler”) Any
' appeal or approach from the enemy, at whatever
stage it is made and whatever the language in which it
.• w? hk Tt J Tin W ‘ U
Cabinet piesided ovei by his Majesty the King.
Knights in Conflict.
In Sydney and other capitals Hitler’s war became
back-page stuff last week. It was pushed off the front
pages for days together, preference being given to a
conflict of newspaper knights and esquires with an-
other knight of the fountain-pen whose friends con-
fidently expect him to become a newspaper baron.
While it raged Another Cabinet Crisis loomed up, and
in the end the Prime Minister was Forced to Bow
to Public Opinion, which he did —as always—with
the air of a Superior Person humoring the feeble-
minded.
The barney goes back to the establishment of
the Department of Information. It was Mr. Gullett’s
idea, and, as an old pressman and historian of parts,
Mr. Gullett should have known better. But no Aus-
tralian Government is ever happier than when setting
up a department or appointing a board or commission,
so Mr. Gullett had his way. A large staff, in which
there were frequent changes, was assembled to bring
the Truth to the Masses, and to shrug its shoulders
when the Minister of External Affairs chipped in, as
he did frequently, to give the masses the Truth as he
saw it, after imperfectly digesting 8.8. C. reports and
soaking himself in the cables.
The Gullett regime met its Waterloo when Mr.
Beasley, who leads the non-Com. Labor group, ac-
cused Mr. Stewart’s Supply Department of loafing
on its munition-making job, and Mr. Gullett’s depart-
ment censored him. There had been previous alarums
and excursions among the newspaper knights and
esquires, and with a fierce cry of “non-combatants
and asses to the rear” they formed in line and charged.
Sydney “Telegraph” reported the victory in advance.
With characteristic modesty it wrote that “the big
newspapers of Australia this week finally showed
they would no longer tolerate the helplessness of the
Information Department under Sir Henry Gullett.
They demanded he be sacked and welcomed sugges-
tions that Sir Keith Murdoch, managing director of
the Melbourne ‘Herald’ and its chain, should be
appointed director of the department.” That was at
the beginning of June.
Bowing to Public Opinion, Mr. Menzies appointed
Mr. Murdoch Director-General of Information and
announced that he would be “personally responsible
to the Prime Minister.” Mr. Murdoch was to “present
the progress of the war in its true colors,” to keep the
people informed of Australia’s effort and of what
their war-time duties were, and to “organise com-
mittees and groups to create a sound public
psychology.” Mr. Murdoch, for his part, invoked the
aid of “the newspapers,” those “vast organisations of
skilled and patriotic men.”
It is in nobody’s mind that criticism is to be stifled.
We want constructive criticism based on actualities....
Nor am I to be an apologist or a transmitter. The
Prime Minister does not want that.
The newspapers were delighted. The “Telegraph”
gave the Director-General credit for “great organising
and driving ability.” Ignorant meddling and stupid
suppression were things of the past; censorship would
now be in the hands of a trained journalist and man of
affairs who had made his mark by defying the censor-
ship imposed by Sir lan Hamilton in Gallipoli. What
did it matter if the “information” broadcast under the
new control was mostly stale and the comment with
which it was interlarded pointless? Murdoch was
their man and the man.
Then like a bolt from the blue came a series of
National Security regulations issued by the Murdoch-
controlled department and signed, not by the Prime
Minister, but by the Minister of External Affairs. The
powers of the department were defined. They in-
cluded general censorship of newspapers, periodicals,
films and broadcasts, with “any other matters speci-
fied by the Governor-General.” The Director-General
was authorised to require any newspaper or periodical
to publish any statement or matter supplied by him,
“in such space or part and manner of publication as
he might determine,” and to cancel, without compen-
sation, any advertising or other contracts which might
stand in the way of the departmental pronouncements.
He was to have the same powers in respect of all
broadcasting stations and cinema theatres.
Forthwith, to Mr. Murdoch’s vast astonishment,
all hell broke loose. Mr. Murdoch was likened to
Goebbels and other unpleasant characters. The vast
newspaper and radio interests which had been held to
warrant his appointment were now hurled at him as a


reproach. In vain he protested that he “hated sup-
pression” and would “much prefer to correct some
bad position by a statement of the truth which would
answer and destroy the untruth,” and that the depart-
ment would use its powers of compulsion “very little.”
All the knights and esquires, save his own retainers,
charged again, and they were joined by everyone they
could rope in—State Premiers, rank-and-file politicians,
professors, lecturers, feminists, parsons, mayors,
Labor Council worthies ( they promptly made the thing
an excuse for vetoing the trade-union advisory panels),
even Communists.
And the political reactions became serious for
the Government. Though Cabinet was in session in
Sydney when the regulations were issued, its members,
other than Mr. Menzies and Mr. McEwen, were
apparently not apprised of what was about to be done.
Mr. Cameron, though Deputy P.M., evidently knew
nothing of it. Certainly Mr. Thorby, who controls
broadcasting and the transmission of newspapers
through the post, was not informed.
Mr. Thorby objected. He was reported to have
“had a violent argument with the Prime Minister” and
to have said “The Governor-General swore me in,
and nobody but the Governor-General will swear me
out, if I am to go out.” For the moment it seemed
likely that, for the first time in his career, Mr. Thorby
would be taken to the bosoms of editors whose terms
for him have for years been limited only by the libel
laws ; but as soon as he denied the statement attributed
to him some of them were at him again.
Faced with the probability of a Country-party
secession from his Government, and with the opposi-
tion of those U.A.P. members who never run counter
to any agency of publicity, Mr. Menzies “reconsidered
the matter.” Mr. Murdoch was requested to “redraft
the regulations.” This Mr. Murdoch did ; but whether
he will be able to keep his job is doubtful.
On Sunday, with consummate insolence, the
“Telegraph” came out with a violent attack on Mr.
Murdoch, and—working up a little domestic tragedy
on his own account —Mr. Fink, chairman of directors
of the Murdoch concern, condemned the regulations,
lock, stock and barrel, dissociated himself from “the
views expressed” in his own publications and com-
placently recalled that he had once written an anti-
referendum article which “smashed the referendum in
three States.” To the general body of newspapermen
-knights and esquires excepted—the whole business
was vastly amusing, especially the pretence that “the
people of Australia defeated the most impudent and
alarming attempt to restrict democracy they had ever
suffered.” What was defeated was an outrageous
attempt at government by newspaper. Government
by newspaper was tried and found wanting at the
first test. That, for the public, is the real significance
of the hectoring demands for Mr. Murdoch’s appoint-
ment, of the despotic use which he tried to make of it,
and of the fury with which his press pals turned on
him when they thought their own precious interests
were threatened.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maoriland Leads Again.
Maoriland has given this overgoverned Common-
wealth, confused by its multitude of counsellors, an-
other lead. It has settled its party difficulties and
secured political unity of purpose regarding the war.
On July 9 the Parliamentary Labor party issued
a statement to the effect that it was anxious to see
political unity brought about without delay. And
the following week-end brought a War Cabinet of five
members —Prime Minister Fraser, Defence Minister
Jones, Finance Minister Nash, Opposition-leader
Hamilton and ex-Priminister Coates.
The War Cabinet will have one job and one job
only— to make war. The ordinary Cabinet will func-
tion on all other matters in the ordinary way and, for
all purposes other than war, the Opposition will
remain in being.
The first among our seven Governments of
equals acted along different lines. Cabinet decided
that a letter should be sent to Mr. Curtin offering his
party six seats in a National Cabinet. Then, of
course, there was a conference, held in Melbourne.
The Government was represented by Messrs. Menzies,
Cameron, Hughes and Spender —Mr. Thorby was to
have been there but couldn’t come —and Labor by
Messrs. Curtin, Forde, Scullin, Holloway and Senator
Keane.
Labor found itself unable to accept. Mr. Curtin
remarked that he could not see how a minority of
Labor men in the Cabinet could alter the essential
character of the Menzies-Cameron Government;
furthermore, entry into a national Government would
deprive Labor of a voice and the country of an Oppo-
sition which is serving a useful critical purpose.
The Labor representatives pressed for the forma-
tion of a National War Council. This was not accept-
able to the Government on several grounds. The
main one was that much of the information passing
between Governments of the British Commonwealth
could not be divulged save to responsible Ministers ;
that the proposed Council must have this informa-
tion if it were to be effective and useful; and that it
could serve no useful purpose unless it were given
executive powers, in which case it would become a
de facto Cabinet without electoral responsibility.
Labor’s suggestion nevertheless seems to leave the
way open for a compromise such as has been arrived
at in one-Parliament Maoriland. That would give the
Opposition a share in the implementing of major war
objectives on which Mr. Curtin admits that there is
already agreement, and leave it free for useful Parlia-
mentary work on all other questions. It also would
give the Labor leaders what they do not now possess
—full knowledge of war matters and opportunities of
putting a brake on proceedings which they consider
to be inimical to Labor.
The very smallness of a War Cabinet such as
Maoriland has achieved and its unity of purpose would
rob it of its party character.
Friends All Round.
By a happy coincidence, there arrived in Australia last
week the Australian-born Mr. Peter Russo, Professor
of English at Tokyo University, bearing a goodwill
message from Prince Konoye, president of the Society
for International Cultural Relations, and Mr. Clarence
Gauss, bearing a goodwill message from Mr. Roose-
velt. During the same week, by a coincidence equally
happy, Prince Konoye was named Premier of Japan
and Mr. Roosevelt was nominated for a third term by
the Democratic Convention.
Mr. Gauss, a veteran of the United States
diplomatic service, has come as Envoy Extraordinary
and Minister Plenipotentiary, and is to establish a
Legation at Canberra. In presenting his credentials to
the Governor-General he said: “The President has
charged me to convey his best wishes for the well-
being of his Majesty and for the prosperity of Aus-
tralia.” Prince Konoye’s message, addressed “to the
people of Australia,” referred to “the world” being
“divided into opposing camps” and laid stress on the
need for renewing “our faith in the efficacy of inter-
national cultural understanding as a way to lasting
peace and common prosperity.”
Washed by the waters of the Pacific, neighbors in this
sphere of the future are Australia and Japan, two vital,
dynamic countries whose cultural co-operation can do
much to foster the cause of universal enlightenment
through the peaceful mediums _of art and science.
Japan gladly invites her neighbor, Australia, to co-
operate in this cultural mission for the promotion of
international goodwill and the betterment of the human
race.
The week was made further memorable by a settle-
ment of the Burma Road difficulty for at least three
months. The British Government has agreed to pro-
hibit the carriage of arms, ammunition, petrol, lorries
and railway material to China for the three months.
They are all foreign (chiefly Russian and American)
goods and are carried to Rangoon in foreign bottoms.
Mr. Cordell Hull, the U.S. Secretary of State, saw fit
to object to the agreement as an “unwarranted inter-
position of obstacles to world trade.” But, immersed
in a quarrel which is taxing all its energies, the British
Commonwealth cannot be expected to accept another
for the maintenance of a traffic in which its interests
are so -small and foreign interests are so large. If
foreign interests are bent on maintaining this traffic,
it is for them to take the responsibility.
The Democrats’ foreign-affairs plank, as decided
upon at Chicago, was another disappointment. It con-
sists of six points, and three express the “determina-
tion” of the party to keep out of “foreign wars.” The
sixth promises “aid to the beleaguered democracies, so
far as American laws permit, and subject to the limi-
tations regarding the keeping of American forces
within the Western Hemisphere,” which sounds chilly.
Nevertheless, Mr. Roosevelt’s actions all through
the war have spoken louder than the words of most of
his followers, Senator Pepper excepted, and even if he
is defeated —which at the moment does not seem likely
—he will have 31 weeks in which to go on honoring
his pledge that “every week will see additional
material, aeroplanes, artillery and munitions, on the
way to the allied nations.” His nobly-phrased speech
accepting the nomination encourages the hope that
he will not weaken.
Australians are a friendly people, and, along with
an early and honorable conclusion of the struggle in
which they are engaged, as loyal partners in the British
Commonwealth, the preservation of peace in the
Pacific is their dearest aspiration in the domain of
foreign politics. They want to be friends with all
their neighbors: the United States, Japan, the Nether-
lands East Indies and China ; Russia, too, if Moscow
will abandon its unrealisable dream of capturing this
country for Communist imperialism and deliver it
from agents of disruption and trumpeters of sedition.
Mr. Russo suggests the sending of a Minister Pleni-
potentiary to Tokyo, and this should be done without
any more delay. In any case, Australians welcome his
mission and the presence among them of Mr. Gauss,
and reciprocate the sentiments expressed by their dis-
tinguished principals.
Japan, China and Australia.
“Feng-Shui” looks back and forward:-
The Burma issue concerns the use of a road built to
form a link between Chiang Kai-shek’s forces and the outside
world for the transport of munitions. It follows a terrible
track once used by Marco Polo. Wandering coolie paths
connect China with Russia. They are the only other routes.
Why Chiang wants munitions is apt to be forgotten.
When the Europeans first came to Japan the Japanese
were a nation of artists and craftsmen who had been isolated
from the world for centuries. They didn’t like the preoccupa-
tion of the foreigners with business. What they wanted to
preserve was the culture that Europe admired as much as they
did. But in opposing European aggression they turned them-
selves into a nation of businessmen and soldiers, like the
people they were opposing.
It became necessary for them to expand, and China was
the convenient area for their expansion. The Chinese were
a nation of philosophers and craftsmen, and the philosophers
and craftsmen had taught the Japanese all they knew about
art and living. But in opposing Japanese expansion the
Chinese have simply repeated the Japanese experience. They
are now a nation of factory workers, businessmen and soldiers
who are doing their utmost to make themselves as like the
Japanese as it is possible to imagine. Their one desire is to
turn their country into a gigantic arsenal with a military
dictatorship. Why on earth should Australia or any other
country assist them in this endeavor?
There is no indication that the Japanese have designs on
Australia, but there is every indication that they want to go on
with what they are doing in China. The people in Australia
who are always wanting to do good to other countries say
that we cannot desert China. But China isn’t doing any good
to herself in the way she is going, and to help her is like
helping an individual to walk over a precipice under the
impression that he is taking a walk over a delightful meadow.
If China fails the Chinese may go back to their arts and
crafts and start doing a bit of thinking. If China succeeds
there will be another great world Power with an army and
navy and 400 million people herded in mass-production
factories making munitions.
If that is the result the people who want to _do good to
China want, there is no reason why they shouldn’t go ahead;
but they should at least be asked if they know what they
are doing.
"Reducing the Deficit."
Members of the superfluous N.S.W. Government
which, in the eleventh month of the war, can find
nothing for its alleged Parliament to do have fallen
into the habit of guessing at the amount of the annual
loss, which they all call “the deficit.” Mr. Mair,
the Premier “without portfolio,” was first in with his
guess this year ; he said he was “pleased” to state that
“the deficit” had been “reduced to £2,213,000.” Then
his Treasurer, Mr. Richardson, came to light with his
guess- —£2,245,000. Other Ministers will probably
weigh-in with guesses in Tamworth by-election
speeches. In the fullness of time the Auditor-General
will report that they were all wrong and that, as far
as he can disentangle the facts from the maze of
muzzy accounts, the accumulated deficiency was in-
creased by £2,800,000 to £36,340,000.
With noble unanimity Ministers and officials (not
the Auditor-General) swear that the “deficit” would
have been “reduced” far more but for the coal strike,
but here again their guesses differ. Mr. Mair says the
strike cost the Treasury a million. Mr. Richardson
thinks it made a difference of £750,000 or so. Mr.
Garside places “the loss of [railway] revenue due to
the coal strike at £800,000,” though he admits that
railway revenue for the year was “£19,950,000, a
record” —receipts for 1(138-39 amounted to £19,146,000,
an annual grant of £BOO,OOO from the taxes being in-
cluded in each case. Each of the gentlemen blithely
expects the public to believe that his £750,000,
£BOO,OOO or £1,000,000 would have been all profit.
Mr. Garside is Assistant Commissioner of Rail-
ways. He handsomely admits that “the railway
accounts show a deficit of about £400,000 for the
year”—that is £400,000 plus the £BOO,OOO from the
Treasury —but “it is entirely misleading,” he declares,
“to speak of this as a loss.” Taxpayers never think
of it as “misleading” when they consider the imposts
exacted from them ; and they were stung for another
£4,000,000 last year. The Auditor-General’s last bald
account of the situation was that for 14 years to
June 30, 1938, “losses” amounting to £23,164,100 had
“accumulated” (with over £3,000,000 to be added
for the subsequent period), and every year he men-
tions that “insufficient provision has been made for
depreciation,” and that “operating expenses have been
temporarily relieved by loan expenditure” ; in other-
words, the “accumulated losses” were understated.
That something is radically wrong is shown by
the department’s 1938-39 report on its refreshment
rooms. In this field it has a monopoly for which
private people in the same business would pay big
money even without the department’s privileges—on
city stations it sells smokes and sweets at all hours,
and on country stations it sells liquor long after the
statutory closing time. Yet on a turnover of
£640,387, it made a loss of £1866, and that without
paying a cent in rates —it never pays income tax.
.<►_ .
Farmers and the War.
Long thoughts of “Sundercut” : — -
While a conference of N.S.W. farmers at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College was demanding a lead from the State
Government as to what was required of farmers in the war
effort, another conference of soldier-settlers in Victoria was
urging its Government to confer with the other States
and the Commonwealth on the same subject.
Meantime a book, Feeding the People in War-time,
reached Australia from Britain. It was written by Sir John
Orr, “an outstanding authority on food and nutrition,” and
“there is evidence to suggest that the Minister for Food has
been largely influenced by his ideas.”
The writer contends that the most efficient way of feeding
Britain in war-time is to produce an increased volume of
home-grown milk, vegetables, oatmeal and potatoes. To
supplement these the necessary imports would be, in order of
preference, butter, fats and tallow, cheese, dried fruits, sugar,
bulk wheat, bacon, frozen beef, eggs in shell. In none of
them has Australia a monopoly.
Sir John Orr urges that such a plan should operate for
the duration and three years after, and that shipping space
occupied by imported foodstuffs could thus be reduced from
20,000,000 to 5,000,000 tons.
This doesn’t make good reading for Australia, whose
farmers had got the idea that Britain would need all they
could produce and was ready to pay for it.
Far too many people have persistently misunderstood the
nature of the various farm-produce agreements between Britain
and Australia. As "Minister for Commerce Cameron has
pointed out, Britain has agreed to take butter, meat, bacon
and eggs within stated limits, which may be exceeded at the
wish of the British Government. They have been exceeded in
butter and eggs, and probably in meat.
But Britain is not committed to take all our surplus,
as so many fondly imagine. The position of wheat need
scarcely be gone into, apart from the reminder that Aus-
tralia has a vast surplus stored, another harvest (not promis-
ing) approaching, and little hope at present of disposing of
the surplus to Britain.
Aware of these things farmers should ask themselves in
what way their State or Federal Governments can give them
a lead, apart from vague mumblings about “long-range plans”
of the type that emanate from State Premiers and their
exploded predecessors. They might also ask themselves who
is responsible for the press piffle concerning women’s land
armies, girl jackeroos and proposed “guarantees” against
flirtation. .... ~
The average farmer is a thoughtful cove generally able
to see a hole in a ladder. He should not be deluded by these
demands for “plans” from a plethora of Governments which
are mostly unnecessary and chiefly distinguished for then-
own barrenness of ideas.
Plainly, nobody is better fitted than the farmer himself
to market his products, and where he relies on private
enterprise to act as his agent both parties are generally the
better for it, because the private agent is out to make a
profit and is constantly on the lookout for new buyers. The
Government servant, on the other hand, gets his salary what-
ever happens and is too frequently the servant (though some-
times a rebellious one) of party politics and vested interests.
If Britain cannot take all our produce other markets must
be found and the home market expanded. The best people
to do this are the farmers themselves; it is time they stopped
appealing to politicians and got down to running their own
affairs.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Craiser”: The other Sunday our P.M.
attended a centenary thanksgiving meet-
ing of the British and Foreign Bible
Society in Melbourne. With the con-
viction of an Oxford man—-or is
it Cambridge?—Archbishop Head pro-
nounced centenary “cen-teen-ary.” The
Governor was seen to stiffen, and
when he arose he corrected the
archbishop by saying “cen-ten-ary.”
Then Mr. Menzies got upon his legs. “I
agree with the Governor,” he remarked,
“that ‘cen-teen-ary’ is sheer affectation.
I also agree with the Archbishop that
‘cen-ten-ary’ is vulgar. But both are
wrong. As you all know very well, the
correct pronunciation is ‘cent-e nary.’ ” It
seems rummy that, on the eve of the
threatened invasion of the heart of the
Empire, three leaders of the forces
pledged to save civilisation from the
abyss should solemnly debate philological
problems in public. But that’s the Eng-
lish way.
*l*
“X.S.”: Six months ago an expectant
mother brought a claim for £3OOO against
the driver of a lorry which had killed
her husband, and named her coming baby
as one of the aggrieved parties. Learned
counsel debated the point as to whether
an unborn baby could be regarded as
a person. The mother’s counsel claimed
that if she were the only litigant the baby’s
rights would be neglected, and that
both mother and baby were equally con-
cerned in the loss of their breadwinner.
Opposing counsel argued that if the baby
failed to be delivered the defendants
might find themselves meeting the claim
of a non-existent individual. Stay of
proceedings was granted, the happy event
duly occurred, and last week the mother
was allocated £7OO and her three-weeks-
old infant £3OO. It must have been the
youngest litigant in Victorian history.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Under the auspices of the
Australian Council of Educational Re-
search, investigation is being made in
Vic. into the intellectual relationship of
twins. Those in charge of the research
are anxious to make contact with like-
sex twins who were separated before they
were aged 10 years and who have lived
apart for some years. In my experience,
twins who live together are a much more
interesting study, and there are numerous
examples who have gone to great lengths
to keep together during the whole of their
lifetime. There was a pair of twin
brothers who occupied different houses in
the same street in a Melbourne suburb.
They invariably caught the same train
and sat together, wore identical suits of
clothes, and when one changed the color
of his tie the other did likewise. They
wore their hair in exactly the same
fashion, had exactly the same vocabulary
and the same way of speaking. Whenever
they walked into a room together the
extraordinary resemblance between them
became the main topic of conversation.
Consequently being together had pleasant
associations for them. When one died
the other followed him a couple of weeks
later.
* * # *
“Strict Veg.”: When Clyde Fenton,
the flying doctor, was a medical student
at Melb. Uni. he attended a dinner at
Newman, an annual affair. All the nota-
bilities sat at the top of the table, and
at that end there were bottles of wine. At
the bottom end sat the students, and there
the only beverage was water. Fenton
and a fellow-undergraduate, now a legal
light, felt this to be an injustice and put
their heads together. Dr. Mannix was at
the head of the table. They asked a waiter
to fetch a tray with a decanter of water
on it, scribbled on a piece of paper
“Lord, we now want wine,” and told
the waiter to present the decanter and
the note to the archbishop. But they
didn’t get any wine.
* * * *
“Ologist”: In Compton Mackenzie’s
The South Wind of Love a New York
“ If you don't get a wire you'll know I ain't got through."
hotel manicure girl taunts an Englishman
with being a “Cissie” because he was “so
quiet” during a taxi ride. That’s the
first time I’ve seen so spelt the slang
word, of U.S. origin and now in general
currency in English-speaking countries,
for an effeminate man or boy. The
“Cissie” spelling can be ruled out, but
which is correct of the common forms —
“sissy” or “cissy”? The Bulletin, I
notice, is doubtful on the matter, and
prints it sometimes “sissy” and some-
times “cissy.” IVty preference is for
“sissy,” and I have the solid dictionary
backing of Webster and the Shorter
Oxford, neither of which gives “cissy”
even as a variant. The word comes from
“sis,” the abbreviation of “sister,” and
is both a noun and an adjective (“I never
smoke that sissy stuff,” says a Mexican
character in B. Traven’s The Bridge in
the Jungle, referring to a widely-adver-
tised brand of U.S. cigarettes). It has
also such derivatives as “sissyish” and
“sissify.”
“Wodgil”: I read in a Great Daily
that the French Chief of State or chair-
warmer for some king or other has taken
to issuing decrees beginning with the
words “I, Philippe Petain.” “Henri
Philippe Benoni Omer Joseph Petain,” it
should be. I read also that the Admiral
commanding in the Mediterranean
described how his light cruisers “con-
tacted” the enemy in the engagement of
July 9. The verb “to contact” is bar-
barous journalese, and I don’t believe a
British admiral would descend to it; he
would use “made contact with.” If Great
Dailies must economise on their cables,
they should stop inflicting on us the im-
pertinences of the “News-Chronicle” and
the imbecilities of Lord Strabolgi and
Madame Tabouis, instead of going in for
“improvements” which make elderly
purists and sticklers for accuracy like my-
self leap with rage.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The title of a Melbourne
eatery has seen some vicissitudes since
the outbreak of hostilities. It was then
the “Hamburger,” which was a necessary
descriptive label for its wares. Then the
exigencies of war changed it to “French
Hamburger.” If the proprietor plays for
safety the next change should be in the
direction of “Eskimo Hamburger.”
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Whenever I see veteran
actor George Willoughby doing his
promenade down Pitt-street, I am re-
minded of the only instance when a show
that didn’t happen got a full-sized review
in an Australian metropolitan paper. The
Willoughby-Geach Co. was due to open
at Sydney Cri. on a Saturday night in
“The Wrong Mr. Wright,” but the
bubonic plague, which had just broken
out, seized two of its actresses, and one
died suddenly on Saturday morning.
That night the Cri. was in quaran-
tine and there was no show —weeks
later the opening was at the Palace.
But a Sunday paper, which went
to. press on Saturday morning to catch
the trains for country distribution, pub-
lished a full review (based on a dress
rehearsal) of the show that didn’t come
off. It was quite an excusable journalistic
faux pas, but Sydney chuckled over it
for weeks.
$ sf: $ . $
“O. W. Waireki”: I watched some
youngsters playing in a paddling pool.
Among them was Ikey, our pawnbroker’s
son, lying flat on his back in the shallow
water, only his nose showing above the
surface. “What’s he doing?” I asked.
“We’re playing navies,” a nipper near by
informed me, “an’ Ike’s our submarine
because he’s got the best periscope.”
# * * *
“Rep”: A new sort of confidence trick
came to light the other day when a
person alleged to be idle and disorderly
was awarded three months for vagrancy
at Katoomba (N.S.W.). It seems that this
gent, introduced a little variety into an
otherwise dull life by fainting on rail-
way stations, being taken to hospital, and
thus securing quite a lot of free transit
and accommodation. The fainting trick
was invariably staged on railway stations
at the moment the trickster was asked to
produce his ticket.
* H= * *
“Ex-Vic.”: In these troublous times
there is so little to laugh about that the
reactions of the Sydney dailies to the
announcement of the dictatorial powers
conferred upon Keith Murdoch, whom
they all buttered when he was appointed,
was “money from home” to a multitude
of readers, who don’t take these organs
with the deadly seriousness with which
they take themselves. It was reserved
for the “D.T.” to discover that the hated
city of Melbourne was to blame:
The Government, isolated in Melbourne,
has put itself and its advisers out of touch
with the most vital section of Australian
opinion.... Melbourne people are more
docile than we to the official viewpoint.
Swaddled in that atmosphere, the Govern-
ment resents such vital demands for action
as it receives from N. S. Wales.
So far I have received no confirmation
of the rumor that the “D.T.’s” readers
have been warned not to attempt the
march on Melbourne which this stirring
exposure led them to contemplate. Much
better leave that docile city to the tender
care of Mudrake the Magician.
* * * *
“Greaser”: In 1813 a British engineer
named John Dickson conceived the
notion (correct) that there must be
an opening for a steam engine in N.S.W.,
just beginning its development under
Macquarie. He was the owner of one of
James Watt’s “Sun and Planet” engines,
and he shipped himself and his machinery,
together with a sawmilling plant, to Syd-
ney. Macquarie granted him 15 acres
of land close to the upper waters of
Cockle Bay (Darling Harbor), where
Dickson set up his steam engine, and on
May 29, 1815, it was set going as
the motive agent of a flourmill. Syd-
ney in those days was surrounded with
windmills, none of them capable of
grinding more than 70 bushels of wheat
a week, but Dickson's steam mill could
deal with 10 bushels an hour. The engine
had an astonishingly long life. A new
cylinder was cast for it in 1835, and
nearly 70 years afterwards Norman Selfe,
civil engineer, wrote that “a very anti-
quated beam engine is still working at
Dickson’s mill, and it is said that some
of the original condenser and other parts
are in the foundation yet.” Dixon-street
in the Darling Harbor neighborhood is
named, with characteristic Sydney his-
torical inaccuracy, in honor of John
Dickson.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Myself, I should regard
the collecting of empty beer bottles as
the most melancholy of all professions,
and it is seldom, indeed, that one sees
a rollicking bottle-oh. Yet one of those
who patrol the flats in dampest King's
Cross has not yet been soured by empties
and dregs. I saw him at nine o’clock
on a winter morning leaning back in his
cart as it jingled and jolted down the
street, singing at the top of his voice.
And the song he sang with such a plead-
ing joviality was “Roll Out the Barrel.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A dusky fellow walked into the
recruiting depot at Melbourne Town Hall
and asked Captain Ball for the loan of
50s. Asked the reason, he said he was
an unnaturalised Algerian and he was
tired of being called a Dago because of
his Italian appearance. He wanted the
50 bob to take out naturalisation papers,
whereupon he would enlist and enjov a
quiet life in the army.
THE COCKATOO.
He stood adjacent to a place frequented
By sturdy devotees of beer and gin,
A joint whose sign succinctly represented
That liquors, spirituous and fermented,
Might be obtained within.
He never exercised his right of entry
To where the pints and tiddleys banish care;
His stance was more suggestive of the sentry
Than that of any of the other gentry
Who congregated there.
He never joined, I noticed, in the babel
Of tongues that told in animated tones
How someone had the office from the stable
That Golden Crock would easily be able
To wallop Billy Bones.
He showed no int’rest in the pungent phrases
Stressing the gall of some disgruntled clan
That Cobbler’s Wax had beaten Mountain
Daisies,
Or the exasperating Bobby Blazes
Turned out an “also ran.”
Ignoring all who turfy lore were wise on,
I saw him tensely, resolutely fix
(Turning this way and that) his lynxlike eyes on
As much of the immediate horizon
As could be seen for bricks.
Is it some friend, I found myself debating,
With whom he’s fixed a meeting hereabout,
Or some capricious dame that he’s been dating
Whom he expects? Or is he merely waiting
For somebody to shout?
I put it to an idler standing by me.
He eyed me hard as on his pipe he drew
And emphasised with an assertive “Blimey!”
He thought that ev’n a pommy or a “limey”
Could spot a “cockatoo.”
“Inside,” he said, “the s.p. coves are reaping
Their lawless gains among the malt and hops,
While over there our trusty friend is keeping,
With eyes well-skinned and vigilance unsleeping,
A sharp lookout for cops!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“K.P.”: The mother of the small boy
with the cyst over his eyebrow, a voluble
widow recently arrived from a distant
city, was explaining its history. “I ’ad
’im to our lodge doctor two year ago,”
she went on. “’E was away on ’is
’olidays, but the young chap as ’e’d got
fer ’is local tremens took a lota interest
in young Jimmy’s case an’ sez as ’ow yer
sometimes finds teeth in them things,
though ’ow the kid’d get teeth on ’is eye-
brow I can’t understand. ’E ses if it
started ter get any bigger suddenlike ter
’ave it circumcised.” I took a shot in
the direction of subconscious idea-associa-
tions and interrupted to ask whether the
young locum was Jewish. “Jest fancy
you knowin’ that, doctor! ” she exclaimed
admiringly. “Cohensky was the name ’cos
I seen it on me ’ubby’s death stiffykit
after ’e’d passed away on account of that
ther ammonia only week after next from
when I took Jimmy inter ’im. An’ lookin’
the name, too, though as nice a young
feller as yer’d want ter meet. But fancy
you knowin’ it after that long and that
far orf of ’ere!” Thus are professional
reputations created. My young Jewish
colleague, fresh from hospital, had prob-
ably said “excised.”
% ❖ 'Jfi ifc
“Chevroford”: Who would have
thought, when the bushfires were raging
in Victoria in 1939, and Warrandyte and
other centres were going up in smoke
while their populations were taking to
the rivers, that the fire menace might be
providing a way out of a war exigency in
1940? But such has happened. The out-
put of charcoal from private kilns is 400
tons yearly. Charcoal is expected to be
in sudden demand when petrol rationing
brings in the charcoal motor. There are
millions of charred trees and heaps of
cinders throughout the State, and Gal-
braith, of the Forest Commission, is hav-
ing a scheme prepared for treatment of
the timber.
* * * *
“Andros”: The Windsors should find
life more or less bearable in the Bahamas.
There are polo, game fishing, and even a
spot of night life in some of the more
swagger hotels. Nassau, on the island of
New Providence, has a perfect climate
and fine bathing beaches. Paradise Beach,
on Hog Island, which forms with the
mainland the harbor of Nassau, is
“claimed to be the finest in the world.”
Incidentally, it was on Andros, one of the
700-odd islands which make up the
“P'raps it do a bit , lady—but you can't get a fish anywhere in town at that price."
Bahama group, that Neville Chamberlain
managed an extensive sisal plantation for
his father.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Prospects of an Australian
grand opera season ip the present war
year depend on whether Sir Thomas
Beecham will stay and conduct it. The
Taits are said to be willing and the poten-
tial sponsors are convinced that there is
enough Australian talent in the country.
The dynamic Beecham should be as good
a guarantee of a successful season as the
equally dynamic Melba was of the two
seasons she nursed to fruition. The diva
took one project to her heart so much
that she was down at the box office every
morning at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, to
see for herself how things were getting
on, and she clothed every detail with im-
portance. On one occasion little Toti
dal Monte was playing Butterfly while her
aged predecessor was watching from a
box. Suddenly Nellie rushed back-stage
and shouted to an attendant to take a
taxi to her flat and bring her her sewing-
machine. “What is it you want,
Madame?” asked the stage-manager. “I
don’t like the way that girl is wearing
her kimono,” snapped the diva. “It looks
absolutely rotten!” When the machine
arrived and Toti was off the stage Melba
tore the kimono to pieces and resewed
it more to her liking.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Nobody disagrees so
bitterly with psycho-analytical interpreta-
tions of dreams as do psycho-analysts.
Freud' disagreed with Adler and Jung
disagreed with both of them, and all three
would give different interpretations of the
same dream. A. R. Hill, the Mining
Warden at Ballarat, possibly took this
into consideration when he disregarded
a woman’s claim to a lease, made on the
ground that she had dreamt she was
paddling her feet in clay and as a result
had found kaolin at Lai Lai. Another
applicant had a more concrete proposal
with regard to prospecting the property
for iron, and he won it.
* * * *
“Raorut”: McGuffie is a fairly even-
tempered gentleman, but mention of Bill
Yandell’s name is enough to send the
old boy’s blood pressure up alarmingly.
The trouble is that Bill, a physical-culture
addict, occupies the flat immediately
above McGufifie’s, and Bill does half an
hour of strenuous jerks each night and
morning. “Waking a man up with his
thumping and banging! ” McGuffie would
snarl daily. “And still plunging about
when you’re going to bed! The man’s
mad. He’ll have to go or I will.” But
the threat remained inoperative till a
morning when McGuffie marched off to
the manager and fixed him with a mur-
derous eye. “Two o’clock in the morn-
ing!” he howled. “And that gory fool
was jumping about like a mad bull!
He shook down two pictures and
smashed them. What are you going
to do about it?” The astonished
manager stared, then reached for his
newspaper. However, it took the
united evidence of all the late editions
available and every tenant to convince
McGuffie that Bill wasn’t the culprit, but
that there had really been a very pro-
nounced earth-tremor at 2 a.m.
“S.T.S.”: The value of a memorial
tablet, well selected, is shown in Unley,
an Adelaide suburb, where a long bygone
Thomas Whistler has just been honored
thus. For the present-day residents had
never heard of him till recently the his-
torians showed that he founded the vil-
lage which is now technically a “city.
* * * *
“Dauber”: There’s a hubbub in
Sydney over an act of lese-majeste by the
National Gallery trustees. These gentle-
men are temporary custodians of a huge
flock of paintings brought to Australia
before the war by Melb. “Herald, and
including, in addition to veritable Ce-
zannes, Gauguins, Matisses and Pissaros,
“Next Wednesday afternoon We shall give another demonstration of how to deal with an incendiary bomb."
works so remarkable that nobody in this
country has been able to make head or
tail of ’em. After showing about 40 of
the items of this collection in one of the
galleries for four months, the trustees
have taken them down and put them into
storage with the rest of the galaxy,
advancing the excuse that the public has
probably got tired of seeing t|jem. Of
course a storm has arisen. “Artists and
art students” to the number of 265 have
signed a protest. A leading “modernist
says he thinks students should not be
robbed of the “wonderful inspiration”
afforded by these works, and suggests
that the trustees put them in hiding be-
cause they didn’t like them. My low-
brow sympathies are with the trustees.
I remember a very old artist’s remark
after he had done the rounds of the
original exhibition of these canvases. “If
that’s Art,” he said, "I’ve been barking
up the wrong tree for sixty years.” A
younger, very irreverent brush-and-
palette practitioner was more outspoken.
He said the show could be vastly im-
proved from his point of view if little
bowls were provided at convenient inter-
vals for people to be sick into.
“F.S.”: Italy is reported to have de-
manded the return of the “Mona Lisa”
which Napoleon took for France as part
of the spoils of conquest. Leonardo da
Vinci painted it at the beginning of the
sixteenth century. It hung in the Louvre
until a thief cut it out of its frame and
made off with it. I visited the Louvre
just after it had been restored and there
.were at least half a dozen gendarmes
standing round it, and so many of the
gallery attendants had been drawn off
to guard it that I could have got away
with the Venus de Milo. It doesn't
matter much who has the picture so long
as it is well cared for.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Is this heart cry from the
“Argus,” Melbourne, a reference to the
nagging-wife or curtain-lecture problem?
In the light of the present world-conflict
it is well to realise that domestic quarrels
are the insidious bacilli that inevitably
spread their poisonous influences abroad.
It devolves upon every rational being to
constitute himself a pioneer in the cause
of ultimate universal peace by voluntary
abstinence from discussion of all topics
likely to breed dissension, especially in the
household.
So next time hubby comes home at two
in the morning and his spouse objects he
can say: “So you want Hitler to see
that we’re not a united family?”
;j: * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A high-browed
friend has been urging me to join a move-
ment for the establishment of a Brother-
hood of Man. That’s quite an old idea
in this country. Its chief exponent in
Australia was that picturesque old Mel-
bourne bookseller who founded Cote’s
Book Arcade in Bourke-street and spent
half a lifetime on the job before regret-
fully admitting that man didn’t yet seem
fit for it. But has anyone ever heard
of an attempt at a Sisterhood of Women?
Not on your life —the Sensible Sex
understand the Other Cats far too well
to waste time and money on such ridi-
culous impossibilities.
A REMOTE CONTINGENCY.
“When the day arrives that there are no difference,
between husbands and wives life will not be woi th
living.” —Judge Maxwell in Sydney Divorce Court.
They must fall out occasion’lly, husbands and
wives, f ...
And undoubtedly will —till Utopia arnves.
Some real or illusory cause for complaint
May always arise to occasion constraint,
Unless she is an angel and he is a saint.
And his Honor presumably wouldn t know
where
To find so ideally mated a pair, ...
And reckons that life would be dreary indeed
If men and their missuses always agreed.
No more would the courts be arenas for fights
About restitution of conjugal rights,
Or that litigation, more serious by far, «
That gives censors of morals so grievous a jar,
And brings bushels of grist to the mills of the
Bar.
The private detective, that stickybeak swab,
Would find himself out of a lucrative job
Were there never a tiff or domestic dispute
To lead to a rift in the marital lute.
Still, judging by all the available signs,
The day’s as remote as his Honor opines
When every Adam and Eve that you know
Who in double harness have chosen to go
Can put in a claim for the flitch of Dunmow.
So it’s equally vain to assert or deny
That life will be robbed of its ginger thereby
When, whatever the topic, a dame and her lord
Are found in entire and emphatic accord.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


e
You'll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
11
10 for 9d...20 for VS
EH66
è
POLITICAL POINTS
Foreign Minister Arita, whose public
utterances have all along been studiously
moderate, had the satisfaction of seeing
the Burma Road agreement adopted
before his Government fell. A report of
a Westminister debate on the subject con-
tained this remarkable passage:
Lord Halifax added that the British
Ambassadors at Moscow and Washington,
as well as the Canadian Government, had
been kept fully informed of what the
British Government had in mind.
No mention of the Australian Govern-
ment. McEwen, the Minister of External
Affairs, says the Australian Government
communicated its views to the mighty
ones in Downing-street; but in these
matters the Australian Government seems
to be an also-ran.
Maoriland, with its one-Parliament
mind, has been getting things done ever
since the war began. Its latest example
to this Commonwealth, with its seven
Parliaments, seven Governments, seven
Government Houses and countless con-
ferences, commissions and wrangles, is a
national War Cabinet. Fired by the
example or fed up with the confusion,
Menzies has renewed his offer to Curtin,
and it has been construed from some of
his sentences that he is willing to take
second place. Not a bad idea.
Somebody wrote once that there was
nothing so ridiculous as the spectacle of
the British public in one of its periodical
fits of virtue. Australia has a match for
it in the spectacle of the Sydney daily
papers putting an idol on a pedestal and
then pulling him down. Last month they
were noisily demanding and exulting
over thff appointment of Keith Murdoch
as Director-General of Information. Last
week they were calling him a dictator, a
Goebbels, an “information Fiihrer,” and
so forth. Exercising powers vested in
him according to their orders, he had in
the meantime fathered regulations which
were held to threaten their dignity, privi-
leges, self-esteem or something.
Attlee, the British Labor-leader, cut a
sorry figure when announcing that poor
men’s children were not to be sent to the
Dominions, though rich men’s children
had been sent to the U.S.A.; nor did he
mollify critics by explaining that the rich
men’s children had made the passage in
“unescorted vessels.” One of them is
the son of Duff Cooper, the Minister for
Information. In effect, this Minister
must have wangled for his child a privi-
lege which the King and Queen refused
for the two princesses.
“After a stormy meeting” at Auburn,
“Mr. J. R. Hughes, president of the
Labor Council,” was chosen as the
“Hands off Russia” candidate for Reid.
The sitting member is Gander, of the
Non-Com. Labor group. Mr. Hughes’s
noisy friends nominated him for one of
the 15 vacancies in the Leg. Council last
year, and he got one (1) vote. He will
get a few more against Gander ; perhaps
enough to save his deposit.
By virtue of one of those arrangements
which party bosses fix up in contempt
of the electors, no C.P. man may be
“endorsed” for the Tamworth (N.S.W.)
by-election, though a good C.P. man
would have a first-class chance. The late
Chaffey having been U.A.P. (also
Nationalist and Liberal in other years),
the seat is held to “belong” to that party,
and C.P. supporters are required to vote
humbly for the U.A.P. nominee, who-
ever he may be. The Labor groups are
making a faction fight of it.
American Aid to Britain: Democratic
Convention Dodges Issue —thus Sydney
“Telegraph” introduced its account of
the palavers that closed with the nomi-
nation of Roosevelt for a third term. It
went on to publish a passage which had
been “deleted from the script of the
chairman’s speech”:—•
....We not only have the deepest sym-
pathy with Britain and should furnish every
possible assistance, short of war, but we
should resist to the death any compromise
of our democratic principles with those
malignant disturbers of the peace of the
world.
The “Telegraph” assured its public times
out of number (1) that Mr. Stimson
wanted to Stop Japan in 1931, only Sir
John Simon wouldn’t let him ; (2) that
Mr. Roosevelt was for Positive Action
in 1937 (and Australia, of course, had
to be a party to it); (3) that the U.S.A.
was the head (and the U.S.S.R. the neck)
of the Democratic Front; (4) that if war
came the Americans would be in from
the beginning with big boots on.
It has come out that Dwyer-Gray, the
Tasmanian Treasurer, put the question
of a national Government to the vote at
the Federal Labor conference which ac-
cepted national training for home defence
and reinforcement of the A.I.F. overseas
by the voluntary method. The veteran
suggested that Forgan Smith should quit
“But, my dear fellow, you. asked for it”
State politics and join Menzies at Can-
berra. He was induced to leave this out
of his motion, which was rejected any-
how.
“Disloyalty” has been “detected” by
McNamara, M.L.C., among the people
who put Mutton in for Coburg (Vic.)
with a sweeping majority over the candi-
date nominated by McNamara’s execu-
tive —a son of Senator Cameron, by the
way. Considering that at least 8000
Laborites must have given their first votes
to Mutton, the “disloyalty” called for
no uncanny brand of “detection.” The
“disloyalists” are thundering that since
the executive cancelled the pre-selection
ballot and chose Senator Cameron’s son
from among 17 aspirants, 16 of whom
were sure they had superior qualifi-
cations, the executive was itself “dis-
loyal” to democratic principles. Mean-
while Caucus has been commanded to
put Mutton on the ice.
Seeing that England has abandoned
racing for the duration, Australia should
at least do something about the Big
Punter. According to the press that
makes a hero of him, the Big Punter is
betting in huger amounts than ever, and
he ought to be discouraged by special
taxation, if only as a bad example. Some
of these well-advertised plungers are well
under the military age limit, and none is
known to be doing any form of military
service.
Paget, M.P., was no creature of Kip-
ling’s imagination. Under other names
he still bobs up in Britain, and can be
heard roaring every few days, generally
to the effect that “a firm stand should
be taken in the Far East,” so as not to
interfere with the Moscow exertions of
Sir Claptrap Fish-and-Chips. For years
until August, 1939, Moscow had the loan
of Paget’s leg ; then in February, 1940,
he was mad for war with Russia, and
war there might have been but for the
singular foresight of the Finns. Now the
Bear has regained his grip on the Paget
leg.
Awful fate of the community under the
petrol-rationing plan, as forecast by a
Melbourne “Age” correspondent:
The proposed rationing will confine both
youth and old-age to metropolitan areas,
with sly-grog, wasteful gambling and per-
nicious inactivity taking the place of health-
giving exercises in the clean air of the hills
and ocean beaches.
Still some people might prefer to walk
to the hills and beaches.
Persons and companies liable to taxa-
tion in Victoria last year had a total
income of £85,351,464, from which two
Governments got their cut. The State
Government took the lion’s share and,
of course, most of it flowed into one
big city. Meantime stagnant towns and
depopulated districts maintained their
progress toward further stagnation and
depopulation ; in the Mallee, farmers
walked off their blocks and Gippslanders
morosely surveyed rutty roads and
spreading weed pests. Victoria is be-
coming a suburban allotment, the villa
well cared for and the front lawns mown,
but the rear full of rubbish and decay-
ing assets.
Sydney Water Board has burst into
verse in appeals to citizens to save water.
Sample:
Though blood is thick and water thin,
It’s water that we wallow in.
For nearly a year the only water Sydney
has been able to wallow in without fear
of reprimand is the salty stuff on its
beaches. It refuses to be cheered by
the muse in the Pitt-street palace.
This is the time of year when hun-
dreds of thousands of Australians have
to fill in tax forms. The instructions
issued to Westralians faintly indicate how
the idiotic business of having income
taxes in every State and the Common-
wealth runs away with time and money.
Filled-in forms (A, C, CA, H, HA or
HFA, as the case may be) are required
from: -
(1) Every person receiving £52 or more
p.a. other than from salary or wages. Any
person who furnished a previous return
must notify the department if not at present
liable. This is for hospitals tax.
(2) A single person or a married woman
with private means whose gross income
amounted to £lOO or more.
(3) A married man, a married woman
with a dependent husband, a widow or
widower with children whose gross income
amounted to £2OO or more.
(4) Persons liable for Federal land tax
if alterations in holdings or values have
occurred since the last return.
(5) Persons liable for Federal land tax
where no changes have taken place.
(6) Persons liable for State land
tax who have not previously rendered a
return.
(7) Persons liable for State land tax where
sales or purchases or changes of values
have taken place.
Westralians with interests in other States
have to go through the same procedure
in those States. And all this multitude of
authorities is desperately keen on the
taxpayers saving paper.
Advised that Victorian Mallee wheat-
growers were walking off their farms,
Premier Dunstan put the blame on Can-
berra : —-
I am hoping that the Commonwealth
Government will see the need for making a
further advance to the growers to enable
them to carry on.
Advances won’t make the rain fall, nor
will they restore land flogged to death
by years of single-cropping, wind-erosion
and lost fertility. Lots of people are
wondering what good the Victorian Gov-
ernment is. Dunstan now has a chance
to show them with a practical rehabili-
tation policy for the Mallee. Any bets?
Retail grocers protested against the
sudden drop of 2d. a pound in tea, com-
plaining that they had large stocks on
hand bought at the higher wholesale
prices when the price was raised. None
of them was heard complaining that they
had bought stocks at the lower prices.
At least one length of red tape (or
white tape, since the Government has
run out of the pink variety) is likely to
be saved in Victoria. Chicory growers
were presented with a board some years
ago, but at their last poll there was no
nomination from the principal district,
and that left the excrescence with one
growers’ rep. and one Government
nominee. A petition has since been signed
asking for abolition, and a polling day
has been fixed.
Melbourne's Milk Board, no doubt
inspired to do something by the know-
ledge that the Sydney Board was in-
volved in yet another inquiry, put its
thinking cap on, decided that it should
do something to increase consumption by
making milk cehaper, and sent forth its
ukase that henceforth milk would be one
halfpenny a quart cheaper where the
quantity bought was more than a quart.
There should be a song in the hearts
of the workers’ wives and mothers as they
contemplate the long vista of ha’pennies
they could save if only they had the
money.
Though Canada and even Australia
have declared Communism a lawless con-
spiracy and banned its poisonous press,
Britain is still letting the Communist
“Daily Worker” publish venomous pro-
paganda against the war, and permitting
Gallacher, the Communist M.P., to attend
secret sessions of the Commons when
they have any. The idea seems to be
that Stalin really Luvs the British and
was merely dissembling his Luv when
he double-crossed them.


LOVE’S LABOR LOST.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Stree'
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
“CONSCRIPTION
OF WEALTH”
HOW IT WILL OPERATE.
July Issue Now On Sale. '
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST?
Better returns with greatest possible
safety can be secured by becoming a
Certificate holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Your investment will yield around 5 p.'c.
p.a. and is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write or ‘phone to-day for informative
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of
the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Melbourne on furlough from Japan
Col. E. Longfield Lloyd, Australian Gov-
ernment Commissioner to Tokyo. His
career has been a mixture of soldiering
and diplomacy. Sydney-born and edu-
cated in Dublin, he joined the A.I.F. in
1914, and was invalided as a captain in
the Ist Battalion with two mentions in
dispatches. He was a major on the
A.M.F. staff from 1918 to 1935, and dur-
ing the royal visits of 1920 and 1927 had
the job of equerry and State marshal.
Aide-de-camp to Governors and adviser
to the Commonwealth Government on
Pacific and Far Eastern affairs, he accom-
panied John Greig Latham on the mis-
sion to Japan in 1935, and was sent back
to Tokyo after the Government had inti-
mated that he would be a welcome guest.
J. Atkinson, g.m. of Burma Malay since
1930, who has his headquarters in Syd-
ney’s Pitt-street, was born in the north
of England, and had his fifty-sixth birth-
day last Saturday. He came to Australia
at the age of 13 (his father having been
appointed Chief Inspector of N. S. Wales
Coalmines), and was educated at Sydney
J. ATKINSON.
Grammar and at Sydney University,
where he studied mining. His first man-
agerial job was with Vegetable Creek Tin
Mines. Then he went to Southern Asia,
where he became g.m. of Rawang and
later district manager of Anglo-Oriental.
He’s married, with five children, and
plays golf.
Returned to Melbourne from storm-
tossed Europe, Australian playwright
Alec Coppell. He wrote that tantalising
thriller “Who Killed the Count?” re-
cently presented under J.C.W. auspices in
this country. Coppell wrote the scenario
of “The Stars Look Down,” and is the
author of a new thriller, “Believe It or
Not,” which is being prepared for pro-
duction to the tune of Nazi bombs for
the New Theatre, London. One of his
plays was written on the pierhead at
Brighton (Eng.).
Just-retired William Mossop has been
12 years 0.-in-c. of the newspaper-room
at the Melbourne Public Library and 30
years in its service. The staff upstairs
has to answer questions concerning the
dialogues of Plato, and know the differ-
ence between numismatics and icthyo-
graphy. Mossop’s knowledge is equally
comprehensive but of a more popular
variety. He can instantly name the
winner of any Melbourne Cup you care
to mention, and tell you where to look
in the “Argus” file for an account of the
historic contest.
Stan Staton is known to every Digger
who has renewed his service ribbons or
medals through the N.S.W. Returned
Soldiers’ League, in the trading branch
of which he has just completed 20 years
of service. He manages the branch with
profit to all concerned. He probably
knows more jokes, Digger variety and
otherwise, than any other ex-member of
the first A.I.F. .Staton was first captain
of the Newcastle Surf Club, and he still
likes his “dip”; but chief hobby these
days is calling on inmates of the Rand-
wick Diggers’ Hospital.
Brigadier R. M. Stodart becomes presi-
dent of Queensland Royal Auto. Club
in succession to Justice Neil Macrossan,
who resigned when elected to the
Supreme Court Bench. Brigadier Stodart
has been a member of the club for many
years, and has filled a councillorship for
ten.
Died in Hawke’s Bay (M.L.), at 79,
William Herbert Guthrie-Smith. He
owned Tutira station, which he made the
subject of.a novel entitled Tutira: The
Story of a New Zealand Sheep Station.
Guthrie-Smith was a born naturalist, and
he made his property a sanctuary for
the fauna and flora of N.Z. He was
author of several works on natural history,
including Muttonbirds and Other Birds
and Birds of Water, Wood and Waste.
A drama, “Crispus,” also stands to his
credit.
A Wallaroo-Moonta mines (S.A.) boy
whose first full-time job was as a mining
“pickey” and who later made good—like
W. H. D. Stewart, B.H.P. accountant (B.
12/6/ ’4O) —-is Bob . Richards, leader of the
S.A. (Labor) Opposition. One of Bob’s
other early jobs was as a newsboy at
Moonta mines, and the first photograph
in which he ever appeared was taken at
the mines showing the young Bob with a
bundle of newspapers under his arm amid
a group of burly Cornish miners. Later
he had varied experience with the Wal-
laroo and Moonta Mining and Smelting
Co , was elected to Parliament in 1918,
and has represented the Wallaroo-Moonta
district in the Assembly ever since.
He was Minister of Mines and other
things in the Hill Government, was
Premier for 64 days in 1933, and is in
his third session as Opposition leader.
William Leslie, dead in Perth at 79,
was an outstanding figure in Westralian
engineering history. Born at Alyth (Scot-
land), he came to W.A. in 1890 to join
the Public Works Department as engi-
neer-in-charge of the Swan River im-
provements. In 1898 he was put in
charge of the construction of Mundar-
ing Weir, the goldfields reservoir, and
on the death of C. Y. O’Connor
succeeded him as engineer-in-charge of
the Fremantle Harbor Works. His son,
also William, is engineer for the Midland
Railway Co.
Brigadier Edmund Frank Lind, D. 5.0.,
V.D., M. 8., included in the King’s Birth-
day Honors with a C.8.E., is a military
medico known to thousands of Diggers.
Born in Melbourne, he won a com-
mission in the Uni. Rifles when he
was going for his doctor’s degree,
served right through the 1914-18 war,
and only missed the landing at Gallipoli
by fracturing his skull in the hold of a
steamer; he recovered to stick it out
there until the evacuation. After the
Armistice he commanded the Fourth In-
fantry Brigade from 1934. In 1937 he led
the Commonwealth contingent to London
for the Coronation of King George VI.
Latterly he has had a medical practice
at Brighton (Vic.).
The Hayward family, which runs John
Martin and Co., one of Adelaide’s biggest
drapery businesses, is doing its share of
war service. Captain lan Hayward, who
is a joint managing director of the com-
pany with his father (Dudley Hayward),
and who went away with the 6th Divi-
sion, is now in England. Lieut. Edward
Waterfield Hayward, a director, who also
has pastoral interests at Narrabri
(N.S.W.), is in camp with the militia.
E.W. (commonly “Bill”) was president of
the Defence League in S.A. until that
body merged with the State Civil De-
fence Emergency Council, under which
he is Director of Quartering. An earlier
Edward Waterfield Hayward, grandfather
of the present one, supported a complete
Red Cross unit in Egypt throughout the
1914-18 war.
F. T. Bowman got his secondary educa-
tion at Hurlstone Agricultural High
School (N.S.W.), then at Hawkesbury
College, which he left with a diploma in
agriculture to go on to Sydney Uni. and
his B.Sc. Agr. degree. After five years
in the fruit branch of N.S.W. Dept, of
Agric. he collected a Ben Fuller travelling
scholarship, which took him to U.S.A.
and a M.Sc. degree at California Uni.
Now he has been awarded a Doctorate
of Philosophy by Michigan State
College—the first Australian to achieve
such a doctorate.
Rev. Albert C. Lawry, who has passed
on at Christchurch (M.L.), was grand-
son of Rev. Walter Lawry, first Methodist
missionary in Tonga and later associate
of Rev. Samuel Leigh, pioneer of
Methodism in N.S.W. Walter’s son was
the first Australian-born Methodist par-
son. His name was Henry, and he was
father to the just-dead Albert. All three
did service for their faith in M.L.; their
term totals 123 years.
Lieut.-Col. Percy Gordon Bice, who
has been appointed Civil Defence Com-
missioner of S.A., is a civil servant whose
bent has always been strongly towards
soldiering. Adelaide-born, he has been
a militiaman for close on 30 years, and.
has commanded the 27th Battalion. Was
with the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 scrap, was
wounded in France, and was chosen to
command the guard of honor for Albert,
LT.COL. P. G. BICE.
King of the Belgians, when that monarch
inspected the French battlefields in 1917.
He’s a golfer and a motorist.
Adelaide has an interest in the appoint-
ment of John Heywood Reynolds as
warden of St. George’s College, Perth,
vice C. B. Law, retired. Son of a
clergyman, Reynolds was born at Birm-
ingham in 1905, but has spent the greater
part of his life in S.A. Educated at
S.P.C.S. and at Adelaide Uni., he col-
lected his B.A. and a Rhodes Scholarship,
and at Balliol he won the Herbertson
Prize in history. On his return from
Oxford he was acting warden of St.
Mark’s College, Adelaide, before going
to St. George’s as senior tutor. Reynolds
also directs the history department of
Perth Uni., and has taken an active
interest in athletics. His father was an
old-time headmaster of the Armidale
School (N.S.W.).
Jack Cavanagh, who runs a thriving
property just out of Gunnedah (N.S.W.),
and has collected several R.A.S. trophies
for field wheat and fodder conservation,
found himself in a somewhat similar
position to that of Franklin D. Roosevelt
when N.S.W. Agricultural Bureau held
its annual conference last week. The
JACK CAVANAGH.
Gunnedah man has been president of the
Bureau for three successive years, and
now enters on his fourth, the Bureau be-
ing so determined to retain him that it
amended its law limiting tenure of the
seat to three years. A sound farmer, the
Bureau president has avoided political
affiliations, but his convincing voice is
frequently heard in demands for develop-
ment of country water and fodder
schemes, and he looks on centralisation
as the nation’s greatest evil.
Following Max Meldrum at Tye’s new
Velasquez Gallery in Melbourne is a
show of the work of James Quinn, who
has painted the portraits of more royal-
ties and notabilities of England than any
other Australian artist. Born at Arma-
dale (Vic.), Quinn learnt to mix pig-
ments at the Nat. Gallery school in
Melbourne, whence he went with a
travelling scholarship to Paris in 1894.
His pictures found their way into the
Paris Salon and the IGA. and hang in
galleries from Tokyo to Liverpool. In
the current exhibition he has portraits of
Queen Elizabeth, the King and Field-
Marshal Birdwood. He was in France
from 1917 to 1918 officially painting for
Australian and Canadian War Records.
He is president of Vic. Artists’ Society
and a foundation member of the Austra-
lian Academy.
“Spokeshave”: Recent mention of
Bert Bailey and the beard he grew
for a screen production reminds me.
When Frank Thring was losing the
fortune he had made out of American
films in trying to create Australian ones
Bailey grew a fine, crop of facial herbage
for his immemorial part of Dad Rudd.
A trial screening was ordered, and Bailey
appeared on the screen talking to an-
other character. Suddenly the house
rocked with laughter. Dad’s beard had
shot forward half an inch in the middle
of the conversation. Some of the
sequences had been shot before others,
as is the usual practice, and a fortnight’s
growth of hair was being condensed into
a second.


TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
You are providing for your family during your
lifetime, but....are you providing for them during
their lifetime ?
In this primary duty to your family we would impress
on you the absolute urgency of making a Will and
the appointment of a permanent and reliable executor.
To give you an idea how the Company may act for
you and the innumerable pitfalls which beset a private
executor, we ask you to call on one of our senior
executives or write for an interesting pamphlet. See
your Solicitor now, have a Will prepared, and appoint
as your executor The Equity Trustees Company.
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-Chairman.
The Hon. Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.C.
Brigadier E. F. Herring, D. 5.0., M.C., E.D.
Major Allan Spowers, D. 5.0., M.C.
W- K. Fullagar, Esq., K.C.
Manager, F. R. WOOD.
Assistant Manager, ROBERT MONEY.
*
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
’Phone: MU6311.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Aratta”: “On the track one time,”
related Dan, “I lob inter a pub in a one-
horse town just as a mis’rable-lookin'
bloke, ’bout sixty, is cornin’ out. I dunno
what’s happened inside ; but Bung’s as
sore as a boil, an’ gives me the bloke’s
history. His name’s Tom Horgan, an’
he lives a coupla mile away. He’s
got ’bout three thousand acres what he
lets to some sharefarmers. He lives be
himself, not got a dog even, too lousy
t’ pay a license. He’s hated by ev’ry-
body round about ’cause of his blood-
suckin’ ways. Well, I camp in the town-
ship for a coupla days an’ start orf on
me travels agin. A coupla mile out I
spots a big place alongside the road, an’
makes up t’ it. Damn me if it ain’t this
bloke Horgan’s. The ole cove meets me
at the door an’ looks me over suspicious.
‘Want a job?’ he ses. I arsks him wot
it is. Then he shows me a letter he ses
he found yi his letter-box that mornin’.
It’s written in pencil, an’ it tells him, in
pretty hot langwidge, he’s for it;
somebody’s goin’ t’ shoot him, signed
‘An anonypous victim.’ Well, after an
argyment, I agree t’ take the job on as
his bodyguard fer a fiver a week an’
keep, cash down. The first week nothin’
happens ; then he gets another letter
written in a sim’lar strain, an’ he takes
me on fer another week, cash down agen.
I left at the end of that week ; a fort-
night of the hungry ole blighter’s com-
pany wus ernough fer me, an’ besides,
I’m not much of a writer, an’ I never
knoo before how. hard it is tryin’ t’ dis-
guise yer handwritin’! ”
* * * *
“B. Puncher”: With three generations
of Australian bullock-punching behind
me, I may throw some light on a recent
Bulletin query as to whether bullocks
can shove a wagon backwards. As only
the polers have any power in reverse,
the most that can be expected of them
is to back an empty wagon up a medium
grade. Standing in front of the near-
leader, the bullocky uses his whip to force
the whole team back until the chains are
fully slacked. He then cracks the whip
in the polers’ faces, ordering them to
“Whaa ba-ack-k-k!” In trying to avoid
the whip, Baldy and Nigger lift their
heads, and this enables them to apply
considerable pressure on the yokes as
they step backwards.
* * * *
“Bunyip Ben”: Sydney Harbor’s names
of bays and headlands have mostly been
changed for the worse since Captain
Phillip discovered Port Jackson. The
original Australians inhabiting its fore-
shores knew some of them better by
names which were not only phonetically
more pleasing, but often more apt. Blue’s
Point used to be Warringarea ; Bradley’s
Head, Burrogy ; Careening Cove, Weye
Weye; Clarke Island, Billong-Ololah ;
Cockatoo Island, Warrienbah; Darling
Point, Eurambie; Dawes Point, Tula-
gulla ; Farm Cove, Jerrowon ; Fort Deni-
son, Mattewai; Garden Island, Booroo-
wang; Goat Island, Memel; Longnose
Point, Yerroulbine; Manly Beach,
Cannae ; Middle Head, Cubba Cubba ;
Miller’s Point, Coodgee ; Milson’s Point,
Kirribilli; Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, You-
rong ; North Head, Boree ; Potts Point,
Yarranabe; Rose Bay, Ginnagullah;
Rushcutter Bay, Kogerrah; Shark
Island, Boambilla; South Head, Burra-
warra; The Spit, Burrabra; Vaucluse
Point, Noring ; Watson’s Bay, Kutti; and
Darling Harbor, Tumbilong.
« * * *
“C.V.S.”: Muttonbirds may not need
a cliff from which to take off (B. 3/7/’4O),
but they do find difficulty in rising from
a level surface. Have seen old birds
hauled from nesting burrows vainly beat-
ing their long wings on the ground in
an effort to rise till a hillside enabled
their short legs to gather some momen-
tum. Once in the air their flight is swift
and graceful. Birds are sometimes
“Wish there Were a few clouds about, Agnes.”
stranded on a dead-calm sea, but a slop-
ing beach provides a jumping-off place.
•!"' * #
“Wippegong”: The lyrebird’s mimicry
has been lauded often ; but have you ever
seen what Menura can do with his feet?
There is no more fastidious fossicker in
all the bush. Lesser fowl of the scrub
merely scratch, but the big fellow reaches
out with perfect poise, lifts a handful
of rotting rubbish, and flings it behind
him with a kick like a frisky colt. He’ll
scratch in what is thus revealed, but
the overburden is always lifted first and
dumped clear. Nor is he limited to un-
loading to the rear. If working across a
slope, he’ll fling the dead leaves downhill
as often as behind, and in this action uses
either foot, passing the debris always in
front of the stationary leg if using the
uphill one, and employing a powerful
bovine sidekick if excavating with the
lower limb. When fallen sticks lie
athwart his" path he grasps them like an
artisan, and with a well-judged jerk tries
their strength. If too tough, he works
round or over, but if he jerks the second
time they snap—have seen him break
off 4ft. of inch-thick decayed sapling and
hurl it yards away. And from the varied
hopping, wriggling, crawling, creeping,
burrowing insect life he stirs up, the
lordly songster selects only a few favor-
ite forms; which explains why you’ll
often find a yellow-throated scrub-wren
bustling about beneath him, just as a
willie wagtail knows that where there’s
a bull there’s flies. The lyrebird takes
no notice whatever of the silky sprite
by his feet; and for much the same
reasons as Ferdinand ignores Billy the
Wag.
* * ❖ *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were humpin’ our
drums through the Croweater country,
and separated to prospect a town for
handouts. When we met I had tucker,
but Mat hadn’t anything but a strong
breath, a bleary eye and a nip left in a
bottle he’d wangled somewhere. We were
just about to camp when a goods train
came laboring up the hill, so decided to
join it. Mat threw his swag, which hit
the truck and bounced back, and Mat’s
own leap missed. My heart stopped as
the big fellow disappeared between two
trucks. The train went on, and, as I
fought back my horror and began to
move down on to the line to rescue the
remains, Mat sat up in the middle of the
track, peered after the brakevan and said,
“Missed the blanker.” I swallowed that
nip in one.
* * * *
“L.J.M.”: According to old Pat, who
has been trapping in our middle Barwon
(Vic.) district since Billy Hughes was in
short pants, he has never trapped a snake.
His explanation is that the ophidian
travels with its head raised, and, although
its weight frequently may spring a rabbit
trap, the effect is merely to throw Joe
aside. And we sport more “tigers” here
to the square mile than there are fleas on
a nigger’s dog.
* * * *
“Mt. Mawson”: How is this for tough-
ness and fortitude? While rigging up
his camp on a snaring trip in the Tassie
bush Dick Smith sank the adze into his
boot and cut off three toes. Three weeks
later he hobbled into the farmhouse
which was his base for supplies, wearing
on his damaged foot a boot consisting
of a board with a kangaroo-skin tacked
over it. This he had manufactured when
he found he couldn’t get his swollen foot
into his ordinary boot, and then he had
run his snare line for that three weeks
in rough weather —through snow most
of the time —after which he hobbled the
20 miles in for more tucker and repairs.
“What’s up with your foot?” asked the
cocky. “Wore one of your boots out?”
“No, chopped me toes off,” said Dick.
The cocky stared incredulously. “Be
blowed!” he said. “Where are they?”
“Here,” Dick said, and fumbling in his
pocket he extracted the three withered
digits!
* * H* *
“K. Ley”: Dusty Dan had covered the
last 60 miles under his swag with no-
thing more sustaining than a couple of
gum-leaves, and was feeling pretty low
when he popped it on the baker for a
loaf. “I don’t give anythin’ t’ tramps”
said the doughman, “but there’s a coupla
bob’s worth of wood waitin t’ be cut”
Dusty eyed the wood and the axe, turned
an appealing eye on the adamant face
of the baker, sighed, picked up the axe
and went doubtfully at it. The baker
departed on his rounds. When he came
back he found Dusty waiting near the
gate and over in the corner a neatly-
stacked heap of cut wood. He gave Dusty
a more friendly look. “Cripes,” he said,
“y’re not bad on the axe.” He made the
payment a dollar, and Dusty headed for
the nearest pub. About an hour later,
as Dusty lay dreaming over the beer,
chops, bread and other foods now stowed
safely inside him, the baker found him.
“Hey,” he demanded, “when y’ was cut-
tin’ that wood y’ didn’t see anybody
come an’ take an old piano-case out of
the yard, did y’?” Dusty shook his head.
“Well, some blankard’s pinched it,”
snorted the baker, and went his way.
Dusty could have told him, but didn’t,
that the piano-case was the core and sub-
stance of that illusory heap of cut wood,
the pieces stacked neatly round and over
its empty bulk. “Makes good fillin’,”
Dusty remarked sententiously, as he hur-
riedly rolled his swag before the baker
could get back.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Among the many valuable
qualities of that Queensland and northern
N.S.W. hardwood which bushmen call
turpentine and forestry officials and
furniture-sellers satinay is a remarkable
resistance to fire. Recent Brisbane tests
have shown that three-quarters of an
ounce of thermite placed on a steel plate
iin. thick will burn through it in a few
seconds, whereas double the amount on
a turpentine plank will do little more
than char the surface. Metal shovels are
useless for clearing away the thermite
bomb fragments as it melts them at once,
but shovels made of turpentine timber
at a quarter of the cost stand up to
such work well. The tqughness and close
grain of the timber make it very resistant
to fracture or penetration by missiles,
a combination of qualities which puts it
into the first rank for use in framings
and interior linings of air-raid shelters.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “I’m workin’ f’r a firm one
time,” said old Ben the handyman, “and
they gets in one o’ them effishancy ex-
perts ’oo interdooces all sorts o’ new ideas.
I’m in the packin’-room with erbout
twenty others, an’ the expert comes in
there quite a lot. ’E seems ter be tryin’
ter think up ways o’ speedin’ us up, but
it musta got the best of ’im, fer one day
’e ses, ‘Whenever I come in ’ere I want
ter find yer workin’ cheerfully an’ ’appy,
so if yer can think o’ some way ter bring
this erbout I want yer to put the idea
in this ’ere box I’m goin’ ter put up.’
’E ’angs the box up an’ goes out an’ we
’as a good laugh. Next day ’e comes in
an’ opens the box an’ takes out ten letters.
E reads ’em all, then ’e looks at us,
throws the letters on the floor, takes the
box an’ rushes out o’ the room. After
a while I go over an’ pick ’em up an’
read ’em. They’re all the same: ‘Stop
wearing rubber soles an’ ’eels.’ ”
* * * *
“Murrinji”: Some Abo. verses on the
Condamine bell have been running in
my head for a long time. I wonder if
anywhere in the North there r till
hangs one of those relics of the brave
overlanding days. Wrought from thin
silver steel, the Condamine rang with
a clear thin note that could be heard
for miles on the quiet bush night. The
Goodliffes, who broke the first track
across the Murrinji Desert, from New-
castle Waters to Wave Hill, making for
Hall’s Creek with a mob of horses in
the ’eighties, always reckoned they owed
their lives to a Condamine bell that hung
from the neck of an old mare who acted
as bellwether to the mob. Right out to
it after two gruelling days without water,
during which they shot their dying
mounts and tried to drink their blood,
they were contemplating taking a short
cut out of their agony when, far away
through the night, sounded the tinkle of
a bell. Legend has it that the first Con-
damine came into existence when a smith
on that river, anxious to fill a teamster’s
order for a hobbling bell, found that the
only sheet metal on hand was a broken
crosscut saw. The teeth clenched across
the head gave the bell a narrow mouth ;
the thin, high-quality steel did the rest.
It was so successful that bells continued
to be made that way as long as the supply
of broken saws, gathered from far and
wide, lasted. But the supply was limited,
and overlanders making for the Kimber-
leys were proud to be able to bell out
their hobbled nags with a Condamine.
IN BUSHLANDS DEEP.
Her eyes are dark as midnight stars,
Her lips like morning dew;
Whatever fault her beauty mars
Ho watcher ever knew;
And her slow voice is like a song
Sung in a dusky dell,
As lightly, where the bush shades throng,
Her footsteps weave a spell.
She has no art to make her fair,
She knows not fashion’s guile;
Yet there is midnight in her hair
And magic in her smile;
And sweeter than the naiads were
Beside some forest pool,
Her passing makes bush whispers stir
In shadows dim and cool.
Happy in bushlands deep she waits
For what or whom, who knows?
There are no chains on bushland gates
Or trammels on the rose.
And so, one day she will have gone
With someone at her side
Who is the one—the only one—
To hold her love and pride.
In the warm dusk or morning mist,
"Neath her kind bushland skies,
Her lips of dew will have been kissed,
The starlight in her eyes;
And her low voice, so like a tune,
With husky notes and sweet,
Will answer one, hushed and rough-hewn,
Where the lost echoes meet.
What comfort can the morning stars
Be given when she goes?
The murmur of the river-bars,
The fragrance of a rose;
The echoes of her lonely song
Sighed in the dusky dell,
And voices where the bush shades throng
Saying, “My dear, farewell! ”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Bull-ant Bill”: I’ve often wondered why
Old Joe doesn’t have a dog for company,
and suggested today that he might like
one of Bluey’s last pedigreed sons.
“Thanks all the same, Bill,” said the old
chap. “Useter like dogs a treat once till
I found out yer couldn’t never really
trust ’em. Last I ’ad was a kelpie wot
could near talk, ’e was that clever. When
we wus campin’ for a night I’d only ter
shove the saddle-bags down an’ ’e’d undo
the straps with ’is teeth, get out me
blankets an’ the tucker bags, an’ then
fetch dry wood fer the fire, all without
me tellin’ ’im a word. Then comes me
downfall, all through ’im. I’d bin on
me own up in the ranges fer a bit an’
reckons a spell’d do me good. In the
township I shoves me saddle an’ gear
on ter the pub verandah with ’im to
watch ’em. Just as I’m gettin’ sunk inter
me second pot, in comes the flamin’ cop.
‘That yer saddle outside?’ ’e ses. I ses
it is. ‘Come an’ ’ave
a screw at it with me,’
’e ses with a nasty
sorta grin on ’is dial.
Out I goes an’, stone
the crows, Bill, if that
there blasted mong
’adn’t undid the bags
an’ laid out six dozen
outa - season possum
skins all over the
flamin’ verandah.
Next day the Beak
knocks me back a
tenner and costs and
the flamin’ skins is
conferscated on me as
well. I give the
blanky mong ter the
cop in case ’e might
snitch on some other
pore cow, an’ I ain’t
never trusted a dog
since —and can yer
wonder. Bill?”
* *
“F light”: “As
gentle as a dove” may
be the poet’s favorite
simile, but from fact
it is far removed, for
doves must be classed
among the crankiest
of birds. They fight
with one another at
the least provocation ;
they rough-house con-
tinually at nesting time ; they’re tough on
the kids, brutal to the missus, and are
bad neighbors, as are their equally low
cousins the pigeons. Perhaps their repu-
tation for gentleness was acquired because
of their silence. Give me, every time,
the rip-roaring out-and-outers, such as
the willie wagtail, who plays hell’s delight
openly, or rascals like the kookaburras
and butcher birds, whose peccadillos are
done to much vocal accompaniment and
a fine be-damned-to-everyone air. But
the dove is only gentle when a predatory
bird is in the offing.
H: * * *
“NaUirala”: Odds are heavily against
anyone finding ambergris on an Austra-
lian beach. Whales we have in plenty,
but nowadays they all seem to belong
to the baleen species, which does not
secrete ambergris. It requires the Oden-
“Fifth Column—form fours!”
toceti, or toothed species, to do that.
Baleens, represented here by the hump-
back and the blue whales, feed on almost
microscopic shrimps and other small fry,
which they strain from the water by
means of their huge plates of baieen or
whalebone, 300 plates to each side of the
jaw, and in a large fish these may be
10ft. long. With its food already finely
divided, the baleen seldom suffers from
indigestion. The sperm or toothed whale
eats fish ; and as an extra course goes
after the huge squid that dwell in ocean
depths, notably off the coast of Labrador,
N. America. All of these squid have
parrot-like beaks ; some, in addition, have
a terrific armament of tiger-like claws
adorning their tentacles. It is these beaks
and claws, composed of Nature’s univer-
sal chitin, the substance with which she
moulds the insect’s carapace, that form
the basis of ambergris. It is assumed
that the whale’s digestive apparatus makes
efforts to deal with the constant accumu-
lation of beaks and claws, the result be-
ing ambergris. Both giant squid and
sperm whales are scarce throughout the
South Seas.
“Bogaduck”: Next to my horse and
dog, my affection for the domesticated and
dumb creatures is centred in my ducks.
When I. let them loose they clean up only
the snails. At night their subdued quack-
ing aids slumber. When I’m working
around the garden the ducks will waddle
up, take an intelligent interest in the
work and snap up flies as quickly as a
wagtail. You can even use their name
safely as a term of endearment for your
womenfolk, a thing you patently can’t
do with cows, goats, fowls, sheep, etc.
And, after its mission in life is over,
what better than to have one garnished
with baked spuds and green peas?
“Jeidisee”: Hawking swifts, rampaging
ants, black cockatoos, opening springs,
falls of manna and all those other signs
which allegedly portend the breaking of
the drought may fail, but well beyond
where the pavements end the one truly
infallible portent is still eagerly sought.
When the paddocks are brown and sheep
carcasses dot the molten landscape, you
may see an outbacker in scrubby areas
walking with uptilted nose, sniffing
audibly. There will be gidyas thereabout,
and he will be eagerly awaiting a far
from attar-of-roses perfume to assail his
olfactory sense. It is the leaves which
are responsible for the far-reaching and
powerful odor, only noticeable when rain
is nigh. The wood itself is sans perfume.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I don’t doubt that “P.
Pilot r ’(B. 26 / 6 / ’4O) has seen whales sound-
ing without injury in 14 fathoms. I was
speaking of a wounded, panic-stricken
one trying desperately to escape from its
enemies. I have seen whales chased on
the W.A. coast by modern methods and
thus have gained some idea of the speed
“See nobody touches that door, Watson. They look like fingerprints
to me.”
with which they sounded and the depth
to which they went. Also, I am aged
enough to have listened, when young, to
an uncle, an old-time W.A. bay whaler,
who had even fought the cetacean in the
shallow waters of Cockburn Sound, with-
in eyeshot of Fremantle. According to
those old-timers, when a harpooned fish
sounded in anything less than 200 feet
they had him ; in his blind rush down-
wards he smacked bottom, knocked him-
self silly and thereafter had little fight
left. It was an idea currently held by
the ’longshore whalers. Out on the deep
ocean they found things different. There
a struck whale might go down half a
mile in his plunge ; and, more often than
not, fought many hours, sometimes the
whole day. Nor would “P.P.” be likely
to see a whale floating around with a
cracked skull. Mostly it was the lower
jaw that broke. Such injury
would not be fatal; it required
the harpooner’s lance to give
the quietus. And, finally, few
dead whales float, as whalers
often realised to their cost.
Modern practice fills the ceta-
cean carcass with compressed
air to counteract that tendency
to sink. And even that occa-
sionally fails.
“Jacky-Jacky”: Dear Bully,
—One, two week ago I bin
send yabber-stick longa train
to Mary down to Mackay. No
bin gitit answer. Me bin wop
ried, think it Mary catchum
nother boy. Might be Igo
pointit bone at someone. Just
when I bin git fair dinkum
wild, Mary walk in. “Whatfor
you no yabber to me longa
Mackay, Jacky?” she say. “Whatfor
you no answerum yabber?” I tell
her. “By cripes, I gibit you damn’
good hidin’, you don’t watch out.” Then
she say she bin send me yabber-stick
longa post office last Sat’d’y week. She
bin git pretty s’pichus, so she come home.
Train him stop down to Home Hill.
Burdekin bin over top railway bridge.
Mary bin pay two bob come over longa
boat, catchit nother train longa Ayr. I
think Mary no tellum true. I ask missus,
“Whatfor yabber-sticks no bin come over
longa boat?” She say bigboss longa
post office down to Canberra won’t
giveum bigboss longa railway down to
Brisbane ten tchillin to fetchum load
yabber-sticks over Burdekin. Bigboss
railway no got ten tchillin, so he talceum
back Rockhampton, sendum Longreach,
Hughenden, Townsville. Missus say
p’raps I bin gitit Mary’s yabber next
week. Me no bin wantit now —got Mary.
Wantit last week. No git wild then.
Missus say bigbosses down south think
we all plurry blackpfellers up north. By
cripe, me bin writeum yabber, tellum
me fair dinkum white bloke if me bin
think they gitit. P’raps more better I
sendit smoke-signal. What you think?
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry had given a job
to a city lad, and soon taught him how
to milk the house cow. One morning the
long ’un got a shock when he saw his
employee giving the cow a drink of milk
from the bucket. “What the devil are
you doin’ that for?” Harry yelled. “The
milk seemed pretty thin to me,” was the
reply, “so I thought I’d better put it
through the process again.’ 1
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Goats may not
voluntarily adopt the wild life (B.
12/ 6/’4O), but when pushed into it they
put up as good a showing as any other
animal. Up along W.A.’s north-west
coast more than one uninhabited island
has a population of goats, all doing well.
The real mystery, though, is how the
capricorns got there. Some hold that
a long-departed benevolent Government,
solicitous regarding the welfare of pos-
sible shipwrecked mariners, placed them
there to provide both food and drink ;
others, that this provision was made by
master pearlers, knowledgeable of the
privations likely to be suffered by lugger
crews after any one of the coast’s too-
frequent cyclones. Any shipwrecked
mariner, however, who hoped to dine on
Billy and his missus, or even on Nanny's
lacteal product, would need to be re-
markably fleet of foot. But niggers from
the mainland or adjacent islands do occa-
sionally get a spear home. Ever of an
economical and labor-saving nature,
Binghi used the capricornic beard for the
weaving of kurdiatcha slippers, wearing
which the tribal executioner sallies forth
to carry out the decrees of the council
of the old men. Previous to the advent
of Billy and his wife, or wives, such
slippers were made with human hair and
the breast feathers of sea birds.
SNOWY RIVER MEN.
“History repeated itself when thousands of Goitl-
burn people welcomed ‘The Men from «nQ\\ y Kiv
who started cut from Delegate on a recruiting niaren.
A similar inarch was held 25 years ago. ’
There was movement on Monaro, tor the word
had come by air—•
A call to men of courage once again
And a district little altered by the modern
rush and blare . , . .
Heard its duty put betore it clear and plain.
And the call went down the Combalong and
through the border gate,
And spread on wings of swiftness through
the land. ,
Came the answer from the spearhead, mustered
down at Delegate,
“The Snowy River men will lend a hand.
So they struck out for the northward, striding
free like mountain men.
And the knowledge of their coming swiitly
spread. . .
Dropping down from rugged ridges, climbing
up from creek and glen,
Hurried more to join the steady marching
tread.
And the little towns gave welcome, there were
cheers from lonely farms;
Here and there a man to swell that growing
band.
And they passed the word before them to the
nation, taking arms,
“The Snowy River men will lend a hand.
There were men there from Dalgety, and a
youth from Steeple Flat;
From Berridale and Keith came several more.
Naught they cared about position, name, or
whence they came, at that,
Be it Bredbo, Bungarby or Bungendore.
And the miles went slowly past them and their
feet went marching on —
Farmer, axeman, trapper, store- and station-
hand.
Though no flaunting banner led them, this
the faith they called upon,
“The Snowy River men will lend a hand.
For in them was tradition and a saga for
their sharing,
Built on Anzac and the “colt lroni old
Regret.”
So their fathers marched before them, in a
time when men of daring
All had gathered “where the mountain gullies
met.”
For they “hailed from Snowy River, up by
Kosciusko’s side,”
Where the dawns and noons and sunsets all
are grand;
And, though not the sort for boasting, they
declared with simple pride,
“The Snowy River men will lend a hand.
N.S.W.
Old-timer.


Last Year’s Will
may not meet to-day’s
uncertain conditions
JNEVITABLE fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions ex-
pressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that
you consult your Solicitor and have your Will
revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of
appointing The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment
gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a Company with more
than 62 years’ practical experience in the adminis-
tration of Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon appli-
cation.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 Bligh St., Sydney 401 Collins St., Melbourne
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided
Profits, £961,115.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Gen. Sir Brudenell White. K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray. John Fordyce
Sir' Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-66 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
Ended preciation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
12$ p.c.
£ £ £ £
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 .. 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 .. 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678,937
1933 . . 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6$ p.c.
1935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 .. 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 .. 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
74 p.c.
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 .. 1,005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
84 p.c.
1940 .. 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
* Includes special bonus of ss. pci- share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
This efficient and highly-prosperous co.
has virtually a monopoly of one section
of Australia’s most sheltered industry.
What a sweet thing it has been for share-
holders is obvious from the following
compressed history of the capital account:
Cash-paid capital .. .. £2,425,000
Bonus scrip .. .. .. 13,175,000
Total £15,600,000
Capital returned .. . . 3,900,000
Leaving .. .. .. £11,700,000
The last gift (£5,850,000, one for one)
was in November, 1934, and the position
has continued to improve steadily since
—last year’s 81 p.c. div. was worth 17
p.c. on capital as it stood before the
bonus-scrip issue just referred to, and
visible reserves, including those for re-
placements and depreciation, are greater
now than they were then.
Chief sources of earnings are refining
and milling in Australia, growing and
milling in Fiji, refining in Maoriland, and
returns from a wad of outside invest-
ments (£2,964,832) and cash (£3,284,710).
In Australia the co. refines, sells and
finances all but a small fraction (handled
by the Millaquin co.) of the entire crop
on a commission basis under Government
contract. Last season’s was the largest
harvest produced in the Commonwealth:
,—>■ Tons (94 n.t.) .
Average,
1926-28. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Aust. consumption 344,000 337,000 364,000 383,000
Export . . . . 143,000 310,000 458,000 545,000
Total .. .. 487,000 647,000 822,000 G'28,000
Home price £26/12/10 £24/-/- £24/-/- £23/12/6
Export price 11/18/2 7/18/9 8/4/3 10/7/6
Average* .. 22/6/1 16/17/- 16/19/1 16/19/7
* Applies Queensland only, and excludes excess sugar.
Within a week of the outbreak of war
the British Government bought the
export surplus at a price higher than the
recent market average, thus temporarily
solving an awkward export situation and
giving the miller and grower about the
same average return per ton from a
slightly reduced base price for home
consumption—the home price is fixed at a
high level to produce a satisfactory aver-
age price for the entire output. In round
figures, the co.’s own outturn of raws
last season was 180,000 tons (up 10,000
tons) Australia and 114,000 tons (down
20,000 tons) Fiji.
It was mainly the bigger Australian
sugar output and increasing production
at the co.’s Fiji pineapple cannery which
put the spring of £98,074 in the year’s
declared net earnings. These were equal
to 9.4 p.c. on capital, or 6.3 p.c. on capi-
tal and reserves combined. That was
after adding £221,486 net to the replace-
ment and depreciation reserve, making it
£4,092,025, equal to 34.8 p.c. of the book
value of all fixed assets, which have
already been paid for out of earnings,
and are still to be added to from the
same source —a new distillery (scheduled
to come into operation this month) has
been erected in Melbourne, and the Bris-
bane and Auckland refineries have both
been extended.
The latter additions are reflected in a
growth of £432,115 in refineries, etc.:
1925. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £4,785,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
S'undry creditors 1,607,274 2,152,000 3,131,955
Suspense accounts 1,856,909 2,437,456 2,530,052
Employees’ funds 39,545 55,817 52,953
Refineries, mills,
etc 5,670,772 10,478,655 10,910,770
Steamers, etc. .. 100,000 271,877 271,877
Distilleries .. 86,292 322,678 349,749
Premises .. 52,850 228,202 228,215
Stocks .. .. 3,225,413 4,176,249 5,214,393
.Hook debts, etc. 1 . ( 415,295 402,079
Investments , t j i.osv.io* f 3,252,177 2,964,832
Cash and deposits 1,211,103 3,022,574 3,284,710
The year’s growths of £979,955 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
of £1,138,144 in stocks are interrelated.
What catches the eye is the fine pile of
liquids (£11,866,014), which exceeded out-
side liabilities, including suspense ac-
counts (some of which the “Wild Cat”
believes to be genuine savings), by
£6,151,054 (10s. 6d. per pound of paid
capital) when the books closed.
As for the current term, Britain has
again bought the Empire’s surplus raw
sugar on terms similar to last year’s pur-
chase ; and that means much to the Aus-
tralian grower and miller. Although the
Australian crop promises to be a little
lighter, owing to hurricane damage, it
will probably be the second-largest on
record. In Fiji the co. expects to turn
out about 120,000 tons of raws. Here
the pineapple-canning business is de-
veloping rapidly, and the co. continues
to find markets for the increased output,
despite trade restrictions. The co.’s new
Cane-ite factory in Australia has had to
double its plant capacity and is still un-
able to overtake orders—it produces
board possessing high sound-absorbing
and insulating properties from the
hitherto waste products of cane. More
recently the co. also became interested in
the manufacture of solvents, which
promises to develop into another profit-
able sideline. The Defence annexe which
the co. built and equipped at its own
expense is working on Government con-
tracts on an actual cost basis.
Despite mounting costs and the steep
upward climb of taxation, the market
sees no cloud in the co.’s sky, and prices
the f.-p. £2O shares at £47 as against
£4sf a year ago. At the higher figure the
return on an 8y p.c. div. basis is 3.6 p.c.,
which is little better than is to be had
from Government securities. Visibly the
net tangible cover is £22 15s. 5d., exclud-
ing the depreciation reserve, etc., equal to
£7 per share.
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 { 97 9R7 R9l nrQ
Written off premises, £lO,OOO j 821,0j9
1930.. 204,956 9 p.c. = 157,500 I _ 0 . 0 .. r
Written off premises, £lO,OOO J 808,010
1931.. 142,291 6i p.c.= 113,750 l R 77 nrR
Written off premises, £lO,OOO f 1°, 5 41 877,006
1932.. 74,088 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) R7R fii .
Written off premises, £2,500 S °'8,044
1933.. 75,540 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) „
Written off premises, £2,500 ( J ’ U4U b 81 > bS4
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) _ R7Q nQ .
Written off premises, £2,500 ( L Jo
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) _ _ 7a7
Written off premises, £2500 ( 1 ’
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) . ~c S , OQ ,.
Written off premises, £2500 j ’ ’
!937 77,320 4i.p.c. =74 375) 445 880>380
Written off premises, £2500 j
1938.. 81,671 4J p.c. = 78,750 ) , 91 RRn R(11
Written off premises, £2500 j ’
1939.. 84,692 4§ p.c. = 80,937 ) 7r - RSI
Written off premises, £3OOO i ’’ ’
1940.. 91,031 5 p.c. 87,500 ) r , QI RR9 fts7
Written off premises, £3OOO ) odl s ‘
The Q.N.’s figures reflect conditions in
its home State, where it does about nine-
tenths of its business and makes more
advances than any other of the associated
banks. It was the good season, which
bumped up the volume of primary pro-
duction, coupled with the British Gov-
ernment’s purchase of all our most im-
portant exports at very satisfactory prices,
that put the spring of £6339 in last year’s
declared profit. The same set of circum-
stances, together with Government spend-
ing for war purposes and a wide range
of economic planning and control, has
also greatly strengthened the banking
position and brought about cheap-money
conditions.
Here is the position so far as the co.'s
balance-sheet figures show it:
1930. 1933. 1939. 1940.
Paid £ £ £ £
capital .. 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,015,095 2,690,133 2,677,307
Bills, etc. 348,219 302,531 384,204 442,973
Deposits .. 8,657,228 7,872,214 9,237,965 9,441,382
Liquid
assets . . 3.790,277 4,612,512 4,151,337 5,051,131
Advances. .10,423,181 8,694,760 10,260,491 9,610,690
Premises. . 527,173 549,25’3 573,593 575,672
As the money spent by the Government
came back to the banks, and as the
cheques for wool, wheat, meat, sugar,
dairy produce and metals rolled in, cus-
tomers began to reduce their overdrafts
(the contraction in advances was
£649,795), and deposits (up £203,417) and
liquids (up £899,794) accumulated. Also,
the bank bought £12,826 of its old inter-
minable deposit stock—a reminder of the
1890’s —the profit on the deal being
whisked away to inner reserves. The
ratio of advances to deposits was 101.8
p.c., compared with 111 p.c. at the previ-
ous balance and 120 p.c. at the close of
accounts in 1930. Liquids amounted to
51.1 p.c. of liabilities to the public, ex-
cluding the deposit stock. Taking this
stock as part of the co.’s own funds, the
bank was holding only 375. 3d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own when the books closed. It is a very
strong position, and indicates the bank’s
ability to extend substantially its lending
connections.
The allowance for taxation and other
less-certain contingencies is not dis-
closed. The £91,031 of profit claimed
(it is less than half the 1929 figure) was
5.2 p.c. on capital, compared with 4.8,
4.6, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 4, 4.3, 4.2 and 8.1 p.c.
back to 1931. The div. was stepped up
by 7s. 6d. p.c., making 5 p.c. for the
year, and it is doubtful whether anything
better than that need be looked for at
the moment.
A pleasing feature of the picture is that
the Australian trading banks, now but-
tressed by a strong central bank, con-
tinue to be pillars of our financial
strength, and that at a time when a strong
and sound banking system is most to
be desired. Thus far we have experienced
nothing of the difficulties and hardships
of war, and the prosperous conditions
which have prevailed for the last nine
months cannot be expected to continue
indefinitely. What has to be faced ulti-
mately is the possibility of a shrinkage
in the volume of our overseas trade, and
therefore in our income from abroad.
That position, however, has not yet arisen,
and may not arise for some time, but
a ]ong-range plan in trade and industry
to meet the changes that war might yet
force upon us will do much to soften
the blow.
The immediate and broad aims of the
Government are cheap and plentiful
money, the direction of investment into
essential and away from non-essential
production, and conservation of our over-
seas funds, especially dollars, in order to
pay for essential imports and other
things. At the same time, legislative con-
trol of prices has been introduced to pre-
vent a too-rapid rise in costs. The Gov-
ernment continues to spend in increas-
ing volume for war purposes, and ap-
pearances are that it will have to keep
on doing so. Meanwhile, bank deposits
can be expected to grow, but much of
the money that becomes available will be
mopped up in taxes and public borrow-
ing, management of which is designed
not to force up the rate of interest.
The market prices the £5-paid shares
at 89s. 6d. as against 945. a year ago and
106 s. 12 months before that. The return
at 89s. 6d. is 5.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.


WARNING TO WIVES.


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOD HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated, in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd; Hon. Colin A. S'inclair, M..L.A.;
A. E. Heath, C.-M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA E PAID lIP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAI. 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
e
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Win. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
basis. The net tangible cover is 150 s.
4d., or 60s. lOd. more than the market
reckons the assets are worth on an earn-
ing-power basis.
Westralian T., E. and A.
April, Profit. 1 Dividend Tax. !ervet se ?m.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931.. 6816 10 p.c. = 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983 c p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off investments. £iooo.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = 29*6 1015 64,582
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,582
1934.. 4485 6 p.c. = 2976 1509 65,091
Written off investments, £l5OO 64,i57
lose.. 5069 6 p.c. = 2976 2093 66,280
Written off investments, £lOOO .. 65,280
To Provident Fund, £l5OO ... 63,780
Lumped with specific res., £2550.. 61,230
m7 "‘ Written off £soo -SeSi
To Provident Fund. £5OO .. .. 61,161
1938-... 4479 * p.c. 3471 1008 62,169
To Building Renovation Res., £5OO 61,569
To Provident Fund, £5OO .. .. 61,169
1939.. . 4654 * p.c. ~ 34*1 1.183 62,352
To Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 61,352
1940.. 4267 7 p.c. = 3471 796 62.148
To Provident Fund, £soo . .. 61,648
Written oil im-ta-JU, £5OO .. 61,US
‘ fJTrf ?f,hA| P ’ C - P f r T S ',«n
lor many years to the close ot the 1930
U tare,ytinh"se d :?a“a B P o r °and
La!lst b sliowin S e r e uns ouTaf f P ff nce '
on funds (mL7OL to
eluding £10,960 earmarked for provident
fund, tax and other contingencies), or
8.6 p.c. on the £49,593 of capital alone,
as against 9.3, 9, 8.8, 10.2 and 9.2 p.c.
back to 1935 and 17 p.c. in 1930.
The trouble lies mainly in increased
outgoings owing to the complications
now associated with the administration
of estates. Since 1929 the expense rate
has jumped from 72.6 p.c. to 89.2 p.c.
of gross earnings, despite continued
growth (£109,344 net last year) in the
value of trusts in the co.’s care:—
Gross Exea. of
1929.. £6,044,888 £37,059 £26,936 72 6 p c
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8 „
lilt: as#!! lisn XL 9 Si ”
1935.. 7,337,162 32,986 28,414 86.1
1937.. 7,677,701 37,018 32,616 88.1
1938.. 7,843,345 38,751 34,272 88.5 ,
1939.. 8,098,731 38,801 34,147 88.0 ~
194 °— * 39,582 35,315 89.2 ~
Last term?lSVown~'s profit
fell wad efinrt n f -7 „!i
the appropriations shown’in to tot
table. The contribution of each section
of o to business to earnings is no, dis-
vis?b V ly been aSt wriUe e n "oT “T T
visibly been written off investments,
apart from whatever has been whisked to
inner reserves before declaring gross
earnings. It all suggests that trust and
agency margins have grown exceedingly
slender Lately real-estate values have
been favorably affected, except where
there are special difficulties, such as in
the wheatlands. __
At the end of April the co.’s funds,
with £l3BB coming to outsiders, were
represented by freeholds (Perth and
Fremantle) £62,043, equipment £7555,
investments (mainly mortgage and other
advances) £51,405, debtors £3136, and
cash, etc., £2735. Shareholders could thus
see a net tangible backing of 17s. lid.
f° r each pOUnd share paid to 8s„ exdud-
mg specific reserves.
.
OI
Shares in the Zinc Corporation, which
has a mine at Rrnken Hill and an office
. T d , KroK( ; n mil ana an omce
m London, dropped to 465. during the
worst ueriod of war iitters this vear
T P j flO u •
-there are 653,139 ords. of 10s. each in
Zin f c C ?T-, “1 24 f 69 , 2 participating
prcts. oi £1 ea.en. In last weeks im-
proved market humor the ords. recovered
rn , ~ ,
to 5()s -> and assuming that the prets. are
worth twice as much as the ords. the
valuation of the mine, etc., thus became
£2,860,000. Comparison with the North
mine at the Barrier is interesting T'bere
e Barrier is interesting, mere
are 2,800,000 ss. shares issued in this
case and these were at Its l*i last week
.mese were at jas. AQ. last weeK.
thus making the market valuation some-
thing like £4,650,000. The problem of
Bri , ish ;
1,0 doubt a bi S °!> e > but Australians may
claim re b a tes. The Zinc Corp. mine at
*• longest visible life
slightly less ore tSV/orth. Tt a"fo°has
SoSlted'™® * N#W B '° ken Hi "
* * *
Mt. Lyell’s year doesn’t end until Sept.
30, in this respect differing from most
Australian base-metal cos. So far dur-
ing the present term copper output hasn’t
risen above that of the last peace-time
year, though there is a growing demand
for the red metal which Australian
mines are unable wholly to satisfy. For
the first 11 months of the 1938-39 finan-
cial year electrolytic averaged £49 ss. 7d.
sterling in London. In September the
Metal Exchange was closed for some
time, the price subsequently being fixed
a * sterling. The equivalent in Aus-
tralian currency (£63 17s. 6d.) was the
? rice allowed in the Commonwealth.
In Britain later on the price was
lifted to £62 sterling • after enme
V 8 ’ a V® r fOme
labor difficulties arose at Mt. Lyell
in regard to a price bonus on wages, the
“d fT” ‘°
£76 ’ level Wlth the London price, on
„ow aettinffU Aut, “
“LC
'wronger 1 last^week^g
a f- 25 s 3d
*’% * *
Emperor, Fiji, milled about 162,500
tons of ore during the year to June 30
for something like 53,4000 z. of gold. In
the preceding term 178,000 tons was put
through for 52,3500 z. In 1939-40 re-
coveries averaged 6.6dwt.; in 1938-39
s.9dwt. The end of the oxidised ore is
now in sight, some treatment of semi-
oxides and sulphides having already
been undertaken last term, and soon the
co.’s modified plant will have these classes
of ore to deal with on a large scale. How
it will handle them, and at what extra
operating cost, has yet to be shown,
though necessary alterations to machinery
were estimated to add no more than
£30,000 to plant account. The additions
are reported to be “working very well”
and metallurgical results to be “highly
satisfactory.” In 1938-39 net profit
was £181,589, equal to 19 p.c. on
the present paid capital. No estimate
of the 1939-40 profit is possible by out-
siders owing to the rather altered charac-
ter of operations during the term; re-
coveries have been better, with millings
down. The price of gold rose during
the term, and most of this goes to the
mining cos. in Fiji, though Mr. Theodore
and his cos. have given £25,000 to a
patriotic fund recently.
The market for Emperor 10s. shares
was up to 16s. 9d. this year ; it had fallen
to 10s. Bd. last week-end. Most gold
scrip dipped during May, and the
Theodore group in Fiji suffered particu-
larly, Loloma slumping from 375. to 20s.
Last week Loloma’s scrip was at 225. 6d.
This co. last term treated 32,350 tons for
48,0000 z., against 27,767 tons for
37,2090 z. in the preceding period.
Interests in islands, of a mining nature or
otherwise, for some reason are regarded
apprehensively by investors since fighting
really started in Europe. At the same
time investors in Emperor and Loloma
at this year’s highest prices were paying
full price for prospects reasonably in
sight. The shares have had a boisterous
market ever since listing, Emperor
especially.
* * * *
In the latest approximate operating
period millings of Golden Plateau, the
northern State’s second gold-producer, re-
sisted the downtrend of values of recent
years—yields have more than cut in
two since 193.6 —the recovered grade of
s.7Bdwt. comparing with 5.67dwt. in 1939.
Thus, despite contraction in through-
put (78,997 tons), the gold yield was
slightly better at 22,8520 z. It reflects
the improved grade of ore developed
during the year, the average valuation of
reserves 12 months ago being put at
sdwt. For some time now four-weekly
crushings have yielded consistent 6dwt.
returns, but market for the 3s. 4d.-paids
continues to stick around the year’s low
level. Now at 6s. 3d., they were up to
11s. sd. at one stage this year. The
reduced div. —2s. per share, as against
3s. —is partly responsible.
* * * *
Westralian Arbitration Court has de-
cided that the goldmining industry allow-
ance to wages men be assessed on the
actual return received by the producers
and not on the ruling market price, as
has been done under protest since the
Federal impost on production came into
force. At the same time the Court re-
fused a request by the workers that the
allowance be increased. The allowance
was instituted by the Court in 1934 and
determined .on a flat scale whereby wages
men were granted 4d. a shift for each
increase of 10s. in the price of gold
above £5 10s. per ounce. Arguments for
an increase were based on two points in
particular: (l)That, while production per
week in ounces per worker in 1934 was
1.04, in 1939 it had increased to 1.60 ;
(2) that as dividends paid in 1939 by some
of the bigger mines were higher than in
1934 it. indicated that these producers
were now in a more flourishing con-
dition. On the first point President
Dwyer pointed put that in the three years
1926-7-8, when the industry was in a
parlous condition, the return per worker
showed a higher figure than in 1939. On
the second, he added that at present
the Court treated the industry as a whole,
and no one mine was picked out for
separate or differential treatment. The
bad, poor and indifferent took their place
with the good, and an award was made
governing the conditions generally
throughout the industry. The workers
as a whole received certain advantages
by this method of treatment, whereas if
the mines were dealt with separately it
was obvious that the financial condition
of many would entail low wages for large
numbers.
* * * *
Recent developments indicate that
Wiluna (W.A.) will get more ore at depth
than anticipated at the last annual meet-
ing. Reserves in sight are unofficially esti-
mated sufficient to maintain present out-
put and profit (about £stg2o,ooo a
month) for two years. Owing to
temporary filtering difficulties, the gold
in process last month increased by 4060 z.
* * * *
At 18,467 tons, crushings of Edna May-
Amalgamated, Westonia (W.A.), showed
little movement in the year to June 30;
recoveries were down from 6.52dwt. to
6.32dwt. That excludes some 780 oz.
gold recovered from the re-treatment
plant, capacity of which has been
pushed up to 2000 tons monthly. Though
formed a half-dozen years ago, the co.
has not yet been able to declare a div.,
owing to the heavy call for mine develop-
ment. The share-issue spreads to 773,500,
each 55.-paid.
* * * *
On the basis of the first six months’
crushings, reduced earnings appear in-
dicated for both Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) and its neighboring subsidiary,
Kalgoorlie Enterprise, in the current
term. So far Perseverance has cleared
£A72,180 from 56,745 tons on working
account, Enterprise £A41,750 from
33,359 tons. For the 12 months of 1939
the profits were £171,640 and £86,540
respectively. Enterprise is now milling
at the rate of 67,000 tons p.a., and the
mine has an encouraging look at depth.
Though Perseverance has sent out a 40
p.c. div. for three years now, on the
figures presented that rate doesn’t look
like being fully covered by current earn-
ing.
* * * *
Revenue of Lake View and Star,
premier producer in the West, reached
£A1,628,175 for the year to June 30—
a new high level, and £144,970 up on
1939. After paying for development,
the working surplus (£707,390) benefited
by £60,190, which should be a help
towards meeting increased tax bills. Ore-
treatment (692,122 tons) expanded 6 p.c.,
but the volume of tailings handled de-
clined 91,700 to 602,820 tons, owing to
reduced activity in the later months of the
term.
* 4= * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) promises that, when
reaming with a lOin. bit is done, non-stop
drilling, going down “as far as possible,”
will commence. Cheered by the an-
nouncement, a paralysed market has
shown slight improvement.
* * * *
“Throgmorton”: South African gold
returns for May in most cases show a spec-
tacular increase in working profits to new
high levels. The explanation is that for
the first time producers are getting the
full sterling price of £8 Bs. an ounce.
After the outbreak of the war the S.
African Government appropriated the
whole proceeds of gold above £7 10s.
By the recent Finance Act the mines are
to be allowed, retrospectively from Jan. 1,
the additional 18s., but will derive
little or no net benefit after deducting old
and new taxation and realisation exes.
The extra gross revenue from gold at
168 s. will be worth approximately
£1,000,000 a month to the 43 Rand pro-
ducers. Realisation charges at rather
more than 3s. an ounce will absorb
£175,000, while the new 9 p.c. surtax on
gross profits will take some £350,000. Of
the remaining £475,000, more than half
will be absorbed by normal sliding-scale
taxation. Assuming, therefore, that the
grade of ore treated is reduced, as is ex-
pected, net profits of the Rand as a whole
are likely to work out much the same
under the new policy as under the un-
scientific system enforced in the first
months of the war. The real and im-
portant advantage of being allowed the
full price of gold (less charges) is that
Rand scrip has had restored to it its
speculative attraction as an insurance
against any fresh depreciation of
currency.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS': HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
4SS£B(
II
lin
MlMlll
SSSSj
*.
z
fe
!%l
»
-o
&
aX
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
'Manager W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
w
e
had been at least contentment, not this
battle of wills, this struggle between per-
sonalities. ' A nostalgia for the old love
seized her. She avoided his eyes, turned,
and walked away.
He watched her go, a contemptuous
smile on his face.
“A man’s a mug trying to teach golf
to old women who’ve played croquet,” he
said, and strolled back to the clubhouse,
musing thoughtfully on the life of a pro.
MB.
* * * *
Winning the War.
“You ought to try to win the war,” said
Maria, quite suddenly.
“Certainly, just trot out the German
army,” I said facetiously.
“Don’t try to be funny,” said Maria.
“You know very well that I mean we
should all do our best to help. But
you”
“I tried to enlist,” I said quickly.
“Yes, you would! Trying to dodge
your responsibilities, and go over
“ Don't be a nark, Albert. There Wasn't any heliotrope ones.”
the other side of the world to enjoy
yourself. It’s nothing to your credit, let
me tell you, Aitchem! You know very
well it is the duty of men like you to
stay here and do your fighting at home.
Before I could leap joyfully in to make
capital of Maria’s slip of the tongue, she
had passed on.
“But it is not your place to do nothing.
Sometimes I wonder if you don’t want
Hitler to win. There’s something of
Hitler about you, Aitchem; you would
like, if you were allowed, to dominate
me.”
The assertion took me by surprise, and
I gasped “Here, hold on”— —-
“You’ve tried your Hitlerism by saying
we were not going to that dance when
you know Mrs. Blazerbosh will be there
queening it. I insist that you develop
a better patriotic spirit and realise that
the war has got to be won. And”
Well, Maria won. Today I bought the
tickets for the dance of the Knitted Vests
for Sol&iers’ Association, and a further
great air battle (the air being entirely
provided by Maria) is due when Maria
finds she must have a new dress to go in.
When I cave in she will regard it as
equal to one more British victory; and
if she outdoes Mrs. Blazerbosh at the
dance, that will be another.
On Maria’s reckoning of what we have
to do to win the war, it should be more
than half-won if her dress is given special
mention in the local rag.
H. M.
Duality.
e
H.M.
Literary Critic.
w
ELM.
A Dockyard Is Built.
The elderly typist knocked at Room 17,
Department of Public Smirks.
“You wish to see me, Mr. Snoozer?”
she asked.
The Acting Assistant Co-ordinator of
Filling-in, Heavy Section, peered dreamily
over his spectacles.
“Ah, yes, Miss Stringbeans,” he said
somnolently. “I want you to take a letter.
Let me see, this is—er, July, what year?
Oh, yes, 1941. These navy people are
becoming—ah—most importunate. Must
think we’re miracle-workers or some-
thing. Here it is only a short 15 months
or so after authorisation, and they expect
reclamation work on the dock to have
been commenced! I remember in ’85 —
or was it ’92?—we had the same trouble
with the Drains and Easements Board.
Actually tried to haul my old boss over
the coals for what they called inordinate
delay in taking six months to get the blue-
prints countersigned—as if he could help
having to wait for the Senior Blueprint
Countersigning Officer to come back
from his long-service leave! He”
Miss Stringbeans coughed uneasily.
“Oh, yes. The Assistant Filling In-
spector, Room 14.
“ ‘Sir,—Further to my F 40/12032/61 of
the 4th April and your reply of the 29th
idem —er—please don’t keep tapping your
pencil on your teeth, Miss Stringbeans ;
it is most irritating—l would deem it a
favor if you would expedite decision as
to whether the filling for use in the re-
clamation work is to be a shale or a clay
base. I have the honor to be, sir, etc.’ ”
The following January the A.A.C.O.
of F. 1., H.S., received a reply.
“Sir, —With reference to your commu-
nication of the 18th Sept, last, I am in-
structed to inform you that experiments
are still proceeding to determine the re-
spective suitabilities of clay and shale as
a base for filling in the reclaimed area.
Until this is arrived at it is not. deemed
prudent to proceed with the preliminary
work. I have the honor, etc.”
In December, 1942, the A.A.C.O. of
F. 1., H.S., again sent a reminder. The
following May came the A.F.l.’s reply
to his colleague along the passage.
“It is now ascertained that, owing to the
excessive porosity of the clay available
to the Dept., a filling containing both
clay and shale, in proportions of M, will
prove the most suitable. It is to be un-
derstood, however, that the Reclamation
Branch’s decision is contingent upon the
shale’s being to the Dept.’s standard, as
approved in the Minister’s minute of
11/4/’03.”
In June, 1943, the A.A., etc., took the
matter up with the Tenders Board (Re-
clamation Section, Filling Subsection).
Here an unfortunate hitch occurred.
No contractor would tender for a
filling containing both clay and shale,
so the Acting Chief Tenders Letting
Officer, who, with his queer notions
of getting things done quickly, was looked
upon as a sort of departmental throw-
back in the service, promptly called for
separate tenders. This the Chief Tenders
Officer quashed, and in a report to
the P.S. Board pointed out that regu-
lations passed by the Parkes Administra-
tion forbade “the calling of separate ten-
ders for portion of the one article.” In
August the question of whether “filling”
was an article was referred by the board
to the Assistant Under-Secretary for a
ruling.
In February, 1944, the A.U.S. ruled
that it was. And the A.C.T.L.O. was rep-
rimanded for “lack of prudence” and a
note made on his departmental history-
sheet. The matter was then brought
under the notice of the Minister, who
promised to amend the Act to allow sepa-
rate tenders to be called for different
portions of the one article.
After the Parliamentary recess of six
months the bill was amended in the
Assembly, but was thrown out by the
Upper House. It was not until after
much political skirmishing, culminating
in a successful request to the Governor
for the appointment of sufficient nomi-
nees to the Upper House to ensure its
passage, that the amendment was passed.
It was gazetted in Sept., 1948.
In October, 1948, an Act was passed
imposing on all private haulage contrac-
tors a flat road tax of £5 per ton per
mile. The successful tenderers immedi-
ately repudiated their contracts. To
meet this defection the Haulage Board
was inaugurated in January, 1951.
The board, having bought 300 10-
ton trucks, was just about to com-
mence carrying the first lot of fill-
ing when the Tyre Board refused
permission for the trucks to be
licensed because the tyres were not of
the balloon type, which under the New
Transport Act (1951) were requisite
equipment. The necessary amendment
to the Act to allow the Haulage Board
to function was engineered by the new
Premier, but only after a long and bitter-
campaign. The amendment was passed
in November, 1957.
The morning that the first haulage was
made by the Haulage Board to the site
of the proposed dock in February, 1959,
the A.A.C.O. of F. 1., H.S., received a
memo from the Navy Board. It ran:
“Sir, —Re the preliminary reclamation
work for the dockyard. Under the terms
of the Treaty of Manhattan, just passed,
and insofar as it relates to this country’s
defences, and in particular to its Navair
Force, the largest unit allowed is a flying
cruiser of 6000 tons. The battleship
dock is therefore not now required.
“P. Bilgewater,
“Secy., Navy Board.”
Bo


Aii44> set is a better
set powered with
EVEREADY
TP&OE "MARK
radio batteries!
"LISTEN TO
THE OLD SET
NOW MARY!'}
JISK any radio engineer or serviceman and
he'll iell you that for maximum power, long
life and better value, there is nothing to equal
genuine "factory fresh" Eveready Radio Bat-
teries. In Portables, 1.4 volt and 2 volt Consoles,
in all types of Country Radio Receivers, these
100% Australian-made batteries are fitted as
standard equipment, used regularly as replace-
ments. Use them in your set for dependability
and economy. Obtainable every-
where.
EVEREADY (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
eVEREADY
. trade-mark
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Share Prices Up
Each succeeding day last week, Aus-
tralian sharemarkets showed growing con-
fidence. Turnover in stocks for the most
part was moderate, but buyers were
almost everywhere more evident than
sellers. The revival in share values mainly
occurred in cases where previous under-
valuation was obvious. Where condi-
tions were still uncertain there was little
or no recovery. Importing houses par-
ticularly were still very low. Gordon
and Gotch scrip, for instance, was dealt
in at 325. 6d., the lowest price of the
year. Edwards, Dunlop shares were
offered at 405., no buyers. (Other refer-
ence is made to these stocks on this
page.) Arthur Cocks shares were offered
without response, and William Adams
ords., Broomfields and Paul and Gray
were dull. Also in little or no demand
were shares in Grimley, Ltd., trustee cos.,
Claude Neon Signs, engineering and con-
struction concerns, discount and finance
cos., and some woolbroking businesses.
A fairly comprehensive view of the
behavior of the investment market as a
whole is to be got from the following
table. It shows prices on Jan. 31, when
a lot of optimism was prevalent; on
June 29, when “nerves” and pessimism
were much more in evidence; and it
gives movements over the past two
weeks:
Jan. June July July
31. 29. 12. 19.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £24.9 £24.6 £24.8
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.3 £5.3
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 59/9 60/
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 17/11 18/-
Tooth .. .. 52/3 43/9 45/6 49/3
Metropolitan Gas ..£13.5 £12.8 £13.0 £13.1
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/
Associated News .. 16/6 10/6 10/- 10/-
Melb. “Herald” .. 57/- 43/- 47/- 49/—.
.Adelaide Steam ..36/- 27/6 28/- 29/6
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 48/3 49/-
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/- 27/3 27/3
A. 38/3 30/9 33/3 32/9
Bradford Cotton ..37/6 28/- 30/- 30/6
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 41/- 41/6
Burns, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 49/3 49/6
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £47.0 £47.0
David Jones .. 33/6 23/6 25/3 26/3
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 23/2 23/2
Electrolytic Zinc .. 58/9 40/6 42/6 44/3
Fairymead Sugar .. 37/ 31/6 31/6 32/6
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 33/- 34/-
G. J. Coles.. ..74/3 52/6 55/6 55/9
Henry Jones .. 56/6 48/- 51/- 51/3
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/- 19/- 18/9
Kandos Cement .. 29/9 24/- 27/
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 26/6 27/
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 22/6 23/-
Wool worths .. ..22/9 13/4 14/3 14/3
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 32/6 31/- 36/
Yarra Falls-.. ..42/- 37/6 37/- 37/-
North B.H 47/6 30/6 32/9 33/9
BEL South.. ..29/9 20/3 22/6 22/6
New B.H 20/- 10/- 11/7 11/6
Mt. Lyell .. .. 32/- 22/6 24/9 25/3
* Ex issue.
Running down the list, it will be seen
that, after falling from the January price
of £29, Bank of N. S. Wales shares have
been almost lifeless at under £25, yield-
ing 4.8 p.c, on a 6 p.c.. div. basis. There
has been a tendency for bank divs. to
rise of late, most recent example being
the Q.N., which lifted its distribution
from 4f p.c. to 5 p.c. The ’Wales has
kept to 6 p.c. over the past 3| years, and
the National also pays this rate ; its scrip
has fallen, like that of the ’Wales, and
has failed to show much recovery.
Brewery shares have been picking up
from scare levels. Sharpest recovery has
been in Tooth scrip—up from 435. to
495. 3d. Carlton in Melbourne has also
revived, though not in proportion to
Tooth; Castlemaine Perkins (Brisbane)
shares represent a stock in which there
has been little recovery.
Gas scrip is only a little firmer than
it was. Insurance shares lack market
interest still. Newspaper shares have
shown some recovery, especially in the
case of Melbourne “Herald,” up from
435. to 495. Sydney issues, though not
quite so weak as they were, are still very
sickly.
Adelaide Steam has moved up from
275. or thereabouts to 295. 6d., and is
hard to buy. North Coast Steam scrip
is available at 38s. 9d., ex the increased
9i p.c. div., which may be 10 p.c. next
year. The yield offering is very good.
Huddart Parker scrip hasn’t recovered
much.
Australasian Paper ords. have revived
notably. The new issue sold at 21s. 6d.
for a while ; last week it had got up to
265. 6d. The new scrip carries three
months’ less div. (about sd. a share) than
the old. The yield obtainable is about
6 p.c. and the security good. Local
manufacture of paper and cardboard
should go ahead strongly, encouraging
further paper-pulp production.
Australian Consolidated Industries
(Glass) shares aren’t particularly strong
at 325. 9d. Like 8.H.P., another market-
leader, they have been bought and sold
more actively than other stocks, but
haven’t moved so spectacularly either
way.
Burns Philp shares have been particu-
larly steady throughout the piece. They
have dropped 4s. or ss. since January,
and are leisurely in their manner of
recovery. W. R. Carpenter scrip, on the
other hand, fell from 455. 6d. to 295. and
then recovered to 365. last week.
Colonial Sugar shares have dropped
and stayed down. At £47 each they are
weighty morsels for the average person
to deal in. Fairymead Sugar scrip, cum
interest in copra plantations, is oft a slight
up-grade again.
Electrolytic Zinc ords. withstood the
strain of a drop in the div. from 15 p.c.
to 14 p.c. without much effort and im-
proved over the week.
Chain-store scrip kept hesitant. G. J.
Coles’s ord. div. has fallen from 18| p.c.
to p.c., and from 525. 6d. the scrip
has crept up to 555. 9d. The yield at
this price is 6.3 p.c. Woolworths ords.
have recovered very little from the “low”
of 13s. 4d., and at 14s. 3d. now return
6.1 p.c. This used to be a 3 p.c. stock.
David Jones and other retailer stocks
moved up strongly.
Henry Jones, the food-preserving con-
cern, hasn’t suffered greatly in the market.
At 51s. 3d. the scrip yields about 4.5 p.c.
on an P - - div. basis.
Howard Smith shares, representing a
salad of shipping, coal, cement, steel, etc.,
interests, at 18s. 9d. are much the same
as they have been for some weeks.
Kandos Cement fully*paids have firmed
to 275., after 245., and the div. has been
kept at 12| p.c. without trouble.
Meggitt, Ltd., in the linseed-oil and
-meal business, depends on overseas for
its raw materials, but the January interim
was maintained, and a final is due next
month. At 275. the scrip yields over
7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. basis.
Base-metal shares have moved in sym-
pathy with the rest of the market. Prices
for production are still fixed, though
there has been talk of redrafting the con-
tracts with Britain.
The tone of the market last week was
such as to suggest that it would be still
readily receptive to international develop-
ments, good or bad, and that the long
view should be taken if buying was con-
templated. Most stocks would be all
right on that basis.
Australia, it seems, may spend
more on defence than was estimated at
Budget time. It was a two-bob-imthe-
pound war up to that time ; it may be a
three-bob or four-bob affair before long.
In other words, 3s. or 4s. out of each
pound of the national income may be
applied in building up our defences—
from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. of our total pro-
duction of goods and services. If we
divert 20 p.c. of our labor and materials
to defence purposes then our domestic
requirements must, on paper, go shprt
20 p.c. In practice it may not be exactly
so. The shortage may be less; then
again, if the reorganisation of industry
isn't carried out smoothly, it may be
more. In carrying out the reorganisation
smoothly it will be necessary to stop the
beginning of unwanted new industries,
and that is a clear Government duty.
Civil servants may not be the best judges
of what industries are essential, but the
responsibility has to rest somewhere, and
there is plenty of economic and banking
advice available to the Government. Con-
fidence may be gained from the success*
ful price-control activities conducted by
Professor Copland and his associates.
If defence expenditure does call for
20 p.c. of the national income even-
tually—or, looking at the matter from
a more realistic viewpoint, if it calls for
20 p.c. of our labors and materials —then
the question arises as to what may happen
to our standard of living. It does not
exactly follow that it will fall 20 p.c.
all round. Those who can afford it may
be asked to take more than a 20 p.c.
cut, while others, on smaller incomes,
may be let off with a 10 p.c. or 15 p.c.
cut. Again, under the stiffening of the
national backbone caused by the war,
some industries may be working more
fully and effectively than they have done
hitherto, and part-time employees may
work full time. Also, trade unions may
be less drastic with penalty rates for
overtime, etc., and where profit-margins
are strictly limited on defence orders
there may be an inclination on the part
of workers to put in longer hours. Thus
it will be possible, by working harder
and more efficiently, to minimise the cut
in the standard of living. But the posi-
tion has to be surveyed calmly and with-
out prejudice. War is a wasteful thing,
and part of the waste must be charged
to everyone. Anyone, therefore, may
offset that charge only by working harder
or producing more. Money-juggling will
only bring temporary escape for some
and a double burden for others, with
confusion and depression following.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch shares at 325. 6d.
yield 7.3 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. In
addition to periodicals distribution, this
concern has connections in the paper
trade, and it dabbles in advertising and
fancy-goods as well. It has been hit by
import restrictions on American maga-
zines, and the div. has dropped from 14
p.c. to 12 p.c. in anticipation, though
profits up to the present have been well
maintained. The scrip looks a snap even
in the present circumstances. It has fallen
from 565. to 325. 6d., and, though the
div. may possibly fall further, the co. has
a distributing organisation and goodwill
that will be worth a lot of money when
conditions come back to normal.
**•■!:*
Shares in Edwards, Dunlop, the big
Sydney paper-importing concern that has
branches in Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
and London, seemed exceptionally attrac-
tive at last week’s price of 395. Last div.
was 10 p.c., so that if that figure is
maintained the yield available is £5 2s. 6d.
per cent. These shares have fallen from
445. this year; they were up to 50s. in
1939. Only those in the trade know how
much money is being made out of paper
at the moment. It is an exceptionally
lucrative commodity to handle, in spite
of rationing and such restrictions. Prices
have been rising swiftly over a consider-
able period, and stocks, in spite of
“averaging” under the price-control
system, have been returning a full yield
of profit to the trade. Of course, there
is the other side of the picture—falling
prices at the end of the war. But
Edwards, Dunlop does more with its
money than merely pay dividends. It
has large reserves, visible and invisible, to
look after all contingencies. A dozen
years ago The Bulletin, desiring to
round off a history of the co., asked for
an account of the vicissitudes of its
life. J. M. Dunlop couldn’t think of
anything that would fit in with “vicissi-
tudes.” Office premises figure in the
accounts at only £120,565 and stocks at
£222,042. The co. nowadays handles its
business on a capital of £375,965, against
£690,740 before the depression, during
which it handed a large portion back to
shareholders. Net tangible assets are
visibly 38s. sd. a share, and worth every
penny of it. Lowest div. during the
depression was 5f p.c. Today’s 10 p.c.
distribution calls for little more than the
1931 and 1932 rate of handout.
* * He *
In spite of war-time conditions, street
photographers carry on in Sydney and
seem to do well. Photographic studios have
been hit by competition from these street


k
k
St
■s
mt
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queenslaid Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
'Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
OLDSMOBILE
■
■m
"f r " f: lf ' #W>iiit
•%••• FT!'' ? 1
g
...
¥:W
SSK
mfflWwff; ■'■■•■ -
- .
. :
iPf:
i
Econo-master l
OF THE MUMLMMS
Under petrol rationing, 1940 Econo-Master Olds-
mobile owners enjoy great advantages.
1. Olds mobile’s Econo-Master engine gives petrol
economy which ensures for its owner the
maximum mileage possible under the ration-
ing scheme.
2. Oldsmobile costs less in actual cash outgoing
over its entire life than cheaper, smaller cars.
3. Oldsmobile’s eventual resale value is likely to
be particularly high. It is in the forefront of
the current trend in styling safety factors
comfort and advanced engine and
chassis construction.
4. Oldsmobile is one of the few cars possessing
an Octane Selector a valuable feature giv-
ing instant adjustment to provide maximum
economy from second grade fuel.
No other car within nearly £lOO can match
Oldsmobile’s levelness and steering ease on rough
roads, therefore on all roads thanks to exclu-
sive QuadriCoil springing, plus plenty of road-
holding weight. Oldsmobile’s body, memorably
beautiful, is also memorably strong. Prolonged
use will little affect its newness and freshness.
Oldsmobile gives you genuinely unclashable
gears super hydraulic and self-energising
brakes a mechanical handbrake operating on
the rear brake drums HandiShift gear lever on
the steering column widest, clearest vision
super-safe Unisteel Holden Body.
So, if your present car is getting wasteful in petrol
consumption and upkeep cost, change for the
Econo-Master of the roads. Your Oldsmobile
dealer can give you illuminating mileage and
economy facts, and will put an Oldsmobile at
your disposal for a long test.
OLDSMOBIIE
has ike differences
that you desire
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
OLDSMOBILE CAR DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Oldsntobile Dealers all over Australia.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S
"No, I have not , but could YOU give me something for the landlord?"
organisations, whose kerbstone camera-
men appear to be freelances, subject to
no award. Most Australian cities have
put these fellows, who probably have
very little to look forward to anyway, ofF
the streets. But Sydney Council seems
to find the job too much trouble or
something.
* * * *
“Pigge”: An Adelaide factory is try-
ing to replace in the Australian market
for gloves some of the losses of supplies
from Germany, Czechoslovakia, Belgium,
Italy and France. Three Hungarian
experts arrived three months ago to assist
the sole proprietor of the S.A. enterprise,
A. S. Horne, who has booked large
orders from Sydney and Melbourne.
Agent-General Charles McCann fixed up
about the services of the Hungarians.
Their main job is to teach Australian
hands to make kid, nappa, pekarin, doe-
skin, stag and suede gloves, as well as
general household, industrial and motor-
ing kinds. The factory is increasing its
staff as fast as it can find skilled em-
ployees. European leathers are still re-
quired for some finer lines, but Aus-
tralian tanners are investigating. Normal
Australian import demands are about
252,000 dozen pairs of textile gloves and
180,000 dozen pairs of kid and leather
gloves. Total value in 1938-39 of such
imports was £368,000.
* * * *
Starting from - the first payday in
August, the Federal basic wage will go
up 2s. a week in all States except Queens-
land, where the rise will be Is. Sydney’s
wage will be 855., Melbourne’s 845., Bris-
bane and Perth’s 795., and Adelaide and
Hobart’s 80s. The money is calculated
to do the same job in wage-earners’ hands
in all States, so that Brisbane and Perth
are reckoned to have the lowest living
costs. A year ago the average Common-
wealth basic wage was 795. a week. On
August 1 it will be slightly over 82s. 6d.
This would approximately offset the rise
of 3 p.c. in the cost of living that Pro-
fessor Copland reports to have taken
place since the outbreak of war. But it
should be noted that, though the average
rise is only 2s. 6d. a week, in Sydney the
lift has been 45., Melbourne 3s. and Perth
3s. In spite of what Mr. Curtin has said
about Labor’s war effort—“the trade
unions will do all that is asked of them”
—the A.C.T.U. is to do a bit of asking
for itself; the Arbitration Court will be
requested to improve the standard of
living by lifting wages by another 10s.
or 15s. a week. Idiotic time-wasting for-
malities of this kind, at such a time, only
bring discredit to trade-unionism.
% % # *
Bradford Cotton shares were available
at 30s. 6d. or thereabouts last week, after
having been down to 28s. Paid capital
is now £513,033, with £119,982 at call.
Of the total paid up, £153,088 is in 6 p.c.
prefs., the rest being in ord. shares.
Twelve months ago the share register
totalled £222,742, and it was on this sum
that the 1938-39 profit of 16.2 p.c. on ord.
capital was earned. Since then Austral
Silk and Cotton Mills, Ltd., has been
taken over, a link-up with Dunlop-
Perdriau has taken place, and Sanforising
Services of Aust. has been formed. By
June 30, 1941, the at-present unpaid
capital will be in, making the share-
register total £633,016, of which £479,928
will be ord. money. In order to pay
10 p.c. on the ords. and look after the
prefs. a net profit of more than £57,000
per annum will have to be earned later
on. Considerably less than that amount
will be necessary to do the job for the
year just closed, but more than the
£29,001 earned in 1938-39 will probably
be required. It may be expected, how-
ever, than in Bradford Cotton s case the
expansion in capital has also been accom-
panied by a considerable growth in
earning power. New plant may not be
pulling its full weight during the first
year of capital-introduction, but under
the present war-time conditions there is
every incentive for full-time production,
and adequate protection exists. Benefit
from the new capital should be visible
soon, though not immediately. What
will happen after the war is hard to say.
It may be noted, however, that before
the war started Bradford was very suc-
cessful. And cotton goods are not over-
produced in Australia. So far only the
surface of the industry’s possibilities has
been scratched.
* * * *
Recovery in Tooth shares (B. 17/7/ 40)
went on at a fast rate last week, when
there were sales at prices up to 495. 3d. A
week earlier the scrip was priced at 455.,
and a short time ago there were sales
down to 435. Highest price this year
was 545., and in 1939 sales ranged be-
tween 555. and 465. 9d. Consumption
of liquor in N. S. Wales for the 1939
calendar year was the best for a decade.
The Tooth business has been going from
strength to strength, and it has enormous
tied connections. On a 12 p.c. div. basis
the yield from the co.’s shares at 495. is
5 p.c. Next div. is due in November.
**. * *
The market quickly turned the right
way again for W. R. Carpenter scrip,
though opportunity knocked for about a
week in offering the shares at 295. Several
parcels of scrip changed hands at or near
that low figure; then, early last week,
there was a sudden recovery to 365.
There is difficulty in getting copra to
Europe owing to shortage of shipping
just now; also difficulty in selling the
stuff once it arrives, because of the block-
ade of Continental ports, including,
apparently, Marseilles. But the Car-
penter business has been buttressed to
withstand difficulties of this sort, even
if such conditions aren’t exactly bene-
ficial. Some time ago the board
announced that “the co. is engaged in so
many different branches of activity that
the management can look forward with
a certain degree of calmness upon any
vicissitudes of the market.” Since then
most of the co.’s ships have been taken
over by the British Government, and
copra-market conditions may _ have
changed more drastically than anticipated,
but the long-term position is essentially
sound. At 365. the shares yield a little
under 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
co.’s dependence on the Mandated Terri-
tory for a large portion of its profits was
one factor in the slump to 295.; but in
order for that factor to be of real conse-
quence we have to lose the war.


Second Thought
Sydney “Sun” (cable edition) :
When this war began there were two
organisations ready to the last button —the
German Army and the British Navy. To the
latter fact this Empire of ours owes whatever
hope- of ultimate victory it may still cherish.
Same (last race edition): —
When this war began there were two
organisations ready to the last button —the
German Army and the British Navy. To the
latter fact this Empire of ours owes its cer-
tainty of ultimate victory.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
FAR EAST SIDELIGHTS.
[These extracts are from Warning Lights of Asia, by
Gerald Samson (Hale, Ltd.), written to record the
author’s impressions after spending five years in Japan
and China, meanwhile visiting—against orders —Japan’s
Pacific mandate. He is a Reuter special correspondent.]
Today Japan is buying the total iron output of the
Philippines and is trying hard to obtain the chromium
output. She also covets the gold, lumber, coconut oil
and agricultural wealth of the islands, and has already
secured half the archipelago’s valuable textile trade.
She controls two-fifths of the retail business, and
through a system of dummy leases and companies
with Filipino names possesses a virtual monopoly of
the deep-fishing trade. All of which she has accom-
plished while the islands are under the control of the
United States. It is, therefore, not difficult to imagine
how the Philippines will fare should they receive their
promised independence in 1946. Japan has officially
proclaimed she has no intention of interfering with
the government of the islands. Why should she?
Her economic penetration will give her all she needs,
for once the Philippines lose their preferential access
to the American market they will be thrown into the
arms of Japan.
The psychological barrier is a major obstacle to
friendly intercourse between East and West, and as
long as it exists misunderstandings are inevitable. So
far Japan has suffered most on this account, though I
am sure she does not realise her loss. Even when her
arguments are legitimate and worthy of serious con-
sideration she has a habit of presenting them in a
manner which immediately provokes a hostile feeling,
putting herself in the wrong when she may possibly
be in the right. She is likewise probably the world’s
worst judge of foreign public opinion and reactions.
Official relations between Japan and the Western
Powers have hitherto exhibited few signs of recogni-
tion by either side of the gulf that separates their re-
spective mental processes, and only a studious training
assisted by goodwill can throw a permanent bridge
across the gap.
Nearly 1300 miles south of Yokohama lies the
apex of the scalene triangle formed by Micronesia,
the 1450 odd ex-German islands and coral reefs in-
herited by Japan at the close of the World War in the
form of a League of Nations mandate. Micronesia
has brought Japan some 1500 miles closer to the shores
of Australia and approximately an equal distance
nearer to the United States. Wotje (with a Japanese
seaplane base), one of the most eastern of the Mar-
shall Islands, is less than 600 miles from Wake, one of
America’s Pacific air bases; and Pelew, the most
western of the Carolines, lies but 450 miles from the
southern Philippines and not quite 600 miles from
Menado in the Dutch Celebes. America’s trade routes
to the Orient can, therefore, be severed whenever
Japan chooses.
To me it would seem that the paramount value of
the [mandate] islands lies in their undoubted useful-
ness as naval refuelling and minor repair stations, as
well as ammunition and supply depots. There is
concrete evidence of considerable new harbor and
wharfage construction having been carried out in
Saipan and Pelew, and in the former island I came
across recently tunnelled-out rocks in the interior,
excellent for storage purposes. The islands are also
natural aircraft bases, and several good-sized airports
are now completed. Moreover, wide roads, many of
them built by conscript native labor, connect the
aerodromes with the waterfront and centres of ad-
ministration. Channels through the coral reefs have
been widened at Truk, an admirable refuge and naval
base, and at Ponape, where further development is
needed. The lagoons enclosed by several of the atolls
in the Marshall group afford splendid shelter for
submarines and light surface craft.
Actual fortifications are not observable. Never-
theless, several naval and military missions have visited
the islands, and complete arrangements have been
made to fortify them in the event of war or should
Guam be raised to a first-class naval base by the
United States.
In my quest for information in Japan I was imme-
diately impressed by the general air of efficiency and
the modern methods employed, especially in the larger
enterprises. In no country, indeed, has rationalisa-
tion in production and distribution methods been
applied more assiduously and intelligently or with
such excellent results.
The amazing patience, dexterity and keen atten-
tion to detail manifested by the average operative is
fascinating to watch, and their conscientiousness and
diligence would make any Western employer of labor
envious in the extreme. From the president of a big
company down to the junior office boy there is a
patriotic passion for putting forward one’s best effort
in the service of Dai Nippon.
According to Western standards industrial wages
are remarkably low. They are difficult to classify on
account of the heterogeneous conditions of employ-
ment. Three-fifths of the industrial workers, of whom
40 per cent, are women, labor in private homes and
shops employing less than five people, and are not
officially recognised as factories. In the large and
medium scale enterprises, which account for not more
than 10 per cent, of the 95,000 registered factories,
the average daily hours of labor are ten. Working
conditions in the more modern of these establishments
compare favorably with the best in the Occident.
There is also little doubt that although wages are
lower in Japan, hours of work longer, and holidays
fewer —usually two days a month —the men and
women workers of Nippon, whether they be employed
in factory, mine or workshop, lead in general a more
satisfied existence than their higher salaried brothers
and sisters in other lands.
The significance of the role played by the pre-
ponderance of small and medium-sized home indus-
tries would be hard to exaggerate, since without them
Japan could never have achieved her remarkable in-
dustrial expansion. Sixty-five per cent, of her exported
manufactures come from this source, which has en-
abled her so easily to undersell Western articles in
the world’s markets. These -home industries range
from the spare-time job performed in the bed-sitting
room by the woman of the house assisted by her chil-
dren to the enlarged family workshop giving employ-
ment possibly to the entire household, and perhaps
outside relations and neighboring children as well.
Family communities faced with destitution are will-
ing to work as long as they can physically endure for
a bare subsistence wage. The big industrial com-
bines, which either directly or indirectly employ all
those engaged in home industry, are naturally taking
full advantage of the situation and exporting mer-
chandise at prices with which no European or
American factory can possibly compete.
More than 90 per cent, of the handkerchiefs
imported into Great Britain in 1937 came from Japan.
Their landed cost represented an average value of
Is. 10|d. a pound, as against 17s. Bd. per pound for
Swiss handkerchiefs, 12s. for German and an
average of 1 Is. Bd. for other countries.
Theoretically Japan is a constitutional monarchy,
and the fact that she possesses a Prime Minister, a
Cabinet and Privy Council, political parties, manhood
suffrage, general elections and a bicameral Parliament
“Daily Minor,” London.
PRICE OF ADMISSION!
—the Imperial Diet composed of a House of’ Lords
and an elected House of Commons —creates the illu-
sion that she has imported from Westminster the
machinery of democratic government. Nothing could
be further from the truth. These institutions are but
a European facade behind which the peculiar Japanese
structure functions —they were never patterned on the
Mother of Parliaments.
The Constitution promulgated in 1889 was in-
spired by Bismarckian Germany; and the nearest
political approach to the Premier of Japan is the old-
time German Chancellor appointed by the All High-
est, who made his own terms with the politicians. The
suggestion that Japan has recently been deprived of a
democratic form of government by the Fighting Ser-
vices is absurd, for she never had such a system.
But the principal reason why a dictatorship is
unlikely to appear on the Japanese scene, even though
totalitarianism has been accepted under the stress of
crisis, is because in this land of Emperor worship
peopled by a nation of born collectivists there is a
natural aversion to anything resembling a Stalin, or a
Hitler.
This bleak, desolate plain [Manchukuo] with its
biting winds and bitter, penetrating cold winter clime
has nothing to offer anyone who is not near to starva-
tion in his own land. These settlements, therefore,
will never seriously contribute to solving Japan’s
problem of Lebensraum. Only 10,000 families had
been settled in “Manchukuo” between 1932 and 1937,
and Japan’s annual population increase is roughly a
million. So that even if the new scheme to send to
“Manchukuo” 100,000 families—soo,ooo people—
before 1942 materialises —and only a super-optimist
can expect this —the Japanese Government will still
have a further four and a half million people to take
care of at the end of the period.
Japan has spent a fabulous sum there which has
burdened her own people and helped to cause a
Budget deficit of growing proportions. Further, by
eliminating the Chinese territorial buffer between her-
self and Russia, she has been forced to maintain and
equip an army of approximately half a million men
to protect some four thousand miles of additional
frontier with the U.S.S.R. As events have shown,
opportunities for hostile incidents between herself
and her powerful neighbor have in consequence been
greatly multiplied.
Strategically the Japanese Army looks forward
to the erection of a steel wall which will isolate East
Asia from Russian and other foreign contacts ; whilst
the Navy plans to construct fortifications and naval
bases at suitable points along the heretofore unde-
fended China coast, which will serve not only to con-
solidate Nippon’s ill-gotten gains and make her vir-
tual Mistress of the Western Pacific, but provide first-
class springboards for further Pacific conquests.
Japan is as far away as ever from achieving her
objectives [in China], Faced with failure in the sphere
of military action, Nippon has been forced to revert
to her former practice of political intrigue by the set-
ting up of Chinese puppet administration whose
policies are fully subordinated to her will. But there
is little profit in the allegiance of the unscrupulous.
The Japanese public has never been told that up
to the fall of Canton about 60 per cent, of Chinese
munitions came from their anti-Comintern ally Nazi
Germany, that the United States and other countries
have given much more assistance to China than has
Britain. . .
Japan is not only covetous of our Asiatic out-
posts, but as much of our foreign trade as she can cap-
ture. The European imbroglio is her greatest oppor-
tunity to date: she is determined if humanly possible
not to miss it.
The Burma Road has been called China’s lifeline
to the sea. Despite intricate topographical difficulties
the new artery was constructed with extremely primi-
tive labor and equipment in less than a year, and is
one of the most amazing road-building feats on
record. The road, traversing primitive regions, covers
a total distance of 726 miles from Kunming to Lashio,
the north-west terminus of the railway to Rangoon.
Between Kunming and the Burma
frontier there are 289 bridges with a
road capacity of five to ten tons, and
1959 culverts. The average width of
the road is nine to fifteen feet, and
at long intervals this has been
widened to enable heavy lorries to
pass one another. More than 200
engineers and 160,000 men (this
figure includes the conscript labor
employed to do the earthworks) were
engaged in the construction, the
initial cost of which was between
five and six million Chinese dollars.
A further ten million dollars has
been spent on improvements. All
this money has been provided by
the Central Government, which in
turn has been directly aided by the
British Boxer Indemnity Fund and
the latest British and American com-
mercial credits.
Much of the second section of
the road, from Shakwan to Anting
(350 miles), is the Old Tribute Road
once travelled by Marco Polo. It
passes over mountain ranges that
soar up to 8500 ft. A thousand
trucks were assembled at Rangoon
and an army of local and overseas
Chinese, Shan and Burmese drivers
had been recruited to man them.
Reports from Chungking state that the average haul
from Burma during June and July last year was 60
tons a day. This may have been since trebled. An
official Chinese Government transport organisation
was responsible for bringing over the mountains to the
provisional capital (Chungking) essential war supplies
landed almost 2000 miles away at the port of Rangoon.
The Japanese [this would be a year or more ago]
threatened the French Government with immediate
reprisals, including the bombing of the Yunnan rail-
way (they have since carried out the threat), if they
did not prohibit the transit to China of war supplies
or any goods that could be used in or for their manu-
facture. Although such an embargo was in direct con-
travention of clause six of the Sino-French Conven-
tion of 1930, which not only guaranteed to China the
free transit of arms and ammunition across Indo-China
but their exemption from all duties, the French
authorities acquiesced in the Japanese demands and
in their haste to execute them even held up Red Cross
supplies. Meanwhile Japan herself continued to ship
all the Indo-China coal and iron she could pay for.
The defences of Indo-China are shockingly inade-
quate, and if seriously attacked tomorrow by Japan
it would be impossible to hold the colony without
assistance from either Britain or America. Moreover,
it is questionable whether the Annamite troops who
form two-thirds of the armed forces would agree to
fight against the Japanese.
The Japanese charge that large quantities of war
supplies have been reaching China through Indo-
China is false. In addition to the unlawful French


restrictions there is only one railway to China and
this can carry a maximum freight of 500 tons a day
if the extra rolling stock that was expected has arrived
since 1 left. At the time of my visit the maximum
volume of freight carried was under 400 tons a day, all
of which was booked up months ahead by bona fide
firms supplying products for civilian use. Road trans-
port is both costly and extremely difficult to organise,
and in any case there are few lorries available for
such a purpose. There has been and there will con-
tinue to be a certain amount of gun-running and
smuggling of arms into China, but this is of no greater
volume than the quantities reaching the Chinese guer-
rilla armies under the very nose of the armed forces
of Nippon.
“Worker’s Paradise” Today.
[Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Spencer Williams, for six years Moscow correspondent
of Manchester “Guardian” and until recently Moscow
representative of the American-Russian Chamber ol
Commerce.]
Living standards in the provincial Baltic towns
where the Soviet bases have been assigned are not
particularly high, but the Kremlin oligarchy has felt
that the contrast between life there for the ordinary
citizen and that for the drab, hopeless Russian masses
provided too great a risk to a regime whose security
rests on a fostered ignorance of the world outside. The
Red forces have been quarantined, on Moscow s
orders, from bourgeois infection by being penned up
in their own encampment areas. They are barred
strictly from circulating in the streets of the towns
where they might gaze at the shop windows, bursting
with food, clothing and consumers’ articles —a spec-
tacle that most of the youthful soldiers, reared only
in the Soviet era, have never seen. For the common
citizens of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the Russian
soldiers and sailors have become the sort of attraction
the gipsy encampments used to provide. They are
the goal of a Sunday walk for the bourgeoisie or the
workers, who look through barriers at these shabbily
garbed creatures from the Marxist Mars.
The answer to why such Soviet precautions have
been taken is to be found in the condition of the
Soviet masses 22 years after the Bolshevistic revolu-
tion. For a score of years the Russian people have
been buoyed by promises of a better life to come,
bringing them more material advantages than are
enjoyed in capitalist countries. Through the grim
days of war for Communism, with the stark equality
of poverty just after the revolution, through the easier
period of the New Economic Policy in the middle
twenties, through the hopeful and anticipatory days
of the first Five-year Plan, the apathetic, tired days
of the second Five-year Plan, into the treadmill of the
present third plan, the Russians have had held up to
them the mirage of days when food would be plenti-
ful, shops bursting with goods and new housing would
have banished the hideous overcrowding of Soviet
cities. Along with this, in times of greatest stringency
in Russia, the Soviet press has flowered with reports
of popular distress elsewhere.
What the Russians have received from their dic-
tatorial rulers have been only renewals of promissory
notes, without payment even of the interest due. In
1934-35 Joseph Stalin, emboldened by the bumper
harvest ending the 1933 famine and the rise in produc-
tion attributable to individual incentive created by the
introduction of piecework pay rates, proclaimed “Life
is happier, comrades, life is more joyous.” The citi-
zenry anticipated some return on the heavy invest-
ment in toil and privation that they had been forced
to sink in the world’s greatest social experiment. Goods
reappeared in stores, while the people were instructed
that shabbiness was not a prerequisite of proletarian
respectability. The food stocks encouraged the Gov-
ernment to abolish rationing. Exports of needed com-
modities ceased, because the restoration of private
initiative for prospectors in the goldfields had pro-
vided the gold to pay for imports.
Today the mention of “the happy life” causes
Soviet citizens to make wry faces. At the beginning
of 1940 they were obliged to stand in lengthening
queues to obtain virtually every item of food, except
bread and fuels. Last year’s queues for textiles and
clothing are rarely seen now because there no longer
are even scanty offerings to queue up for.
Household articles are non-existent. The wife
of a well-rewarded author begged my wife to sell her
some tins in which she had received coffee from
America. She wanted to use them as kitchen utensils,
which are unobtainable. The woman thought that
such containers, which go into the dustbin in any other
country, were lovely.
The improvement in internal conditions in 1935
did not survive through 1936, but was seized upon by
Soviet propagandists to plant abroad the conception
of Russia as a land where living standards were
steadily rising. This legend was commonly accepted
along with the myth of the Soviet’s military might.
The mythical character of the workers’ advances
can be demonstrated from the wages statistics. At the
beginning of the Five-year Plan in 1928 the average
wage was 843 roubles. In 1938 it was 3232. But in the
same period prices of eight essential food staples,
kerosene and cotton cloth became ten times as
expensive. The ordinary worker could purchase in
1928 two and one-half times more of these items than
he could in 1938. The 1940 price rise, which occurred
simultaneously with the cuts in piecework pay rates,
means a further drop in purchasing power of those
Soviet workers who are unable to keep pace with the
industrial speed-up.
These internal factors are a guarantee that Mr.
Stalin will move warily in the European maelstrom as
always, guided by a policy of avoiding involvement in
a major war, which might loosen the hold on his
police power, a cement that holds together the hetero-
geneous political structure called the Union of
I • r . C T - . Dnm.Mmt:
Socialist Soviet Republics.
xt • a* _ AmKif-inn<s
Nazi Aims and Ambitions
[ln the New York Life article here condensed o
of America’s foremost writers on military affairs, Maj
George Fielding Eliot, examines Nazi aims and
ambifions. In general ’ the article is typical of the
speculations which flooded newspapers a P“ ™ a pzmes
in a United States stunned by the German break-through
into France. In the British Empire a Nazi victory is
not envisaged, but naturally it is different in the U.b.A.j
Every war, as Clausewitz said long ago, has a
political Objective. The mi ltary the
to commanders in the held are out means me
attainment of those political ends. The historic and
fundamental German objective is in the east of
EuronJnot inlhe west There are the raw materials
nurope, not in me west, in , , j?
that Germany needs so desperately, ine leaaers
modern Germany seek the erection of a strong, sell-
sufficient continental State in Europe itself and in the
S ~.. Ce . . •. .* r +VI „ xi p „ r p a<;t which can main-
adjacent territories of the Neai E
tain itself and fight regardless ol its loss of sea com-
munications. Hence any war Germany fights in the
west is primarily for the purpose of freeing its hands
—providing, as Hitler says, a “rear cover’ for the
continuation of its eastward march.
It is quite apparent that in most of his ventures
Hitler has what may be called maximum and mini-
mum objectives. The latter he makes reasonably suie
of getting. The former he may attain with boldness
and good luck. In the larger sense his minimum ob-
jective is his self-sufficient State in Europe. His maxi-
mum may well be world domination for Germany.
A victory obtained over Great Britain would by
no means be a conquest of the British Empire, though
“Haagscke Post,” The Hague.
MOLOTOV SPEAKS.
“For the lime being we are remaining neutral.”
it might, through economic breakdown, cause its dis-
integration. But it would not mean the immediate
advance of German troops into many parts of the
British Empire —Canada, Australia, New Zealand and
the British West Indies —because the Germans do not
possess the seapower to force their way into these
areas. It would not mean the surrender of the British
fleet to Germany, because one cannot imagine British
officers and men handing over naval vessels to the
Germans at the behest of any group of frightened
politicians. From Canada, Freetown and Bermuda
the Royal Navy could for a long time deny the use
of the Atlantic to Germany.
A Nazi victory would mean that Great Britain
would have to abandon its efforts to • prevent Ger-
many from dominating the continent of Europe. Ger-
many would remain in possession of Poland, Czecho-
slovakia, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark and
Luxembourg. It would have a free hand to deal with
Russia and the Balkans as future policy might dic-
tate. The Germans can hardly suppose themselves
capable of conquering and maintaining permanent
dominion over the British and French peoples.
A quick and complete victory for Germany, free-
ing its hands for an eastern advance, could under no
conceivable circumstances be of advantage to Soviet
Russia. A long war, in which Germany and the Allies
gradually wore each other out, would doubtless be
welcomed by the Kremlin. But a sudden and over-
whelming German success would be just the oppo-
site. Even if nothing more than the Balkans were in
immediate German contemplation, Russia could not
see a victorious Germany established at the mouths
of the Danube, much less upon the Bosphorus. Behind
all the diplomacy and the manoeuvring, the funda-
mental conflict in the Balkans is the conflict between
the Teuton and the Slav. Such a conflict is irreconcil-
able and must some day be resolved, probably by
force of arms.
Italy likewise cannot hope for much profit from
a German victory, save as a licker-up of crumbs from
the Nazi table. But neither could it hope for any-
thing from Allied success. The great fact that the
rulers of Italy had to keep in mind was their own
time limit, which is much shorter than Germany’s.
Italy’s entry into the war must be taken as an almost
certain sign that the clever and well-informed realist,
Benito Mussolini, believed a German victory was in
sight.
For the U.S. there are grim realities to be taken
into account. If German victory came it would come
quickly. A bid by Hitler for world domination would
be possible. The time factor here, as in all modern
war and therefore in all modern international relation-
ships, would be of the first importance. It takes time
to create the elements of modern armed strength.
Improvised armed forces are of no value whatever in
war today. Despite its vast natural resources and its
mighty industrial strength, the U.S.A. must still trans-
late these into fighting power. It must not make the
incredible mistake that Britain made in the years fol-
lowing the last world war of throwing away the time
accorded it by circumstances in which to gird its loins
and sharpen its sword.
Nazi Food and Finance.
[Condensed from an American “Foreign Affairs”
article by Karl Brandt, formerly Professor of Agri-
cultural Economics, University of Berlin, now economist
at the Food Research Institute, Stanford University,
U.S.A. The writer went on to analyse Germany’s diffi-
culties over import of raw materials, but the occupation
of France, with the possibility also of securing increased
supplies of essentials from Spain, has so altered the
position that his statistics and conclusions would seem
to need recasting, and are therefore not given. How-
ever, with France then still unconquered, he considered
that Germany was “relatively blockade-proof up to
two years or a bit longer” of “defensive war.”]
From the day the Nazis began to menace Europe
with war various foreign experts have been busy com-
forting frightened nations by pointing out that Ger-
many was financially weak, was bound to go bank-
rupt soon, and that this would be followed rapidly by
the deterioration of the political situation. If any-
thing has become increasingly clear in the complex
Nazi riddle it is the nonsense of all this complacent
self-deception. Granted that Germany’s finances are
greatly strained, it remains true that her financial
situation will not interfere seriously with her capacity
to live through a long war.
To be sure, the public debt continues to rise, but
in spite of this trend it would be most misleading to
assume that Hitler will lose the war because he is
“bankrupt.” His economists are now introducing a
tremendous new levy on labor incomes by paying
wages partly in “saving scrip” instead of in cash. This
scrip can only be deposited in' savings accounts, whence
it is promptly drafted for Government obligations.
The Government balance sheet may be improved also
in many other ways. The interest rate on bonds may
be reduced arbitrarily, or the total volume of out-
standing bonds may be shrunk by forcing the holders
to exchange new bonds for old at a ratio of one for
two —or any ratio. In other words, the Government
can'default on its bonds whenever this seems expedi-
ent. The Fiihrer may even call together bank presi-
dents and industrialists to celebrate some national
sacrifice by making a magnificent bonfire of bonds—
with decorations handed out for every 100 million
marks’ worth burned.
According to Hitler, Germany from March, 1933,
to the summer of 1939 spent 90 billion marks for
armaments, or 18 billion marks a year. This stupen-
dous sum absorbed all of the tax and duty revenues
of the period; and 20 billion marks had to be bor-
rowed in addition. No wonder that in 1938 a higher
national income than in 1928 left the population with
a 10 per cent, smaller money income for consump-
tion, and an even smaller real purchasing power. And
yet, no internal financial dilemma will wreck the Nazi
machine. Financial wizards can continue to juggle
money from private into public accounts. But book-
keeping cannot supply the country with physical goods
which are missing. The weak points in Germany’s
economic and financial situation are her import re-
quirements and the means at her disposal to pay for
them.
During the World War, the food shortage in the
long run had a disastrous effect on public morale and
army stamina. In the present war, food is the dic-
tator’s least cause for headache. Ever since the
country was put on a definite war footing in 1933 no
efforts have been spared to prepare the food supply to
meet the supreme emergency. The farmers of Ger-
many, Austria, Czechoslovakia and western Poland
will probably produce sufficient bread grain, potatoes,
meat, milk and summer vegetables ; and if additional
feed grain should be needed, it presumably can be
imported from the Balkans. Large stocks of bread
grains in particular were accumulated before the war
broke out. The only really important gap between
supply and demand is in the domain of edible and
industrial fats.
In recent years Germany has imported the equiva-
lent of over a million tons of fats and oils. Several
hundred thousand tons of oils were imported in the
form of two million tons of oilseeds, which, along
with the oil, carried twice as much feed protein. Half
of the oilseed and oil came from Manchuria, and the
rest from the Philippines, the Netherlands East Indies
and Africa. These imports are cut off by the block-
ade. Some 80,000 tons of whale oil were caught in the
Antarctic by a newly-built whaling fleet. These ships
are tied up in German ports.
The food dictator’s recipe for meeting the result-
ing shortage is as follows: Coal by-products have been
developed as substitutes for soap. At the same time,
soap consumption has been throttled down by ration-
ing to a fraction of what it was in peace-time. The two
measures together will save from 300,000 to 400,000
tons of fats and oils a year. Milk consumption has
also been decreased by rationing, hence more milk is
churned to butter. All edible fats will be rationed
severely. To supplement the domestic output of
butter, lard and bacon these commodities are pur-
chased in Holland, Switzerland, the neutral countries
around the Baltic and in the Balkans. More potatoes
will be planted in Poland ; and Polish potatoes and
grain surpluses will be used to fatten hogs. Contracts
for growing rapeseed and soybeans for German
account are being offered to Balkan farmers. Some
modest imports ©f oilseed are expected from Russia.
In sum, a thorough check-up on all the available
sources of imports and on the prospects of domestic
agriculture indicates that the deficit of a million tons


of fats will be bridged over somehow, though with a
very unpleasant shortage of soap and a somewhat less
severe strain on supplies of edible fats.
The only remaining problem, that of supplying
the German farmer with sufficient feed protein for
the livestock herd, has already been solved to a con-
siderable degree. Instead of feeding livestock with
natural plant protein from oilseeds, bran or yeast, or
with animal protein like fish meal, blood meal or
meat scraps, they are fed a mixture of natural pro-
ducts and synthetic components of proteins, like urea
and amino acids. These are derived from the air in
the huge Leuna Works, which also produce the bulk
of the nitrogen for fertiliser and gunpowder. The
cows, sheep, pigs and horses may not like this bill of
fare ; but in an emergency “the devil feasts on flies.”
* * * * *
{From a London “Times” article by a “trade corre-
spondent,” who holds that Germany’s position is less
favorable.)
Whereas Germany accumulated large stocks of
essential commodities before the war, she has not
been able to replenish them, and meanwhile has been
consuming them at high speed. She has now insuffi-
cient supplies of petroleum products, rubber, leather,
textile materials, soap, ferro-alloys, non-ferrous metals,
fats, oilseeds and fodder. While she has been to a
great extent self-sufficient in breadstuffs, potatoes and
some other foods, she will not obtain as much food-
stuffs as formerly from the Low Countries, and will
probably have to help them in some respects, for such
agriculture as these highly industrialised and thickly-
populated countries possessed has been damaged. She
is unlikely to leave them to starve, for fear of pro-
ducing disease which the Army of Occupation might
catch.
The Danish grain crop is reported as poor, and
dairying and bacon production have received a heavy
blow from the shortage of feeding stuffs. According
to a recent estimate by the United States Department
of Agriculture, before many months have passed half
Denmark’s three million hogs may be exported to
Germany and 15 to 20 per cent, of her cattle killed.
In Germany the harvest is expected to be well
below last year’s—which was unusually large. The
hard winter killed much of the autumn-sown grain,
and floods after the snow caused damage in some
areas. The acreage sown in Russia, whence Hitler
hopes to obtain his principal additional supplies of
food, was reported at the end of last April to be only
one-third of that sown 12 months earlier. Crop pros-
pects in South-eastern Europe, notably of maize and
oil-bearing plants, are less favorable than a year ago.
Foot-and-mouth disease is serious all over Germany
and supplies of the vaccine which has been used there
to stop it cannot now be obtained. For fear of immo-
bilising labor, only small villages and individual farms
are being isolated. Scarcity of agricultural labor, which
was marked before the war, has since grown much
more intense. The widespread mechanisation of
farming which has taken place during the last 10
years has been causing difficulty through the need for
petrol and Diesel oil, on which the forces have prior
claim. Meanwhile few horses have been left available.
Hitler’s Petrol Problem.
{From an article in London “Daily Herald.”)
When Hitler’s 6000 tanks started on their Blitz-
krieg, they stoked up with roughly 1,100,000 gallons
of petrol. In the usual proportion 6000 tanks, or six
divisions, would consist of 550 heavy, 2180 medium
and 3270 light tanks. Reservoirs of heavy tanks are
capable of holding 300 gallons, medium 200 and light
150 gallons of petrol. Heavy tanks consume about
six gallons to the mile, limiting their radius of action
to 50 miles if they cannot refuel. Medium tanks eat
up two gallons every mile and light tanks approxi-
mately one.
Aircraft consume almost as much fuel as tanks.
The Messerschmitt 110 carries 400 gallons, and at its
top speed can travel 820 miles ; roughly two miles to
the gallon. Heavy bombers may carry as much as 1000
gallons of petrol, a supply that lasts for a little over
three hours.
Only Hitler knows how much of his stocks has
been depleted. Germany is producing some synthetic
petrol from her soft brown coal. Exactly how much
is not known, but it is certainly not enough to satisfy
her normal domestic requirements, far less the tremen-
dous demands of mechanised warfare.
In 1938 Germany used about 7,000,000 tons of
oil —for a far smaller territory than that now under
her control. She can obtain only a fraction of this in
new supplies; she can keep up this intensive
mechanised and air warfare only by drawing on her
reserves.
Those reserves must be kept somewhere—and as
soon as they are discovered our bombers go over to
deal with them. When a petrol tank is hit by an
incendiary bomb, probably 1,000,000 gallons of petrol
go up in flames. If, as is usual, the tank stands in a
nest of other tanks many more million gallons of fuel
will be destroyed.
One other important item. Tanks, ’planes, etc.,
must also have lubricating oil in large quantities. Ger-
many cannot manufacture lubricating oil. The best,
in fact the only, suitable lubricating oil for the mighty
machines of modern warfare comes from the United
States. Germany is cut off from that by the blockade.
Mediterranean Exits.
(From an article by London “Times” naval corre-
spondent.)
A frank survey by German experts of the strate-
gical position of Italy at war with Britain was pub-
lished in Berlin in 1938 as part of a book called
Defence Geography of the World’s Oceans, in which
Captain H. Heye declares that Italy is far better able
to defend herself against attack from the sea than she
was in 1914, but that her geographical position is
highly dangerous.
“Even if the Mediterranean [Captain Heye writes]
has lost its significance as a sphere of operations for
the British Navy, owing to Italy’s fleet and air force,
yet England still dominates, as before, the exits of
that sea. As long as these positions are firmly in
British hands vital Italian communications depend on
British policy. In her own Mediterranean waters Italy
can exercise an uncontested mastery, for her coasts
and ports are not exposed to the direct action of a hos-
tile fleet; but so long as she has no weapon to con-
quer England’s dominating position at the exits of that
sea, so long will the existence of the Italian empire
depend on England’s love of peace or readiness for
war.
“The greater part of Italy’s imports must pass the
Straits of Gibraltar. The military and economic com-
munications with Abyssinia run through the Suez
Canal and the Red Sea. In such a position, England
would not even need to send ships into the Mediter-
ranean. She could concentrate her sea and air fleets
at the exits, on strongly fortified bases of operations,
and thence carry on a blockade like that against Ger-
many in 1914 ; Italian communications would be cut
and success achieved without attacking with the main
body of the fleet itself. England can wait in these
positions for the Italians, who on their side have to
attack to destroy the favorable strategical position of
the British and open the exits to the Mediterranean.”
The writer suggests that an attack by land on
Suez and Egypt might have succeeded during the
Abyssinian crisis, but that in the future “British land
and air forces would come from India through Arabia
or from England via the Cape to defend threatened
points. It may be assumed that England would have
the better wind in such a struggle, as the interruption
of Italian sea communications past Gibraltar and with
the Indian Ocean could not be borne by Italy for
long.” He recognises that “the English are not at all
disposed to give up their position in the Mediter-
“Times-Union,” U.S.A.
BEYOND THE PRESIDENTIAL BATTLEFIELD.
ranean. Almost half their Battle Fleet is there. By
strengthening and concentrating their forces at the
exits of the sea they recognise the strategical realities.”
o • • p i„„ i
rvil- sta in roiana.
[Condensed from London “Nineteenth
this article supports that from London Sunday Times
given in earlier “Uncabled Additions.” The editor
of the “Nineteenth Century” declares that “all the
details have been carefully checked and collated.”]
During the first two months the Russian occu-
pation was better than under the German. Unfor-
tunately that is no longer so. There is famine every-
where. “Well-to-do” families are eating black bread,
gruel and potatoes, others only bread soaked in “water
of soup,” made with water and a handful of flour,
To obtain bread one has to stand before the
shops often from midnight till 9 or 10 a.m. In general
one cannot find anything in the shops. Not only
foodstuffs, but other articles like needles, thread,
knives, etc., have all been taken long ago by the
Bolsheviks to Russia, as they themselves are short of
everything.
The crowning economic blow for the population
in the Russian-occupied territory was the sudden
stopping of the circulation of Polish currency. People
who had savings received one-tenth of their value,
often not even that. Only the permanent residents
of Lwow could receive anything; the savings books
of the others, of so many refugees from other parts
of Poland, were destroyed. The fate of the people
who Came from other parts and provinces is most
tragic. They are thrown out of the rooms, not allowed
to seek work, not given the right to rations of bread,
etc., as the Bolsheviks want to compel them to go
to Russia, and this means a sure death in the opinion
of all. Some of the workers, mostly miners, taken
by force to Russia, often run away and say it is star-
vation there, for they can buy only one meal a day
with what they earn.
The villagers of the occupied territories do not
like to accept the Russian rouble, and they have
stopped bringing food to town. Hunger is felt by
many so acutely that mothers have killed their small
children because they were unable to see their suffer-
ings. The Bolsheviks are throwing out the lunatics
from the asylums under the pretext that there is no
money for their maintenance.
Hundreds of people are leaving the cities on foot,
each carrying a small bag and going to unknown
villages in the hope of finding some place where
starvation will not be so painful. Some Americans
who came from Lwow not long ago state that more
than 5,000,000 of the population are bound to die
if the Soviet does not allow America or other countries
to bring food to this part of Poland. Indeed, the
situation there is more dreadful than human imagina-
tion can conceive.
Anyone can denounce whom he likes by writing
his name and leaving the card in a box at the
“Ogpu’s” office. He receives 120 roubles reward for
every denunciation of Polish and Ukrainian patriots
or social workers. For several months executions
have been going on. Nobody can visit the prisoners.
Only once a month may fresh linen be brdught in,
but the dirty cannot be given back as it is all in
rags. Twenty-four hours before the execution the
family is allowed to see the condemned. People say
it is the worst torture. Not only intellectuals are
executed, but workmen and villagers, too. Not long
ago all Polish Communists were arrested. The reason
was unknown. Possibly a denunciation of their general
opinion—to see Russian Communism in practice even
for a few weeks is enough to be utterly cured of all
sympathies for it, so much is it a parody of the
original idea.
All the methods used in this part are like those
of the Germans—barbarous and ruthless. Depor-
tation to Russia, not only of individuals but of
whole villages, is carried out with the same cruelty
as by the Germans. The village is surrounded by
soldiers, generally during the night, and all inhabitants
are taken to the nearest station. No exception is
made of either the old, the weak or the ill, nor even
of women with newly-born infants. These die by the
dozen during the terrible journey, and their corpses
are thrown out through the little windows of the
cattle wagons. In some districts one could follow
the route of these deportation trains by the hundreds
of frozen corpses lying along the railway line.
J. Bull’s Men on the Land.
{From a London “Daily Herald” article by William
Barkley.)
How discreditable has been the attitude of
Parliament and public men in the past to the
skilled toilers on the soil in Britain! Most shame-
ful decision of all was when these laborers were
made poor relations by Statute, by Act of Parlia-
ment, in the Unemployment Insurance scheme,
which laid down that a countryman needs a
smaller “dole” or benefit than a townsman when
he falls out of work.
Then again his skilled employment has been
regarded as what we call in Scotland a coup— a
refuse-heap found outside the town —for undesir-
able material from the cities. The conscientious
objector is told he will be exempted if he takes
up agricultural employment. There is never a
question whether he knows anything about the
job. But it would be as wise to let a lunatic loose
with a spanner in an aircraft factory as trust a
city clerk to look after livestock.
The wages offered for navvying work in pre-
paring sites for factories and airfields have —to
Britain’s shame —tempted tens of thousands from
the skilled work of food production. I know of a
well-grown schoolboy in Hampshire, aged 13,
who played truant for a week and went camp-
building. When he was found out he was sent
home. He took home £3 to his father, a farm
worker earning 355. a week.
The average laborer’s wage in the country—
38s. 6d. —is now being raised by 9s. 6d. a week to
everyone paid the minimum wage, that is to say, to
between 400,000 and 500,000 men. A sum of
£12,000,000 will go to fructify our village life each
year, and still more if the countryside can snatch
back many of its sons who have been torn unwillingly
from it by the attractions of the city wage. Will
anyone, say that 48s. a week is too much? Richard
Jefferies, the naturalist, once wrote that the produce
of a farm laborer’s life, if it could be piled up before
him, would make a huge pyramid, but that the rewards
of his life-work could be held in a clenched hand,
like a nut, so that no one would see them.
It takes a war to do this. Before the last war
the British farm worker’s reward was 18s. a week.
It rose to 255. in 1917, 30s. in 1919. In the brief
post-war boom it mounted to 465. in 1920. Twenty
years ago the farm laborer had almost as high a
minimum as he is going to get now. But in three
years his wage was halved. In 1924 it had fallen to
285., and it has taken 16 years to creep laboriously
up to 10s. more.
London “Night Life.”
(From Commissioner of Police Sir Philip Game’s
annual report.)
The impression of London in war-time produced
by the reports in certain newspapers was that it had
become completely demoralised. Vice was said to be
flourishing ; the number of night clubs, drinking dens
and “gambling hells” to be increasing beyond all
bounds ; gangsterism and racketeering were said to be
rampant; and large numbers of the worst kind ot
criminals were represented as taking advantage of the
blackout for their evil purposes.
Actually nothing could be farther from the truth.
There was no noticeable increase in any of the activi-
ties mentioned, and in some respects the position was
unusually good. The harm done by these exaggerated
reports is obvious enough. At home they add need-
lessly to the anxiety and apprehension inseparably
from war conditions, and abroad they provide wel-
come food for hostile propagandists.
An instance of this occurred in connection with
a statement that hundreds of cases of a certain offence
had come to notice. Pointing out to the editor thai
this was, roughly, a tenfold exaggeration, I referred
to the use which could be made of the report by eneni)
broadcasters. Within 24 hours this actually occurred,
the story and the source of it were given. The on)
important change made in the German version
that hundreds became thousands.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There is no gainsaying the popularity
of Canterbury Park. Recently a repre-
sentative of that club caused amusement
in his protest against the restriction of
racing by stating that its patrons were
principally elderly people. Saturday's
attendance did not uphold that conten-
tion. The younger division, men and
women, were strongly in evidence, and
saw some excellent racing for the £l5OO
prize-money. It was thought the club
would increase its stakes if attendances
continued up to the standard of its
recent meetings, but that must remain
doubtful in view of the club’s announce-
ment that all profits from the end of last
month are to go to war funds. Most
commendable procedure and a splendid
example for various other clubs in the
metropolitan area.'
Festoon’s price of 7 to 2 for the
Jumpers’ Flat Race was surprisingly
'liberal, and over the final three furlongs
be did not give his backers any cause for
worry. In the first half-mile Grosvenor
Square went out with a long lead from
Festoon, who was well ahead of the
remainder. The latter took charge as
soon as Gollop wished, and though Speed
King and Pharaoh ran on fairly in the
minor places they never threatened Fes-
toon, who may not realise his owner’s
hopes of reaching spring handicap form,
but with four wins and £470 in jumpers’
flat races in two months has given a satis-
factory return. Trekster was fourth, and
though Sir Hugh’s penalty for his Ken-
sington win was only 51b. it completely
settled him.
Tunisia was a strong favorite for the
Nursery Handicap. Benefiting by the
substitution of W. Cook for the appren-
tice who rode him at his previous
appearance, he won. After being some
distance back at the turn, it was by only
a head he defeated the outsider Brazen
Boy. The Elk and Sally Rich were the
pacemakers, but though Overjoyed
headed them in the straight he weak-
ened near the winning-post. Plimsoll and
Shem were failures, though the former
did show pace. John Halifax, a half-
brother, by Pantheon, to Merry Smile,
was a good fourth, and may prove worth
the 500gns. he cost as a yearling. C.
Battye is training him. Tunisia’s finish-
ing run said a lot for his gameness, but
he still has a long way to go to bring
him in line as a Derby possibility.
Winnipeg is good, but though he took
charge a furlong from home in the Fly-
ing Handicap he was outstayed by Radi-
cal, to whom he was conceding 71b. At
the turn Radical was some distance
behind Winnipeg. Sologram, who was
prominent throughout, was a good third,
succeeded by Tarn and John Peel. The
last-named, who was slow in finding his
legs, will do better over a longer dis-
tance, but Tarn, improved by her last
couple of runs, should go close to win-
ning at her next start. Desert King com-
menced smartly, but, after pacing it with
Tarn at the head of affairs for three fur-
longs, tired so greatly that he finished
last, After his Kensington win it was
suggested he was an Epsom possibility,
but that race is likely to be much above
him even with his light weight.
Featherweight apprentice A. Mulley
rode a strong finish to land Climax
winner of the Canterbury Handicap.
Yours Truly and Opportunist led round
the home turn from Climax, and when
the first-mentioned two dropped out half-
way down the straight, Aristocrat and
Bonny Loch joined in. Fifty yards from
home Aristocrat’s chance was a winning
one, but right at the winning-post Climax
was holding him, though only a half-
head separated them. Bonny Loch, who
swung out at the turn, was a head further
away.
There was a little support for Yours
Truly. Though bright, he was above
himself and will do better next time. The
favorite, Brazen Lad, struck trouble at
the start, again along the side, and gener-
ally had such a rough passage that his
failure can be overlooked. Vestal did
not run as well as at Moorefield the
previous week.
* . * \ c A/r *
Despite the assistance of McMenamin
Miss Poppy gave be £ backers *
first division of the Progressive
cap an indifferent run She was n a
handy position to the straight entrance,
but was never going like a winner,
eventually finished fifth. om
Sampan were the e a rly leaders, bu t when
Widden led halfway down e s ®
he did not look like being beaten. -
ever, Miss Heroic, with a we " SU L?
effort, beat him a neck, Vi . , ,
widgee, an Ethiopian gelding raine y
D. Lewis, in third place. Beau ,
favored by an exceptionally goo ru
on the rails, was one of the lea e *s
the turn, but could not hold his P° s^.
down the straight. The merit of Miss
Heroic’s win was enhanced by the fact
that she was one of the tail-enders after
going two furlongs,
* * * . ‘ _* , u .
Another good finishing effort was t. at
of Zel in the sec ond division of the Pro-
gressive Stakes. When the favorite, Riva
Chief, drew away from Elson at the top
pf the straight the race appealed oyer,
but f n tbe fi coming,
and headed Rival Chief in the last few
strides. As Ilium was the only o ei
supported to any extent, and ran thir ,
backers were well on the mark. Electra
was prominent for nearly half a mile,
but she has not yet struck her earlier
form.
• ••••*
Rathlin jumped away well in the Ash-
bury Handicap, and Knox rode him hard
in the first furlong to keep him in the
lead. After leaving the straight he bowled
along freely, and, notwithstanding Dis-
cipline and Mischief in turn appeared as
if they were going to make it hard for
him, he slipped away again at the turn,
and scored nicely from Hope, who was
last at the six furlongs. New tactics were
tried with Anpapejo, but they were of
no avail. He was one of the leading
three up to the halfrmile, but as a result
of being forced along at the beginning
of the race he tired badly at the finish.
* * * *
History has a habit of repeating itself,
and some Melbourne backers, though
hardly thinking such a thing possible, are
wondering whether Tidylus, winner of
the Murrumbeena Handicap at Fleming-
ton on Saturday, can follow the example
set by Rivette. Latter won the corre-
sponding race last year, when it was run
at Caulfield, and then went on to Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups success. Con-
nections of Tidylus do not overrate their
horse, but at least they are hopeful that
he will do likewise. In fact, even more
ambitious plans may be made for Tidy-
lus if he comes up to expectations after
a dose of physic and a brief let-up. In
addition to the Caulfield Cup with 7.9
and the Melbourne Cup with 7.2, he is
engaged in the A.J.C. Metropolitan with
7.7, and, according to trainer Norman
Shing, will be a runner for the Randwick
race if his form warrants a trip.
Carrying 8.12, Tidylus led throughout
the mile and a half on Saturday, and,
although riders of other horses were criti-
cised for allowing country jockey W.
Trimble to outwit them in making the
pace to suit himself, the fact remains that
races over this distance at Flemington
are often won all the way. Granted that
the track was much slower than when
Prince Ariel hung up the record time of
2.285, Tidylus’s 2.391 revealed how
Trimble slowed the field down and kept
enough in reserve to stall off challenges
by Frill Prince and Marcius. Tidylus is
a five-year-old gelding by Graculus from
Fidelity, and is one of many smart gal-
lopers which have been brought to the
city in recent years by his country trainer.
Shing’s headquarters are at Wahgunyah,
on the Victorian bank of the Murray
River, and for 18 years, first as jockey
and then as trainer, he has been asso-
ciated with countless wins with horses
owned by vigneron A. H. Guskett. On
his latest trip he has won several races
with Tidylus and the latter’s year-younger
brother Tranent, who is engaged in the
A.J.C. Epsom with 7.4.
Bureaucrat, one of the most promising
young hurdlers in Melbourne, compen-
sated for his failures at the National
meeting by winning the Leamington
Hurdle. A minor betting drift from
5 to 4 to 2 to 1 alarmed early punters,
but late support brought Bureaucrat’s
price back to 11 to 8. The race was run
at a slow pace, and developed into a
duel between Bureaucrat and Atticus.
They were together in the lead from the
second-last to the last hurdle, but Bureau-
crat outstayed his rival and won de-
cisively, with Bridge of Dee third.
Bureaucrat, rising five, has started only
five times over hurdles for two wins, a
second and a third, but, although Satur-
day’s win with 9.9 did not leave him open
to a rehandicap for the Australian
Hurdle, in which he has 9.6, he does not
make the same appeal as Cheery Jack in
the latter race. Cheery Jack beat him
two lengths in the Doutta Galla Hurdle,
and meets him only 41b. worse next
Saturday week. Bureaucrat, however,
should again finish ahead of Atticus.
Latter met Bureaucrat 41b. worse than
Australian Hurdle terms, but on Satur-
day’s form will be troubled by the extra
six furlongs.
Laurie Meenan, hero of the National
double, will always remember his win-
ning ride on Tornarsuk in the Godfrey
Watson Steeplechase. Contracting to
ride Tornarsuk at 51b. over his handicap
weight of. 9.0, Meenan visited the Turkish
baths on Saturday morning and, taking
off 51b., duly weighed out at 9.5. Even
a glass of water, however, can mean an
increase of pounds to a man who has
been wasting, and this fact was brought
home to Meenan when he weighed in at
9.8, or 31b. over his declared weight. As
stewards now have discretionary powers
in such cases, there was no question of
his losing the race, and no inquiry was
held until after correct weight had been
semaphored. Stewards found that the
increase of 31b. was due partly to
Meenan taking a drink of water prior to
the race, and also to trainer C. R. Mas-
ked having placed an extra towel under
the saddle. Masked was reprimanded.
This was the second time in recent
months that a winning rider had weighed
in overweight. H. Hanley declared 21b.
overweight on Indignity in the last Aus-
tralian Cup, but gained in weight between
weighing-out and weighing-in.
Meenan has the largest public
ing of all cross-country riders in Mel-
bourne, but the majority of his most
ardent supporters deserted him on Tor-
narsuk. Latter’s starting price of 20 to 1
did not seem overgenerous on form, as
less than three weeks earlier he had
finished a very poor fifth in the Mel-
bourne Hunt Steeplechase at Moonee
Valley. He was then trained by Fred
Foulsham, but the latter declined to have
anything further to do with him, and
Tornarsuk was taken on lease by Mas-
well. A drop from the 11.8 he carried
in the Hunt Steeple, plus Meenan in the
saddle, made the difference on Saturday.
Tornarsuk, another of the jumping
Davids, outstayed Davanthus and Reef,
though several spills during the race may
have helped him. Well-backed St. Robert
and Musical David slipped and fell on
the flat 10 furlongs from home, while
Amharic, Clonea and Laveur either fell
or lost their riders at later stages.
• •••••
Having his first race since February,
and practically neglected in the betting,
Warbird gave bookmakers a 33-to-l
result in the Lillimur Two-year-old,
Phocion was unlucky, in that he missed
the start and came from last at the half-
mile to finish second ; but Warbird’s win
was too decisive to be regarded as a
fluke. Never farther back than second,
he cleared away at the top of the straight
and won by almost four lengths. Bred
in England to Australian time, Warbird
is by Miracle or Shell Transport from
Rock-a-bye, his dam having been im-
ported to Australia by S.A. studmaster
Keith Angus. Warbird was bought as
a yearling by W. Jackson for 300gns.,
and with two wins already has been a
bargain. He is engaged in the Caulfield
Cup with 6.10 and the Melbourne Cup
with 7.0, and, even if not up to that
standard, should develop into a really
useful handicapper. One thing certain
is that he will not be overlooked at his
next appearance on a soft track.
Phocion’s defeat was the start of a bad
day for followers of Lou Robertson’s
stable. Marcius, favorite for the Mur-
rumbeena Handicap, and West Wind,
favorite for the second Kambrook Trial
division, were beaten later.
A year ago Bill Burke was sitting
on top of the world with the Grand
National winners Green Cape and Giant
Killer, the former of whom also won the
Australian Hurdle. Luck has not been
so kind to him this winter, but he trains
a fair galloper in Magnetic Knight, whose
success in the first Kambrook Trial divi-
sion was his second win from his last
three starts. Both wins were in restricted
company, but Magnetic Knight is not yet
four years, and probably will improve.
Backed to favoritism on Saturday, he
conceded Kaipara a long start from the
top of the straight, but wore him down
and won going away. Isambard, part-
owned by A. Mair, Premier of N.S.W.,
came from a long way back to finish
third, and seems likely to develop into a
fair stayer. Magnetic Knight is by
Medieval Knight from Magnet, and, like
Isambard, is engaged in the two Cups.
If mooted race restrictions in Sydney
are adopted, several trainers in that city
may migrate to Melbourne. One of their
number, Jack Cook, arrived in Melbourne
recently with Tunic and Koorenbeen, and
the latter gave him a satisjactory start
by winning the second Kambrook Trial
division. There was not a great deal
of money for Koorenbeen on the course,
even though he started at 9 to 2, but
s.p. bookmakers were hit heavily. Cook
may now settle in Melbourne, but he
informed The Bulletin representative
that his real reason for coming to Mel-
bourne was that he thought Koorenbeen
would be better suited by the reverse
way of going. Cook added that this
gelding, a three-year-old by Friarsdale
from Donna Erica, was inclined to hang
in in his Sydney races, and owing to this
fault was a good thing beaten in his
last two races in that city. Suited by
his first race experience of left-handed
going on Saturday, Koorenbeen ran truly
throughout, was never farther back than
second, hit the front entering the straight,
and stalled off strong challenges to win
from Colignan and Palencia. Tunic,
Cook’s other representative, ran a pro-
mising fifth in the Lillimur Two-year-old,
and should also pay his way in Mel-
bourne.
Somerset, rising 10 years, recorded a
well-earned win in the Malvina Welter.
Starting at 14 to 1 after 20’s had been
bet, he finished brilliantly to beat an-
other veteran in Beau Spear, a champion
welter performer a couple of years ago
and winner of two recent races at pro-
vincial meetings. Feature of the betting
on the race was a plunge which brought
Burrabil’s price from fours down to
sto 2. The country-owned gelding, now
under the care of W. O’Dwyer while his
regular trainer, F. Heazlewood, is re-
covering from the effects of an accident,
had every chance but was beaten into
third place. Astounding, second favorite
at 4 to 1, struck more than his share of
trouble during the race and did well to
finish fourth.
* * * *
Rodborough was too good for the
milers in the C.R.J.C. Handicap at
Grafton, but the extra distance and a
71b. penalty proved too much for him in
the Grafton Cup. Rodborough has won
three races of the total value of £1350
this season, and as minor places in-
creased his earnings to £l5lO he will
commence the coming season with a
credit balance. There is a fair margin
between a Villiers Stakes and an Epsom
Handicap, but, as Rodborough won the
former with 7.12, the Epsom with 21b.
less should not be altogether beyond him.
When he ran third to Beauliv-re at Rose-
hill last month he carried 8.6 to the
latter’s 9.3. In the Epsom he will meet
the latter 111 b. better, but Beaulivre, be-
ing the younger, is naturally more likely
to improve.
• • • • • •
Another Queenslander in Hendra Lad
upset the calculations of Sydney owners
in the Grafton Cup. Backed for the
Ramornie Handicap on the opening day
Hendra Lad was unplaced, but he easily
won the Cup from Bucolic and Snow
Queen. I heard the failure of some of
the Sydney horses excused on the score
of the slow pace in the early part. Hendra
Lad, who won last season’s Queensland
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By "SENTRY.")
Aberfeldie Hurdle: Kevastar or
Atticus, 1 ; Glaucus, 2; Glenlonan,
3.
Cooee Handicap: Florin, 1 ;
Triumvir, 2 ; Happiness, 3.
A. V. Hiskens Steeplechase: Man
of Ayr, 1 ; Brightello, 2 ; Collier, 3.
Glen Orla Handicap: Diaphane,
1 ; Barametric, 2 ; Frill Prince, 3.
Derrimut Handicap: Moonray,
1 ; The Decoration, 2 ; Tranent, 3.
Sunset Welter Handicap: Night
Train, 1 ; Ronwin, 2 ; Burrabil, 3.


Derby, beating an odds-on favorite in
Seven Fifty, is by Bonnement from Lady
Be Good, a sister to Rivoli, and was bred
by J. H. S. Barnes. Bonnement has not
achieved particular fame at the stud, but
be is a really well-bred horse, being by
Tracery from Spean Bridge, by Spear-
mint from Santa Brigida, by St. Simon.
* * * *
Williamstown R.C.’s Underwood
Stakes, of £lOOO, the first of the coming
season’s weight-for-age races in Mel-
bourne, will be run at the Williamstown
meeting on August 24. The race will
be at Moonee Valley, the distance
being a mile. Ajax is to be one of the
field, and, though it may be too much
to expect Manrico to beat him, the latter
will test the champion. Manrico’s recent
win at Flemington showed him to be
nearly at the top of his form, and, in
addition to being a first-class miler, he
has won at Moonee Valley.
% * * *
The success of Astounding and Kooren-
been at Flemington points to the rank
and file of Melbourne’s horses not being
superior to those of Sydney, and may
mean further departures from here if
racing is reduced to the extent considered
probable. Average Melbourne meetings
beat those of Sydney in prize-money, and
evidently races are not harder to win.
Koorenbeen won a division of a Pro-
gressive Handicap at Rosebery last
month, but he was in receipt of 21b.
from the second horse, Grosvenor
Square, who was unplaced with the mini-
mum weight in the Jumpers’ Flat Race at
Canterbury on Saturday. Subsequent to,
his Rosebery win, Koorenbeen (7.9) was
defeated by Gallop (8.2) in a Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap at Kensington.
As Pimm’s was third with 8.2 the form
was not of much account.
* * . -t *
According to reports the Cabinet, on
the report of the sub-committee, intends
adhering to its proposed cut in racing
fixtures in and near Sydney. Naturally
each debenture, metropolitan proprietary
and provincial club is fighting for con-
ditions that assure it the best possible
financial return, but it is a pity political
interference could not have been avoided.
There is no telling what may be its limit,
as, while some members of Parliament
have a fair working knowledge of racing
and how far restrictions should go, most
have not, and one suggestion may lead to
another even more drastic.
* * * *
B. R. Payten has a much larger team
at Randwick than any other trainer. This
month he took out tickets for 30 horses,
and, while he leads all the other Sydney
trainers in prize-money this season, his
prospects for the coming one are particu-
larly bright. His older horses include
Seven Fifty, Own Folk, Katanga, John
Peel, Caesar and Climax. Among
his three-year-olds will be Derby candi-
dates in John, Trueness and Rylstone,
while others of lesser account up to the
present, but likely to improve, are Pat-
rician, The Elk and Evergreen. G. Price
has the next largest team, but, while his
three-year-old strength for the coming
season does not appear to be up to the
standard of some previous years—though
Fearless Fox promises well —Beaulivre,
Beaupartir, Mildura and Denis, of his
older division, should win him some
good races. Several trainers have
such small teams that an additional issue
of No. 1 licenses would not overcrowd
Randwick for training purposes.
* * . * *
Enlistments for war service have
affected racing club offices in various
States. In Melbourne J. C. Reilly, Men-
tone T.C. secretary, joined the R.A.A.F.,
and his position is being temporarily
filled by C. P. Schaedel, who has been
the club’s accountant for the last 10 years.
* % *
Jockey L. Meenan could win a jump-
ing race on almost anything at the present
time. He brought his total up to 20 for
the season when he won the Godfrey
Watson Steeplechase on Tornarsuk (20 to
1) at Flemington on Saturday. With 20
wins from 76 mounts he has a higher
percentage than any jockey whose efforts
in Melbourne are limited to the flat. Of
the latter H. Badger is an easy first in
number of wins, 48 and a dead-heat
from 269 mounts prior to last Saturday,
but in percentage was led by N. Creigh-
ton, whose 104 mounts had given 22
wins.
* * * *
The addition of a “Weight Expected”
column to nomination forms is not a
suggestion likely to be considered by
racing clubs, but such*a departure, if it
were possible and figures published,
would provide a deal of amusement. The
chances are that many horses entered for
a Big race, and entitled to over 7.7, would
be weighted by their owners or trainers
at anything from 71b. to 141 b. less than
any handicapper could possibly allot
them. Where their own interests are
concerned, it is astounding what some
owners and trainers regard as “fairness”
on the part of handicappers. Their ideas
on that score often reflect on their intelli-
gence, and occasionally come from most
unexpected quarters.
* * *
Some of Sydney’s leading bookmakers
have started business on the Epsom and
Metropolitan double. Of course Beau-
livre is the Epsom pick, next to him com-
ing High Caste and then Gold Salute,
Miidura and Reading. Beau Vite, Mosaic,
Pantler and Reading are the Metropoli-
tan topliners, those on the second line
being Beaulivre and Miidura. There
are 17 or 18 on the third line. So far
there has been no rush of business, nor,
pending war developments, is there likely
to be.
* * * *
The V.R.C. and V.A.T.C. handicappers
differ greatly from the A.J.C. handicapper
in their rating of Climax. Her imposts
are: Cantala Stakes, 7.10 ; Caulfield Cup,
7.11 ; Epsom Handicap, 7.5 ; Metropoli-
tan, 7.1. She will probably improve, but,
as she was only 51b. from the minimum
when she won at Canterbury Park, B.
Payten is unlikely to favor reserving her
for the Cantala Stakes in the hope she
may prove another Carefree.
* * ' * #
Reading won exactly £5500 at Rand-
wick this season, heading the three-year-
old winners at that track. Last season
his Randwick earnings were £3o2s—a
total of £8525. Without his winnings
elsewhere that amount would make him
, a bargain at his yearling price of 400gns.
High Caste totalled £3440 at Randwick,
and Feminist’s one win at headquarters
returned H. S. Thompson £3BOO. Mosaic
came out on top at Randwick for this
season, putting together £7287 10s. In
addition there was a £2OO - cup. He
was a 310gns. yearling. An old racing
friend of mine used to say: “I know no
easier way to make money than with a
good horse.” Exactly; but the trouble
always is to get a good horse, as most
buyers of high-priced yearlings can
testify.
* * * *
Every trainer gets his run of bad luck,
and G. P. Nailon is getting more than
his share. Osculum won him a race at
Canterbury last month, but Saturday saw
him back to his minor placings, Aristo-
crat scoring a second and Mischief a
third. Aristocrat has not won a race this
season, but his last seven starts have given
three seconds and two thirds. Mischief
has not fared much better. He won a
race in April, but since then his record
is four seconds and three thirds. In the
way of aggravating luck for a trainer
Nailon has experienced it with the horses
mentioned. '
* * * *
The possibility of racing being con-
siderably reduced in New South Wales
is naturally worrying breeders, though
not all. Next year they may. be left
with many yearlings they can neither sell
nor lease. Prices at Sydney sales last
autumn exceeded expectations, but
judging by those realised at two
recent stud dispersals prospects for
the coming season are not so bright.
A correspondent recently asked for
a list of Australian yearlings that
realised over 2500gns. They are ap-
pended, and it will be seen that, while a
few justified their prices, the majority
did not:
Guineas.
Dominant, by Saltash-Weltea .. 6750
Avant Courier, by Valais-Courante 5500
Gilt Edge, by Valais-Glittering Gold 5000
Sion, by Valais-Galtee Queen .. 4100
Magnifico, by Magpie-Charleville .. 4000
Glenariff, by Valais-Bunee .. .. 3800
Glendew, by Valais-Aerobelle .. 3300
Orcus, by Positano-Jacinth .. .. 3050
Varallo, by Valais-Orvietta .. .. 3000
Murthong, by Valais-Otford .. .. 2750
B c, by Caravel-Andesine .. .. 2700
Ch c, by Valais-Shepherd Princess .. 2600
King David, by Comedy King-
Ransom 2600
The three at the highest prices in the
above list were sold to Victorian buyers.
* * * *
There have been few unexpected
weight-for-age developments among
stayers in Australia this season, the one
of most note being Maikai, who ran well
against Ajax at a mile and a half in
Melbourne, and won at a mile and three-
quarters at Randwick. In the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups of last year he
had only 7.11 while this year he
is rated up to weight-for-age standard
in those races. As he is rising seven it is
no certainty he will improve upon any-
thing he has already shown.
Ajax commenced the season as Aus-
tralia’s best w.f.a. horse up to a mile
and a half, and at its close is still in that
position. Unless he runs in one of the
longer w.f.a. races this season he will
retire as a comparatively unknown quan-
tity as a stayer. He is a high-class w.f.a.
horse up to a mile and a half, but the
fact of not having raced at a longer dis-
tance in that class of race, or in a handi-
cap at a mile and a half or lurther, sug-
gests that those who should know most
about him are far from certain whether
he is a genuine stayer. However, he has
given a most satisfactory return without
being risked at distances that might have
proved beyond him.
As winner of a Sydney Cup with 8.2
as a three-year-old Mosaic’s good form
in w.f.a. races in the autumn was not
surprising, nor was his second win in
the Sydney Cup, and during the spring
he may again prove himself one of the
best. Royal Chief was scarcely as good
in the autumn as in the spring, and
notwithstanding his dual Derby and St.
Leger wins, Reading’s efforts against the
older horses in the longer w.f.a. faces
at Randwick in the autumn did not say
a great deal for him as a stayer. High
Caste is a good miler, and should get a
mile and a quarter, but his Derby and
St. Leger placings did not put him in the
staying class. Unless it should be Nuf-
field, Beaulivre or the English horses
Greenwich, Moon Ray and Dhoti, it is
doubtful whether the spring will see any
additions of special note to Australian-
trained w.f.a. horses at a mile and a
half or over. Beau Vite will do his part
for Maoriland.
* * * *
M. Beary, who has been riding under
Jockey Club Rules in England for 21
years as a fully-fledged jockey, might
have reached his 1000 winners this year
in that country only for the abandon-
ment of racing. Up to May 15 he had
ridden in 9493 races for 975 wins, 1025
seconds and 1029 thirds. Beary, who
served his apprenticeship with A. Persse,
had his first mount in public in 1913.
On the completion of his indentures
he returned to Ireland, where he rode
for several years. From 1927 to 1932
Beary received a big retainer from the
Aga Khan. Others for whom he has
been first jockey are the Duke of Port-
land, Lord Glanely, Lord Portman, Sir
Malcolm Me Alpine and Sir Abe Bailey.
* * * *
Five Liverpool Grand National win-
ners have died in England this year.
They are Grakle, Poethlyn, Shaun
Spadah, Shaun Goilin and Royal Mail.
After the death of his owner, H. Lloyd
Thomas, through a fall in a steeplechase,
Royal Mail was sold to Mrs. Camille
Evans for 6500gns. He ran in her colors
in the 1938 Grand National, but broke
a blood vessel, and was pulled up. He
ran again last year but was unplaced.
4s * * *
In winning the New English Oaks at
Newmarket last month Godiva ran the
mile and a half in 2.30 2-5, which
equalled the track record. She was a
7-to-4 favorite, and beat the French-bred
filly Silverlace II by three lengths.
Golden Penny, of whom so much was
expected early in the season, ran fourth.
America’s best three-year-old filly this
season is Damaged Goods. At Belmont
Park (New York) last month she won
the American Oaks, $12,550 for first, in
2.19 for 11 furlongs, on a muddy track.
She is by Jacopo (son of Sansovino).
# t- * *
Small racing tracks and big stands
promise to be features at all American
courses before long. The New Jersey
State Racing Commission has specified
that grandstands at any tracks licensed
in that State must seat at least 20,000,
that there must be parking facilities for
20,000 cars, and stables to accommodate
1500 horses. The last-mentioned pro-
vision may sound strange to Australians,
but in America horses are stabled on the
course throughout a meeting.
* * * *
In the New English Derby S. Wragg
took Pont l’Eveque to the front after
going six furlongs, and held his position
for the remainder of the trip, winning
by three lengths. The favorite, Light-
house 11, was at his heels entering the
straight, but, tiring at the finish, was cut
out of second money by Turkhan, who
was a long way from the leading division
three furlongs from home. Tant Mieux,
selected by G. Richards as his mount in
preference to Pont l’Eveque, was fourth.
* * ' * *
A free return service the following
season for mares that miss is the general
thing in America, and that is also the
procedure in New South Wales at the
Kia-Ora Stud, where the following stal-
lions will be available during the coming
season: Midstream (Blandford-Mid-
summer) and Le Grand Due (Blenheim-
La Douairiere), lOOgns. each, and Double
Remove (Felstead-Quick Rise) and
Medieval Knight (Gay Crusader-Hasty
Love), 75gns. each. In Queensland The
Buzzard already has a full list at 150gns.,
Talking and Peter Pan are at lOOgns.
in this State, and the fee of the latest
importation, Golden Sovereign (Monarch-
Fleche d’Or), is a matter „of private
arrangement.
H*
America’s champion three-year-old,
Bimelech, would not be popular with Aus-
tralian racegoers. On May 6 he started
at 5 to 2 on for the Kentucky Derby, 1}
mile, and was beaten by Gallahadion.
Less than a week later he won the Preak-
ness, 9\ furlongs; and then on May 18
was beaten by Corydon in the Withers
Stakes, one mile, for which he was at
5 to 1 on. He made amends on June 8
by winning the Belmont Stakes, 1£ mile,
his price being 5 to 4 against. The value
of the Belmont Stakes for first was
$35,030, and increased his earnings to
$241,095, which represents about
£A60,273 at $4 to £AI. _ Bimelech’s
failures and wins show that in America,
as in Australia, in-and-out form is pos-
sible, no matter how valuable prizes may
be. In America horses generally com-
mence fast and finish very slowly in dis-
tance races, but it was not so in the Bel-
mont Stakes. The first half-mile took
48 2-5, second half 49 4-5 and third half
51 2-5 —making 2.29 3-5. The last fur-
long was run in 12 3-5, and Bimelech
carried 9.0. His time beats any Austra-
lian Derby record by about Hsec.
* * * *
The totalisator has certainly caught on
in New York. For 24 days at Jamaica
the turnover was $14,048,748, and
$16,755,269 for a similar number of days
at Belmont Park. On each of five days
at the latter track more than $1,000,000
was put through. A total exceeding
£A7,700,000 —-reckoning the dollar at its
very lowest —for 48 days was satisfactory
for the State and the clubs concerned,
and probably exceeded even the expec-
tations of those who worked hard for
the legalisation of the machine.
* * * *
It was only fair that, as the military
had taken over their courses, Rosebery
and Hawkesbury should have been
allowed to race elsewhere. Even if the
Hawkesbury R.C. had been able to
race on its own course, threatened
petrol restrictions might have adversely
affected the meeting. It is improbable
the club will lose anything by the change,
despite what it will have to pay for course
rental. The larger attendance than if the
meeting were at Clarendon will com-
pensate for that.
* * * *
Moonray, who is being trained in Mel-
bourne, was very consistent in England
last year, winning at Yarmouth, Haydock
Park, Bibury, Newmarket and Liver-
pool, and running second at Goodwood
and Sandown Park. At Goodwood he
was beaten a neck by Olein in the Sus-
sex Stakes, one mile, and was in receipt
of only 21b. from that brilliant filly. At
Liverpool and Newmarket his wins were
at a mile and a quarter. At the latter
course he recorded 2.4 4-5, but carried
only 7.0. As he has done well at
various distances he should prove a pay-
able proposition in Australia. He is by
Sandwich, winner of the St. Leger.
* * * *
Several American three-year-old races
are well-endowed in respect of added
money, but it costs a lot to start a horse
in them. For instance, the American
Derby, to be run at Washington Park
(Chicago) on August 10, carries $40,000
(roughly £A 10,000), but there was a first
payment of $25, a second of $5O, a third 1
of $lOO and an additional $750 to start—
in all something over £A23O, at the low-
est computation of the value of the dollar.
JjC # H* H*
Tel Asur and Desert King made time
records for Kensington last Wednesday,
and the former may yet act up to the
promise he gave last season. He looks
a welter horse, and the high scale suited
him. Munro was easing him up before
the winning post was reached. In Tel
Asur’s pedigree there are more sprinters
than stayers on the maternal side, but he
should at least run a middle distance.
Another taking performance was that of
La Vallee, who will win many more 14.2
races if she does not grow out of that
class. She is by Andrea (son of Solario)
out of Rippledale, a sister to Black
Douglas, Borrodale and Tinklebell, the
last-named being the dam of Adios. As
La Vallee’s time was only a quarter-
second outside the Kensington 14-
record, it was not surprising that Lady
Gay, with 11.2, was one of the well-
beaten runners. In the Juvenile Handi-
cap Approbation shaped well. The
youngster who rode her tried to squeeze
through on the rails where there was
absolutely no room, with the result he
had to pull out and come round 1W
yards from home. With a clear run
she would have troubled The Elk. She
is by Sion from High Praise.
* * * *
The million mark for the totalisator
was not reached at Randwick this season,
after all. At one stage it appeared cer-
tain, with the assistance of 10 Warwic


SAVE MONEY
IT'S J
THRIFTY S
TO INSTALL J
Ml NEW m
CHAMPIONS
r
SfSlikM
wsssst,
6515i2
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring SMOOTH MOTORING
If your engine is not pulling
smoothly and evenly be sure
to check the spark plugs. Fouled
and worn spark plugs may be
robbing you of the economy
and pleasure of a smooth-
running engine. Install new
Champions for greatest speed
and power, and for the real
economy that only these su-
I perior spark plugs can give.
An Empire Product—made in Windsor, Can.
Farm days, that total would be passed,
but a wet day for City Tattersall’s
autumn meeting disposed of that possi-
bility. For the whole of this season at
Randwick the total was £993,966, made
up as follows: —-
Australian Jockey Club.
Spring meeting (four days) .. £181,057 10 0
Summer meeting (two days) .. 73,183 0 0
Anniversary meeting (two days) 62,055 15 0
Autumn meeting (four days) .. 190,503 15 0
Winter meeting (two days) .. 58,691 10 0
£565,491 10 0
Tattersall’s Club.
Spring meeting (one day) .. £35,722 10 0
Summer meeting (two days) .. 70,395 5 0
Autumn meeting (one day) .. 23,873 5 0
£129,991 0 0
City Tattersall’s Club.
Spring meeting (one day) .. £38,255 15 0
Autumn meeting (one day) .. 18,108 10 0
£56,364 5 0
Warwick Farm.
October 21 .. ■ • • - £28,347 5 0
November- 18 .. .. .. 26,602 5 0
December 6 .. .. 15,364 15 0
December 9 .. .. .. 22,492 10 0
January 13 ... .. . . 24,612 10 0
February 10 .. .. .. 28,611 0 0
March 16 26,081 15 0
April 27 20,295 10 0
May 25 24,641 15 0
June 8 25,070 0 0
£242,119 5 0
At the spring and summer meetings of
the A.J.C. the turnover was below that
of last season. For the 30 days at head-
quarters the average was a little over
£33,100 a day.
* * * *
At the age of 80 J. Scobie has retired
as a trainer, and E. E. D. Clarke, his
principal patron over a number of years,
has also dropped out. It was a successful
combination. Up to the time Scobie pub-
lished his book, My Life on the Aus-
tralian Turf, in 1929 he had won nearly
£129,000 for Clarke, and since then that
amount has been added to considerably.
Early in his career Scobie won the V.R.C.
Grand National Steeplechase on Rhesus
and Ruby, and as a trainer his success
has been marked. Four Melbourne Cups,
four Australian Cups, a Caulfield Cup,
seven Victoria Derbies and four A.J.C.
Derbies are included in his long record,
as are Sydney and Melbourne’s principal
two-year-old races. In the Ascot Vale
Stakes, in particular, he did well, pro-
viding 12 winners. However, some im-
portant race eludes every trainer, and
Scobie never won a Sydney Cup, New-
market, Metropolitan, Doncaster or
Epsom.
* * * %
Double betting on the two Cups is
light in Melbourne, but, consequent on
his lenient treatment, Gladynev is favor-
ite for the Caulfield Cup, with Beau-
livre, Beau Vite, True Flight, Reading,
Moonray, Apostrophe and High Caste
also prominent in the quotations. Beau
Vite and Maikai are most popular for
the Melbourne Cup. Though not stable-
inspired, many doubles have ended with
Beau Vite, John and Rivette. Wilson is
another mentioned for the Melbourne
Cup. This season he has not fulfilled
expectations as a stayer, but it is antici-
pated he will next spring. He has 8.5 —
91b. less than w.f.a.
* * * *
Maorilanders are not cutting down
their betting expenditure because of the
war. On the first two days of the Wel-
lington Steeplechase meeting this month
the tote turnover was £120,611, or £5004
more than on the corresponding days last
year. Unless the war absolutely necessi-
tates alteration, racing will go on as
usual in Maoriland, the Government re-
garding it as too good a revenue pro-
ducer to make interference desirable.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hockey Bennell Outed
Hockey Bennell is still “welter cham-
pion of Australia,” despite the fact that
Jack Brander well and truly outed him at
Leichhardt Stadium last Thursday night.
Brander, at was within the
welter limit, but by prearrangement the
scrap wasn’t for the title. Otherwise
Hockey would probably have been in
better trim. He looked fit enough, but
his timing wasn’t good. Like most of the
latter-day crop of Australian scrappers
once they collect a title, on whatever
merit, he doesn’t fight often enough, and
he seemed to be short of a gallop. More-
over, he was inclined to be showy and
careless.
For three rounds he gave Jack a lesson
in the lighter side of the art. He danced
as nicely as Pavlova, and bobbed and
swayed like a Bedouin on a camel. His
left flicked lightly on to Jack’s boko and
soon had it leaking, and mostly when
Jack countered he wasn’t there. Jack
was punching with more vim, but for
these three rounds tried to meet Hockey
on Hockey’s own terms. Had he con-
tinued to do so there’s nothing surer than
that he’d have been expertly carved into
veal cutlets.
In the fourth Jack stopped trying to
be the boxer he isn’t, and want -straight
in fighting, and it was all over in a matter
of seconds. A left knocked Hockey’s
head sideways, a right half-outed him,
and another right, landed like a flash be-
fore he fell, clinched the deal. Hockey
dropped in a heap on the canvas; pres-
ently he got on his knees and tried to
pull himself up by the ropes, but the
strength wasn’t in him.
Jack is only a youngster, and, being
a solid hitter, may develop into a worthy
welter titleholder: it’s been a weak
division since Carroll quit the game. One
thing Jack can look forward to with
reasonable certainty—Hockey won’t be
so easy when they meet for the title.
It was a biffing fine evening for the
Brander clan —Les, heavyweight of that
ilk, outing Jack Connolly in the second
term of the 10-round main prelim.
At Carlton (Sydney) the previous night
A 1 Walker gave his best performance to
date. Substituting for Jack McNamee
in the main 12-round affray, he had Joe
Delaney on the canvas in the third round,
and he went on to outpoint Joe decisively.
It was the longest distance A 1 had been
over, and, though it’s his right that kicks,
he won this scrap with his left. He stood
up to solid punches, and fought back in
topnotch style.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
Selected by the U.S. Golf Association
for the open championship, the Canter-
bury club, in Cleveland, Ohio, is worthy
of the honor. Not only is it a fine test
of golf, but is one of the greatest natural
courses I have seen in this country. On
the heights overlooking Canterbury city,
the course measures 6921yd5., and is
parred at 72. Owing to its high situa-
tion it is rarely without a breeze of some
sort. The influence of wind in June has
been reflected in the scores. Not only
does the wind blow, but the course is
still very soft from the winter snows and
Jains that leave their mark till mid-July.
When all these features are added to the
many tough holes, it can be readily seen
that sub-par golf is not an easy matter,
especially over a 72-hole event.
The course is built on undulating
country, and has heavy rough and tree-
lined fairways. The type of country is
rather similar to that at the Lakes club
in Sydney or the Royal Melbourne
club’s west course (where the 1939 Aus-
tralian championships were held). When
to these courses are added tree-lined fair-
ways one can easily imagine the golfing
perils that await any loose hitting at
Canterbury. The ordinary length of the
course is 6407yds. from the regular tees,
but from the championship tees another
514yds. is added, lengthening every hole
from 20yds. to 40yds. This set of back
tees, totally unsuitable for the average
player, makes the Canterbury course one
on which every good golfer wants to
break par; it is a thrill to do the trick
on such a course. Without any unfair or
artificial features, it is the best course on
which the open has been played for
many years.
Commencing with a 430 yd. hole dog-
legging to the right, a drive is followed
by a No. 4 iron to the green guarded by
several deep bunkers. There are some
tall oak-trees at the back of the green.
The only error permitted here is to drop
short into the grassy hollow, for any
departure from the straight and narrow
courts disaster. The second hole, of
369yd5., is another dog-leg, this time to
the left, from where the second shot
from the fairway is played to the green
at the top of a slight hill. The green
undulates deceptively. The third hole,
of 176yds., usually played into the pre-
vailing wind, calls for a powerfully-hit
iron across a miniature lake in which
frolic many varieties of ducks. There
is no fairway at this hole ; heavy rough
lies between tee and green.
The fourth and fifth holes, of 440yds.
and 410yds. respectively, are two beauti-
ful long par-fours calling for controlled
accuracy; strategically placed bunkers
force the player to hit second shots over
them to the flag. The sixth hole is 477yds.
long and parred at five. It gives the long-
hitters a chance of an eagle if they can
get a long wood shot through the 12ft.-
wide entrance to the closely-trapped
green. A hog-back fairway calls for a
straight drive at this hole.
The next hole, of 200yds., is truly a
gem ; from a tee built among tall trees
the hole runs along an avenue of oaks
to a green built into the side of the hill.
Between tee and green lies a huge dip
with long grass and a creek, making the
player reach the green in one stroke if
he doesn’t want to spoil his score. The
eighth, of 412yds., has an uphill drive
with a long iron second shot to a green
at the top of another gradual rise. The
back of the green drops sharply into a
huge pit while trees and heavy rough are
on the right. The ninth, of 553yd5., is a
long uphill hole needing three sound
shots, the third stroke being at least a
No. 7 iron. The green is a slightly-raised
one.
The second nine holes open with a
367 yd. par-four; a long downhill drive
sometimes finds the brook that is at the
foot of the green. Usually a brassie is
used from the tee, leaving an uphill pitch
to the elevated green. The 11th hole, the
shortest par-three on the course, measures
170yds., and is played to a raised
green entirely surounded by sandtraps
and with a rambling brook to catch the
ball dropped short of the green. The
12th, 374yd5., has a blind drive into the
dog-leg before playing slightly to the
right to find the green. The 13th hole
is a par-five of 483yds., uphill from the
tee; the green nestles on a lower level
guarded by bunkers and trees —a long
second sometimes reaches the green. The
14th hole, of 403yds., is one of the
hardest fours on the course ; an uphill
drive into the dog-leg leaves a long iron
to the left. The player has to hit the
green, otherwise the ball will kick down
the slopes, which are on three sides.
The 15th, of 371yds., is another card-
wrecker ; a drive to the foot of a tre-
mendous hill leaves the player a No. 6
iron shot, which must rise quickly to land
on the green. The 16th hole, of 615yds.,
is truly “a country mile” in length; into
the wind one day I hit two of my longest
woods and followed it with a No. 3 iron
to reach the green, which is the longest
hole I have ever seen or played on any-
where. Uphill most of the way, there is
no run on the drive or second shot, and
it is really a par-six for the average
player.
The 17th, of 230yds., is the hardest par-
three on the course. Also slightly uphill,
it takes a full drive or brassie to reach
the. putting surface. The green is small,
and is tightly trapped on all sides by sand
bunkers and heavy rough. The 18th hole
is another “back-breaker”; 441yds. of
uphill and soft fairway. I saw Jimmie
Thompson hit two woods into the wind
in a practice round, and he was still
short. Surrounded by eight bunkers, the
green is built to take full woods for
second shots.
The last five holes are the hardest col-
lection I have ever seen on any course,
for they all play so much longer than
the distance they measure, as well as
being uphill at the vital spots. They
alone will have a tremendous effect upon
the ultimate result of the open.
Footbrawl
One of the best crowds this season
watched Richmond try to lower Mel-
bourne’s colors at Richmond. Though
the Tigers had them worried with placing
of men and good shepherding, the
premiers offset this by pace and aerial
work. Richmond got an early lead aind
held it to the last quarter, when Mel-
bourne staged a brilliant onslaught to
overhaul a two-goal lead and win, 13-16
to 13-9.
Vic. League supporters, watching
Footscray’s, Essendon’s and Richmond’s
struggle to get in the four, lost sight
of Geelong, but have suddenly realised
that the Sleepy Hollow boys are sharing
the lead with Melbourne. They had no
trouble with Collingwood, putting the
’Woodsmen'through by 23-18 to 12-19.
Footscray went out to Essendon de-
termined to retrieve recent defeats and
restore its prestige, but found the
’Dons just a little too tough in defence.
Essendon was behind most of the way,
but in a ragged last quarter got up to
win by 13-17 to 13-13.
At home to Carlton, Sowth held the
edge on its visitors after half-time, and
won a lively and interesting match by
17-11 to 14-14 —each side having the
same number of shots at goal.
North Melbourne, having suffered
what the Americans would call “a good
pushing around” lately, determined to
take it out of the weak Fitzroy team.
But when Curtin popped through four
goals in quick succession, Fitzroy took
a mouthful of bootsprigs and toffee,
girded its loins, and fell on the invaders
like a ton of bricks. When Norths
crawled out they were 46 points behind
and the final bell was ringing. ’Roy,
16-17 ; North, 9-13.
St. Kilda somehow got the idea that
it was a golf match against Hawthorn
and the divots its boots took would
have made Ferrier open his eyes. The
Saints’ putting was shocking, and they
were repeatedly stymied on the green.
The water hazard in the centre trapped
their drive time and again. Hawthorn,
relying on short approaches, went round
in 17-17 to the Saints’ 8-15.
* * * *
St. George improved its chances of
gaining Sydney’s Rugby Union premier-
ship by licking Manly at the Village.
Manly had not tasted defeat in six
matches. The men from the Illawarra
suburbs had a six-point lead at the in-
terval and, holding the Villagers off,
won by a point, 9-8. St. George is now
second to Randwick. Randwick beat
Parramatta, 14-12, but two bad kicks
for goal robbed “Parra” of a win which
it had earned by clear superiority in
territorial play.
Manly is third on the table ; Gordon
fourth. In a fast and clever game Gordon
trounced Drummoyne by 21-6. Still
making a determined bid, University
walloped North, 35-14 ; and East white-
washed West, 19-nil.
* * * *
Results of this season inter-State Rugby
League matches: (1) N.S.W., 52 to 11;
(2) Queensland, 19 to 16; (3) Queens-
land, 45 to 8. Such is Rugby League
form. The third match was played in
Brisbane, and, in the true squealing tradi-
tion, N.S.W.’s shocking display was attri-
buted to the umpire. He didn’t treat
poor old Ma right.


UFE
EVERY BOTTLE!
TOOHEYS
ATHIAI STOUT
w
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne*
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun«
ceston.


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
w
There is an
attraction
about the
HOTEL
PLAZA
at Wynyard
that is not found elsewhere,
The charming home-like atmosphere,
the friendly service and the flrst-ciass
cooking all blend into a delightful
harmony.
This week the Hotel Plaza Restaurants
are featuring Poultry Meals Rich
Export Quality Turkeys and Chickens
cooked to suit the most fastidious taste,
and served in the correct manner.
Night Dinner at the Plaza is some-
thing to remember delicious music,
fine artists, bright lights and laughing,
happy faces. It will indeed leave with
you a happy memory.
HOTEL
E 3 W
4091
PLAZA
at Wynyard.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
w
car, which convinces the spinster post-
mistress of a small wayside hamlet that
Miss Young is a traitor to her professed
cause. By the time they’ve reached New
York, Miss Young and Mr. Milland have
reached that stage of animosity where
Mr. Milland demands her fare and, she
refusing, bowls up to her apartment and
proceeds to collect it in various orna-
ments, taking the small change in several
stiff swigs from a bottle of very rare
old Scotch. Shortly he’s puddled purple
and, the spinster postmistress having
notified a New York news sheet of Miss
Young’s supposed marriage, a couple of
newshounds are treated to the edifying
spectacle of Mr. Milland and his pants
“ Admiral , me foot — he's the ship's s.p. bookie!"
trying to untangle themselves from each
other in Miss Young’s bedroom.
If any further complications were
necessary to prevent them from denying
their supposed marriage, Mr. Milland, on
the strength of his wedding, gets a pro-
fessorship at the institution where he
earns his daily bread, and Miss Young,
her first book having fallen flat, also by
reason of her supposed marriage, is com-
missioned to write another dealing with
the pleasures of matrimony, which seem
to consist mainly of lashing at Mr. Mil-
land whenever the opportunity allows.
It’s a bright comedy all the way, with
Miss Young and Mr. Milland objecting
strongly to the very sight of each other
and being compelled to live under the
same roof, Mr. Milland meanwhile
striving desperately to explain to another
wench to whom he. has already promised
his affections.. How it all works out
needs no mention except that another
newshound gets wind of the fact that
they aren’t married and then, for Miss
Young’s second book to be a success and
for Mr. Milland to hold his professor-
ship, they have to reverse the process and
untangle all the complications which they
instituted.
“Sandy Is a Lady”
The main difference between this sup-
port at Sydney State and the main item,
“The Doctor Takes a Wife,” is that the
plot of the support is a shade more com-
plicated. Sandy, who has hitherto mas-
queraded as a male, but now stands
revealed as a female of the species, is an
engaging infant barely into the toddling
stage with a vocabulary limited to “Ga”
and “Oo.” Despite such limitations she
manages to figure prominently through
this opus, getting herself into almost every
conceivable kind of bother and reducing
the rest of the cast —a strong list of
comedians including Mischa Auer, Billy
Gilbert, Eugene Pallette and Edgar Ken-
nedy—to the last stages of hysterical
perplexity. A tophole support, making,
with a tiptop main item, an excellent
comedy bill.
* * * *
“The House of the Seven Gables”
The Hawthorne melodrama has pro-
vided first-class material for this stretch
of fairly solid stuff at Sydney Lyceum.
Tale deals with the doings of one genera-
tion of the Pyncheons, a noble family
living in near-bankruptcy in a gloomy
family mansion with legends of hidden
gold and a pretty effective family curse.
Vincent Price and Margaret Lindsay do
good work as the younger brother and
distant cousin of the family who want to
cash in on the house and depart into
matrimony. George Sanders, as the older
brother, bitterly opposes this idea, and the
tale carries along with the younger
brother doing gaol on a false charge of
patricide, cousin faithfully awaiting him,
e
—but the - light-hearted fripperies of
“Scuola di Baflo” are danced joyously.
* * * *
Friedman in Melbourne
It was a tribute to the ability of Ignaz
Friedman that he succeeded in reducing
the recent congested state of the Mel-
bourne Town Hall platform to one
solitary individual on his return with-
out giving an effect of under-population.
The loveliest items of the first part were
the ballet by Gluck arranged by Fried-
man and the Rondo by Mozart’s pupil,
Hummel. But it is as an exponent of
Chopin that the Pole is valued in Mel-
bourne, and a second part devoted to
some of his compatriot’s most familiar
pieces left the crowd still worshipping
after a succession of encores.
sk * He *
The two-voice A.B.C. concert last week
at the Melbourne Town Hall was rescued
from disaster by Maria Markan. Kenneth
Neate had the relaxed throat which is
common at the moment and had to
retire before the end of the programme.
The Icelandic soprano revealed a tune-
ful voice with plenty of power and a
lyrical quality about it. She sang a
series of songs, new to Melbourne, by
Peter Heise, a Norwegian composer.
sj: :j: * *
Gilsullivan in Melbourne
Waistcoats are flapping and bosoms
heaving at Melb. His Majesty’s, where
Ivan Menzies, Gregory Stroud, etc., have
launched “The Gondoliers” on a voyage
of rediscovery of old emotions and long-
buried associations.
Maxwell Oldaker is a stiff Luis, Richard
Watson lacks bite as the Grand Inquisitor
and Viola Wilson is inconspicuous as
Casilda ; but Phyllis Curnow sings sweetly
as Gianetta and Sara Gregory is an arch
Tessa. Gregory Stroud’s voice condones
his awkward acting as Giuseppe, and John
Fullard fills the bill as Marco and gives
an elegantly rounded interpretation to
“Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes”—ump-
teen times repeated. The company is
just about word-perfect in the vocabulary
of Gilbertian humor and conductor Leo
Packer and his band look as if they could
play the music with their eyes shut. Mr.
Menzies, too, could probably play the
Duke in his sleep.
“Charley’s Aunt”
This hairy ancient, furbished with
some up-to-date gags, is the second of
Sydney Minerva’s series of farces. Plot
and situations remain as funny as ever,
and, because Charles Norman makes an
excellent Aunt, there are plenty of laughs.
Norman gets some moderately humorous
support from Field Fisher, Victor Fitz-
herbert and Bruce Carroll, but none at all
from the two undergraduates played by
John O’Malley and Ronald Folkard.
* * * *
“Tony Draws a Horse”
Although this comedy by Lesley Storm
comes to the usual conventional conclu-
sions and has some stretches of aridity
in it, its working out was sufficiently
entertaining to keep a fair house on the
simmer at Melb. King’s on Saturday.
Leaving nothing out a boy of eight draws
a horse with the unspoiled innocency of
the child, and thus brings the snake
into the domestic Eden.
Yvonne Banvard turned in a good per-
formance as a mother who always tries to
start her family off happy from the break-
fast table and always succeeds in
antagonising them. Leslie Victor was the
usual henpecked husband, Lloyd Lamble
the son-in-law and Pat McDonald the
daughter, who played a drunk role that
was funny rather than convincing.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
finess under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tin?
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney ,
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Knight Henry Braddon was in the
chair, and ran the first meeting in pre-
paration for the A.B.C. concert for the
Navy and the Air Force with the speed of
an ocean greyhound. A cruiser getting
into action couldn’t have cleared the
decks in quicker time. The meeting
started at 11.30, and by a quarter-past
twelve those present were clustered in
a struggling mass, like a football scrum,
around the booking plan. And, of
course, that was the purpose of the preli-
minary appeals by Lady Gowrie and
Lady Wakehurst. Both came to the
meeting, which had an opening like the
“Hallelujah Chorus” when the Jordan
lady handed over the cheque for the
Menuhin concert —£2400 and something.
This goes to the relief of the French
through the British Red Cross. The
Alexander Gordon lady, who whips up
enthusiasm in any cause she takes in
hand as readily as a beater does an egg,
put the right note into her words, which
were few and chosen.
A long list of apologies seemingly
made no dent on the crowds in the ball-
room of the Australia. With Mrs. Walter
Swinson came sister Mrs. Fagioli, not
long returned from Italy. Asked if she
brought her ’cellos, she said: “Oh, no!
If our ship had met with disaster my
lovely instruments would have gone to
the bottom of the sea!” Mrs. Crawford
Robertson was like a sophisticated Dres-
den figurine in black tailorings and a hat
of indescribable smartness. Mrs. Alan
McGregor was among the early buyers
of seats —her berry-red suit had patch
pockets of leopard. Semi-precious stones
made the lifelike posy in the lapel of
Mrs. C. L. Jones’s suit of Russian violet
cloth. Winifred Wilson, from Hopewood
House, secured 20 tickets. Mrs. Rex
Bennett and Mrs. Bainton also emerged
triumphant from the fray.
Dolly Hollander Moore and Gladys
Verona made their afternoon of music
at the Carlton one of the bright shows
of last week. Dolly made the right sort
of speech, touching on topics of the times
and the cause of the party—namely, the
King George V Memorial Hospital. She
thanked the press, as well as the per-
formers and the audience, so one and
all went down to the dining-room for
tea as purrful as a Persian sleuthing a
saucer of cream.
Bowls of palely yellow poppies, deli-
cate as an Austin Dobson triolet, decked
the room. Brunton Gibb recited Mary
Gilmore’s new war poem and did his
inimitable “Digger and the Duchess.”
The Duchess turns out to be a dinkum
Aussie herself, browsing among the
strawberry leaves through grace of matri-
mony ; so she knows just what the Digger
means when he says he owns a couple of
corroborees. Gladys Verona sang a
group of Mozart. Walter Kingsley was
the other singer of the afternoon.
All the committeewomen for the
Salon of Living Masterpieces were there,
and talk among them turned on the like-
ness of so-and-so to Lady Hamilton, on
the probable Cleopatras, the Rubens
heroines. The advisory committee meet-
ings in the gallery have been fun. Girl
and boy, man and woman have to take
a good look at the masterpieces they are to
be made up to resemble, with a view no
doubt to working up atmosphere. Sur-
geon John McKelvey’s widow was one of
the afternoon’s smartest. Her suit was
black, her furs silver fox and her small,
straight-brimmed black hat was banked
in front with tiny white flowers. Mrs.
Lindeman was a tall good-looker, and
Mrs. Clement Chapman’s sleek-as-sea'l
black velvet suit was adequately accom-
panied by a black velvet hat of military
cut, with an ashes-of-roses feather plume.
Everybody’s friend Josephine Marks was
there talking over the successful arrange-
ments for the dance for the Hospice for
the Dying—hundreds booked and over
£250 in hand. Ruby Adams, Mrs.
Rainer and Mrs. Madison were keen
listeners to the music.
Up at Sydney’s Conservatorium “Car-
men” is being rehearsed with great dash
in preparation for July 27, when it will
be given to aid Lady Gowrie’s Red Cross
Fund. Every Thursday lunch hour there
will be a 40-minute slice of music sand-
wiched between 1.10 and 1.50. Admis-
sion is free, but a collection-plate in aid
of the Red Cross will be passed around.
Have you seen the good ship Valola?
She is the belle of Rushcutter Bay, and
when she gets sail spread she rides the
wave as easily as a seagull. She is the
love of Ernest Cecil Everingham’s life,
and she took two years preparing for her
debut, which was celebrated last week.
She was built in a private yard at Como
under the supervision of Leslie Roy Eyer-
ingham, the owner’s brother.
She is a sort of Queen Mary among
yachts, is 54ft. long, has a 14ft. beam
and is ketch-rigged and hollow-masted ;
two 70-h.p. Diesel engines drive her.
The cabins are larger than the rooms
in some flats. Main cabin is 12 by 10 and
has two bunks. Fittings are silver ash,
upholstery green, curtains honey shade.
There are Chinese rugs on the floor. The
owner’s stateroom measures 12ft. by
almost 9ft. Bathrooms are fawn and
green. There are porcelain Roman baths
with hot and cold, fresh and salt taps
glittering all over the place. There are
super radios. In the galley there are a
gas-stove and a refrigerator. Everything
is dazzling cream and chrome. There
are set-in cupboards and wardrobes and
metal sinks. Let’s weigh the electric
anchor and get to sea!
There was an official atmosphere
about the reception given to the United
States Minister to Australia, Clarence E.
Gauss, by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. The guests were heavily rein-
forced with Federal and State Cabinet
Ministers, accompanied by their wives.
France, Japan, China, Norway, Greece,
Denmark and Poland were there in the
persons of their Consuls-General.
The party was in the Australia, and
Priminister Menzies and Mrs. Menzies,
Minister for External Affairs McEwen
and Mrs. McEwen stood with Mr. Gauss
in the receiving line. The first duty of
America’s envoy is to get a home in Can-
berra ready for his wife and children,
whom he expects in September. N. S.
Wales Premier Mair and Mrs. Mair were
importants at the party. Mr. Gauss has a
simple and sincere manner —a touchstone
to Australian hearts.
Joan Cocks came back from the U.S.A.
last week bringing with her all the latest
ideas in elementary education as indulged
in at the Lincoln and Horace Mann
schools. While in New York (she’s a
B.A. of Sydney Uni.) Joan was studying
at Columbia University with the object of
getting her degree of Master of Arts in
education. However, with the war-clouds
massing, the Australian decided on home.
And home she has come, bringing with
her a number of fascinating books on
primary education. In the American ex-
perimental schools class work is reduced
to a minimum. Each week’s work is
decided on in advance by the young
pupils. But during the week when you
go into a classroom you will find a small
group around the teacher, who is read-
ing to them ; near by three or four young-
sters will be writing ; over there a group
may be modelling. At any moment a
child from one group may drift over to
another. Arithmetic, for some grim
reason or other, is still a class affair.
One point that impressed the visitor
from Australia was the way in which
the youngster is taught to look up things
for himself in the school libraries. For
instance, in the reading lesson, if a ques-
tion concerning a water voyage or a land
journey crops up, the inquirer is sent off
to the bookshelf. From transport, it is
easy to branch into a lesson in geography,
and after that a snack of history is per-
haps found appetising.
Before her travels Joan was on the
staff of the training institute of the Retail
Traders’ Association. Here beginning
shop assistants are taught to handle cus-
tomers with the gloves on. More experi-
enced salesgirls and -men are helped to
a study of economics. While in New
York Joan stayed at International House,
where students from all the world live in
amity. Before she sailed, she naturally
did a greyhound bus tour of the Rockies,
New Mexico and Arizona. She’s a lyric
on the Rio Grande.
Half the people at the Minerva last
Thursday night seemed to be collectors
of Charley’s Aunts. In the manner in
which the Gilsullivan fan will boast or.
the different Ko-Kos of his acquaintance
and the opera-lover brag of the Mar-
guerites who have warbled the Jewel
Song” to him, men in the forties and
fifties were saying: “I saw So-and-so do
the Aunt in London in 1912, and what
was the name of the chap we saw in
New York just after the war? Never
laughed so much in my life until to-
night.” Personally, this Letter liked
Aunt’s labor-saving device at the lunch-
table, when she passed around the plates
like a super cardsharper serving the
deck. Mrs. Field Fisher was there to
watch her husband as Brassett, the college
scout, and to revive memories of the
days when she played Kitty Verdun in
an English company led by W. Penley,
who was the first Aunt. Aileen Britton,
Shirley Ann Richards and pretty Betty
Welch from Maoriland are the three
young girls of the Minerva show.
Fiji residents still remember the Rev.
Richard Piper and his family, and will
be glad to send their congratulations to
Viwa Piper, who has just become en-
gaged to Frederick Newton Turner. Both
are architects, and graduated in the same
year at Sydney Uni. Viwa, at the
moment, holds a job with Stephenson
and Turner (no relation to the young
man), the firm which is busy on the King
George V Memorial and the Yaralla
military hospitals. The Rev. Richard
Piper has three times successfully organ-
ised and conducted cruises to the centres
of the Methodist Mission work. The first
went to Fiji, the second to Tonga and
Samoa, the third to New Guinea. The
Katoomba was the ship chartered, and
all moneys over went to the Mission
funds. Peter Pan is responsible for this
pleasant picture of Viwa.
Have you noticed the ivory figurines
on the stairway of the Royal? There
are Petrouchka, the doll, the Harlequin,
and the three girls from “Graduation
Ball.” They are modelled by a Sydney
girl, “Bill” Hart, and people admired
them last Thursday evening. This was
a change-of-programme night, and audi-
ences once more delighted in “The Pro-
digal Son.” This is a ballet in which
the hero remains one hundred per cent,
masculine. The music, too, is captivat-
ing. Mrs. Byron Wrigley was notably
smart; the Bertie Kellys, with son-in-law
and daughter, the Gualtiero Volterras,
were of course in the front row of the
circle. Fairfaxes were there. Faith
Macarthur Onslow, who is so fond of it
she looks as though she could take ballet
with breakfast, was an applauder;
Stephanie Edye and U.S.A.’s Vice-Consul
Kidder and his wife were others.
Women and children of A.I.F. men
are now amongst the 21,400 being cared
for this year in the hospitals and homes
maintained by the Benevolent Society
of N. S. Wales. Practically every bed
and cot is full in the Royal Hospital for
Women, Renwick Hospital for Infants,
Scarba Welfare House for Children and
the Restawhile for mothers and babies.
Only with your speedy help can the
society continue to say “Yes” to all
needing warm clothes, food, shelter and
nursing care this winter. M. Stephen
Herford (president) and treasurer F. E.
Baylis earnestly appeal for contributions,
however modest, to be sent to the
society, Thomas-street, Sydney.
Died last week the much-loved Mrs.
Warwick Armstrong, wife of the
cricketer. She was one of the O’Donnells,
of Mingay station, Gundagai. She was
one of a large family, and leaves several
sisters and brothers, in addition to her
husband and son, to sorrow for her
passing.
Sydney—at any rate, all musical Syd-
ney —remembers Sigurd Rascher. He
was the Swedish saxophone-player who
thought so much of his instrument that
he defied the laws governing orches-
tral concerts, and popped out and gave
an encore while conductor Malcolm Sar-
gent practically stood at gaze. Well,
Sigurd is now in the U.S.A. giving con-
certs in New York and teaching at the
Juilliard Summer School. His only worry
when writing was that his wife (she was
in Sydney, too) was then in Sweden.
The A.B.C. is pulling up its socks and
putting its house in order against the
arrival of the quick of eye and tongue
Sir Thomas Beecham. Incidentally, Mel-
bourne audiences are as eager in voicing
their appreciation of this great musician
and lover of music as are those in Lon-
don. At his opening concert in Sydney
pianist Eunice Gardiner, not long back
from London, will make her first public
appearance. With the orchestra she will
play the Schumann Concerto in A Minor,
op. 54. Tschaikowsky’s lovely overture,
“Romeo and Juliet,” will open the pro-
gramme.
Here’s a funny little story told by a
Sydney girl who was a music student in
London at the time. One day Yehudi
Menuhin (straight from America), who
was booked to play with Sir Thomas
Beecham’s orchestra, arrived for rehearsal
dressed, as was the way of young Ameri-
can boys, in long socks and a modified
form of plus-fours. Beecham looked at
the youngster. “Ah, Mr. Menuhin, you
play golf?” Yehudi lifted childish bland
blue eyes to the famous conductor’s.
“No, sir; I play the violin.” The rehear-
sal started without further parley.
Last week’s American mailbag brought
news of Mrs. Burley Griffin, widow of
Canberra’s architect. Mrs. Griffin is now
in Chicago finishing a book on her hus-
band’s work in India. It will be remem-
bered he died in India while working on
plans for Quetta and rajahs’ palaces. Mrs,
Griffin is already chairman of committees
sworn to forest-restoration, extension of
playgrounds and preservation of wild-
flowers. She tells that many of Chicago’s
university girls are taking up landscape
architecture, and that the planning of
attractive scenic roads, in which Nature’s
beauties are preserved, is exercising the
minds of the general public. Henry
George, of Single Tax fame, has an acre
of forest in the Illinois reservation set
aside in his honor.
City Tattersall’s Club’s annual Hospital
Ball in aid of Sydney, St. Vincent’s,
Lewisham, Royal Prince Alfred, Royal
Alexandra for Children, Renwick In-
fants’, Crown-street Women’s and Royal
South Sydney hospitals and the Queen
Victoria Homes is being held in David
Jones’s ballroom tomorrow night. A
presentation of 20 debs, will be the
feature of the evening, and Mayor and
Mayoress Crick will receive the belles.
When this Letter looked in on book-
binder Arthur Collins the other week he
was handling with care and justified pride
a copy of Gone With the Wind which he
had just dressed in red morocco. This
was one of the five copies autographed
and sent to Australia for the Red Cross
by Clark Gable. It will be remembered
that the film star, unable to send cash
owing to currency restrictions, offered
to see what he could do with a “twist of
the wrist.” He autographed five copies
of G.W.T.W., and Vivien Leigh added
her name, too. The completed copy seen
last week had replaced the paper cover in
which it had arrived by a resplendent one
of red, beautifully tooled and lettered in
gold. Five copies of the book were sent,
one for each State.
Alan Stewart drops a note to say that
the twentieth annual ball of the Old
Sydneians’ Union will be a credit entry
in the Red Cross ledger. This whirl never
fails to draw battalions of dancers, and
the committee is looking forward to a
capacity house on August 22. Mrs.
Dovey and Mrs. Ravell are the publicity
officers.


Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Personal and Missing Friends.
EDWARD NICOL.
WILL any of the next-of-kin of the above-
named Public Works employee, who was born
at Hobart in 1885 and died at Gisborne, New
Zealand, on the 15th March, 1940, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Gisborne, New Zealand?
Divorce Notices.
TO JOHN AUGUSTUS SMITH, formerly of
New Guinea.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, BERYL
RANDALL SMITH, has instituted proceedings
against you for a divorce on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards. Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on
or before the Twenty-first day of August, 1940,
and file an answer in the said office on or before
the Thirtieth day of August, 1940, the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
WALTER D. SYKES,
147 William Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 658 of 1940.
BETWEEN DULCIE MAY McKENNA Peti-
tioner
And COURTNAY McKENNA (also known
as COURTNAY KELSO) respondent.
TO COURTNAY McKENNA (also known
as COURJ NAY KELSO) late of Laurie's
or Lore’s Cafeteria 139 Barrack Street
Perth Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DULCIE
MAY McKENNA has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three yearg and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of October One thousand nine hundred
and forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suii
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 17th day of July, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. C. TAYLOR & SCOTT, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Girls from Red Cross House, from Air
Force House and from Stonnington, each
with a flower in her hair and her warmest
evening wrap around her shoulders, met
at “Special” buses in Flinders-street one
evening at 7 p.m., thence were transported
down to Somers for a passing-out dance
at the R.A.A.F. pilots’ training school,
on the site of the Somers Camp.
Few of the lads knew the girls, who
were the guests of Mrs. Tom White, Mrs.
Donald Mackinnon, Mrs. G. F. Adeney
and Miss A. Bunny, but after introduc-
tions by the hostesses and by indefatig-
able Sergeant Tobin, an M.C. of calibre,
youth got on easily with youth, and by
the time the mobile supper on trolleys
appeared dates were being made for “the
Saturday after next, and keep the one
after that, too, in case I don’t get leave.”
Attractions out of doors were two fires
of Yule logs burning in metal containers
which looked like floating mines cut in
half.
The Originality Branch of the Com-
forts Fund, always full of new ideas and
the energy for putting them into action,
went all out to collect a mile of pennies
in front of the Town Hall. The
machinery was a structure of canvas belt
turned by a handle, a “maw” for the
sliding pennies, a “thermometer” jump-
ing in ten-bob rises and a clock to show
the pace at which the mile was achieved.
It finished with a couple of chains over,
the whole string being worth about £230.
Spruikers developed husky throats as the
day progressed, and as the wind blew
harder and the rain fell about their ears
and about the magnificent feathers in
the hair of Big Chief Thunderbird, red-
dest of Red Indians, who stood around
by the hour, not talking except when he
had to, but counting out change and com-
placently absorbing the stares of the
curious.
Mrs. Jack Kemelfield, having organ-
ised most of the penny scheme, came
along, in spite of doctor’s orders and
husband’s persuasions, to see it grow, she
having been ordered a rest-cure. Molly
Pyke, Mary Lundqvist, Joy Cuming
Parry, Marie Manniche and another
couple of dozen originalities helped
with silent activities. Men with boom-
ing voices and Beth Thwaites (who
collected a gallery in khaki who called
her Blondie) cajoled contributions through
the mike. The Kew Fire Brigade Band
put pep into the morning, but the after-
noon and evening workers carried on by
sheer pertinacity and an occasional break-
away for a hot rum-and-milk.
A prize for everybody is the biggest
inducement of the Melbourne artists’
art union. One hundred tickets will be
sold for 100 pictures. The drawing will
be like the “nine green bottles a-hanging
on the wall.” The lucky owner of the
first ticket drawn gets the lot to choose
from; the last gets, technically, the last
picture, everybody else’s discard, but an
extra dozen or so have been added to the
100 so that in practice the unlucky last
will have a choice from among 13.
The price of the tickets, five guineas,
has some people running like rabbits to
their warrens, but the odds are sporting
for anyone who likes a little gamble.
Irrespective of the chance of gaining
“investments” there are a number of pic-
tures in the show by arrived and un-
arrived painters which would be com-
patible for most collectors to live with.
Another factor is that different people
have different tastes, and the last man in
might not after all be wedded to his pet
aversion. The effort is in aid of the
funds for French refugees in England.
Mrs. Phillips Fox, who organised the
show, gave several pictures signed Car-
rick Fox and E. Phillips Fox, the former
painted by herself, the latter by her late
husband. John Longstaff gave a flower
piece, James Quinn a landscape ; Dora
Wilson, Dinah Roach, John and Bill
Rowell and Violet Teague were other
contributors. The name of Colquhoun
often appeared, for, as well as “A.D.”
and his wife “Amalie,” “A.D.’s” parents,
“A” and “Beatrice,” and his sister “Bess”
were represented. Professor Chisholm
opened the exhibition, and came with
his wife to an artists’ supper the follow-
ing evening in the Athenaeum, where the
show was held. (It has since been trans-
ferred to the Fine Arts Gallery.)
Flagons of hock and claret filled card-
board cartons handed out to each guest
on arrival, and. afterwards there was a
follow-up of coffee and savory food.
Present were Professor and Mrs. Maurice
Belz, the prof, deserving a good windfall
of a canvas, for he purchased one of the
first tickets sold. The Macmahon Balls
were there, and Eleanor Watt called in
with Gerard Osborne (on leave from
“Pucka”), both looking for Gerard’s wife
Beryl, whom they had somehow missed
upon the rain-spattered footpath of
Collins-street between the gallery and the
Town Hall, where she had been absorb-
ing Maria Markan’s singing.
A damp, chilly night, an Icelandic
soprano, an audience of only moderate
size and tepid enthusiasm, an assisting
tenor with Puckapunyal throat, all sound
like an inauspicious occasion for a con-
cert, but Maria Markan, by her artistry
and unaffected manner, got her house
warmed up to a very satisfactory degree
of enthusiasm, particularly during the
second half of the programme. The
audience liked her folk songs and didn’t
care whether they were Norwegian,
Swedish or Icelandic. Kenneth Neate,
the young singer at present on leave from
the N.S.W. Police Force, struggled
pluckily with Mozart, Wagner and Puc-
cini, but no one would have grudged
him home, bed and a water-bag, with a
kind-hearted nurse to smooth his fevered
brow.
In the audience were three singers,
Gladys Moncrieff (with the Raymond
Lamberts —“our Glad” in black velvet
with turquoise motifs and Mrs. Lambert
in dusty-pink floor-length gown), Thea
Phillips and Rita Miller, both in black.
Miss Miller sat between two musically-
inclined young friends, Peggy Fraser, in
her hooded cloak of misty-blue wool with
sequins sprayed upon its pockets, and
Joan Devine, in geranium-red velvet with
much shirring at the waistline.
In Athol Shmith’s photograph is Maura
Keiran, who for a week or more has
been wearing a sapphire-and-diamond
ring presented to her by Dudley Ward.
The engagement is no surprise to the
many friends who are offering felicita-
tion’s, so many dances a deux, and so
many Gregan McMahon first nights have
this couple appeared at lately. Maura
is the elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. F. Keiran, of Cliveden Mansions, and
her fiance the only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Daniel Ward, of Hawthorn,
“Will you give a party on August 20?”
is a question being asked ad lib. by
members of Blarney House Women’s
Auxiliary, whose office is at Collins
House, 360 Collins-street. The idea is a
follow-up into a wider field of the
“bridge party in every street” idea, exer-
cised a few months ago for the Royal
Melbourne Hospital. This time the
country is being reached through various
agencies, including radio stations. Party
organisers may fix their own amusements
(bridge, dancing, music, etc.), and will,
with their guests, be eligible to win valu-
able prizes, such as diamonds, furs, gas
stoves, champagne, etc. Discussions of
progress made took place one morning
last week around Mrs. Bryan Foster’s
fire. (Dr. and Mrs. Foster at the moment
are receiving congratulations on the
achievements of son Ken, who won the
economics tripos at Cambridge and has
just joined the R.N.R. as a sub-
lieutenant.)
Convenor Mrs. B. T. Zwar got down
to the job of organising the big party,
though it meant missing the opening of
Red Cross House, and the Red Cross is
one of her primary alfections. Mrs.
Morris Sallmann was at the meeting. She
and her daughter Lois are already ear-
pieces of the drive, receiving daily in-
quiries, bookings of parties, names of
hosts and hostesses, etc., by telephone.
Mrs. Ken Niall had suggestions to offer,
as did Mrs. J. J. Liston. Mrs. W. S.
Cox is doing her bit of “selling the
party” around the hinterland of Moonee
Ponds. Mrs. Ken McLean is also all
out for the big day notwithstanding her
interest in the A.A.M.C. The basic-wage
suburbs are just as anxious to help as
the wealthier areas, for everybody knows
a soldier who may be glad of the ex-
tended home comforts Blarney House
would like to offer. From workingmen’s
homes and parish halls in Carlton and
Fitzroy hard-to-come-by shillings have
already been promised from old-time
dancing and euchre parties.
A bride of yesterday (23rd) was
Yvonne Richardson, who was married
very quietly in St. George’s Cathedral to
Lindsay Cust. Afterwards Dr. and Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson welcomed relatives
and friends of their only daughter and
her popular husband Lindsay to an even-
ing reception at Menzies. Yvonne’s por-
trait from Spencer Shier.
On the first floor of Miller House, 359
Little Collins-street, is an office lent by
James Miller and Co. as a depot for
silver and gold, valuable scrap which it
is hoped will provide a mobile X-ray
unit for the A.A.M.C. Mrs. W. A. Kil-
patrick and Miss R. Forbes were the
organisers of the scheme, which has been
taken to the motherly bosom of the
C.W.A. Those who will give old gold
at the present high price are indeed
generous; on the other hand, electro-
plated articles are presenting a problem
at the depot. Sterling silver is welcome,
and embraces a wide field of gifts and
possessions.
Many people have cardcases, watches,
hairbrushes upon which fat Cupids dis-
port themselves, broken manicure sets
from the days before nail lacquer became
popular. Thus a hoarding instinct has
grown into a habit, and valuable space
is occupied in the family trunks and
lumber-rooms and even bank vaults.
Where the ties of sentiment are strong
a valuation of the articles is recom-
mended, and may set a wavering mind at
rest. Often a lower valuation is given
than the owner expects. In that case
why sacrifice granny’s cruet or grandpa’s
hunting watch when a donation to the
fund, of the price of a few ounces of
silver, will be just as welcome? -
Two bright young undergrads., Meida
Manly and Floss White, have been suc-
cessfully selling tickets for the Women’s
Ball (in aid of the University Women’s
War Fund), which is to be a lively party
on Friday night (26th) in the Union
House. Floss, who is doing physical
education, had to retire from the field
of action for a few days owing to an
onslaught of German measles, but Meida
carried on with the help of mother, Mrs.
Richard Manly, who gave her advice
about the lucky dip, which contains
things to eat as well as drink and to clean
the house, and also promises of dining
out and free sessions, for tea-at-four.
Meida is doing arts, her sister Joan com-
merce, and young brother Dick medicine.
Joyce Thorpe, who is president of the
C.M.U.W., will be at the dance; and so
will committee treasurer June Halkyard,
who is doing science. It’s the ball of
the year, where the girls do the asking,
repaying Commencement hospitality. The
men are very hurt if they are not asked,
though numbers of them crack hardy,
and wouldn’t admit for the world that
they feel that their shares are down.
On Saturday the marriage took place
of Hilary Hay and Philip Hudson, both
calm and collected as they received good
wishes, neither showing any sign of the
anxieties that had filled the previous ten
days. The all-important queries were
would the ’groom get his leave for cer-
tain from “Pucka,” and would he lose his
Puckapunyal throat in time to do justice
to his reputation for witty speeches.
Luck favors a romance, and all was well.
Phil was his bright and cheery self, and
Hilary in .her lame gown and tulle veil
the cynosure of many commending
glances. ’Maids Phillis Balfour and Mar-
garet Russell wore frocks of ciel-blue
taffeta with frivolous headpieces of white
violets, and they carried little blue taffeta
muffs, to which white gardenias were
pinned:
Both girls says that soldiers’ kitbags
can’t have anything on muffs. Theirs
held all their evening-bag impedimenta
without showing a wrinkle, and Hilary’s
gloves went into Phillis’s muff at the
moment when the wedding-ring was pro-
duced in Melbourne Grammar School
chapel. The bride and her ’maids were
all together at Clyde, so the wedding
group was partly a result of compacts
made during schooldays. The bride is
the elder daughter of the Algy Hays, of
Rushworth, Barwon Heads, and the
’groom the elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
Tom Hudson, at whose home in Kensing-
ton-road the reception was held. Phillip
had support from brother-gunner Val
Gibb and from Sergeant David Hay, who
is so near to getting his commission that
he might easily have followed his gunner
pals down the aisle as a lordly lieutenant.
Bob Latreifie was present at the wedding
in that capacity.
Claiming as his portion a “flat, plain
and unimpressive face” knight Frank
Clarke opened James Quinn’s exhibition
with some remarks about portrait painters
and their sitters. He related how once
upon a time while he was sitting for
his portrait he suggested that he should
talk about art to the artist and so ani-
mate his own expression. But the artist
nipped the suggestion in the bud, and the
Clarke features were not preserved with
the light of argument in the eye or even
the knowing smile of a male Mona Lisa.
Further in his speech the President of
the Legislative Council put in a claim for
indulgence in his dislike of a couple of
trite phrases, the layman’s when viewing
a show “I only know what I like” and
the artist’s “I can only paint what I see.”
Why not more imagination in both cases
is his argument.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
No. 125—The
GOONDh
STOCK SADDLE
*
p
★
r
★
£B/18/-
(Complete).
This saddle has a
deep hogskin seat,
kip flaps with
extended panel
points, wide
Victoria facing,
and is fawn-serge
lined.
Our
Catalogue
is Free !
Send for
one.
N.S.W. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
ALTHER <• STEVEMSOH
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
THE SERVICE MAN
Sydney Does It Again.
“Nobby II”: Sydney is a lucky name
for the R.A.N. The fighting-top of the
old Sydney stands as a sentinel to the
entrance of Port Jackson’s inner harbor,
as a monument to her victory over the
Emden on November 10, 1914. That
was a good job well done.
It has fallen to the second Sydney to
do something still more glorious. The
Emden was inferior in gun-power and
speed to the first Sydney; the prestige
which the Australian cruiser earned
against her lay in manoeuvre and
efficiency.
The second Sydney
encountered two
Italian cruisers in the
Mediterranean zone
and sank one.
She is a 6850-ton
cruiser of the Phaeton
class, sister-ship to the
Hobart, formerly the
Apollo. Built at
Wallsend and com-
missioned in 1935, she
carries eight 6in. guns,
four 4in. A.A and 18
smaller guns. Her
speed is knots.
She has the reputa-
tion of being a fine,
stable sea boat and a
good gunnery ship.
She is manned en-
tirely as to ratings by
Australians, and
nearly so as to offi-
cers, and is one of the
few ships commanded
by an Australian —
J. A. Collins, the first
graduate of Jervis
Bay Naval College to
rise to the rank of
captain.
Her victim was the
Bartolomeo Colleoni,
one of the Condot-
tieri class of 1931-32,
built by Ansaldo. This
ship is of a type which has caused
much controversy among naval archi-
tects the world over. Though nearly
2000 tons lighter than the Sydney
—5069 tons —she was actually 20ft. longer
and only 6ft. less in beam, and she was
powered with 95,000 h.p., against the
Sydney’s 72,000 h.p. Her rated speed is
37 knots— 4-f knots better than the Syd-
ney—and she did 40 knots on her trials.
She was also more heavily armed, carrying
eight Bin. guns and six 3.9 all-angle A. As.
The Italian theory has always been” for
speed against protection, the argument
being that the relatively light armor of
medium cruisers was a comparatively
negligible matter.
The Sydney seems to have settled the
argument, proving that efficiency of com-
mand and personnel, a steady gunnery
platform and capable manoeuvre are the
superior factors when armament is equal.
It is a matter of pride that after months
of war in which all descriptions of ships
have been engaged, from the largest
battleships to the smallest destroyers,
Australia’s navy should provide the first
ship to sink an enemy cruiser by gunfire
in an open fight. A Maoriland cruiser
was one of the three which wrecked the
Graf Spee in a battle against superior
odds, so the score of the Pacific-
Dominions rates high.
After the Bartolomeo Colleoni had been
sunk, the second Italian Cruiser showed
that speed has its advantages. She ran.
No British cruiser, unless faced with com-
pletely overwhelming odds, would have
done that. Had the Exeter, Ajax and
Achilles, with their lighter guns and
armor, followed that policy when they
encountered the Graf Spee with her 11-
inchers and her much superior range
there would have been a departure from
the traditional R.N. policy of “fight the
enemy wherever found, sink or swim.”
The fight took place in the early morn-
ing. The Sydney with three destroyers
was patrolling north-west of Crete in the
/Egean Sea about 7.30 a.m. on Friday,
July 19, when one of the destroyers
sighted the two Italian cruisers—the
second was the Giovanni delle Bande
Nere, sister to Colleoni.
Sydney arrived within an hour. The
Italians turned south-west and tried to
''Where does a bloke join this Fifth Column ?”
escape. The Colleoni was too close in
spite of her great speed to get away
without action. Sydney opened a deadly
fire, and one of her early salvos pene-
trated the enemy ship’s boiler-room and
slowed her down. She was otherwise
seriously damaged, and the destroyers
were able to finish her off with torpedoes.
While the destroyers went about the
rescue of the Italians in the water —
almost the whole of the Colleoni’s com-
plement of 500-odd were saved —the
Sydney tried to sink the other cruiser,
which was in full flight. The latter was
hit, apparently seriously, but escaped.
Meantime, Italian air squadrons
arrived and bombed the destroyers as
they went about the rescue of Italian sur-
vivors.
In all, the fight lasted three hours and
there was not a single Australian or
British casualty. The Italian communique
declared that there were two cruisers of
the Sydney class in the Australian squad-
ron, with four destroyers, and that heavy
losses were inflicted on them before the
Colleoni was hit in a vital spot and went
down fighting fiercely. The Admiralty
denies that there was a second British
cruiser.
Sydney returned in triumph to Alexan-
dria, where British and French fleets lined
ship for her as she made her way to
anchorage behind her destroyers, bands
playing “God Save the King” and crews
at stations.
Flags were flown in Sydney on Mon-
day in celebration of the victory. But
it wasn’t Australia’s first naval, victory
during the war; the Minister for the
Navy has revealed that one of the Italian
subs, sunk recently was disposed of by
H.M.A.S. Voyager.
In Africa and the Middle East.
“Ek Dum”: Last week the note of the
European war was muted till there was
scarcely a rifle fired in anger on land.
German raids on England tailed off. The
R.A.F. continued to blast western Ger-
many and German-occupied France,
showering its bombs on every military
and naval objective that could be reached
—oil dumps, naval harbors, railway
junctions, ammunition storages, aircraft
factories, roads, and latterly German
aerodromes in France where there were
concentrations of bombers. But the land
war was confined to the frontiers of
African provinces, where sporadic fight-
ing ran side by side with bombing by
British and Italians.
No conditions for war could be worse
than those of the desert in July. Tern-
peratures run up into the hundreds. The
mirage is ever-present. The air seems to
thin till those who breathe it have the
impression of living in the rare atmo-
spheres of great heights. Normally, the
inland of North Africa beyond e
mountain regions and of Eastern Asia in
the Middle Eastern area is almost as
much in recess during the midsummer
months as Scandinavia is m the heart ot
winter. •
Under such difficulties outpost fighting
has been carried out at the ends of long
lines of communication and by compara-
tively small forces, of which the Italian
have been far the larger. The latter
advanced from Abyssinia into the arid,
stony country of the Moyale in Kenya,
east of Lake Rudolf. There, in the main
British post, a company of the African
Rifles found itself at the end of
June attacked by a brigade of Italian
troops supported by artillery. On July 1
there were three fierce attacks. British
’planes for a time mitigated the Italian
onslaughts, but the post was heavily
shelled between July 5 and 10, when the
British force was practically surrounded.
Although reinforcements were sent,
the position became untenable on July
14, when water ran out. The small
British force retired towards the great
watercourse of the Webi Daua, which
runs across the country further south,
forming a natural defensive barrier
reaching almost to the rough hills of
Elwayi, which run up thousands of feet
beside Lake Stefanie. There the British
first northern defence line probably lies,
with the main one further south, nearer
to the Tana River, which is navigable for
hundreds of miles from its mouth. The
river’s sources are in the range which is
overtopped by Mount Kenya, 17,000 feet
high, and which is reasonably adjacent
to the Uganda railway.. Here the Equator
runs across the country.
The northern part of Kenya is in a
bad position for defence. The Italians
have necessarily kept fairly large forces
in southern Abyssinia. Nearly 300 miles
of Italian Somaliland runs almost due
south from Neboi to Port Dunford, on
the Indian Ocean, not far from the Tana.
The northern sections of the British terri-
tory, almost useless in any case, are there-
fore confined in an angle by Italian terri-
tory. And the angle becomes much
sharper in the north-east from the point
where Moyale is situated, almost equi-
distant from Italian Somaliland and the
junction of that territory and Abyssinia.
In 1924, by the Treaty of London, Britain
ceded to Italy a large belt of country in
this region west of the river Juba—33,ooo
square miles, with the port of Kismaya.
There has also been fighting at
small Sudanese outposts and round the
Italian post of Capuzzo (Libya), which,
fed by water only by pipeline, in a region
in which there is normally no rain, has
been besieged by the British, relief lorries
being destroyed. And there was a dash
by a British motor column into Italian
Somaliland to raid the lonely post of
Damerabob.
The keys to the general African and
Mediterranean situation are at points
where there is no land fighting at all; at
Aden, where Britain guards the entrance
to the Red Sea from the Indian Ocean; at
Alexandria, where the British Eastern
Mediterranean Fleet lies; along Suez,
where British troops guard the Canal;
in the Malta region, where is the waist
of the Mediterranean, and where French
Tunisia and Italian Tripoli lie side by
side ; at Gibraltar, where the Rock domi-
nates the Straits; in Palestine and Syria
and the Turko-Iraqian area.
Maps issued in Germany in 1938,
which forecast how France would be
divided when conquered, showed as the
next move the occupation of a belt along
the whole northern and western coasts
of Spain, embodying Portugal and Gib-
raltar. Gibraltar is now menaced. The
menace could be effective either through
Spain or through the Spanish zone in
Morocco, which lies across the Straits,
within gunfire of the Rock.
The women and children of Gibraltar
were hurriedly evacuated from Gibraltar
town, which lies at the foot of the Rock,
to Ceuta, in Spanish Moroccan Africa,
while French raids were made on the
station in reprisal for the British destruc-
tion of French warships at Oran. Now
there is to be another evacuation.
The position assumed a new aspect
during the week, when General Franco
endorsed the agitation for the return of
Gibraltar to Spain, which held it for
300 years after its capture by the Moors.
The British forces took it in 1704, and
it was ceded to Britain in 1713.
In the Asian Middle East activity
has been limited. Haifa, the British oil
headquarters on the Mediterranean, was
raided by the Italians at the beginning of
the week, with a few casualties. The
R.A.F. responded by bombing the Italian
Dodecanese, of which Rhodes is the
headquarters, bringing the war to within
sight of the Turkish coast.
The position of the French armies in
Syria, how they are now commanded—
two air squadrons took high French
officers from Syria to Jibuti —what has
become of their supplies and armament,
is still a mystery. But the British armies
in Palestine keep at their training, with
the nearest outpost of an enemy 400
miles across the sea at Rhodes, and that
enemy showing a curious indisposition
for major activity. Wholly undisturbed,
the A.I.F. held a surf carnival at Gaza.
The Syrian administrations and the
Iraqian Government, of which the driving
force is Lawrence’s old associate Nuri
Pasha, appear to be settling into closer
co-operation with Turkey. This has been
cemented within the past few days by the
linking up of the railway which joins
Iraq to the main Anatolian line via Mosul
and the northern Syrian border country.
Turkey is anxious to keep in with the
U.S.S.R. and with Germany, with which
it has made a trade agreement.
Distances in the Middle East are great
as they are in Africa. There are no


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 811 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARY RAWLINGS (formerly
MARY BRUMMELL) Petitioner
And WALTER JEFFERY RAWLINGS
Respondent.
TO WALTER JEFFERY RAWLTNGS for-
merly of Dunedoo in the said State Boot
Repairer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY RAW-
LINGS has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
.NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the eighteenth day
of October One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of July, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
FRANK DAVIDSON, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 87 Arthur Street, Wellington.
NOW. . more than ever
you should fit
OLVMPie TYRES ARE iO®%
AUSTRALIAN. EVERY PERRY
OF WAGES AMO BUfIDENBS
REMAINS IN AUSTRALIA
THE OLYMPIC TYRE AND RUBBER
ciW7c
£«ERC°
CO. LTD,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts.,
SYDNEY
Phones: FL4133-5, FA3IGI-3
855 s *
W
The support of Local Industry is
a prime factor in Australia's
War Effort.
In the Commercial field .
Olympic has specialised in a
comprehensive tyre range which
covers every phase of the
transport business, as well as
the most comprehensive range
in motor, motor cycle, and
cycle tyres.
m
m
Germans within 2500 miles of the Pales-
tine forces. There are no Italians reach-
able by land nearer than the Libyan
border across Egypt and Eritrea down
the Red Sea, also across Egypt and
two vast deserts. Against attack upon
them by sea the British Navy still stands
guard. At the same time a large force
is needed to protect oil supplies which are
vital both to Britain and Australia.
Captain J. A. Collins earned a C.B.
for his Sydney victory over the Italians.
Commander Hugh Nicholson, in com-
mand of the destroyers, received a
bar to his D.S.O. Collins is Tas-
manian-born—brother of Dale Collins,
the novelist. He passed from Geelong
Naval College to Jervis Bay when it
was founded, and served at 17 in
H.M.S. Canada in the North Sea in the
last war. He returned to do various
R.A.N. jobs and eventually to put the
gunnery of the new eight-inch ships Aus-
tralia and Canberra on an organised basis
when they arrived; was squadron
gunnery officer in the days of Rear-
Admiral “Teddy” Evans, with whom he
was a favorite. He commanded later the
flotilla leader Anzac. During the depres-
sion he went to England for three years
Staff College and Admiralty experience,
then had a year in command of the
“Your fader taught heem to do that."
Sydney while she was on the stocks and
was commander in her on her voyage to
Australia. The Abyssinian war having
broken out, the ship was held in the Medi-
terranean for nearly a year on duty.
After his return to England, Collins was
assistant chief of the Naval Staff, but he
became captain of the Sydney last year
just before she left for the other side
of the world.
❖ * # *
“N 2": Recent British naval losses in-
clude H.M.S. Van Dyck, a small escort
vessel which disappeared off the Nor-
wegian coast several weeks ago ; her crew
of 163 are prisoners, save two officers
and five ratings, who were killed. H.M.S.
Salmon, 670 tons, a submarine with a
record, has also disappeared. A trawler,
the Crestflower, has been sunk while mine-
sweeping. Mercantile marine losses have
been rising—for the week to July 8, 22
Allied and neutral ships, totalling 114,000
tons, were sunk. Britain lost 13 ; total,
75,800 tons.
THE FLYING COLUMN
"Heavy Stuff."
“Aileron”: The crews of the squadron
of Short Sunderlands —military versions
of the Tasman service flying-boats —
which were to have joined the R.A.A.F.
are giving great service. They have been
in the thick of a great deal of fighting
round the coasts of Britain, and have
been incessantly on long-distance patrol.
Their latest triumph was the sinking of
a U-boat in the S. Atlantic. The S.S.
commander was Squadron-Leader Gib-
son, with Flying-Officer Havyatt, who
graduated from Point Cook only last
year, as second in command. They
dropped four bombs on the submarine
when she was just below the surface.
The U-boat breached, then sank, while
men rushed from her conning-tower.
Earlier in the week another boat, with
Flight-Lieutenant Birch in charge and
Flying-Officer Costello as first officer,
scattered a formation of five Heinkel
bombers off the English coast.
These heavy machines have been con-
sistently successful in operation. They
are not fast, but their size allows the
spreading of their vital machinery and
also an all-round disposition of their
armament. They carry, among other
things, a battery of four deadly tail guns.
As they are 17ft. high, hits which would
put a smaller ’plane out of action leave
them still in good flying condition; and
their range is such that they can operate
from home bases over areas well out of
the way of attack by any ordinary enemy
machine.
The Germans in their official aviation
journals have preached the advantage of
size in raiding aircraft, yet nothing com-
parable with the biggest British warcraft
has appeared.
The first Pan-Pacific Clipper to arrive
in Auckland carried 17 official passen-
gers and a crew of 10. The, passengers
included Brigadier-General Walter Frank
and Commander Cornwell, of the U.S.A.
Army, and the wife of Australian Harold
Gatty, who made his name as n'avigator
on the first round-the-world flight with
Wylie Post, and who has been associated
with the organisation of the route all
along. Mrs. Post is the first woman to
cross the southern Pacific by air. The
Clipper came in escorted by a squadron
of the N.Z.A.F., and the last 1122 miles
from Noumea was covered in 7hrs.
48min. —a smooth routine flight. The
mail for Maoriland was heavy, but for
Australia comparatively small.
The Air War Day by Day.
July 15: Italians seen over Palestine
for the first time; ten ’planes drop 50
bombs on Haifa. Rome claims that
bombs hit oil tanks and caused fires ;
British report one Arab killed, one civi-
lian seriously and several slightly
wounded. A.I.F. men attending a Haifa
school unhurt. Blenheims raid Tobruk
(Libya), hitting oil tanks, and bomb artil-
lery stores at Bardia, R.A.F. recon-
naissance machines fly 300 miles into
Libya.
R.A.F. raids on Germany intensify,
while those on Britain slacken. In two
nights R.A.F. bombs 22 aerodromes. Ger-
mans report having raided Bicester, Pem-
broke, Chatham, Plymouth, Cardiff and
Brighton “harbor installations” and an
aircraft factory at Yeovil (Somersetshire).
Characterising the R.A.F. attacks as
“cowardly,” they warn the people of
West Germany that they “must realise
that heavy sacrifices are necessary.”
R.A.F. objectives include a Bremen air-
craft factory, aircraft stores at Pader-
born near the Ruhr border, oil tanks
and goods yards. Another squadron
attacks Copenhagen aerodrome. Aus-
tralian-manned Sunderland routs five
Heinkels off s.-w. coast of England.
July 16: Raids on Diredawa and Assab
(Eritrea), all machines returning safe.
For the 57th day British bombers criss-
cross Abyssinia, searching out and attack-
ing petrol and ammunition stores and
dumps. Further raid on Tobruk (Libya)
and Asmara (Eritrea), where hits are
made on the aerodrome with heavy
bombs. Two R.A.F. ’planes collide in
the clouds; one crashes. Italian raid on
Kurmuk (Sudan), others on Malta and
Sidi Barrani and Mersah Matruh, near
the Libyan border. At Malta two R.A.F.
fighters tackle a large formation of Cap-
roni heavy bombers and bring down one ;
British machine crashes on landing. At
Alexandria Italian formation drops
bombs; little damage.
Lull in German raids on Britain.
Bombs dropped on n.-e. Scottish coastal
town, wrecking houses and injuring a
few people. Three bombers brought
down by Hurricanes and Spitfires. Since
July 1, 105 German ’planes down
in England against 24 R.A.F. defend-
ing machines. Air Minister Sinclair an-
nounces that material damage has been
caused by the R.A.F. to every kind of
military objective in Germany, and that
attacks have been extended to German
aircraft concentrations in France and
German naval units; whereas damage
done by raids on Britain has been
“negligible.”
July 17: Railway disorganisation on
Netherlands - German north - eastern
•borders caused by R.A.F. raids. British
bombers attack Ems-Dortmund Canal in
the moonlight. Reconnaissance after-
wards shows canal to be empty, its
aqueduct out of order and barges being
unloaded into fields. Widespread British
reconnaissances from Biscay to Norway,
Six enemy ’planes attack steamers in
English Channel; no damage to ships,
but one enemy raider shot down. R.A.F.
bombs Tobruk and El Gubbi aerodromes
and hangar at Agordat. One person
killed and two injured in Italian raid on
Alexandria.
July 18: A woman and a small girl
killed when bombs hit a group of build-
ings in s.-e. England. A woman killed
by a bomb in Scotland. Further raids on
Germany by R.A.F.
July 19: An Avro-Anson —a patrol
machine of which Australia has many
specimens—brings down one of four
Messerschmitts which are attacking
trawlers off the s.-e. coast of Britain. A
minesweeper, Rinovia, suffers three
casualties when she shoots down an
attacking German ’plane. Several people
killed in raid in s.-w. Scotland ; two Ger-
man raiders destroyed during the raid
and another over the North Sea.
Italians claim to have bombed Gib-
raltar arsenal and military works, to have
hit a ship which is abandoned in the
Sicilian Strait and to have sunk an enemy
submarine. R.A.F. Sunderland, com-
manded by Flight-Lieut. E. B. Courtney,
of Melbourne, brings help to 20 French
sailors in lifeboat in the S. Atlantic.
July 20-21: Over 150 machines in two
air battles off English south coast. In
one, in which Germans attack a convoy,
10 enemy machines shot down, several
more damaged ; five British ’planes lost.
Further German losses bring total to
12. German communique declares that
air bases, harbor works and oil tanks in
central and southern, England have been
attacked, as well as an industrial plant
near Newcastle. Enemy claims serious
damage to a cruiser and two de-
stroyers and destruction of nine Brit-
ish machines, including one at Rotter-
dam. Claims further that nine British
machines destroyed in Western Germany
—seven by aircraft and two by A.A. fire.
A few people are killed by scattered
attacks on English towns.
British air-raid casualties to date total
336 killed and 476 injured, the largest
number killed ip. one raid being 32.
Shipping at Tobruk and Libyan out-
post of El Gubbi, aerodromes at Macaca
and Agordat (Eritrea) raided by R.A.F.,
and Neghelli by S. African A.F. Italian
bomber crashes in flames at Mersah
Matruh ; five dead. Italians claim to have
bombed Malta torpedo factory and to
have done damage at Buna (Kenya), at
the R.N. base at Berbera (Somaliland)
and to British bases near Kurmuk in
Sudan. They admit loss of one machine.
Oil tanks blown up at Vlaardingen
near Rotterdam in moonlight raid. Docks
at Hamburg bombed. Further raids over
n.-e. and s.-e. England. Total bag of
German ’planes over England (July 20)
is 24,


a
4
r m
M
i
\S
%
MASONITE
“SHORTS”
AVAILABLE AT SPECIAL PRICES
CHEAPER than full-sized sheets of Masonite
—grainless, non-chipping and non-splintering,
yet as easy to work as timber—are the new
"SHORTS" now on sale at most hardware
stores. Standard-size Masonite sheets are
12 ft. x 4 ft. Orders for lengths from 7 to
11 feet mean that off-cuts are left and these
short lengths are now offered at special prices.
They are perfect in every way, and are ideal
for the handyman’s small-scale jobs. Masonite
will outwear timber, is easy to work, and takes
any finish. At your favourite hardware store,
timber merchant or builders' supplier, you'll
see a display rack filled with Masonite
"Shorts"—cut into just the right sizes for
practically any household carpentering job.
Call and look for yourself,
[Cane-ite—the structural insulating board—is now being produced in Australia.]
For Modernising Homes, for Furniture, ior Shelves and Cup-
boards . . . Wall Lining . . . Floors . . . Boards . . . Caravans
Store Displays . . . Concrete Forming, Etc.
w
IHSMITE
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth hkzs-»o
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Clean Sweep in Brisbane Council
“Clayfield”: With what is called
“dramatic suddenness” the new Brisbane
City Council has begun its campaign for
“greater efficiency and economy” by the
dismissal of its five senior officers —Town
Clerk Travill, City Treasurer Hether-
ington, City Valuer Ludwig, City Archi-
tect Erwood and City Property Officer
English.
When the Greater Brisbane Council
came into existence in 1925 C. E. Travill
was seconded from his position as deputy
town clerk at S. Brisbane, where he had
been trained under the bearded and philo-
sophic Leney, to become private secre-
tary to the Lord Mayor. (Former holders
of the rabbit-skins would have burst with
pride at the idea of owning a private
secretary; friendly pressmen used to
write, their speeches for them.) Travill
became town clerk in 1931. Salary,
£llOO a year.
Norman Hetherington, son of a mayor
of Brisbane before it became Greater,
has been city treasurer since just after
the last war. He has been with the
council a quarter of a century. W. M.
Ludwig is one of the oldest employees.
He was with it in the old days when
W. H. Marshall, as town clerk, presided
in dignity over its affairs in the old
Council Chambers in Queen-street —those
halcyon days when the council used to
indulge in violent argument as to whether
£200,000 would not be too much to spend
on a Town Hall. Ludwig joined the staff
from the civil service in 1904, and had
been valuer since 1915. Salary, £9OO
a year.
H. A. Erwood has been on the staff 26
years, latterly at £7OO a year. J. English
joined as an office-boy in 1912.
None of the slaughtered had the
slightest idea that the axe hung over him,
and they all go on three months’ notice
without being given the option of resig-
nation.
The position of city valuer is to be
wiped out, though the Act provides for
the office. So is the position of property
officer. Applications will be called for
the other positions “at once.” It has
been suggested that the town clerk’s
status will become considerably less im-
portant, that he will be stripped of his
traditional administrative powers and be
in a position analogous to that of the
clerk to the Parliament.
A bill to amend the City of Brisbane
Act on a large scale is foreshadowed for
the session of the Queensland Parliament
opening on August 20. Its provisions are
likely to include sweeping changes. The
Labor Caucus last year discussed the
abolition of the town-clerkship and the
substitution of a city manager on Ameri-
can lines.
“ You're positively the rudest man I ever ran across !”
The changes, involving, as they do, old-
established officers who have been thrown
on the employment market in a time of
difficulty, are naturally causing more than
a little unease in Brisbane.
There is nothing wrong with the tradi-
tional British municipal system when it
is properly administered. It has centuries
of experience behind it. It fails in Aus-
tralia only when it is overlaid by the
party political system. Many councils
in Australia which operate in accordance
with its traditions are solvent a'nd almost
debtless. But Brisbane, under its politi-
calised system, has been spending in
loan money as much as all the other
municipalities in Queensland, even dur-
ing its period of bankruptcy. It did not
do that sort of thing before its political
era
“Zedo”: Brisbane is veering to the idea
of opening the picture shows on Sunday
“as a war measure.” This was done in
Melbourne in the last war for the benefit
of the troops, and worked a great change
in the Sabbath appearance of the streets
and parks. A.I.F. leave usually fills the
open spaces of big cities with aimless
soldiers who have no way to occupy their
time. The only fly in the ointment is
that picture-show prices are relatively
high in the cities. If the shows are
opened it should be for the benefit of
soldiers and not of movie magnates. They
might show their patriotism by charging
prices commensurate with a salary of five
bob a day, designed to pay expenses and
no more.
* # * *
“X.T.”: Queensland dairy companies
are setting a good example in war effort.
A movement is on foot for the contri-
bution of 2s. 6d. per ton of butter to be
handed over towards paying for the war.
One factory—Maryborough—will find
£B7 per month under the plan. And
Wide Bay has lent £5OOO interest-free to
the Commonwealth.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Cotton-growing is to be
given a fillip by the decision of the Com-
monwealth to spend £150,000 a year for
five years to assist the industry. At
present, about 40,000 acres of Queens-
land is planted with the crop, but the
Agricultural Department estimates that
there will be a leap to 100,000 acres this
spring, and that the output will jump
from 12,500 to 20,000 bales —a little less
than one-third of the Commonwealth’s
requirements. The plan should give a
big fillip to some of the Central Queens-
land districts; and wheat-farmers hit by
wheat prices in the coastal marginal
areas of the North are talking of turn-
ing over. There are parts of New Guinea
which might be worth prospecting as
cotton areas. With native labor avail-
able, they should be able to compete with
the world for the Australian market at
any time.
$ * *
“Wolf G.”: I note that a Victorian
Labor member, Maurice Blackburn, has
been asking questions about the pay of
aboriginals employed by wolfram gougers
in the Territory. Dunno the extent of
Mr. Blackburn’s knowledge, but before he
rushes into words or print or other things
into which politicians rush without
thought I’d like to inform him that the
gouger gets the thin end of it. He has
to feed, clothe and pay the native, and
contribute on his behalf to a medical and
an aboriginal trust fund. Wardens and
police see that this is done. The gouger
might also pay to transport his laborer
some distance. After all this, there is
every possibility of the native getting sick
of white-pfeller work and going on a
walkabout, whereupon the gouger is asked
nasty questions as to his late employee’s
whereabouts. If Mr. Blackburn is look-
ing for a good lease—oh, all right, all
right.
* , *
Long Pig : Just when he was on the
verge of becoming a tradition—the
natives had begun to believe he had
supernatural powers—Mans has met his
en d. A New Hanoverian, he was due for
trial at Rabaul, but escaped from Kokopo
gaol last February. For the next four
months he led a charmed life, raiding
both native and white-feller villages,
plantations and stores. Search parties
and native police posses were close on his
heels time after time, and time after time
he slipped through the cordons and van-
ished. He got a rifle and ammunition
from a plantation near Toma, and
towards the end of June he killed one
and wounded two of a party of natives
who attempted to take him. His end
was almost anti-climax. Old Tombulua,
in his garden, heard a drum-message that
Maris was near. Tombulua hurried
home, got a couple of spears and re-
turned to the garden. Came a threaten-
ing figure armed with a knife. “I am
Maris,” it declared. “And I am Tom-
bulua,” declared the oldster. The out-
law struck with the knife. Tombulua
dodged, and plunged a spear into the
attacker’s shoulder, following it with the
other into his side. By this time rein-
forcements arrived, and, though Maris
retreated and withdrew the spears, the
others fell upon him. When Tombulua
next saw him he was dead on the ground.
# * * *
“Whacko”: Note from the Bowen
correspondent of the “North Queensland
Register”:
A newspaper heading asks, “Who’s
Behind Hitler?” A lot of us would like
to be, with a good, sharp hayfork.
A triple intent, as it were.
. * * * *
“Beater”: Most unresident of his kind
in Australia is D. D. Smith, resident
engineer at Alice Springs, whose job
keeps him away from home for two-
thirds of the year, visiting all sorts of
holes and corners in the N.T. He has
covered more than 700,000 miles of that
country by car in 13 years, selecting sites
for bores and routes for roads and watch-
ing other engineering problems. His
monument is the Alice-Tennant Creek
road, which he routed, and which runs
mostly straight for 320 miles.
* * * *
“Norther”: Cairns has produced the
supreme optimist. He is Cr. Martin, of
Cairns Shire Council, who asked, and got.
six months’ leave of absence from the
Barron Falls Hydro-Electricity Board
while he left the district on an important
mission. All Australia hopes he won’t
need an extension. He’s joined the A.I.F.
* * * *
“23-45”: Thomas G. Mann, selected by
the Queensland C.P. to contest the Her-
bert seat in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, is a native of Armidale (N.S.W.).
He was educated at Sydney Boys’ High
School, joined a bank, went away with
the old A.I.F. and came back a captain,
one of the last to leave Gallipoli. After
that he took on farming down the
Murray, near Moama (N.S.W.), sold the
property and joined the Rural Bank, then
left to take over a scrub farm at Banana
Pocket, near Proserpine. He has taken
a leading part in sugargrowers’ affairs
ever since. He is 48.


e
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 -GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
•TOM.
grg|
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney
T. JONES tco.
BRANDALERrS
w
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKXHDA.UKK * CO, Ltd, BiaMIMQHAM. ENG
,
mm
m
J
ra i
11
“This book of photographs ... .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in-
structional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player.” —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER'S "GOLF SHOTS"
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
PITCH WITH STOP
. m
j
i
a
i
e
PITCH WITH STOP
f* -
w
i
e
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 ; -
From the publishers, «.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
HUNKER PLAY
w
e
w
e
BUNKER PLAY
w
e
w
e
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
P.N.: “Talking of Golf” is bunkered in the
w.p.b H.C.8.: Find some other pattern
for your verses and don’t work ’em up to that
flaming conclusion in he 11... .R.McK.: “You
Will Return” was a prophetic title... .J.T.:
It has its moments, but what’s to stop you
looking at the sky if you want to? ... .John H.:
If you could always get the clarity of the
second stanza of “Affinity” you’d be some-
where near print... .C.W.: If the nag had had
as many extra feet as some of your lines he'd
have tripped over long before he got to the
mountains... .F.G.S.: But us no “But ohs!"
... .H.J.H., R.W.V., R.R., S.E., G.C.G. and
W.W.: Let W.W. win the war:
So now put filthy lucre thoughts out of your mind,
Fight to crush those Hun demons and all of their
kind.
. ...G.E.H.: Try those articles on a daily....
W.H.W.: The first essential is that you have
a story to tell D.C.: Wept over “poor little
Lucille” and found a nice postman to take her
home... .E.H.: Buttoned up our pockets at
first sight of that well-known “suave talker.”
J.H.: Not here will you “briefly review
[in 15 two-column articles] the only part-known
series of events leading up to the present con-
flict” W.E.P.: An idea, but it needs stronger
treatment... .M.N.: Your “Lovelorn Maiden”
is languishing in the w.p.b L-M.: Declined,
with thanks... .H.J.E.: Don’t like stories of
fresh young English girls set in “Surrey’s
leafy lanes”... .J.S.: Nor of amazing adven-
tures in the interior of South America....
L.G.: A timeworn, and never very interesting,
tale... .N.K.: Might suit the school magazine.
. ...AJ.C.: If you must write of newspaper
offices, first take a peep inside one... .W.A.H.:
The court reporter could do it better
J.H.M.: Like our murders a little less in-
volved .... R.E.S.: The brute! H.E.D.:
Gagged the cabaret singer and handed her over
to a policeman F.R.S.: You may know
all about electric trains, but you don’t
weave them into a story... .J. 5.0.: Nothing
new in any of ’em K.W.: Try it as a par.
E.H.: It nearly got there; keep at it, but
pay more attention to character... .A.S.:
Cheered the Digger who captured Hitler, but
it would hardly do to make his plan known
just yet... .C.N.W., W.R. and C.V.T.: Hope-
less.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.H.: Spent a worried 10 minutes trying to
discover the point of the gag....R.M.: That
Digger has been confined to the w.p.b. for the
duration A.L.: Might do as decorations for
a nursery .P.M.R.: Give us drawings with
more life in them and gags with a punch
T.M.G.: The whole six are headed for home.
. ...J.8.D.: No handout for King Billy and
his numerous brood... .W.C.: Try for sharper
contrasts in tones, and cut out the elaborate
backgrounds... .P.J.: A life class might help
y0u....H.J.: The Sultan has stepped out of
the pages of a well-known American magazine.
F.E.: That wheeze had a good innings in
1914-18 C.R.W.: Same old half-nude
couple, same old raft, same old gag T.H.:
Didn’t raise a grin K.G.: Among the many
things you can’t draw are an eagle, a kangaroo
and the rising sun.... M.A.: Not in the
market for colored sketches.... J.P.: Patriotism
is all that could be desired; not so the wild
and woolly . .N.G.R.: You’ve given
Dave hands like meathooks and legs like stove-
pipes... .S.M.: Afraid we’ll have to try to win
the war without the aid of your cartoons.
. ...T.G.: About as amusing and as artistic as
a temperature chart.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Colbun”: Napoleon once described
England as a nation of shopkeepers,
After recent happenings to the late
French Navy it is understood that the
Fiihrer has issued strict orders that the
word be respelt “shipkeepers.”
*„* . .
Yucca : Mexico has had its Presi-
dential election, and, to the amazement
of its inhabitants and others familiar with
the place, only 48 people were killed and
400 wounded, a paltry tally for such
occasions. A few old-timers are said
to be heading for Europe, convinced that
Mexico has lost its punch, or bowie-knife
or whatever it is. A person found head-
/tly 1“ tbe direction °f Hollywood
(U.S.A.) regretfully announced that it was
the quietest election he’d seen in years.
Both sides claim to have won.
~n n * -4
defunct "In
of , N °li, ons ls
J ; nd Y Yap- When the German
station’anH nsi ll I-. 1 th mP rr r r n V cab ?
station, and it still has the distinction of
possessing the most peculiar money sys-
tern in the world. Yap money is made
of stone, and some of the currency values
run to discs of the size of large cart-
wheels, weighing some five tons. The
sole advantage of such a currency is
tha.t it cannot easily be stolen, but when
a rich Yapper goes forth to settle his
account at the store he has to em-
ploy two strong menials to carry the cash,
which is pierced with a hole through
w ic a bamboo pole can be run. The
° rnament , than use >
and the Nuffields of Yap proudly display
their stone fortunes outside their front
00rs ' *
“Um-Chi”- The China Burma rmd
SO Id, in the news nowadays Tas o°n e
China’s firmt *•i
Kingdom with the Medi.erfanean Mori
o h pe n ned o the y imoeda'l HiLhwTT 1
Thp rlktanrp m fr Highway foi trace.
T nn th ian> m
a’ ° n * he Med ‘ tc rranean, was 4200
miles as the crow flies, but the Imperial
1937ThP fully 600° miles long. In
front To Chl ?^ e . rebuilt their former
frontdoor, and it is now their backdoor,
The Burma-China stretch is about 700
miles long, and you can nyotor over it
with pleasure if you like switchback
railways. There are many drops from
7000 ft. to 2000 ft. elevation at more or
less short notice, and then up again to
7000 ft. The road was a marvellous feat
of construction, built mostly by the labor
of hordes of Chinese men, women and
children who supplied their own tools
and their own food. There are over 200
bridges on the route,
* * * *
“Atrax”: The normal bloody-minded-
ness of boyhood has produced several
practical war inventions. The latest is
a n aerial bomb devised by a Yorkshire
] a d of 13, and now being tested by
Supply Ministry experts. Last year an-
other English boy invented an important
improvement in machine-gun mechanism.
Simon Lake, the American inventor, was
14 when, inspired by Jules Verne’s
Nautilus, he built his first 14ft. working
model of a practicable submarine. In
e,ec,ed a Mtow'of thf Royal Me.eoro-
logical Society in recognition of his ex-
pe * t observa ti y o ns on thunderstorms. So,
when the kid is messin g about with
, .
time 8 ’ 1 ecessanl y wasting his
* * * *
“F.S.” : Discussions in Melbourne
between modernist and traditionalist
painters on the meaning of impression-
ism produced a fine crop of contra-
dictory definitions. Impressionism was
originally a term of discredit. It was
picked up from the title of a picture by
Monet and hurled by “Charivari” at the
artist. It caught on and was employed by
everybody but the painters themselves.
In 1874, commenting on an exhibition by
Pissarro, Monet, Renoir, Cezanne, Berthe
Morisot and Degas, Albert Wolff, in an
article in “Figaro,” wrote: “The Rue Le
£ eletier is unlucky. After the fire at the
h “ h T’
ttlls quarter, an exhibition has been
pec,ing passerby e " ters and eyea a ' e
confronted by an appalling spectacle.
Five or lunatics, one of them a
woman, have found a rendezvous in
which to exhibit their works.” When
examples of the alleged “lunatics’ ” works
were shown by the “Herald” proprietary
in Melbourne there was a chorus of
approval, except in the columns of the
“Argus.” There, sundry critics made
slighting references to the morals and
mentality of the artists.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’COliN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
1 his page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
lo avoid contusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Country girl (N.S.W.), two years domestic
employment, seeks position as lady’s-help, city
or country.—7662.
Writer, Sydney, would like to correspond
with other writers, view to mutual discussion
and constructive criticism. —7648.
Whereabouts of Charles Miley, wood-chop-
ping champion.—74so.
Words of C. J. Dennis verse containing a
reference to wearing pyjamas and cleaning teeth.
—7465.
To buy copy of Bush Boys' Book, by Donald
Macdonald. —7406.
To buy, second-hand, memory course and
mind-training books. —7574.
Exchange Gilbert and Sullivan music, com-
plete, and four vols. Famous Songs for Jane’s
Fighting Ships, Brcissey’s Annual, Women of
All Nations (Forbes) or travel books or stamps,
or buy named books s.h. —7634.
Information Sought.
(1) What is molybdenum? (2) Has it com-
mercial value? (3) Does it occur-in commercial
quantities in Australia? —7632.
(1) Molybdenum is a rare metal occurring in
many parts of the world, but usually in such
small quantities as not to be available for com-
mercial treatment. (2) The uses of molyb-
denum were formerly very limited, but since it
has been discovered that its presence in steels
increases their tensile strength, elasticity and
hardness, it has been in greater demand. (3)
Yes. Australia is one of the chief suppliers
of the metal. It is mined in commercial quanti-
ties at Everton, Vic., on the Chillagoe field,
Q., and at Kingsgate, Deepwater, Bolivia and
other places in the New England district of
N. S. Wales.
* * * *
How long does it take to convert growing
wool from a sheep’s back into a suit of clothes ?
—7628.
It has been done in hours. In 1811 Sir John
Throckmorton won a bet of £lOOO by having
a coat made by sunset from wool shorn at sun-
rise on the same day. In those days the spin-
ning was done on a jinny and the cloth was
woven by hand. The making of the coat by the
tailors took 2hr. 20min., and the entire opera-
tion from sheep to coat took 13hr. 20min. In
Pennsylvania, U.S.A., in 1898, this record was
beaten, the time taken for the complete article
being 6hr. 28min. In 1931 at Huddersfield,
England, John Crowther and Sons, using
Southdown wool, shore, scoured and processed
the wool and had a suit manufactured from it
in 2hr. 9min. The suit was later worn by J. H.
Thomas, Secretary of State for the Dominions,
on a Canadian tour. This record was broken
in October of the same year by the Target
Woollen Mills, Sydney. A number of sheep
of comeback type were shorn at the mill and
the usual manufacturing process was changed
slightly, the scouring process following the weav-
ing. As soon as thie cloth was manufactured
it was rushed in a car to a clothing factory
at Campbell-street, a distance of 4\ miles. The
total time from the commencement of shearing
until the suit was finished was lhr. 52min.
181 sec.
* * * *
(1) Which Australian capital is the most
thickly populated? (2) What is the density of
population in each capital? —76Bl.
(1) According to population estimates of De-
cember, 1938, Melbourne, which has a popula-
tion of 8.22 persons to the acre. (2) Sydney
8.18 persons to the acre, Brisbane 1.32, Adel-
aide 3.12, Perth 1.80, Hobart 1.15.
* * * *
If an old-age pensioner spends all his money
in drink, and does not insult nor beg from any-
body, under what section of the Pensions Act
can the local policeman have the pension taken
from him ? —7450.
Section 44 of the Invalid and Old-age Pen-
sions Act stipulates that “Where, in the opinion
of a Registrar, (n) a pensioner misspends any
part of his pension, or misspends, wastes or
lessens any part of his estate or of his income
or earnings, or injures his health, or endangers
or interrupts the peace and happiness of his
family, or (b) a claimant or a pensioner is
unfit to be entrusted with a pension, the Deputy-
Commissioner may, on the report of the Regis-
trar, make an order directing that until further
order the instalments shall be paid to any
benevolent or charitable society, minister of
religion, justice of the peace or other person
named by the Deputy-Commissioner for the
benefit of the pensioner, or suspending the pen-
sion certificate pending the decision of the
Minister thereon, or directing the forfeiture of
so many of the instalments as the Deputy-Com-
missioner thinks fit.” In these circumstances
it is clear that on the report of a policeman
a pension may be suspended or other suitable
action taken by the Deputy-Commissioner if, in
his opinion, the pensioner’s habits or conduct
warrant such action.
What is the history of the N.S.W. Workmen’s
Compensation Act ? What Ministry introduced
it, and when? Has it been amended since; if
so, by whom, and in what way? —7s64.
The first N.S.W. Workmen’s Compensation
Act was passed in 1910 by the Wade Govern-
ment and came into operation on January 1,
1911. Employers of fewer than four persons
were exempted from the Act. The 1910 Act
was replaced by a more comprehensive Act
in 1916, which came into force on July 1,
1917. This Act, which was passed by the
Holman Government, covered all employees
whose remuneration did not exceed £312 p.a.
In March, 1926, the Lang Government passed
the Workers’ Compensation Act, which com-
menced on July 1 of that year. All previous
Acts ceased to have effect so far as regards any
accident which happened after such commence-
ment. The Act provided for the constitution
of a Workers’ Compensation Commission; for
the compulsory insurance by employers against
the liabilities in respect of injuries to workers;
and also for the regulation and licensing of
insurers. The Act did not apply to persons
whose remuneration exceeded £750 p.a. Com-
pensation was unlimited and was also payable
in respect of injuries received while the
worker was going to and from work. The Act
was amended in 1929. Liability in respect of
accidents happening while the worker was going
to and from work was removed, and the wait-
ing period increased from three to seven days.
Those persons whose remuneration exceeded
£550 p.a. were excluded from the benefits of
the Act. The total liability of employers was
limited to £lOOO in any one case. The 1938
amending Act reconstituted the Workers’ Com-
pensation Commission and amended Section 63,
which confers on workers the right to proceed
independently of the Act (by proceedings at
Common Law or under the Compensation to
Relatives Act) in cases of injuries caused by
the personal negligence or wilful act of the
employer or his servant.
* * * *
What constituency did Henry Parkes repre-
sent?—762o.
Sydney (1856), Cumberland North Riding
(1858), East Sydney (1859-61), Kiama (1864-69),
East Sydney again (1869-70), Kiama (1869-70),
Mudgee (1872), East Sydney (1872-77), Can-
terbury (1877-78), East Sydney for the fourth
time (1880-82), Tenterfield (1882-84), Argyle
(1885) and St. Leonard’s (1885-95). In 1869
he was elected by both East Sydney and Kiama,
but resigned the East Sydney seat in February
and the Kiama seat in December.
* ■ * * *
7 recently deposited with my bank for safe
custody a few war savings certificates. The
bank advises that, while exercising due care,
it accepts no responsibility "for loss by reason
or in consequence of act of God, fire, theft or
by any means whatsoever.” What would the
position be in the event of the certificates being
destroyed from any of these causes —would they
be a total loss or would it be possible, on pro-
ducing proof both of their loss and original
purchase, to secure duplicate certificates from
the Government ? —7455.
So far as replacement in event of loss is con-
cerned, the position would be governed by the
particular circumstances. For example, should
the certificates be destroyed and proof, satis-
factory to the Government, be produced, the
Government would, on an indemnity given by
the owner, repay the face value of the certifi-
cates at maturity. On the other hand, if the
certificates were stolen, the Government might
defer repayment until a reasonable period after
maturity had elapsed. Here again satisfactory
proof would be required. If replacement of
certificates prior to their maturity was desired,
a bank surety would be required in addition
to indemnity. It is advisable to keep a record
of the numbers, denominations and due dates
of certificates deposited.
* * * *
Outline of the history of the Australian
Museum up to the date of its establishment on
its present site? —763l.
In a dispatch dated March 30, 1827, Gover-
nor Darling was informed that the Colonial
Office sanctioned the expenditure of £2OO a year
on the establishment of a museum in Sydney.
For the first two decades of the Museum’s
life it had no regular abode. At first (1830)
it was housed in the Judge-Advocate’s office—
where the Lands Office now stands. Thence
it was moved to the Legislative Council Cham-
bers, and in 1836, owing to the growth of
the collection, shifted to Judge Forbes’s house
at the corner of Bridge and Gresham streets;
at this time, according to its first catalogue
(1837), it included 800 exhibits. In 1840 it was
transferred to the Surveyor-General’s office
opposite the Mint; about 1842 it was placed
in the Darlinghurst Courthouse. This travelling
museum was originally known as the Colonial
Museum, but in 1834 it was given its
present name. In April, 1836, the Colonial
Office had sanctioned the expenditure of
£4OOO on a building in Hyde Park to
house the Museum and the Australian Sub-
scription Library. Nothing was done about it
until 1845, when Charles Nicholson persuaded
the Legislature to authorise a commencement
of the building opposite Hyde Park in which
the Museum is now housed. Part of the exist-
ing north wing was completed in 1849, and the
collection transferred from the courthouse to it.
The west wing was begun in 1861; in 1892
an upper storey was placed on the north wing;
in 1897 the south wing was begun, and in 1909
this wing was enlarged.
* * * *
Details of the distributions of the Govern-
ment grant to the Commonwealth Literary
Fund 7—1491.
The Government approved of the grant
made available to the fund being utilised for
(a) pensions to authors who, by reasons of age
or infirmity, were unable to support them-
selves, ( b ) fellowships to writers of merit to
enable them to devote the whole or a substan-
tial part of their time and energy to the pro-
duction of a specified work, (c) annual grants
for the study of Australian literature in the
universities, ( d) reprints of approved literary
works, and (e) assistance towards the cost of
publishing manuscript's of literary merit which,
without such assistance, would probably remain
unpublished. About 100 applications were re-
ceived for fellowships, and, in addition to the
four awards made last year, approval was
recently given to the award of fellowships to
Margery Clark, of Melbourne, to write a novel
dealing with contemporary life in that city, and
to Mrs. Ernestine Hill to produce a work
descriptive of the life aftd character of Matthew
Flinders. A grant of £lOO has been made to
each of the State universities, and the reprint-
ing of the following works has been approved:
The Life and Work of A. G. Stephens, The
Work of C. J. Brennan, and a complete col-
lection of The Poetical Works of Bernard
O’Dowd. Of 70 manuscripts submitted to the
fund the following were judged worthy of pub-
lication : Wooden Hookers, by Mrs. Bede Max-
well, Stolen and Surreptitious Copies, by Alfred
Hart, National Portraits, by Vance Palmer, and
a volume of verse by E. J. Moll.
% * * *
(1) Name of Australian manufacturer of
machinery for making sandpaper? (2) Is the
making of sandpaper and abrasives in rolls
(such as Durex) covered by patent rights? (3)
Are the Durex brands of abrasives sold largely
in Australia, and what is their composition?
(4) Chief countries from which emery' is
obtainable ? —7556.
- (1) Star Machinery, Ltd., 204 Lawrence-street,
Alexandria, N.S.W. (2) The ordinary commer-
cial manufacture in Australia of abrasive papers
(sand, glass or emery) is not covered by patent
rights. The main protection in respect of the
imported brand you mention is the trade name.
Inquiries at the Patents Office would indicate
the extent to which the process is protected.
(3) Cloths and papers of this imported brand
are sold extensively on the Australian market,
chiefly' to the timber, furniture, wood-working
and allied trades. The basis of its composition
includes a number of .abrasives (other than
emery), including aluminous oxide, silicon car-
bide, garnet, sand, flint, glass and others. (4)
Emery powder is procurable from Greece and
Turkey. The main sources are the emery mines
on the island of Naxos (Greece), which yield
the best quality. The U.K. exports powder
(Greek and Turkish mixed), and supplies may
also be available from the U.S.A.
* * * *
Your reply to my question "a man dies intes-
tate leaving a widow and four children, how
is his estate divided between them ?” does not
meet the case 1 put. How will the estate be
divided ?- —7191.
Where both wife and children survive the in-
testate one-third of the estate will go to the
widow and two-thirds to the children in equal
shares.
* * * *
(1) .Number of Justices of the Peace in
N.S.W. ? (2) Qualifications necessary to be-
come a J.P. ? (3) Youngest J.P. in N.S.W. ?
—7643.
(1) Approximately 37,500. (2) Nominees
must be natural-born or naturalised subjects
of reasonable education and of good character.
(3) Cannot be named, but persons under the
age of 25 are seldom appointed to the posi-
tion.
* * * *
What were the match figures of the Great
Britain Rugby Union team in Australia and
M.L. in 1904 ? The captain and manager? —
7687.
In Australia 14 matches were played, all
being won; points for 265, against 51. In
M.L. five matches played, two won, two lost,
one drawn; points for 22, against 33. D. R.
Bedell-Sivright was captain, and Dr. A. B.
O’Brien manager.
* * * *
Recipe for making household soap, preferably
one that doesn’t require boiling? —7s47.
Dissolve contents of a lib. tin of caustic
soda in three pints of water and leave till just
warm (it will at first become hot). Take 71b.
of fat (previously clarified by boiling it with
water twice to remove all salt and dirt) and
heat till liquid. Let it cool down, and while
still liquid pour into it the lye made with the
caustic and stir with wooden stick for about
two minutes till mixture is like thick honey.
Pour into shallow box lined with calico and
leave in warm place 24 hours, when it can be
cut into blocks. Leave for at least a month
before using. A tablespoon of borax melted
in the hot lye makes the soap harder and
whiter.
* * * *
(1) How to keep lemons and grapefruit for a
period up to 12 months? (2) How to preserve
the juice? —74l2.
(1) Lemons and grapefruit can be kept for
months if, when picking the fruit, at least
half an inch of stem is left and the fruit stored
in perfectly dry sand without touching. A
layer of sand is put into a box, the first
layer of fruit embedded in it, a second layer
of sand added, then a second layer of fruit,
and so on. The boxes should be turned out
and the fruit repacked every three months. (2)
Extract the juice and strain carefully through
finest muslin (or mill-silk) which has been pre-
viously sterilised by boiling, and pour into
clean bottles. Almost fill bottles and on top
pour a tablespoon of olive oil, then cork
and seal. To use, remove oil with a piece of
cotton wool. Once a bottle has been opened,
the juice should be used within a day.
Brief Answers.
A.L.D.: Write L. S. Ward, 7 Hartley-street
Rozelle, Sydney.... .8.C.: Write N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Dept., Sydney, for pamphlets “Rear-
Feeding Poultry” and “Poultry Farm-
ing” F.M.G.: "Status quo” is an abridg-
ment for the Latin "status quo ante bellum,”
meaning the “state as prior to the war.” It
is used in the general sense of “the former
state” N.M.: The Victoria Cross is worn
before all other decorations, on the left breast
and consists of a bronze Maltese Cross,
in diameter, with the Royal Crown surmounted
by a lion in the centre, and beneath there is
the inscription “For Valor” L.F.: No duly-
elected member of the English House of Com-
mons can resign his seat; the usual practice
is to apply for the Stewardship of the Chiltem
Hundreds, or of the Manor of Poynings or
Northstead, whereupon the member has
accepted “an office of profit under the Crown,”
the seat is declared vacant and a new writ
is issued by the Speaker G. 8.: Pithecan-
thropus erectus (erect ape-man) is the name
given to the remains of a skull and of a thigh
bone found in 1891 and 1892 by Prof. Dubois
at Trinil, Java. These are held to be remains
of a creature of Pleistocene times, about mid-
way between the orang-outang and man in de-
velopment. .. .8.R.: The first (1935) S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize was won by Kylie Tennant with
her novel Tihuron H.J.8.: The first flight
in the world was made by the brothers Wilbur
and Orville Wright, who flew 284 yards on
December 17, 1903, in U.S.A W.H.D.:
The Italian steamer Rex has a gross tonnage
of 51,062 tons, is 879 ft. long, 97ft. wide and
has a depth of 30ft. 7in. The German steamer
Bremen has a gross tonnage of 51,731 tons, is
898 ft. 7in. long, 101 ft. 9in. wide and has a
depth of 48ft. 2in B.B.: The Suez Canal
was opened in 1869. The total length of the
canal is 101 miles, with a minimum width of
60 metres (196 ft. lOin.); the maximum draught
of w.ater allowed for vessels using the canal
is 10.36 metres (34ft.). The average time
for the transit through the canal is 11 hours
31 minutes... .OJ.: Ceuta, which forms
part of the province of Cadiz, is a fortified
port on the Moroccan coast, opposite Gib-
raltar. The total area is five square miles,
with a population of 35,219 N.E.: William
Hodges was the artist on Cook’s second voyage
to M.L. Cook’s book, A Voyage Towards the
South Pole and Round the World, published
in 1777, is illustrated with 63 plates and charts,
including a great number of pictures of Maori-
land by Hodges J.M.D.: One paper bag of
cement weighs 941 b. and measures one cub. ft.
One ton of cement equals 24 paper bags
W.R.: The taxation of annuities in W.A. de-
pends upon their nature and source. An
annuity derived under a will is either from
corpus or income, and in either case is tax-
able by the State as income to the annuitant.
If, however, it is derived from income it be-
comes a portion of the distributable income
the same as a partnership. A purchased annuity
is taxable subject to a deduction of that por-
tion of the annual payment which represents
the purchase price V.M.: The Meeting Pool
and The White Man's Garden —both by
Mervyn Skipper... .F.M.: The original Old-
age Pensions Act was passed in Maoriland on
November 1, 1898 S.J.: It is necessary for
applicants below the age of 21 to produce to
the recruiting officer written consent of one
parent or guardian, stating that there is no
objection to the applicant’s enlistment tor ser-
vice in Australia or overseas with the R.A.F.
or the R.A.A.F. Provision is made for the
parent’s or guardian’s consent on the application
form... .A.P.: Agents for Nonporite, Ltd., in
N.S.W. are McKinlay Fletcher, Ltd., 277
Clarence-street, Sydney... .C.L.; List of
N. Aboriginal Place-names and Their
Meanings, compiled by W. W. Thorpe; pub-
lished by the Australian Museum, Sydney
E.E.K.: The chemicals are unobtainable in
Sydney R.5.P.,: The bird’s trouble is caused
by lack of balanced ration, insufficient exercise
and absence of companionship. Try to remedy
these deficiencies. It is advisable to give the
bird a mixed grain ration of corn, wheat, oats
and millet. A little green food and some fruit
are also necessary, as well as a few drops of
cod-liver oil sprinkled on his seed once weekly.
. ...P.F.K.: (1) The average cost of a Diesel
trawler of a type at present being built in Syd-
ney, complete with engine, winch, etc., is £3500.
(2) The trawling business is booming, and there is
little or no chance of chartering a suitable boat.
(3) Some skippers operate for a third of the net
profit, but crews could be had for £4-£6 a
week, plus food. (4) Under suitable conditions
gross takings could be anything up to £2OO
a week. Lars Halvorsen, boatbuilder, of
Neutral Bay, Sydney, has plans and specifica-
tions... .P.F.: Try the Technological Museum,
Sydney, or A. S. Kenyon, of the Melbourne
Public Library and Museum H.0.K.: Write
to the secretary, N. S. Wales Taxpayers’
Association, Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh-
street, Sydney 0.K.: (1) Try the Public
Library. (2) Carpet Manufacturers, Sydney,
is the only firm manufacturing Axminster-type
carpets in Australia E.G.T.: (1) No, the
power is revoked by death. (2) There is some
conflict of opinion on the matter, but the
general principle appears to be that if the
article in question has a specific value, such as
a signed painting, then the price applies to it
alone. On the other hand, if it is an article
of some standard make* or pattern, the offer
may be construed as one to supply articles of
a similar kind to that displayed... .A.V.N.:
Your enlistment does not free you from your
civil obligations. You should see or write to
the firm in question and endeavor to come to
some arrangement by which the periodical pay-
ments may be reduced or deferred B.B.B.:
(1) and (2) Your civil obligations still stand,
and you must still pay your debts whether in-
curred under a hire-purchase system or other-
wise. (3) If you fail to meet the terms of the
hire-purchase firm it could exercise its powers
under the agreement J.R.: If you sell the
property the purchaser may determine the rental
he requires... .S.M.D.: Write to the local
municipal council stating your case, or see
the Inspector of Nuisances. The council has
power, under the Local Government Act, to
control and regulate the use of premises so
as to prevent objectionable noises thereon or
noises at unreasonable hours U.H.W.: It
depends on whether your son, when driving
the car, was under your instructions or control.
If he were, then you would be liable. If h e
used the car without your knowledge, permis-
sion or instruction, he would be liable.. - •
O. : The moneylender having withdrawn the
garnishment you are not liable for the cost of
the summonses.


"IOOMd
SJJH
SAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
. every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
2fS9t*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents^
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The New Wool Season.
“Ghanam”: Australia’s next wool
season begins about August 19. Though
all wool is now being bought at a high
price it is certain that after three or four
years of war the whole buying power of
the world will have suffered a blow.
Millions of people in France, Belgium,
Holland and other major buying coun-
tries will —unless prices are reasonably
low —put up with substitutes or rough
types of cloth where formerly only the
best was good enough. It is vital to con-
serve what markets are available for finer
wools, and develop those which are open
for the Australian clip.
The position of Japan is particularly
important. And the Commonwealth
Government should insist not only that
Japan receives adequate supplies (with
safeguards, of course, against re-export)
but that she receives them at a price which
she can afford to pay —British parity is
fair. Australian-Japanese relations and
future trade should be an issue when
adjustments are made in this season’s bar-
gain with the British Government.
And there should be some organisation
to expand our own wool manufacture to
meet local needs when the war is over,
or even before. At present, on the bulk
of material used in Australia, Australians
pay freight both ways plus middlemen’s
profits, plus overseas manufacturers’
profits, and plus all the intermediate taxa-
tion.
Not many years ago it was said that
wool manufacture could not be carried
on here except for special purposes. Aus-
tralian mills now take over 300,000 bales
of good types of wool annually. Last
season they paid per pound over
appraised prices, plus delivery, their
supplies. This season local mills are to
pay 1\ per cent, over appraised prices.
If, out of the experience of last season,
appraisement becomes more accurate,
they may find themselves paying more
than the British flat-rate price.
European mills are largely out of busi-
ness ; British exports of manufactured
wool have been on the increase during
the early months of this year—in April,
fabric and wool yarns exports were
double those of the same month last year.
This Commonwealth should be using
every possible method to put the
wool-manufacturing industry on its feet
and build up the groundwork for the
development of a yarn and fabric export
industry in the future.
Mycotic Dermatitis.
“Liss”: Some years ago I had success
treating ewes for “mycotic dermatitis”
(B. 3/7/’4O).
They were first shorn as closely as pos-
sible and a week later dipped in Cooper’s
powder dip at the usual dipping strength
for five minutes. Dip strength was in-
creased 50 p.c., and they were dipped
three more times at weekly intervals.
They remained in the bath for from five
to ten minutes while their backs were
scrubbed with an old broom. Three
months later only three or four showed
any signs of the disease. The whole mob
was again shorn, and a couple of immer-
sions completed the cure.
Every ewe showing any traces of
the disease had been segregated in this
mob, wethers being either killed for
rations or the dogs, and six years later
there has been no reappearance.
Handpieces and shearing-board were
washed in strong disinfectant after each
shearing.
Treating Milk Fever.
“Mookau”: When a cow is down with
milk fever, first prop her into a position
as natural as possible, taking pressure
off the udder, then wash the udder care-
fully and lay it on a piece of cloth to
keep it from contact with the soil. Strip
any milk, and then inflate with the teat
siphon, tying each teat with tape or
clean rag to prevent the escape of air.
Repeat the treatment every three hours
if there is no improvement. The siphon
should always be sterilised.
A new treatment becoming popular is
injection of calcium boro-gluconate under
the skin, effective since the lime content
“Pass the ashtray , Ma .”
of the blood dwindles in milk fever, and
the chemical helps restore the balance.
The injections mean less work and less
chance of infection than with teat-infla-
tion.
Calcium boro-gluconate can be bought
from chemists in 2|oz. cartons, the con-
tents of which are dissolved in lOoz. of
hot water. The mixture must be at body
temperature when used. The dose should
be put in under the skin in several in-
jections all over the body. It is a sound
insurance to give another half-dose
within 24 hours of the first.
The animal should • not be drenched
during treatment, should be kept warm
and sheltered. Drenching is particularly
dangerous because of the paralysis which
affects the throat during milk fever.
After the cow is on her feet again the
udder should be left alone for a day.
The ration should be kept lean, and when
milk is stripped it should be in small
quantities taken some time apart.
<
Lucerne Tips.
“Wing’s Ghost”: About 50 per cent,
of lucerne failures come from wrong
handling of the plant in its early stages.
Lucerne must be given every chance
to establish and build up its root system.
If possible, young lucerne should not be
grazed. Mow it carefully in the early
stages, even when the product is not
worth conserving. Whatever check is
administered to leaf-growth should be
given when the plant is reaching its first
bloom. If grazing is used, a quick run
over by a large number of sheep is the
best method. After the roots are well
set and the plants thriving, regular cut-
ting or eating down is the secret of
success.
In grazing, paddocks should be Sec-
tionalised if possible, the sheep turned
in for a week when the plants are begin-
ning to flower. This saves the buds. If
grazed too long plants are stripped and
buds which are low down to the ground
are eaten out.
Spring is the proper time to fertilise.
To provide summer feed, allow the pad-
docks to rest during the winter, then
graze off winter growth early in August;
topdress immediately afterwards—and
renovate. For most land the rigid-tyned
scarifier is as good an implement as any.
About three workings over, each increas-
ing in depth, do the trick.
Super, should be laid on —say a bag
to the acre in medium rainfall country
and 4cwt. under heavy rainfall and irri-
gation conditions. It should be remem-
bered that the heavier the crop the more
it needs feeding.
Oats for Grazing.
“A 1 Gerian”: In the Victorian Mallee
Mulga and Belar oats, both early
maturers, give most feed for early winter
grazing, and Algerian for later grazing.
Dawn, a mid-season variety, is the best
all-year-round feeder.
Recovery of the crop after early spring
grazing depends, of course, on spring
rains, and varieties will respond accord-
ing to their early growth. But the farmer
can help the oats to recover by taking
the sheep off as soon as the plants begin
making reproductive growth—generally
about the end of July ; a month later for
Algerian.
In tests, sheep have consistently shown
a preference for Mulga. Lachlan, Gid-
gee, Belar .and Dawn were also sought,
but Algerian, Ideal, Bent’s Early and
Algeribee were comparatively neglected.
Oats show out better than other cereals
for Mallee grazing, chiefly because they
make a good rotation with wheat, resist
most wheat diseases, and in a good year
will recover to yield hay or grain. Barley
falls to most wheat diseases, especially
root rots. Rye does well on light, sandy
soils, gives good feed and commands a
good price for grain on a limited market,
but its hay is poor. Further, it fails as
a late feeder, becoming coarse and un-
palatable unless well eaten-down, and
may introduce impurities into the later
wheat crop. There are possibilities in a
mixed oat and rye crop, the rye giving
early and the oats late grazing.
Potato Licensing in N. S. Wales.
“Murphy”: All N.S.W. potato-growers
with over one acre planted must hence-
forward be licensed. Licenses cost 10s.
each year, and must be taken out for
spring plantings not later than September
30. Funds are to be used for improve-
ment of the potato-raising business and
are to be “grower-controlled.”
At the same time new grading regu-
lations have been issued providing for
seven grades. The tops are No. 1,3 oz.
minimum, of a single variety, mature in
skin, free from disease, second growth,
exposure greening, dirt and blemishes
from sunburn or otherwise. No. 2 will
be equal to No. 1, save in skin maturity
and weight; they must be between Hoz.
and 3|oz. No. 3 come below the speci-
fication requirements of No. 1, but con-
form in regard to weight and general
soundness.
New potatoes must comply with No. 1
grading requirements except in weight
and skin maturity. They must weigh
not less than 3oz. from February to
September ; from October to January not
less than 2oz.
Chats are not mature-skinned and are
under 20z., but otherwise are No. 1 quality


m
i • -•*
mm-
. %
-V
V
tm
V jj
m .
vi
OT PRECISION
INDUSTRY
of national importance
Backed by tbe complete resources of
(ZmaCcjatncUed Wfoe£e&&
tbe manufacturers of Radiotron Valves
produce one million radio valves annu-
ally at tbe Company’s Asbfield Works
assurance of adequate
supplies of Valves for Radio purposes.
For improved tone*-*reliability and
lasting satisfaction always ensure
that your broadcast receiver is
fitted with Radiotron Valves.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk U for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
4®.
2m
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
and cleanness. Seed potatoes must be
sound and not less than Hoz.
All other types are “stock food.”
There arc rigid regulations regarding
bag-labelling and the type of container
to be used.
The Flax Effort.
“A.A.D.”: N.S.W. is out of the Empire
flax-growing project. There’s little suit-
able country, and it would be futile to
plant as late as August, the earliest at
which seed from Britain could be ob-
tained. Next year something may be
done, and the Government is prepared
to try the crop on the Murrumbidgee
irrigation areas, for which it failed to
obtain seed in the early autumn.
Victoria will sow the full allotted quota
of 15,000 acres. Already 8000 acres have
been sown with locally-grown seed, and
seed from the 400 tons from Britain has
been allotted for a further 6400 acres in
approved areas. More acreage could be
found if seed were obtainable.
The total harvest will go to England,
leaving Australia to find substitutes for
home use.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: To give best results as
sheep feed, wheat must be ground into
a coarse meal. Mix in proportion of
21b. meal and lib. chaff, which should
be moistened with a dilution of molasses
to hold the meal and avoid waste.
“Goulburn”: In addition to their
ration of milk and concentrates, graze
calves on good pastures, preferably on
high ground and on grass rested from
older cattle for at least a month. In-
tensify hand-feeding in cold weather by
providing clean, fresh hay in racks so
that it will not become soiled. Don’t run
calves on badly-drained areas. Keep
everything, especially feeding vessels,
scrupulously clean. The future of the
herd depends on careful management of
the calves.
“Canbelego”: Best results are obtained
when prime hay and silage are used
together as a ration for cows. Best for
silage are crops naturally rich in carbo-
hydrates—maize and the sorghums. Those
with higher protein content —lucerne and
cowpeas—are conserved to best advantage
when stacked as hay. A good ration for
a cow of 10001 b. weight, yielding up to
3gal. of milk a day, is 451 b. of silage and
151 b. of lucerne chaff or hay daily. If
hay made of cowpeas is used, feed 401 b.
of silage and 201 b. of hay. Feed more
silage and hay, in the same proportions,
as the milk yield increases.
“Cow Time”: Pigs will fight if they
are uncomfortable or not in good con-
dition. Trouble may arise from cold
and draughty housing, insufficient sleep-
ing accommodation, irregular feeding
hours, or because sows are on heat and
interfere with the others. If a pig is
weak or sick, the ethers are likely to
attack it. Whatever the cause of fighting,
there is usually a ringleader, and best
remedy is to remove that pig, correcting
other likely causes at the same time.
“Mattock”: Before stacking galvanised-
iron sheets, paint 2in. of the ends which
will rest on the ground with oil or crude
kerosene. In wet and sea-coast areas
smear sheets with an oily rag occasionally,
and when stacking place slats or limbs
of trees between each for air-circulation,
allowing a slight slant for any moisture
to run off.
“Norther”: E. Scott Rogers, stock
inspector at Glen Innes, on the N.S.W.
northern tablelands, makes the astonish-
ing assertion that some landholders there
are barring trappers, preferring to keep
the rabbits for themselves. Unless prices
for rabbits are satisfactory, he says, they
allow the rabbits to continue breeding
until the price comes good. Meantime
New England pastures have dried off and
been frosted back, and an early start with
hand-feeding is advised. There is a
steady movement of cattle from the dis-
trict to Riverina and Victoria.
“Peapod”: If the cabbage butterfly
(B. 5/6/’4O) has reached Victoria, pro-
hibition of vegetable exports will not stop
the pest from fluttering over the entire
continent. In M.L. it appeared first
in the north, but soon spread south-
wards, even hopping Cook Strait. The
eggs are laid in clusters on the under-
side of leaves, where the caterpillars
hatch out; from egg to butterfly takes
about 33 days. In cold climates three
generations are produced in a season ; in
sub-tropical climates five or six genera-
tions. The greatest enemy of the pest
is a wasp parasite which is supposed to
have reduced the pest in M.L. The usual
remedy is to dust plants every few days
with derris dust preparations.
“McAlister”: The petrol shortage may
give a big lift to Victoria’s sugar-beet
industry. In the Maffra district there’s
to be a State investigation into the possi-
bility of getting power alcohol from the
beet. Queensland already produces about
I, gallons of p.a. annually from
sugarcane, and expects to double this
shortly.
“Nagheer”: Why does Australia
neglect the soya bean? Ploughed in as
a green manure crop it is a potent soil-
builder ; stock flourish on it either as
green feed or hay; from the ripened
beans come a whole series of products ;
it is drought-resistant, has a wide climatic
range, is relatively free from pests, rotates
well with other crops and is easy to har-
vest. Between 1924 and 1939 the “soy-
bean” crop in the U.S.A. increased from
five million to 87 million bushels, mostly
on land previously used for corn or oats.
“Canbelego”: Among trees commer-
cially neglected is the walnut, which will
grow in many of the warmer districts.
There is a good demand for the nuts, and
the trees provide shade. Plant in August
and September in deep, well-drained soil,
about 30ft. apart. Good varieties are
Wilson’s Wonder, Freshford Gem and
Franquette.
“S.T.S.”: Last season’s vintage in S.A.
is officially reckoned at just under
11, gallons; an abnormally hot
March pulled it down a lot. It is the
lowest since 1933-34 and about one-
fourth down on the average. This
matters less because of the scarcity of
shipping accommodation at present; the
quantity of wine suitable for local dis-
tilling is much as usual, and S.A. brandy
has a wide reputation.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXVII.
Income-tax Returns.
Things being what they are, with the
war and everything and Mr. Spender ask-
ing everybody to save money, you decide
io save a fiver by doing the income-tax
return yourself and letting that accoun-
tant bloke in the town find something else
to do.
So you clear everything off the big
table in the living-room, get out youi
bills and receipts and books and pencils
and pens and paper and tell the boys they
are to keep quiet.
You fill your pipe and decide that the
best way is to start from the top of the
income-tax paper and work down.
Sales, Both Cash and Credit —it begins.
H’m, you think ; wheat scrip, sheep to
the butcher, that turkey to Johnson, those
calves —h’m. Just put that to one side
for a bit.
Stock on Hand —it says. Rapidly you
tot up the sheep, cattle, horses, the pig,
dogs, hens, turkeys and the kid’s old
school pony. In all, 1856 head. Momen-
tarily you debate whether to put in the
rabbits, hares, goannas and other stock
on the place, but you’ve never heard of
a taxation official cracking a joke, so you
decide against it. You write down 1856 ;
then you discover a £ sign in front of
the space and realise that what they
want you to do is assess the value of the
stock in cash.
Now in a pawkish frame of mind you
scrawl across the space, “None of it worth
much ; you can have the lot.” It doesn’t
seem so funny, after all, so you just put
that on one side for a bit.
The thing’s getting a bit severe, so you
fill your pipe and run your eyes idly
down the sheet till you come to Gross
Income from Profession as ’Strath,
you think, farming’s no profession. More
like an incurable disease.
This starts you thinking of the little
heifer on her first calf, and wondering
if she has mammitis. That quarter is
certainly going blind; perhaps a vet.
ought to be called. Your wife inquires,
“How are you getting on, dear?”
“Eh? Oh, not bad, not bad. It’s
pretty complicated, y’ know,” you tell
her.
“So I thought,” she says. “Don’t you
think it would be better to let Mr. Green
do it again”
“Green, me foot! Surely I know me
own business as well as he does!” you
snort, sitting up smartly to knock your
pipe out, pick up a pencil and get to
work.
You fill sheets of paper with figures
as to wheat yield, what it brought, sales
of wool and price, skins, local stock sales,
improvements. You search through
books, bills and receipts for facts and
figures and dates and names. Time
passes. There must be a wind outside;
you can hear that loose sheet flapping on
the machinery shed. You decide you’ll
fix it tomorrow.
Statement No. 3—Schedule of Live
Stock, Wool, Wheat, Etc. Cripes, this
is a job. You wonder if those tax blokes
have nothing else to do but make up
these puzzles. Pity some of ’em weren’t
chasing the plough round for a while
or trying to hand-draft half-grown lambs
in a brush yard with a thunderstorm in
full blast just behind you. That’d
straighten ’em up, be cripes.
“Tom! ”
Tom comes in from the kitchen.
“Tom, how many bags o’ wheat did
we get off that creek paddock?”
Tom thinks hard, scratches his head.
“Musta been about 200,” he says.
“Y’ got t’ know exactly,” you tell him.
He shuffles his feet, stares up at the
ceiling. “Aw, I reckon 200 is near
enough.”
“Near enough!” you mimic sarcasti-
cally.
Tom gives you an embarrassed grin
and goes back to the kitchen. They’re
playing crib out there. You start think-
ing of that time you had the fourth ace
and came down for 31 and 14 holes—you
swear and go to the income-tax paper
again.
More time goes by. Just when it
seems you have made £5,000,065 16s. 3d.
for the year, your wife comes and asks
if you’re ready for some tea. You hur-
riedly smother up the figures and say
fervently, “Too right.”
“Are you nearly finished?” she wants
to know, bringing in the tea.
“Pretty near,” you answer.
She appears again and tells you she is
off to bed. This is when you discover
that, by correcting an earlier mistake,
your actual income for the year is ll|d.
“I do wish you’d let Mr. Green do
it,” she says, going up the passage to bed.
“Hang Green; I’ll do it meself or
bust,” you snap.
You become aware that everything is
quiet. Your eyes are sore and one leg
cramped. There seem to be papers every-
where. Apparently, after everything has
been worked out and the proper deduc-
tions made, your net income for the year
is 674 dry wethers. Obviously that’s a
mistake. You can’t have dry wethers,
nor wet ones, you tell yourself. Then
you find a sheet of paper on the floor.
Eureka, the missing figures! You work
feverishly. The result is a net income
of exactly £9,000,000. Dammit!
You can hear the first crows as you
fall into bed. The living-room table is
clear of papers; the pens and pencils
are put away; in the grate is a heap of
black ashes. On the hall table is a large
envelope. It contains your income-tax
form and the necessary bills, receipts, etc.
It is addressed to H. Green, Public
Accountant, Main Street, Euchapivy.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4ld. p**r line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
N ames though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don t object.
Double rates for a Queenslander’s bit of sarcasm about birth-controllers. He
writes from Jundah.
Birth Control
Ai quaite agree with most of you
O.F.M. chappies about Australia’s
birthrate, Ai mean. There are, as it
were, extenuating circumstances. The
high cost of living, dash it all, makes
children a luxury even for us uppah
classes.
Ai have often pointed out to mai wife
that even one child would mean taighten-
ing up, rathah, on such necessities as
bridge stakes and cocktail parties. One
can’t turn away one’s friends for the
sake of a snivelling brat, can one?
Besides that, we must never dream of
spoiling her figure. The sassiety column
of the “Morning Blah” regards it as being
“too divine.” And Ai always maintain
that a woman loses her glamor once she
does such a vulgar thing as having a child.
Then one must consider a woman’s
health. Take mai grandmother, for in-
stance —absolutely broken down under
the strain of bearing fourteen. Poor
soul, Ai doubt if she will ever live to see
her eighty-fifth birthday next spring.—
Claude Fyffthe-Kolm (Q.).
It is not lack of peace in the world
that causes ordinary people to refrain
from adding to their families as much
as the other factor mentioned by
“Anither” (B. 19/6/’4O) —lack of secu-
rity. All people (or almost all) are selfish,
but only a few dreamers have a suffi-
ciently far-seeing selfishness for them to
refrain from having children because 20
years or so later they may lose them in
war.
No, their feeling is that in a year or
two the breadwinner of the family may
lose his job. The two easiest ways of
increasing the birthrate would be to offer
security of jobs to those that now fear
unemployment or to reduce us all to
that standard of poverty where, know-
ing that things could not be worse, we
would breed as rapidly and as unintelli-
gently as rabbits. — Meltus (S.A.).
The vast majority of men and women
are self-interested, and the restriction of
the birthrate is due mainly to that fact.
Our wage-log gives our single young men
money to support supposititious wives and
children, thereby bribing them to remain
single and so secure something for
nothing.
Our soldiers are allotted a subsidy of
two guineas extra to support a wife in
actual being. The result is that many
recruits have married in order to obtain
the additional wage. It is therefore proved
that young people can be bribed into
marriage, which is the first necessary step
towards founding a family.
If our lawmakers saw to it that un-
earned increment now given away to con-
tented bachelors was paid by their em-
ployers into a State fund for those who
do earn it, there would be sufficient cash
to support real wives and real families.
Civil servants are granted so much a
week for each olive branch. The scheme
could easily be extended to cover private
employees if those only who qualified for
the basic wage received it. The certainty
of a regular subsidy for each child, even
in times of unemployment, would tend
to increase the sale of “dummies.”
A glance at the crowds of allegedly
married and familied young fellows tak-
ing their best girls to the best shows
several times a week will show where
the “sustenance money” is going under
the present asinine system. Father
Machree (S.A.).
Should Parents Tell?
I’ve just heard the question answered
by scores of the kids themselves,
and with no uncertain voice. It was at
a Saturday-morning session of the talkies,
and the conscientious father on the screen
was nervously trying to explain to his
adolescent son the difference between the
“stork” theory of eugenics and the scien-
tific facts of life.
The adults, who had been laughing
heartily a moment before, suddenly be-
came silent. One could sense their em-
barrassment and almost see their blushes.
But the small fry were not troubled with
any self-conscious inhibitions. Children
of tender years and both sexes appre-
ciated the point of every joke, punctuat-
ing it with squeals and titters and yells of
delight.
Let shy spinsters or bachelors blush
unseen in the dark stalls if they The
parents can rest assured that the “deli-
cate” subject needs no circumlocutory in-
troduction to their “innocent” offspring.
All that is required is a discreet editing
and censorship of the information already
acquired.— Bob Seats (S.A.).
The Diggers’ Thousand
As one who was at Gallipoli, Pozieres,
Mouquet Farm, Bullecourt, Villers Bret,
and Mont St. Quentin, what puzzles me
about this war is why people should
expect to be.given a chance on a choco-
late wheel, a ticket in a raffle for a bottle
of whisky or a second-rate concert to in-
duce them to contribute a couple of bob
towards paying for the effort to keep
their country and their freedom from the
claws of the invader.
Everywhere it seems to be the same —
a quid pro quo —where to me it should
be as automatic as a machine-gun burst
at the first sign of a grey-clad mass com-
ing towards our trenches to take them
from us. One striking example is the
Diggers’ Thousand, an effort started by a
handful of Old Diggers on the Clarence
River, which in five weeks has reached
£6O0 —as a free gift to the Federal Gov-
ernment to help pay for fighting equip-
ment for the new A.I.F. A Digger started
it by writing to the local newspaper com-
plaining that he was too old to fight, like
the other 1914 men, and offering to put
up a tenner as an inducement to 100
other Old Diggers to do likewise, and give
the £lOOO straight out as a sacrifice to
the war effort.
The response was spontaneous, from
Diggers, their wives, widows, mothers,
mothers-in-law, sisters and children, and
soon the “civilians” started hopping in—
one with £lOO. This effort is the most
popular of all on the Clarence, and is
making swiftest headway. Spender, from
Canberra, has given it a round of ap-
plause, and congratulations are coming
in on every hand. Why isn’t there more
of this spirit?— O’Toole (N.S.W.).
Defence and the Young Men
Many young men, perhaps wrongly,
feel that their duty lies in Australia,
where they can be ready to defend Aus-
tralia’s shores should the need arise.
Among all these there has been much
talk of the need for having half a mil-
lion men under arms in Australia right
through the war. Some time ago the
Prime Minister went halfway towards
this figure in a promise that more uni-
versal trainees would be called up, and
that the militia would be reopened to
volunteers for service in Australia.
Among the young men there was in-
stant rejoicing. Something, they thought,
was to be done for Australian defence,
and soon. Then came the news that
men would possibly be.in training “before
the end of the year.”
The young men, their enthusiasm un-
dimmed by this damper, decided in great
numbers to join rifle clubs as a form
of preliminary training. And then the
Government, with its usual dislike of
enthusiasm, and while there were thou-
sands of unemployed that could well be
put to munition-making, closed down
rifle clubs “owing to lack of ammu-
nition.” — Hack (S.A.).
Commonsense
Is it necessary, during farewells for
soldiers on their final leave, for speech-
makers to harrow the feelings of all by
referring to the probability of the boys
returning maimed or not coming back
at all, and to the “fact” that the last war
was a real picnic to what this one is
going to be?
All this is just like rubbing salt into
raw wounds. It is hard enough for the
men to steel themselves for the coming
parting and for their people to let them
go, but it is more than any human mind
can stand to keep smiling through these
agonising speeches, often founded on
mere ignorant speculation. —P. G. K. (Q.).
A Minister to Tokyo
Australian politicians are hopelessly
out of touch with Pacific affairs. They
cling to the tune-in-to-Whitehall tradition,
but Whitehall has the desperate job on
hand of keeping Britain free of invasion,
and cannot devote the same attention
to Australia’s affairs in the Pacific. Aus-
tralia must appoint a Minister to Tokyo,
as Japan’s political and economic influ-
ence in the Pacific is increasing at a
tremendous pace.
Sweeping changes have taken place in
the Far Eastern territories in the past
three years. New economic problems
have arisen ; population problems have
come more to the fore; spheres of
political influence have undergone a
complete change. Whatever Australia
may think of those changes, it is not in
her power to alter them.
Australia’s hope of survival lies in
peace in the Pacific. We can get peace
only by negotiation with Pacific neigh-
bors, not by war with them. Japan has
never at any time given us other than
to understand she desires peace with Aus-
tralia. It is remembered gratefully by
many Australians that Japanese warships
were instrumental in the safe convoy of
our troops to Europe in 1914-18. So let
us see once again Japanese warships on
goodwill missions to Australia. And let
us make the first gesture —a Minister to
Tokyo.—K. F. E. K. (N.S.W.).
72 Square Inches of Flapper
On the front page of a Sydney daily
was a photograph of a local socialite in
uniform sitting on a roof doing up her
already decorated dial. We hear a lot
about a shortage of newsprint, so it’s
surely a crying shame to put roughly 72
square inches of social damsel, in or out
of uniform, in space usually occupied by
cable news of some importance. Multi-
ply the wasted space by a circulation of
some hundred thousand and you lose a
fair bit of newsprint.
Most of the upper 500 may take on
war work because they want to be use-
ful. Let’s be charitable and suppose
that’s why they all do it, and not be-
cause they look smart in the uniform, or
because a bright smile serving soup to
the soldiers gets photographed for the
Sunday papers. But the social war
worker could certainly help along our
charitable estimate of her by not allow-
ing photographs with twittery captions
to be inflicted on a public that’s doing
its best to take the war seriously.— Plum
(N.S.W.).
Miss 1940
Girls are rushing to join W.A.N.S.,
Auxiliaries, or anything which gives them
a chance to sport a colorful uniform.
This calls for hardly any sacrifice, and
anything they give up is amply repaid
by the attention they receive.
One lass advised me that she had
signed on for “the duration,” but she
and many others would shrink from sign-
ing a declaration that, after the war, they
would voluntarily vacate any position
which had been held by a man.
Closer investigation will show that
therein lies one of the chief causes of
the rapidly declining birthrate, as illus-
trated in B. 26/6/’4O. After the last
war, girls were earning too much even to
consider a proposal of marriage which
would cause them to share a man’s basic
wage, which was not so much greater
than what they had been earning and
spending on making themselves glamor-
ous. — Paddy Mac (N.S.W.).
Brisbane Bridge Finance
Brisbane’s new bridge cost £1,600,000.
When the project was first broached the
“Tory” Moore Government was in
power, and the Labor party, headed by
W. Forgan Smith, was against it, declaring
that toll bridges were opposed to “Labor
principles.” It was urged that existing
cross-river facilities were adequate, at
least for many years to come, and public
opinion—business interests in South
Brisbane and Fortitude Valley and prop-
erty-owners looking for profits on resump-
tions excepted—strongly supported this
view. So the “Tory” Government
dropped the plan.
Then came the State election. The
“Tories” were swept from office, and the
Labor party, with a thumping majority,
moved over to the Ministerial benches.
In calm disregard of all its previous pro-
testations, the Labor Ministry coolly re-
vived the project, and its majority of
yes-men obliged with the necessary Act.
At time of writing (July 14) a week
has passed since the bridge was opened
for traffic. During that period an aver-
age of just over 3000 vehicles per day
has passed over the bridge, yielding an
average revenue of £B5 9s. 4d. per day.
At that rate annual revenue will be round
£30,000 per year, or less than half the
interest bill alone. Add cost of upkeep
and operation, and it seems likely that
the bridge will involve the taxpayers in
a loss of £lOOO per week, without pro-
viding anything for redemption.
Yet I read in a Sunday paper that “if
the toll takings keep consistently around
the figure of £B5 9s. 4d. a day it will
take just 1874 days to pay off the
bridge!”— Frenzied Financier (Q.).
Petrol Rationing
Few expected the severity of the petrol-
rationing scheme, though few had any
idea of what would be a fair thing. The
restriction will cut a big hole in Federal
revenue from petrol tax as well as in
revenue obtained from registrations,
licenses, insurances, etc., by the States.
Main-roads funds will be affected, and
in the cities there will be serious conges-
tion on trams, trains and buses as thou-
sands of former motor-users join the
crowds hurrying to and from work, shop*
ping and pleasure. Tourist resorts be-
yond 20 miles from the large-population
centres will suffer, and there is likely to
be a rush to join walking clubs. Metro-
politan holiday resorts will benefit enor-
mously, and there is a possibility that the
almost-forgotten four-horse team will
reappear with its dragload of holiday-
makers. Owners of pubs beyond the 20-
mile limit will lose most of their Sunday
trade. People with children who live
on main roads in outer suburbs will be
able to sleep calmly at week-ends.
Australia is short of both petrol and
dollar credits, two things which it needs
badly to continue its war effort and to
place it in anything like a fit state of
defence. There is some justification for
the howls of protest; all the same it has
to be remembered that we are at war and
that no Government would sacrifice a
revenue-producer like the petrol tax with-
out good reason.
There should be drastic overhaul of the
use by Federal and State Governments
and local authorities of motor vehicles.
These people use cars for all sorts of
tiddly winking journeys, many of them
of a purely private nature. Private enter-
prise will be keeping a cold eye on their
future activities.
Australians are a fairly elastic crowd,
and there will be a rebound after the
early dislocation. The restrictions will
spur on producer-gas and oil-from-shale
developments, and may reawaken the
coal-hydrogenation plans of a few years
ago. Also, there is a field of industrial
alcohol awaiting investigation.
This country has never yet been forced
to examine fully and urgently its own
resources. In the long run the petrol-
rationing scheme, though it will hurt at
first, may prove beneficial rather than
sacrificial if it makes , the country able to
depend on its own supplies of automotive
fuel.
In other words, though it will literally
put the country back on its feet for the
next few months, it may also put it there
figuratively.—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Horses on the Farm
I am pleased to see that the Common-
wealth Government’s decision to restrict
the use of petrol will mean a drastic cur-
tailment in the use of motor-driven
vehicles and make the use of horses more
necessary than ever in the farm life of
Australia.
Tractors have done quite a lot of harm
to the land. In the United States they
began to realise this only when some
half-a-million farming folk had to quit
the Dust Bowl area for ever. These
people were refugees, not from Hitler,
but from dust and drought in an area
bigger than Great Britain —an area which
folks once thought would be the greatest
granary in the world.
American agricultural experts say it
is partly due to a long run of ill luck,
and partly the fault of the tractor. When
farmers first went to that region there
were trees and woods and weeds and
bushes holding the land together. - At
first the farmers used hand ploughs, and
when they came to an obstruction they
drove their horses round it. But for the
last 10 years the sound of the Middle
West has been the hum of the tractor —
and the tractor moved everything. It


bit deep, and soon the land was slipping.
When the Government suggested terrac-
ing and the use of a new weed to hold
the land together, it was too late. —
Calif (N.S.W.).
Labor, Materials and Market
Looking round Australia we see, de-
spite the expenditure of £60,000,000 a
year on military matters, an unemploy-
ment of 100,000 adults and goodness only
knows how many juniors.
Then we also see that Smithers wants
another, larger house, Simpkins wants re-
fencing for his block, Parrant wants paint
for his residence and for the one next
door belonging to his brother. We have
the raw materials, we have the individual
needs and we have the need of other
people of employment. Three dovetail-
ing needs, and yet we have not the ability
to connect the three. One filled need
would enable us directly or indirectly to
fill the others, and actual experience has
shown us that the employment of one
creates employment for others. In a
certain W.A. goldfields town a mine em-
ployed 32 men, and the town’s population,
which was purely dependent on the mine,
was 220.
It is not as if we did not know where
to get the employment, but, while confer--
ences, inquiries and researches have been
held ad nauseam, what has been done?
Kipling wrote of some irresponsible mon-
keys in the Indian jungle who held “chat-
ters” and always ended with “be sure, •
be sure, we’re going to do some won-
drous things.” But Kipling’s monkeys
were not paid £lOOO a year.— Goldminer
(W.A.).
“Business as Usual”?
“Delor” (B. 26/6/’4O) apparently
missed the main aim of my argument,
which is that, as we are in peril
as a nation and as an Empire, there is
surely only one course left to us —strain
every nerve, take every precaution, make
every effort to avoid disaster. And
that must entail the engaging of every
able-bodied man between 18 and 60 in
war work.
And are “cutting strings of sausages
and yards of silk and selling apples just
as vital as ever they were”? The vital
things now are an inviolable defence of
our country and the maintenance of
absolutely essential supplies.
“Delor’s” claim that “we owe our
fitness as a nation to love of and in-
dulgence in sport” is another example of
that dangerous self-satisfaction which is
one of our worst weaknesses today. Be-
cause we have a small percentage of
highly-trained athletes can we justifiably
assume that our man-power is 100 per
cent, fit? The footballers in the arena
are probably as fit as ever they will be,
but what about the thousands of men
looking on?
How many men of “Delor’s” acquain-
tance can run a half-mile full out, and
then another half-mile on top of the
first? How many can march 20 miles a
day for days in succession with a full
pack up? How many can stand ex-
posure to bitter weather, lack of three
square meals a day and a soft bed at
night? And how many could, as they are
now, stand up to the fearful nervous
rack of modern warfare? Of course, our
men make the grandest fighters, but they
have to be trained and toughened. Even
a football team gets down to training long
before the season is due to open.
“Delor’s” reference to the game of
bowls on Plymouth Hoe is particularly
unfortunate. That game is classed with
the pretty but unhappily unauthentic tales
of Arthur’s marvellous Knights of the
Round Table and similar legends.
Actually Drake was chasing round to
wring a few more barrels of powder and
round shot out of Elizabeth’s Ministers,
who, worthy forerunners of present-
day officials, were more concerned with
maintaining their positions than with the
ever-growing danger till it really con-
fronted them.— Kingsman (Vic.).
Decentralise to the Murray
One of the problems of decentralisation
(B. 3/7/’4O) is to give industrialists a
good reason for establishing their works
inland. What’s wrong with the Govern-
ment redeveloping the old Murray trade
and offering industries other incentives
to move to the Murray? Busy towns
would mean a population near at hand
to consume some of the primary products
of the Murray areas, goods could be
transported cheaply on our criminally-
neglected water highway, and invaders
would be forced to fly over strong coast
defences and to work out the tangles
of the Murray serpentinings before raid-
ing these inland towns and, indwstries.—
Develop (S.A.).
The Farmer and His Goods
“Pierrot’s” idea of a compulsory union
wouldn’t solve the problem of low wages
in rural industries (B. 3/7/’4O) because,
in most cases, the money isn’t there to
pay them, and it wouldn’t be unless
“Pierrot” is going to extend his protec-
tion to cover the cocky as well, by guar-
anteeing him prices sufficient to pay these
wages and still leave enough for himself
and his mortgagee to live on.
There are some rural industries which
should be covered by awards —those sup-
plying products to manufacturers pro-
tected by the tariff who can well afford
to give a reasonable price but who ex-
ploit the suppliers equally with the buyers
of the manufactured article.
About the only alternative would be
for the cocky to enter the bushranging
business himself and buy on the same
system which operates (in most cases)
when he has anything to sell. So when
he buys, say, a dozen necessary parts, in-
stead of being charged 3s. each as at
present, he would have the privilege of
grading them and informing the agent
that he was paying 3s. for one first-
grade, 2s. for two second-grade and the
rest (faulty) at fourpence each. Mt.
Mawson (Tas.).
Health and Exercise
“Tinmuth’s” timely letter (B. 10/7/’4O)
suggests that a daily 15 minutes’ exercise
would do much to pep up our general
health. That’s all right for some, but so
many of us haven’t got enough strength
left for exercises. In six cases out of ten
the most urgent need is not exercise but
rest.
Too many of us are forced to over-
work for years without a pause until
the distance between being rundown and
having a breakdown is only a few rickety
steps. So to balance on those steps and
exercise isn’t as sane as sitting down and
taking a spell.
Anyway, to commence suddenly a daily
routine of exercise is unwise for anybody
over 35, no matter how good his inten-
tions. If only there was enough Govern-
ment money to provide a compulsory free
holiday for every needy citizen once a year
then our general health would be given
more than a fighting chance.— Sneezy
(N.S.W.).
A Speedy Remedy
In a recent Bulletin it was reported
that certain munition work was being
held up because it could not be decided
which of two States should be responsible.
Those States could be forced to a deci-
sion in under an hour. Mr. Menzies
could tell them that, unless Canberra is
advised of a workable decision within
24 hours, all Commonwealth grants to
those States would cease. Greased light-
ning would not be comparable with the
speedy result.— Executioner (W.A.).
Your Ads. Will Cost You More
One question which cannot be dis-
cussed in the open columns of the daily
press is the raising of advertising rates.
In one daily, during the Great War, the
charge for small advts. was lifted from
6d. to 9d. a line in one department and
proportionately in others. Scarcity of
paper was the excuse. The charge has
been again raised from 9d. to Is.
During the peace the 9d. charge was
maintained although the excuse had
lapsed. During that period the news-
paper prospered exceedingly, greatly ex-
tending its plant and premises. The pro-
prietor was able to bestow huge gifts of
money on public institutions, ornamental
and useful. One cheque alone was worth
£lOO,OOO.
It may reasonably be assumed that the
present increase in cost of paper is
already covered by the former rise in
space rates which is still in operation.
If so, the second rise is not warranted
unless it can be proved that 100 p.c. on
the tariff of 1914 is justified.
Decrease in other sources of revenue
may affect the finances of the daily, but
such factors are not considered by the
law in other businesses. As a small
storekeeper I cannot raise my prices to
balance decreased trade or even to meet
increased advertising costs that are, to
me, a considerable item.
Judging from past experience, unless
some control is exercised, the present
high charges will continue to operate
after the price of paper has again become
normal.— Tea and Sugar (S.A.).
Waste
At certain country centres in N. S.
Wales wheat is being rebagged and loaded
into trucks for transportation to terminal
silos. Lumpers are paid at the rate of
2s. 10£d. an hour, and baggers at 2s.
2|d. They are doing the same work
as the men who were paid a contract
rate of 7s. per 100 bags last year. It
takes the same amount of labor six days
to load the equivalent number of trucks
which it took two days to load last year,
when the loading was done by private
enterprise, and not by the Australian
Wheat Board.
Under the system which operated last
year, the good worker would receive his
reward, and the loafer would get just
what he earned, but the go-slow Govern-
ment policy, apparently, must remain,
and damn the overhead. The farmer, of
course, will have to bear the expense,
which will greatly reduce his wheat
cheque.—Two Strand (N.S.W.).
Eat More Apples
Once we were led to believe that the
pick of our apple crop was exported,
although prices paid for those export
types were often lower than for the bal-
ance sold on the home market. War
and shipping requirements have settled the
apple export trade and an extensive and
expensive advertising campaign has been
launched to induce Australians to eat
more apples. Something more than
advertising is necessary. Apples are my
favorite fruit and I buy them regularly,
but the price and the quality of the fruit
leave much to be desired.
My idea is that anyone should be able
to buy a good eating apple for a penny.
In spite of the export crop being avail-
able for local consumption, how often
can a fair-sized, sound, ripe apple be
bought in the city for a penny? Granny
Smiths are seldom less than twopence,
Delicious sometimes fall as low as l|d.,
but Jonathans, which ought to be the
penny apple, are, at that price, either
small or unsound. When good-sized
Jonathans are marked 12 for Is., it is
a fair bet that a large proportion will
be brown and half-rotten inside.
If, instead of spending money on an
advertising campaign, growers would co-
operate to raise the standard of their
product on the retail market, they would
be better off. A marketing scheme is
necessary to control gluts and to cut out
as many middlemen as possible. But
growers should appoint qualified men to
inspect the fruit in the state that it is
offered to the householder. Give the
buyers confidence —they have to buy from
the outward appearance of the apple—
and aim at supplying the penny apple.
Advertising is a waste of money if you
can’t deliver the goods.—J. Codlin
(N.SW.).
Fruit Prices
Devise a fruit-marketing scheme that
would mean good Australian fruit being
sold in Australia as cheaply as it is in
London, and the need to create an Aus-
tralian thirst for fruit drinks (B. 3 / 7 / ’4O)
will be greatly reduced. Make sure, too,
that the home market is supplied with
“export quality” fruit and here’s one that
would be eating more of that surplus
fruit crop that at present is thrown away.
—Austral (S.A.).
Which Way?
The hysterical old maids of both sexes
who have been monopolising the cor-
respondence columns of the Melbourne
dailies appear to have resurrected Car-
dinal Morton’s celebrated fork for the
benefit of the refugee from Europe. One
school bitterly complains of the presence
in our midst of hordes of aliens who are
useless to the country because they have
no money and are not established. The
other school complains as bitterly that
the city and the suburbs are overrun by
hordes of aliens who have bought busi-
nesses and property to the detriment of
good Australians.
Since the dailies appear willing to pub-
lish any nonsense so long as it conforms
to what Vice-Chancellor Medley, of
Melb. University, calls “ruthless opti-
mism,” I suppose it is the mission of a
refugee to get it*in the neck, whatever
happens.—C. B. (Vic.).
Fields for Taxation
Contributors to The Bulletin have
made useful suggestions whereby the
Federal revenue might be substantially
increased, and, incorporating with their
proposals some ideas of my own, I sug-
gest that Mr. Spender give consideration
to the following:
A 20 p.c. increase in the sales tax on
all cosmetics, 3d. tax on every manicure,
Is. on every hair-wave, 2s. 6d. registra-
tion fee for cats, £lOO fee to be paid by
every visiting wrestler, pug, crooner,
jazz-band conductor, tipster or astrologer,
10 p.c. tax on lottery prizes, 3d. for every
round of golf or rubber of bridge, IQs.
tax for every society photograph, a pro-
hibitive duty on imported comics and
inferior films, and £1 fee for every racing
dog.
Some of the money raised by these
means might provide free transport for
all members of the fighting services, and
the balance would be large enough to
assist our war effort materially— Bly
(N.S.W.).
Drinking Mansions
A trip through the suburbs of an Aus-
tralian city will show them to be noted
chiefly for elaborate pubs and picture
theatres. Good hotels and picture theatres
are frequently being demolished in order
to be replaced by palatial structures far
above the standard of the particular
suburb, even though the general public
does not want palatial structures in
which to drink a pint of beer or be
thrilled by Mae West.
The elaborate nature of the hotels
springing up indicates that somebody must
be making huge profits out of the sale of
beer and spirits. These suburban hotels
are only glorified drinking houses, since
the bar is the main seat of business, and
while there is a war on the building of
them should cease. — Thorn (N.S.W.).
Butter
Farmers are being almost smothered
by exhortations from all and sundry to
increase production, and, having once
heard this catchcry, politicians and the
stunt press echo it without much thought
as to its implications.
Increased butter production is one
demand, but butter is just the item that
can be done without. Britain in war
actually requires less butter than usually
imported. Margarine is cheaper, and the
raw materials from which it is produced
do not require cool storage.
And when Britain is using margarine
instead of butter, space on ships from the
Dominions is freed for more essential
items. — Peapod (M.L.).
Laborised Capital
The old idea of a capitalist was a fat
man who ground the faces of workers.
Looking into the question of capital, I
find that there are about 2f millions of
capitalists in Australia. Some own shares
in companies and others shares in banks
—shares in the form of deposits which
bear interest. All capitalists in that they
have capital. I analysed the share register
of two large companies recently and
found almost all the shares were held by
men on wages or the lighter varieties of
salaries.
Capital has been laborised, and the
change has taken place so gradually that
the average small-wage earner has not
seen it.
Then the ranters declaim against the
payment of what are termed dividends
—generally thought of as profit distributed
in the ratio of the ownership in com-
panies. But is there any profit until
the capital has been returned? We read
in the Wild Cat column of profits and
dividends mainly, but no mention is made
therein of the hundreds of companies
into which money in millions is put, and
from which basic wages plus skill rates
are paid, but from which shareholders
will never receive any return of their
capital. Many of these companies go into
liquidation, and they are buried by finan-
cial undertakers called liquidators.
Don’t look on the fortunate investor as
a bloated weath-gainer. He has been,
with others, contributing to the peace,
progress and prosperity of Australasia.
The so-called capitalist is a man who has
in the past stored his wages and, releas-
ing his stored wages, he provides wages
for other men. — Depositor (W.A.).
Timber for ’Planes
It is surprising that the use of Aus-
tralian timbers for aircraft construction
did not occur to those in charge of the
Empire Air Scheme until the N. S. Wales
Minister for Forests started some investi-
gations. Production of metal aircraft in
this country has been delayed for various
reasons.
Even if wooden aircraft are not en-
tirely the best fighters, there is no reason
why they should not be satisfactory for
training purposes, but the surprising state-
ment that Germany is building timber
fighter aircraft has been made. Ger-
many found that timber aircraft could
be produced more rapidly and more
cheaply than the metal type, the Minister
declares.
Australian timber might be the solu-
tion of Australia’s aerial defence prob-
lem. At the least, it could, and should,
be used to speed up manufacture of air-
craft for training. No time should be
lost in building experimental models.—
Sam Square (N.S.W.).


Mainly
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 390 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market ht.).
AMAZING VACUUM HELMET MACHINE
GROWS HAIR
FREE TRIAL OFFER TO
MEN, WOMEN. Scienti-
fically renews thick hair,
cures baldness, greyness,
dandruff, oily, dry hair, etc.,
by stimulating deep lying,
dormant blood vessels, miK
V
BEFORE
FUL LV
GUARANTEED
AFTER
MOTORISTS! -RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
r
Just pour in plug holes;
reconditions while- TJ- drive.
Saves rebore, ends piston
-slap, rattles, oil, petrol
■waste, &c. Restores power.
Guaranteed good for 10,000
miles. Harmless finest en-
gine. Trial tube, 6/6- Any-
one can use it. RE-MU
LTD. (est. 1932), op. Rich-
mond stn. 75 other lines.
Free samples offered. Agents
required.
RADIO
40% off retail prices where there is no
Century agent.
Leisurely free trial in your own home.
»Ir. £. M. S.j of Coolac, had a six-valve
Century on trial. He wrote:—
“We recommend it to all who come along,
and as soon as ever they see it. they think
it is the most beautiful Wireless that
they have ever seen or heard —and I may
say that 1 am a proud owner.”
A 16-page art catalogue ’ describes the
latest Century sets. It will be a pleasure
to post one to you. You save £2O if no
Century agent in your District. Write
at once—
Century Radio Manufacturing Co.
11 Dixon Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
w
J. p.
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
unbreakable
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts. •
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 43in. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer a»d full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, 1i.1.8.5.T.j
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
i
m
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
’made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet vFREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
iTOO
✓
1
A >
Serf
m
w-
r
®OwsHy
rm
"It's a good idea , Miss Potts, to leave hole in the top for. the
soldier to put his foot through /”
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting. ,
e
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville,, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
HIS MASTER'S VOICE
Portable Gramophones
We have a number of reconditioned
H.M.Y. portable gramophones (Model
C 101.) equal to new for the amazing
low price of
£4 only
This price includes three records, free
delivery and goods can be sent C’.O.li.
if required. Send for list of records
free.
THE TALKERIES,
lIMV Retailers,
161 Custlereagh Street, Sydney.
BRIGGS sSTRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle
SINGEE-CVEINDER
PETROL MOTORS,
4 to 5 HOESEPOWBfi
From £lB/17/6.
Also I’etrol Electi-ic
Generators from £35.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Ihilletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
aMPLIOh (A/SIA)
583 Kent St.
PTY. LIMITED I
Sydney. N.S.W. a
w
LAMBS SAVED
e
By Using- the
DAROUX ( Bloodless )
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord-
other hand closes instru-
ment, 100 p.c. efficient —■
.Humane— Safe —-and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by -other
machines, TRY ,A DAROUX! '
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
CHARCOAL CAS
—saves 80% on fuel costs and is therefore
the logical answer to petrol rationing.
Our recently improved design for a
simplified and thoroughly efficient Gas
Producer can he made by the average
handyman at a most economical cost. The
set of easily understood blue prints and
specifications, which cost £l, show you
how to do the job. No alterations to the
engine are necessary and you can run on
petrol or charcoal gas at will. Send today.
N.Z. readers please send Money Order.
ECONOMY GAS PRODUCER CO.
10 Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
DEHORNING
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
W- theystart!
One application of
HAVES CHEMICAL
BEHORXER
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. .Tust apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, humane method. Price,
f
M
tec
HAYES VETERINARY
COMPANY
351 Queen St
BRISBANE
6/6
Why fumble in the dark when
THE MICRO-LIT
w
WONDER
V.P. FLASHLIGHT
Saves Time. Temper,
Trouble
ONLY 3 INCHES LONG
e
It fits into a vest pocket or lady’s purse. No glass
to break. The special globe combines magnifying
and' reflector lenses, and throws a beam equal to
that of many full-sized torches. Batteries last well
with ordinary usage. Extremely handy for doctors,
nurses, motorists, travellers, campers, and for finding
that keyhole in the dark. A hundred other uses.
BeautlTully finished and fitted in various colored cases.
Price 3/- posted Extra batteries 9d. each.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost . . .
Buy your batteries direct from the
manufacturers and save approxi-
mately half. All types of wet bat-
teries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting.
“Marshall” batteries carry the full
guarantee of this leading factory.
There is no better battery made.
Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshal! Battery Mfg. Co.
42 HARBOUR STREET. SYDNEY.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
24/7 f4O (See Page 38) ,
Mr., Mrs. or Miss *
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, The Bulleti
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of - Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
■nrs’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARR ERE acts
like the hand when placed
"it upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
ACTS
LIKE 7HE HflflD
BARRE RE BIST KIBCTION CO.
(Dept. 37R), 35 PITT SI., 81I>NtV.
The
Genuine
“Cavalier
SILVER-MOUNTED
BRIAR PIPE EZ/fZ
FOR.. ..
HONEST VALUE, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for libe
Sample of "Lcvysown” Quality 'I
7/ lb.—worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette
I or Pipe. .
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves pkt.j %/'o dozen.
w
SOL LEVY T ,r”
Its r.KOROK STREET, SYDNEY
Goods seat C.O.P. if desired.
TILLEY LAMPS
e
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Pool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on lj pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used sis a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 indies'.
PRICE, 57/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
\V. Kopsen & Co. Pty., X,t<l.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
MILITARY SURPLUS STOCKS
X.S.W. FIREMAN'S LEATHER WELLINGTON
BOOTS, part worn. All sizes. Ideal for -ruling
and heavy farm work. Specially suitable for w
weather. Only 10/6 pair; 2 pah's, 20/-.
MILITARY BAYONET SHEATH KNIVES, extra
long, 12/6..
TAN OFFICERS’ BOOTS, Leather-lined, superior
quality, only. 22/G per pair. NEW.
ALL—WOOL KHAKI PUTTEES, 8/6 per pair. NEU.
MILITARY POUCHES, 1/- each. BELTS, 4/>.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brarso.-
new, made of the best English leather; size win.
x I7in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR. ONL\
£2/6/- per pair.
Also large range of Tents and 1 lys.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
(Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.) '
WINCHESTER
SKATES
17/6-21/-
*WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
:i KING STREET, SYDNEY
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
U
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely hoi #3, a condition absolutely necessary
for possinle improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUS SEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
//
■L-
OILSKINS
for lons, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of onr
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
STREET, SYDNEY.


THERE’S NO
FEEL SEEDY
NEED TO
i”
• • •
✓
✓//
Jf
w
r
m
I 7
y
4
\>
<r
Q
I
!
>/■.
$
$
tt
V\a s
m
ed' eS
pT°V
DUCT OF HOLLAND.
THIS
ALCOHOLIC
%K»mii»«ty hi ic ism*
only pure frotlj
ty ami fegredamt. bu
possible quality.!
mb
attention of A
to the SiKtiyfure*
ami to the Title <
Coidinl. entbojsnjirftp
: ns jirntectioo efifctsl
rA/U
rrrr-:::;,. ROTTERO
SffSHawy et tempt at lafrlna*
.r»«i3»«<ani i ni «al .ittd U» lafriatfi
|ll~tt£T: I Fllfl FL 02
For Your
HEALTH’S
SAKE
The way to feel fit and well every day is to take a
daily glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps—it sends a rich glow
of health right through the system. It invigorates—
cleanses the kidneys and purifies the bloodstream.
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains medicinal properties found
in no other spirit and is highly recommended to tone
up the system. Take it hot with lemon at bed-time
and you will wake bright and fresh in the morning.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
Make Your Money Fight - BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
w
