

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3176.
Wednesday, December 25, 1940.
The A.I.F. in Action
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
NEW PREMISES FOR ROYAL ROYAL BANK BRANCH, MELBOURNE.
The English Scottish & Australian Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated to England)


II
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
The Red Page
WAR IN THE DESERT .
General Wavell’s Allenby (Harrap ;
Angus and Robertson), a study of the
Commander-in-Chief of the Middle East
forces in the last war by the C.-in-C. of
those forces in this war, could hardly
have arrived in Australia at a better
time. Perhaps its greatest interest to Aus-
tralians is its accidental revelation of
Wavell’s own capabilities as a com
mander; it is also a clear portrait o :
Allenby and a good picture of war from
the bird’s-eye view of G.H.Q.
As biography, it is poor ; deliberately
so, because Wavell is out to demonstrate
Allenby’s greatness as a soldier rathe
than to paint his portrait in detail or to
delve very deeply into the psychology o:
his powerful contradictory character
Some early, rather dull, chapters oi
Allenby’s origins and upbringing fail to
explain either his great strength of pur
pose or the forbidding streak tha
earned him the nickname of “The Bull’
and that caused “alarm and despondency’
to be felt when it was first learned tha
he was appointed to the Middle East.
Allenby, it seems, was a man to whom
it never once occurred that he could trea
his juniors, even when they were at fault
with courtesy. “It cannot be denied,’
says Wavell, “that in Allenby increasing
authority brought increasing asperity. He
who had been a noticeably easygoing
young officer and a good-humored squad-
ron-commander, was a strict colonel, an
irascible brigadier and an explosive
general.” Attempting to account for
this flaw in Allenby’s fine and generous
nature,” Wavell suggests that he would
have preferred the life of a recluse and
a scholar, and that at the bottom of his
ungovernable explosions of rage lay shy-
ness. That might be part of the story,
but it’s not sufficient to explain his habit
of publicly humiliating his officers, nor
such monumental pieces of tactlessness
as his exploding with anger over the dead
body of a soldier who had disobeyed a
regulation.
Wavell lists many of Allenby’s most
notable explosions; some of them are
funny enough to read now, but they
couldn’t have been funny at the time.
Once he had exploded, says Wavell, he
was always willing to forgive and forget:
whether his subordinates could forgive so
easily was another matter. One of the
things that invariably stirred him to fury
was the sight of an Australian riding in
sho,"ls ; and when the war was over and
Allenby advocated that for a monument
“something simple, rather rough and
crude” should be erected, a wit suggested
that a statue of Allenby meeting an Aus-
tralian in shorts would be appropriate.
Wavell, it’s worth knowing, criticises
Allenby for failing to make allowances
for the Australian temperament.
While he disapproves of this side of
Allenby’s nature, he notes in his favor
his love of nature and of children, his
care of the sick and wounded and of
his men at all times, except in pursuit of
the enemy—Wavell agrees with Allenby
that after a victory, while the winners,
feeling that their job is done, tend to
relax, they must be driven to the utmost
to complete the demoralisation of the
enemy before he has time to make a
stand: an indication of what has been
happening in Egypt.
For Allenby as a soldier Wavell has
nothing but praise. He does not accept
the view that Allenby was a failure in
France, and so a surprise in Palestine.
Allenby had learned his trade thoroughly
in the South African war ; in France he
did the best that was possible in the
circumstances (the circumstances being
orders from G.H.Q., the comparative
uselessness of cavalry, and the general
confusion) ; and in the desert, for the
first time, he got a chance to show his
quality. Wavell stresses his care in train-
ing his men, his insistence on the maxim
“concentrate all available' force at the
decisive point,” his meticulous study of
past campaigns in the desert,
the devotion with which he
saw for himself all that was
going on in the forward
areas as well as at the base,
and the courage and confidence he radi
ated wherever he went.
Easily the most vivid writing in the
book is Wavell’s description of the
destruction of the Turkish armies, the
strategy of which —the quick break-
through, the surrounding of the enemy
and the cutting-off of his means o:
retreat —Wavell himself seems to have
repeated against the Italians. This
paragraph, describing the opening of the
final phase, the battle of Megiddo, is
significant:
The assault of the Twenty-first Camel
Corps opened with a great roar of artillery
at 4.30 a.m. on the morning of September
19. The infantry began their advance at
the same moment. Allenby did not believe
in long preliminary bombardments —he put
more trust in surprise; the Turkish wire,
which was not strong, could be cut by hand,
and it was important to give the enemy no
time to think. Simultaneously with the
opening of the battle the Air Force set
forth to boiftb the principal Turkish head-
quarters. It was successful in interrupting
all communication between the Eighth
Army headquarters at Tulkeram and Limam
von Sanders at Nazareth, besides greatly
delaying communications with the Seventh
Army. Fighting aeroplanes also patrolled
over the principal enemy aerodromes and
prevented their reconnaissance machines
from leaving the ground. Thus the enemy
Commander-in-Chief remained in almost
complete ignorance of the grave events
taking place on his front. The arrival
next morning of a British cavalry brigade at
his headquarters at Nazareth was his
earliest intimation that something really
serious must have happened to his army.
Wavell may have a long way to go
before he lays hands on Graziani, but this
book leaves one in no doubt that he’s
the right man for the job. He sums up
Allenby’s campaign as “the greatest
exploit in the history of horsed cavalry,
and possibly their last success on a large
scale.” On Allenby the man and the
soldier he decides:
He may have lacked something of the
passion and creative energy of Cromwell,
of the cold application of Wellington, of
the fiery energy of Wolfe, of the warm
humanity of Moore, of the organising
ability of Kitchener. But the British Army
had few leaders with better mental or phy-
sical equipment for the rough test of war,
less likely to lose heart in the darkest
hour or more remorseless in pressing home
an advantage and completing a victory;
certainly none with a greater sense of
loyalty and duty or more of the truth and
straightforwardness that mark a great and
generous nature.
Completing the picture is T. E. Law-
rence’s verdict: “Allenby’s mind is like
the prow of the Mauretania. There is
so much weight behind it that it does not
need to be sharp like a razor.”
Some Australian Verses .
Except for the elegant ejaculation “O
stripped arthritic limbs of trees!” the
extraordinary number of lumbering
hyphenated expressions and a pome about
a man who nearly squashed a frog
(Bulging eyes bursting and
feet writhing and
clenching like
hands)
there is little remarkable in this year’s
Jindyworobak Anthology (F. W. Preece,
Ltd., Adelaide). Its politics are aggres-
sively Australian ; its poetics are derivec
from various English “movements.”
Submerged, like one or two other
writers of some quality amongst the
Jindyworobakery, lan Mudie makes more
impression on his own in Corroboree to
the Sun (Hawthorn Press, Melbourne).
Mudie, who can write an attractive ballad
on occasion, here submits a flat vers
lib re only rarely lifted above prose by
some heightening of cadence. His Aus-
tralianism has the pleasant ring of sin-
cerity, but his confusion of the aboriginal
race with the aboriginal landscape leads
him into some wild statements:
As I grew I wandered, unknowing,
to the ancient camping places
of the vanished people that,
despite all flesh,
were my people.
That English, Irish and Scots should be-
come Australians, New Zealanders, South
Africans, Americans and so on is all to
the good: but does Mr. Mudie intend
them to become, by adoption, abos.,
Maoris, Zulus and Red Indians?
Another of the Jindyworobak group
with a book of his own, and some promise
to justify it, is Garry Lyle. Such
poems as “Retrospect,” “Message from
Spain,” “Chant of the Wall-breakers,”
“Outcast” and “Rainmaker’s Stone,”
though well enough written, are without
originality, exercises in Australianism and
Leftism. One or two war poems show
genuine feeling, as, in its lighter way,
does “Nomad”:
Starvation hurts in any port
and hulas by Hawaiian seas
are more enjoyable when viewed
at home in technicolor ease.
Yet never does the dawn reveal
some dirty southward-bearing ship
but 1 sail with it down the bay
bound anywhere beyond the Rip.
Donovan Clarke’s Ritual Dance (Rob-
ertson and Mullens), less ambitious than
Lyle’s 18 Poems (Cloister Press, Ltd.,
Northcote, Vic.) has greater individuality
in style and outlook. It is not without
its obvious “influences,” for the easy, con-
versational style of his title-piece very
closely resembles Louis MacNeice’s
Autumn Journal and the refrain of his
“Carol,” “Fold home, fast fold Thy
child,” is straight out of Hopkins; it
suffers from occasional foul rhymes—
“cruel” and “Thule” ; yet it is not, as a
whole, imitative and the versification is
generally capable. He writes of elm
trees: —
My dreams are one with theirs, and my desires,
Quiescent now, in candle light ablaze,
Are in a seismic rhythm with those fires,
Hill hid and fierce, that ruin and amaze.
And my white body, in its half-god way,
Lies at the feet of God with trees and stones,
Pulsing with His warm breathing, just as they.
The collected poems of Frank S. Wil-
liamson, Purple and Gold (Lothian Pub-
lishing Co., Ltd.), carrying an introduction
by J. G. Latham, are a new edition—
with additions —of a book published in
1912. The author died in 1936. The
verses are light, conventional pieces on
such subjects as “Gum Trees,” “Chry-
santhemums,” “The Spring Wind.”
Occasionally, as in “Fountain, Bird and
Star,” there is a lyric of some genuine
quality:
A fountain and a singing bird
That weave a chiming rain,
And you so near, a hidden third,
Sighing my name again.
A star that trembles in the grey,
Eve’s primrose newly blown,
And eve, and spring, and newborn day
Are each at once my own.
O fountain bird and swaying star,
Her sweet confederates still,
When shall the gates of Love unbar
That I may have my will?
Various Magazines.
Items in the second number of Mel-
bourne University Press’s excellently-
produced “Historical Studies: Australia
and New Zealand” include articles on
M.L. and the Australian anti-transporta-
tion movement by Dr. C. S. Blackton, on
early Westralian diaries by the Rev.
Canon A. Burton, on the publication of
historical records in Australia by Kenneth
Binns and on the N. S. Wales Aborigines
Protectorate in the Port Phillip district
—“the most intensive attempt made in
nineteenth-century Australia to civilise
her aborigines”—by E. J. B. Foxcroft.
Somewhat lighter fare is offered in
“The Outpost,” magazine of Blackfriars
Correspondence School, in which a
seven-year-old declares:
I am a small black-and-white fox-
terrier. I like to go hunting for rabbits
with my master. I go into the burrows
and send the bunnies scuttling out. What
fun it is to see their white tails bobbing up
and down as T chase them!
Sometimes I am a very naughty dog, as
I carry things away and chase the cats.
Ernest Hemingway couldn’t have put
it more succinctly. There is also a poem
by a six-year-old:
Once it was a rainy day,
And the birdies, bright and gay,
Flying homeward through the showers,
Stopped to rest among the flowers.
The headmaster writes that the school
has a War Comforts Fund for soldiers
from the outback and invites ex-pupils
to send in their names and military
addresses.
Another toothsome morsel sent in for
review is “The Articulator,” annual
journal of Sydney Uni. dental undergrads.
It is full of appropriate jaw.
Finally, there’s “Southerly,” from the
Australian English Association ; a quar-
terly with poems, stories, book reviews,
and an article on Helen Simpson by H.
M. Green.
Dr. Polk's Big Drunk.
“I remember that on her trip from
Soochow,” says Dr. Anne Walter Fearn
in My Days of Strength (Hale ; Angus
and Robertson), “Dr. Margaret Polk’s
trunk was damaged. Dr. Polk, a rabid
teetotaller, sent it to a Chinese shop to
be repaired and in due course it was
returned, and with it a bill was made
out: ‘To Dr. Polk for one big drunk,
two dollars.’ ”
Things like that, Dr. Fearn reports,
were always happening to Dr. Polk. Once
when Dr. Polk was the only woman
appointee to the Soochow Moral Welfare
Society, the Chinese press declared, “The
committee consists of four adults and
one adultress.”
There is a touch of the orgiastic about
the whole of this record of Dr. Fearn’s
40 years of doctoring in China. Dr.
Fearn herself, for instance, delivered in
the days of her strength some 6017 babies.
And some of the pranks she records of
Chinese midwives would amply justify
Dr. Polk’s big drunk.
Dr. Fearn, an American, started to do
and see unusual things before she left
the States. She watched the Mississippi
flood to her door, and saw whole fami-
lies, crowded on to a bale of cotton,
floating past to their deaths. Once a
negro floated by singing with some truth
“I’m gwine to join ma Saviour.” Decid-
ing, against great family opposition, to be a
doctor, the author was hugged by a pre-
sumably grateful corpse in her student
dissecting-room.
Her venture to China plunged her into
the macabre again at once, into an in-
credible morass of dirt, disease and super-
stition. She has a girl patient who has
bitten a chunk out of her arm to make
soup for her father ; an old woman who
prefers death from blood poisoning to
amputation of a finger, because fingerless
she would have to be a beggar through-
out eternity; every Chinese has six
ghosts and three spirits, and the hospital
is ransacked by a crowd of chattering
relatives in search of a spirit a discharged
patient thinks she has left behind.
Dr. Fearn had to cope with the hos-
tility of the Chinese priests and of the
quacks whose remedies included the
chewing of a copper coin to relieve
cholera, the insertion of the head of a
turtle into the mouth of a sufferer from
diphtheria, and the following curiously
Shakspearean prescription for snake-
bite: —
A portion of the jaw of a wild hog.
A portion of the jaw of a tame hog.
A portion of the jaw of a goat.
A portion of a goose bone.
A portion of a peacock bone.
A portion of the tail of a fish.
A portion of the head of a venomous
snake.
She had to deal with lepers and
syphilitics and with a' piqued cook who
poisoned 35 members of her household
because he loved her so much that he
could not bear to be sacked and hoped
that the poisoning would be blamed on
to the bad cooking of his successor. For
one of her innumerable opium-eaters she
invented a cure which, reversed, might
even have cured Dr. Polk of teetotalism:
I gave him two bottles of medicine, one
white and one pink. There was a solution
of opium in the white bottle,, a harmless
colored water in the pink. I had asked
him to take one teaspoonful from the
white at short intervals and replace
the amount taken from the white bottle
with a teaspoonful from the pink. Then,
when both bottles were empty, he
was to send for me. He had followed
instructions and for a week or more he
had been spooning out doses of the harm-
less water and hadn’t even missed the
opium.
Dr. Fearn’s term in China set her
among political as well as medical tur-
moil, and one of the best reasons for
reading her book is as a corrective to
the half-truth of the pleasant-peasant
China created by Pearl Buck. She
describes what she saw of the Boxer
Rebellion and of several subsequent anti-
foreign riots, in some of which she her-
self was in great danger. A typical
anecdote tells of the shelling of the Inter-
national Settlement at Shanghai during
the revolution. Chinese warships, sup-
posed to be shelling the invading army,
had sighted their guns at low tide and
failed to alter them as the tide rose, so
that some of them were shelling miles
behind the enemy ; others, going to the
other extreme, had their guns trained
directly on to the Settlement.
My Days of Strength is packed, color-
ful reading; not a piece of literature,
but successful in its anecdotal manner.
The author has brought to life the teem-
ing, squalid cities of Soochow and Shang-
hai as well as her 6017 babies, her mis-
sionary husband and her unfortunate
colleague, Dr. Polk.
Jokes from "The Bulletin."
Frank Johnson has published a second
Laugh Parade of Unk White’s Bulletin
jokes, including large numbers of the cows
bred only by this eminent studmaster,
several of his special collapsible trains,
his elegant nudist artists, and —maybe the
best joke-block Unk ever turned out —
the mad whiskered bloke selling clothes-
props in the desert.
The booklet, in the format of Unk’s
first Laugh Parade and of Jolliffe’s Andy,
runs to fifty pages. There are some
stories and poems, and Unk tells a string
of anecdotes, well flavored with malt and
hops, about Bohemian doings in Sydney.


continuously as they speak of
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Anthony Horderns practise it as
“THE SENIOR STORE"
m
mm
i
IMfli
v.';Nv:vX;
■*' ■
■■■■lB
: ■
iiMliililll
::
•
vfl
V'-V : :
WBM
imi
mm
r
: ■
0
iilillli
mimm
tmm
.
&W
Ik
Z$M
.
3M
:fiS
flit
A
m
m
,
wmf
■
HIBIIBi
;
illiiillllliliilll
■ f-
n
• ' ■
...... • „v*^ ;
11111 l
’:,; V;
r- c
<
Wf
Ess*
M*:
ii'i
'VXj'WvJ
S £-VK'
jrrwj
i»Si
m
rr
=BP
LJ]
cam
c. .«.
6. «*
Vi’ >
4 ’
* ..-.JO -
"ESSE" FAIRY
DIMENSIONS
The "ESSE" FAIRY overall
measurements are: width,
34"; height to top-plate,
311"; depth, 20". Top oven
measures 12" wide x 10"
high x 15?" deep, while
the lower oven is 12"
wide x 10" high x 16?”
deep. An extension shelf,
which can be fitted to
either end or both ends if
required, increases width
of cooker by 5" or 10"
respectively. Working
weight, approx. 740 lbs.
★ You can save
80 % Fuel Costs
with an "Esse"
• Esse’ Stoves Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street
£SS£
HEAT STORAGE
COOKERS BRING
F
to the
KITCHEN
The scientific application of the heat storage principle in the ESSE
"FAIRY" Cooker renders possible a fuel consumption as low as 2 tons
per year, continuous burning. Suitable fuels are coke or charcoal, which
have great heating efficiency and small bulk, handle easily, and require
little storage space.
The ESSE "FAIRY" has TWO OVENS. The top oven for roasting, etc.,
and the lower for slow cooking and plate warming, are generous in
size, evenly heated, ventilated, free from fumes and objectionable
grease deposits. An oven heat indicator is fitted.
TOP-PLATE is ample for simmering and warming, and the Heat
Accumulator Hot-plate allows very fast boiling. The heat is always
under control, a special feature of ESSE heat storage. Oven heating
is indirect —there are no internal flames or fierce direct heat to dry up
the food cooked, which is much improved in flavour by the retention of
natural juices.
Esse ‘Fairy’ and Water Heater Halves Kitchen Toil
Heating engineers maintain that the separate functions of
cooking and water heating for domestic supply can only be
effected efficiently by two fires, each with its special duty,
and that principle has been carried out in this model. This
Water Heater is supplied with 1" diameter screwed connec-
tions of a sufficient length to project 3" through the enamelled
casing. The connections are led from the back of the boiler
and are fitted with right-angled cone couplings which can be
readily turned to provide either right or left-handed flow and
return.
DIMENSIONS:
Overall measurements: width 48”, depth 20”, height to top-
plate 311”. The flue nozzle takes 3%". Asbestesse or 4” cast
iron pipe. For long runs it is advisable to increase diameter
of pipe.
WORKING WEIGHT:
Cooker with Water Heater approximately 990 lbs.
Independent Water Heater approximately 340 lbs.
WATER HEATING RATING: * V
8.U.T.5., 20,000. Storage Qylinder, 25/30 gallons.
Complete Quotations and Specifications prepared without
obligation. Terms available if desired.
finw
Baste
HR
AS
;
giggs®
,• :
wm
11
-3:
. j
t
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


UPROOTED
“Any letters for us, mister?”
“Who's us?”
“Me, mum and Aunt Bella.”
By DON EDWARDS.
THE house was in a muddle with the furniture
packed and ready to go. Not that we had much
furniture. Kay thought that we should have
sold it, but we would hardly have got anything
for it, and old Mr. Sharp had offered to store it in
the corner of his shed until we sent for it. There was
still plenty to do, but I could get it done in the morn-
ing, so I started casting round for an excuse to go
out. I couldn’t tell Kay about the boys and what they
had arranged. She hadn’t much time for any of them
except the Sharps, and she wouldn’t understand why
I should want to see them. Then suddenly she started
to sing and I began to feel good.
She used to sing a lot before we were married
and just after, but this was the first time I had heard
her sing for months. I remembered the last time well.
It was the Monday I started night school again. After
we had quarrelled over the job I wanted to take in
the mine at Castle Rock she had become all cold and
sildnt in that censuring sort of way that always broke
me up and made me feel like hitting her in the face,
and then after a while like cringing to her and doing
anything to end the row. I could stand a straight-out
quarrel, but these disagreements, when she took offence
and then wouldn’t say anything or answer my ques-
tions, were unendurable. You would almost think
she hated the sight of me.
After the Castle Rock affair and the fight I had
at Kelly’s joint I said to her, “All right, Kay. I’ll
have a go at the night school again, and pass the
exam., and get into the public service.”
She didn’t say anything. She never let me get out
of a fuss easily, not even when I did what she wanted,
but the next Monday night when I set out for the
school she sang. And I hadn’t heard her singing
since, till tonight.
I honestly did my best at the night school, but it
was hopeless. I told her I was willing enough, but it
was just impossible, and she would have to give up all
her ideas of me getting into the public service and
living at Green Hill.
She gave them up right enough, and then got the
idea of shifting to the city. I didn’t see why we
should move to the city, but 1 should have given in
long ago and saved a lot of trouble. And now here
she was singing again, and it made me feel pleased,
but still I wasn’t game to tell her about the boys and
where I wanted to go.
“I suppose you’ve some regrets at going, Kay,”
I> said.
“Why should I?” she replied.
“Oh, even if you hate a place there are some
things about it you miss, especially when it’s been
your home,” I said, but she didn’t answer, so I shut
up and thought hew women have no time for ideas.
“I’m going for a walk,” I said then, “to have a
last look at the town.” I thought of kissing her before
I left, but I had got out of the habit, and something
in her attitude stopped me. Perhaps I should have,
but I wasn’t sure.
HE night was mild with the dusty warmth of
* spring in it, and on the air the scent of flowering
trees. Now and then a breeze would rustle the new
leaves of the poplars. All the sounds seemed distant,
and “The Flat” was transformed by the magic of the
night. The places looked like neat little cottages in
the darkness, and the rustling trees, and sounds of
laughter, and smell of blossoms gave it an attractive
atmosphere. It wasn’t a bad spot, and the people
were decent folk. I would be sorry to leave it, and I
could hardly believe that this was my last night here.
It suited me, and I would have gone on happily enough
in the place if it hadn’t been for Kay. It’s strange
how you assume that other people will have the same
ideas and like the same things as you do, and how
often they don’t.
It was unreasonable for Kay to hate it so. If it
hadn’t been for the contrast of suburbs like Green
Hill and Brayton, with the grouping of what the public
servants called “the workmen” into settlements such
as “The Flat” and Westvale, she might have been con-
tented enough. In any other town good and poor
places were mixed up more. I persuaded myself that
it would be better when we got away to the city, but
at the back of my mind there was the realisation
that I didn’t want to leave.
As I walked past the white square of the shop-
ping block and down the quiet, tree-lined avenues with
the neat houses and hedges on both sides, I couldn’t
help feeling better. Then I was past the houses and
on the slope of the big hill, with the lights twinkling
away all round me, and twisted old gums clustering in
grotesque groups, and the sky clear above, and a feel-
ing in me that I owned the whole place. I was going
to miss these walks when I lived in the city.
Westvale was like “The Flat” except that it was
between two hills and better hidden. There was plenty
of light coming from Sharp’s house, and a fair
amount of noise ; singing and shouting. I could
make out Cyril Gleeson’s voice, and now and then
the deep laughter of Fred White.
When I entered they cheered and shouted so
you’d have thought I was some sort of hero, and
gave me a glass of beer, and said “Good old Harry.’
The two Sharp boys, Wally and lim, had come
all the way in from Castle Rock. They said the wages
were good at the mine, but they didn’t say anything
about me not taking the job. I wished I’d been going
out there tomorrow instead of to the city.
By ten o’clock most of the boys were tight, and I
was feeling pretty joyful myself. I kept saying that
the city was the only place, but they knew 1 didn t
mean it. At half-past ten I said I had to go because
I had a lot of packing to do, and they knew that
wasn’t true either, and they said I couldn’t go yet, so
I stayed till about midnight.
On the way home, Fred Carter and Frank Roberts
came with me and we sang all the way, especially
through Green Hill, just to show the people there what
we thought of them.
There was a light in the house when I got home.
Kay was working in the kitchen, packing things into
a suitcase. She looked up at me quickly and I could
tell at once that she was annoyed. I didn’t blame her,
because I hadn't told her I was going, and it was late,
and I had had a few drinks, but I thought she would
understand when I explained things. I put the
wristlet watch down on the table before her and said,
“Look ; the boys gave me a send-off.’’
She went on with her packing, and I thought she
hadn’t heard.
“The boys gave me a send-off,” I repeated.
She ignored me, but pushed the watch away with
a gesture that showed me how she felt. When she
was like this I always wanted to explain things to her.
If only she would listen I felt that I could make every-
thing right.
I said, “I didn’t tell you because I meant to be
Kome early, but” ——
“Put this case on the floor and then go to bed,”
she said abruptly.
“Hell!” I thought as I left the kitchen, “I’ll be
pleased to leave,tomorrow. Anything is better than
this.”
j N the morning I wasn’t pleased at all. I woke early
1 knowing that there was something wrong. The
realisation that this was my last day in the town hit
me hard, and for a time I couldn’t think of anything
else. Then I suddenly wanted to make the most of
the few hours left, so I dressed and sneaked out
quietly so as not to wake Kay.
1 started to walk quickly, as if I had to visit as
much of the town as possible, and store up as many
memories as I could, before I went from it. The sun
was just rising over the wooded eastern range, color-
ing it a faint mauve, and flashing a deep-blue light on
the big mountains far to the west. Early-morning
mists were rising from the river and floating in wispy
parallel curtains across the conical outline of Mount
Mooneri. The white and cream buildings of the town
looked fresh and bright against the new green of the
trees, and along all the streets flowering trees made
traceries of pink and white and red. Magpies started
to sing in the gums, and I stopped to listen, trying to
grasp all the glory that was in the morning and the
town.
I walked about three miles, through the park, past
the church where we were married, past the big blocks
of Government offices, round through the homes of
Green Hill, and home by way of the shops. By the
time I reached “The Flat” again the huts were send-
ing up wavering columns of wood smoke, and the
sharp, acrid smell of it was on the air. I felt happier
than I should have felt, for I couldn’t realise that I was
leaving it all. Once I went inside, though, a feeling of
despondency seized me.
The place was bare and cold. Norman, who
always brightened me up except when I looked at him
in my gloomy moments and wondered what was ahead
of him, was outside somewhere, and Kay was eyeing
me in the way that always worried me. “Your break-
fast is ready,” she said. “We’ve had ours.”
The train was due to leave at 4.30 in the after-
noon. We had only a short distance to go to the sta-
tion, so we walked. Kay thought we should have taken
a taxi, but I could manage the bags easily. Norman
was excited at the prospect of a train journey. Kay
hardly seemed to look at the huts, and she merely
nodded stiffly when anyone shouted “Good-bye” to
her. She spoke to me only once. “ ‘The Flat’ is
nothing better than a slum,” she said.
“Oh, I dunno,” I replied. “It’s not so bad, and
there are plenty of lovely spots near by. Look at the
hill over there, and the willows along the river, and
the clouds behind Green Hill,” but she was staring
straight ahead at the station, where the train was
being shunted into position.
We found an empty second-class compartment
and got in. Norman jumped up and down on the
seat till Kay stopped him and made him sit in the
corner. Then 1 heard someone calling my name, and
I saw Fred White and Ted Carter and some more of
the boys coming along the platform. They were a bit
tight and they had a couple of bottles of beer which
they gave to me. Kay pretended to be busy about
the compartment, but I could see she was as wild as
hell, and I think they could see it, too, for their
exuberance died into a forced, artificial attempt at
geniality that was interspersed with awkward silences.
I felt annoyed, because they had given up listening-in
to the races and had come all the way to the station
to see us off, and then Kay locked at them as if they
were dirt. Now that we were leaving the place she
might have been a little more gracious.
I told myself that I would say something to her
after the train started, but I knew I wouldn’t. I
couldn’t stand a row at the beginning of the trip, with
a hostile silence between us all the way and for the
next couple of days.
There was a lot of noise, and the train started
to pull out. I hung out the window and waved and
shouted to the boys till we curved away from the
station, and suddenly I lost sight of them and realised
that I had left the town for good. With the realisa-
tion a hollow, sick, hopeless sort of feeling seized me.
I seemed to be travelling towards uncertainty, away
from what I had always known and liked. I was


helpless. I wanted to watch the town intently and
impress on my mind all the familiar sights.
The train was swinging past “The Flat” and I
could pick out our place easily, with the flowers Kay
had planted against the side wall, and the stone steps
at the back door, and the gum-tree with the old swing
hanging from it, and the battered tin where 1 used to
bowl against young Norman and the kids. Then
“The Flat” had gone, too, as we ran on to the slope
towards the river and the range about five miles away.
Kay said “Fix the luggage, will you?” and her
intrusion angered me so that I replied irritably “In
a minute. In a minute. I want to see the last of the
town.”
I could see her struggling with the big suitcase,
trying to put it up on the rack, but 1 didn’t help her.
There was no reason why it had to be arranged at
once.
The town lay amongst the trees or climbed the
slopes of the hills, cream and red and white houses,
and white blocks of Government buildings gleaming
against the western sun. Thin columns of smoke were
curling up lazily and there was a faint golden haze
over the hills. It was so peaceful and so lovely that
I forgot for a moment I was leaving it, and when I
remembered again I felt lost and helpless.
For a few minutes as we ran along the river
valley the town was out of sight, but I sat watching
till the train started to lift noisily up the rugged side of
the range. Then the town came into view again, a
widespread pattern of trees and roads and buildings,
looking small in the distance against the heights of
its surrounding hills. The train went slower and
slower and I hung on to the view, then it labored
round the spur of the range and the town had gone,
but I sat there seeing it in my memory more vividly
than before.
\ \ J E arrived at Kay’s place at about eleven o’clock,
* * feeling tired and dirty. The kid was asleep, so I
carried him inside. Kay’s mother and father were
fussing about her, and telling her how well she looked,
and saying how pleased they were to have her home
in a way that sounded a bit strained and put-on to me,
so I went back for the bags. I lingered outside, feel-
ing a bit like an outcast and not wanting to go inside,
till the old man came out and asked if he could help.
“No, thanks, Mr. Colvin,” I said. Somehow or
other I could never manage to call them anything
else than Mr. and Mrs. Colvin. The house looked
smaller than I had pictured it. It seemed to have
shrunk in the years since Kay and 1 were married,
and got more untidy and dilapidated looking. To me
it didn’t look as good as our place at “The Flat.”
Kay’s brother Arthur was home, too, and I never
liked him any more than he liked me. He had some
ideas like Kay, talked a hell of a lot about his last
job, and why it hadn’t been good enough for him, and
how the boss had asked him not to leave, as if he was
earning about ten quid a week instead of being out of
work and living on his parents.
Mrs. Colvin was rather too pleased to have us.
Her welcome might have sounded all right to Kay,
but it didn’t to me. Kay was always like that; she
didn’t distinguish between real sincerity of feeling
and gush. I was pleased when supper was
over, for I was feeling more and more a
stranger, outside the family group, and
more and more a failure. Once I said
“Look here, I always got work back
home and kept things going.”
There was a silence till Kay said “I
think we’ll go to bed.”
Norman was asleep, looking as if
nothing could possibly wake him. Kay
hummed a song softly, so I supposed she was feeling
good. The sight of the room and the thoughts of the
city crowding around it and of the town I had left that
afternoon depressed me. It wasn’t that the room was
so bad, but I didn’t seem to fit into it. I felt I had to
get out for a while. “I’m going outside,” I said. “I
won’t be long.”
I walked down the street and along lots of other
streets, and they were all the same, congested, with
houses and shops and factories clustering closely to-
gether, and hardly a tree to be seen, and a confused,
disturbing sort of roar from the city’s traffic. With
the lights and the glare I couldn’t even see the stars.
Then I turned a corner and came upon a little park.
It wasn’t much, just a small square with some swings
and seats and trees, but it was quieter and fresher
than the streets, even though the buildings seemed to
press in on it.
I sat on a seat and presently began to feel better
and more optimistic. If I got a decent job we would
move to a quieter suburb and live in a house of our
own, and now that we had left “The Flat” Kay
would be happier and brighter. Anything was better
than her being the way she had been lately, hating
“The Flat,” and the people, and her house, and never
singing, and being always sour and disgruntled. Kay
was young and pretty, and if she was going to enjoy
living here I would make the best of it. Our married
life together and the kid’s happiness were what mat-
tered, not where I liked living.
I kept turning these thoughts over all the way
back, and Kay seemed lovely and attractive to me,
like when we were just married. When I reached the
house I was hurrying so that I could tell her how I
felt and how much she meant to me.
All the others were in bed, but there was a light
in our room. Kay was hanging something over a
chair. I intended to go up and kiss her, but she swung
round when she heard me, and said “I thought you
were never coming home.” There was the old note,
half-angry, half-irritable, in her voice, and the hard
stare in her eyes. I stopped, disappointed at first,
then annoyed. I had thought that coming to the city
would have changed her, made things all right. The
old feeling that I must justify myself seized me. I
started to explain.
“Sh!” she whispered, pointing to Norman asleep
on the couch. “Sh!” and her mouth set in a tighter
line so that I knew it was no good saying anything,
She would answer everything I said only with a dts-
approving silence. I caught at all sorts of hopes to
rescue me from the gloomy feeling of depression that
was sweeping over me. Perhaps she was per-
haps she hadn’t realised yet that we had left “The
Flat” and were in the city. But stronger and more
depressing than all these hopes was a sudden intuitive
fear; perhaps it wasn’t the town or “The Flat” that
Kay had hated, but me.
BUSHRANGER AND SOLDIER
By WILL LAWSON.
‘ 4 I OOK at the crowded court, at the newspapers
and their false reports about me and the very
1 fact that the sheriff has issued tickets for
people to come and hear the trial. Does not
this argue for an unhealthy public opinion?”
The handsome man with the blue eyes and cul-
tured voice, one of four in the dock, paused and
looked at Judge Windeyer ; but he made no sign and
the speaker went on: “At the coroner’s inquiry at
Gundagai, the Crown Prosecutor acted the part of a
legal bully. Coming down the railway line, the sta-
tions were crowded with men hooting and crying for
our blood. It was the same in the Sydney streets. I
submit that the jury is not in a fit condition of mind
to come here and try me, that I am condemned before
I am tried.
“Since this Bench adjourned last week the papers
have teemed with reports which are false ; and so long
as the public mind is in the condition arising from
reading these falsehoods nobody could fairly judge
me and my associates. In letters received by me it
clearly appears that the writers look upon my fate as
sealed. Every little writer has itched for public
applause, and every penny-a-liner has heaped igno-
minious slander upon my head before I have been
tried.”
Thus did Captain Moonlight open his defence in
the Central Criminal Court at Darlinghurst on a hot
December morning sixty-one years ago, when he and
three members of his gang were tried for the murder
of Constable Bowen, killed in the fighting when the
bushrangers held up Wantabadgery station on
November 15, 1879.
The other prisoners were defended by one of the
most brilliant criminal lawyers of his day, J. H.
Want; but Moonlight preferred to conduct his own
defence and did it well.
His real name was Andrew George Scott. He
was born in the north of Ireland in 1845, and at the
time of his trial he was 34 years of age. Scott’s father
lived at Tullyquilty Hall, in County Down, and was a
peculiar man in his scorn of what his neighbors
thought of him. He meant to have Andrew educated
for the church, but “finding his son of a lively dis-
position” he allowed him to become a midshipman in
“I told you not to encourage the darned thing!”
the training ship Britannia at the early age of eleven
years. In 1859, when he was fourteen, the young
Andrew was fighting under Garibaldi in Italy. Two
years later he left London for Auckland and enlisted
to fight in the Maori War, being wounded in both legs
and acquiring a permanent limp. Next he went to
America, where he joined the Northern Army in the
Civil War. He turned up in Melbourne in 1867, sailed
to the South Seas and in 1870 was in Sydney.
In Sydney Scott uttered a forged cheque, when
under the influence of liquor, and served a sentence
in Maitland gaol. On his release he returned to Mel-
bourne, determined to carry out his father’s original
idea to study to be a clergyman. Bishop Perry, of
Melbourne, sent him to Mount Egerton, near Bacchus
Marsh, to be lay-reader, with power to conduct ser-
vices. He became popular, and was highly respected
till he was charged with robbing the bank.
In his passionate appeal to Judge Windeyer con-
cerning the biased public mind, he said: “I was
arrested and convicted for the Mt. Egerton bank rob-
bery, but it is notorious that the jury in the case tossed
up for the decision.”
Unable to find work after his release he went with
some friends to the Murrumbidgee, and held up
Wantabadgery station, but, he claimed, without any
violence to anyone, treating everyone in a friendly
way, and merely gathering in all rescue parties who
came to help, till a large number of people were held
in the homestead.
The arrival of the police put a different aspect
on affairs. All the people who had been held were
freed, and made off to a ridge where they and hun-
dreds of others from outlying places watched the
battle.
Constable Bowen first shot James Nesbit, one of
Moonlight’s men, and a little later another of the
bushrangers, Gus Wernicke, was wounded. Then
Bowen was shot dead. The surviving outlaws, Scott,
Rogan, Williams and Bennett, were charged with his
murder.
Their guilt hung on the question whether Bowen
was shot with a Snider bullet or one from a Colt
revolver. Moonlight’s gang were armed with Snider
rifles, the police with Colts. Police evidence stated
that it was a Snider bullet, but Moonlight called a gun-
maker who swore the bullet was from a Colt and only
half the size of a Snider bullet. The Judge gave it as
his opinion that it did not matter what kind of a bullet
was used or which of the gang shot Bowen. One of
them must have done it. To this Moonlight replied
that the police ran about so much that it was quite
possible that a stray bullet from one of their revolvers
might have killed the constable. But the jury found
them all guilty, in spite of a passionate appeal by
Moonlight for the release of his mates. “If there is
to be a victim, let it be me,” he said. “1 was their
leader throughout and they are all mere boys.”
Compared with Dan Morgan, the Kellys, the
Clarke brothers, Ben Hall and even Thunderbolt,
Moonlight was a child in the game of bushranging,
though he was a skilled fighter and a fearless one,
distinctly spectacular in his methods. One wonders
whether in these days, on the evidence submitted
sixty-one years ago, he would have been hanged.
For it was never proved definitely who shot Bowen.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
tfbli imllcnim{tf£cindJmiq/uef/
HOLLAND HOUSE.
That great historian of London and eminent Cambridge scholar, the late E. Beresford Chancellor, M.A., in one of his most delightful
works, “Private Palaces of London,” referred to Holland House as the most notable of the few great mansions dotted about London in
earlier times, with its wealth of memories. Here in what was the splendid rural fastness of Campden Hill, but now surrounded by
“a sea of bricks and mortar,” constituting Kensington and Earl’s Court, stood —and, happily, for the most part, stands —this mansion
famed in the social and literary history of the past two centuries. Taking its name from the Earl of Holland, previously Sir Henry Rich,
raised to the peerage in 1624, here it was that Addison, who married the Countess of Holland, wrote his “Spectators” in the library. Here
it was he died, after having called the young scapegrace earl to his bedside to “see how a Christian can die.” This “awful scene,” as
Dr. Johnson has described it, is by many today considered as almost legendary. The house was afterwards sold to the first Baron Holland,
father of the celebrated statesman, Charles James Fox. The third Lord Holland, a distinguished Whig statesman, made Holland House
a centre of great social and political importance. His successor died in 1859, when the title became extinct. Among the honored guests
of Holland House have been Sheridan, Tom Moore, Humphry Davy, Macaulay and Dickens. The flower gardens in the grounds of
Holland House are justly famed, being laid out with that intricacy and minuteness of pattern so common to ancient parterres, all the
beds being edged with box. The dahlia is believed to have been first introduced to this garden by the second Lord Holland. Holland
House is regarded as one of the finest examples of the early English mansion London possesses. Addison has come down famed rather
as an essayist and secular poet, yet, though he wrote but five hymns, two, “The spacious firmament on high” and “When all Thy mercies,
O my God,” are perfect and finished compositions, taking rank among the best hymns in the language.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61—No. 3176.
Wednesday, December 25, 1940.
SANTAMUSS CALLS AT THE WRONG ADDRESS.
“Captured camps presented astonishing scenes of luxury—liqueurs, Chianti and mineral water in every tent; macaroni, spaghetti, quince jelly, tomato extract and tunny.
Some of the officers’ messes had elegant silverware, also plenty of perfumery.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
ANOTHER EXODUS FROM EGYPT.
On this solemn Christmas Day the thoughts and hearts
of all true Australians and Maorilanders are with
their airmen and soldiers in the Libyan Desert.
Under the direction of the Australian-born Sir
Arthur Longmore, an R.A.A.F. squadron has been
in the great battle from the beginning, helping the
R.A.F. to establish supremacy over their Italian adver-
saries and to lighten the work —and the casualties —
of the ground forces. The soldiers from these
Dominions were thrown in at a vital stage of the
offensive, when, though Sidi Barrani, Solium and Fort
Capuzzo had been taken, and with them many thou-
sands of prisoners and vast quantities of war
material, the tough nut of Bardia remained to
be cracked. Trained to the minute, well equipped
and ready for anything, they went forward with the
fierce ardor which the Old Diggers evinced on many
a battlefield of the last war. And, although the cables
have not expressly told us so, we may be sure that
they were supported by Australian naval gunners,
men of the ever-vigilant squadrons which, from the
time of the sinking of the Bartolomeo Colleoni, have
made such a magnificent contribution to the task of
knocking Italy out of the war —a war to which, it is
now abundantly evident, many Italians have been
secretly opposed all along.
For the battle itself, though it is not over yet,
the only fit description is the one applied by Napoleon
to the greatest victory of Frederick the Great —“a
masterpiece.” It was planned with eminent skill, and
prepared for with infinite forethought and patience.
Nothing was left to chance, and the attack was
launched at the right moment —when a victory was
necessary for Britain, when the enemy was still reeling
from the blows administered to him in Greece and
Albania, and when internal dissension had made itself
felt for the first time. “With what majesty the British
soldier fights! ” Napier wrote of Wellington’s men ; and
with what greater majesty the soldiers, seamen and air-
men of the Empire fight when they are combined, as
they are now, in an operation for a truly imperial pur-
pose, and their leaders are no longer bound by French
conceptions of war. Their happily blended achieve-
ment would have delighted Lord Fisher, who never
ceased to deplore the continental-army obsession. And
it is a pity Mr. Chamberlain was not spared to witness
it, for the military leadership so strikingly displayed
is a sequel to his army reforms, and the ships, machines
and weapons employed are products of his rearma-
ment policy, many of them no doubt placed in the
hands of the fighting services during the year gained
by his “surrender” at Munich.
For the moment, the moral effects of the victory
are greater than the material consequences. The swift
shattering of an invasion which at the outset looked
a serious threat to a vital region and which, though it
failed to develop beyond Sidi Barrani, was always a
grave annoyance and embarrassment, has had imme-
diate results on public opinion everywhere, in Africa
and Asia especially. It has restored British prestige
in countries where British prestige had suffered ; it
has lifted up the hearts of doubting or suffering friends
in Europe, and it must have shaken the belief in Axis
invincibility in Germany itself. For if the invasion of
Greece was Mussolini’s own adventure —though it
would never have been entered upon without Hitler’s
knowledge and approval—the invasion of Egypt was
an Axis operation, and, from the Axis point of view,
a most important one, aimed as it was at severing
Britain from Africa, Asia and Australasia and making
an end of British sea-power in the Mediterranean.
Though circumstances made it necessary for Italy to
begin the attack alone, Mussolini must have received
explicit assurances of German support when it could
be rendered. Now it cannot be rendered without
weakening the U-boat war and the Blitzkrieg, and in
the meantime not only Libya but all the Italian pos-
sessions in Africa are in danger of being cut off and
reduced one by one.
In the first bursts of elation at the good news
from Egypt there was unreasoning optimism. Some of
it came from politicians, notably our own Prime
Minister, who, snatching a few moments from the
Swan by-election—so much more important to both
sides than another week for the Budget —held forth in
joyous sentences which could be taken to mean that
Italy would be settled in a few weeks.
One of the two inherent weaknesses of dictator-
ships is that they need to be continuously successful
(the other is that your dictator dies and leaves no heirs,
only an imperfectly established system and a scramble
for the succession), and it is a serious matter for Mus-
solini that his good luck has begun to desert him. Yet
his people have followed his star so long and with
such blind belief in his promises of territorial expan-
sion and military glory that it will take more than a
few weeks of adversity to produce really dangerous
defections. Also it will take more than the defeats
in Albania and North Africa to shake their carefully-
fostered faith in Mussolini’s army, though their faith
in Mussolini’s navy must have been waning for months.
In any case, the overthrow of Fascism from within,
even if it may be supposed that Hitler would permit
it, would require organised opposition and popular
leadership; and neither is in sight. There has been
no anti-Fascist party nor has Mussolini had a serious
rival for at least 16 years.
Let us not deceive ourselves. Suffice it for the
present to know that heavy blows have been struck at
Italy ; that, apart from what new blows Wavell and
Wilson may be preparing, naval and aerial pressure is
constantly increasing; that the Italians worsted in
Egypt were significantly short of barbed-wire and tin
hats ; that “crack Alpini, who died like heroes in the
last war, surrendered to the Greeks” (Minister Dalton),
and that it is the considered judgment of the 1916-22
Prime Minister, who ought to know the Italians if any
politician does, that “they won’t fight a war they
don’t believe in, and they don’t believe in this war.”
It is sobering to turn from the desert victory, inspirit-
ing as it is, to the Axis war against shipping. We get
only what official figures reveal (and sometimes they
have to be revised upward), never (or hardly ever)
what they conceal —the appalling personal tragedies
that must be of daily occurrence, the incessant strain on
the human frame and spirit. Even so we can realise,
dimly at least, what it means to lose upwards of
100,000 tons in a single week. In our own part of the
world, without the employment of underwater pirates
or bombers, 19 ships have been sunk or captured since
June 19, 17 of them since September 6. This is a chal-
lenge to Australians to do everything in their power,
with every regard for the value of time, to build
merchant ships and tackle raiders with craft of their
own fashioning.
American Aid.
President Roosevelt’s plan to continue aid to
Britain by leasing or lending armaments may be a
way out of a situation that was obviously getting
awkward. As announced, it certainly looks an in-
genious plan: the fact that such ingenuity should be
required in skirting those standing legislative hurdles
the Johnson and Neutrality Acts passes its own com-
ment on the once childishly hawked notion of an
America hogging for “action.”
By the President’s plan the U.S.A. could finance the
manufacture of Britain’s war requirements, lending or
leasing the ’planes, guns, tanks and the like at a
reasonable fee, Britain subsequently replacing any
that were damaged or destroyed. Congress still has
to have its say, some of which is likely to be acri-
monious ; but a plan on some such lines, if not more
generous lines, will probably be adopted as necessary
in furthering the idea of helping Britain by all means
short of war, on which there is overwhelming
majority agreement.
How important all the help under that head is to
John Bull can be fully stated in the admission that
without it J.B. would have difficulty in carrying on. It
can even be admitted that he possibly could not carry
on beyond 1941. That is a large admission when the
very considerable resources of J.B. and co. are taken
into account, but there can hardly be any question
that it fairly sums up the position.
It is not a matter of material help only ; for the
time being, particularly right at the present moment,
Uncle Sam’s moral support is just as important: its
value can be gauged by trying to imagine what the
position would be without it. The fact that it is there
—and there is no question about that —not only helps
to sustain the resolve of the people of Britain to take
the worst the Germans can do, and the Empire as a
whole to see the war through, but it must have in-
calculable effects in all countries that are watching
the efforts of J.B. and co. with interested sympathy,
and perhaps even more valuable effects in Germany,
Italy and Japan.
The actual amount of the material help thus far
given is not known. Some disturbing figures on ’plane
supplies have been published, but it is possible that
they may not have told the whole story. It is not only
’planes that the U.S. is supplying ; possibly a good
deal of the mechanised equipment being used in the
offensive against the Italians is of American origin.
The enormous quantities of arms and ammunition that
were supplied to Britain to re-equip the B.E.F. forces
rescued from Dunkirk is probably a better signpost
to the current material help than the lately published
’plane figures.
It can be added that President Roosevelt, Mr.
Hull and the rest immediately controlling U.S. affairs,
as well as the Senate and the majority balance of
present public opinion, can be relied on to continue
the help already being given and if possible increase
it. All this is to the good, and can be freely acknow-
ledged, with gratitude. But it should not be accepted
as ground for extravagant wishful thinking. There is
a considerable body of American opinion-repre-
sented, for instance, by such important publications as
the “Saturday Evening Post” —which flatly refuses to
admit that J.B. and co. are fighting Uncle Sam’s war
as well as their own. To anyone who does accept
that hypothesis —one of the main grounds for wishful
thinking regarding the U.S.A- —the advocacy and
utterances of some of those in the U.S.A. who deny
it must make astonishing reading. . . .
The “Saturday Evening Post” takes a pessimistic
stand of resignation regarding the entire business. It
assails President Roosevelt for having long pursued a
line of foreign policy leading the U.S.A. straight to
war. It takes the stand that the war has nothing what-
ever to do with the U.S.A., but sees the U.S.A. as virtu-
ally committed, and washes its hands of the whole affair.
There is also honest outright opposition to
American participation, represented by such national
figures as Mr. Ford and Colonel Lindbergh, to say
nothing of politicians or acrobatic diplomats like Mr.
Kennedy. Colonel Lindbergh is anything but the
despised figure promoters of wishful thinking in Aus-
tralia make him out to be. The bulk of attack on him
is made by New York papers, avowedly pro-British,
and by no means representative of the U.S.A. The
Colonel’s decidedly unhelpful bit is largely done over
the air, and he gets a very wide hearing and material
evidence of considerable support. Mr. Ford carried
his stand to the point of refusing to make ’planes or
anything else for Britain: powers may soon be taken
to deal with gentry like Mr. Ford, but for the present
he holds his ground, and isn’t alone on it.
Nor should Mr. Kennedy be dismissed as an
isolated example. His retreat from his Ambassador’s
job in Britain was variously put down to lack of sleep,
indigestion and bombing, and no doubt one or other
of these affected him. But other U.S. emissaries to
Britain returned shortly before him just as down in
the mouth, without symptoms of indigestion. What
they might be said to have suffered from was too
much digestion. They thought J. Bull’s goose was a
blue duck, and said so. That, however, was before
J.B. had given signal proof that he could, in their own
language, “take it,” so they may be more cheerful now.
But the palm, biscuit, bun and all other related
vegetables and comestibles that disappointed wishful
thinkers might feel like packing for the U.S.A. should
be addressed to quarters represented by such publica-
tions as the New York “World-Telegram” and the
same city’s “Daily Mirror.” The theme tune of these
publications is: “Britain needs dollars. All right, it’s
time John Bull considered a deal in real estate. We
need Bermuda, the Bahamas, Jamaica, Trinidad,
British Guiana, British Honduras.” This polite propo-
sition should not be confused with deals like the U.S.
acquisition of naval bases on a 99-year lease in ex-
change for over-age destroyers. No ; the proposition
is that the U.S.A., in exchange for the privilege of
helping J. Bull to fight what a great many U.S. citizens
regard as their war, should be handed over entirely
and for keeps such bits of J.B.’s estate as the U.S.A.
would like to secure. In other words, what is usually
parted with by any nation only in the dire extremity
of utter defeat in war should be handed over by
fighting J. Bull to the seconds holding his coat.
The significance of pretty propositions like this
can no doubt be overstated, but the fact that they are
made should not be written off altogether. Possibly
even those who make them are well aware that no
part of J. Bull’s estate —ranging in extent from the
two square miles of Gibraltar to the 3,729,665 square
miles of Canada —is for sale on any such deal. J.B.
and co. are going through a tough time, and it may get
tougher, but the seat is not right out of their pants yet.
It is heartening to feel that much of this U.S.
outlook is in the minority class, and to know that con-
trary feelings are more representative. Still, these are
times when it is at least as important to be aware of
the worst as of the best.
An International Air Force.
The latest seer to propound the idea of a new world
order is Herbert Morrison, Britain’s Security Minister.
He talks of a vast international air force which would
make it impossible ever again for a thug with bombers
to terrorise a continent, smash homes and cities and
crush the innocent bodies of women and children.
He did not originate the notion. It is one of
H. G. Wells’s schemes for establishing the world
supremacy of right and reason. In an interminable
story, somewhat like a novel, Wells described the
world crumbling into dissolution through its national
wars and its sectional dictators until all communica-
tions and transport are destroyed except the air forces.
Then a few individual airmen get together and set
out to establish law and order. As they have the only
means of getting about that remains, railways and
steamships having vanished, they can hold the whole
world to ransom and there is no inherent reason why
they would not be able to do it.
The only thing wrong with Mr. Wells’s argument
and Mr. Morrison’s is the hypothesis, and if the
hypothesis is wrong the argument is worthless. They
postulate a group of men who know what is best for
the world and who have the necessary power to put
it into effect.
Everybody would wish to make the world better.
The only difficulty is how to do it. There are as many
opinions as to how to do it as there are individuals.
Hitler has one opinion, Morrison has another and
Gandhi another, and each of their opinions is as dif-
ferent from the others as chalk is from cheese. By
some miraculous chance, Mr. Morrison’s international
air force might get into the hands of an all-wise indi-
vidual who did know how to do it, but then he would
be a dictator, and Mr. Morrison objects to dictators.
If it were in the hands of a committee, the members of
that body would either differ from one another or
agree out of a desire to keep their positions, which is
the normal way of committees.
So the international air force would be no dif-
ferent in kind from the late unlamented League of
Nations, but it would be in an immensely more favor-
able position to put its follies and mistakes into
operation and to punish objectors with wholesale
death and destruction.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
But Don't Call It "Inflation."
Many inflationists are braying in Australia these days,
as they brayed during the depression years. Of course
they never call their nostrum inflation, having various
fancy names for it, and they hotly object to being
called inflationists. But they have an immense scorn
for deflationists, the term they apply to those who
refuse to accept their theory that financial miracles can
be wrought by juggling with “credit expansion” (it
used to be “credits secured on the whole public and
private wealth of the country”), and they split the
welkin with cries that “the deflationary Budget” will
Ruin Australia.
These easy-money boys were all for public bor-
rowing, especially the overseas variety, until the
bottom fell out of the borrowing boom ten years ago,
and they were forced to realise that borrowing had
its limits. Some of them have a dangerous admira-
tion for the financial methods of Hitler. Pseudo-
historians among them have been known to hold up
Napoleon as an example. They forget or do not
choose to recognise that iron tyranny was part of
Napoleon’s system of finance, as it is part of Hitler’s,
and that both dictators looked to conquest to sustain
it. When conquest failed Napoleon his financial
system began to totter, and so it will be with Hitler.
It is strange and somewhat sinister that the dodges
of dictators out for plunder should be held up for
emulation by the Government of a free democracy
which inherits the English tradition of honesty in
money matters and freedom in all things and for all
men. Napoleon and Hitler should serve as warnings,
not examples.
At Canberra there is a man —Ryan, the member
for Flinders —who had the opportunity of studying
inflation at first hand, having “lived in Germany dur-
ing the whole period when inflation swept through the
country and almost destroyed its entire economic
structure.” This is his account of the experience:
When I went into the Rhineland in 1919, the value
of a mark was about 34 to the £. In four years, it
had declined to well over 1,000,000 to the £, and
there was practically no standard of value left. The
effect of that violent inflation was to wipe out entirely
the solid middle class, to bring untold misery to the
workers and to pave the way for the Nazi tyranny
which now rules Germany and hopes to rule the world.
The memory of that time has always remained with
me as one of horror.
That inflation was the work of poli-
ticians very like those we hear braying for “bank
credit” in Australia. They, too, talked in the begin-
ning of controlling it, but it got away from them, as it
would here if the politicians who can be heard bray-
ing were the controllers. And Mr. Ryan is not alone
in believing that out of the misery and suffering those
German inflationists inflicted on the steadiest and
thriftiest elements of the people Hitlerism was born.
Loose-fongued Ministers.
It must be trying for the Prime Minister to have so
many Ministers who can’t keep their tongues still when
there are reporters about.
Overgenerous to friends, as he showed in the
Lawson affair, Mr. Menzies transferred Mr. McEwen
and Mr. Stewart, already square pegs in round holes,
to posts for which they were still more unsuitable
when Mr. Cameron’s retirement from Country party
and Ministry made changes necessary.
Mr. McEwen let his chief down very badly by
gassing to a Sydney “D.T.” reporter on R.A.A.F.
methods of patrolling coastal waters —“one of the
most stupid statements that ever appeared in the press
over the name of a Minister,” said the grim Cameron,
giving chapter and verse. Mr. Menzies seems to have
been of the same opinion, for, referring to the “D.T.”
article, he testily declared that if he wasn’t satisfied
with the work done by the Chief of the Air Staff he
would take the job himself ; but he didn’t directly
rebuke his blundering subordinate.
There must, however, have been a heart-to-heart
talk, for in the House a few days later Mr. McEwen
tried to explain his blazing indiscretion. “I gave cer-
tain information which was asked' of me,” he said
(as if any War Minister were bound to give any in-
formation that was asked of him), “and that informa-
tion was surmounted by heavy black headings, which,
I believe, conveyed a wrong impression of the facts
themselves, of the relative importance of the facts
and of the general picture of the circumstances which
I wished to convey.” Vessels had been sunk in Bass
Strait, and the guileless Minister was asked “when the
last flight had been made over the area.” Instead of
closing the conversation, he gave the date.
I was astonished later to see this date quite unjusti-
fiably promoted to a major point in what I think can
only be described as a sensational report of an interview
granted for the purpose of imparting information.
He also mumbled something about “an unwar-
ranted degree of sensationalism... .the effect of which
is to mislead rather than to inform the readers of the
paper.” But he hasn’t cut “the paper” off his “infor-
mation” list.
Mr. Stewart, who breeds prize pigs, was named
Minister of External Affairs, perhaps because he used
to run a fleet of Sydney buses. Of external affairs he
knows rather less than one of his bus conductors ;
but, with all the valor of ignorance, he has chosen to
warn the Japanese, taunt the Italians with cowardice
and withdraw the credentials of the French Consul-
General, as a preliminary to urging all Frenchmen in
Australia to join the De Gaulle movement. This
clumsy partisanship must be almost without precedent
in the history of Empire foreign relations ; and what
Mr. Stewart doesn’t know about French psychology
and French history would fill thick volumes.
Before Mr. Menzies had any time to give to the
impertinences of Mr. Stewart, the case of Mr. Spender
had to be attended to. It became known at Canberra
towards the end of the slapdash session that Mr.
Spender was “anxious to visit the Australian army in
the Middle East,” and the Canberra correspondent of
the Adelaide “Advertiser” communicated the fact on
December 14, adding dryly: “The story in the lobbies
is that Mr. Spender is being built up in Sydney as a
successor to Mr. Menzies, and that his proposed visit
to Egypt is part of the plan.” Losing no time, Mr.
Spender said at a Sydney meeting that very night that
he felt it his duty to go to Egypt.
“I shall go there as fast as I can,” he said at a smoko
of the Returned Soldiers’ Volunteer Defence Corps at
Mosman. “I want to make sure that the A.I.F. equip-
ment is 100 p.c.”— “S. M. Herald” report.
The “D.T.” improved the shining hour by declaring
that “Australians, particularly relatives of A.I.F. men
in Egypt, will agree with him.”
He should satisfy himself —and the Australian people
—that the troops are properly equipped and cared for.
This when the British army in Egypt had been in
action since December 9, and when the A.I.F. was
straining at the leash.
Going to Melbourne for an Advisory War Coun-
cil meeting, Mr. Spender discovered that members of
that body didn’t take at all kindly to the implied sug-
gestion that there might be something wrong with
A.I.F. equipment. In fact, as the “Argus,” by no
means unfriendly, put it, there were “immediate
political repercussions.” And “after Mr. Spender had
attended the meeting and conferred with the Prime
Minister,” it was stated “on his behalf” that “the
equipment position of the A.I.F. is quite satisfactory.”
The Government has received the most positive
assurance that no Australian troops will be placed in
any operational area unless they are fully equipped.
On his own behalf, Mr. Spender added that he was
“sorry if anything I am reported to have said has been
construed as throwing any doubt upon the position.”
He had “never intended to imply that there was any
reason to suppose the equipment position was not
satisfactory,” though he had “made it clear that he
would like to visit the A.I.F. in Egypt.” “There is now
little likelihood [“Argus”] that he will make that tour
of inspection.”
Mr. Cameron is the man to make it. Accom-
panied by a small staff of professional advisers, he
could go on to Britain and represent Australia on the
War Council, and in an Imperial War Cabinet, as soon
as that very necessary body is established —and the
sooner the better.
The Case of L. C. Robb.
He is a Digger who served for the duration, on Gal-
lipoli, in Egypt, France and Belgium. He has been
a councillor of the R.S.S.I.L.A. since 1924 and State
president since 1930. His job is that of secretary to
the State Governor.
The N.S.W. Public Service Board has issued a
long report in “officialese” regarding some utterances
of Mr. Robb at a Canberra conference of returned
soldiers. During 17 years in the civil service he has,
it seems, been an “efficient and well-conducted officer,”
but his observations at Canberra were “improper,”
though,
taking the words in their context, and having regard to
all the circumstances, the board would not be justified in
finding that the words were intended to be subversive.
One would imagine not, having regard to the man’s
record.
Mr. Robb’s own account of the remarks which
have made such a storm in a teacup was that they
were uttered when he spoke in favor of a national
Government. He said —the board has accepted his
version:
We have not got a national Government; but, thank
God, we have at least got a responsible Parliamentary
system, and what better can we have than that?
Somebody interjected, apparently jocularly, “A dic-
tator!” Mr. Robb, in jovial spirit, answered that if a
national Government were not possible it might be
better to have a Prime Minister dictator, and if he
used his powers under the National Security Act and
his policy were an all-in war policy, perhaps the
returned soldiers would support him.
There was no suggestion of the use of extra-
constitutional measures. The National Security Act
has virtually created the Cabinet a set of dictators
already. Anyway, another dictatorship should scarcely
worry a State Ministry. It is always creating them.
Its Commissioner of Police is so much of a dictator
that he altered the hotel closing hours in defiance of a
statute without eliciting one murmur from the Govern-
ment.
Mr. Mair, the jellyfish Premier, ordered the Robb
inquiry in deference to the peahen press, whose
screams he mistakes for expressions of public opinion.
In cases far more deserving of inquiry he didn’t bother.
For example, after the Commonwealth Govern-
ment took action against Communists and their propa-
ganda, Mr. Drummond, Mr. Mair’s Minister of Edu-
cation, asserted in the Assembly itself that “to my
knowledge there are members of the Com-
munist party on the executive of the [Teachers’]
Federation.” He went on to allege that one particular
Federation man was “a member of the Communist
party when he resigned from the [public] service
[in 1938] to become a most active organiser for the
Federation, and my information is that he is still a
member and apparently has been carrying on his
work as one.”
The party named and the Federation denied the
charge —the latter called it a “wicked fabrication.” To
which the Minister replied:
My statement was made with a full knowledge
obtained from official sources.
There was no inquiry, though the charge was more
serious than that levelled at Mr. Robb. Neither did
the Premier order an inquiry when an executive of
public servants, whose union could paralyse the whole
transport of the State, was declaring through its official
journal, after Russia had become the friend and fellow-
conspirator of Germany, that “we are as much con-
cerned with the preservation of socialism in Russia as
we are with the defence of Australia, and that Im-
perialism”—British, of course—must be overthrown.
But then there was no screeching from the peahen
press to spur Mr. Mair into action.
Drowned in the Dam ?
From H. Bevan, secretary to the N.S.W. Water Con-
servation and Irrigation Commission:
It is true that the Wyangala Dam is not providing water
for 1,357,000 acres mentioned (B. 4/12/’4O), mostly in the Roto
country. When the price of wheat took a serious downward
trend the Government decided (wisely, as events have proved)
not to ask settlers to take up this land. In any case the water
supply for Roto was for stock and domestic purposes only.
This does not mean that Wyangala is not justifying its
existence. The Jemalong and Wyldes Plains district covers an
area of more than 200,000 acres, and the settlers will probably
use water on average to the extent of 20,000 acre-ieet each
year for irrigation. Closer settlement should follow.
The application of the stored water by further channels
constructed by the Government may be feasible, but even it
it were not Wyangala will still be a big State asset in that
it regulates the flow of the Lachlan and allows landowners
along the river to use their pumps regularly. These pumps
can serve 27,000 acres.
The Bulletin writer errs when he suggests that because
N.S.W. had to take one migrant for every £75 expended the
18,000 people represented by the cost of Wyangala had to
be settled on the Lachlan—a Herculean task. The 18,000
migrants certainly came to N.S.W., and the agreement was
fully honored ; but they were of all types, not necessarily land
settlers. It should also be made clear that, while N.S.W.
“got the money for Wyangala” under the Migration Agree-
ment, it was not a grant. For the first 10 years the Common-
wealth and British Governments contributed to the interest
charge. .... ,
In short, there was no specific irrigation scheme as such
in mind when Wyangala was launched. There now is. Also,
the 18,000 people of which The Bulletin writer can find
“no vestige” came to our shores, and no doubt for the most
part are still here —with, we hope, many additions.
It was not here suggested that “the 18,000 people
represented by the cost of Wyangala” had to be settled
on the Lachlan —the actual words used were “in the
State.” Mr. Bevan declares that the 18,000 “came to
our shores” ; but he doesn’t say when. Neither does
the Government Statistician. On the contrary, if they
“came” most of them must have eluded that gentle-
man and his staff.
Work on Wyangala began on December 17, 1928,
and the main construction was completed on June 30,
1935 —these are the commission’s own dates. Settle-
ment of assisted immigrants at the rate of one for
every £75 of migration-agreement money spent should
have begun in 1929. Here are the Government Statis-
tician’s assisted-immigration figures for 1929 and the
nine ensuing years (“Statistical Register,” 1940 issue,
page 626): —
Males. Females. Totals.
1929 2569 2862 5431
1930 463 711 1174
1931 25 49 74
1932 9 12 21
1933 3 8
1934 4 7 11
1935 0 1
1936 2 2 4
1937 29 31 60
1938 206 196 402
3310 3879 7189
And of the total of 7189 6005 were “nominated” by
friends who undertook the responsibility of looking
after them “so that they shall not become a burden on
the State.” Another 77 came from countries other
than the U.K. During the year in which the main
construction was completed, one (1) assisted immigrant
arrived —a “nominated” female!
And now perhaps the State Government will
appoint a commission to go looking for those “18,000
migrants” who “certainly came to N.S.W.”
By Their Words ....
A Mr. Leslie Rees, an A.B.C. play-editor, wants
plays for the air, good Australian plays, dramas and
comedies and sketches with the Australian atmosphere
and plenty of “that close perception,” together with “the
curiously elusive ability to set it down in play form.”
But it isn’t sufficient to gather characters and plot
and then write your play. No fear! Mr. Rees insists that
you study the Australian for his district characteristics,
so that the moment your character speaks the listener
can instantly tell that he or she comes from the ’Loo,
from the Alice, or from the Footscray Alps.
The job shouldn’t be difficult. For instance, in a
detective play the dialogue could go something like this:
The D.: Gotcha, Slipper Sam!
5.5. : Go an’ get work, y’ big slob!
The D.: Ar, a Queenslander, eh ?
5.5. (startled): H-how did y’ know that?
The D.: Easy. It’s a favorite Queensland remark.
Or, if your play is a romance, you could have the two
girls discussing a newcomer:
Esme: I think he’s an awful thrill and I’m certain
he’s got what it takes.
Daphne: But, darling, have you seen his eyes!
Rather sinister, I thought. Like Basil Rathbone’s.
Your listeners will readily recognise the girls as natives
of the Gumbowie Ranges, especially if both the voices
are slightly husky—a quality peculiar to the Gum-
bowies because of the wattle-blossom there.
Then think what you could do with the hero.
Every ear is bent to the radio set as he comes on:
Hero: Strike me fat, you blokes give me the
willies. All y’ can mag about is sheilahs and neddies.
Well, not f’r mine; beer’ll do me.
And the listeners at once visualise a tall, rangy Kan-
garoo Islander just in from going round the kan-
garoo traps. If you wish to convey that he is from
Cooktown, North Queensland, you simply have him
say something like this:
Hero: Strike me fat, you blokes gimme the willies
All y’ can mag about is sheilahs and neddies. Well,
not f’r mine; beer’ll do me.
Careful listeners will at once see the difference between
“give me” and “gimme” and mark their man by it.
Thus it will be seen that the opportunities for distin-
guishing your Australian characters by their local
dialect and district types are unlimited.
Every native playwright should be thankful to
Mr. Rees, especially as he belongs to A.B.C.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“You've already won ten thousand piastres, sir. Stand back and let some others have a go."
“Jamwood”: Verdicts in accident-com-
pensation cases have long been a source
of brooding melancholy to an insurance
pal of mine. He seemed happy when
I met him last week. Over two beers he
produced a newspaper report of an action
in which a trench worker had been
awarded £5500 damages against the Syd-
ney Water Board for the consequences of
a fall of earth, which, according to
medical evidence, had caused injuries to
the spinal cord, paralysis of part of the
body and what those intriguing advertise-
ments call “loss of virility”—all probably
lifelong. After two appeals a new trial was
ordered, and the victim appeared in court
in the uniform of the R.A.A.F., having
been passed as fit 15 months after he had
been awarded the £5500. The second jury
fixed damages at £450, less £lOO compen-
sation, with £25 medical expenses. The
original claim had been for £15,000. My
insurance pal ordered two more beers.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Announcers and commenta-
tors will be glad when the battle in
Albania moves beyond Argyrokastron or
Argyrokastro. It is spelt both ways, and
in the Italian form alone it is pronounced
at least seven ways—Arjeerokas-tro,
Argheerokas-tro, Arguyrokas-tro, Arjee-,
Arghee- and Arguyro-kastro and Arghee-
rok-astro. I suppose the last is right.
Anyway, the chap who gave it that pro-
nunciation was most positive about it.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: One way and another,
the running on a reef near Barwon
Heads (Vic.) of the inter-State liner
Orungal has cost the country a lot of
money. Being close inshore, she was a
great attraction to sightseers, and each
successive week-end has seen a jam of
traffic extending from Geelong to the
Barwon. At a conservative estimate
£lO,OOO was spent every week-end on
petrol by the crawling procession of cars
that surged in her direction. Then,
almost on the eve of an attempt to refloat
her, there was a series of explosions, the
crew and other persons, to the number of
60, took to the boats, two being injured,
and the ship became a blazing torch
which burnt long enough to provide an-
other prolonged spectacle for the sen-
sationally-minded. Value of ship and her
2000 tons of cargo is estimated at half
a million. Latest indications are that the
gutted hull, lightened by the conflagration,
may float off on its own and become a
fresh problem for the salvagers.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Despite the fact that most
of Australia’s leading musicians have
come from more or less isolated country
centres, the superstition persists that to
become anything in any art you have
to enjoy the advantages of city residence.
An examiner was putting music students
through their paces in a township 200
miles from Melbourne, and a girl, a
violinist, attracted his attention by her
remarkably mature playing. “Where did
you learn to snap your fingers down like
that?” he asked her. “From your local
teacher?” “Not on your life,” the girl
replied. “I saw Menuhin do it in a news
reel at the pictures.” “And who taught
you to tackle that difficult phrase so con-
fidently?” “Heifetz, in a recording I
heard on the wireless.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Strict Veg.’s” par. about
the Number of the Beast in Revelations
being fastened on Hitler by some Melb.
“Argus” contributor (B. 18/12/’4O) re-
minds me of a delightful passage in the
Life and Letters of Macaulay. Here it is :
Alighting at a bungalow at Mysore in
India I found an Englishman who, with-
out any preface, accosted me thus: “Pray,
Mr. Macaulay, do you not think that
Buonaparte was the Beast?” “No, sir, I
cannot say that I do.” “Sir, he was the
Beast. 1 can prove it. I have found
the number 666 in his name written in
Arabic. Why, sir, if he was not the
Beast, who was?” This was a puzzling
question and I am not a little vain of my
answer. “Sir,” said I,” the House of Com-
mons is the Beast. There are 658 members
of the House; and these, with their chief
officers—the three clerks, the sergeant and
his deputy, the chaplain, the doorkeeper
and the librarian —make 666.” “Well, sir,
that is strange.”
The colloquy apparently ended without
the inquirer suspecting that his leg was
being pulled.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The longest piece of litigation
in Victorian history, exceeding the suits
of the persistent Rupert Millane, was
brought a stage further by the issue of a
Bankruptcy Court gaol order against
Catherine Frances Currey, an elderly
spinster who lives with her sister in a
tiny cottage at Winton, through execu-
tion was suspended. The struggle
began 60 years ago when Miss Currey’s
father started the feud with a writ
for £lB,OOO against the shire and
was awarded £2O. The family has main-
tained the legal warfare off and on ever
since, the last offensive occupying a fort-
night of the Wangaratta Supreme Court’s
time last year. Millane’s contest with
the Crown began with his trying to build
a house of kerosene-tins contrary to the
regulations of the Ivanhoe Shire Council,
and culminated in his pegging out a
claim in Queen-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: News of the sinking
by enemy gunfire of the Finnish barque
Killoran off the Canaries has some in-
terest for Australia. Prettiest and small-
est of the 14 square-riggers left afloat at
the outbreak of war, last year the three-
master was delayed in clearing Port Lin-
coln (S.A.) till mid-July, when all her
rivals in the grain race were home.
Months later she got her first news of
hostilities from a British destroyer in the
North Atlantic before, 136 days out, she
reached Belfast. Built at Troon for
Glasgow owners, she joined the Erikson
fleet in ’24. Her career was uneventful
until 1927 ; then, on a voyage from New-
castle (N.S.W.) to Callao, a heavy sea
swept lifeboat, wheel and helmsman over-
board, she broached-to and her cargo
shifting threw her on her beam-ends. Last
winter in Port Lincoln both her officers
contracted appendicitis ; then the skipper
got it. He was carried aboard to enable
the barque to sail.
* # * *
“C. 8.”: Latest addition to Mel-
bourne’s picture theatres is the St.
James’s, which used to be the Apollo and
before that was the Palace. The St.
James’s has been remodelled and becomes
one of the “units” of the Fuller circuit.
It always led a precarious existence as a
legitimate theatre, its greatest run of
luck being when Nellie Bramley turned a
failing season into a boom that lasted for
a twelvemonth. As one who attended
pretty well every one of the shows there
over the past two decades, I can safely
say that it is never likely to find a niche
in the history of the art of the drama,
but it may in the history of painting. Max
Meldrum had his second and most suc-
cessful school there, up above the pros-
cenium, and his pupils were frequently
asked by the management below to stop
walking up and down, as their pacing to
and fro in front of their easels disturbed
the stage proceedings.
* * * *
“Rudolph von Mordio”: “Ein feste
Burg ist unser Gott” (B. 18/12/’4O) was
written by Luther in 1529 for the
Diet of Augsburg when the princes of
Germany stood up against the Em-
peror Charles V’s interference with
their freedom and religious beliefs, thus
bringing the word Protestant into exist-
tence. It has always been in Germany a
hymn for use in moments of dire tribu-
lation, and early prints of it used to carry
at their head the first words of the 46th
Psalm, which begins “God is our refuge
and our strength, a very present help in
trouble....” The singing of it after
Hitler’s speech is a striking example of
the atavistic way in which peoples turn
to the old things and the old beliefs
when trouble really strikes them, but it
must have sounded queer to hear Protes-
tant verses beefed out in honor of a
man whose extreme followers glory in
their paganism, but who in Wer’s Ist, the
German Who’s Who, still calls himself
“Catholic.” Especially when he has put
so many Lutheran pastors in gaol, and
when Catholics make common cause with
adherents of other churches in denounc-
ing him and his system.
* * * *
“Hamer”: When “the Golding sisters”
—invariably so called —were at the zenith
of their militancy in the cause of woman-
hood suffrage in N.S.W., a sardonic young
man made a tally at a debate ; by his
reckoning Belle Golding (who has just
died) interjected 145 times and sister
Annie 52 times while opponents were
speaking. That quaint identity of the
period “the Only Jones” (he stood
for Parliament a hatful of times as
“the only Independent Candidate”
and never scored more than a few
votes, once only three), who frothed
at the mouth when votes for women was
mentioned, was hurled out of the hall,
having been warned after 37 interjec-
tions ; his rate of interjection beat Belle
Golding’s easily. But then he was a man.
* * * *
“Jefferson Q. Bozo”: Uncle Sam is get-
ting more laughs out of his new con-
scription law than countries nearer the
fighting zone could. The first name
drawn on the N.Y. draft turned
out to be that of a Chinaman
with scarcely any English. The first
of Chicago’s four millions was another
Chinaman. A radio circuit gathered the
pair together before a microphone and
left them to interview each other. “You
soldier?” asked N’Yark’s nominee tenta-
tively. “Me soldier,” replied Chicago’s
Yellow Hope brightly. Then they essayed
to speak to each other in Chinese, and
it was discovered that they spoke dif-
ferent dialects. Drill sergeants in U.S.A.
are in for a tough time during the next
year or two, but fortunately most drill
sergeants can make themselves under-
stood universally.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Several promising young
painters who have won travelling scholar-
ships are waiting for conditions to change
in Europe before they can go there and
study. They bewail their fate, but I am
inclined to think that they are not as
unlucky as they think they are. They
all go to Paris. A middle-aged American
artist who had been attending Julien’s
academy for ten years told me that he
had learnt absolutely nothing. “Every
morning,” he said, “I set out with the
best intentions to do a good day’s work.
Then I can’t help suggesting to my model
that a glass of wine wouldn’t do us any
harm before starting. After that —well,
I love French cafes.” He hadn’t set a
brush to canvas during all those ten years.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Until I read
the advice of Dr. Besancon, an 80-year-old
French longevity specialist, on how to
live to a great age, I had regarded the
whole doctoring tribe as a gang of narks.
“Don’t drink water,” says the dear old
doc. “Drink wine instead. Don’t take
baths every morning, particularly in
winter. Don’t take exercise—make no
effort at all. Soberness never made any-
one live long. Nor did starving. Eat
plenty of whatever you like. Smoking is
harmless except in rare cases. Many
people drink tea at five o’clock —I prefer
whisky, and it is better for old people.”
I hope sincerely that the wise old bird got
out ahead of the Germans and is still able
to live up to his own valuable advice.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Investigation of a persistent
recurrence of malaria in New York since
1932 has yielded some surprising results.
Anopheline mosquitoes occur there, but
only in small numbers, and none ex-
amined showed malarial parasites. Ex-
amination of 200 human cases and more
than 100 post-mortems proved the exist-
ence amongst them of all three species
of the parasite, and even the occurrence
of blackwater fever. It soon became
apparent that every malarial case investi-
gated was also a drug addict, heroin
being the usual narcotic employed. The
usual addict-method of administration
is by injection into a vein, and State laws
permit the arrest of known addicts found
in possession of hypodermic syringes.
Groups of them had organised a system
of pooling their money to buy a supply
of the drug and to use one syringe in
common. To make sure that the needle
is in a vein a little blood has to be
drawn back into the syringe barrel at
each injection, and if that blood should
contain malarial parasites and the syringe
is not sterilised succeeding users are liable
to be infected. The parasites then con-
tinue through their intermediate stages of
life history in the blood of the new host.
This method of transmission was first
recognised in Cairo in 1929, and many
of the New York addicts were sailors or
persons who had lived in malarial places.
AT MARBLE BAR.
“At Marble Bar (W.A.) the mean maximum tem-
perature for the first eight days of December was
llOdeg. Nineteen years, ago the mercury climbed
above lOOdeg. for over 100 days.”
On scorching wastes, ’neath skies aflame,
Where miners toil on lease and claim,
It bears a rather pleasant name,
And yet it’s far
From being quite the sort of spot
Where you would choose to have your lot;
Statistics show no place so hot
As Marble Bar.
For half a century and more
Stout hearts have labored to explore
And wrest from earth its aureate store,
To pit and scar
The barren soil with trench and shaft
And rake the gullies fore and aft;
And still determinedly they graft
At Marble Bar.
Ere Bayley bridged a yawning gap
To put Coolgardie on the map,
Or Paddy Hannan came to tap
The golden jar
That lay beneath Kalgoorlie’s feet,
Men chased the ’weight, o’ nights to meet
By tent and shack to curse the heat
At Marble Bar.
And those who’ve followed in their wake,
I wish them many a lucky break,
With Christmas pots their thirsts to slake,
Where’er they are.
Though sore their trials, I wonder could
Beer ever taste one half as good
As in the grilling neighborhood
Of Marble Bar.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“D.E.”: Of course Noel Coward
couldn’t leave Australia without writing
a song. He had to try to live up to the
expectations of the elite, which assured
him that he was another Gilbert. The
first spasm follows:
Wake up! Forget your dreams,
For it seems
We’re living in a changing world.
We know the past is dead.
Far ahead
Our challenge to the gods is hurled.
Trumpets blow; there’s always a star beyond a
star.
Courage travels far and your hearth is where
you are;
Don’t cry. Love never does realise
We’re living in a changing world.
There is another “don’t” for dowagers
and flappers of both sexes:
Don’t keep your eager mind
Too refined
And permanently waved and curled.
Think of it —
This strange unexplainable parade.
Dreams are doomed to fade
In a world we never made.
Farewell to flaming youth.
Face the truth.
We’re living in a changing world.
What a thing it is to have a literary repu-
tation among the half-educated!
“Si Anu”: Interesting to observe the
differences between English literary gents
who have graced this country with their
presence. Noel Coward answered ques-
tions with wisecracks or evasions. Press-
men who interviewed Kipling found
themselves answering questions instead of
asking them. Somerset Maugham passed
through Sydney without any newshound
becoming aware of his presence, and no-
body seems to know what he did with
himself while he was there. D. H. Law-
rence mixed with all classes of people,
read The Bulletin, with particular refer-
ence to the “Aboriginalities” page, and
wrote Kangaroo out of his experiences.
Being Poet Laureate and the guest of
the Melbourne Centenary Committee,
Masefield was the most conventional. He
stayed at the University with a Doctor
of Divinity, delivered an oration at the
Town Hall on Shakspeare, wrote a poem
on the Shrine of Remembrance that any-
body could have written and associated
only with officials. It would be easy to
decide which of them were most inter-
ested in us and which were most inter-
ested in their own greatness.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: In a Victorian country dis-
trict a young man was injured in a road
accident and taken to the public hospital.
Next day the parents went to the city,
leaving three daughters at home. The
hospital rang the house and told the
eldest daughter that the boy had to be
operated on immediately, and asked
where it could get in touch with the
parents. An hour or so later the daugh-
ter rang the hospital, and was informed
that her brother was still in the operat-
ing theatre. She hung up the receiver
and instantly the ’phone rang again. It
was an undertaker, offering his services.
* * * *
“Burra” mourns a once-posh locality:
Announcement that the Commonwealth in-
tends resuming 10 acres of land in Wylde-
street, Potts Point, Sydney, marks the com-
mencement of yet another inroad into this his-
toric area. Of the old mansions in the neigh-
borhood only Fairhaven and Wyldefel (for-
merly Wildfell) probably will be demolished.
Potts Point used to be most exclusive.
Among the fine homes thereabouts were Gran-
thamville (more recently Dangar Castle, now
demolished to make way for flats), Roslyn Hall,
Larbert and Orwell House—now the site of the
Minerva Theatre. Among the old houses still
standing are Tusculum, Barncleuth, Bomera,
Maranamah, Springfield House, Chcverells,
Tarmons, Elizabeth Bay House and Rock-
wall. Macleay-street is named after Alexander
Macleay, former owner of Elizabeth Bay House.
Wylde-street commemorates Judge-Advocate
Wylde. Tarmons was the home of Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Phillip O’Connell, commander of the
colony’s forces from 1838 to 1847; it now
forms part of the St. Vincent’s Convent build-
ings. Potts Point got its name from banking
magnate J. H. Potts, of the ’Wales; before that
it was called Point Campbell or the native name
Carrageen.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Gilbert died too soon.
Wonthaggi, the pampered Victorian
State mining enterprise which has been
running at a loss for donkey’s years, has
been provided with a remodelled pitcher
theatre. McKenzie, the member, was
invited to open it, but the miners’ union
interposed a veto; Williams, its presi-
dent, would open it or it would
remain unopened. After a period
of deadlock miners and their wives
became restive at not being allowed to
cock their eye at Deanna Durbin, and
presently it was announced that both
Mr. Williams and Mr. McKenzie would
open the new centre of Wonthaggian cul-
ture, and to make the ceremony abso-
lutely binding would repeat it three times
on successive days.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” contemplates China:
“The story of Sun Yat-sen is the history of
modern China, the history of democracy in
Asia,” said Dr. C. J. Pao, Consul-General for the
Celestial Republic, at a Melbourne celebration.
1 wonder what the little bullet-headed revolu-
tionary would think of the China he created.
One half of it is ruled over by a party politician
who is a puppet for the traditional enemy,
Nippon. The other half is under the military
dictatorship of Chiang Kai-shek. The experi-
ment in Parliamentary government when poli-
ticians threw inkbottles at one another at
"This is how tough things are. Got t wear the kids’ Christmas stockings.”
“Christians, a-Wake! Sa-loot the hap-py morn!”
Peking on the Western model has been for-
gotten, though the Chinese people are still
paying the interest on the foreign loans those
politicians squandered. The ancient arts and
crafts of the country have practically vanished,
and the craftsmen are in foreign and native
factories making pots and pans and tooth-
brushes for export, or munitions to hurl at the
invader. It might be said that they are still
fighting for the dream of universal brother-
hood that Sun envisaged, but in the process
they are making themselves into a nation of
businessmen and soldiers as like the Japanese
as it is possible to imagine. Yet the sincerity
and self-abnegation of Sun were undoubted.
When I was in Shanghai he was publishing his
red-hot “Republican” with the emissaries of
the Peking Government throwing bombs through
the editorial windows. There was scarcely a
minute of his life when he was not in danger;
even in London the Chinese Embassy
kidnapped him and would have got him out of
the country if the British Foreign Office hadn’t
stopped it. But few of his followers were
like him.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: There is a telephone booth
at the corner of our street. The local
drunk got off the bus one night, drifted
to the gate of his home, hung there a
moment or two, then turned and made
for the booth. “Knew I forgot to ring
the missus,” he muttered, grabbing the
’phone. Then he paused, thought hard
for the number and dialled.' A minute or
two later his wife hurried down to the
booth. When she got him out of
it he stared at her for a moment, then
said, “Goodnesh, so I’m home after all?
Y’ know, dear, I thought I wash ringin’
you up. Silly of me.” She didn’t say
anything, and they headed for home. At
the gate he stopped and looked at her.
“But I did ring shomebody, an’ shome-
body answered.” “Yes,” said his wife,
“it was me.” Another pause, then look-
ing at her doubtfully he said, “By cripesh,
you’ve got a nice voice.” Another pause
while he thought hard. “Nice voish,” he
added, shaking his head ; “gotter a darn
goo’ min’ t’ ring y’ up again.” Wearily
she led him inside.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Good people were horrified
when it came out in evidence at an in-
quest that an operation wound had been
flyblown during treatment in the Brisbane
General Hospital, and that the patient
had died a few days after maggots had
been found in the dressings. The actual
flyblowing suggests carelessness some-
where, but its results would be not only
harmless but probably actually beneficial.
Study of large numbers of flyblown
wounds during the last war evolved a
method of treatment by introduction of
fly larvae which not only
cleaned deep ragged wounds
of fragments of dead tissue
but excreted substances which
stimulated actively the pro-
cess of natural repair. Ex-
tracts of larvae were subse-
quently used with equally
good healing results. Forty-
odd years ago, fresh from a
severely aseptic training in
surgery, I was astounded to
see the recoveries made by
Portuguese soldiers who had
been chopped up by a Zulu
war party outside Lourenqo
Marques from wounds which
had been alive with maggots
for days before they were
brought in. An article on
the subject was subsequently
refused with contumely by an Australian
medical periodical of the day, and its
distinguished editor gave me a telling-off
for trying to play unseemly jokes on a
scientific journal of repute.
* ❖ * *
“Uramao”: A Maorilander has re-
ceived a queer account from the Defence
Department, which was approved by the
Minister of Defence. The man is a fisher-
man, and he approached quite unwit-
tingly too near the coastal defences. He
received notice of his infraction of the
law when a shot dropped perilously near
his launch. The fisherman, in alarm, stood
not on the order of his going, but went
for his life. Presently he received a cold
and formal request for £2 3s. Id., the
cost of the shot. The fisherman says
it was bad enough to be shot at, but to
be called on to pay for the shot intended
to blow him to smithereens is a bit too
thick.
* * * *
“Stanski”: Ah! Life is good now for
us Russkis, tovarisch! Must not the poor
capitalist-shackled slaves of other coun-
tries envy us the amenities that Comrade
Stalin has vouchsafed us? Only last week
he conferred on us the privilege of work-
ing longer hours for the State, and by
reducing our hours of relaxation relieved
the tedium of staring into space and
meditating too long on death and its
horrors. And by reducing our wages by
60 roubles a month he has saved us from
that terrible vice practised by the unen-
lightened Anglo-Saxon toilers of backing
horses with their spare cash. Anna tells
me, too, that she need wait now only
five hours in the bread queues, and only
yesterday I got a pair of secpnd-hand
socks at the State stores for only 550
roubles! My heart swells with pity for
those Englanders who must go sockless
while chained to their work benches. And
now our Soviet Dental Clinics are to
anaesthetise teeth with table salt! Won’t
it be marvellous? No more sitting fiercely
clasping the chair with sweating palms
while the Collectivist dentist pulls them
out with cold steel. Truly, Comrade
Stalin has made of our country a
Workers’ Paradise. If only the toilers of
other countries could share these
miracles!
* * * *
“P.S.”: Trust the Yanks to find an-
other word for it. According to New
York “Herald-Tribune”: “J. B. Priestley,
English author and playwright, radiocast
a story....” They must think “broad-
cast” is now too, too English.
* # * *
“Pawang”: The death in London at
62 of Dr. Caleb William Saleeby re-
moves a man whose works on eugenics
were bibles to a former generation. The
word was first used by Sir Francis Galton
in 1883. Attempts have been made
to carry out eugenical experiments by
isolating pairs of individuals, but the
only experiment I know of which came
to any degree of completeness was acci-
dental. Three hundred years ago a
number of Dutch soldiers were left and
forgotten on an island near Timor. They
intermarried with the natives and re-
mained completely cut off from the world
until the present century. Their descend-
ants were found to be above the average
in physique, intelligence and industry.
WISHFUL THINKING.
Forbear to trust, when you review
Events today transpiring,
That what the morrow holds for you
Is what you’re most desiring.
Beware, in short —how oft the phrase
Into our ears is sinking
Since Hitler set the world ablaze —
Beware of wishful thinking!
What was it left us, d’you suppose,
Sufficiently deluded
To deem that wars would ever close
When peace had been concluded,
Or that Dictators’ words were worth
The paper and the inking
Employed? Why, surely, naught on earth
Bar only wishful thinking.
When racecourse programmes you begin
To take in hand and con them,
Beware of nags you’re bound will win
Because your money’s on them!
And when on Parliament you’re set .
And hear, ’mid glasses clinking,
Tall tales of votes you’re bound to get,
Beware of wishful thinking!
Bold lover, hugging the idea
In conquering he-man fashion,
Some Lalage or Dulcinea
Reciprocates your passion,
Hold hard! The maid may be bespoke
With whom you’d fain be linking
Your lot by some more handsome bloke
Beware of wishful thinking!
And, brother, when your pen has scrolled
Some lilt you fondly cherish,
Some flight of fancy that you hold
A deal too fine to perish,
To take the usual chance you’ve got—
No use the fact in blinking—
Your offering may hit the spot
Or in the basket’s maw be shot.
Beware of wishful thinking!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


8880
10 for lOd.
20 for 1/8
50 for 4/2
100 for 8/4
CRAVENA
Klliiiiiiiliiiiiichi smoother
Tty—*
M
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS an
mg?
mm
•ox •
POLITICAL POINTS
After kites had been flown to see how
the public would take to the idea of
Mr. Percy Spender visiting Egypt to
satisfy himself that the A.I.F. was really
equipped for war, a regular gale
blew up. While it raged, Percy, now
extremely agitated, scrawled some sen-
tences to the effect that “there is no doubt
of the quality and extent of the A.l.F.’s
equipment the whole force is fully
equipped, possessing great striking
power.” Which should mean that there
will be no pilgrimage for Percy.
Dedman, M.H.R., blithering:
A strong case can be made out for the
raising of loans externally, particularly in
the United States.
Queensland has a 7 p.c. loan falling due
in October, 1941. When the Queensland
Auditor-General last considered the
matter $8,783,500 was “repayable in New
York.” Dedman should try to work out
what that means in pounds Australian at
the present rate of exchange.
Before Tas. Assembly retired for the
season, a motion imploring Eire to be-
come an active ally of Britain was passed
at the instance of Premier Cosgrove.
Himself of Irish origin, he lost a son in
the R.A.F., and his Treasurer, Dwyer
Gray, who supported him eloquently, was
an Irish Nationalist (editor of “Freeman s
Journal” in Parnell’s time) and the son
and grandson of Irish Nationalists. The
third speaker was Opposition-leader
Baker, who was a Digger. The thing
may not move De Valera, but as an
earnest statement of what Irish-Austra-
lians think and feel it can scarcely be
ignored by him altogether.
It is improbable that the queer U.C.P.-
Labor alliance will last many more
months in Victoria. Tearing into Hogan,
Dunstan’s Minister of Agriculture, on the
last day of the session, Cain said “I
have been dictating to the Government,
of which he has been a very humble and
silent member, for five years.” “Did
you say you had been dictating to this
Government?” asked Dunstan testily. “I
have been insisting on the Government
being reasonable,” quoth Cain, weakening.
“I won’t accept your statement that you
have dictated to the Government,” re-
torted Dunstan. “It looks as if we are
going to have a happy New Year,” inter-
posed Hollway, the U.A.P. leader. And
it may be a happy New Year for Holl-
way.
Cain, who gets a special salary for
being leader of the third party in the
Victorian Assembly, remarked at the
end of the year’s “work” that “the
session has been an easy one, for we
have met on only two days a week.”
War-time sessions of State Parliaments
have been “easy” for all State politicians,
but dashed hard for the taxpayers.
A Great Daily’s footnote to history:
Swan only once went Labor, and then
only for a few months. That was during
the storm of protest which followed the
announcement of a peerage for the late
“Bigjohn” Forrest, who sat in the House
for Swan.
Forrest got his peerage in February, 1918,
and died in September, 1918. There was
never any “storm of protest” nor would
the seat have been lost that year had pref-
erential voting prevailed ; Corboy fluked
it for Labor with 6540 out of 19,034 effec-
tive votes polled. In 1919 he was un-
seated by Prowse, and Prowse has been
the member ever since, though at the
1922 redistribution the name of the elec-
torate was changed to Forrest, Gregory’s
electorate of Dampier, established in
1912, becoming Swan. Gregory had to
thank Forrest for his Dampier nomina-
tion, and he never represented more than
a few subdivisions of the electorate that
his patron knew as Swan.
To Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R., “the
most disturbing feature of the recent
caricatures of debate in the House at
Canberra” was “the sudden and incom-
prehensible rising of the wave of hysteria
that swept exhausted members into a
meaningless and fruitless session in
camera.” That was unusual, but “pro-
longed and all-night sittings as a means
of getting a stupefied and unreal assent
to proposals which are likely to be un-
popular” are customary.
At the beginning of a session, time is no
object. At the end work is piled on and
controversial measures appear almost at
the last moment. Anxious to get away,
members acquiesce in these matters. If I
represented Tasmania or Westralia I might
feel the same.
But why shouldn’t members from all
States do a good job when the money
is so good?
Safe in recess, and with nothing to do
till Easter except rock it into the enemy
“I’ll see what I can do for you next year, Jahn; but in the meantime”
and give the Commonwealth Govern-
ment copious advice as to how to run
the war, Mair, the Sydney Premier (“with-
out portfolio”), gave it out that aboli-
tion of State Parliaments “would not
reduce the number of public servants in
N.S.W.” He thought it would once, but
he doesn’t think so now that he is
Premier (“without portfolio”). In other
words, with Parliament and Government
House abolished and overlapping depart-
ments transferred to the Common-
wealth, taxgatherers, “Hansard” re-
porters, printers, Government House and
refreshment-room staffs, Ministers’ secre-
taries (and secretaries’ secretaries), chauf-
feurs, attendants and messengers w'ould
be as numerous as they are now. Mair
is the clumsiest of bluffers.
The Sydney Premier, trying to prove
how necessary State Parliaments are, said
“The Departments of Lands and Agricul-
ture, so vital for the well-being of the
rural industries, are indispensable.” Does
he seriously suggest that neither could
be administered by the Commonwealth?
If so, he should look into the American
system of agricultural administration,
which is Federal and which has earned
the applause of the world in its solution
of the soil-erosion problem alone. State
handling of soil loss in Australia is a
tragic farce.
Sales of certain foodstuffs have been
cut by half in Russia. According to
A.A.P. messages, this is due not to
scarcity, but is a precaution against the
possibility of Russia being drawn into the
war. The country imports little or no
foodstuffs, and suffers from a chronic
shortage under “the workers’ Govern-
ment” ; but any excuse is better than
none.
Police administration and liquor-trad-
ing hours in N. S. Wales urgently require
investigation by the State Cabinet, “in
the opinion of many Ministerial mem-
bers.” They’ve been “urgently” requir-
ing that since 1935, and so long as the
present Mair’s nest continues to function
they’ll go on requiring it.
The Minister of Labor has been jeered
at by Communists, and the authorities
have ferreted out “a large-scale Commu-
nist campaign to take advantage of the
war by causing discontent among the
workers.” In Britain, of course, not in
Australia. Corns, wouldn’t do anything
like that here —they’re too high-minded.
The Adelaide Government, which re-
cently boasted that it had only 4000 un-
employed on its books, and whose State
(good luck to it!) has a £6,000,000 arma-
ments and shipbuilding programme
in progress, has had the gall to
put in for a Commonwealth grant of
£1,500,000 for 1941-42. It got £995,000
in 1939-40 and is getting £1,000,000 this
year, there being no George Turner at
Canberra to raise any objection. And
instead of laughing the claimant out of
court the superfluous Grants Commission
treated him with immense respect.
“Australian” Communists are champion
bus-missers. In September, 1939, before
Molotov and Dimitrov instructed them
to twist, they denounced the Nazis as
“midnight butchers and stranglers”
(Goring was “a drug-addict” and “a Fascist
beast of prey”) and insisted on Aus-
tralians rushing into the war for Poland.
In a surreptitious issue of their paper, the
“Tribune,” dated November 28, they re-
viled Churchill, the dead Chamberlain,
Curtin, Bevin, Lord Gowrie, Dr. Evatt
and even little Ward, and exulted in what
they call “the dire stress of British im-
perialists.”
It must be galling to the British imperial-
ists that Hitler regarded them as an easier
victim than Soviet Russia, and that, so far,
he has been correct.
Correct, eh? If these unspeakable
crawlers ever start their revolution in
Australia it will be sufficient to call out
the W.A.N.S.
From somewhere or other a proposal
got to the Victorian Council of Public
Education that scholarships should be
granted for sporting ability. Rightly,
the council threw it out. The thing is
common in America, largely among col-
leges which depend on football gates for
their revenue. The spectacle of a
Herculean youth barely able to spell his
own name but well able to bump another
off the ball winning a scholarship to
(say) Scots College would prove too
much even for football-mad Melbourne.
Hill, the member for Albany (W.A.),
wants a floating dock for that neglected
port; and, because it is a neglected port,
he has Buckley’s chance of getting one.
To increase his knowledge of neglected
and coddled ports, Hill recently visited
Port Stephens (N.S.W.), Newcastle and
Sydney. He came away with the convic-
tion that “the development of Newcastle
as a port, instead of Port Stephens, is
one of the three main port tragedies of
Australia.”
Menzies, speaking out of the fullness
of his heart to a gathering of Melbourne
Scots: —
A Prime Minister never gets a square
look at the people he is supposed to lead.
He is in the dock constantly. He looks
up and sees the Judge; and he knows that
Judges are cold and heartless beings. He
looks over the spikes and sees the jury;
and juries are queer cattle. The only
stage of the proceedings at which evidence
of good character is called is after the con-
viction.
In this case there has been no conviction
as yet, but a bit of evidence of character
is proffered in advance. Though some-
what too consciously superior and rather
deficient in energy, Robert Gordon
Menzies was guiltless of trying to bribe
large bodies of electors in his elec-
tion policy. And there have been very
few P.Ms. or State Premiers of whom
that could be said.
The Waipawa (M-L.) seat was Labor
for three years, 1935-38, but Christie, the
Labor member, then lost it to A. E. Jull,
whose majority was 446 in a poll of
9694. Jull having died recently, Christie
stood again, and lost again—to C. G. E.
Harker, whose majority, with some over-
seas soldiers’ votes outstanding, was 1656
in a poll of 7604. The Nats, are greatly
bucked.
Sunday-paper editors are not renowned
Tor modesty, but the most conceited
and cocksure member of the tribe is a
Londoner —John Gordon, of the “Sun-
day Express.” For weeks Mr. John
Gordon demanded the bombing of Rome
and Venice. The leaders of the fighting
services had other and better views, but
this did not prevent Mr. John Gordon
from parading his vanity and ignorance:
What is the lesson of this great vic-
tory in Egypt? It is a lesson I have been
trying to drive home since the evacuation
of Dunkirk. It’s the lesson that this great
nation is unbeatable when it goes into an
offensive against no matter what odds.
Leaving out soldiers sacrificed in past
wars —for example, at Walcheren, Storm-
berg, Magersfontein and the Tugela River
—hundreds of thousands of brave men fell
at Neuve Chapelle, Festubert, Aubers
Ridge, Loos, Hulluch, Krithia, Anzac,
Sanna-i-yat, Thiepval, Bullecourt, Cam-
brai and Passchendaele because they were
hurled into “an offensive against no
matter what odds.”


THE TWIST THAT DID IT.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Stree/
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
<0
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR TAXES AND TRADE—
What Will Be the Effects?
A Full Budget of Financial Developments
December Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEM S
It seems only a few weeks since Frank
Hurley was sitting in The Bulletin office
enthusing over Lightning Ridge opals
which he had just been photographing in
color with dazzling effects. He got to-
gether and trained a cine unit, took the
boys to Egypt and established himself
well enough to be out in front when the
gun went off for the big advance. Hurley
left all the “famous” correspondents
standing in his dash for the fighting,
which landed him well beyond Bug Bug.
He came back with plenty of tales of
adventures, with 20 Italians captured
with an empty rifle, and with what the
Commonwealth official correspondent
describes as “the biggest photographic
scoop of the war”—half a mile of film,
the only full pictorial record of the
advance. And Australia is to see it this
week.
Sydney can claim Hurley. He was
born in Sydney 50 years ago, and went
to its university. Some of the greatest
1917-18 war pictures were taken by him
and Hubert Wilkins.
Air Commodore W. H. Anderson,
in command of the Central Area,
R.A.A.F., is one of the select little band
Air Commodore W. H. ANDERSON.
of veterans who were with No. 1 Squad-
ron A.F.C. early in the 1914-18 war.
He was transferred to R.F.C. in
Egypt in 1916 because the A.F.C.
hadn’t a feather of its own to fly with ;
but he was soon with No. 3 Squadron
in France, which he later commanded,
and an encounter of his, along with
J. R. Bell, on Oct. 21, 1917, was the
squadron’s first in that country. The pair
held off two Albatrosses until a couple of
comrades rolled up and helped put the
enemy to flight. Some of Anderson’s
operations as a spotter over Messines
Ridge in the winter of the same year—
he combined them with accurate and
playful bombing—were uncanny. His
work in the R.A.A.F. since he returned
has been largely concerned with supply,
and he has shown himself as stout an
administrator as he was a fighting pilot.
Passed over at 53, in Jerusalem, Major
Allan Kingston Vickery, Australian
representative on the War Graves Com-
mission. He was born at Ararat (Vic.),
a son of S. K. Vickery, onetime Sur-
veyor-General of Victoria, and educated
at Caulfield Grammar. In 1915 he left
the London branch of the Bank of Aus-
tralasia to enlist in the A.1.F., and served
at H.Q. in Egypt. One of the two British
members of the Cemetery Boundary
Commission in Turkey, he resigned and
practised as an accountant in Sydney.
He returned to the Near East as super-
intendent of the Graves Commission in
Egypt, Syria and Palestine.
One of the pillars of strength for the
pipeline from the Murray to feed B.H.P.
industries at Whyalla has been George
Frederick Jenkins, chairman of the S.A.
Public Works Committee, pastoralist and,
president of Trots. A past-president of
the Graziers’ Federal Council, Jenkins
as a private member sponsored an
Alsatian Dog Bill to remove what he
regarded as a menace to the pastoral
industry. When Commissioner of Crown
Lands he piloted legislation giving pas-
toral lessees the extended leases they now
hold.
When the annual question arises as to
what Melbourne males should or should
not wear in summer, a sartorial authority
appealed to is always Fred Dennett,
Henry Buck’s managing director. Dennett
can give a touch of artistic feeling
even to a discussion on underpants.
He was born in Birmingham (Eng.),
and set out to be a musician. As a solo
pianist he toured the world and visited
Australia. Then he chucked the piano
for shirts and collars, and is now chair-
man of directors of half a dozen cos.
connected with man’s coverings. He
married a daughter of Henry Buck.
Returning to Australia after acting as
assistant to R. G. Casey, Prof. Frederick
Alexander, of the W.A. University’s
faculty of history. He was born at Blackflat
(Vic.), was educated at Melb. University
and Oxford, was a delegate to the League
of Nations when that institution was in
a stationary position, and has written a
mort of books on historical and political
subjects, his best-known being From Paris
to Locarno and After. He has been
sojourning in Roosevelt’s country as
Rockefeller Fellow, studying Australo-
American relations.
Winston Churchill’s favorite secretary is
his friend Brendan Bracken, who is even
redder of thatch than himself, as Irish
in temperament as De Valera and as
meteoric in his operations as only an
Australian can be. Bracken hailed from
Sydney, had most of his schooling there
and was then taken to England, where he
went to a public school. At 24 he was
director of the Royal Printers, Eyre
and Spottiswoode, and editor of the
“Banker,” and he went 01? from there to
become chairman of Financial News,
Ltd., and managing director of the influ-
ential “Economist.” In 1929, at 28, he
won the North Paddington seat in the
Commons as a Unionist. He is perhaps
the only Australian-born member of the
exclusive Brooks’s Club. Bracken and
Churchill have been inseparables for a
good many years.
Died recently in England, Charles
Henry Akroyd Stewart, engineer, aged
67. Born in Yorkshire, he spent much of
his life in Westralia and was one of the
first in the State to manufacture gas-
producers. With his brother Herbert he
had invented and developed the airless
injection compression engine today
known as the Diesel. The Akroyd
Stewart patent was operating in England
many years before the system was
adopted and further developed by a
German firm.
Dead at 59, Cr. R. J. Gilbertson, of
Essendon (Vic.), who is well remembered
in the airport municipality. Twice
Mayor, he gave a lead to other councils
by abolishing the annual feeding of the
already best-fed people and substituting
picnics for children. In 1939 his jollifica-
tion on Moonee Valley racecourse was
attended by 5600 youngsters. To cele-
brate the 25th anniversary of his wedding
he gave a bag of potatoes a week for
25 weeks to every unemployed person in
Essendon. He was a butcher, and was
chairman of the Victorian Master
Butchers’ Association for some years.
“Mackay”: I first got a glimmer that
there was sound stuff in Federal
Treasurer Fadden 22 years ago, at the
time of the big cyclone at Mackay. The
town was put under ration control, and
“Artie,” as he was and still is called, was
town clerk and had the organisation of
this work. Groups of families were living
together, and public halls were filled with
the homeless. To ration them with the
foodstuffs available in the town was no
easy job, but Artie made light of difficul-
ties, and his cheerful smile and capable
grasp of the situation helped the people
over a very trying time.
Frank Kenric Brodribb, who has died
at 71 in Brisbane, was a son of “Silver
King” Brodribb, whose pastoral property
of 50-odd years ago is now the site of
Broken Hill. Himself a pastoralist
(his last station was Kurrowah in the
Dalby, Queensland, district), F. K. Brod-
ribb was one of Australia’s most liberal
philanthropists ; although he shunned
publicity he gave large sums to deserving
cases and causes. Amongst the benefac-
tions which he could not well disguise as
mere trifles, according to his wont, were
the Brodribb Home for Old People,
which he founded and endowed, and the
handsome C. of E. St. Luke’s, which he
built, both in Toowoomba.
Thomas T. Hollway, elected unopposed
to the U.A.P. leadership in Victoria after
the passing of Stanley Argyle, at 34 is one
of the youngest members of the Vic. Leg.
Assembly, and at his election in 1932 was
the youngest member of any Australian
Parliament. Son of a man who was twice
Mayor of Ballarat, he was educated at
Ballarat Grammar, ended up as its dux,
went to Trinity College, Melb. Univer-
sity, and was called to the Bar in 1928.
He is one of the best debaters in the
T. T. HOLLWAY.
State House, and his party needs such aid,
for its membership is at the lowest ebb in
its history, partly because seven U. A.Ps. are
away on military duties. Before Hollway
took the plunge into the political hurly-
burly he gave a passing kiss to the Muses
when he collaborated with Hugh Mont-
gomery, a master at Ballarat Grammar,
and published The Moderns, a book of
criticism of the modern poets. But poli-
tics are his major interest.
Edward Wheewall Holden, of Adelaide
(he was born there), who has been
appointed Commonwealth Director of
Canteens, is a 55-year-old engineer who
got his training and his degree at Adel-
aide Uni. He went to work with his
dad, Henry Holden, later head of
Holdens’ Motor Body Builders, and when
E. W. HOLDEN.
that firm merged with General Motors in
1931 E. W. Holden became chairman of
directors. He is also on the boards of
the Bank of Adelaide and the Adel-
aide Cement Co. and is chairman of the
S.A. Brush Co. Had his apprenticeship to
public affairs as an Adelaide alderman,
and is now a Leg. Councillor. He plays
golf.
Theatregoers who have been admiring
the style of recent productions of Marie
Ney’s at the King’s, Melbourne, have
been looking at the handiwork of a
young Victorian producer, Alec Coppel.
Coppel went from Wesley College to
Cambridge to be a sawbones, altered his
mind and became an advertising expert,
and in his spare time tried his hand at
plays and film scenarios. He first hit
London’s fancy with “Short Circuit” at
the Arts Theatre. Then he wrote that
complicated thriller “I Killed the Count,”
which saw the limelight of two London
theatres, and has since puzzled the wits
of the groundlings in Holland, France,
America and Australia. He had a similar
success with the movies—one of his
scenarios was written for the Tasmanian
Merle Oberon.
Hector Crawford, the Melbourne-born
musician who lately distinguished him-
self by holding the first successful open-
air concert in the Botanical Gardens,
Melbourne, belongs to the younger
generation of local symphony conduc-
tors. Twelve months ago he founded the
Melbourne Conservatorium Orchestra
with the aim of creating a body which
could stand on its own feet, musically
and financially speaking. He succeeded
so well that a second orchestra has been
formed under Leo Collins.
“F.S.”: Kubelik outlived his reputa-
tion. At one time regarded as the world’s
greatest violinist, he made a fortune,
married, suffered a partial eclipse and
wasted his substance in buying medieval
castles. In 1914 he made a world tour,
visiting Australasia, where interviewers
discovered that he had no ascertainable
interests outside his fiddle. In an earlier
tour of Europe every capital went mad
about him. His accompanist at that time
was his fellow-Czech, Edward Goll, of
Melbourne. They teamed together for
120 consecutive concerts.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
rJt<£
nim 111
Ml im in
t „
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals _at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms on]y from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Explorers in the Antarctic have sometimes
seen black icebergs.”— “World’s News.
Yes, we know —with bright orange bull
seals basking on them.
•fa •fa *fa
When writing home to your wife it’s
waste of time to write on the lines. She 11
still read between ’em.
•I* **• "b
“After working for a few days on a road
gang he was discharged for (
The ganger didn’t catch him napping.
* * * *
Some people like to keep their cele-
bration until Christmas Day itself.
They’re all bottled up for it.
►I* 4* •I*
“Two sets of twins in U.S.A. bear the
remarkable Christian names of Pete and Repete
and Max and Climax.” — “World’s News.”
Then there’s the refugee restaurant-
owner who called his triplets Ham, Ham-
burg and Hamburger.
4* 4* 4« 4*
Home-boys at Heart.
“Two-gun Gene Autry, movie cowboy,
always kept one of the guns in his California
home for burglars.”— Sydney weekly.
A home for burglars is a good idea.
To make the inmates feel at ease they
should each be given a jemmy instead
of a door key. The burglars could then
enter the home by their own bedroom
windows, and the front door could be
permanently sealed up.
In place of a dinner gong a burglar
alarm should be sounded. This would
bring them to the table at a great pace.
After-dinner games would include throw-
ing darts at pictures of well-known night-
watchmen and cops. There would be
plenty of point to this game. As a signal
that it was bedtime a revolver could
be fired. They would all automatically
dive for cover.
The only trouble would be guarding
against the absent-minded burglar who
some night might break into the home,
clean it out and then come down to
breakfast next morning and skite about it.
Elm.
Never marry a telephone girl. She’ll
let you give her a ring and then she’ll just
ignore you.
*1* *2* *2*
“Auctioneer’s car hits light pole.”
—News item.
He was probably trying to knock it
down.
4* •!• •!•
“.The seat is the first part of a man’s
trousers that he goes through.”
— Woman’s paper.
The first part a woman goes through
is the pockets.
Ambition.
“Unique chests.”
— “S.M.H.” Women’s Supplement.
Her glory-chest is camphor-wood with
carvings from the East. The chest that
holds her letters cost a hundred quid at
least. Another for her silks came from
an Indian bazaar. She’s even got a silver
“ How’d this go on the missus , Steve ?”
chest that came from Zanzibar. Her
trinket-chest is ivory, inlaid with gold
and red.
But better far than all the rest she’d
much prefer a manly chest on which to
rest her head.
Elm.
•I*
“Wanted young lady for coke counter and
milk bar.” — “D.T.” ad.
Through the archway, madam, for
windmills and foundation garments.
•J* 4*
“Evidence was given that the man and his
wife wrote to each other while they lived in
the same house.” — “D.T.”
Played postman’s knock, so to speak.
<j> 4 1 4* 4*
“She heard that Baines had smashed the
furniture in her home, overturned the piano
and gas stove and torn a door from its hinges.
She determined to ask him why.”
— Woman’s paper.
Possibly he was annoyed about some-
thing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Arthur was jealous of her painting; some-
how she could not paint when he was about.
She had to give up one or the other.”
— Woman’s paper.
A complicated problem ! So
From Art for Art she had to part.
’Twas plain that one Art had to go
For interfering with her A rt.
H. M.
4< 4* 4* 4*
It’s a Pleasure!
“At a guest-house one is at least sure of
pleasant conversation and company.”
— Correspondent, woman’s paper.
Especially on the broad verandah,
where the hens collect after dinner and
snap up all the titbits of gossip.
“I tell you it was Miss Flighty I saw! ”
“You don’t say!”
“Yes. Said she was going to the pic-
tures last night, but she came in at three
this morning”
“Three a.m.?”
“Three a.m.! And her hair was all
untidy”
“Of course it was a windy night”
“She’s just a common hussy, I tell you.
She went to no pictures. They don’t
come out at 3 a.m.”
“Hush! She’s coming along now...
Why, good evening, Miss Flighty. You
look tired, dear. Do sit down and tell
us all about the picture you saw last
night.”
Meow.
“What will happen when the extent of Nazi
aims is fully realised?” — Radio commentator.
The world, no doubt, will turn on its
Axis.
4 1 4* 4*
“Hollywood has another economy wave.”
— “Argus.”
Some of the stars have even decided
to make their marital partners last
another year.
4* 4> 4
“Meat Scarcity in Germany.”
—News headline.
There’s still plenty of tripe in the
propaganda.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Before their marriage he told her he was a
journalist. He was actually a prison warder,
but he had been dismissed.” — “D.T.”
It’s Tougher Now.
“To qualify for her friendship young men
must be able to swim 50 yards in 29 seconds
or less.” — Blurb about “D.T.” Beach Girl of
the Week.
This tale they told in days of old:
A cunning cove, no plodding panter,
Put it across fleet Atalanta;
He merely rolled three lumps of gold,
And won the lady in a canter.
No theme now for romantic bards —
A soulless, blooming stopwatch wrecks
All stratagem ; the darn thing checks
The toiling swimmer’s fifty yards,
And counts him out at thirty secs.
P. M. L.
Here Bates, a superstitious man,
Reclines in peace. Poor cuss,
He walked around a ladder an’
Was knocked down by a bus!
SKEAN DHU.
Romance.
With sparkling eyes and heart beating
rapidly she read his letter. Then she
read it again—and yet again.
That passage about her lips—how
charmingly it was worded! And the
reference to the night they had gone on
that harbor cruise—“A glimpse of para-
dise in the desert of life... .golden
moments to be always remembered....”
Yes! He could certainly write beautiful
things!
At last, having read it several times,
she locked the treasured epistle up in a
casket on her dressing-table. Then she
smiled happily into the mirror. “My
word! ” she exclaimed. “I’ll bet he’ll pay
a bit to get that back!”
T. W. N.
To the Coventraitors.
“The Germans are facetiously talking of
‘coventrating’ other English towns.”
—Cable item.
You’ve coined, they say, a novel word
O’er all your land now daily heard.
To wit, “to coventrate.” ’Tis well devised,
No doubt, but what is to prevent
A counterpart of merriment
By us ? Suppose we should decide
That you must be “berlinified,”
Or “stettinated” or, say, “frankfurtised” ?
H. W.
Weavers.
“Woven yarn sets the pace. Stepping out
this summer.” — Women’s Supplement.
In woven yam she set the pace.
But ladies from the social whirl
Preferred (though never to her face )
The yarn they wove about the girl.
EVE.
Well, what’s the odds? This “screw” his
screw
Gained by reporting now and then.
At least this little bit was true:
He’d earned his living by the “pen.”
HAMER.
A Matter of Expense.
“Christmas, for most of us, is an expensive
time.” — Woman’s paper.
It was 8.45 p.m. Christmas Eve.
“Well, did you get everything?” asked
Euphemia.
For answer Claude Collarbone, loaded
to the Plimsoll with parcels, sagged like
a wet sock into a chair.
It took him nearly five minutes to
distribute the hillock of parcels about the
dining-room table. Suddenly Euphemia,
who had pounced on a grey paperbag
that he had held in a vicelike grip,
bounced up and eyed her spouse fero-
ciously.
“You ape!” she said scornfully. “A
woman can’t trust you to do a simple
thing like getting her hat out of the lay-
by but what you must bring it home
looking as if it’s been through the mangle!
How could I wear a thing like that to
Millie’s on Boxing Day? She’d think
I’d bought it at a fire sale!”
“But how could I help it, carrying all
these other”
“No, of course you couldn’t be
expected to be careful with such an un-
important thing as your wife’s new hat
when you had to make sure you didn’t
drop your precious two quarts of beer.
Anyway, did you get those cherries I
asked you to?”
“Yes, they’re in my pocket somewhere
... here they are.”
“That’s brilliant, I must say. You jam
two pounds of Black Margarets into the
pocket of a light grey suit on a hot day
like this, pushing your way in and out of
crowded shops and trams. Look at the
big blue stain on your coat! You’ll never
get that out now'. And every one of them
is squashed. I wonder do other women
marry halfwits! What did you pay for
them?”
“Eightpence a pound.”
“Eightpence! I suppose you paid
through the neck for the fowls, too.”
“No, I got a beautiful pair for fifteen
bob.”
“H’m! I know what you call beauti-
ful. I suppose they’re skinny things that
died of old age. Where are they?”
“Aren’t they on the table there?”
“No, they’re not. Are you sure you
didn’t leave them somewhere —it would
just be like you.”
A cold, sickly feeling crept up Claudels
vertebra and spread to his vitals. He
remembered putting them at his feet
while he was getting the balloons at
Bullworths’, but he was sure he had them
later when he was getting Nellie’s toy
sewing-machine. Suddenly he clicked his
fingers with a gesture of annoyance. “I
believe I left the damn’ things by the
counter as I was getting that tie for your
Uncle Jim, blast him!”
“That’s right, curse my relations just
because of your own forgetfulness. Well,
it’s too late to get them back now the
shops are closed. You’ll have to get them
somewhere tomorrow, and pay for them
out of your own pocket money. We
haven’t a scrap of
meat in the house.
I suppose you
forgot little
Johnny’s present,
too. I wouldn’t
put it past you.”
“Wouldn’t you!
Well, you’re
wrong there, old
girl. There it is
—just what he’s
wanting, a 8.8.
gun.”
“Just what you
would get a child
of six, instead
of a sensible
toy like a sub-
marine or a fire-engine or something he
couldn’t hurt himself with. Haven’t you
any brains at all? He’ll be blowing his
head off with that thing.”
“Don’t be silly! They’re harmless.
The salesman said a baby could handle
one safely. There’s a safety catch on it
and I won’t let him have any slugs. All
he’ll do is click the breech like this and
then pull the trigger like”
There was a sharp report, followed by
the clatter of falling glass as a slug from
the gun shattered the bevelled mirror in
the hall. Euphemia, on the verge of
hysteria, grabbed the weapon.
“There, look what you’ve done now,
you idiot. Seven years’ bad luck and
Johnny’s Christmas ruined, for he’s not
going to have that.”
“Well, how was I to know the goat
of a salesman had left a slug in it?”
“How were you to know! You
wouldn’t know if the washhouse fell on
you.”
On Boxing Night Claude made up
what he called his post-Christmas budget.
It ran thus:
New mirror . . .. ..£l5O
New suit . . .. .. 6 6 0
Fowl .. .. .. 0 8 6
New hat .. .. .. 19 11
Taxi, train fares to Millie’s 116
£lO 10 11
Claude thoroughly agrees that Christ-
mas can be an expensive time.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bogaduck”: “Shrewdest boss I ever
worked for,” said old Dan, “was Geoff
Buchanan. He had a real snorter of a
wife —one of those women with a pointed
nose and eyes like a coupla green goose-
berries ; you know the sort —just can’t
resist trying to boss everyone and every-
thing. But Geoff could manage her all
right. One day she goes crook at him
because he sticks to merinos instead of
goin’ in fer crossbreds and sellin’ fat
lambs like everyone else is doin’. Lots
of blokes would’ve argued, but not Geoff.
He gets a writing-pad, a pencil and some
catalogues, and sits down to do some
figuring. After a time he asks his missus
if she’d like a trip to the town next
day. ‘Got to see the bank manager,’ he
explained, ‘and arrange to borrow about
six hundred quid to put my fences in
order. They’re good enough for merinos,
but you need something better than what
I’ve got to keep crossbreds in the pad-
dock. I’ll need Cyclone by the mile, a
whole lot of new metal gates ; and I’ll
have to see if old Watty Barret can come
along and split a few thousand new
posts for me. I’ll also want a coupla
extra men to put up the new fences’
Geoff didn’t go in fer crossbreds. His
missus talked him out of it.”
* * * *
“Murlonga”: According to “Clinton
Cape” (B. 4/12/ ’4O) poultry with Binghi
means anything in feathers. Well, there’s
one fowl the abos. along the Georgina
(Q.) won’t have on. They’ll tear into
anything else, that flies, and bush rats are
as oysters to them. But the kite-hawk,
though one of the commonest birds in
the back country, is regarded by them as
a Moslem looks on pig.
* * * *
“Brig.”: In this s.-w. Q’land district
what sheep that are left walking are liv-
ing skeletons. The inevitable insurance
salesman of the chatty type called on
old Mac the other day, and, following
the idea of praising Mac’s stock to win
his heart, said breezily “My word, those
wethers of yours look well, Mr. Mac. As
I was driving along a few of them ran in
front of the car and they look very fit.
They were just jumping with condition,
and moving very fast.” “Yes,” said Mac
wearily; “I know. With their manes
waving in the breeze.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The prevalence of strikes
against the price of beer just now
reminds me of a strike against a pub
at Hamley Bridge (S.A.), the only town
I know of where two pubs ever stood
next-door to each other. Their boarders
consisted mainly of transhippers working
on the local railway station, and one
publican’s missus thought she had done
something when she bought a couple
of dozen cases of plums from a local
orchardist cheap. She had. After a week
of plums—stewed, hot, cold, as pie and
compote—for dessert, the boys hated the
sight of the things, and a deputation re-
quested a change. It was curtly informed
that the plums had been bought and paid
for and would have to be eaten. There
was nothing much to be done, there being
no other accommodation in the town,
and the transhippers worked, ate and
drank for a few more days haunted by
the taste, smell and vision of plums. It
got so that men unloading trucks of
fruit would scream if plums were in the
consignment. Some of the more indepen-
dent bought tinned peaches, others tried
to do without fruit—a disastrous practice
when working all hours and handling
such things as ore, sulphur and fertiliser.
Then came the brain-wave. The boys
decided to drink next door. The spec-
tacle of his boarders trooping into the
adjoining bar for their refresher and
then returning to his dining-room for
their meals, often bringing a bottle with
them, was too much for the offending
publican, and the plums went to a neigh-
boring pig-farmer.
* * * *
“James W.”: That team of 91 bull
camels, “all loaded and all with the tar-
patch behind the ears” (B. 6/11/ ’4O), is a
bit over the odds. A collection like that
would be as unmanageable as the Bal-
kans. True to its usual cussedness in
reversal of natural laws, the bull camel,
not the female, gets the breeding urge,
and that tarry patch aft of his lug is the
signal. It’s a danger signal, too, because
there never could be a worse concentra-
tion of unreasoning violence and spite
than a rutting bull camel. He’ll savage
anything. More than one has hopped
into a flock of sheep and maimed woollies
right and left. For another rutter to
come near means a fight to the death.
Ninety-one of ’em in a heap! Hell!
Anyway, the ’Ghans never load a rutter.
They tie him up—very securely—till his
amorous notions fizzle out.
* * * *
“Owev”: There are more ways of
making butter than in a churn. Best
effort seen by this scribe was in nor’-
west W.A., where a four-pint billy well
wrapped in dripping-wet cheesecloth was
attached by a swivel to the blade of the
bore windmill. I was assured it did the
job satisfactorily, and that the effort of
attaching the billy was much less than
churning with a fork, which was the
method until a friendly abo. offered the
suggestion. “We’ve bought the wind-
mill,” said my host; “at the present rate
of progress the next generation can buy
a churn.” The same windmill also pro-
vided adequate current for recharging the
radio battery.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: If “J.H.M.A.” (B.
11 /12/ ’4O) will come up to Queensland’s
sunny clime I can guarantee him a full
range of all the old bush songs, com-
plete with mouth-organ and even con-
certina accompaniment. To his list our
local artists will add such other tried
favorites as “Lost and Found,” “Frank
Gardiner, Bushranger,” “Death-Doomed
Allen Bayne,” “Brave Ben Hall,” “Limpy
Bill” and “The Big-Gun Shearer,” inter-
spersed with recitations of “The Squat-
ter’s Daughter,” “Murdered by Derrink ’
and “The Face on the Bar-room Floor.”
“Bill Bowyang,” of the “N.Q. Register,”
has acquired everlasting merit with his
slim published collections of Australian
bush recitations, which preserve at least
the words of a wealth of songs and reci-
tations of former bush days, extending
far beyond “Banjo” Paterson’s classic.
Most of the old songs went to well-known
old airs, “The Wearing of the Green”
being a particular favorite.
* * * *
“Mugga”: “Nor-west’s” contention that
the eye is the croc.’s only vulnerable
part for a bullet (B. 27 /11 / ’4O) is rot.
I’ve shot lots of ’em for the few bob I
could get for the length of belly-skin
between neck and vent, the only saleable
part of the brute. They’re just as easily
“The least he should get is an M.M."
killed as anything else. An odd bullet
may ricochet off the hard plates on the
back, but I doubt it. Any ordinary rifle
bullet will penetrate the hide. Keeping
’em on the bank is a different matter.
Have known ’em slide into the water after
their brain has been shot away, owing to
reflex action, which continues for hours
after death. Have made one lash its
tail by prodding it with a knife 14 hours
after being killed. In non-tidal waters
the body will usually surface after a
couple of days. If they’re on land the
best shot is in the neck or behind the
foreleg. If in the water, and you’re suffi-
ciently high above, to put a bullet through
the back into the lungs is always a
winner. If they submerge they’ll drown.
Have watched them swim round for half
an hour blowing water out of a bullet-
hole like a whale spouting, and then
come out on the bank to die. And it’s
doubtful if the biggest could bite a man
in half. Their teeth are of the holding,
not cutting, type. I have one on my
desk now —it’s as long as my finger and
just as blunt.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Damned as he was
because of his abundant lack of beauty,
the aboriginal had one virtue that was
never marked to his credit —of all the
world’s peoples he, from an alcoholic
standpoint, was the most temperate.
Practically every other race had some
knowledge of brewing a drink with a kick
in it. Binghi, however, never got as far
along that line as to acquire the ability
to boil water. Odd to think that he
roved this continent for perhaps a mil-
lion years, yet never learned how to make
a vessel capable of withstanding fire.
Stews, soups, brews were a closed book
to him. All his foods were either eaten
raw, roasted or grilled. The nearest he
ever got to a brew was with the flowers
of the banksia and the blackboy. Laden
with honey, these were steeped in pitchis
full of water. A good succession gave
the drink a sweet pleasant flavor. Left
for a time it also develops a slight acidity,
due to a mild fermentation. But it is
doubtful if Binghi had the patience to
wait for that to develop. He filled up
good and plenty from the honeyed water,
and perhaps got some sort of a kick out
of that.
* * ♦ #
“Wang”: “One hot Sunday after-
noon,” said Dan, “I’m loafin’ under a
tree alongside the hut watchin’ ole Straw-
berry chewin’ at some feed alongside the
fence of the lucerne paddick about a
hundred yards orf. There’s about ten
acres of lucerne, beautiful an’ green. It’s
got a five-foot wire-nettin’ fence all
round it t’ keep the rabbits out. Presently
I notice a coupla bunnies come hoppin’
along t’wards Strawberry an’ try t’ get
some of her feed. She horns ’em orf, an’
they sit fer a minute or so watchin’ her.
Then one makes a sudden jump an’ lands
on top of the ole girl’s head. She gives
a serprised sorta snort an’ lifts her head
up with a jerk, an’ the next instant
bunny’s sailin’ over the fence inter the
green paradise. Then the other rabbit
tries the same dodge ; but his luck’s out;
Strawberry’s finished her feedin’, an’ is
standin’ contented with her head well up
away from the ground. Bunny makes
one or two leaps up ; but she shakes her
horns at him, an’ he sorta realises there
ain’t nothin’ doin’ that way. He has a
squint at his mate enjoyin’ hisself an’
jumps about a bit as if mad that he ain’t
there, too ; then he squats down fer a
few seconds as if he’s ponderin’ on what
he’ll do next. Suddenly he rushes at
Strawberry again ; but at her tail this
time. He gives it a brush with his paws
a coupla times, an’ Strawberry flirts it
up outa the way; thinks it’s a fly or some-
thin’ worryin’ her. Bunny stands eyein’
this percedin’, critical like; then he
makes another rush, an’ grabs the cow’s
tail in his teeth, an’ gives a tug. Straw-
berry lets out a snort an’ flicks her tail
up, vicious. Bunny hangs on tight, an’
when he’s level with the top of the fence
lets go, an’ sails over an’ joins his mate.”
* * * *
“Notaden”: Even should our literary,
musical, military and other shortcomings
deserve the scoldings of Sir Thomas
Beecham, Australia can show points to
the world when it comes to jumping.
Kangaroos hold the four-legged record
for horizontal distance, and the tree
species of N.Q. jump down 60ft. on to
rocks and alight unharmed. Jumper-ants
achieve 20 times their length in distance
and eight times in height, which, propor-
tionally to body-length, beats the kan-
garoo to a frazzle. Our 70-odd species
of frogs and toads, all jumpers in greater
or less degree, outnumber those of any
other continent except South America.
We are particularly strong in grass-
hoppers, notable leapers all. And the
kingfish of northern waters often amuse
themselves by jumping over a luggers
main gaff.
TAVERNER’S HILL.
Still is the air, all still and chill,
Still the tumult and noise of day,
Here on the highway at Taverner’s Hill,
Taverner’s Hill out Leichhardt way.
Now, while the moon shines round and large,
Hither having at midnight strayed,
Memory taking my mind in charge
Stages for me a quaint parade.
Changed is the night to a noon far back,
Changed are the times and changed the scene,
Changed is the street to a rutted track
Bordered by trees and fields of green.
First in the train of the spectral show
Vaguely visioned as in a dream,
Weary of travel and moving slow
Trudges a teamster beside his team.
Next from the distance dimly come,
Trampling the dust and dead leaves down,
Sped by the music of fife and drum,
Soldiers marching to Sydney Town.
Close on their heels, while noon-rays pour
Heat of the sun, and no wind stirs,
Lachlan Macquarie, the Governor,
Rides with his gold-laced officers.
Then on the long and dusty slope,
Shaming the golden light of day,
Shuffles a gang bereft of hope,
Arrowed and shackled and garbed in grey.
Speeding their notes on a new-come breeze,
Heedless alike of dust and heat —
Why do the birds on the wayside trees
Suddenly, merrily sing so sweet?
This is the wherefore: up Taverner’s Hill
Tripping and singing there comes a twain,
Currency Jack and Currency Jill,
Turning the track to a Lover’s Lane.
Dim descried as they climb the rise
Proud of their birthright, fair and free,
Dwells a future within their eyes
Crowded with deedful days to be.
Nodding a gay salute they pass,
Fading to naught as all dreams fade,
Currency Lad and Currency Lass,
Last in the train of the Quaint Parade.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“And when did you first suspect that your husband didn't love you?”
“When he hit me on the face with the kettle.”
THE ANTIQUE WORLD.
The old world is not dead
But lives and pulses still;
The salt sea, the hoary alp, the sour heath,
The craggy hill,
Endure and shall endure
For untold generations,
In spite of meddlesome men’s unholy cities
And spoliations,
If not in field and farm
And marshalled trees,
Still in the hearts of the wild brutes, the
rollicking birds,
The ants and bees.
On the fringe of the city
The warbler, hark,
Loiters in gardens, threads the shrubberies,
Haunts the park;
Through the roaring of trams,
And newsboys’ calls,
His sweet, sad, semi-toned sibilance
Rises and falls.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: After 40-odd years of
faithful service our eight-day clock sud-
denly downed tools. The old chap
couldn’t believe that his wedding present
to Mum could be worn out so soon ; but,
finding that sundry ticklings with a
feather dipped in kerosene failed to start
the works, he was just damning the soul
of the robber who’d swindled him when
he discovered that the veteran would
go all the time she lay face downwards.
All of Dad’s inventive genius came into
play. The clock ticked on, face down,
and we were still able to see the time
at a glance—thanks to the elaborate sys-
tem of fencing-wire loops that suspended
it from the ceiling. Then one night the
mong surprised a ’possum in the chimney.
In the subsequent brawl the intruder
took a flying leap from the dresser to
the clock, rode it to the floor via Bluey’s
head and vanished up the flue. Sorrow-
fully Dad, picking glass out of the works,
placed the timekeeper on the table, right
side up. Immediately the old warrior
started duty again, and is still going
strong eighteen months after!
* * * *
“Maradoc”: The city bloke, resplen-
dent in shorts, had the bad luck to sit
down near a sergeant-ants’ nest. When
he had finished hopping he was eloquent
on what it felt like to be bitten. “But
you weren’t bitten!” corrected old Wire-
whiskers. “You were stung.” But the
c.b. was unbelieving. “Ants bite ; they
don’t sting. Couldn’t you tell that by
the way their jaws take a grip and hang
on? No question about a man being
bitten.” With a pair of tweezers Wire-
whiskers deftly picked up a sergeant.
“Who’s game to take a sting—just in
the interest of science?” But there were
no volunteer martyrs. “No one, eh?
Well, I’ll be the mug myself. Anything
for science.” Placed on his leathery,
sunburnt arm the enraged ant instantly
gripped with its jaws ; then, almost too
quickly for the eye to follow, brought
its abdomen up in a curve and drove its
sting home. “Much as a scorpion does
it, only the scorp. brings its sting over
the top,” explained the martyr as with
a horny thumb and finger he exacted re-
prisal. “Venom’s only strong formic
acid, and a rub from a chew of tobacco
soon takes the pain away.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Who invented or dis-
covered the name “yabbie”? In my bare-
footed knickerbocker days it was the
fresh-water crayfish, to be found in every
pool right across Victoria. And succu-
lent little crustaceans they were —quite
on a par with the salt-water prawn. A
scrap of meat about the size of a
thumbnail, begged off the butcher, a yard
or so of sewing cotton, black for prefer-
ence, a peg to tie the line to —and we
were set. Sometimes we’d work half a
dozen such lines. A bite was signified
by a tightening of the line. Then, very
cautiously, hand over hand, the “bite”
was drawn in. Presently a pair of pincer
claws appeared, just breaking surface.
Then was the time to grab, behind the
claws and around the armored thorax.
Risky in regard to a sharp nip? Not a
bit, provided one’s nerve was good. Have
caught thousands of big estuary crabs the
same way fishing from a boat, and with a
50 per cent, better average than other
blokes who used a dip net.
* * He *
“Wippegong”: If there is one spectacle
outstanding among all those which rile
this exile in the big city it is the sight
of countless youngsters flashing toy guns
and going through the motions and noise
of deliberate destruction. In the hush
we were taught that weapons were for
killing only ; that there were rigid rules
for handling them correctly ; and that a
firearm of any kind is always loaded. I
tramped long miles behind careful shots
before being allowed the thrill of owning
a s.b. breech-loader, and then the serious
training only began. For a start I had
to remove the cartridge at every fence,
and only when the empty gun was passed
cleanly between the wires could I follow
it. When this habit had become fixed
I advanced a stage and was required
merely to break the breech before passing
the weapon through; and when this
action had become automatic I was pro-
moted further and just lowered the
hammer. Less care than that I never
took and never will take. So now when a
rowdy boy—we hunted silently—jumps
out from a lane and, pointing a Japanese
tin gun at a rival, barks “Bang!” I pity
him, for he knows no better ; but I always
feel I’d like to seek out the child’s
apathetic father and thump him.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Binghi may be the
world’s champion gorger, but it is doubt-
ful if nowadays he ever gets a proper
feed. Back in the days when whales were
numerous along the W.A. coast was when
he got a real bellyful. Just once in a
while the killers would drive a humpback
ashore. Such an event was the signal for
a national gathering. Half a dozen inter-
tribal feuds might be in progress, but at
once a truce would be called. Invitations
would be issued by the tribe on whose
territory the tucker was laid. Following
smoke signals, and to more distant points
the message stick, families and tribes
would come hurrying in. Binghi liked
blubber and he liked it grilled. Along
the beach dozens of small fires burned,
and over these, impaled on a pointed
stick or a broken spear, the blubber
would be done to a nicety. To reach tit-
bits, such as the liver, tunnels would be
chopped in the carcass. Greasy from
head to foot from such interior explora-
tions, bucks and gins were indifferent to
the spray that constantly douched them.
Every night a corroboree. Generally a
whale lasted a month. It was never aban-
doned because of becoming too “high.”
“Merrangbaur”: “Just mention per-
fume to old Shandy McGuinness,” said
Bert the Barman, “an’ ’e’ll swear some-
thin’ ’orrible. We rents a shack down
on the Ninety Mile a few year ago, not
far from Seaspray. There’s a bit of a
bay right in front with a bar just orf
the mouth wot stops the rollers cornin’
in. One night a tearin’ storm comes up
an’ we gets inside quick an’ lively. Talk
about blow! When we gets out in the
mornin’ there’s a rim of scum right
round the beach, an’ the place is littered
with broken branches, Shandy’s washin’
an’ ’arf the iron orf the roof. Then we
takes a look out to sea —an’ blinks.
Looks like the mouth of the bay’s filled
in durin’ the night. We runs a dinghy
into the water an’ rows out. Shandy’s
pullin’ bow, an’ ’arfway out ’e gapes over
’is shoulder. ‘Cripes, we’re made!’ ’e
yelps. ‘That’s a whale blockin’ the bay.’
I ’as a screw, an’ ’e’s right. It takes two
days to edge that whale orf the bar an’
float ’im into the bay, then we beaches-
’im ’andy to the shack. Wot with blubber
an’ whalebone, we reckons we’re on a
thousand apiece, an’ Shandy’s ’itchin’ to
cut ’im open. We digs up a ladder, an’
I steadies it while Shandy goes aloft.
I strolls round the side, an’ there’s
Shandy pacin’ out its length along the
backbone. ’E spots me, an’ takes a step
to the side to say somethin’ an’ dis-
appears from view. Did I ’ave a time
gettin’ ’im out? That there whale was
orl discommoded ; been dead for weeks.
Old Shandy ’ad to go bush for a month
before ’e was fit for human society.”
* * * *
“Prospero”: No need for “Oxmead”
to go to Kipling for a quotation relating
to the potency of odors to stir the recol-
lection (B. 27/11/ ’4O). Henry Lawson
offers a few lines in point in his “Bard of
Furthest Out,” published in The Bulle-
tin some 30 years ago:
But there’s a scent, my heart believes,
That “travellers” set higher
Than wattle —’tis the dried gum leaves
That light the evening fire.
It is best to leave delicate matters of
the kind to the inner consciousness; but
my choice of bush odors wavers between
burning gum leaves and the first wattle
in the sweet o’ the year—l mean the
real “golden” wattle which glorifies the
sombre ironbark regions of central Vic-
toria.
* * * *
“2LX”: Valentine, a sire introduced
to Maneroo (C.Q.), served his whole life
of about 23 years there. His issue was
perhaps between 600 and 800 foals.
Seventy-five per cent, of his mares were
of Leander and other chestnut blood.
There were occasional greys, though old
Valentine was never insulted by a creamy
or a piebald. Among all his foals there
was only one chestnut —a mare —and
there may have been doubts about her
paternal ancestry. Among the hundreds
of stock he sired there were only three
iron-greys, brothers from the same mare.
All the rest were bays, browns or
blacks. Valentine himself was a brown.
“That's JUDGMENT, boy!"


BOOK SHELVES
CUPBOARDS
' NEST :
OF TABLES
>1
TOYS
TRAYS
table
MATS
HAHDY BOXES
SAotZt
99
(OR ANY OTHER HANDYMAN)I
C4NBU/IV WEM\
FROM
MASONITE
SAotZ} ’
Any of the smaller fittings or fix-
tures your home requires can be
made, easily and economically,
with Masonite "SHORTS".
“SHORTS" are perfect pieces of
Masonite, smaller than standard-
size sheets, but available in sizes
from 2ft. x Ift. to 4ft. x 4ft.—and
sold at very special prices! They
are knotless, grainless, non-chip-
ping and non-splintering, and take
any finish. Ideal for any of the
suggestions shown here, and
countless other uses as well. See
them in the Masonite “SHORTS"
rack at most hardware stores or
Builders' Suppliers.
sad
Masonite is easy
to work with
standard carpen-
ters' tools.
Cane-ite Insulating Board protects your
home against heat, cold and noise.
sd
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth M a 46-40
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become you**
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-tlie-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
U£S3r
The Symbol of
Security !
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
ttUXITCH
vnvjixsnv 10
( Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, BIDKEI.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. S’inclair,
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd ; A E Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager i J. G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1930.. 734,699 9} p.c. =731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 6,262.963
1932.. 462,967 5i „ ~ 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 51,, „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543,242 6 „ „ 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ ~ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 „ ~ 526,800 24,076 6,341.052
1940.. 544,770 6 „ ~ 526,800 17,970 6,359,022
The latest accounts reflect the first or
early changes in Australia’s economic
structure which war conditions have im-
posed. The primary factors in our war
effort are men and materials. Men have
come forward faster than they can be
fully equipped with all the appliances of
modern warfare, as the recent suspension
of recruiting has indicated. On the in-
dustrial side our war effort started from
very small beginnings, and it is only now
commencing to gather momentum. But
it will gain greatly in impetus during
1941, both in respect of the A.I.F. and of
home defence. To finance the develop-
ment, monetary and economic changes
have been called for which will spell all-
round sacrifice, including some recession
in the general standard of living. Whether
these sacrifices are temporary or long-
lived will depend largely upon the effect
of the Government’s fiscal policy on the
value of the currency, which, of course,
is wrapped up with the cost of living.
Chief methods by which the Government
raises funds, for war or any other pur-
poses, are taxation, loans and central
bank credit. To finance our war expen-
diture all three methods have been used
to date. The greatest danger lies in ex-
cessive use of central bank credit. To
this the Government appears to be alive,
hence the recent heavy increases in
taxation and decision to mop up current
savings, or most of them, by way of
loans.
Rather than make early and substantial
tax increases and heavy loan demands on
the public the Government resorted to
partial use of central bank credit during
the early months of the war. The aim
was to ensure easy money conditions —
the position had been tightening steadily
prior to the outbreak of war —and so
stimulate essential industrial production,
lower the rate of interest and make loan-
raising less difficult. The average yield
on Government 4 per cents, fell from
4.08 p.c. in September, 1939, to 3.15 p.c.
in October last, and, whereas a Govern-
ment issue was undersubscribed at
3.88 p.c., the long-term scrip offered in
May-June, 1940, was all taken at 3.25 p.c.
Also the rate for Treasury bills has been
reduced from 1.75 p.c. to 1.5 p.c., and
the bank rate on two-year deposits has
dropped from 3 p.c. to 2.5 p.c. Further,
the injection of additional funds into the
financial system through war expenditure,
together with the bigger income from
exports, has created a very liquid banking
position.
What has happened is partly reflected
in the following comparison of the
Wales’s balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1939. 1940.
Notes . . £81,326 £81,159 £81,132
Depositf-;: 124 > 372 - 108
Liquids . . 31,449,702 30,193,019 49,388,428
Deposit* . . 382,615 452,211 528.666
Advances . . 88,740,010 98,077,235 86,225.738
Premises . . 3,150,000 3,300,000 3,500,000
* Statutory deposit with Reserve Bank of N.Z.
As payment was made for local war con-
tracts, etc., and the cheques for wool,
wheat, dairy produce, meat and metals
came in, advances (down £6,851,497)
were reduced and deposits (up
£12,602,396) increased —the growth was
almost wholly in current accounts. When
the books closed advances had receded
to 69.3 p.c. of deposits compared with
83.2 p.c. a year earlier, and the bank
was holding £8 4s. sd. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own.
The additional funds that became avail-
able were used mainly to assist the Gov-
ernment, as the following table shows:
„ , , „ 1939. 1940.
Cash, bullion, etc £13,016,180 £14,204,787
Money at short call, London 125,000 812,500
Short-dated Treasury bills 5,205,000 15,755,000
Govt, securities, etc. . . 2,665,200 8,932,217
Due by other banks .. 1.114,043 2,087,190
Bills receivable, etc. . . 8,066.996 7,596,734
Total liquids .. . . £30,193,019 £49,388,428
Of the growth of £19,195,409 in liquids
(excluding the statutory deposit with the
Reserve Bank of N.Z.), £10,550,000 was
in respect of short-dated Treasury bills
and £6,267,017 in respect of Government
securities. Liquids amounted to 39.7 p.c.
of liabilities to the public at Sept. 30 as
against 27 p.c. at the previous balance.
Obviously the bank is very well equipped
to assist further in financing the war effort
by extending its lending connections to
aid essential production and facilitate sub-
scriptions to public loans.
Although business generally was
brisker, the fall in advances and drop in
interest rates, combined with the ex-
pansion of low interest-bearing liquids,
didn t assist bank earnings. After allow-
ing whatever was considered necessary for
contingencies, the board figured the net
result £6106 short of the previous year’s
at 6.2 p.c. on the £8,780,000 of share
capital, or 3.6 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserve combined). The div.
was kept at 6 p.c., and it is doubtful
whether better need be anticipated for a
considerable time.
The market prices the £4O shares paid
to £20 —the other £2O is a reserve lia-
bility callable only in the event of liquida-
tion—at £27 10s. as against £26 Bs. a year
ago. The return at £27 10s. is 4.3 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis. The cover is £34 9s.
9d. in net tangibles.
As for the current term, drought con-
ditions over wide areas and continued
growth of defence activities, etc., will
strengthen the demand for advances, and
bank earnings should benefit. Also, the
Government will spend a lot more money
on defence, but it will mop up in loans
and taxes of one kind and another about
17 p.c. of the estimated national income
as against approx. 6 p.c. in 1939-40.
This will cut into private expenditure, and
traders not engaged in supplying essential
war goods and services may find it diffi-
cult to maintain turnovers, especially
as the year advances. Although taxes
do not reduce the total amount distributed
in wages, they are an enforced return of
portion of wages to the Government to
be spent again in order to maintain our
war effort. Also, owing to indirect taxa-
tion, there has been a sharp rise in the
cost of living which the price-fixing
authority has been powerless to prevent.
Still, such sacrifices are inevitable. Their
equitable distribution is the thing that
matters most in the long run, and direct
taxation hits the wage-and salary-earners
less than indirect taxation and inflationary
credit, which if too freely resorted to
results in the wage-earner bearing more
than his fair share of the money cost of
war, often without his realising it.
Taubmans, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 24,892 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,956
1934.. 53,162 15 „ „ 39,261 13,901 116,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. .. 116,861
1935.. 60,124 174 p.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936.. 71,350 174 p.c. = 53,05 S 18,292 185,901
Reserves capitalised, £56.981 .. 128.920
Unexplained additions, £17.984 .. 146,904
1937.. 84,214 174 p.c. = 69,802 14,412 161.316
1938.. 81.574 174 ~ .. 69,802 11,772 173,088
Unexplained additions, £5335 .. 178,423
1939.. 82,374 16 p.c. = 63,819 18,565 196,978
Unexplained additions, £12,030 . . 209,008
1940.. 83,196 15 p.c. = 59,830 23,366 232,374
A surprisingly good result, considering
the upward trend of costs, the louder
demands of the taxgatherer and the
control of selling prices by the price-
fixing commissioner. The co. is in the
paint- and varnish-manufacturing busi-
ness. The main factory is at St. Peters,
near Sydney ; there is another at Wel-
lington (M.L.), and branches have been
established at Brisbane, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Perth. Also, the organisa-
tion is strengthened by a number of sub-
sidiary interests, which figure in the books
at £265,418 (cost).
The outstanding feature of the table
is the quick expansion of net earnings.
Over the last seven years they have in-
creased by no less than 334 p.c., while
capital has expanded only 152 p.c. Turn-
over picked up with the revival of build-
ing and home- and flat-renovating and
the growth of the motorbody-building,
furniture, electrical, leather and other
trades that use the co.’s products.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was no slackening
in new building and renovating, and the
co.’s turnover was a record. That was
largely because money was plentiful and
cheap, and employment was at or near
the full. All subsidiaries showed big in-
creases in turnover, the Maoriland pup
particularly, but in this case taxes took
60 p.c. of the net profit. After making
“substantially higher” provision for taxa-
tion and visibly striking off £5051 for
depreciation the parent claimed as profit
£83,196 (up £822), equal to 20.8 p.c. on
capital. That leaves out of the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £12,030 to
“specific” reserves (now £34,442) as against
a similar addition of £5335 in the pre-
vious term. Taking these additions into
account the year’s net result was £7591
better at 23.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 22, 20.4, 21.1, 23.5, 22.9, 20.3 and
9.5 p.c. back to 1933. Still, the cautious
management chipped a point off the div.,
reducing it to 15 p.c. and making the
average over the last eight years 15.5 p.c.
Over the same period £129,418 has been
visibly added to reserves, lifting them to
£232,374, including those now labelled
“specific.”
In a manufacturing business, however,
much depends upon what is spent on
plant (the chief earning asset) and charged
to takings before arriving at net profit.
Taubmans’ earning power suggests that
the co.’s plant is thoroughly up to date
and worth a lot more than its book
value.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1933. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £201,740 £398,867 £398,867 £398,867
Sundry creditors 44,336* 41,907 45,837 109,650
Freeholds .. 98,463 123,515 123,595 124,189
Plant, etc. . . 44.882 51,422 51,093 50,886
Stocks . . 88,187 138,942 145,976 243,230
Debtors . . 123,415 71,811 82,579' 87,021
Investments . . 64,874 265,916 265,467 265,428
Cash, etc. . . 3,608 2.143 6,876 52
* Including contingency reserves.
Owing to the possibility of drastic re-
duction in shipping space the board built
up stocks (up £97,254), especially of raw
materials, many of which, including gums,
etc., have to be imported. To meet the
outlay and add £4442 to debtors’
balances, the amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by £63,813. Still,
the more or less liquid surplus (£220,653
including stocks) was £31,059 stronger
than when the books closed in 1939. An
issue of 100,000 5 p.c. prefs. is to be
made soon to “meet the co.’s expansion.”
As for the current term, the directors
say “they again find it difficult to give
a reliable forecast of the coming year’s
operations.” Indications are that the
co. will be very fortunate indeed if it
can maintain turnover at last year’s level.
The recent stinging increases in taxation
of all kinds, the continued upward trend
of costs, and the fact that Treasury
approval has now to be obtained for new
buildings or building alterations costing
more than £5OOO are likely to retard sales
and add to unit costs.
However, the market notes the strong
position and prices the pound shares at
50s. ; at which figure the return is 6 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
visibly 31s. Bd. in net tangibles.
Victoria State Insurance Office
Under-
writing Net Written
June, Surplus.* Interest. Surplus. Off. Funds. f
£ £ £ £ £
1939 . . 44.162 387? 48,034 5000 248.725
1940 . . 34,269 4493 38,762 5000 282,487
Allowing for discounts. f Including unearned
premiums and bonus reserve fund.
The Workers’ Compensation Act in Vic-
toria was placed on the Statute Book in
November, 1914, and this Government
office was immediately set up to handle
the business, the idea being to enable
employers to obtain insurance at as near


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
=*'**:«:
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. \V. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
THE
lIMITCn iNSURA NCE
U ll II LU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is
A. C. DAWSON.
Gea, Manager.
an Australian Institution.
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager,
Mining Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES, NO LIABILITY.
Registered Office: 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, 19th December, 1940.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
11th) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been
declared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Thursday,
the 30th day of January, 1941.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 9th day of January,
1941, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday, the
11th day of January, 1941, and shareholders
registered on Friday, the 10th day of January,
1941, will be entitled to receive the dividend.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,7.39,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
sd
GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
cost-price as sound underwriting would
permit. Unlike the Queensland Gov-
ernment Insurance Office, which was
given a monopoly of workers’ compensa-
tion business, the Victorian one has had
to compete with private enterprise. This
it has done successfully, forcing a reduc-
tion in premium rates from time to time,
and maintaining a steady growth in its
premium income.
Last term the improvement was £1047:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums.* Claims. Exes. Kate. Rate.
£ £ £
1939.. 213,143 148,620 20,361 69.7 p.c. 9.5 p.c.
1940.. 214,190 159,357 20,564 74.4 „ 9.6 „
* Less special discounts.
The feature which catches the eye is the
low expense rate (up 2s. p.c. last term);
and the “Wild Cat” doesn’t know of a
lower one for this class of business. It
is a tribute to the quality of the control,
notwithstanding that the office pays
nothing to the taxgatherer. It was the
sharp increase of £10,737 in claims that
was responsible for the contraction of
£9893 in the year’s underwriting surplus
of £34,269, which was equal to 16 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums as against
20.7 p.c. for the preceding 12 months.
The return from investments was £621
better at £4493, making the surplus from
all sources £38,762 (down £9272), of
which £5OOO was passed to the Treasury,
leaving £33,762 to add to funds, making
them £282,487.
Of the £33,762, £15,000 was sent to
general reserve (£136,560), £18,301 to the
bonus reserve (£40,780) and £461 to
the provision for unearned premiums
(£105,147). The general reserve was equal
to over 63 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 40 p.c. is usually considered
adequate. The bonus reserve is distri-
buted among policy-holders triennially
according to the individual experience of
each policy—as much as one-third of the
premiums received has been so handed
back in some of the most favorable in-
stances. This and the special discounts
allowed (12.6 p.c. of gross premiums last
term) are the attractions for policy-
holders in this office. Since the inception
of the office special discounts amounting
to £318,405 have been granted to policy-
holders, and cash bonuses totalling
£161,370 have been paid.
At the end of June the Treasury had
the use of £218,643 of the funds. The
interest received on this sum and £51,560
invested in Consols amounted to a wink
over 1.6 p.c. ; so it isn’t a very indulgent
custodian. What the Government loses
by not taxing the office it fully makes up
by the interest it doesn’t pay. Land and
buildings, etc., figured at £56,874, book
debts at £ 13,519, cash, etc., at £24,512.
The transfer to consolidated revenue,
originally £50,000, has been written down
to £lO,OOO.
B.H.P. has acquired prospecting rights,
plus an option, over magnesite leases in
the Mundallio hills, about eight miles
from Port Augusta. The former lease-
holders—L. B. Brook, R. E. G. McDonald
and W. Francis —have worked the prop-
erty for some months, and orders for
supplies up to 3000 tons a month have
been received from Britain. Magnesite
is an ore containing magnesium, used in
making munitions.
The option over tin-bearing areas near
Mt. Garnet, N.Q., is to be exercised by
8.H.P., and a dredge costing £350,000 is
now to be built. Tableland Tin is already
working with its small dredge on an area
at Return Creek, and B.H.P. is supplying
steel for a large No. 2 dredge, Evans,
Deakin, of Brisbane, doing the building.
Large areas of tin-bearing alluvial are
known to exist along Smith’s Creek and
Battle Creek, all in the Mt. Garnet dis-
trict, though values on the Return Creek
property were the first to attract atten-
tion. Tableland Tin £1 ords. have risen
to 11s. 9d., buyers, lately, with sellers
at 15s. The time taken to get the big
dredge going was an early disappointment
in this stock.
* * * *
Natural Gas and Oil Corp., which
owns the Balmain Colliery on Sydney
Harbor, has spent £52,942 so far in
trying to bring in commercial quantities
of gas from the coal seams lying beneath
the bottom of the colliery shaft. Develop-
ment account at this figure and freeholds,
£23,573, constitute the co.’s assets. It
owes secured creditors £25,250 and the
bank and others £1684. Shareholders
have put up £49,580. Lack of funds has
slowed down work lately, but the bore
has at last been cleared of cement, etc.,
and the gas pressure has increased to
1231 b., against 161 b. in 1935. Tests of
the gas in road vehicles and welding plant
are said to have been satisfactory. Per-
mission has been obtained to raise more
capital. The 2s. ords. are at Bd.
* * * *
The North Australian Geophysical
Survey recently gave a headline to the
antimony deposits of North Queensland.
However, they are not new discoveries,
as antimony ore has been worked in the
Northcote and Mitchell River districts in
the Cairns (N.Q.) hinterland at various
periods in the past. Northcote figured in
a considerable Sydney flotation some 15
years back, but after a promising start
operations petered out. The market may
have been low at the time, but with
regulars now ranging between £9O and
£lOO a ton the financial angle for these
deposits has decidedly improved.
* * * *
During November the Hawkins Hill
mine, at Georgetown, N.Q., produced 103
tons of ore of undisclosed value. The
battery crushed 345 tons for 210 bags
of concentrates, total weight 9 tons 3cwt.
At the Golden Bar mine, which is also
owned by F. W. Cuthbert, the old shaft
has been sunk 6ft., reaching the bottom.
A start has also been made to sink
the main shaft, which is down 9ft. About
22in. of mineralised reef is showing
down ends of the shaft, with 27in. across
the bottom. Ten tons of ore was taken
out in November, values not given. Both
mines closed down on December 5 for
a month’s break.
* * *
Golden Plateau, Cracow (Q.), has
declared a second interim shilling for the
current term, and supporters are looking
for 3s. a share for the full year. Re-
, coveries, however, have so far been nearly
a pennyweight above the grade last placed
on reserve ore, so reduced earnings
appear indicated later.
* * * *
South Kalgurli Consolidated (W.A.)
has reduced to 9d. the Is. interim div.
that it has paid in January for a number
of years past. This cut is attributed to
lower grade of millfeed, cost increases
and higher taxation. There has been a
little local buying of shares lately around
155., and, seeing the cash and sound in-
vestments which the co. has in hand and
holds, together with visible wealth in the
mine, they don’t look dear at that figure.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) continues to
make good—but less —money out of re-
treating old south-end Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile residues. Last year’s recovery from
Boulder dumps yielded a profit of
£28,390. A sixpenny dividend will absorb
£27,500. Profit in the previous year was
£40,894 and the dividend ninepence.
Tailings remaining should give another
two years’ work. A year ago co. held
£169,553 in cash, plus investments with a
market value of £15,737, and owed
£38,761. This year’s figures are not yet
available, but they are likely to show
little alteration.
* * * *
Some mining supplies, notably mer-
cury, were hard to obtain for a while dur-
ing 1940 in the West. At one stage mer-
cury could not be secured by the have-
nots among the mineowners, as shipment
of supplies was interfered with. How-
ever the Federal Government took cer-
tain action and, provided shipping facili-
ties are available, there will be no short-
age in the future Prices of mercury,
cyanide zinc shavings, spares and fuel
oil have all risen, and these increases will
be reflected in mining costs. A co. has
been formed in Melbourne to mine for
mercury. The bulk of the mercury used
in Australia in the past came from Spain
and Italy.
* * * *
Goldmining and ore-treatment costs at
. • ...... t
the large Westralian mines vary. Lates
accounts of the following show that total
costs on the Lake View and Star group
averaged 255. 7.7 d. a ton, on Gt. Boulder
or-o ha IZolmiri; dd
265. 0.7 d., North Kalgurh 295. 4
Boulder Perseverance 345. 7d., South
Kalgurh 245., Paringa 275. Bd., Wiluna
255 lOd. and Triton, where mining
... • „ . ’ to.
expenditure is a heavy item, 38s.
In the case of Wiluna, consulting engi-
neer Binns, who came out from London
and made a bleak report on the prop-
, , . . j
erty early last year, estimated that opera -
ing costs would be reduced to at most
17s. 9d. a. ton, plus 3s. 9d. a ton for develop-
ment and exploration. The latter figure,
, • , f„ii tr> 1c Id
he said, would ultimately tall to Is. / .
a ton, while operating costs would rise
during the final period of the mine’s
salvage operations in consequence of the
a • ~ Ao for 00 Hu..
dwindling of output. As tar
seen, Wiluna is expected to keep going
for another two years. The operating co.
(Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.) is reckoned to
have about £700,000 Aust. in hand, and is
tipped to have at least a million when
the shutters are put up and the days of
realisation and distribution arrive.
* * * *
November receipts and working sur-
pluses in Australian currency of De Ber-
nales’s Westralian gold cos. were: Great
Boulder, receipts £69,879, surplus £13,957 ;
Yellowdine, £14,170, £3940 ; Emu, £9604,
£997 ; Comet, £9682, £4098 ; Gladiator,
£7056, £1122; Phcenix (old Bayley’s
Reward), £B3lO, £496.
* * *
. TTO . , . j.
There is talk in the U.S.A. about tree-
ing gold again. 9 V XX $21,000,000,000-
worth now reposes in Uncle Sam s vaults,
and the flow has been accelerated by war
conditions. It represents over 70 p.c.
of the worlds monetary gold, being the
equivalent of 600,000,000 fine ounces,
Some cynics are inclined to remark that
if the European war lasts the States will
•W ~,
emerge with 99 p.c. of the world s gold,
It is realised that all this gold represents
a political as well as a financial problem,
and the majority of bankers and econo-
mists consider that the first step in its
solution would be to permit free circu-
lation of the metal once more. In early
1941 it appears ‘‘certain” that a move
will be made in Congress to free gold
and take away some of the temptation of
further devaluation for national-deot
redemption purposes,
* * * *
From London:
investors are asking why shares of best-
Class goldmining div.-payers are not boomed
more than they are. The “Financial Times”
says the main answer seems to be the wide-
spread idea that the yellow metal might one of
t [ iese cease to function as an exchange
medium or that Uncle Sam might reduce the
price at which he is now buying the metal,
As to the first possibility, ?nly in the unlikely
event of the war producing the Utopia of
comp j ete socialism—namely, abolition of all
f ron tiers, production for consumption and not
for profit, and abolition of the wage system-
would the uselessness of gold except for manu-
facturing purposes become .apparent. As for
poss j b j]j ty n 0 2, the U.S.A. has a fixed price
35 dollars per fine ounce for gold. The
dollars necessary to pay for the gold bought
are issued by the Federal Reserve Bank, and
figure as a debit in its balance sheet as bank-
notes j n circulation. It doesn’t matter how large
tb j s debit grows, as against it on the credit
side figures the gold purchased. From an
accounting point of view it is obvious that if
the F.R.B. suddenly diminished the purchase
pr j ce 0 f g o jd m ust automatically show terri-
bc loss. As long as America has within its
borders vast treasures of raw materials, so
long can it afford to pay the price of gold.
The irony of the situation is that, should some
other big country suddenly become a strong
competitor to America in the world’s markets,
Uncle Sam might be forced even to pay a
higher price for gold, and by so devaluating
the currenc Y attract bu y ers for hls s° ods asain-
* * * *
Stockbrokers’ knowledge of invest-
ments and the influence which they exer-
cise in directing the flow of capital are
bein S recognised by war financiers in
London Brokers are placed among the
best publicity agents through which the
Government can influence the stream of
money essential for carrying on the war.
In one British provincial city the War
Weapons Week raised something like
£2,500,000 sterling of which one firm of
brokers contributed, through its clientele,
£500,000, without taking into account the
mone y w hich came in more indirectly
j n war bonds, savings certificates, etc.
BRIEF ANSWERS,
inconstant Reader: The co. has a good his-
tory, and appears to be doing well at present.
It has imported most of its stock up to
aow > b yt as a distributing house it should
fare well even if optical goods, in which it
specialises, are eventually made mostly in Aus-
tralia.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WILL NAZI MORALE BREAK?
[Commenting on the article by Otto D. Tolischus
here condensed New York “Times” says that nobody
in the U.S.A. is better qualified for such an appraisal.
The writer was for years that newspaper’s Berlin repre-
sentative.]
Despite spectacular victories, Nazi Germany has
been stopped at the English Channel, and is turning
eastward for new conquests. Any expectation of a
German revolt will have to be deferred until Hitler’s
defeat in the West can no longer be disguised with
victories in the East. For the Nazis have obtained
such control over the German people that a revolt
on their part is well-nigh hopeless ; it would be crushed
easily by the armed SS units, which are steadily being
increased for just such a purpose. And this also
applies to the conquered subject populations. The
only force able to cope with the SS is the German
Army, and the German Army, which sent the former
Kaiser into exile and has no love to spare for the
Nazis either, is unlikely to move until Hitler’s failure
has been demonstrated to it and to the German people
far more convincingly than heretofore.
In these circumstances this war becomes a con-
test of human endurance and national morale which
is likely to be decided: First, by the ability of the two
opposed Governments to supply war materials to the
armies and food to their populations ; second, by the
ability of the populations to stand up under the con-
stant pounding of increasing air raids. These abilities
depend, in the case of the British, on the United States,
and in the case of the Germans on the duration of
the war.
So far the British have taken the greater
punishment in both air and naval warfare,
but British sea power remains intact and
American help is on the way. British sup-
plies are being maintained, and British morale
remains high in the hope that American help
will now increase to shift once more the pre-
ponderance of power, including power in
the air, to the British side. If, for any reason,
that help should fail to come up to expecta-
tions, all calculations will have to be revised.
But for the present, thanks to American help,
Britain’s strength is growing, and British air
parity with the Germans is in sight.
Germany, on the other hand, has already
passed her peak, and nobody knows that
better than the Germans themselves. While
Britain’s wounds and difficulties have been
bared to the world, those of Germany have
been kept from the world by Nazi censorship
and propaganda.
It was an axiom among German military
authorities before the war that Germany had
the greater striking power, but that the other
side had the greater stamina and the longer
wind, and that therefore Germany must win
a short war or lose a long one. This axiom
acquired increased validity because of the
moral, economic and financial strain imposed
on the German people by seven years of Nazi
rule and the vast rearmament programme.
This strain was so tremendous that, according
to a statement attributed to Dr. Schacht,
“Germany began the war in the state of
1916,” and the consumption of moral and
financial, if not perhaps material, reserves is
proceeding at a far more rapid pace in this
war than in the last.
Today the Germans know that they face
a long war and that America is again helping
the other side. In that respect the re-election
of President Roosevelt was a writing on the
wall unmistakable to Hitler and to them.
And the knowledge, which conjures up before
the eyes of every German the fatal course of
the last war, is the most important among
the many imponderables determining German
morale. The morale, having suffered one
blow after another, is low and, according to
all uncensored reports coming from Ger-
many, is going lower as the second war winter sweeps
into the land.
The German people were persuaded to bear their
burden before the war by the promise that Hitler
would get them all they wanted without war. The
outbreak of hostilities came, therefore, as a violent
shock to them. This was cushioned by easy victories
in Poland, but when the war drifted into the first
winter, which brought hunger and cold, morale sank
to such a low point that even the idling army began
to be affected. The victories in Norway, Holland, Bel-
gium and France, raising high hopes of early peace,
acted like a “shot in the arm,” and Nazi propaganda
made the most of them by boasting that Hitler would
be in London by August at the latest and that the war
would be over long before American help could become
effective.
Today the effects of this narcotic have worn off,
leaving the victim all the weaker. Instead of victory,
Hitler notified the Germans of a new “Four-Year
Plan,” and instructed Goring to “adapt it to the
demands of war.” The Germans know from experi-
ence what that means.
It means, first of all, preparations for a long war,
and all Germans feel it in their bones that a long war
spells for them misery and starvation and ultimate
defeat and collapse. It means, more immediately, more
Ersatz and less food, less clothing and less coal to
keep them warm during the harsh German winter. It
means, above all, that, despite the German victories,
the German supply situation has not improved and
that the British continental blockade is becoming
increasingly effective.
On balance, the Germans are worse off by their
conquests than before. Though they control the Euro-
pean continent, that continent has never been able to
feed itself, and Germany has now the task of pro-
visioning the greatest food-deficit countries on that
continent—Belgium, France, Italy and even exhausted
Spain. It is admitted in Germany that the outlook for
food imports is poor, even from Russia and the Balkans.
In point of fact, ever since the slogan “Cannon
instead of butter” was proclaimed, Germany has been
living on malnutrition rations, the effects of which
are now beginning to show. While there is no actual
famine in Germany, there is hunger, which manifests
itself an hour or so after every fat-deficient meal,
especially among the heavy manual workers laboring
ten and twelve hours a day. This condition, more
than anything else, is undermining national morale.
Moreover, the foods which Germany lacks are just
the “protective” foods necessary for national health —
and efficiency.
The expert German health authorities say that
the human body possesses a two-year reserve of vita-
mins, and they admit that among the Germans the
reserve is now about exhausted. This exhaustion is
frankly recognised in the Nazi efforts to feed the
people, and especially the children, pills of synthetic
vitamins. Stimulants like tea and coffee have long
since disappeared.
Beyond that, even the last German food reserves
are dwindling, and German authorities admit that
by the middle of next year the present war rations
may have to be cut still further.
As regards clothing, the Germans live on accumu-
lated reserves. The clothing rations, allowing only
—New York “Herald Tribune."
IF WE’RE NOT THANKFUL WE OUGHT TO BE.
Sentiment valid in other lands besides the U.S., to which country,
however, the following related comment from New York “Times” has a
special application: “Let us be thankful with the thankfulness of those who
cannot feast until they have given to the hungry; cannot enjoy safety till
they have done what they could for those in peril; cannot be content with
their own freedom if they have taken no stand for the freedom of others.”
for one suit and possibly two shirts a year, permit
few replacements. The effect is felt especially by the
poor, whose reserves were meagre at best.
Most painful during the coming winter, how-
ever, is likely to be the shortage of coal, which during
the last winter compelled many Germans to live in
homes with temperatures below freezing. The actual
shortage will, of course, depend largely on the severity
of the winter, but the coal rations have already been
cut down to 80 per cent, of “normal,” and the Coal
Commissar undertakes to “guarantee” only one warm
room per family, which is likely to be the kitchen.
Germany has plenty of coal, but coal is Germany’s
principal means of payment for imports, its “black
gold,” and, since British coal is out, Germany must
supply all Europe to keep it producing.
In the midst of all these hardships, which have
already made Germany a land without laughter and
are leading to an emotional and physical exhaustion,
the Germans have been struck by a new and wholly
unlooked-for development: the British air raids. They
had been assured by Goring that the R.A.F. had been
smashed, and that German air superiority and Ger-
man air defences would make such raids impossible.
Today they know better. The British bombers keep
coming over nearly every day and night, blasting Ger-
man factories and harbors and sending a shivering
population into the cold air-raid shelters.
Decisive for the Germans is the knowledge that
behind these raids stand the vast resources of America,
which, if American help continues, makes it certain
that British air power will grow, while Germany’s is
likely to diminish. For the Germans realise that,
while their own ’planes may inflict equal or greater
damage on Great Britain, the production of ’planes
and war materials, and for that matter pilots, is
beyond their interference in the Americas. This did
not matter much so long as the Nazis could assure
the German people that final victory would be won
long before American help could become effective.
But these assurances no longer carry conviction, and
each bomb dropped on Germany is today a reminder
to the Germans that behind Great Britain stands
America, with the greatest industrial war potential
in the world. And against this potential all the
resources of the European continent begin to shrink.
The hardships of the air raids and the prospects
of a long war with diminishing chances of victory are
already producing significant results. They manifest
themselves not only in increased grumbling but also
in direct sabotage and, above all, in a kind of passive
resistance through “loitering” and “malingering,
which is cutting down production. German workers
have been conscripted for war duty and stand virtually
under martial law, but even the Nazis find it difficult
to cope with this new type of opposition.
In a speech to the Hitler Youth, Propaganda Min-
ister Goebbels recently hailed the war as a “golden
time,” but to the German people as a whole this
sounds today like hollow mockery of their misery.
The Spirit of England.
(From an article by the editor of London Nineteenth
Century.”)
The outward aspect of London is much more
war-scarred than the expression on the faces of Lon-
doners. There is no sign of demoralisation,
no perceptible weakening in the resolve to
“see it through.” The men, women and
children of London seem more rested and less
careworn in the mornings now than they did
after the first few nights of German raiding ;
no doubt because sleep in shelters, basements
and the underground has become more
general and is better organised. Londoners,
like men at the front in the last war, are get-
ting accustomed to the drone of aeroplanes,
the swish of descending bombs, the brilliance
of the flares and the roar of the explosions.
The abnormal is becoming normal.
Although Londoners are outwardly un-
perturbed, they feel hatred and anger as
never before —they feel as the Poles and the
Czechs feel, and all who have been clawed by
the Beast. They are coming to realise that
“Jerry” was “let off too easily last time,” and
are fortified in their resolve not to “let him
off” next time. And yet the war is hardly
looked upon as a fight, least of all as a fight
that can be lost, but as a job, a long, hard,
dangerous and disagreeable job, but one that
must be done. Londoners do not deliberately
rule out defeat —it does not occur to them
that the war could be lost. They do not
think in terms of victory either, at least not
of victory as something glorious and resplen-
dent, but in terms of a job that has been
done; of the day when it will have been well
and, above all, thoroughly done (much more
thoroughly than “last time”).
That is the spirit of London —and of
England—today. There never was a city
more heroic —and never one less given to
heroics. There is a complete absence of
boastfulness. Indeed, Londoners are quite
unaware of their heroism ; they hardly realise
that their courage and endurance are deciding
as much as was decided at Marathon. They
—and all England with them—are just doing
a job, and it does not even occur to them
that what they are doing is at all extraordi-
nary, or that the job could be shirked or left
undone. It is paradoxical, but true, that the
country is in better heart than before it had
suffered a series of defeats and before the
civilian population had been bombed.
Whither France?
(Condensed from a New York “Times Magazine” article
by P. J. Philip.)
No one who has ever looked into Marshal Petain s
eyes can doubt his sincerity. Also, he has in his life-
time seen war so near and in such dreadful forms
that it is not surprising that in his old age he should
wish to do everything in his power to prevent it from
happening again to his country or to anyone else.
Just now, there is no doubt that the aspect of the
problem which fills his mind and heart is only the
humanitarian one —how to bring relief to his people
who are in such distress, to get them food, to bring
their prisoners home, to put hope again into everyone’s
life and give back to France her old happy-heartedness.
But there are other factors in France’s situation,
factors which most conquerors and most pacifist states-
men seem usually to overlook —the deep, primitive
instincts of the people, who may consent to go to
death in battle at the bidding of their leaders, who may
accept leadership for a time in some policy which
seems wise because there is no apparent alternative,
who always claim that they want peace, but who will
always fight rather than accept any arrangement which
they believe, rightly or wrongly, to be either dishonor-
ing or disadvantageous to their race. There is no
case in history of a people of tradition and culture
submitting, for the sake of peace, to an imposed peace
for any longer than it has been so compelled by force
of arms. Even when that peace has been represented
and acknowledged to be profitable and the reins have


been lightly held, there has always been a stirring
movement for freedom and independence.
It is inconceivable to anyone who has ever lived
in France, who has felt the swelling pride of these
people in their national heritage and national mission,
who has known how they regard les Boches, that any
course of directed thinking or any either subtle or
sentimental leadership will ever bring them to abandon
their ardent belief in themselves as a superior people
and to give their consent to playing second fiddle in
Hitler’s symphonic peace orchestra.
It has been that human factor which has in the
past destroyed every would-be world conquerors
dreams of peace by submission. There is something
in the heart of nearly every man and of all major
peoples which simply refuses to accept peace on such
terms, and that Hitler and Laval should believe that
they could successfully plot to cheat the French people
into peace was to believe and admit that this saltiest
race of the whole world had fallen into complete
decadence.
It would be more of a compliment to them to ask
them frankly to fight against Great Britain for a
Hitlerian peace. There are elements in France —
there always have been and always will be, especially
among the seafaring Bretons and the descendants of
the old corsairs—who would rather fight against the
English than against anyone else. But even among
them there is this reservation, this condition. They
will fight to protect what belongs to France, whether
it be ships or land, but they will not fight at the bid-
ding of any German, even if he should seem to be
the peacemaker, lord of the whole earth.
It is conceivable that the direct association which
Laval brought about between the Vichy Government
and the Nazi leaders “for the restoration of peace”
may defeat its own aim, for the French are by nature
and tradition the most “contrary” people. They have
until now accepted the Vichy Government because
they felt that there was no present alternative,, and
they needed a Government to maintain some show
of resistance to the Germans.
In forming any estimate as to what will happen,
all that can be done is to hold to general human
principles and historical precedent. What is most
likely is that as long as the British maintain their
resistance to the common enemy successfully the
French will do nothing at all to help the latter and
everything possible in the circumstances to hinder the
Germans from extending their use of France and her
possessions as a basis for attack against England.
Even if they are tempted to do so by promises
that they will in that way be more quickly delivered
from their present miseries they will hesitate, for they
do not believe in German promises. The Hitlerian
formula, “if you consent I shall deliver,” has been
too often exploited and exposed. Most Frenchmen
do not believe the Germans, and they do not want
them to win, even if a German victory should assure
“peace for a thousand years.”
* * * * *
[From a New York “Herald Tribune” article by
Joseph Alsop and Robert Kintner, who have been said
to have special access to U.S. official information.
They were, of course, writing before the fall of Laval,
reported last week.]
Occasionally explanation of a previously puzzling
incident in the past will cast a bright light on the
future, by giving an intelligible pattern to events.
Such an explanation is now offered by high U.S.
sources in the form of a tentative reconstruction of
the recent mysterious dealings between Hitler and the
Vichy Government. [The meetings took place in
October.]
The prelude to the meetings was a prolonged
negotiation between Laval and the German Ambas-
sador-Gauleiter in Paris, Otto Abetz. Laval’s objects
were to obtain permission for the Vichy Govern-
ment to return to Paris, to achieve better general con-
ditions within France, and thus to score a triumph
likely to advance his ambition to be supreme in the
French State. Abetz’s object was to arrange some
sort of Franco-German military collaboration. Nor
was Laval inclined to boggle at such a trifle, since his
skin will not be worth a nickel’s purchase in the event
of British victory.
A tentative deal was worked out. by which Laval
got what he wanted, in return for permission for the
Axis to use the French Mediterranean colonies as
bases and a promise that the French fleet would
“protect” these bases against British “aggression.”
Laval’s meeting with Hitler followed. Assured of
Hitler’s approval, Laval hurried back to Vichy,
reported what he was doing to a Cabinet meeting,
but concealed the extent of the commitments he was
offering the Germans. Marshal Petain and the other
Cabinet members, unaware of Laval’s deception,
authorised him to see Hitler again and close his
bargain.
Meanwhile, Hitler was on the Spanish borders
presenting his demands to Franco. Franco, whose
country is in no condition to fight, heard with aston-
ishment from Hitler the nature of Laval’s bargain.
Feeling that Spain would have to do more than he
wished if France was ready to do so much, he hastily
queried his ambassador at Vichy, Lequerica. Lequerica
promptly let Laval’s cat out of the bag to Petain, who
stopped Laval dead in his tracks on his way to see
Hitler, thus causing the curious delay in Laval’s jour-
ney from Vichy which was officially attributed to fog.
Petain then undertook to see Hitler himself. And,
while Petain expressed perfect willingness to assent
on France’s behalf to Hitler’s “new order in Europe,”
he flatly refused the military collaboration the Germans
really desired.
Subsequently both Hitler and Laval worked hard
to bring the Vichy regime around. While Laval sapped
and mined at Vichy, Hitler used both pressure and
persuasion on Petain, offering gradual release of the
French war prisoners, whose freedom is the old man’s
dearest desire, and at the same time ordering the
evacuation of Lorraine, threatening ths. evacuation of
Lille and increasing the exactions of supplies in occu-
pied France.
Whether Petain will eventually give in no one can
predict. There are, however, several good signs on
the other side of the balance sheet. For one thing,
the French fleet moved from Toulon to Bizerta on
the African coast, obviously to be safe from a surprise
German attempt to seize it. For another, Marshal
Weygand, whose influence in the colonies is even
greater than Petain’s, refused a pressing invitation,
proffered by a Laval emissary, to return to Vichy from
French Africa. Weygand, so far, has followed the
Petain line.
There is a simple explanation of these good signs.
A close friend of Weygand who reached the U.S.
recently tells how he reproached the Marshal for
deserting the English in the last days of the French
collapse, and how the Marshal answered grimly: “Ah,
but we and the English will soon be reunited in
defeat.” The conviction that Britain would soon go
under dominated the minds of all the more honest
men of Vichy. Now their conviction has been proved
groundless, and they are more determined to continue
in the attitude taken by Petain, and apparently also
by Weygand.
Curious Oil Dealings.
(From a New York “Herald Tribune” article.)
Resumption by the United States of oil sales to
Russia on a large scale has given rise to a wealth of
conjecture. Early in the war the Soviet bought large
quantities of gasoline in the U.S., but these tapered
off and no shipments to the U.S.S.R. were made from
—New York “Sun.”
EUROPE’S WINTER PARADE.
the U.S. in the six months ended July 31. In August,
however, 150,693 barrels were shipped and in Sep-
tember the total was up to 333,477 barrels. As the
United States Maritime Commission recently authorised
the chartering of additional tankers to Russia, it can
be presumed that Soviet takings of American oils will
show some further expansion in the last quarter.
Several theories are held to account for the re-
vived traffic. A favorite assumption is that the Soviet
is interested in replenishing its motor fuel reserves in
case of active participation in the war, either in co-
operation with the Axis Powers or to restrain German
seizure of its own oilfields. Another view is that the
United States gasoline now being shipped either is
destined for Germany or is to replace Russian
petroleum already delivered to the Reich under
arrangements between Berlin and Moscow. Still an-
other opinion is that the Russian oil deliveries are part
of the diplomacy designed to keep the Soviet neutral
in the same way that Japan is believed to have been
placated by a larger allotment of oil from the Dutch
East Indies.
The “Oil and Gas Journal” states that it is en-
tirely possible that the shipments to Russia may be an
important factor in maintaining its neutrality. This
possibility is indicative of the delicacy of the inter-
national situation, for to deny them may mean that
Russia would side with the Axis. It may also mean
that the Axis Powers, possibly desperate for oil, might
go through with a plan of driving to the more acces-
sible Caucasian fields in preference to those of Iran
and Iraq. Russia also holds a commanding position
in Germany’s projected Berlin-to-Bagdad campaign
which includes the seizure of the Persian and adjacent
fields. Says the “Journal”:
A somewhat comparable situation exists with re-
spect to Japan. A complete embargo of shipments to
the Far East Axis partner could easily result in a
Japanese invasion of the Netherlands East Indies, the
only other convenient and adequate alternative source
of supply. This possibility may be entirely erased with
the successful completion of negotiations for the sale of
oil to Japan effected by representatives of British and
American oil companies concerned and the Dutch East
Indies and Japanese Governments.
In discussing whether the American oil is going to
Germany, the magazine points out that it would be
necessary to transport it across Asia, and it is doubt-
ful if Russia has the facilities to make such hauls. It
could, however, bolster reserves for Russian operations
against Japan, and at the same time release other sup-
plies for delivery to the Reich.
The possibility that as much as 50 p.c. of the gaso-
line which Russia is reported to be shipping to Ger-
many is now being supplied by the United States is
mentioned by the magazine.
In another direction, October figures on oil ship-
ments to Japan are being awaited with interest in view
of the huge September deliveries of 549,892 barrels
which included an estimated 115,000 barrels of avia-
tion gasoline. The September total was more than
any recent aggregate for five months and, of course,
represented the efforts of Nippon to obtain reserves
before the United States embargo on airplane fuel.
Japan’s Foreign Policy.
[Condensed from an article written on his return
to the U.S. last month by Wilfred Fleisher, for nine
years correspondent of the New York “Herald Tribune”
in Tokyo.]
As regards foreign policy, there is widespread dis-
sension in Japan. The tripartite pact with Germany
and Italy proved so unpopular that the Government
did not deem it wise to stage a national celebration
until the public had had time to digest it, and the fes-
tivity was combined finally with the celebrations mark-
ing the 2600th anniversary of the empire. Japan did
not enter the pact when she did because of any
reasoned policy at that moment, but mainly because
the new directive group which has come to power in
Japan behind the scenes had long favored
an alliance wtih Germany and Italy.
Having succeeded in putting over the
tripartite pact, the Konoye Government
is now bent on the next step of drawing
Russia into the alliance by negotiating a
non-aggression pact with the Soviet
Union. It is curious to find Japan now
in the position of urging a pact upon
which she has repeatedly turned her back
for the last eight years, but Japan’s
anxiety for a non-aggression pact with
Russia now is clearly evident. It is sup-
posed that the Germans gave the
Japanese assurances, when they entered
the tripartite alliance aimed against the
United States, that in the event of a con-
flict in the Pacific the Soviet Union
would not attack Japan. The Japanese
now want these assurances implemented.
They are finding that Russia wants a big
price for any such undertaking, and any
agreement between Japan and Russia is
likely to take considerable time to nego-
tiate. The Konoye Government con-
siders a check on Russia in the north
essential before any major adventure in
the region of the South Seas.
In the meantime there is a large
section of Japanese opinion and, what is
important, army opinion which is op-
posed to rapprochement with the Soviet
Union. The Japanese have looked upon
Russia as their traditional enemy ever
since the Russo-Japanese War, and many
of them have entertained the greatest dis-
trust of the Russians and continue to do
so, notwithstanding the fact that Ger-
many and Russia may be allies for the
time being. Japanese Army officers,
veterans of the Russo-Japanese War of
1905 and younger officers reared on
reminiscences in the tactics of that war,
cannot suddenly forget their antagonism. General
Sadao Araki, still a powerful figure among reactionary
elements, is one of those who have made their oppo-
sition known to the Konoye Government by refusing
a seat on the Government Advisory Council.
The cleavage on foreign policy does not stop
there, however. There is the important question of
the Dutch East Indies, which may prove the greatest
issue Japan has had to face in the Pacific. There are
two distinct camps on this issue, those who favor eco-
nomic exploitation on the best terms available under
pressure and those who want Japan to seize the rich
prize in the southern Pacific, come what may. Japan’s
failure to bring China to her knees has whetted
Japanese appetites for successes elsewhere. If Japan
should be able to obtain the riches of the Indies for
herself, her war in Asia would be a success no matter
what happened in China.
So far the Konoye Government has been able
to restrain the advocates of the drastic policy of seiz-
ing the Duch islands. But the fact that Commerce
and Industry Minister Ichizo Kobayashi recently re-
turned to Tokyo from Batavia virtually empty-handed
has opened the issue anew, and is certain to revive the
discussions more heatedly than ever.
There seems to be only one question upon which
Japanese are almost unanimous—that is their desire
to terminate the war with China as quickly as possible.
Japan’s “new order in east Asia” now encompasses
other horizons, and the China hostilities are looked
upon as an obstacle to bigger stakes elsewhere.
Threat to Britain’s Sea Power.
[Condensed from a “Contemporary Review” article
by Victor Wallace Germains, dealing arrestingly with
an aspect of a subject about which generally too much
is taken for granted. The writer is, of course, taking the
“long view” and expecting the war to go on for years.]
References to the enemy fleet are couched nowa-
days in an almost contemptuous tone of belittlement
and disparagement, our superiority in all types of
ship is held to be even greater in the present war than
it was in the last, and if, in those days, the enemy made


no attempt to challenge us to a decisive battle on the
seas, it is believed even less likely that he will attempt
to do so in the present struggle. In fact, we are up
against a fallacy which has brought disaster again
and again, but which always crops up anew, the ten-
dency to believe that what has happened in the last
war must necessarily be repeated in the present one.
The Axis Powers having established their domina-
tion over practically the whole of Europe, Germany
has at her disposal the dockyards and shipbuilding
resources of France, Holland, Belgium and Norway,
besides those of Italy, her Ally. The far-reaching
implications of this upon the naval situation are too
little realised. In the long run, the command of the
sea depends upon such factors as dockyards, machine-
shops, armor-plate factories, gun-foundries and so on,
the flow of raw materials to these, the extent to which
they can be expanded. The following figures may
illuminate the vast extent to which Germany has pro-
fited from her military conquests:
Coal, Steel, Iron Ore,
1000 1000 1000 Bauxite,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Belgium .. .. 29,575 2,885
France .. .. 46,500 6,174 11,520 682,400
Germany .. 186,179 23,208 2,759 93,100
Austria .. .. 230 672
Italy .. .. 960 2,323 510 382,700
Holland .. .. 488
Norway .. .. 780
Poland .. .. 38,104 248
Czechoslovakia .. 1,761
Tons .. 302,816 36,351 15,709 1,158,200
Germany has now at her disposal all the ship-
yards and shipbuilding resources of Holland, Norway,
Denmark, Belgium, Poland and France, as well as
those of Italy ; for practical purposes Sweden, Yugo-
slavia and Rumania are sitting in her pocket; she has
direct control over the labor and resources of 200 mil-
lion people, and indirect control over the labor and
resources of at least 80 million more. It would be
childish to believe that all this is going to have no
influence upon the naval situation ; the influence it is
bound to have upon the naval situation in the future
is the truest justification for our carrying on this war.
For if Germany is going to be granted the leisure and
the quiet to organise all these resources, then in course
of time she will be able to develop naval shipbuilding
programmes upon such a scale that we could not com-
pete with her, we should be reduced to the same state
of vassaldom as has befallen France.
Time will be needed for the Germans to organise
production. French, Belgians, Norse, Dutch, are going
to be very unwilling to work for German masters. We
can hamper, if we cannot entirely hinder, Germany
from getting access to certain vital raw materials, but
it would be wrong to believe that there is any particu-
lar urgency, from the German standpoint, in attempt-
ing the invasion of Britain. There is no real danger
of actual physical starvation as the result of our block-
ade, and whoever goes short in Europe it will not be
Germany. The subject peoples who were unable to
stand up to Germany when well-fed and with arms in
their hands are going to be even less capable of mak-
ing trouble for her when ill-fed and unarmed ; the
hopes as to “revolution due to hunger” are chimeri-
cal ; if British war-production is going up by leaps
and bounds it is too much to believe that German
war-production is standing still. Whatever the urgency
on Hitler’s side to force an issue it is not going to be
great enough to induce him to attempt an invasion as
a blind and reckless gamble. He will continue to
play his game to suit his interests, and not ours.
With this in mind, reflect that all British expert
estimates of the naval situation are based upon exist-
ing types of warships and existing naval building pro-
grammes. What is going to be the situation if the
enemy, who has developed revolutionary forms of
attack on land, proceeds to develop equally revolu-
tionary forms of attack at sea?
It is too readily assumed that Germany will con-
fine herself to existing types of high-speed capital
ships. Design in our Navy is influenced by the theory
that British ships must have two to three knots
superiority in speed to force the enemy to give battle.
Germany does not need speed to force the British
Fleet to give battle. This Fleet must give battle or
sacrifice communications vital to the very existence
of the Empire. Germany knows this, and it is a very
important consideration.
The essence of the situation is this: one must dis-
tinguish between local command of the sea for the
purpose of attaining a particular issue, e.g., Norway,
and general command of the sea for the purpose of
attaining an overwhelming naval success. One can
attain a local command of the sea whilst being still
inferior in general command of the sea.
It must never be forgotten that Germany, so long
as she keeps the initiative, can choose her own selected
moment against our average moment, and add to this
advantage her own selected weather conditions and
her own selected theatre of operations. Suppose Ger-
many to set her mind on gaining control of the narrow
waters of the English Channel zone. No British
admiral could look on and watch a German attempted
invasion and do nothing about it. The Germans know
that perfectly well. What if the Germans concentrate
on producing a revolutionary type of warship specially
designed for fair-weather conditions, for short-term
action and to work in conjunction with mines, sub-
marines, E-boats and bombers?
There is no sense in gambling the very exist-
ence of this Empire upon the assumption that the
enemy is a fool and there is no need for preparation.
For at least the next six months the threat of invasion
is going to exercise a tremendous leverage upon our
High Command, forcing it to conform to enemy
initiatives, and this leverage is in the hands of one
of the most dynamic, far-seeing, ruthless war-leader-
ships the world has ever seen. Unless we envisage the
danger beforehand, and plan measures to meet it, con-
ditions may easily arise in which our high-speed, high
freeboard sea-going battleships may be slaughtered by
new, specially-designed enemy types.
If we can plan campaigns for 1942, Germany can
do the same thing ; if we can revolutionise and speed
up our aircraft production, Germany can revolution-
ise and speed up her naval production just as easily.
Assume Germany to lay down, say, eight 45,000-ton
ships with speed limited to 17 knots. She could arm
these ships each with eighteen 18in. guns, plaster their
vitals with 18in. to 20in. armor ; using increased beam
and massive armored decks, she could make them
virtually immune to bombs or torpedoes. It is going
to take at least six months for news of this new pro-
gramme to leak through to the British Admiralty,
another three months while details are being sifted
and counter-designs worked out. At a conservative
estimate, we must assume a “time-lag” of nine months
before a British counter-programme even gets started.
The situation by the middle or end of 1942 could
then be this: we should have a total of 21 capital
ships available ; but, apart from the calls from the
Mediterranean and repairs, and assuming “equal
efficiency,” not one of these ships would have a dog’s
chance in a stand-up fight with the Germans.
Nothing could be more disastrous than to
have a British naval edition of the French Maginot
Line mentality. Never forget that a man like Hitler,
who aspires to play the role of a Caesar, is very un-
likely to be ignorant of the fact that Caesar won vic-
—Chicago “Daily News.”
THREE OF A KIND.
tories on the seas as well as on the land, or that Rome
destroyed Carthaginian sea-power by producing a new
type of “capital” ship.
Escape from the Nazis.
[After the last war many exciting accounts were
written by war prisoners describing escapes from Ger-
many. Judging by this (condensed) report sent from
Basle (Switzerland) to New York “Times” many more
such accounts can be expected after this war.]
Escape! It’s a magic word to millions in Europe.
Thousands, tens of thousands, try it. Some succeed.
More fail. Success in many cases has meant only new
capture and new escape attempts. Failure has fre-
quently meant death.
Since the war began Switzerland has been the goal
of many an escaped war prisoner or concentration
camp captive. Under international law escaped war
prisoners cannot be turned back by a neutral State.
No such laws protect concentration camp prisoners.
From Germany Austrians, Czechs, Poles, French,
Belgians, Dutch, Danes, Norwegians and British still
trickle in by night and day, using a hundred disguises,
a thousand tricks to travel hundreds, even thousands,
of miles to liberty.
Of all those who escape only the fate of the
British is clear once they arrive in Switzerland. Return
to his country once he reaches this neutral soil is easy
for the Briton. It is not so easy for the rest, for
theirs are conquered, occupied countries. What
happens to these men of occupied countries depends
entirely upon cases. If they have friends in Switzer-
land they might be permitted temporary liberty. If
they have friends abroad they might be lucky enough
to get visas and transportation out.
Many an unfortunate fugitive from a concentra-
tion camp has reached Switzerland after weeks of
effort, nearer dead than alive, only to find when he is
nursed back to health that Switzerland has its own
problems. It cannot support all the penniless, friend-
less, countryless refugees who come to its frontiers.
Some of these refugees work now in labor camps,
happy to find employment even if it’s labor to which
they are unaccustomed. Some live on dwindling for-
tunes smuggled out. War prisoners are of a different
type. Most of them escape from prison camps with
two driving desires in mind—to go home and to go on
with the fight.
Switzerland’s own “war prisoners” try to escape,
too. Technically they are not prisoners, for they are
French, Poles and other soldiers driven across the
frontier by the Germans. They surrendered their
arms and now they are interned in Swiss villages. No
barbed wire surrounds them. Some work with the
peasants. Some play games. Some do nothing at all.
All suffer sooner or later from the boredom of intern-
ment. Armed Swiss soldiers remind them that they
are not free to go home. The French are closest to
their homes and they speak the language of a part of
Switzerland. Escape is easiest for them, and many
have taken the trail.
Too frequently Swiss frontier guards find bodies
floating down the Rhine on the Swiss-German border
or the Doubs on the Swiss frontier with occupied
France. Sometimes they find the men have drowned
a few yards from their goal. Sometimes they find a
bullet wound —testimony of the price all escaping
prisoners may have to pay. Sometimes they find evi-
dence of suicide.
The escape route is a dangerous road.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
If Lord Cranborne could have added to his state-
ment [on the general Empire war effort] probably the
most important of any that could be made at this time
—namely, that Empire representatives have been added
to the War Cabinet —it would have given great
pleasure to all parts of the Empire, and particularly
to their soldiers now fighting for us and with us. Why
has it not been done? — Letter signed “Peer” in Man-
chester “Guardian.”
*****
Don Luigi Sturzo, world-famous Catholic oppo-
nent of Mussolini who recently arrived in the U.S.
from England, declared: “The totalitarian States —
Soviet Russia was the first —have caused the break-
down of the juridico-moral unity of the civilised world.
Now there are two groups of States between which no
understanding is possible unless a common moral
ideal is applied, the ideal of the jgreat human and
Christian tradition.” Don Sturzo assailed the view-
point of “some intellectuals who forgive all of Russia’s
sins and none of Germany’s or Italy’s” as “not too
consistent.” “What help can the democracies expect
from Russia in their task to build a new order?” he
asked. “Russia is also totalitarian and her inter-
national relations are also devoid of moral tenets.” —
New York “Times.”
* * * * *
“I will confess to you that never for one moment
have I had any doubt that I had to do what I did,
and when I look back I don’t see what more I could
have done.”— Neville Chamberlain ; letter to the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.
*****
The victory over Hitler’s effort to carry out his
threat to crush London has cost the lives of 14,000
civilians and another 20,000 have been wounded.
Battle casualties in the whole of the South African
War were less than 30,000, and of those only 5744
soldiers were killed in action, or considerably less than
half of the civilians slaughtered during 12 weeks of
Hitler’s effort to achieve by terror what he could not
accomplish by invasion. Scarcely 300 killed and 500
wounded was the toll taken of our troops.—Man-
chester “Guardian.”
*****
According to semi-official British sources, after
54 or more raids on Hamburg (425 miles from London)
industries are being transferred to eastern cities, un-
employment is increasing and both docks and indus-
trial districts have been severely punished. The Blohm
and Voss shipyards, where the Leviathan and the
Majestic were constructed, have been “badly dam-
aged,” and at one time five of the 26 submarines
being built in the Hamburg area were wrecked
“beyond repair.” The Vulcan yards, birthplace of the
Berengaria, have been “hit repeatedly,” and those of
the Deutsche Warft have been “severely damaged.”
The huge fruit and vegetable markets near the docks
were “destroyed” in early attacks on the city, and
trade was still disrupted. Across the Elbe, the biggest
vegetable oil works in Germany “stand battered and
gutted,” the Phoenix rubber-tyre plant is “demolished”
and the huge Rhenania Ossage refineries have been
“extensively damaged.”— New York “Herald Tribune”
London correspondent.
*****
Before war started, men who gave up some of
their leisure time to watch and listen for aircraft were
regarded as slightly eccentric, overgrown schoolboys
whose refusal to grow up took the form of liking to
“play at war.” Now Britain has reason to be grateful
for the foresight these men displayed, for they have
emerged as the eyes and ears of her defences against
air attack. Without the Observer Corps the fighters,
anti-aircraft guns, searchlights and balloons would be
working largely in the dark ; their counterblows would
be more or less guesswork. Thanks to the existence of
this organisation no German aircraft can cross any
part of the British coast by day or night without being
seen or heard, its direction and height noted and its
progress and activities reported from second to
second. It may fly high or low, it may twist and turn
and steer a crazy course, but always its presence
remains known to- the defence centres. — New York
“Times” London correspondent.
*****
Mr. Julian Huxley gives in the “Spectator” an
interesting account of the behavior and adventures of
the animals in the Zoo during air raids. A young
giraffe caught a cold because it spent the night in the
open, thinking its house too poorly protected. A
zebra whose prison doors had been blown down took
the air in Regent’s Park. Another preferred safety
in a basement. A crane, released in the same way,
went off to inspect the damage in the streets of
London. Some of the ruminants ran about when the
bombs whistled. The monkeys affected complete in-
difference. Thus all human types of behavior were
represented in the Zoo. But it is to be hoped that the
article will not fall under the eye of Dr. Goebbels.
For he will learn that the donkey “reacted with de-
fiance,” meeting energy with energy, and replying to
the noise of the bursting bombs with angry noise of
his own. What could be more British? — Manchester
“Guardian.”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
N.Z. Forest Products
“Arrangements are being made for list-
ing the co.’s shares on the Stock Exchanges
in Australia and New Zealand, and we
hope that, in future, if you wish to buy
or sell shares, you will do your trading
only through registered sharebrokers.”
This news from the directors of this
widely-owned Maoriland pine-forest co.
(it has 75,000 shareholders) is welcome ;
for many years the obscurity surrounding
prospects of the venture was added to
by the unwieldy form of capitalisation and
absence of recognised selling markets for
the capital units —at first £25 bonds, later
£3O shares, and now £1 shares. When
Stock Exchange channels become open to
the scrip it should be a big help to holders.
In the beginning (1923) Smith, Wylie
and Co. were brokers for N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, Ltd., a proprietary that sold acre-
lots of pine-trees at £25 (cash) an acre.
Smith, Wylie made money from broker-
age, and N.Z.P.F. stood to make a moun-
tain of cash from profits on sale of land
and services. It paid modest divs. (to share-
holders, not to bondholders) out of in-
come from funds set aside for future
commitments and profit. In 1936 the
interests of bondholders were separated
from N.Z.P.F., with a substantial portion
of N.Z.P.F.’s deferred profit thrown in ;
thus the formation of the Forest Pro-
ducts Co. came about.
In the years since H. L. Smith and
D. S. Wylie formed N.Z. Perpetual
Forests, many types of men have been
associated with dealings in the bonds and
shares —officially and unofficially. Imagi-
nation and persuasiveness were frequently
in evidence. O. Henry could have written
another score of stories on the doings
of the more colorful characters who
travelled the roads of the Commonwealth
dealing in N.Z.P.F. bonds. There were,
and are, more stable elements. The
growth of N.Z.P.F. was amazing ;
over £1,000,000-worth of bonds and
shares was sold in the third year of opera-
tions. Some former N.Z.P.F. bond sales-
men had remarkable careers on their
own account; that of Woolcott-Forbes,
otherwise Brandi, was fantastic.
In spite of the overoptimistic im-
pressions created by salesmen who
talked outside their “book,” and in spite
of the early optimism of the promoters
themselves —the prospectus of N.Z.P.F.’s
first bond issue (1923-24) said people
should come into the venture because “for
every £25 you invest' you should receive
£5OO or more” —the forestry venture has
not been as disappointing as many critics
expected. Briefly, N.Z.P.F., which bought
land, planted trees and sold bonds at the
rate of £25 an acre, in the end has done
more than it contracted to do, though
not as much as some of its salesmen im-
plied ; when the separation of bond-
holders from N.Z.P.F. took place, bond-
holders becoming the present N.Z. Forest
Products co., more than sufficient cash,
etc., was handed over to look after the
trees until they were 20 years old.
The 75,000 shareholders (formerly
bondholders) in N.Z. Forest Products
own something like 175,000 acres planted
with pine-trees. At March 31 last their
interests were shown in a balance sheet
as follows:
Paid capital. £4,G99,765
Forfeited
shares res. 485
Compounding
adjustment
account . . 154,110
Sundry
creditors .. 60,734
I
£4,915,094
Freehold,
forests, etc. £3,899,050
Plant,, etc. . . 10,087
Stocks & stores 4,835
Share sub-
sidiaries .. 7,997
Loan sub-
sidiaries . . 33,1(58
Due under
compounding
deed . . 9.1G1
Debtors . . 26,041
I nvestments,
cash, etc... 923,655
£4,915,094
The Maoriland Government appointed a
Bondholders’ Incorporation Commission
to investigate ways and means of straight-
ening out the clumsy and confusing bond
method of finance ; this commission had
a lot to do with the formation of N.Z.
Forest Products and the terms of separa-
tion. It will be seen from the foregoing
balance-sheet figures that Forest Pro-
ducts has over £900,000 net in liquid
assets; last year’s forest maintenance
costs were only £31,550, and adminis-
tration costs (£28,591) were more than
offset by income from investments
(£32,749), making the year’s total debit
balance only £27,391. Surplus liquid
assets represent more than 60 times that
figure. Net capital outlay last term, apart
from maintenance, was negligible.
The move to list the scrip on ’Change
is being assisted by completion of the
adjustment of various bondholders’ rights,
according to the date their trees were
planted. Soon there will be only two
classes of scrip issued by the co. —ord.
and pref. Previously each holder of a
bond was given a £3O share with rights
varying according to date of planting.
Now all are being handed scrip with
common denominations, though different
plantings will be allotted different
amounts of scrip.
To begin with, every holder of a £3O
share will receive 24 £1 ords. and six
£1 5 p.c. non-cum. prefs. In addition,
the former holder of a 1924 bond or
£3O share (whose trees were planted in
1925) will receive 11 extra ord. shares in
compensation for his more mature trees ;
the 1925 issue will get 10 extra ords. ;
and so on, reducing by one share each
year, until the 1934 class gets one extra
share and the 1935 class (1936 planting)
no extra shares. Holders of 1924 bonds
will thus get 35 ords. and six 5 p.c.
prefs. ; the holders of 1935 bonds will
receive 24 ords. and six prefs.
The £4,699,765 of capital at March 31
was represented by 157,813 ords. of £3O
each, less £34,625 unpaid. This will be
converted into £1 shares, each £3O
being represented by 24 ords. and six
prefs. of £1 each ; also, the further
ord. scrip for the “additional growth”
years will now have to be created and
allotted. Their number can only be
guessed at; if each year’s plantings were
identical in area the issue of increment
shares would run to about 1,000,000,
bringing paid capital to nearly £5,750,000.
It represents a large sum on which to
pay divs.
The co. has acquired the 3000-acre
forest of Afforestation, Ltd., also planted
by N.Z.P.F., on “substantially the same
basis as was decided on for the formation
of N.Z. Forest Products.” The effect of
the transaction is not discernible in the
accounts to March 31.
The co. is now to go ahead with the
establishment of a fibre wallboard mill,
sawmills and casemills, etc., at an esti-
mated cost of £350,000. A 31-acre site
for the wallboard mill alongside the rail-
way has been bought at Penrose, six
miles from Auckland. The sawmill will
be erected in the forests, near Rotorua.
The new venture is hoped to be in opera-
tion by March 31, 1941.
Though it is too small to raise hopes
of divs. to shareholders in the near future
—it seems certain, for instance, that no
shareholder will get £5OO back for £25-
£3O invested by 1945 —the wallboard mill,
if successfully established, should bring
in income and pave the way for the
exploitation of Pinus insignis timber in
other ways. Developments in the Forest
Products co. generally over the past four
years seem all to the good.
Hcliday-time approaching, Australian
’Changes steadied last week, an even keel
at a slightly lower level being the general
experience. Following the announcement
of new war company-tax proposals a
week or two earlier there had been a
slight decline in prices from which no
recovery took place. The tone prevailing
at the close of business was really a firm
one, however, taking yields obtainable
now and the probable high future cost of
war into consideration. The Sydney index
of industrial share prices kept above 130.
B.H.P. scrip sold at 445. 6d. toward
the close of the ’Change term, yielding
3| p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis. The
market obviously believes that this co. is
doing better than it admits, and that it
last year provided excessively for taxa-
tion and other contingencies. If B.H.P.’s
profits for tax-assessment purposes were
£2,000,000 (the highest figure, less taxa-
tion, it has ever disclosed was £1,431,513),
the ls.-in-the-£ excess-profits levy would
total no more than £lOO,OOO, which is not
at all heavy in the circumstances. B.H.P.
and its associated industries are remark-
ably busy at the present time, the activity
of the year in which the record profit was
shown now being far exceeded, it is safe
to say. The 1939-40 term, in which the sur-
prisingly low earnings of £979,139 were
shown, was affected by the coal strike.
The present defence work being done by
B H P- plants should represent the foun-
dation of further wide peace-time activi-
ties when the war is over. It is not too
much to hope that the co.’s export trade
will continue to develop. It is admirably
situated to build up a South Seas and
Asiatic trade in steel and steel products.
B. H. South shares were going at
255. 4d. toward the close of operations and
had attractions at that figure. North B.H.
was rather firmer at 41s. 9d. Zinc Corp.
ord. scrip at 645. was of outstanding in-
terest for a long-term hold. Mt. Lyell
shares (copper) have weakened to 28s. 3d.,
yielding slightly more than 7 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. Ore reserves rose 162,000
tons during the year, though the all-over
grade is lower. “A comprehensive drill-
ing programme” is now proceeding in
search of new ore-bodies ; the extra £4 a
ton granted for refined copper will cover
this, presumably.
Mt. Lyell has added to its lengthy
string of investments. At the annual
meeting on December 15 the chairman
said:
Shares in other companies are nearly
£102,000 higher. The increase is repre-
sented by the acquisition of 65,065 ords. in
Metal Manufactures, Ltd., and 30,000
ords. in Electricity Meter and Allied In-
dustries, Ltd. Metal Manufactures has
wqnted further capital to extend its works
at Port Kembla and those of its subsidiary,
Austral Bronze Co. Pty. The two works
are concerned with the fabrication of
copper and its alloys, and are largely en-
gaged on war work.
Austral Bronze has also bought a large
area near Melbourne, on which works will
be erected.
Metal Manufactures and the principal
cable-makers of Great Britain have formed
Cable Makers Australia Pty. to manufac-
ture at Liverpool, N.S.W., rubber insulated
cables. Production should begin in the
next four or five months. Another activity
of Lyell is its association with other inter-
ests in Australian Aluminium Co., to
operate at Granville, N.S.W.
Apart from its mine, Mt. Lyell has about
255. a share (book value) in surplus
liquids and investments.
* * * *
Market support for David Jones ords.
in Sydney has been surprisingly strong.
After the turnover of some thousands of
shares recently, the price remains firm
at 355. 6d., showing a return of £5 12s.
6d. per cent, on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Farmer ords. at 28s. yield £6 ss. per cent,
on an p.c. div., though 10 p.c. was
handed out in special circumstances last
term. In Melbourne, Myer ords. at
30s. 9d. return £5 18s. per cent, on the
current 9 p.c. div. Myer ords. have the
smallest proportionate visible div. cover-
age of the three ; D.J. and Farmer had
more than enough profit in their last
term to pay twice the rate distributed.
Of the lot, Farmer shares seem to be the
most attractive at current prices.
In the chain-store section, Woolworths
ss, ords. were available at 17s. 3d. last
week, yielding a shade under £5 2s. per
cent. G. J. Coles ords. slipped back
noticeably to 665. 6d., returning £5 ss.
per cent. It is a long time since Coles
scrip has shown an increase in yield
over Woolworths. About the middle of
this year Coles stock was at a higher
premium, later about level. The ascen-
dancy of Woolworths recently has been
due to a sharp decline in prices offered
for Coles shares. Woolworths still
appears to have the greater attractions
at these prices.
Selfridges, another chain-store co.
(headquarters in Sydney), but which had
a bad run to start with, is now reported
to be doing exceptionally well, though
still not in the class of its older com-
petitors. Supporters consider last week’s
price of 18s. 9d. to be cheap.
Chain stores may get more patronage
at the expense of other retailers when
the defence taxes cut into incomes from
the beginning of 1941.
* * * *
As the Empire seemingly drifts more
away from gold as a basis for . its cur-
rency the more clear does the whole basis
of money become. Money is simply a
negotiable title-deed ; to maintain its
value the title-deeds in circulation in the
form of notes, debts, bank credits,
balances, etc., must not exceed the total
value of desirable property, goods and
services in a country. If it were possible
to keep a national ledger recording each
person’s income and expenditure, debts
and credits, it wouldn’t be necessary to
have money at all. The whole question
of credit expansion, so intriguing to some
know-all Canberra politicians, is simply
a matter of banks or other interests
“staking” someone. A man may have
an efficient factory, some raw materials
and a full order-book but no money
to pay a staff to work his factory.
In such a case most banks will
“stake” him until he gets going, because
he has everything necessary but credit—
“time to pay”—in order to do a job that
is wanted. But if an inexperienced man
with no factory and no orders walked
into a bank and asked for enough credit
to set himself up as a glummpph-manu-
facturer the bank would lock the till and
firmly but politely inform the chap that
there was nothing doing. Quite rightly so,
too ; the bank-manager, who had never
heard of glummpphs before, would ascer-
tain that the promoter of the scheme was
no judge of whether there was any public
demand for glummpphs, and would know
that the money or credit available could be
put to a much more beneficial use. There
are an enormous number of would-be
glummpph-manufacturers kicking round
Australia today who would be far better
engaged in doing some real work than in
trying to think out slick ways of intro-
ducing unpaid-for poker-chips into the
economic kitty.
* * * *
In Perth last week Commonwealth
Treasurer Fadden said the Government
was using bank credit to the greatest
degree possible, and would probably
have to make more use of it later. Aus-
tralia had to finance the wheat crop,
on which there was an overdraft at
present of £13,000,000, which constituted
bank credit. Also, the extent to which
the estimates of expenditure would be
exceeded would have to be financed by
bank credit, as well as the extent to
which loans would fall due. When
critics said the Government was ignoring
such means of finance they were talking
about something of which they knew
very little. The £143,000,000 mentioned in
the financial programme for defence pur-
poses didn’t include £43,000,000 to be
spent overseas on Australia’s behalf by
Britain. Nearly the whole of the outlay
on the A.I.F. in Africa and Palestine
had been provided by Britain—for the
time being only.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper ords. at 31s.
show a big rise since the div. announce-
ment took the market by surprise. For
a considerable time before and after the
May-June market collapse the shares
could be bought at 265.-275., and that
was the level at which they stood when
the board didn’t and did announce a
div. all in the space of 26 days. No
div. was in sight when the accounts were
published, though the subject was men-
tioned, but at the annual meeting two
divs. were declared —one (3 p.c.) in respect
of the past year, and another (3 p.c.) an
interim for the current term. Conditions
in the paper business are all in the co.’s
favor at the moment. In spite of price-
fixing, the co. seems to have had a
favorable deal from the Prices Commis-
sioner, and it has little to growl about,
even though the board says that what the
co. gets for its products is 50 p.c. below
the landed cost of British paper of com-
parable quality. The co. could easily sell
double its present output on the market
today. It is turning out a tip-top pro-
duct in many varieties, as may be seen
from the papers used in printing the
Emperor and Loloma accounts and plans,
just issued.
* * * *
The level of prices for Australian ex-
ports has remained unchanged almost
throughout 1940. It is up 18 p.c. on the
average for 1939. Most contract prices
with Britain for 1941 remain much the
same as for 1940. Cost of imports from
Britain has risen, though there are ques-
tions about volume available owing to
the necessity for selling English manufac-
tures to the U.S.A. in order to obtain
dollar exchange. The Australian trade
balance remains unsatisfactory in spite
of import rationing.
* * * *
Bigger Australian trade figures lor
1940-41 so far have produced a bigger
excess of imports than in the preceding
period. Here are comparisons of mer-
chandise figures for the four months to
Oct. 31:
1939-40. 1940-41. Increase.
£stg.ooo. £stg.ooo. £stg.ooo.
Exports .. .. 27,702 33,984 6,282
Imports .. .. 32,215 39,885 7,670
Excess of imports 4,513 5,901
Gold-production values are excluded ;
they are probably slightly better than for
the same portion of 1939-40. The in-
crease of £6,282,000 sterling in merchan-
dise exports failed to keep pace with the
increase in merchandise imports to the
extent of £1,388,000, and the merchan-
dise balance worsened by that amount,
figuring at £5,901,000 for the four
rhonths. Among our exports, butter fell
away steeply because of the dry season,
and less sugar, hides and minerals were
sent away. Wool exports increased
sharply, and wheat and flour rose.
Amongst imports, textiles and machinery
were heavily bought. Petrol, tea, tobacco,
motor chassis, jewellery and timber
showed the effect of exchange restriction
and/or internal rationing.


TATTERSALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY . ANNUAL RACE MEETINC
FIRST DAY:
Saturday, 28th December, 1940.
Principal Event: The Carrington Stakes,
Six Furlongs.
RANDWICK
RACECOURSE
T. T. MANNING, Secretary.
157 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
SECOND DAY:
Wednesday, Ist January, 1941.
Principal Event: Tattersall’s Club Cup,
One Mile and a Half.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Randwick furnished some first-class
racing on Saturday, and spirited betting
did not suggest that backers, big or small,
were worried by the prospects of next
year’s increased taxation. A “Why
worry?” attitude is certainly better than
one of pessimism. An attendance of
19,500 was 3500 less than on the corre-
sponding day last year, and the tote turn-
over was £28,160, against £28,916.
In winning the Villiers Stakes Rimveil
proved himself a first-class miler. Luck
in running did not favor him, and three
furlongs from home his chance of suc-
cess appeared decidedly indifferent, Half-
way down the straight Red Thespian and
Marengo led from Breeze, who, after
losing a little ground at the turn, ran
on again in great style.
For a few strides Marengo flattered his
supporters, and then weakened. Breeze,
continuing her run, took Red Thespian’s
measure, but almost immediately Rimveil
dashed up, and had the race won before
many of the onlookers took in the situa-
tion. It was a remarkable finishing effort,
and though hitherto not generally
accounted a stayer perhaps Rimveil may
have to be considered for the St. Legers.
His owner and trainer may, of course,
deem it advisable to restrict him to
shorter races, but, as he won with w.f.a.
on Saturday, he is bound to get a full
share of weight in handicaps.
Marengo ran honestly, but was not
good enough, though his close fourth was
a fair effort. He is sure to improve.
Aznazu, Early Bird, Adios and Forward
were among the front bunch to the turn,
but had nothing to do with the finish.
Pierce, who was a long way back soon
after barrier-.rise, did not after get near the
front, and though Feminist commenced
fairly she soon dropped out of it. As
she made up ground at the end Tatter-
sail’s Cup may give her a better chance
of success, especially as the run should
benefit her. St. Constant was the
whipper-in at an early stage, but made
up a deal of leeway from the turn.
Stylish never got in it, but Rodrigo and
Beaucaire ran fairly. The time, 1.391,
was on the slow side, but that was only
to be expected after the heavy rain of
the previous day. Rimveil is another in-
stance of the luck attaching to yearling-
buying. He cost 80gns.
• • • • • •
In the Holiday Handicap Malagigi was
seen to much greater advantage than
when beaten by Tusculum and Yours
Truly at Rosehill, and again enters Sum-
mer Cup calculations ; in fact, looks like
starting favorite. Triggerman tried to win
all the way, but though he shot away
from Tuckerbox at the turn, and had a
useful lead at the leger, was unequal to
stalling off Malagigi, who was very
patiently ridden by Bartle. Approaching
the bend Fountain and Sedunum were
nicely placed, but neither was a winning
possibility over the last furlong.
Dollar and Tuckerbox greatly dis-
appointed me. Tuckerbox stopped to
nothing after being second to the turn,
and Dollar did not get near the front
at any stage. It was the same with Bour-
bon, who, though his weight drops 101 b.,
would seemingly have to improve more
than that in order to win the Summer
Cup. However, the soft going was
reckoned to have told against him.
There was no suggestion of luck in
Skerries’s December Nursery win. He
was behind Kingsdale and Gregory at
the straight entrance, level with them a
furlong from home, and then fairly out-
stayed Kingsdale. Gregory was third
until within 30 yards of the winning post,
but was cut out of that position by
Papillon, an El Cacique filly trained by
J. Scully. Apart from those mentioned
nothing was a place possibility from the
turn, though Arenessa (Chatham-Dame-
minster) and Grand Pere (Beau Pere-
Natiya) shaped fairly. Gregory is sure to
win races. At his yearling price of
575gns. Skerries is already a good pur-
chase. Bruegalong made a very poor
showing.
• 9 i • • .
Gold Pan stayed too well for The
Winger in the Hurdle Race, though the
latter headed him rounding the turn.
Guardsman, who was placed second con-
sequent on The Winger and Battle Star
cutting inside a flag—the hurdles were
on the outside of the track—did not run
nearly as well as at his previous outing.
He failed to get near the front in the
first mile, and was well beaten when the
home turn was reached. Lord Belmont
had a turn in the lead early in the piece,
but is not improving. It was not until
the inquiry was being held into Battle
Star having “cut the course” that it
transpired The Winger had done like-
wise, and tote dividends were paid out
on him before it was announced he had
forfeited second place. Hard luck for the
backers of Guardsman, who received
nothing.
King’s Park, favorite for the first divi-
sion of the Novice Handicap, gave his
backers a poor run, and after Benita and
Jean Melfort in turn had led the field to
the turn a rattling finish gave Fire Jax
a half-head win from Trade Mark, whose
misbehavior caused him to be sent from
No. 1 at the barrier to the outside, and
that cost him the race. Wee Woo’s fast
finishing run landed her the closest of
thirds, and put her in line for a win over
a longer distance. L’Amond, in fourth
position, also came home strongly, and
is worth following, as is Druce. Nothing
in the field looked fitter than Lo Dokes,
but he dropped right out after going two
furlongs, and was not after sighted.
Winifred, a recent arrival from the
country, and one of G. Price’s team, was
rushed when betting opened on the
second division of the Novice Handicap.
She won, and it was due to gameness she
defeated Wetzel and Maid of Ireland,
who led her a furlong from home. Wini-
fred is by Harinero from Miss Manfred,
by Manfred from Quality Street, by
Cyklon, and as a yearling cost E. J. Watt
140gns. Elson was prominent through-
out, as was The Cuan, while Cumberland
was one of the leading lot at the turn.
He and The Cuan should win in this class.
Constant Chatter did not do nearly as
well as at her previous start, and Char-
lotte Greenwood’s form was not in keep-
ing with her appearance. She is a well-
grown daughter of Bulandshar, sire of
High Caste.
Well-backed Überous was never
further back than fourth at any part of
the Highweight Handicap, and, third to
River Namoi and Sigh entering the
straight, did better right at the finish than
Bobby, though in coming from a long
way back at the turn to get second the
last-named shaped really well. Climax,
who was fourth, will be all the better for
her race, and, an Adrian Knox Stakes
winner, she is being given every chance
when near the minimum in welters. Mab-
son did not get a smooth passage when
he tried to get through in the straight,
but, at best, could not have got closer
than third even if luck had favored him
to a greater extent. Veiled Witch and
Bonny Loch stopped at the post.
* * * *
Some families are noted for the riders
they produce, and Bob Lewis, one of the
greatest jockeys Australia has known, has
imparted a lot of his knowledge to his
nephew, W. Williamson. The latter, who
is apprenticed to another uncle, “Son”
Lewis, rode his fifth winner in a week and
his forty-first in all when he piloted Alibi
to success in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Alibi’s defeat into third place at Sun-
bury at his previous start had created a
minor sensation. One of his part owners
asked the stewards to inquire into the
handling of the colt on that occasion, but
everything was found to be in order.
Alibi, according to his trainer, T.
O’Dwyer, is inclined to hang in towards
the finish of shorter races, and that gives
the impression that he is a good thing
beaten. The longer distance on Saturday
suited him nicely, and he finished too
well for Counsel and Retnuha, after
Counsel had entered the straight with
what appeared a winning lead. Counsel
was set a stiff task in being rushed from
last at the half-mile to be in front about
two furlongs from home, and it was not
surprising that he weakened. Alibi, who
is by Law Maker from Night Star, was
bred by his owners, A. and R. Patterson,
farmers at Sunbury.
Although bookmakers wanted 6 to 1
against the judge’s placings being altered,
some backers considered that the pro-
test entered on behalf of Tetianui against
Contact in the first Trial Handicap divi-
sion should have been upheld. It is diffi-
cult to know how they arrived at that
conclusion. There was a slight scrim-
mage about half a furlong from home,
Tetianui’s rider, T. Unkovitch, alleging
that Contact veered out and hampered
his mount, but Contact appeared to suffer
just as much as Tetianui in what little
interference occurred. Tetianui, however,
was decidedly unlucky not to land a
plunge for followers of Lou Robertson’s
stable. Backed from sto 1 to 9to 4 she
was slow away, and later experienced a
series of checks which sent her back
last at the half-mile. Contact’s win was
his third in succession, and his patch of
good form has proved the judgment of
his trainer, Jack Antonio. The latter,
who rode the English horse in two races
for a first and a second, always has had
a good opinion of him, and after being
licensed as a trainer advised Leonard
Wight, a Collins-street specialist, to buy
him. Wight made a fine bargain at 350
guineas.
Bathing Beauty recorded an overdue
win in the Fund Handicap, for which
Pantoon was backed as if the race were
all over. Pantoon’s price shortened from
6 to 1 to favoritism at 5 to 2, but, while
he was never really dangerous, Bathing
Beauty, last at the seven furlongs and in
front rounding the turn, won decisively
from Cackle and Ngapuna. Bathing
Beauty is trained by Dick O’Donnell for
A. P. E. Tyson, who bought the mare’s
dam, Dame Du Lac, from “S. A. Raw-
don” for about 50 guineas. Dame Du
Lac was in foal to Parenthesis at the
time, and Bathing Beauty is the result of
that mating. Now five years old, she has
always given fair staying promise, and
perhaps she will give a good account of
herself in the Bagot Handicap.
Form suggests that High Title and Tea
Cake will be easily the most-fancied run-
ners for the Stradbroke Stakes on New
Year’s Day, but Sangallo won the
Moonee Valley Two-year-old Handicap
in a style which indicates he will improve
considerably. He is engaged in the Strad-
broke, and, although at the time of writ-
ing no decision had been reached whether
he will be a runner, his joint owners and
breeders, A. G. Silk and A. Campbell,
naturally would like to see him follow the
example set by his half-sister Gay Dell,
winner of the corresponding race several
years ago. Gay Dell carried Campbell's
colors on that occasion. Form said little
for Sangallo’s chance on Saturday, but
he had galloped well in a private trial
at the Valley during the week, and was
backed from sevens down to fives in face
of heavy support for Leicester Square
and Lawlove. Although he ran wide
when sharing the lead with Intrepid
rounding the turn, Sangallo went away
in the straight, to win easily from that
colt and Prince David. A late foal, San-
gallo is by Portofino from Delicious, and
the place-getters are by the same sire.
Harold Badger, leading Melbourne
jockey for the last two seasons, and on
top of the list for the current year,
landed a double on Skylass and Car-
pentier. Skylass disappointed owner Bill
Burke in a mile and a half race on the
same track five days earlier, but Burke
has always been confident that she is the
makings of a fair stayer and backed his
opinion again. Skylass shot to the front
about three furlongs from home, and
won well from Lady Sykes and Request.
The only surprising part of Carpentier’s
win in the Welter Handicap was his
starting price of 7 to 4, after touching
2to 1. He was regarded by most backers
as the good thing of the day, but heavy
support for Grandson and Our Boy
caused him to ease. Carpentier, who is
leased for his racing career by trainer
Elwood Fisher, duly won, but after hold-
ing a clear lead at the top of the straight
he had to be ridden right out to hold
Our Boy to a head. Our Boy was in
front of only two horses at the half-
mile, but would have won in another
couple of strides.
* * * *
If form always worked out correctly
nearly half the acceptors for the Summer
Cup could on their recent doings be
classed “no-chancers.” In the Holiday
Handicap Tuckerbox, Dollar, Peerless
and Bourbon were failures; Malagigi,
meeting Triggerman 21b. better and Sed-
unum 41b. worse, reads like again beat-
ing them ; Marengo found the mile in
the Villiers Stakes rather far, and the
additional five furlongs will not help
him if he runs.
Rosehill form leaves Bronze Flight
behind Tusculum, Yours Truly and
Malagigi; Lockray has won up to 11
furlongs at Randwick, but may not yet
be quite at his best, though, as W. Cook
has been engaged, his connections must
fancy him ; and it is difficult to regard
either Mainlaw or After Six as a prob-
able winner, even though each has shown
fair staying form. The “whys and
wherefores” would therefore appear to
reduce the field to four genuine possi-
bilities—Malagigi, Yours Truly, Tuscu-
lum and Kurrawid—though there is the
possibility of firmer going helping
Bourbon.
At Rosehill Tusculum outstayed Yours
Truly and Malagigi at 11 furlongs, but
will meet them respectively 61b. and
81b. worse. Still as he has little to carry,
and has done well since he last raced, he
is a danger. As Yours Truly finished
better than Malagigi at Rosehill, and will
benefit by his drop from 8.5 to 7.11, I
expect him to confirm that form. A
winner at two miles in Maoriland and
at a mile and a half in Sydney, the Sum-
mer Cup distance should not trouble him.
Sedunum was a close third in last
season’s Tattersall’s Cup with 9.2, and
is nicely treated in the Summer Cup with
61b. less, but I think the extra furlong
will bother him, and Tattersall’s Cup
with 8.11 may again give him his best
chance. Kurrawid is bound to play a
prominent part. He appears to have
returned to the form that carried him
into third place in the last Anniversary
Handicap with 7.11 against his 7st. of
Thursday. Last week I gave preference
to Yours Truly and Kurrawid for the
Cup, and I shall not depart from that
selection, though Tusculum and Malagigi
must also be given good chances.
* * * *
A. G. Potter was elected to the vacancy
on the A.J.C. caused by the retirement
of Hunter White. It was anticipated W.
M. Gollan would give him a hard run
for it, but the reverse was the case.
Figures were Potter 656, Gollan 442. As
a shrewd businessman and a horseowner
the new committeeman should be an
acquisition.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before Acceptances.)
(By “ PILOT .”)
Christmas Trial Handicap:
L’Amond, 1 ; Plantage, 2 ; Veiled
Threat or Kestrel, 3.
Summer Nursery Handicap:
Skerries, 1 ; Lawgiver, 2 ; Gregory,
3.
December Stakes: Yaralla, 1;
•Final Victory, 2 ; Linemond, 3.
Chisholm Handicap: Waireka, 1 ;
Petruchio, 2 ; Hash, 3.
Summer Cup: Yours Truly, 1;
Kurrawid, 2 ; Tusculum or Mala-
gigi, 3.
Wilton Park Handicap: Dawn
Mary, 1 ; Drava, 2 ; Jean Melfort,
3.
A.J.C. Handicap: Mohican, 1 ;
Breeze, 2 ; Climax or Snow Queen,
3.
TATTERSALL’S MEETING.
Carrington Stakes: Waireka, 1 ;
Ensign, 2 ; Petruchio or Hash, 3.


SAVE MONEY
sad
IT'S
THRIFTY
l TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS / A
//CHAMPION
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
SPARK
PLUGS
Even the best spark plugs
wear out. Replace them with
new Champions at least once
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and bad.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
m
iSi!
\\
The A.J.C. is evidently of opinion that
the war is not going to affect racing in
Sydney adversely in the early part of the
coming year. Stakes at the autumn meet-
ing are to aggregate £31,500 for the four
days, with the Doncaster Handicap again
£3OOO, Sydney Cup £7OOO and a £2OO gold
cup, and no flat race of less than £7OO.
In addition to owners and trainers,
breeders will appreciate the fact of the
A.J.C. not being pessimistic as to the
future. It will have bearing on prices
realised at the yearling sales.
* * * *
The Victorian Club was hopeful of
being granted a day to hold a meeting at
Moonee Valley in aid of the Racing
Patriotic Appeal Fund, but permission
was refused. Unlike Tattersall’s and City
Tattersall’s Clubs in Sydney, the Victorian
Club has no racing date of its own. It
sought to aid war funds by conducting a
meeting on February 5, one of the dates
left vacant because the Bendigo course
has been taken over by the military. The
Bendigo J.C. had applied to have its Cup
meeting transferred to a city track, but
the Chief Secretary would not agree. As
the concession of racing in the city
area had been refused the Bendigo R.C.,
which also would have devoted its profits
to patriotic purposes, it would have been
against Government policy to entertain
the Victorian Club’s application. The
committee of the R.P.A.F. now hopes that
a day will be set apart for the Victorian
Club when fixtures are arranged for the
1941-42 season.
* * * *
Lucrative won the Victoria Derby less
than two months ago, but already he has
concluded a summer spell, and is back
in work for important autumn races. He
did well during his holiday, and, accord-
ing to trainer H. Freedman, has thick-
ened appreciably, even if he has not
grown much taller. Lucrative’s progress
in the next few weeks will determine his
programme, but the chances are that he
will reappear in the six furlongs William
Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley towards
the end of January, and have his next
race in the Williamstown C. F. Orr
Stakes, to be run over a mile on the same
track. Previously the Orr Stakes was
seven furlongs, but there is no barrier
at that point at the Valley. Lucrative’s
programme may also include the Futurity
Stakes, and it has been suggested that he
might tackle the Newmarket in prefer-
ence to the V.R.C. St. Leger. There is
no real reason, however, why he should
be doubted as a stayer. He ran on in
fifth position in the Melbourne Cup, and
although Tidal Wave, another three-year-
old, finished third in that race, Lucrative
conceded him 51b.
* * * *
Entrants for the Standish and Bagot
Handicaps, to be run at Flemington on
New Year’s Day, are not an imposing lot.
Aurie’s Star, of course, is an exception
in the Standish, but interest will be in-
creased if Manrico, deposed straight-six
champion, returns to his best and
Pamelus can stage a comeback. At time
of writing Pamelus was to be a runner
for the Christmas Handicap at Fleming-
ton this Thursday, and, in view of his
recent good race at Ascot, he should be
particularly hard to beat. The Bagot
Handicap, about lj mile, will be con-
tested by a field little above suburban
standard. Fearless, winner of the Epsom
Cup, has been left in Melbourne for this
race, and L’Aiglon, who ran several good
races in the spring, but has been out of
the winning list more than a year, will
get his opportunity. Looking somewhat
above himself in condition, L’Aiglon
rattled home strongly in third place to
Ajon and Red Morn over six furlongs—
a distance much too short for him—at
Mooney Valley. It augurs well for his
Christmas and New Year engagements,
but the stayers will have their work cut
out to beat Companion if the latter repro-
duces his Ascot Cup form.
* * * *
On his way back to Maoriland is W.
Hawthorne, who trained many winners
in Victoria for W. R. Kemball. Latter
recently disposed of his large team, and
Hawthorne decided to relinquish training
here. He intends, however, to resume his
vocation when he gets home. Star mem-
ber of his Victorian string was Amiable,
who created record time for a mile when
she defeated High Caste and Ajax in the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes. W. Hooton,
who rode several winners when appren-
ticed to J. Fryer, has returned home also.
He will complete his apprenticeship with
a Maoriland trainer. Given reasonable
chances, Hooton should do well on the
other side of the Tasman, as he is a
better rider than some racegoers allow.
* * * *
Buyers will not lack opportunities at
the annual sale of yearlings in Melbourne
in March. A record catalogue will be
offered, more than 300 yearlings having
been entered already. Previous “high”
was 275 in 1937. L. Aldridge, of the
Kismet Stud, Sunbury, home of Law
Maker, will have the largest representa-
tion with 32. A. G. Hunter will offer
27 youngsters by Brueghel, Windbag,
Curialis and Liberal, while H. G. Ray-
mond and H. B. Ranken will submit 25
by Gay Lothario and Enfield. Sol
Green has catalogued 24 by Actor, Lo
Zingaro and Charles Fox.
* v *
Several three-year-olds have won the
Carrington Stakes, and the betting market
indicates that Ensign, another of that
division, will be successful this year, not-
withstanding that, in 9st., he has 101 b.
over weight-for-age, or 21b. more than
High Caste carried when he won the last
Challenge Stakes. Ensign has shown him-
self exceptionally brilliant, is a weight-
carrier, and is fit, but I prefer another of
the same age in Waireka, who should be
at her best on Saturday next.
Disappointing on occasions last season,
she was also responsible for some first-
class performances, and her close third
with 9.2 to Adios (9.12) and Pierce (8.4)
at Randwick recently, when palpably
above herself, pointed to the probability
of her shortly acting up to her best two-
year-old form. She will meet Ensign 161 b.
better than weight-for-age, and, a parti-
cularly smart beginner, is sure to be well
placed from barrier-rise. Gallant is an-
other three-year-old of whom many good
judges hold a high opinion, but though he
won well at each of his recent starts the
company was below Carrington Stakes
standard. Still, he may run well.
I am writing before acceptance day,
and may touch upon some that will drop
out, but so far as the topweights, Del-
mestor and Trimmer, are concerned, the
former scarcely seems as good as when
she won with 9.7 last year, and Trimmer
has not raced for some time. Adios,
Penthides and Red Thespian have recent
good form to their credit, and Caesar is
very well. However, his slowness as a
beginner is likely to tell against him.
Petruchio, third last year with 8.0, has
61b. less this time, and his win at Ascot
last week entitles him to be taken into
account again.
Hash, despite her failure at six furlongs
at Randwick a few weeks ago, is a possi-
bility, and Sweet Boleiro, Pen, Sir Regal
and Miss Pentheus are all speedy, though,
if the last-named is a runner, she is likely
to prove a handful at the starting-post for
any light boy. Perhaps something I have
not even mentioned may upset calcula-
tions, but I am pinning my faith to
Waireka.
* * * *
The yearling colt by Pantheon or Pic-
cadilly presented by P. Miller to the
Randwick Sporting Patriotic and War
Fund Movement was won by V. Oakes,
of Muswellbrook, a son of trainer H.
Oakes, who has been associated with
some good Sydney winners. Second
prize, a motor-car, went to the well-
known Randwick ex-trainer F. Williams.
M. W. Poison, promoter of the art union,
and M. McCarten, treasurer, worked like
beavers, and their efforts greatly contri-
buted to the £4600 profit, which will be
lent to the Federal Government free of
interest, and at the end of the war be
used for the benefit of returned soldiers.
There were subscribers to the art union
from everywhere, among the ticket-
holders being Steve Donoghue, for
several years England’s leading jockey
and a prominent trainer of recent years.
* * * *
Delmestor won the last two Carring-
ton Stakes, one with 8.13 and the other
with 9.7, but Greenline still has the best
record in that race. He won with 9.13
in 1928, was third the following year
with 10.6, and won again in 1931 with
10.5, his age then being seven years.
Mares have an excellent Carrington
Stakes record, having won nine times in
the last 20 years. Those successful dur-
ing that period were Etive, Tressie, Vali-
care, Gay Ballerina, Pavilion, Dame
Moab, Brown Baroness and Delmestor
(twice). Pavilion’s I.lo£ with 8.5 in
1930 is still the record time for the race,
though Delmestor got within a quarter-
second of it last year, and she carried 9.7.
* * * *
America’s champion two-year-old of
1940 is Whirlaway. At Keeneland (Lex-
ington, Ky.) in October he beat all the
other cracks of his age in the Breeders’
Futurity, worth $7835 for first. He car-
ried 8.10, and ran the six furlongs in
I.ll|. He is by the English Derby
winner Blenheim, who cost an American
syndicate $250,000.
* * * *
Suggestions to the contrary, Old Row-
ley is not to be trained again. A corre-
spondent wishes to know how J. Scully
acquired Old Rowley. Bought as a year-
ling for 500gns. by P. H. Osborne, Old
Rowley was raced unsuccessfully at two
years and halfway through his three-
year-old career by that owner, and then
leased to Scully with a 400gns. option of
purchase. After Old Rowley won the
Cumberland Plate and A.J.C. Plate,
Scully decided to exercise his option, and
as Old Rowley raced unsuccessfully at
five and six years, and also had to be
given a long spell, it looked like proving
bad business. Old Rowley, however,
atoned for all his failures when at seven
years he won the Melbourne Cup and
£5250 and a trophy of £2OO.
* * * *
Although I cannot recall an A.J.C. or
Victoria Derby being won by a horse
at its first appearance on a racecourse,
it may have happened. Charge was a
maiden, and had started only once previ-
ously, when he won the A.J.C. Derby,
and Gloaming also accounted for that
race at his second start. Although it has
not occurred of recent years, the Eng-
lish Derby was won on 18 occasions by
horses that were having their first run in
a race. They were Sir Peter Teazle (1787),
Daedalus (1794), The Fidget colt (1797),
Sir Harry (1798), Champion (1800), Ditto
(1803), Hannibal (1804), Cardinal Beau-
fort (1805), Election (1807), Pan (1808),
Pope (1809), Prince Leopold (1816),
Middleton (1825), Frederick (1829), Mun-
dig (1835), Amato (1838), Blair Athol
(1864) and Merry Hampton (1887).
Amato did not race again after the
Derby.
* * H= *
Occasionally the Chisholm Handicap
has given a line as to the probable result
of the Carrington Stakes, but it was not
so last year. Jazbeau, Jocular and Denis,
the Chisholm Handicap place-getters, ran
in the Carrington Stakes, but were not
prominent at the finish.
* * * *
After a long sequence of failures
Petruchio returned to the winning list at
Ascot on Wednesday, and not only scored
in easy fashion, but won his division of
the Flying in a quarter-second faster time
than recorded by Tyrannus in his divi-
sion. As a two-year-old Petruchio won
four of the eight races in which he ran,
the last being with 9.9 (minimum 7.0) in
a field of 18 at Randwick. Naturally
a great deal was expected of him at
three years, but his best effort at that age
was when he ran Aeolus to a head in
the Rosehill Guineas. He did not repeat
that form, missing a place at his next
five starts. Now there seems a possi-
bility of a return to his two-year-old
form, and he has 7.8 in the Carrington
Stakes. Owner Glennon gave 520gns. for
him at auction.
* * * *
There are 549 yearlings catalogued for
W. Inglis and Son Pty.’s sale, which takes
place at Randwick on April 15, 17, 18.
Last year’s total was 609, and the high-
est prices realised were 3500gns. for Beau
Son (Beau Pere-Banita), who has not yet
raced, and 2200gns. for Beau Port, whose
two starts have given a similar number
of seconds. Up to the present Yaralla
is the only four-figure purchase who has
distinguished himself. As usual P. Miller
is the principal contributor to the sale,
his total being 108. He is safe in the
knowledge that Double Remove’s pro-
geny will be in strong demand.
* * * *
Backers did not get Christmas presents
out of last year’s A.J.C. summer meeting.
Fourteen races were run, and the success-
ful favorites were Curiosity (6 to 4) and
Dark Elegance (2 to 1 on). Other win-
ners included Tweedside, 10 to 1 ; Miss
Pentheus, 14 to 1 ; Billie, 12 to 1 ; Pen
Name, 10 to 1 ; Jazbeau, 14 to 1 ; and
Bringa, 12 to 1. Tattersall’s meeting was
not much more satisfactory for favorite
followers. Freckles and High Rank were
popular selections for their races, and
Delmestor shared favoritism with four
others for the Carrington Stakes; but
other winners included Session (25 to 1)
and Adios (20 to 1).
* * * *
Advertising tipsters are supposed to be
“out,” but without wireless or newspaper
assistance they continue to flourish. They
still supply specials to the gullible, and
the surprising part is that their patrons
do not appear able to grasp the fact that
if these tipsters were so certain of suc-
cess there would be no need for them to
look for outside support. They would
simply have to go in an i break the books
on their own “certainties.” Trainers can
tell some amusing and pathetic tales in
connection with people who, after losing
a lot of money, have come to them for
advice. There are trainers who would
be even hotter than the tipsters in the
matter of advice, but most take up a
different attitude. I know of at least one
trainer who, when appealed to with a
view to helping a losing backer who,
knowing little of the game, honestly
thought any prominent trainer could select
winners at will, replied to the following
effect: “Look, I have seventeen or
eighteen horses in my stable, and they
get me up at four in the morning. Do
you think I would do that if I could
make a certainty of picking winners?
My advice to you is, if you have a safe, to
put the money in it when you have an
idea of making a bet, and reckon up at
the end of the year how much you are
in pocket. It is certain you will be. As
for patronising circularising tipsters, you
deserve all the trouble you make for
yourself, and they should be in gaol.”
* * * *
Wellington R.C. intends, so far as pos-
sible, to exclude indifferent horses from
its Centenary Cup, to be run on Jan. 16.
With that object in view, the club will
not accept the nomination of any horse
that has not won either a £350 race or
races of the collective value of £5OO.
This will exclude members of the novice
division, and save the handicapper from
penalising good horses in order to give
possible chances to those of little account.
First money for the race is £2lOO and a
cup, second £6OO and third £3OO.
* * * *
Summer Cup minor-place getters have
repeatedly proved worth backing for Tat-
tersall’s Cup. In the last 14 years horses
that ran second or third in the Summer
Cup and then won Tattersall’s Cup were
Tibbie, Jeypore (twice), Spearman, Spear
Prince and Auto Buz. Miss Nottava
dead-heated with Pretzel for the Summer
Cup, and then won Tattersall’s Cup.
* * * *
Old Bill, rated one of Maoriland’s best
horses over a distance, promises to be in
good form for the Auckland Cup, in
which he has 9.0. At Woodville on
Dec. 8 he won the Bolton Cup, \\ mile,
in which he had the steadier of 9.10.
It was by only a short head he
defeated the Beau Pere horse Gayest Son.
At Wellington last year Old Bill won the
Centennial Cup, \\ mile, with 8.0, the
other place-getters being Beau Vite (8.7)


CO GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE!
sad
m
bestH
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agenti: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
and Gladynev (7.11). Old Bill was
weighted at 8.13 for the Caulfield Cup
and 8.12 for the Melbourne Cup —suffi-
cient to cause him to remain at home.
He adds to Siegfried’s good handicap
horses.
♦ * * .*
Owing to almost insurmountable diffi-
culties associated with his readmission to
Australia, Beau Pere’s projected trip to
America fell through. The chances are,
though, that later his enterprising owner
will breed a few horses at St. Aubins to
American time. He has plenty mares
of class to select from. Racing was never
in a more flourishing condition than at
present in America, and may continue
so, as it appears the country likely to
be least affected by the war.
As W. J. Smith is closely in touch with
L. B. Mayer and Bing Crosby, both
prominent in American racing, he
would have no difficulty in making
training arrangements for any young
stock he might send over. In view of the
tremendous amount of prize-money that
can be won in two- and three-year-old
races in America, the venture might be
worth while. When Our Boots won the
two-year-old Futurity Stakes at Belmont
Park (New York) at the end of Septem-
ber first money was $67,000, second
$BOOO, third $4BOO, and fourth $lOOO. In
addition there were nominators’ awards
of $3OOO for first, $2OOO for second and
$lOOO for third. As a yearling Our Boots
was sold for $3500.
* * * *
The Summer Cup has not been a good
race for backers of first favorites. Last
year Malagigi, with 8.7 —31b. more than
this time —was generally regarded as hav-
ing a mortgage on the race, but the best
he could do was to run fourth. Vitality,
at 6 to 4, won in 1927, and winners and
favorites since then are as under:
1928 — Donald, 8.4 (S. Davidson), 5 to 1,
winner; Bacchus, 7 to 2, unplaced.
1929 Donald, 8.9 (S. Davidson), 10 to 1; Star
God, 2 to 1, unplaced.
1930 Dalston, 7.10 (E. Bartle), 7 to 1; Jey-
pore, 3 to 1, second.
1931 Vertigern, 8.7 (M. McCarten), 10 to 1;
Loquacious, 5 to 2, unplaced.
1932 — Pretzel, 8.12 (D. Munro), 8 to 1, and
Miss Nottava, 7.3 (S. Weiss), dead-
heat; Stonebrook, 4 to 1, third.
1933 — Nord, 7.5 (J. Parr), 8 to 1; Mince Pie,
6 to 4, second.
1934 Dark Chief, 7.3 (D. Lightfoot), 10 to 1;
Magnitas, 11 to 4, third.
1935 Vice Royal, 7.9 (R. Parsons), first, Mr.
Kerry, second, and Broad Arrow, un-
placed, 5 to 1 each.
1936 — Sir Ross, 7.2 (A. Knox), 11 to 2; Jovial
Son, 7 to 2, unplaced.
1937 — Young Crusader, 8.2 (E. Bartle), 10 to 1;
Cathartes, 9 to 4, third.
1938 — Red Sails, 6.11 (J. Duncan), 7, to 1;
Bristol, 9 to 4, unplaced.
1939 Bringa, 6.12 (J. Thompson), 12 to 1;
Malagigi, 2 to 1, unplaced.
* * * *
“Starting-price betting is completely
out of control in Melbourne,” was an
opinion I recently heard expressed by a
man closely in touch with the business.
“In addition to the men from whom
you are sure to get your money if you
win,” he added, “there are innumerable
layers with whom you would not care
to risk a ‘fiver’ of a friend’s money,
though you might do it for yourself.”
Questioned as to how much could be
got on a horse at starting price for a
race at an average Saturday meeting the
reply was “up to two thousand pounds.”
That, however, would probably take in
the amount that a well-known enterpris-
ing commissioner can place with country
bookmakers. I understand the commis-
sioner in question does not hold any
money on his own account. He finds
five per cent, on winning bets quite
satisfactory. Melbourne’s principal start-
ing-price backer is a prominent book-
maker-owner. In addition to starting-price
betting a lot of business at fixed prices is
done before a race day in Melbourne. It is
difficult, however, to place bets at start-
ing price on Sydney fixtures. A book-
maker may accommodate a good client
for a moderate amount, but there is no
keenness in catering for business on
Sydney mid-week or ordinary Saturday
meetings.
* * * *
A trainer’s lot is not always an envi-
able one. In addition to “owners’
advisers” his worries include the owner
“who knows it all,” and who, only that
his other activities do not permit of his
finding time, would train his own horses.
He is always ready to give the trainer a
few hints as to what should be done,
especially if his horses are not winning.
In such cases a wise trainer listens and
carries on as he thinks best, but, if one
of that owner’s horses should win, lets
him think that success is in a measure
due to the adoption of his ideas. All
trainers cannot afford to be as indepen-
dent or outspoken as they would like,
and naturally they wish to avoid losing
horses. Then there is the owner who
believes he should be told everything con-
cerning the prospects of other owners’
horses in the same stable as his own,
and resents it if he is not. Another thing
occasionally galling to a trainer is that
after months of worry with a horse he
should not be rewarded to nearly the
same extent as the jockey, whose effort,
apart from the race, has not gone beyond
riding it in a couple of gallops. The
only time a trainer’s life is really rosy is
when he is turning out more than his
share of winners.
* * * *
Some Maoriland exchanges are doubt-
ful whether Beau Vite will be here in
the autumn, one writer going so far as to
say Australia will not see him again until
next spring. He may be correct, but the
autumn w.f.a. races at Randwick are
valuable, and Beau Vite could reasonably
be expected to win one, if not more. Of
course, if he is kept going with a view
to racing in Wellington near the end of
January, a short spell might be necessary,
and would be a factor in his subsequent
programme. Touching on w.f.a. horses,
Mosaic is not to resume work at Rand-
wick until some time at the commence-
ment of next year, and consequently may
miss Melbourne. Ajax is again working,
but whether he comes to Sydney may
depend on how he fares in Melbourne
if he races aga’n, procedure that is not
favored by everyone interested in his
ownership.
* * * *
T. R. George evidently has a filly above
the average in Payroll, whom he trains
for T. Newman.. Her seven starts in
Maoriland this season have given four
wins, two fourths and a nowhere. When
she dead-heated Corn Prince (8.5) for
the Pioneer Handicap, five furlongs, at
the N.Z. Cup meeting, she had 9.5, and
the five furlongs were cut out in 59fsec.
Payroll is by Croupier from Zarizee, by
Paladin from Mazabuka, a Chaucer mare.
Payroll’s half-brother Dollar Bill was
a good winner.
* * * *
Discussing stallions’ records, a writer
in the “Horse and Hound” (London) had
a long reference to Stockwell, always
termed the “Emperor of Stallions.” He
said Stockwell got 412 living foals in
England, and many mares that were served
by him were sent abroad. Of the 412
mentioned 209 were winners, and on the
flat secured 1147 races of the total value
of £363,451. Some 415 races won by his
stock did not amount to £lOO apiece.
Many were, in fact, under £5O. His
greatest year as a winning sire was 1866,
when £61,391 fell to his 39 offspring,
which among them won 132 races.
Exactly 30 years later St. Simon’s stock
won £59,731 in 38 races, shared among
23 offspring. Between 1859 and 1874
Stockwell was the leading sire on seven
occasions, and was second four times,
including twice to his son Blair Athol.
Stockwell died at Hooton on May 5,
1870, having attained his 21st year. In
1899 Mr. Naylor gave up Hooton, and
his son-in-law, Lord Rossmore, at Kel-
marsh Hall, Northamptonshire, became
possessor of the skin of the old “Emperor
of Stallions,” which had been fashioned
into a floor-covering.
* * * *
English importations Bahram and Mah-
moud will, all going well, have their first
American runners in 1944. Bahram’s fee
has been definitely fixed at $2500, and
he is to have 40 mares in his first season.
A refund of the fee will be made for
any mare that is not regarded as being in
foal on November 1, 1941.
* * * *
Races beyond a mile and a quarter are
not favored in America, and when Bel-
mont Park (New York) put on a two
and a quarter miles handicap, with
$50,000 added money, early in October,
there were many dismal prophecies as to
the probable outcome. They were very
wide of the mark, as there were 17
starters —the largest field seen out at any
distance for a race in New York State
this year —and the tote turnover on the
race was $233,096. For the whole day
$1,278,481 was wagered. The attendance
was scarcely 25,000.
Ten of the 17 runners carried over-
weight, and in its account of the race
“The Blood-Horse” said that several
trainers, reasonably sure that the jockeys
would know little of pace at the un-
accustomed distance, stood in the infield
—equivalent to the flat at a Sydney race-
course —with their watches and waved
their riders on or back as seemed proper.
The race was won by a four-year-old
gelding named Shot Put (7.6), and the
pace at which the race was run did not
give jockeys much time to take notice of
trainers’ waved directions.
The first quarter-mile was covered in
24f and half-mile in 48j. The other
fractional times were: Six furlongs 1.125-,
mile 1.38 J-, mile and a quarter 2.5, mile
and a half 2.31|, two miles 3.23}, and
two and a quarter miles 3.48$ —an Ameri-
can record, as against Marauder’s 3.47$
for Australia. Shot Put beat a three-
year-old filly named Equitable by little
more than a head. First money was
$42,000 (nearly £A 13,000), second
$lO,OOO, third $5OOO, fourth $2500. In
August Shot Put won at 2} and 2} miles
at Washington Park (Chicago), and has
proved a great investment for Mrs.
Marie Evans, a Chicago restaurant-
keeper, who gave a little over £6OO for
him last year.
* * * *
The greatest totalisator turnover for
any race track in America this year was
$24,821,285 for 35 days’ racing at Bel-
mont Park (New York). That track also
made a record in distribution of prize-
money, its total being $850,190 —a daily
average of nearly $24,291.
M.Q. and Rafferty
A Peach of a Punch
If it were not for the punch that fin-
ished it, the encounter of Atilio Sabatino
(11.1) and Jack Brander (10.12) at Leich-
hardt last Thursday night would hardly
be worth recording. That punch, ad-
ministered by the very classy Atilio, was
a gem—a right uppercut which travelled
only a matter of inches. It was snapped
on to Brander’s jaw just to the side of
the point, a perfect bit of placement and
timing. Jack fell straight down through
Atilio’s arms, and, as it were, through
himself, like a telescope. He was out
for the 10 seconds and just a shade over ;
altogether a neat and classic conclusion.
Otherwise, despite his gameness and
the earnestness of his effort, Jack was
entirely outclassed. Over six rounds he
seldom got in past Atilio’s left; when he
did, fractional head movements by Atilio
made him miss widely. Atilio, for his
part, was content with shooting over once
in each round one heavy right to the head
and one left to the body. In the sixth
Atilio came out apparently intent on fin-
ishing it, but the local lad fought back
admirably, despite a very powerful right
that cut his left eye and must have dazed
him. In the seventh, Atilio manoeuvred
him into a clinch and placed the upper-
cut, a punch so short, trim and fast that
probably not one in twenty of those
present knew any more about it than
Brander did.
Except for the conclusion, which was
a Donnybrook demonstration of what
the beef vaudeville called wrestling has
done for the former Noble Art in Aus-
tralia, the umpteenth meeting of Ron
Richards and Fred Henneberry at Syd-
ney Stadium proceeded along the now
overfamiliar lines.
Ron piled up points in the early part,
Fred, as usual, taking some time to warm
up to the job. When Fred did warm up,
he fought splendidly, but his old trouble,
his fairly easily damaged eyes, came
against him, and he was fighting through
a red mist. In the twelfth round another
old trouble came against him: he butted
Ron, and ref. Wallis, who had warned
Fred for an earlier breach, put his hand
on Ron’s head. Fred, however, continued
fighting—-excusably, in the opinion of
some, because Mr. Wallis did not make
his decision clear and emphatic enough.
They were mixing it when his hand
brushed Ron’s head, and Fred might well
not have noticed the action.
At any rate, they fought on, fell to the
floor, and still fought, what time bottle-
holders and the like, interspersed with
plainclothes gents, swarmed into the ring,
and presently everybody seemed to be
fighting everybody. Close onlookers sug-
gested that the uniformed police might
perhaps have been into the ring quicker ;
but what police authorities might really
seriously consider is the part that police
often appear to take in the so-called
“wrestling” exhibitions. The spectacle of
police shepherding beefy vaudeville
clowns, scattering, amidst general hilarity,
when these tons of beef fall out of the
ring on their side, throwing their weight
into stopping mock or serious brawls
between these exhibitionists outside the
ring, and otherwise looking like a part of
the show is a sorry business at the best.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now louring the United States .)
It has long been my opinion that the best
shots are made when the clubhead strikes
the ball and continues on the same line
after the ball has gone on its way. The
most successful players of 1940 were keen
advocates of hitting well through the ball.
Lawson Little, the open champion ; Ben
Hogan, the leading money-winner of the
year; Sam Snead, runner-up to Byron
Nelson in the professional championship
Nelson himself ; and last, but not least,,
Ed (“Porky”) Oliver, the new star of
American golf—all these players “stay
with the ball” in no uncertain manner,
and make sure that their club goes out
after it. The noticeably aggressive playj
of Oliver features “hitting through” to anj
extreme degree. Weighing in the region
of 17 stone, the ex-butcher-boy from
Hornell, New York, uses a great deal of
his poundage in smashing through the ball.
There are naturally many things
that happen before the clubhead strikes
the ball, and any one of these used in-
correctly can prevent the ideal impact.
I have seen many golfers with weird
and wonderful backswings break most of
the copybook rules, yet, by other un-
orthodox moves when they commence the
downswing, get themselves into a
reasonably correct position to hit the
ball. Two major faults in the beginning
of the backswing are taking the club
back too much on the inside —in other
words, swinging it around the body too
suddenly after leaving the ball —and the
opposite error of pushing the club away
from the ball outside the line of flight.
Of the two mistakes, the former is by
far the more common, and, if allowed to
develop, can easily spoil whatever good
points a player possesses. By swinging
the clubhead around the body up towards
the top of the swing the player invariably
flattens his swing ever so much more than
if he swung straight back from the ball
and then up. In doing this he gets into
a position at the top of the swing that
forces him to come down to the ball
sharply from the inside out, and doesn’t
allow him to approach the ball fairly and
squarely from behind and keep on the line
after the ball has been struck. Anyone
with this type of swing cannot keep his
clubhead on the line to the hole so long
as one with a more upright style.
To illustrate this point: One always
finds difficulty in playing a ball when the
ground is sloping towards the player
and the ball is on a higher level than his
feet; this is because, in attempting to hit
the ball, the player’s swing is ever so
much more a round-arm movement than
a regular swing, and it is harder to bring
the club in good contact with the ball
consistently.
Of the dozens of good players I have
seen in the United States there is none
who uses a flat swing in striking the ball.
If anything, they tend more toward taking
the club straight back from the ball
rather than inside and around the body.
Harry Cooper, who was a member of the
American professional team that visited
Australia in 1934, said in a recent
Chicago lecture that in his opinion one
of the greatest steps of modern golf in
lowering scores came from the grooved
swing, using one swing for all shots. In
this, he explained, the clubhead was
always swinging on the line to the hole,
producing a fixed motion along which
good and indifferent golfers could con-
centrate. Cooper’s style pointedly illus-
tates this, for he not only uses the same
swing for all his full shots, but has a
particularly wide arc in his swing, pro-
duced by keeping the clubhead on the line
both to and from the ball.
Another member of the 1934 team
who is inclined even to go further than
Cooper is Ky Laffoon. In Laffoon’s
backswing, especially on his iron shots,
he takes the clubhead a trifle outside the
line on the way back before going up to
the top of his swing. When standing at
the back of him I have watched this un-
usual action frequently; it appears to
assist him in crushing down on the ball
and punching it away. This feature may
not suit every player, but it proves that
it is easier to strike the ball consistently
in this way and keep the clubhead on the
line of flight as long as possible than by
using a flatter or around-the-body swing.
By gradually standing in a little closer
to the ball and becoming more upright in
the swing the player can get himself into
the position where he is able to get his
clubhead to come on to the ball squarely
from behind, strike it and continue along
that line for a good 15in. to 18in., thus
making sure the ball is struck truly and
solidly.


m
■
Wmmm.
m
m
1
//
an
YOU WERE A FRIEND IN NEED
9 V 'HIS word of gratitude, so often heard, reflects
the whole aim and spirit of the service we
render. Unobtrusively every arrangement is made,
full responsibility shouldered, and the convenience
and comfort of the bereaved family cared for
with every facility.
THBS FINER SERVICE COSTS NO MORE
• Chapels for clergy of all denominations at no extra cost.
• The finest motor equipment. • Qualified nurse in attendance.
• Specially trained staff. • Branches throughout Sydney for
immediate service, and through its country connections, to
every part of New South Wales. Motor Funerals Limited
originated the all-motor funeral. It has no connection, and should
not be confused with, any other company bearing a somewhat
similar name.
6 D 0
A A rS
n
W
ANY HOUR,
DAY OR NIGHT
FU NERAIS m
Chapels: 30 City Road, SYDNEY, Tel. M 6277; 389 Pacific Highway, CROW’S
NEST, Tel. XB4015; 93 Weston Road, Rozelle, Tel. W 1141; 8 Railway
Parade, EASTWOOD, Tel. Ryde 855; 97 Rawson Street, AUBURN, Tel.
UX7261.


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
sad
sa
£143/6
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S. W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
VALTHER it STEVENSON ltd!
595 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY .
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
Christmas Offerings
In a scramble unequalled at the
bargain-store counters Sydney’s legit, and
film houses are rushing out their Christ-
mas programmes ; Coward’s “Design for
Living,” at Sydney Minerva, is about the
only show which refused to be disturbed
by the festive season. The Great Levante
worked the vanishing trick on himself
at Sydney Royal and Aladdin with lamp
and magic turned up in his place. Sydney
Tiv. will also have a pantomime—
“ Cinderella” —tomorrow afternoon and
thereafter, but will feature its usual
fare —“the All-laughter Show” —at night.
Film houses have let loose some of the
offerings they’ve been talking about for
months —Charlie Chaplin in “The Great
Dictator” at the Plaza, and a technicolor
version of “The Thief of Bagdad” at
the Regent. Tomorrow the Australian
film “Forty Thousand Horsemen,” re-
viewed hereunder, will open at the May-
fair ; the much-heralded “North-west
Passage” is due at St. James on the same
day, as are a Charles Laughton film at
the Century and M.-G.-M.’s “Pride and
Prejudice” at the Liberty. And last but
not least is a full programme of Walt
Disney cartoons due soon at the Lyceum.
All current shows not reviewed this
week will be dealt with in due course.
“Forty Thousand Horsemen”
As yet the thought of American films
being eventually relegated to their proper
place—as an occasional novelty to supple-
ment the local supply—isn’t much more
than wishful thinking, but this latest Aus-
tralian show is a healthy step in the right
direction. It leaves previous efforts
far in the rear, and it’s a first-rate movie
by any standard —an Australian film for
which no excuses need be made.
It is also the first film, local or other-
wise, to portray dinkum Australians.
Previous films have relied upon two lines
of attack in trying to achieve this. One
has been that of making profuse use of
Australian flora and fauna and landscape
in an attempt to create the atmosphere.
The other method was that of using
characters representing, or rather carica-
turing, one particular type of country
folk, very picturesque and humorous, of
course, but about as representative of
Australians as a bunch of hillbillies
would be of Americans. “Forty
Thousand Horsemen,” however, has an
overseas setting—Palestine during the last
war —and the characters represent types
of Australians found anywhere in the
country from a city desk to an outback
station.
The male lead is taken by Grant
Taylor, as one of three inseparables, the
other pair being “Chips” Rafferty and
Pat Twohill. “Chips” does the best work
in the show. He’s a tall, lanky bushman,
as Australian as a kangaroo in appear-
ance, and has a fluid control of the Aus-
tralian tongue—he rolls the great Aus-
tralian adjective off so blithely that you
scarcely notice it.
Betty Bryant also does an excellent
job as the heroine, turning in a spot of
real acting in addition to looking bew-
chus. Appearing alternatively as a
grubby Arab youth and a pretty young
French girl she makes a good fist of both
jobs. Eric Reiman, as a German army
officer, and Alfred C. Winn, as an aged
Arab sheik, do a couple of nice character
sketches.
Climax of the film is a depiction of the
Light Horse charge on Beersheba, the
most stirring spectacle viewed on the
screen for a long time. Parts of it were
stupidly cut by the Commonwealth
Censor, but were restored by the Appeals
Censor.
Directing, acting, narrative and photo-
graphy are all of high standard, and
director-producer Charles Chauvel earns
three hearty cheers for his work.
* * * #
“Rhythm on the River”
Another of those frothy and quite pain-
less Bing Crosby shows. At Sydney
Prince Edward, this one, if the filmsmiths
had made up their minds, could have been
“Scratch cocky!”
developed into one of those “modern”
style comedies. It deals with a popular,
fashionable and highly successful song-
wright who, having lost his inspiration
and run out of ideas, has a couple of
skeletons in his cupboard in the form of
two ghost writers, one doing his tunes,
the other his lyrics. The lyric ghost
achieves the fantastic by dying. He
is replaced by an alluring damsel,
who, of course, falls in love with her
fellow-ghost without recognising him as
such.
Complications of every description
ensue and come to a happy conclusion,
although the comedy possibilities of the
plot are largely slurred over and promin-
ence given to Bing and his voice. Basil
Rathbone plays the celebrated man and
Bing and Mary Martin his stooges.
STAGE AND CONCERT
In Melbourne
Previous Christmas seasons have seen
an outbreak of panto, in half a dozen
spots in Melbourne. The talkies have it
this year, and the only instance of the
popular Yuletide feature is “The Sleeping
Beauty” at His Majesty’s, produced on
its old-time lines of magnificence by the
firm of J.C.W. with a cast of 150 local
and imported artists. The disappearance
of Marie Ney and the whole of her com-
pany from the King’s synchronised with
the arrival of the Great Levante at that
old-fashioned playhouse, but her re-
appearance at the Comedy in Coward’s
“Private Lives” reassured those of the
public who feared that this was one of
the feats of the eminent prestidigitator.
* ' ’ * ’ '
“Family Portrait”
This play by Lenore and William
Cowen, put on by Gregan McMahon at
Melb. Comedy, is a simple and sometimes
touching story of the supposed effects on
a certain family of Nazareth of having
produced an extraordinary individual,
Joseph, Simon and James have just netted
an important building contract, but their
best carpenter and the best carpenter in
Judea, Jesus, has spoilt it all by going
off on a teaching mission. When He
returns, with His prestige enormously in-
creased, they become important people in
the village and are ready to forgive Him,
but He preaches a sermon which violates
the prejudices of their fellow-villagers
and they ostracise the family.
The scene changes to a street in Jeru-
Salem where Mary is looking for her Son.
The city is in an uproar, Roman soldiers
are marching, the disciples have dispersed
and nobody knows what is happening.
Then action shifts back to Nazareth some
years later. A contract with the Roman
authorities for makirm wooden crosses
has brought prosperity°to the family and
a daughter of the house is to be married
to the son of a rich man. They have
been concealing the fact that a member
of the house once defied the Government
and was executed along with two
common malefactors for his revolu-
tionary doctrines. Mary refuses to be a
party to the deception, and tells the story
of Jesus’s life and His teaching. She has
heard rumors that His teaching has not
been altogether forgotten. The con-
fidence of the bridegroom’s family is re-
stored and the play closes.
The weakest point of an otherwise ex-
cellent production was Lynette Dicken-
son’s portrayal of Mary. If she had spoken
the part as well as she looked it it would
have been perfection. But she made the
mistake of underlining every emotion,
whereas her words were so rich in asso-
ciations for every member of the audi-
ence that they needed no more elocu-
tionary aids than a Judge’s when he is
pronouncing sentence. Lance Nicholls,
Tony Riddell and Bernard Lamble were
good as her brothers, and so was J.
Clifford Dodd as a marriage broker.
* * * *
First issue of Handel’s “Messiah” was
provided at Melbourne Town Hall by
the Malvern Choral Society, Presbyterian
Oratorio Choir, Baptist Assembly Choir,
St. Paul’s Choir and the Zelman Sym-
phony Orchestra under Herbert Davis’s
baton. It says something for the skill of
that conductor that he succeeded in weld-
ing this inchoate collection of singers
into a reasonable semblance of unity and
frequently brought out of them an un-
we P r e e C, m d oL h, e B viden B c r “ of SoX
tween the collective men and women than
between the respective choirs, and the
orchestra was satisfactory without being
inspired. Soloists were Maisie Ramsay,
soprano ; Jean Watson, contralto ; Cecil
Atkinson, tenor, and Allan Coad, whose
baritone was occasionally too sturdy.
* * * *
Second Sidney Myer free concert at
Melbourne Town Hall attracted another
huge crowd of Sunday afternoon music-
lovers. It differed from its predecessors
in that two of the most interesting pieces
were by composers who were present,
Cyril Jenkin, the English composer, now
of Melbourne, provided “Welsh Fan-
tasia,” a weaving of Welsh folk-tunes
into a carpet of harmony. A jovial con-
certino for piano and limited orchestra
by Stanley Bate was in the modern
manner. Solo part was taken by the
author. Beethoven’s Second was given
another airing, and the programme con-
eluded with the explosive Weingerber’s
“Schanda” Polka and Fugue, which got
frenzied demands for a repetition from
t he audience. Bernard Heinze con-
ducted.
ARTBURSTS.
Wattie’s Pupils Show Their Paces
0n the (hird flool . of an old pjtt-street
building hard by Martin-place is the
studio = f j s Watkins one 0 f the best-
Australian portraitists of the older
h , Currentl / one of the big apart-
. ; y a sho w of students’
. ... thp art
wor . k - Watte, as everybody in the art
world calls him ’ doeS hIS dUty . by
P u P ils - , He S rounds tl “™lS* oils
laying-on of wa e - ,
adjures them to paint what y >
not . to ° mu ch niggling, an
their talents sprout as they wi ,
exception that if any of them turned
modernist and began painting ladies
three eyes and elephantine bodies e
would probably take em by the left eg
and throw _em downstairs all three
flights of stairs.
The show does the studio credit,
There’s good sound work in portraiture,
landscape, figure and still-life, with the
emphasis a bit on portraiture, naturally,
Vigorous, snappy work in this line is
shown by Alan Moore, Dawn Anderson,
M. Marsh and Daisy Brookes (oils), and
by Alan Moore and Ron Broadley in
water-color. Larty Eastwood in chalk
and Gordon Rees in pastel also show
good heads, the last-named having the
makings of a distinctive and attractive
style. Guy Warren’s portrait of Matt
Harris does justice to lineaments well
known at 252 George-street. His
“Petulance” is also a good effort. A figure
study in oils by Daisy Brookes and her
costume piece, “Peggy,” show unusual
aptitude. Of especial interest are some
really beautiful miniatures by the same
student. One of the best pencil sketches
of the nude is by Gloria Lyall Trindall.
In landscape Albert N. Clarke, who has
a nice clear water-color style, and A.
Edwards, who puts feeling into his brush-
work in oils and water-color, catch the
e ye.
-
and C o„ Melbourne,
comes attract™* S o.-up book of bush
songs— My Old Black Billy and Other
Songs of the Australian Outback (3/6).
Bulletin balladist Edward Harrington
wrote the words, and to these Roy
Jeffries has fitted good lilting melodies.
The top note is E flat and the bottom
the C below the stave, so that any voice
can compass these simple ballads.
Accompaniments also are very facile.
The whole job, including a fine color
design for the cover by C. S. Lloyd, was
done in Melbourne, and couldn t havw
been bettered anywhere.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
MARSDEN
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
BATHURST
: • ■'
iMHII
MERRICK HOUSE,
Showing view of Bishop Long Memorial
Clock Tower.
Primary to Leaving
Certificate Honours —
Full Commercial
Course.
All Cultural Subjects.
Spacious grounds of
100 acres with
splendid facilities for
all sports.
A liberal education in
a bracing climate
amidst beautiful
surroundings.
MISS E. HANNAM,
B.A. (Hons),
Headmistress.
Prospectus on application to
THE BURSAR, DIOCESAN REGISTRY,
BATHURST, N.S.W.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
On John Flynn’s Frontier
“Warramunga”: The Australian Inland
Mission’s “Frontier News” is like no
other mission paper in the world.
It reports a service at McKinlay in
n.-w. Queensland, and calls it the Mc-
Kinlay Presbyterian “rally.” The con-
gregation comes from 400 miles around ;
the grace is from Rabbie Burns, and the
show winds up with the distribution of
a haggis. You have to be verra Scottish
to appreciate a haggis on the verge of
the Selwyns.
Then there is an account of the foun-
dation of the Inter-church Recreational
Club at Darwin, mainly designed for the
benefit of soldiers. It has a hall to seat
400 to 500, billiard-rooms, dressing-
rooms, reading- and writing-rooms and
“Guess who , Ma?”
a library. Ice-cold drinks, tea, coffee,
smokes and hot pies are laid on. The
whole concern cost £6418 to build, and
is “the property of the Presbyterian
Church of Australia, made available for
inter-church activities.” Every variety of
clerical collar was on the platform when
the home was opened. Churches run it
jointly.
A few pages of news from the mission
hospitals show that evolution is certainly
going on in the Centre. Now Alice
Springs is a town and has a proper hos-
pital, the old A.I.M. has had its original
ground cut from under it, but it has been
turned into a convalescent and rest home.
Weary mothers from outback
saltbush arrive there and leave the kids
while they have their operations or add
another young Australian to the scanty
population of the interior. After mother
comes out of hospital she is welcome at
the A.I.M. as long as she likes to stay.
One of the great troubles in A.I.M.
hospitals is to keep the nurses. They
are chosen in pairs, and one of the con-
ditions of appointment is that they must
already be “firm friends.” But they are
apt to form still firmer friendships, for
Centralians will marry them.
Hall’s Creek had its far-flung romance
in 1940. The two sisters at Hall’s Creek
left when their contract expired and went
home to the south via Darwin —5000
miles of travelling for one of them.
Secretary Hughes, of the A.1.M., saw
them off on the Merkur at Darwin, and
then started for the south by the 2100-
mile short cut down the O.T. line to
Adelaide.
From the Alice on the ’Ghan—the
Commonwealth Government is pleased
to describe it as a mail train —he ran
into a young squatter from the Kimber-
leys who mentioned casually that he was
off to the City of Crows to marry one
of the Hall’s Creek nurses. By the time
the bride and ’groom got home they had
travelled a distance equal to the journey
to London from their original starting-
points.
There are pedal-wireless stories, of
course. Pastor Fred McKay’s wife sup-
plies one from her year of pioneering
experiences.
Patrolling up near the Cooper, she and
Fred picked up a pedal-wireless message
from near Lake Stewart, on the N.S.W.
border. Dick Berry was calling for a
flying doctor for his brother Jack, who
had been accidentally shot —the pair were
Diggers and great mates; Fred turned his
car and started off over the 200 miles
of sandhills. The Flying Doctor in
Broken Hill gave the “over-to-you” and
lit out from his end. Receiving sets all
over the bush stayed wide open till the
news came that Jack was dead.
Then the pedals began to work over
1000 square miles of sand and sun-struck
earth. Bonelia Downs got in first with
an offer to make the 70 miles to Tiboo-
burra and bring out the coroner another
80 miles. And presently, through the
little pedal sets which John Flynn began
to introduce more than a decade ago, the
doctor, the coffin, the padre, the coroner
and helpful friends, most of whom maae
a 300-mile journey, were on the spot.
From Innamincka the two experienced
nurses take it in turn to patrol the whole of
the border fence to Cordillo Downs, visit-
ing every station on the way. It is mod-
estly recorded that the lonely settlers in
that country of blight and barcoo “seem
to like the idea.” In their spare time
the two girls run a school for blacks and
half-castes. The religious event of the
year was a visit from the Bishop of Wil-
lochra —he was seen the other day con-
secrating H.M.A.S. Arunta in the pres-
ence of the Governor-General. He “con-
ducted evening service, to which the
whole of Innamincka turned up irrespec-
tive of religious denomination —13 adults
and three children.”
The record nursing job of the year was
the taking of a patient from Innamincka
to Tibooburra. Nurse found a healthy
epidemic going there, so she toted the
patient on to Broken Hill —between 200
and 300 miles. Then she stopped at
Tibooburra on the way back to relieve an
overworked staff.
Since 1935-36 John Flynn’s Australian
Inland Mission has spent £lB,OOO in
building in the interior and north. The
great showing for that meagre sum is
better appreciated when it is discovered
that cartage and freight ate up £2500,
which was more than the amount spent
on furnishings.
The hospitals, flying doctors and pedal
wireless have revolutionised life in the
Centre. The only thing the A.I.M. has
been unable to revolutionise is the local
language.
It creeps into the hallowed pages of
the “Frontier News.” “Even the flaming
rabbit couldn’t damn the country,” writes
a Special Correspondent from somewhere
beside “Sturt’s Stony.”
“Dip”: A meningitis outbreak has
darkened Darwin’s Christmas. A death
occurred, and there were daily reports
of cases, so stern measures were decided
upon. Pubs and the picture house were
closed, large congregations of people
banned and members of the forces for-
bidden to leave camp except on special
business. Sporting arrangements were
cancelled, and Darwin children either left
the place or did not return home for
Christmas. As it needs a laboratory test
to determine whether or not a person has
contracted the disease, the lab. staff has
been working overtime.
* * * *
“Philp”: Harry Foil evidently expects
that the Department of Information and
the Department of the Interior will be
too much for him ; anyway, he is passing
on most of his duties in the latter depart-
ment to Tom Collins. Collins was in
Darwin for a week or two in 1938 with
the Public Works Committee, and is
remembered for a spirited recitation of
“Murphy’s Cow.”
* * * *
“Lid”; The proposed air service from
Darwin to Dilli, the capital of Portu-
guese Timor, will, in a way, be a
memorial to James Fair-
bairn. It was under con-
sideration while he was
Minister for Air, and
before he was killed in
that crash at Canberra
he covered the proposed
route by ’plane and had
a word with the Portu-
guese officials. If Guinea
Airways ’planes go on to
Dilli there will be a
fourth overseas service
working from Australia.
Incidentally, the Japanese
National Air Line plans
to extend its route from
the Pelews to Dilli.
* *
“23-4”: Forty - two
years’ service in the one
parish has not dimmed
the enthusiasm of 78-
year-old Canon Walter
Thompson, who will
retire from St. Michael’s
and All Angels’, New
Farm, next month. He
was ordained 50 years
ago when he graduated M.A. at Oxford,
and became curate of Holy Trinity,
Woolloongabba, 1891-93, and vicar of
Jondaryan, 1893-95. After a trip to his
native spot, Surrey, he took up his present
charge. Always believing that good
Christians should be straightout givers
without the necessity for bazaars and
fetes, he has avoided such spurs to his
parishioners during his incumbency and
will leave a substantial sum in the parish
treasury for the erection of a new stone
church. It should be his own monument.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
J.M.:
When freedom again swings in her stride the nations
will rejoice,
And gathering up their courage then we hope they n
find a voice .
To thank the British in their cause, because then-
cause was right,
And justice will with British skill supplant dis—
couraged might.
J.8.C.:
Hitler and Musso, you dogs of war,
Can’t you hear the lion’s roar?
L.J.B.: ‘‘Nothing to Beat” is nothing to
print J.N.S.: Accurate observation of the
weather is hardly enough to make a poem....
T.L.S.: Both lightweights... Rip-roarin’
two-gun poem about roundin’ up dogies is
streakin’ hell-fer-leather back to old Wyoming.
J.P.: William and ’Arry are a pain in the
neck H.C.: Only shadows W.A.8.:
Harrowing... .H.R.R.: Tame... .A.L.: Dread-
ful doggerel... .P.M.L.: Call again... .C.M.:
The brumbies just couldn’t take the fence.
. ...G.W. : Bits and pieces... .M.A.8.: A
flicker in the last verse W.G.H.: That
bishop who says “Damn” has got whiskers
down to his ankles... .M.D.: Satire needs more
sting than that P.K.: Returning “The Bat”
to the belfry L.8.P.: Wouldn’t call that “a
song that shall never die” S.C.McN.: Try
elsewhere M.F.: Nice enough, except for
the “dawn”-“torn” rhyme J.M.0.: The
covering letter was bright... .M.S.: Mildly
amusing E.E.: “Satan Himself” is flaming
feeble verse R.V.N.: Don’t do a series
C. : Still just misses... .R.E.R.: You’ve a
tendency to make your conclusions flat....
L.8.D.: Strongly suspect that the first line is
improper E.L.R.: It left us rocking with
weary laughter... .R.S.: Familiar stuff... .T.E.:
Not far off V.W.: What’s a whale at the
local concert is usually a sprat in print....
Gunner J.: Rough, but there’s some promise in
’em J.S.: Neariy... .F.P.H.: Take one
poem, in a little water, thrice daily, UQtil
they’ve all disappeared G.G.: Cheer up.
H.P.: One vivid verse:
For it’s teeming in Townsville and soaked is the
earth
Away down to Gippsland and right through to Perth,
And every poor cocky throughout Riverina
Is squelching around with a gladsome demeanor.
....P.W.8.: Scat, skits! ... .M.E.: It might have
been better said in prose... .A.J.8.: You ought
to feel better with that off your chest
D. : One of dozens J.W.: Too mechani-
cal until the last stanza A.J.8.: A little
polishing would have made it a good poem;
let’s have a look at any others he writes
H.W.P.: Close C.D.T.: No bid for your
“Auction Bridge Alphabet” A.J.J.: Clumsy.
E.M.D.: Kipling would have done it better.
....E.R.M.: Prefer your usual vein.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.F.: That’s the stuff! We like to see
crowded figures in one corner and acres of
space given to what could either be falling rain
or shading J.M.: You tried for a highlight
but managed only to give the lady a bearded
effect M.8.T.: Master perspective before
you attempt a pantechnicon... .Bill D.: You
fall down, like many beginners, on the twisted
head... .P.L.A.: Rigor mortis appears to have
set in A. 8.: The joke’s coated with bar-
nacles and your sailor has elephantiasis....
C.E.F.: As a draughtsman you’d make a
splendid water-diviner 8.R.0.: Not a grin
in the bunch L.T.: Your girls have curves,
but they tend to run riot.... A.L.R.: Hope-
less R. 8.: Your heavy hand must be the
answer to the ink-manufacturer’s prayer.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
if the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
WP'-te from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A happy Christmas to you! It will not
be a merry Christmas, for the merry
heart must be carefree, and hearts are not
free from care. But happiness can dwell
in the heart alongside care. There
is happiness in knowing that though
we are at war our cause is just.
There is happiness in resolving that
through these perilous days we will stand
by with our courage and our shillings ;
there is happiness in spending and being
spent for the soldier’s child. There is
happiness in resolving that when the
miasma of terrorism and tyranny is at
last lifted we will accept victory humbly,
and use it as a valiant sword to make
a shining path through this jungle we
call life.
As last week wore on the Christmas
feeling began to mount like a fever in
our blood. After all, while there are
children in the world, December 25 will
always be looked on as the toy harvest
home. Up and down the aisles of the
shops, with their green and glittering
trees, mothers took their offspring to
pay their respects to Santa Claus. The
shop windows were alluring enough,
heaven knows, to grown-ups.
Only stern resolution and the know-
ledge of hampers to be sent overseas, the
comforts funds to be remembered and the
little pet charities that must not be for-
gotten kept even the childless from rush-
ing to purchase the peerless doll, the
proud Persian, the too-intelligent Scotty.
One large store had its window set with
a deep blue lagoon, around which
tall palms grew. In their tops were
monkeys wearing tiny hats with colored
plumes. Another store window was
peopled with angels kneeling about a
Christmas-tree. The same store showed a
snowy and peaceful London of 1780 with
a group of citizens singing carols. Per-
sonally, the love of this Letter was the
Persian with the smutty eyes who boxed
the window and then gibbered at the on-
looker.
Joan Maughan, whose father is the
eminent K.C. and whose maternal grand-
father was “Toby” Barton, became the
wife of Thomas Back, of Broadlands,
McKinlay (Q.), recently. Bride’s mother,
Mrs. David Maughan, talking over the
wedding, told that the ’groom was a very
young airman in the 1914-18 struggle,
and became a squadron-leader. His
father, who also served in the last war,
is Lt.-Colonel Back, of Mt. Cook Towers,
Suffolk, England. The bride sparkled in
a white frock with a waist-length cherry
coat. Sister Mrs. Keith Storey stood by,
wearing grey chiffons. The David
Maughans held a reception in the Aus-
tralian Club annexe.
Of moment to lovers of art is the first
published catalogue of the Howard Hin-
ton collection of pictures at the Teachers’
College, Armidale. Mr. Hinton has given
614 out of the 771 works that make the
total. It has taken him twelve years to
get these paintings together, and he calls
his labor of love an experiment of
decentralisation. Armidale is roughly
halfway between Sydney and Brisbane.
Nearly every Australian artist is repre-
sented, and the catalogue is illustrated
with reproductions of Lindsay, Heysen,
Bunny, Gruner and other favorites.
With tickets all sold out two days
before the event the cocktail party for
the King George’s Fund for Sailors was
all set for the hornpipe of success. Tickets
were a guinea each, and carried a per-
forated line of drink coupons. Redleaf,
fashion’s newest playground, brought
cars rearing out to Double Bay. First of
all a roomy entrance set with high, star-
reaching gladioli of a luscious apricot
tone greeted the guests. Then came
long and wide reception-rooms, then the
verandahs, and then the harbor was yours.
It was all blue radiance last Thursday
afternoon, ruffled by a breeze that cooled
off the remnant of a blistering day.
On the grassy terrace that is separated
from the lower garden by an old stone
balustrade were little green chairs and
tables, and gay sun umbrellas, also hun-
dreds of people. By half-past five the
rooms were packed as tight as a herring
barrel, and everybody was waiting for
Noel Coward to sing. He came along
debonair and very fit-looking, and first of
all asked the crowd to stand back a bit.
He then lifted up his voice in song. It’s
a very small voice, and doesn’t go with
amplifiers. He sang a song about Paris,
the words of which did not do justice
to that city of memories and sorrows.
Also he sang inimitably “We Were Danc-
ing” and “Mrs. Worthington’s Daughter.”
Mr. Coward has just had his fortieth
birthday, and spoke his delight at receiv-
ing a telegram from his old friend
Oswald Cheeke. That seems to have
really touched him.
After the programme, and after Com-
mander Muirhead-Gould had thanked
Mr. Coward and shipping-knight Thomas
Gordon had supported the thanksgiving,
the party just seeped all over the place.
Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress were
among people noted. Thomas Gordon’s
lady was there, wearing collar and cuffs
of Irish embroidery on her black after-
noon frock. Daughter Vicki was smart
in a white crepe American model. Her
small hat was navy and white. Another
daughter, Mrs. Margaret Holmewood,
whose husband is a squadron-leader in
the R.A.A.F., was in black sheer. Black,
too, was worn by the Gordons’ youngest
daughter, Helen. Very popular were
Greece’s Consul-General Vrisakis and his
sparkling little wife. All-white was her
choice. Special decoration to Mrs. Roy
Buckland for her millinery. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax and Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax were
talking to the Alexander Gordon lady,
who was telling that daughter Anne’s flat
in London had been bombed, fortunately
while Anne was on hospital duty.
Betty Hilliard, whose soprano voice
has become known to A.B.C. listeners
since her return to Australia from Paris,
where she was living with her aunt in the
Rue Charron when war was declared, is
glimpsed here by a Norton Trevaire
camera. Betty is well known in Maori-
land, where she received some of her
early musical education. Enzed National
Radio stations have also broadcast re-
cjtals by this artist. It was in Windy
Wellington she received her State
teacher’s registration in 1930, and there
she taught singing and was heard on
many a concert stage. The Australian
singer gave recitals in Paris, and no less
a judge than the French tenor Georges
Thill predicted a “career” for her. Then
came the war. However, Miss Hilliard
intends to return to the Continent when
hostilities cease.
The Arnold Johnstons, of the Orient
Company, the S. Jones couple, of the Blue
Star Line, and Mr. and Mrs. P. Church
were there. Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones’s
tiny hat with its swathe of chiffon might
have been worn by a Dresden china
shepherdess. Pilot-Officer Pat Osborne
and Mrs. Osborne, Mrs. C. J. Pope,
Mrs. Alexis Albert, the John Humans
and Mrs. J. G. Crace were among the
many.
Mrs. Andre Brenac, whose husband
has just been appointed leader of the
Free French movement in Australia, is a
daughter of former Consul-General for
Belgium in Australia Henri Segaert. As
Henriette Segaert she became known as
one of the cleverest actresses of the stage
productions which her father presented
in the cause of French and Belgian good
works. The Brenacs live near Balmoral,
and mother as well as the three children
love the beach and swimming. Husband
is editor of the “Courier Australien.”
Dr. Tom Bateman, now resident
medico at Prince Alfred’s, is one of the
luckiest men in Australia. On January
30 he is to marry Beatrice McGirr.
Beatrice has good looks, charm of
manner and brains —she is facing her last
year of law. St. Mary’s, in North Sydney,
and Father Leo Murphy will launch the
ship of matrimony. Beatrice’s sisters Pat
and Gwen, Tom’s sister Lois and Lorraine
See should make as pretty a quartet of
bridesmaids as 1941 is likely to behold.
The widow of that eminent surgeon
knight John McKelvey became Mrs. E.
P. Houghton at All Saints’, Woollahra,
last week. As usual, the leading lady
in the matrimonial dialogue looked most
attractive. Her frock of finely-pleated
champagne-toned jersey wore a spray of
pink calla lilies. Her hat was of the
same toning as her frock. A family party
toasted the new partnership at Mrs. E.
P. Houghton’s Potts Point home. Honey-
moon will be spent at Bowral.
Funniest story of this writer’s week
comes from a girl friend who is a good
trencherwoman. One night, being at a
dance and being offered a dish which she
disliked, she gracefully got out of the
hole (the dish had been made by her
hostess, who was her partner’s sister)
by murmuring she was a vegetarian.
Since the night of the party the young
man keeps on asking her to lunch, and
always orders a vegetarian meal for her.
She is beginning to wonder if his keeping
her to the green fodder is a sort of retalia-
tory legpull.
Herewith bright-faced and dynamic
Valerie Macnamara, the organiser and
secretary (for love) of the City and Met-
ropolitan Telephonists' War Fund. One
day midway through this year Valerte
got busy on the telephone, and soon the
wires of every switchboard were crack-
ling with excitement as the many tele-
phone girls took up the idea of forming
themselves into an active unit of help.
Since June 1 this is the list of their good
deeds: £5OO cheque to Government to
buy an ambulance for the A.1.F., £l5O
to equip and furnish recreation hut at
Richmond for new recruits to the Air
Force, £6O for medical equipment to
emergency hospital at the Showground,
£lO to provide bed in Air Force House,
£62 10s. for four sets of drums to dif-
ferent units, £462 4s. for a second ambu-
lance for D.D.M.S., Victoria Barracks.
Also the hospital ship Manunda received
£7 worth of comforts. The Bomb Vic-
tims’ Fund in London will be the richer
by the “Hello” girls’ Christmas effort of
£lOO sterling. The telephone girls of
this city have answered the call all right.
The Mayoress’s rooms were pleasantly
astir one afternoon last week when Mrs.
Stanley Crick, civic hostess for another
year, entertained members of the Clothing
Fund committee. Grey and white were
the soft tonings of the Mayoress’s outfit.
One of several who cooled the air with a
fan was Mrs. Greg McGirr. Her flowered
silks and her white hat were as much
summertime as the cicada’s note. Subtle
and smart was the black-and-white
scheme worn by Mrs. Norman McLeod.
Mrs. Roland Foster and Mrs. C. Lorenz
were an attractive pair. Mrs. Keith
Morris brought her charming smile and
brown and white sheers. Mrs. Harold
Bott’s flower toque bloomed brightly
above her black frock. Josephine Marks
wore the only all-white ensemble. Da
Silva Waugh, fresh as a daisy in her V.A.
commandant’s uniform in spite of a
country tour which sounded alternate
duststorms and washaways, was one of
the much-greeted. Mrs. Murphy, of
Trinity Grammar, was there ; so were the
Norman Nock lady and crowds of other
well-knowns.
The military went gay last week and
gave two Christmas parties. Maybe the
awning of rejoicing was not quite on such
a sumptuous scale as the fittings of Italy’s
camp in the desert, but it was very good.
The first had for hosts officers of the
headquarters staff. Divisional headquar-
ters. at Rosebery Racecourse blossomed
into a field of brightly-hued garden um-
brellas. At small tables beneath their
shade soldiers and their wives and friends
gathered in gay greeting. At some time
or other during the late afternoon every-
body sought the marquee on the lawn for
refreshment, and was not disappointed.
The hosts numbered about 30, and had
come from the various States.
On Saturday, as shades of evening fell,
the grounds of the officers’ mess, Victoria
Barracks, were thronged with friends of
the Army War Comforts Auxiliary. The
president, Mrs. C. G. N. Miles, and mem-
bers of the committee were at home from
half-past five till ijrfne o’clock. Main sus-
tenance was beer and sausage, but it was
surprising what else a good scout could
find.
Sydney novelist Jessie Urquhart, who
has been living in England with sister
Elizabeth, was bombed out of house and
home the other day. The two sisters
were living in a big block of flats in
London, and during a raid were shelter-
ing in the basement. Just as the all-clear
sounded and they were preparing to
return to normal living for a space, a
warden rushed in and ordered them to
hurry to the nearest shelter as a time
bomb had fallen on the house opposite.
At time of writing Jessie was staying in
a lovely old manor house in Buckingham-
shire with Mrs. Roscoe, of the London
Society of Women Writers, who has
visited Sydney twice.
Will this war give the Sydney girl
designer the chance to prove what she
can do in the way of schemes for the
furnishing and decorations of homes,
hotels and even men’s clubs? Looking at
the end-of-the-year work of the Techni-
cal College students of design, craft and
applied art, it would seem that they have
as pretty a fancy, as sure a touch in
carrying out their designs, as probably the
decorators of any country. The theme of
one room at this exhibition, which was
in the Education Galleries, was the
scarab. From the tufted rug before the
fireplace to the beaten-silver cigarette-
box the old Egyptian motif was carried
out. The reading-lamp had for base and
part of its stem a glossy red seal. The
curtains were of lacquered voile, the
scarab design in clay-brown. Of par-
ticular interest was the cigarette-box---
every bit hand-made, even to its hinge.
Another display carried out a wigwam
design, even to the brass Indian-head
knocker, complete with headdress. Here
was a creamy rug on which were horse-
tracks. The student had measured and
drawn these in Hyde Park, much to the
amaze of the park inspector. Glowing
with color and warmth were a pair of
curtains blazoned with bottlebrush. Any
man’s club might be proud of a scheme
which took in a buffalo, a kangaroo and
a giraffe hunt. When you remember that
curtains and furnishings are stencilled,
batiked, very often woven by the student,
that silver is beaten, that pottery is hand-
thrown and baked by the one who has
thought out the design, the ordinary
brain feels a bit staggered. Particularly
likeable was a toast-rack of hand-wrought
silver. Each partition of the rack was
a racehorse stretched out to win, a
jockey crouched low above his ears. The
painting and poster-work were striking,
some of the portraits being particularly
good.
Ivy Moore’s new book of poems is
called Flags of Freedom, and its introduc-
tion is by Dame Mary Hughes. On page
eight there’s a neat quatrain to W. M.
Hughes. If you’re an admirer of De
Gaulle (and which of us is not?) you will
read with interest the poem to this Knight
of Free France, and hope that his star
will ever burn brighter. Well-knowns of
Sydney are sung in graceful triolets in the
small book. There’s a poem to Mrs.
Bertie Kelly’s eyes, and one to Mrs.
Florence Taylor. The Governor’s lady,
too, comes in for her meed of praise.


KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42'-
OTHERS:
32/6 to 70/-
MONET
BELTS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRRORS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
o
Free
Delivers
to all
Suburbs.
.flMJL
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Bair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
c. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
Personal and Missing Friends.
IF GEORGE HARRIS, born at Walgett, for-
merly of Griffith and lately of Sydney, will
communicate with DICKSON & MORGAN,
Solicitors, of Griffith, he will hear something
to his advantage. Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of the said George Harris please com-
municate with the said Solicitors.
JAMES HENRY CHAPMAN.
WILL JAMES HENRY CHAPMAN, formerly
of Colac, Victoria, please communicate with
the undersigned?
SEWELL & SEWELL,
Solicitors, Colac, Victoria.
Divorce Notice.
TO HUGH MARTIN formerly of Docker
Street Richmond in the State of Victoria
but now of whereabouts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MERNA
KATHLEEN MARTIN has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards. It
you desire to contest these proceedings you
may do so by entering an appearance at the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria in Melbourne within twenty-
one days of the date of the publication of this
advertisement and by filing an answer within
ten days of the date of your entering an
appearance. If you do not enter an appearance
within the time aforesaid the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay the costs.
J. F. HOGAN, 33 Anderson Street, Yarra-
ville, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Plans are being evolved for a wider
scope in R.A.A.F. welfare work, for it
has been found by experience of the
past months that, through cut-and-dried
constitutions and regulations, jobs that
ought to be done have to be cold-
shouldered. For instance, the wife of an
A.C.I or an A.C.2 needs urgent help,
financially or otherwise, and she wonders
hopelessly what movement operating for
the good of the R.A.A.F. she can go to
for advice. Up to date the Locker Fund
has worked for comforts for the men (and
has been for some time incorporated with
the Comforts Fund), and Air Force
auxiliaries have paced one another for the
maintenance of Air Force House.
Regarding entertainments and leave hos-
pitality a lot of good work is being done
by various bodies and private individuals,
so it is the war relief that is the biggest
thing on the slate for the moment.
The scheme propounded is the forma-
tion of a Citizens’ Committee (of the
Southern Area Welfare Council, now es-
tablished at headquarters in Irving-road,
Toorak). The committee will interest
itself in comforts, entertainment and hos-
pitality, but particularly in starting a war
relief fund. If all goes well a family
bureau will be established at an early
date on lines similar to that of the A.I.F.
Women’s Association, which is doing an
A 1 job and no bones about it. Dove-
tailing with the Citizens’ Committee will
be a Services Committee, a sort of liaison
office.
Boiled down, it means that on every
air station welfare officers will be
appointed, almoners in embryo, whose
duty it will be to supply details and
statistics when needed. It is hoped that
the War Relief Fund will be available for
airmen and their families for the dura-
tion and for the necessitous times that
will follow the war. Approval of and
co-operation with the scheme are being
given by Air Force House auxiliaries, the
Locker Fund, the Aero Club, the C.W.A.,
the Comforts Fund and various other
worthy bodies.
One of Father Christmas’s important
dates was at Ormond Hall, for the blind
children’s Christmas-tree. Sixty-seven
small people sat on the stage and cheered
the old boy in the white beard. It was
a big day for them, and their presents
were most welcome —soap and perfume,
handkerchiefs, dresses, beads, toys and
sweets for the girls, and for the boys
shirts, socks, ties, braces, hankies and
toys. Afterwards came the big moment
for cakes, ice-cream and fizzy drinks.
This Christmas party is an annual fixture
made possible through the good deeds of
the Malvern Auxiliary of R.V.1.8., of
which Mrs. J. Frost is president. By
organising dances, etc., throughout the
year the auxiliary collects £lOO for the
big party and for other recreations.
At the meeting held on the same after-
noon it was announced that the record
sum of £1220 had been raised by the
three days’ fete held in the grounds of the
Institute last month.
This annual effort, in which 160
auxiliaries from all over Victoria parti-
cipate, makes a worthy contribution to
the funds of the Institute. Recently,
added responsibility has been undertaken
in providing facilities for very young
babies. Those who were taken in last
year at the age of nine or ten months
have proved the wisdom of placing blind
children in the hands of experts almost
from birth. Few people realise the
miracles performed in the Blind Babies’
Nursery, the only one of its kind in the
Southern Hemisphere. After the first
wrench of parting from parents the
children find happiness and contentment
and develop skill and self-reliance under
expert tuition.
The older pupils in the blind school are
engaged in exactly the same work as
their contemporaries in normal schools,
and they will go out into the world
equipped to earn a living. How much
can be done in the education of physi-
cally-handicapped people is proved by
the case, famed throughout the world, of
Helen Keller. Born deaf and blind, by
expert tuition she developed her talents
to the full, obtained a university degree
and made notable contributions to
literature.
Pictured here by Dickinson-Monteath
is Della, only daughter of Norman
Martin, M.L.A., and Mrs. Martin, of
Alexander-avenue. She is engaged to
Lieut. Allan Hutchinson, second son of
the Norman Hutchinsons, of St.
George’s-road, who is with the A.I.F.
abroad. Della is her mother’s right hand
at the Country Leave Club, and she also
works regularly at Stonnington and
Kurneh. She did a homecraft course at
Invergowrie after leaving St. Margaret’s.
Lord and Lady Dugan came to the
Country Leave Club’s Christmas party
and stayed two hours seeing what was
doing with the men. It was a great party,
and it says a lot for the organising that
every man had a capacity feed and there
was barely enough over to feed a mouse.
For the supper there were nine sittings,
the first commencing at 5 p.m., with 96
men in each sitting. On the menu were
20 gobblers (each of which, as statistics
seem to be rife, gave a trained chef a
20-minutes’ job), 10 fowls, 10 ducks, two
large hams, 12 dozen lettuces, tomatoes
by the case, two gallons of salad dress-
ing, 15 gallons of ice-cream and several
tubs of fruit salad. Cakes were plentiful,
and one plum-pudding alone (a gift from
Cohuna, on the Murray, which is in Nor-
man Martin’s electorate) weighed 201 b.
It was perfectly cooked and eaten with
relish. The men of the three services find
the Country Leave Club in the Green
Mill a home from home every Sunday
from 11 a.m. onwards.
The Free Kindergarten Union can now
look the world in the eye with no hob-
goblins of debt dancing into its dreams
o’ nights. Overdrafts are annulled, all
bills will be paid and it will be a happy
Christmas in consequence. The debt
annihilator was the fete at Mrs. H. F.
Creswick’s, as a result of which £ 1200-
odd was raised. Donations helped, but
nevertheless it was an amazing effort.
Quite early in the day every stall was
cashing fivers as casually as if they had
been mere quids. Apparently everybody
had money to spend and had no scruples
about getting rid of it in a sunny garden
setting.
Magic was popular with old and young,
and the magician kept the drawing-room
filled for sessions that followed one an-
other with barely a break for the wet-
ting of the wizard’s throat. Popcorn was
eaten as fast as it was made in a glass and
stainless-steel machine. Most of the other
stalls sold out before evening closed in.
A bride and a ’groom who both hail
from the other side of the Tasman were
Nan Rutherford and R. J. Smith, who
were married at Christ Church. Nan is
a daughter of the J. G. Rutherfords, of
New Plymouth, and a niece of that big
figure in science the late Lord Ruther-
ford. For her own career she chose the
shaping of young minds and trained in
kindergarten work. Bob Smith is a
journalist and a photographer of no
mean standing. His name was on the
M.L. Centennial Exhibition prize list. At
the wedding the bride was given away by
Lachie McDonald, public relations officer
for the R.A.A.F., who also comes from
M.L. So does Mrs. Nigel Palethorpe,
who was the very youthful matron-of-
honor. Her elder brother, John Brodie,
who is with the Air Ministry in England,
has acquired a reputation as a novelist,
his pen-name being John Guthrie.
The young fry at “Peter Pan” pal-
pitated with excitement throughout the
evening. There seems to be no doubt
about the enduring charm of Peter and
his pals. Even the youngsters who im-
bibe sophisticated movies as a matter of
course can still take a dose of the Barrie
play and enjoy it. Complicated flying
effects had to be cut out of the National
Theatre’s production at the Princess for
the Red Cross and Comforts, but in other
points it scored. For instance, Peter is
usually a principal boy in the panto. —a
young woman and not a girl. The Nat.
Theatre’s Peter, Gloria Melody, is still
at school. She was young and fresh and
charming. Alda Walker, too, as Wendy,
was eminently satisfactory. Young Ann
Donald, whose dancing is always com-
mended, was the leader of the Never-
Never boys. Pirates and Indians were a
success, and Tinker Bell (Avril Searle,
aged two) brought the house down.
During the first-night interval E. M.
Purdy put over his personality and auc-
tioneering skill with a wheel upon the
stage for two spins at five bob a ticket.
The first, spin was won by ten small girls
who had put in sixpence each, and who
had bounced out of the seats with glee.
They rejected a case of champagne, plus
tankards, which they could have chosen,
for the sake of a huge Christmas stock-
ing. All ten made for the wings at a
hand gallop to collect their spoil. The
next spin, for the champagne, was won
by H. P. Ogilvie. The Lord Mayor and
Sid Birrell were in the front line to buy
tickets. The wheel made £34-odd and the
auctioning of Ethel Paterson’s picture of
Peter Pan raised £l3.
Ronald Esler made this portrait of
Lois Green, only daughter of Mrs. Isabel
A. Green, whose home is the secretary’s
residence adjoining the Exhibition Build-
ing. Lois is studying interior decoration
at Melbourne Technical College, and
likes her work immensely.
A corker effort by the Tin Alleys was
“You Can’t Take It With You,” which
popped out of its skin for two nights in
the Union Theatre. First night was for
the Union Fund, the second for the
Women of the University’s Patriotic
Fund. On the second night seats were
at such a premium that lurking on one
foot in the aisles and behind the last row
was countenanced. Stitches in the side
were prevalent through hilarity ; so were
jumps owing to the crackers. All the
same, the jumpy-nerved people stuck to
their guns and saw and heard the thing
out. The cast was inured to the crackers
and didn’t bat an eyelid as the gun-
powder went off.
Joyce Turner (otherwise Mrs. Lindsay
Biggins) played around in ballet shoes
and a dirndl, with her hair in occasional
curlers, and did her job very nicely. She
seems to be able to tackle any part.
Memories are still fresh of her perform-
ance in the Tin Alleys’ earlier produc-
tion, “Judgment Day.” Frank Brooks,
Elden de Steiger, Arthur Davies, as the
discus-thrower, Ruby May, as Penelope,
the mother of the crazy family, Keith
Macartney, as a bearded Russian, Cyn-
thia Sutton, as an actress pickled in
alcohol, and Wilbur Curtis and Marjorie
Dyson, as a couple of darkies (who had
sore faces for days), were responsible for
most of the success of the play. Keith
Macartney and Murray Sutherland pro-
duced, and Desmond Connor was stage-
manager.
There are some people in the world
who are not blase, among them Briga-
dier Alan B. Steele, also the kids who
went to “Peter Pan.” The brigadier,
who is the Military Commandant at Dar-
win, and who was in Melbourne recently,
waxed eloquent over the prospects of the
Northern Territory’s capital, its scenic
beauties, its flowering-tree-bordered roads
of the future, the hard tennis that’s neces-
sary for good health in a humid climate
and the much-appreciated pots of beer
that follow. (They slide down as
smoothly as rum-and-cloves after ski-
ing.) Last but not least comes Brigadier
Steele’s enthusiasm for yet another club
for the troops within the town. There
are several already, but he believes that,
because the military station has grown so
large, another is urgently needed.
Noel Coward bowed to a Melbourne
audience for the last time—it was also
his last public appearance in this city—
at the Greek Relief matinee at the King’s.
The soigne Mr. Coward, with his brillian-
tined hair, pencil-striped suit and usual
red carnation, rose to the occasion as
usual, though he was still weary—the
reasons being much travelling and an
infant on the ’plane who yelled all the
way from Perth to Adelaide and thus
disturbed the beauty sleep Mr. Coward
had counted upon. But the baby’s
mother can take comfort in the fact that
her child is the inspiration of another
Coward song, “Don’t Take Your Baby
in a ’Plane, Mrs. Worthington.”
At the matinee the first part of the
programme was filled with “Private
Lives,” with Marie Ney and co., a very
different production from its first night.
The show’s been speeded up, and is
much smoother, and everybody is at
ease. People who saw it during the
first week and found much to cavil at
can go a second time and enjoy it no
end.
At the conclusion of the matinee pro-
gramme there came a presentation to Mr.
Coward from the Lord Mayor and Mrs.
Beaurepaire—a box made from Austra-
lian woods. Another gift was a Greek doll
from the Greek community, presented by
a small boy looking like a doll himself
in his starched white skirt.
So much appreciated was the first of
the series of free-to-the-public chamber-
music concerts in the National Gallery
that there was standing room only left
by 8 p.m. The audience was in the
Stawell Gallery, and the musicians
arranged their stage in the rotunda
against what was possibly the most expen-
sive backcloth on record—£3l,ooo-
- of Cleopatra dropping her pearls
into vinegar as painted by Tiepolo and
bought for that whopping figure by
the Gallery trustees a few years ago.
Contributing to the programme weie
violinists Ernest Llewellyn and Paul Mc-
Dermot, pianist Carl Bartling, viola-
player Mischa Kogan, ’cellist Harold
Beck and vocalist Alan Coad.


THE SERVICE MAN
The "Mad English" at Work.
“Ek Dum”: As the story of the Libyan
battle grows clearer, it becomes apparent
how much method there is in the “mad-
ness” of the British.
Last June, having prepared for years
for war in the Middle East, and the
nearest point of attack seeming to be the
Russian borders of Iraq, they had a
mixed force sitting down among the
prickly pear and the camels of southern
Palestine and the new streets of Tel Aviv
and Haifa.
The troops were representative of
Britain, Australia, Maoriland and India.
The Suez Canal was guarded largely by
Indian troops. The R.A.F. was there and
at Heliopolis, its Middle Eastern head-
quarters ; but the airmen were as per-
fectly at home as on English aerodromes.
For 20 years the R.A.F. has been open-
ing up the Hydramaut, Iraq and Pales-
tine, keeping communications open with
India and developing through hard, long
experience the ideal types of machine for
the. lands of sand and sun in which it is
now fighting.
On June 11 Italy’s declaration of war
was announced in the House of Com-
mons, and within a few days there was
a certain amount of scrapping on the
Libyan border. Some troops were
brought down from Palestine and camped
down near Cairo. Now and then some-
body cut the barbed wire along the
Libyan border, and the veil of mystery
which hung over Mersa Matruh;, the queer
little railway terminus 250 miles west
from Alexandria, facing a white Medi-
terranean beach, became thicker. Mersa
Matruh had been a well-hedged-in British
military centre for years before Graziani
began to make footprints on the sands
of Egypt.
Up and down the desert, south and
east, the spray roadmakers moved along
the escarpment, and the armored sections
tested out their equipment against the
vicissitudes of climate. Italy was land-
ing troops by the division in Libya, a
fact which the R.A.F. frequently cele-
brated with fireworks in Derna, Bardia
and Tobruk.
Once or twice British troops sneaked
across the border and playfully took Fort
Capuzzo, just over the barbed-wire line ;
and the Italians hopped in and took it
back. Meanwhile, the far-flung Italian out-
posts on the other side of Egypt were
behaving like Roman legions, apparently
with the concurrence of the polite
English.
They descended on British Somaliland.
After putting up a few days of a show,
the British courteously handed over the
empty shell of Berbera. Mussolini gran-
diloquently talked of “going on to
Mosul” ; but the furthest his legions got
was the beach, whence they could watch
the snub-nosed transports and the lean
warships and the big liners booming up
through the narrow Perim passage under
a variety of British ensigns.
Down south, more of the Duce’s
legions had adventured into Kenya, over
a large slice of ground which had been
given to them by Britain years ago. The
few British askaris sweltering in forts
along the Abyssinian border retired and
left the invaders possessors of large quan-
tities of stony waste dotted with camel
ribs.
On the Sudan border the Italians occa-
sionally crossed from Abyssinia, near
Lake Tana, and took Gallabat. The
British as sportingly recaptured it. All
over the terrain, whenever the hunting
fever came on, the R.A.F. went out and
bombed everything from Birikau, on the
Indian Ocean, to Benghazi, on the Gulf
of Tripoli.
On September 16 Marshal Graziani
had quickly slid up his spearhead 75
miles inside the Libyan border to Sidi
Barrani, past Solium and Bug Bug. Egyp-
tian maps are like Australian. It looked
as if he had captured three fair-sized
towns ; but Solium is a deserted fishing
village with a ruined breakwater, Bug
Bug is what it sounds like, and Sidi Bar-
rani is what is called in the Middle East
a khan, a night shelter for caravans —
four walls with sheds and buildings inside
round a square open space to park camels
in, with a few scattered buildings on the
flat plain around it.
Though his advance was achieved with
an ominous certainty of execution aia4
accompanied by thunder from the Rome
Radio, which declared the Suez Canal
and Alexandria lost to Britain and about
half the British fleet sunk —at intervals —
by invincible Italian bombers, Cairo and
Heliopolis showed no signs of haste and
worry. Armored cars and artillery dug
Graziani’s units playfully in the ribs on
his right flank. The R.N. jabbed them
under the left wing to prove that it was
still afloat. The R.A.F. dumped tokens
of respect upon the Italian military bread-
basket with unpleasant accuracy.
True, transports began to flock into
Alexandria from east and west, but while
Graziani’s advance guards sneaked out
to Mektale, ten miles nearer Alexandria
than Sidi Barrani, headquarters seemed
to be in no hurry to oppose him. The
uniforms of the new generation of Dig-
gers were seen suddenly in the streets
of Cairo, but, instead of being given
bayonets and told to hasten to the front
line, they were given ten bob each and
told to go and see the Grand Mosque.
After a time they were moved up into
transport lines and set out to drive trains,
donks, camels and other tractive
machines to which their vocabularies, in-
genuity and stamina were suitable, com-
munications at that time being the most
important job in the Army of the Nile.
By October 28 the Italian Libyan forces
had settled in comfortably along their
new lines, but, save for Rome Radio's
promises, there was no move. Greece
was attacked, the military intention pos-
sibly being to take Crete and gain com-
mand of the Eastern Mediterranean,
secure naval bases a couple of hundred
miles behind Graziani’s lines to threaten
the R.N. as it pounded his armies, and
provide a short cut for stores and rein-
forcements.
About this time the Axis propa-
gandists lighted on the fact that General
Wavell had only one good eye, the other
having been injured in the last war. No
combatant in the Mediterranean should
ever joke about that sort of physical
disability in an adversary. Nelson had
one eye and Aboukir Bay was strewn
with wreckage ; Ralph Abercromby was
so short of eyesight that he couldn’t tell
a French dragoon from a Royal High-
lander, but his troops went through
the French like paper at Aboukir;
Kitchener had one eye, and he reached
Khartoum on schedule. And Wavell is
a Black Watch man whose father became
a major-general through hard fighting in
Africa. His grandfather was a major-
general, too —and had a scientific mind
to boot which earned him an F.R.S. The
present Wavell was one of Allenby’s men.
He spent most of his later Great War
years on the Egyptian staff, and knows
the terrain as well as or better than any
senior staff officer living.
However, Axis propagandists seemed
to find him something of a comic figure,
and there was a jeer in their voices as
they repeated the American report that
he had been seen crossing the Aigean —
“the sprinkled isles, lily on lily that o’er-
lace the sea” —reading Browning with his
collar open. Possibly “Paracelsus”:
In some time, his good time, I shall arrive;
He guides me and the bird....
He was going to look at the operations
of General Papagos, who was driving the
Italians back over the Pindus into their
bomb-mangled Albanian ports in an ever-
increasing smother of snow.
A few days afterwards Wavell was
back in Egypt demonstrating the unpre-
dictability of the mad English.
His troops moved out in the dawn on
December 8, with at least some of the
same regiments who were in Egypt with
Abercromby.
The story of the battle, which in a fort-
night ranged over 6000 square miles —
half the area of Holland or Belgium—
has yet to be told in full, but its main
details have become clearer, though the
British have shown their usual reluc-
tance to talk about their fighting.
Much of the success was due to the
readiness of British staffs to learn from
the enemy, as Howe learnt skirmishing
from the Red Indians, and as Dundas
built on the theories of others so that
his “eighteen damned manoeuvres” were
“Germanicus and the Prussians all over.”
The staff of the new Nile Army fol-
lowed mainly the method of Keitel, with
his mechanised spearheads, as they
operated after the Maginot Line had
been stabbed through and the French
armies were isolated by fierce en-
circling mechanised drives, followed by
permeations and the taking of huge num-
bers of prisoners. But they did not carry
the Keitel method too far.
They took care to provide the kind of
diversions for the consolidating troops so
much beloved of British and Dominion
freemen. These troops were not the
stolid, brutalised and goose-stepping
masses which march on to order till their
very tide overwhelms the enemy as he
falls exhausted beside his empty machine-
gun belts.
They were experienced desert fighters,
largely from the Indian Army. The
nucleus were British and Dominion sol-
diers. The grey, flat, sandy country of
the Punjab was the natural home of a
large proportion of the Indians.
There were proud, high-caste Rajputs
from western India. The Sikhs had had
their desert training along the low Baluch
hills of Nushki beyond Shaik Wasil where
their subalterns—the embodiment of the
British raj itself in many a station —
watched the campfires spring up like gun
flashes of an evening against the black
of the Afghan ranges cut out of a purple
sky. There were proud Garhwalis from
the hills —men with a fine record in the
last war; north-western Muslims, the
best cavalry and rough tank men in Asia,
and the fine, solemn, simple Delhi Jats,
whose ancestors made it hot for Lord
Lake at Bharatpur in the year of Trafal-
gar, and the tough Dogras. And fighting
with them were some of the ancient
Highland regiments whose shady canton-
ments at Mooltan and Murree have been
the testing grounds of everything new in
Asian war for nearly a century ; regi-
ments to whom it is due that most of the
Indian battalions go forth to war led by
the enchanting squeals of the dudelsack
(“Qu-eek-march-camelserkummin! ”)• The
Black Watch and the Seaforths both have
permanent homes-from-home in India.
These were the men, brigaded with
mechanised British specialists, who fol-
lowed the shadows of the R.A.F. and the
R.A.A.F. into the bitter sandstorm of the
Libyan desert and the smoke haze of the
exploding bombs and shell bursts from
the battleship fire in the second week of
December.
They dropped in suddenly on mica-
windowed tents and luxurious dugouts
with bayonet and tulwar in the good old-
fashioned way, landing quietly among the
Chianti and the oil jars and the maca-
roni.
The A.I.F. and other signal corps tied
up their communications, and on their
flank, Mr. Churchill declared, Australian
Light Horse charged gaily with drawn
swords after the manner of Cameron’s
charge at Beersheba.
It takes more than a Graziani or a
Keitel to teach the old British Army and
seasoned Dominion troops, with the
tradition of Mespot. and Palestine behind
them, the art of desert war.
The results? The Italian armies of in-
vasion are smashed. Their Libyan ports,
already battered to pieces, are doomed
to capture. The Italian Empire of Africa,
born in Mussolini’s brain 15 years ago,
has become a tattered cobweb of a thing.
Against forces of “3 to 1, 4 to 1 and
even 5 to 1,” the British Prime Minister
was able to report that the British losses
did not exceed 1000 killed and wounded,
Dominion and Indian troops included,
during eight days’ fighting in which every
Italian in Egypt had been killed,
wounded, captured or driven to flight
and vast quantities of arms, munitions
and petrol, food and stores had been
abandoned.
Over 31,000 prisoners had been taken
in the first eight days, and many of them
were already on their way in their fine
uniforms to prove to India that the
British Empire is still a dominant military
reality, and to the Communist agitators of
the Bombay cotton districts that tens of
thousands of Indians are ready to make
common cause with the Britain which
Comintern agents are so eager to see
buried.
At the week-end Bardia was sur-
rounded, the forces in it still resisting
but heavily pounded by British artillery
and naval fire. British air forces of all
types were pushing their raids into the
heart of Libya; at Tripoli quays and
warehouses had been smashed and an
Italian submarine sunk had partly gone
up in smoke. Desultory fighting had
gone against the Italians at Kenya out-
posts.
There was evidence from R.A.F. pilots
who raided Brindisi in Italy that Ger-
man guns were already firing there, but
Rome official radio had announced—
while Graziani’s still-huge forces were
reported to be getting ready for a battle
in the Tobruk area—that “Italy is quite
capable of carrying out her allotted task
in the Mediterranean and Africa.... our
ally will give assistance if we need it.”
The A.I.F. in Action.
“Ek Dum”: The very first move in the
Libyan battle was made by an Australian
with his largely Australian staff —Sir
Arthur Longmore, head of the R.A.F. in
the Middle East. Also the lone R.A.A.F.
squadron was in the van in all the air
operations, and Australian transport
organisation saw to it that communica-
tions ran on oiled wheels during the diffi-
cult organisation of the advance.
At first there was no mention of the
A.I.F. in the actual fighting save for
small signal and other technical units and
the R.A.A.F. squadron. Parliament, of
course, was not sitting (though the British
Parliament was). The Prime Minister and
other Ministers were in Westralia fight-
ing a by-election.
At a civic reception in Perth on
December 18, nine days after the attack
was launched, Mr. Menzies said that Aus-
tralians were now fighting in the western
Egyptian desert, and remarked —without
giving more detail —that it was not over-
optimistic to suggest that already they
could see the utter defeat of the Italians
in Africa. He added: “The A.I.F. is
engaged, I fully believe, in one of the
decisive battles of the world’s history.”
The cables were ahead of the official
news. British headquarters at Cairo had
announced the previous day:
Last night Australian troops successfully
engaged an enemy column in moonlight
and captured several prisoners and some
guns.
British correspondents at this stage
had scarcely mentioned our fellows,
though the Maorilanders had been figured
once or twice in the cables, but a New
York “Times” man wrote:
They [the A.I.F.] are in the front of the
drive, and caused an officer to complain,
“We can’t hold them back.” Thus Aus-
tralian brawn, courage and initiative are
again proving one of Britain’s prize
recipes for victories.
Mr. Churchill, in the Commons, pro-
vided the first really detailed piece of
official news which should have come to
Australia through its own Ministers. He
spoke of “Australian cavalry, sword in
hand,” making a charge at “Jarabub west
of the Siwa Oasis,” about 80 miles in-
land and well across the Libyan border
in Italian territory. That “sword in
hand” should have been elucidated, but
elucidation there has been none.
Further north, as it was belatedly made
known, Australians took part in some of
the fierce fighting which resulted in the
fall of Fort Capuzzo. They then went
on to help invest Bardia and cut it off
from Tobruk and Tripoli. They have
also been involved in the mopping-up pro-
cess which followed the Italian retreat
out of Egypt. Australian engineers are
foremost in rebuilding the battered roads
through the rough borderland country.
For many an Australian home the next
week will be an anxious one, but it is
goods news that, over the whole British
Dominion force of at least two and
perhaps three divisions involved, the
casualties so far have been light —for the
first week of the fighting 76 killed and
738 wounded all told in British, Indian
Australian and Maoriland units together.
At sea it will be a great surprise if Aus-
tralian naval units have not shared in the
great work which has been done by the
R.N. in demoralising Italian ports and
communications and shattering their forts
along the coastal road.
"Trebled Since June."
“Nobby II”: Merchant shipping losses
are undeniably bad. Till the end of Sep-
tember they averaged 53,000 tons a week
—British, neutral and Allied. In October
they were 292,000 tons, in November
274,526 tons and in the first week of
December 101,190 tons—l 9 British ships
of 86,740 tons, three Allied of 12,937
tons and one neutral, 1513 tons. And
one paper says that the previous week s
estimated loss of 52,000 tons has been
amended to 81,000 tons.
In a very blunt statement on the situa-
tion, Mr. Cross, the Minister for Ship-
ping, revealed that “British shipping
losses” had “trebled since June, and
that “if sinkings continue at the present
rate it will not be possible indefinitely to
maintain the war effort on the present
scale.” He added: “Naturally I have
covetous eyes on enemy ships tied up in
the United States ports.” This was fol-
lowed by a report that U.S.A. harbors
held 37 Danish vessels and that Con-
gress would be asked by the Maritime
Commission and the U.S. Navy to author-
ise the transfer of them to Britain. There-
upon a German Foreign Office spokes-
man exploded to the effect that “con-
tinued peace or possible war between
Germany and U.S.A. hangs in the balance
as the Reich awaits the American reaction
to the proposal by Mr. Cross. At ths


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAN D
TO BERYL BRIGID GRAHAM formerly of
Kent Street New Farm Brisbane in the
State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons
numbered 577 of 1940 by Angus Norman John
Graham your husband in which he claims a
dissolution of his marriage with you and by
his Petition filed herein he alleges that in or
about the month of March 1934 you deserted
him without cause and have continuously so
deserted him for five years and upwards to the
present time AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service on you of the said Petition and
Writ be effected by filing and sticking up on
the Notice Board in the Registry of the said
UI ™r at ® r i sbane a copy of the said Petition
and Writ and by the publication of this notice
twice at intervals of not less than one week
• n d - .Courier-Mail” a newspaper published
in Brisbane aforesaid the “Sydney Bulletin”
a c r !f ws P^P er published in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales and the “Northern Star”
a newspaper published in Lismore in the said
,°^.^ ew South Wales. If you desire to
detend this action you must within sixty days
trorn tne date of the performance of the last
act done in pursuance of the said order enter
HpfnnU Pea f anCe at th ®, ? aid Re B istr y and in
default of your so doing the plaintiff maY
youfabsence 6111 Judgment may be given in
g 4 ® risbane this thirteenth day of
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
N D WFT T nnM° n c ,P? puty r Re Bistrar.
210 Wickhanf «f D ? N A S ollclt or for Plaintiff,
ziu Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
“Ek D.”: Increasing snow and the
state of the roads and aerial visibility
Personal and Missing Friend.
Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of
CHARLES PARSONS, last known to be resi-
dent in Sydney, New South Wales, and brother
of William Parsons, late of Christchurch, New
Zealand, kindly communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Christchurch, New Zealand?
P**'°MSSk!
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
ds
same time the U.S.A. was asked to with-
draw some Embassy officials in Paris who
were accused of aiding British agents.
Britain has ordered 60 freighters from
Uncle Sam. Surveys are being made in
all Dominions and in the Commonwealth
as to the possibility of building wooden
ships.
The raider Vhich appeared off Nauru
did considerable damage.
The first hint of disaster had come at
dawn on Dec. 8, when the Nauruans saw
a ship off the island and two strange
vessels, one about 3000 tons, the other
about 6000 tons, standing by her! Fog
came up and obscured the three ships
before there was anything to suggest hos-
tility in the strangers, and no distress
messages were received. In the after-
noon the fog cleared. The known ship
was seen to be on fire, with the larger of
the two strange vessels shelling her.
Presently she disappeared, and her
assailant made off at high speed.
Two ships of seven round the island
which were ordered to disperse turned
up later. A hurricane may have delayed
some of the others. Outside the one
known to be sunk, wreckage from an-
other has been washed ashore. The rest
have had sufficient time to make a port.
The Maoriland Government has tan-
gible evidence in the shape of wreckage
studded with shrapnel to suggest that the
Holmwood, which disappeared between
the Chatham Islands and Lyttelton (M.L.)
is another victim. The vessel, which had
four women and five children among her
passengers, has been posted missing since
Dec. 1. Within reach of Australian shores
19 ships have now been sunk.
Naval precautions are being speeded
up against jnines. Paravanes are being
fitted on commercial vessels, and all
coasters are to be degaussed. These pre-
cautions, while necessary, are of no avail
against raiders. Intensified patrol and
heavier armament are the only cures.
If the raiding goes on on the present
scale, the present tender regard for inter-
national law which limits each ship to
one gun in a defensive position will have
to go overboard, and every vessel on the
high seas will have to be converted into
an auxiliary cruiser if she is not on a
route where convoy is possible.
The Napier Star (10,116 tons), in
which G. C. Codlin, of Melbourne
“Argus,” and his wife were passengers,
is among the missing, according to
Mackay Radio ; also the Carlton, 3360
tons. The Irish Channel mail-steamer
Cambria was bombed 20 miles off Eire,
and her decks were machine-gunned, the
third officer being killed.
The German High Command claims
that one Schepke has sunk 208,000 tons
of shipping and his 40th merchantman,
and that he is the third U-boat com-
mander to exceed a record of 200,00 C
tons. It declares that a bomber sank a
1200-ton steamer in St. George’s Channel.
A British warship on December 6 cap-
tured the German freighter Klaus Schoke
(5900 tons), which was making a dash for
Germany. And m.t.-bs. on Dec 18 sank
a 6000-ton German supply-ship off the
Belgian coast and silenced her escort
without suffering casualties or damage.
Meanwhile, events in the Mediterranean
are as heartening as they could be. The
Navy has proved its command of that sea
definitely, and the R.A.F. bombed and
seriously damaged further Italian war-
ships at Naples. The battle units along the
Libyan coast have been able to keep up a
ceaseless, almost point-blank bombard-
ment, driving in so close to the coast
that they have been able to use their
pompoms. A submarine tackled them ;
she was sunk.
A further submarine, the Naiade, was
sunk by raiding Swordfishes at Tripoli.
Earlier in the week a small British war-
ship had stolen at dawn into Bardia Har-
bor and sunk three supply ships.
The Adriatic is so much under British
naval control that Pridham-Wippel’s
destroyer divisions have been able to
sweep cheekily up for 150 miles through
the 50-mile-wide Straits of Otranto and
scour the Adriatic to Durazzo on the
Albanian side and off Bari, the largest
southern Italian Adriatic port, without
molestation. And the R.N. had so little
to fear from the much-advertised heavy
gun defence of the Italian and Albanian
coasts —which the German Radio some
time ago described as “impregnable”—
and from Italian minefields that a fleet of
battleships calmly steamed to Valona, the
main supply-port of Mussolini’s Albanian
armies, and pasted it heavily.
Sitzkrieg— Then Blitzkrieg.
“Aileron”: For the greater part of
last week German raiders turned them-
selves from Blitzkriegers into Sitzkriegers.
A few bombs were scattered at intervals
round Midland industrial towns, includ-
ing Birmingham. There followed three
days of almost complete peace, save for
one or two small suburban raids. Lon-
don alerts in particular usually came to
nothing.
On the other hand, the R.A.F. was
busy on all fronts. In 10 days it had
blasted 144 Italian machines out of the
sky in Egypt and Libya, smashed up
Valona and Mussolini’s big Libyan base
at Beneni and dropped a few more sticks
of bombs thwartwise across Italian war-
ships in their home harbor at Naples.
It had also almost completely inhibited
Italian aerial raiding in the Mediterranean
save for an isolated attack on Alexan-
dria, though the Italians themselves had
claimed to have attacked the British fleet
off Bardia and torpedoed a 6000-ton
cruiser.
At the same time, the British had
plenty of men and machines to spare
to carry out widespread attacks over Ger-
many and Italy.
In the dark of the morning of De-
cember 16 they were finishing a raid
which had put the Berlin suburban rail-
way system out of order and set some of
the centralised stations and junctions of
the ring on fire.
The same evening bombers were
over Mannheim and Bordeaux, and six
German merchantmen were battered —
one was seen listing badly.
Next night the R.A.F. was back again
at Mannheim keeping the fires burning.
It returned on December 18 ; also long-
distance squadrons ranged over the Alps,
started large fires in the Pirelli factory
area of Milan, blew up part of the Genoa
docks and did serious damage at Vercelli.
The Coastal Command practised on the
submarine base at Lorient and on other
points along the French coast.
On Thursday night the Ruhr towns
caught it hot—particularly Duisberg.
While Berlin lay under snow on Friday
night, the R.A.F. battered its railway
junctions and other military objectives
from just after dark till 6 a.m. during the
longest night of the year. Sometimes the
’planes dived down to within 100 ft. of
their objectives. The Ruhr and the chain
of invasion ports had further hammerings,
some of the fires in the Ruhr being seen
50 miles away. Mannheim suffered a
third attack.
The Germans for their part carried out
desultory raids on London and two
savage Blitzes against Liverpool and the
Merseyside. They claimed to have de-
stroyed four ships about the English coast.
They also declared that the Italians had
raided Harwich, but Harwich apparently
had not heard of it. Other small raids
extended as far as Scotland.
Casualties in November in Britain were
4588 killed and 6202 admitted to hos-
pital. December figures will be lighter.
But Germany is suffering heavily both
in lives and material.
have hampered operations in Albania ;
but the centre of the Greek line has
moved down to Klisura, and the Italians
have abandoned Teppelena, which is a
key to the river valleys leading to the
Valona plain. On the coast the week’s
definite Greek movement was an advance
of four miles towards Valona from
Himara. On all sides they are within
a few miles of low-lying coastal plain
country on which the fate of the cam-
paign will finally be decided. And seeing
that Valona has been plastered, at will
with R.A.F. bombs and ripped to pieces
with shells from the R.N., which seems
to be in complete command of the
southern Adriatic, only one outcome
seems possible. Even Hitler will find it
difficult to help.
* * * *
Two military aeroplanes crashed on
Dec. 17 in N.S.W. within half an hour
of each other. At Wagga Aircraftman
Lemon stalled an R.A.A.F. machine at
the top of a loop only 200 ft. from the
ground ; the machine was smashed and
he was killed instantly. Lemon was a
Victorian. He enlisted in the R.A.A.F.
only in August, and graduated from the
elementary training school at Essendon
on Nov. 11. The second accident hap-
pened when the engine of a Tiger Moth
primary trainer, in the hands of Test
Pilot W. A. Hancock, cut out over
Botany Bay (N.S.W.). Hancock skil-
fully pulled the machine down in 6ft. of
water close to shore in the bay, coolly
swam round her to see what damage had
been done and then came ashore to super-
vise salvage. Hancock before enlisting
was a civil pilot with North Western Air
Lines, flyingthe Sydney-Moree route, and
had 3000 flying hours to his credit.
* * * *
“Nobby II” : One place I should not
like to be is in the Italian Libyan lines
when the British battleships are at work
point-blank. To be in the vicinity when
a 15in. shell arrives at low trajectory
must be an appalling experience. A 15in.
shell is about 47in. long and it weighs
19101 b. It is hardened on the outside
to diamond-cutting hardness, and it leaves
the muzzle with about 60,000 foot-tons of
energy behind it, so that it has packed
into it the force of an express train
weighing about 600 tons and travelling
over 60 m.p.h. Imagine that train pulled
up with a round turn by an obstruction
in a few feet and then going up with a
devastating blast of h.e.! Imagine eight
of these naval toys arriving among the
spaghetti and breakfast silver at one and
the same time!
The Air War Day by Day.
December 16-17: Mild raids on Liver-
pool and several British towns in Mid-
lands and elsewhere. A few bombs
dropped in London area, causing small
number of casualties and slight damage.
Germans report “successful” raids on
Birmingham and London.
Mannheim suffers seven hours’ raid ;
important factories severely damaged,
and largest German aniline factory fired.
Bombers twice visit Berlin; central
railway junction set on fire; and neutral
sources report underground railway ring
out of commission.
Raid on Italian warships at Naples;
bombs burst on jetty at which two war-
ships moored, five direct hits on cruiser-
destroyer concentration, fires started in
railway station and junction. Bari (Italy),
Durazzo (Albania) receive further R.A.F.
visits.
Devastating bombing of Italian Libyan
camps and ports by R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
December 17-18: Shortest German
activity over Britain since August 8 ; “no-
thing to report.” Despite adverse weather
R.A.F. again attacks Mannheim, adding
to fires already burning. Casualties for
November in Britain: 2289 men, 1806
women and 493 children killed; 6202
persons admitted to hospital.
Aerodromes at Derna and Tobruk
specially raided among continuous attacks
on Italian Libyan landing-grounds; 15
’planes captured in Solium area. Total
bag of R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. in nine days,
122 Italian machines, against losses of 13
or 14. Italians allege that 6000-ton
British cruiser torpedoed and sunk from
air while attempting to shell Bardia;
Gloster Gladiator and Hurricane brought
down, one Italian ’plane lost. Announced
Italian casualties include Colonel Aramo,
a transatlantic flier.
R.A.F. bombs Italian transport columns
in heavy snowstorm on Valona Road
(Albania).
Lord Beaverbrook introduces new
British fighter—the Hawker Whirlwind.
Dec. 18-19: No night raids on London
for two days; no day raids over city for
six days. Germans claim to have
bombed two merchantmen. German
’plane shot down over Dover.
R.A.F. attacks ’plane factory at Milan,
port at Genoa and military objectives
at Vercelli (Italy), setting large area of
Milan blazing furiously. Two further
attacks on Mannheim.
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. keep up bomb-
ing of Italians in Libya. Benina aero-
drome smashed and 18 grounded ’planes
destroyed. Italians claim to have raided
Gedaref and Port Sudan and destroyed
a Gloster Gladiator.
Dec. 19-20: Bad weather continues in
northern Europe. A few bombs dropped
in London suburb ; no casualties. Re-
ported by American press from “unim-
peachable sources” that Dublin and Bel-
fast “severely bombed for several hours.”
No confirmation. Irish Channel steamer
Cambria bombed and machine-gunned.
R.A.F. attacks seven German targets in
Ruhr and w. Germany. Large fires
started at Duisberg, in oil factories near
Cologne and Dusseldorf and at Bonn.
R.A.F. further severely damages docks,
warehouses and aerodrome at Valona
(Albania), also Berat, further north.
Greeks report further vigorous air attacks
on Italian troops; also that Italians
attacked visibly marked Red Cross hos-
pital. Brindisi oil tanks and railway dam-
aged ; Fleet Air Arm attacks Rhodes,
Scarpanto and Stampalia.
Swordfish ’planes heavily attacked
harbor works at Tripoli (Libya), inflict-
ing serious damage and sinking Italian
submarine Naiade (787 tons). One
Swordfish lost. Severe damage done at
Benghazi and Castel Benito. Five Italian
’planes shot down.
Dec. 20-21: Germans renew attacks
on London with single-’plane raid during
day and savage but short attack at night.
Severest attack to date on Liverpool and
Merseyside; many houses and hotel de-
molished. Germans claim to have started
large fires and to have sunk two mer-
chantmen off e. English coast; also that
Italian air force bombed Harwich,
British destroyer base.
R.A.F. pounds Berlin in the snow
throughout the night mainly railway
facilities. Invasion ports in France
battered.
Announced that R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
have destroyed 144 Italian ’planes in
Libyan battle, 88 in air, remainder on
ground. British losses 13 ’planes, eight
pilots. R.A.F. makes wholesale raids on
Italian ports and forces in Libya.
Italians claim to have intensively
bombed British troops and .installations
in Egypt, starting several large fires.
Alexandria lightly bombed for first time
for several days.
Dec. 21-22: Second severe attack on
Liverpool and Merseyside from just after
dark till early morning. Numerous fires
under control. Lighter raiding in London,
where three raiders destroyed.
Ruhr and Rhineland and invasion ports
between Calais and Gris-Nez severely
battered. Further bombing of Italy.
Announced that one R.A.F. squadron
in Albania has brought down 39 Italian
’planes and probably 12 more, against a
loss of one British machine and one pilot.
Total raids on Valona, 18 ; 94,0001 b. of
bombs dropped; on Durazzo, eight
raids ; 63,0001 b. of bombs dropped.
British and Dominion forces continue
relentless attacks on Italians in Libya.
One Italian ’plane destroyed in Libya ;
three in Greece.
Laval’s exit from the Vichy Govern-
ment and Flandin’s appointment as
Foreign Minister—he was very anti-war
during the Munich period—have given
rise to a hundred conflicting reports and
conjectures. Perhaps they can’t all be
wrong.
* * * *
“In ten days you will be Prime
Minister,” said Dr. Evatt to Curtin in
Sydney last September. “In ten days
John Curtin will be Prime Minister,” he
said in Perth last week—“if we win
Swan.” With a third of the votes to be
counted Marwick and Ferguson, the C.P.
men, led Labor-man Dinan by 3226 votes
(Claude Osmond Barker, with 2504, was
struggling to save his deposit), so “we”
are very unlikely to win Swan. The
doctor had better make it 1000 days next
time.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK dings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly. Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORRES.
ft ith offices at London. Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities tor the transaction of all general bankinsr business.
BRANDAUERrS
m
C.+*
m
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRASDAUKR * CO. Ltd, BIRIUSOHAM, ENO
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletii
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
lo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Jhe right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Experienced dental nurse, competent surgery
and books, seeks position Brisbane as from
Jan 1. Refs.—9051.
Man, reliable, sober, can milk, kill, garden,
wants employment on small sheep farm. Not
eligible for war service. Refs. —9031.
Man, cripple, on two-thirds military pension,
would welcome gift of old suit. Height 6ft.
Size six in readymades. Can pay freight.—
8917.
To buy black net or lace evening gown, s.w.;
must be smart and seasonable. —8922.
To buy, second-hand, Man the Unknown,
by Alexis Carrel. —9053.
To sell complete collection of “Lone Hand,”
from first number to June 12, 1912. —9059.
Information Sought.
(1) By whom were the Red Shield huts con-
ducted in the w\ar of 1914-18? (2) What bodies
were engaged in welfare work similar to this in
the front lines? (3) Any statistics on the
subject ? —8778.
(1) By the Salvation Army. (2) Australian
Comforts Fund, Salvation Army and Y.M.C.A.
(3) Statistics could possibly be obtained from
the Y.M.C.A. and Salvation Army in regard
to their activities during the period. A his-
tory of the Australian Comforts Fund’s activi-
ties, 1914-18, was published by the Australian
Imperial Force Canteens Fund Trust, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne.
* * * *
The younger members of an association
formed a war savings certificate group, and
each week the names of members are placed
in a hat and the owner of name drawn re-
ceives the certificate. They have been informed
that this way is incorrect and illegal. Is it
illegal, and what method is usually adopted?
—8787.
If the weekly ballot is merely for the pur-
pose of deciding to which subscriber the cer-
tificate purchased each week is to be allotted,
the method of ballot being followed is correct.
The certificate must not be handed to any sub-
scriber, however, until paid for in full.
* * * *
I have been rejected from the air-crew section
of the R.A.A.F. because I am color-blind. I
was informed, however, that color-blindness can
be rectified. How and where? —8662.
Color-blindness is a hereditary defect and
is incurable. It affects about 4 per cent, of
all males. It is characterised by an inability to
distinguish between the colors red and green;
but many sufferers are able to detect a differ-
ence in intensity between the two colors and
so are able to judge the significance of traffic
lights and railway signals.
* * * *
(1) Some details of the story concerning the
Wandering Jew ? I understand that he refused
to let Christ rest in his doorway when Christ
was going to be crucified, and was told that he
would wander over the face of the earth until
the second coming of Christ. (2) I cannot find
any reference to this episode in the Bible. Is
there one? If so, where? (3) There is a
similar story of a woman. Particulars ? —8670.
According to tradition, Kartaphilos, Pilate’s
doorkeeper, struck Jesus as He was being led
out and shouted “Go faster, Jesus”; to which
Jesus replied, “I am going, but thou shalt tarry
till I come again.” (2) There is no reference
in the Bible; about the oldest is in The
St. Albans Chronicle, 1228. (3) Don’t know of
any traditional yarn about a reappearing woman ;
but there are plenty in poetry and fiction, as
witness, for one example, the verses commenc-
ing
When I was a king in Babylon,
And you were a Christian slave.
* * * *
(1) Has Dr. H. V. Evatt ever appeared be-
fore the Privy Council ? (2) What was the
case? (3) Did T. J. Ryan, late. Premier
of Queensland, ever appear before the Privy
Council? (4) I am informed that only eight
questions relating to the Australian Constitution
have been before the Privy Council; who were
the barristers that appeared in those cases ? —
8413.
(1) Yes. (2) The Rofe case, 1926. (3) Yes.
(4) They included Adrian Knox, Edward Mit-
chell, T. J. Ryan and R. G. Menzies. Leading
English barristers appeared with them.
* * * *
Number of fruitgrowers and vignerons in the
various States of Australia ? —8780.
Latest figures available are for 1933: —
Fruit Grapes. >
State. Males. Females. Males. Females.
N.S.W. .. 9,172 261 426 6
Vic 7,814 292 1512 71
Q’land .. 5,087 129 23 16
S.A 3,468 176 1770 49
W.A 1,526 78 485 16
Tas 3,701 139 — —
A.C.T. .. 1 — — —
N.T 3 — — —
Total .. 30,772 1075 4216 158
Have been reading “The Song of Solomon ”
and can’t make out who wrote it. Could you
help me ? —BBO4.
As in the case of the other “poetical” books
of the Old Testament, authorship is obscure.
It seems highly unlikely that King Solomon
was the writer, as the critics are united in re-
garding this lyrical drama as an exposition of
the pure love of a Shulamite woman for her
betrothed triumphing over the seductions of
Solomon and his harem. The motive of the
piece is political as well as ethical, and it is
critically assigned to the early period of the
northern kingdom.
* * * *
(1) Salaries of members of Vic. Legislative
Council ? (2) Salary of President ? (3) Salary
of Chairman of Committees ? —8799.
(1) £2OO a year. (2) £750 a year. (3) £4OO
a year.
* * * *
A relative gives an old-age pensioner a
property valued at about £l9O as a present.
It does not suit him to live in it, so he lets
it and collects the rent. How does this affect
his pension? —Bß3B.
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that, where a pensioner has property
other than the home in which he permanently
resides, the rate of pension otherwise payable
shall be subject to a deduction of £1 for every
complete £lO by which the net capital value
of such accumulated property exceeds £SO. The
Act further provides that a pensioner’s income,
including pension, must not exceed the sum of
£B4 10s. per annum. In the case of husband
and wife, except where they are living apart
pursuant to any decree, order or judgment, the
income and property of each are deemed to be
possessed by both in equal shares.
* * * *
An African enters Papua and marries a
Papuan female. He dies, and his wife dies,
leaving a half-caste daughter and son. They
each marry Papuans and have children. These
children in due course marry Papuans and
have children. How many generations must
elapse before the children become of Papuan
strain only ? —8399.
Impossible to answer the question shortly;
but a study of genetics shows that, by the
time a family descended from two given ances-
tors, no matter of what race, has reached the
fourth generation, any individual descendant
has received, from one ancestor or the other,
three chromosomes on an average. The
chromosomes are the units (24 from the male
and 24 from the female cell, or 48 in all) which
comprise all the physical heritage with which
a human being starts life. But the more re-
mote the ancestors on either side, the greater
the odds that a given descendant does not
receive a single one of his or her chromosomes.
The chances, therefore, that an African here-
dity at length vanishes in Papuan stock are
tremendously increased by each union between
pure Papuan and African-Papuan descendants.
But it is impossible to place any time limit on
the process.
* * * *
As authorities seem to agree that rheumatism
is caused by acid accumulating in the joints
and muscles, could you give a list of foods and
fluids that sufferers should avoid? —B6B2.
The term “rheumatism” is a general label
for a wide variety of diseases affecting muscles,
joints, fibrous tissues, nerves and various other
organs. Cannot advise you about the “acid”
problem without further details of the case.
* * * *
Method of cleaning jarrah floors which have
been neglected and allowed to become dirty
and dull? —8650.
Scrub well, allow to dry, then go over whole
floor with glasspaper (first with coarse, then
fine). Now mix lib. orange shellac and loz.
pale (powdered) resin with two quarts methy-
lated spirit, standing the container (a stone
jar is best) in a larger vessel of very hot water,
not over fire, till gums are dissolved. Give
floor a thin coat of this mixture (which is the
“knotting” used by painters), and leave for two
days. Then polish with prepared floorwax or
with beeswax dissolved in turpentine.
» * * *
A few particulars about Victor Cobb and
his work and position amongst Australia’s
etchers ? —8792.
Born Melbourne, 1876, son of Dr. J. F.
Cobb. Art training under Bernard Hall at
Melb. Nat. Gallery. Served in S. African war.
Was one of Australia’s pioneer etchers, im-
provising his tools and press, and has done
and is still doing excellent work in this medium
and in water-color and oils.
* * * *
Is there any Commonwealth or N.S.W. State
Government department or N.S.W. firm which,
without any save incidental expenses to the
recipient, awards cadetships that include the
degree course in the faculties of engineering,
veterinary science or agricultural science at
Sydney University on the results of the leaving
certificate exam., 1940?—8827.
Cadetships covering degree courses at the
University in agriculture or veterinary science
are offered each year by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture upon results of the leaving
certificate examination. Advice might be sought
from the Commonwealth Public Service In-
spector regarding cadetships offered by the
Commonwealth Government. No information
is available regarding educational assistance
offered by private firms.
* * * *
Numbers and percentage of total number of
incomes in various value groups in Australia ?
—9075.
Figures refer to incomes earned during the
year 1939-40:
Range. Number. P.c.
£1 to £4OO .. .. 2,500,000 88 9
£4Ol to £IOOO .. 270,000 9.6
£lOOl and over .. 41,000 1.5
2,811,000 100.0
* * * *
Arnold Haskell in “Waltzing Matilda" says
Australians are the greatest book-buyers in
the British Empire. Is this so ? Any compara-
tive figures ? —8728.
No figures available. Can find no reliable
evidence to support the contention.
* * * *
Is there a cure for bagginess or puffiness
under the eyes? I am 45, and in perfect health,
but have a puffiness under the eyes which occa-
sionally prompts people to ask me if I am sick
or to tell me my liver is out of order. —8759.
Provided you have undergone medical exami-
nation and have a clean bill of health, there
is no need to worry about the condition.
Advisable to see a doctor about the matter if
you have not already done so.
# * * *
(1) Causes of youth’s hair falling out at age
of 20? (2) Preventive measures? (3) Value
of massage ? —B4OB.
(1) Very largely, perhaps almost entirely,
hereditary. (2) Preventive measures are usually
fruitless in the long run. (3) Strict cleanliness
and massage, with plenty of sunlight, may delay
the march of the baldness. One of the world’s
greatest skin-specialists, asked whether nothing
could be done to prevent baldness in men,
answered, “Yes, you must choose your parents.”
* * * *
Is there any way of getting rid of tape-
worm ? I have tried half a dozen remedies,
two in hospital under a doctor’s care, and not
one of them has been effective. —8466.
Treatment must be very thorough and pre-
ceded by adequate preparation. The patient
should be put to bed for three days on fluid
diet, and the bowels opened freely. On the first
evening, castor oil; on the second and third
days, magnesium sulphate in the morning, and
in the evening cascara; on the fourth day,
liquid extract of male fern, one drachm, at
8 a.m. This draught should be repeated at
9 a.m. At 11 a.m., a second dose of castor
oil or a full dose of magnesium sulphate may
be given. If all this doesn’t cause the bowels
to open by noon (an extremely unlikely event)
an enema should be given to solicit an action.
Motions after the administration of male fern
should be passed into warm water, and the
head of the worm must be diligently sought.
If the head be passed, the worm cannot grow
again; if retained, the worm re-forms.
* * * *
If a bowler makes holes in the ground near
the wicket when delivering the ball can the
batsman compel the opposing captain to have
them filled with soil? —8878.
The batsman should appeal to the umpire,
who, if he considers the holes are dangerous,
can order them to be filled. The umpires may,
if they see fit, hold consultation with the
captains of both teams on the question, but
the umpires have the final word. Sawdust is
generally used for filling in important matches.
* * * *
Apart from Wotan, have any other winners
of important Melbourne or Sydney races equalled
or bettered Old Rowley’s starting price in the
last Melbourne Cup? —Bß7l.
Yes, Murray King won the 1926 Sydney Cup at
200 to 1. Apart from this there have been several
100-to-l-shot winners, including Harry Gavin,
1930 Moonee Valley Quality Handicap; Sail
On, 1921 A.J.C. Villiers Stakes; The Pearl,
in the 1871 Melbourne Cup; Alias, in the 1904
A.J.C. Metropolitan; Miss Arrow, in a
Moonee Valley Tullamarine Handicap; Mam-
mon, in a Moonee Valley Jumpers’ Flat Race;
John McCormick, in a Hurdle Race at the
same course; and Full Charge, at Caulfield.
* * * *
Has there ever been any richer race than the
Melbourne Cup contested in Australia ? —8872.
No, but the value of the Melbourne Cup has
varied from time to time. Bitalli’s 1923 Mel-
bourne Cup was the richest race ever run in
Australasia. It was worth £13,288, of which
£10,288 went to the owner of the winner.
Other valuable wins were Carbine’s 1890 Cup,
worth £13,230, with £10,230 going to the win-
ning owner, and Windbag’s 1925 Cup, £13,215
stake-money and £10,215 for the winner.
* * * *
(1) From whom did Jess Willard win the
world’s heavyweight championship, and when ?
(2) To whom did he lose it, and when? (3)
Is Willard still living? —Bß92.
(1) Jack Johnson, on April 5, 1915. (2) Jack
Dempsey, on July 4, 1919. (3) Yes. He resides
in Los Angeles.
* * s «
(1) How long was Jimmy Wilde flyweight
champion of the world? (2) Did Digger Evans
ever fight Wilde in London? —8900.
(1) Twelve years, from December 18, 1911,
to June 18, 1923. (2) Evans opposed Wilde
while overseas with the A.I.F. in 1918.
* * * *
What Australian fights have colored Ameri-
cans Alabama Kid and Johnny Hutchinson
had ? —BBB2.
Alabama Kid lost to Ron Richards and Gus
Lesnevich in Sydney, defeated Red Farmer in
Sydney, and Jim Starr (three times), Claude
Nichol (twice), Jack McNamee (twice), Max
Rayner (twice), Jack Wilson, Atilio Sabatino,
A 1 Rex, Jimmy Meighan, Les Brander and Pat
Appleton in other parts of Australia. Hutchin-
son has been beaten twice by Bert Osborne
and twice by Joe Hall in Melbourne, once by
Mickey Miller and Tod Morgan in Melbourne,
and by Young Gildo in Brisbane. He drew
with Tod Morgan in Brisbane, and had Sydney
and Melbourne wins over Hall (twice), Osborne
(twice), Clever Henry (twice), Claude Varner,
Augie Solitz and Dave .Lefton.
* * * *
(1) What is Tod Morgans age? (2) When
did he begin boxing, and what world cham-
pionship did he win ? (3) How long has
Morgan been in Australia ? —8836.
(1) 37. (2) He began boxing in 1920, and
won the world's junior lightweight champion-
ship by knocking out Mike Ballerino in two
rounds at Cos Angeles on December 2, 1925.
This world title was held by Morgan until
Benny Bass beat him, also in two rounds, at
New York on December 20, 1929. (3) Since
1933, save for a short visit to the U.S.A.
Brief Answers.
A.N.C.: The “eye-teeth” are the two teeth
in the upper jaw, situated one on each side of
the two front teeth or incisors. They have no
anatomical or physiological connection with
the eyes.... R. 8.: List of ingredients in that
aperient is printed on the label... . G.1.L.: Your
best course is to follow your doctor’s instruc-
tions and not to attempt self-treatment. You
are fortunate in that your diabetes can be con-
trolled without the use of insulin. The disease
is incurable, but, under proper treatment, is
compatible with years of happy and useful life.
W.G.A.: May be a sign of many diseases;
some serious, others trivial. Can’t discuss the
matter here J.P.: No beneficial results are
known to have followed the treatment you name
in the relief of heart disease... . K.8.E.: In view
of your history and of the fact that you seem to
be somewhat overweight, best plan is to allow
the question of enlistment to lapse for three to
six months, in the meantime subjecting your-
self to periodical medical examinations... .T.C.:
(1) The preparation is apparently no longer
marketed. (2) Massage, baths and certain forms
of electrical treatment are recommended. (3)
In old age eczema is very intractable and is
likely to become worse unless the patient re-
mains more or less completely at rest. (4) The
cause is largely due to deficient circulation in
the limb. No special diet is required... .C.J.R.:
No such malady as “stomach rheumatism” is
known to medical science. Cannot therefore
indicate any treatment or its results without
further and more precise details... .D.M.: The
electrical treatment known as diathermy often
gives very great relief in such cases. It is ad-
visable to continue massage... .G.C.: Reply
posted 8.0’N.: Melbourne daily newspapers
have recently published descriptions of the
various ranks and badges. Consult files in local
public library. Regarding the duties of each
rank, call at the nearest drill hall, where precise
information will be given... .F.J.R.: The coin
is an English sixpence of William IV. If in
Mint condition is is worth ninepence; if other-
wise, face value 0n1y... .R.C.: Eighteen—lo
for 15’s, six for threes, two for a pair....
M. Cannot trace any dealer in tungsten
wire. Electric-lamp manufacturers might be
able to give you some information... .L.W.:
Cannot trace meaning of “Barrabogie”....
W. 8.: Akuna, flowing water; Banyandah, home
on the waters; Elanora, home by the sea; Uuka,
near the sea; Miolong, tide coming in; Pana-
muna, ocean; Neerini, high, elevated. (This
might be suitable for a house high on the rocks
overlooking the sea.)... .G.W.S.: A senior vice-
president is usually elected at the annual meet-
ing and is not necessarily the vice-president who
has been longest in office... .H.D.: (1) No. (2)
He must work until the notice has expired or
lose the week's wages... .H.0.D.: All depends
on agreement between you when drain was
dug. If the work and cost of digging the drain
were shared between you on the mutual
agreement that you would both share
the work and cost of maintaining it effectively
you might have some redress, but in the
absence of any such agreement you have none.
. ...M.W.: Clergymen sometimes ask for it,
but it is not essential. You would have to
make a declaration to the effect that you are
a widow... .W.F.F.: If you can establish all
the facts your husband should be able to re-
cover the money from his mother’s estate.
The interest, would seem to be payable by
the father’s estate, and after so many years it
is doubtful if it could be recovered. In any
event it would be limited to six years... .L. 8.:
Only remedy is to go to Equity Court for an
injunction to restrain the nuisance E. 8.:
All depends on what title to the goods the
seller had. In the ordinary course a buyer of
goods gets no better title to them than the
seller had. If the seller to you only had the
goods on hire, you got no title to them and
would have to hand them over to the rightful
owner. If, however, the seller to you had
actually bought the goods and merely failed fo
pay the price, you got a good title to them
and can deal with them as your 0wn....
0.E.F.: In view of many recent changes in
English rates of taxation, cannot say with pre-
cision. There are certainly two taxes here,
StatJ probate duty and Federal estate duty,
but doubt whether the total rate would exceed
total English rate R.H.: See reply Service
page B. 4/12/ ’40... .F.R.A.: F. M. Alex-
ander’s works include Constructive Conscious
Control of the Individual, 215.; Man’s Supreme
Inheritance, 155.; and The Use of the Self, 12s.
. ...J.M.: Pollard’s History of Firearms, 845.;
Burrard’s Identification of Firearms, 255.; Gun-
ther’s Identification of Firearms, 405.; Kep-
hart’s Sporting Firearms (Outing Handbooks
Series), 9s D.H.R.: The Friends of Eng-
land, by Sir lan Hamilton, 13s. 6d., is out of
stock, but could be obtained from London if
ordered J.McG.: Federal income tax, £l3
10s.; N.S.W. State income tax, £1 11s. 3d.;
N. unemployment-relief tax, £lB 13s. 9d.


WTS
LYS
JR
roof
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
wqffljft ttSfm&Xi. j tiUttt+X ViCffiffiffifLiT'
rasas
?-
<*
VA. Mi*? <HV
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
</>
PECIFY "LYSAGHT’
S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Cheque.
“Ghanam”: There’s been some dis-
satisfaction with appraisement prices.
Justice Dixon, chairman of the Common-
wealth Wool Committee, the other day
remarked that about 2,000,000 bales
would have been dealt with before
Christmas, that the New Year valuations
would begin on January 13 and that by
the end of March or early in April 88
p.c. of all wool should be handled. He
admitted that the Commonwealth average
for the corresponding quantity of wool
was less than last year ; but he pointed
out that if this condition continued
adjustments would be greater than for last
season in the end. This year retentions
amount to only 5 per cent., which will
be paid over after June 30, plus current
interest rates.
Average prices to the
first week in December
were: N.S.W. 11.64d._,
Vic. 12.8 Id., Q’land
12.19 d., S.A. 11.07 d.,
W.A. 12.01 d. ; average
11.92 d. Balance for
adjustment to contract
price 1.4175 d.
The chairman says thal
£27,013,000 worth of
wool has been appraised
and that £25,743,000 —at
the average rate of
£1,716,000 has been
paid out to growers.
Before Christmas this
amount will have
reached £32,500,000.
Offset losses in lambs
will be heavy in some
districts; and wool de-
mand will continue so
strong that extra exer-
tions to increase flocks
will pay for themselves.
In weathering the
long Blitzkrieg of taxa-
tion which is ahead, the graziers’ main
weapons are pasture improvement and
stock improvement. The more the land
carries the bigger the return per £2 of
investment; the more wool each sheep
grows, the bigger the profit per sheep.
Dealing with Strangles.
“Bos”: There are two forms, both of
which affect horses, mules and donkeys.
Cause is a streptococcus which chiefly
attacks young animals and produces a
feverish, catarrhal disease which is highly
infectious.
Simple strangles lasts about a month.
It begins with a cough and nasal dis-
charge, which later becomes thick and
yellow, and there are fever and a tendency
for abscesses to form in the lymph glands
near the jaw angles. The animal’s pulse
speeds up, also its breathing. Its eyes
redden.
First thing is to isolate the patient,
preferably in a shed or box. If this cannot
be done, leave it unhaltered and rugged
in a clean, quiet yard. Give tempting
food —mashes and greenstuff. Leave
plenty of clean water at hand, treated
with loz. of nitrate of potash to every
three gallons.
Nose and eyes should be kept clean
with mildly disinfected cottonwool—
Condy’s or boracic is best. After the
clean-up dress round the nostrils with
olive-oil.
Feed-boxes and buckets should be
cleaned up every day and hot fomenta-
tions used to bring the abscess to a head.
Let it develop well and then open with a
sharp, clean knife, but take care not
to act too early. The wound should be
kept open till any discharge stops.
Young, strong animals get over the
disease very quickly. Best treatment,
however, is vaccine prevention—three in-
oculations at intervals of four days. This
is a job for a vet., as some animals are
very sensitive to the dose.
The serious form of strangles, which
leads often to broncho-pneumonia and
other complications, usually causes death
within a few days. There’s little chance
of saving the patient.
“When I came here first there was hardly a house in the neighborhood.”
Feeds and Feeding.
“Mookau”: V. G. Cole, the N.S.W.
vet., points out that the essence of
drought feeding is economy in buying,
and that every kind of feed has its
relative value. With maize at 65., the
bushel price of oats should be 3s. 2d.,
of wheat ss. 9d. and of barley ss. 3d.
Oaten hay should have an equivalent
value of £6 per long ton. Peanut-meal
would pay at £l2 ss. and coconut-meal
at £ll.
Copra, if cheap, is a good ingredient
in mixtures—its oil content assures it a
better feed value than maize. But some-
thing else is needed to make up its pro-
tein deficiency, protein being highly im-
portant to a breeding ewe with a young
offspring.
Salt is necessary in a ration, but lime
is equally important, and there is certain
to be a shortage if cereals are fed
heavily. Roughage is a determining fac-
tor in settling the ration. If plenty of
scrub is available, up to 4oz. of maize
or oats should be fed, if possible, every
day ; at a pinch, every second day. If
concentrates are available, then 4oz. grain
every second day should be enough.
Cole suggests a drought recipe which
could be pasted inside a lot of hats with
advantage: Bloodmeal 10 p.c., copra
40 p.c., wheat or oats 30 p.c., salt 19 p.c.,
and mineral supplement—lime, etc. —1
p.c. This will need to be thoroughly
ground and mixed, otherwise the sheep
may pick out the grain and leave the
rest.
Silage Wrinkles.
“Granova”: Many failures with silage
are due to the material being too mature
when cut.
Wild oats should be used as soon as
they are out in ear and cereals a week
later. There is always the possibility that
the job will be held up by rain, and
during the delay the material, particularly
wild oats, may begin to dry off. Green
material heats quickly, and this softens
the stems still more, and makes a satis-
factory compaction possible.
Mould along the walls and between
layers when pits are opened shows lack
of compaction. No amount of driving
teams through the pit will counteract
lack of moisture, and if the material does
not settle down, cart water to the pit
and sprinkle.
Silage will sometimes come out brown
and sweet-smelling. This indicates too
little moisture, and although it appears
attractive it is not as readily eaten by
stock as the softer, slightly acid silage.
Too much moisture is indicated by pale,
sour stuff, which smells unpleasantly but
nevertheless is eaten by stock.
An even covering with 2ft. to 3ft. of
earth will help compaction and prevent
waste. Silage settles slowly for months,
so inspect the pit occasionally and see
that hollows do not form near the walls,
allowing rain to penetrate.
Pits sft. or 6ft. deep and with straight
sides, once considered desirable, are the
cause of a lot of unnecessary hard work.
Pits 3ft. to 4ft. deep, 14ft. wide and with
sides sloping one-in-four enable filling
lorries to be driven through close to the
walls, and provide enough dirt for effec-
tive covering.
Pits should be increased in length to
get the necessary capacity and the silage
stacked as high as practicable above
ground, building the sheaves 6in. beyond
the walls of the pit.
Fertiliser Storage.
“Gumeraka”: Farmers are asked to
buy their fertiliser early. If proper stor-
age arrangements are made, there is little
danger of the manure setting hard or
deteriorating.
Beware of moisture. Leaky roofs, driv-
ing rain or choked gutters are dangerous.
Atmospheric moisture will cause bad
caking. Wood is best for floors; con-
crete “sweats.” If the floor is of con-
crete, lay wooden slats on it.
Stacks three bags high are best. If
higher piles, the pressure is too great and
causes hard lumps in the lower layers.
Basic slag, super., mineral phosphates,
sulphate of potash and organic manures
store well. Sulphate of ammonia and
muriate of potash need more care.
Ground agricultural lime and nitrate of
lime should be used as soon as delivered.
Nitrate of soda, kainit and nitro-chalk
should not be stored for long. Some of
these manures, however, are now pro-
duced in granular form, and consequently
their storage life has been prolonged.
Manures which have been left out in
paddocks or which have been brought in
owing to stoppage of work should never
be stored.
Chooks and Wheat.
“Emily”: Wheatgrowers, particularly
those in districts where there is a fair
town population —centres like Tam-
worth, Dubbo, Inverell, Albury and
Wagga (N.S.W.), Bendigo, Echuca, Hor-
sham, Mildura (Vic.), Peterborough and
the near-by ports in S.A. —might intro-
duce a few fowls with profit.
Fowls don’t take much looking after
where they have free range, though in
autumn and winter they need good hous-
ing, feeding and general management.
Vagaries of climate can be met with such
breeds as Australorps, R.I. Reds, White
Leghorns and Langshans, which don't
seem to mind what sort of weather it is.
The better the stock the better the pro-
duction, and the best way to buy is in
the form of day-old chicks from recog-
nised breeders. If the chicks are obtained
in early spring their response to wheat-
farm conditions will be rapid.
There is generally a pretty steady
demand for eggs in local markets,
and when production is high and demand
slack eggs can be preserved and held
against the inevitable lack of supply.
Good, plump cockerels find ready
buyers locally, and a few turkeys among
the fowls are worth while. Wheat is a
great poultry food, and properly used
often returns a better price sold inside
eggshells than in bags.
Evening Primrose.
“Kyamba”: In sandy soils of low
natural fertility S.A. experience shows
that evening primrose (GEnothera odorata )
thrives in a mild climate with a minimum
rainfall of 13 inches. As a permanent
pasture for sand ridges it is particularly
valuable.
Early planting and light covering of
seed are necessary. E.p. grows through-
out the year and, owing to a deep root


I
r
IT IS SAFE A
IT IS ECONOMICAL
IT IS MORE CONVENIENT
IT AFFIRMS YOUR CREDIT STANDING
IT MAKES BOOKKEEPING EASY
IT IS A PROOF OF PAYMENT
IT PROVIDES A RECORD
IT IS SIMPLE
r
0
K
Utfi
N
E
W
0
s
WA
s
E
L
Open a cheque account today with
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
575 C
n
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
ISO SMELLS, FLIES OK GEKMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION.
The Commonwealth Government lias lately
bought 97 more and the Hunter District Water
Hoard 13 more.
PRICE, £l7/17/6, includes 10% S. Tax.
Crating 10/6 Extra.
Over 15 50 Satisfied Users.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
<£
A.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
Bead “Radio” regularly and keep in
“Radio” 'is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
system, remains green late into summer.
It will withstand hard grazing, and re-
covers excellently. Once established it
is practically permanent, although the
individual plants are biennial.
Regarding feeding value, the following
comparative analysis is informative:
-—Evening Primrose-^
Young Old Green
Constituent. Plants, Plants,* Oats,
P.c. P.c. P.c.
Water .. .. 75.0 75.0 75.0
Carbohydrates .. 14.5 13.2 10.6
Protein .. ..2.1 2.1 4.9
Fat .. .. 0.6 0.6 1.7
Fibre .. .. 5.8 6.8 4.8
Ash .. ..2.0 2.3 3.0
* Edible portion.
Notwithstanding the only fair feeding
value indicated by analysis, experience
is that stock, especially sheep, fatten
readily on e.p. This is probably due to
its high digestive content. Seed retails
about 2s. a pound, and, although in dry
areas good results have been secured by
planting only ilb. of seed per acre, a fair
average seeding, whether planted alone or
with Wimmera rye-grass, is from lib. to
21b. per acre.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: Cornstalks can be
chaffed for dairy cows, but are not a
complete ration, as they are short of
fats and protein. A good ration is 101 b.
of chaffed cornstalks, 151 b. of lucerne
hay and 81b. of bran per cow.
“Bundalinga”: When the butterfat con-
tent of milk is low, try feeding a mixture
of five parts of crushed wheat to one
part of meatmeal at the rate of 3jlb. to
every gallon of milk each cow produces,
in addition to 101 b. to 121 b. of other
fodder daily. Meatmeal is a good protein
supplement, but it takes weeks to get
cows accustomed to it. Start with a small
quantity, increasing gradually ; bran or
molasses also helps.
“Mookau”: The two types of red-
water found in Queensland are indistin-
guishable to the layman. One form —the
least common —yields to piroblue, but
that is not much use against the com-
moner kind, and it is not easy for an
amateur to administer —it must be shot
into the jugular. Acaprin is now favored.
It calls for only a small dose and is
syringed in under the skin. It gives a
quick cure. Sometimes an animal which
seems in a hopeless state will show
improvement within an hour. A second
injection can be given if the cure does
not show signs of working rapidly.
Chemists or the Agricultural Department
can supply acaprin.
“8.L.”: Japanese millet is quick to
grow on the N.S.W. coastal dairying belt.
The millet is ready to cut in six to eight
weeks after sowing. It will rapidly
recover after grazing.
“Splodger”: Make full use of the har-
rows on the pastures after rain. The wet
clods of manure spread easily and break
up without trouble. Apart from every-
thing else, repeated harrowing has a level-
ling effect. Harrowing of wet manure
is particularly valuable when trying to
spread new grasses through the drop-
pings—clover especially. I seeded 40
acres of land with clover, grazing
the cows on ripe clover and letting
them run in the paddock which was bare
of it. That was a perfect sowing of seed.
A chain harrow is, of course, the ideal.
I use an old-type tooth harrow, turn it
upside down, put a light log between the
teeth for added weight, harness one horse
to it and go straight ahead —ten acres a
day on decent country is easy work.
“Goulburn”: When the pit has been
filled to about half its height, stop work
for a couple of days to give the silage
time to settle down. Better still, fill two
pits side by side —one can settle while
you are working on the other. After the
material has settled, keep going until the
silage is about 4ft. above ground level
at the middle, sloping towards the sides.
Keep on resting and filling until the
material no longer settles below ground
level. Then build it up to 4ft. above the
ground, and throw on the soil. If there
is a hollow on top of the pit instead of
a mound, the silage may be damaged by
water.
If turkeys are infested with
lice, run a trickle of nicotine sulphate
(40 p.c.) along the perches on a still
night. The heat of the birds’ bodies
causes the fumes to rise through the
plumage. Repeat after a week or so.
Where birds perch in trees or other odd
spots, catch them and put several pinches
of sodium fluoride in the plumage at
various points. Then ruffle the feathers.
“K.Mc.”: In N.S.W. anyone with a
stallion over two years old, other than
thoroughbreds registered in the Australian
Stud Book, will have to send particulars
to the Chief Vet. before next March. If
registration is desired a fee of £3 3s. has
to go along at the same time. Animals
will be examined for soundness and
standard, and sound colts not quite
measuring up to standard may on appeal
be allowed six months for further de-
velopment. Sires five years old and over
won’t need to be re-examined. After
August 31 next owners may use unregis-
tered sires on their own mares only. This
concession holds good for three years,
after which all stallions must be regis-
tered. The Act will prevent Victorian
rejects being used north of the Murray.
A similar Act to promote the breeding
of better cattle and sheep may be
expected in about 200 years’ time.
“Murphy”: Central coastal potato
crops in N.S.W. show the same old
patchiness—three tons on unirrigated land
and 10 tons on irrigated. On the
Northern Rivers, yields have been par-
ticularly light, and, as usual, a lot of
the trouble is due to poor seed and the
resultant leaf-roll. If first-class tested
seed had been in use throughout, the
average output would probably be up a
ton to the acre. When will the industry
learn that the first essential under all
conditions is the provision of sufficient
healthy seed tubers?
“W.P.T.”: Instead of exporting millions
of rabbit-skins annually to other countries
Australia could well develop a local in-
dustry by converting them into finished
products before export. In this way
we would provide employment for thou-
sands of Australians. In addition to
felt and felt hats of all kinds rabbit-
skins can be made into rugs, coats,
cushions, slippers, gloves and a hundred
and one other items. In countries to
which we export the skins all sorts of
articles are manufactured, and in many
cases we buy the finished products back
again.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLIX.
Mouthful of Trouble (1).
For some time past you’ve been con-
scious that all is not well. You sleep far
too heavily, wake up irritable and with
fur on your tongue.
“Must be a bit drought-stricken, I
reckon,” you grin when the wife twits
you about it. “What I need is a good
shower of rain.”
The rain comes, but you don’t feel any
better. It’s not that you are really crook,
just a general sort of feeling that makes
the dogs keep clear of you and your
tobacco taste like burning chaff. Then,
getting up from breakfast one morning
you see the table spin round madly and
settle back into its place. You don’t say
anything, but you do a good bit of think-
ing. At lunchtime the table does it
again. You’re not prepared to put up
with that sort of thine, so you go outside
and experiment. Every time you get up
from a sitting or lying position things
spin round.
“It’s me eyes,” you tell the missus.
She’s alarmed, bundles you into the
car and takes you into the local doctor.
He punches, pushes, listens, purses his
lips. “If you were a bullock, Fordcub-
bin,” he says, “I’d reckon you had red-
water. Ever seen redwater?”
“No.”
“Terrible thing, terrible. When I was
in practice out at Birdsville it got bad
there. Terrible thing, terrible.”
“What’s redwater got to do with me,
Doc.?”
“Oh, nothing. You just reminded me
of it. Your trouble is bad teeth, seven
bad ones in front on the lower jaw. Go
and see the dentist.”
“But I never had toothache.”
“You go and see the dentist before you
go blind.”
You join the wife outside. “He says
it’s me teeth. Says t’ see the dentist.’
“All right, we’ll go and see him.”
“He mightn’t be there.”
“Why shouldn’t he be there?”
“Aw, I dunno. Dentists are funny
blokes like that.”
The wife gives a soprano snort. “Well,
there’s no harm in finding out,” she says.
“A man of your age afraid of a dentist!
It isn’t fear. You know it isn’t. But
there’s something about the idea of den-
tists that sort of repels you —a sort of
hatred of having anyone muck about
with you. You debate with yourself
about putting this to the wife, but you
know she won’t see it.
“Righto!” you say. You start the car
and drive up one of the streets.
“This isn’t the street,” declares the
wife.
“Isn’t it? I thought he was along here
somewhere.”
“You know perfectly well he isn’t. His
place is in Myall-street.”
You turn the car round and proceed
slowly to another street, pretending to
watch the houses carefully as you go.
Myall-street draws inexorably nearer. It
begins to look as though it must be done.
Suddenly you get a brainwave and stop
the car. You bend a startled gaze on
your wife.
“Gosh, I forgot all about it,” you
ejaculate, whip into gear and race out
of the street, across Myall-street into the
main street and down to the railway
station, where you pull up with a jerk,
leap from the car and run into the office.
A booking clerk looks at you.
“What’s the first-class fare to Sydney?”
you a^k.
“Forty-eight and ninepence.”
“Aw.” You lean on the window-sill.
“What times does the train get in?”
“Six-thirty in the morning.”
“I see.” Another pause. You study
him. Seems a nice sort of young fellow.
“I —er —do you know anything about
dentists’ hours?”
He gives you a puzzled look and says
“There’s one up in Myall-street; you
could find out there.”
“Aw, thanks.”
You back away and go out to the car.
The missus greets you with “What was
the matter?”
You think quickly: “I had t’ find out
the freight on some manure I might be
orderin’.”
“You might be ordering,” she repeats
slowly. There is a pause, then she adds:
“I suppose we may as well go home.
You try to be cheerfully conversational
on the way, but it’s hard. Deep down
inside you know that you’ve only post-
poned the evil hour.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
A Sydney man’s plea for the children of the slums is placed first this week.
Slums
Occasionally I walk through a slum
suburb of Sydney and what I see almost
makes me ill —indescribable poverty,
filth, vermin-ridden homes which are
overcrowded with people, lacking even
ordinary conveniences. The most harrow-
ing sight of the lot, however, is the
undernourishment of the children, the
rags they wear and the filth in which they
are forced to live. It is a sad commentary
on our “system” that human beings
should be forced to live in such sur-
roundings. The old houses which crowd
the streets should be destroyed, but some-
one is drawing rent from them.
There is no room for children to play
—the backyards are microscopic—and
they are forced to find their recreation
on the streets. What chance have they
got of becoming useful citizens? Some,
no doubt, force their way to a higher
stratum of society through sheer ability
and native shrewdness, but others never
rise above the slum level. Most of them
represent good material for the Australia
of the future, and their big brothers,
reared under the same conditions, are to
be found in the A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and
R.A.N. They have not had much from
their country, but they consider it worth
fighting for and are good Australians in
the truest sense of the term.
We are supposed to be fighting injustice
in the international sphere. What about
a few battles to remedy the injustices
we are doing to many of our young
Australians?— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Refugees
There are still plenty of champions of
the refugee with us, and I suggest that
they and the editor of the “S. M.
Herald” tour the Eastern Suburbs of
Sydney before doling out any more
indiscriminate sympathy. Let them
investigate recent real-estate sales in the
Vaucluse area. Let them visit the Bondi-
Bellevue Hill section, where smallgoods
and groceries are dispensed almost ex-
clusively by prosperous-looking foreigners
who are supposed to be victims of
Hitler’s tyranny. King’s Cross always was
cosmopolitan, but during the last three
years it has witnessed a similar change
in' the business population. This neigh-
borhood is also the home of the basement
factory run on the “refugee-family,”
which really means the “award-evasion,”
principle.
When we first offered a home and the
right to live to genuine victims of
tyranny the daily press pictured a train-
ing farm near Parramatta where they
were to be taught farm husbandry, but
few, if any, have adopted agriculture.
They speedily entered into the commer-
cial and industrial spheres in competition
with Australians, and nobody seems to
regard as strange the fact that many
“refugees” came to Australia with con-
siderable capital, despite reported con-
fiscations. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
Then and Now
I’ve seen pictures of the girls and the
boys of 40 years ago riding home in
“drags” from their picnics, and a happy,
healthy crowd they look.
Tonight I’ve been watching the picnic
vans returning. Their passengers are all
violently redfaced, and it’s not altogether
due to the sun and the wind. They are
yelling and screaming, and a few of the
bad cases hang from the vans, assisted
by some and advised by the others, try-
ing to be ill.
By no means narrow-minded myself,
I can’t help wondering if it wouldn’t be
fun to have a picnic and return home
just as you left —save for a little sun-
burn and healthy weariness. If we have
to have “the brew” to brighten us up,
perhaps the old-timers are right when
they say that there is something wrong
with a generation which needs something
to make them what they should naturally
be. —S. R. (Vic.).
Breweries and Pubs
A co-operative brewery financed by
the workers (B. 4/12/’4O) sounds all
right, but what about retailing its out-
put? Any more pubs would be opposed
by the police, and most bitterly by the
minority of intolerant wowsers who seem
to have all the say with the local
excrescence in Macquarie-street. The
existing breweries, too, have a big pull
over licensees of premises that are not
tied houses, and their word is, of course,
law in the tied houses, which are in a
majority in both city and country.
And while I’m on the subject, the
proper time for a working man to have a
convivial glass or two of beer is in the
evening, say after seven o’clock. From
that hour on till bedtime his mind is more
at rest, with the day’s work well behind
him and his inner man well lined with
the evening meal. Relaxation and beer
go well together, but the intolerants have
made it so that the working man rushes
the bars just before closing hour and
gulps down several hasty beers, more like
a pig than a man. In this the wowsers
have created a situation that is a disgrace
to any country. —J. H. C. G. (N.S.W.).
Cash Orders and T.-p.
The t.-p. system is used to effect the
sale of luxury and higher-priced lines
which, on a cash basis, are beyond the
reach of 75 p.c. of the people. If 5 per
cent, of that percentage and of the firms
selling on t.-p. abuse the system, that is
no reason to deprive the others of its un-
doubted benefits.
Does “Melton” (B. 20/11/’4O) seri-
ously claim that chain stores’ figures are
an argument for all cash trading? Chain
stores are successful not because they sell
for cash only, but because they handle
only those goods which are cheap, of uni-
versal demand and with a quick turnover.
What article usually sold on t.-p. could
come under the classification of goods
handled by chain stores? Can one com-
pare an ice-cream with a refrigerator, a
duster with a vacuum-cleaner or a disc
with the gramophone which plays it? #
As a general rule firms selling on
t.-p. also sell on lay-by. The latter
is an inversion of the former with
the same purpose —the payment for high-
priced goods by small instalments. Firms
pay up to 7 per cent, on lay-by contribu-
tions because this system enables the
seller to budget for future requirements,
it lowers his bank interest or enables him
to pay cash, so getting increased dis-
count, for future supplies. The main dis-
advantage from the buyers’ angle is the
process of obsolescence. Most articles
sold on lay-by are dated, and the buyer
may get an old model when a new one
is already on the market. Unlike the
lay-by purchaser, the t.-p. buyer has full
use of the article during the process.
A family on the basic wage under-
taking to pay 15s. weekly for five or six
years (B. 27/11/ ’4O) is an extreme case —
there could not have been much “prying”
into that family’s affairs, otherwise they
would not have been allowed to sign on
the dotted line. And if such cases weren’t
exceptional, t.-p. firms could not carry on.
The remedy, if a remedy is needed, is not
abolition of the system, but incor-
poration of a clause in all t.-p. agree-
ments by which the buyer undertakes,
during the term of the agreement, not to
become liable for t.-p. or hire-purchase
payments exceeding, say, 10 p.c. of his
income.—E. R. S. (Vic.).
We bought a wireless set on t.-p. and
paid it off in 18 months. Then we in-
dulged in an ice-chest and cleaned that up
in five months. Now we’ve started tossing
half a crown to an affable collector every
week for a new lawnmower, which will
be ours for keeps in two months. These
modest lay-outs don’t keep us from hav-
ing a spot of talkies, tobacco and other
little luxuries or good nourishing food for
ourselves, an invalid mother and a husky
little infant. Part of the surplus left of
just an ordinary salary is banked and the
balance goes in deferred payments on a
few war-savings certificates.
Anything is a curse if it’s misused. The
married woman who buys a fur coat or
a player-piano on terms while her unpaid
household bills mount up like tea
coupons is just as stupid as the man who
buys a bottle of metho., which has many
respectable external uses, and applies it
internally.
T.-p. and a bottle of metho. are both
useful and necessary in our modern social
system. But both can be dangerous in
the hands of the 'feebleminded. To
abolish either to protect nitwits from
themselves would be futile. — Danbo
(Vic.).
A Seaman on the Budget
My case is typical of hundreds of
seamen. Engaged in inter-State trade,
home port Sydney, trading mainly be-
tween N. S. Wales and Victorian ports.
Average hours 80 a week, average wage
(including wartime-risk bonus) about £8
a week, plus victualling. My total earn-
ings, about one-third of which is earned
in N. S. Wales waters, are subject to
N. S. Wales so-called social-service tax
—I lose about £9 12s. a year irrespective
of port of payment. Should the ship
venture into Queensland waters and pay-
day arrives a further seven or eight
shillings is deducted for the Smith Gov-
ernment’s “development” tax. My total
earnings (including these deductions) are
subject to N. S. Wales income tax, and
all money in excess of £5O a year earned
in Victorian waters is subject to Vic-
torian income tax. Add, say, £1 2s. 6d.
a week for 25 weeks under the new
Federal assessment and it makes a rather
large slice out of about £4OO. — Simple
Sam (N.S.W.).
Taxation
Under the new taxation schedule I am
going to have slightly less net income
than I had before. There is nothing to
grumble about here, in view of the tre-
mendous sacrifices being made by the
men and women of Britain. But if I
am to cut down on a luxury or two I
would like to feel that the publican, the
grocer, the baker, the milkman and the
rest of the people I deal with are obliged
to go and do likewise.
Take my beer. In N. S. Wales, the
U.L.V.A., in conference with the Deputy
Prices Commissioner, fixed the new price
of bottled beer at l|d. dearer. That is
to say, of the total increase of 2d. a
bottle I am to pay three-fourths.
Regarding beer in glasses we are told
that “proposals for the alteration of the
size of the glasses will be discussed to per-
mit easier passing-on of the increase.”
Although, for the present, increase in
the retail price of matches and cigarettes
will be limited to the actual increase in
duty, we are informed that the extra cost
of cigarettes will be liquidated either
by giving fewer to the packet or
by reducing the size of the fags. So it
looks as if I’m going to get it directly and
indirectly, unless, of course, I give up
smoking and drinking altogether. But
this “passing-on” business smells sus-
piciously like somebody trying to wriggle
out of his share of the burden. — Public
Servant (N.S.W.).
Betting and Budgeting
What a superb optimist is “F.S.”
(B. 27/11 / ’40)! His own statement that
“s.p. betting is rampant in Q’land, N.S.W.
and Victoria, and it is obvious enough that
unrecorded betting is infinitely greater
than recorded betting,” should be suffi-
cient to shatter his rosy dreams of
abundant revenue being obtained by out-
lawing betting and legalising the total i-
sator throughout the Commonwealth.
Judging by the prevalence of off-the-
course betting and the astonishing readi-
ness of many hardworking Australians to
make betting transactions at the risk of
losing their jobs or being fined heavily
rather than not bet at all, the immediate
and principal effect of a ban on book-
making would be to make the illegal
bookie more popular than ever. And
who would put a check on his
activities? Not the police—they cannot
prevent s.p. bookmakers operating at
present, and the use of a special force
of adequate numbers would make the
whole too expensive to be workable.
The question of illicit betting illustrates
a fact that is frequently overlooked by
temperance enthusiasts and other social
reformers—that there are some things
which are not Caesar’s, things which the
State cannot effectively control. Matters
of habit and custom, such as the right to
drink, to wear certain clothes, to buy
cigarettes, and so on, are decided by the
community in its own slow, stubborn
way, and where laws are passed affecting
these things without the general moral
approval and backing of the community,
let the State beware.
As a community generally, we Aus-
tralians have not yet developed strong
moral objections to gambling ; so the
betting laws we have are not effectively
enforced. There should be no further
futile attempts to “control” gambling for
the common good until the community is
ready to back up its-lawmakers and really
outlaw the gambler.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
The Government should admit that it
is impossible to stamp out s.p. betting in
country towns and make the best of a bad
job by legalising betting shops outside the
metropolitan area. A tax of Is. per
race-meeting on all persons patronising
these shops, plus a turnover tax on bets,
would yield a substantial return each
month.
An incident which occurred in my
home town the other day shows the
futility of trying to abolish s.p. Police
raided the premises of one of the s.p.
men and took him to gaol. During the
raid the other s.p. men suspended opera-
tions, but 20 minutes later betting was
going on as usual.
As a magistrate remarked the other
day, most s.p. men are decent citizens,
and it seems a pity they should be gaoled
“ Don't stand there gapin'—kick those chocks away!"


for betting when the average Aussie looks
on it as anything but a crime. In addi-
tion to the revenue gained by the legali-
sation of country betting shops, many
police now engaged in a vain attempt to
stamp it out could be released for duty
elsewhere. — Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Vindication ?
Despite the feeble backing of a few, Sir
Thomas Beecham remains to the masses
a graceless old bounder. He came, he saw,
he threw mud. Public opinion wavered
between scornful derision and storming
abuse. Wavered —and then turned with
redoubled energy to the war effort.
Picture shows received the continued
financial aid of the patriotic ; generous
public support enabled the pubs and bet-
ting shops somehow to keep their doors
open ; war activity boomed, while poli-
ticians boomed platitudes ; every strike
and industrial dispute marked another
blow for “victory on the home front.” A
few of the more farsighted already had
the war won, and were busily engaged in
the ambitious project of “winning the
peace.”
Surely these greater efforts have vindi-
cated us after the baronet’s attack. —
B. K. C. (S.A.).
Women Outback
“Anti-Pukka” (B. 27/11 /’4O) is just the
sort of bloke I’ve been wanting to get
my teeth into for years. Never before
have I known anyone prepared to declare
as a national triumph “On servantless
mixed farms I’ve known women look
after cows, kids, cabbages and carrots,
to say nothing of cooking,” or two-legged
pigs. Where in the name of Hades is
there anything to be proud of in slaving
the women to death?
And don’t let “Anti-Pukka” try to
kid me that the men do their share, be-
cause not one in a hundred does. All
the hardest work falls on the women ;
the man always sees to it that he drives
the nags in the early stages, the tractor
in the later stages, and when they -are
getting on in life he always has to drive
the car to town to see the bank. There
are exceptions, of course, but rare ones.
You’ll find these women on the wheat-
belt of W.A., in the closer-settlement
areas of the south-west, and right out in
the never-never. I’ve visited them dozens
of times. I have found always that the
man of the place has time to yarn and
talk and smoke his baccy, or get the car
out to show you the local beauty spot
or pub. The woman is usually content
to marvel for two minutes that you ever
thought of coming to such a God-Torsaken
hole, unless you had money to collect,
and then gets on with her job, plus the
extra one you have given her of making
a cup of tea.
There is no one who admires these
Australian women more than this scribe,
but I’m damned if I’d hold them up as
a national virtue like “Anti-Pukka.” Aus-
tralian men should be ashamed of them-
selves, and as for the women I never
have and never will be able to under-
stand it. They say love is wonderful.
It’s a positive miracle, because it must
be the explanation.
And where does it all lead to? Thou-
sands of such women see the fruits of
their labor pass back to the financiers ;
the few who succeed see the children
they reared with blood and toil and sor-
row become playboys and playgirls, flit-
ting around the cities like moths round a
candle, ashamed of the mother who made
it possible. Given half a chance Dad
does the same thing.
“Anti-Pukka” is the typical Australian
man. Doesn’t care a cuss how much
work falls on the women, but is
righteously indignant if anyone suggests
that a nigger could do some of the work.
I believe in the White Australia policy
within broad limits, and I believe that
the intelligent employment of aboriginals
would do much to solve the problem of
the outback. But, if they are not suffi-
cient, I can see no reason why a few
importations should not be made. Nig-
gers need a lot of supervision—they don’t
dispose of work but they do eliminate
the sheer undiluted back-breaking graft
which here is mostly the lot of the
woman. I’ve seen Australian women
doing what Kaffir women would refuse
to do in South Africa.
While I salute the women who do these
heroic things, the women who are the
backbone of the outback, I despise the
men who hold it up as a national virtue.
It’s a national vice, and no better than
the child factory scandals of the last cen-
tury.—Anti Anti-Pukka (W.A.).
Waste
A maker of mustard has said that his
pile was amassed not by what people ate
but what they left on their plates. Why
don’t the makers of matches please copy?
Match-ends litter the pavements and por-
ticos of a continent, and seemingly are
beyond the scope or notice of the
amateur salvage corps. Out of every ton
of wood used in the incendiary business
about 17cwt. is wasted.
I once suggested that something be
done for convivial and angry seekers after
the light who persistently get hold of
the wrong end of the stick. I now repeat
it. Why not take a hint from some
academies of two-up and head ’em at
both ends? — Kipper (Tas.).
Money Down the Drain
A.B.C. has explained in its “Weakly”
extravagance that it gets only 10s. of
each £1 license fee, and that it is the
innocent victim of nasty jealousy. Also
that the “Weakly” “will survive the Blitz-
krieg and live to make handsome con-
tributions to the programme fund.”
Meanwhile it makes listening more in-
teresting and informative.
Amongst the gems of interest and in-
formation in the December 1-7 issue were
a dissertation by Michael Terry upon
preventive inoculations for measles (spelt
“innoculate”), a reference by J. A. Mc-
Callum to “Cromwell’s ragged face,” an
“abject apology” to Vance Palmer for
blaming him for something that he never
wrote, and an admiring account by one
of A.B.C.’s numerous professors of how
the United States Public Health Service
has just discovered how to make ships
ratproof—a problem which was solved
in full detail by the Australian Quaran-
“Take a bite, Tummas, an' give un a suck o’ your pipe!”
tine Service 20 years ago. The star
feature is the “whirling, twirling life
story” of a producer of frothy comedy
shows who actually has to have 64 new
ideas every year in order to keep them
going, and is depicted on the cover appar-
ently while having one. An unmerited
slur on the memory of a doctor who was
killed by blacks when attending a woman
patient in n.-w. Australia and a letter of
protest against “the garbled nonsense
about Australian character being broad-
cast under the title of Burning Questions”
round off the £1321 of license money
which is the average weekly loss on the
sorry production.
Cameron, M.H.R., deserves every sup-
port in his campaign for complete inves-
tigation and reorganisation of the A.B.C.
and all its works. — Colbun (Q.).
Books
It didn’t take much to kill the 5 per
cent, tax on books. In England a similar
proposal was dropped after a fierce
literary press campaign about the matter.
Recently the English book trade ad-
vanced its prices 15 p.c. in respect of
exports. To this exchange has to be
added. Addition of the 5 per cent, sales
tax meant an immediate threat of mental
malnutrition.
There is another side to the picture.
If we don’t import books, how shall we
expect to export them? Angus and
Robertson alone import £BO,OOO worth
of books to Sydney each year. They are
represented in England and also distri-
bute Australian books there. One recent
triumph for an Australian publication
was the purchase by the War Office of
20,000 copies of Major Dunlop’s The
Fighting Soldier. The book was pub-
lished here by Angus and Robertson. It
is our first real war-time best-seller, and
it might have been the last if the
tax collectors at Canberra insisted on
treating books in the same category as
beer.— -Canbeera (N.S.W.).
Australian Wildflowers
Despite “Max’s” optimistic survey (B.
27/11 / ’4O), there is a sad lack of appre-
ciation in Sydney of Australian wild-
flowers as garden tenants. The tragedy
of it is that, on the two counts of intrinsic
beauty and weather-wearing, they are far
ahead of many coddled introductions.
There are only a few scattered bands of
enthusiasts who grow them on any scale.
But why is the wonderful tree waratah
(Embothrium Wickhamii) of the North
Coast so neglected? Why, too, do not
the splendid lacewood ( Pithecolobium
grandiflorum ) and tulipwood ( Harpullia
pendula) find places in preference to
many drab exotics? It is only natural that
our purple mint bush wins favor—few
could resist that purple flower-cloud. But
against that can be scored the neglect of
other prostantheras, grevilleas (Acantha-
folia is one), native cassias, eriostemons
and similar shrubs.
Those dwarfier members with which
“Max” admits failure—gompholobiums,
hibbertias and heaths —I have had
flourishing in ordinary garden soil. They
were lifted as tiny seedlings from the
bush or grown from seed. One nursery-
man friend who specialised in wildlings
had a big range, but gave them up in dis-
gust because of lack of public interest.
Incidentally, the gompholobium is the
largest pea-flower (golden yellow) in the
bush, and one of the brightest.
It and many others of the pea-bushes
( Pultanceas, Daviesias, Dillwynias and
Mirbelias ) can be grown from seed, as
can the boronias, flannel flowers and
native rose ( Boronia serrulata ). Bottle-
brushes germinate like weeds from fine
seed.
The Maoriland kowhai ( Sophora
tetraptera) is yellow-flowered and Clian-
thus puniceus is the red kowhai. They
are but two of many splendid Maoriland
plants which we could profitably add to
our collections. — Waratah (N.S.W.).
Saving Water
“Tompion’s” advice (B. 4/12/’4O),
though sound, cannot at present be fol-
lowed by any Sydney gardener without
running the risk of prosecution —the only
method of watering allowed by the Water
Board is sprinkling the surface with a
watering-can with rose attached. Any
first-year student at an agricultural high
school knows that this is the most ineffi-
cient and wasteful method of applying
moisture to a dry soil, especially when
done between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. —one of
the periods specified by the board.
Sprinkling the surface soil has the same
effect as wetting the valve of a defective
pump. It enables the sun to pump, or
evaporate, from the soil not only the
water recently sprinkled on the surface
but the moisture held in several inches
of the soil beneath p well.
If water is poured into holes and
allowed to soak beneath the roots of the
plant, while the surface soil is kept loose
and open, the moisture will rise to the
roots and, after passing through the
plants, which will extract from it the plant
food it contains, will evaporate from the
leaves. At the same time deeper rooting
is encouraged, increasing both the mois-
ture and the plant food available to the
rootlets.
As all growing plants are constantly
evaporating moisture, while assimilating
the plant food it contains, it is essential
that soil moisture should be evaporated
through the roots of the plants, and
not from the soil above them.
All this, of course, is kindergarten
teaching, but members of the Water
Board are evidently abysmally ignorant
of the first principles of horticulture,
otherwise they could not have issued their
“watering-can-with-rose-attached” pro-
clamation. — Wilga (N.S.W.).
Yallourn and Thereabouts
Certainly the Victorian coal townlet
Yallourn (B. 4/12/ ’4O) is neatly planned,
but there are other considerations. No
matter what the amenities of Yallourn to
the individual worker they exist only as
long as he can hold his job with the
S.E.C., that powerful monopoly which
knows all, sees all, hears all in the lives
of its employees.
Over the coal community in its garden
township the shadow of the S.E.C. hangs.
This, among other things, is the reason
why many employees prefer to live in
near-by townships. The old brown coal
mine settlement, early stamping-ground
of the men who made Yallourn, may be
a slum to “Nairb,” but it is a fine little
place to many families. Healthy, too.
There have been worse outbreaks of
disease in the model town than
in any of the camps and hamlets.
Not only has the old “slum”
attracted many workers, but
compact little communities have
grown up round the coal areas.
The Haunted Hills now houses
happy groups in home-made
dwellings. Morwell Bridge is a
mushroom hamlet. Moe and
Morwell, old Gippsland towns,
have grown out of sight in the
past few years. According to
“Nairb’s” definition of an ideal
town, equipped with all the gad-
gets and spare parts of civilisa-
tion, Yallourn should have ex-
panded and developed until all
its employees clamored for ad-
mittance. Instead, scores prefer
to live jn and create what he
would label slums. But merely
because a country community
elects to live its own life, build
its own homes, and desires to be
with a State monopoly only dur-
ing its working hours, is one
justified in hinting it has a slum
outlook?
There is no fun in renting a
home you cannot own, especially
if that home “is graded accord-
ing to the incomes of the
workers,” a policy that is
responsible for the small-town
snobbery which is rife in Yal-
lourn. Planning may look easy
on the eyes, but my experience of country
towns is that something dies in the spirit
and outlook of rural folks when they get
newfangled ideas about designs for
living in. In the old neighborly psy-
chology of even humpy and shack com-
munities, which are passing with the
working out of constructional jobs, there
was something good to remember. They
lived well and their medical history was
good, despite the alleged lack of civilised
amenities. —H. (S.A.).
Air Attack on Australia?
I still reckon that an air attack cannot
be launched against Australia on a scale
sufficient to warrant the institution of
compulsory A.R.P. training in every city
and large town in the Commonwealth,
the Taranto affair (B. 4/12/’4O) notwith-
standing. That raid was a surprise attack
on warships, no attempt being made to
bomb the city.
Similar attacks might be made on Aus-
tralian ports from aircraft-carriers —
though so long as Italy and Germany are
our only enemies that can’t happen. A
hostile carrier operating against. Aus-
tralia, however, would be thousands of
miles from its base, and unless it formed
part of a squadron too strong for the
R.A.N. and the Pacific units of the R.N.
to cope with —an unlikely contingency —
its career would not be of long duration.
Only a large air armada with bases a
few hundred miles away at the furthest
could inflict serious damage on an Aus-
tralian city. No possible foe can secure
such bases. A hit-run raid on an Aus-
tralian port by a few score aircraft operat-
ing from a carrier would have little result
unless directed against a specific military
objective.
If international developments place
such attacks within the bounds of possi-
bility, Australia’s Defence Department
can be relied on to make adequate pro-
vision for meeting them— Lyle (N.S.W.).


Mai
?r
Mail-Order
A.I.F. ABROAD
Corona Typewriters
at Special Rates
£ll/14/- Corona Stream-
line Zephyr to any
member of the forces
abroad for
dsa
£l4 POST FREE
No better Xmas Gift for a Soldier.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
SMOKERS!
It is claimed to be the best ever, and that is
the name,
“Best Ever”
Tobacco available in Flake Cut or Ready Rubbed
for (he pipe and FLAKE FINE CUT and Ready
Rubbed for cigarette making at |n i | «
o,lly iu/- lb.
fiend 6d. in stamps for a generous sample.
For all your .Smoking Requisites write to
SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST,
est. :{8 years.
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(foods sent C.O.D. if desired
d
• C J otto e s
21b. (dry).
• Fully portable.
© Double - coated
green porcelain
| enamel finish.
• Water capa-
city, 8 gals.
• Guaranteed one
:• year.
• Limited liumbei
to clear at £5.
AM'PXiIOjN'
(A/asia) Pty., Ltd.
382 Kent-.st., Sydney
Electric Washing
Machines
Small, compact,
240 volts 50 cycles
ON
£
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
Cup to £2O).
Ji costs you nothing: to try the
“t entury” Radio. You can have
J‘ !iIOC TRIAL in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once lor
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing: Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
it;
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4-Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4-Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
I girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydriev.
1,/f "
w
fii/imr
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
■. any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An, easy, cheap, humane
method,. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves
6/0. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
, Ea.
- ' " " .m
11l
■
l£j
s *ailSipf -
11
nt
II
<1!
'
■■Oi
s,
fife
1
*1
v*
\
w
Th
“Serves ’im right—'e Would
step back to admire ’is
Work."
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
Buy War Savings Certificates
J¥JNCH£ST£R
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
m
m
2- 750 ft. range, each .... i 5/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Best Book About
Australia
The Great Australian
Loneliness
by Ernestine Hill
A fascinating description of the
Outback and life along the coasts.
Full of curious facts and adventures.
Illustrated.
Price 9/-, posted 9/5.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.,
307-113 Elizabeth St., Meib., Victoria.
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
V
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Xwo Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Froni all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emaseulators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
sad
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possiole improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials anti 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEE APPEIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
yisjun
mstant relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X—ray dis-
coveries, the “EOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
EMITS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
/4 DAYS FREE TRIM
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live.
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 12G),
65 York Street, Sydney.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing,
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, 1i.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
REDUCE
YOUR
sad
Tlie GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
3in. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
-
Why fumble in the dark when
THE MICRO-LITE
s
WONDER
V.P» FLASHLIGHT
Saves Time, Temper,
Trouble
ONLY 3 INCHES LONG.
ds
It fits into a vest pocket or lady’s purse. No glass
to break. The special globe combines magnifying
and reflector lenses, and throws a beam equal to
that of many full-sized torches. Batteries last well
with ordinary usage. Extremely handy for doctors,
nurses, motorists, travellers, campeis, and for finding
that keyhole in the dark. A hundred other uses.
Beautifully finished and fitted in various colored cases.
Price 3/- posted Extra batteries 9d. each.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
XMAS-NEW YEAR SPECIAL-
MIXED CASES OF FRUIT!
Full Bushel (401 b.) NOT HALF BUSHEL.
Containing Apples, Apricots, Pineapples,
Cherries, Lemons, Oranges, Peaches, Pears,
Tomatoes, Bananas and Passionfruit, for
12/6 bushel case. By fast passenger trains
(f.o.r. Sydney). AMAZING VALUE:
CASE FRUIT: Tomatoes, 10/- llOLb.; Goose-
berries, 8/- 141 b.; Apricots, Peaches. Plums,
8/- SOlb.; Apples. 8/0 451 b.: Cherries. 0/6
141 b. ORCHARD PRODUCE DISTRI-
BUTORS, 75 George Street, Sydney.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (12-20 ft 1
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR. Yields
2001 b. Also Pure WHITE 100 PER CENT
NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (for Rheu-
matism). 2/6 Packet each. TIMBER
KILLER! Kills trees, roots to top. in
15 DAYS! NO RINGBARKING! 5/0 tin.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. 75 George St., Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
| Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
j for one year so that 1 do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
25/ 12r40 (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office. Sydney or Melbourne.


#
<d
V-
V/
The events of the year now passing fortify us
for the year that is to come.
We stand unafraid before the unfurling scroll
of Destiny, for we know that the Valour of our
Arms, the Skill of our Workmen, and the quiet
Courage of our Homes will surely prove
worthy of the Traditions we inherit.
Inspired by the glorious example of our gallant
kinsfolk in the Mother Country, which makes
us proud to be citizens of the British Common-
wealth of Nations, let us press on to 1941 —
hoping, working, fighting for the Victory that
will come in good time, and with it the oppor-
tunity to make of our land a brighter, happier
place than ever before.
ds
Inserted by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, 26 BROADWAY, SYDNEY
