

XSm
9%
11!
■ w
Ri
/ill
inti
$1?
|| i;; i fl ii!!!!! 1 i ■
m
E
■iMtl
II
lllllill
ffi
miiiij
Mint
urn
gi
mm
! n m
iiiiiiii ii iilliiiHf !!!!!!!n!iiiii!naiiiiiHiiifi
m
niiiiii
sss;
mi* k:
min 1 1!!!!
«• K
ass
s&s
IVW
mmg
"luimmi
r vi > •*»*
1;
n iinii
tIW
fig
raw
ftlllll*!
Piiiii
ggggpp
m
f
r.M
>-«liiiu:»u]|lj
:v-v
****22r ■ I "
:•• ....
SSiXSriSSS
: «
I*s3^
ll'll
l2r>
2!=Sfi
VV\
AOS
SSB
liltlllMir
"*r»
V£v\
■2k:
i»n
s-■ •■-..
MR
WSSSS
S«
g>v
'rx
2««»
m
fcyvid
i>vx
I
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The modest 'White Horse Inn’ in Kersey,
Suffolk, is a pleasing example of a village ale-
house, which has for centuries provided a simple
and wholesome hospitality.
The House of Holbrook, which was founded
in a litttle village in Worcestershire, has become
famous throughout the world for the quality of
its Sauces and Table Delicacies."
2
on a s
OljDjje/iser.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
/
ajwuts.owws
&
im
ORfr.-WORCESTER^jr.
ifjwuio
A £ 4 f .V.to
ERS IN T*E UNITED
JL
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3159.
Wednesday, August 28, 1940.
Fifth Column Facts
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
e
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send , without obligation, particulars of V™'
UomTstudTkourse in BOOKKEEPING, as adverted
the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address .
S.B. 640 ...
The Red Page
DUHAMEL ON FRANCE.
M. Georges Duhamel collects his post-
Munich essays under the title Chronique
de I’Annee 1939; by the time Basil
Collier has translated the book and Dent
has published it and mailed it to Aus-
tralia, its English title, Why France Fights,
is sadly out of date. Nevertheless, the
book remains interesting: if one reads
between the lines of Duhamel’s optimism,
it makes an effective statement on “Why
France Capitulated.”
Basing all his hopes on the great “re-
covery” France was supposed to have
undergone between Munich and the out-
break of war, Duhamel expected his
country to fight tenaciously and victori-
ously. He admits the corruption of the
nation by Communists, Fascists and pro-
Nazis and the criminal unrealism of the
politicians immersed in their petty in-
trigues, but he believes (April, 1939) that
“from now on all this is inconceivable”:
France, it seems, has understood the
magnitude of the danger and has called a
truce to her disputes. Now that she has
been saved from herself, let her occasionally
take stock of the peril by recalling the
closing days of November, 1938. The
audacity of the two carrion eaters was great
when they learned that, two months after
Munich, the French nation was still mad
enough to indulge a fancy for a general
strike.
Belgium, too, he thought—though with
less certainty—had made the great
“recovery”:—
Beloved Belgium, to be frank, has
recently filled its most faithful friends with
grave disquiet. There is no doubt that
there were specifically Belgian motives be-
hind that tentative move towards seces-
sion; there is no doubt, either, that it was
favorably looked on by Germany. That
if Belgium had not regained possession
of herself on the very brink of the abyss,
the German hyena would have set to work
to get its fangs into so substantial a quarry.
Only unity saved Belgium, and only unity
can save her again.
What is now only too obvious, of
course, is that these “recoveries” were
superficial. A democracy that has been
undermined by its own worst enemies
can’t possibly “recover” in one short
year. Duhamel himself, though he
thought “the revival is a fact” and hoped
that love for the soil of France would
keep it a fact, wrote in June, 1939, “We
have reached the seventh month of a
convalescence which will require years.”
There is not much that is new in these
essays ; a few facts about Rumania, indi-
cating that country’s hopeless confusion ;
a survey of British aircraft production,
in which he says that the factories are
so widely distributed that they have not
a great deal to fear from air bombing ;
some personal accounts of the “eternal
German”; that is about all. But, as a
statement from a Frenchman who has a
fine, liberal mind, who ardently believes
that the cause which used to be the
Allies’ is just, and who sees that in the
destruction of truth and courtesy in the
world, as well as of liberty and humane-
ness, Hitler and Stalin have done harm
that will last for generations, it is worth
reading. Besides being a distinguished
novelist, Duhamel has held semi-official
positions in the French diplomatic service,
so that it is of some importance to see
him declare at this time, “German propa-
ganda is pleased to spread the rumor that
France intervened in the present conflict
under pressure from England. That is
an absurd invention.”
Among the Pasquiers.
M. Duhamel’s second series of “Pas-
quier Chronicles” arrived in Australia
about the same time as Why France
Fights. Three novels, translated by
Beatrice de Holthoir, are published by
Dent under the title Cecile Among the
Pasquiers. As an exploration of the soul
of France the chronicle is even more
significant than the non-fiction book. The
whole of the third novel, “The Fight
Against the Shadows,” is an analysis of
the poisoning of French life by doctri-
naire politics.
Laurent Pasquier, the scientist and
idealist, writes a newspaper article
setting out his ideas about laboratory
discipline and the duty of the scientist,
and at once becomes involved in a
political dispute that widens and deepens
until his whole career is in danger.
Pasquier is not interested in politics, but
the public is not interested
in anything else. The Left
press vilifies him as a
“Rightist”; the Right dis-
owns him because, as the
controversy develops, he makes conces-
sions to the Socialists. Representing the
pure, liberal mind, he becomes a pariah.
Duhamel is writing about 1914 France,
but it is obvious that this novel is a
sermon for 1940 France.
For that reason it is, unfortunately, not
a very good novel. When Duhamel sets
out to demonstrate that pure science
(or pure art) is contaminated by politics,
his own fiction becomes, inevitably, a
political statement; his own art is con-
taminated. The ideology matters more
than the characters, and that is bad novel-
writing.
Apart from its politics, there are other
serious flaws in Cecile Among the Pas-
quiers that make it unlikely to be re-
ceived with such acclamation as was the
first Pasquier chronicle. The technique
is mechanical, creakingly obvious. In
the first novel, “Pastors and Masters,”
Laurent Pasquier is the shocked observer
of a sordid quarrel between two scientists
whom he venerates: Duhamel’s idea is
to show that the scientist, although he is
the hope of mankind, is still all too
human. In the second novel, “Cdcile,”
there is told the story of a marriage:
Cecile, the great musician, has married
not for love but because she wants a
child ; the child dies, the marriage breaks
up. In the third novel there is the story of
the scientist, interested in nothing but his
work, thrown to the wolves of politics.
All three novels work up too obviously,
too laboriously to their ironical con-
clusion.
Detracting more immediately from the
book’s interest is the fact that the family
chronicle and the portrait of the detached
scientist have both been done so com-
petently in recent English letters that one
hardly wants to read a French Gals-
worthy or a French Aldous Huxley. The
death of the boy in Duhamel’s second
tale so closely resembles the death of
the boy in Point Counter Point that it
looks like direct imitation. Amongst the
three novels there are both drama and
humor, but Duhamel’s Gallic precision
devitalises his action as well as his
characters. Reading the book is about
as exciting as playing a hard dean game
of dominoes.
Fanny Was a Lady.
Fanny Burney, author of Evelina and
friend of Dr. Johnson, has been dead
for 100 years; her novels have faded,
and her famous Diary has been out of
print for some time. Dent has done a
good deed in reviving the Diary in her
centenary year, for Fanny, like the Fifth
of November —but for much better
reasons—should never be forgot. Pub-
lished as No. 960 of Everyman’s Library
and cut to reasonable proportions by
Lewis Gibbs, the book sparkles with life.
It has three excellences, the first as a
collection of anecdotes about Johnson,
Boswell, Joshua Reynolds, Sheridan—all
the notabilities of the period and some of
the most priceless nonentities, including
tearful Sophie Streatfield and the wicked
Miss W
“One thing,” answered she, “there is
which I believe might make me happy, but
for that I have no inclination: it is an
amorous disposition; but that I do not
possess. I can make myself no happi-
ness by intrigue.”
“I hope not indeed!” cried I, almost
confounded by her extraordinary notions
and speeches; “but surely there are
worthier subjects of happiness attainable!”
“No, I believe there are not, and the
reason the men are happier than us is
because they are more sensual!”
“I would not think such thoughts,”
cried I, clasping my hands with an in-
voluntary vehemence, “for worlds!”
That phrase “almost confounded” is
typical of Fanny. She was so thoroughly
steeped in eighteenth-century gentility
that, even when most stirred, she quali-
fied her emotions, hesitated to admit
them. She uses “almost” exquisitely
again in her second excellence —her ac-
count of her sad and ridiculous life as
Assistant Keeper of the Queen’s Robes at
the sad and ridiculous Court of George
the Third. She found it an “almost ridi-
culous” scene when, Queen Charlotte
having preceded his Majesty out of a
hall at Oxford, the ladies had to follow
her without —according to etiquette—
turning their backs on George:
The Duchess of Ancaster, being near
the door, slipped out, and Lady Harcourt
after her. But Lady Charlotte Bertie, by
chance, happened to be very high up the
room, and near to the King. Had I been
in her position, I had surely waited until
his Majesty went first; but that would not,
I saw, upon this occasion, have been eti-
quette. She therefore faced the King, and
began a march backward —her ankle already
sprained, and to walk forward, even lean-
ing upon an arm, was painful to her:
nevertheless, back she went, perfectly
upright, without one stumble, without ever
once looking behind to see what she might
encounter; and with as graceful a motion,
and as easy an air, as I ever saw anybody
enter a long room, she retreated, I am sure,
full twenty yards backwards out of one.
George’s establishment might have
been the inspiration for “The Mikado.”
Gilbert could have founded Katisha on
ugly, irate Mrs. Schwellenberg, Fanny’s
immediate superior. There is pure comic
opera when the young man who after-
wards became William IV, “the sailor
King,” forces all the ladies and gentle-
men to get drunk on champagne ; and
when Fanny reads a play to Queen
Charlotte:
I was obliged to omit, as well as I could
at sight, several circumstances very un-
pleasant for reading, and ill enough fitted
for such ears. It went off pretty flat.
Nobody is to comment, nobody is to in-
terrupt ; and even between one act and
another not a moment’s pause is expected
to be made.
The fun they had! But it changes to
tragedy, changes from “The Mikado” to
“King _ Lear” when the poor old King
has his first “intellectual malady,” as
Fanny calls it. She paints a terribly
moving picture of the scenes in the
palace, the King’s midnight visits to rave
at the terrified Queen; the horror-
stricken ladies-in-waiting, pitying the
King in the midst of their alarm, because
he was still so good and gentle; the
doctors and the King’s gentlemen waiting
up all night in another room, prepared
for the madness to turn to violence. Even
Fanny faced realities when the King
chased her through the gardens—though
all he wanted to do was to tell her he
was sane again.
This is her third excellence —her own
life story. It reminds one of Eliot’s
phrase in Murder in the Cathedral:
“living and partly living.” Her diary is
a portrait of a woman only partly living,
but she describes her existence, real or
artificial, with such charm, humor and
vividness that it makes a fascinating
study in character as well as a valuable
document on the eighteenth century.
"Air Navigation."
Air Navigation „ by F. G. Brown,
is likely to become a standard work for
students of air and sea navigation
throughout the world.
There is a tremendous lot in this book ;
so much that it appears very formidable
indeed when opened at almost any one
of its 370 pages. There is no suggestion
of “a short cut to air navigation,” or any
myth like that, about it.
The author has dealt with the subject
fully, but in a manner which enables a
student to delve into it just as deeply as
his immediate needs dictate. He can
get from it quickly an idea of how to fix
position without bothering much about
the fundamentals; but if he wants to
know “why” the answer is there, in full,
if he cares to go after it. For this reason
the book is valuable as a basis of study
for anybody who wants results quickly
but has in mind also a longer and more
fundamental pursuit of the subject.
Calculations for position lines are
based, firstly, on the haversine formula,
and the author has included a table of
recalculated haversines. Then he deals
with position lines by the method of
Hughes tables and the Air Almanac,
pages from which are also published for
reference. These tables, introduced fairly
recently by Henry Hughes and Son, Ltd.,
of London, are very good indeed, and
might well be adopted as standard by
students of air navigation. They are
simply and clearly presented, which tends
to accuracy in work: and accuracy is
the main issue in the answer to “where
am I?” Actually, that answer is the only
thing that really matters from a mass of
tables and literature that has been pro-
duced for suffering students of air navi-
gation, all dealing, in various ways, with
the simple solution of one spherical
triangle.
Mr. Brown has done well to clarify the
issue in bringing his work to a head with
the Air Almanac and Hughes tables, dis-
pensing altogether with obsolete and
superfluous practices of purely academic
interest. He has avoided, as far as is
humanly possible, the conjuring-trick
effect that is the curse of so many text-
books ; that of keeping the student in a
state of complete ignorance through a
bewildering mass of complication till the
actual moment of extracting the rabbit
from the hat.
Some years ago, when I was struggling
with various textbooks on navigation
filled with dramatic gestures of this kind,
I was lucky enough to meet the author
of this new book. He changed the whole
aspect of the subject to one of clarity
and interest, and, where I had previously
regarded the theory of navigation as a
distressing necessity to its practice in the
air, I found the basic study of the sub-
ject interesting and. satisfactory in itself.
I always hoped that Mr. Brown would
write a book on air navigation, and I
hope that students of the subject will find
the same measure of relief and interest in
the book as I have found in personal
study with its author.
In producing this book Angus and
Robertson have ventured well into a new
field of Australian publication, and if
the book is received on its merits that
venture must be successful, both in Aus-
tralia and overseas. As a production
the book has set a very high standard, of
which craftsman type-setters and Hal-
stead Press must be justly proud. The
book looks right, inside and out, and
the author and publishers have done
good service to Australia in giving to
air people something real on air navi-
gation.
P. G. Taylor.
Sir Nevile Henderson produced a book
to explain things when his diplomatic
efforts in Berlin failed; Sir Robert
Vansittart, who, as Chief Diplomatic
Adviser to the Foreign Secretary, was
always a strong supporter of the closest
possible alliance between Britain and
France, more recently took a course cer-
tainly more original in diplomacy—on
France’s collapse, he said it in verse.
Here is the effort, which was published
in London ‘Times” (1904 was the
year the Anglo-French Agreement was
signed):
1904-1940.
Was I not faithful to you from the first?
When have I ever failed you since my youth?
I loved without illusion, knew the worst,
But felt the best was nearer to the truth.
You were indulgent too and open-eyed
To the shortcomings I was frank to own.
So we were mingled, destined side by side
„ To face a world we could not face alone.
Did you keep faith with me? When all was
well
Yes; but I clave to you when all was not.
And, when temptation touched your citadel,
Your weakness won again, and you forgot—
Forgot your Self, and freedom and your friends,
Even interest; and now our vaunted glow
Becomes a blush, as the long story ends
In sorry separation at Bordeaux.
You hate me now; you will not hate me less
If I go on unshaken by your fall,
If for your sake, devoid of bitterness,
I face the world without you after all.
Robert Vansittart.
“Australian Educational Studies”
(Second Series): Among a number of
interesting articles in this Australian
Council for Educational Research pub-
lication from Melbourne University Press
is a particularly valuable item on “Art
in Elementary and Secondary Education”
by R. T. Crosthwaite. Anyone who has
seen troops of youngsters escorted
through the labyrinth of London’s Tate
Gallery, given every chance to absorb
culture as they grow, will agree that
there’s room for improvement in Aus-
tralia, and this article, thorough, practical
and sympathetic towards the child mind,
shows how a great improvement could be
effected.
Some Australian Poems: Henry
Richard Highborn Hill (printed by A. H.
Massina and Co., Ltd., Melbourne).
Some religious and patriotic verses and
“My Fatal Destination”:
I love Love
and
I hate Hate.
I love my fate,
save
when I hate.
If I must hate —
I hate that fate,
For livingly I love,
but
fatally I hate.
The History of South Melbourne:
Charles Daley (Robertson and Mullens,
Melb.). An elaborate and detailed
account of the origins and development
of Melbourne’s first important suburb
across the Yarra by the ex-President of
the Historical Society of Victoria, who
until recent years was headmaster of
one of the biggest schools in the district.
The publishers have made a handsome
job, and the illustrations culled from
early drawings, photos, and sketches
make an interesting record. The author
tells his story brightly.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —an invaluable principle.
‘THE SENIOR STORE”
______
V
:
if
i; Ux-***"
Piiil
mm
/:■!■
MZ
mm
SwSsSK
■■■
■ : : ■ . -;.
3 Pee. Lounge Suite
£3IW-
Fully upholstered Lounge Suite, consisting
of a full size Settee and two large Easy
Chairs. Sprung reclining backs, deeply
sprung comfortable platforms, loose spring
filled cushions. Suite is covered in ex-
cellent quality dark brown Fabricoid.
Loose cushions are covered in Tapestry
or Velvet. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price ... £3l/10/-
Easy Terms. Deposit £3/3/-.
18 Monthly Payments of £l/13/10.
'Randwick'Bedr'm Suite
£ss'-'-
4-piece beautifully figured and highly
polished Butt Maple Bedroom Suite. Com-
prises a 4ft. 9in. ’Robe, interior silky
oak drawers; 3ft. 9in. well centre Dress-
ing Table, three silky oak drawers; behind
each pedestal door cheval centre mirror
with side reflectors. 4ft. 6in. Bedstead
and 3ft. 6in. Lowboy complete the suite.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price £55/-/-
Easy Terms: Deposit £5/10/-.
24 Monthly Payments of £2/5/5.
Kitchen Setting
6-piece Kitchen Setting, finished a Brown
Walnut colour. Consists of a 4ft. 9in.
Cabinet with linen and cutlery drawers,
cupboard space, centre leadlight doors.
4ft. 6in. x 2ft, 6in. Refectory Table and
four strongly made Chairs complete the
suite. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price £l2/5/-
Easy Terms: Deposit £l/4/6.
12 Monthly Payments of 19/4.
''*&«»**
,4
Wf
■fc
;4
Hi
i
5£S?
Sw&S
delivery area.
Welch" Dining Suite, £22/10/
6-piece Oak “Welch” Dining-Room Suite, comprising a 3ft.
7in. Sideboard, with ample cupboard and drawer space,
2ft. 6in. square, drop-end table, extending to 4ft. 6in.
when open. Four ladder-back chairs with rush seagrass
seats complete the suite. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price £22/10/-
Easy Terms: Deposit £2/5/-. 18 Monthly Payments
of £l/4/2.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


IN SINGLE COMBAT
By FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
1 « a ITH the spud-bar
\A / driven t nto the clay
V V of the posthole be-
tween his spread
feet, Darkie Hoskins
paused in his labor. Behind him, in a straight line
through the box forest, stood the posts he had put
up, like a file of soldiers standing to atten-
tion at his back. Presently, drawing the mak-
ings of a cigarette from his pocket, he squatted
down with his back to the shady side of the nearest
tree trunk. He had no deliberate intention of knocking
off for a spell, and was scarcely aware of what he
had done ; it was just that there was the feeling that
work might fairly be left to wait while he considered
the change in his fortunes. He had just come through
a major crisis in his life and affairs, and was like a
man narrowly delivered from an accident. He had
to take time to think it over.
The simple facts were that he had twice built a
dam in the creek and the floods had twice wrecked it.
He had thought himself beaten, but on the eve of
abandoning his selection a third flood had found the
dam an effective obstacle. The floods that had wrecked
the dam had packed it tighter than human hands
could have done; they had also settled it on a good
bottom, and the thick lower waters of the floods
had gradually filled the interstices with leaves and
silt, making all tight. All that remained was to keep
adding to the dam, assisting Nature in her good
work until a large permanent obstacle should result,
Darkie was happy enough about that, but leading up
to it was a chain of events that needed going over.
'“FHE trouble arose through the failure of his tank.
1 Not the house tank, but the scooped-out earthen
tank which the contractors with their teams had taken
six weeks to sink, and on which the selection depended,
The catchment area was not sufficient to fill it.
With its surrounding earthen banks it occupied a
half-acre of flat, just down the timbered slope from
the homestead, where a shallow, flat-bottomed gully
reached the creek. Darkie had chosen the spot him-
self. Down the centre of the gully and across the
little flat now occupied by the tank had run a deeply-
scoured channel, seeming to indicate a flow of water
after rain more than sufficient to fill the tank. But
that channel wasn’t the result of normal rains ; it was
the result, on soft soil, of a cloudburst five years
previously. Following the first rain after the tank-
sinkers had gone, Darkie went down the slope from
the humpy expecting to find the tank brimming. It
was quite empty. A cavity a hundred feet across and
twelve feet deep, the intended water supply for his
stock, the heart of the selection, it was dry. There was
a puddle a foot deep in the silt trap ; that was all.
The disaster might have broken the heart of a
man less resourceful or more knowledgeable, but
Darkie was not easily defeated. He decided to dam the
creek a hundred yards upstream from the tank, and to .
dig from the dam a channel to convey enough water,
when the creek flooded during rains, to fill the tank,
It looked fairly practicable. He dug the channel and
filled the creek at the chosen spot with a dam of
tightly-packed logs and rocks. It took him six weeks
of the heaviest kind of labor. The flood came down
with the first rains and demolished his dam in six
minutes. It disappeared under the tumbling flood
while he stood looking at it. The channel he had so
laboriously dug from the dam around the shoulder
of the hill, squinting his way with a carpenter’s spirit-
level, was as empty as the bottom of the tank.
Darkie decided to have another try. He was
threatened with loss of his selection and the uncer-
tainties of job-hunting. This time he’d fill the blasted
creek so full of rocks and logs the floodwaters couldn’t
push it over!
Two months’ labor went into this effort. Darkie
set no limit to the quantity of rocks and logs with
which he would force the flood to serve him. He
kept on stacking them into the creek until the rain
came again. He was at it when the sky darkened
and the trees whipped in the first rush of wind. Stand-
ing drenched to the skin and indifferent to the
elements, watching the water back up behind his
dam, Darkie thought for a few moments that he had
succeeded. Water began to flow along the channel
toward the tank, but the first trickle hadn’t gone
twenty yards before the weight of the backed-up flood
proved too much. With a grinding of rock on rock
the dam began to sink, and presently only a con-
tinuous upcurling wave marked where it lay under
the rushing water. The creek bed was sandy, and the
flood, as soon as it gathered depth and weight, floated
the sand out from under the dam and wrecked it.
| N the weeks that followed between the second wreck-
-1 ing of the dam and the morning when he abandoned
his fencing tools to loaf in the shade of a tree trunk,
Darkie went through a heavy time, an intermittent but
progressive retreat from hope, a gradual piling up of
evidence that he was defeated, until he had no course
open but to reconcile his feelings to the thought that
he must clear out.
Like all his settler neighbors, he was some way
in debt. While the tanksinkers were at work, and on
the strength of normal expectations, he had bought a
small herd of cows. These were to provide him with
his living. For the moment they were all right. There
were a few potholes in the creek which held out, at
any rate in a good summer like this, from one rain
to another ; but for the rest of the year, for the greater
part of the year, they were dry, and the dry time was
only a few weeks off.
Darkie discovered that he had no motive for con-
tinuing work. In a few weeks, out of common
humanity, he would have to send his stock away. He
would have no living coming in. On a dry selection,
with a tank that was only a mocking monument to
bad luck and mismanagement, he never would have a
living coming in. There was no getting past that. For
these reasons Darkie’s hands would suddenly fall idle
at accustomed tasks. Accustomed tasks, associated
in his mind up to now with solid security, had been
something to seize on strongly and gladly,
The cows to milk twice a day, the cream to send
off twice a week, and the cheque from the butter-
factory in Wilgatown to look forward to tended to
give him an illusion of something that didn’t exist. He
had battled his way to the point where the living
was coming in, and now, in a few weeks, it would
cease coming in. In the circumstances of the moment
it was hard to believe.
Some men accept defeat with difficulty. It was
only toward the last that Darkie let his hands really
slacken. At the beginning he went on working, finish-
ing a subdivision fence he had begun work on while
the tanksinkers were on the job, but had left unfinished
in view of the urgency of building the dam in the
creek. It was hard, in a thrifty green world, to believe
defeat possible. Among the timber he had ring-
barked the year before, the grass was like a paddock
of wheat. His stock were in great nick. When he
drove to the station with the cream the horses rattled
along with high heads and swishing tails as if an eight-
mile trot was their idea of
an outing. The poddies
were doing well in the little
paddock he had made for
them. Milking was a
pleasant ritual, with buckets foaming full from sleek
cows, contented and big-bellied with green feed. It
was a full and flowing summer. The stand of feed was
coming on everywhere to provide a winter of com-
fort and contentment.
Darkie wouldn’t be sharing in that winter. That
reflection haunted him as the last weeks went by, and
his mind kept going back to the wrecked dam.
HE had put some desperate effort into that dam.
It had been the harder that his two horses had
cleared out just when he needed them for hauling the
logs and rocks. They had escaped through a tree
falling across the fence, and had headed straight for
where they had been bred, sixty miles across back
country. It was useless going after them until he got
word of their arrival at their home paddock, or from
some grazier whose fences had intercepted them on
their way. He had to do the hauling himself.
Adjacent to the site of the dam rose a small knoll
with ironstone outcrops and a crown of clumpy
brigalow. Here was his material for dam-building.
He wanted the logs as heavy as possible, so he cut
them of a length and girth he could just manage to
upend on to his shoulder and stagger under. It was
a hundred yards down the side of the knoll to where
he was building the dam. The weight of the green logs
varied just a little, though not so much but what he
reached the creek bank each time with his eyes blinded
with trickling sweat, his body nearly cracking under
the weight and his jaw clenched against the pain of his
shoulder. He would stand trembling for a minute,
catching his breath, wiping his face on his sleeve,
and then back for another log.
He wore out the shoulder of his shirt and some
of his skin during the first half-day, and then had to
resort to padding his shoulder with a folded bag. He
prised the rocks from the side of the hill with pick
and spud-bar and trundled them down to the dam in a
wheelbarrow.
To Darkie’s burden as he labored were added his
thoughts about the tank. If he had taken a little more
care in choosing the site he wouldn’t have been in his
present difficulty. There was a much better site for
a tank on the back half of his selection, but he had
been influenced to an extent he didn’t realise at the
time by a desire to have his homestead and water
supply grouped compactly. Under the influence of
this he had taken for granted something that should
have been investigated to the full. The tanksinkers, who
were more experienced in these matters, might have
warned him that the deeply-scoured channel on which
he had counted was too grass-grown to be the product
of recent rains and normal seasons. But the tank-
sinkers, though they were good enough chaps, and
had done him a first-class job, were contracting at
prices that didn’t allow them any margin for doing the
selector’s work for him. They had taken it for granted
that he knew what he wanted.
Looking down on the tank in his brief pauses for
rest, Darkie recognised the choosing of the site as one
of those evil occasions in a man’s life when bad luck
is not a sufficient explanation, when, in looking back,
there must be admitted a humiliating and almost
incredible carelessness.
-P HE weather broke in a thunderstorm, a couple of
* hours of semi-darkness and driving rain that was
sure to send the creek down. As soon as the heaviest
rain was over the Hoskins family, in bags and rain-
coats, Darkie carrying the baby, trooped down to the
dam to watch for the freshet.
There is something dramatic about the flooding
of a western creek. The bed, except for waterholes
and potholes, has lain dry for months. From where
you stand the bed of dry sand, shingle or caked clay
snakes away out of sight through the bush, between
steep banks, like a disused track. Presently, round the
nearest bend, comes the first head of water, a frothy
trickle, pausing while the dry ground drinks it up.
moving by little leaps and rushes, stirring and floating
the dead leaves and chips that litter the creek bed,
coming on, while far behind it sounds the roar of the
following flood. It looks like a live thing, that first
dark trickle creeping around the bends.
Darkie saw it as one who is trying to manhandle
running water —alive and almost irresistible. By the
time it was backed halfway up the front of the dam,
and the flood, itself halfway up the banks of the creek,
was coming round the bend like yellow horses in a
pent track, the water was spouting out the back of the
dam, through the interstices, like streams from pres-
sure hoses.
The dam held until its top was flooded and thle
waters were running between the ballast rocks, then it
began to sink, grinding and gurgling. The flood
boiled over it for a little while, and then even t e
boiling ceased, for it had sunk so far that the sur ace
flow was glassy and undisturbed. When the sin tins
began Darkie handed the baby to his wife and wadea
in, as if he felt that by some last-minute rearrangement
of weights and stresses he could save his work,
rush of the flood against legs and arms as he stoopea
to roll a boulder into a more secure position eniign
ened him. He floundered out again.
When the floodwater was running smooth an
the wrecked and sunken dam Darkie and his


separated without a word, she and the children to
trudge back through the rain to the homestead, past
Darkie’s empty tank, Darkie to tramp off through the
sodden bush to bring in the cows for the evening
milking.
P OR his second attempt at dam-building Darkie had
* his horses for snigging the logs and sledding the
rocks. He had the advantage this time of not having
to dig the channel. He was free to haul material to
the last minute and confine his heroic efforts to man-
handling the last of it from the bank to the bed of
the creek while the rain was falling.
Darkie’s wife knew exactly what was at stake,
and again the little tableau formed on the creek
bank in the rain when the head of water came halting
and leaping around the bend. When the dam went
down a second time Darkie began to swear, voicing
his weariness and defeat in detailed and explicit pro-
fanity. There was no milking done that afternoon.
Darkie felt himself at the end of everything. Until
darkness closed in he remained by the creek, watching
the water flooding above his wrecked dam, a'stoic
taking an inverted satisfaction in observing what
Nature can sweep to ruin in one blind movement.
T' HE history of his efforts at dam-building was very
much in Darkie’s mind during what he believed to
be his last weeks on the selection. Occasionally he
wandered across to look at the wrecked dam and con-
sider it, but as. often he plodded hopelessly away. It
was no good. His effort had been based on a success-
ful experiment on another creek, back in the station
days. He had been over to see it. The difference
between success and failure apparently lay in the nature
of the earth, the one in stiff watertight clay, his in
light, sandy loam that gave no support to his work.
There was no particular reason for continuing
work, and after each visit to the dam Darkie would
stand a while, supporting himself with shovel or spud-
bar, each time more disheartened than previously,
more aware of the desperation of his position, each
time taking a little longer in his unconscious search
for a motive for continued exertion. Though it never
rose as an active thought to the surface of his mind,
he found the motive in exertion itself, the comfort
of it. Doing things, even things that would no longer
advantage him, re-established the rhythm of hope in
which he had labored in the past, and even if hope
had dwindled there was comfort in the rhythm itself.
Linked to the major consideration of not wishing
to fail in a mode of life in which he foresaw con-
tentment, Darkie had another reason for regretting
defeat. He was a townsman. He had been a casual
laborer before the war. He had married young and
had left a wife and two children behind when he went
away. Enlistment had been a relief from the nagging
anxiety of how to live. The chance to go on the land
when he came back had looked as if the gates of
paradise had opened to him.
It had been strange at first, even more for Mavis
than for him, camped under a couple of sheets of
bark, but they had taken to it, and made good, too,
if it wasn’t for that bloody tank! But that was
past fretting about now. He would have to let go.
There were now four lives looking to him as provider.
A man couldn’t go on like that without facing up to
it if things went wrong.
In Darkie, acknowledged in this extremity, was
not only dislike of thought of returning to the city,
but positive fear. He had nothing to offer but the
strength of his back in an uncertain market. He knew
all there was to know about broken time and tramping
after jobs with an anxious mind. He’d have to face
it. The thing to do was to get out while he could still
raise a few quid by the sale of odds and ends.
T HE morning after he came to this conclusion and
* decided to act upon it, Darkie wakened to feel
as if the difficulties he now envisaged had been roost-
ing all night on the footrail of the bed, in a malig-
nant row, just waiting for him to stir. He lay for a
minute, a man faced with the fact that it was time
to get up, but not sure of anything worth getting up
for, and then for another minute collecting his courage.
He had talked it over with Mavis, lying in the dark.
She and the children were to remain on the selection,
where they would be free of house rent, until he sent
for them. He had to tucker them and board himself
and find a job before the money ran out. Mavis had
faced up to it like a brick.
Quietly, so not to waken her, Darkie rose and
began dressing. It had rained during the early hours,
a heavy downpour. He had wakened to hear it. A
muffled monotone on the bark roof that should have
been a song of cheer, but which he had likened more
to the sound of rain on the sods above a living tomb.
The morning was brilliant. The third rain of a good
summer, it had fallen on a green world. There had
been no wind to shake the trees, and bough and sap-
ling were heavy with moisture, each leaf yielding a
little to the weight of a suspended drop of water.
The ground was moist and richly dark, distilling a
cool, earthy fragrance. Between the boughs and
above the treetops, framed square in door and window,
was the sky, flaunting blue like a fresh banner.
Dressed, Darkie went into the kitchen and pushed
a handful of kindling into the stove. He always lit the
stove and put the kettle on before calling Mavis and
going off for the cows. Then he found that the water
tins were empty. It was part of the slackness that had
come on him in the last day or two. He had best
slip down to the creek and fill them ; it wouldn’t
matter —now —if the cows were a few minutes late into
"Should those ventilators smoke?"
"Dunno, lady-I never worked on this ship before."
the bail. Darkie picked up the tins, and with Dusty
at his heels —wagging his tail uncertainly because
they were headed away from the night paddock —went
off down the track toward the creek.
Darkie, later in the day, his back against a tree
beside his abandoned job of fencing, was really con-
valescing from the shock of what had happened that
morning. As he neared the corner of the poddy pad-
dock, where he had left a clump of undergrowth for
shade, he noticed, between the branches, a patch of
blue, as if a lump of the sky had fallen to the earth.
It was not until he turned the corner of the poddy
paddock that he realised that the tank was full. He
stopped short, as a man might if he were to see a cow
take wings and fly. It was full, sure enough ; there
were reflections on it of the trees just beyond the
further bank. It was full from bank to bank —blandly,
inexplicably full.
Darkie was taken aback more than he would have
imagined possible. He experienced a moment of pro-
found suspicion. He looked stealthily from left to
right, seeking assurance that he was awake and that
this was real. The battered tins dangling from his
right hand convinced him of his wakefulness. He let
out a shout, directed toward the house. There must
have been a note of great urgency in it, for it brought
his wife to the door clutching her nightdress about
her, and there must have been something urgent in his
entire bearing, for without further call from him it
brought her running shoeless down the track, wincing
when she trod on a pebble, but still running.
Darkie had gone on toward the tank —shining
like a big blue jewel, square-cut, in the green heart of
the world. He wasn’t fully convinced as yet; it re-
mained at least to be investigated how the thing had
come about. He climbed theffiank of the tank and
stood for a moment looking at the sheet of water.
Satisfied at last of its reality he turned to look at the
channel leading from the dam. It was scoured clean
of loose dirt, and there were puddles along its length.
That was where the water had come from to fill
the tank, flowing busily in the dark of the early hours
while he lay asleep. The creek had flooded again.
He could hear its diminishing gurgle from where he
stood. He trotted down the bank and hurried toward
the dam.
PNARKIE, with his back to the tree, had .no thought
of rising as time slipped by ; on the contrary, he
had slumped into an even more relaxed position. His
problem in going over past events was that he had
been in part to blame for the accident by which he
had been delivered. Perhaps there was an element of
luck in all victories and all disasters. He gave it up.
He felt a benignity in the warmth of the sun, in each
twinkling leaf, each passing bird had his friendly
approval; he even \imagined he saw geniality in the
beady regard of a lizard. In the comfortable weather
of the coming winter he would add mightily to the
dam, and deepen the channel leading to the tank. A
coo-ee from over toward the homestead roused him
from his reflection. It was Mavis. She was standing
on the bank of the tank, searching the surrounding
bush for him. He got up and waved. “Aren’t you
ever coming home to your dinner?” she called.
HASTE
By LES ROBINSON.
I READ with annoyance—and so too, lam sure,
must many other industrious, sober-minded and
sensible people—a letter in the paper wrapped
round my boots when repaired the other day, and
signed with a nom de plume, as might only have been
expected, urging that haste, under the supervision of
vigilant and, presumably, ruthless officials, should be
made compulsory, not only as applied to the move-
ments en masse of mankind, but to include, even more
forcibly, the ordinary activities, morning, noon and
night, of individual members of the community. The
race, the correspondent said, was always to the swift.
He could scarcely have been a punter or he would
have noticed that the race was always to the swiftest
instead of to the merely swift, since every horse is
regarded by its owner, if by no one else, as being at
least capable of ordinary swiftness occasionally.
Why, one evening I saw a swift, which, accom-
panied by numerous flighty companions, was frit-
tering away its time, as is customary among such
brainless birds, by displaying its prowess as an aerial
acrobat, whilst travelling at about a hundred miles an
hour, collide with a wire clothesline.
“Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.”
In infancy and adolescence, whilst having a bath,
enjoying a meal, running an errand, going to or from
school, no matter what I happened to be doing or try-
ing to do, I was always being urged to “Be quick!”
“Hurry up!” “Make haste!” Even then I could
see no sense in it; I hated “hasty pudding,” too. Then
years and years of office life, jobs in warehouses, wool
and hide, softgoods, hardware stores, whether with
wholesalers or retailers, in indoor or outdoor occupa-
tions, no matter where or in what capacity I was en-
deavoring, by doing an immense amount daily, to
lessen slowly but surely the work of the world, I was
always being exhorted to “Be quick!” “Get a move
on!” “Hurry up!” and having that awful American-
ism which, in particular, I detested, “Make it snappy! ”
flung at me..
As haste only benefits doctors and undertakers,
I have never ceased to wonder myself why, except by
them, it is always being advocated and extolled, and
why the leisurely should be regarded as worthless,
aimless and tiresome persons. All that I ever got out
of the great deal of haste inflicted upon me, I should,
perhaps, hasten to mention, was indigestion.
River banks steeped in the noonday sunshine,
lakeside paths, sheltered coves, ferny glades and
sequestered havens! Would I not still, as in days of
yore, with book and pipe, like to frequent them, to
recline and bask on the sand or in the long grass,
listening to bird-song, watching the clouds drift across
the sky and their shadows traverse the countryside, or
ferrying myself, in leaky old punts, over tranquil
streams that flow past long, low, sloping and slum-
. berous farms? Yes, they beckon to me as strongly
as ever, but their beckoning now is in vain, for the
worst of haste is that, if subjected to it long and con-
tinuously enough, you become unable at last, despite
the inconvenience, to be leisurely.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
frcfd mne of la *ie mellcmicjdandlmq/uet/
LAMBETH PALACE.
London possesses few buildings claiming greater historic and national associations than Lambeth Palace. Passing down Horseferry-road,
Westminster, so familiar to Australia’s soldiery during the Great War, and crossing the new Lambeth Bridge to the south side of the Thames,
facing the Albert Embankment on the left of the abutment, rises that irregular and venerable pile which has been the official residence of
the Archbishops of Canterbury since 1167. In its present form, it presents architectural varieties, displaying “builders’ fashions” of the
periods through which it has passed. It may be said to be weighted down with memories. Lambeth Palace figures prominently in the
ecclesiastical history of England. In this sense it may be almost likened to a counterpart of the Tower. Assuredly no edifice in Britain
presents a picture of phases of the nation’s religious life and struggles more effectively than Lambeth Palace, on which account its appeal
to visitors from Greater Britain is fully understandable. Of the many apartments, the banqueting-room, with its old carved ceiling, calls
for notice, as here are portraits of all the primates of the Anglican Church from Laud to the present time. Juxon’s Hall, a noble apartment
forming part of the old palace, has been converted into a library, founded by Archbishop Bancroft, and increased at successive intervals
by other archbishops. The number of volumes of great interest (State and Ecclesiastical) now exceeds 30,000. The student desirous to view
this unique part of the palace must obtain an order from the Archbishop or the Lords of the Treasury. The Chapel, erected in the
twelfth century, contains the remains of Archbishop Parker (1504-1575), a famous scholar of Cambridge, and one time Master of Corpus
Christi College, who, having been Chaplain to Anne Boleyn and Henry VIII, was made Primate by Elizabeth on her accession. With
her he elaborated the compromise with the extreme Protestants which was formulated in the XXXIX Articles of 1562. The next remarkable
feature of the palace is the Lollards’ Tower, of which the grim exterior so well accords with its grim associations. The Lollards’
Prison is here. In a small room of “this fearsome place,” wainscoted with oak, may be seen inscribed several names and portions
of sentences in ancient characters. The walls are furnished with large iron rings, to which the Lollards and other persons confined
for heretical opinions are believed to have been “fastened.” It is pleasing to leave this “relic” of days when freedom of thought was
manacled, and enter the tastefully laid-out gardens, where two fig-trees of extraordinary size flourish, said to have been planted, by
Cardinal Pole, who played so important a part during the sixteenth century in English life and Continental politics. All must hope that
such a venerable building as Lambeth Palace will escape damage from that new form of warfare the science of aviation has brought into being.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3159.
August 28, 1940.
INTRODUCING A WIZARD.
"After much wandering and pondering, ex-Premier Stevens announced his candidature for Lang (N.S.W.).”
"Get this in your gizzard: the lad is a wizard, the wonderful wizard”
"That was!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.Q.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
FIFTH COLUMN FACTS.
If the wiseacre tribe of journalists, radio babblers,
politicians, former army officers who become news-
paper authorities and professors who become ditto
without the qualification of any service could all go
and actually flog a suitably durable joss, instead of
doing it by the proxy of pen and larynx, it would
save the world a lot of posthumous lamentations
which, nearly always futile, are commonly mislead-
ing as well. It is not only what they say ; what they
leave out is worse. Being natural sentimentalists, they
invariably leave out what is most painful to contem-
plate.
Ever since the German army (in which is in-
cluded the German air force) started tramping neigh-
bor nations underfoot it has been an open season for
these joss-wallopers of the pen and the microphone.
Because it is part of their professional practice—in
fact, their crust —to boost in advance on little know-
ledge and less understanding, there can be very few
of them who have not had personal reasons for
chagrin to spur their subsequent outcry. Concerning
the Poles, as Hitler’s first victims, it was stated that
they had a standing army of various millions, that
their cavalry was the best in Europe, that their coun-
try peculiarly lent itself to the employment of such
troops. In the popular fashion, their leaders’ unpro-
nounceable names became hashed household words,
and generally people were led into high expectation
that there would be a pretty stiff resistance to the Nazi
hordes.
In view of subsequent occurrences, the Poles did
pretty well. But they were overrun in a matter of
weeks, and the confederacy of joss-wallopers duly
lamented on the causes. These were mainly found on
the pedestals whereon hitherto had rested the strength
of Poland. The country which, with its marshes and
other attributes, had been a natural bastion of defence
was found to be open terrain, difficult to hold and
easy for the enemy. The cavalry was woefully out of
date, the romanticised leaders were Ruritanian
strategists (or so it was suggested), and the troops were
neither so numerous nor so well trained as had been
supposed.
Still, the Poles were not so badly done by. That
subsequent auxiliary of all honest joss-wallopers the
Fifth Column had not then been discovered, or was
only in the embryo state. It leapt up, grown to
maturity, when the faithless and bowelless enemy
turned north, swept aside the Skagerrak and Kattegat
minefield (“We have stopped that route for the dura-
tion of the war”), and went on to make nonsense of
the rosy vaporings of the whole voluble host.
Then came to the rescue of all hands the bovine
visage and performance of Major Quisling, aped, it
turned out, by an incredible legion of Norwegian
Quislets. This was the birth, or at any rate the public
baptism, of that monstrosity the Fifth Column, which,
however ungodly in itself, was a veritable godsend to
the joss-flogging procession. With such a nest of
vipers at her bosom, Norway, it was pointed out, was
naturally an easy conquest. The upshot—all the work
of Quislings and Quislets, and of nothing else but
these —is such painful history that it would be cruelty
to recapitulate it.
Thenceforward the Fifth Column was to work
overtime. What else brought about the downfall of
Holland, of Belgium and of France? As to Holland,
there had been much on the Dutch detestation of
Nazism, and more on the system of defence by flood-
ing the countryside, against which tanks and mechan-
ised troops would be useless. The Fifth Column, how-
ever, did all. Not only transplanted Germans, but
Dutchmen and Dutchwomen, too, it transpired, en-
abled the Germans to conquer. In Belgium the King
himself, though he commanded the “finest army Bel-
gium has ever had,” turned it in with hardly a blow
struck, leaving the B.E.F. open to apparent inescap-
able destruction, and himself open to Mr. Churchill’s
final verdict in the Commons: “I do not feel that any
reason now exists why we should not form our own
opinions upon this pitiful episode.” (An hon.
member: “Treachery!”) The Belgian catastrophe
stood explained.
The collapse of France, it has been declared,
“was due to four causes, all of them internal —
treachery and sabotage, deep-rooted pacifism, ignor-
ance regarding Hitler and the Nazi mentality, a com-
plete lack of organisational ability.” The Meuse
bridges were not blown up when they should have
been. The weakest section of the front, beyond the
extent of the Maginot Line, was held by the weakest
of troops under inept generalship. French military
thinking, based on the Maginot Line, was muddled and
out of date. But, over and above all, what was chiefly
responsible was the multifarious and sleepless activity
of the now infamous Fifth. Ten thousand authorities
of one degree of standing and another have
“explained” France’s collapse, and every one of them
has reserved his loudest execrations for the Fifth
Column.
In fact, concerning every country in the painful
list of the overrun they will admit any cause, search
out and present any explanation, except only one.
They will face up to anything else ; they will not face
up to the brutal fact that the German army, in all
these campaigns, has been an efficient as well as ruth-
less military machine. In Poland, in Belgium and
again in France it suffered heavy losses, but it fought
and kept on fighting. The rest is auxiliary and sub-
sidiary ; this is the real reason for its success.
Not to admit this and face it squarely is evasive
folly. That it is not admitted and faced is not inex-
plicable, though it would be a long story to trace out
in detail. It springs in the first place from the revul-
sion against war that followed 1914-18. In that revul-
sion all that could possibly be done to besmirch and
belittle the sheer heroic fighting quality that enabled
men to see 1914-18 through was most thoroughly
done. By that quality, ably directed, one of the
worst military defeats in history was eventually in-
flicted on the Germans. They escaped its implications
through the fiction of the “stab in the back” ; they
were given a helping hand by those who credited it
all to blockade and propaganda. It is a tough old
chicken that has now come home to roost.
There is a most obvious hiatus in the explanations
of the joss-wallopers. A whole library of record
testifies that Germany, within its own boundaries—
and since March, 1939, outside of them—holds
despotic rule over legions of suppressed minorities.
Logically, it has the most numerous Fifth Column on
earth. If the infamous Column were enough—if it
were a fraction as useful as is made out in explana-
tion of the German military successes —the hideous
problem Hitler sets the world could surely be soon
answered. It is, of course, not enough. All explana-
tions that leave efficiency and fighting quality out of
the reckoning represent a dangerous evasion of
realistic thinking.
In the final analysis it is the German military
machine and, yes, the Italian military machine that
must be faced and matched and mastered.
War and the Poets.
A peculiarity of this war is that it has brought forth
no war poets. In the first year of the last war, Kip-
ling, Hardy, Housman, Brooke, Binyon and Julian
Grenfell wrote verses which have found a secure
place in the anthologies, and our own Lawson and
Dennis spiritedly discharged the traditional office of
the bard (incidentally, Lawson’s “England Yet” verses,
which originally appeared in The Bulletin, were
recently republished in the London “Times”); but the
first 12 months of the present war have not yielded a
remembered line, much less a quoted stanza. Perhaps
the spectacle of England at bay will inspire a poem
worthy of the majestic theme. Unfortunately, there
is nothing in the performances of contemporary Eng-
lish verse-writers to suggest that this is likely. Great
as are the mechanical achievements of this age, it is
not a poetic age. If it had had a few great poets and
great humorists it mightn’t have had'the war.
Yet a feeling for poetry is by no means dead,
although those who might be expected to cultivate it,
if only as a means of raising the standard of public
taste, fail in this duty. A.8.C., for instance; it over-
does the inferior art of music, particularly the baser
American forms, and sinfully neglects poetry. It
seems never to have dawned on A.B.C. that English
poetry is one of the glories of the race, and that read-
ings of noble poems and prose-poems, given with the
right modulation and emphasis—no “sissy” voices!
would have a greater cultural value and afford more
real satisfaction than many of the musical composi-
tions on which it rings the changes so often, and
which, even in the case of gramophone records, are
often preceded by sickening cant. A.B.C. has a poet
on its staff, but it employs him to review Hollywood
films. Oddly enough, its most popular commentator
quotes extensively from the poets, and this may be
the secret of his popularity, for his own expositions
and comments never rise above the ordinary. His
public obviously likes the quotations ; possibly it thinks
he wrote them himself.
Contemporary poets having failed them, people
are turning to the great ones of old. The sonnets
Wordsworth wrote when the French were careering
through Europe and threatening to invade England
are having a wonderful vogue. Tennyson is also
being read again, and Browning ; and people who per-
haps never read any of Shakspeare’s historical plays
from the first line to the last are taking comfort and
hope from passages, widely reproduced, in which the
greatest man of our race, attributing the sentiments to
legendary patriots such as Henry V and “old” John of
Gaunt (he died at 59), expressed his own passionate
love for and faith in “this blessed plot, this earth, this
realm, this England.”
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
This fortress built by Nature for herself
Against infection and the hand of war,
This happy breed of men, this little world,
This precious stone, set in the silver sea,
Which serves it in the office of a wall
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
England, bound in with the triumphant sea,
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
Of watery Neptune.
“Against infection” —words charged with a new mean-
ing, for those of us who live in seagirt lands, now that
another European conqueror has set up conditions
which are certain to breed infection among his mil-
lions of victims and his own people as well.
Very obviously Shakspeare had no use for “Con-
tinental commitments,” and he seems to have had
strong views about the necessity for a Royal Marriage
Act, such as came in with the Georges. There are
strangely modern touches in the “Third Part of King
Henry the Sixth,” Act IV:
King Edward:
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey
Should not become my wife and England’s Queen.
Speak freely what you think.
What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased,
By such invention as I can devise?
Montague:
Yet to have joined with France in such alliance
Would more have strengthened this our common-
wealth
’Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
Hastings:
Why, knows not Montague that of itself
England is safe, if true within itself?
Montague:
But the safer when ’tis backed with France.
Hastings:
’Tis better using France than trusting France:
Let us be backed with God and with the seas
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
And with their helps only defend ourselves;
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
The Bard returns to this idea again and again. And,
mindful of the blood spilt and the desolation wrought
in the Wars of the Roses, he had a hatred of civil war.
“Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,” is the
prayer of Bedford in the “First Part of King Henry the
Sixth,” just before a Messenger brings “sad tidings out
of France, of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture: Paris,
Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.” Two of the
characters in the “Third Part” are “a son that has
killed his father” and “a father that has killed his
son.” The son speaks:
Who’s this? O God! it is my father’s face,
Whom in this conflict I unwares have killed.
O heavy times, begetting such events!
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did!
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
The father speaks:
But let me see: is this our foeman’s face?
Ah, no, no, no; it is mine only son!
O pity, God, this miserable age!
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly,
Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
This deadly Quarrel, daily doth beget!
What Shakspeare would have thought of Eng-
lish Communists and their civil-war propaganda may
be judged from his treatment of Jack Cade. Most
exquisite of humorists, he, of course, saw the humor-
ous side of Cade and his programme:
There shall be in England seven halfpenny loaves
sold for a penny; the three-hooped pot shall have ten
hoops, and I will make it felony to drink small beer.
All the realm shall be in common. There shall be no
money; all shall eat and drink on my score; and I will
apparel them all in one livery, , that they may agree like
brothers and worship me their lord.
But he saw also the criminal side, and put into Cades
mouth words such as might have been uttered in 18 1
by ruffians of the French Commune:
Go and set London bridge on fire; and, if you
can, burn down the Tower too Now go some and
pull down the Savoy; others to the inns of court; down
with them all.
To the Kentishman who slew him, and to the
dramatist himself, Cade was “that monstrous traitor
And, beyond doubt, the wonderful Warwickshire
peasant, could he start up from his grave in the o
Stratford church, would thoroughly approve of the
Australian and Canadian measures outlawing Com
munism as a foul foreign conspiracy, and marve
the tenderness with which Communists are treate 1
his own England —apparently in the hope that son 1 -
one, somehow and at some time will bring off a
sian alliance.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The September Election.
The fifteenth Parliament of the Commonwealth has
completed its job, and members and their opponents
will have four weeks for campaigning. Long enough
these times, and perhaps long enough at any time,
especially as radio is now available for election
addresses. In the past the physical strain of so much
travelling and speaking and the mental strain of close
contests which have taken weeks to determine told
heavily on persons unused to such experiences. There
have been cases in which elected men died before they
could take their seats.
The strenuous nature of these demands on candi-
dates and the isolation of Canberra have had some-
thing to do with the decline in the quality of repre-
sentation, all too evident these last few years, and with
the unbusinesslike way in which much of the business
of the country is done, especially when recess is in
sight. Pre-selection, the wirepuller’s weapon and the
yes-man’s shield, has also, of course, contributed. In
N. S. Wales it has time and again resulted in the
electors having to choose between candidates of poor
quality. All the same pre-selection has been challenged
and overcome by men of ability and force of charac-
ter, from Mr. Latham to Mr. Spender; and some-
times it has served as a convenient excuse for a man
who has been approached to stand and doesn’t want to
be bothered.
Arch pre-selectionists in N. S. Wales were Mr.
Stevens, the Sydney U.A.P. bosses and the papers that
supported them. All have suddenly discovered that
pre-selection is an evil thing and that the “open go”
possesses beauties which were concealed from them
for so many years. Set free by the “open go” a band
of geniuses will spring to the rescue of the country,
Mr. Stevens in the van, and “party hacks” —products
of the system which Mr. Stevens and the bosses and
the papers championed for so many years—will gallop
into obscurity. This sickening cant and humbug should
deceive no one.
In ordinary circumstances the election would be a
good thing for the Labor party. Beginning with Wake-
field (S.A.), Labor has won every by-election in the
last two years, its captures including the seats of the
late Prime Minister and his Treasurer, now at Wash-
ington. But since Corio (Vic.) was gained N. S. Wales
has given Mr. Curtin another headache. As a rule
success in that State is necessary to a leader who hopes
to become Prime Minister ; and, like Caesar’s Gaul,
the Labor party in N. S. Wales is divided into three
parts, each of which has broken off relations with the
others. There is no such division in the other States,
but even there people will be influenced by the situation
in N. S. Wales, and will ask themselves whether the
return of a Labor Government would not mean
another Donnybrook, worse than the one which
shattered the Scullin Government and party.
It is freely conceded that Mr. Curtin showed con-
siderable courage in refusing to allow the “Hands Off
Russia” boys to run the N.S.W. organisation. Much
will depend on the policy he is preparing and on his
plan for dealing with faction —naturally such a plan
will be expected of him. If he comes out for a War
Cabinet on the Maoriland model his prospects will
improve.
The Saga of Stevens.
“In response to an urgent telegram from the Prime
Minister (Mr. Menzies), Mr. Stevens, former N. S.
Wales Premier, left for Melbourne last night. This
was stated at a meeting of Croydon U.A.P. Electoral
Conference. In a letter to the conference, Mr. Stevens
apologised for his absence, and said he had been
‘requested to go to Melbourne.’ ” (Sydney “Tele-
graph,” August 16.) “Mr. Menzies may offer to co-opt
Mr. Stevens for the Cabinet as a private individual, or
Mr. Stevens may be Offered a Victorian seat.” (Syd-
ney “Sun,” same date.)
“There was some speculation amongst Ministers
and members of Parliament when it was reported that
Mr. Stevens had come to Melbourne at the Prime
Minister’s request. Later Mr. Menzies said that he had
not summoned Mr. Stevens. The interview had been
sought by Mr. Stevens.” (Sydney “Telegraph,”
August 17.) “The interview was the result of a tele-
phone invitation from Mr. Menzies asking me to see
him at Canberra. That arrangement was changed to
Melbourne by the Prime Minister’s secretary.” (Mr.
Stevens to “S. M. Herald,” August 19.) “Senator
McLeay, leader of the Government in the Senate, in
reply to a question by Senator Ashley, said he did not
know whether Mr. Stevens had attended a conference
in Melbourne to discuss the appointment of additional
members to Cabinet from outside Parliament, but he
could state definitely that the Prime Minister did not
invite Mr. Stevens to attend.” (Melbourne “Argus,”
August 21.)
“I effnnot accept the view expressed in some
quarters that I should appoint non-Parliamentary
people to Canberra or that I should in some way
endeavor to constrain or dictate the choice of the
electors. Democracy is among the things that we
are fighting for, and democracy postulates a free popu-
lar choice with a Cabinet responsible to and composed
of members of Parliament chosen by the people.” (The
P.M. reported in—and snubbing—“S. M. Herald ”
August 22.)
No saga of the sort is complete without something
in the cap-and-bells line, and it was reserved for Mr.
Gander, M.H.R., to introduce it in a final and most
successful attempt to bring down the House. “Did the
Prime Minister invite Mr. Stevens to interview him in
£ an berra or Melbourne,” asked the member for
R-d,“°r is it the case that nobody invited him and
nobody was game to throw him out, like the Irishman
at the Jew’s wedding?” The P.M. replied that it was “a
purely private conversation,” and the “Sun” —pre-
viously the wildest Stevens booster of them all —men-
tioned that he could scarcely speak for laughing.
North American Alliance.
The President of the U.S.A. and the Prime Minister of
Canada met at Ogdensburg, New York, last week, “to
discuss mutual defence problems in relation to the
safety of Canada and the United States.” Afterwards
it was given out that “a permanent joint Defence
Board, consisting of four or five representatives of
each country, mostly drawn from the services,” would
be “established immediately” and “begin immediate
studies relating to sea, land and air problems con-
nected with the defence of the northern half of the
western hemisphere.” Appointments have since been
made (one of the U.S. representatives is Fiorello la
Guardia, the Mayor of New York, a Great War
veteran who served in Italy as an American airman),
and the board has had its first meeting.
All this is very important, especially as the
Canadian Minister of Naval Affairs applies the term
“military alliance” to the arrangement arrived at.
Japanese newspapers see in it “a further step by the
United States towards participation in the European
war.” The “Hochi” declares that it will be “the fore-
runner of a similar pact between the U.S.A. and Aus-
tralia.” There has been no confirmation from Washing-
ton or Canberra, but the cautious Mr. McEwen has
ventured to remark that the thing has “very interesting
implications for Australia and New Zealand.” If
approaches are made, they will require profound study
by both Governments in order that a common policy
may be decided upon, and, as far as Australia is con-
cerned, the Leader of the Opposition, whoever he may
be at the end of next month, should be admitted to the
discussions —in Maoriland, the Leader of the Opposi-
tion is already a member of the War Cabinet.
According to Mr. Churchill, the initial move came
from Mr. Roosevelt, who “made it clear that he would
like to discuss with us, and with Canada and New-
foundland, the development of American naval and
air facilities in Newfoundland and the West Indies.”
Mr. Roosevelt had already been informed spon-
taneously that “suitable sites in British transatlantic
possessions” would be placed at the Republic’s dis-
posal on 99-year leases ; and “even before the war
amicable arrangements were made about certain small
islands in the Pacific which had become important as
air-fuelling ports.”
Undoubtedly this process means that the British
Empire and the United States will have to be somewhat
mixed up together in some of their affairs for mutual
and general advantage... .1 do not view the process with
misgiving. I could, pot stop it if I wished. Nobody
could stop it. Like the Mississippi, it just keeps rolling
along. Let it roll. Let it roll on in full flood, inex-
orable, irresistible, benignant, to better lands and better
days.
The reference to “certain small islands” prompted
the Japanese “Nichi Nichi” to suggest, on the authority
of a Rome correspondent, that the Bismarck, Gilbert,
Solomon and Phoenix islands were to be ceded to the
U.S.A., which is incredible.
In another passage the Prime Minister mentioned
the endeavors of his Government to get 50 destroyers
from the United States Navy—“we hope the Ameri-
cans will send reinforcements.” This can scarcely
have been palatable to Mr. Roosevelt in the difficult
and'delicate task he is undertaking, with an election
so close at hand and increasingly formidable opposi-
tion looming up. Isolationists in both parties at once
began shouting that the whole thing was a plan to get
the United States into the war. Eloquent as Mr.
Churchill can be, and inspiring when he addresses his
own countrymen on the defence of their country,
when he refers to neutrals he has an unfortunate habit
of saying too much.
R.A.F. v. the Jitters.
An unexpected result of the repulse of the massed
air assaults on England was the revelation that Gov-
ernment officials in Washington had, apparently, been
fully prepared for a British defeat. This was asserted
in a dispatch by Alsop and Kintner. If true, it shows
a deplorable lack of knowledge of the British spirit,
for it is certain that nowhere in the British Common-
wealth was the thought of collapse entertained.
The R.A.F. victory did more than wake up the
Americans to what the British have always regarded
as a fundamental and significant fact likely to shock
the Germans when they encountered it, viz., that
hitherto the enemy had not come up against a power-
ful and united nation grimly determined to preserve
itself at any cost.
It seems to have put heart into a lot of other
people. Egypt dropped hesitation for determination,
advising Italy that any attempt at invasion would mean
war; there was something like a howl of joy in
Turkey ; more Frenchmen in various parts declared
themselves in with the British and the Spanish Gov-
ernor of Algeciras visited Gibraltar and toasted the
British King. The whole world, neutral and otherwise,
has indeed found something in the stout effort of the
R.A.F. to make it do some hard thinking and some
sudden revision of opinion.
As for the Washington “experts,” the British re-
action to their jitters is probably the best laugh of
the war.
Wool for Japan.
“Ghanam”: Before the 1936 difficulty, Japan was
taking nearly 800,000 bales of Australian wool every
season. War and restriction of export have altered
her position, but she can still take 250,000 to 300,000
bales. So far, the British Government has refused
to supply; and now the British Government has
bought the entire South African clip—at 10fd. sterling.
This may mean that the Japanese will have to
buy crossbreds from South America. Crossbred
wool is a prime war-time necessity to Britain ; so
much so that preference in appraisement is being given
to crossbred and comeback consignments in Australian
sales.
In Europe, there will be a struggle for wool this
year, and blockaded countries will make every effort
possible to get supplies, manufactured or otherwise,
through the blockade from S. America.
Britain could well buy S. American wool, to resell
at a profit if need be, and let it flow only through
her own channels. At the same time Japan should be
allowed to purchase whatever Australian wool is
necessary for her local needs under guarantee that
none of the supplies will be allowed to reach enemy
countries.
If a bargain were made with the S. American
countries for a term of years, Britain would virtually
control the whole effective wool of the world and
could enforce any agreement with Japan or any other
country. At the same time, release of Australian
wool to Japan would be a friendly gesture, which
would be especially timely at present in view of the
appointment of the Chief Justice as Minister to Tokyo.
Wanted—A Wailing Wall.
Australians are very tired of being told by news-
papers or by persons on whom newspapers lavish
space that they tire unkind to refugees from Central
Europe. How they are unkind is never explicitly
stated, but it would seem that Australian business and
Australian Governments (or “semi-Government institu-
tions”) are expected to find jobs for refugees at high
salaries.
The latest champion avers that in their former
countries “many of the refugees conducted industries
that have yet to be established here,” and that, “given
a chance, these people could establish such industries.”
Well, what is meant by a “chance”? Here is a
country wide open and waiting for anybody with the
initiative to exploit it. Australians are establishing
industries in it week by week, plenty of them men
with only a fraction of the mental ability and other
assets credited to the refugee.
So far, there are no reports of refugees carrying
their swags in the back country. These people stick
to the city as sticketh the burr to the blanket. And
many who have come under notice are bearing up well
under the strain, though they are compelled to live in
such poverty-stricken spots as Bondi and Bellevue Hill.
N. S. Wales alone has near 40,000 of its own
people unemployed. The press doesn’t seem to worry
overmuch about them. In fact, it never mentions
them unless some politician or other quotes the figures
to show how much his party is (doing.
What Sydney needs is a Wailing Wall. It could
be built somewhere close to King’s Cross and marked
down as reserved for the editors of flapper papers
and others likely to become victims of this sympathy
epidemic. Let them go there and do their wailing
about the refugees.
Hargrave.
From Richard T. Baker, F.L.S., sometime curator of
the N.S.W. Technological Museum:
My personal and official connection with Mr. Hargrave,
as curator of the Technological Museum, is the only and most
unhappy incident of my scientific career of 60 years in Aus-
tralia.
Mr. Hargrave and I were friends for many years, and
I had his models of monoplanes exhibited in the largest show-
case in the Museum, which proves there was no “dismissing
him as a crank” (B. 14 /8 / ’4O). As for his box-kite
models, he came to me and said he wanted to present them
to the Museum. I replied that I would like him to do it
through the Minister, Sir Gregory Wade; and he took my
advice. Later he told me his offer had been accepted by the
Minister, who laid it down in his minute that the models were
to be exhibited in the Technological Museum. This letter —
at my suggestion, preserved in a public institution —emphati-
cally refutes the charge that the Government turned Mr.
Hargrave’s offer down.
Soon after receiving the letter from the department, Mr.
Hargrave' came to see me and we talked over the making of
the showcases for the box-kite models. He visited me several
times, and finally we drew up plans and I started my staff on
the making of the cases. After an interval of three or four
weeks, a boxmaker called and stated, among other things, that
he had “just finished making the boxes for Mr. Hargrave’s
models,” and that they had been “dispatched to Germany.”
My great surprise, shock and indignation I will not describe.
“Who was the medium for the transaction?” I asked this
gentleman. “Two German officers,” he replied. My next
question was, “How was he paid?” “In English gold,”
he said.
Mr. Hargrave never came to see me again. I was told
that he specified that his models were to be exhibited in show-
cases and that the Germans promised that it would be
done. This is how they kept their word—the models are
skyed to the ceiling of the Munich Museum!
Mr. Hargrave did not invent the monoplane models.
That distinction belongs to his father, Judge Hargrave. This
statement is not made on my ipse dixit; I can give the name
and address of a gentleman, still living, who was invited to
see the Judge’s designs and who saw Lawrence making the
models from them. This gentleman, in my presence, accused
the son of taking credit for his father’s originality, and he
didn’t deny it.
As for the box-kite, he got the idea from the Chinese,
who had them ages ago. The revolving three-cylinders were
exhibited in Paris long before Mr. Hargrave applied them to
his models.
Further, Mr. Hargrave was not the first man in Australia
interested in aviation: that honor belongs to William Bland
(Australian Encyclopcedia, Vol. I, pp. 113, 170). Mr. Bland
designed an “automatic ship,” and .a model was shown at the
Crystal Palace in 1852. He was sanguine enough to prognosti-
cate the “reduction of the passage between England and Aus-
tralia to four or five days,” and we have lived to see this come
nearly true. Bland* in my opinion, is the man who deserves
a monument as the Father of Aviation in Australia.
In short, Australia— i.e., the people—played the game
with Mr. L. Hargrave. Did he reciprocate?
It wasn’t suggested in the article that Mr. Baker
was among “the curators of museums” who “dis-
missed” Hargrave “as a crank.” On the contrary, it
was specifically stated that some of the models are in
the Technological Museum. Nor was any “charge”
made against “the Government” or any Government.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Honest, mate, I didn’t know it Was loaded."
“Blue P.”: A bunch of American jour-
nalists, brought this way on the inaugural
flight of the Pan-American Clipper to
Maoriland, spent four or five days
in Australia and are now expected to tell
their compatriots all about us. They
were led by a small man with a passion
for wearing suits, shirts, ties, handker-
chiefs and possibly socks all of a marvel-
lous check pattern —he is head serang
of one of those fearfully energetic Ameri-
can chain-store newspaper organisations.
In their strange and rather childish lan-
guage the visitors talked over the air,
saying nothing that was not polite and
diplomatic, and the local dailies seized
on their every word and played it up
under strong headlines. Each gentleman
received at least ten times the space given
to Prof. Russo, who spoke much more
interestingly than any of them ; but of
course Russo doesn’t talk through his
nose and wear check ensembles.
“D.E.”: Next to Mr. Howard, the
leader of the party, who arrived at an
Australian “sheep-camp” cased in “a
blue suit, light fawn sombrero, spotted
bow-tie and spats,” the pressman with the
piost pronounced American accent was
Mr. Jack Walsh, publisher of the Kala-
mazoo “Gazette,” and Mr. Jack Walsh’s
colloquial style as reported in the “Argus”
is pure Kalamazoo. “After a moment of
silence, broken only by the puff of a
cigar and a soft but very definite ‘Yes,
sir, 1 Mr. Jack Walsh let himself go.”
And that fella Casey. He’s aces. Yes,
little Brother Casey is tops all right. The
boys in Washington think that he’s one
of the grandest little guys that ever walked.
Yet this bird from Kalamazoo came out
of an Australian nest. He is a native of
South Yarra, didn’t leave Melbourne
until he was 17, and has been back
twice. The “Argus” swears that he is
“Australian underneath,” and I have no
doubt, he is; but why is it that the wan-
dering Australian unlearns his vernacular
English only in America? Is he expected
to talk like a true-born Yankee there or
is it something in the American air?
* * * *
“Hamer”: Most regretted of Sydney
street cries (B. 14/8/’4O) is “WiP honey.”
The delectable stuff, though to my taste
it had a woody flavor, was preferred
by many to the product of the imported
bees. “Old Wil’ Honey” (who sold his
stuff at 4d. per pound) used to gather it
from bees’ nests in trees on Bellevue Hill
and at Randwick and Kensington. As
extinct is “Ripe five-corners”—the bush
,»*«* made a wonderful jelly
Used to be collected plentifully in tne
same areas. How many people in Syd-
ney today remember what a five-corner
. ' J n
lasies ukc .
* * * *
“Old Dunedinite”: “Shibli’s” reference
(B-. 31/?/”40) to Geoffrey De Montalk’s
claim to be King of Poland reminds that
I learned the little French I know from
the grandfather of the claimant at
D unec Jin High School about 1874.
Montalk had fought under Gari-
anc j was proud of the fact that the
rec j-shirt chief had once kissed him on
botb c h e eks.
*'* * «
“Biff Barnacle”: A Sydney suggestion
£ born c £ an impending water famine) to
US£ v^ater to j a y d US £ j n t fi e streets
; , It was / ried in the . eighties .
Th was d £rom Woolloo .
, Bay J a P depot in Centra i.
squarei wh 4 ce carts ed with large
wooden barrels drew their supplies. The
. ~ . , . ~ . . „ .
blocks , ab ?. ut thls s P ot soon be ‘
came green and s ippery with sea moss;
de P°s lts ° f le£t .«” street became
m ' xed with dust and penetra ed every-
»here’> S oods displayed outside shops
became damp and sticky ; metals rusted
and th,: httle boys known as dog-
*alll?Pe.re - ? m P lo r ed . t 0 kee P ° ff
hundreds of wandering curs that then
infested Sydney, could do nothing to
protect tin kettles and bolts of red flannel
from the effects of artificial sea breezes,
In spots where the city was still residen-
tial, aspidistra-fanciers and housewives
careful of their window curtains joined
in the protests, and the scheme continued
loudly unpopular until further conser-
vation of fresh water rendered it obsolete.
* * * *
“Ali Muhn Ney”: It is the Divorce
Division of the High Court of Justice,
London. On the Bench Mr. Justice
Bucknill, in the court sundry men and
women seeking divorces. Suddenly sirens
begin to wail. His Honor removes his
wig, replaces it with a tin hat, looks to
his A.R.P. warden’s armband and says
“Clear the court!” He then descends
and, as a warden, shepherds all parties
to the nearest raid shelter. There peti-
tioners, respondents, co-respondents, soli-
citors, witnesses and others huddle to-
gether. A wife sits beside the “other
woman,” a husband discusses the war
with the “other man,” solicitors sit be-
tween the contenders. Discussion of the
cases is strictly barred. Comes the all-
clear, the warden leads the way back
to court, doffs his tin hat, resumes his
wig and gets on with the hearings. And
Hitler thinks he can beat the English!
* * * *
“Dr. Cobber”: Cause of the common
cold is houses. During five years spent
in hawking drapery outback, I never had
a snuffle, though sometimes wet to the
skin for days and nights on end ; but
when I spent a week in town for re-
stocking and slept in a hotel instead of
under the wagon, the handkerchief be-
came a painful necessity. My mate, a
youngster of 60, flatly refused to bunk
in a civilised bed even in the coldest
weather, and camped with the outfit in
a paddock where he could breathe air
that wasn’t second-hand. He never had
a cold. Best prevention or cure appears
to be generous doses of sun and wind
and rain, to be taken before, after and
even during meals. The patient should
be well shaken, or should shake himself
up, during the treatment. After all, the
earth was expertly air-conditioned long
before the architects and sanitary engi-
neers learned their trade.
* * * *
“K.A.”: “Now, sir, a final question,”
said the newshound who had arrived at
the farm to interview Dad on the occa-
sion of his ninety-ninth birthday; “to
what do you attribute your great age?”
Dad scratched his head in modesty. “Ar,
I dunno, son,” he said slowly ; “there’s
a coupla them patent medicine chaps still
bargainin’ with me.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: After an all-day muddle
301 refugees from Hong Kong, shivering
and almost foodless, were landed at Port
Melbourne and conveyed by R.A.C.V.
members to guest-houses where the State
Housing Commission had booked accom-
modation for them. “We will not take
children at any price,” said some of the
boarding-house proprietors. “We do not
cater for your class of people,” said
another. Some 20 women and children
had to be provided for elsewhere.
Evidently the persons objected to were
Eurasians, though Government and news-
papers were silent on this aspect. The
people responsible should have known
that some Australians would have such
prejudices. Why was it not explained to
all concerned that the White Australia
policy is based on a fear of the economic
effects of low-grade Asiatic labor and not
on racial discrimination, at least as far
as intelligent opinion goes? Incidentally,
the people from Hong Kong are British
subjects.
• • . . • •
“Selma”: I travelled with a Hong
Kong woman who was going to a new
home in M.L. She confided to me that
her husband had had a preference for
Canada. “But I vetoed that,” said she
brightly. “After years in the East I felt
I must live in a place with plenty of
native labor available. Of course in New
Zealand you have the Maoris—l suppose
they make good servants and work for
very little?” I forbore to tell the lady
that Maoris could and did become
Cabinet Ministers, university professors
and bishops; that she would probably
meet a good many of the race socially;
that her daughters would find themselves
at college with girls of the more wealthy
Maori families; and that the chances
were heavily against her getting any
Maori to work for her. As her attitude
to pakehas also was slightly con-
descending I shudder to think of her
tribulations ere she settled down to the
normal round of Maoriland life.
“S.V.”: A tram conductor without a
tram was a recent spectacle in a quiet
suburban street in Melbourne. He had
got down to assist an old lady to the
footpath, and after performing this kindly
office looked round to see the vehicle
vanishing round the corner. The next
chapter of the story was provided by a
ticket inspector who got on two stops
further on. Perceiving no conductor he
pulled the strap, and the astonished driver
discovered he was minus an assistant.
They reached a depot and took on re-
inforcements, and the marooned con-
ductor turned up later dripping with
indignation.
* * * *
“Sideshow Sam”: ‘‘Ladies an’ gennul-
mun,” bellowed the turbaned spruiker
of the Greatest Acrobatic Galaxy On
Earth through his false but formidable
collision-mat beard of deepest black,
“Hon me right you ’ave the greatest
female contortionist in the ’ole world.
She is the wonder of Europe, the has-
tonishment of the Yewnited States, and
the pride of Orstrylyer, bein’ ’erself a
dinkum Orssie, thereby appealin’ to yer
patriotic feelin’s an’ ’elpin’ us all ter
stoush ’ltler. Hin the marveelious an’
treemenjous hexhibition with which she
will shortly dazzle yer hinside the tent
at a habserlutely bargain rate uv admis-
sion she will perform hanatomical
miracles. Hin the final one uv them she
will hactually sit on ’er hown face”
Into the oratorical pause which followed
this amazing announcement broke a
voice, mellowed by beer, inquiring
wearily “What for?”
* * * *
“Challis”: Sydney’s Professor Roberts,
pontificating over the air: “It was
said of the situation in the Balkans by
someone that only three people under-
stood it. ‘The first was dead, the second
was mad, and the third [the “someone”
himself] had forgotten it! ”’ This struck a
familiar chord. I looked up Groundwork
of British History, by Warner and Marten,
on the Schleswig-Holstein question and
found this: “Palmerston is reported to
have said that there were only three
people in Europe who ever understood
it: the Prince Consort, who was dead,
a Danish statesman, who was mad, and
he himself, who had forgotten it.” Oh,
Professor!
* * * *
“F.S.”: A new Melbourne art society
announced that Ivan Menzies would open
its initial exhibition. A crowd assembled.
The little comedian ascended the rostrum,
his face gleaming with Gilsullivan good
nature and merriment. He was intro-
duced by a distinguished artist. Then he
started. Art got a five seconds’ mention.
Then he told a few anecdotes about his
childhood, mentioned a few geniuses of
painting he had known in England, some
of the pictures he had bought and what
he thought about them, and gave a pat
on the head to Australian art in general.
Then he cut an incipient caper and an-
nounced that he was going to sing a ditty.
The audience stood electrified while he
warbled an American song. The crowd
clapped, while the artists assembled
began to look more and more insignifi-
cant. Then the mummer launched into
a discourse on the Oxford Group move-
ment. Having given his views on war.
religion, ethics and the importance ot
loving your neighbor, he announced that
he would sing his own parody on
Willow.” He concluded with an oration
on the necessity for Moral Rearmament,
and after posing in front of a camera for
a pressman with a group of badly-
shrunken painters huddled behind him,
he skipped around the walls and departe .
Most of the art-lovers departed with him.
ON CENSORS.
“Minister Cameron said it was true that voluntary
women censors had divulged- the contents of letters.
Minister Mcßride now says ‘No women censors are
known to have divulged the contents of letters.’ In
the meantime it was announced that the services of
20 women censors had been dispensed with.”
Can you always be trusted a secret to keep,
To guard with a silence as dark as it’s deep
Some thing you've been told, or permitted to
know,
In the firmest of faith it no further will go?
If not —and so trie cynics would have us believe
It’s a pretty stiff test for a daughter of Eve —
Whatever your pull as a glamor dispenser,
Be sure you were never cut out for a censor!
It isn’t a censor of morals I mean,
As Cato the Elder’s supposed to have been.
In a sphere such as that you might easily plan
As rigid an ethical code as a man.
But censoring letters in seasons of war
Is a job that you’ll never be qualified for
Unless you can keep a still tongue in your head
On any and every line that you’ve read.
Have you pencils to blue or a scissors to slit
Some scrap from a screed that were better
unwrit?
Such vigilance isn’t enough, you will find,
Unless you can blot it, as well, from your mind,
Nor utilise points from the work you’ve been at
To ’liven a talk or embellish a chat
With gossipy sisters, in knots or in pairs,
Discussing their own and their neighbors’ affairs,
In short, you engaging society .fays,
Have you features in common with oysters and
crays? .
Can you stay, in a twitter of feminine laughs
And chirpy conjectures, as mute as giraffes? #
Can you keep the inscrutable pose of the Sphinx
When you’re wise to far more than the bridge-
table thinks? .. , .
Y £ ou”vr? r m“^To P r e “adi ofTS as a
censor.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“V. Cluse”: Surrounded by empty
bottles and the relics of a lobster, our
suburb’s shocking example dozed bliss-
fully, most of him in the gutter, his head
pillowed on the hard concrete kerb. The
infrequent night life drifted by, the
daintier feet giving him a wide berth. He
recked nothing of the home-going picture
crowd, and less of the stray domestic
animals that appeared later and held an
eisteddfod near his left ear. Soon only
the street light and the far stars gazed
down on the sleeping figure, which, as
the silence became more pronounced,
stirred and muttered “Eh?” More
silence. A stray mong. drifted by, in-
vestigated the drunk’s boots, analysed the
air and departed. “Eh?” he muttered
again. Then he raised himself cautiously
on an elbow, peered closely at his shadow
and with a satisfied “Thank herrensh,
she’s ashleep at last,” settled down again.
* * * *
“Dungeness” : When Gabriel’s trumpet
blows at Thursday Island a truly varie-
gated company will arise from the quiet
cemetery at the back of the town. With
Archibald Watson (B. 14/8/’4O) will be
a Scottish earl —pub-yardman when he
died—-a brace of British baronets, several
counts and barons of Continental origin,
a Japanese prince whose lineage went
back two thousand years, a bishop, an
ex-Premier of Queensland, naval and
military officers of all ranks up to post-
captain and colonel, dozens of merchant
captains and officers (one of them sailed
as mate with Bully Hayes), blackbirders
and their human merchandise, pearlers,
pioneers, hard cases, men and women
who gave of their very best to their
fellow-creatures, a half-caste son of the
French ruffian who for 25 years from
1840 on brought about the killing of
scores of whites who landed unwarily on
Badu Island, and representatives of every
race in the category of mankind.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Thus has
written the younger son of this
house, recently schooling in a
Welsh port for his second mate’s
ticket: “Mother, you used to
tell us kids that ‘dinkum’ and
‘cripes’ and ‘bonzer’ weren’t
English, so I was careful not to
say them here at first. Then I
found a chap with a real Scotch
accent trying to explain to our
Welsh landlady that his name
was English and he was an en-
gineer on an Irish ship, and she
couldn’t understand him and
kept on saying ‘whateffer’ and a
lot of Welsh until I translated
for them. Then an English chap
said his name was Ireland and
he was second mate in a Scotch
boat and poor old Ma went
nearly off her block about how
she’d explain him when the in-
spector came round to ask about
nationalities of her boarders. I’d given
mine as British, but when I saw how
upset she was I forgot and said ‘Cripes,
we’ll deal with the cows if they get sticky-
beaking and give them the dinkum oil
about it.’ And then she started crying
and said why hadn’t I told her that I
came from Australia whateffer because
she’d been cooking in a canteen in
France during the last war, all amongst
Australian troops, and her sister married
one and is living in W.A., and from the
way she talked I reckon that she’d have
liked to be a Mrs. Aussie too. So I’m
set for all the best helpings at meals and
»she looks after me like a son.”
“F.S.”: A.B.C. lately announced that
it was going to give its august atten-
tion to the art of painting by instituting
a series of lectures by gallery directors,
daily-newspaper critics and others. It
preluded this outburst of wisdom by
issuing a brochure with reproductions
of a badly-selected series of pic-
tures which must have cost at least six
times as much to print as the price de-
manded. Serious artists aren’t a bit im-
pressed by the Commission’s latest deter-
mination to be cultural. They consider
“ M’lords, ladies and gents., Lance-Corporal Bluey Johnson, of
Woolloomooloo, and a young lady from Bloomsbury."
the best thing to do with art is to leave
it to speak for itself without interfer-
ence. Talking about it only serves to
cloud the issue. Melbourne National
Gallery recently announced ten-minute
lectures on art for students, and nobody
seemed to see how ridiculous it was. But
if the University announced ten-minute
lectures for students on physics, chemistry,
botany or engineering the folly of such
cavalier treatment would be obvious.
* * * *
“Yep An Lo”: I note that a candidate
proposes to use the “Confucius say”
method of propounding his wisdom on
lines recently popularised in the U.S.A.
The Chinese are a singularly tolerant race,
and usually make allowances for errors
of taste arising from ignorance of their
culture and history displayed by the outer
barbarian. Nor have they a very exalted
opinion of their politicians. But no
Chinese aspirant for political distinction
has yet stumped his country using cheap
distortions of the sayings of the Founder
of Christianity to decorate his discourse.
The sage Kung Fu Tsze stands in relation
to the Chinese nation in much the same
relation as Christ does to Western people
and he enunciated a Golden Rule, though
in the negative way characteristic of the
“He seems satisfied now; he’s gone to sleep!”
Chinese. Reverence for wise men was
the central point of Confucian teaching,
and any Chinese statesman who perverted
the sayings of the sages of other coun-
tries in order to gain votes would get
the bird from the electors.
* * * *
“L’eau”: The system under which
Sydney derives its water supply is the
sixth which has been in operation since
1788. First supply came from the Tank
Stream, which still meanders underground
at the back of the Bulletin office in
Hamilton-street. That stream, which gave
out about 1826, was succeeded by Busby’s
Bore, which brought water .through a
tunnel 12,000 ft. long from Centennial
Park to Hyde Park. That tunnel took
10 years to construct with convict labor,
and the flow from that bore still fills
ponds in the Botanic Gardens. In 1858
a series of dams was built in the Botany
swamps. The water was conveyed to
reservoirs at Crown-street and at Pad-
dington. Then came the Prospect Reser-
voir, which was supposed to have a total
capacity of 11,029,180,000 gallons, but
even that did not suffice to keep pace
with the growth of the city and the
recurrence of drought. Now the catch-
ment area, which stretches over umpteen
square miles (as against 178 acres feed-
ing the Tank Stream), is failing the city,
and unless rains fall soon and in tor-
rential floods Sydney may be forced to
distil sea-water.
* * * *
“Wester”: Enterprise is not dead in
the back country. The pub at Ungarie
(N.S.W.) went up in flames one night,
and as there is little water in the hamlet
residents sadly watched it burn. Then
the fire looked like spreading to an ad-
joining shop. Out came the local cop,
who spotted a water-tank on a stand
50ft. above the building. With his re-
volver the cop punctured the lOOOgal.
tank, and the resultant sprinkle of water
saved the shop.
* * * #
“Nakhoda”: So Mr. Bruxner, the
N.S.W. Minister for Road Transport,
attributes the increase in road deaths to
war neurosis (B. 22/8/’4O). All neurosis
arises when there is a sufficiently intense
conflict in the individual between what
he feels and what he thinks he
ought to feel. Thus a person who thinks
he ought to go to a war and doesn’t
becomes the victim of a conflict, though
it may not manifest itself in a neurosis.
As a matter of fact, authorities say that
neurotic complaints have lessened both
in England and Australia. Fewer people
are bored and more people are active
than in peace-time. So Mr. Bruxner will
have to find another reason for the acci-
dent rise in his State or go out of the
psychological business.
* * * *
“Pawang”: “O.P.’s” friend (B.
14/8/’4O) who has found the recovery of
his sight more of a detriment than an
advantage need not be discouraged. After
being totally blind from birth a girl in
England a few years ago recovered her
sight at 18. Her first reactions were the
same as those of the man at Bondi. She
could walk downstairs better in the dark
than in the daylight, in
the matter of size could
not distinguish between
a rat and an elephant and
found her sense of smell
a better guide in a
garden than eyesight.
But this was a perfectly
natural consequence of
the fact that all her life
she had been develop-
ing the other senses. She
re-educated herself so
quickly that in a few
months she was playing
tennis much more skil-
fully than normal indi-
viduals. As for the
Bondi man’s other pre-
dicament, that having
been a blind entertainer
he has now lost his live-
lihood, there was a
Digger who lost his sight
in the last war, returned
to Australia and was
used on the recruiting
platform. He developed
oratorical powers of a
high order, and after the
war made an enormous
success of lecturing in
America. Then an explosion on the stage
in a theatre restored his sight and he lost
his appeal as a lecturer, because most of
it depended, not on what he said but on
the fact that a blind man was saying it.
* * * *
“Ike Holler”: The “Beneath the blud-
geonings of Fate, my head is bloody well
unbowed,” mentioned some months ago
as the outburst of a police-court defen-
dant with a hard-luck story, seemed the
supreme gem of misquotation until an
absolutely unpoetic cove butted into a
conversation in a drinking party. His
remark was that Byron knew all about
soldiering driving a man to drink —he
knew it was Byron, because one of his
kids he had heard reciting it told him so.
The line that struck him so forcibly was:
“His heart more truly knew that sound
too well that stretched his father on the
bloody beer.”
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A Toorak lady prides
herself on doing her own shopping at
the markets. On a recent occasion she
gave a dinner at which a retired skipper
was guest of honor. When the fish course
was brought in and placed before the
hostess she smiled knowingly. “I’ll give
a prize to anybody who can name the
fish,” she remarked archly.. The old sea
dog took one glance at the comestible.
“Gummy shark, madam,” he said with
conviction.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Says the gifted Bowen
correspondent of the “N.Q. Register” in
the course of a stirring appeal for the
establishment of a local vegetable-canning
plant: “We are about as provident as
a drunken fireman with a corkless demi-
john.” That should be graven in im-
perishable brass above the entrance of
each of our six State Treasuries.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A tall old Chinaman with
a stick and a bandaged foot used to be
well known in the vicinity of Little
Bourke-street. The other day he was the
subject of an inquest. He was born in
a remote country village in China where
vehicular traffic was confined to the coolie
barrow. He came to Australia long
before the present age of petrol-driven
traffic, and started to grow vegetables at
Heidelberg. For 50 years he stayed on
his pleasant holding by the banks of the
river, and everything about it was remi-
niscent of his homeland. Changes oc-
curred on the roads adjacent, but he did
not see them, and he was content for his
partner to plod in daily behind the old
horse taking carrots and tomatoes to
market. Then the depression hit the old
chap, and he was forced off his garden.
Friends took him to the city, and sent
him round peddling oranges, cakes and
peanuts. But the trams, buses, trucks
and cars terrified him beyond endurance.
Centuries of tradition of Confucian de-
portment prevented his showing it in his
calm smiling face, but he became obsessed
with the idea that he would be run over.
Finally he went down to the Yarra and
used that waterway to join his ancestors
at the Yellow Springs.
FURPHIES.
“I’m sick of chasing furphies.”
—Federal Minister Stewart.
Most Ministers have crosses they must bear,
And little things to make them fume and fret,
And grievances to ventilate whene’er
The country stage is for elections set.
For petrol-rationing the blame some get,
Others must suffer for the price of murphies.
A darned censorious world is this, you bet —
And poor old Stewart’s tired of chasing
furphies!
Menzies has had sufficient wear-and-tear
To tax a saint or make a robot sweat;
Thorby might launch a curse upon the air
At all the animosity he’s met.
True, in the main, one sees the Cabinet
Take, like the beach, the tide whereon the
surf is
As something unavoidable —and yet
Stewart grows hot and bothered chasing fur-
phies.
In Cameron’s tones one hears the bagpipes
blare,
No baseless charge would leave him wild and
wet;
And Billy Hughes, one fancies, wouldn’t care
A tinker's curse for any epithet
Hurled at his frosty occiput, or let
His goat be got by scoffs of narks and scurfies.
But Stewart tells us, in a burst of pet-
ulance, he’s sick and tired of chasing furphies.
Some love to hunt for equine winners where
The foremost topic of discourse the turf is,
But hapless Stewart has no time to spare
For any beasts of chase excepting furphies.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


m.
3013
More and mo«teli*yp|*j^
rn&VRNA
m'mMmm -mm
every day
always tells!
20 ior 1/6
10 ior 9d
iMADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
In Melbourne last week it was difficult
not to meet gentlemen who were coming
out for Flinders or Henty. A unit in the
army marching on Flinders was Dunstan,
it having been arranged that Lind should
succeed him as Premier, and that, the
trifling formality of election past, he
should join the Government at Canberra,
preferably as leader of the Country party.
To admit of all this the almighty “central
council” hastily withdrew its ban on com-
posite Ministries. Then something
mysterious happened and Dunstan
magnanimously decided to remain
Premier. He may, if Labor swallows its
indignation—that party, which is con-
testing Flinders on its own account, was
left out of the joke.
Cameron, with mordant irony: “Mr.
Dunstan went as far as the Rubicon,
looked at it, and decided that Rome
wasn’t worth while after all.”
Earle Page suggests that the Govern-
ment to issue from the election should
be chosen by Parliament itself. Not a
bad idea. Still, the doctor had better
look out or he’ll be waking up that old
nightmare of politicians the initiative,
referendum and recall.
Stevens’s friends couldn’t have looked
up the Lang figures when they advised
him to run for the Sydney suburban elec-
torate of that name. It used to be fairly
safe for W. E. Johnston when he was
Speaker. Johnston lost it in 1928 (four
years before his death), since when only
Dein, now a Senator, has broken the run
of Labor successes; and Dein, elected
in 1931, saw fit not to stand in 1934.
That year Dan Mulcahy had a majority
of 7370, which was reduced to 2832 over
the U.A.P. man last time. Another 2435
votes went to Ernest Shoobridge Carr,
who had four terms as Labor member for
Macquarie but turned Douglas Credit
before D.C. exploded.
Asked to comment on pre-selection,
N.S.W. Premier Mair said he had an
“open mind” on it, and it was “a matter
for the U.A.P. convention.” Some of
these blunt, forthright, courageous poli-
ticians would have an open mind on
death-adders.
When the “Hands Off Russia” boys
were in control of the N.S.W. Labor
organisation (the non Non-Com. one),
some very unusual candidates, scarcely
known to the rank and file of trade-
unionists, were “endorsed” for Com-
monwealth electorates. One was an em-
ployee of a Communist newspaper. These
Worthies can now stand only at the risk
Df losing their deposits.
East Sydney—G. H. Reid’s old elec-
torate —is expected by Dr. Nott to change
its member on September 21. Dr. Nott
is the U.A.P. candidate. For nine years it
has been represented by bitter little Ward.
Ward was one of Lang’s proteges, but he
left the Lang group, and is regarded with
no favor by the Curtin party, though,
given the choice of remaining with it or
joining the “Hands Off Russia” crowd, he
is remaining with it. East Sydney had
a big industrial majority in old Jack
West’s time. In the last few years it has
become a vast flatland, and flatlanders
are not predominantly Labor; but there
is still a strong wharfie vote.
There are always rousing passages in
Churchill’s speeches, but unfortunately
there is always something needlessly pro-
vocative. Witness his reference last month
to “the brave men of Barcelona,” and his
reference last week to “the puppet Gov-
ernment at Vichy, which may at any
moment be forced to become our foe.”
Petain replied:
I do not wish to criticise England. I
cannot accuse her, as any nation must
fight for itself. I feel that France was left
alone to fight out the war too soon, but I
do not wish to express resentment.
Spoken like an old, sad, beaten man,
but not like “a Nazi puppet.”
For about 18 months “S. M. Herald”
constituted itself the champion of the
refugees from Central Europe. Before
any of them arrived it protested that
15,000 in three years was an absurdly
small number, and demanded that the
Government should admit heaps more.
War wrecking that plan, Granny had to
content herself with insisting that the
refugees should be treated like long-lost
brothers —given official jobs, part of north
Westralia, and so on. All of a sudden it
dropped the subject, and the unfortunate
“Moves to persuade Premier Dunstan to enter Federal politics as member tor Flinders
were made with dramatic suddenness. After intimating that he was willing Mr. Dunstan
discovered with dramatic suddenness that he was unwilling.”
“Cold feet, be blowed! I’ve got a cold in the head.”
strangers were left wondering. It now
looks as if the vacant place of protector
will be filled by the rival rag.
According to Stevens, “Australia wants
neither a party nor a coalition Govern-
ment but a non-party national Govern-
ment, free from political labels” but
not, of course, free from Stevens:
The people feel that the political disunity
of the country is a shameful reflection on
a British people when Britain itself is under-
going ordeal by fire.
Who gave Stevens any right to speak for
the people? And what about Canada?
That country had a Liberal Government
before the election last October, and it
has had a Liberal Government since, no
Tories or dogs admitted. And nobody
except Stevens would have the face to
say that Canada is not pulling its weight
in the war.
Suddenly ceasing to be a yes-man for
A.8.C., Thorby brought in a bill which
reduces the commission’s share of the out-
rageous license fee from 12s. to 10s.; and
that means that it will have £120,000 or
so less to roll in So far so good, but,
instead of listeners getting all the benefit,
they are to divide the two bobs with the
Post Office, which was already overpaid
at 9s. In other words, listeners will pay a
pound, whereas anything above 15s. is
extortionate.
Tasmanian Labor talks confidently of
lifting the wig of Bell, the Speaker, who
has been M.H.R. for Darwin since 1919
—Lyons was his opponent then. In 1937
it reduced his majority to 1287 in a poll
of 25,827, informal votes excluded. The
other side vows that Bell will not only
win again but that Labor will be hard put
to it to hold Bass, Denison and Wilmot,
especially Wilmot. Edwards, one of the
State members for Darwin, is coming out
against Spurr for the electorate that was
Lyons’s for 10 years. The U.A.P. is ex-
ploiting the taxpayers’ resentment at the
creation of a soft job for E. J. Ogilvie
and a Labor threat to increase State taxes
if it doesn’t get all the easy money it
demands from Canberra.
Since Moscow gobbled up Latvia,
Estonia and Lithuania, nothing has beep
heard from editors or radio professors
about the Sacred Rights of Small
Nations; but the Russian-alliance
brotherhood are still sustaining shocks.
One, administered from London, was to
the effect that the exiled Polish Govern-
ment, now under British patronage, con-
siders itself still at war with Russia. An-
other came from Moscow itself in the
form of an “Izvestia” article, the sub-
stance of which was cabled:
Russia is helping Germany to beat the
British blockade by supplying her with raw
materials, receiving in return industrial
goods and armaments. Commerce between
the two nations is now at the greatest point
since the last war. The Russo-German
treaty is a most important factor for peace,
and has marked a turning-point in the his-
tory of all Europe—and not Europe alone.
That compound of lies, shameless per-
fidy and brag appeared in Sydney “Tele-
graph,” which assured us so often that
Russia was the Hope of Our Side.
Stalin has settled Trotsky at last. A
ruffian planted in Trotsky’s Mexican re-
treat hit him on the head with an ice
pick, and the surgeons couldn’t save him.
On the murderer was found a letter to
the effect that Trotsky had tried to send
him to Russia to sabotage the second
Five Year Plan or something. Though
the exile seems to have had plenty of
money, revolution being a profitable
game for some people, Stalin must have
outbid him.
The murder of Trotsky led to the
republication of the flimflam that he was
“a military genius,” and the Old Lady
of Hunter-street added improvements:
He took over the demoralised Russian
army and built it into a first-class fighting
machine of 1,500,000 men. Historians
agree that his strategy and his tactics en-
title him to a place among the greatest
generals.
This of a professional agitator with no
military training. Much the same was
said of St. Just and other commissars
of the first French Revolution. No wars
were ever won by windbags—not even
affairs of armed mobs, like the Russian
civil war.
A.B.C.’s “Weakly” sings the praises of
its “Watchman,” who is coming out for
Flinders:
No man in Australia has ever held such
power over the nation’s mind.... During
his seven years in the Federal Parliament,
he served three as the Deputy Chairman
of Committees, one of the best posts for
a man who wants a close-up of the raw
inside of politics.
There is no such animal as a “Deputy
Chairman of Committees.” A refer-
ence to “Hansard” shows that the oracle
was merely one of the seven temporary
chairmen who are always on the House
list and are sometimes prodded into wake-
fulness to take over while the chairman
goes out for a smoke. The only legend
which lingers in Parliament about the
great man is that he once asked the
Speaker if he were out of order, and
that the Speaker (Watt) replied wearily:
“Not more than usual —not more than
usual.”
One disgraceful memory of the first
world war is not to be repeated in the
second —in Australia, anyhow. By virtue
of a bill introduced by Cameron, pension
rights have been granted to men of the
merchant navy who suffer in the war
and to dependants of those who die. It
was the last measure passed by the Aus-
tralian Parliament, so an unbrilliant
career closed worthily. On the same day
the Board of Trade announced that dur-
ing the seven months to July 31 the
merchant navy carried into Britain goods
valued at just on £700,000,000, £87,000,000
worth being safely delivered during July,
when the Germans were in occupation
of the entire Norwegian, Danish, Dutch.
Belgian and French coasts. A truly mag-
nificent achievement.
Roberts, his explanation:
Mr. Churchill’s vibrant speech to the
Commons was one of the outstanding
events of our time. He gave consciously
directed cerebration to the world-organism
at a moment when disintegrating forces
threatened on all sides.
So that’s what it was!
Dunstan was in the middle of asking
the Leg. Assembly to pass the Farmers'
Relief Bill when Everard (U.A.P.) wanted
to know the reason for the hurry, as the
Leg. Council had just given itself a fort-
night’s holiday.
Dunstan: That’s news to me. It should
not have risen with important legislation
like this awaiting it.
But when did important legislation ever
stop a State House from adjourning or
going into recess?
Queensland Opposition-leader Maher
challenged Forgan Smith to show his
Government’s mettle by giving Canberra
£1,000,000 with which to buy fighter
and bomber ’planes. “Impracticable an
unsoond,” derided Foghorn, not long
back from Canberra, where he was
promised £2,500,000 for “works.”


THE BIRD THAT CAME HOME TO ROOST.


The Richardson Ciiain Hotel
è
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal
THE REVIVAL IN SHARE PRICES.
PROGRESS OF WAR FINANCE.
August Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2\- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST?
Better returns With greatest possible
safety can be secured by becoming a
Certificate holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Your investment will yield around 5 p.c.
p.a. and is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for informative
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers o
the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85254. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
PERSONAL ITEMS
George Rich, who will preside in the
High Court in the absence of Latham,
is the doyen of the Australian Bench,
He began his judicial career on the N. S.
Wales Supreme Court in 1911, and in
1913 was promoted to the High Court.
A member of the judicial committee of
the Privy Council, he sat on it in 1936.
t- u v uu ,
t , ° ffi ? er W 1 . he John
Latham s offsider in the new job of Aus-
tralian Minister at Tokyo, and will go
££ C jT f t 0 P R aVe the Way
TnnrX fr *f nds \ hips ; ■ Bor ” £
Toorak and educated at Melbourne
rammar and Melbourne University,
ie was associate to Justice Higgins
when the 1914-18 war broke out, and
IhT U V ga ! P^ e T°, ■°JV ato
1* SerVed ? h ‘ he L u Bht ?£ rSe
Then 8 h /!, hUt S ,n f dispatches.
“ e „,SI *P lomat .' c
Northern Nio - 8 ■ 11 , ce J ,, ln
srr; sf bn rr t aus -
S’r • T nnl h m n v ,, h ?! SOn
e™“ n, i“" h" w f hen ., the Bnttsh Gov-
—' h for <he post of Conn-
™tn„ H r ,? E fi ml ? S i y “W* B ?-
ington. He was the first Australian to
occupy the position. He is a member
of a famous Victorian squatting family.
A blind man, David Hunter, secretary
of the U.A.P. branch at Croydon (N.S.W.),
has been endorsed as candidate for that
seat. Hunter lost his sight at six, but wise
parents treated him as a normal child,
and he has become as a result a remark-
ably competent young man with univer-
sity honors and an ability to play golf
amongst his achievements.
„, . , , _ al a „ ■ ,
Edwin McCarthy, secretary of the
Australian Department of Commerce,
graduated in economics at Melbourne
University. Used to be a civil servant;
became Assistant-Secretary to the Com-
EDWIN MCCARTHY.
monwealth Commerce Department in
1934. Went to England with an Aus-
tralian'delegation as economics adviser.
Used to play pennant cricket in Mel-
bourne. Now sticks to golf.
Retirement of J. Thornton Jones, g.m.
of the State Savings Bank of Victoria,
causes a reshuffle in the high places of
that financial pagoda. Norman R. Wil-
liams goes from assistant g.m. to g.m.
and N. S. White moves up from secretary
to assistant g.m. J. T. Jones joined the
bank as a junior at Sale in ’B6, went to
head office in ’BB, was confidential clerk
in 1901 and continued upward to be-
come chief inspector in 1924. Williams
began counting the small change in
Footscray branch 30 years ago, and fol-
lowed almost the same track. White
started with the London Bank of Aus-
tralia, moved into the State Bank in 1912
and thenceforth climbed steadily.
Australia, Sydney particularly, had a
large representation in the gallant hand-
ling of the H.M.S. Arab at Namsos which
has brought the V.C. to its commander,
Lieut. Richard Stannard, and D.S.Os. to
Sub.-Lieut. F. M. Osborne, who belonged
to the R.A.N. Volunteer Reserve before
he offered his services to the British
Navy, and Sub.-Lieut. E. T. Lees, who
left a wife in Sydney when the war call
came. Stannard’s association (although
he has a brother and sister-in-law living
at Bondi) was as an Orient line officer.
His passion for surf-bathing during his
Sydney stays made him well acquainted
with the beach-men, including the dare-
devils who take their surfing diving off
the rocks near the baths when the tide
is high.
The band of drivers who handled the
ribbons for Cobb and Co. was further
diminished last week when the final stage
came for Thomas Hogan, of Fitzroy. As
a boy he was in a racing stable, and later
was one of Samuel Hardy’s most dash-
ing steeplechase riders. He gave up
riding and took to driving after his mate
in a circus act was killed in a riding
exhibition. He was head driver for Cobb
for many years on the Whittlesea, Hast-
ings and Frankston routes. Hogan lost
his best friend when Constable Fitz-
patrick was shot by Ned Kelly while
trying to arrest Ned’s brother Dan.
W. B. Carr (known from boyhood as
“Doc”), who has just resigned the chair-
manship of S.A. Jockey Club, has always
had a knack of rising to the top of
things. As a mere youth on the old Adel-
aide “Register”' long ago he was made
its sporting editor when Moxon Cook
left to join Melbourne “Argus.” In the
gold-boom days Carr gave up journalism
for sharebroking, and he was eventually
chairman of Adelaide Stock Exchange.
As a committeeman of Adelaide Racing
Club, he became its chairman, but re-
signed to go on the committee of the
Jockey Club, and for the last 16 years
has been chairman of that. He will still
retain his seat on the committee. He has
married four times.
“C.Q.”: There is room for reflection
in some theatrical information received
in Melbourne from New York City. It
is reported that Marjorie Lawrence, the
Australian soprano, tops the list of
singers at the Metropolitan; Kirsten
Flagstad and Lotte Lehmann are half-
way down the list. When these singers
were in our midst few Australian critics
arranged them in that order nor did
A.B.C.
Canon Augustine Bithray Rowed, rural
deal of Melbourne and vicar of St. Silas’s,
Albert Park, who collapsed and died in
his vestry last week, was an engineer
before he became a parson. Born at
Bendigo, he got his degree of civil engi-
neering at Melbourne University, and
was one of the founders of the University
Engineering Students’ Society. He went
from building steel bridges and steel-
work for buildings into the Church in
1899, became a rural dean in 1907 and
a canon of St. Paul’s later. He was 73
at the finish.
One of the eighteen Australian holders
of the order of the Legion d’Honneur is
Lieut.-Colonel Edwin Theyer Dean, who
will command a S.A. camp at Loveday
(River Murray). Ted’s father, Brig.-Gen.
G. H. Dean is—at 80 —chairman of the
S.A. board of Colonial Mutual Life.
In 1914-18 Ted was with the 18th
Battery, A.F.A., and the Ist F.A. Brigade,
and was mentioned in dispatches four
times. Normally he squires Karinya
Station, near Angaston, a district of many
German-descended settlers. Sydney’s
Deputy Premier Col. Bruxner is one of
the other Legion of Honor (Chevalier)
holders.
R. G. Sexty (never known as anything
but “John,” why no one knows) came
out of the West last week to have a
look at Sydney. As Elder Smith’s agent
in W.A. since 1927 he’s well known to
thousands of men on the land. Born
in Herefordshire, England, of yeoman
stock, he came to Australia in 1910. His
first important job was as chief inspector
of the R.S.P.C.A. in W.A. He was the
chap who stopped the practice of dis-
locating bullocks’ tails by substituting a
small electric device as a persuader. He
joined up in the 28th Battalion of the
First A.I.F. as a sergeant, weighing
12st. 81b., got his first pip on Gallipoli,
and a captaincy after Pozieres. When he
returned in 1918 he weighed 6st. 41b.
After a spell as general secretary of the
R. G. SEXTY.
R. in W.A. he became an inspector
of the State Bank. The Elder Smith con-
cern then grabbed him. Sexty, who now
weighs 14st. 61b., toured Europe in 1938.
His son is in the Second A.1.F., and in
the 28th Battalion.
William Adolphus Chaffey, the new
M. for Tamworth, has just turned 25
and will be the youngest member of the
N. Assembly. His father entered
Parliament at 25 27 years ago, and was
also, at that time, the youngest member
of the Assembly.
Albert Ray Southwood, whose degrees
include M.D., M.S. and M.R.C.P.
(Lond.), and who has been chairman of
the Adelaide Central Board of Health
since 1931, has resigned that post to be-
come Deputy-Director of Medical Ser-
vices of the 4th Military District. He
was born at Katoomba (N. S. Wales)
46 years ago. His dad was an M.L.A. in
S. for nine years. Dr. Southwood
graduated at Adelaide University in 1916
and at once joined up as adjutant on
No. 1 hospital ship Karoola, serving
for the duration. He had a spell as house
surgeon at Broken Hill hospital before
taking up private practice in Adelaide. He
ranks as lieut.-col., and was C.O. of
DR. A. R. SOUTHWOOD.
the 3rd Field Ambulance (Militia) in
the early ’thirties. Plays tennis and golf.
New president of the Victorian Real
Estate and Stock Institution is C. H.
Beauchamp, of Beauchamp Bros., a firm
nearly 100 years old. With his late
father, C. F. Beauchamp, the new presi-
dent was a foundation member of the
old Auctioneers and Estate Agents’ Asso-
ciation, and was its president for a time.
The old body is incorporated in the
institute.
Lord Strickland, dead at 79, was suc-
cessively Governor of Tasmania, W.A.
and N. S. Wales, spending 13 years in
Australia. This phase-of his career closed
when, differing with the N. S. Wales
Premier Holman on a constitutional
matter, Strickland dismissed Holman,
then found that no alternative Ministry
was possible. He had to recall Holman,
and the Colonial Office recalled Strick-
land. \ Strickland’s activities and interests
during the major part of his life centred
in Malta, where he was born. He was
Chief Secretary for a while ; later head
of the Ministry and Minister of Justice.
He became involved in a quarrel with
Rome over Maltese affairs in 1932. The
British Government intervened and
Strickland finally went into retirement.
Like Sir George Grey, he seemed always
impelled to use his personal influence
in the domestic politics of any country
in which he held authority. Unlike Grey,
he seldom saw more than two moves
ahead .in the political game.
“El V.” recalls a crisis:
The late Gerald Strickland’s main fault was
his Mediterranean hastiness, but paradoxically
it was the only quality which was likely to
assure him a place in history. His name found
its way into the printed pages of constitutional
authorities chiefly through his barney with
Holman at the end of 1916. Holman projected
a coalition with Wade which The Bulletin
at the time characterised as “the last thing
in treachery,” one of its objects being to ex-
tend the life of the N. S. Wales Parliament.
A no-confidence motion being moved, Wade
put forward an amendment to the effect that
the time was not opportune to consider whether
the House had the confidence of Parliament or
not. Strickland chose to interpret the carrying
of this as a no-confidence vote, though the
actual no-confidence motion had been defeated
by a smashing coalition majority. He dismissed
Holman against the advice of his Ministers.
In his intentions, Strickland was right, but he
found himself in difficulty, since there was no
alternative to Holman as Premier, and was com-
pelled to recall him. Holman then worked with
a will for his recall, and it was achieved shortly
afterwards. The fiery little man, who was the
son of an R.N. captain and the daughter of
a Maltese dignitary, had previously been
Governor of Leeward Islands, Tasmania and
W.A. After the N.S.W. incident he retired
to his native Valetta and became head of the
Ministry and Minister for Justice —he was an
honors graduate of Cambridge in law —and the
Northcliffe of Malta. He sat for a few years
in the House of Commons on the side. I met
him there in 1926 still ready to explode at the
mention of Holman. In 1928 he was made a
baron of the U.K.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
Bulletin” Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
SMOKE-OH!
“We must plan for the future on a large
scale.” — B. S. B. Stevens.
Bigger and better deficits!
4* *l'
“Boil your story down.” — Literary course.
But wouldn’t this tend to leave most
young authors in a bit of a stew?
•I* *l* *l* *l*
“There is a registered greyhound named Mae
West.” — Coursing note.
No doubt she’s better on the curves
than on the straight tracks.
•i* 4* 4*
“Why return gifts when friends quarrel?”
— Women’s paper.
The rift is likely to widen when the
girl sends the ring back with a note to
say she’s fed up buying brass polish to
keep it clean.
+ 4* +
“How are we to deal with people who pry
into our lives?” — Women’s paper.
You don’t deal with them ; you deal
to ’em.
4< 4* 4* 4*
The Awkward Squad.
“New Talent Needed. Weakness in Cabinet.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Frankly, I believe new talent is needed
in Parliament generally. Members dis-
play a deplorable absence of stamina.
Slumping of chin on chest, a few porcine
snores and falsetto wheezes and the aver-
age member’s wideawake again asking
stupid questions.
Another weakness. Members hop up,
make a few preliminary remarks, come
to the point, call interjectors crimson
blankards, forget what they’re driving at
and sit down again. None of the “beat-
ing-about-the-bush” technique of the good
old days. Brief, crisp speeches are the
fashion now. Of course, they apply the
gag occasionally, but that’s only because
Mr. Speaker gets tired of sitting with his
tongue in his cheek.
Parties lack imagination, too. Labor
is split only three ways at present. But
don’t run away with the idea that modern
politicians are totally devoid of talent —
they’re masters at bumping up their own
salaries.
P. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The gentleman who employs flowery
speech often turns out to be a blooming
liar.
Strike a Light!
“A healthy man contains 1540 z. of phos-
phorus.” — Medical writer.
Professor Dumbust, asked by our
scientific observer to comment on this,
gave some illuminating facts:
Women who are overcharged with
phosphorus always make good matches.
The same thing in workers always pro-
duces a tendency to strike.
Many brilliant men and women owe
their success to an abundance of phos-
phorus in the body. So, too, do men and
women who become leading lights in the
community.
Wives should not nag when husbands
come home lit up. Take them to a doctor
“Just fall out for a little chat, Private Smith!"
and have their phosphorus content ascer-
tained.
Men with more than the normal allot-
ment of phosphorus should keep away
from old flames.
D. McM.
“England has produced a powder that will
quench incendiary bombs in a few seconds.”
—News item.
It would seem to be an excellent
remedy for indigestion.
4* *i* •i*
“Life is full of contradictions.” — Article.
An actor regards a little play as work.
A tender chicken has a tough time. It’s
the fast girl who’s most likely to get
caught. And a modern kid is no goat.
One advantage of having a surrealist
oil-painting on the wall is that if one
of the guests in a playful mood throws
an omelet all over it it doesn’t matter.
•S'
“Divorce reform.” — “S.M.H.” correspondent.
Often after reform there is no divorce.
How to Remain a Bachelor.
Smoke your ripest pipe at dances.
Sell your car.
Shave once a week, whether you need
it or not.
Declare your dislike for fur coats.
Tell them you are fond of children.
Paton.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“One night he brought home six quarts of
beer for himself and sarcastically presented me
with a bottle of lemonade.”
—Wife in divorce suit.
He had a soft spot for her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Well-known movie actor was formerly em-
ployed in a steam laundry.”— Film guff.
Well, most of her films are washouts.
Foot Notes.
Two little feet
At which I kneel
And fain would kiss
From toe to heel.
Two smaller feet.
In wild unrest,
Prancing about
Upon my chest.
Another pair,
And more and more,
Till round we. dance
A solid score.
My fruitful vine
Has many shoots;
They nearly ruin
Me in boots.
C.L.
Three of a Kind.
“Can you name three animals used as beasts
of burden that will do the work of a horse,
but on poorer food?”
— “S.M.H.” children’s page.
The camel, boys and girls, is one ;
It toils away from dewy dawn
Until the setting of the sun
Without so much as sigh or yawn.
The second is the bullock. Ah!
The bullock works, although he’d
rather
Graze in verdant fields afar.
The third, my children, is your father /
P.O.M.C.
Mined!
Her sweet “You’re mine!” —from sweet-
ness free —
Still has its hold :
She’s always having digs at me,
And takes my gold.
H. M.
Oh, the size of the sighs a fond lover
sighs
When some flirt casts him off for a
better
Can never size up with the size of the
sighs
Of the luckless galoot who may get
her.
C.L.
Gentle Reminder.
You’ll soon forget me; Time will quickly
bring
Surcease to your bruised heart (you told
me, dear).
But i’ll remember you for half a year
At least, my pet, with bitterness sincere—
/ still owe six instalments on your ring !
P.O.M.C.
A Ratty Business.
“A correspondent describes the rats, of which
a plague is overrunning the district between
Bedourie and Boulia, as being as big as cats.
They are cannibalistic.” —“ Courier-Mail.”
Nobody can tell me anything abou<
Western Queensland rats.
It was in ’B2, I think, that my Uncle
Dorcas, who owned a sheep farm at
Beesknees Bend, on the Barcoo, bet his
neighbor his property, Dagpickers’
Retreat, to a case of whisky that he could
polish off every bottle on his sideboard
while his neighbor was getting through
a gallon of the local rum. Uncle won
but didn’t collect, for, unfortunately, he
forgot that he’d carelessly left a sample
bottle of sheep-dip on the sideboard
among the grog. That’s how Barcoo rot
got its name, for Uncle’s stomach, the
doctor said, had been completely spoiled.
Dagpickers’ Retreat was left solely to me.
1 remember throwing up my job in
Melbourne —I was a journeyman cellu-
loid-welder in a dolls’ hospital—and mak-
ing the long journey north to take over
the place. Euphemia, my wife, was rather
anxious lest Uncle’s butler be insuffi-
ciently trained, and she also expressed
dubiety as to whether I could stand up
to the heavy work that looking after
sheep would entail. But my work at the
hospital had endowed me with muscles
of iron.
Uncle Dorcas must have slipped a lot
since the days when he lived in the old
family seat at Stoke Pogis, for no butler
was there to meet us. Instead there was
only an unliveried footman. Discussing
the position with him, he informed me
the run carried one sheep to ten acres.
To me that was ridiculous. Such loneli-
ness must encourage discontent. I deter-
mined to reverse it. With ten sheep to
the acre they would be much better com-
pany for one another.
This footman was somewhat queer. A
rather bibulous fellow, he wore moleskin
pants and a bowler hat while in the
house, and carried a sawn-off shotgun.
When I asked him why he went about
armed when there didn’t appear to be
any hostile blacks about, he said:
“It’s the rodents, sir—they’re becoming
quite a nuisance about the place.”
“Order them off the property at once
then,” I said sharply. “We had enough
trouble with our neighbors in the suburb
we just left, and I don’t intend to be
pestered with them while we’re here.
They’re probably only hanging around
to sponge on me anyway.”
The footman, I thought, regarded me
in a peculiar way.
“It’s the rats, I mean, sir. They’re all
over the place. Just excuse me a moment,
sir. Don’t move your left arm” —and the
fellow put his shotgun up to his stomach
and fired. The charge of shot blew the
left pocket clean off my smoking-jacket,
and with it an enormous rat that had
been eating a potato I kept in the pocket
for my rheumatism.
I’ll never forget the first night I spent
at Dagpickers’ Retreat. Euphemia and
I had retired to bed. I had, on the advice
of the footman, donned a heavy-duty
canvas nightshirt in place of my usual
tussore one. I hadn’t been asleep long
when I was awakened by a terrific
feminine shriek, and then I felt Euphemia
leap out of bed. The next thing I didn’t
know was that she had grabbed the poker
that she always keeps beside the bed in
case of burglars and had brought it
down hard on my head. Her shrieks
brought the footman and under-footman
rushing in, and they unceremoniously
grabbed me and hurled me through the
window, which happened to be closed.
It was not until I had dazedly picked
myself up and started to talk incoher-
ently that my true identity was estab-
lished.
It appeared that Euphemia, partly
awake, had sleepily put her hand across
my face. Instead of encountering the
accustomed and luxurious Dundreary
whiskers which had been my especial
pride, she had felt a face that was
almost clean shaven. Naturally she had
assumed that a stranger was in the bed.
She had not known that the ravenous
rats had chewed my whiskers down to a
mangy-looking stubble. Fortunately for
her own raven locks, she had yielded to
the footman’s advice and gone to bed in
his bowler hat.
From then on I was troubled in-
creasingly by the rats. One morning, with
the coachman’s assistance, I was flea-
ing a flock of crossbred wethers which
1 hoped to fatten sufficiently to sell at
a good profit to a near-by stud farm.
They were heavy in wool, and I was
opening the fleece carefully while he
sprinkled insect powder into it when
across the paddock came swarming
countless huge rats. I whistled for my
faithful Newfoundland, but he had
bolted for safety indoors. Within less
than a minute every sheep was in the
nude, and it was lucky I was wearing
my basil leather underpants that day or
I’d have been the same. As it was the
last of my hair went. By that night they
had eaten the barn down to the joists.
Then came the final blow. One morn-
ing the footman, wearing his last re-
maining garment, a pair of galvanised-
iron shorts, brought in a basin of rum
to wash in; he explained there was no
water available.
“But,” I protested, “surely the well
can’t have gone dry. I was told there
were thousands of gallons left in it.”
“So there is, probably, sir ; but we can’t
get it out.”
“Why not?” I asked, rather testily.
“The rats ate the windmill down to
the ground last night, sir,” he answered
brokenly.
I felt then that life in Western Queens-
land would not be to my eventual liking,
so I left Dagpickers’ Retreat to the rats
and went back to my old profession.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“E.S.”:- Old Dick and “Tiger” are
often drunk and dirty, and always
and broke. They have another thing in
common—an unquenchable affection for
their respective dogs. Dick swears his
hound is as father and mother to him
and that he wouldn’t part with him for
five hundred quid. “Tiger,” never to be
outdone, values his at a thousand. One
day a search of pockets, crowns of hats
and tattered linings of coats failed to
produce tobacco or matches or the where-
withal to purchase any. Then Dick,
struck with a sudden thought, spat in
disgust. “Strike me! ” he said. “ ’Ere
we are with fifteen ’undred quids’ worth
of bloomin’ dawg between us eatin’ its
ruddy ’ead off an’ we can’t even raise the
price of a smoke. That’s the worst of
a man ’avin’ ’is blasted assets all tied
up!”
# * * #
“M.C.D.”: Bill and Andy breasted my
bush pub bar. Bill’s face was all band-
aged up, and Andy explained that Bill’s
horse had thrown him, stood on his face
and cut his mouth badly, and that he was
taking him to the doctor to get him
“sewed up.” He then called for drinks
and a funnel. After some trouble Bill
got the end of the funnel (a very long
one) into his mouth, turned his head on
one side, and said to his cobber “Now
you pour it in, Handy.”
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: Will Lawson’s reference to
bandicoots and wombats in “Black
Dingo” is not so far out as “Old-timer’s” .
experience leads him to believe (B.
14/8/’4O). When I was a nipper bandi-
coots were fairly numerous in s.-w.
N.S.W. and Victoria, but when the rab-
bits took possession the bandicoot soon
became hard to find. It was Major
Mitchell who first found ’coots along
the Murray and in the vicinity of the
Darling on the expedition which resulted
in the discovery of Australia Felix. I
never heard of wombats on the Lower
Murray, but at the time I have in mind
there was a stretch of wombat-infested
country on the Wakool. As the wombat
is generally confined to mountainous
country the presence of these animals
gave rise to many arguments as to how
they found their way so far from the
mountains.
* * * *
“Uramao”: An instance of a dog’s de-
votion to its mate comes from a Maori-
land State game farm. Two dogs had
been missing for several days. The re-
appearance of one in an emaciated con-
dition with a bone in its mouth attracted
the notice of a man on the farm. The
dog ran up a hill at the back of the
farm, the man following. He found that
the other dog had been caught by the
collar in a branch of a tree, and that its
pal had given it the bone. Formerly,
when the impaled dog had been on the
chain, it was the practice of its mate to
see that it did not lack bones. The story
indicates many weary hours’ vigil near
its helpless mate.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The native trout is found
in nearly all the streams of southern
Australia; when fully-grown it attains
the size of a cigar and bears a striking
resemblance to the true trout, having the
same red-spotted underside, bull snout
and needle teeth, but with the same scale-
less skin as the Murray cod and the
blackfish. In reality it is the adult fish
of the species whose fry is well known
as Maoriland whitebait. Every autumn
it goes down to the sea with the first
rise of the creeks, there to spawn and
die; the inch-long semi-transparent
“We're almost doubling our output, sister .”
youngsters make their way up the streams
in the spring. Waterfalls are no bar to
their progress; with an electric torch
at night they can be seen slithering up
wet and slimy rocks which even an
octopus would have a job to climb,
their goal the permanent pools and
springs high in the watersheds of the
hills. Here they spend the summer, and
by February are big enough to be worth
catching ; a bit of fresh raw meat on a
bent pin will land them. They are good
eating, resembling garfish in flavor; they
are interesting little cusses in a fish-pond,
but every autumn they commit suicide by
jumping out of the pond when instinct
makes them try to get down to salt water
to spawn.
* * * *
“G. Roper”: Those black cockatoos
(B. 31 / 7/’4O) detect the presence of
wood-grubs by their sense of hearing.
The wood-grub, or bardi, is so well
developed in south-west W.A. that it is
possible for even the half-deaf human
ear to detect the sound of its jaws at
work. One summer, with a view to
winter fires, I dumped a big load of
jarrah saplings at the camp door. When
these were about half-dry one could sit
on the woodheap at midnight and hear
quite plainly the gnawing of hundreds of
tiny mouths. When the wood was finally
chopped up it was riddled like a colander.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Some may plump for
mutton and damper', but for sheer mono-
tony in fodder I put my money on what is
popularly regarded as a luxury—chicken
or fowl. Once did a spell with a poultry-
farmer running about 4000 head. His
idea was to dine on the culls, thus keep-
ing the butcher at bay. Fried chicken
or hen-fruit for breakfast, elderly hen
the other two meals. We had those hens
roasted and boiled, stewed and braised,
broiled and minced —every way that an
ingenious cook could devise. And his
wife was a good cook, though he long
ago had driven her to vegetarianism.
After three months of such diet I longed
for only one thing—a good slab of corned
beef. And for years after I couldn’t
pass a smallgoods store without a
shudder.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: The launching at
Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) of the Viking,
a proper deepsea fishing-boat, has set the
old hands talking of early days. She
was built by Eric Hawken, great-grand-
son of John Hawken, who built the
timber drogher Coolangatta at the Shoal-
haven River in the 1860’s. A few years
later the Coolangatta came up to the
Tweed to pick up cedar logs, and was
anchored outside to await the tide while
her crew pulled into the river to get the
timber-raft into position for loading. A
heavy south-easter blew up suddenly, and
before they could get aboard again she
dragged her anchor and piled up on
Kirra beach near a creek-mouth. The
creek was named after the wreck, and
long afterwards the now-flourishing
Queensland border town of Coolangatta
grew up along its course.
* * * *
“Alby Truss”: The revving-up of the
flying-fish (B. 7/8/’4O) is done with the
tail. Gurnet can take off in any direc-
tion, with or against the wind, and in any
sea from smooth to choppy. The flying-
fish has been observed swimming near to
the surface, then emerging, immediately
to turn and soar away at right angles,
Consequently it is not necessary for it to
have momentum to carry it forward;
all the flying effort is produced after the
body leaves the water, the propulsion
being entirely by the lower portion of
the tail, used as an oar in sculling,
except that it is not kept in the water
but is dipped in, first on one side, then
on the other. This would explain how
gurnet can take off again from the crest
of a wave. H. G. Dorsey, of the U.S.
Coast and Geodetic Survey, records that,
when he held a live flying-fish in his
hand, it vibrated the after part of its body
at a frequency of about 20 complete-
cycles per second, the vibration being
repeated several times for intervals of
a few seconds.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow decided
to give up smoking and took to chewing
gum in the best Yankee style as a pre-
liminary form of reduction in nicotine
consumption. We got on the train at
Hopetoun (Vic.) one mornipg and found
ourselves sharing a compartment with an
elderly cove. Presently Mat nudged me,
his jaws working on the gum. The old
chap was peering hard at him. We waited
for him to speak but he didn’t, merely
shifted his gaze. I studied the landscape
flowing by. Mat nudged me again. The
old chap was leaning forward, a hand
cupped to one ear, his eyes anxiously
fixed on Mat. “What’s he gettin’ at?”
Mat wanted to know. “Don’t like your
chewin’,” I suggested. “ him!” said
Mat, and chewed harder. This was all
sotto voce. Then the train stopped at
Roseberry. The old chap spoke in the
faraway voice of the deaf. “Me deaf-
ness is gettin’ worse. Couldn’t hear a
word y’ said while the train was runnin’.
What was y’ sayin’?” Mat got the gum
on the end of his tongue, poked it out
as an explanation. “Huh, chewin’ y’
blasted cud, y’ cow,” snorted the old
cove, and sought another compartment.
* * * *
“V.T.”: When an extensive bushfire
broke out in a southern N.S.W. district
one of the big Sydney dailies ’phoned
through to the constable in one town
and asked what the probable damage
would be. He gave an estimate to the
best of his ability. Came tumbling out
thereafter a host of other questions, and
by the time he was asked the inevitable
“How did it start?” the Law was getting
fed up. “It was just started by the dry
grass stalks rubbing together,” he said,
in serious tones. That was duly pub-
lished along with the rest.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: Before his wealthy
temperance relative arrived on a visit, a
Gippsland (Vic.) farmer and his sons
scoured the place for empties and Crown
seals, and the haul was deposited in a
little-frequented gully. A desperately
sober gathering welcomed the visitor.
On the second day he set out for a ride
on what its owner, the eldest son, re-
garded as the most intelligent animal in
Victoria. The pony behaved well, although
its new rider was far from expert, until
it arrived on a straight half-mile stretch
which ended in a line of trees running
back at right angles and effectively
screening whatever lay beyond. The
visitor was not left long in ignorance,
With what amounted to an equine
flourish, the pony rounded that corner
as if it wasn’t there and stopped dead at
the door of the little shanty pub hidden
among the trees. While the rider was
still picking himself up and dusting his
jodhpurs, the barman appeared in the
doorway with a shallow can of beer in
one hand and a brimming glass pot in
the other. The can contained the pony’s
usual ration. Nowadays the pony’s owner
is strangely silent when talk in that little
pub gets around to sagacious animals,
* ,* * *
“Dungeness”: Tricks of trade? A
market-gardener near Cardwell (N.Q.)
uses a deserted scrub-turkey nest as a
hothouse wherein to bring along seeds
before planting out. Results are shown
j n a 5O p. c . improvement in strikings and
100 p.c. in rapidity of growth to planting
stage. Another near Croydon, further
west in the same parts, was troubled by
a soft fungus growing inside the 21in.
pipes supplying his spray-irrigation
system. After drying them off he put
a healthy young rat in at the lower end
attached to a fishing line and encouraged
its progress by hitting the pipeline with
a hammer. In less than 10 minutes it
reached the other end, a rope was drawn
through by the fishing line, a scraper and
wiper attached, and the pipe-line cleared
throughout its 120-odd feet of length
without having to break a single joint.
CALL TO ARMS (1940).
They crossed forbidding ranges, they forded
doubtful streams —
The old colonial legion, inspired by hopeful
dreams
Of pioneering progress; resolved to test and
tame
A land of sunlit promise, this southern land we
claim
By right of long endeavor, by right of effort,
writ
Through decades of achievement o’er all the
face of it.
And should that claim be questioned? Let
this our answer be —•
The faith and hope and courage that brought
across the sea
The parents of our people will spur a willing
host
To meet whatever danger. Yea, if from coast
to coast
A warning signal flashes, and war drums wake
the land,
As stood her sons in Flanders again her sons
will stand.
For long the southern singer his lonely lyre
has strung
In tribute to a Mother, all-worthy to be sung.
Too long a voice was calling, unheeded and
apart.
The patriotic message that thrills a people’s
heart.
But now that Song is ringing from Perth to
Capricorn,
And now a Star has risen, a brave star newly
born!
Trumpets in the Southland sounding from the
Past,
“To the old tradition do my sons stand fast?”
Bugles o’er the busliland waking echoes new —
“To the cause of Freedom will my sons stand
true ?”
Marching feet have answered, Rank and File
reply —-
“By the old tradition we will live—or die!”
Oh, not in vain they schooled them beside the
exile’s hearth,
That colonising legion who sought the ends of
earth;
The folk from English counties and chilly
Scottish glens,
From mystic Irish mountains and cloudy Cymric
fens,
Who left their island fortress to bear across
the sea
And in our soil transplant it —the Rose of
Liberty.
Trumpets from the Southland rising high and
clear!
Bugles o’er the bushland! Comrades, do ye
hear ?
From the conquered ranges, from the forded
creeks,
Marching feet have answered; ’tis the Anzac
speaks!. ..
Now her Star has risen, now the Song apart
Flashes like’a falchion from a Nation’s heart.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Old-timer”: Away back in the early
days of the Victorian Mallee Tommy
Merton and Sid the Skunk, who had
taken up adjoining blocks, were good
mates until the Hatches settled on a
near-by block. Emmy Hatch was passing
fair, and Tom and Sid set sail after her,
with the result that a first-class feud
developed, all the local lads for miles
around taking sides. Most of the fight-
ing was done in the township or at dis-
trict sales, dances, shows, etc., and though
there were no fatalities there was plenty
of blood. In the end Tom prevailed
with the girl and the banns were pub-
lished. Sid the Skunk and his cohorts
were at the church on the great day,
but a tip from the mounted trooper re-
sulted in the marriage going off peace-
fully. The happy pair appeared at the
church door and a dear old cocky’s wife
raised her voice, “Oh, the dear. A real
blushing bride!” Then the strident voice
of Sid the S. cut in, “No flamin’ wonder.
If I wus married to a lousy cow like
she’s got, I’d be blushin’, too!” Where-
upon the ’groom temporarily deserted his
new wife to begin the feud all over again.
*s* *s*
“Wooramel”: Northern W.A. must
have been a wonderful region in the times
when its rivers ran all the year round.
Though a semi-desert nowadays, moderate
rain will transform it into an Eden. Grass,
flowers, verdant trees, birds and ground
game in profusion; even fish in the
rivers. These fish, many small varieties,
and a larger species of bream, bridge the
Make up your mind, kid. First you Wanted an Italian submarine, and
now it's a German cruiser."
"Who d' you think they take after, Joe ?”
ever-lengthening dry periods by refuging
in the few deep pools that several of the
rivers still retain. Overlanding north
from Geraldton, we came to the Lyons
River, mostly dry, but with one long
pool, and there found a couple of other
overlanders fishing. Their tackle had
been made on the job. Noticing the big
fish jumping, they had contrived hooks
from the handle of a billy. Tools, a pair
of pliers and a pocket file. But the lines
were the masterpiece. From the local
wattle they had stripped bark, finding
beneath a flaxlike thread with a staple
of well over 6ft. Spun on the thigh,
blackfellow fashion, this soon gave a line
of 50ft. or 60ft., practically unbreakable.
Bait, the big white bardies found plenti-
fully under the bark of fallen timber. The
unsophisticated bream, never fished be-
fore, were like politicians at Parliament
House buffet. And they were tasty after
a surfeit of ’roo and damper. The two
fishermen reckoned they were staying on
as long as their flour, tea and sugar held
out.
* * * *
“Granova”: Watching birds gathered
to feed where oats are daily bagged from
a silo, I saw an example of an effective
defensive alliance against a superior
enemy. When a group of black jays was
attacked by magpies which swooped down
to snap viciously at their heads, the jays
clustered together, each bird concealing
his head under another bird’s body.
Apparently the backs of the jays were
an effective shield, for they stood firm
until the magpies gave up the attack.
**c He
“D.Mc.”: “In my young days,” said
Joe Staggers reflectively, “the wool boats
traded from the Murray as far up the
Darlin’ River as they could get. One
mornin’ the skipper of the Susan found
old Jimmy, the cook, stretched out in his
bunk stiff as a crutch. The skipper had
heard Jimmy say a few times when he
was molo that he’d like to be buried
with ’is people on the Murray. As the
return trip would take a couple of weeks
an’ embalmin’ was out of the question
in them days, the old man bought up all
the rum about the place, shoved old
Jimmy into a barrel and filled it with
the rum. ’E reckoned that’d pickle ’im
orright. That night the Susan’s pluggin’
along with ’er flag ’alf-mast, when sud-
dinly the crew’s ’air stands up like kan-
garoo grass and their blood runs cold as
the barrel that old Jimmy was in starts
boundin’ about the deck singin’ ‘Rule
Britannia’ in a voice that could be heard
ten miles away. The crew dived into
the river; the skipper swore ’e’d stick
to the ship, but was twenty yards in front
when they scrambled up the bank and
’eaded for the nearest township. When
the sergeant of police led the mob back,
very cautious, the barrel was boundin’
higher in the air an’ the ‘Rule Britannia’
chorus started them all a-tremblin’ again.
The sergeant reckoned it was a clear
case of the supernatcheral an’ takes pot-
shots at the barrel. When ’e scored a
hit the cask split open an’ old Jimmy
started jumpin’ about the deck in a
terrible rage. ‘You dirty lot of swine!’ ’e
roared across the water. ‘Y’ve gone an’
wasted ’alf a cask of the best rum I
ever tasted!’ Not ’avin’ called a doctor
in, ’ow was the skipper to know that old
Jimmy ’ad only been in a sorta trance?”
* * * *
“Atrax”: Subsequent observation has
confirmed the abo. account which Gould
disbelieved concerning the way in which
the Australian buzzard deliberately uses
good-sized stones to break open emu
eggs for eating. The stones may be car-
ried from long distances, an easy job
for the big, powerfully-winged birds.
They are not dropped on the eggs, but,
after driving the sitting emu off by
swoopings and wing-buffeting, the buz-
zard stands on the ground and with
a stone in its claws knocks a hole
in the sides of the eggs. In its own
nesting season the emu googs are
often carried to the mate and
young, the hole in each serving as
a holding-place for the talons.
Plain-turkey eggs are another favor-
ite item on the buzzard menu, but
stones are not needed for their
thinner shells, and hence are not
taken to the job. Seen from below,
as buzzards soar high above the
far-western plains, a white patch
formed by the quills looks like a
small window through each wing.
* * *
“Padflogger”: I wonder if any-
where on this continent there sur-
vives the art of shoeing (or, rather,
Q-ing) the working bullock. I won-
der, too, how Roaney or Darkie
would fare on our hard, sand-
papery bitumen roads. Few other
than the bullocky or the drover
realise just how tender is the bovine
hoof. Wandering through the Mur-
, chison-Gascoyne areas of W.A.,
we (me and Matty) came on a beef-
conductor in the deeps of despair.
Overlandine a bis mob of beeves
he had taken a short cut against expert
advice, and had landed his herd on
hard, bony country composed mostly of
granite skulls, outcropping through plains
of chopped quartz. A few days of this
and the hooves of his kine were worn
to the quick—so bad that the trail was
spotted with blood. Many of the beasts
were down, and not even the whip would
lift them. Things looked pretty hope-
less, but the boss drover had an idea
that two days’ spell would heal the
hooves and also leave the beeves pretty
thirsty. He then intended to go ahead
with the dray and watertank, the tap to
be turned on at a liberal drip. The scent
of water, coupled with thirst, would be
sufficient, he reckoned, to get most of
the herd on to its feet and moving to
softer country and water a few miles
further on. Passing that way again a
few years later we did come across a few
heaps of bleached bones, though not so
many as might have been expected. So
probably his strategy worked pretty well.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Bert’s hectic holiday was
good while it lasted, but it left him
friendless in a big city, 200 miles from
the farm and minus the price of a train
ticket. To raise the fare he got a job
as a concrete laborer. He was willing
but inexperienced, which fact, being
noted by his fellow-toilers, resulted in his
falling in for the toughest jobs. Moreover,
the straps of the overalls he’d borrowed
bothered him so much that he slipped
his shoulders out and let the loops
dangle from his belt. Towards the end
of the day the boss, who had been watch-
ing the tigering Bert with an approving
eye, grew facetious. “What’s the idea
of the breeching straps?” he asked. Bert
put down his barrow. “If a man’s got
to work like an ’orse ’e may as well
look like one,” he grinned sweatily. The
boss took the hint. “All right,” he said,
“tomorrow you can go on ‘packing’—-
don’t want to work the willing horse to
death! ”
jjc
“Quareef”: My bushman’s curiosity,
like that of “lames W.” (B. 10/7/’4O),
has long impelled me also to try to
ferret out the reason for the horse’s fear
of the camel, and I’m convinced that it
goes back to the dark, unrecorded ages.
Watch a horse when he first sights a
camel. Look into his eyes. He throws
up his head, points his ears, distends his
nostrils and gazes at it in consternation.
His eyes take on a pregnant, faraway
look. His present surroundings vanish.
Instinct carries him back thousands of
years. Terror grips his heart. He shakes
his head trying to dispel the illusion. He
looks again. The thing remains! It is
real. He couldn’t mistake that serpent
head, that curving, snakelike neck thick-
ening towards the swollen abdomen
(hump) which rises and falls as it glides
in sinister fashion over the ground. He
sees the dreaded boa-constrictor! How
many of his ancestors had fallen victims
to the great coils that fell upon them in
thickets of undergrowth! If your mount
ever gallops madly away from a big
rock python, watch it. That horse will
halt, swing round, snort vociferously and
with uplifted head survey the phantom
from afar. That the Shetland pony
manifests no marked camel-aversion
strengthens my argument. Boas do not
inhabit the cold country from which they
come. But —here is a question: does the
haunt of the boa-constrictor smell like
the effluvium of a camel camp? Arise,
ye noble Abo. genius and tell me —tell
me truly.
STOCKRIDER WIND.
The wild white steers of the fog run free
Last nieht they broke in a mad stampede;
And now they surge in a sullen sea
Where the wet scrub sweats like a water-
weed ; .
But where is* that reckless devil-may-care.
The sun-browned stockrider Wind, and where
Is his horse, that marvel of fire and speed,
The roan centaur with mane of milk,
The satiny flanks and the tail of silk?-
The Wind lay down ’neath the dark belars
With head on saddle and fell asleep;
And a mist crept over the troubled stars
And drowned the moon in its curling deep.
Witchcraft stalked like a ghost abhorred;
And the horse in fear snapped his hobble-
chain ;
The cattle rose as with one accord
And fled the place where their warmth had
lain.
With tossing horns and with steaming sides
They galloped on till the hour grew light;
And the dawn was rank with their reeking
hides;
And the hills were lost ’neath their surging
white.
The wild white steers of the fog run free
While stockrider Wind, with many an oath,
Burning and bitter, strides wrathfully
Down through the sodden undergrowth.
His lasso is lost and his horse is gone,
And the stockwhip-bird has stolen his whip,
So baulked and savage he stumbles on
Bearing his saddle across his hip
Asa/ lubra carries her piccaninny,
The stirrups swinging like black legs skinny.
He dreams that the time of his reckoning
comes,
And with horse beneath him and whip restored
He thunders under the startled gums,
Lithe in his saddle, and once more lord
Of the wild fog-cattle that dodge and run
From the lash that whistles and curls and
cracks
Over the mist of their weary backs,
Relentlessly goading them one by one
Through the stockyard gate of the setting sun.
ŵ
NORMA L. DAVIS.


A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
QARE m selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
when the fesnonsihilitv f.' ievousl y because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
\uien tne responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, It
may be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend
The Company s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
E p ;Se"j d t „To£ “rsrg./'joiVi s r ?&. y &ISVSS& " ntl Tr ”‘'“''
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
m ™ . DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .T. Playfair. M.L.C. • E R Knox:
Tr _ . , f H - Borman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; .J. P. Abbott.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others
Administrator, etc.
The financial security the company offers comprises its own assets and uncalled capital exceedin'*-
£1,250,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 lli p.e.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932.. 199,670 5 „ ~ 100,000 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,,100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~,,100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8„ „ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.0„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1938.. 262,384 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939. . 262,910 7.1„ ~141,667 30,000 2,365,909
1940. . 264,157 7.1„ „ 141,667 35,000 2,368,705
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
The Australian trading banks, of which
the C.B.A. is one, are buttressed by a
strong central bank, and all combined
constitute a -sound financial organisation
which provides the key to our planned
and flexible war-time economy of today.
War means not only mobilisation of the
armed forces, but mobilisation of finance,
trade and industry as well. It is in the
control of credit and direction of in-
vestment that the banks play their part.
In co-operation with the central bank
they are facilitating production of essen-
tial goods and materials, as well as main-
taining a cheap-money policy, which is
a prop for values and to some extent
guides the flow of investments. A tight
hold is also being kept upon overseas
funds, especially dollars, in order to pay
for necessary imports and other things.
Compared with European countries,
Australia has thus far experienced prac-
tically nothing of the difficulties and
hardships of war. Indeed, under the in-
fluence of a good volume of primary pro-
duction, the British Government’s pur-
chase of our most important exports at
very satisfactory prices, and Federal and
State spending on war and other con-
tracts at home,, most businesses have
shown increased profits during the last
12 months, and the banking position has
been considerably strengthened. Also,
transfer of portion of the civil population
from industry into the Army has not
seriously interfered with production. We
cannot, however, expect such conditions
to continue indefinitely. What has to be
shouldered is a yet heavier burden of
taxation, .a further climb in costs, and
the possibility of a shrinkage in the
volume of our overseas trade. Though
it may be some time before the full
effects of all these things are felt, wise
businessmen are considering long-range
plans to meet the changes which seem
likely to be forced upon them.
The C.8.A., which has £4,117,350 of
capital to feed in 211,735 £lO prefs. (4
p.c., cumulative to 3 p.c.) and 4,000,000
10s. ords., gathers about 92 p.c. of its
deposits throughout the Commonwealth
and the other 8 p.c. in Maoriland. It
is strongest in Victoria, where about half
its business is done. Last term the bigger
cheques for wool, wheat, dairy produce,
metals and local contracts are reflected
by a growth of £1,878,809 in the co.’s
free and of £682,830 in its fixed deposits:
Liabilities.
1936. 1939. 1940.
Notes .. .. £14,981 £6,186 £6,154
Bills, etc. . . 1,306.628 1,510.432 1,463,054
Free deposits.. 11,583,116 13,300,046 15,178,855
Fixed deposits 14,280,550 17,697,469 18,380,299
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,370,658 12,557,459 14,093,623
Advances . . 22,211,474 25,305,740 26,274,023
Premises . . 1,178,436 1,260,684 1,281,593
The demand for assistance was not very
strong (advances were up £868,283), so
most of the extra money went into liquids
(up £1,536,164). When the books closed,
depositors and others could see 40.2 p.c.
of the money belonging to them in liquids
as against 38.6 p.c. a year earlier. Ad-
vances amounted to 78.2 p.c. of deposits,
compared with 81.6 p.c. and 82.1 p.c.
at the two preceding balances. Also, the
bank was holding £5 Bs. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. The co. is obviously in a strong
position, and therefore well equipped to
render further assistance to trade and
industry so soon as the need arises.
After making provision for contingen-
cies, including taxation, the improvement
in the year’s gross earnings (£1,118,202)
was £22,875. Of the increase, salaries
(£686,906) and rent, etc. (£167,139), took
£11,540 and £lO,OBB respectively. That
left the net result £1247 better at
£264,157, or enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 8.97 p.c. on ord. capital. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) it was a shade over 4 p.c. The
div. was kept at 7.1 p.c., and there is
nothing in sight at the moment to sug-
gest that it is likely to be disturbed. The
7.1 p.c. is, however, worth only half that
rate on most of the ord. capital, which
carried a premium of 100 p.c.
The market, which lacks buying sup-
port, prices the ords. at 13s. 6d. as against
15s. 3d. a year ago. The return at the
lower figure is 5.2 p.c. on a 7.1 p.c. div.
basis. At £8 buyers (£8 14s. 6d. a year
ago) the prefs. return 5 p.c. on the basis
of a 4 p.c. distribution. The cover is
£3O 12s. 9d. prefs., 21s. lOd. ords.
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends —,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930. . 78,057 12,000 124 p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „„ 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shrres, £4500 .. 54,754
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 . . 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154.449
Written off, £5OO .\ 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12 \ p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,11-1
Premiums on new shares, £9630 . . 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 (£54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) . . .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 12i p.e. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18J p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 . . .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 171 p.c.=188,347 61.061 454.705
1939.274,704 12,000 18§ „ „ 201.800 60,904 515,609
1940.278,047 12,000 174 ~ ~ 209,871 56,176 571,785
In every year from the beginning this
highly - successful variety chain has
finished up with a larger share-register
than at the beginning. With capital
issues for “unessential” enterprise dis-
couraged for the duration, further
physical expansion, and hence one
of the co.’s chief means of offsetting
rising costs and taxation, is limited to the
amount of surplus earnings and whatever
outside finance the board cares to avail
itself of, a policy pursued but sparingly
in the past. Hence, in part, recent share-
market reappraisement of the possibilities
of chain-store scrip.
The Business, which is Australia-wide,
was founded on a top-line limit of 2s. 6d.
That left many goods outside the ambit
of the co.’s trading, so to help liven
turnover and maintain profit-margins the
price-range has been extended. With the
16 stores opened in ’39 pulling their
weight, and assistance from four
more opened last year, it is reflected in
profits for 1939-40 £3343 higher, despite
allowance of £50,000 more (making
£120,000) for war-time taxation, the
extra £6909 provided for depreciation
(£86,356, or 4.7 p.c. on the book value
of all fixed assets), an unchanged contri-
bution of £5OOO to the staff fund and
unrecurring losses of £1052.
The £278,047 of profit shown —it in-
cludes £20,841 added to the freehold
depreciation reserve (now £149,917)
was 22.1 p.c. on ord. capital at work
after meeting the £12,000 pref. charge,
as against 24.4 p.c. in ’39 and 21.4 p.c.
in the term before that, when the second
of the only two gift-scatterings was in-
dulged in. Money being immediately
needed, the div. was cut from 18f p.c. to
17| p.c., leaving £56,176 to lay by.
Issue of 215,250 new ords. during the
year meant that the \l\ p.c. called for
£BO7l more than the higher rate in 1939.
Directors’ fees and salaries aggregated
£15,450.
Growth was apparent right up to the
close of accounts:
Capital— 1931. 1936. 1939'. 1940.
Old. . . £480,000 £800,775 £1,094.528 £1,291,515
Pref. . . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft 62,730
Creditors 37,146* 106,650* 116,565* 130,966*
Employees’
funds 23,, 635 37,585 40,722
Freeholds 331,817* 572,181* 888,506* 950,198*
Leaseholds 61.214 174,919 252,917 310,009
Fittings, etc. 94,087 251.251 378,405 406,192
Stocks . . 224,345 484,645 532,514 668,957
Debtors.. 1,448 3,603 10,875 13,966
Cash, etc. 40,489 8,467 69,208 95,780
* Not including balance of unpaid purchase monev
on freeholds: 1931-34, £130,000; 1936, £144,130 ;
1939, £197,000 ; 1940, £182,000.
Of the new stores mentioned, three were
in Victoria and one jn Westralia. Apart
from these, much of the net growth of
£131,571 in fixed assets was occasioned
by rebuilding in Melbourne and in
Rundle-street, Adelaide, where a freehold
was bought for £50,000 a year or two
back and where the co. expects to move
in towards November. The £136,443
added to stocks was largely to guard
against price increases and delivery
difficulties. The board has been able
to replace affected imports from new
sources of supply, largely local. The
new capital is further reflected in the
improvement of £163,568 in the more
or less liquid surplus—£42s,ols before
taking into account a substantial tax re-
serve of £130,962.
There are now 84 links in the chain,
the geographic distribution being Vic-
toria 41, N.S.W. 29, S.A., Tasmania and
W.A. four apiece and Queensland two.
The next table indicates the vigor-
ous manner in which the management
has lately tucked up its shirtsleeves:
Public Bonus Issue
Issues. Scrip. Price. Stores.!
Oct., 1927 . . £36,440 20/- 8
Jan., 1928 .. 75,0ff0* ,20/- 11
July, 1928 .. 51,135 25/-
May, 1929 .. 75,000* 22/- 14
April, 1930 .. 79,600 20/- 17
May, 1932 . . 49',000 20/- 25
June, 1933 . . 118,100 20/ 28
July, 1935 . . £72,360 34
Nov., 1936 . . 163,070 40/- 47
July, 1937 . . 97,840 57
July, 1939 . . 215,250 20/- 80
* Pref. f At June 30 each year.
Of the £1,205,295 added to the share-
register since 1927, £862,595 represents
Cash applications by shareholders and
£134,000, which has carried up to 200
p.e. premiums, subscriptions by the staff.
The balance comprises £38,500 exchanged
for a Sydney freehold and £170,200 of
bonus scrip. In that period the div.
has ranged from 10 p.c. to 18| p.c., and
the difference between issue price of new
share offers and market prices at the
time has constituted some nice pickings.
In the current term the pref. div. and
p.c. to the ords. will call for
£40,032 less than was put on view last
year. Moreover, the new capital re-
cently introduced will get more of a
chance to show what it can do, and the
depression experience was that hard times
tend to bring many inside the stores who
ordinarily pass by. Handling mostly
everyday lines, too, turnover is not likely
to be greatly affected by the savings
campaign, and opportunities for further
expansion, though lessened, still exist.
At 60s. 3d., returning 5.8 p.c., the
pound ords. look a satisfactory invest-
ment, both for the short and the long run.
The 8 p.c. prefs. at 30s. yield 5.2 p.c. The
backing is 28s. lOd. ords., £l3 Bs. 3d.
prefs.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
, Dividends N Towards De-
Sept., Loss. Pref. Old. Reserves, ficit.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil Nil 51,936
June,
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 37-J p.c. Nil 4,660 1,135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7J „ H p.c. 8,522 8,277 11,816
1935.. 23,046 10 ~12.1 „ 18,129 4,917 16,733
1936.. 40,823 10 „15 „ 29,334 11,489-28,222
Added goodwill, £2OOO .. 26,222
1937.. 79,076 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 55,128 23,948 50.170
1938. . 101,604 10 „ 15 „ 71,342 30,262 50,432
Loss sale property, £5782 .. .. 74,650
Added goodwill, £lOO .. .. 74,550
1939.. 103,890 10 p.e. 15 p.c. 71,425 32,471107,021
1940.. 86,202 10 „ 15 „ 71,425 14,777121,798
*Nine months.
A year ago the “Wild Cat” pointed out
that for these cash-order cos. the tide
had been favorable ever since it turned
in 1932. Steady growth in the volume
of employment and lifts in the basic-wage
rate created ideal conditions for vendors
of short-term credit by giving rise to a
hunger for the things we hadn’t got and
a willingness to borrow to buy them, and
at the same time reducing the risk in
respect of bad debts. But, with employ-
ment at or about the full, costs becoming
vexatious and still mounting, and the Gey:
eminent asking fox more from a
income reduced by falling export priced
appearances were that the earnings of
cash-order cos. had reached their peak.
Meanwhile, war has created a new set
of conditions, under which the national
income has benefited—temporarily, at any
rate —by British purchase of our chief
export surpluses and by Government
spending for defence and other purposes.
Employment remains at a high levgi,
despite the transfer of personnel frorii
trade and industry into the Army, most of
which is still in Australia, and therefor.?
continues to spend here. During the I'2
months covered by the co.’s latest
accounts, the most unfavorable factors
were a coal strike, which affected turnover
beyond the areas concerned, steady in-
crease in costs and the steep upward
climb of taxation. After providing f<ir
unearned income and the cost of collec-
tion of debts, gross earnings (£293,492)
were down £8793. Including a provision
of £42,200 for taxation (amount not
stated in previous term), exes. (£207,290)
were up £B9Ol, which suggests that a
tight hold was kept upon controllable
outgoings. The net result (£86,202) was
thus £17,694 lighter; still, it was enough
to pay the prefs. their full contract rate
(10 p.c.) and show 18.9 p.c. on the
£376,177 of ord. capital, compared with
23.6, 23 and 22.3 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. The div. was kept at 15
p.c.
Durng the year the co. extended the
furnishing section of the business to Vic.,
where Amalgamated Retailers Pty., Ltd.,
was registered for the purpose, and two
branches were opened at Melbourne. In
N. S. Wales, where the co. has five furni-
ture showrooms, sales in this section of
the business increased by 25 p.c. On the
cash-order side there are 22 branches in
N.S.W., five in Queensland and a like
number in Victoria. Victorian expansion
is reflected in a growth of £11,526 in the
property item (mainly leasehold, £9336)
and of £24,720 in stocks;
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £176,874 £526,177 £526,177 £526,177
Liabilities* . . 52,248 287,750 187,839 203,827
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 102,617 2,950 14,470
Equipment .. 8,151 18,718 19,246 18,255
Investments . . 24.743 99.993 99,993 108,291
Stock.: ... 3,142 12,068 24,287 49,007
Book debts . . 216,540 669,662 680,803 666,030
Cash, etc. .. 1,504 5,405 7,864 9',84S
* Including tax provision.
Debtors’ balances, the most conspicuous
item in the sheet, were down £14,778.
The growth of £15,988 in liabilities ap-
pears to be on account of larger provision
for taxation. The more or less liquid
surplus (£521,058, excluding sharehold-
ings) was £4057 less than at the previous
balance.
Uncertain as to what the future holds
for this class of business, the market
prices the pound prefs. at 235. (245. a year
ago) and the 12s. ords. at 14s. 6d. (16s. a
year ago), at which figures the return on
the basis of last year’s distribution is
8.7 p.c. and 12.4 p.c. respectively. The
net tangible cover, largely book debts,
is 86s. 4d. prefs. and 15s. lOd. ords.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, senes.
1930.. 17,964 18 p.c. = 13,500 4,464 75.693
Share premiums, £15,000 ~ .. 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.e. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 „ „ 10,800 88,145
1933.. 11,760 12 „ „ 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ „ 10,800 4,151 93,256
1935.. 11,973 12 „ „ 10,800 1,173 94,429
Staff fund, £844 . . .. • • 93,585
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,660
Staff fund, £1339 . . •. )
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10.800 1- 1,255 96,915
Written off premises, £2531 J
Staff fund, £1499 .. .. ]
1938.. 15,984 12 p.c. = 10,800 1- 1,185 98,100
Written off premises, £2500 J
Staff fund, £1625 .. . ■ I
1939.. 15,344 12 p.c. = 10,800 j- 919 99.019
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Profit sale investments, £5Ol . . 99,520
Staff fund, £1692 . . ■ • 1
1940.. 13,907 11 p.c. = 9,900 J- 313 99,83 a
Written off premises, £2OOO J
For many years this and other trustee
cos. had to fight hard to overcome
prejudice. Gradually, however, the ad-
vantages of the corporate over the private
trustees are becoming more widely known
and appreciated, and of recent years a
lot of business has been driven into the
cos.’ care by taxation and other legisla-
tion which has complicated the adminis-
tration of estates. Further, apart from
the small chance these cos. take when
investing their own funds, they haven t
got to risk much. There is always the
Court to go to whenever doubt exists as


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * %
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
v * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. k G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESEKVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAI. 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
arid at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds \o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, IS Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
to the interpretation of a will. How-
ever, the cos.’ corpus and other commis-
sion charges are fixed by law, and that
makes net earnings very susceptible to
fluctuations in costs, which cannot be
passed on.
The Equity has been in the trustee
business in Victoria for over half a
century. It has £90,000 of capital to
feed in 180,000 50s. shares paid to 10s.
each; the other 40s. is callable only in
the event of liquidation, thus enhancing
the protection for clients. At the end of
June, the capital, reserves and £15,053
(down £10,036) of mortgage money—the
Co. went outside for assistance to finance
erection of its Bourke-street premises—
were represented by freehold, etc.,
£123,575, debtors’ balances £64,256,
public securities £23,000 and cash £9OB.
The assets turned in £5972, equal to a
shade under 3 p.c. on their book value,
or 6.6 p.c. on paid capital. Commissions
(£51,316) brought the gross return from
all sources to £57,288:
Gross Exes. p.c.
June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 .. 26,673 14,775 55.3
1930 .. 52,328 34,364 65.6
1932 .. 43,454 33,382 76.9
1934 .. 49,857 34,906 70.0
1935 .. 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 .. 51,527 38,652 75.4
1937 .. 54,961 39,036 71.0
1938 .. 57,415 41,431 72.1
1939 .. 57,281 41,937 73.2
1940 .. 57,288 43,381 75.7
Exes, made off with an extra £2 10s. of
each £lOO of gross earnings, owing to
the growth in taxation and other costs.
The net result was £13,907 (down £1437),
equal to 15.4 p.c. on capital as against
17.3, 18, 17.7, 14.3, 13.3, 16.6 and 13 p.c.
back to 1933. That leaves out of the
reckoning a profit of £5Ol on sale of
investments, £1692 sent to the staff
fund and £2OOO written off premises. A
point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 11 p.c., making the average over the
last decade 12.3 p.c. Over the last 30
years, divs. have averaged approximately
15 p.c., sweetened with £50,000 of gift
capital, and shareholders have put up
£30,000 in cash (one half capital and the
other half share premiums). When the
books last closed, reserves were £9835
in excess of capital.
Mindful of the fact that costs are still
rising, the market prices the shares at
225. 6d. as against 255. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 4.9 p.c. on
an 11 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 21s. Id.
in net tangibles.
Conspiracy Charge
In Sydney last Saturday David Hamp-
ton, company director, Michael Sinclair
(or Spiegel), retired company director,
George S. Holburn, company director,
Edward R. White, retired grazier, and
Percy R. Higgins, barrister, were arrested
and charged with conspiracy. The charge
was to the effect that “as well before as
after the month of May, 1934, they did
unlawfully, fraudulently and deceitfully
conspire, combine, confederate and agree
together and with William James Fuller-
ton, by means of fraudulent statements,
conducts, tricks and subtle devices; to
obtain the moneys of Mary Burt Welsh
and divers other persons.” Bail was fixed
at £lOOO in each case.
North Coast Steam, which has passed
over five of its vessels to the Govern-
ment, hasn’t found the resulting position
unbearably difficult. Despite the wreck
of two small steamers, the coal strike,
drought, etc., net profit was shown at
£42,530, after setting aside £30,499 for
depreciation (profit £40,191, depreciation
£27,433, last year), and the div. has been
increased from 9 p.c. to 9i p.c., with 10
p.c. possible for next year. A 600-
ton steel vessel has been ordered from
Mort’s Dock and a wooden ship cf the
same tonnage is being made by a Tun-
curry builder. Delivery of both is ex-
pected by this time next year. North
Coast’s capital is £443,700; it had
£353,000 in cash and bonds on balance
day. The shares sold at 38s. 6d. last
week. The yield on a 9| p.c. basis is
just under 5 p.c.; if 10 p.c. is paid for
1940-41 the return would be 5.2 p.c.
The return is a good one, and it comes
from a solid stock.
* * * *
To June 30, 1939, recorded value of
the N.T.’s mineral output was £4,350,400,
to which the principal contributors were:
Gold .. .. £2,849.542 I Copper .. ..£216,013
Tin . . .. 673,295 | Mica .. .. 134,000
Wolfram . . 430.458 j Silver lead .. 43,077
The Tennant, 320 miles north of Alice
Springs, with 12,0590 z., was responsible
for nearly all the gold yield of £115,835
in the year to that date, the combined
outputs of the Granites and Tanami fields
being only 3260 z. Most of the wolfram
won comes from Hatches and Wauchope
Creeks, south of the Tennant, which
in the same period had an outturn
worth £61,220 —only half of the pre-
ceding year, however, owing to a fall in
prices. Tin is now in a minor position,
1938-39 production being worth £4220,
most of which came from Maranboy,
where a 10-head Government gold-and-
tin battery is running. Hart’s Range,
where some of the world’s best mica is
mined, continues to see considerable
activity, but coppermining is now in
much the same category as tin, Redbank
mine, recently the subject of investiga-
tion by N.S.W. interests, being practically
the only producer. War-time demand
should lead to considerably greater ex-
ploitation of the N.T.’s varied mineral
resources, and the Geophysical Survey
people should be able to give consider-
able assistance in guiding that develop-
ment.
* * $ *
Hill 50 (W.A.) whoops about the past
year’s achievements and future prospects.
Gold extracted during the 12 months to
May 31 was worth £87,026. Profit was
£33,210, of which £2OOO was earmarked
for taxation and £3378 for depreciation.
Three sixpenny dividends absorbed
£18,750, and another was paid last
month. Working costs averaged 455. Bd.
a ton, compared with 365. for the
previous year; development (6s. 7d.)
sprang ss. sfd. a ton, and mining and
treatment (345. Bd.) 3s. 6d. Proved ore
is estimated at 182,110 tons, grade
6.sdwt. On present production that rep-
resents a life of seven years, and develop-
ment is expected to add materially to the
figure. Plant capacity is being lifted
from 2000 tons to 3000 tons a month.
About £5OOO of the £20,000 involved has
already been spent, and the bountiful
Mines Department has been asked for
the balance on loan. There has been
street-corner talk about a new share-
issue.
* * * *
A suggestion from the West is that the
medieval practice of testing vendors of
goldmines by fire to ascertain the value
of the reef should be revived. This, it is
argued, would be cheaper and quicker
than breaking and assaying ore, with the
attendant risks of “salting,” and a de-
sirable short-cut to knowledge. The West
has special claims for a tryout. One
visiting London mining engineer who re-
ported from time to time on mines
classed a number of vendors among
demned thieves and liars, and invari-
ably introduced occasional lots of worth-
less ore among his sealed bags of samples
so that any wholesale tampering by
“salters” would reveal itself on assay of
the lot.
* * * *
Diamond-drilling on the northern and
southern extensions of the ore-body
having failed to produce results, directors
of Lancefield (W.A.) are preparing the
funeral notices. Profit from the past
year’s operations, after chipping off
£12,842 for depreciation and £12,700 for
taxation, was £54,198. Floated on a
prospectus which mentioned ore reserves
of 330,000 tons, with up to a further
150,000 tons considered probable, the
co. actually produced 628,297 tons
averaging 6.56dwt., and paid divs. of
£387,500, or 7s. 9d. per 4s. share. In-
cluding stores, etc., of £18,872, surplus
liquids at June 30 amounted to £87,500
(Is. 9d. per share), to which has to be
added 5230 z. gold since recovered from
cleaning-up and proceeds of any plant
sales.
* * * *
London-controlled Ora Banda United,
which believes it has a really big mine in
the West, hopes soon to have a small
treatment plant in operation. Co. claims
to have (1) a lOOft.-wide main lode
proved for a length of 1600 ft., and (2)
727,600 tons of positive reserves of a
minimum grade of 3.Bdwt. Leaving low-
grade ore as pillars, tonnage is reduced
to half a million tons, but grade is raised
to 4.3dwt. When gold was priced around
£7 stg. an ounce, 18s. a ton profit was
spoken of on a 10,000-tons-a-month
throughput. Limited capital, however,
prevents launching-out on so big a scale
at present.
* * * *
Westralian Government has again been
successfully tapped for an encourage-
ment-of-goldmining loan, this time by
Norseman Developments and Norseman
Associated. The two cos. are getting
£3OOO each for development, with the
object of increasing production. Shafts
are to be sunk and levels driven; mean-
time, crushings at the Norseman G.M.
mill will be restricted.
* * * *
Shareholders of Mt. Jackson (W.A.), in
liquidation, were told the other day of
the possibility of developments in the
future being sufficiently encouraging to
warrant raising fresh capital for further
goldseeking. Over three years ago, after
prospects had been puffed, it was offi-
cially announced that regular profits
would be obtained. Eighteen months
later the mill was stopped because
“returns had fallen far short of esti-
mates.” The mine, on the Yilgarn field,
is at present let on tribute.
* * * *
Stating that a higher code of financial
morality is desirable, a London journal
stresses a need of Government-registered
or professional goldmining directors. It
says that men with expert financial and
mining knowledge at their fingertips, and
bringing with them the assurance that a
company’s affairs would be above sus-
picion, would be an asset. Such men,
knowing the business thoroughly, would
prevent the publication of lies and the
suppression of the truth. All very well
in theory, but in practice the “Wild Cat”
knows of too many “professional” min-
ing directors and promoters already.
* * * #
Lady Shenton has commenced opera-
tions on its new free Maranoa option
at Menzies (W.A.), and hopes for the
best. A report from the manager
stated that sampling at the 200 ft. level
showed gold values ranging from sdwt.
to lldwt. over a width of 3ft. Later
advices were that the sampling of a winze
below 200 ft. shows traces to 2.4dwt., but
the ore contains a lot of galena.
Wattle Gully, only div.-paying mine
of the Chewton rush, will be a greater
mark for the speculator when subdivision
of its shares into three, increasing the
number on issue to 180,000, goes
through. In anticipation, the old scrip
has run up to 81s., with buyers un-
satisfied. The co. possesses one of the
best mines in Victoria, the outstanding
feature of operations this last 18 months
or so being the consistent grade of mill-
ings. On 7.ldwt. recoveries, a net profit
of 475. a ton was shown for the half-
year to June 30 —£38,170 (up £2269)
altogether, of which divs. of Bs. a share
absorbed £24,000. The balance swelled
surplus liquid resources to £20,864. The
look of things at depth suggests a profit-
able future.
* * * *
Magnesite from Marlborough, about
80 miles north of Rockhampton (C.Q.),
is coming under notice because of its
high grade. It is probably one of the
purest deposits in the Commonwealth,
over 95 p.c. stuff being said to be obtain-
able in large quantities, and B.H. Prop,
and other southern interests have been
nosing about. Small consignments have
been delivered in N.S.W. from the re-
cently-opened quarry on the property.
Testing of the deposit to prove its depth
is being considered.
# * * *
The New Gympie mine, on the old
Gympie (Q.) field, reports further stoping
on No. 6 reef and that No. 5 is now
making a bigger contribution to the
battery. The latter is averaging 2ft., but
is at present low grade. It appears worth
opening up further, as a couple of plum-
bago faces have shown up in driving. The
last crushing, equal tonnages from No. 5
and No. 6, totalled 135 tons for 430 z.
smelted gold, which is an improvement
on the last return, despite the lower grade
from No. 5.
* # * *
Hawkins Hill, near Georgetown
(N.Q.), which was reopened by Cliff
Rutledge before he went to Misima,
continues operations on medium- to low-
grade ore. The co. has opened up a new
reef, the Golden Bar, 2ft. wide, with
values around Bdwt. per ton. It is con-
sidered good enough to warrant further
exploration.
* * * *
Swedenborg, which dropped its show
at Charters Towers (N.Q.) and lit
on the Mountain Maid, on the old Cape
field, 60 miles west of the Towers, is
reported to be out of luck so far. A
few quartz and light mineral leaders
have been cut, but the main reef has
not been reached in the crosscut at the
50ft. level.


m
\
fm
m
m
G v
&
©
©
IB
I?.
%
It may
cost a
little
more but I
it's WELL
worth it/
G or don’s
Gin
Miljoiulvn, {mlatul
im
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO.,
iTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
IT he lahgett gin dtitillM in the woild
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Review of the Financial Forces
Every way you turn, the European war
intrudes clamorously in financial matters.
Perhaps the fact that Australia so far
hasn’t heard the explosion of one bomb
or shell makes this intrusion more aggra-
vating by its “surprise” element. But
there it is ; the monetary, economic and
domestic welfare of the whole Australian
people is for the time being tied to Hitler’s
war-horse.
Up till recently it has been Hitler who
has set the pace. It took Britain some
time to decide whether it should follow
him in his armaments race; it wasn’t till
the onslaught on the Western Front that
the British nation turned full-tilt to war
production. There was a big war Budget
before, certainly ; but the one presented
some weeks ago eclipsed all previous
estimates of war expenditure. The legisla-
tion enabling the conscription of wealth
and man-power was also a drastic
measure, and even if it has not been
availed of drastically it remains on the
Statute Book, to be used if necessary.
War has made the Empire economic
outlook full of possibilities of waste and
loss. It holds the prospect of further
heavy borrowing, further taxation. So
long as Hitler chooses to grind out of his
people and those under his heel the
wherewithal to build war machines and
launch them at us, then so long must the
Empire be prepared to match him and
finally beat him in his race of destruc-
tion and national impoverishment. When
Churchill last week announced that Brit-
ish aircraft production was now on a
scale greater than Germany’s it brought
gratification and some relief to millions
of people, but it is a supremacy for which
we shall have to pay. Other branches of
the war services are being similarly ex-
tended and equipped, and the most we
can hope for, as Empire citizens and tax-
payers, is that the Budget figures we have
accustomed ourselves to are sufficiently
embracing to do the job that is wanted
done —of beating Hitler and his Italian
pal.
Australia figures in the picture in no
small way. It, too, has a law to enable
the conscription of wealth, and one to
enable man-power to be conscripted for
home defence. It has turned to action
stations more slowly than Britain, though,
the Federal Government being diffident
about making up what it pleases to call
its mind on many things. But it pos-
sesses the framework necessary to pro-
duce a big war effort from the people.
The fact that that
frame work exists,
ready to call further
on money and man-
power, is one of the
problems with which
the “looker-ahead” is
unable to grapple. The
investor can’t forecast
to what increased ex-
tent our material re-
sources will be drawn
upon as time goes on,
nor can the business-
man plan with confi-
dence, unless he
happens to be the
manufacturer of lines
no longer to be im-
ported, or something
of the kind.
The situation is largely inevitable, ex-
cept for the all-too-frequent evidence of
“no decision” at Canberra. “The price
of liberty is eternal vigilance,” and now
we must pay an additional price for our
lack of vigilance in the past. All we can
be certain of is that if our efforts are
well organised and our sacrifices equally
shared we shall not come out of it all too
badly. Australia in particular will grow
in industrial strength as a result -of this
war, provided always that we don’t frus-
trate our own efforts by toying with im-
practical and deceptive forms of finance.
The snares set by the plausible politician
with a good story of “easy” finance are
dangerous when the burden of any effort
is making itself felt. So far the wage-
earner hasn’t started much fuss, partly
because arbitration has looked after all
increases in the cost of living. Retailers
and some manufacturing bodies have
done most of the squealing.
Any grounds for complaint against the
pay-as-you-go method of financing a war
can exist only where the method is not
properly administered. But it is better
to have a realistic basis of finance, even
if imperfectly administered, than a falla-
cious basis just as badly administered. The
inability to discern the real cause of our
difficulties has in the past led us into bad
trouble. Mostly difficulties arise through
people not doing their job properly, or
"Sorry, folks , can't stop — We're ten minutes late already!"
too many people in one occupation and
not enough in another. A Stevens in
the Treasury could not solve problems of
that kind simply with a “vigorous spend-
ing on public works,” even if Prosperity
did happen to be around the corner-
more than likely bewildered and dis-
tressed by its efforts to live up to the
Stevens flow of financial lingo.
Some little time ago Treasurer Spender
said that £86,000,000 would have to be
found for defence during 1940-41, ex-
cluding outlay on the A.I.F. overseas.
Since then a figure of £150,000,000 has
been mentioned, this including A.I.F.
outlay. Obviously it hasn’t been possible
for Canberra so far to determine what
we need for defence and what we can do
towards meeting that need. The figures
for 1939-40 were all astray ; the Treasury
didn’t spend as much as it said it would,
though in some departmental extrava-
gances—why such a huge Department of
Information, for instance? —it did its
best. /
Now that the new Department of
Munitions team, headed by Essington
Lewis, has had time to find its feet, we
should begin to see signs of what we are
getting in return for our money. For
some time the Government has had no
choice but to talk about how much it was
spending. It couldn’t create munitions in
a moment. But soon it will have to show
results. Money-wasting forms no part of
a Government’s job, though that is what
some of our retail-trade economists advo-
cate in order to “stimulate trade.”
The Commonwealth Government,
when it has created an organisation
capable of turning out satisfactory de-
fence equipment, may then with more
certainty decide how much money it re-
quires to do the necessary amount of
war work. At that stage it will encounter
the problem of whether it can raise
all the money it wants. The answer to
this will depend on whether we have an
adequate surplus of raw materials and
labor above the materials and labor re-
quired to look after our domestic affairs,
and whether we are all agreeable to bear
our share of the sacrifices.
Some of our raw materials, such as
wool, wheat, butter, meat, metals, etc., we
produce in excess of our own require-
ments, even including war consumption ;
this surplus we aim to export and buy
other things with the proceeds. A large
proportion of our national income is de-
rived from exports; therefore a great
deal depends on whether that export in-
come will continue to be maintained, and
whether the cost of imports remains stable
or rises excessively. Actually, there are
possibilities that we shall find difficulty in
selling some of our products, and at. the
same time have to pay more for certain
imports. Also, the present season is
against us. But all these hardships will
help develop our own- resources, and we
will be assisted by a ready market for
our dairy produce in Britain now that
Germany controls Denmark and Hol-
land.
For 1939-40 our overseas trading
figures were bad. There was a favorable
commodity balance of only half a million
sterling. Our gold production added to
that would not meet external interest
commitments. But not all of our wool
clip was shipped during the year, even
though sold, so that on final figures in-
terest charges may possibly be met. Now,
however, we have a new external respon-
sibility—the A.I.F. London is financing
this for the time being.
Petrol-rationing is one of the first wide-
spread hardships to follow war’s compli-
cation of things, though in the form to
operate from Oct. 1 it will bear very
lightly. We have heard a lot about
rationing of foreign exchange, but later
on it may be necessary to curb sterling
imports also. It is possible, though, that
the rate of importing will slow down of
it own accord this year ; in 1939-40 we
had to obtain emergency stocks of many
things.
The anomaly of a substantially in-
creased turnover combined with a A2\ p.c.
fall in net profit is explained by Sargents,
the Sydney chain catering concern, as
being the result of heavier production and
distribution costs and a large increase in
taxation. The div. has been pulled back
from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c., and even then was
paid partly out of reserved profits. The
co. made substantial additions to plant
during the year.
❖
Mr. Spender said last week that, though
the Netherlands Indies were now part of
the sterling group, payment for petrol
had to be made largely in non-sterling
currency. “The reason for this is that
the requirements of the foreign com-
panies operating there are beyond our
control,” he added. Foreign companies?
In 1938 the production of oil by the
Royal Dutch Shell group from the N.E.I.
amounted to 5,407,164 metric tons out of
a total N.E.I. production of 7,398,585
tons. The Shell Transport and Trading
Co., London, of which Viscount Bearsted
is chairman, owns 40 p.c. of the capital in
Anglo-Saxon Petroleum and Bataafsche
Petroleum, the essential innards of the
Dutch-Shell combine. Royal Dutch owns
60 p.c. The directorates of the various
cos. are intermingled. It may possibly be,
of course, that all is not what it seems on
the face of it, and that dollars ar6 still
necessary to buy Shell petrol. The rami-
fications of petrol combines are bewilder-
ing, particularly those of the Shell group.
But a few simple facts stand out —British-
and Dutch-domiciled control, Dutch
wells and British and Dutch directors.
Where do the dollars come in? Through
actual ownership of wells, as distin-
guished from refineries and transport?
The Australian people have a right to
more specific information on this matter.
Even if they are not entitled to more
petrol than the present liberal scheme of
rationing for pleasure-motoring allows
them, they deserve more intelligent in-
struction on the problem than is discern-
ible in the blitherings of S’Frederick
Stewart, for instance. If petrol were
freely obtainable in return for sterling
money it is not denied here that ration-
ing might still be necessary. But Can-
berra should be able to give a reason tor
all its actions ; camouflage or ignorance
is no good.


ON EVERY RUNG OF THE LADDER
1
V,
S
L\x
v K
m
I
\
x
ALL MEN OF SELF-RESPECT USE
GILLETTE
Architect and craftsman, builder and bricklayer, are
men of precision, trained to a respect for the accurate
in all its forms. Such training gives them self-respect,
too, for they are men “who know, and know that they
know.” Small wonder, then, that you find them using
the Gillette method of shaving. Razor and blade together
form an instrument of precision that pleases them, and
to have such efficiency at so little cost satisfies both
pride and pocket.
• GILLETTE SETS 2/6 to 45/-
0 BLUE GILLETTE BLADES 5 for 1/6
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydne
The results of the aerial war over
Britain so favored the defenders that
London Stock Exchange began to feel in
better form and all classes of shares
improved. Australian ’Changes took their
cue from London, and a stronger mar-
ket followed, even though New York
appeared to be uncertain about the thing
to do. Then on Wednesday of last week
Australians read Mr. Churchill’s address
to the Commons, and further buoyancy
ensued on ’Change. New York also
took Mr. Churchill’s speech to heart. The
sharemarket is interested in generalities
just now ; along whatever lines it thinks
it soon comes up against the war prob-
lem and all its uncertainties, including
the uncertainty which clouds the
economic incidence of war on Australia
and its different classes of people. Last
week Mr. Churchill was in a mood of
optimism, therefore the markets were
optimistic ; Mr. Churchill had been in a
grim and murky mood about the time of
Dunkirk, and therefore the markets had
collapsed out of all reason. Since the
support for shares recently has varied
much in keeping with the tone of the
British Prime Minister’s utterances, it
may be well to remember that he is a
man of extreme humors, and that what
he has to say should be analysed
for its fact rather than its implica-
tions.
The Sydney index of industrial ord.
shares, which had sunk to 107.52 on June
19, had recovered to 116.95 on July 31
and had dropped to 114.7 on August 9,
ascended to 118.8 on August 22. Even
more striking were the rises in some of
the stocks in this list:
Jan. June Aug. Aug.
31. 29. 16. 23.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29.0 £24.9 £24.7 £25.5
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.6 £5.6
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 60/- 60/
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 19/6 19/9
Tooth .. .. 52/3 43/9 47/- 49/3
Metropolitan Gas ..£13.5 £12.8 £13.1 £13.2
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/
Associated News .. 16/6 10/6 11/- 11/6
Melb. “Herald” .. 57/- 43/- 47/- 47/9
Adelaide Steam ..36/- 27/6 30/6 30/9
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 50/- 50/
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/-* 26/9 28/3
A. .. .. 38/3 30/9 34/6 34/6
Bradford Cotton .. 37/6 28/- 33/- 36/
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 40/9 42/6
Burns, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 49/- 48/-
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £46.3 £47.0
David Jones .. 33/6 23/6 28/9 29/6
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 24/6 25/6
Electrolytic Zinc ..58/9 40/6 45/6 48/6
Fairymead Sugar ..37/- 31/6 33/6 34/6
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 35/6 37/6
G. J. Coles.. ..74/3 52/6 59/- 60/9
Henry Jones... .. 56/6 48/-* 51/3 51/
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/- 19/4 20/9
Kandos Cement .. 29/9 24/- 27/6 30/
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 27/9 29/6
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 24/- 25/6
Woolworths.. .. 22/9 13/4 15/6 16/6
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 32/6 35/- 36/
Yarra Falls .. .. 42/- 37/6 40/6 41/-
North B.H 47/6 30/6 34/6 36/-
B.H. South .. .. 29/9 20/3 23/6 25/-
New B.H 20/- 10/- 12/4 13/9
Mt. Lyell .. .. 32/- 22/6 25/6 27/6
* Ex issue.
Over the week to August 23 Tooth shares
lifted 2s. 3d., Associated News ords. 6d.,
Melb. “Herald” ords. 9d., Australasian
Paper ords. Is. 6d., Bradford Cotton 35.,
B.H.P. Is. 9d., Drug Houses Is., Elec-
trolytic Zinc 35., Fairymead Sugar Is.,
Felt and Textiles 25., JG. J. Coles Is. 9d.,
Howard Smith Is. 5d., Kandos Cement
2s. 6d., Meggitt Is. 9d., Winchcombe
Carson Is. 6d., Woolworths Is., North
B.H. Is. 6d., B.H. South Is. 6d. and Mt.
Lyell 2s.
* * * *
It looks as though Canberra will back
down on the excess-profits tax measure.
At least it is to be shelved until after
the elections on Sept. 21. The idea of
heavily taxing war-profiteering is just in
principle but admittedly hard to adminis-
ter with justice. The measure should not
be abandoned entirely. Though in its
original form it aimed to collect no more
than £5,000,000, the principle behind the
tax was an essential to maintenance of
economic stability ; it aimed at prevent-
ing moneymaking out of the war by some
people at the expense of others who were
suffering sacrifices. It would represent a
check on profiteering in addition to the
price-control measures now operating. In
their original form the e.-p. tax proposals
would have weighed unduly on small
companies ; in fact, the greatest defect
of the scheme was that it operated with-
out regard to pre-war profits experience,
socking cos. with big profits (in relation
to capital, however small) regardless of
whether those profits had arisen from war
causes or otherwise. For this reason the
proposal of C. A. Jaques, chairman of
Kandos Cement and some other cos., to
levy an additional Is. in the £ tax on all
company profits in place of the graduated
scale embodied in the Excess Profits Tax
Bill would be even still further removed
from the prime object of the measuie
to confiscate excessive war-time profits.
Look at the position from another
angle. The idea of war-time taxation
is not merely to raise revenue but to
raise it from those best able to provide
it. It is not unlikely that the ordinary
company rate of tax will be lifted in
any case, so that the e.-p.t. money will
still be necessary. The principle of e.-p.t.
enables funds to be obtained from
selected sources after the stage is reached
where the general rate of taxation cannot
be further increased.
* * * *
Before- provision for taxation is
allowed, the Woolworth subsidiary busi-
nesses in the Commonwealth and Maori-
land show more profit than the parent.
The organisation is controlled from N. S.
Wales, where it started in Sydney back
in 1924; there are separate pups for
Queensland, Westralia, Victoria, South
Australia and Maoriland, and a real
estate co. called Woolworths Properties.
The last aggregate p. and 1. account of
the subsidiaries showed net earnings of
£514,617, subject to a huge taxation pro-
vision of £237,414. On the ord. capital
of these subsidiaries, of which the parent
owns the greater part, these earnings,
allowing for taxes and pref. divs., repre-
sented over 25 p.c. The parent Wool-
worths showed net profits of £316,922,
portion of which was divs. from the
pups, and it reserved £44,000 for taxation.
The net amount of £272,922 represented
22.5 p.c. on Woolworths’ ord. capital.
It is impossible from the combined
balance-sheet figures to say how much
the whole organisation, parent and pups,
really earned during the last term, as
there is repetition of portion of the pups’
earnings in the parent’s figures. It seems,
nevertheless, that there is more margin
of cover for the parent’s 17 i p.c. div.
than the 22.5 p.c. claimed as earned.
Certainly there is some equity in undis-
tributed earnings of subsidiaries, and the
offshoots themselves may be conservative
in estimating profits in the first instance.
An interim div. is due in October. The
ss. ords. at 16s. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c. on a
17y p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Melbourne .Steamship, owner of the
Duntroon and several cargo vessels, men-
tions severe contraction in passenger
traffic, higher insurance and other costs,
and general disturbance caused by war.
Cargo was plentiful during the year —
over-plentiful in relation to the tonnage
remaining with shipping-owners after
Government requisitions. A review of
freight rates is asked for by the co. Ord.
div. is down from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c. Profits
claimed by the co. and its Hobson’s Bay
subsidiary fell from £34,524 to £22,139.
The, co.’s lot, however, is not nearly as
sad as it might seem.
* * * *
Oil production in British-controlled
oilfields and sterling-linked countries dur-
ing the calendar year 1939:
Metric Tons.
Iran 10,720,347
Dutch Indies 8,447,190
Iraq 4,223,749
Trinidad .. .. •• 2,643,382
India and Burma .. .. 1,311,420
Canada 1,099,494
Bahrein 1,040,954
British Borneo .. .. 974,441
Egypt .. .. • • • • 605,636
31,066,613
In addition, Saudi Arabia, bounded by
British spheres of influence, produced
528,779 tons. The foregoing total, not
all of which is available for the Empire,
represents something more than a tenth
of total world petroleum production. The
U.S.A. turned out 173,733,539 tons in
1939, Russia 29,729,353 tons and Vene-
zuela 28,251,756 tons. Then follow Iran
and the East Indies.
* * * *
The Chamber of Automotive Indus-
tries has decided not to import any
cars or chassis into Australia between
Sept. 1, 1940, and June 1, 1941. There
is a huge stock of this year’s models on
hand in Australia, and the “import
holiday” is being introduced to protect
the value of this stock.
* * * *
Australasian Paper shares were in par-
ticularly fine fettle last week. The new
issue of ords. came on the market at
21s. 6d. during July after the rights had
been neglected during the June war
gloom. Last Friday the new ords. sold
at 28s. 3d., up 6s. 9d. on their lowest
price. Particular attention was paid to
the rights on this page when they were
going so cheaply.
* * * *
Woolbrokers are showing better profits
because of the higher price of the clip
under the British purchase contract. But
in other branches of business and industry
conditions are mixed. Though North
Coast Steam showed profits up, inter-
state lines didn’t do so well as a year be-
fore. City hotels have suffered reduced
earnings in spite of a high rate of liquor
consumption ; apparently the residential
portion of their investment is a drag.
Some manufacturers have done better,
such as those in the textile business, but
many, especially those interested in hard-
ware and engineering, have less earnings
to show. Some importers are making
exceptionally high profits, while others
have been forced out of business. Banks,
for the most part, have better figures
to show. The motor trade is all out of
gear, and insurance concerns may suffer,
among others. The Australian economy
is being shaken about a bit, but is stand-
ing up well.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton, of Sydney, which
also has interests in Melbourne through
Austral Silk, has declared a 10 p.c. div.
for 1939-40. By June 30, 1941, paid-up
capital will be £633,016, of which
£479,928 will be ord. money. In order
to pay 10 p.c. on the ords. and provide
for the prefs., a profit of £57,000 a year
will be required when the present issue
is fully paid. Although nothing so big
as that figure would be necessary to
cover the 10 p.c. just declared, it is prob-
able that more than the £29,001 earned
in 1938-39 was required. The final div.
just announced was in advance of the
accounts. After sales at 335., buyers last
week offered 345. 6d. for the shares
without attracting sellers. At 365. the
scrip would return £5 11s. per cent.
* * * *
Another prosperous year goes to the
credit of Stirling Henry, Ltd., cotton-
spinners and -knitters, with a factory in
Sydney. Net profits disclosed have risen
from £14,302 to £20,197, and represent
20.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
30.7 p.c. in the preceding term. In each
of the past two years ordinary capital
has doubled, quadrupling it during the
24 months. It now stands at £lOO,OOO,
in addition to £25,000 of pref. money.
There was a £25,000 bonus issue in
1939. This year’s div. is 12| p.c., being
the same rate of distribution as in the
previous year. At 9s. 9d. the ss. ords.
yield 6.3 p.c.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
FAMINE THREAT TO EUROPE.
[Observers of war developments in Europe—especially
American press correspondents—are becoming more and
iriore insistent that famine threatens Europe and is
likely to produce frightful results next year. Aspects of
this threat are dealt with in the articles here condensed,
the first being by C. L. Sulzberger (Istanbul) in New
York “Times Magazine.”]
“Europe,” said a Balkan ruler recently, “started
off the previous war like a bear in autumn with her
sides covered with fat. Even then she almost col-
lapsed through weakness. This time she is in the con-
dition of a weak bear, thinned by the winter’s sleep ;
and who knows whether she will be able to stand the
strain?”
This situation is troubling many far-sighted
persons even more than the military fevents. The con-
clusion one frequently hears is that, no matter who
wins the conflict, the Continent will come pretty close
to starving to death in 1941. Famine may haunt a great
portion of the civilised world. A diplomat recently
told this writer that “hunger will soon be a greater
cataclysm than war.” An agriculturist declared, “The
first signs of impending food shortage are already
evident.”
All over the Continent, in both neutral and
belligerent lands, meatless days have been introduced 1
to conserve stocks. In many countries women are
doing a large part of the tilling. Farm animals are
pulling guns, not ploughs. Many rich areas have
been laid waste by destruction or are lying fallow
through lack of necessary labor or the absence of the
native population, driven out by the encroachment of
war.
Not long ago I sat on the deck of a ship passing
through the Dardanelles, chatting with a polyglot
group coming from Russia. All described the lengthen-
ing food queues observed in Kiev and Odessa and the
rising prices of bread and staples. They predicted
disaster. A Budapest crop expert reported he had
already heard potential famine was hanging over the
Soviet Union. He pointed out that almost inevitably
disorganised transportation in both old and new Russia
had resulted in hunger in some districts, regardless of
the excellence of the harvest in other regions. A
relief worker in occupied Poland reports that normally
fertile land has not yet recovered from the ravages of
last September. At the same time he was having
difficulty in buying the proper supplies elsewhere to
feed the populace of the area.
Spain suffered enormous agricultural damage dur-
ing her civil war. Scandinavia has been drawn into the
European maelstrom, with such specific results as a
limited supply of fodder for Denmark’s dairy cattle
because of altered communication with the outside
world. The North Sea fishing industry has not escaped
the general convulsion. In south-eastern Europe a
year of nervous tension has resulted in the constant
mobilisation of peasants’ farm animals.
If the present symptoms continue 1941 will be a
year of direst need. Agriculturally speaking, this may
be the worst year Europe has experienced in decades,
and it will be a very sick bear indeed next year. All
over the Continent, regardless of whether individual
countries are actively engaged in war or conquered
or neutral, able-bodied men are in uniform or drafted
to work on fortifications and roads. Railroads are
clogged with shipments of machinery, arms, oil and
military material, while such things as grain loadings
are frequently forced to wait. Europe is overflowing
with refugees who in general are consuming food,
not producing it.
Food prices everywhere are mounting to fantas-
tic heights. In ordinarily poor communities such as
the mountains of Montenegro and Bosnia complaints
of hunger already are heard and echoed in the news-
papers.
This, then, is Europe, engaged in a destructive
combination of war and revolution, sick and feverish,
already swarming with refugees from the sword and
facing the prospect of hordes of hungry, disease-ridden
and destitute.
It is obvious that as long as Germany holds the
Continent in her grasp, the British fleet will not allow
her to feed it. In a total war hunger is a mighty
weapon. The Reich in peace-time is at best four-
fifths self-sufficient in food needs. The areas her
armies have overrun generally consume far more
than they produce, and their production is now
atrophied by jumbled transportation.
Italy is very largely dependent on water-borne
food, with 80 per cent, of her imports passing through
Gibraltar and the Suez Canal. Britain herself is only
three-fifths self-sufficient. Will she be able to continue
bringing in staples with Nazi ’planes raining a flaming
ring around her ports? Who will work in the withering
fields of France to a necessarily accelerated tempo ?
Do the Axis Powers think they can fill up their own
empty stomachs from the sickening Balkans or the
cumbersome morass of Russia? Will Europe again
look to the United States in the hope that its grain
surplus will come to the rescue when that country
must think of involvement in the war? Anyway, if
hungry conquerors find an overseas source of supplies,
it must be remembered that the British Fleet is still
intact —and still blockading.
Of the apocalyptic horsemen, one, War, already
rides, and a second, Famine, is ready to clatter over
Europe. Who knows whether in their wake will
come a fifth horseman, Revolution?
* * * * *
Blockaded Europe
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by-
Otto D. Tolischus, Stockholm.)
Grim as the war has been not only for soldiers
in battle but also for millions of refugees, it is likely
to become much grimmer still if it lasts through
another winter. For by proclamation of the German
leaders this is a total war, not between armies and
navies but between entire nations, in which the stakes
are victory or national extermination, modified only
by the victor’s interest in the vanquished nations’ labor
power and resources.
In this total war Britain has announced her
counter-weapon—a total Continental blockade against
the totalitarian Continental system dominated by Ger-
many. As in the fifteen-year struggle between Britain
and Napoleon, the military decision on land has gone
against Britain ; now it is British sea power against
German land and air power. While death and de-
struction are allies of Germany, the allies of Britain
are to be famine and revolution on the Continent until
Hitlerism, like Napoleonism, crumbles into dust.
Unless relief measures can be agreed on large parts
of Europe, especially the war areas, face actual famine.
The countries facing the direst prospects are Belgium
and Norway. For the German people the only visible
relief from malnutrition that victories have brought
consists in an additional quarter-pound of butter and
one-eighth pound of cheese per person for July and
presumably August. In return, however, bread rations
are being reduced by 150 grammes weekly for all
classes of consumers, though the young, who are show-
ing serious malnutrition, get an increase of 200
grammes.
Although Nazi spokesmen boast that Germany
will enter the “second war year” with the same grain
reserves and considerably higher cheese and egg
reserves than at the beginning of the war, all reports
from Germany agree that the scarcity of food and
raw materials continues and that all grain stocks of
farmers and of the grain trade have virtually disap-
peared.
To facilitate the harvest the army granted exten-
sive furloughs up to 20 per cent, of the total man-
—“Daily Mirror,” London.
THE SPUR.
power, which might be one reason for holding up the
long-heralded invasion of Britain. Moreover, the
fodder shortage is becoming so acute that the regime,
whose spokesmen have always denounced the “pig
murder” of the World War, already is being forced
to slaughter off a large number of hogs, though the
meat is being frozen for winter reserve.
Germany is raiding the food supplies of the
occupied countries. French cattle and Netherland and
Danish butter, cheese and bacon are being taken to
Germany to enhance German reserves, and livestock
in these countries is being killed off for lack of fodder.
The same thing is going on even outside the war zones.
Up to the end of this year the situation is ex-
pected to remain tolerable. After that it will be
“blood against gold” ; under which Germany takes
what she cannot buy.
All but a few European countries show food
deficits, ranging from 57 per cent, of normal consump-
tion for Norway to 17 per cent, for Germany ; but the
Continent as a whole, the German press maintains,
can produce enough grain, potatoes and meat to feed
itself, though on a seventeenth-century basis, in which
shortage of fats would be universal and luxuries like
coffee and tea unobtainable.
Upward of 12,000,000 men are now under arms in
Europe, which means increased consumption and re-
duced production. The last hard winter, spring floods
and dry weather seriously impaired Europe’s crops,
and even most favorable weather henceforth would
leave the total harvest below average, while several
countries are supposed to face virtual crop failures.
The war has destroyed fields, cities and industries and
tied up all normal activity, with the resfilt that normal
production and distribution systems have been greatly
impaired. Finally, Russia’s contribution to Con-
tinental self-sufficiency remains wholly problematical.
Not only does Russia herself need all she produces
and more, but her crops, especially in the south, are
reported to have suffered heavy damage, and some
observers already predict famine conditions in a large
section of Russia.
* =i= * * *
(From a New York “Times” article by Raymond
Daniell, London.)
Two countries, one an island with an empire scat-
tered over the seven seas, the other a nation squatting
colossus-like upon Europe, are embarked upon a cam-
paign to starve each other out, one of them relying
upon ships, the other upon ’planes.
To win, Germany must cut Britain off from the
rest of the Empire and the world. Enemy ’planes have
been launched by the hundreds against this last citadel
of democracy in Europe since France surrendered,
but convoys are still coming in safely and there is
complete confidence in official circles that land, sea
and air defences are adequate to meet any onslaught.
The big problem before Britain lies in whether its
fleet, in which so much hope is lodged, will prove
equal to the task before it. It is a prodigious one.
All alone, it must protect the shores of the Mother-
land from threatened invasion, maintain the Empire’s
lines of communication and be ready to do battle with
the Italian Fleet, which has challenged British sea
supremacy in the Mediterranean without ever forcing
the issue.
Germany’s victories have placed that country's
air force in a position to compete on more or less
equal terms with the British Navy. But the blockade
can be exercised by remote control and ships can
rove farther from home than ’planes. So long as
Britain holds Gibraltar and Suez and dominates the
open sea, Germany’s suzerainty over Europe is bound
to be of uncertain duration.
The feeling in Britain is that any soft-hearted
weakening of the blockade for humanitarian reasons
would be the result of muddled thinking, as it would
lead inevitably to a strengthening of Germany, pro-
longation of the war and more casualties on both sides.
And so the blockade is going to apply to ail
Europe, not only as to munitions but as to foodstuffs
also in the name of humanity. While the British are
sure that Germany will attempt to place blame for
Europe’s hunger upon the British blockade, they hope
that the suffering people will put the responsibility
upon the German conquerors for bringing
the whole Continent to a sorry pass and
thus lead to an uprising among the people
of the overrun nations. In their great
gamble to win all by fighting rather than
lose all by compromise, the British are
counting heavily on the sufferers’ turning
upon the enemies nearest at hand.
* * * *
Nazi “Starvation” Propaganda
(Condensed from a Manchester “Guardian”
article; the propaganda has made some
headway in the U.S.A.)
The Nazis are hoping to turn the
desperate difficulties with which they are
threatened this winter into new capital for
propaganda.
The distress of Europe, created by
their war and their method of making it,
will be put down to our blockade. Its
origin can be briefly described. The Nazis
compelled their own people to reduce their
standard of living to a low level in order
to make munitions on an immense scale
and to feed a huge army. Whenever they
conquer a country they reduce its popu-
lation to a still lower level by taking its
food and in some cases its labor.
They hope to turn against us the dis-
content that may produce sabotage and
sporadic rebellion against their rule. Our
danger in Europe is that there is sympathy
in many quarters with the general Nazi
view. Naei propaganda is hard at work in Norway
and Holland, and it will now be harder at work than
ever in France, where its disintegrating influence was
a cause of the collapse.
On the other hand, Nazi methods create what
Carlyle called a “treasury of hate” in men’s minds,
and there is a conflict between the passions produced
by their conduct and the conclusions to which men
might be led by their skilful propaganda. This hatred
will grow, and one day it will help us. If we can
satisfy Europe today that we have the energy and
resolution to defend ourselves and our cause we shall
be able to prove to her tomorrow that our cause is
hers.
* * * * *
Europe’s Wheat
(From a New York “Times” article by John McCormac.)
Agricultural estimates of world wheat crops indi-
cate that Great Britain, if she can hold out, can de-
prive Europe of imported wheat. To do this Britain
needs to resort only in minor part to the use of force
through the medium of blockade. She will control
the main sources of supply of export wheat until an-
other year’s harvest has been reaped.
A report by the office of foreign agricultural rela-
tions of the U.S.A. Department of Agriculture states:
“On the basis of the indicated poor wheat crop in
Europe, were it not for European military and politi-
cal conditions, world trade in wheat would be well
above any recent year. The blockade and Government
policies, however, may restrict world movement so
that imports would show only a moderate increase.
Imports from Canada and Australia may be restricted
by Governmental policy. Argentina is practically out
of the market until the new crop in January, and the
United States has only a moderate surplus available
for export if reserves are to be held.”
Present crop prospects in Europe indicate a below-
average harvest, probably lower than for any years
since 1930. How much damage has been done to the
crop in France and Belgium by the invasion and the
abandonment of the soil is not known, but it is thought
to be less than the effect of the recent occupation 01
Bessarabia by Russia, since the territory occupied by


Russia usually accounts for about 20 per cent, of the
total Rumanian production of wheat and corn.
European wheat crop prospects have been re-
duced by smaller seeded acreage, winter-kill, an un-
usually late spring, unfavorable growing conditions,
including flood damage in the Danube basin ; mili-
tary operations and the sudden mobilisation of man-
power which took workers away from the fields. The
sharpest declines in the wheat crop will be in the
Netherlands, Belgium, France, Switzerland and
Sweden.
It appears certain that there will be a very serious
shortage of wheat in Europe this summer. This is
believed to be one of the reasons why Germany is
seeking to prevent the spread of hostilities to Hun-
gary, Yugoslavia and what remains of Rumania. She
will need all their surplus wheat. In Russia the crop
is said to be in fairly good condition, but there is little
expectation of any surplus for export. Conditions in
Northern Africa are favorable, but it is considered
doubtful whether France will be able to import this
wheat through the British blockade.
U.S. Reactions to Nazi Victories.
(Condensed from an article in the “Nation,” U.S.A.)
Nothing succeeds like success, and domestic
opinion is already beginning to show the effects of
Nazi victories in Europe. A strong ferment is being
set up for changes in home and foreign policies that
may drastically affect our way of life. The changes
portended demonstrate the fallacies of isolationism,
the impossibility of sealing a hemisphere, and the
problems which would be created for the U.S.A. by
a final German victory.
In the field of domestic politics, the new trend
is toward the scuttling of labor and social legislation.
In the sphere of foreign politics, it is toward economic
appeasement of the Third Reich. In the first instance
the drive is open, in the second it is still subterranean.
Its strength should not be underestimated.
The cry rises from flabby gentlemen in Wall-
street that the people of the democratic countries are
getting “soft.” Businessmen who resent the slightest
supervision by Government say we must have “dis-
cipline.” The financial prophets who thought the
world would come to an end if the Budget was not
balanced now praise the Fascist dictatorships for “their
better grasp of fundamental economic truth” (“Com-
mercial and Financial Chronicle,” June 29, 1940).
More and more this under-cover propaganda for
less democracy is accompanied by talk that we must
“come to terms” with Hitler ; Herbert Hoover, by his
remarks in private and public, has shown himself to
be one of the principal protagonists of this point of
view. “Basic issue confronting U. 5.,” says a confi-
dential service for business executives, in its elliptical
fashion, “to appease or not to appease a victorious
Hitler.”
The German armies now control an enormous
market, and its bargaining power is commensurate
with its consuming ability. In 1937, 42 per c,ent of
United States copper exports, 37 per cent, of cotton
exports, 27 per cent, of oil exports, 18 per cent, of
tobacco and machine-tool exports, 15 per cent, of
automobile exports went to the enlarged Third Reich
and the countries now under its control. True, only
a small portion of these exports went to Hitler’s
Greater Germany. Most of them were taken by
Scandinavia, the Netherlands and France. Signifi-
cant and revealing is the fact that, of the 42.7 per cent,
in wheat exports to the sections of Europe dominated by
Germany, only 1.9 per cent, went to the Greater Reich.
The service for business executives already quoted
concludes that we must “expect a super-Munich for
this country to come later.” It is important to know
what some influential people expect.
Ireland’s “Extraordinary Detachment,”
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Virginia Cowles.)
The drive from Dublin to Belfast is only 80 miles,
but the transition is as complete as though you were
travelling between two widely-divided nations. You
leave Dublin and its bright lights to find yourself in a
world of lazy, rolling fields and then reach Belfast
with its lights blacked out and its streets resounding
to the rumbling of camouflaged trucks.
The people of Ireland [Eire] have discussed the
war as if it were as remote as China. Lately they have
been somewhat jogged out of their complacency by
the sudden warnings of their. Government, the calls to
store food, to evacuate their children to the country
and to enlist for local defence. The extraordinary
detachment in a world that is only too unhappily
welded together by the mechanical development of
this century is due in part to strict censorship of the
press. From the start of the war all newsreels, films,
radio programmes and magazines have been care-
fully deprived of material which might arouse the
people into taking sides, so that there has been little
war news of any kind.
Politically, Ireland seems to be in the bow-and-
arrow stage. In view of the decisive and terrible chal-
lenge hanging over the whole of Europe, it seems
comparable to a family so busy squabbling over the
arrangement of knick-knacks in the living-room that
they cannot seem to notice that the house is burning
down.
It is impossible to compare the neutrality of the
De Valera Government with the neutrality of other
small countries which, one by one, have fallen under
the German axe. Whereas the sympathies of these
small nations were with the Allies, they clung to neu-
trality in the forlorn hope that it might prevent their
countries from being turned into battlefields. This
consideration, however, is not the major concern of the
Irish. The deciding factor in their policy is the fact
that for 700 years the political life of the country has
been directed against Great Britain and they cannot
bring themselves to renounce the traditional enemy
even in the face of a far more dangerous one.
Ireland has only a few airplanes and could
scarcely place more than one division against Ger-
many. The country’s only hope, and one which is
freely admitted, is that British troops can now be in
Dublin in two hours.
The German Legation in Dublin, which has a
staff of nearly 100, is busy trying to convince the Irish
people that it is not Germany but Great Britain which
has designs on Ireland.
Although the visitor to Ireland is greatly im-
pressed by the beauty of the country and the charm
of the people, one cannot help being overwhelmed
by the irresponsibility of a people who, at the moment,
are exacting all the benefits of civilisation without the
inconvenience of defending it.
British Air Attacks.
(The British air assault on Germany, as recorded by
another New York “Times” correspondent, C. Brooks
Peters, Berlin.)
Since the initiation of the German Western offen-
sive on May 10 British bombers have paid almost
nightly visits on some portion of Germany and un-
loaded their cargoes of incendiary and explosive
bombs. The material damage to military objectives
which these bombs have wrought is any man’s guess.
For the number of war-industry plants that have been
damaged or destroyed and the number of oil tanks
that have been hit and railway junctions impaired is
information of an economic-military nature. But
when almost nightly attacks are carried through—in
some cases, as over Hamburg, with as many as 60
’planes attacking from all sides at the same time —
important military objectives are bound to be struck,
damaged or destroyed.
The majority of the British air attacks have taken
place in Southern and Western Germany, although the
northern portions of the Reich have had their share.
—New York “Post."
TUMBRIL.
These attacks have become so frequent that General
Headquarters recently announced that in future “when
there is only one attacking enemy ’plane” an air-raid
alarm will not be sounded in order not to disturb the
population or industrial activity.
In Hamburg 28 air attacks took place in 22 days.
On some occasions there were as many as three daily,
and considerable damage is believed to have been in-
flicted. The inhabitants of the Ruhr have been sub-
jected to the worst siege of these air raids. For rarely
a night goes past without at least one. Air-raid alarms
last anywhere from two to four hours, and all resi-
dents in the district affected must go into cellars.
Almost everyone in the Ruhr sections has seen the
effects on dwellings of the bombs dropped or knows
someone who has been killed or injured by them —
and sitting in a cellar anywhere between one o’clock
and six every morning with the omnipresent possibility
of suddenly being killed or mangled is bound to have
an effect on the nerves of those forced to do it. It is
reasonable to assume that the efficiency of the workers
in the Ruhr area as well as in seaports such as Ham-
burg has been impaired by these enforced nightly
vigils
Italy and the War.
[Condensed from an article by Karl Walter in
London “Fortnightly,” which mentions that the author
“lived in Italy and worked, as a journalist, in close
contact with the Fascist regime from 1934 until the
end of May, 1940.”]
There are no means of ascertaining the opinion
of a body such as the Fascist party in Italy, which
more than ever today is simply a disciplinary institu-
tion. What can be stated is that its active membership
is a minority, and a small minority, of the whole —
those who in all circumstances will “believe, obey,
fight.” They are the hard core of the party, which
can extend its discipline, by persuasion, by admoni-
tion, by threats, by violence if necessary, among less
zealous, indifferent and even disloyal members.
By these means and with the aid of an elaborate
police system, this fraction dominates a people and
gives to Mussolini the assurance that he can pursue
his odious German policy to the bitter end without
fear of a popular rising. Naturally they are given
fresh power by the immediate patriotic sentiment
which war engenders.
Yet there are millions of Italians who pray for
“a just peace,” by which they mean just what the
Pope means, defeat of the powers of hell that are
scourging the world. Also, widespread among all
simple people, in the fields and offices and workshops,
and among the professional and cultured no less, is a
conviction, which withstood the months-long barrage
of the dictated press, that our cause is their own.
Among reasons why this sentiment has not been
effective are two that must be considered if we want
to understand the deviation of Italy: sanctions and
our Mediterranean policy. They are closely related.
Opinion was divided among our friends at the
outset of the Abyssinian adventure. The non-Fascists
had hopes that we should oppose it, even at the risk
of war, by closing the Suez Canal. Mussolini’s hold
was not so strong as it is today, and there has
always been a strong feeling against colonial gambles
which would have risen to condemn a major war on
that issue. Many believed that it would have meant
the end of Mussolini’s dictatorship. Our Fascist
friends, on the other hand, were just as hopeful that
the Hoare-Laval or other compromise would lead to
the same end, by bringing Italy into closer relations
with France and England. The pinpricks policy we
adopted —I say we, because our leadership is always
the gravamen of their complaint—offended everybody.
Most Italians think we did our utmost to thwart Italy.
Some are silenced when told that sanctions were not
prohibitive only because we
did not fully apply them ; but
others reply that they were
effective enough to consoli-
date Mussolini’s position;
and to this there is no answer.
From this period dated
the fatal change in Musso-
lini’s Austrian policy, the
Nazi-Fascist collaboration in
Spain, the tragic invasion of
Italy by German influence,
the visit of Hitler and his
thousand agents, the foothold
of the Gestapo on Italian soil,
the Pact of Steel. And, as
originators of this course of
events, not only Mussolini
but thousands of his fol-
lowers and those who do not
follow him blamed us.
Our friends could have
weathered the odium of sanc-
tions and possibly made effec-
tive their heartfelt expression
of preference for us had we
been able to formulate a
conciliatory Mediterranean
policy. We never stated one
except in the most vague
terms. We accepted none too
graciously Mussolini’s conten-
tion that the Mediterranean
for us is a via, for Italy vita.
Yet Mussolini was only put-
ting in his pithy way, so far
as our positive interests were
concerned, what was memor-
ably said by a great Conser-
vative more than half a cen-
tury ago.
“You will be told that
Egypt is the high road to
India and that Britain must
hold it at all costs. This
is a terrible and widespread
delusion.... Egypt is not the
high road to India. The Suez Canal is a commercial
route to India, and a good route, too, in time of
peace; but it never was, and never could be, a military
route for Great Britain in time of war. In time of war
there are no well-marked highroads to and fro across
the British Empire. The path of Britain is upon the
ocean, her ways lie upon the deep; and you should
avoid as the greatest danger any reliance on transconti-
nental communications where at any time you may have
to encounter gigantic military hosts.”
That was Lord Randolph Churchill’s view in 1883.
Had we suggested bringing France and Egypt into
conference to transform our hold upon the Canal into
a condominium, from which none more willingly than
Italy would have excluded Germany, we should have
stolen from Mussolini the one great argument which
has made his war policy formidable at home. Indeed,
that policy never would have taken shape. Just as
he had no original intention to annex the whole of
Abyssinia, no more had he a year ago any thought of
consolidating his empire by the conquest of Egypt and
the Sudan. When we speak of his inflated ambi-
tions let us remember the process of that inflation and
our part in it, and that any collaboration of Italy and
the democracies, in Egypt or elsewhere, would have
been infinitely more dangerous to the evil spirit of
dictatorship than to us.
Everything else is now secondary to him, includ-
ing Gibraltar.' Tunis would fall into his hands, with
Egypt won. Nice, Savoy, Corsica, Jibuti, bits of the
Balkans, these are bagatelles. “If we do not hold
Egypt at the end of the war, Hitler will not give it us,
he will give us nothing,” I was told by an ardent be-
liever in totalitarian victory.
Defeat, Mussolini certainly will not survive ; he
stands or falls by his inflated ambition. The odds
against him abroad grow with every day of our en-
durance ; we may add one other to those already set
against him at home: he no longer commands the
respect won by the subordination of selfish interests
and indulgences to public service. His terrible de-
cision having been made, my thoughts are with our
friends in Italy, with those who will be praying for
our success and for the downfall of the tyrant who
has brought them to bitter shame and humiliation.
And I know that in the end, in Italy as elsewhere,
the rightness of our cause will help us.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Ajax began what his connections hope
will be an unbeaten spring campaign
when he brilliantly defeated El Golea
and Aurie’s Star in the Underwood
Stakes at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
He led throughout the last seven fur-
longs of the mile, and, although veering
out somewhat in the straight, finished
truly. “I think he’s as good as ever,”
remarked rider Harold Badger after the
race, and that’s saying quite a lot!
There is room for improvement in
Ajax, who probably looks bigger and
more vital than ever before, and, while
the rest of the early w.f.a. races in Mel-
bourne should be easy for him, there is
every reason to believe that he will hold
his own against High Caste, Beaulivre,
Reading and company when they arrive
from Sydney. Decision against sending
Ajax to Sydney this spring has brought
some criticism from people who consider
that it would be a fine gesture were he
to appear at the Red Cross meeting at
Randwick. As one of his part-owners
explains, however, Ajax is a big draw-
card wherever he appears, and, with in-
creased attendances swelling the various
war funds, is “doing his bit” at home just
as well as he would at Randwick. Race-
books sold out early on Saturday, and
tote money showed an increase of more
than £9OOO over the corresponding meet-
ing last year, when there was one race
more.
»•••••
In winning the Underwood Stakes for
the third year in succession, Ajax went
past his sire, Heroic, to occupy fifth posi-
tion on the list of great Australian win-
ners. His stake earnings are £38,725,
and in the Memsie Stakes next Saturday
week he will barring accidents, of
course —deprive Limerick (£38,7291) of
fourth position. After the Memsie Stakes,
Ajax will tackle the Melbourne Stakes,
one mile ; Caulfield Stakes, nine furlongs ;
W. S. Cox Plate, 91 furlongs ; L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes, 10 furlongs; Linlith-
gow Stakes, one mile ; and maybe the
C. B. Fisher Plate, of 11 mile. Success
in the lot would elevate him to third
position on the winning list.
Ajax has always been El Golea’s
master, but the latter did not lose caste
because of Saturday’s defeat. In fact,
he ran one of his best races on a course
that is not particularly to his liking. He
raced on the outside of Aurie’s Star for
the greater part of the trip. Creighton
put the whip away in the straight when
he saw that he had no chance of over-
taking Ajax, but he was beaten less than
two lengths, and will be a definite danger
in whichever of the big sprint handicaps
he contests this spring. He is engaged
in the Epsom and the Cantala with 9.8,
and would be preferred to Aurie’s Star in
either. Aurie’s Star weakened into third
place on Saturday, and apparently a mile
in first-class company is a bit beyond him.
Amiable, though never dangerous, fin-
ished a creditable fourth, and it might
be as well to remember that, in the past,
she has improved with racing.
Rex Felt may have earned a Sydney
trip when he defeated Landlaw and
Bathing Beauty in the August Handicap.
He is engaged in the Epsom and the
Metropolitan, in addition to the Cups,
and trainer W. Duncan states that he may
accompany Fur Trader if the latter, a
Derby candidate, comes up to scratch.
Rex Felt, a five-year-old by Spearfelt
from Millieme Miss, distinguished himself
as a sprinter last season, but he is bred
to stay almost any distance. Saturday
was only the third occasion on which he
had been tried at a middle-distance, and,
backed from 5 to 1 down to 5 to 2, he
occupied a good position throughout,
went round the two leaders at the turn,
and won decisively. All the same, he may
have been fortunate to beat Landlaw.
. Landlaw lost his position along the back
of the course, but moved up fast on the
bend. He was blocked at the turn, and
had to be taken four horses wide. It was
too big a disadvantage at such a critical
stage of the race, but Landlaw ran on
strongly under his steadier of 9.2, and his
defeat did not lose him any Cup ad-
mirers. Reports are current that Land-
law is not an easy horse to train, but his
race on Saturday was his fifth in less than
a month, and he appeared to stand up
to them well enough. Bathing Beauty’s
third was an encouraging performance,
and Ronwin, who experienced misfor-
tune early in the race, will soon improve
on her fourth. Manurere was on trial
for a Sydney trip, but the rise in class
from Trial company found him out, and
he weakened into fifth position after
leading from the half-mile to the turn.
Protests are the fashion in Melbourne,
but few people anticipated rider N. Per-
cival’s objection after his mount, General
Havelock, had dead-heated with Balkan
Chief in the Manor Handicap. Balkan
Chief has a tendency to hang out, but
any interference appeared to be contri-
buted to by General Havelock lugging in
towards the finish. Stewards dismissed
the protest. General Havelock, however,
was decidedly unlucky not to have won
outright. Two checks he received would
have settled the prospects of a weaker-
hearted colt, and, as if they were not suffi-
cient, General Havelock was forced to
go round three horses on the turn. He
headed Balkan Chief towards the finish,
but the earlier exertions told, and Balkan
Chief battled on to make the dead-heat.
Rupert Hart visualises a bright staying
future for General Havelock, whom he
bred, and for whom he refused an offer
of 160 guineas as a yearling. He hopes
that his colt’s immediate form will war-
rant a start in the Victoria Derby, but
seems more inclined to the idea that
General Havelock will be a really good
stayer under a light weight. “He might
be a second Lord Nolan,” he declares.
Reflecting the general idea that our
present three-year-olds are only an aver-
age lot, many Victorian owners have
designs oh the A.J.C. Derby. The list of
“probables” and “possibles” is growing
each week, with Balkan Chief the latest
to be mentioned. He gave a game per-
formance on Saturday, considering that
he was having his first race since a let-up,
but against this is the fact that he car-
ried only 8.1 in a comparatively mod-
erate field. He is bred to stay, however,
his brothers, Balkan Prince and Gay
Balkan, having been at home over a dis-
tance, and at least he should appreciate
the reverse way of going in Sydney.
Lucrative (already in Sydney), Pandect,
Sir Richard, Sun Valley, Fur Trader and
Balkan Chief are alLunder discussion in
an A.J.C. Derby respect, but probably
there will be a weeding-out after the
Moonee Valley Stakes, a set-weight mile
race for three-year-olds, to be run on Sep-
tember 14.
Heavy runs on Bow Tie, Harmonic
Law, Bursary and David Innis featured
betting on the Truganina Handicap, but
Bow Tie was the only member of that
quartet to finish in the money. After
having every chance, she wound up third
to Adherent and Cyden’s Son. Adherent
had won at Ascot at his previous start,
but was in a stronger field on Saturday,
when his price eased from sixes to eights
Moving up fast at the turn, Adherent,
who is raced and trained by M. Crossey,
won well enough to indicate that further
success might come his way shortly.
Cyden’s Son, a 33-to-l chance, showed
up well at his first start since a spell, and
he and Harmonic Law, who would have
been third in another stride or two,
should repay following.
Jangler, owned and trained in Gipps-
land, and a recent flat winner at Bacchus
Marsh, upset calculations when he beat
the Australian Hurdle winner Kevastar
out of a place in the Paisley Hurdle.
Kevastar had led throughout his two pre-
vious races, but on Saturday he was
ridden behind. He is not a big horse,
and such tactics evidently were deemed
best under 10.10. They were not suc-
cessful, however, as Kevastar was beaten
some distance from home, and finished a
moderate fourth. Jangler, who was hav-
ing his first race over hurdles for almost
a year, led over the last seven furlongs,
and won clearly from Gold Streak and
the Australian Hurdle runner-up North
Cape.
Slightly injured when El Banado fell
with him in the Paisley Hurdle, W. John-
son had to forgo the mount on Tornar-
suk in the August Steeplechase. G. Sholl,
who had been out of luck lately, was sub-
stituted, and landed Tornarsuk a 5-to-4
winner from Cantland and Bold Brat.
They were the only three of the five
runners to complete the course. Tornar-
suk had four lengths to spare at the
finish, but the result may have been dif-
ferent had Cantland jumped and raced at
all generously. Cantland’s waywardness
cost him much more than the margin by
which he was defeated.
A large crowd witnessed the racing at
Moorefield, the meeting, however, being
marred to some extent by a very early
commencement and a late ending. In
similar circumstances any mid-week club
would have made the interval between
races 25 minutes, which would have been
ample. Fifty minutes would have been
saved, and proceedings would have es-
caped being so long-drawn-out as to be-
come somewhat wearisome. If Moorefield
does again have 11 races it is to be hoped
it will follow the example of mid-week
clubs.
Patrician, one of the numerous three-
year-olds in B. Payten’s stable, came from
a long way back at the half-mile to win
the first division of the Maiden Handicap
from Pierce and Indian Emperor. Can-
vasser, who led into the straight from
Pierce, finished fourth, and of the re-
mainder Pink ’Un and Pinero showed
most promising form. Patrician, who cost
Dr. C. Nigel Smith 900gns. as a yearling,
is by Iliad from Courtesy (Limond-
Homage), sister to Honour, Courtcraft
and other good Maoriland winners.
Scientist won the second division of the
Maiden Handicap as he liked. At the
top of the hill Munro shot him right
away seemingly before the other riders
realised what was happening, and after
that it was merely a procession, the minor
places going to Mabonga and the good-
looking Veiled Threat, with Antenor
fourth. Scientist, who is owned by Mrs.
E. G. Carroll, is by Marconigram from
Bimbil, by St. Alwyne from Bibble.
In a rattling finish for the first division
of the Novice Handicap, Paul Muni nar-
rowly defeated El Camarilla, both horses
going wide in the straight. A protest
against Paul Muni was dismissed, but
his rider, Sumner, was suspended for
two months for interfering with Elson
half a furlong from home. The latter,
who was fourth, was unlucky to miss a
place. As it was, Cumberland, who led
into the straight, hung on gamely to run
a close third. Well-backed Pan Pipe
was never dangerous, and finished fifth.
Benefiting from the race he will do
better next time.
First into the straight in the second
division of the Novice Panturn scored
his second successive win for W. C.
Douglass and trainer J. W. Cook. Plant-
age (Plantain-Visage) paced it with Pan-
turn in the early part, but the minor posi-
tions were filled by Generous Gesture
and El Kenny, who were nearest to Pan-
turn turning for home. Gas was fourth
after commencing slowly, and, as he
struck more than his share of bad luck
in running, his failure can be overlooked.
Pretty Blue shaped fairly, as did Result,
but Golden Glass was disappointing.
Bruce Wood, favorite for the third
division of the Novice, did not give his
backers any cause for anxiety, and is sure
to win more races. He led into the
straight from My Own, Clare Joy and
Resign, and made better time than either
of the other division winners, notwith-
standing Cook eased him before reaching
the winning-post. He had not previously
won anything, but on the strength of his
track form he opened favorite.
Ensign outclassed his opponents in the
first division of the Three-year-old Han-
dicap. Making light of his 9.2 he was
quickly in front from St. Elmo, Two
Ton Tony and Dawn Mary, and, though
St. Elmo closed on him starting up the
hill, he shot away again, eventually win-
ning in very easy fashion from Two Ton
Tony and Dawn Mary. The last-named
is worth following. Dublin Lad had every
chance but was not good enough. He
ran fourth, but was very little ahead of
Roxford and St. Elmo. Though beaten,
Two Ton Tony made a promising show-
ing. There was backing for Valve, but
he did not show anything approaching
his form of last season.
Cape Amber gave his owners, Mrs.
C. Ruwald and I. H. Andrews, a
welcome change of luck in the second
division of the Three-year-old Handicap.
From the turn he cleared right away from
his followers, beating the second horse,
Kiacatoo, three lengths in time 2sec.
slower than Ensign recorded. Charlotte
Greenwood (Bulandshar-Gay Virginia)
and Merrimba (Caledon-Castile), who
shared favoritism, did not give their
backers a look-in. Charlotte Greenwood,
who is jointly owned by W. J. Smith and
“Mr. Constable,” cost 525gns. in Maori-
land. Cape Amber, who is by Mada-
gascar from Nom-de-plume (Comedy
King-Anonymous) was a 400gns. year-
ling.
The distance of the Carlton Mile
proved beyond Creditor, who, though he
led into the straight from Dollar and
Koorenbeen, weakened so badly over the
last half-furlong that Hope and Cooranga
ran past him. The last-named finished
strongly, and, though she failed to reach
Hope, should shortly win at a middle dis-
tance. Dollar, who was fourth, is an-
other probable winner in the near future,
while Highborn, though fairly placed
throughout, never looked more than a
possible minor-place-getter. Gladynev
was last home.
Form pointed to Aristocrat for the
Moorefield Handicap, and, disposing of
Old Serpent entering the straight, he won
easily from the latter. A protest on Old
Serpent’s behalf did not appear war-
ranted, and the stewards gave it short
shrift. Magsman outstayed Tickle for
third, and, without ever being a winning
possibility, Kurrawid improved slightly
upon his recent efforts. He is dropping
in the weights, and it may not be many
weeks before he re-enters the winning list.
Despite his 51b. penalty Aladdin started
favorite for the first division of the Fly-
ing Welter, and won his rapid improve-
ment doing credit to the ability of
his trainer. Third to Samurai and Re-
ception into the straight, Aladdin scored
by half a neck from the fast-finishing
Table Talk, who had to go rather wide
coming round the home turn. In the cir-
cumstances Table Talk may have been
slightly unlucky not to have won. Novice
got away too badly to have a chance, and
Tarn, who ran up third after failing to
jump away smartly, was beaten at the
straight entrance. Reception’s third
further evidenced that he has not im-
proved since he raced in Sydney last
season.
Spargo finished strongly to win at Ken-
sington recently, but a subsequent indif-
ferent effort at Victoria Park caused
backers to overlook him for the second
division of the Flying Welter. He fol-
lowed Electra and Gretchen into the
straight, and, after disposing of them,
beat Light Dragoon three-quarters ot a
length, though, with similar luck in run-
ning, I think positions would have been
reversed. Zel, again running an honest
race, was third,, with Toy Time,
Mahmal and Leif heading the remainder,
and, as the last-named is coming on
again, a longer distance than six furlongs
may give her a winning chance. A_pro-
test against Spargo was dismissed. Light
FOR EPSOM.
(At Mentone.)
By “SENTRY.”
Beach Hurdle Race: Paljune, 1 ;
Erua, 2; Gold Streak, 3.
Hume Handicap: Royal Comet,
1; Wynunda, 2 ; Rajputna, 3.
Waverley Handicap: Mac Rob,
1 ; True Flight, 2 ; Dannevirke, 3.
Westminster Welter Handicap:
Spearwings, 1 ; Greenwich, 2;
Astounding, 3.
August Stakes: Manrico, 1; All
Veil, 2 ; Harmonic Law, 3.
Berwick Handicap: Warbird, 1 ;
Fur Trader, 2 ; Positron, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
August Hurdle Race: Heracles,
1 ; Glittering Flame, 2; Blackie
Miller, 3.
Campbelltown Handicap: Radi-
cal, 1; Winnipeg, 2 ; Caesar, 3.
Hobartville Stakes: Tidal Wave,
1 ; Lucrative, 2; Broadcaster or
Trueness, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap: Freckles,
1 ; Scientist, 2; Patrician, 3.
Warwick Stakes: Beaulivre, 1 ;
Nightbeam, 2 ; Reading, 3.
Warwick Spring Handicap:
Binnia Hero, 1 ; Dashing Cavalier,
2 ; Gundagai or Bristol, 3. »
Glenlee Handicap: Sigh, 1 ;
Breeze, 2; Speardale or Table
Talk, 3.


SAVE MONEY
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
Eftraan
ss?
w
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
ore an aid to
SAFETY
Good acceleration is a definite
aid to safety. Ability to dart
swiftly out of danger may save
your car from an accident.
Install Champion spark
plugs. They keep your car at
its peak performance. And
Champions save you money
in fuel economy.
I An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
Dragoon did strike trouble, but the
stewards did not consider Spargo was
responsible.
* * * *
In Sydney on Monday Beaulivre was
favorite for the Epsom, with High Caste
and El Golea following in that order.
Others prominent were Beau Vite, Gold
Salute, Geebung, Radical and Tetreen.
Reading was the popular selection for the
Metropolitan, with Beau Vite, Beaulivre
and Gundagai next, and then Buzalong,
Beaupartir, Mosaic and Pantler. For
the Caulfield Cup, High Caste and His-
torian had joined Gladynev at the top
of the list, and they were followed by
Beaulivre.and True Flight. Then came
Beau Vite, Landlaw, Moonray and Read-
ing. Maikai headed the Melbourne Cup
list, Beau Vite and Wilson following him,
and then Apostrophe, Mosaic and
Rivette.
* * * *
Radical has been taken for the first
leg of various Epsom and Metropolitan
doubles, and several fancied horses have
been coupled with Binnia Hero for the
second leg. If Radical has a good
Epsom chance with 7.12 he should make
a bold bid for the Campbelltown Handi-
cap with 8.4. In the Warwick Farm
Spring Handicap the same applies to
Binnia Hero, who has a pound less than
in the Metropolitan. At his last start
Radical won a Flying Handicap at Can-
terbury with 8.9, beating Winnipeg (9.2).
There is 51b. between them on Saturday,
and Radical has been placed at Rand-
wick. Binnia Hero has won three races
at that track, the best being Tattersall’s
Cup, in which he had 7.7. Dashing
Cavalier, Cable Boy, Bristol and Pantler
are others that will be suited by the
11 furlongs, and Gundagai will have to
make a good showing to retain his
position in the Metropolitan quotations.
If the Campbelltown Handicap had
been selected for Nightbeam he would
have played a prominent part, but it is
understood that he is to be a runner for
the Warwick Stakes, in which he has
51b. allowance. Defaulter, at 11 to 8 on,
won that race last year, St. Constant
running second.
* * * *
Old-time Sydney jockey, M. Connell,
sprung a surprise on Adelaide backers
when he won the Mayor’s Mile with
Silent Tip last week. So little did the
public think of Silent Tip’s chance that
in a field of eight he paid a totalisator
dividend of £35 4s. for £l. Connell gave
Silent Tip a trial in Sydney, but did no
good with him. A hot favorite in Bob’s
Idea won the Adelaide G.N. Steeple-
chase on Saturday. He is by Fleuriste,
who ran second to his stable-companion
Rostrum in the 1922 Epsom. There was
so little in it that E. A. Connolly, who
owned both, rushed down from the stand
under the impression that Fleuriste had
won.
* * * *
Royal Calcutta T.C. stipendiary
steward J. Higgins intended remaining
in Sydney until October, but he left for
Singapore this week, and from there will
tranship to India. One reason for his
change of plans was that several younger
officials had been called up for army
service, leaving a shortage; and another
was the possibility of shipping difficulties
interfering with his return and making
him late for the commencement of the
important meetings.
* * * *
After Nightbeam’s defeat in the Kur-
nell Quality Handicap at Ascot some
followers of racing were disposed to
discount his Derby chance slightly, this
on the score that he was close enough
to the leaders at the top of the straight
to make his chance a winning one if as
good as previously believed. For my
part, I did not think his failure could be
counted against him. He narrowly missed
going over Insignia when that horse fell,
was temporarily unbalanced, and then
had to be hard ridden to make up his
leeway. If he had been meeting very
poor horses his defeat would have dis-
counted him, but he was opposing well-
seasoned opponents that were carrying
much less weight than that under which
they had recently shown form. Whether
Nightbeam firms or weakens as a Derby
fancy depends more on how he shapes
in the race chosen for him at Warwick
Farm than his Ascot failure.
* * * *
High Caste has continued to make good
progress during the past week, and it is
suggested that the stable may yet give
him preference to Gladynev for the
Caulfield Cup. Perhaps ; but though he
has been sprinting remarkably well it is
no certainty he will stay much better than
last season, when, on the two occasions
he attempted a mile and a half in
Derbies, he was wanting over the last bit.
When he made his effort in the A.J.C.
Derby he momentarily looked like beat-
ing Reading, but was outstayed, and the
latter defeated him more decisively in
the Victoria Derby and the V.R.C. St.
Leger. At eight or nine ‘furlongs he is
likely to act up to his form of last season
—a mile and a quarter may also be with-
in his compass. However, though he won
the Fisher Stakes at a mile and a half a
hard-run handicap at that distance may
trouble him. Presumably this year’s
Caulfield Cup will be run at Flemington,
which also makes it a severer test than
if the race were decided on the V.A.T.C.’s
own course.
* * * *
The V.R.C. received less revenue last
season than the previous one, book-
makers’ fees alone dropping £4500, which
points to the Melbourne Ring now find-
ing the totalisator a formidable competi-
tor. The club made a profit of £14,400,
but that was £7500 less than in 1938-39.
Reduction of the value of the Melbourne
Cup to £7OOO is said to be a possibility,
but that would still leave it a very de-
sirable stake. For the sake of the Cup’s
prestige, the committee can be relied on
to do all that is possible to avoid reduc-
tion of its value. If it should be cut
down there may be an ever larger field
than usual for the Caulfield Cup, run
a little over a fortnight earlier and carry-
ing a total of £6500 and a trophy of £l5O.
Last year there were 25 starters for the
Caulfield Cup and 24 for the Melbourne
Cup.
* * * *
E. McMenamin’s long list of wins does
not include many races of special im-
portance, but Beau Vite may change that
for him. He is to ride him in all his
spring engagements. Beau Vite, with
£5015, was the principal winner in Maori-
land last season. In Sydney he won the
Canterbury Stakes and the Clarendon
Stakes at Rosehill, beating Reading and
High Caste in the latter, but was in
receipt of 81b. from each. His form in
the two Derbies was disappointing, but
he ran eighth in the Melbourne Cup.
Owner R. Stewart, who arrived from
Maoriland last week, is pleased with the
progress Beau Vite made during the
winter, but is not inclined to indulge in
optimism as to his possible achievements
during the next couple of months. “Big
handicaps in Australia are always diffi-
cult to win, and the weight-for-age races
look like being very hard this time,” was
his comment at Moorefield on Saturday.
T. R. George could not come over with
Beau Vite owing to the large string he
has in training. George has nearly a
dozen two-year-olds in his care.
* * * *
Reading, Trueness and John were
among the gallopers between races at
Moorefield on Saturday. Trueness pleased
more than John, who has not developed
to any marked extent since the autumn.
At the time of writing they are in the
Hobartville Stakes, and if they both run
the filly may be the better. Reading
worked by himself, and his appearance
bore out all the flattering references to
him that have recently appeared in print.
He is not thrown into the Metropolitan
with 9st., but if he does not do as well
as his backers anticipate it is unlikely
to be due to anything lacking in his con-
dition.
* * * %
Rosehill is to be added to the clubs
with win-and-place totalisators, and ac-
cording to present arrangements they will
be installed by November. The dual
method of betting pleases the public, and
when racing is resumed at Warwick Farm
it is practically certain it will also be
adopted at that course. At Randwick
last season totalisator speculation per
head on several days was greater than in
some previous years. As there is no
falling-off in applications for book-
makers’ licenses there must be a general
increase in money for betting in Sydney.
Which reminds me that in one State in
America a move is being made to have
bookmakers and tote on its courses. Now
that bookmaking has again been abol-
ished in New York course betting in
every State is through the tote, though
“off-the-course” bookmakers are numer-
ous in every big city, notwithstanding
that that form of betting is illegal.
* * * *
A little while ago a Melbourne paper
authoritatively announced that the owner
of Beaulivre had backed his horse for a
substantial amount for the “two Cups”
double. At Moorefield on Saturday
owner E. C. Harnett had another dip in
the double lottery, supporting Beaulivre
for the Epsom and Metropolitan.
Whether either double is a sound invest-
ment is a matter of opinion, as success in
the Epsom will mean extra poundage for
the Metropolitan, and if he should win
the Caulfield Cup his Melbourne Cup
weight must go up. Perhaps in the event
of Beaulivre being defeated in the Epsom
his owner intends missing the Metropoli-
tan and concentrating on the two Cups.
In the circumstances the wiser plan for
a backer at this stage might be to back
Beaulivre for the Epsom and Caulfield
Cup. This in the belief that those are
the two handicaps most likely to be
chosen for him. If Beaulivre wins the
Epsom his supporters for that race can
afford to lose their Caulfield Cup money,
and if he is beaten in that they willjiave
a good price about him for the Caulfield
Cup. Still, the £3BOO first money
attached to the Metropolitan is worth
attention. Munro is to ride Beaulivre in
the Epsom.
if * * *
At the AJ.C. spring meeting at Rand-
wick on October 5,7, 9 and 12 there are
eight races of £lOOO or over. They are
as follows: —First day: AJ.C. Derby,
£5OOO ; Epsom Handicap, £3OOO ; Colin
Stephen Stakes, £l3OO. Second day:
Breeders’ Plate, £1300; Metropolitan,
£5OOO. Third day: Craven Plate, £l3OO ;
Gimcrack Stakes, £l3OO. Fourth day:
Randwick Plate, £lOOO. With the excep-
tion of Ajax, runners for five of the races
mentioned will between them include
most of Australia’s best horses, as well
as a Maoriland visitor in Beau Vite.
* * * *
Stablemates Round Up and Gladynev
each had their first start of the season
at Moorefield on Saturday, and, while
the former finished ahead of a couple
of opponents in his race, the latter, after
making a short dash at one stage, finished
last. Neither had done sufficient in the
way of fast track work to suggest win-
ning possibilities, and Gladynev carried
281 b. more than his Caulfield Cup weight.
Some backers who have commenced
“two Cups” doubles with him would
have liked him to have done a little
better, but an interval of nearly two
months will permit of great improve-
ment. There is nothing special in Glady-
nev’s appearance. He is medium sized
and fairly strongly built, but not stylish.
In Sydney it is probable he will con-
tinue to get his full share of weight —
possibly a little over it —but if he should
strike his best Maoriland form' he is
bound to be a tough proposition in the
Caulfield Cup with 6.7.
* * * *
Opinions differed as to whether Ajax
would be as good this season as in the
past. Some keen judges had an idea he
was on the down grade, but the manner
in which he defeated El Golea and
Aurie’s Star in the Underwood Stakes
at Moonee Valley disposed of that idea.
The last-mentioned two had recently
shown first-class form under big weights
in handicaps, but when they met Ajax
it was the old story. He outclassed them.
Photographs of the race show him to
be travelling in smoother fashion at
the finish of the race than at the straight
entrance.
* * * *
Bearing on spring handicap possibili-
ties, the best form shown last Saturday
was that of Buzalong in the Newcastle
Cup, and of Millie’s Hope in Tat-
tersall’s Cup in Brisbane. The former,
with 9.4, 21b. more than his Metropolitan
weight, walked away with his race. “Won
from the first hundred yards” was the
way I heard the Cup described. Millie's
Hope carried 9.7, against the 8.6 he has
in the Metropolitan, and won in the
excellent time of 2.3 f for a mile and a
quarter. Last year Millie’s Hope was
one of the early fancies for the
Caulfield Cup, in which he had 8.8. He
ran nowhere, but seemingly he is now
a better horse.
Buzalong, who has been something of
a goldmine for A. Leftwich, was second
in the 1938 Metropolitan with 8.5, won
the Caulfield Cup with 8.6, and the
Bond Handicap with 9„3. Last season
he was fourth in the Metropolitan with
8.13, and sixth with 8.12 in the Mel-
bourne Cup, in which he did better than
in the Caulfield Cup with 9.0. This year
his Melbourne Cup weight is 8.10, so
it is on the cards for him to again run
well in that race. He is also in the
Epsom with 9.0, but though at one time
the idea obtained that a mile was his
best distance, and he was third in a
Doncaster with 8.6, he subsequently did
better over longer distances.
Several other Metropolitan candidates
ran on Saturday, and of those that did
so in Sydney Cooranga impressed me
most. Hope, on 51b. worse than Metro-
politan terms, beat her in the Carlton
Mile, but he had a pull in condition.
Aristocrat had an easy win in the Moore-
field Handicap, and, while the Metro-
politan distance may not be beyond him
in October, the difficulty may be to
secure a 6.7 boy capable of getting the
best out of him.
* * * *
As originally proposed by the N.S.W.
State Cabinet, Kensington, Ascot, Wyong
and Richmond are to go out of busi-
ness, exception, however, being made in
respect of trotting meetings on the last-
mentioned course. The clubs are to be
compensated from the Racing Clubs’
Compensation Fund, into which all
metropolitan clubs will pay a tax of
2 p.c. on the total gross total income,
less racing taxation. In addition, Ken-
sington will receive one year’s profits
consequent on the cancellation of its
lease from the Government. Ascot will
also get one year’s profits and compen-
sation for its buildings.
Action, however, is unlikely to be
taken before December, 1942, and as
there is no telling what may happen
politically before then it might not be
safe to bet on present intentions taking
effect. Rosebery and Victoria Park are
to have only mid-week dates, while
Hawkesbury is to become a provincial
fixture. Presumably some of the Wed-
nesdays on which Ascot and Kensington
race will be allotted to provincial clubs.
Well, as the highest average by any of
the latter was £4O per race last season,
and some got down to £l7 for divisions,
owners and trainers will be losers if
clubs averaging over £lOO a race are
wiped out. All provincial clubs are prac-
tically dependent upon metropolitan
support horses and attendance for
existence, and are not actually entitled
to special concessions in order to swell
their profits. However, if they are
allotted Wednesdays presumably the
A.J.C. will see to it that their prize-
money is reasonably close to the amount
now distributed by metropolitan clubs
on those days.
* * *
Of present-day trainers in England the
most successful in classic races are Fred
Darling and Frank Butters. Darling has


trained three Two Thousand Guineas
winners, one One Thousand Guineas
winner, the Derby winners Captain Cuttle,
Manna, Coronach, Cameronian, Bois
Roussel and Pont l’Eveque, and the St.
Leger winners Hurry On and Coronach.
Frank Butters has prepared one Two
Thousand winner, one One Thousand
winner, Derby winners in Bahram and
Mahmoud, Oaks winners in Beam, To-
boggan and Udaipur, and the St. Leger
winners Fairway, Firdaussi and Bahram.
* H= * *
F. Darling was the leading trainer at
the time racing ceased in England at
the end of June. He had 10 winners of
16 races, the prize-money totalling
£12,637. W. Nightingall and V. Smyth
had won most races, 21 each, but their
prize-money was only £3894 and £3724
respectively. Richards led the jockeys
with 46 firsts, 34 seconds and 37 thirds
from 238 mounts.
H= H= H= *
Many well-known owners and trainers
had “joined up” before racing was aban-
doned in England at the end of June.
These included Stanley Wootton, who
now has a commission in the King’s
Royal Rifles. Wootton served with the
Royal Fusiliers in the last Great War,
and gained a Military Cross. He left his
horses with his friend and former appren-
tice Staff Ingham, but they, as with all
other teams in England, are now useless
for racing purposes.
H* *i* »i»
Presumably I should range myself on
the side of the old-timers and declare that
present-day racehorses are not up to the
standard of those of between forty and
fifty years ago. It is difficult to do so, in
view of times over all distances being so
much faster than in those days. In
breeding racehorses speed is the first es-
sential, and there can be little amiss
when, as compared with earlier periods,
there is marked improvement at prac-
tically all distances from half a mile to
two miles. Better tracks and different
style of riding are invariably stressed by
admirers of the past.
It is undeniable that the forward seat
does more towards helping horses to
gallop fast than the old upright style, but
for at least thirty-five years the former
has been the general thing, and still race
times have gone on improving. Thirty
years ago some Randwick records were
as follows: Six furlongs, Soultline, 1,12£ ;
mile, Montcalm, 1.37|; mile and a
quarter, Son of the Marsh, 2.5} ; mile
and a half, Marlee, 2.32|; and two miles,
Tartan, 3.27. The respective records at
Randwick for those distances are now
I.lo*, 1.35|, 2.21, 2.29|, and 3.211. Al-
lowing that the track at Randwick is more
set than thirty years ago and heavier
rollers are used to keep it in condition,
its improvement has not been as corre-
spondingly great as the times recorded.
It will also be noted by those who be-
moan the alleged deterioration of our
stayers that they are keeping up with the
sprinters in respect of advancement in
speed. Anyhow, with so much study now
devoted to breeding, it would be absurd
to think our racehorses have stood still
for the last forty or fifty years.
H= % Hs *
1 have always maintained tfiat the
principal thing achieved by the debar-
ment of geldings from the principal
three-year-old races in Sydney and Mel-
bourne was the increase of undesirable
stallions. That idea now obtains in
America in respect of some of its valuable
three-year-old events. For nearly 10
years the gelding bar has applied to such
races as the Belmont, the Withers, the
Preakness, the Futurity and the Lawrence
Realisation, with the result that many
yearlings were left entire, and though
useless as racehorses were later used at
the stud. “Before the racing legislation
referred to was enacted,” says a leading
American writer, “many colts were
‘added to the list’ each year, and racing
was the gainer thereby. I am firmly
convinced we would have more high-
class older horses racing in America if
50 per cent, of the colts foaled each year
were cut.” He then instances the deeds
accomplished by such geldings as Ex-
terminator, Borrow, Old Rosebud and
Roamer, who last much longer than
stallions.
* * * *
The most pleasing cabled sporting news
of last week was that racing was to be
resumed in England, and that the St.
Leger would be run next month, though
under conditions differing from those
originally advertised, when the added
money was £4OOO and the entrants totalled
339. The Derby winner Pont l’Eveque
was not of the number, but will be
able to come in consequent on new con-
ditions. Last war the St. Leger was run
at Newmarket as the September Stakes,
the respective winners being Pommern,
Hurry On, Gay Crusader and Gains-
borough. S. Donoghue rode Pom-
mern and Gay Crusader and J.
Childs was on the other two. I
saw it stated in an English paper that the
abandonment of racing at the end of
June threw 25,000 people out of work,
of whom a large percentage were too old
to assist in war work, and that the town
of Newmarket, which practically depends
upon racing for existence, was in a
business sense almost wiped out. It was
affected more than any other racing
centre. There is, of course, the pos-
sibility of German raids causing racing
again to be declared off.
* * * *
According to Maoriland’s racing in-
spectors there was an invasion of Aus-
tralian “crooks” during the recent season.
They toured the country in cars, race
meetings being the objective. However,
their luck was out, as their identity was
discovered at an early period, and they
were afforded little opportunity of turn-
ing their “cleverness” to account.
* * * *
Japan disposed of its Derby at Tokyo
in June, and as there was an attendance
of 56,000 evidently racegoers did not
allow the war with China to worry them.
There was a record tote turnover. Twenty-
four started, and after a great finish
leryu, who was fourth in demand, won
by half a head from Minami in 2.34 2-5
for the mile and a half. As the record
for the race is 2.33 2-5 they have some
fair gallopers in Japan. leryu is by
Hournesol, a son of Gainsborough and
Soliste ; Minami is by Primero, a brother
to Trigo and Harinero ; and the third
horse, Boom, is by Kabutoyama, a son
of Shian Mor (Buchan-Orlass). The
breeder, trainer, and jockey of the winner
each received a premium from the club.
* * * *
Prior to the occupation of France by
the Germans the American breeder
A. B. Hancock had made arrangements
for the importation of Tourbillon, sire
of Djebel, winner of the English Two
Thousand. However, nothing has been
heard of Tourbillon since France’s sur-
render, and Hancock has now given up
hope of ever seeing him. It is probable
that Tourbillon, Djebel and a fair pro-
portion of France’s best horses will even-
tually be removed to Germany, if they
are not already there. As Germany is
reported to have continued racing
throughout the war additions to its
thoroughbred stock will be welcomed.
It is to be hoped England will eventually
be in a position that will enable it to
levy on the lot, if that procedure is
considered desirable.
H= * * *
Royal Danieli, who ran second in the
1938 Liverpool Grand National Steeple-
chase, and was a 4-to-l favorite for that
race last April, was so badly injured
when he fell that, despite every effort
possible being made to save him, he had
to be destroyed in June. Early last year
a lady who races under Jockey Club and
National Hunt Rules offered £12,000 for
Royal Danieli, or alternatively £6OOO for
a half-share in him. The fact of both
offers being refused gives a fair idea of
the value of a high-class steeplechaser in
England. Royal Danieli was a gelding.
* He * *
Seabiscuit having retired, Challedon
and Kayak II were rated the best horses
in the $50,000 Hollywood Gold Cup, \\
mile, which was to have been run at
Hollywood Park (Inglewood, Cal.) on
July 27. Each was allotted 9.7, and
nearest to them of the other 47 entrants
was He Did (8.8). At one time it was
unusual for horses to be weighted above
9st. in important American handicaps,
but now a higher maximum is favored.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Miller v. Miller
Fought under Marquess of Q. rules with
certain American and/or Siamese amend-
ments, this contest took place at Leich-
hardt Stadium and resulted in a win for
Miller on one or two fouls.
It promised well to kick off with,
Miller, who looked to have much more
than the officially stated weight advan-
tage, moving out of his corner and
quickly driving Miller up against the
ropes, where he waded into him with a
furious onslaught of right and left swings,
the energy of which was more creditable
than the aim.
After that burst, however, Miller went
into his shell, and it was now Miller’s
turn to attack. This he did with enthu-
siasm, jolting Miller with short right-hand
punches to the jaw and some abrupt hooks
in the region of the liver. Miller accept-
ing all this with an expression of bore-
dom, the round was easily Miller’s, and
so was the next also.
Despite his disadvantage in weight and
reach, Miller was, in fact, putting up a
pretty good performance, and if Miller
had been content to let him carry on in
that fashion there’s little doubt that Mil-
ler would have won. But in the next
Miller decided that this had gone on
long enough. Still relying mainly on
swings, he broke down Miller’s defences
and thudded wallops to his head and ribs.
One swing seemed to go a trifle low, and
ref. Pearson spoke a word or two in
Miller’s ear, but that could have made no
difference to Miller’s margin in the
round. He won it very comfortably, and,
as he continued the good work in the
next, opened Miller’s left optic, and had
Miller boxed up and missing by feet,
there was now little doubt in anybody’s
mind that the ultimate winner would
be Miller.
That, as it soon turned out, was no
better than most tips, Miller being the
winner. Just before the first minute of
the fourth round expired, this scribe saw
Miller let loose a swing from somewhere
about knee-high, but can’t say just where
it landed, since Miller happened to have
his back turned. At all events, Miller
fell in a heap. Ref. Pearson at once
waved Miller back to his comer, and it
was given out that Miller would have
the rest of the round-time and the inter-
val in which to recover.
This indicated that the affray was being
conducted under that happy importation
the no-foul rule, which went to compli-
cate matters that were further com-
plicated by the patent fact that Miller
was not wearing a guard. Anyway, they
carried Miller to his corner, rubbed him,
slapped him about the torso, stretched
out his legs and worked them up and
down, and doused his head with enough
water to see Sydney through the summer.
Then it was announced that Miller would
have a further five minutes for recovery,
and, after that time had dragged away,
Miller, though looking a trifle groggy,
came from his corner, touched extended
glove-tips with Miller, as though to say,
“She’s jake with me, boy ; no hard feel-
ings as between Millers,” and they were
into it again.
But not for long. Miller let loose
another swing that would have done
credit to the famed underarm bowlers
of yore, and the ref. instantly proclaimed
Miller the winner. When this scribe left
the precincts, Miller was sitting in his
corner feeling sore and Miller was sitting
looking sore, and the crowd was saying
things which might be translated “A
plague on both your Millers!”
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The great amount of press comment
on Ed (“Porky”) Oliver’s disqualification
after tying with Lawson Little and Gene
Sarazen for the American open cham-
pionship has given the former New York
butcher-boy a reputation that even Little,
the ultimate winner, did not achieve.
Public sentiment was on Oliver’s side
when the U.S. Golf Association allowed
Hagen to start ten minutes late and then
calmly disqualified Oliver for driving off
20 minutes early.
While Oliver was treated in this shabby
manner at Cleveland his luck turned the
following week: he got a job with a lead-
ing sporting-goods maker that will bring
him in £3OOO to £4OOO a year. Now tour-
ing the country playing exhibitions, Oliver
has been earning hundreds of dollars
daily since his “fame” has become wide.
In one match he produced a tremendous
clock from his bag on the first tee to
make sure he started on time.
Jug McSpaden, holder of the Canadian
and Philippine open championships, plays
his game from start to finish with a pipe
in his mouth. This unusual sight on the
course makes him a favorite among the
cartoonists. A beautiful shotmaker and
a deadly putter, McSpaden has had a
great run during the last 12 months, win-
ning over 5000 dollars in prize-money.
Olin Dutra, 1934 United States open
champion, who resides in California, has
at last, after 20 years, won his State open
championship. Dutra, a fine stylist, has
been prominent in competitive golf for
many years, but could never succeed
in winning his local event, although he
won nearly every other tournament in
the country. In a game with Dutra at
Cleveland I saw him do a 68 which in-
cluded ten one-putt greens and six birdies.
During a visit to Canada I played on
a fine course in Windsor belonging to
the Essex Country Club. Just across the
river from Detroit, this beautifully-kept
championship course is one of the best,
in the Dominion. Measuring 6683yds.
in length, and parred at 72, it has tree-
lined fairways and the best greens I have
seen apart from Bobby Jones’s Augusta
course.
There are many fine courses in Canada.
Like Australia, this Dominion is very
golf-minded, and despite the war has not
curtailed any of its major events. The
Canadian open championship, played on
August 15, 16 and 17 in Toronto, at-
tracted leading American players to con-
test the £lOOO purse that the local asso-
ciation offered.
While in Canada I was glad to play
again with the regular-size ball that is
used all over the world bar in the U.S.A.
There is a difference between the balls
that means a lot to the better players,
especially on the greens, where I noticed
the smaller ball seemed to drop into the
hole much easier than the big ball. The
Canadian professionals who use both sizes
rarely play with the big ball from
preference.
One of the reasons why amateur golfers
in the United States attain such perfec-
tion lies in the fact that during the season
from May to September they can leave
their work at 5 p.m. and play till 8.30
or 9 o’clock, owing to daylight-saving
and the longer twilight. These hours of
play and practice have 'been the means of
many a promising youngster being able
to improve rapidly in a short time, while
during the winter snows indoor nets keep
them in touch with the game.
The amateurs, too, have regular lessons
from the professionals. Most good Aus-
tralian amateurs would consider a lesson
from a professional a last resort, but the
players over here think almost solely of
progressing, so they swallow their pride
and seek professional advice freely. Most
of the best amateurs here are pupils of
the leading professionals.
* * * *
Ferrier has won the Chicago district
amateur championship —an event not
previously carried off by a foreigner.
Americans now expect him to win the
U.S. amateur next month.
Footbrawl
Before Saturday’s matches in the V.F.L.
competition, seven teams were in the
running for “the four.” Victories to
Geelong, Essendon, Richmond and Mel-
bourne made their places almost certain.
At home to Footscray, Geelong made
the pace from the first bounce, matching
’Scray at its own game and keeping a
wary eye on the visitors’ mosquito fleet.
Both sides were over-tense, which led to
some scrambling and fumbling. At
half-time the glad news was wired home
that the Scraggers were seven points
ahead. But Geelong took the lead early
in 'the third, and held it doggedly to a
roaring finish: Geelong, 12-17; Foots-
cray, 11-18.
Out Collingwood way they’ve taken to
talking and dreaming of a glorious past
as one way of forgetting the inglorious
present. The team that once towered
over all others has failed to reach the
four for the first time in seven seasons.
On Saturday it was the victim of the
tragedy which took place at Essendon,
where ’Wood got 6-16 to 12-20.
On their home ground the Saints must
have come out with soft shells on against
Richmond. The Tigers proceeded to crack
them enthusiastically, going straight
through the kernel every time for 20-15
to 10-17.
There was another debacle at North
Melbourne. The locals were short of
nine regular men and struggled hopelessly
against South Melbourne, which booted
16-23 to 8-5.
Out to erase the insult of a previous
defeat, Melbourne received the Haw-
thorn team with something like a howl
of joy. The usual crowd stayed away
in thousands, and the competition leaders
took a brutal revenge. When the bom-
bardment died down, Hawthorn had
managed to escape with 8-14, and Mel-
bourne had chalked up 26-20.
Fitzroy, at home to Carlton and with
a place in the “four” dangling before its
eyes, kicked a goal ten seconds from the
first bounce. Obviously annoyed, the
Blues retaliated, and at the end of a game
in which V.F.L. and Rafferty’s rules were
intermingled they had 12-14 to 10-11.
* * * *
It is to be Manly v. Randwick for the
Sydney Rugby Union premiership next
Saturday ; and a good game it should be,
both teams favoring open methods. In
the final against Manly St. George again
won the ball from scrums and lineouts
and again lost because of inferiority in
the backs. They fumbled and threw
passes wildly, ran sideways, kicked when
in possession, ran backwards —did any-
thing, in fact, but go ahead with the
ball. At half-time it was 6-3 in Manly s
favor, and after that, despite all the
efforts of the sterling St. George pack.
Manly scored four tries, winding up with
24 points to 3.


'SUN RIPENED OATS "’•**
BRING HEALTH TO YOUR GLASS /
'T'OOHEYS Oatmeal Stout is brewed from the
1 rich, ripe oats of our own sunny country
brewed for Australian conditions and climate. It
is the national tonic food.
*
,r •• 'v *'|
> i
m
• I i
n H
Ml
t
UL
Tooheys
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA: CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane. Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun«
ceston.
“LEND to DEFEND-BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES”


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Ki3ney Tubes
■—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANDREW HARVEY, formerly of Excelsior
and Piamlong, New South Wales, Australia,
or anyone knowing his present whereabouts, is
requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE. Rotorua, New Zealand.
GRIFFIN—WouId EMILY MORLAND
GRIFFIN, wife of Aubrey Annersley Griffin,
whose last known address was C/o Standard
Bank of South Africa, Ltd., West Street,
Durban (last heard of about 1934), or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, please communicate
with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO. (LTD.),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney?
IN the Estate of MARGARET WEBSTER
TEUNON, late of Hobart in Tasmania,
Spinster, deceased. T i Krt
IT IS REQUESTED that WALLACE
TEUNON, of Melbourne, in Victoria, Car-
penter, or any of his children, will communi-
cate with the undersigned.
NATIONAL EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
COMPANY OF TASMANIA, LIMITED,
Collins Street, Hobart.
A WOMANS
LETTER
Five hundred eager souls plus bodies
crowded into Romano’s last Friday to
help the younger workers for the Mayor’s
Patriotic Fund garner more comforts for
soldiers. The bar was busy between six
and eight, and the tables were crowded
with the usual assortment of savory,
sandwich and sausage. The place was
a din of the not-always-lovely human
accents, the rattle of the fruit machine
handles, the whirring of wheels of fate.
All the younger set had their heads
planted with the newest in cocktail hats
—a parterre, a plot, or a posy of flowers
moored to . the head with ribbon. One
of the prettiest was worn by Mrs. Lex
Laurence. Her husband is a son of the
original of “Hop’s” famous “Little Boy
at Manly.” Mrs. Laurence is blonde,
and as dainty as the posy of English
flowers that made her hat. Eve Sheedy’s
millinery, too, was springlike. Publicity
officer Nancy Burleigh had made her own
flower headdress. Pat Murray was lovely
in black with a blue topknot. The wife
of Dr. Jim Eakin was the complete
hostess, in white.
Lisa Perli, a golden glitter, Harold
Williams and Heddle Nash were the prin-
cipals at the Beecham choral concert on
Saturday night. The Town Hall was
crowded with humans and excitement.
All music-lovers are sorry that this was
the last concert of the Beecham season.
Works under the baronet’s baton take
on an added sensitiveness, distil more
subtle essence. In short, this Letter
names him its prize conductor. Mrs.
Harold Williams was in the audience ;
so were the twins, Veronica and Vernita.
Their frilly white tulles and black velvet
coats were alike, probably in every stitch.
Mrs. Heddle Nash’s brocades were blue
and silver. Dorothy Helmrich was
among the thousands.
The Ballet has gone from the Royal,
and last Saturday night saw the foyer
filled with girls and boys who
talked of skating instead of dancing.
Inside the stage was a block of ice,
the scenery a blaze of color and the girls
in the ballet as pretty as magazine ads.
Phil Taylor leaped over barrels and
skated about on stilts, and daughter
Megan showed why she has twice been
world’s champion; there were “Dutch
Ballet,” “The Moth and the Flame,”
“Christmas Toys” and many other grace-
ful items, interspersed with comedy.
Balletomanes may turn up their noses at
this sort of thing, but Sono Osato and
Toumanova found it interesting enough
on the first night.
The Rachel Forster Hospital (run by
women for women and children) had the
foundation-stone laid at 150 Pitt-street,
Redfern, and next year the new hospital
wili arise there. It will hold 110 beds.
Lady Wakehurst laid the stone last Satur-
day in workmanlike fashion, and the big
moment of the afternoon was the reading
of the cable from Lady Forster. This
sent congratulations on the progress
of the hospital, which had been
named for her in 1922, and promised
a cheque for £lO. Lady Forster at the
time of the founding of the institution
was the wife of Australia’s Governor-
General. Acting Minister for Health
Primrose, the hospital’s president Mrs.
Read, the Mayor of Redfern, Dr>Lucy
Gullett, benefactor George Gillespie, who
gave nearly £BOOO for the purchase of
the new site, and the Clive Evatts were
among the official guests.
The Harold Botts combined the house-
warming in their new home at Killara
and the announcement of the wedding
of Mrs. Bott’s sister, Betty Brown, and
Dr. lan Duncan. The house, built on
spacious, straight lines, lent itself to the
party spirit. It was a suitable background
for the recent bride’s finely-pleated white
chiffons and fluff of white ostrich-feather
cape. ’Groom’s khaki (he’s in the
A.A.M.C.) looked well on his slim figure.
A score or so of brother-officers came to
bear him company, but quickly got off
in the dance with the prettiest girls.
Hostess was handsome in plum-blue taf-
fetas. The music world was well repre-
sented. Constance Pickworth, Hazel
Kelso King and Phyllis Arnott were song-
birds in gay plumage. Tenor Albert
Jones and his wife forsook the Beecham
concert to come. So did Mrs. Hope Gib-
son, who told of the thousands and thou-
sands of pounds the A.B.C. patriotic con-
certs had raised. The A. E. McCartneys
were there with their pretty Betty. Well-
knowns of the North Shore line were in
the company, including the Moxhams and
daughter Judith with her Alistair Smith.
Helen Clark was another attractive girl.
The wife of knight banker Alfred;
Davidson, who controls the destiny of
the Bank of N. S. Wales, looks out from
this Norton Trevaire photograph. One
of Sydney’s well-known hostesses, she
is now giving much of her time to war
work. The War Comforts Committee
of the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund finds her
untiring, and always on deck. But even
with the screaming sirens of war which
we all hear in the heart every time the
bombers fly over the corners of England
that we have- known in days of peace, the
Davidson lady keeps steadily on with the
work for the Industrial Blind Institution.
She is president of its Women’s
Auxiliary, and one of the most energetic
in the cause.
Mrs. Sterling Levis, with daughter Joan
(now Jill owing to there being eight Joans
in the same hotel, and five in her beauty
culture class at the London County
Council Technical School), is home after
almost two years of foreign travel. Mrs.
Levis, whose graceful poetry has often
appeared in the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror,” will soon have the pleasure of
seeing one of her poems, “Drooping
Wings,” in a musical setting by Roger
Quilter. He thinks it ideal for a part-
song for women’s voices. Since the war
started Mrs. Levis had been doing
canteen work in the Victoria League’s
club for servicemen in the women’s
quarters of London University. Mrs.
Levis worked with Lady Peel’s group.
Lady Peel was, before her marriage to
Sir William, a Miss Laing, whose father
had charge of the cable station at La
Perouse.
Among London friends were the Cap-
tain Harcourt couple. He will be re-
membered in navy circles here, as he was
for some time attached to Garden Island.
At their home on Sunday evenings are
to be found the great in music. Mrs.
Harcourt is a gifted pianist who studied
in Vienna with Paderewski’s teacher,
Leschetizky. With son Miles (still at
Moorefields eye hospital) and Jill, Mrs.
Levis did a leisurely motor tour of Eng-
land, Scotland and Ireland. The granite
walls of Galway, the fuchsia hedges, the
purple mountains still live in memory.
Revues were having a great run in Lon-
don when the Australian departed.
“Come Out of Your Shell,” “Come Out
and Play” and “The Little Dog Laughed”
were booming. “Thunder Rock,” starring
Michael Redgrave, and “Rebecca” were
proving enormous draws.
The American journalists touring Aus-
tralia as guests of the Commonwealth
blew in and blew out of Sydney. They
perched for a flashing interlude between
flights to Newcastle and Canberra. Some-
body said they gave a whole hour to the
B.H.P. works in the former city! Seems
to this writer that it would have been
fairer all around to give the boys five
weeks instead of five days. From passing
glimpses and remarks, they seemed an
amiable lot. The Federal Government’s
reception to the visitors brought politi-
cians, Americans in Sydney, the Navy,
the Army and generally all who’s-who
to the Kent-room of the Australia.
The Federal Treasurer Percy Spenders
acted as host and hostess. Somebody
remarked as the cocktails circulated
“Thank heaven it isn’t petrol.” Wood-
land greens and browns were worn by
Mrs. Spender.
Last week’s symphony concert was an-
other Beecham triumph. The programme
ran from Mozart to Tschaikowsky, with
Delius and Mendelssohn in between. The
tumultuous “Francesca” was the cres-
cendo of the evening. The clash of steel
in the last movement struck emotional
flint in the listeners, and the result was
applause that crackled like a conflagra-
tion. Lyndall Hendrickson, her elfish face
and head arising from a ground-length
white tulle frock that was like a whipped-
up sherbet, was the soloist in the Men-
delssohn concerto. Lyndall is an Adel-
aide girl of 19. She has the Scot and
the Dane in her ancestry and the Czech
in her musical education. Ludovic
Schwab, of Adelaide, was her teacher.
Mrs. O. E. Friend, wrapped in an un-
usual fur coat, was a listener. Maria
Markan, very blue of eye above black-
and-white, was another of the hundreds.
Miss Mary Fairfax, the Walter Swinsons,
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar and the Bertie
Kellys were in their accustomed places.
A frock of alternate bands of black and
gold was worn by Ruby Adams under a
deep cape of mink. Alice Prowse, in
skyey-blues, made her first appearance
since her American travels. She was
with Mrs. Roland Foster. Mrs. Sterling
Levis and daughter Jill renewed acquaint-
ance with Sir Thomas’s baton, which they
had last seen weaving magic in London.
The Julius lady and Sir Hugh and Lady
Poynter were others.
This is a new photograph of Mrs. Sybil
Greenwell, president of the Law School
Comforts Fund. Latest report from her
is that the fund is coming along nicely,
and expects to be quite a few pounds
heavier as the result of the Law School
dance last week. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Mary Kelly, niece to the Bertie Kellys
and daughter of Will Kelly, newly re-
turned to Sydney, is wearing a magnifi-
cent silver eagle of Poland. She has
earned it by her work for that distressful
country in England, in U.S.A. and in
Canada. In these three countries the
Polish Relief committees are very vital.
Their plans envisage social reconstruc-
tion after the war. Mary has come back
to Sydney with a grand idea for put-
ting fresh vigor into our younger Polish
Relief workers. In her scheme seventeen
girls will represent the provinces of
Poland. Each province pledges herself to
enrol ten counties, each county and the
province herself to be responsible for one
shilling a week —eleven shillings in all.
Multiply that by seventeen and you get
the amount in pounds, shillings and
pence. Only a province is entitled to
wear one of the magnificent silver birds.
The scheme is not to be confined to the
city. If any girl in a country town can
enrol her 10 counties, and wants to be a
province, all she has to do is to write to
Mary at the Macquarie Club. In fact,
country girls will be welcomed with open
arms. Mary, slim and vivid, expatiating
on the wrongs of Poland, which coun-
try she has visited on many occasions,
starting in childhood, would need a
Racine to do her justice. Certainly that
eagle is the most attractive war work
emblem seen in our midst.
The chairman of the War Veterans’
Homes, Dr. William Wood, and Mrs.
Wood will be host and hostess to
Mrs. O’Malley Wood and a party
of 30 incapacitated ex-servicemen
from Graythwaite at the Veterans’
Home, Bare Island, La Perouse, tomorrow
(Thursday) from 2 to 5.30. The
superintendent, S. M. Short, and 18
veterans in permanent residence at the
Bare Island home will assist Dr. and Mrs.
Wood in entertaining their old comrades
in arms, and showing their guests over
their fortress home. The board of man-
agement is anxious to expand the accom-
modation at Bare Island. It is hoped that
funds will become available to make
permanent homes for 50 at the La
Perouse address. About £3OOO is re-
quired to complete the expansion plan,
which will be carried out in sections.
Twenty-five pounds will build a bedroom
for a veteran, another £25 will furnish
it. Everyone is invited to help.
The Old Sydneians introduced their
colors, black and gold, in striking fashion
at their yearly dance. Yellow poppies
burst in golden fire from large black
bowls on the official table. This was
presided over by the Orwell Phillips
couple. He is president of the union,
but he did not have the pleasure of wel-
coming the school’s headmaster. Illness
kept the principal away, so he was repre-
sented by K. B. Lumsdaine, master of
the lower school. Mrs. D. C. Lavell, who
is the president of the Women’s Associa-
tion of Sydney Grammar, had white
leaves arabesqued on her petunia frock.
Its short cavalier cape of black and gold
swung from the shoulders.
Air Force blue and khaki uniforms
gave a warlike hint to the Trocadero,
otherwise so suave in atmosphere. Dinny
Buchanan’s pale gold hair and ivory
crepes were a pleasant alliance. The
W. R. Browns represented Armidale ; the
D’Arcy Shellys were The King’s ambas-
sadors, the Martin Hoares represented
St. Joseph’s. Lola Line’s wide and sway-
ing taffetas were striped green, orange,
yellow and blue. Mrs. Lennox Heery
and Mrs. Jim Lamrock were among the
glance-arresting. The Red Cross benefits
by this twentieth yearly dance of the
Union. Alan Stewart was the secretary,
L. H. Moore was the treasurer. Cosmos
pink were Mrs. Irwin Ormsby’s geor-
gettes, deep hyacinth those worn by Mrs.
Moore.
Mrs. L. A. Robb;, secretary of the A.I.F.
Comforts Fund, deserves a compliment
for the clever invitation cards to the
Fund’s cocktail party on Friday. The card
summons you to “fun, food and fluid”
at the Troc. between 5.30 and seven.
The drawing shows a very young
signaller dashing along, his boots winged
like Mercury’s. In his right hand, up-
raised, he holds a tray of cocktails ram-
pant. His left extends a plate of
savories. The whole is most spirited, and
has for background a rising sun.
Just engaged is Mollie Vale, a daugh-
ter of the Harry Vales, of Kirribilli. Her
young man is John Harris, grandson of
John Harris, onetime Mayor of Sydney.
His great-uncle, too, knight Matthew
Harris, held that high civic office. Coin-
cidence is that Mollie’s grandfather,
R. G. Watkins, was an alderman of
Sydney during both mayoral terms.
A case of French champagne and a
silver cigarette case were prizes that at-
tracted many competitors at sixpence a
time in the cause of St. Vincent's. A
bridge party wedded to a fashion parade
brought over 300 women to the Troca-
dero. Josephine Marks, who organised
the affair, wore an afternoon frock of
black silkiness. Her hat had a heaven-
sweeping brim. President Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s suit was of black velvet. Alicia
Inglis and Kathleen Cobcroft, respon-
sible for the publicity, could feel proud
of their job.
Social Sydney remembers the Edmond
Meyers. They were a very friendly pair,
and he was French Vice-Consul here till
about two years ago. Their friends, the
Norman McLeods, have had word of
them telling that Mr. and Mrs. Meyer
are safe in Panama, and that niece Irma
is with relations at Swansea (Eng.).


Legal Notice.
IN THE COUNTY COURT OF MEL-
BOURNE.
1940 No. of Plaint 2714.
BETWEEN VACUUM OIL COMPANY PRO-
PRIETARY LIMITED Plaintiff
And A. GREGORY Defendant.
TO A. GREGORY late of 480 Point Nepean
Road Chelsea in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a plaint has been
entered and a summons issued against you in
the above County Court by VACUUM OIL
COMPANY PROPRIETARY LIMITED of 29
Market Street Melbourne in the said State tor
the sum of £69 Os. 4d. for goods sold and de-
livered and an order has been made that the
publication of a notice of the entry of such
plaint in the “Age” and “Bulletin” newspapers
shall be deemed to be service of the summons
upon you AND TAKE NOTICE that unless
within ten days after publication of this notice
you return to the Registrar of this Court a
notice of intention to defend dated and signed
by yourself or your practitioner together with
a fee stamp for one shilling you will not after-
wards be allowed to make any defence to the
above claim which the Plaintiff makes upon
you but the Plaintiff may without giving any
proof in support of such claim proceed to
judgment and execution If you return such
notice to the Registrar within the time specified
you must appear at a County Court to be
holden at Melbourne on the first day ol
October 1940 at the hour of ten-thirty o clock
in the forenoon to answer the above claim the
sitting of which Court will commence on that
da DATED the 24th day of August, 1940.
G. FORREST DAVIES, of the tan of
ARTHUR ROBINSON & CO., Plaintiff s Prac-
titioners.
Divorce Notices.
TO INA ELIZABETH KATHLEEN PATRICK
(also known as Ina Elizabeth Kathaleen
Patrick) formerly of Lilydale in the State
of Victoria. , ,
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
CHARLES HENRY PATRICK has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion Should you desire to de-
fend this suit you must enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria at the Law Courts William
Street Melbourne on or before the 19th Septem-
ber 1940 and also file an answer in the said
office on or before the 30th September 1940
otherwise the suit may proceed in your absence.
DATED the 16th day of August 1940.
EALES & MILLER,
443 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1439 of 1940.
BETWEEN THEODORA McINTOSH Peti-
tioner and LESLIE JOHN McINTOSH
Respondent. „ „
TO LESLIE JOHN McINTOSH late of Ballina.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THEODORA
McINTOSH has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
ffiree years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Nineteenth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty _ and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of August One
thousand nine hundreds, forty.
Registrar.
J. R. COEN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO MAURICE GEORGE GREENHILL for-
merly of 35 Nicholson Street South Yarra
in the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ADA MAVIS
GREENHILL has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court Melbourne on or before the
Nineteenth day of September One thousand
nine hundred and forty and file your answer
therein on or before the Thirtieth day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred and forty
the case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs AND TAKE
NOTICE that the petition and citation herein
in this suit may be inspected by you at the
office of RAYMOND HUDSON DUNN
Solicitor of 125 Queen Street Melbourne.
RAYMOND HUDSON DUNN, 125 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Proctor for the Petitioner
Melbourne
Chatter
Blarney House is on the up and up.
Although not quite a year old it had a
party without a birthday, or rather many
parties—Boo of them on the same date,
26,000 people having a hand or a foot in
the doings. Dances, tea parties, bring-
your-knitting bees, gatherings for
specialty suppers or just simple coffee-
and-biscuits were popular, but most
money was raised through cards —bridge,
poker and solo. The effort, a State-wide
one, was organised by the Blarney House
women’s auxiliary with mouthpieces over
a net work of radio stations.
Dodging about from party to party
and in between times speaking over the
air on the all-important day were the
Knox and Blarney ladies, the auxiliary’s
president and a vice-president respec-
tively. The latter made her debut
through a microphone and felt relieved
when the ordeal was over and she could
join the other helpers behind the buffet
at Manton’s, which buffet for the after-
noon was the headquarters of a lucky-dip
attached to a bridge party in full cry
around it.
Among those who assisted on the spot
were Mrs. Bryan Foster, also on the qui
vive for visiting musicians, calling for
them, delivering them to their domiciles
safe and sound, etc. On duty also were
Mrs. Morris Sallmann and her daughter
Lois, with the keys of her heart (other-
wise a fob of sounding brass) upon her
lapel. Mrs. Ted Cohen delivered goods
in exchange for tickets, wearing a merry-
go-round hat; but Joan Latham’s bit of
original apparel was unheralded and un-
sung, for ankles were not visible behind
the walls of the buffet dip. Her stock-
ings were embroidered with tiny flowers.
She got the hosiery at a charity-fair stall
during a holiday in Austria —and what-
ever they are made of it’s not shoddy, for
they won’t wear out.
A further Blarney House party was
at the Australia. The Silver Wings
Auxiliary, which is selling silver wings
badges for 4s. each for its Air Force
House contributions, ran the party, which
included layers of occasional music, with
Mrs. George Haines as general factotum
and much activity on the part of sellers
of raffle tickets. One of the raffled
objects, a reading lamp, did the rounds
in the hands of Mrs. Cecil Davis. Mrs.
J. Fitzgerald arrived with two long, slen-
der stems covered with orchids, which
she snipped off to sell flower by flower.
A black frock studded with nailhead
beads was worn by Mrs. A. L. Leticq,
who has recently acquired a reputation
for producing parties with all the ease of
a magician lifting chickens out of his
hip pocket. At her last party in her home
in Grange-road, George Chanti danced,
in the garden on top of his glass-topped
piano.
Although the Air Force got in on the
ground floor, men of the other arms of
the services are finding what a good pal
the Victoria League can be. At the time
Air Force House was opened the League
was looking for an office in which to get
into touch with men regarding hospi-
tality. The new institution had such an
office available, the League occupied it
and ever since has found the R.A.A.F.
queuing up as its godchildren. In seven
weeks it has arranged for 3000 men hos-
pitality of some kind, varying from week-
ends in private homes to dances, picnics,
games of golf or tennis, etc.
Every second Sunday the Victoria
League, with co-operation from the
Australia, entertains R.A.A.F. lads in
the hotel’s Venetian Court. Every
Friday the League, with its young
contingent providing the frills and
femininity, is at home at its rooms,
167 Collins-street. The parties are
growing, for, although there are new
lads every week, the steadies are faith-
ful, and now consider themselves such
old-timers that occasionally they run the
programme of music, games, etc., and
request the girls to sit back and be enter-
tained.
The League has been in touch with
the C.Os. of various military camps re-
garding the A.I.F. on leave, through which
liaison the men are asked to call at the
club to meet hosts and hostesses, etc. The
League would mix khaki with Air Force
blue at its Friday parties, but the “Aif”
and the “Glamor Boys,” though they’d
be one in a shoulder-to-shoulder scrap
against a common enemy, like to take
their relaxation as segregated units.
The Victoria League runs an active
war service depot working for the Red
Cross and dispatching comforts to all
three arms of the services, with a particu-
lar accent on books for the Navy. 11
may also be considered a pal across the
sea by the Tommies and naval ratings in
the Far East, for it made a point of say-
ing welcome to the people from Hong
Kong and perking up their morale with
words of good cheer and advice over
diverse things, including schools, looking
for new homes, clothing, shopping and
even tracing lost luggage.
The ballot of pictures at five guineas
a ticket (“every ticket wins a picture”)
in aid of war funds took place at the
Victorian Artists’ Society’s headquarters
in Albert-street. Tickets were drawn
out of a hat, each person making his
choice as his turn came. It was interest-
ing to note the variety of taste, so dis-
similar that even those whose tickets
were drawn towards the end of the
ballot managed to find something they
liked still available upon the walls.
Though his name turned up compara-
tively late in the line of 53 tickets sold,
Sir Winston Dugan secured the picture
he wanted, a Daryl Lindsay water-color.
He bespoke it by proxy, for G.H. was
at the Menuhin concert.
The Lord Mayoral couple were also
absorbing Yehudi’s violin on that even-
ing, but the committee found Cr, Coles
something particularly suitable for a
civic personage —a Dora Wiison version
of the Yarra and Melbourne’s skyline.
Archbishop Mannix also left his choice
in the committee’s hands, and will thus
be introduced to “The Valley,” by A.
Colquhoun. Professor Maurice Belz
slipped by a whisker on his first choice,
Rupert Bunny’s “Coast Scene, France,”
but secured his second, Carrick Fox s
“Flower Market, Nice.” The Prof.’s
proxy was Keith Mackartney, who
managed, although his own name
was called low in the list, to get
something he favored, an emerald-green
landscape by A. Colquhoun. General
Grimwade by proxy secured E. Phillis
Fox’s “Spanish Garden,” Cr. Beaure-
paire won Nora Gurdon’s “Roses,” and
to Dr. Ann Macleod went Violet Teague’s
“Lochnabar, Tasmania.”
Spencer Shier made this portrait of
brunette Rosemary Lyon, who, with
Peggy Fraser, will attend Joy Armitage
this afternoon when Joy marries Cap-
tain A. B. B. Moore, 6th Duke of Con-
naught’s Own Lancers, A.D.C. to the
Governor of Victoria. After the wed-
ding at St. Paul’s, a reception will be held
at Government House, in which fastness
the romance has blossomed, and which
has been home to Lady Armitage and
her daughter since their arrival from
England a year ago. The young bride’s
father was the late Lieut.-Col. F. A. W.
Armitage, West Yorkshire Regiment,
A notable occasion was the Menuhin-
Symphony Orchestra-Prof. Heinze con-
cert for the y.W.C.A. war service fund.
Tbe j own Hall was packed with rows
seats SQ close together downstairs that
by p OWer on iy and much bruising
knees were distant chairs reached,
b j ggest surprise was the announce-
jjjgpt during the interval that the con-
cert woldd ra ise £1250 never have
es been so readily available con-
cern j ng t h e receipts of any public
funct i on when the applause reached
& j climax after the Brahms
Concertoj y e hudi clutched Prof. Heinze’s
hand and virtuoso and conductor took
“ toopthpr
‘ , Menuhin
The Nicholas and the Menuh n
families were well represented. Others
seen included Professor and Madame
Schneevoigt, Mrs. Alec Cato in tur-
quoise, Mrs. Simon Fraser in beauteous
blue chiffon, Mrs. Richard Thomas, in
pastel-blue, echoed in her gloves, and
Nan Webb, in blue as deep as the sea
or an R.A.A.F. uniform.
Among returned travellers who en-
joyed the music were Gizelle Schneider,
in black, with antique silver jewellery,
and Grant Mclntyre, who sat between
Mrs. J. T. Tweddle and daughter Betty.
Grant, who returned to Australia on the
“nursery ship,” made his contribution to
the amateur school aboard by giving the
children lessons in mime which the mix-
ture of juveniles enjoyed no end.
Dame Fashion and her foibles have
been turned out of Paris, but it s not
likely that such an old despot.will throw
down her bundle, even though it is by now
last season’s. Where she - will bob up no
one knows for the moment —probably
America. But in such a world anything
is possible; she might even arrive with
her lorgnette in this country. At any
rate, the fashion shows are upon us.
Myer’s had its last week, with an
afternoon apiece for the Red Cross and
the Comforts Fund. As a preliminary
there came the women in uniform, whose
utility steps were followed by the family
album cavalcade. Miss 1914 entered the
last war trussed up like a bonbon in
hobble skirts. Afterwards came the un-
beautiful age of the knee-high evening
gown. A 1926 model was an anatomical
offence, with a shapeless torso and waist-
line below hips. Miss 1933 covered her
calves for tennis.
The new slack suits are in gay colors,
scarlet jackets with aero-blue pants and
vice versa. The frocks are of the wear-
able rather than the exaggerated school.
For the afternoon and evening there’s a
side-saddle askew drape that might and
might not catch on. A grey cavalry tweed
suit with brass buttons and officer s
pockets was paraded with a dash of
mustard in the shape of a cravat. Though
it’s not likely to be a furry future, there
were a few furs. Some of the lynx family
looked expensive enough to satisfy a war
profiteer’s sugar baby.
As ticket secretaries for last Satur-
day’s dance at lllawarra Bernadette
Smith (whose photograph is by Broo-
thorn) and Dorothea Dixon helped con-
siderably in gathering together a bunch
of youth and beauty. The bright party
was made possible by Mrs. J. F. Chur-
ton’s gift for the evening of her ball-
room. It was for the R.A.N. Fund, as
worthy a cause as is under way at the
present time.
On September 7, through the good
offices of R. Gill, there will be a bridge
party at Rio Grande, where, for a modest
ss. each, players may spend a pleasant
evening and incidentally give a fillip to
Sleeping Bag Supplies. The demand is
greater than the supply (though 12 whole-
sale firms are now assisting) and blankets
are going up in price, but Sleeping Bags
keep calm and get on with the good work
without fuss and stir. Good scouts
abound among the workers, who never
get and never expect any kudos. Girl
machinists, for instance, have been going
in shifts every day, arriving in their work-
rooms at 6 a.m. to do a couple of hours’
voluntary labor making bags. One girl
calls at Sleeping Bags every evening, col-
lects six blankets and returns with them
the next morning as six bags, cocoons
to keep six soldiers warm.
The fund does not accept personal
donations from troops, and found its
emotions getting out of control when one
man, very appreciative of his gift,
brought along a wooden fruit bowl, his
own handwork during his precious few
days’ leave. The bowl is being raffled.
Sleeping Bags are never wasteful, and are
using odd bits of blanket to make slippers
to be sent to the hospitals attached to the
various camps. Even orderlies are not
issued with slippers, and their military
boots must be like thunder during the
small hours of the night. Sleeping Bags
are now selling briquette gloves (Is. 3d.
each) and kettle-holders (at 6d.), which
pocket money is being used for the
slipper fund. Each pair costs Is. 3d.
Headquarters for Bags and Slippers is on
the fourth floor of 258 Flinders-lane.
Gilsullivan players were up and doing
with various dates on the same afternoon.
While Gregory Stroud and Viola Wilson
sang at the Blarney House party at
Manton’s, Ivan Menzies also broke into
song up at the Athenaeum, but unoffi-
cially. He was there to open the exhibi-
tion of the New Melbourne Art Club,
but being Ivan he couldn’t resist himselt.
His “Tit Willow” had words to suit the
occasion. His second song, by a cowboy
cobber in Canada, had as its. theme an
indictment of “all get and no give
which Mr. Menzies considers to be the
fundamental error of mankind. He be-
lieves that artists give plenty and that in
honesty they are a rung above the rest of
mankind. They also see things not
granted to ordinary mortals. He there-
upon told a story about a call he had in
London from an artist with sketchbook.
The result was unflattering. Mr. Menzies
inquired which newspaper had commis-
sioned the drawing, but the man replied
that he was no press artist, but a designer
of doorknobs. Thus unsuspected uses
may be found in the Menzies counten-
ance by those who know where to look
for them.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE FLYING COLUMN
First Round Ends.
“Ek D.”: Mass raids on Britain
ceased suddenly after the last and least
successful —that of August 18. On that
day the enemy lost 144 machines of all
types. His losses for 12 days, August
8 to 20, were 708 machines ; those of the
R.A.F. were 192 —156 fighters and 36
bombers—and only 90 fighter pilots were
casualties.
The whole experience of this war in
the air proves the superiority of the
fighter over every other type of craft
and the value of highly-trained personnel,
especially when applied in defence.
In that matter Britain had a narrow
escape. Before the Chamberlain era the
medium bomber and bomber-fighter were
the nucleus of the air fighting machine.
The quick switch three years ago which
completely reoriented policy may put a
different complexion on the whole war.
The position now is that John Bull has
shown himself impregnable to air attack
—unless launched by some other method
and with vastly greater numbers than
have been used hitherto —because he has
the material for defence in forms and
types of machine at which U.S. experts
were laughing a few years ago, but which
some of them now seem to imagine that
they invented —the interceptor and pur-
suit ’plane.
The Germans have not developed the
same type of fast manoeuvrable fighter,
partly because they have not been
imbued with a defensive spirit and partly
because they have adopted the technique
of defence from the ground. There have
been good psychological reasons for the
divergent methods of the two adver-
saries.
The Germans knew from the begin-
ning that their war would be a total war
directed against not only military and
naval objectives but against towns, popu-
lation in general, crops, timber and every
human or material unit in the enemy
country. Defence against this sort of
attack must be so diffused that no effec-
tive ground protection is possible on the
colossal scale needed. At the same time,
the commanders of the Luftwaffe were
morally sure that Germany would suffer
no indiscriminate attack on civil popu-
lations from the R.A.F.
They were in the fortunate position of
being able to turn their munition-pro-
ducing and industrial and military
centres into air-resisting fortresses with
the knowledge that this was all that was
needed.
At the outbreak of war there was no
real technique for mass attack. It had
to be worked out. In view of the nature
and concentration of defences on both
sides, it required actual and careful re-
connaissance by the men who would
presently implement the onslaughts, so
that not one second would be wasted
by them within the range of enemy fire.
Hence the hovering Germans reported
over England during the early part of
the war and the British leaflet-dropping
raids.
The battles of the Netherlands and
France threw the first daylight on what
might be expected from the air. They
demonstrated that the bomber used as
heavy artillery is a deadly weapon against
an enemy preoccupied with preparation
for the swift advance of heavy mechani-
cal divisions. The frightful affair of
Rotterdam, in which 30,000 people were
destroyed in one small suburb, which
was reduced to a formless heap of
rubble, proved the destructive power of
an air force when it could break through
defence, was operating over short dis-
tances and was utterly ruthless.
But it showed, also, other things. It
showed that it was an overrated de-
structive force against moving armies,
with their own aerial cover. All reports
from the B.E.F. during its retirement
to Dunkirk were of the vast destruction
of houses and villages and the small de-
struction of human life. In other words,
experience pointed to the fact that bomb-
ing, unless it could be of deadly intensity
over closely-populated areas, was rather
a means for the destruction of factories,
dumps, oil tanks, railway yards than
of man-power.
The second lesson showed the power
of an aerial screen of fast fighters to
hold up heavily-loaded formations of
slower speed and awkward manoeuvring
qualities, despite the heavier gun-power
of the bigger machines. It was a com-
plaint against the R.A.F. that few of
its machines were seen over Dunkirk
during the evacuation. The reason was
that the bulk of them were able to fight
inland, walling back the bulk of the
German air attack on the troops and
ships.
Viewed through the eyes of newspaper
correspondents, the August 11-18 air
battle over Britain was a vast affair. But
viewed against its objectives it was far
less terrible. The most magnified accounts
placed the greatest number of German
’planes over England on any one day
at 1000, and their appearance was spread
over the whole 24 hours. Though there
were at times individual forces up to 200
in one place, the average input of the
enemy over 24 hours was only 40 per
hour. The operations were spread over
parts of the country from Land’s End to
the north of Scotland about 70,000
square miles. The greater part of Eng-
land and Scotland during the affrays re-
mained the same old place, with the last
of its bluebells in the glades and its
woods clothed in' midsummer dark
green.
No definite estimate of the number of
German machines is available. There
may be 20,000 and there may be 35,000.
But many are needed for local de-
fence over a stretch of country which
runs from beyond the Arctic Circle to
beyond the Danube, from the Spanish
border to the Vistula, from the North
Sea to the Mediterranean. Thousands
more are required for advanced train-
ing.
A large percentage of any air force
is always in dock for repair and recon-
ditioning. Hundreds of newer machines
would be under test and adjustment. Hun-
dreds just out of factories would be at the
stage when their engines would be in
process of running in and therefore not
fully fightable. A large section of the
force must consist of special-purpose
buses —troop-carriers, courier machines,
slow freight-carriers, slow sea-reconnais-
sance bombers, specialised fighters and
others which are not suitable for offensive
action.
The British Air Ministry believes that
German production is about 1800
machines a month. One week’s R.A.F.
operations wiped out in numbers more
than the whole of Germany’s week of
production—production of all types. But
it did more than that, because it was
concerned with particular types which
alone are useful for air attack. Of these
many weeks’ production was certainly
destroyed by British fighters and A.A.
defence, more especially when it is con-
sidered that they were large-type
machines carrying two and three engines.
It is obvious that no general aerial
Blitzkrieg alone can bring Britain to her
knees. The only method by which that
kind of success could be achieved, even
with forces five or six times larger than
those already used, would be a long
series of individual blows applied to defi-
nite points over the dead body of the
R.A.F.
In all 10 heavy blows were struck in
the raids on England. Not one did
serious damage or affected morale or
caused more than sporadic casualties.
Nor was there inflicted on the defending
force anything like the damage sus-
tained by the attackers, who lost at
e
Second Round Begins.
w
tion of buildings, hangars and workshops
at the North Weald, Manston, Canter-
bury and Ramsgate aerodromes; the fir-
ing of a harbor plant at Portsmouth and
Thameside oil depots ; attacks on stores
at Great Yarmouth, troop concentrations
at Dover and Bristol port; and damage
to aircraft factories at Derby, Birming-
ham, Kingston and Rochester. “Several
violent air combats occurred, in which
our fighters reported superiority”—they
would!
The R.A.F. reported devastating raids
on Germany, France and the Low Coun-
tries. On Friday night and early Satur-
day, August 24, 20 aerodromes in France
and Holland were attacked. When a
wharf was hit at Dieppe large fires broke
out and further great fires were started
on the Normandy aerodromes of Lisieux
and Caen. The raids penetrated to
Orleans.
The raids on England were continued
on Sunday with the usual daily shift of
locality. The north-east had its longest
raid of the war, but the damage was
mostly civilian. The bell has gone for
the second round of the contest Hitler v.
England, but it is significant that the
enemy is beginning to complain that the
weather is against him.
“E.V.”: An Australian correspondent
who recently flew the Pacific was told
in the U.S.A. that the Republic proposed
to fortify and improve Canton Island,
one of the Phoenix group, as a naval
and bomber base. Canton Island was
for long a British possession in which
U.S.A. showed no interest until cross-
Pacific air services became practical
politics. The British Government asserted
its rights by establishing a resident there.
Negotiation developed a position in
which Britain and U.S.A. agreed that the
question of title would not be raised for
a substantial number of years, and that
each Power would have equal rights to
its use for air and other communication.
A Japanese Foreign Office spokesman re-
marked that the question of the reported
decision of Britain to transfer Pacific
bases (the Gilberts, Solomons and Bis-
marcks, as well as the Phoenix group,
had been mentioned by a Japanese paper)
to U.S.A. was “important” but “the re-
port” was “unconfirmed.” Australia and
Maoriland are deeply interested in air
policy in the Pacific, but the attitude
of some papers seems to be that Aus-
tralian interests come second to those
of friendly, albeit pertinacious, neighbors.
* * * *
Stated at the week-end that 31,787
recruits have been accepted for the
R.A.A.F. ; of this number upwards of
2000 pilots, observers and others are now
in training schools. N. S. Wales, the
most populous State, leads with 2380 air-
crew personnel and 7696 ground staff;
the Victorian figures are 2354 and 5167;
Queensland’s, 1444 and 3234 ; South Aus-
tralia’s, 1217 and 2923 ; Westralia’s, 791
and 3298 ; and Tasmania’s, 233 and 1050.
In proportion to population the West-
ralian figures are remarkable.
* * * *
Squadron-Leader Latham Carr Withall,
reported missing in the battle for Eng-
land, came from Melbourne. He was
educated at Scotch, joined up with the
R.A.F. in 1934 and was drafted to the
Staff College at Canberra. He got a
special distinction pass and was allotted
to a Spitfire fighter squadron. His inter-
est in flying began when the Melbourne
Gliding Club was started with a few en-
thusiastic members. He was its first vice-
president and was later hon. instructor to
the sister club in London.
* * * *
Among 292 names on the 43rd R.A.F.
casualty list are those of Pilot-Officer
Buist (Sydney), previously missing, now'
reported killed in action; Pilot-Officer
Felstead (Tasmania) believed to have
been killed ; Acting Flight-Lieut. Walch
(Hobart), Act. Flt.-Lieut. Withall (Can-
berra) and Flying-Officer Glyde, D.F.C.
(Perth), are missing, and Squadron-
Leader I. H. D. Walker (Auckland)
has been killed.
The Air War Day by Day.
ŵ
(i Continued third column next page.)


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
w
MEN!
321
GLAND
TONIC
03 3 S 3 H 0 f JJ
CHJSMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
destruction of Boulogne port. Three
British machines lost.
August 20: Air Ministry reports raids
on Britain negligible. Railway steamer
St. Patrick attacked off Wexford, but
enemy driven off by air patrol; three
German bombers shot down. Germans
claim bombing of munition factory, a
railway junction and a warship, heavy
damage to harbor plant and dockyards
and sinking of several small vessels and a
12,000-ton merchantman ; also ten British
machines brought down in France and
Holland. R.A.F. reports extensive raid
on German-occupied territory and bomb-
ing of military targets.
August 21: Sporadic air raids oyer
England. Aerodromes attacked, with
some casualties but little damage; a
few fatalities in one Yorkshire and one
south-eastern town; eight workmen's
houses demolished by aerial torpedo.
Germans claim bombing of industrial
plants at Skegness, Great Yarmouth,
Whitby, Coventry and Bournemouth,
harbor works at Bridlington and a docked
ship at Southampton; also damage to
merchant ship in east coast convoy. They
also allege night attack on aeroplane fac-
tories s.-e. of London and on armament
works at Brighton. They state day’s
losses as: British seven machines, Ger-
man six.
In spite of unfavorable weather, R.A.F.
makes daylight raids on aerodromes in
German-occupied territory and raids in
the evening on Hanover and Magdeburg
oil refineries. Hudson dive bomber
attacking enemy ship in North Sea fights
seven enemy machines for 35 minutes,
though repeatedly hit. One enemy
machine down.
Direct hit scored on jetty at Boma
(Libya). S’African and Rhodesian A.F.
hit jetty and hangar at Mogadishu
(Eritrea) and damage Caproni bomber
on ground; buildings hit at Merka.
Italians attempt further raid on Malta
but driven off.
August 22: Raid on Channel convoy
succeeding bombardment by long-dis-
tance artillery from French coast. Neither
heavy calibre bombs nor long-distance
shells achieve damage. At night bombs
fall in three London outskirt districts —
London’s first night alarm. Raiders
driven off by anti-aircraft barrage and
fighters; nine raiders brought down over
Britain—seven by fighters; four British
fighters and two pilots lost. Since May
R.A.F. has dropped over 100,000 bombs
on 600 military objectives. R.A.F. attacks
heavy gun batteries on French coast.
Italians claim that air squadrons bom-
barded British naval squadron and hit
two cruisers; admit loss of ’plane in
attack on Gibraltar. Raids over Alex-
andria last two hours; no damage.
R.A.F. machines from Aden bomb Dessye
(Abyssinia), hitting aerodrome and build-
ings. Italians say British raids on Boma
and Derna cause one death and five
wounded; Cairo headquarters reports
that low-flying attack on Boma destroyed
two submarines, a destroyer and a sub-
marine depot ship. S’African bombers
strike again at Mogadishu (Italian Somali-
land), scoring direct hits on transports,
buildings, hangars, wireless station and
barracks; return safe; three enemy
’planes believed damaged.
August 23: Isolated raids on England ;
200 bombs dropped in south-west, 45
round one farm. A few deaths, includ-
ing small children. R.A.F. raids
Calais and Boulogne at night, raining
bombs till past midnight. Blenheims
bomb 22 aerodromes in German occu-
pied territory ; also synthetic oil plant,
aircraft factory, power station, explosive
factory and docks in Germany; one
’plane makes forced landing, crew killed.
Germans claim attacks on harbor works,
dockyards, aerodromes and troop camps,
to have caused explosion in munition
works in Banbury and fires in night
attacks on Bristol, Avonmouth, Devon-
port, Gt. Yarmouth and Cambridge.
Italians admit sinking of submarine by
R.A.F. aircraft at Boma on Aug. 22 ;
state most of crew were saved. They
claim violent bombing of Mersa Matruh
and Alexandria without loss, and raid
on Khartoum aerodrome. R.A.F.
bombers again attack munition works in
the Milan district and the Savoia air-
frame factory on the shores of Lake
Maggiore, Italy. All R.A.F. machines
return safe from Italy but two lost in
Germany.
August 24: R.A.F. raids Ruhr and
20 German aerodromes as far south as
Orleans. Mass raids on England re-
sumed. Portsmouth bombed by 500
machines; damage done to civilian
property. In first raid to penetrate into
industrial London four factories gutted
and number of persons killed. Dover
attacked by bombers and gunfire ; Rams-
gate savagely attacked and considerable
damage done to private houses, hotels
and cinemas; number of persons
killed. Bombs dropped round Birming-
ham and other centres. Germans claim
to have brought down 64 ’planes and
place their own losses at 20. British
estimate of casualties: R.A.F. 19, Ger-
mans 52: 12 British pilots saved. H.M.
trawler brings down two German
bombers; minesweeper Resparko sunk
by bombs from the air.
Italians assert two destroyers chased
off from Bardia by ’planes and three
British armored cars destroyed by
bombers. Raids on Piedmont and
Lombardy by British bombers on Aug. 24
admitted; two civilians killed and houses
damaged. Also admitted that five
persons were wounded in R.A.F. raid
on Tobruk.
August 25: North-east England suf-
fers its heaviest and most prolonged
raids. Damage all civilian. Bombs also
dropped in Midlands, Wales and s.-w.
counties. British losses 11 machines;
enemy, 39. Air Ministry estimates that
Germany has lost 3253 ’planes from
September 3 last till midnight on August
23. British losses 889, including 20 in
the Middle East.
August 26: Air-raid sirens sound
shortly after midnight in Berlin and
heavy explosions heard in n.-w. suburbs ;
two alarms in London.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Other Enemy.
“Ek D.”: In the last stage of the battle
for Berbera, British Somaliland, the
Italians closed in fast from three sides,
harassed on two sides by the R.A.F. and
other air forces, and on another by naval
attack. On August 19, G.H.Q., Cairo,
reported that every yard was being con-
tested and important losses inflicted.
Next day it announced that the evacua-
tion of British Somaliland was complete.
The original dispositions, the War
Office declared, had been planned on a
scheme of co-operation under which the
French based on Jibuti were to hold the
right flank, the pivot of the whole posi-
tion. The surrender of the French
had neutralised more than half the Allied
forces, and time and the greater import-
ance of other war areas made it im-
politic to try to reinforce the Somaliland
garrison strongly enough to hold Ber-
bera. So it was determined to withdraw,
while resisting as at Dunkirk:
Our wounded were brought away safely.
Enemy losses, particularly among Black-
shirt units, have been heavy and out of
all proportion to our own.
The campaign cost Australia her first
losses in actual action. Three R.A.N. lads
from the cruiser Hobart Petty Officer
Hugh Jones, Midland Junction (W.A.),
A.B. William James Hurren, Annerley,
Brisbane, and A.B. Hugh Charles
Sweeney, Bulimba, Brisbane were re-
ported missing and probably killed in
action in the land battle which raged
for five days for the crucial Tugargo
Gap behind Berbera. They volunteered
to go ashore with a three-pounder to
strengthen the front-line defences. They
held on to the last, and the Minister for
the Navy testifies that their devotion to
duty undoubtedly contributed to the suc-
cessful withdrawal of the main British
force from Berbera. When last seen by
the retiring troops, the three Australians
were still in action against the advancing
Italians, who outnumbered the British
everywhere and all along.
H.M.A.S. Hobart had taken a leading
part in the operations round Berbera.
Her Walrus ’plane, once a familiar sight
on Sydney Harbor, bombed troop con-
centrations at Zeila, and the ship bom-
barded Italian positions from the sea. She
was one of the last vessels to move out
of Berbera after she had destroyed parts
of the town with a certain military value.
In terms of actual territory, the loss
of Somaliland means little. It was being
held by a negligible force against odds
of nine to one. But retreat is a bad
thing for British prestige in Africa and
Asia. Moreover, if submarine parts can
be brought overland —and it is claimed
that this has been done—Berbera may
be converted into a sub. base, at least
for a time.
The Fascists are cockahoop. “The next
step in the advance will be made after
a brief pause,” carolled Mussolini. Mr.
Churchill pointed out that the defection
of France had altered the position pro-
foundly :
Far larger operations impend in the
Middle East. I shall not attempt to
prophesy their probable course. We have
large armies there and many means of rein-
forcing them. We have complete command
of the sea in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Railing at the P.M. for his refusal to
let food ships pass into French ports,
M. Baudouin, one of “the men of Vichy,”
asserted that France had only 5000 men
in Jibuti and not more than 60,000 in
Syria.
General Wavell, just returned to Cairo
from a hurried visit to England, declared
in a broadcast that we were “at the
crisis of the war, perhaps the turning
point of victory.” He visioned the pos-
sibility of the Germans, baulked at the
Channel, turning eastward and striking at
the heart of Empire communications, in
that direction. Italian threats to Greece
—it was asserted that an ultimatum had
been sent, but this was denied —may be
part of the plan.
A Nairobi newspaper remarks that
“the rolling up of the Italian forces in
East Africa will be a stiffer job than is
generally conceded.” It will be stiffer
still if the British forces in Egypt and
along Suez and in Palestine find them-
selves jammed in channels between Libya
and Abyssinia, and at the same time
threatened from the north. The Germans
are a long way off. But if they trans-
ferred a large section of their air force
to the Mediterranean and struck as well
at Gibraltar, the results might be more
serious than those of the much-advertised
attack on Britain herself. Invasion of
the Sudan, with Kassala as a jumping-
off place, will also have to be reckoned
with.
In any case, the previously uncertain
attitude of Egypt has been made certain,
as far as politicians can do the job.
The Premier, Hassan Sabry Pasha, at a
secret session of Parliament, promised
that his country would declare war on
Italy immediately Italian troops invaded
Egypt. The War Minister, Keissy Pasha,
added that the Egyptian Army stood
“four-square with the British ready to
resist the invader.” Meantime, the Medi-
terranean fighting continues a thing of
skirmishes and recriminations. An Italian
claim that Alexandria was about to be
abandoned as a result of continuous raid-
ing was mirthfully denied. A further
Italian claim on a sounder basis was that a
torpedo-boat, the Papa, had sunk a British
submarine which fired three shots at
her. On the other hand, in a swoop
by the R.A.F. on the Libyan coast two
submarines, a destroyer and a submarine
depot ship were sunk by direct shots.
Raider in the Pacific.
“Nobby II”: In the last war there were
several raiders in the Pacific in the early
days, the principal one, of course, the
cruiser Emden. Later when Australian
naval protection had almost vanished,
save for the old Encounter, two others
turned up. One was the Wolf, which
escaped through the North Sea blockade
in a storm, laid nine minefields —two off
the Cape of Good Hope and one each
off Aden, Bombay, Colombo, Singapore,
the North Island of Maoriland, Cook
Strait and Cape Howe. In an amazing
voyage, which reached well south of Aus-
tralia, she captured 13 ships, and then
went home with 400 prisoners and a
huge quantity of raw materials.
Among the prisoners were officers and
men taken off the B.P. ship Matunga, which
was seized so silently on September 6,
1917, that her fate was not determined
for three months —this despite the fact
that she had been held at Waigeu Island,
between the western end of Dutch New
Guinea and the main Celebes, for a fort-
night while she was stripped of fuel and
cargo. The mines laid off the Australian
coast accounted for at least three known
vessels —the Cumberland off Gabo, the
Wimmera off Three Kings and the Port
Kembla off Cape Farewell. Much less
effective than the Wolf was Von Luck-
ner’s Seeadler, which came to grief at
Mopelia, Society Islands, on August 2,
1917.
Some time ago mines were found off
the Cape of Good Hope. Then on June
19, s.s. Niagara was sunk by a mine
or mines off the Maoriland coast in the
early morning. On board were 146 pas-
sengers and a crew of 203 ; all were
saved.
On Tuesday evening, August 20, wire-
less calls were heard from the N.Z. Co.’s
Turakina, 8706 tons, in the Tasman Sea.
The calls were to the effect that she was
being shelled. Built in 1923, the Tura-
kina carried a crew of 70 ; her com-
mander, Captain J. B. Laird, is known
for his love for and work among school-
children. She was bound from Europe
via Sydney to Auckland, and was be-
lieved to have on board the 1926 Derby
winner, Lord Woolavington’s Coronach,
on the way to a Maoriland stud.
After the emergency call, no further
word was heard from the Turakina. On
Saturday the German High Command
broadcast the assertion that she had been
“sunk by our naval forces in Austra-
lain waters.” There is a strong naval
force available, fast and carefully re-
hearsed for operations against raiders
by several series of co-operation exercises.
There are also long-distance air patrol
boats and reconnaissance bombers, and
bright moonlight nights are against the
raider. Even if she is heavily armed,
like the Wolf, which was gunned com-
parably with our naval cruisers, the
chances are against her unless she can
make Dutch waters.
There is naturally no news from the
R.A.N. engaged in the search. The oyster
is a noisy bird beside a warship on the
hunt.
Speaking on August 20, Churchill gave
the British casualties in this war, civilians
included, at “about 92,000,” adding that
“a large proportion are alive as prisoners,
of war.” He added that they compared
favorably with “British casualties in the
first year of the last war —365,000.” Dur-
ing 1914-15, however, the British Army
fought the campaigns of Mons, the
Marne, the Aisne, the Yser, Gallipoli and
Mesopotamia (in part at least) and such
battles as Neuve Chapelle, Festubert and
Aubers Ridge, and it was under the fire
of enemy guns throughout the year. In
this war it did not go into action till the
second week in April, and most of its
losses were incurred between May 10 and
June 4. The May-June casualties must
have far exceeded the 1914-15 rate of
1000 a day. All the same, the total for
nearly a twelvemonth is far smaller than
anyone could have anticipated at the be-
ginning of September. +
“N. 2”: Losses of ships through enemy
action during the week ended August 11
were nine British (32,257 tons), one
Allied vessel (942 tons) and two neutral
(6708 tons). An improvement: the total
for the previous week was over 60,000
tons. Germans allege the torpedoing of
an 1100-ton destroyer of the 1918
Viscount class, and assert that U-boats
sank 100,000 tons of shipping in eight
days. Lord Halifax, however, says that
the same amount of shipping is arriving
in and leaving England as before the
recent intensification of attacks, and
losses are fewer than the weekly average
over the whole war period.
* * * *
The first units of the 4800 troops going
into camp at Bathurst (N.S.W.), who
left Ingleburn on their 130-mile march
over the Blue Mountains on August 13,
reached the Macquarie River at noon
on August 23. The 2/13th Infantry,
with bands playing, were the first to
arrive. By Sunday there were 2000
troops in the new camp, and the rest
dde to arrive within a couple of days.
The march was not arduous by old army
standards; but anti-aircraft and other
exercises gave it some extra strenuous-
ness. Only casualties were army boots.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
BEDOUINS AT BOTANY BAY.
“Gallagher ! Where the hell have you
been ?”
“Beersheba’s wired! It’s a bed of
dynamite !”
“It’s too late no w, we’re in ! The order
is to charge ! Fall behind and get your-
self a horse that’s if you’re able to
ride !”
With an authentic Australian Light
Horse sergeant baying like a bloodhound,
the troopers—a long line of them among
Genuine Light Horse assisted.
the sandhills beyond Kurnell —mounted
their horses and swung off in a mighty
charge five yards to the right. Producer
Charles Chauvel called them back again.
“Gallagher! Where the hell have you
been ?”
“Beersheba’s wired! It’s a bed of
dynamite!”
“It’s too late now, we’re in !”
With a jingle of accoutrement and a
creak of leather, the Light Horsemen
leapt to their saddles and, galloped
another five yards. Mr. Chauvel called
them back again.
“Gallagher ! Where the”
With all the sang-froid of Madame
Tabouis when she lurks under the
Fiihrer’s bed, The Bulletin was lolling
on a sandhill in the middle of the war,
talking to the beautiful mud-colored
Betty Bryant. The Bondi-born leading
lady was an Arab girl. Fifty yards away
on another sandhill, undeterred by the
fact that Mrs. Chauvel was stalking him
with a camera, Miss Bryant’s faithful
Arab servant was saving somebody’s life.
Creeping, or running in a crouch, he
made his sinister way down the slopes
of the desert and took aim at Mrs.
Chauvel from a range of six feet. She
pointed the camera at him and shot hiim
Captain Gordon (John Fleeting) was
still asking the ragged, desperate-looking
Red Gallagher (Grant Taylor) where the
hell he had been. The only thing cer-
tain was that he hadn’t been in the bath.
Miss Bryant, flashing a smile so white
that it shouldn’t be allowed outside a
dentifrice advertisement,
said that at that moment,
properly speaking, she was
staring agonisedly from
her Arab hut, wondering
if the trusty Abdul would
save her lover. Just about
everybody else in the film
had been popped off one
way or another and she
was getting anxious.
She also said that she
could cry real tears at will
(John Gielgud can do the
same thing, he rather
oddly revealed in his re-
cent autobiography) and that, dur-
ing the filming of a German officer
smacking her face with his glove, Mrs.
Chauvel had made him let fly as hard
as he couid, so that her look of rage
and anguish would look authentic.
Furthermore, Miss Bryant gets up at
5.30 every morning to start work.
What is going on in these sandhills
beyond Botany Bay is that Famous
Feature Films, backed by Universal
Pictures and Hoyt’s Theatres, is making
a talkie to be called “Forty Thousand
Horsemen,” based on the exploits of
the Australian Light Horse in the Sinai
Desert in the last war. Genuine Light
Horsemen notably in a big charge
scene have assisted,
and a genuine Scottish
regiment has marched
skirling through the vil-
lage of El Arish. In
one scene that’s an
exact representation of
a drama of the last
war, the major who was
in charge of the
operation in the desert
directed the operation in the sandhills
and played the part he once acted in
grim reality.
The village—the chief pride of the
company, apart from some artificial
cactus —is a masterpiece. It’s faithfully
reconstructed from drawings of the real
El Arish and is complete with mosque,
adobe huts, minaret, market-place and
well. Also camels, goats and pigeons,
making it even smell authentically. The
only false note comes from a kookaburra
who has attached himself to the co. and
has been known to settle on a handy-
man’s hat.
The desert looks the real thing, too.
The sandhills go on for miles and miles
Desert fauna.
and miles. The Bulletin had to walk
from Dan to Beersheba and, on stag-
gering back to the tents where the co.
is camped, was only narrowly beaten by
its exhausted guide for the last of the
sandwiches. Outside the tents, in which
the co. has been “on location” for oyer
four months, there was a camel making
a noise like an angry bagpipe. And a
group of donkeys, with the prettiest
little milk-white foal imaginable.
The outstanding impressions were,
first, the infinite care and patience (and
Lolling.
expense) necessary to make a talkie;
and, second, the great chance of success
that this one should have. Mr. Chauvel
“discovered” Errol Flynn and Mary
Maguire, so that his present team (Pat
Twohill’s a principal and “Chips” Raf-
ferty provides comedy) should be re-
liable. The plot, relieved by some humor
and luv, is one of those sweeping
stretches of action that can hardly go
wrong and that have a wide appeal to
filmgoers. Above all, it’s dramatically
topical; there couldn’t be a better time
to bring out a film about the Light
Horse, especially when care has been
taken to make it authentic. It’s to be
released in America as well as in Aus-
tralia, and its effect on Uncle Sam should
be valuable to this country.
It has cost about £25,000 and has
given employment to hundreds of extras.
One talented gent. The Bulletin met
in the launch going over, besides being
an expert on the beasts, fishes and
bomboras of Botany Bay, was a Turkish
soldier, a Bedouin and a donkey-driver.
If only one had thought to ask him, he
might have known the answer to that
maddening question “Gallagher! Where
the hell have you been ?”
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Ice Follies of 1940”
The stage at Sydney Royal looks like
a large slab of the South Pole—it’s frozen
over some 30ft. by 40ft. and about a
foot deep—and thereon the ice ballet is
turning on a tophole stretch of refriger-
ated entertainment. It’s an even better
show than was put on when the co. was
last in Sydney, and it was good then.
Stage settings are a blaze of color, cos-
tumes likewise and tasteful, various num-
bers ditto, while the least that can be
said of the lissome, sun-tanned minxes
who glide on shapely pins over the frozen
stuff is that if, as the programme states,
“it costs £7OOO to make an ice cham-
pion,” any one of them is worth every
penny of it.
For gentlemen there are the blonde
McKinnon sisters, of whom it might be
said that any Eskimo would willingly
give up his igloo in a blizzard for the
privilege of watching them; they are
lovely and graceful both in action and
in appearance. Also for gentlemen is
blonde Diana Grafton, who has all the
attributes of the McKinnon sisters, plus
several tricks of her own, including a
childish quaintness which she might have
picked up from Riabouchinska and uses
effectively, particularly in a toyshop
number, which might also have been
picked up from “Jeux d’Enfants.”
There are still plenty of blondes left
over, but for them that likes ’em dark
there’s a stunning little minx called Rita
Bramley, who spins about on the ice as
though she’s never been off it. And then,
of course, there’s Megan Taylor, who
has been world’s champion a couple of
times, and who does things on skates
which would be entertaining enough off
them. Miss Taylor’s father, Phil Taylor,
gathers the whole show around him, his
specialties being barrel jumping—over
five of them on the limited stage of the
Royal—and skating about at a great rate
on 29in. stilts, a feat which kept half
the audience palpitating like blown-out
racehorses.
Sandwiched between two acts of skat-
ing is a vaudeville part, the brightest
number of which is an act by the Five
Cleveres, an extraordinarily clever Aus-
tralian acrobatic troupe whose clever
feats are no less hair-raising than Phil
Taylor’s barrel-jumping and stilt-skating.
Only two things wrong with the show:
(1) Eddie Marcel is an excellent compere
and first-class comic skater, but his
humor should be sent to the laundry ;
(2) the skaterinas’ names aren’t in the
telephone book.
* * * *
The great popular success of the first
of the Beecham concerts of last week
was the Tschaikowsky symphonic fantasy
“Francesca da Rimini,” through which
sweeps the infernal hurricane of Dante’s
hell. This was done with verve and
color. The performance of the Mozart
E Flat Symphony was rather surprising.
The well-known minuet was so accented
as to be barely recognisable, and the
powerful merry allegro at the end became
a breathless prestissimo scramble. The
Mendelssohn Violin Concerto brought
forward the very promising young Adel-
aide violinist Lyndall Hendrickson, who
was rather outweighted in arpeggio pas-
sages. Chabrier’s “Espana” and the
Delius “Cuckoo” rounded off a good
mixture.
Main item of the orchestral-choral
concert of Saturday night was the Delius
“Appalachia,” described as symphonic
variations on an old negro song. The
theme is a bit feeble, and fifteen
repetitions of it in various dismal guises
don’t make it any stronger. Haydn’s
“Seasons” was done with a fair choir.
Soloist Lisa Perli was in much better
voice than on her first appearance in
Sydney; Heddle Nash, described as
“England’s leading lyric tenor,” sang his
bits very prettily, and Harold Williams’s
robust notes seemed to be just what
Haydn hoped for. Beecham’s own
arrangement of airs from a little-known
Handel opera gave the audience a
pleasant half-hour, and the show closed
with the barbaric glory of third-act music
from Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Coq d’Or.”
* * * *
Visiting virtuosi are sometimes heard
to say that Australian concertgoers lack
concentration. Considering the amount
of concentration the immense crowd that
filled the Town Hall, Melbourne, last
week for the war funds concert be-
stowed on Yehudi Menuhin and his
fiddle during a programme that lasted
from eight nearly to eleven, the afore-
said virtuosi ought to blame themselves,
not Australian audiences. The only
sound that suggested lack of concentra-
tion was a fabulous high note that pene-
trated every corner of the building when
Menuhin and orchestra started on the
Concerto No. 1 of Paganini. Apparently
the mind of the City Council’s air-con-
ditioning apparatus was wandering.
When this was subdued and a fresh start
made the silence was as intense as any
performer could wish for. The violinist
was so pleased with his reception that,
after playing the extraordinary exacting
Concerto No. 2 of Bach and the Brahms
Concerto in D Major, with its delicious
middle movement, and the wild and
woolly pyrotechnics of Paganini, he sup-
plied Beethoven’s Romance in Fas an
encore.
It was one of the most sustained dis-
plays of virtuosity and musicianship in
conjunction with an orchestra that have
been vouchsafed to a Melbourne audi-
ence for a long time. The soloist main-
tained that remarkable calm of his which
makes the excitement of his playing all
the more impressive. Bernard Heinze
earned a good slab of the applause for
his conducting.
* ❖ jfe sfs
“The Yeomen of the Guard” has been
doing good business at Melbourne His
Majesty’s. The piece on which Sullivan
lavished the largest amount of his most
effective music and Gilbert the smallest
allowance of ironic humor was done by
the present company with such rigid
regard to precedent that it resembled more
than anything else a picture on a his-
torical subject by a past-president of the
Royal Academy. Nevertheless, within
the limits of its hallowed conventions
there was enough liberty of movement
and possibility of refinement to make
an interesting evening’s entertainment.
Exactly why Jack Point should be so suf-
fused with self-pity is not clear, but Ivan
Menzies extracted the last bit of senti-
mental pathos out of the role. John
Fullard’s rich, melodious tenor was
w


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Adelaide to Darwin
“P.D.”: The present overland route
from Adelaide to Darwin consists of a
railway from Adelaide to Alice Springs,
a good dry-weather road from there to
Tennant Creek, a very poor stretch thence
to Birdum, and a flimsy railway from
there to Darwin. A pretty fair road runs
from Darwin about 50 miles south to
Adelaide River. Now it seems that a
war was necessary to awaken Canberra
to Australia’s need for a good all-
weather overland route between Adel-
aide and Darwin. The proposal is to
build a road between Alice Springs
and Birdum. The distance is 625 miles
and the cost is reckoned at £200,000 ;
500 men are to be employed.
If a sound all-weather road can be
built at £320 a mile between Alice
Springs and Birdum there are more finan-
cial wizards at Canberra than this world
dreams of. If an emergency arises de-
manding heavy and continuous traffic
between Adelaide and Darwin when the
road is finished, goods or men will have
to be moved by rail to Alice, by road
to Birdum and by rail again to Darwin
—as awkward a business as that neces-
sitated by the different railway gauges.
The extra handling might be reduced by
building a good road right through to
Darwin instead of finishing it at Birdum
—in any case, the Birdum-Darwin rail-
way will need considerable overhauling
if it is to stand up to heavy duty.
Apropos of nothing in particular, when
the Commonwealth took over the N.T.
from S.A. part of its undertaking was
that there would be an Adelaide-Darwin
railway.
“Pequena”: Sight of a couple of lakes
not showing on the map of rugged Cen-
tralia caused young Jack Kellow to
change his course slightly while piloting
E. A. Connellart’s service ’plane between
Alice Springs and Wyndham recently.
His reports of their nature and where-
abouts led to an expedition by road from
Alice Springs ; it revealed that recent wet
seasons in the western MacDonnells
Centralia’s main mountain system —have
caused the reappearance after 54 years
of two fine fresh-water lakes, estimated to
cover an area of 26 to 30 sq. miles. They
are situated about 120 miles north-east
of the Alice, and although heavily
charged with gypsum the water is bluer
than that of S.A.’s Blue Lake at Mount
Gambier, and contrasts pleasingly with
the intensely-red sand of the surrounding
ridges. In places one of the lakes is 20ft.
to 30ft. deep, but, if old-timers’ calcu-
lations are any guide, unless wet seasons
continue evaporation will dry them up
within two to three years. Animal and
bird life in the vicinity is plentiful, and
the abos. of those regions will be gorging
on the greatest feasts of wild duck in the
memory of the most ancient of the elders
of the tribe.
* * * *
“Darwarb”: Suddenly taken ill on the
main overland track 15 miles from Pine
Creek, a Darwin man thought he was
done until he sighted the telegraph wire.
He was too bad to climb a pole and had
nothing to cut it down, so he removed
his pants, filled them with gibbers and
threw them over the wire in an effort to
create a fault and thus attract attention.
The idea didn’t work, but luckily a couple
of military motor-cyclists happened along
and the trier was rescued.
* * * *
“Norther”: From Solomon down to
the present day, plenty of comedies have
been written around the theme of babies
exchanged deliberately or by mistake in
the cradle soon after birth. A couple
of Mt. Isa mothers provided the latest.
Their babies were born within a few
hours of each other at the local hospital
in May, 1939, and home went the happy
parents. But as the months passed one
mother noticed a growing likeness in her
infant to the children of the other
mother, and an awful doubt assailed her.
Consultation with the other mother re-
sulted in a blood test, which revealed
that a swap had occurred. The infants
were re-exchanged and everybody is
happy, except the hospital authorities,
who are considering whether fire-brand-
ing or earmarking would be the best
method to adopt in future.
“Mataranka”: Notice they are issuing
vocabularies in foreign languages, and I
hope they won’t forget the Northern
Territory tongue, which is something to
itself —and to my mind a good deal better
than the lingo which the town Australian
has cribbed off the picture screen. Here’s
a bit of it I heard in Sydney where a few
outbackers are in camp: “Me and her
was getting on like two carneys under a
log when I sees it’s nearly sunup and I
knew I’d missed the ’Ghan. I put up a
smoke to a cove going my way down the
O.T. and we saddled up and went flat out
like a lizard drinking. Them motors
isn’t like humps—she broke down and I
thought for a bit we’d do a perish, but
she made the soak along sunup. The
sarge was a bit-cheeky-beggar, but he
was a good cove, a flourbag feller from
the last war. ‘Where was yer?’ he says.
‘Out on the sandhill,’ I says. ‘I heard
y’ first time,’ he says ; ‘get over to the
store f’r y’r damper.’ ”
“That Lord Mare's takin' ’is time callin’ f’r the Waste.”
“Clooter”: When the innocent news-
paper reporter visits the back country
he should always be wary of the readi-
ness with which the simple blokes of the
bush receive his invitations to tell him
of what’s doing. All Boulia temporarily
forgot its rat troubles when a bright lad
from Brisbane “Courier-Mail” hit the
place, full of inquiry. They pitched him
tales as fast as he could absorb them, and
his paper carried a story the like of no-
thing since the Pied Piper of Hamelin
broke into the headlines. The best effort
was that of the bloke who told him there
were two kinds of rats in the present
plague —black and white —and that the
blacks killed the whites. A police
sergeant weighed in with one that rats
had lifted the lid off the boiler in which
the missus was cooking corned beef and
were found swimming round in the brine
next morning. Another cove had a tin
of honey. Rats removed the securely-
fastened lid and got to the sweet, proved
by finding a rat stuck fast in the honey.
Don’t know if anyone put over the
ancient one of the rats raiding the beer
in the local pubs and then parading the
streets shouting “Now, bring out y’r
blasted cats,” but there were other yarns
nearly as good. Still, the reporter did
good work by sending some specimens
down to the museum and drawing atten-
tion to the fears of people in the rat
country that a fever epidemic might
follow as a result of the millions of ticks
and fleas said to be living on the rats.
The museum identified the specimens as
of the species Rattus villosissimus, or
long-haired rat, tawny in color.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: Promised Queensland legis-
lation includes some badly - needed
amendments and extensions of the Suc-
cession Act. At present it is uncertain
whether a soldier or sailor under 21 can
make a will, whether a member of the
R.A.A.F. is a soldier within the mean-
ing of the Act, and whether a witness to
the informal will of any soldier or sailor
is debarred from taking a benefit there-
under. Further, a soldier or sailor who
makes a spoken or otherwise informal
will which conforms with the Act can
dispose only of personal estate, not of
land other than a lease held by him, Also,
sailors are empowered to make informal
wills only when actually at sea. The
two latter conditions have been remedied
in English law since 1918. Other neces-
sary amendments are the inclusion
amongst those empowered to make in-
formal wills of nurses serving with mili-
tary forces and the exemption of estates
of soldiers and sailors from succession
duty. It would be an excellent thing if
the entire matter were referred by all
States to the Commonwealth for uniform
legislation.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Queensland’s “hooded
giant” has come to a violent end. Last
March the north coast shivered at reports
of a big man, wearing some sort of a
hood and armed, who ranged the scrub.
A posse of police and civilians chased
him for a week, during which he covered
100 miles of timbered country, swim-
ming rivers and cleverly eluding his
hunters. They got him finally on Yabba
Mountain, after which he was confined
to Goodna mental hospital. Early in
June he escaped and again eluded cap-
ture. Early this month a man was shot
at McDonald’s Hill (S.A.), and police
and trackers pursued the suspect. His
tracks led them down into N.S.W. and
eventually to Wentworth, where the
Darling and Murray meet and on Winda-
mingle station, after an exchange of shots,
the fugitive went down with a bullet in
the stomach. He died in Wentworth hos-
pital, and there seems little doubt that
he was the “hooded giant.”
* * * *
“The Cracker”: If all goes as well as
hitherto, Numinbah, the new prison farm
up the Nerang River (Q.), will soon be wel-
coming its first—er—farmers. The place
is for long-term offenders, and is an
extension of the honor system which has
worked fairly well at Palen Creek. It
comprises 1400 acres and will eventually
become two farms, one for juveniles,
which will be separated from the other
by a precipice to prevent contacts. Main
object of Numinbah is to harden up the
lengthy stayers by manual work in the
last months of their stay so that they
will be fit to handle an honest banjo,
a Mad Mick or Douglas on their dis-
charge.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: My old friend
“Proffy” Watson, dead in T.I. at 91
(B. 21/8/’4O), had some vivid experiences
before he turned his energies towards a
scientific career. In June, 1871, then just
22, he shipped as cook’s mate on the
brig Carl, out of Melbourne, owner Dr.
J. P. Murray, for a bit of South Pacific
adventure. He certainly got it. A
rumor of one affair reached Watson’s
father; he sent a trustworthy man to in-
vestigate, and young Archie was found
under Consular arrest at Levuka. He was
smuggled aboard an American whaler
in a load of ship’s washing, worked a
passage to San Francisco, made his way
to New York, passage-worked to Brest
in a French barque, and began a
medical course in Paris. Evidence at the
trial of the Carl case in Sydney had fully
exonerated him from any part in the
atrocities, and after qualifying he went
to London. He never married the
nearest to it that he got was an attractive
young widow in London to whom he was
on the point of proposing when the maid
announced a caller—Commodore Good-
enough. “Couldn’t face him,” “Proffy”
chuckled long afterwards. “If he’d found
me in Levuka he’d have tried his best
to get me hanged!”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.F.: Prosy... .C.W.: “Now surely if that
grumbling Judge would read this little poem,”
he’d devour his wig in despair M. 8.: In-
effably hackneyed....J.M.: War is more vile
than ever when rhymed with “paw”... .J.G.8.:
Repairs needed... .R.E.N.: Too dark, and
analysis isn’t poetry... .1.Y.E.: Three stanzas
from stirring cry to Australians to “rally and
fumigate all insects, flies, rats and Nazis”:—
They send out their vicious vile vermin,
Destroying dale, dingle and dell,
Till Europe’s once beautiful garden'
Resembles a picture of hell.
So hustle, ye gardeners, in thousands
And spray with your bullets of lead
The spreading destroyers of beauty.
Nor cease till all vermin are dead.
We’ll send Britain’s ladybirds oyer,
They’ll search out the bloodsucking pest;
So prune to the heart of the canker.
And capture the grub In his nest.
....J.R.T.: “Nocturne” strikes no new note.
A.W.: Wept over the flooded pub
G.L.: Very nearly; keep at it....W.M.5.: You,
t 00... .E.M.A.: It creaks along 5.8.: Didn’t
fall for the confidence man....K.E.: “Burde-
kin Plums” not to our taste J.K.E.: Thin.
L.O.W.: No better than the first time
we saw it....E.J.: Needs more than a recital
of facts to make a flying story L.P.T.:
Nothing there that hasn’t been said before.
... .J.R.8.: An egg has more point.. . .H.T.M.:
The Religious Editor banned “Doris’s Down-
fall” M.F.H.: “Orphan of the Storm” is
still out in the cold L.T.H.: You don’t
know enough about your subject 8.F.8.:
Something original, please!... .N.G.R.: We
counted five murders, but couldn’t find the
solution to any 8.F.D.: They’re all Pitt-
street bushmen L.R.V.: Coyotes, cow-
punchers and bronchos are not allowed in
here 8.F.M.: You’ve been reading tourist
folders N.F.R.: Six-page covering letters with
a three-page yarn always upset our digestion.
....8.D.L.: Surely not another story about the
dear old farm, the mortgage and handsome
young stranger!.... V.S.: The writing’s all
right, but the material is off our beat
8.H.W.: That con. man has been working on
us for 20 years without result C.G.E.: A
flapper mag. should lap it up... .8.T.W.: Try
some technical publication dealing with the
subject.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.D.: Looks as if it was drawn with a
bundle of fish-hooks dipped in tar A.M.A.:
Didn’t we toss that one out a few months
ago?... .V.M.: That wily recruit did noble
service in 1914 R.S.: You’ve a good free-
and-easy style but no sense of humor... .M.F.:
Cartoon on Sydney water shortage was left
high and dry EJ.: That old barnstormer has
been haunting us for years... .L. 8.: Send it
to one of the cold-tea journals W.A.:
You’ve picked up a few tricks of the trade, but
not enough to carry you through J.8.M.:
You were early enough with your Melbourne
Cup entry, but we’re afraid that it’ll be a non-
starter... .C.S.: Not a subject for jesting
8.J.: Do you want us to close up shop?....
N.G.: Returning drawing along with the certifi-
cate of merit proving that you can draw
S.H.: Neat and tidy, but very little to laugh
at in any of them... .M.H.: We sooled our
crankiest kelpie on to your “Boys of the bull-
dog breed” J.R.G.: Study hard... .N.C.:
You can draw a shapely leg and that’s about
a11....R.P.: The fisherman got no bites here.
N.S.L.: Interesting composition, but the
linework is too heavy A.D.: Send us
finished drawings, not roughs... .W.F.: Always
pleased to consider original gags and to pay
7s. 6d. each for those accepted... .H. 8.: It
was a boomerang F.P.: Jumping front that
window appears to be a mania with that fellow.


PAINFUL CORNS .
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq,;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George's Tee., Perth
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
, The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, university education, seeks ex-
perience in bookshop or library.—7939.
Typist, Sydney, own machine, experienced
typing MSS., desires work. Neat and accurate.
Reasonable charges—7944.
To buy Harper’s Book of Facts. —7909.
To buy second-hand copies of How to Live
on 24 Hours a Day, and similar books, by
Arnold Bennett.—793o.
Words of poem beginning:
They’re taking me to the gallows, mother,
They are going to hang me high.
—7947.
Copy of verse entitled “The Cinder Track,”
beginning:
Parade with your harps at 2.15
In front of St. Peter’s tent.
—7980.
Information Sought.
Numbers of the various types of vessels of
the United States Navy? —7999.
Figures at September 30, 1939, were as fol-
lows: Battleships 15, aircraft carriers five,
heavy cruisers 18, light cruisers 19, destroyers
220, submarines 94, gunboats five, river gun-
boats five, submarine chasers 22. There were
also 110 auxiliaries, comprising destroyer
tenders, submarine tenders, seaplane tenders,
repair ships, store ships, oilers, colliers, ammu-
nition ships, cargo vessels, transports, hos-
pital ships, tugs and submarine rescue vessels.
* * * *
(1) Principal countries to which Germany ex-
ported goods before the war and (2) principal
goods exported 7—7987.
(1) Figures are for 1938, and are in mil-
lions of reichsmarks. Belgium 190.4, France
229.0, Italy 349.1, Netherlands 459.8, Czecho-
slovakia 161.6, Sweden 275.2, United Kingdom
374.1, United States 157.2, Argentina 152.9,
Brazil 163.2, China 104.6, Japan 102.8, British
India 114.3. (2) Figures are for 1938 and are
in 1000 reichsmarks. Coal 379,482, silk and
rayon 16,771, woollen goods 24,113, cotton
goods 15,471, leather 26,399, paper 73,031,
dyes 150,710, pharmaceuticals 166,802, glass
and glassware 65,676, iron and steel 205,084,
copperware 57,960.
* * * #
What are the dependencies of New Cale-
donia ? —7958.
They are: (1) The Isle of Pines, 30 miles to
the south-east, with an area of 58 square miles
and a population of about 570. (2) The Wallis
Archipelago, north-east of Fiji, with an area
of 40 square miles and 4243 inhabitants. (3)
Futuna and Alofi, south of the Wallis Islands,
with about 2000 inhabitants. (4) The Loyalty
Islands, 60 miles east of New Caledonia, con-
sisting of three large islands, Mare, Lifou and
Uvea, and many small islands with a total area
of about 800 square miles. The chief culture
in the islands is coconuts; the chief export,
copra. (5) The Huon Islands, 170 miles north-
west. of New Caledonia, a most barren group.
(6) The Belep Archipelago, about seven miles
north-east of New Caledonia. (7) Chesterfield
Islands, about 342 miles west of the northern
headland of New Caledonia. (8) Walpole,
which lies south-east of Mare (Loyalty Islands)
and east of the Isle of Pines, about 93 miles
from each of these islands.
* * * *
Areas and populations of British possessions,
including protectorates, dependencies, con-
dominiums and mandated territories, in Africa?
—7904.
Kenya (area 212,000 sq. miles, population
3,366,000), Uganda (110,300 sq. m., pop.
3,745,000), Zanzibar (1020 sq. m., pop. 235,000),
Mauritius and dependencies (809 sq. m., pop.
415,000), Nyasaland (37,890 sq. m., pop.
1,638,000), St. Helena and Ascension (81 sq. m.,
pop. 4000), Seychelles (156 sq. m., pop. 31,000),
Somaliland (68,000 sq. m., pop. 345,000),
Basutoland (11,716 sq. m., pop. 562,000),
Bechuanaland (275,000 sq. m., pop. 266,000),
Southern Rhodesia (149,000 sq. m., pop.
1,304,000), Northern Rhodesia (288,000 sq. m.,
pop. 1,376,000), Swaziland (6704 sq. m., pop.
157,000), Union of South Africa (472,347 sq. m.,
pop. 10,160,000), Nigeria (335,700 sq. m., pop.
20,589,000), Gambia (4134 sq. m., pop. 185,000),
Gold Coast (79,000 sq. m., pop. 3,700,000),
Sierra Leone (31,000 sq. m., pop. 1,777,000),
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan (1,014,000 sq. m., pop.
6,342,000), Tanganyika (360,000 sq. m., pop.
5,260,000), South West Africa (317,725 sq. m„
pop. 359,000), Cameroons (34,081 sq. m., pop.
857,000), Togoland (13,041 sq. m., pop.
370,000).
* * * *
(1) What materials and equipment are neces-
sary for map-mounting ? (2) What is the method
of mounting ? (3) What are the methods of
applying dull and (4) gloss finishes? (5) Cost
of materials, and where procurable? —7764.
(1) Flat board, tacks, plain sheeting, ordinary
paste. (2) Stretch linen on board, paste map
and apply to sheeting similar to billposters or
paper-hanging. (3) Map should be sized with
any ordinary size, then an ordinary dull clear
lacquer, (4) Paper varnish. (5) The cost is
governed by the amount of materials required,
all of which can be procured from H. E. C.
Robinson, Ltd., map publishers, 221 George-
street, Sydney.
* * * #
What are the laws governing the holding of
land in British Columbia, Canada? What are
the chief primary industries of that State, its
area, and how much land is under cultivation,
how much forests, etc.? —7Bs2.
Information on the laws governing the hold-
ing of land in the Province of British Columbia
can be obtained from the Deputy Minister of
Lands in Victoria, B.C. The chief primary
industries of British Columbia are sawmilling,
fishing, pulp and paper, fruit and vegetable
growing, dairying and poultry-farming. British
Columbia has an area of 359,279 sq. miles, of
which 20,700 sq. miles is classed as agricultural
land; 3640 sq. miles of this land is occupied
and is improved and pasture; 1894 sq. miles is
occupied forested. Of the unoccupied agri-
cultural land 5760 sq. miles is grass, brush, etc.,
and 9406 is forested. The area of forested
land totals 209,540 sq. miles, of which 15,000
sq. miles is privately owned and 194,540 sq.
miles is Crown land.
* * * *
What is meant by the counts in wool-
classing 7—7916.
The counts used in woolclassing are trade
terms to designate the degree of fineness of
the wool. The spinning count of any particu-
lar type of wool refers to the number of
hanks.of yarn which lib. of top combed from
that type will spin. A hank measures 560
yards. Therefore, a 60’s type will, when
scoured and combed, spin 60 x 560 = 33,600
yards from lib. of top. The finer the wool
the farther lib. of it will spin. The standards
of spiffing count for merino wools are: Strong,
60’s; medium, 64’s; fine, 70’s; superfine, 74’s
and better. As a rule, the highest spinning
count used in commercial practice is 80’s. With
the exception of 66’s, intermediate counts are
not used, so that any which might spin 61’s,
62’s or 63’s would be regarded as a 60’s. In
short, a wool of any standard spinning quality,
such as a 64’s, may spin anywhere between
64’s and the next highest standard (70’s). Cross-
bred brand spinning qualities range from 30’s to
60's, while comeback occupy between crossbred
and merino, slightly overlapping both their
limits.
* * * *
When and by what vessel did Havelock Ellis
arrive in Australia? At what places did he
teach during his four years’ stay in N. S.
Wales 7—7990.
He arrived by the Surrey about the middle
oi 1875, and obtained the post of assistant
master at the Fontlands private school, at
Burwood, near Sydney, conducted by a Mr.
Hole. After leaving Fontlands, where his stay
was short, he took a post as a tutor to the
Platt family on Goongerwarrie station, a few
miles from Carcoar. He spent a year at Goon-
gerwarrie, then took over the Grafton Grammar
School. At the end of nine months he was
glad to sell out and enter the employ of the
N.S.W. Education Department, which found him
a post as teacher at the half-time schools
at Sparkes Creek and Junction Creek, both in
the Scone district.
* * * *
Have any species of Australian birds become
extinct since the date of white settlement in
Australia ? If so, their names and causes of
extinction 7—7794.
Three Australian birds are listed as extinct,
the Phillip Is. parrot ( Nestor productus), which
may have been killed out by convicts who used
thern as food; the night parrot ( Geopsittacus
occidentalis), which has not been seen since
1885, but which is still sought for in the in-
terior of Australia; and the Kangaroo Island
emu ( Dromaius diemenianus). The paradise
parrot ( Psephotus pulcherrimus ), noisy scrub
bird ( Atrichornis clamosa), and western whip-
bird ( Psophodes nigrogularis ) are regarded as
near extinction.
* * # *
A few details about a bird known as the
plain-wanderer ? —7784.
A terrestrial bird ( Pedionomus torquatus ),
it is about 6in. in length and is peculiar to
south-eastern Australia. It is an inhabitant of
open country and is solitary in habits, associat-
ing in pairs in the breeding season, but not
forming flocks like its relatives the quail. When
disturbed it usually runs rapidly like a rail, and
is not easily flushed. Its flight is compara-
tively weak. Coloration is mottled brown, with
a black, white-spotted collar rcund the neck
and a chestnut patch on the breast. It stands
upright, so as to peer over the top of the
herbage. Its food consists of insects and
seeds. Like most Australian terrestrial birds,
it is rapidly becoming a rarity, being unable
to stand the combined attacks of shotguns,
cats and foxes.
=•= * * *
A few details concerning the swamp
pheasant? —7Bso.
The coucal or swamp pheasant ( Centropus
phasianinus ) is allied to the cuckoos and is
found throughout northern Australia wher-
ever there are swamps with plenty of tussocky
grasses. The name “swamp pheasant,” by
which it is commonly known, is due to its
strong resemblance to a hen pheasant; but the
structure of the feet at once indicates its real
affinities to the cuckoos. It is the only Aus-
tralian cuckoo which makes a nest and rears
its own young. The nest is a large, domed
structure in a grass tussock, with a hole at
each side; the head and tail of the bird pro-
ject from these holes when it is sitting; the
eggs, three to five in number, are dirty-white.
The swamp pheasant runs rapidly on the
ground, and frequently clambers into a bush
or low tree, whence it utters a deep note, con-
stantly repeated, resembling the croak of a
frog.
* * * *
(1) What power steam-engine is required to
work a five-head crushing battery, one Wilfley
table and three Berdan pans, each stamper to
weigh not less than half a ton ? (2) What
power suction-gas engine would be required to
work the same plant? —7515.
(1) A boiler carrying about 1001 b. pressure
with approximately 190 sq. ft. heating surface
and 12-h.p. engine. (2) The b.h.p. of a suction-
gas engine should not be less than 25. If a
stone-breaker is to be used when crushing,
additional power ranging from four to six h.p.
would be required
* * * *
Some details concerning Lin Yutang, a
modern Chinese author? —7996.
He was born in 1895 in Chang Chow, Fukien
Province, China. He has an A.M. from Har-
vard and a Ph.D. from Leipzig. From 1923 to
1926 he held a professorship at Peking National
University. In his native land he has won a
reputation for his literary criticism, and edited
a number of literary periodicals. His books in
Chinese are numerous and influential. He is
also master of a charming English style. Ihe
English-speaking world knows him through his
My Country and My People and The
Importance of Living. He has edited The
Wisdom of Confucius.
* * * *
In an article on Dostoevski mention is made
that four women influenced his life. Who were
they, and was he married to any of them ?
7993.
The four women sire most likely Maria
Dimitrievna Isayeva, his first wife; Anna
Grigorievna Snitkina, his second wife; Apoli-
naria Prokofievna Suslova, his mistress for a
few years; and Anna Vasilievna Krukovskaya,
whom he courted after the death of his first
wife, but who declined to marry him.
Biographies of Dostoevski give the story of his
relationships with each of the four women.
* * * *
Names and addresses of some leading book-
selling shops in New York ? —7820.
Doubleday Doran Book Shops, 244 Madison-
avenue; Altree Book Shops, 114 University-
place, near 14th-street; Brentano’s Book Stores,
1 W. 47th-street; Dauber and Pine Bookshops,
66 Fifth-avenue;. and Putnam Bookstore, 2 W.
45th-street.
* * * *
(1) Method of removing grease from a con-
crete floor ? (2) From old rags and waste
which have become saturated with 0i1? —7529.
(1) The grease may possibly be removed
from a concrete floor by rubbing with rags
wetted with kerosene. Alternatively, the grease
can be covered with powdered talc and pressed
with a hot iron; this process should be con-
tinued until all the grease has been removed.
(2) Oil can be removed from old rags and waste
by any standard dry-cleaning process. If the
rags are to be used again for cleaning pur-
poses, kerosene may be used as a washing fluid.
The cleaning could be carried out in a small
washing machine and the excess kerosene
removed by pressing or centrifuging.
* * * *
Recipe for making toilet soap from mutton-
fat?—7B43.
Take 51b. well clarified mutton-fat, lib.
caustic soda, 1 quart cold water, 2 tablespoons
borax (powdered), 2 tablespoons ammonia,
•ylb. glycerine, \oz. oil of lavender or other
perfume. Dissolve soda in water and melt fat.
Allow the water to cool to lukewarm and the
fat to same temperature (approximately), then
beat the fat into the soda liquid. Stir in
perfume, borax and ammonia, beat well and
mould into cakes or bars. Cochineal or a
vegetable dye may be used for coloring.
* * * *
Method of destroying fleas in a dwelling-
house ?— 7713.
All floors should be washed with very hot
soapsuds or with crude oil emulsion. By
spreading over the floors, and especially along
the cracks, a liberal quantity of naphthaline
and then closing the infested rooms for some
hours, the fleas are usually killed. Floors of
stone or tiles may be kept free by daily wiping
with a cloth dipped in kerosene. Carpets,
rugs and bedding may be treated frequently
with one of the flysprays now in popular use.
All accumulations of rubbish, such as straw,
old bagging, etc., should be burnt. Fleas on
infested dogs succumb to such powders as
“Pulvex” liberally applied daily, preferably
through a special brush which carries the pulvi-
cide right down to the surface of the skin.
* * * *
How to frost windowpanes ? —7590.
Mix whiting with two-thirds raw linseed oil
to one-third white Japan driers to a stiff con-
sistency. Reduce with turpentine to enable it to
be worked easily. Spread mixture quickly and
evenly on the glass, and tap it lightly with a
ball made of clean cotton cloth until the frost
is brought clearly into relief.
* * t *
How can I convert bottles into jam-jars by
taking the tops off cleanly without leaving
jagged edges? —7943.
To make a clean, neat job of cutting off the
tops of bottles get from an ironmonger about
3ft. of 3-16 in. diameter black iron rod and
have the end turned to a circle about
diameter (the diameter of a “reputed quart”
bottle at the shoulder). The circle must be
broken —that is, the end is not welded on to
the “handle.” This circle is made red-hot in
a fire, placed neatly on the bottle so that it
it rests for a few moments on the shoulder,
then lifted off; a second later the bottle is
picked up by the base and plunged cork-end
down into cold water as far as the heated line.
If' the time has been correctly judged the top
part will be left in the water, the rest of the
bottle making the jar. The edges should be
smoothed with emery cloth fixed on wood, as
the cut is very sharp. Failing the iron, soak
wool or thick string in kerosene, tie it round
the bottle, set it alight, let it burn out and
then put into cold water.
Brief Answers.
R.W.: Get in touch with 0. T. Lempriere
and Co., Alexandria, Sydney C.McM.: Plot
1,3 a. lr. Vp.; plot 2,7 a. 3r. 2p D.N.S.:
You may proceed against him under the Small
Debts Recovery Act in the nearest Court of
Petty Sessions. If you inform him of your
intention to do so he may pay up E.P.:
If, as you state, it was provided in the con-
tract that you were “not to ask for the principal
or interest until after the sale of the property”
and the property has not yet been sold, your
claim to principal or interest has not yet arisen.
You will have to wait until after the property
has been sold. In view of the amount at stake
you should have had the contract drawn up in
legal form by a solicitor E.M.F.: If the
owner of the adjoining land refuses or neglects
to use due diligence in complying with the
notice or requisition you have given him within
six months after receiving it without giving
a reasonable excuse the owner of the adjoin-
ing land may carry out the work at his own
expense and the money so expended shall be
recoverable in a Court of Petty Sessions as
money laid out for the benefit of the non-
complying owner of the adjoining land
N.R.F.: (1) Minimum age is 16£ years, height
sft. 2\m., chest 33in. (2) Apply to District
Naval Officer, Beach-road, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
(3) Usually sign on for 12 years, but can join
for two years or duration of war... .N.J.R.:
Stalin, by Boris Souvarine (155.), obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney A.J.M.:
Write Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack streets, Sydney
D.G.: There are two ways of entering the
profession of architecture in N. S. Wales—
by attending the course at the school of Archi-
tecture at Sydney Uni. or by attending the
School of Architecture of the Sydney Tech.
Coll. The education requirement for both
courses is the matriculation standard... .C.P.:
Presume that you refer to Henri Verbrugghen,
a Belgian violinist long resident in Glasgow,
w'ho was appointed principal of the N.S.W.
Conservatorium of Music in 1916. Verbrugghen
proved himself an outstanding orchestral con-
ductor. He departed in 1922 for the U.S.A.,
where he was appointed conductor of the
Minneapolis Orchestra... .C.H.8.: Wearing a
white tie with a dinner jacket is one of
those things that aren’t done... .D.C.T.: Write
Register-General, H.M. General Register
House, Edinburgh, Scotland... .E.N.G.: R.M.S.
Australia (6000 tons) was wrecked at Port
Phillip Heads, June 21, 1904, while in the hands
of the pilot. Much cargo was salvaged by
blowing the ship to pieces. No lives were lost.
.. . .G.W.: No record of the accident is contained
in any of the standard reference books avail-
able in Sydney. Write to the co. in London.
A.C.: Result should be known early in
September G.0.W.: Particulars of the
Seventh (1941) S. H. Prior Memorial Prize have
not yet been announced. Details, when ready,
will be published in The Bulletin. .. .M.S.:
Write Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .G.A. and N.S.G.:
Write Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne.
A.J.: (1) It is possible for a Sydney youth
aged 20 this month to join the militia only if
he is a serving member of the senior cadets.
(2) Voluntary enlistment from those outside the
age groups for universal training is permitted
up to the age of 45. (3) Applications should
be made to the commanding officers of the
Ist Cavalry Division, Ist Division or 2nd
Division... .W.H.C.: Write Allan Pickering,
hon. sec. N.S.W. Council of Agricultural
Associations, 11 Macquarie-place, Sydney
K.J.: NEP is a Russian abridgment for Novaya
Ekonomitcheskaya Politika (New Economic
Policy), the policy adopted by Soviet Russia
after the civil war in 1922 with a view to
promoting the recovery of production and trade.
The NEP admitted an amount of private initia-
tive and profit; private enterprise, domestic and
foreign, was encouraged in commerce and
minor industries. The NEP was liquidated in
1927 and succeeded by the strictly non-capitalis-
tic Five-Year Plan policy... .S.R.S.: “Yellow-
dog contract” is a popular American term for
contracts between employer and employee
whereby the employee understakes not to join
a trade union. Such contracts have long been
enforced by employers in the U.S.A., and there
were about 1| million of them when they
were forbidden by the Wagner Labor Rela-
tions Act in 1935. Attempts have, however,
'been made to. continue this sort of contract
in modified or unofficial forms, and it has not
yet quite vanished... .A.W.: (1) Motor vehicles
in Australia in 1913, 36,703; in 1923, 172,745.
(2) Civil aircraft in Australia in 1938, 286; in
1948, 1346. The 1948 estimate is made on your
own assumption that the rate of increase for
aircraft between 1938 and 1948 will be pro-
portionate to the increase recorded for motor
vehicles between 1913 and 1923, and cannot
be considered as anything but arbitrary
A.8.C.: (1) Motor transport is usually arranged
by the contractor who has the work in hand.
Sometimes he has his own trucks. The number
of trucks present appears to be capable of
catering for the work offering. (2) Tip trucks
of four-yard to five-yard capacity are a useful
size. (3) It is impossible to state what the
earning would be per truck, as work and rates
vary considerably. (4) The wet season holds
up work on inland roads, but building in the
town is continuous throughout the year. (5)
There is a Carters and Truck Owners’ Assop. at
Darwin, and that body could be communicated
with... .J.E.P.: Adco (obtainable Gill and
Searle or Law, Somer, both of Melbourne)
mixed into the refuse will cause quick decay.
Lime should have been applied between each
layer of refuse as the pit was being built.


WHILE FEED IS DRY . . .
Help your stock to make the most of it
by feeding a Tri-cal-os Bone Flour and
salt mixture—all the minerals necessary
to enable the animals to make good use
of the poor coarse fodders and main-
tain condition. Tri-cal-os contains a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime, and is the best source
of phosphorus and calcium for all stock
feeding.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Syd-
ney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
** B-s
•a
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
ar-e/
m
o
&
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen st., Brisbane, q’land.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Improved Pasture in Victoria.
“R. Ney”: The difference between the
large property which runs sheep on
ordinary native pasture and the smaller
block that has improved pastures is shown
strikingly in a survey of 16 farms in
Victoria’s Western District. It is esti-
mated that nearly three times as many
sheep, yielding about seven times as much
wool, are being carried on the small,
improved properties.
The farms average about 1000 acres
each, in undulating country with a 23in.
rainfall. Improvement generally con-
sists of sowing 21b. to 31b. of sub. clover
an acre and topdressing annually at a
rate of about 1401 b. of super, an acre.
Before pastures were improved the dis-
trict was carrying between five and six
sheep to 10 acres, and the area covered
by the 16 farms would have carried about
9000 sheep. A third of it has been im-
proved, more is undergoing improvement
preparation and about half is still under
natural grasses. There are more than
24,000 sheep on the 16,000 acres.
The improved pastures are carrying
about three sheep to the acre and pro-
ducing about 281 b. of wool. Twenty
years ago, when the area was station
property, about 41b. of wool an acre
came from it. In addition, a good num-
ber of fat lambs are produced today,
the sheep being mainly merino but with
a fair sprinkling of Corriedales and
crossbreds.
Subdivision is playing its part, too, the
average paddock on the improved areas
being about 50 acres. Farmers on the
area who have improved their paddocks,
subdivided them and gone in for lambs
and wool are doing well.
Phalaris Tuberosa.
“J. Want”: Phalaris tuberosa doesn’t
always live up to its reputation. Where
it grows coarse either the land or the
treatment is wrong. It likes a deep, rich
loam in which its roots can do a bit of
downward wandering, and it does best as
a mixture, especially when it is to be used
for winter grazing or for feeding breed-
ing ewes.
Sub. clover and phalaris go well to-
gether—two-thirds p.t., one-third s.c. on
good land, with more equal proportions
when the land is poor. The grass
under these conditions is stimulated by
the nitrates from the clover, and makes
a juicier and quicker growth. Super,
added completes the perfect diet.
Phalaris should be well established
before it is heavily grazed. Failure in
many cases is due to intensive feeding-
down before the sole has a proper hold.
Once itlj is established it should be eaten
off regularly under a rotational system,
with an extra feed-off in winter to make
room for spring growth.
One great advantage about p.t. is that
it is not choicy about season. It will
stand cover with water in a way which
would wipe out other grasses. Yet in
parts of the Mallee in 1938, when there
was under a 9in. rainfall, it came through
well.
Oats for Sheep.
“Granova”: The value of oat grain
as a fodder reserve has been proved
again this drought. For a month we had
a flock of Corriedale-cross ewes with
three-to-four-month lambs at foot running
on rough dry grass. We fed the ewes
of oats per head per day and before
shifting them back to fodder crops went
through them to pick out the dry ewes.
Every ewe was still suckling her lamb
and was In good condition.
A ration of |lb. of oats per day is a
generous one for dry sheep. Only when
paddocks are completely bare is it neces-
sary to add hay, chaff or silage to the
ration.
Oats can be stored without much ex-
pense by bulking them in a shed or silo.
Feeding calls for little labor. At central
points we have portable wooden troughs
laid out in big yards and provision made
to store two weeks’ supply of grain.
The oats are bagged at the silo and a
lorry-load taken to the depot. The bags
are only half-filled so that they can be
“Cut that out, Blossom; you're a big girl now!”
emptied into the troughs more con-
veniently. Every morning the man in
charge of the sheep rides out and puts
out the day’s ration, opens the gates and
lets the sheep in together. After a few
days the sheep learn to be on the spot
at the same time each day. The sheep
eat their ration in a few minutes, and
the same set of troughs can be used to
feed several flocks.
Entero-toxaemia Prevention.
“Lion”: Deaths from entero-toxsemia
usually occur between three weeks and
five weeks after shifting store sheep from
ordinary balanced feed to pastures rich
in protein and short of roughage such
as sub. clover. Best-conditioned sheep are
usually attacked first. There are excep-
tions due to seasonal conditions and type
and condition of sheep ; but under feed
conditions conducive to e.-t. these times
are worth remembering. Sheep can nor-
mally be safely left for three weeks, then
returned to grass for a week and re-
placed on rich pastures with few losses.
Last year e.-t. was exceptionally bad in
my district —N.S.W. central-western
slopes. I inoculated all sheep twice with
a 5-c.c. dose of alum-precipitate vaccine.
First inoculation gave six weeks’ immu-
nity. The second inoculation gave an-
other eight weeks’ immunity; then
seasonal conditions changed. In all
cases the lambs responded to the vaccine
far better than the adult sheep, and
gained a much longer immunity.
I and others had cases of e.-t. on rich
dry feed. Shifting the sheep on to rough-
age paddocks every three weeks, in con-
junction with inoculation, practically put
an end to deaths.
I also found that putting affected sheep
on to a bare paddock two days before
inoculation and keeping them there for
two days afterwards was of value in
checking the rush of deaths shortly after
injection.
Another Wheat Pest.
“B. Cubbin”: In Victoria C. R. Milli-
kan has been looking into the habits of
the meadow nematode, which was found
for the first time attacking the roots of
wheat and oat crops in the Wimmera
black-soil country last year.
The worms —don’t start looking for
them, as one over a fiftieth of an inch
from head to tailtip is a monster—con-
gregate in the root masses of cereals,
where they penetrate and feed. Millikan
suggests that they facilitate the entry of
root-rot fungi, but adds that their direct
damage to cereals is relatively slight. In
combination with other organisms they
can reduce a crop, however, and best
means of dealing with them is by step-
ping-up the general vigor and rooting
ability of the plants.
The normal wheat-oats-fallow rota-
tion is a good way, especially as Mulga,
Guyra or Gidgee oats resist one form
of root worm (Heterodera Schachtii
Schmidt). Weeds on the fallow might
possibly be a host for the worms. Field
peas are believed to be useful in reduc-
ing worm and root-rot frequency. On
Wimmera black soil where the worm
is known to exist, a 101 b. to 151 b. appli-
cation of zinc sulphate per acre, with
the usual amount of superphosphate, has
improved the rooting ability, growth and
yield of subsequent wheat crops.
Why Not Grow Cotton?
“N. 0.”: Primarily a cheap-labor pro-
position, the growing of cotton would not
be profitable or even possible under Aus-
tralian conditions were it not for the
heavy subsidy granted by the Common-
wealth Government bringing the local
price to more than twice that of world
parity. Apart from commercial con-
siderations, it would be a worthy con-
tribution to national defence on the part
of farmers whose land was suitable to
grow some cotton, if only a small crop.
Most of the dairy country in Queensland
and northern N. S. Wales would grow
cotton (that was proved in Q. years ago)
provided that the most suitable varieties
for the locality were selected. The
Queensland Agricultural Department has
carried on experiments for many years
and claims to have discovered varieties
suitable for different soils and climates.
Taking all adverse factors into con-
sideration, it is a fair risk at present
prices and also an opportunity to meet
what is a national necessity. Large plant-
ings are not advisable in new country,
but a small area on each dairy farm
would not mean much risk, and if the
butter market strikes trouble the cotton
cheque would come in very handy.
Rich soil is not required, but rather
the reverse, and the cost of seed is small
—it may be procured from any of
the Queensland ginneries. Seed can be
planted with a maize planter and only
the usual cultivation is necessary. Yields
of from 5001 b. to 8001 b. per acre are not
uncommon under fair-weather conditions,
and the price will be about 4}d. per
pound for the next season’s crop. Pick-
ing charges have been fixed by the
Queensland Arbitration Court at abouf
\\ d. per pound, which on a fair average
crop leaves a fair profit.
Stock Foods and Medicines.
“Bungaree”: The new N.S.W. Stock
Foods and Medicines Act will make com-
pulsory registration and lebelling of every
such product.
Manufacturers or distributors of
artificial stock fodders or licks in N.S.W.
will submit a sample of each product to
a board of members of the Veterinary
Branch of the Department of Agricul-
ture and other appointed authorities.
Full details will have to be supplied on
three points concerning the chemical
analysis of the food: (1) Minimum per-
centage of crude protein ; (2) minimum
percentage crude fat; (3) maximum per-
centage crude fibre content. When the
product is registered each container must
bear a label showing these particulars
along with its registration. The manu-
facturer must also supply other particu-
lars regarding the various constituents of
the food, but these will not be published.
Where a food contains salt quantity must
be stated. *
Every container or bag in which a
stock lick is sold must give particulars
of the maximum percentage of salt and
its minimum percentage of phosphoric
acid (P 205) and other minerals.
Stock medicines include not only
drenches, vaccines and various veteri-
nary applications, but also fly-dressings,
dips, jetting mixtures, etc. In applying
for registration, the manufacturer must
state clearly the prescription or com-
position of the medicine, full directions
for its use and a list of the injuries,
diseases or parasites which the product
is claimed to treat.
N. S. Wales now falls into line with
other States which have similar Acts, but
as usual there is no real uniformity. It
would be much better if one Federal Act
were framed to cover the whole business.
Treating Burnt Soil.
“Bogaduck”: It’s usual when clearing
land which has carried a heavy growth
of big timber to heap the logs around
the stump and fire them, thus burning
the stump out to well below ground-level.
It means a large patch of ground which
will grow nothing save moss for years.
What has been done is to burn all
organic matter out of the soil to a depth
of six inches or more. On big paddocks
these bare patches don’t matter, but on
small areas of rich soil which are cleared
to provide heavy pasture for cows or to
grow crops they may represent as much
as one-tenth of the area lying idle.
Wait until the ashes are cool but
still dry, and scatter them over the sur-
rounding ground with a shovel. Use a
subsoiler to rip up the ground thoroughly
and mix the lower, unburnt soil with the


mTi.
w'm
W%'. ’
Hi
m
jmm :>
✓fts easy to be in
C / 2 places at once ..
With a second set in your home,
all may enjoy their own favourite
session in complete comfort. The
table model is a “p 6 * radio
bringing entertainment into every
room.
Be it for companionship or for
entertainment, Radiotron va*ves
assure the greatest efficiency from
your radio.
/
Wife*-"
ADVERT OF THE AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
ITT
rj
rr
umii
*3
(Si,*.
""I,"
j
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
ROOM ONLY 1M CLARENCE STREET ’ faC!nS GP °- SYDNEY ; BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 11/- Double RoomS fr ° m 15/
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G - C * C - McKAY, Manager.
calcined top layer. An ordinary plough
does not go deep enough.
If the land is to be used for pasture,
sow all these ripped-up patches with
phalaris tuberosa. If the land is to be
cropped miss the patches with the drill
during the first season and let them lie
idle as fallow for a year to give the soil
a better chance to return to normal.
Hints for the Farm.
“Blue’s Boss”: He suddenly took to
killing sheep—always on the cards when
a cattle-dog comes on to a jumbuck
farm —and I was regretfully oiling up
the double-barrel when someone sug-
gested tying a dead lamb to Bluey’s neck
and letting him drag it around for a few
days. Since then he’s regarded all sheep
as the strict Hebrew regards pigs.
“W.S.T.”: Our method of treating a
crow-struck sheep is to mix a 5 p.c.
solution of hydrogen peroxide and use
it as a dressing to remove all foreign
material in and around the affected eye.
We do it three times a day for the first
few days, then twice daily and finally once
as the wound improves. But the job must
be got at straightway.
“R. Ney”: With the spring flush comes
bloat danger in sheep. Let them on to
the lush feed gradually—an hour the first
day or so, then a couple of hours and
so on. It is all the better if there is a
paddock of dry stuff handy. A lick of
two parts of salt to one of lime is worth
while where there is likely to be bloat.
An effective drench for severe cases is
two teaspoonfuls each of aromatic spirits
of ammonia and turpentine in raw linseed
oil.
“Wessex”: Feed your grunters on the
ground and you’ll lose from 10 p.c. to
25 p.c. of the feed. A concrete feeding
floor will pay for itself in no time. Put
a kerb round it to stop Denis and family
shoving the feed off into the dirt.
“0.T.T.”: If the cows start chewing
bits of stick, bark, old rubber and stray
discarded boots, they’re short of some
mineral element in the feed. Try them
with a lick made of one part of coarse
salt to two parts of sweet ground bone-
meal. A little linseed meal and crushed
oats makes it more palatable and the
cows will find it more readily if it is
placed near watering places.
“Rooter”: Where feed has to be
bagged a handy bag-filler can be made
with four 2|in. by 24in. uprights, an
inch or two less than the height of the
bag, with two or three light battens to
hold the frame up. Put the front batten
on top so the filled bag can be dragged
out easily. Blunt nails will hold the
open bag in place for the filling.
“Wester”: Why not grow a few kurra-
jongs? They’re ornamental, shady and
provide useful fodder in a dry time. Sow
the ripe seed in nursery rows and trans-
plant when the seedlings are three years
old from time of sowing, and immediately
after rain. Be careful to lift the whole
seedling. Don’t boil the seeds before,
sowing.
“Clyde”: When pastures are thin or
the new spring growth a bit patchy,
horses are likely to get sand colic. A
good drench is made from lib. of honey
thinned down by mixing with a pint of
warm water. Three doses ought to do
the trick. If the nag is suffering, give
him ounce doses of chlorodyne in a
pint of water every four hours until the
pain stops. Then feed for a few days
on bran mashes mixed with a little raw
linseed oil. A horse in pain will groan
and will make quick movements of the
head towards the sore spot.
“Yan King”: On light country likely
to lift easily in a wind, avoid working the
fallows when dry. A good rule is never
to work unless there has been at least
20 points of rain. Stop work as soon
as dust begins to rise behind the imple-
ment. Keep the harrows off light ground
in windy districts and avoid working
down to a fine tilth unless sowing time
is close.
“8.C.”: Chains should pull in a
straight line from hames to swinglebar.
Sometimes the back-bands are too short,
with the result that the chains are held
up and become a weight oh the horses’
backs. With constant work this fault
can easily develop sores.
“Zedo”: Why not collect natural
manures? A fair average annual return
from a cow is the equivalent of l|cwt.
super., l|cwt. kainit —potash—and lewt.
amm. sulph. A harrow is obviously a
good tool to have about the place in
these hard times. For manure work
it should be light-weight and have sharp,
well-sprung teeth if the pastures are in
good order. Otherwise a bit more weight
is called for.
“Ghanam”: The new season’s wool
appraisements opened quietly in Sydney
on August 19. Allotments for the fort-
night from that date total over 104,000
bales and payments will be made of 95
p.c. of value a fortnight after valuation.
Last season only 90 p.c. of the appraised
price was paid, but the reserve was found
to be unduly large. Wool generally has not
been nearly so affected by the dry weather
as had been expected, but there is much
dust and burr.
“Goulburn”: In 1931 Mark Lamond,
Coomungie, Moss Vale (N.S.W.), could
run only 25 milking cows on his farm
of 172 acres. The herd now numbers
50. Lamond sowed perennial rye grass,
cocksfoot, red, white and sub. clovers,
and maintains dense swards by annual
topdressing with 1501 b. of super, per
acre. Most of his fodder reserves have
been made from surplus pasture growth,
but he grows oats, maize, saccaline,
lucerne and turnips to provide supplemen-
tary feed.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXII.
Hospital Wood Day.
“Dear Mr. Fordcubbin,” runs the note,
“at the last meeting of the Hospital Board
it was decided to seek your permission to
hold the annual hospital wood day on
your farm, several of the directors having
noted that there is a good stand of dead
timber in one of your paddocks. Could
you let me know if this is suitable to you,
or would you prefer to send your cheque
for £100 in lieu of the wood? Yours
faithfully, J. Ramstopper, secretary.”
There is nothing to be done about it.
If you don’t let them have the wood
they’ll broadcast your name as the
meanest old cow in the district, and you
certainly can’t send them £100.
So you write back and advise them
that you will be honored (honored me
foot!) to have the hospital wood day.
Before the day comes you go round
and mark certain trees prominently with
red raddle. These trees, though dead,
you want for fencing-posts. You cast
an eye over the paddock, thinking that
this is one way of getting it cleared, even
though wood is worth £1 a ton.
On the day a procession of horse-
drawn and motor lorries, drays, spring
carts, big and little cars, bicycles and
sulkies bears down on your farm. The
vehicles are filled with a mixed collec-
tion of bank clerks, shop-hands, town
loafers, policemen off duty, nurses in
uniform, small boys, a schoolteacher or
two and sundry other human items. They
unload a collection of cutting instru-
ments ranging from tomahawks to rusty
broadaxes once used by sleeper-getters.
They also unload vast packets of sand-
wiches, an 18-gallon keg and the town
Mayor. The latter mounts a stump and
makes a speech in which he thanks you,
the workers, the British flag, the Aus-
tralian flag and the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. About this time the big black
ants from that stump have found their
way up the Mayor’s trouser-legs, and he
suddenly jumps down and hurries into
the seclusion of your barn.
The mob rolls up its shirt sleeves, seizes
its tomahawks, broadaxes and axes—
some of these bought new for the occa-
sion—and looks at you expectantly.
You explain that the red-raddled trees
are not to be cut. Also that Mrs. Ford-
cubbin is making tea and coffee, so there
will be no need for anybody to light
fires. Singing and laughing, the bank
clerks and the shop-hands go up the ridge
and fall upon your timber.
A group of rather shrewd-looking coves
sits, lies or sprawls near the 18-gallon
keg, You learn that their job is to load
the wood when it is cut. They are to
give the cutters two hours’ start.
You decide to stay with the loaders.
After all, it’s your farm, and if anybody
is going to tap 18-gallon kegs, well
Up on the ridge there is an intermit-
tent sound of axes. You and the loaders
yarn lazily. Somebody taps the keg.
Time drifts by.
Then four harried men appear carry-
ing another He is whiter than usual,
Blood stains one of his trouser-ends. The
nurses take charge of him. His four
helpers gather round the keg and discuss
the accident. Two more come down to
see what has become of them. They, too,
gather round the keg. More come to
look for the two. Then a wild-eyed youth
comes racing in, holding one hand aloft,
yelling ‘'A snake got me! A snake got
me! ”
Without hesitation the Mayor seizes
him, two others seize him. A fourth lays
his little finger on a stump and a fifth
very promptly arid irrevocably chops off
the first joint of that little finger. They
carry him, fainting, to the nurses in the
house.
You pick up the bit of finger, look at
it, and place it on a near-by log.
At last comes the call for loaders. You
join them. Logs, branches, twigs, chips,
exhausted bank clerks and panting shop-
hands litter the ground.
.The loaders pick out the wooden part
of this array and throw it merrily aboard
the collection, of vehicles. Most of it is
distinguished by red-raddle marks. They’d
understood you to say the red trees were
the ones to be cut. You go a little apart
from the scene and brood quietly over
this, wondering where you can buy fence-
posts cheap.
A rabbit jumps up and bolts. Even
the bank clerks manage to get on their
feet and join in the hunt. Shouting and
yelling, the whole force chases the un-
fortunate animal through the timber. The
inevitable stray dogs have appeared—
they always appear at gatherings such as
this—and they join the hunt. The rabbit
makes for your lambing ewes with the
instinct of its kind. Before you can do
anything, the hunt is among the ewes,
which bolt in all directions. Some go
down, others get trodden on, others be-
come the sport of the stray dogs.
You scream, you dance, you utter
strange curses. Then you bow your head
on your old blue shirt sleeves and weep
salt tears of baffled rage and repressed
murder.
Peace comes at last. The hospital wood
is loaded, most of it consisting of your
proposed subdivision fence. You haven t
dared to go among the ewes while there
is a strange human on the place. The
procession gets under way for the town.
The sun is sinking.
In the last lorry are the wounded. Sud-
denly you run to the log, pick up the bit
of finger and say to the bandaged youth
who once owned it, “Listen, there’s no-
thing to worry about. Them teeth marks
wasn’t made by any snake ; more like a
wood mouse got y’.”
A slow, sick, strickea look comes on
his face. He holds up his bandaged hand,
staring at it incredulously. “I’ll go the
blankards for compensation,” he mutters
darkly.
You farewell them with a silent prayer
that he will do so.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4jjd. per line; all others at
2ld. per line. , ,
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
Constructive thinking is in demand. A Queenslander s challenging effort is
rewarded with double pay.
Reclaim and Build
Soon approximately 250,000 men will
be drafted into camp for three months’
defence training. That will be something
accomplished for national security. But
what is to come after that training
period? These men will certainly be a
militia reserve, but a considerable per-
centage of them could be more. It would
be within reason to say that round about
100,000 of those called up will be men
with irregular or dead-end jobs, or no
job at all —an army unskilled, yet willing
to work.
Military training will have inculcated
ambition to do something of national im-
portance. But will there be a national
job for this 100,000? There should and
could be. These men, part of the mili-
tary reserve of 250,000 —the remaining
150,000 having returned to regular pro-
fessional or craft occupations—could and
should be drafted into a mobile land
army and required to give nine months
of each year to reproductive national
work, such as access roads, irrigation,
flood and soil-erosion prevention,
reclamation, and reafforestation, and three
months to defence training. For the
longer period they would be controlled
by the Department of the Interior or
Development; for the shorter term by
the Department of Defence.
Expensive? Yes, but the expense of
this plan would be doubly offset by the
annual saving on drought devastation,
flood destruction, increased returns from
irrigation, conversion to productiveness
of swamp lands, access roads and re-
afforestation —and we do need a compre-
hensive timber plan. The personnel of
this land army would be paid Bs. a day,
with work outfits and keep. Wages alone
—defence and mobile army combined of
100,000 —would cost the nation £240,000
a week, £12,480,000 a year. Spread over
a 10-year plan the cost would be
£124,800,000, plus keep and outfitting. It
sounds huge, but is infinitesimal com-
pared with the structure of national secu-
rity and reproductive greatness that would
be built.
The plan plainly means a compulsory
defence labor corps ; yet it is a principle
that must eventually prevail. National
well-being demands it. It goes beyond
tinkering, which is about all that has so
far been done on national needs. After
Armageddon the problem of reconstruc-
tion and realignment will arise—man-
power must be put to profitable use. This
plan shows a way.— Ned Herbert (Q.).
An Inland State
The failure of Australian Governments
of all colors to make full use of their
man-power, even in war-time, while hated
enemies provide full-time work for all,
is enough to make angels weep.
Under existing social conditions there
are too many unwanted men in the world,
and their numbers are being enormously
increased as they give way to women
and girls, with wars and ever-recurring
wars as the inevitable aftermath.
There are ways out of this fearful hole.
Fifty years or so ago South Australians
debated the possibility of transforming
the Lake Eyre region into a prosperous
inland State by turning its below-sea-level
salt-crusted travesty of a lake into an
inland sea.
The estimated cost of providing for
the necessary flow from the sea,
£30,000,000, was deemed to be the main
obstacle. But in days when England
can spend millions sterling every day for
protection of the people of its little over-
crowded island, it seems that a few extra
millions sterling could be well spent in
Australia in creation of a new State ; one
that would be greater in area than the
British Isles.
This new State could absorb Britain’s
surplus population, plus the obvious
surplus population of Australia today,
without (because it would be reproductive
work) adding to the financial burden of
anyone.
Intelligent observers do not need the
lessons that two six-year droughts over
the catchment area of Sydney’s water
supply ar,e teaching, it having long been
obvious that the area of what has been
named the “dead heart of Australia is
expanding towards the sea.
Why not lead the sea into the centre
of it before it is too late? It will be too
late for us if the job is left to be done by
a population that will bring its own Gov-
ernment with it.
If any Federal Opposition party, in-
stead of wasting time criticising a Gov-
ernment it has no chance of hurting
before election time, would use its col-
lective brain power in perfecting a plan
and providing means to carry out a work
such as has been suggested, or any prac-
ticable alternative, it would probably
sweep the polls the first time it went to
the country. —O. Bill (Vic.).
Jobs for Young Men
One cannot but feel distressed that in
these days our young men like “Midnight
Son” (B. 14/8/’4O) should, even when
“Get a move on, chief —I don't think they're up to any good ."
in constant employment and with the ad-
vantage of living at home find life ■ so
hard and cramped. W _ f ,
countless o her young meufound^M
difficulty in get g
Our every need was supplied, and our
wages could be used entirely or p •
We were fed, clothed and ouse
employers’ expense. All too s o
were supplied ; pay went on during hou-
days and sick leave, and in a
medical treatment and unlimi .P
treatment, if necessary, were P •
The work gave us ample opportunities of
travel, at home and overseas, a
us never a penny. :Free tobacco orcigar-
ettes were provided for those who wanted
them, and other luxury, goods, toilet neces-
sities, etc., were made aval a e a
cession rates. It’s true that there were
no “best girls, picture shows or ances
on Gallipoli ; but at other p ac s
aged to knock quite a bit of fun out of
divisional football competitions, boxing
and athletics (no charge or a miss o ),
and there were other tn
other tastes. Finally, all burial expens
were paid.
“Midnight Son need not despair , the
old firm is still going strong ; there are
plenty of vacancies, and he will find him-
self in a “set” where his standing will be
quite independent of his income. But
“Midnight Son” will find himself on a
better wicket than I was, for he will
receive Australian rates of pay, while I
had to manage on the English rate of
Is. 6d. per diem. Think it over, “Mid-
night Son.” — Upagum (S.A.).
Government bv Newspaper in France
The collapse of France has shown what
ine couapse ui t rinv-
a farcical and irresp . y
"in France raai SP poHti/ai group had its
in l ranee eac P HiflWpnt news-
papers news-
paper had a circulation of more than
200,000 copies per day, few more than
50,000. These papers paid neither by
their advertising nor circulation. It was
bribes and subsidies from “interests tha
enabled each paper to be a paying
concern. . ....
We are never tired of criticising our
politicians, and it cannot be denied tna
there is room for improvement in_ oi
governmental system, but to substitute
the corrupt system of government oy me
press would be a grave error It would
aggravate rather than ameliorate our poll
tical problems. Bunyip (£)■)•
_ . ,
Canberra War Memoria
Work continues at Canberra on the
Australian War Memorial the best in
the world.” Hundreds of thousands of
pounds will be required to pay for this
seemingly never-ending job, begun in
1934. Unfinished, it stands at the foot
of a hill which overlooks the city, already
an impressive monument to the dead of
the 1914-18 war, who have no use for
such things. Upon completion, the
building will also serve as a museum for
materials used in that war and, probably,
such things as bullet-riddled Bibles and
captured helmets, which can have none
other than inhuman associations.
There is an opinion that Australia
blossomed into nationhood by reason of
her participation in the last war, and
that this should be commemorated. If it
were certain that we, in our sadly-
undeveloped country, would not have
greater progress without the inter-
ruption and pitiful results of war; if we
were to feel proud that our spurs were
won during one of the greatest follies of
man, by all means let us immortalise the
memory. We should then be obeying
the savage theory that a man must kill
his enemy to prove his manhood.
There will always be wars, for the same
reasons that there will always be back-
yard bickerings over straying fowls.
Posterity will be confused if we keep
on erecting memorials and shrines, and it
can best learn of glory with the inevitable
admixture of shame in the pages of
history.
When the present war is over our spare
pounds, if any, would be gratefully
accepted by returned soldiers and broken
families who will be seeking a new life.
Our dead will be resting in peace. —Lou
(A.C.T.).
Brand Comforts
There is a strong and growing sus-
picion that socks, scarves and other
“comforts” freely made and freely deli-
vered by relatives and patriotic citizens
are being sold to the men of the A.I.F.
If there is anything in it, it is a shock-
ing and atrocious way of treating men
who have given up their homes and posi-
tions and are ready at a moment’s notice
to give their very lives for the freedom
of their country.
Is there nothing that can be done about
it? I suggest that comfort centres obtain
a rubber stamp with something to this
effect: “Comforts Fund ; not to be sold."
In the case of woollen goods, woven
letters could be obtained with these
words, “Free to soldiers.” Either of
these methods would be inexpensive. The
soldiers would be given a fair deal, and
the comfort workers would at least have
‘ho satisfaction of knowing in what
manner their goods were being distn-
buted-PtscusTeo (N.S.W.).
High Cost of Babies
j smi]e> albeit a little wan ]y 9 w hen I
re . rea( j t he dissertations of Betty
Martin and her supporters on the sub-
jgct po p U i a ti o n. If that young and
optimistic lady is sincere in her intention
bav j ng a j arge f am jjy let me advise her
tQ cboose as a mate one wbo j s particu-
lar j otherwise her fecund in-
tention wiU rema i n but asp i ra tion.
Eyer time she goes into the mate rnity
hospital it will cost £8 8s for the fort .
night , § bgd and board—laundry, as well
as innumerable other items, extra. Before
accouchement she will be required to pro-
y^de a Q £ arbc i es —diapers, chemicals,
e^c —costing roughly £5 in all. The
i a bor-room will set her back another
gu j nea> an d, if it is a boy, there will be
a f urt her £2 2s. in theatre and attendance
j ees The doctor will be content with
en g U j nea s 5 unless he is a specialist, in
wb j cb case the fee will be twenty guineas
and U p Wa rds.
Betty Junior will need clinic emulsion at
war p r i ces anc j j ar ge quantities of milk
(specially bottled at tenpence per quart),
and sbe goes through the first year of
ex j s t e nce without serious illness the whole
sbow shouldn’t cost her mother much
over £ jqq g y t his time, according to
“g jyj’ s ” self-imposed schedule, Betty
s ecU nda should be on the way to repeat
tbe fi nanc i a i cycle.— Bar won (N.S.W.).
R . , Control
v^oncro
While making the sale of contracep-
tives a criminal offence and banning a
birth-control literature, as ‘ Pierrot sug-
gests (B. 14/8/’4O), might have the result
of limiting contraception, it is doubtful
if there would be any increase in the
birthrate. In 1920 a law was passed in
France placing contraception on the same
level as abortion and making everything
connected with it a criminal offence. This
resulted, not in a hoped-for increase in
the birthrate, but in the unprecedented
number of 500,000 abortions for the year,
Driving anything underground only
makes it more desirable to a great num-
ber of people, as is evidenced by the
demand for a book when it is placed on
the banned list.
The easiest way to kill a snake is
to get as he slides out into a clear-
j ng / Similarly we must bring birth con-
trol out into the open and fight it there
with no holds barred. Hold it and the
who practise it up as objects
of contempt ; lavish praise, not ridicule,
on the father of a big family ; exhort the
young couples to buy babies with in-
terest paid in happiness during every year
°^^, eir e ‘ , . , ,
When birth control has been judged on
its merits and rejected on its demerits we
can compliment ourselves on a job well
done, and baby-food manufacturers can
start borrowing staff from the munition
factories.—P. M. ( N.S.W.).
,
“Pawang (B. 7/8/40) errs when he
asserts that birth control is a compara-
tively modern invention. Nothing could
be farther from the truth. There are
indications that the natives of Australia


practised birth control and proof that it
was not unknown to the Egyptians many
thousands of years b.c.
It might be timely at this juncture of
the birth-control argument to quote a few
lines written by Francis Place in 1822:
“The intellectual progress people have for
several years past been making, the desire
for information of all kinds which is
abroad in the world, and particularly in
this country, cannot fail to lead them to
the discovery of the true causes of their
poverty and degradation, not the least
of which they will find to be in
overstocking the market with labor, by
too rapidly producing children, and for
which they will not fail to find and to
apply remedies.”
This indicates that birth control has
been given a test of over a century, and
none of the looked-for reforms has re-
sulted. Although writers and reformers
are still putting forward ideas identical
or closely allied to those of Francis Place,
it is now only fair and reasonable to
assume that birth control has been
weighed in the bassinets and found want-
ing.—Paddy Mac (N.S.W.).
Women and War Work
Australian women can do real war
work, or rather post-war work, in a way
that will prove of great benefit to this
country in the future. Instead of married
women getting into pretty uniforms and
doing physical drill and parading in imi-
tation of soldiers, let them remain at
home and have babies. There are plenty
of single women for playing at war work
and plenty of single men and women
available for real war work. After this
war is over we will need population if
we are to make anything of the country.
—Thorn (N.S.W.).
The Refugee Problem
In Australia we pride ourselves on
being more British in blood than any
other part of the Empire, not excluding
Great Britain herself. It would not be
a stretch of the imagination to describe
ourselves as the last of the Elizabethans.
After all, the influx of foreign blood into
England, never more than a trickle at
any time, had ceased to flow for centuries,
apart from a few French families to the
southern counties and a few Dutch
groups into the wool towns of York-
shire, when Phillip, exactly two centuries
after the defeat of the Spanish Armada,
dropped anchor in Sydney Cove. It is
well to remember, too, that at this period
England’s population was just short of
15 millions. Therefore we can safely
assume that the percentage of foreign
blood among our first settlers, free
or not, was negligible. For further
evidence of our Elizabethan strain we
still retain that ingenuous arrogance and
“will-to-win” complex which make us
feared and hated by our enemies, and
sometimes disliked by our friends. These
were certainly characteristics of the
Elizabethan Englishman, and I rather
think he possesses them still; that the
average Australian retains them was un-
deniably proved in 1914-18.
Without question or doubt we can be
justly proud of our efforts in education,
sport and war. The policy of a White
Australia, considered harsh by many, has
given us the time and the opportunity to
exploit the British genius that lies within
us, a genius founded on commonsense
and courage.
Is it wisdom, then, to let in amongst
us vast numbers of other nations’ “un-
wanteds”? They bring with them a
culture unknown to this country, a cul-
ture which has produced a system of
government that we are opposing today
by force of arms. They bring with them
an enslaved spirit which, if there is any-
thing in heredity, they will pass down
to their children, and by degrees to our
own. The seeds from which has grown
the tragedy of Europe will be sown here,
and by the very nature of our laws will
have room to thrive and grow. Let us
beware, then, lest from our own freedom
we fashion our chains.
What has made these people refugees?
We are told that their presence in their
own countries runs counter to the de-
velopment of social conditions adopted
by the new government systems of
Central Europe. But what are we not
told? May there be more than a grain
of truth in Germany’s statement that
these people by their sweated labor,
employer and employee alike, had
brought down the standard of living to
the level of a race of slaves? That they
took certain essential industries and made
them their own, putting a price on their
products immeasurably greater than their
value? Tolerance is to be commended
at all times, if it is tolerance; but is it?
What we sometimes term tolerance might,
if closely examined, turn out to be
apathy.— Frank Harvey (N.S.W.).
Why Adopt Refugee Children?
For years open-hearted women have
been adopting children from the State
orphanages. They did it without the
“necessary propaganda.” If we are to
have refugee children why not put them
in the orphanages?
“0.L.” (B. 17/7/’4O) and other pillars
of the “social structure” would lose caste
if they adopted common Australian chil-
dren. It would be far more thrilling to
have a foreign child.
Imagine the reaction when an Aus-
tralian orphan sees a refugee child enjoy-
ing privileges which are denied him,
through no fault of his own. That is the
type of thing that breeds Communism. —
A. W. R. (Q.).
Confusion in Low Places
I used to be a simple farmer. Now I
am complicated. I want to know what
I can do for my country both as a farmer
and a man, but all the authoritative state-
ments I hear contradict one another.
At the outbreak of war the Prime Min-
ister told me to “carry on,” so I set to
work and grew large quantities of wheat.
Then I was told that the Wheat Board
has been unable to sell more than half
of the exportable surplus, and only a
portion of that can be shipped ; it is wor-
ried with the storage problem; the
Assistant Minister for Commerce begs
me to grow less wheat.
Since my land and farming plant can-
not be economically adapted to any other
form of agriculture, I decide to enlist.
But I am rejected because farming is a
reserved occupation. Seeing that I have
to stay here and face my creditors, I
decide to draw up a businesslike budget
of income and expenditure. I search all
the newspapers to discover what further
payment I can expect for last year’s
wheat.
I find statements on the subject by the
Prime Minister, the Minister for Com-
merce and the Assistant Minister, the
chairman of the Wheat Board, the
Premiers of two State Governments and
three State Ministers for Agriculture, as
well as representatives of wheatgrowers’
organisations.
I reach this conclusion: Sixpence per
bushel will be paid this month. Three-
pence to sixpence will be paid, but not
for some time. Threepence may be paid
at some distant future date. It is un-
reasonable to expect any payment what-
ever in present circumstances.
In my subsequent state of uncertainty
I speculate desperately on the possibility
of feeding my wheat to pigs or poultry.
But then I discover that if I want some
of my wheat back I will have to pay 4s.
sd. per bushel, although the board has
paid me only 2s. 3d. for it. E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
Sidelines for Farmers
Might I suggest mushrooms in the
cowshed, moss on the mortgage, and
fungus on the cheque book? Farmers
might also consider a little freelance jour-
nalism at nights. There are so many
papers in Australia simply dying for a
literary whiff of the great outback. Again,
one seldom hears of farmers making good
on the concert platform. Why not a little
tonsil exercise while milking Strawberry?
You never know: it might lead to the
A.B.C. studios. Farmers, too, are usually
short in etiquette. Why not some intensive
etiquette study at nights? Practice could
be carried on while plucking the wheat
in the daytime. Public speaking could
also be practised advantageously while
yarding cattle. This might lead to Can-
berra. There is much indeed that the
farming folk could do as a sideline, and
if they did it enthusiastically enough it
might become the main line, and then
they could take up farming as a sideline.
—Milko (N.S.W.).
Think This Over
We read of war, of rumors of war, of
tension and crisis in international rela-
tionships, of accidents on land, sea and
air, of crime in all degrees, of strikes and
unemployment and divorce, and we are
inclined to think that all these things
make up life —that they reflect life as it is.
I submit that all this is not a reflection
of life as it is—merely fretful waves on
the surface of the great ocean of life.
Does not life consist for each one of us
individually in its ultimate analysis of
our own adjustment to our surroundings
—of our harmony with our surround-
ings?
Shakspeare said that there is nothing
either good or ill, but thinking makes it
so. We read less of the harmony of life,
the beauty of life, the joy of life, the
unselfishness, generosity, kindness and
friendship that are being expressed con-
stantly in our midst.
Do we ever stop to consider and ap-
preciate the harmony of natural life,
the daily wonder of the dawn, the yearly
miracle of spring, the balance of sun-
shine and rain, of day and night, of
light and darkness, the blending of
Nature’s colors, the toning and adjust-
ment of all things to their surroundings
and all expressing—harmony?
Do we appreciate the joy of friendly
intercourse with our fellows, our friends
and acquaintances, the quiet daily joy
of family life, the book and pipe by the
fireside on the cold nights in the in-
timacy of our home, and the deep, abid-
ing companionship and love (none the
less real for being often unexpressed) of
and for our wife? And there is to be
appreciated the daily pleasure of our
meals, material if you will, but none the
less enjoyable, and a recurring enjoy-
ment, and last but not least God’s great
gift of sound sleep.
These are but some of the real things
that make up life for us individually.
They are not bought for money but are
God’s free gift to all, the only condition
being that we live in conformity with the
great laws. —A. M. H. (Vic.).
More About Apples
This would be a brighter world to
orchardists if transport conditions were
inspected and improved before the fruit
was consigned. In W.A., as in other
States, all fruit this year was taken over
by the Government. It was inspected,
case by case, before being accepted. The
inspection was strict and thorough. But
I didn’t hear of the railway facilities
being checked up on by the Government
as well.
I have seen truckloads of fruit being
rapidly cooked under burning roofs
of goods trains destined for long delays
and roundabout routes. I have seen
cases handled by inexpert porters and
carried in such a way that wholesale bruis-
ing was inevitable and unmerciful. The
grower who has conscientiously culled
and packed perfect fruit pays for this —
both in money and reputation. Rail
transport is compulsory. It should, there-
fore, be speeded up and made efficient.
In buying apples always buy in season.
When Jonathans have had their day buy
Dunns, Delicious or Grannies, later Yates
and so on. When the last of the late
fresh fruit has gone, then and only then
buy the frozen varieties.
In W.A. apples are still sold by the
pound, not so good as at so much each,
because the retailers do not like apples
beyond 2fin. —2iin. suit them better. For
the housewife to be able to buy the
largest apples possible for cooking pur-
poses is not only a material saving in
core and peeling waste but time-saving.
Here on the orchard the largest picked
Dunns are my delight, yet they’re almost
impossible on the market —a deplorable
state of affairs for the city housewife and
for us who have young and vigorous
trees. — Zamia (W.A.).
Relief Tax
Unemployment relief tax (alias State
development tax in Queensland) surely
has no place in war-time Budgets. War
is a full-time job for everyone, man,
woman and child. When man-power is
more precious than gold we cannot afford
to squander it on useless relief works.
Here’s one “Other Fellow” who will will-
ingly pay double the tax if it is turned
over to the Federal Government and used
for the obvious and vital purpose.—
Barcoo (Q.).
Correction
In fairness to the Heidelberg (Vic.)
Council, it ought to be stated that it hasn’t
yet changed the name of Heidelberg-road
to Churchill-parade, as stated in B.
14/8/’4O. The motion lapsed because
a majority of the councillors and most of
the ratepayers objected.—C. Q. (Vic.).
Begging by the Rich
Being unemployed, I was gazing in a
tuck-shop window, wondering whether to
spend my last tuppence on a stamp for
an “application” or on a pie for my
appetite, when I was accosted by a young
lady armed with a ravishing smile and
a tray of “medals.” When I touched my
hat and said “No, thank you” the smile
vanished and was replaced by a look of
scorn that made me blush for my mean-
ness.
From under lowered eyelids I rapidly
but expertly assessed the sweet young
thing’s wearing apparel—the visible parts
—at somewhere around £lOO. The fur
coat alone was worth easily £5O, and the
jewellery on fingers, wrists and ears £3O.
The exquisitely-matched accessories were
in keeping.
How much the wearer had personally
contributed to the deserving cause I have
no means of knowing, but on the evi-
dence the pips were a long way from
squeaking.
What a tragic farce it is that such a
dream of wealth should be engaged in
begging—for it is begging—on behalf
of heroes —for they are heroes. If the
fund is necessary, and not just an excuse
for a dress parade, let it be collected “at
the source,” which, if the ensemble de-
scribed was paid for, is far from being
exhausted. — Lazarus (S.A.).
Power Alcohol
At least two bodies, the Victorian War
Advisory Committee and the Common-
wealth Fuel Control Board, have an-
nounced their intention of investigating
the production of power alcohol from
wheat. It is obvious from the present
position of the wheat industry and our
great need of locally-produced fuel that
this proposal is of the greatest national
importance. In fact, so important is it
that it should be detailed at once to the
C.S.I.R. for that body’s immediate atten-
tion.
Our present annual consumption of
petrol is about 350,000,000 gallons. For
several years petrol containing 15 p.c. of
power alcohol has been marketed in
N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland with
every satisfaction to the consumer. If the
marketing of such a petrol was made obli-
gatory to oil cos. generally, there would
be opened up immediately a market for
over 50,000,000 gallons of power alcohol.
This gallonage could not be produced
immediately, but it shows what the defi-
nite potentialities are. At least one Mel-
bourne businessman is anxious to have
a crack at power alcohol production
from wheat.
The whole project is of such a magni-
tude that it will succeed only if com-
petent chemists and business minds are
placed in control. The production of
power alcohol in Germany attained its
importance only because the industry was
heavily subsidised by the German Gov-
ernment in the initial stages. In that
country the potato is used, since, under
German conditions, potatoes yield about
one ton of starch per acre, whereas wheat
yields only 12cwt. The annual produc-
tion of power alcohol from potatoes in
recent years has been about 40,000,000
gallons. The Germans use the so-called
“amylo process,” whereby the potato is
converted to sugar by the action of cer-
tain moulds, and the sugar is then con-
verted to alcohol by the usual method.
On the commercial scale a yield of 52 p.c.
alcohol on the original starch content in
the potatoes is claimed. —S. C. O. (Vic.).
Steam Cars
Re water for boilers which “H.A.L.”
(B. 7/8/’4O) asks about, I have seen prac-
tically all kinds of water, except salt or
soapy, used in boilers of steam-engines
of a large variety, over a number of
years. Provided that the boilers were
cleaned out now and again, neither hard
nor mildly brackish water seemed to
have any detrimental effect.
This was the old fire-tube type of
boiler. The modern water-tube type can be
cleaned more easily than the other kind.
And if the boilers or tubes are made of
copper, or are copper-lined, they can use
any kind of water without harm. A few
gallons of water would be sufficient to
take a car or tractor halfway across the
continent, as the new condenser type of
engine uses the steam over and over
again.
The water tank on a modern motor-car
should not take up as much room as the
present fuel tank. The boiler and engine
are much more compact than the ordinary
or average car engine.—J. G. (Vic.).
Factions
It is not in accord with the spirit of
unity which should inspire the nation in
time of war for some sectional bodies to
exploit the situation in an endeavor to
foist on the people their own pet schemes.
For instance, temperance and kindred
societies are urging various restrictions
on the liquor trade and a ban on racing.
If a trade-union were to take an ad-
vantage such as this to gain some par-
ticular end it would be regarded by most
of those bodies as execrable.
Disruption and not unity must result
from such tactics. If there is any justi-
fication for an attack upon some of the
established customs of one-half, or more,
of the population the time for it is cer-
tainly not now. Let us stand together
against the common foe and forget our
own tinpot differences. — Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
“Habituals”
A Sydney butcher has been fined a
fiver for selling adulterated sausages.
According to the “S. M. Herald” report
there were 19 convictions against him in
ten years—almost an average of two a
year!
Repeated and deliberate lapses under
the criminal code soon earn for the
malefactor the dreaded title of “habitual
Why aren’t licensed dealers in foodstutb
with frequent convictions under the Pure
Foods Act to their discredit similarly
branded?—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).


■ are uou
Liverish
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less
from Liver Complaint. The feelings of No energy
and “Not too well” are but symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. Weak because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source of endless suffering.
When the Liver is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels,
life into the Liver, and tone the Stomach thus bracing
up the system generally.
Dr. Morses
£
They Make You
PILLS
Look and Feel Brighter .
Worms
A COMMON COMPLAINT WITH
CHILDREN
HOW TO TREAT THEM.
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasiness
in the Abdomen, sometimes spasmodic, some-
times gnawing and biting, and not infrequently
of a vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this is a
sensation of itching at the Nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is charac-
teristic of the affection. The Bowels are often
disordered, sometimes relaxed, as in Dysentery.
The appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently alter-
nating with another. The Abdomen is often
hard, swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The effects,
however, often extend beyond the Alimentary
Canal, and various derangements of health
are experienced in consequence, either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the dis-
ordered digestion which they occasion. Amongst
the most common of these are nervous affec-
tions, such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ment of the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted
vision, temporary blindness and deafness.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones are suffering
intense pain and distress, and are practically
irresponsible for the outbursts of temper, rest-
lessness and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of this
disease are somewhat variable, but generally
they are so characteristic that no mother
need have any doubts. The best proof of
worms is worms, and if the general conduct
of the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will afford ample
proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes peevish
and irritable in its temper. Another point
to which the attention of mothers should be
specially directed is that the child is apt to
start in its sleep, its repose being in the way
of a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
a purely vegetable medicinal preparation com-
pounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intestines.
They contain specific properties which destroy
the worms, but cause no injury to the Stomach
or Bowels, and do not weaken the system.
The pellets are prepared in the form of a
confection or lolly, have no disagreeable taste
or smell, but, on the contrary, inspire children
to take them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang-street, Church Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.,
and 6 Farish-street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/-
per tin (6 tins 11/6), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
"Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania's early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
AG
e D
\V e
>A> SS
t*‘
/
• v
«s•s
••* A^V^ 0
.•• 4s< >1


tn
PI
m
pi
1
it
. i'
fc-i
tn
%
tn
c*
w<
nfc
;<*£ :.•>•
Hi
it
I-
!
■ il ! (
Iff!
WIRELESS
APPARATUS
A.W.A. aircraft wireless equipment
is designed by the highly technical
and experienced laboratory and
engineering staff of Australia’s
largest wireless organisation.
It has been chosen by the Airline
companies for its proved efficiency
and reliability under all operating
conditions.
AMALGAMATED
(A'SIS) LID.
WIRELESS
LESS ORfiANI S A T I 0 N
