

#»
S?s!
M b
m
■LIBRARY
m
ftsfss
ws
m*
|p|p|
W
mm
mm
HATS
. . . are smartly styled, well made and
attractively priced. They offer you
sovereign value for a pound note.
Made in all the new shades of Grey,
Blue, Fawn, Brown and Green
In 2|in., 2£in., 2|in. and 2|in. Brims.
Obtainable at all
progressive Hatters* and Mercers
The Bulletin
•'The Bulletin,” Vob 61.—N0, 3162.
Wednesday, September IS, 1940.
“Vote for Churchill and Us”
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


GRAHAME BOOK SERVICE.
London New York
BOOK IMPORTERS SUBSCRIPTION MANAGERS
Let us quote you the LOWEST AND
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or Book
published. Information gladly supplied.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place. 84241
ẁ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, your f '
Booklet explaining how
advertised in the Sydney
to Write
“Bulletin
fur Profit,
My Name
My Address
S.B. 240
The Red Page
THE PLATE SHIP.
The destruction of the German “pocket
battleship” Admiral Graf Spee by
H.M.S.S. Exeter, Achilles and Ajax in
December last year presents one curious
feature of defeatism that is well brought
out by Commander A. B. Campbell, R.D.,
in The Battle of the Plate (Herbert
Jenkins). After the Graf Spee had sought
refuge in neutral waters at Montevideo,
and been ordered by the Government of
Uruguay to get to sea in 72 hours or
accept internment for the duration of the
war, her commanding officer, Captain
Hans Langsdorff, did his best to persuade
his ship’s company into the honorable
course of going out and taking whatever
might be coming. But his exhortations
and those of his officers had no effect.
The battleship’s crew had had enough of
the hammering they had endured under
the gunfire of the British cruisers, even
though the latter, and especially Exeter,
had themselves been roughly handled.
The revolt was not entirely unexpected,
because the revulsion of the young men to
the deaths and injuries of the battle had
not been hidden. Apart from their inex-
perience of warfare the crew had been so
steeped in Langsdorff’s assurances that they
would never be called upon to fight that
the horrors of battle had been doubly
shocking. Many of the British captains
who were released at Montevideo were
struck by the low state of the crew of the
German raider and of the physical break-
down of many of the young men. They
responded at first to the distraction of
urgent labor in harbor, but when they
realised the intention of the captain, and
as zero hour approached, they no longer
hid their feelings.
So they refused to face the music,
Langsdorff got orders from Hitler to
scuttle his ship, and destroyed himself
in dramatic protest after obeying the
decree.
The account of the fight is full of
incident graphically related by a naval
officer of the last war who had himself
escaped in H.M.S. Otranto from Admiral
Cradock’s disaster off the Chilean coast.
Campbell is familiar with South Ameri-
can wiaters as with the hazards and
horrors of naval defeat, and tells vividly
and carefully the story of the plucky
British squadron: the combined broad-
side of Exeter, Achilles and Ajax was
31361 b., as against the German’s 47081 b.,
and the smaller cruisers were outranged
by 5000 yards. He is generously appre-
ciative of Captain Langsdorff’s fine per-
sonality and correct and humane con-
duct towards his victims, but does not
minimise the risks taken by Commodore
Harwood in pressing home his attack on
a ship vastly superior in armament to
those under his command.
J. H. M. A.
Fighting Credo.
Sir Bruce Richmond’s chief aim in
compiling The Pattern of Freedom
(Faber and Faber) is to bring together
gleaned bits of verse, prose and speech
to make a composite statement on the
British conception of freedom, with the
inference to be drawn from it that this
is and must be the main inspiration of
British fighting credo in the present war.
As suits the apparent mood Of the
moment, it is all very serious and high-
minded ; in fact, it can be called solemn,
despite the inclusion of some of the most
familiar appropriate purple passages in
the language. Lincoln orates at Gettys-
burg ; Shakspeare discourses upon
This royal throne of kings, this sceptred
isle;
Swinburne insists that
All our past acclaims our future: Shak-
speare’s voice and Nelson’s hand,
Milton’s faith and Wordsworth’s trust in
this our chosen and chainless land,
Bear us witness: Come the world against
her, England yet shall stand.
Chatham and Burke and Pitt, on to
Mr. Chamberlain; Bacon and Milton
and Wordsworth, to T. S. Eliot; Homer
and Dante and Chaucer, with a score
or two others, are all fitted into
the mosaic, some of them mighty awk-
wardly. Coleridge’s
There lives nor form nor feeling in my soul
Unborrowed from my country,
reflects the image of true patriotism of
this or any other time, but there is a
good deal, like this, prose bit from the
same pen, that might take
some justifying in such a
design:
It would have proved a
striking part of a vision
presented to Adam the day after the death
of Abel, to have brought before his eyes
half a million of men crowded together in
the space of a square mile. When the first
father had exhausted his wonder on the
multitude of his offspring, he would then
naturally inquire of his angelic instructor,
for what purpose so vast a multitude had
assembled? What is the common end?
Alas! to murder each other —all Cains, and
yet no Abels!
A fair text for an anti-war sermon,
that might have been repeated over a
hundred times in different words by
taking extracts blindfold from the war-
disillusion tomes that cluttered the book-
shelves ten or twelve years back. If it
has any place in Sir Bruce’s pattern, it
must be as a statement that, though hold-
ing that opinion of war, the British breed
will be none the less determined or cap-
able in its fighting. If that is the idea—
as it might be, though “all Cains, and
yet no Abels!” would seem to be an
odd sort of encouragement for troops
asked to go forth and sacrifice their lives
in the cause —a far better-fitting piece
is that quoted from Tristram Shandy :
Need I be told, dear Yorick, as I was by
you, in Le Fevre’s funeral sermon, That
so soft and gentle a creature, born to love,
to mercy and kindness, as man is, was not
shaped for this? —But why did you not
add, Yorick —If not by Nature, that he is
so by Necessity ? For what is war? what
is it, Yorick, when fought, as ours has
been, upon principles of liberty, and upon
principles of honor —what is it but the
getting together of quiet and harmless
people, with their swords in their hands,
to keep the ambitious and the turbulent
within bounds?
Sir Bruce leaves to their enthusiasms
all those who eloquently welcomed the
last war. Rupert Brooke’s heroics, the
statement of “Into Battle” and the rest
in that vein—none of this, apparently,
can be made to fit into a truly high-
minded fighting credo for the present
times. On the other hand, writers and
speakers who then, or before then, saw
Britain as chiefly warring for abiding
principles, like the British conception of
freedom, can be readily fitted in. Sir
Bruce, in fact, makes his pattern to suit
the prevailing mood, and fighting for
fighting’s sake, or from adventurousness,
or from any of the old carefree, romantic
notions of patriotism, seems to have no
rightful place. It would seem that patriot-
ism today is no longer a stirring of the
emotions, but a clear, if somewhat chill,
distillation of the mind. For those who
find some merit in the older notions, if
only as better stuff for a fighting credo,
there are a few inclusions in the spirit
of Southey’s pronouncement on Nelson,
that the most splendid death is
that of the hero in the hour of victory:
and if the chariot and the horses of fire
had been vouchsafed for Nelson’s trans-
lation, he could scarcely have departed in
a brighter blaze of glory. He has left us,
not indeed his mantle of inspiration, but
a name and an example which are at this
hour inspiring hundreds of the youth of
England: a name which is our pride, and
an example which will continue to be our
shield and our strength.
But mostly the inspiration for a fighting
credo to be drawn from Sir Bruce’s lofty-
minded pattern would be as unromantic
as Mr. Chamberlain’s declaration on the
eve of war.
Incidentally, Pitt, speaking in the House
of Commons in July, 1803, reads more
up to date at the moment than Mr.
Chamberlain speaking in the same place
last year:
We ought to have a due sense of the
magnitude of the danger with which we
are threatened: we ought to meet it in
that temper of mind which produces just
confidence which neither despises nor
dreads the enemy: and while on the one
hand we accurately estimate the danger
with which we are threatened at this awful
crisis, we must recollect on the other hand
what it is we have at stake, what it is we
have to contend for. It is for our property,
it is for our liberty, it is for our indepen-
dence. nay, for our existence as a nation;
it is for our character, it is for our very
name as Englishmen, it is for everything
dear and valuable to a man on this side
of the grave.
Pitt again, nine months later, might be
another P.M. some time hence:
Amid the wreck and the misery of
nations, it is our just exultation that we
have continued superior to all that ambition
or that despotism could effect: and our
still higher exultation ought to be that we
provide not only for our own safety but
hold out a prospect to nations now bend-
ing under the iron yoke of tyranny what
the exertions of a free people can effect,
and that, at least in this corner of the
world, the name of liberty is still revered,
cherished and sanctified.
A. V. Dicey could have been touching
on this.war instead of the last:
England has thus exchanged the pros-
perity of peace for the dangers and labors
of war, not for the sake of acquiring new
territory or of gaining additional military
glory, for of these things she has enough
and more than enough already, but for the
sake of enforcing the plainest rules of
international justice and the plainest dictates
of common humanity the solemn call
to the performance of a grave national duty
has united every man and every class of
our common country in the determination
to defy the strength, the delusions and the
arrogance of a militarised nation and at all
costs to secure for the civilised world the
triumph of freedom, of humanity and of
justice.
Also apt enough to the present: a Ger-
man officer speaking to a younger officer
in Max Rene Hesse’s novel Partenau
(1930):
“You want to believe in a leader, just
as you believe —or pretend to believe —in
God. It’s so comforting, isn’t it? He
has all the responsibility. The rest of
us can stop thinking, stop being anything
at all, except ready for the worst.”
Then talking to himself:
“A community is like a pyramid; to
endure, it must stand on its broadest base.
Now you want to rest it on its apex. A
skilful performer may possibly keep it
precariously balanced in that position for a
single lifetime. After that it must and
will fall, as it always has in the past.”
From all of which extracts it will be
gathered that Sir Bruce Richmond’s
Pattern of Freedom is a somewhat com-
plex mosaic, inclined to sprawl out all
over the place—like the war which in-
spired it.
Whaling Tasmanians.
Ships smell. Pigs outdo the hyacinth.
Stale whale-oil would trouble its best
friends. Combining all three odors into
one paragraph of Whales and Whalers
(New Century Press, Ltd.), E. A.
McCombe offers the unmistakable tang
of adventure. Even Jonah never faced
anything like Mr. McCombe’s exploits
in the dark coal-tank in which the
Nielsen Alonso kept its living bacon;
Into this obnoxious tank a number of
us adventurous whalers, armed with long
steel scrapers and flickering carbide lights,
were ordered to clean the sides and ceiling,
which were thickly covered with a nauseous
layer of stale, sticky, stinking whale-oil,
the aftermath of last season’s whaling. Add
to this the accumulation of the pigs’ pro-
longed imprisonment, and one can well
imagine the disastrous results when clean-
ing operations commenced.
One can. By the time you have finished
Whales and Whalers you know all about
the whale: how he spouts, how he’s har-
pooned, how he fights, how he looks
when he’s hauled on deck, how he’s cut
up, how he’s boiled and, above all, how
he smells. You know how tough a life
is led by the adventure-seeking Tas-
manians who sign on a Norwegian
whaler; how it feels to be on a ship
butting its way through the pack-ice to
the Ross Sea ; how forbiddingly beauti-
ful are the distant peaks of the Antarctic
continent; how glad you are to see
another ship in those lonely, stormy lati-
tudes. You even know a few surprising
facts about the barnacle:
The barnacles, varying in length from one
to three inches, bury themselves deeply into
the blubber. From out of them grow evil-
looking tentacles which, if allowed to live,
will continue to grow.
There follows a nightmare story of
what happened to the barnacles the Tas-
manians stored under their bunks.
Mr. McCombe’s facts and figures are
interesting. The captain of a factory
ship makes from £2OOO to £3OOO per
voyage. The gunners —“many are very
wealthy and return to their farms in
Norway at the termination of the whaling
season” —get from £8 to £l4 per whale
and reckon their cheques in thousands.
One Norwegian factory ship in the
season Mr. McCombe saw —1929 —left
the South with whale-oil worth £580,000.
Whales and Whalers is a good, straight-
forward account of everything Mr. Mc-
Combe saw and learned down south. It
is packed with incident, and the writing,
though not polished, has vigor. Some-
times it has all the genial tranquillity of
a slaughterhouse on a busy day —but the
author can’t be criticised if whaling’s
like that.
Another Clune's Story.
In Why Gather Moss? (Angus and
Robertson) George Clune, brother of
Try Anything Once Frank Clune, tells
the story of his own restless roving life.
George was brought up in Sydney’s
Woolloomooloo, Surry Hills and Red-
fern. His first job was selling papers.
He’s good at selling things, and has stuck
to it, more or less, ever since. One of
his earliest business experiences was with
a grocer, who encouraged him to whistle
—especially when unpacking dates.
Before he was 20 he had been a milk-
man, had worked in a foundry, stowed
away at Sydney on a Danish ship (which
disgorged him at Newcastle), sold insur-
ance, and had varied experiences as a
stage hand. He once appeared with
Melba and John McCormack in “Faust”
(he stumbled on stage by mistake while
Valentine was dying, and dodged off
again).
He joined up with the first A.LF. on
August 11, 1914, and took part in the
conquest of German New Guinea. He
was one of the party sent to capture the
German patriots who flogged an English
missionary, and saw the patriots flogged
in their turn. Returning to Sydney, he
was invalided out on account of malarial
fever, so worked his passage to Canada
as a saloon waiter; and found time to
make love to a Canadian girl of well-
to-do parentage (he married her later).
Worked his way from Vancouver to
New York as guard on a train carrying
Chinese coolies ; sold shares in an air-
ship co.; met Diamond Jim Brady ; en-
listed in the American Volunteer Ambu-
lance Brigade and got to France ; had a
gay time in Paris. When America en-
tered the war he crossed to London, which
greatly disappointed him. He found
shops selling bloaters and kippers in
Bond-street; wandered into “a little cul-
de-sac lined with a few brick houses that
jutted almost to the gutter” and was
astonished to find it was Downing-street.
Tim Coghlan shipped Clune back to
Australia as an “indulgence passenger.
After selling soap “from Sydney to Perth,
from Port Augusta to Darwin,” he paid
another visit to New York. His next
hunting-ground was Malaya, where he
sold a contraption for extracting electri-
city from the air, investigated a murder,
hunted tigers and saw the fire-walking
ceremony.
A very readable autobiography.
Various Verse
ŵ
MAOKILAND,
ARNOLD WALL.
Bondi.
If after death I keep one memory,
This beach will make the lonely darknes
gay
With color, as in life brings to me
A dream of summer on a winter day.
Perhaps I will forget the books and song
That held so much for me, when I am dead
Forget my fragile images and strong
Desires; forget the hills where I was bred
And even mellow flutes forget, although
It seem impossible as to forget
This bay that well will be, before I go,
The last place I shall see, my last regret.
For it has colored many dreams and days,
And often heaven been, and means to me
Far more than dreamed-of Old World city way
And South Sea islands I may never see.
N.S.W.
C. CAMPBELL.
Awakening.
The bay still lies in polished silver miles
At dusk, widespread in evening's shining fields.
But no sail now floats flowerlike down those
aisles.
No more we climb the hidden sun-drenched
ways, ~
Blue mountain-berries trembling in our wake.
No laughter breaks the silence of the days.
Oh, down the hills, still—still the moon-dews
spread , „ . ,
On web and bell, on fern and petalled place,
The shell-like morning breaking overhead.
As then, dark-browed, the myrtled ranges shout
When down the world the great winds storm
and stamp . , ~ .
And play, like unseen giants from school let
out.
Seas yet crowd up the weedy rocks and crash
In tinkling ice-blue bubbles in the pools.
The same tides ebb and flow and spill and
splash,
While springs go by, go by, and winters break
In diamonds... But now these things pass on
With all their loveliness for no one's sake,
For as a dreamer wakes I wake... 1 wake.
Tasmania.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’' —the guide to commercial ethics .
“THE SENIOR STORE’’
eaar .
• • •
the Prince of Cabinet Timbers
Cedar . . . the first cabinet timber ever used in Australia was the pride of the early colonists and tbe monarch of the forest.
No finer timber exists in Australia and none other has been used so extensive y.
It has a deep red colour, is specifically light, open, soft, easily worked or dressed and takes a beautiful p
Unrivalled for furniture making, cedar has now been applied to modern designs and our range of suites P
are typical of present-day requirements, yet retain some of tbe period features to accentuate tbe expert craftsmanship.
Each piece is made of solid cedar throughout. No plywood, veneer or other timber is used in any part of
has been carefully considered in every detail. Back panels are screwed and framed, drawer runners are screwed throughout.
All fittings are brass and polishing is done entirely by hand.
••• jpr
•*>VV r.’
.V*V;V
*nip:4
; * & * I! mks
;; X
A
;; : if: i : • • «* . .
.v •j;
r j
•* 'V '•& ....... . . ” '• ••••*''.
v .*’*“* f ‘ t :;; j •..;»-;• • •
#*!
m
&
: ■
.
afSKB
:• s
1 i- :•. ■
.'• : a £
:i
• /;■•.■
•■ !
in 3
\ .
’l'll v •
»
5 s
s s v?
i..-....
- - - . . ■•■»?<».«'■•'•<p. Vt> .
• •*•JJ• &;#:v> *S i; • •? J *; ;t ' r ‘ .*.
;5
... H £r .••'S?*' 1 ’
‘V*
\ «. Vf f/ • i*s<
ti R 5 V* {|> . *#•
•. T«. * •: - »f* ;sj' /{'«. vtiv
•;il- i : .4^
H »
:g£*
£0
!#
Vy.-.vJ
Si':.:/
v>*.
■;V
i&i
M
f «
' J; . ; J j r ?*•'■
iviviviv^*^
ig§f§f
teg
Is
!il
jlf.i
SiJ
- e -' f ft’
if'lv ~v:s.<.
.4* k Wlk
: .. .
6 Piece Suite
What a wonderful thrill it will be to walk into your dining
room, furnished with this striking new Suite. It combines
newest modern style and a wealth of rich detail. It
consists of six pieces—a large and well-constructed
Sideboard, a sft. Gin. x 3ft. 3in. Table and four Chairs with
upholstered seats and rail backs.
Anthony Horderns'. Price
£55
Easy Terms—Deposit
12 monthly payments of
18 „ ~ „
£5 10 0
£4 6 8
£2 19 2
• Furniture—Third Floor.
Delivered free only
Within our delivery
area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


A NEW JOB
By DON EDWARDS.
I HAD no intention of going into
the pub at all, so I told the boys
I had to meet the wife at a quarter
to eight, but Ted Regan reminded
me that I owed him a pint and Fred
Hull kept on saying “Come on, Harry. You’ve got
plenty of time. Come on.” Then Wally Sharp and
his brother Jim arrived and said they had something
to tell me about a job out at Castle Rock.
It was pleasant in the bar, with the big heater
giving off warmth, the tobacco smoke curling about
the lights and the boys leaning on the counter talking
and laughing. They were all feeling good, with the
prospect of a week-end before them and their pay in
their pockets. I should have felt as satisfied as they
did, but there was something wrong. Even when I
put my hand in my pocket and fingered the pound
notes I still felt dissatisfied.
Then after a few drinks I began to feel better, and
when Wally and Jim offered to drive me out to Castle
Rock the next day to see about the job I couldn’t
very well hurry off and leave them. Besides, the job
might be all right and Kay might be pleased about
it. So the time slipped away and I could hardly believe
it when Fred Hull said “It’s eight o’clock.” I hurried
away, knowing that it would take me ten minutes to
walk to the corner where I was to meet Kay, and
knowing also that she hated waiting and that she
would be as wild as hell.
Back in the bar it didn’t seem to matter so much,
but out in the cold air it seemed so serious that I
started to run. I tried to tell myself that I was only
about 25 minutes late, and that I had a good excuse,
but I knew exactly how Kay would act, and at once
I felt sick with a sense of hopelessness, so that I started
to walk. I felt a bit angry, too, because being a few
minutes late wasn’t really anything to make a fuss
about, and a chap had to have a couple of beers
occasionally. I hadn’t been inside a pub for a week, and
the last time I had met Kay up the street I had been
early, but that hadn’t made any difference. That night
we had quarrelled because I had objected to her slap-
ping the kid when he gave a bit of cheek.
It wasn’t that she did much talking or nagging.
That was the trouble —it would have been better if she
did—-but she would shut up like an oyster and become
all cold and distant, yet contrive, somehow or other,
to let me know just how she felt and what she thought.
And sooner or later she would say something about a
job in the public service, and I would feel like a failure
and get angry because of that feeling and want to
justify myself and end by saying things that I shouldn’t
have said.
L_J ALF the townsfolk seemed to be in the main
* 1 street, walking idly up and down, looking in the
windows, yarning on the corners, staring at each other
as country people do. Several chaps spoke to me, but
I hurried past, afraid that they would stop me. Then
I saw her waiting on the corner and I could tell how
she was feeling from the way she was standing.
Norman was playing about near her, and just then
he stepped into the gutter. She grabbed him by the
arm and jerked him suddenly on to the pavement
again. There was no need for her to take out her
anger on the kid, I thought.
“Hullo, son,” I said ; then to her, “What’s he
been doing?”
The way she looked at me with a half-sullen,
half-surprised stare made me forget what I intended
to say and start to make excuses. “I’m sorry for
being late,” I said. “I’ve been talking about a new
job with the Sharp boys.”
Then she spoke in her slow way that was almost
a gibe, “You’ve been drinking,” and turned her back.
I walked beside her trying to make her understand
my side of the affair, but she ignored me, and I
dropped slightly behind her and stopped talking.
“Well,” I said after a while, “let’s get the shop-
ping done,” and only when Kay said “I finished it
long ago” did I notice the parcels in her hands. We
just walked along with the kid chattering.
Once we used to enjoy these outings up the street
on late-shopping nights—just after we were married —
but for a long time now there had been no pleasure
in them, and always they began or ended in some sort
of squabble.
I didn’t know quite how the change had come
about; gradually, with Kay being jealous of her
friends who were in a better position, and getting the
idea of me with a good, safe job in the public service.
We wanted different things. She wanted some sort of
social position, a good home at Green Hill, a motor-
car, the right to talk of her husband in the public
service. I wanted a good home, too, but not amongst
the snobs at Green Hill, and, besides, our own little
place down on “The Flat” wasn’t so bad.
I would have liked a better job, but it was no
good crying over spilt milk, and I would miss the boys
I worked with now. They might be rough, as Kay
said, but they were good fellows. Kay didn’t under-
stand the position, and didn’t try to. All she used to
say was “You could go to the night school and pass
the public service exam.” Now she said nothing, but
I knew she was still thinking of it. Heaven knows, I
had tried the night school. I had tried it for a month,
but it was just hell, sitting there with a crowd of kids
who had just left school, and who were a lot younger
than myself, wasting my time. The worst of it was
the stuff I was supposed to know. It was hopeless
and humiliating, because I hadn’t been to school since
I left the primary. I couldn’t do the work and the kids
would laugh, but I could have licked a dozen of them
at once in a fight and I had seen more of life already
than they would see in a hundred years.
Up at the corner we passed a crowd of the boys,
and they spoke to us, saying “Howdy, Harry?”
“ ’Night, Kay,” in a way that was really friendly. But
Kay only stuck her nose in the air and sailed past. I
hated myself for not stopping because I could see the
looks on their faces, and I knew what they were
thinking.
We walked on down the busy street, but instead
of turning around the cafe corner towards home she
kept straight on, going the long way home through
Green Hill.
A T first I used to think that Kay chose Green Hill
for a walk because it was a pleasant place, but later
I realised that she was feeding her dissatisfaction on
the sight of the nice homes. She would even tell
me who lived in each house and what they did for a
living.
When we got away from the shops to where the
lights were few and the houses scattered, Norman said:
“I’m tired. I want to go home.”
Kay didn’t answer. I felt my annoyance grow-
ing. I didn’t mind her rubbing it into me, but there
was no need to take her spite out on the boy.
“Pack up my jolly old rifle until after the War, Rajah.”
“He’s tired,” I said.
“It won’t hurt him to be a bit
tired once in a while,” she flashed
at me.
“Come on, son,” I said quietly,
“we’re going home” ; then to her, “I’ve seen Green
Hill and its houses before.”
She just walked on without speaking, and Norman
and I turned off towards “The Flat.”
Soon I could only hear Kay’s footsteps sounding
fainter in the distance, and I was sorry I had left her,
but at the thought of how unreasonable she had been
I felt angry again so that I wanted to hurt her.
By the time we reached “The Flat” the kid was
dragging back, and I was glad I hadn’t made him walk
through Green Hill, but all the same “The Flat” did
look a bit mean and dirty, sprawled out between the
railway lines and the river. The clear light of the
moon softened the harshness of it a bit, but the square,
squat board huts, that had once been the shelters for
the workmen when the town was being built, looked
crude and ugly. I contrasted it all with the appear-
ance of Green Hill, and swore a couple of times under
my breath.
The bit of lawn round our place hadn’t recovered
yet from the winter, and the sweet-peas that Kay had
planted had been killed by a late frost. I should have
done something about tidying the garden up, but
always there seemed to be other things to do, such as
watching the dogs, or going to a football match, or
playing cards with the boys. If Kay got out more
instead of sticking about the house and thinking how
badly off she was she would be a lot happier.
Tomorrow, I would persuade her to come out to
Castle Rock with us, and then I would take her to the
pictures at night.
Inside the house was cold and rather bare, but
clean, for Kay always kept it shining and neat. It
wasn’t a bad place, considering, and we couldn’t have
paid more rent with wages so low and work so irre-
gular now that most of the roads had been built and
no new areas were being opened up.
After the boy had gone to bed I sat on the sofa
waiting for Kay, and feeling a bit sore at myself for
acting the way I did.
Presently I heard her coming. She walked into
the room without saying anything, and went straight
into the bedroom. I could tell that she was getting
into bed. I heard the light flick off. I went into the
bedroom and stood there in the darkness for a moment
before asking “Will I put the windows up?”
She didn’t answer.
“Good night, Kay,” I said.
Still no answer.
A bitter sense of her unreasonableness took hold
of me and made me angry, so that I stamped out of
the room, slamming the door behind me. Getting a
rug I lay down on the sofa and stared into the dark-
ness, turning things over and over in my mind, and
thinking that I had never slept away from Kay once
since we were married. I knew that I should go and
get into bed, but a mean feeling of obstinate anger
kept me from moving.
'T' HE next morning I awoke, stiff from the discom-
* fort of the sofa, and ashamed of myself for having
slept there. Kay was moving about the kitchen pre-
paring breakfast. When I spoke to her-she replied
“Yes, it’s a nice morning,” and I was thankful for
the concession. We didn’t look at each other, so I
knew that she was feeling as I felt about things, a bit
ashamed.
Over breakfast I told her about the offer of the
Sharp boys to take us to Castle Rock, and I was
pleased when she agreed to come. “It will be a bit
of an outing,” she said, “and Norman will enjoy it.”
I didn’t tell her about the job ; that could wait.
If the trip went well she would feel better about
things.
The journey out was pleasant, with the three of
us in the back seat, and young Norman shooting his
gun at magpies and sheep and imaginary robbers.
On the last part of the trip the road left the side of the
river and curved up the slope of a big ridge towards
the great heap of castle-like rocks from which the
town took its name. Then suddenly we came over
the summit of the ridge amongst the poppet heads
and buildings of the mine, with the town straggling
along the valley floor about 300 feet below us.
“What a horrible place,” said Kay, and
Wally Sharp looked back at me curiously.
It didn’t look too good, with the big
slag heaps sliding down the slopes, the poor,
hurriedly-erected buildings along the dirt
road, and the general air of carelessness and
discomfort about it all. But a mining town
is never very attractive, and this one was
only being resurrected after years of sleep.
Perhaps, after all, I wouldn’t say anything
to Kay about the job.
We spent the day pottering about the
township, and it didn’t improve with further
acquaintance. Later, Wally, Jim and I went
up to the mine offices to see about the
job. I was feeling pretty good, for the day


had gone well. Kay had seemed to enjoy it. I was
still a bit ashamed about sleeping on the sofa, but
tonight I would say I was sorry.
We found the manager of the mine in his office
near the workshop. He wanted miners and told us
we could start when we liked.
“In about a week then,” we said, and came out
feeling a bit surprised that the jobs had been so easy
to get, and a bit doubtful as to whether we should
have taken them. During the walk back we per-
suaded ourselves we had done the right thing, and by
the time we got back to the car being a miner at
Castle Rock was the only job worth having.
KAY and the kid were down the creek a? short way,
throwing stones in the water. I told Wally and
Jim to wait awhile and I would get Kay. When I
came up to them the kid asked me if I could hit the
rock sticking up out of the water, so I chucked a few
stones at it to amuse him, keeping one eye on Kay all
the time. She seemed to be happy enough. At last
I said, “I’m going to take a job here in the mine.”
She looked up suddenly and asked, “As a miner?”
“Yes,”' I said, and the job seemed to be even
more worth having than when I was with Wally and
Jim. “We can get a new house like those over there,”
I said, pointing to a line of fibro houses that the com-
pany had put up on the far side of the valley.
She spoke, slowly and quietly, so that the kid
couldn’t hear, “I wouldn’t live out here for £lOOO a
year. And mining is a rotten job.” Then her mouth
shut tight and I knew I wouldn’t get anything else
out of her, so in a moment I was angry again, with a
bitterness that made me burn.
I wanted to be a miner at Castle Rock. I wanted
to argue it out with her. I almost wanted to hit her
across the mouth. “What the hell is wrong with
miners?” I said. “They do better work than your
public servants, even if they do get a bit dirty, and
you’d have a better house here than you have now.
You’re always crying out about my poor pay, and
moaning when I’m out of work, and now, when I get
the chance of a permanent job and better pay, you
won’t consider it. What in hell do you want?”
But I knew what she wanted. She wanted me to
be in a nice, respectable civil-service job, living in a
nice, respectable brick villa. “Hell,” I said in disgust,
seeing her mouth set harder than ever against me, and
I started'pelting stones into the creek so hard that the
kid joined with me and thought it great fun, and
shouted every time a splash of water went over the
rock.
We walked back to the car, Kay a bit in front
of me and the boy running around us, and
neither of us saying anything. Whenever she looked
at me her mouth set more tightly and she had a hard,
set look in her eyes, and probably she could see the
same sort of look in mine.
The drive back was pretty miserable, with me
trying to keep the conversation going with the Sharps,
and all the while knowing that they suspected some-
thing was wrong, and hating Kay because she sat
there as dumb as a fence not trying to help me
out at all. I was afraid the Sharps would mention
the job, but they didn’t. Tomorrow I would tell
them I wasn’t taking it.
I got more tired and more angry till I felt that I
wanted to hurt someone. I remembered what Jim
Sharp had said to me out at Castle Rock, and I de-
cided I would have it on after all. “Listen,” I said
when we got out of the car and Kay couldn’t hear me,
“you can tell Kelly I’ll be along tonight.” Jim looked
at me in surprise, but only nodded his head.
After tea I said to Kay, “How about you and
Norman going to the pictures tonight?” and at once
Norman started to shout “Yes, mum. We’ll go to the
pictures. Let’s go to the pictures.”
She didn’t answer, but about 7.30 she came out
of the bedroom with Norman and, saying nothing
more than “Good night,” set out. A few minutes later
I started off for Kelly’s joint.
| MEANT to be home before Kay, but after I had
*■ finished I stayed to see some of the fun and have a
few drinks with the boys, so when I reached home
Kay was sitting in the kitchen. She stared at me and
I knew that my right eye was pretty swollen and black.
“Here you are,” I said. “Here’s a couple of quid,”
and I threw the notes on to the table.
She made no effort to touch them. The way she
looked at me, as if I was something unpleasant,
annoyed me and made me say “Go on. There’s a
couple of quid. You’re always growling about there
not being enough money.”
“You’ve been fighting at Kelly’s,” she said.
“And why shouldn’t I?” I replied. “One of
Kelly’s fighters was taken sick today and he offered
me the fight. I could often earn a couple of qiud
there and”
“You promised you wouldn’t fight any more.
You only did it to humiliate me.”
There was enough of truth in that to make me
more angry than ever.
“Hell,” I said, and stamped out of the house.
Outside, “The Flat” was lying quietly under a
cold moon. Slowly I walked along the road. Occa-
sionally a dog barked or a car purred towards the
town. Frost
shone in the
moonlight, glisten-
ing on the roofs
and grass, and
along the foot of
the dark hills the
lights of the
suburbs twinkled.
I looked away to
the lights of
Green Hill and
thought of the
snug homes there.
Then I looked at the wooden huts about
me, ugly and untidy, and I thought that
after all it would be nice to have a safe,
regular job in the public service, and live
at Green Hill, and feel that Kay was
satisfied.
Perhaps I could manage the exams,
if I tried hard. I saw myself sitting at
the desk, wondering what the teacher meant,
and hating the kids for knowing so much,
and I thought of Green Hill, and Norman, and Kay
and the many quarrels we had had in the last
year or so, and the happy times we had spent before
we were married and just after. Perhaps it wasn t all
Kay’s fault, and perhaps if I made a big effort I could
stick the night school and pass the exams. I would
tell her, and see her smile happily again, and look at
me without the set lips that gave her such a hard
look.
I walked quickly back to the house. The light
was out in the kitchen.
“Kay,” I called, “Kay,” but there was no
answer. She would be in bed by this. The bedroom
door was closed, and when I tried to open it I found
it was locked. I felt a sudden annoyance again at her
unreasonableness.
“Kay,” I said against the locked door, “Kay,” but
the only answer I got was the sound of a quick move-
ment of the bedclothes.
My annoyance mounted to a strong anger that
made me want to kick against the door. Turning
away, I grabbed the rug off the armchair and, lying
“Are you sure you re not overdoing this fly-
high-and-be-safe ’ business, Otto ?”
down on the sofa, I lay awake in the darkness, rest-
lessly thinking about Kay and myself, and trying to
understand what was happening.
THE THREE KINGS
By WILL LAWSON.
ON the lonely slopes above Pandora Bay, at the
extreme north end of New Zealand, a land
surveyor turned from his calculations to squint
through his theodolite again, while his assistant
looked at him inquiringly.
“That’s strange,” the surveyor said. “Every time
I take the peak of the Big King as a point of tri-
angulation, I place this bay a mile out at sea.”
In the early 1920’s a boom in land had set in
on the North Auckland peninsula. Land companies
were busy everywhere, cutting up areas which would
be taken up by tung-oil planters. Last of all to be
surveyed was Pandora Bay, and all unconsciously the
surveyors were lifting a cloud which had lain over the
life of master mariner Captain Attwood, of the ill-
fated Elingamite, lost on the Three Kings in 1902.
“It’s no use,” the surveyor said, after he had
made a dozen trials; “there’s no doubt that the
Three Kings are wrongly charted.”
“What!” his assistant exclaimed, “you doubt an
Admiralty chart? Everyone will laugh at you.”
And everyone did, till he convinced them that he
was right.
THE group of islands known as the Three Kings
stand well off the northern end of New Zealand.
They were first visited by Abel Tasman in 1643, when
he wanted fresh water. The name was actually given
to the biggest island, which has an area of 900 acres
and an unnamed peak rising to a height of 1000 feet,
but gradually it was applied to all the islands, the
main one being known to mariners as the Big King.
Vessels passing between the islands and the main-
land in fog or in darkness often found themselves
dangerously close to steep cliffs where surges always
thunder. The Elingamite struck the West King in
fog and was lost.
On that fateful Sunday morning of November 9,
1902, the sea was calm, with a swell. As the Elinga-
mite approached the New Zealand coast, dense fog was
met. Speed was reduced to five knots and the whistle
sounded frequently, to warn other ships. Nobody on
board imagined the ship to be near the land. But at
eleven o’clock in the forenoon the lookout reported
broken water ahead. “Full speed astern!” was
ordered. The answering ring on the telegraph came
from the engine-room, the engines stopped —but they
never went astern.
Slowly the 2500-ton steamer moved in towards
those dread cliffs at whose foot the surge boiled on
hidden rocks. Lifting and falling, she touched with
her bow, lifted again and crashed again and again,
while her crew looked on helplessly, still waiting for
the thunder of the propeller going astern. Each shock
was a shattering one to the heavy ship. No hull could
stand it. In twenty minutes the Elingamite had sunk,
leaving her complement of 195 souls adrift in boats or
on rafts. There was no chance of getting ashore on
the cliff-girt island.
Why the engines never responded to the frantic
calls from the bridge has never been explained. A
dozen turns of the big single screw would have pulled
the Elingamite out of danger. Passengers said after-
wards that they heard sounds of heavy hammering
coming from below, and engineers believe that the
link-motion of the engines, controlling ahead or astern
movements, had been wedged, to prevent movement
0 f t h e lever in the quadrant through the vibration of
t h e machinery, as was often done in old-time ships. A
single blow from a hammer ordinarily would have
released the wedge ; this time it is thought to have
jammed.
Forty-five lives were lost in the boats, two of
which were never found. One reached the lighthouse
Cape Marie van Diemen, from which place a tele-
gram advised the world of the loss of the Elingamite.
steamer was sent in search and found all the miss-
j ng cra f t but two Dreadful scenes had been enacted
in the boats and on the rafts wh j ch were found. When
food and water failed, men went mad. It was one of
tbe sea ’ s most dreadful disasters, one which survivors
never forgot.
Captain Attwood received the full blame for it.
His certificate was suspended for one year and he was
fined m After he ha(J no h of ever holding
command ■ though he insisted and to all pur-
proved that his navigation, based on careful
made dail was correct . xhe on , y employ-
he cou|d fi / d at sea was as mate in a tiny
coas(er running out o£ Wellington . Hebecameaprema-
ld with a haunted look in his eyes .
y in the dar k night watches, he
. „
was navi 8 a in § e 8 WPn t over the work till
voyage. In every detail he went over the work, till
he y br s ought up ey y ry time with the crash on the West
King. He had not erred, he was sure ; yet even he did
“ ° f T v roo
not doubt the correctness of the position ot the Ihree
, ,
m^s on e c iar s-
,
DANDORA BAY was named after the survey ;loop
Pandora, which charted the northern coasts of
New Zealand in the fifties. In a fog, she grounded
on Pandora Rocks in the bay, but was easily refloated
proceeded to chart the Three Kings. As her staff
defined their position, they appeared on the charts of
the wor *d f° r seventy years. But the position was wrong,
because in grounding her instruments were disturbed
anc * apparently never rectified. So, for seventy years,
masters, finding themselves unexpectedly close in to the
Kings, blamed tides or currents,
Three miles was the extent of the error discovered
when the official re-survey of the Three Kings was
made—enough to have sunk a fleet. Captain Attwood
was compensated financially by the New Zealand
Government and his record cleared, but nobody could
restore those lost years. The Three Kings had kept
their secret too long.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
lithe <?f>ia , ie melloimmandlvuq/uet}
CATHEDRAL AND ABBEY CHURCH OF ST. ALBAN.
Generations to come, in studying the picture presented by historians of Great Britain in 1940, will note that, owing to the then comparatively
new technique of warfare aerial navigation had introduced, the citizens manifested marked concern as to what fate might befall structures,
ecclesiastical and lay, which possessed a high antiquity and close association with the growth and development of the British race. London
in this year was so vast, the historians might record, that places and buildings within a radius of from 50 to 75 miles of Westminster might
be included within the Metropolitan circle. Their destruction, it is reasonable to assume, would be stated to have been regarded with
something akin to horror by the populace. Such a presentment would in no wise swerve from the path of strict truth. Some twenty miles
north-west of St. Paul’s Cathedral, in the county of Hertfordshire, amidst scenes of rare pastoral beauty, is the Cathedral and Abbey Church
of St. Alban, which possesses for all members of the British race a direct and peculiar interest. For over 1600 years the spot on which
it stands has been “holy ground,” and successive generations have given of their best to add beauty and dignity to it. How strong an
appeal it makes to the race may in part, at least, be explained from the fact that it owes its name to Alban, the first Christian martyr in
Great Britain, and a British soldier in the Roman army, in memory of whom a monastery was erected in 793 by Offa, King of Mercia, in
the twelfth century the Abbot of St. Albans obtained precedence over all British Abbots from the only English Pope to occupy the
Papal throne, Adrian IV (Nicholas Brakespear), who was a native of St. Albans. During the Wars of the Roses, two were
fought here (1455 and 1461)), the Lancastrians being victorious in the latter. In 1873, the diocese of St. Albans was formed and the Ah hey
Church became the cathedral. The nave is the longest in England, and only exceeded in this respect by that of the famous Abbey of Fecamp
in France In the latter part of the eleventh century, the Abbey Church was rebuilt, and preserves its Norman character in spite ot various
new features in each of the Gothic styles. Modern restoration began in 1871, the work being completed by the beneficence of the late
Lord Grimthorpe, who devoted no less than £200,000 to that object, the western front forming a part. The Shrine of St. Alban.was an
object of the greatest magnificence and beauty, made in the twelfth century by Ankatil, a monk of the Abbey formerly goldsmith to the
King of Denmark. It disappeared, with its contents, at the dissolution m 1539 of the monastery. In 1847 Dr. Nicholson some
pieces he thought were connected with the Shrine, and in 1873 more than 2000 pieces were discovered and put together. e
appear to date from the fourteenth century, and the numerous angels swinging censers are striking. King Offa occurs, too, holding a mooei
of the church he founded. Few visitors from the Dominions fail to make a “pilgrimage” to this most interesting cathedral.


THE ENVELOPING FLAME.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.).
Wellington.
London: Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 40-43 Chancery
Lane, London, W.C.2.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE CHOICE AT HAND.
By courtesy of the British Navy, voters throughout the
Australian Commonwealth will be able to go to the
polling booths on Saturday and experience the luxury
of a war-time election held in comparative peace.
That it is a luxury, only possible because this fortune-
favored country can still bask in a local, though unreal,
atmosphere of peace and strange remoteness from
war’s actualities, nobody questions. On the other
hand, nobody expects this false atmosphere to last.
Mr. Menzies, in his policy speech, gave the ominous
warning that “we may be in the imminent deadly
breach before we are three months older.” Therefore
it is the urgent need, as it is the general hope, that this
scramble of an election will result not only in the
return of the best men offering —a highly unlikely
achievement —but in a purposeful and, above all, a
stable Government.
Considered with that last, and paramount, need
in mind, Labor has done its worst to lose the definite
advantages with which it started out electioneering.
Faced with the job of choosing a Government that
will be purposeful in conducting the sort of all-in
war effort they want and stable at the head of that
effort for the duration of the war, electors must now
doubt whether Labor, in its present chaotic condition,
can possibly produce such a Government. In the
State with the greatest voting strength it has presented
electors with the spectacle of its own complete divi-
sion into three separate, quarrelling groups, each pitch-
ing bitterly into the others and the two smaller groups
hotly denying and retorting in kind to the assertion
of the leader of the largest group that they are
“‘scab’ parties.” Electors are supposed to believe
that a divided party, which could not compose its
factional differences to win an election in which,
united, it seemed to have enormous advantages, is yet
the right one to vote for at a time when unity is not
only desirable but might be described as vital.
When electioneering started Labor had the best
opportunity that had come its way for 12 years. It
had only to come out united, and convincing the
country that it could make a better fist of the war
effort than the other side had done should have been
comparatively easy, if only because it is so much
easier to promise than to perform.
Since the beginning of the war the Government
had vacillated over pretty well every piece of proposed
legislation that encountered opposition. It had tried
to put through evidently half-baked measures, like its
petrol-rationing and its press, radio and film control;
had retreated ingloriously in the face of attack by
interested parties—the great bulk of Australians did
not care a hoot about the niceties of these proposals,
or about anything except getting on with the main job
—and it entered on electioneering with some of these
schemes still half-baked and undecided. This sort of
thing left it especially vulnerable to attack. It was
also vulnerable because, standing pat on its 12 months’
achievements in war effort, it had necessarily to insist
that a good measure of those achievements would,
since there was a war on, have to be taken for granted.
This enabled opponents to suggest, by implication and
innuendo, that the war effort was the very opposite
from satisfactory ; that if the Government side was
returned it would only go on in its old dilatory way ;
and that a change was urgently needed if the effort
was to be accelerated to match the mood of the
country.
That sort of thing has been comparatively easy,
and, in lulls between Labor’s factional fighting, has
been done effectively enough to plant doubts that must
sway votes against the Government side. Some of it,
too, was possibly justified. If returned, the Govern-
ment side would be making a bad blunder if it inter-
preted such a success as meaning that the electorate
considered its past performance sufficient for the
future. Whether returned or not, the Government side
—with further acknowledgments to the British Navy —
has earned the country’s gratitude for what it evidently
has been able to get done in the 12 months. A vote
against it could not be taken as a censure on that score.
That would be both unfair and ungenerous. The
vote would mean, rather, that Australia wanted even
more done, and, since the Government side apparently
considered the present pace sufficient, it was putting its
money on a fresh horse.
As it was in power when the war broke out, and
had been, under one leader and another, for years
before that, the Government side has been under the
fire of Mr. Curtin, Mr. Beasley, Dr. Evatt and, in fact,
pretty well all Labor stalwarts and aspirants, for fail-
ing to see to the country’s defence before the compul-
sion of events left no option. Nobody could pretend
that this line of attack is unjustified, but not many,
with any conscience to trouble them, would feel justi-
fied in casting the stone. The Bulletin files bear
witness that this paper has consistently advocated
adequate defence for Australia over a long period dur-
ing which an extraordinary number of people—includ-
ing politicians, newspaper editors and radio babblers,
all now screaming for bigger and better defence—
were under the delusion that the world had had its
last war, or that, at the worst, the League of Nations
was somehow a happy substitute for defence expendi-
ture and for trained men. This paper consistently
advocated compulsory national service (together with
a substantial Australian navy, containing at least one
battle-cruiser, and a strong and modern R.A.A.F.) even
when such service was so unpopular that politicians
on all sides could profit by insisting that they would
oppose it to their last breath.
It would, however, be uncharitable now to heap
the blame wholly on the politicians. There is enough
scapegoat-hunting. All that requires to be said is that,
over this very long period, Australia did not produce
one statesman with the foresight to see the need for
powerful defence, and the courage to stake his poli-
tical career on it. That said, it requires to be added
that if any such had made the attempt he would have
thereby committed political suicide.
There has been a lot of glib and cynical twaddle
spouted on this matter in the course of the electioneer-
ing. The truth is that in a democracy run accord-
ing to the current conception of democracy legislation
has become little more than an interpreting of popular
prevailing moods. Therefore blame for past neglect
of defence, so far from being restricted to a particular
party, is as widespread as the electorate itself. The
Government side in the present election, however, can
at least make this answer to its critics on the Labor
side. In the past 24 years Labor has had one term of
office in which to do something about defence —from
October 22, 1929, to January 6, 1932. It did not waste
the opportunity. It had not been in power two months
before it had suspended national service, and it went
on to leave the country’s defence establishment in
ruins. In its two years of office during the past 24
years Labor was, in fact, as ruinous to Australia’s
defence system as a non-Labor Government has now
had to be constructive in just half the time.
In simple fairness it needs to be said that a non-
Labor Government, in the same sorry days of depres-
sion and delusion, made the same sort of mess of
Maoriland’s defences as the 1929-32 Labor Govern-
ment made of Australia’s. Further, Maoriland’s
Labor-led Government has in some respects done more
since this war started than Australia’s non-Labor
Government. Incidentally, the fact that Maoriland,
under Labor, has conscription is enough to demolish
the stupid notion, cultivated in Communist and near-
Communist quarters, that the Menzies side tends
towards Fascism, with conscription as the invented
bogey and the alleged proof. Using powers conferred
on it by the Defence Acts the Menzies side has intro-
duced a measure of compulsory national service for
home defence ; if the all-powerful compulsion of events
becomes pressing enough conscription with no string
tied to it will be introduced, no matter what kind of
Government emerges from this election.
Another keenly cultivated notion, that one side
or the other —to say nothing of how many score brag-
gart individuals—can win the war is also as hollow
as its propagation has been shameless. The most that
can come out of this election,is a strong, stable Gov-
ernment, capable of making sound decisions and
abiding by them. Under the compulsion of events,
which for the time being must be the single spur to
the popular will, party color will fade almost miracu-
lously and be of so little importance that the best
Government would be one drawn from all parties,
and the best Parliament one composed of alert, con-
structive critics, also of all parties, with parties for-
gotten, and the general purpose to ensure that the
country’s war effort is what the country now expects.
"For Churchill and Us"!
Standing amidst the ruins of his policy of Continental
alliances, and forced back on the only true foreign
policy for Britain and the Empire —the policy that
Shakspeare put in the mouths of his historical charac-
ters, the policy of Henry VII, Swift, Walpole, Can-
ning and Gladstone—Mr. Churchill has proved equal
to the occasion. No longer the man of Antwerp, of
Gallipoli or of Norway—that expedition was as badly
bungled as the Walcheren fiasco and has had graver
consequences —the Prime Minister has had to concen-
trate his energies, so often dissipated, on one great and
heroic problem, and it has not found him wanting.
He has made a series of speeches such as either of
the Pitts would have been proud to make. He is giving
his nation what it was looking for, and what it is
striving and enduring all the more cheerfully for having
—inspiring and resolute leadership.
This may be acknowledged without acknowledg-
ing that anyone had a right to introduce the figure of
Mr. Churchill or the figure of Mr. Chamberlain into
the contest now proceeding in Australia. That is a
gross impertinence, and neither the U.A.P. nor Curtin
Labor is without blame ; nor are many of the rabble
of Independents guiltless. The U.A.P.’s offence is
rankest, for it has had the impudence to publish Mr.
Churchill’s photograph on its platforms and in its
election advertisements —sometimes alone, but gener-
ally cheek-by-jowl with portraits of Mr. Menzies—
together with blatant announcements that the Churchill
and Menzies war policies are identical. But Curtin
Labor, while protesting against this intolerable per-
version of the “Follow Britain” policy, has itself
shouted that Australia needs a Churchill, and inti-
mated, not obscurely, that Mr. Curtin is the man.
And on all sides there have been sneers at, in some
cases bitter attacks on, Mr. Chamberlain, though Mr.
Menzies, it is true, has dissociated himself from them:
I thoroughly agreed with what Mr. Chamberlain did
at Munich, and I still agree with what he did there.
If Mr. Chamberlain had not gone to Munich and
obtained this breathing-space for the Empire we might
not be here tonight.
During the Munich period Goring said to the
British Ambassador in Berlin that if war came then
there would be “very few Czechs left alive, and little of
London left standing.” Can anyone now doubt that
this savage and the savages associated with him would
have tried to make his threat good, and that the conse-
quences would have been more frightful than any-
thing the English have yet suffered, though they have
suffered much? With Sudetens, Slovaks, Hungarians
and Poles, as well as Hitler’s Germans, in opposition,
Czechia would have become a shambles, and the
slaughter and destruction would have been carried
swiftly into distracted France and so across the
Channel.
In 1938 Britain was not ready, nor was any part
of the Empire ready. Conscription had not been intro-
duced. In men and machines the R.A.F. was greatly
outnumbered by the Germans. There was no great
system of deep air-raid shelters, and there was a general
shortage of supplies. Only the Navy was in a position
to give more than it got, and the Navy could not have
been employed in guarding the passage of bomber
and fighter ’planes from the U.S.A., for the Americans
had none to spare.
Contemplating the certainty of defeat in Europe,
and warranted in believing that gas attacks would be
added to the horrors of bombing raids on his own
islands, can Mr. Chamberlain be fairly blamed by
anyone with a spark of generosity in his composition
for trying to do what he could, by the method of nego-
tiation, to humanise the inhuman and satisfy the
insatiable? At the worst he gained a twelvemonth,
and, although it was frittered away in faction-ridden
France, it was not wasted in Britain. This is the solid
truth, albeit the public has been deluged with flap-
doodle about the miracles wrought in two or three
months by a set of new Ministers, especially an elderly
newspaper baron in the Air Ministry—the implication
being that not the desperate emergency in which his
country was placed by the unforeseeable capitulation
of France, but the reconstruction of the Government
inspired the British workman to renewed efforts.
From the moment Hitler marched to Prague in
violation of his oaths, the nation, previously divided
on Continental issues, closed up its ranks. Rearmament
was already in progress, for Mr. Chamberlain had not
been wholly deceived ; huge votes for the services and
conscription were at once accepted by the Opposition
parties, which had opposed both. Spitfires and Hurri-
canes (both Chamberlain-regime machines) were
turned out in ever-growing quantities ; the manufac-
ture of mechanised equipment was speeded up ; A.R.P.
became a real thing ; huge stocks of supplies were laid
in. Above all, the Navy was put into thorough fight-
ing trim, and a huge building programme was entered
upon.
In the result, the Navy began the war in much
better shape than it was on August 4, 1914, when Mr.
Churchill had been three years at the Admiralty, and
it has had able professional leadership. There have
been no cases in this war of obsolete cruisers being left
to be gobbled up by superior forces, as was Cradock’s
squadron at Coronel, or sent rolling round the North
Sea, to become easy meat for a prowling U-boat, as
were the Cressy, the Aboukir and the Hogue; no
examples of great ships being sunk because of insuffi-
cient armor and defective turret construction, as were
the three battle-cruisers at Jutland ; nor any examples
of enemy warships getting away because British shells
were deficient in penetrative power. Nor has any
naval expert had occasion to write, as Lord Fisher
wrote, that “our mines were squibs.” The Royal
Navy and the R.A.N. and the merchant navy and the
minesweepers have done a grand job ; and the convoy
system, for which the Empire had to wait until the
fourth year of the last war, has been in operation
from the beginning.
Surely, in common fairness to Mr. Chamberlain,
these facts should be remembered to the credit of
his Government. Australians, on whose continent
not a single shell or bomb has fallen, and whose trade
and commerce have been carried on almost as smoothly
as in time of peace, should be the last to throw stones
at the old man.
In any case, it is an affront to these British
leaders and an outrage on the Australian nation that
they should be dragged into the current contention of
* parties and used as vote-catching material by self-
styled Win-the-War candidates. This sort of thing
never happened before in any war to which Australia
was a party, and the electors have it in their power
to see that it will never happen again, war or no war.
Win-the-War candidates have no right whatever to be
elected on the win-the-war cry alone, or on what they
choose to think of Mr. Churchill or Mr. Chamberlain.
They should be judged only on their policy for Aus-
tralia as a British Commonwealth country which must
make war to the limit, if they have any. If they are
so judged there will be little danger —there is some no"
—of Freetraders, parochialists, “costless-credit” cranks
or campaigners of the ignoble “joyriding as usua
breed sailing into Parliament under false colors, to
become bores, narks, nuisances or calamities.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Buckingham Palace Bombed.
When a time bomb was dropped in the gardens of
Buckingham Palace on Sunday, September B—it ex-
ploded on the Tuesday, damaging the royal apartments
—bad marksmanship by some ruffian in a hurry,
concerned for his own skin, had to be considered as
a possibility. There are military objectives about the
Palace—the Waterloo Guards Barracks on one side,
Knightsbridge Barracks on the other, the Horse
Guards and Victoria Station not far distant in terms
of bombing angles as seen from 10,000 feet up or
more.
But two more attacks showed beyond all doubt
that fiendish attempts were being made to wreck the
Palace and kill the King.
On September 13, in broad daylight, a bomber
pilot shut off his engines and deliberately dropped
five bombs on the Palace.
As a target it stands out. It is built in the
form of a huge quadrangle, with the chapel on
the southern side, the officials’ and ceremonial rooms
on the east facing the Mall. The Queen Victoria
Memorial and the private apartments of the King and
Queen are on the north facing over a corner of the 40
acres of lake and lawn and garden which is familiar
to all Australians who have attended garden parties
there. The eastern front is 360 feet long.
The bombs were dropped indiscriminately over
the whole structure. Two fell in the inner quad-
rangle, in the very centre of the building. One found
its mark in the chapel on the south side of the quad-
rangle and the other two fell on the east in the road-
way between the Palace gates and the Queen Victoria
Memorial. The chapel was wrecked. Their Majesties’
apartments —they are on the inner north side of the
quadrangle —were demolished. Huge blocks of
masonry were thrown over the southern end into
Buckingham Palace-road. Craters were torn up in the
quadrangle and in the road outside the eastern gates
where, in peace-time, happy crowds gather every day
to see the changing of the guard, and which is black
with people on ceremonial occasions when the King
and Queen appear on the eastern balcony. Only two
years ago they looked down on a sea of faces there
after their coronation.
Three members of the royal household staff were
injured. The King and Queen are safe. With calm
courage they are remaining in London to comfort and
reassure their people, and the Royal Standard still
flies over their historic home.
A horrified world has been told that the attack
was a “reprisal” for the bombing of the official centre
of Berlin during the week. But there, though the
R.A.F. cut a swathe right down the Wilhelmstrasse
from the old Reichstag in the Tiergarten to the Pots-
dammer railway station, the area about Hitler’s Chan-
cellery was respected, though it is a more outstanding
mark than Buckingham Palace.
When dictators pass, their systems collapse like a
pack of cards, because those systems are children of
their own brains, dependent for their continuance on
their own personal wills. But when a British King
dies another King arises automatically. His death
does not change policies or Governments.
There is a strain of stupidity as well as a huge
streak of brutality in the Nazi German. The killing
of the King and Queen would gain his putrid cause
nothing but the undying hatred of the hundreds of
millions of people to whom their Majesties stand as
the symbols of British honor, humanity and freedom
and who, if they are murdered, will exact a stern
vengeance.
Late for the Bus Again.
One rather astonishing feature of the election cam-
paign is that a part of the war effort which,
directly and indirectly, has been very useful has been
stressed so little. True, Mr. Menzies mentioned it
in his policy speech, but his lead has not been fol-
lowed on the hustings or in U.A.P. press articles or
election advertisements. Opposition speakers and
writers have their own reasons for not referring to
it. They must marvel at the obtuseness of the
other side.
The central fact was stated in a brief telegram
from Canberra dispatched on the first anniversary
of Britain’s entry into the war. It was to the effect
that “the Commonwealth Statistician’s index number
for July, covering groceries, foodstuffs and meat,
showed an average rise of 1.9 p.c. since August, 1939.”
Actually, the rise in the cost of living, rent in-
cluded, since the outbreak of war has been only
3 p.c. For this the Government might fairly claim
credit in the constituencies. It began by picking
a good man, Professor Copland, as Prices Commis-
sioner, and, all along zealous and alert, he has done
an excellent job. Associated with it is a financial
policy designed to prevent inflation and provide in-
dustry with cheap money, which has been successful.
Some of the results are reflected in the unemploy-
ment .figures, which have steadily decreased, and in
building-trade statistics. People who entered into
housing contracts in the latter part of last year have
been agreeably astonished to find that they have
had to pay so little more for building materials. In
a case known to The Bulletin the increase on the
contract price of a house, identical in every respect
with one started in September, 1939, is only 2 p.c.
In the first two years of the last war a Com-
monwealth Labor Government was in office. What
happened then? A gentleman who writes with
authority that no member of Mr. Curtin’s party would
question has placed the facts on record:
As the war months slowly passed the workers
had to suffer a falling-off even in their pre-war standard
of living. To the ordinary householder the cost of
living rose steadily from November, 1914, to the year
1920. Taking the figure in November, 1914, at 1000,
the cost-of-living figure in Sydney rose in 1915 to 1159;
in 1916 to 1187; in 1917 to 1266; in 1918 to 13-8.
The authority is no less a person than Dr. Evatt.
The words quoted appear in his book Australiaii
Labor Leader, which was published just before he
resigned from the H'igh Court Bench to contest
Barton as a Curtin Labor candidate.
A copy of Dr. Evatt’s book should be in the
library at U.A.P. headquarters, and there are other
extracts which might be availed of by the U.A.P.
organisation for a comparison of its Governments
achievement with that of Dr. Evatt s party in a
matter in which every worker is closely interested.
Instead of making such a comparison and seeing
that it receives ample publicity in the constituencies,
the U.A.P. organisation is relying on sorry fustian
about the identity of the Administration’s war policy
with that of the British Government (which inciden-
tally has admitted that food in the U.K. is 19 p.c.
dearer than at September 3, 1939), and about the
general resemblance of Mr. Menzies to Mr. Churchill.
It is unfortunate for Mr. Menzies that this crowd is
so ignorant of the art of running elections. It can no
longer depend on Mr. Lang to win them for it.
The Senate Puzzle.
The papers which implored Big Men to come out for
the Commonwealth Parliament, especially for U.A.P.
seats held by persons whom the papers hate to see
about the place, had only the House of Representatives
in mind. They forgot the Senate.
Yet the Senate is sorely in need of Big Men. In
quality of personnel, it had a fine beginning, but with
the advent of party it persistently declined from the
1901-06 standard. Compulsory voting and a very
complicated preferential system contributed to the
downward movement until, three years ago, there was
witnessed the extraordinary spectacle of four gentle-
men, previously unheard-of outside the limited muni-
cipal and A.L.P.-branch circles in which they moved,
but artfully pre-selected by their party because their
names began with the letter A, triumphing in the State
which has nearly two-fifths of the electoral population.
Heading the A ticket was a Mr. Amour (he beat his
nearest U.A.P. opponent by 79,538 votes), who came
straight from the Bankstown Council, to which he still
belongs. Judging by his speeches, Mr. Amour’s idea
of Australia is that it is bounded on the north, south,
east and west by the Bankstown municipal boundaries.
Partly because of this odd preference of electors
“Red Morning Dawns” will be found on page 30.
Other war matter on page 31.
for letters of the alphabet, Labor has a great chance
of capturing the Senate, even if it fails of a majority
in the House. Fourteen of its Senators haven’t to go
up for re-election, so it has to elect only five candi-
dates, two of whom are retiring Senators, to gain con-
trol of the Chamber. True, the four As have ceased
to be solid, Senators Amour and Armstrong having
been whirled away with Mr. Beasley, but they are
still agin the Government. If 15 Ministerialists are
not returned, the Government will have lost its
majority on the floor of the Senate, even if it main-
tains its commanding position in the House. And
three States have Labor Governments, while in a
fourth, Victoria, four Labor Senators were elected
three years ago with vast majorities.
A Government without a Senate majority is in a
very awkward situation, and in such a situation
strange things can happen. In 1917, for example,
when Win-the-War Nationalists were on the Treasury
benches, and a Labor Opposition ran the Senate, there
was an outbreak of mysterious maladies among Labor
Senators from Tasmania. With shaking fingers, one
wrote out his resignation. The filling of a casual
vacancy in the Senate is usually a tedious process ;
but in 17 hours a Win-the-War Nationalist sat in the
invalid’s place. Two other Labor Senators from Tas-
mania were obliged to absent themselves for critical
periods, one finding it necessary to set out for Java.
A Labor Senator from N.S.W. broke in upon these
distressing scenes with the allegation that an effort
had been made to nobble him. For this iniquitous
attempt to tarnish the fair fame of Win-the-War
Nationalism he was very properly rebuked.
It would be unfortunate for Senators, whose
health is one of their assets, and thrice unfortunate
for the country, if such things occurred in the Parlia-
ment about to be chosen.
To guard against a repetition of the four-A-ticket
coup, the electoral law was amended to admit of
names of candidates being printed on horizontal
ballot-papers and grouped as to parties, positions being
determined by lot. But since members of all parties
agree that many careless or ignorant people will con-
tinue to give their first vote to the first name they see
and continue in that irrational order, pride of place
on the ballot-paper gives a decided advantage to the
group possessing it. The luck of the draw has given
it to Non-Communist Labor in N.S.W. (its No. 1 candi-
date, an A, is a Douglas Credit man), to the U.A.P.-
U.C.P. in Victoria, Queensland and Westralia, to
Curtin Labor in S.A. and to the U.A.P. in Tasmania,
where retiring Senators Hays and Hayes and former
Senators Millen and Sampson are running, together
with a pastoralist new to politics.
The election had to be held —there was no honest
alternative —but another election next year or at any
other time during the war would be a calamity. Yet
it is a grim possibility unless the electors take care that
the Government of their choice —be it Menzies-
Cameron or Curtin-Evatt —gets a clear majority in
each Chamber. In N. S. Wales, Senators Dein and
Macartney Abbott and Mr. Patrick —that sturdy
Scotch shipping man who is in favor of a referendum
on the abolition of State Parliaments —should for
obvious reasons be preferred to the three scratch
teams nominated by the warring Labor groups. In
other States the electors will have to consider whether
they and the Parliament will gain if such Senators as
Brand, Leckie, Foil, Collett and MacDonald are
defeated.
The Standard-bearers.
“Mr. Stevens and Mr. Spooner, U.A.P. standard-bearers
in the State arena during many years, are each contesting
[Federal] seats If Mr. Stevens and Mr. Spooner are
returned, they are sure to find places m the Cabinet.
“S. M. Herald.”
Then there will be a hot time in the Cabinet room
when the standard-bearers clash, as they clashed last
year.
The recorded history of the standard-bearers war
dates from July 21, 1939, when Standard-bearer
Spooner, who had been one of Standard-bearer Stevens s
Ministers for seven years, resigned from the Cabinet
as a sequel to the assertion of a Mr. Robson, M.L.A.,
that Standard-bearer Spooner had told him Standard-
bearer Stevens’s 1938-39 Budget (the one which
promised a surplus of £7OOO, and the introduction of
which was followed by a lightning measure raising the
salaries of Ministers, Assemblymen and officers by
£24,000 p.a.) was “faked.” In the Leg. Assembly on
July 26, Standard-bearer Spooner protested that he
couldn’t remember having said it, to which Mr. Robson
replied: “Those words were used and I told the
Premier.” “Hansard” now takes up the story —a few
hundred feet of print omitted:
Standard-bearer Stevens (July 26): Mr. Spooner has twice
denied that he used the word “faked” There are two
facts of which I am now convinced: First, that Mr. Spoonef
did use the word “faked” ; secondly, that in using the word
“faked” Mr. Spooner knew perfectly well that he was making
an unjustifiable attack on the Government.
Standard-bearer Spooner, weighing in with an “urgency
motion” (August 1): My opposition and my threat to resign
frightened the Premier. He has told us that the deficit was
£2,750,000. He should have shown a deficit of £3,750,000.
He gave a deliberately misleading statement of the financial
position for the year 1939. ...
The real story as to why I left the Cabinet is that the
Premier neglected the finances while he tried to get into
Federal politics until he created the position where we were
millions of pounds short. Now he is trying to take it out
of the hides of the unemployed, and I will not stand for it
A million was borrowed from the State Superannuation
Fund at 4 p.c., and put into the cash position, and the cash
position was drawn upon by the loan fund to the extent
of £1,000.000. The Superannuation Board sold Common-
wealth securities on the market while the market was being
supported by the National Debt Commission.
Standard-bearer Stevens (August 1): This vile suggestion
that the Premier is not a man to be trusted! While these
sinister suggestions have been made the hon. member sat
in Cabinet with me. In season and out of season I urged
upon the Commonwealth authorities that the proper way to
arrest the drift was to stimulate the credit basis of the com-
munity... .Anyone who suggests that I was endeavoring to
“tailspin” by making an unfortunate section of the community
pay for the distress of the Budget is saying something which
is unworthy.
Here there was a reference to a letter, “obviously
written at a time when it suited the hon. gentleman
to write it. I handed the letter back to the hon.
member.” “That is the most untrue statement that
the Premier has ever made,” interrupted Standard-
bearer Spooner. “The Premier told me a fortnight
ago that he had lost the letter. Last week he rang me
up, stated he had lost the letter and asked me to send
him a copy. I did so.” “I cannot agree with that,”
quoth Standard-bearer Stevens ; “but it is a matter
of no significance.” After a tart reference to “the
practice of paying part of the interest cost on
local-government subsidies and loans, which is today
costing this State £500,000 per annum, a “practice” for
which he held Standard-bearer Spooner responsible,
Standard-bearer Stevens concluded by saying that he
regarded the motion “as a direct attempt to censure
the Government” and would “accept it as such.”
The standard-bearers then retired for rest and re-
freshment. Before they went at it again, Standard-
bearer Mair, then Treasurer, remarked that Standard-
bearer Spooner had in seven years spent £1,400,000 in
his own electorate of Ryde, and “hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds” on “relief works” such as “dressing
sheds, showground buildings, bowling greens and club-
houses,” also “a casino and dance floor.”
Standard-bearer Spooner (August 3): The Premier has
been guilty of cowardice. He will not meet the members of
his party, presumably because he is afraid of them. He
tricked his party by declaring this to be a censure motion.
Whatever the result of the vote may be, the Stevens
Government is morally degraded. The U.A.P. today, unfor-
tunately, is under a most extraordinary form of dictatorship.
I will fight this to the bitter end.
“The result of the vote” was that the Government
was defeated and reconstituted without Mr. Stevens.
And now the two standard-bearers are out for Federal
seats as U.A.P. “multiple-endorsement” Win-the-War
candidates, and places in the Cabinet have been re-
served for them, standards and all, by the devoted —
and so recently distracted —“Herald.” Surely the
Stadium would be a more appropriate “arena.”
Farce in Victoria.
In the midst of a day-and-night wrangle in the Vic-
torian Assembly over a bill to legalise street raffles
for patriotic funds, the voice of Mrs. Weber (Ind.)
was heard: “There must be no more spectacles such
as we have had this year.” She meant street parades
and raffles ; had she meant the farces staged in the
Assembly all Victoria would have cheered her.
The absurd battle was all-in, members of all
parties supporting or opposing the bill. Dr. Argyle
called it “the thin edge of the wedge” ; Mr. Oldham,
one of his followers, said sepulchrally, “The ram-
parts we watch in these grave days are ethical as well
as geographical.”
In the end Premier Dunstan, struck temporarily
dumb by the storm, got the second reading passed by
22 to 17, previously remarking that if the bill were
rejected conductors of raffles would be prosecuted
“without fear or favor.”
Such is an Australian State Parliament in the
midst of war. Whatever the color of the Common-
wealth Government returned on September 21, it
should, as preliminary to a referendum for abolition
of State Parliaments, suspend all Oldhams and their
“ethical ramparts” for the duration.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Piper’s L.”: According to the morn-
ing newspaper which the missus brought
home wrapped round the chops, William
Forrest, a war correspondent, said in a
8.8. C. broadcast:
Entering the shelter I was astonished to
hear music. The people gathered there
were singing all the old traditional songs
of England, like “The Rose of Tralee,”
“Swanee River” and “Loch Lomond.”
It doesn’t take these war correspondents
long to get right down to the heart of
things in the particular country honored
by their presence. Some day, it is to be
hoped, Mr. Forrest will hear Australians
singing their old traditionals, like “Run,
Rabbit,” “Home on the Range” and
“Begin the Beguine.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: The strange introspections of
the Contemporary Art Society which
were given accommodation at the
National Gallery in Melbourne recall the
dictum of Bernard Hall, who as director
used to swear that no “modernist” paint-
ing would ever enter the portals of the
institution except over his dead body.
Since his death a couple of Cezannes and
a Van Gogh have found their way in.
Barney, as he was universally known by
Gallery students, was a stern upholder
of the British R.A. tradition. On one
occasion a member of the State Parlia-
ment took a couple of pictures up to the
Gallery to get Hall’s expert opinion. One
was an oil he had picked up at an auc-
tion and which obviously belonged to the
Dutch school of the eighteenth century ;
the other was by a Victorian painter.
He ran into the director as he was enter-
ing the building. “I’d like to have your
opinion on these two pictures,” said the
politician. “I don’t look at pictures,”
snapped the director. “I don’t want you
to do it for nothing,” expostulated the
politician. “Well, give me a guinea and
I’ll tell you what I think of them,” said
Barney. The money was forked out. “Pot-
boilers!” snorted the director, and bolted
up the stairs into the Gallery.
* * * *
“Chev”: Melbourne has inadvertently
provided itself with one of the finest air-
raid shelters in Australia. In planning
the new Melbourne Hospital on the Pig
Market site the architects decided for a
tunnel half a mile in length to connect
the main block with the nurses’ quarters
and the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute.
To reach it an air-borne bomb would
have to travel through 180 ft. of brick
and concrete. Nobody has yet calculated
how many people could get into it, but.
they would run into many thousands.
* * * *
“Pozzy”: I wonder if Admiral Sir
Dudley Pound remembers being called a
bloody fool by a signal rating. Pound,
then a sub-lieut., was serving on the fore-
bridge of the flagship, and the admiral
issued his instructions from the after-
bridge. The signaller had to attend to the
voice-pipe and repeat all messages. There
had been some delay by one of the ships
of the squadron in reporting, and the
admiral, a bit narked, sent the message
“Who says Tigertail is not ready to
proceed?” The reply came back,
“Mr. Pound, sir.” “Well, tell Mr.
Pound he’s a 8.F.,” which the signaller
did with gusto. Mr. Pound (who was
quite correct) entered a protest at the end
of the day and received a handsome
apology from the admiral (“Jumbo”
Bellowes).
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Recommendation of
Maoriland’s Petrol Control Board that
the speed of funerals be increased to save
petrol reminds me that many years ago
a nerve-racked American visited Maori-
land seeking a cure. On the advice of
a Wellington specialist he went to Nelson,
known as “Sleepy Hollow.” The placidity
and isolation had the desired effect, and
the American was well pleased. One
day, out for a long walk, he found him-
self in the wake of a slow-moving pro-
cession with a vehicle at its head. He
joined the procession, and after an hour
turned to a fellow-pedestrian and said,
“I say, stranger, how much further off
is this infernal cemetery?” “Cemetery?”
exclaimed the resident. “This is not a
funeral. This is the Nelson fire brigade
going to put out a fire! ”
“Gad, sir, I'm interested in one form of sport only.”
“Wot, cricket?”
“Golden Mile”: The suggestion that
Sydney may have to come at the distilla-
tion of sea-water is not so far-fetched as
it sounds. Kalgoorlie and Boulder, with
30,000 people, got along for a whole
decade on condensed sea-water. Gal-
vanised-iron tanks and connecting tubes
everywhere dotted the landscape. As
boilers thousands of square, black-iron,
400-gallon tanks were used. They had
entered W.A. duty-free as “packing
cases.” Water-condensing was an indus-
try employing thousands of men, for
whole forests were cut and burned as the
first step in the process. Prices fluctu-
ated, but the usual water quote was Bs.
per 100 gallons. Condensed water tasted
flat, but one got used to it. When Mun-
daring water arrived it tasted tarry, vile.
But one got used to that.
* * * *
“Pawang”: There are 12 students of
the University of Melbourne who may be
some day regarded as heroes and martyrs
to science like the two men who doped
each other with various drugs and eventu-
ally stumbled on the uses of chloroform
as an anaesthetic. The dozen young folk
have just set off into the country with Dr.
F. Burnet, the clever young research
worker of the Walter and Eliza Hall Insti-
tute, to be submitted to a prolonged
series of attacks of influenza. They are
to be inoculated with the wog in larger
and larger quantities, and must inevitably
suffer from all the distressing symptoms
of one of the worst and most universal
plagues that have ever afflicted mankind.
The purpose is to discover whether a
weak virus can produce immunity against
a stronger virus, as is the case with mice
and ferrets. Dr. Burnet announced
recently that science was on the point of
putting ’flu and the common cold where
it has put smallpox. Six of the potential
martyrs are girls and six young men.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The German-named towns
in S.A. are in the news again. Their
settlers came to Australia about a cen-
tury back to get away from the domi-
nation of Prussia, and have made fine,
hard-working and solid citizens. The
township memorials for the last war are
full of Schmidts and Mullers of the third
generation who died for Australia. Yet
during the bitterness of that period every
town-name with a Teuton flavor was
wiped out by law. Two or three years
ago this was felt to have been a bit hasty,
and three of the best known were given
leave to change back: Gaza to Klemzig,
Ambleside to Hahndorf and Tweedvale
(of the woollen mills) to Lobethal. But
meanwhile a new generation has arisen
that has no wish to go back; and the
towns hardly know what their names are.
An incidental joke is that Sedan has re-
mained unaffected all through as being a
French name, though obviously it was
chosen by Germans.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Hong Kong evacuees in
Melbourne have exploded one illusion —
the notion that the Far East is a more
expensive place to live in than Australia.
This belief is firmly held by most com-
panies maintaining staffs in the Orient,
and most of them make handsome
pecuniary allowance for it. The evacuees,
however, complain that the h.c. of 1.
is the only objection that they have to
Australia. They assert that a flat in
Hong Kong containing lounge, dining-
room, two bedrooms, kitchen, bathroom
and all etceteras costs £1 a week, and
full board, with washing, can be obtained
for £2. Taxis in the rocky island cost
3d. for I f mile and a rickshaw-runner
charges 3d. for a scamper of 10 minutes,
and he can scamper a great distance in
that time. The best seats at the movies
in the British possession can be had for
7id. and tailored winter frocks cost 3s.
It sounds like a dream to most Mel-
bourne citizens.
* * * *
“Fab”: Bad effects of crime fillums?
After the intermission at a Melbourne
picture theatre it was discovered that
miniatures valued at £lOOO which were
on exhibition in the foyer were missing.
The picture showing was “Raffles”!
* * * *
“Craiser”: When Russell Grimwade
had Captain Cook’s cottage transported
from Great Ayrton and re-erected in
exact detail in the Fitzroy Gardens, Mel-
bourne, he may have been saving it un-
wittingly from destruction at the hands
of a Nazi bomber. But he didn’t reckon
with the small boys of Melbourne, who
have tried to share in the great navi-
gator’s fame by scrawling their names on
the walls and cutting them on the furni-
ture. The City Council put a caretaker
in occupation, but this did not prevent
relics being pinched and considerable
damage being done to the interior. The
charming little cottage has been closed to
the public in consequence, and the last
time I saw it a party of intensely excited
and enthusiastic Americans were flatten-
ing their noses against the tiny windows
in an endeavor to see what was inside.
When I explained the situation they
assured me that vandalism of that
sort never happened in their country,
where, it seems, respect is inculcated in
the schools for American historical
monuments, if not for the monuments of
other countries.
sfc * *
“C.R.”: A movement is afoot in Mel-
bourne to provide the city with a statue
of Dr. Maloney, M.H.R. I suggest that the
model to be taken for it by the sculptor
should be Low’s sketch reprinted in The
Bulletin with the “Little Doctor’s”
obituary notice. It is much more real,
alive and kindly than the awful carica-
tures of defunct statesmen and eminent
citizens with which sculptors have
decorated Melbourne in the past. Anxious
to be polite to their subjects and to make
them the epitome of all the conventional
virtues, they have produced nothing but
a collection of stuffed dummies and
plaster saints without a spark of humanity
about them. The one exception is the
statue of Tommy Bent, near Brighton.
The sculptress couldn’t have made
Tommy look like a statesman without
everybody who had known him calling
her a liar. But the bust of Nurse Cavell
and the figure of A. L. Gordon are
caricatures of human beings, for it is
caricaturing to make a human being look
like an angel.
* * $ *
Douglas Stewart (252 George-street,
Sydney, and Darlinghurst): Strange as
it may seem, I am not interested
in Mr. B. S. B. Stevens politi-
cally, but as a champion of the
purity of the language I am bitterly
opposed to the introduction of the new
and monstrous “ism,” “Stevensism.” My
tongue simply refuses to get round it;
my ear spurns it. If the gentleman is
determined to go into the dictionary
as an “ism,” I suggest that the synonym
“Tubbism” is at least pronounceable. But
why not simply “Tubbery”? I like the
sound of tubbery.
* * * *
“Stung” lets himself go:
The most grandiose specimen of Sydney’s
multitude of boards complains that people are
paying no attention to its anguished appeals
to them not to waste water. Very reprehen-
sible, of course, but in some cases it proceeds
from resentment—the recalcitrants regard the
board as a champion humbug which preaches
what it doesn’t practise. It wasted nearly a
million on an alleged pressure tunnel; it wasted
half a million on a palace in Pitt-street; it is
wasting heaps of money on lachrymose adver-
tisements which foresight would have rendered
unnecessary, and it is wasting paper by the
square mile.
I own two vacant allotments. There arrived
the other morning in separate stamped en-
velopes two verbose Water Board accounts for
3s. lid. printed in two colors on expensive
paper. In each case the size was llin. x siin-,
and the number of words —figures not counted
—was just on 350. In each case also two printed
forms, 9in. x siin., were included. One in-
structed me to Stop That Leaking Tap, with
three cuts of taps and nine Simple Directions,
closing with the information that “washers for
ordinary taps may be bought cheaply at any
store”; the other was a collection of Dos and
Don’ts, winding up with a copy of some bad
American verses (“Unthrifty users, pause to
think Before you flood the wasteful sink”).
And all to collect 7s. lOd.! And I suppose
if I owned 20 vacant allotments I would have
received 20 stamped envelopes containing 20
350-word accounts printed in two colors and
40 separate examples of printed mush.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The female uniforms
which have added so much to the bright-
ness of Sydney streets continue to multi-
ply and become more gaudy as the weeks
go on. The latest effort is the clobber
of a corps of young women who nor-
mally can be seen scattered round the
harbor on small boats in shorts and
shirts. Their outfit consists of what looks
like full R.N. deck officer’s uniform gone
all feminine, gold stripes and all. The
R.N. is very particular about uniform.
Only regular deck officers on the active
list wear straight gold stripes against the
basic navy blue of the tunic. Paymasters
(white), surgeons (scarlet), instructors
(light blue) all have their distinctive
colors between the braid. Even retired
officers and reserves and volunteer re-
serves do not, however, wear the straight
sleevebands, which are earned and labori-
ously added to only by long years of
arduous service and training. By the time
any R.N. man has qualified for the right
to four bands as a captain he has done
about 30 years’ concentrated and expert
toil on the high seas. These boating
ladies, as a prelude to giving the marine
services some vague assistance consisten
with their week-end experience, have blos-
somed out in braid which lacks only t e
executive curl to make them full captains
and lieutenant-commanders.
LONDON.
“London, thou art of townes A per se.”
Four crowded centuries have taken flight
Since of your riches and your royalty
And rare renown a poet thus could write.
The tribute once again we may recite,
The glowing line insensibly recall;
All tribulations and all trials despite,
“London, thou art the flower of Cities all.”
Steadfast and staunch as when your sons you
sent
The wide world o’er for deeds of high
emprise,
You face what Fate may hold, unbowed, un-
bent,
Faith in your heart and firmness in your eyes.
Death and destruction raining from the skies
Are powerless to cow you or appal.
Still as of old, whatever rivals rise,
“London, thou art the flower of Cities all.”
Inflexible, undaunted, as when Spain
Against your land her threat’ning might
arrayed,
Or conquest-drunk Napoleon in vain
To break your mastery of the sea essayed,
Meeting a direr menace undismayed
As hour by hour the murderous missiles fall,
Stern, resolute, defiant, unafraid,
“London, thou art the flower of Cities all.”
Supreme in peace, at last there comes a day
You leave a record deeper to enthral.
Though sore beset, unbeatably at bay,
“London, thou art the flower of Cities all.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“I’m not sayin’ ‘ah’ for any Woman!”
* * * *
“S.”: I suppose if some bright boy in
Germany or Russia told a political
speaker to shut up, the crowd would
attempt to dismember him. What hap-
pened at Springfield-avenue, near Syd-
ney’s King’s Cross, was that the crowd
got hysterical with laughter. An election
spruiker was up on his perch telling us
all about everything when suddenly there
was a loud cry in a beautiful Oxford
accent, “Ai sai! Shut up a mooment,
will you!” The owner of the voice, a
well-tailored gent., was trying to use the
adjacent ’phone box. “Ai can’t heah a
ballay word!” he went on aggrievedly
while the crowd gasped and the
orator hesitated. The Oxford-accented
one dived again into his ’phone box,
talked at the receiver, then reissued
dramatically and roared, “Ai said, shut
up, will you! Ai want to use this ballay
telephone!” The speaker gulped and,
for a moment, did shut up. People near
the ’phone box, in the stunned silence
before the gale of laughter began, heard
the beautiful voice of the beautifully-
tailored gentleman speak his important
message into the receiver. It was some-
thing about “a dozen of beah.”
* * * *
Charles Shaw (252 George-street,
Sydney): Candidates who buy time on
radio broadcasts should interest them-
selves in what follows. Cowper, who
is trying to unseat Harrison in Went-
worth (N.S.W.), gave what radio-
riggers are pleased to call a “drama-
tised talk” over 2UE the other night,
finishing on a fine note of promise.
Then his voice faded, an orchestra struck
up and a nasal voice intoned “Run,
rabbit, run, rabbit, run, run, run.” The
effect on the polite earnestness with which
our small party of listeners, guests of a
Cowper supporter, had been listening
was disastrous.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: A Sydney paper reports
the cry of despair of a spinster who told
a jury in a breach of promise case that
she had sued for damages because, at
just over 30, she had no matrimonial
prospects. There must be something
wrong here. Had the unfortunate lady
studied the same paper, or the flamboyant
women’s journal it brings out every week,
she would have found all sorts of relief,
ranging from hints on deportment and a
treatment that made “Joan, who is 45,
look 25,” to lucky charms guaranteed to
win anything she desired. Or she could
have written to the paper’s astrologer
and got a line on her future certain to
have cheered her up provided she took
certain precautions and never, never'
crossed her fingers while Saturn was in
Venus’s fourth house. She would have
learned that, at just over 30, she could
acquire “glamor” in a couple of shakes.
Still, as the jury awarded her a handy
sum, she has time to try any of the multi-
tude of aids that “make the men look
at you twice.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Whatever the changes in
equipment, facial fashions haven’t
changed in this war. In the last one the
only two soldiers known to have worn
beards were King George and George
Lambert. As a war artist Lambert was
given rank and had to wear a uniform,
but resolutely refused to shave his beard
off. As a consequence, when he was in
the war zone he was frequently stuck up
by an indignant colonel or major who
thought he was a naval
man who had got into
the wrong uniform.
Despite the ban on
beards in the Army,
however, there is more
facial herbage in that
service than there is in
the Navy. In the Navy
you must carry the full
issue or go clean-
shaven. In the Army
the clean - shave o r
moustache is de rigueur
and there seem to be
more moustaches
among soldiers than
beards among sailors.
* *
“V. Cluse”: I was
standing by the gate
contempla ting the
droughty sky and the
bald patches on the
lawn when our suburb’s
habitual drunk hove
in sight. He waved a
careless hand at me,
wavered onward,
paused, meditated
briefly and came back.
Taking a firm grip on
the gatepost he gave me a stern look
and said “Thish ish a terrible thing—
war—why can’t ush an’ them be friends,
see?” “Yes,” I said, humoring him. He
screwed his mouth round
to one side, closed one eye
and peered closely at a
point in the sky about 30
degrees above the north-
ern horizon. Then he
screwed his mouth back
the other way, leaned for-
ward to get a better look
at the sky and said “It’sh
them blurry Poles. If it
washn’t forrem Poles”
“Aw,” I said, “the poor
old Poles got it” He
gave me a shocked look.
“Don’ you shtand up f’r
’em,” he burst out, “don’
you shtand up f’r ’em!
Wharrami goin’ t’ do on
Shaturday all the pubs
closhed, eh?” Don’ you
shtand up f’r em! ” He de-
tached himself from the
post and wavered indig-
nantly away, certain that
the polls boded him no
good.
* * *
“Pollop”: Ours is a
pretty dull town usually,
but a recent matrimonial
comedy of love and riches
and its anti-climax have
given the place something
to chuckle about for years.
A wealthy widower ap-
proaching the sixties had
a son and daughter, both of
marriageable age. Several
designing mothers had set
their daughters at the son, assuming he
would get the biggest share of the old
man’s cash. Then it got abroad that the
daughter was the old chap’s darling and
the more likely to collect. Promptly the
mothers with eligible sons conducted
sieges against the new citadel. But when
it was observed that the daughter of
the local solicitor who was known to
handle the widower’s affairs persisted in
her angling for the son, the contestants
concluded that she had the dinkum oil
and the offensive was resumed. It de-
veloped openly when the old man went
south on a holiday jaunt and was at
its height when he returned, accom-
panied by a comfortable-looking middle-
aged woman. The secret fury and open
recrimination that burst forth when it
was announced that the lady was his
new wife would have gladdened the
heart of Maupassant.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The reported purloining
by the Germans of Da Vinci’s “Mona
Lisa” and the “Winged Victory of Samo-
thrace” from the Louvre treasures
prompts an inquiry as to what has hap-
pened to “Adam,” Epstein’s three tons
of masonry, which was reported to have
been purchased for £7OOO, first by Claude
de Bernales and then by another West-
ralian mining magnate, Stafford. It
was last heard of as on its way to Aus-
tralia, and it would be difficult to mis-
lay. There has been a rumpus about
every one of Epstein’s works since he did
the 18 statues for the B.M.A.’s building
in London. When the place was taken
over by one of the Rhodesian Govern-
ments, the High Commissioner proposed
to remove them, but the sculptor threat-
ened legal action. The matter was dropped
for several years, but rankled in the breast
of the High Commissioner. Then one
day the head of one of the statues fell
off and rolled over the foot of a woman
walking in the Strand. The High Com-
missioner promptly ordered their removal
on the ground that they were endanger-
ing human life. Epstein protested, but
down came the figures of the woman
in various stages of pregnancy, against
which even archbishops had thundered
in vain.
* * * *
“Daljean”: Calling all Scots! D’ye
ken what a “keelie” is? I didn’t have
the foggiest notion till I read a review
of Glasgow Keelie, a novel by John Mc-
Neilie, in “S. M. Herald.” The review
began thus: —
Just what a keelie may be, this reviewer
does not know; the compilers of the
Oxford Dictionary, if the word has come
under their notice, have thought it better
to remain silent as to its meaning. One
can only guess (since the novel it adorns
is a story of Glasgow low-life, and of one
low-lifer in particular) that the word may
be a Scottish synonym for larrikin.
It was a near-enough guess ; but hadn’t
the reviewer access in his home or office
to any other dictionary? Chambers's
defines “keelie,” in the novel’s evident
use of the word, as “a street Arab or
young rough” (it also means a kestrel);
Webster’s New International, as “a
street loafer or urchin.” The word
carries the geographical label “Scot. &
N. Eng.,” but a Scots colleague assures
me that in Scotland the term has a re-
stricted place application. The Glasgow
keelie is notorious, but one does not hear
of the Dundee or the Edinburgh keelie.
* * 3e *
“Nagheer”: “Yairs, ma’am,” said the
driver, “it’s a pretty little cemetery all
right now they’ve put in that lych gate,
as they call it, and planted all them
flowers and trees. Did yer notice them
four big concrete pillars holdin’ up the
tiled roof on the lych gate? Well, they’re
really concrete pipes to take the rain-
water runnin’ off of the roof, and it’s
stored inside them for waterin’ the
flowers in a dry spell. Before they put
in theseyere improvements though, it
wasn’t what yer might call a popular
kind of cemetery. Instead o’ patronisin’
local industry, so ter speak, everyone
useter go an’ get buried over at Mooville,
six mile further orf an’ a real bad road
most of it, too. Break yer springs a treat
when you was cornin’ back from a funeral
an’ ’avin’ to ’urry ’ome. All the same,
nobody livin’ round these parts can’t get
buried now in that nice cemetery you
seen.” “Why can’t they?” asked the
too-conversational lady. “ ’Cos they ain’t
dead yet,” replied the driver gravely as
he changed into second to go up the hill.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Green tea is in
for a boom; Germany will have no
other because the green stuff is supposed
to contain vitamin B, and Japan, also
suffering economic pressure and food
shortage, has found that its used leaves,
mixed with their fodder, have a revigorat-
ing effect on overworked and old horses.
The only time when a serious effort was
made to introduce green tea to Australia
there were “green-tea riots” on stations.
The word of an importer that it would
give an increased vigor which would make
work seem light appealed to station-
owners ; but the trouble between the
shearers and owners was then getting to
a peak, and word was spread that the
green tea was a plot for the wholesale
poisoning of unionist blades-men. The
men refused to take the green tea, and
they refused to work without tea. They
won.
“ It's that new bloke in the signal-box again!”
THE COMPLEAT MAYOR.
“The wearing of ceremonial robes and chain tends
to add dignity to the status of the wearer and the
conduct of civic affairs.” —Sydney Ludmayor Crick.
Clothes may not make the man, it’s true, or
grade him
By their imposingness with the elect;
Still it’s unquestionable they may aid him
To be regarded with increased respect.
In days like these one notes a firm if gentle
Swing from spectacular official rigs:
Our generals’ trappings grow less ornamental,
Our Speakers have been known to scrap their
wigs.
Pastors in laymen’s garb may still be pastors,
Gownless professors still their hold retain
In lecture-rooms, but as for burgomasters—
Where would they be without the robes and
chain?
How could they rap imperiously the gavel
That calls for order, and that stays the din
Of aldermen who clamor and who cavil,
Without the potent force of rabbitskin?
How could they get their estimates for works in
And all unruly opposition check,
Without the sheer authority that lurks in
An aureate cincture round a massive neck?
When civic schemes and projects are unfolded
For road and bridge, for culvert and for
drain,
How could they look like Whittington of old
did
Stripped of the immemorial robes and chain?
Kings without crowns no more appear fantastic
Or give occasion for derisive laughs,
And bishops may remain ecclesiastic
Without their mitres and their pastoral staffs.
But, you reformers who’re for ever yearning
To cut the cloth of various high-placed gents,
Forbear iconoclastic hands from turning
Upon a lordly mayor’s habiliments.
Though in his eagle eyes may be detected
Clear testimonies to his heart and brain,
How can he cut the figure that’s expected
Or look the part without his robes and chain?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


fife,
m
van
raW- 5
&
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for 9d
20 for 1/6
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The notion that Australia is pining for
government by newspaper persists in
some editorial sanctums and managing-
directors’ suites. In Sydney the “Herald”
and the “Telegraph,” while professing
devotion to the U.A.P., are running can-
didates against Minister Stewart in Parra-
matta, ex-Minister Harrison in Went-
worth, ex-Minister Perkins in Eden-
Monaro, and Gardiner, the party Whip,
in Robertson, as well as running Stevens
and other pets. Save that the “Herald’
can t stomach Rydge (films, pubs and
let posterity pay in Parramatta, their
tickets are identical, and their one-sided
reports and “comments” are strangely
similar. People expect one-eyed journal-
ism from the Packer-Theodore sheet, but
it is a comedown for the organ of the
Fairfaxes. Old “Herald” readers are
indignant at an outrageous attack on
Harrison, who, after all, is an Old Digger
and a very decent one.
, „ , „ . „
One Claude Osborne Barker, a finan-
cier of sorts who does a power of radio
blathering, got in for the Irwm-Moore
(W.A.) seat last year, beating Ferguson,
of the Country party A little difficulty
cropped up, and Claude resigned before
Parliament met, though it is alleged that
he drew £2OO and travelled on
an all-lines pass. A select committee
looked into the affairs of Litchfields,
A/sia, a Barker company, and by the
Chief Justice’s orders it was wound up.
Undiscouraged by these annoyances,
Claude has come out for Swan against
Gregory (the old ’un has ex-Senator
Marwick for running mate), and fully
expects to repeat his Irwin-Moore coup,
And possibly he will, for in Swan as
elsewhere women hang on the words that
issue from their receiving sets and
farmers struggling with drought and
debt are all too ready to be “liberated”
by Independents like Claude.
. . _ . ,
Curtin in October, 1938.
No man must be sent out of Australia to
participate in another war overseas.
And in February, 1940:-
There is a fundamental difference between
the Government and the Labor party on
bppoSlhah policy Pe<liti °” ar, - tOrCK: ™
oppose that po icy. .
But oh! What a difference in the morning
—the morning when the election date
was fixed
. ....
Considering that it is having its sixth
year on the Treasury benches, Dunstan’s
rnnntrv nartv is makinn a verv noor
Country party is making a very poor
showing in the Commonwealth elections.
It is not running a Senate ticket, and is
making only a half-hearted attempt to
inrreaso its “strength” (nominally two
increase its strength. 'nominally, tw
members) in the House. Following the
Premier’s example in Flinders, the Dun-
stanite who was to have run for Indi
-..ii-j cnHrlonlv leaving the seat a
puffed out suddenly, leaving the seat a
certainty for the hated McEwen ; ana,
although another Dunstanite is starting
for Gippsland, it is not seriously pre-
tended that he will shift the also-hated
Tummas Paterson. And now that a
Laborite is in the field for Wimmera,
Wilson is in serious danger.
Wilson, of Wimmera (Vic.), had Labor
support when he unseated Hugh McClel-
land three years ago, and then his major-
ity was only 1783 in an effective poll of
46 575 He has been denied Labor sup-
port on this occasion, and McClelland is
standing again, as one of four. There
is no love lost between McClelland and
Wilson and the latter is tormented with
doubts as to whether he will figure in the
final ballot, and how McClelland’s prefer-
ences will go if he does. In Wimmera
three years ago Labor got 15,033 Senate
votes.
Sydney “Telegraph” is publishing a list
of “outstanding candidates.” Stevens, of
course, is on it, and so is Spooner. On
March 25, 1938, the day before the State
election, Spooner was described in the
“Telegraph” as a “dangerous man
with the temperament of a dictator;
obstinate in defeat, querulous
criticism, adamant yet ineffective.”
His period in politics must be regarded
as unduly prolonged, and destined soon
to end.
Spooner got in with a majority of 1445,
the “Telegraph’s” man polling about
one-fifth of the votes. And now the
dangerous, obstinate, querulous, adamant,
ineffective dictator has become an “out-
standing candidate.”
Another of the “Telegraph’s” “out-
standing candidates” is a Mr. Norman
B. Rydge in Parramatta. “Spend!
spend! spend!” is Norman’s “policy,”
and unknown admirers are spending pots
of money on his campaign, which, from
talkie films to booklets in the “Confucius-
say” style (Norman is Confucius), has
the genuine Hollywood touch. Appro-
priate enough, for Norman is interested
in films, as well as in pubs and cash
orders. The “Telegraph” discreetly reports
him as saying that “posterity should be
allowed to share a larger proportion of
the struggle we are making on their
behalf.” An “outstanding candidate” in-
deed.
Considering that Labor is under-
represented in the N.S.W. Assembly, its
two groups having little more than a
third of the seats, it ought to be winning
by-elections. But in Ryde, as in Croydon
and Tamworth, it was in a decided
minority of primary votes. Yet two of
the three subdivisions, Ryde and Ryde
West (Eastwood excepted) are pre-
dominantly “working class,” and only
Lang and Spooner’s lavish spending
added the electorate to the U.A.P. string.
Though it had Mitchell (U.A.P.) leading
on the first count, the “Telegraph”
awarded the seat to Williams (McKell
Lab.) on the strength of what it was
pleased to call an unofficial check. A
Hughes Labor candidate also ran.
Written with a pen dipped in petrol:
Since September 7 every soul and every
building in London has been in danger.
Savages have sought the King’s own life. For
his Majesty and his people the days are terrible
and the nights more terrible still. An attempt
to invade the British Isles with mighty forces is
expected hourly, and 3,000,000 men stand ready
to meet it. Meanwhile Britain has to maintain
a blockade of Europe, to cope with the three
arms of Italy (whose population is nearly as
great as its own), to guard great parts of Africa
and Asia and to keep the seaways open. These
enormous duties could not be carried on without
liquid fuel, and every drop has to be brought
by sea, for every drop men risk their lives
by the minute, on every drop the very existence
of the Empire depends.
Yet in Australia, kept free of horror and in
safety and comparative prosperity by the
Royal Navy, the merchant navy, the R.A.F. and
the associated squadrons of Greater Britain, the
electors are asked to vote for candidates who
oppose petrol rationing, and there are creatures
who are eager to accept such votes.
“Joy-riding as Usual!” “No Petrol Limit
for the Hog-in-the-Car! ”
Never in the history of Australian electioneer-
ing have organisations or candidates sunk so
low.
Delegates to the Associated Chambers
of Manufactures at their annual confer-
ence in Melbourne placed on record their
“deep appreciation of the magnificent
work of the Commonwealth Government
in its comprehensive war activities.”
Rather a facer for papers like the Sydney
“Telegraph” and its pets, whose howl is
that “the magnificent work of the Com-
monwealth Government” has been rotten.
The U.A.P. showed wretched judgment
in not running a man for Reid (N.S.W.).
On the evidence of the last three elec-
tions a U.A.P. candidate would have led
in the first lap with 22,000 to 24,000
votes. With three Labor factions
against him, each fighting the others
savagely, he would have had a sporting
chance of slipping in on preferences;
and in any case his candidature would
have helped Patrick, Dein and Macartney
Abbott. The Victorian U.A.P. has a
much better idea of what it owes to its
supporters and to its Senate team. Though
Batman, Bourke, Maribyrnong, Mel-
bourne, Melbourne Ports and Yarra are
hopeless from the U.A.P. point of view,
there are U.A.P. candidates in all.
If any change occurs in Queensland
it will be in Maranoa or Griffith or both.
At the Griffith by-election Conelan
was seven votes ahead of Mc-
Cowan, the Ministerial candidate, and
the pair are fighting it out again,
this time with no Prot. Lab. to com-
plicate the issue. C.P. prospects have
been darkened in Maranoa by Hunter’s
retirement, for during his 19 years’ tenure
of the seat the little accountant polled
a strong personal vote. All the same the
Agrarians feel that the late Frank Baker’s
father, who bears the Labor brand, is not
nearly so tough a proposition as Ran-
dolph Bedford would have been, and
they expect their McGeoch to pull it off.
In S.A. the Government may lose a
seat and gain a seat. It is admitted that
Stacey is being hard pressed in Adelaide,
which was Labor for many years until
the party went to pieces in 1931. On the
other hand Wakefield was never Labor
till it rejected Butler after Charlie
Hawker’s death, and Butler was socked
for reasons unconnected with Common-
wealth politics. Duncan-Hughes—M.H.R.
for six years and Senator for seven —
should unseat McHugh. If he can’t there
is not much hope for any Ministerialist
in S.A., Cameron excepted.
A son of “Plevna” Ryan, known to all
Old Diggers, and himself a lieut.-colonel,
is the U.A.P. candidate for Flinders
(Vic.). The family has an old association
with the electorate, and, being the only
farmer in the field, Rupert Sumner Ryan
will command substantial support in
places like Carrum, Dandenong, Koo-
wee-rup and Warragul; but the Flinders
section of “The Watchman’s” public is
positive that its hero —“Mann, Edward
Alexander, Ind., broadcaster”—will fight
it out with T. F. Lee, the Labor man.
He may, but it will be strange if a Vic-
torian constituency chooses for its mem-
ber a person with such an overweening
contempt for what he calls “secondary
industry” and the fiscal policy that
sustains it.
Friends of Thorby were well pleased
when they read the nominations for
Calare (N.S.W.). There is another C.P.
candidate, a solicitor, whose preferences
will be useful; there is an Independent
who may also provide preferences, and
there are nominees of the three Labor
groups, which are pitching into one an-
other with such abandon that there is
sure to be a lot of informal and cross-
voting. Heiss, the Non-Com. Lab., has
been nursing the electorate for a long
time, and left alone to face Thorby he
would have been very troublesome. As
things are, Ministerialists have ceased to
regard Calare as unsafe.
At the double-dissolution election of
September, 1914, Labor won 31 of the
36 seats in the Senate. Within seven years
it had not only lost its commanding
majority but had been reduced to one
Senator —Albert Gardiner. Now pos-
sessed of 14 seats, which, barring
accidents, won’t have to be con-
tested till 1943 (though two are
held by Lang Non-Coms.), the party
hopes for another majority in the
Senate. Three years ago it carried
N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland, Westralia
and Tasmania, the majorities of the first
Laborite elected in each State being
79,538, 116,481, 31,264, 13,059 and 9186
respectively. The anti-Labor majorities
in S.A. were 33,327, 18,911 and 18,395.
Westralian Agrarians are not as com-
fortable as they would like to feel about
the prospects of Prowse in Forrest and
Gregory in Swan. Both had overwhelm-
ing majorities at election after election,
but three years ago there was a con-
siderable fall in each case ; and in the
West nowadays there are thousands of
hard-hit farmers whose bitterness of spirit
may affect their votes. Moreover, Prowse
is rising 70 and (Gregory has turned 80 ;
and each has had his share of ill-health.
Forests Commissioner Galbraith has
issued his usual annual warning that the
fuse is all set for a repetition of the bush-
fire business in the coming Victorian
summer. A shortage of experienced
forest workers threatens because of en-
listments. There is no shortage of boards.
W. J. Hendry, president of the Cham-
bers of Manufactures:
For a generation a small band of far-
sighted men never relaxed in their efforts
to direct the Commonwealth along the path
of industrial development. One hesitates
to dwell upon the predicament in which
Australia would have been placed if less
energy and determination had been shown
in persevering with the policy of fiscal pro-
tection which has made this industrial de-
velopment possible of achievement.
Then he added that the number of per-
sons engaged in factories last year was
565,106, nearly 113,000 more than in
1926-27, and that the number making
munitions had increased from 2500 to
20,000 already. Electors should remem-
ber these facts when glib Foreign-traders,
some posing as “independents,” cajole
them for votes.
The S.A. electoral figures have shown
once more how badly distributed the
population is. There are 372,619 names
on the roll, and 202,626 were collected
in three city and suburban divisions,
Adelaide (64,605), Boothby (69,692) and
Hindmarsh (68,329). The big things
B.H.P. is doing at Whyalla may be the
beginnings of a long-overdue change.
From Boggabilla or thereabouts:
The N.S.W. Agrarians have a fair-to-middling
chance of regaining Gwydir, which was lost
to Labor when Abbott, its member in four
Parliaments, went to the N.T. Batchelor, one
of Scully’s opponents, is tackling him for the
third time, and did better on the second occa-
sion than on the first. With him, and more
dangerous to Scully, is Wade, who quitted the
Barwon Assembly seat to have a crack at
Scully. The six Barwon subdivisions are all in
Gwydir, and in 1938 Wade polled better in all
six than Batchelor had done against Scully
the previous year. For example, the Inverell
voting in 1937 was 1980 C.P. and 1969 Labor,
in 1938 it was 2125 C.P. and 1747 Labor.
Scully will need to improve on the 1937 figures
in the Barwon subdivisions or draw increased
support from other parts of the electorate.
From an eyrie in Vaucluse:
They’re getting real matey in Wentworth,
Sydney’s posh electorate, where ex-P.M.G.
Harrison is resisting an attempt to unseat him
headed by one Norman Cowper and backed by
the two morning papers. One night Harrison
and Cowper (both U.A.P.) spoke from the same
platform; then four other candidates joined
them. On the first occasion Harrison told
Cowper that he (Harrison) had never had such
a dirty fight. Cowper denied responsibility for
an open letter to Harrison published over his
name in district newspapers. Harrison attributed
daily newspaper attacks on him to his refusal,
as P.M.G., to pay advertising rates for inser-
tion of broadcasting programmes. “S. M.
Herald” said the inference was without foun-
dation. One of the candidates is that old hand
G. R. W. McDonald, who said “I have been
in all parties and carry their brands all over
me; rather than carry the U.A.P. brand I
would buy a tent and camp out in the political
wilderness.” Mac will need that tent, and
Cowper will need to dig up more votes than the
odd “Herald”-“Telegraph” alliance can swing
to him.
[For matter referring to the Commonwealth
election, responsibility is taken by J. E. Webb
and Cecil Mann, 252 George-street, Sydney.]


THE WIN-THE-WINSTON WAR.
“Menzies Stands with You, Churchill!” “Churchill and Australia Can Rely on Labor.”—Party election advertisements.
“He’s MINE, I tell you!”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2s—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Companies yielding, at present
prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
In 1922 James Dooley was Labor
Premier of N.S.W. and Gregory McGirr
was his Minister for Motherhood. At
the State election that year the interesting
pair and their supporters engaged in a
rare old Donnybrook, and their Govern-
ment disappeared in gales of rage and
laughter, the laughter coming from
electors who held that not even N.S.W.
politics had ever furnished a funnier
shindy. The 1922-25 Parliament was the
last for Greg, and the 1925-27 one was
the last for Jim ; and for 13 years political
commentators scarcely ever wrote their
names. Now they are back as Federal
candidates —in different factions, of
course, and Greg is in a different faction
from his M.L.A. brother Jim. He is the
Hughes Labor nominee for Calare ;
Dooley, the Curtin Labor nominee for
North Sydney—the toughest proposition
that could have been picked for poor
old Jim.
Captain Teddy Gundersen, of the
beautiful Norwegian cargo ship Tiranna,
which has apparently been taken by a
raider in the Indian Ocean while on her
way to Mombasa from Sydney, has had
no luck with war. A year or two ago,
during the Spanish affair, he was attacked
in the Atlantic. A man was killed beside
him on the bridge and he himself was
wounded severely enough to justify six
weeks in hospital. He left Sydney last
May knowing that his wife, a daughter
of an Oslo University professor, and
children were in Norway with no means
of communicating with him, or he with
them. He was an old hand on the Aus-
tralian run and an intimate friend of
Norman Lindsay’s family. A visit to
Springwood was a routine event of most
of his sojourns in Sydney.
Dr. E. Sydney Morris, the N.S.W.
Director-General of Public Health, was
bom in the Sydney suburb of Marrick-
ville. He was D.-G.P.H. in Tasmania
before he returned to Sydney in 1924. He
had a spell as Director of Maternal and
Baby Welfare, and won the Wynne Prize
in 1925 with a brochure, Causes and Pre-
vention of Maternal Mortality and Mor-
bidity. He had served in the 1914-18 war,
DR. E. S. MORRIS.
and is a captain in the A.A.M.C. His
degrees read M. 8., C.H. and M., D.P.H.,
M.D. and F.R.A.C.P. He likes garden-
ing, and is a very competent cabinet-
maker.
Oscar Natzke, the burly basso imported
from Maoriland by the A.8.C., has had
a meteoric career. Six years ago he was
singing at his anvil in M.L. without a
thought of any vocation apart from iron.
A friend picked him as a promising tenor,
but after listening to him for a couple of
minutes John Brownlee said the young
blacksmith was a born basso profundo.
Subscriptions sent Natzke to London,
where his booming notes caught the ear
of Vladimir Rosing, director of Covent
Garden, and Natzke sang his first role
at that opera house in the Cornish opera
“Serf.” Since then he has sung all over
England. Maoriland called him back for
its centenary festival, and he is booked
for the New York Metropolitan. He is of
mixed Russian and Maoriland parentage.
Taken his last bow at 60 in Melbourne,
that versatile mummer D’Arcy Kelway.
Despite the different
spelling of the name,
he was a brother of
Cecil Kellaway, the
Australian comedian,
who, after 16 years
of unbroken service
with the Firm, be-
came a minor star
in the Hollywood
firmament. D’Arcy
was born in England
and first faced the
footlights in Gil-
sullivan operas in
London. Subsequently
he quartered Austral-
asia with Fuller’s and
the Firm in every
sort of part, then
drifted to the Tivoli
circuit, ending up as
the “Mrs. Hent-
whistle” of a Vic-
torian broadcasting
duo.
Leslie Bowles, the
bronze skirts of whose
Diana, just set up in
the Fitzroy Gardens,
Melbourne, billow in
the breeze even on
the calmest spring
morning, is a Sydney-
born man who was
educated at Brisbane,
got a travelling
scholarship and
studied the carving and modelling art
in Bertram Mackennal’s studio. He
laid down the mallet and the chisel
in 1914 to serve with a British tank corps
in France, returning to his clay in 1919.
Thereafter came exhibits at the Royal
Academy and a commission to work on
the Australian War Memorial. He now
has a studio in Frankston (Vic.), which
sometimes is taken for a stable, there
being often a horse in it. The animal
is posing for the equestrian part of the
statue of General Monash.
K. S. Isles, of the economics chair of
Adelaide Uni., who has been clamoring
for the Keynes compulsory saving plan,
was economics prof, at the University
College of Swansea, Wales, before he
came to S.A. last year. The State Govern-
ment has roped him in as a member of the
youth employment research committee —
which has discovered it hasn’t got a prob-
lem to search into now until after the
war —also on S.A. Grants Committee,
which prepares grouches for the Com-
monwealth Grants Commission.
B.H.P. breeds ’em tough. W. H. D.
Stewart, chief accountant of the Big
Mine at Broken Hill, completed 50 years’
service a while ago, and wasn’t in any
hurry to retire. Now James Manly Sale
Brimage, principal figure-caster at Why-
alla, has retired at 71, but has begun busi-
ness on his own account there as an
accountant, auditor, commission agent
and sharebroker. He’d been with B.H.P.
20 years ; was previously shipping clerk,
railway officer, globetrotter (per steerage)
and wreck-survivor off the Orizaba, near
Fremantle, about 1906. London-born,
Brimage arrived in Adelaide aged six in
the sailer Torrens ; father was harbor-
master at Port Mac Donnell and Beach-
port. Harold Darling, Walter Duncan
and other captains and knights of indus-
try and commerce make obeisance to this
unbelted Chancellor of Whyalla, who’s
done much for the town he’s seen grow
from half a dozen homes to a population
of 5000.
Clarence E. Gauss, the U.S.A. Minister
to Australia, whose clear-cut features
have been modelled by Frith, has had a
very distinguished diplomatic career.
And there can be no doubts about his
being a skilful diplomat. Some people
approve of Canberra; some don’t. Mr.
Gauss, when asked for his impressions
MINISTER FOR THE U.S.A.
(Modelled by Frith.)
of the town, put on his most diplomatic
expression. “The flowers,” he mur-
mured, “are very beautiful.” And, as
an afterthought: “At this time of the
year.”
Melbourne has lost Issy Smith, a tiny
fellow who didn’t look as if he had the
physique to perform the deeds that made
him the first Jew to gain the V.C. in the
last war. He repeatedly left his detach-
ment on his own hook to bring in
wounded, and cared for them with an
extraordinary devotion while wounded
himself and exposed to machine-gun fire.
Born in Whitechapel, he came to
Australia and, debarred from the
A.1.F., went back to enlist in a British
regiment. After the 1914-18 war, with
the crosses of three nations to his credit,
he served with King George V’s personal
bodyguard on the Indian visit. Then
Issy came to Melbourne and acted in
musical comedy. He was manager for
British Dominions Films for a space and
then joined the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment. He once had a shot at unseating
Dr. Maloney for Melbourne, but that
was beyond him. He was 52 and had
been suffering from old war wounds.
This cheerful, rubicund face belongs
to Major-General Edward Kenneth
Smart, M.C., D. 5.0., who is known as
the “Food King” at the Victoria Bar-
THE QUARTERMASTER-GENERAL.
racks, Melbourne. He was born at Kew
in 1891, and educated at Melbourne
Grammar. In 1910 he joined the R.A.A.
and got a commission in the Engineers.
He saw service from 1915 to 1919, and
gained the M.C. Subsequently he did
artillery work in England. Then he came
back to the General Staff, and was with
the artillery under Harry Chauvel. He
was Director of Ordnance, Army H.Q.,
from 1933 to 1935. Then he went to
England with Bruce as military liaison
officer, and he was in the Mediterranean
when Hitler broke loose. He became
Quartermaster-General of the Australian
forces in October.
Perth’s first Lord Mayor, James
Thomas Franklin, passed on the other
day in Perth at 86. Born in Middlesex,
he came to N.S.W. with his parents in
1856, and was in the building trade in
Perth from 1883 onwards. First in-
terested in municipal matters in
1904, he became Lord Mayor in
1929, Westralia’s centenary year, but had
played the same part in a minor key from
1923. He was re-elected in November,
1933, for his ninth term of office. Frank-
lin was an M.L.C. for 12 years, and one
of the bright boys of secesh. for 20 years
or more.
“0.D.”: Let me in with a par. about
Tom Hogan if it is not too late. In 1935,
as part-owner with the late Joseph Fell,
Tom cheered Marabou on to victory in
the Melbourne Cup. Not long before
his death, at 70, he gave the gold cup to
the Merriwa (N.S.W.) Red Cross fund.
His cattle run near Merriwa was pretty
well known, and frequently entire trains
of his fats left there for Newmarket.
Making a close study of meat market-
ing, he went to England, examined Smith-
field and its needs, came back and built
up a fine output of lambs from South-
down rams on crossbred ewes. He re-
mained a bachelor.
Little Hartley Grattan, “author, jour-
nalist and lecturer,” is back from
the U.S.A. on a two months’ tour
for the Institute of Current World Affairs
of New York. This is Mr. Grattan’s
third visit, so he must like us after all.
Dead in Adelaide, at 72, Alfred
Edward Simpson, a former S.A. Archi-
tect-in-Chief. Born at Woodville (S.A.),
he was educated at Prince Alfred College
and Adelaide Uni. After serving his
articles with D. Garlick and Son, Simp-
son entered the Government service as
a draughtsman in 1890, becoming Deputy
Superintendent of Public Buildings in
1917 and Architect-in-Chief in 1920. His
service was extended to 1937, beyona
the customary retiring age. As the de-
signer of the additions to Parliament
House, the Teachers’ Training College
and various hospitals, Simpson has left
his mark on the face of Adelaide.


BRANDAUER’-S
VP*
t*'*
do not experiment with imitations.
C b *AHDAOKR * CO, IMU BIRMINGHAM:, ENG
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. P. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
è
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
.“In Hollywood, Europe is referred to as
Hitler’s circuit.” — Film guff.
It is likely to feature many changes and
short runs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a man is invited out he dresses
for dinner and his wife undresses. When
they retire for the night he undresses and
she dresses.
“Girl Asks for Jail with Man.” — “D.T.”
Sounds like an easy term, but he’ll
probably put her on the lay-by until he’s
squared his time-payment.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hen eggs can be given almost any flavor
by mixing the appropriate essence with the hen’s
food.” —“ World’s News.”
But where can you buy essence of
ham?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Plaintiff was annoyed because he (defen-
dant) interfered when she was abusing her
husband. That is why she sued him.”
—Police Court report.
For restraint of tirade?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Tidal Wave looks a good colt.”
—Turf gossip.
Should sweep everything before him.
“Wedding day, the bridge to a new life.”
— Women’s paper.
The bride has that arch look and the
’groom pays the toll.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A good sofa with a flowered-slip cover is
a good beginning for building a living-room.”
— “S.M.H.” Women’s supplement.
And being found on the sofa with a
slip of a thing who isn’t your wife is a
good beginning for breaking the place up.
“Nice work, Boori !”
“Politics is no bed of roses.” — Article.
Still, it is full of blooming mistakes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Film comedian’s wife, seeking divorce,
alleged that her husband beat her, threatened
to bury her alive, forced her to endure the
company of two former wives and knocked her
unconscious.”
So she decided he was getting too
funny.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Fashionable Excuse.
“Appearance, which is so often deceptive,
anyway, means very little in these worried
days.”— Women’s paper.
The mannequins were on parade, in
gleaming silks and furs arrayed. The
glamor-gowns they all displayed were
worn with careless air. The star who
led this fashion-whirl (in costumes priced
to break an earl) was whisp’ring to the
second girl “Eve, I’m in such despair!
The boss who runs this fashion show is
shouting us a dance, and, oh! it breaks
my heart —I cannot go. I’ve not a thing
to wear!”
E.
Tolled!
“Tell, who said he was a bank official,
alleged that his wife used to abuse him when
he came home.” — Divorce report.
She told Tell once she loved him well;
Such telling ways had she,
The teller fell beneath her spell
And weeded her, did he.
But telltale Time its tale has told:
The Fates at love-dreams scoff;
For now she, tellingly but cold,
Tells Tell the teller off.
H. M.
A Matter of Politics.
“You ought to be ashamed of your-
self, Aitchem,” said Maria. “A man
like you ought to take an intelligent in-
terest in politics and see that we select
the right man to beat Hitler and”
“I am” I began.
“You’re not. Look at you making a
fuss because I ask for a little extra money
for a dress. When you know how im-
portant it is. I can’t possibly act on
the committee frumpishly dressed,
especially as that Mrs. Snooper is on it,
always thinking she’s a ball of style. One
would think that your patriotism”
“Whose committee?” I demanded.
“Mr. Torktrash’s.”
“Torktrash’s!”
My tone annoyed Maria. “And why
not?” she demanded. “I suppose if you
had your way you’d like to see me work-
ing for that man Loosebrane, although
he’s separated from hig wife, and every-
body knows he drinks.”
“But Torktrash’s politics—if he has
any”
“I’m sure,” returned Maria loftily,
“that his wife is a very charming woman ;
and her afternoon-teas are quite the
nicest in this district. They’re recognised.
And I’m sure if people do things in the
right way they must be the right people.”
“I thought,” I said nastily, “you were
interested in politics?”
“Of course I am! It’s you who are
showing a deplorable indifference. Why,
you’re objecting to giving me the money
I ask”
Maria was getting back to the main
theme. I frenziedly tried a diversion.
“Politics!” I scoffed. “Torktrash! If
you give your vote to him it will only
be away. He hasn’t a hope.”
“Oh, of course, I’m not going to vote
for him ; only work on his committee,”
said Maria. “Don’t be absurd! Now,
about this dress”
I don’t know exactly where Maria
stands politically, but she does it in a
new dress —I know that.
H. M.
To a Fellow-boarder.
While you outside'the bathroom wait
And 1 within luxuriate,
/ prithee, do not care;
For, though ’tis rather hard on you,
I find it pretty irksome, too,
To feel that you are there !
T. W. NATHAN.
Art for Art’s Sake.
“A poet charged with perjury in Budapest
(Hungary) successfully pleaded that the very
nature of his work made it difficult for him
to distinguish between fiction and fact.”
That those whose vocation lies in one
of the arts should be allowed a wider
license than other citizens is now an
established principle. And, after all, why
shouldn’t they have some compensations
for the exacting nature of their work?
Many people will remember the case
of Theophilus Dauber, the famous
portrait painter, who was charged with
forging and uttering. Defending counsel,
in explanation, said that his client had
gone to the house of Plantagenet Bull, a
wealthy retired wharf-laborer, whose
portrait he was painting. During the
sitting Bull’s wife called to her husband
to come up and lace up her corsets, and
he left the study.
While he was absent Dauber, who was
very conscientious and anxious to achieve
verisimilitude down to the last detail,
decided to set down, as well as his sitter’s
lineaments, his handwriting. An example
of it was on a signed letter lying on the
table. The only paper available hap-
pened to be a cheque book. His client
had merely copied the signature on to a
cheque, an, act which all would admit was
a natural corollary to the work which
had brought him there.
It was notorious that artists entirely
lacked a business sense. His client would,
therefore, not be aware of anything un-
toward in carelessly filling in the first
figure that came into his head. In this
case his client had idly written “self”
after the word “pay” and the figures
£2OOO.
Undoubtedly it would never have gone
beyond this only for Mr. Dauber’s ex-
perience as an etcher. Having absent-
mindedly thrust the cheque in his pocket
he later determined to apply the acid test
—again a natural thing for him to do.
The obvious acid test for the likeness of
the writing would be his sitter’s banker.
It was the teller’s clumsy attempt at art
criticism that had led to his client’s un-
fortunate and mistaken arrest, and they
proposed in due course to take action
against the bank for defamation. After
that, of course, his acquittal was a fore-
gone conclusion.
Another cause celebre that vindicated
the artistic temperament was that of the
Crown v. Ocarina. Charging accused
with arson, the Crown brought evidence
to show that Oscar Ocarina, a composer,
set fire to his own dwelling—a seaside
week-end shack built of second-hand
and petrol-tins which he had
insured for £l5OO. Among his personal
effects, for which a claim against the in-
surance co. was also made, was a Stradi-
varius violin valued at £3600. Actually,
the fiddle was one accused had obtained
for 150 soap coupons. Fire-brigade wit-
nesses proved that petrol had been
poured over the contents beforehand, and
witnesses swore they saw accused leave
the shack 30 seconds before the flames
were seen.
Defendant candidly admitted all the
points put forward by the prosecution.
His counsel said the facts were these.
Mr. Ocarina was composing a tone poem
which he had named “The Flame of
Life.” In the second movement he
wished to obtain a musical parallel to a
roaring conflagration, and to get the
effect he simply set fire to the first thing
he saw, which happened to be the room
he was sitting in. No true lover of his
art could do less. As for the claim that
his fiddle was a Strad., wasn’t exaggera-
tion part of a composer’s stock-in-trade?
His client’s success was due in no small
degree to the fact that he wrote most of
his compositions exaggerate)', and it had
become second nature with him in his
everyday life. The jury didn’t even bother
to retire before returning a verdict of
“not guilty.”
Few know, perhaps, that a once-
famous name is disguised by my own
nom de plume, which I use mainly be-
cause the revelation of my true identity
would bring undesirable publicity, which
a true artist with words ever shuns. It
was as a famous novelist that I faced a
charge of uxoricide.
The circumstances, simple enough for
any man of letters to appreciate, may to
the layman seem peculiar. I had been
engaged in writing my 27th crime novel,
which I had titled Murder in the . Charnel
House.
I had got my hero into a position
where the murder of his wife was essen-
tial not only to his well-being but to the
very success of my plot. Now, I am
nothing if not a stickler for authenticity.
1 hate to have a technicality beat me. I
had got a meat-chopper in my hero’s
hand, and I wanted to be sure no
butchers would be writing in criticising
my work.
Perhaps it was unfortunate for Bertha,
my wife, that I had picked on this par-
ticular means of liquidating my hero’s
spouse, for she happened to come in
with my morning-tea while I was beating
out the problem of the correct grip and
swing. She scarcely made a sound,
beyond a strangled sort of squawk, as she
flopped to the floor when the cleaver I
had borrowed from the butcher got her
across the jugular. Her sacrifice in the
cause of Literature —and not only hers,
but mine also, for she braised a rabbit
beautifully—was amply rewarded, for I
take a justifiable pride in saying that not
even a homicidal slaughterman could
fault my graphic description of the fall-
ing blow.
Of course, the Crown Prosecutor tried
to say that under the terms of a will I
would benefit by some £30,000 by her
demise. The imputation of such a motive
really offended my literary sense, but
unfortunately the juries in those days
weren’t so enlightened as they are now.
That is why I am writing this from my
lifer’s cell.
BO.


ABOGIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “I’m sittin’ on the front ver-
andah of Ryan’s pub one mornin’ with
a farm hand who’d on’y arrived from
the ole Dart the previous week,” related
Dan, “when two chaps, drivin’ drays,
approach along the road from opposite
directions. They met jist in front of the
pub, an’ as they passed each other one
sed ‘Mornin’, Day,’ an’ the other re-
plied ‘Mornin’, Knight.’ The choom
stared after them, puzzled like, an’
mumbled somethin’ about strange sorta
langwidge. Be chance the pair of us
wus squattin’ on the verandah that same
evenin’ when the same two chaps met
agen in front of the pub on their way
home an’ saluted each other. ‘Night,
Knight,” sed Day, an’ Knight replied
‘Night, Day.’ I hear Choom give a garsp,
an’ then he turned to me an’ sed, noddin’
towards the road, ‘I don’t wanter hurt y’r
feelin’s, ole chap; but yer Austraylian
langwidge’s got me tricked. I don’t pre-
tend to understand what I’ve jist heard,
except that it seems to have some bearing
on two periods of the day. Now, as a
matter of int’rest, what would they have
sed to each other if they had met, say,
at midday?’ ‘Oh!’ I sed, grinnin’.
‘They’d have come inside here an’ given
it a name.’ He gave me a scared sorta
look an’, gettin’ up orf his chair, sed,
weak-like, ‘I think I’ll go to bed.’ An’
I’ll bet he locked his door when he got
to his room, too!”
“Bunyip”: They were all eager to see
the new hand mount. There was a lot
of him, Nature having been particularly
generous with his share of “foothold.”
Having saddled his mare with all the
enthusiasm of a novice, he rammed his
foot into the stirrup and scrambled on
deck. The boss gave a casual glance at
the giant, and without saying a word
went up to the house. In a few minutes
he returned with a polo mallet in his
hand and, going up to Big Bill, he said
“You’d better carry this with you.”
“What for?” asked the puzzled eques-
trian. “Every time you get off you’ll
have to knock those number twelves
out of the irons. You’re lucky the mare’s
used to shafts.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When Cissy came to
work at the station there was some
rivalry among the younger male fry of
the place, but this soon died as it became
evident that Bob and Jim, both veterans
of the run, had designs upon her. The
two had been good mates for years,
working and playing together and gener-
ally sharing their joys. But neither had
any intention of sharing Cissy, who, for
her part, fully aware of what was going
on, went about with a coy air and took
care not to show the qne any more pref-
erence than the other. The first fight
occurred behind the horseyard, when
Bob muttered something and Jim flew
into him. Cheered on by the mob, they
fought all over the yard, and only
desisted through sheer weariness. An
hour later they were at it again, this
time on the woolshed floor. Bob by
this time had lost most of one ear and
had a deep gash under his left eye ; Jim’s
face was a parody. There was another
armistice until after lunch, when they
got into it again near the underground
petrol store. They fought all round the
store and finally tumbled down the steps,
continuing the fight in the darkness
below until both were too worn and bat-
tered to go on. As they struggled up
into the light, Cissy was observed dis-
appearing behind the woolshed with the
cook’s blue heeler. As the two war-
riors licked their wounds, the boss re-
marked, “Ain’t much difference between
dogs an’ humans, is there?”
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Errol Flynn, the
Tasmanian-born movie hero of Hahlly-
wood, whose claims to Irish birth and
wild Pacific adventure were so thoroughly
debunked by Frank Clune in The Bulle-
tin, is now registering homesickness for
Australia. Two wallabies from the Lone
Pine Sanctuary near Brisbane —described,
of course, as aristocrats of the wallaby
race —will enable him to satisfy the new-
born craving for something typically
Aussie. Passages and permits have been
arranged through Warner Brothers’
manager in Brisbane. The emigrants will
meet quite a few compatriots, including
Walt Disney’s wallaby, who was featured
in a Mickey Mouse cartoon, and “Snowy”
Baker’s pair of kookaburras, which are
said to have added a distinct nasal tone
to their laughter. The Flynn home-
sickness will give them something to
laugh heartily at.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Mrs. Bullswool had always
regarded Lucy as the best and most sen-
sible of all the mission girls whom she
had successively employed as housemaids
during her long N.Q. station experience.
When she returned after a year in Eng-
land and the Continent she beamed upon
the faithful servitor and no less kindly
upon the vigorous sable infant nuzzling
into Lucy’s chest. “So you’re married,
Lucy,” she said. “I’m very glad, and
we’ll see about a wedding present for
you. Who is your husband?” Lucy
cuddled the baby closer, looked down
and murmured something about having
gone li’l pfeller walkabout while missee
away so long. “Lucy!” said her mistress
sternly, “I’m surprised! I always thought
you such a good girl.” “Missee,”
answered Lucy with a disarming grin,
“girl can’t always be good all time.
What ’bout dose foolish virgins ’long
Bible, mishnary him talk ’bout? I all
same dose virgins, jus’ bit foolish.”
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: I see be the papers where
some Austrian bloke has come out to
Australia and wants us to start milkin’
the sheep so he can turn the milk into
cheese. Well, I ain’t sayin’ the spectacle
of station hands roundin’ up the ewes
while the jackeroos milked ’em wouldn’t
do much to help the country forget this
blasted war, the election and the way the
favorites keep on gettin’ beat; still, I
refuse to devour sheep cheese for any-
body. Aside from being repeatedly told
that the place lives on the sheep’s back,
eatin’ mutton all me life, huntin’ green
flies away from me tucker bag, gettin’
donged be buck shearers, havin’ sheep
rhymes thrust on me be would-be poets,
confronted with a ram’s head every time
I manage to get hold of a deener, I get
enough of sheep as it is without wantin’
to milk the things. Anyhow, if a man
got too much of that ewe cheese into
him, he’d be likely to get footrot or
somethin’, or start jumpin’ over obstacles
that ain’t there. Not me, I’m stickin’ to
plain cow cheese —an’ beer.
* * *
“Nor’-west”: I appreciate “Wingella’s”
suggestion that I may have mistaken
’gator eggs for the produce of the turtle
(B. 21/8/’4O), and I’ll leave it to him to
tear open cooked turtle fruit with his
fingers. lam just a bit finicky on such
points, like the teamster who offered his
whiphandle to the bloke who started stir-
ring the billy with his finger. Likewise
I have an odd respect for the orthodox
Mohammedan in that he refrains from
touching prepared food with his left
hand. Finally, perhaps I sawed the
parchment-like skin of the turtle egg
through because the knife was blunt, just
as I saw the top off my breakfast hen-
fruit. There’s even an inventive Yank
“ Bloomin' spoilsports , I call ’em, interfering with a man's pleasure.”
with a tiny electric saw, which he hopes
will be used by millionaires for the same
purpose.
sf: % sfc *
“E.H.S.”: “Ex-C.G.’s” negative reason-
ing (B. 4/9/’4O) proves nothing. He
doesn’t know, and hasn’t heard, of the
existence of bandicoots in the Murray-
Darling country, and he simply can’t
credit wombats in Riverina; there-
fore these animals never existed in the
localities indicated. My reference to these
animals was based on recorded facts.
The existence of a small, isolated com-
munity of wombats at such a distance
from their usual habitat is difficult to
account for, but when it is considered
that they were not the ordinary wombats
of N.S.W. ( Phascolomys mitchelli ) but
the hairy-nosed species ( Phascolomys
latifrons), which is unknown outside
South Australia, the problem becomes
still more puzzling. “Ex-C.G.” appears
to know something of the pigs that once
infested the reed-beds of the Murray and
Riverina, and if his proud boast of
gorging himself on the rank flesh of these
lean, lank and lousy “reed-splitters” is
justified he should have no difficulty in
assimilating authenticated facts.
* * * *
“G. Roper”: While water supplies are
under discussion can anyone give a,
scientific explanation of the night spring?'
One poured forth its benison at Jerra-
mungup, on the back track from Albany
to Coolgardie. Dry during the day, this
spring started flowing about midnight,;
regularly filling its basin of about 5000 1
gallons. Geological blokes reckoned that
a near-by granite outcrop had something
to do with the control, that the main
reservoir was underneath, the heat of the
day on the thin skull causing an expansion
which gave room for the water to accu-
mulate ; while, contra, the cold towards
midnight brought a contraction that'
forced the surplus water out.
•H * * *
“Nigil Dugan”: “Historical Bloque”
isn’t historical when he gives Smith’s Mill,
18 miles east of Perth, as the burial place
of Frederick Smith, Grey’s companion in
his luckless explorations of 1839 (B.
21/8/ ’4O). That Smith lies in the coastal
sandhills 70 miles north from Fremantle.
At Smith’s Mill, now Glen Forrest, just
on 40 years ago a party of Frenchmen
and the ladies they “protected” went out
for a pleasant Sunday afternoon in the
hills, finishing by murdering the owner of
a vineyard, also a Frenchman, with whom
they quarrelled over the price of wine.
The actual killer was hanged, his drop
through the trap being prefaced by an
“appeal-for-reprieve” meeting in the
Perth Town Hall, during which Ned!
Harney, afterwards noted in British and
Australian politics, implored the Govern-
ment to spare the life of “this splendid
young man.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Temperament, is it?
The sleek blue satin-bird that graces our
camp daily—for a ration of butter —had
built himself a 1940-model bower and
adorned it with snail shells, crimson
rosellas’ tail-feathers, flowers and sundry
articles originally used, not for decora-
tion, by humans. The fantastic furnish-
ings had only one quality in common ;
everything carried some shade of blue,
the tint to which our conceited fowl was
unshakably attached and beside which
he would tolerate no other. One morn-
ing I paused to note the latest arrange-
ment of the fittings and idly added a
large piece of orange-peel to the trap-
pings in the hall. Looked in during the
afternoon to see the effect. The peel
had bits snipped from it all round, it
was ripped half-across—and the bower
was completely demolished. Not a stick
stood ; the lot lay flat in all directions.
Rather remorsefully I put the mutilated
rind in my pocket and slunk away. Next
morning I confessed to the mates and
took them up the track to see the wreck-
age—and there stood Bluey’s bower,
rebuilt to perfection!
* * * *
“Hamer”: A hut belonging to a couple
of abos., Billy and Mary, became a sort
of landmark, referred to always as Billy-
Mary’s. Then somebody started a pub
near by ; a store followed, and the little
village is Billimari. In such casual ways
have place-names been given in N.S.W.
As a shining example of the christening
process, I always remember my intro-
duction to Sherritt’s Creek. My guess
that the place adjoined the station of
one Sherritt was wrong. Tom Sherritt’s
place was 20 miles away. At least,
though, there’d be a creek there. “Ain't
a drop of running water within miles,”
said my informant about the locality.
“Y’see, when the place was wild, Tom
Sherritt—the first Tom Sherritt that was
-—reckoned there was a creek. There
was a line of 'rocks, but it was merely
an outcrop, dry as a bone. So they
called it Sherritt’s Creek sarcastic like.”
WINGED GODS.
Wild wings above Olympus!
The gods of old awake
To watch the winged gods splendid
Who fly for Freedom’s sake.
From earthly levels soaring,
Olympus sees them go
Up, up, with engines roaring
To hurl against the foe
Their ’planes, their guns, youth’s
glory . . .
Nay, not great Hercules
Nor all the gods of story
Were ever gods like these.
They fear not death nor danger
Nor devil nor despair.
Defeat to each is stranger;
They laugh as, from the air,
They fall like sudden thunder,
A bolt from heaven’s blue,
To smash the foeman under
Nor heed if they crash, too.
Wild wings above Olympus!
Aye, and the old gods wake
To join these free gods risen
To fly for Freedom’s sake.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Is he a higher rank than you, Bill?”
“Yes; but only through influence, the old cow!”
“Gipps”: Dairy supervisors are usually
decent fellows, but occasionally the cow
cocky will strike one who is more worry
than the sum total of drought, mammitis
and the interest on the overdue instal-
ment. One such called at a Victorian
dairy farm on a hot day and accompanied
the cow cocky on a tour of inspection.
Taking an upturned bucket from a post,
he ran his practised hand over it and
said patronisingly, “I must ask you to be
more particular about your yard. Dirt is
a breeding-ground for flies, and, accord-
ing to Clause 3, Section 5 of the Act,”
etc., etc. “Are you sure that’s right,
Mister?” inquired the cocky. “It cer-
tainly is,” replied the super.; “wherever
there is dirt, the flies soon find it.”
“Well, look here, Mister, how do you
make this out?” The cocky's long
brown arm reached out and smote the
super, on the back and a cloud of dis-
turbed flies rose and buzzed angrily round
the staggered man’s head. The k.o. fol-
lowed when the cocky got home just
above the belt with, “Perhaps, in the
circumstances, I’d better ask you to keep
your hands off my buckets, or I’ll have
to scald ’em again before milking.”
* * * *
“Oont”: One little error “Quareef”
(B. 28 /8 / ’4O) makes when assuming that
a horse mistakes a camel for a boa-
constrictor is that 99 horses out of 100
don’t take any darned notice of snakes.
In spite of novelists and city bushmen,
I’ve yet to see the horse which is
genuinely afraid of a snake. The only
time I’ve ever seen Equus acknowledge
Joe is when that sliding cuss startles the
horse by slipping out from the tussock
of grass at which it was about to graze.
I’ve ridden a horse over a rock python
which measured a tick short of 20ft.
Admitted, the python was gorged and in
a comatose condition. I did it only to
note the horse’s response. There wasn’t
any. But here’s a peculiarity for “Q.”
to chew over: all horses will shun the
camelman’s prad. That poor creature,
once he’s used to camels, takes no notice
of them. But all other horses will flatly
refuse to rub noses, stand head-to-tail,
feed with him or otherwise play the social
game with their equine brother. Why?
* * * *
“Erua”: The “desert noise” described
by “Bogaduck” (B. 4/9/’4O) is the
phenomenon known in Maoriland as the
“river guns.” There the sounds also occur
on still mornings, especially when the
weather begins to warm up in early
spring. I have heard the “guns” fre-
quently, the noise being not unlike distant
bombing or artillery fire. What makes the
mystery of the sounds so fascinating is
that nobody ever hears them close at
hand. I have known the station shep-
herds, determined to trace the noise to
its source, arise before dawn and ride
off in the direction of the booming.
Hours later they would return and re-
port that the guns had ceased fire when
they reached the supposed objective, only
to hear to their disgust that at the home-
stead the sounds were heard for hours.
Old-timers were inclined to be super-
stitious about the “guns,” but scientific
theory is that the noise is caused by
movement of subterranean air in lime-
stone country, the sounds being intensified
by echoing through underground caverns.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The only Australian
trees I have seen injured by frost (B.
4/9/’4O) were a plantation of eucalypts
in the province of San Juan, Argentina ;
all the new growth had been nipped.
The plantation consisted of red, white
and yellow box, red gum, ironbark,
stringybark, white gum, blue gum, black-
butt, turpentine, messmate and mountain
ash, all in an equally flourishing con-
dition. The trees were grown under
irrigation and had attained a height of
more than 90ft. in 10 years. The San-
juanino calls the eucalypt “arbol de
salud” (tree of health). It provides him
with the material for poultices and
fomentations, and he regards the use of
a pillow stuffed with its leaves as a
sovereign remedy for sleeplessness, head-
ache and similar ailments. And he doesn’t
mind paying fourpence a pound for the
stuffing.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Since France has dropped
out of the Australian imports list I
wonder if anybody has paid any atten-
tion to the properties of our native
woods for pipe-making. Years ago 1
knew a cove who used to carve pipe
bowls out of the roots of needlewood,
and they were dashed good smoking. The
inside of the bowl had to be carefully
charred before the pipe went into action.
* * ¥ *
“Mat’s Mate”: Let Mat tell it: “Strike
me, y’d reckon shearers was pretty hard
t’ beat when it comes t’ piecework, but
they’re nothin’ t’ some of these city
blokes. I land a job in a big Melbourne
machinery works, an’, because I’m a fair
lump of a bloke, they hands me over to
a cove workin’ one o’ them noomatic
hammers. His job is beatin’ out the ends
of thirty-foot-be-three steel bars so they’ll
fit in the dies for drawin’, an’ my job
is hangin’ on t’ the back end of the bars
while he beats ’em.
He’s on piecework, an’
has to pay me a propor-
tion o’ what he gets, an’
this seems t’ nark him
somethin’ terrible. Any-
how, he makes the pace
a treat, an’ I’m turnin’
them bars faster’n y’
could think. Course,
I’ve got the heavy end,
an’ after a couple o’
, ■ t •. r
days I m coppin it, l
can tell y’, what with
the jarrin’ o’ the ham-
mer an’ lumpin’ them
bars. I notice that when
he’s workin’ he hardly
ever looks back at me,
so one lunch hour I
sneaks in an’ rigs up a
sling t’ the roof so that
when he’s beatin’ a bar
I slips my end in the
sling, puts me hands on
the bar as though I’m
turnin’ and smothers up
the sling with me head
an’ shoulders. ‘These
bars seem a lot heavier
than the last lot,’ he
says. ‘Yair,’ I says.
ain’t it?’ But
he don’t wake up till
the second day, when
the sling breaks, the bar
drops and the red-hot
end jabs him in the
Kate Kelly. Then he
spots the lurk, an’, strike me, I never
heard a bloke go crook like he did!”
H: H=
“Atrax”: For a week past a party of
black swans has been surfing on the
outer beach, and no professional sea-
bird has anything to teach them concern-
ing the finer points of the art. Each
morning, after breakfasting on the sea-
grass flats in the river estuary a mile
away, they sail over in a long loose V
formation, alight just beyond the outer
break and wait for a good shooter. As
the glassy fold of the Pacific’s breast
glides landwards they form station;
then, with powerful footstrokes, ride its
crest until it is on the very verge of
toppling, their tall curved necks held
high and proudly. Just before the fric-
tion of the sand brings the breaker down
in a crashing welter of broken water
the flotilla turns at some invisible signal
and with easy grace makes its way out
again, mastering the incoming watery
hills from trough to crest with unhurried
skill. Even a short break doesn’t dis-
turb their dignity. The curved necks
straighten for a moment to gauge its
height and distance; then there are a
few seconds of slowing up, and, as the
foaming flurry reaches them, they drive
swiftly through it and regain the smoothly
heaving sea outside the inshore turmoil
which attends its perpetual struggle with
the sands. Almost vegetarian as swans
are —though I admit occasional swift
darts of the curved necks when pilchards
shine in the rollers —that party is doing
its surfing for the sheer sporting joy of
it. Anyhow, the swan equivalent of a
cocktail may be a pilchard, and some
good surfing efforts have followed a
cocktail administered to the human
expert in that line at the appropriate
moment. Johnny Weismuller, for
example.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: The sea serpent is not
the only snake which has damaged the
hard-won reputation of mariners for
truthfulness. When we were off
buntlines from our barque’s fore-t’gal-
lan’s’l after a month of harbor furl in
Singapore Roads, a lively 3ft. snake fell
out and landed on the neck of the bos’n.
As he bolted for cover to the fo’c’sle the
snake slid overboard and the mate, who
had seen the happening, roared us up for
having dropped it deliberately. His elo-
quence was cut short when two more
landed at his feet from the main-tops’l,
followed by several rats. Including the
one which caused the steward to capsize
the soup tureen over the Old Man when
he trod on it in the cuddy two days after
we had got to sea, the total snake-score
was eight. We had not been alongside,
so they must have come from lighters or
possibly up the anchor chains, as snakes
sometimes do in the Hooghly River. An
apprentice on a Loch line ship anchored
in the stream died in Calcutta Hospital
from a cobra bite collected when he
stepped barefooted out of the half-deck
one night.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Attracted by their ex-
cited whistling, I noticed a pair of storm-
birds swooping and zooming over a
sparrow’s nest, obviously with the inten-
tion of carrying out their old cuckoo
custom. Having previously witnessed one
of the irate “spags” rout an inquisitive
kookaburra, I mentally put my money
on the little fellow, and waited for him
to return from his foraging expedition.
Suddenly he came, like a shot out of a
gun, but to my surprise flew straight past
the cuckoos and vanished into the nest.
A few minutes later he darted away
again—still completely ignoring the in-
truders, who were continually diving to
within a few inches of the happy home.
Three times the bird returned to the
nest, but never once did he attempt to
drive away the feathered spongers. Early
next morning there was another half-
hour session of whistling aerobatics,
again with no interference from the
potential foster-parents. Apparently the
dirty deed was then successfully accom-
plished, for the birds with the modern
ideas haven’t been back since. My only
regret is that I couldn’t sneak close
enough to get first-hand information on
the vexed question of “how does the
cuckoo put the egg in the nest?”
“It's no good, Muriel —my heart is not in ludo tonight.”
IF.
If rum were always mellow,
And brandy all three-star,
And beer were still the tipple
Stamped with the X that’s triple,
With keener zest a fellow
Would breast a crowded bar;
If rum were always mellow,
And brandy all three-star.
If tips were always dinkum,
And turf dead-certs 0.K.,
And books got fewer “skinners”
From little-fancied winners,
A less precarious income
Might come the punter’s way;
If tips were always dinkum,
And turf dead-certs O.K.
If chaps who talk flapdoodle
Drew only what they’re worth
In various positions
Assigned to politicians,
We’d save a mint of boodle
From Canberra to Perth; .
If chaps who talk flapdoodle
Drew only what they’re worth.
If you should find occasion
To put it to me straight,
The question why I’m trying
This form of versifying.
I’ll say without evasion:
It bumps six lines to eight;
If you should find occasion
To put it to me straight.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOD HAVE...
The results of your life s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) :
Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; Hon.
A. E. Heath, C.M.G. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
J. Beresford Grant (Vice-
Colin A. Sinclair, M.L.A.;
ŵ
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-66 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re— Ro—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 128,724 5 p.e. = 119,682 9,042 1,254,700
1931.. 99,830 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
To depreciation reserve, £165,044 . . 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.e. = 95,745 6,954 1,100.685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „,, 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5„ „ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,277 6„ „ 143,618 21,659 1,162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO i 27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.e. = 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. ..1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938.. 201,836 7 p.e. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738,
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,178,738
1939.. 185,500 7 p.e. = .171,500 14,000 1,192,738
From tax reserve, £25,000 . . . . 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,207,738
1940.. 199,154 7 p.e. = 189,000 10,154 1,217,892
For many years the activities of this
big woolbroking, pastoral-finance and
merchandising business were confined to
the co.’s home State (S. Aus.), where its
name has become a household word.
Now it has strong and growing connec-
tions in Westralia, developed mostly dur-
ing the last quarter of a century, and
about three years ago operations spread
to Victoria, where the woolbroking firm
of Geo. Hague and Co. (Geelong) was
welded into the organisation.
For 24 years to the close of accounts
in 1929, shareholders enjoyed a steady
10 p.e., sweetened with a bit extra
in the richest years and by a number
of new share-issues. Then on the heels
of a long drought in S. Aus. came the
collapse of the markets, and the div. fell
to 4 p.e. It rose to 7 p.e. in 1937, and
has remained steady since.
There was a spring of £49,710 in the
co.’s gross earnings last term, owing to a
better season —though parts of West-
ralia’s pastoral areas remained parched
—a heavier clip, higher average prices
for wool and livestock and increased
turnover in the agency and merchandis-
ing business:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 . . 877,200 462,451 318,476
1930 . . 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1932 . . 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 .. 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 .. 2,393,640 513,647 365,024
1935 .. 2,393,640 518,930 373,255
1936 . . 2,393,640 559,282 394,005
1937 . . 2,400,000 641,244 436,408
1938 . . 2,400,000 694,960 493,124
1939 . . 2,700,000 702,426 516,926
1940.. 2,700,000 752,136 552,982
The British contract price for wool is
13.43 d. per pound. This compares with
an average of 10.57 d. obtained in the
open market during the previous season.
Last season’s appraised price was 1.03 d.
per pound less than the contract price.
This difference, together with 10 p.e.
retention money (10 p.e. of appraised
price was held against possible overvalua-
tion), was paid to growers through
brokers on July 26. The amounts in-
volved for the Commonwealth were
£5,742,044 retention money and
£4,880,738 flat-rate adjustment.
The growth of £36,056 in exes, was
due largely to the rise in costs gener-
ally and the larger volume of business
handled, partly to a heavier allowance
for depreciation of buildings and plant
(£32,949, up £8004) and partly to the
bigger tax burden. The net result (up
£13,654) was 7.3 p.c. on capital as against
7.5, 8.4, 8.5, 6.9, 6, 6.2 and 4.4 p.c. back
to 1933. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £lO,OOO sent to the staff provident
fund and £25,000 previously reserved for
taxation dropped into general reserves.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Deposits, etc. . . £839,143 £935,509 £823.498
Other liabilities.. 1,117,237 963,501 1,334,871
Provident fund, etc. 313,975 392,936 424,351
Freeholds, plant, etc. 579,007 750,340 819,392
Gov. sec. and cash 2,019,899 1,291,455 1,563,155
Advances, etc. .. 3,021,705 3,854,959 3,820,374
s ’ tock • • • • 127,223 245,326 233,433
Shares other cos. 150,842 155,103 159,757
To reduce deposits by £112,011, add
£69,052 to freeholds, etc., £271,700 to
Government securities and cash and
£4654 to shareholdings, the balance of
the outside debt, etc., was increased by
£402,785 and advances and stock were
reduced by £34,585 and £11,893 respec-
tively. Including advances, the more or
less liquid surplus (£3,193,999) was
£60,898 less than at the previous balance,
owing mainly to the outlay on freehold,
etc. Still, when the books closed, out-
siders could see 14s. 6d. of every pound
coming to them in Government securities
and cash. It is a very strong position,
and the co. is well equipped to assist
clients further whenever the need arises.
As for the current term, light rains
have fallen throughout the settled districts
in S. Aus. and in the De Grey and
Gascoyne districts in Westralia, but
further falls are needed to ensure a well-
grown wool clip. But the British pur-
chase scheme continues, and that means
much to Australia. Taxation and costs
can be expected to bite still deeper into
earnings.
Since the beginning of 1940 the price
of the £lO shares paid to £6 has fluctuated
between £8 ss. 9d. and £7 ss. in the
market. At £7 12s. present return is
5.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The back-
ing is £8 14s. Id. in net tangibles.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
T , _ _ . . To Re- Re-
Jiiiy, front. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 7 ,
Provident fund, £l5OO ) 5 ’ 993 114,180*
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. = 49,958 7 „
Provident fund, £lOOO j 8,049 122,229*
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932.. 62,242 8 p.c. = 50,000 7 in
Provident fund, £2OOO } 10,242 100,371
1933. . 71,575 8 p.c. = 50,000 7, R
Provident fund. £3OOO j 18) 75 118,946
1934.. 69,255 8 p.c. = 50,000 7 IR7 --
Provident fund £2500 f 16)7 0 135 > 7 °l
1935.. 83,539 8 p.c.= 57,115 7,0 q 9, i-q cor.
Provident fund, £2500 J 23 »924 109,625
1936. . 93,739 8 p.c. 67,415 793 824 188 44Q
Provident fund, £2500 \ ’ 183,449
1937.. 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 |27 451 91n ano
Provident fund, £2500 f ’ 1 210 > 9 °o
1938.. 102,555 8 p.c. = 90,1011 9 954 220 .
Provident fund, £2500 f ’ 2 - 9 ,854
1939.. 140,669 10 p.c. = 125.000 i-■ o 1 fio
Provident fund, £2500 f 13,169 234)023
1940. . 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 7 •, 7 fiQO 7 ,-
Provident fund, £2500 j 17)69 ‘ J 2j1 ’71»
•Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
Thus far war has not brought any
lessening of desire for the national
beverage. Though the declared result is
down, latest performance of this Bris-
bane brewer satisfied supporters, both
local and inter-State, and the 12s. 6d.
shares retained the 3s. gain made over the
last few weeks. At 20s. the 5 p.c. return
now offering is lower than that obtain-
able from most southern brewing con-
cerns—evidence of market confidence in
the co.’s ability at least to maintain last
term s div. rate. Net tangible cover is
visibly 14s. 7d. per share, and there are
good reasons for believing that more malt
and hops exist in the assets than is in-
dicated by book values alone.
Actually, turnover again put on
head, thanks to the favorable season,
more and better-paid jobs as a
result of war-time contracts for sugar,
meat, dairy produce, wool and local;
works, and introduction of additional
share-moneys. But £106,000 (up £46,000)
had to be set aside for Governments’
whack of earnings, apart from excise,
and, after openly cutting the deprecia-
tion allowance back from £38,649 to
£13,321 and looking after contingencies
in an indiscernible manner, the net result
fell £7362. The £133,307 was 9.4 p.c.
on capital employed, as against 11.2, 9.1
(a strike year), 12.7, 11.1, 11.7, 11 and
11.4 p.c. back to 1933. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c., but the 2 p.c. bonus was
dropped, leaving £17,692 to plough in
after making the usual contribution to
the staff fund.
The £13,321 struck off for depreciation
may appear meagre ; but custom of these
brewers is to charge considerable hotel
renovation and other capital outlay to
earnings before arriving at profits, and
it is unlikely that the management errs
on the side of inadequacy in its contin-
gency allocations. In any case, the assets
are already well written down. If “furni-
ture and plant in hotels” is worth only
the £3BOB shown in the accounts, it must
be the devil’s own job finding a footrail
in any of the pubs.
With Queensland Brewery, the C.P.
organisation slakes most of the Sugar
State’s lengthy thirst, and popularity of
Castlemaine Fourex extends beyond its
home borders. Endeavors to tie down
and widen the market for their products
have led to vigorous competition be-
tween the two cos. for pub properties,
and the bid for trade has extended to
the rebuilding and modernising of others.
The C.P. board began reaching out in
earnest in 1934. Since, the book value
of its hotels has expanded by over a
million, and £147,000 more than written
off has been spent on the brewery to cope
with the growing trade. In the process
£875,000 has been tacked on to the share-
register by new issues at par and an
extra £152,700 gathered from outside
sources.
Consolidation has followed hard on
expansion, and the debt is now a less
prominent feature of the financial struc-
ture —in 1937 £604,700 was owing;
Paid 1927. 1935. 1939'. 1940.
capital £372,694 £781,250 £1,250,000 £1,500,000
Liabilities* 69,361 251,984 483,330 316,898
Brewery,
Warehouse 0 ’ } 329 > 732 442,322 471,720
Hotels . . 151,095 774,170 1,423,754 1,523,471
Stocks . . 66,516 74,244 . 109,855 122,764
Debtors . . 107,269 64,710 104,332 95,159
Cash, etc. 8,429 13,715 24,591 32,237
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies, but
not taxation.
Together with surplus earnings, the
£250,000 of new capital gathered last term
enabled £99,717 to be added to hotel
interests, £29,407 net to be spent in ex-
tending the brewery, etc., and £166,432
of borrowed money to be repaid. In the
result the excess of outside liabilities over
more or less liquids was lowered from
£244,552 to £66,738.
In the current term 8 p.c. will call
for £13,307 less profit than shown last
year, and the new capital should be more
remunerative. On the other hand, costs,
including taxation of one sort and
another, are going to continue trouble-
some. Should there be any further lift
in excise, the extent to which the brewers
can pass it on in the form of a smaller
beer glass is problematical.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends x
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 16.260 4,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 260 40,862
Loss.
1931.. 6,027 2,000* Nil 32,835
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil 23,795
1933.. 3,316 Nil Nil 20,479
1934.. 2,395 Nil Nil 18,084
1935.. 3,161 Nil Nil 14,923
Profit.
1936.. 3,527 Nil Nil 1 „ irl
Written off stock, £12,299.. J o,ldl
16 p.c.
1937.. 10,908 8,000 Nil 2908 9,059
20 p.c.
1938.. 14,001 10,000 Nil 4001 13,060
1939.. 12.319.10,000 Nil 2319 15,379
1940. .16,384 10,000 2i p.c. = 5,000 1384 16,763
* Half-year.
As in 1914-18, retailers have been able to
adjust their operations to altered con-
ditions with greater rapidity and success
than most traders, notwithstanding inter-
ruption to sources of supply, the savings
campaign and greatly swollen costs, in-
cluding taxation. In the months imme-
diately preceding the outbreak of hostili-
ties, retail trade was as slack as State
politicians, but it has risen well above
the level of the preceding year in all
States since, Melbourne trade turnovers
in particular being helped by defence
spending.
For Mutual Store the year was the
best since the tide began to run out a
decade ago. Losses showed up for the
five years to 1935, after which a change
for the better came with new manage-
ment. The good work put under way
by the late A. C. Pratt has been carried
on by C. J. Hislop, and more of the
shopping public is now being attracted
back from Bourke- to Flinders-street.
The spurt of £21,615 in gross earnings
(£132,222) indicates the greater facility
with which goods moved off the shelves
last term. Including £3759 written off,
it cost £17,550 more to earn the larger
gross, of which the tax provision (£6500)
accounted for £4750. Allowing for one
year’s pref. requirements, the £16,384
called profit left 6.2 p.c. for the ords., as
against 4.1 p.c. and 5 p.c. for the two
preceding periods.
Actually, the prefs. were again handed
£lO,OOO, cleaning their slate, and after
a nine-year hunger spell the ords. got
2-|- p.c. That left £1384 to lay by, lifting
the tangible support for capital to
£16,763. Shareholders will feel more
comfortable when the figure is much
stouter and the debt less obtrusive, and
that meanwhile is likely to mean only
moderate ord. divs.
To insure against price-lifts and deli-
very delays the board added substantially
to stocks (up £24,867), “taken, as usual,
at cost less depreciation, and carefully
checked”:—
1923. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 86,327 183,352 208,521 231,776
Property . . 106,000 250,675 250,675 250,675
Plant, etc. . . 46,188 45,350 48,600 50.650
Stock.. .. 153,776 100,303 132,629 157,496
Book debts . . 69,833 42,975 53,221 60,342
Cash . . . . 8,202 200 821 877
There should be little wrong with the
move, provided the buying has been
right. It necessitated the addition of
£23,255 to the debt, of which £115,000
is secured on mortgage. Notwithstand-
ing, the unfavorable difference between
liabilities and more or less liquids was
reduced from £21,850 to £13,061.
Over the past 12 months the pound
ords. have moved up from Bs. to 125., to
return 4.1 p.c. on the basis of a 2\ p.c.
distribution, which investors count on
being improved upon. The 50,000 prefs.
yield 6.1 p.c. at 265. 6d. The backing
is 21s. Bd. prefs. and £5 6s. Bd. ords.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12 J p.c. Off, Etc. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6.427 224,314
7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 .. 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 .. 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
10£ p.c.
1936 .. 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262,261
10 p.c.
1937 .. 27,021 20,000 5000 2,021 264,282
1938 .. 28,400 20,000 5000 3,400 267,682
1939 .. 31,419 20,000 5000 6,419 274,101
1940 . . 29,125 20,000 4000 5,125 279,226
Apart from the chance they take when
investing their own funds, these trustee
cos. haven’t to risk much. If there is
any doubt concerning the interpretation
of a will there is always the Court to
go to for instruction. Earnings are
derived mainly from (1) corpus and other
commissions in the trustee and agency
section of the business, and (2) returns
from the cos.’ own funds. Chief factors
affecting income from these sources are
capital values, interest rates, rents and
costs. Of these, costs have been the
most troublesome which war conditions
have thus far produced, and the uncon-
trollable item of taxation has been
mainly responsible for the sharp rise
here. A cheap-money policy has re-
tarded growth in interest rates, and a
minimum price has been fixed for sale
of Government securities, while capital
values generally have been well main-
tained. Also, as the advantages of the
corporate over the private trustee be-
come known and appreciated, a steadily-
growing volume of business is coming to
the cos., and still more has been driven
into their care by a mass of legislation
which has greatly complicated the ad-
ministration of estates.
During the last 13 years the Perpetual
—it was formed in 1886 has put on


•'S
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla:d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. YV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
m
-Mi .
rjflJVfifcS
J«ST
No. 99 Utility Set —contains the
essentials of a perfect Valet
shave, self-stropping razor, three
"Valet” blades and leather
strop all in a hinged Mould-
rite case, 4/6.
VALE T
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
It’s a wise son who celebrates Dad’s
anniversary with a Valet Auto Strop.
Ten-to-one it’s just what he wanted
... a handsome, efficient self-strop-
ping razor that will give him endless
satisfaction. The Valet Auto Strop
Safety Razor is extremely simple to
use. It has nothing to take to pieces,
nothing to unscrew. It is always ready
for instant action and one blade lasts
for weeks. What an ideal gift !
Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Stropped in a few seconds
Cleaned in a few seconds
almost as much weight as it did during
the preceding 41 years:
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1927 . . 29,967,269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1929 .. 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1933 .. 43,910,904 126,230 109,727 86.9
1934 .. 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 84.8
1935 .. 48,115,327 140,427 118,543 84.4
1936 .. 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
1937 .. 51,675,485 158,379 133,581 84.5
1938 .. 54,068,638 168,225 143,019 85.0
1939 .. 57,144,759 „ 178,385 152,299 85.3
1940 .. 57,081,014 188,937 163,500 86.5
Last term the value of estates wound up
exceeded the value of those put on the
books by £63,745. Still, there was a spring
of £10,552 in gross earnings from all
sources. But exes., including an un-
specified amount for taxation, took all
the gain and £649 besides. After in-
cluding an addition of £3688 to the com-
mission reserved account (£129,964) —it
is the unearned portion of the corpus
commission—but deducting £4OOO (£2500
written off premises and £l5OO sent to
the staff fund) shown as written off in
the introductory table, the net result
(£25,125) was £1294 lighter, being 12.5
p.c. on capital as against 13.2, 11.7, 11,
12.5, 10.4, 10.9, 9.8 and 10.5 p.c. back
to 1932. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
and seems likely to remain there for the
present, subject, of course, to the exigen-
cies of war.
When the books closed the co.’s
£200,000 of capital, the reserves and
£26,979 coming to outsiders were in-
vested in Government securities, etc.,
£218,815, premises, etc., £112,174,
mortgages, etc., £106,228, debtors’ bal-
ances £4734 and cash, mainly on fixed
deposit, £74,264.
Doubtful of the effects of taxation and
other costs upon earnings, the market
prices the £lO shares paid to £2 —the
other £8 is a reserve liability callable only
in the event of liquidation—at 80s. as
against 955. a year ago. At 80s. the
return is 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 955. sd. in net tangibles.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) announces
an impressive deep-level find in its Lake
View block. A crosscut from the adjoin-
ing Gt. Boulder mine into the Lake View
on the 2650 ft. level passed through a
gold-carrying formation 61ft. wide aver-
aging at the point of intersection an
ounce per ton. The formation is 100 ft.
east of the Lake View-Gt. Boulder boun-
dary in a hitherto unprospected section
of the lease. There is a chance of its
dipping into Gt. Boulder at about 3000 ft.
from the surface. Lake View has had
more than its share of rich exposures on
the Golden Mile in the last 40 years. The
richest was a cigar-shaped strike in one
of the top levels from which 30,0000 z. a
month was taken for six months.
4= * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.), now domiciled at
Mt. Magnet, estimates its year’s gold pro-
duction at £A24,393 and profit at £6710.
References to big lodes, fine ore-bodies
and interesting deposits are made, and
the whole property is declared to be full
of possibilities. Indebtedness to the bank
and others is being “reduced rapidly,”
and liabilities of £3500 are tipped to be
wiped out by the end of 1940. Positive
ore is estimated at 2000 tons, 7dwt.
average value, and probable 10,000 tons
of same grade. By-and-bye it is hoped
to rake in £2500 from treatment of 4500
tons of accumulated sands. There are
140,775 4s. shares issued ; few dealings
have been recorded lately.
* * * *
From London:-
Claude de Bernales’s suggestion at the Gt.
Boulder meeting that the U.K. Government
should waive special forms of taxation and re-
quire all net profits of London-domiciled Aus-
tralian goldmining cos. to be invested in Gov-
ernment bonds carrying no interest “for the
duration” is not cheered by the British
Treasury. Instead of deriving revenue from the
industry by taxation, the State would then be
borrowing sums which would eventually have
to be repaid. Should the co. be prevented
from moving its domicile from London to Aus-
tralia, which is considered unlikely, rather
than pay Britain’s excess-profits tax it may
mine a lower grade of ore, as is being done,
at the expense of dividends, or even entirely
abandon distributions during the war, although
De Bernales said the board would try to pay
something, possibly threepence a year.
* * * *
While the Cloncurry (N.Q.) copper-
gouger on a decent show is on velvet,
with various concessions and £A76 for
the metal, the gold-digger there is on the
breadline. The Mount Freda opencut,
for example, is yielding only 3dwt. over
the plates, and the going is heavy, for
costs are high. In the Gilded Rose group
three small shows are being worked, but
returns are under lOdwt. gold all round,
and the battery hasn’t enough feed to
keep one shift going permanently. There’s
just enough gold to keep the optimists
going in the hope of a strike.
* * * *
The Mt. Clearview mine, on the out-
skirts of the Lolworth field (N.Q.), has
been opened up again, and a crushing
of 16 tons has returned 15dwt. per ton.
Not bad going for a reef that is apt to
touch up to 6ft. wide. Bob Little, the
original holder, is in the new party, and
Bob will probably die in the belief that
there is enough gold in the Clearview to
pay the national debt. It has been a fair
producer in the misty past, and was con-
sidered big enough to interest an overseas
flotation at one time. It looks as if the
gold shoots are erratic, but 15dwt. ore
is encouraging.
* * * *
From J. Slattery, Croydon (N.Q.):
As half-owner of the Magenta goldmine I
contradict that par. (B. 14/8/’4O) which states
“Thirty-seven ounces from 31 tons means
exactly nothing, for Croydon bullion may be
70 p.c. or 80 p.c. silver.” A perusal of
crushings from the Magenta since 1896 shows
the average value of the bullion is round
£3 per ounce standard. The last return of
37£0z., which returned £274, contained 4.80 z.
fine silver, valued at 9s. 3d., which is a long
way from 70 p.c. silver.
Croydon reefs are placed in two classes:
the reefs in granite, which contain the bullion
reefs, on which the most work has been done,
and the reefs in felsite (in which the Magenta
is), in which the bullion is from £3 to
£3 17s. 6d. per ounce (standard). Records
from the field will prove that, while the granite
reefs have produced some very poor bullion,
that from the felsite reefs does not go below
£3 per ounce standard.
Mr. Slattery himself thus supports the
contention that mere bullion figures
alone from Croydon mean little, so that
official returns should be in fine-ounce
content, which was all the “Wild Cat”
was advocating.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.W.E. (or A.D.E.): Not likely to be any
restriction on money remitted from England to
Australia 5.H.8.: (1) We are not aware of
any such accessibility. (2) Have heard of
private individuals holding B. of E. scrip, but
doubt if there is much traffic in the shares.
(3) No. (4) No. Although it is to all intents
and purposes a limited co., it was formed by
special Act of Parliament D.E.C.: Suggest
you get hold of the latest Manual of Life
Assurance (price 7s. 6d.) from Insurance
Journal, Ltd., 107 Pitt-street, Sydney. The
reviews of the individual cos. in the “Wild
Cat” column, copies of which can still be
obtained, also give most of the required infor-
mation... .J.J.C.: (1) Co. could probably en-
force payment at law, but try sitting tight.
Misrepresentation is difficult to establish. (2)
Can get nothing out of the concern itself; how-
ever, at the moment prospects generally for
this type of investment aren’t bright... .R.C.T.:
Property is being worked by Burma-Malay
under a tribute agreement by which profits,
after meeting working expense, are split equit-
ably between the two cos. Hard and bouldery
nature of the wash and the small assessment
have been the chief obstacles. Though results
have improved as a result of dredge recon-
ditioning and a high metal price and quota,
wouldn’t like to speculate about the future.
There is an accumulating pref. charge in front
of the ords.


55 m.p.g. in Vic . Sporting Car Club Test
200 owners recently averaged
52.4 m.p.g.
!l
m
mt
Average of 3 Automobile Club Tests
33.16 m.p.g.
\S
&
a|P^
525®
V\^
m
SL» S
s3^°
fcO
o© e
aO
G©'®
r er
*P
to©
*33^
\ o o©
G© c
AO
S©
G^ e
CO
$5
>B^
t^' e
t\»©
AO
CO
Pitt*
dV*
A»
pa's l "
\o°.
s©
let
Se©
A*
ft*
C 0 * 1
tlve
BUY
Use
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
I i
VAUXHALL
Siglaudz AmariMcaH giM
MKEMX6
IfAUXHALLS have always been engineered for
economy. Trade in now and make your petrol
go miles further. Remember that no other car gives
you this group of economy features: Overhead Valve
Engine . . . Octane Selector . . . 6-phase Carburettor
. . . Double Thermostatic Control . . and Double
Automatic Ignition Control. Other features shared by
all Vauxhalls include: Independent Springing, Lock-
heed Hydraulic Brakes, 3-Speed Synchromesh Gears
and All-Steel Turret Top Bodies by Holden.
IQ H.P. ‘Wyvern’ Caleche. If you’re a sun-loving
sports car enthusiast, come and drive a Vauxhall
‘Wyvern’ Caleche. It's a thrill to drive and takes
the palm for good looks, too. Dozens of owners
report 50 m.p.g. or better.
10 H.P. ‘ Wyvern• Saloon. A handy-sized 4-seater light
saloon on a 97i" wheelbase. We sa"’ it gives over
40 m.p.g.—a conservative estimate when compared
with the result of a recent test of 200 privately owned
‘Wyverns’ which averaged 52.4 m.p.g.!
14 H.P. “Happy Medium?’ Vauxhall. Vauxhall's most
famous model . . a roomy 5-6 seater saloon with an
economy 50% greater than most other 5-6 seaters.
Three Automobile Club tests averaged 33.16 miles per
gallon. On 105" wheelbase, the T4' is not too big
and not too small—the one car that strikes the Happy
Medium for the family motorist.
Write to or call on your nearest Vauxhall Distributor or Dealer for
Free Booklet entitled "Why Vauxhalls Save Petrol"
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN S LIMITED
VAUXHALL
As English As England
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
VAUXHALL DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Up to £177,000,000 Now
Every time a Canberra Minister opens
his mouth the cost of the war to Aus-
tralia seems to increase. Latest estimate
for 1940-41 is £177,092,658, of which
£145,477,899 is to be spent in the Com-
monwealth. The apportionment among
the States is as follows, a comparison
with 1939-40 figures also being given:
State. 1939-40. 1940-41.
N.S.W £14,353,435 53,373,757
Victoria .. .. 19,214,610 52,730,058
Queensland .. .. 2,963,816 12,803,292
S.A 1,838,872 13,461,676
W.A 1,731,318 6,887,035
Tasmania .. .. 884,440 2,905,621
N.T 919,885 1,720,695
A.C.T. .. .. 332,592 818,223
Port Moresby .. 84,277 389,911
Unallotted .. .. 387,631
Total—Australia .. £42,323,245 £145,477,899
Abroad .. 12,004,142 33,924,759
Totals .. .. £54,327,387 £179,402,658
Less amount to be
recovered from
U.K. Govt, for
aircraft .. .. 2,310,000
Totals .. .. £54,327,387 £177,092,658
The figures have been released just be-
fore the elections with stress on the fact
that the money is being spent as indi-
cated. The last estimate of the money
required to be raised for war purposes
in 1940-41 was under £100,000,000. How
the extra tens of millions are to be got,
how much by taxation and how much
by borrowing, will probably remain a
secret until after Sept. 21.
Actual defence expenditure from loans
for the first two months (to Aug. 31) of
the financial year was £16,138,000. That
is at the rate of nearly £100,000,000 a
year. The rate of outgo is an increasing
one so far, however; in July loan expen-
diture was £6,753,000, in August
£9,385,000 —up 38 p.c. on July. The aver-
age rate of the two months may or may
not be a clue to the total sum to be pro-
vided by borrowing for the full year.
War expenditure from revenue for the
two months was £2,500,000. Taxation to
date does not seem to have taken the place
allotted to it in the preliminary announce-
ments of the war-finance scheme. Except
for sales-tax increases and the like, most
of the defence-tax revenue will come in
later in the year, and may thus reduce
the necessity for borrowing in the future.
It becomes clearer every day that our
defence machine is taking time to settle
down on a firm foundation of the design
required. In spite of the futile squeakings
of rag-trade economists about liberal
ideas on credit and abandonment of
orthodox methods of finance, Canberra,
acting no doubt on advice, has continued
to take a realistic view of the position,
and has refused to push spending ahead
of defence preparation and production.
Whenever a necessary munitions machine
has been available for purchase the
money has also been available. But be-
cause the expenditure of money has been
withheld where there has been nothing
worth while to spend it on the Australian
economy has kept to a remarkably
equable course. Somewhere behind ali
the preliminary muddle of Army boots
and blankets, Navy charterings and Air
Force delays there have been brains tak-
ing a long, calm view of the financial
aspect of the war.
It takes months, sometimes years, for
a new venture to get on its feet. The
Burnie (Tas.) paper enterprise took nearly
three years to reach successful commer-
cial production. The average low-grade
goldmine takes about two years to pro-
duce, and the first Wirraway was no pro-
duct of a moment. In war-time the tempo
can be speeded up where there are no
additional physical difficulties to over-
come, such as derangement of importing
facilities. But time must be spent build-
ing and planning before full production
can be hoped for. The first blueprint
of the Spitfire fighter no doubt marked
an epoch in the R.A.F., but there must
have been a long delay between the blue-
print stage and the time when Spitfire
squadrons began to sweep the skies.
The Federal Government has been wise
if it has reserved the greater part of its
spending force until its munitions machine
is ready to take up the job for which it
has been designed. When the machine
is all set to start, then spending can
begin, too. In this connection it was
stated last week that 600,000 people are
expected to be engaged directly in war
work by 1941.
“This war is for posterity ; let posterity
pay for it.” This was the interpretation
an interested listener put on the words
of Norman Bede Rydge, candidate for
Parramatta, in a speech at Killara
last week. Mr. Rydge, who in private
life is connected with cash-order and
picture-show businesses, pubs, etc., advo-
cates borrowing in preference to taxation
for war finance, and, whilst not openly
advocating inflation, is agin “deflation.”
Taxation is already too high, he says.
Agreed; but why is it so high? Largely
because posterity is as reluctant to repay
borrowings as its ancestors were to pay
taxes. Mr. Rydge represents posterity—
the Great War’s posterity. He is prob-
ably as fond as hell of paying taxes
“handed down” to him. Like those of
Mr. Stevens, Mr. Rydge’s expressed ideas
on war finance are barmy.
* * * , *
Australian Knitting Mills, makers of
“Golden Fleece” and other brands of
men’s underwear, had a particularly
good year in 1939-40. Army orders for
woollen singlets may have helped; in
any case, net profit to July 31 was
£28,736, after providing £lO,OOO for taxa-
tion, compared with a profit of £17,656
last year, when “administrative expenses
and provision for taxation” were £3390.
Including a p.c. bonus this year’s dis-
tribution is 10 p.c., compared with 1\ p.c.
last year. Paid capital is £206,250.
* * * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, suppliers
of Crown seals, corks, vinegar, yeast and
shop fittings, earned 26.9 p.c. on ord.
capital last year compared with 27.8 p.c.
in 1938-39. A 15 p.c. distribution is
being made, the same as in the previous
four years. The financial position, as
usual, is a delight to the eye. At 60s.
the ord. shares yield 5 p.c.
* * * #
At the end of August the unfavorable
commodity balance between Australia
and the rest of the world was £3,539,000
sterling, compared with £5,007,000 for
the first two months of the 1939-40 finan-
cial year. August figures during the
present year showed imports of
£8,748,000 (down 5 p.c.) and exports of
£8,528,000 (up 31.7 p.c.).
* * * *
Dalgety’s “Wool Review” gives the
following details of Australian wool sales
for the 1939-40 season:
Bales. Proceeds.
Sydney .. .. 1,452,785 £24,396,935
Melb. and Geelong 851,506 14,477,031
Adelaide .. .. 381,722 5,560,775
Perth .. .. 247,467 3,891,690
Brisbane .. .. 658,338 10,903,254
Tasmania .. .. 66,670 1,135,987
3,658,488 £60,364,972
The number of bales sold (a record) was
an increase of 696,087 over the previous
year and the proceeds were up £21,242,641.
By the pound, the appraisement price of
13.4357 d. was about 3d. above that for
1938-39. In addition to the £60,364,972
shown in the foregoing, a final distribu-
tion of £4,880,738, which included in-
terest on funds retained during the
season, was made.
Wool—greasy and scoured—exported
during 1939-40 was valued at £54,000,000
in Australian currency. Allowing for a
10 p.c. Australian consumption, it seems
that, though the woolgrower was credited
with the full amount due to him soon
after the end of the financial year, there
were several millions sterling still to
appear in export figures.
* * * *
It has been suggested— not by the
Federal Government —that Dutch Indies
petrol is partly used by Royal Dutch Shell
to supply U.S. oil interests in Asia and
the South Seas with their requirements
in return for reciprocal treatment by U.S.
oil cos. in supplying Shell with U.S.
lubricating oil. Dutch Indies is
deficient in lubricants, and Pennsylvanian
and Californian crudes are poor in petrol
content. If this is so, the swapping of
oil supplies on different sides of the
world is a remarkable indication of
commonsense in the oil business, quite
unlike the way the cos. compete when
the oil reaches Australia, where there are
miles of overlapping, superfluous pumps.
Still, if swapping is the reason why
dollars are necessary to buy Indies petrol,
why doesn’t some Minister say so?
* * ni *
Dr. H. Thompson, the officer in charge
of the C.S.I.R.’s research into fish-
canning, says that fish similar to those
which were responsible for a several-
million-dollar income to California
annually were present in abundance
in Australian waters; but we still
had to develop the technique of
catching them and to select cannery sites
at points where there would be a con-
tinuous supply of fish for at least nine
months of the year. He added that there
were nine species of tuna in Australian
waters, three of which were equal to the
best American canning varieties. Also,
the Australian pilchard was suitable for
canning (sardines are canned pilchards)
as well as for making fish-oil and -meal.
At the moment trawlers are scarce off the
Australian coast owing to requisitions by
the Navy.
* * * *
In Paying for the War, one of those
excellent little Oxford pamphlets, Geof-
frey Crowther says: “It is not taxation
or borrowing or inflation that creates the
necessity for sacrifice by the common
man. The blame for that must be put
where it belongs—on those who started
a war which, if we are to win it, must
be fought on the maximum scale.” In
Britain the cost is estimated at half the
national income of the community.
Crowther says there is only one attraction
about financing war by inflation —it is a
fatally easy way. He states that “there
is striking unanimity of opinion that in-
flation is a disastrous method of financ-
ing a war which at all costs must be
avoided.” Also he points out something
overlooked entirely by B. S. B. Stevens
and his ilk: “The economic effect of
borrowing is exactly the same, at the
time, as that of taxing. Money is taken
out of the pockets of the public and
transferred to the Government.” He
concludes, “As a matter of abstract prin-
ciple, taxation is preferable to borrow-
ing. As a matter of practical politics, we
shall have to have as much as we can ol
both.”


m
mm
i
v *■ ' -va . rf' / ’• v A .v
iilllili i V i|s % || <s"| §| -
|i: | v^;s ,* s /' •£ ,><: || J
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
LS9-12?.9
£<s
Who pays
them
after
youre
gone*?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
. . . , whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PRO BATE ak.
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane,
Wingello Mouse. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, CoUins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
IN ANY CONGREGATION
• e •
&
\ il
v r
2K
'< Ti
y
Itu
ALL MEN OF SELF-RESPECT USE
GILLETTE
Whatever his state in life, a smooth close shave
ministers to a man’s self-respect. Indeed, with the
coming of the Gillette system there is no longer any
social distinction betrayed ty his chin. For it is at
once the most efficient and the most economical shave
there is. No man can buy a good shave for less, nor a
better shave by paying more; and every man,however
self-denying in his habits, succumbs to the velvety
comfort that only Gillette can give.
O GILLETTE SETS 2/6 to 457-
BLUE GILLETTE BLADES 5 for 1/6
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydne
As the battle for Britain was joined in
real earnest last week Australian Stock Ex-
changes took a more sober view of things,
and the exuberance of the previous week
disappeared. Nevertheless, prices for the
majority of stocks were still firm. New
York couldn’t stand the bombardment
of London, and shares on Wall-street
dropped rather suddenly ; London itself
showed only a slight weakening.
* * * *
In last week’s uncertain market there
was strong support for Yarra Falls shares,
the scrip going up to 435. 9d. It and
its Sydney subsidiary, Globe Worsted
Mills, are participating in defence orders.
Another stock in strong demand was
Meggitt, Ltd., which reached 31s. 6d.
Henry Jones also rose to 525. 3d. Valley
Worsted sold at 28s. in Melbourne, and
Davies, Coop advanced to the same
figure following declaration of an in-
creased div. These moves, however, were
all against the general trend of the mar-
ket, which showed a widespread tendency
to ease. B.H.P. dropped Is., and Electro.
Zinc, Barrier stocks, British Tobacco and
Australian Consolidated Industries were
all down. David Jones and Australasian
Paper, which had both shown exceptional
recovery after a deep slump, reacted
noticeably. Gold shares were weak, Fiji
issues included. There was a rallying in
prices at the week-end.
=H * * *
Contracts with Great Britain for the
sale of primary produce during 1940-41
run into more than £120,000,000. The
estimate for 1939-40 was £101,500,000,
but the figure was largely exceeded be-
cause of heavy production of wool,
wheat, butter, etc.
* * * *
E. V. Nixon, a Melbourne accountant
who had connections with public affairs
before, has been appointed as “the
Federal Government expert to control
profits from munitions.” There is talk
of limiting profits to “4 per cent.,” the
percentage apparently being on cost price,
not capital.
* * * *
Lieut.-Col. Gordon Wallace, an en-
dorsed U.A.P. candidate for Parra-
matta, says he is “opposed to inflation
and deflation, but unless a new order is
found and the country marches in step
with modern systems the interest bill
after the war will exceed the national
income.” Coming after a statement that
“men of some specialised knowledge
must be your representatives,” this sug-
gests that the colonel had better stick to
army boots and things, otherwise he’ll
start running to A + B theorems, like
another old army man. In brief, Aus-
tralia’s annnual production is valued at
over £500,000,000 a year, while interest
on the national debt is less than
£50,000,000 —high enough, goodness
knows. But without inflation it would
be impossible to spend enough in Aus-
tralia on defence over the next three
years to double the national debt, and if
interest rates keep at present levels a
doubled national debt would less than
double the interest bill. Of course, bil-
lions could be ticked up against us by
America —if Uncle Sam cared to lend
us the money. No ; if the colonel is
convinced that we must spend a lot of
money on war, then he’d better make
up his mind that it will have to be ob-
tained through either borrowing or taxa-
tion. We have to labor to produce war
materials, and some of the fruits of our
labor are taken away from us. The
fruits taken away must be represented
in a reduction in our income or our sav-
ings—preferably our income.
* * * *
Some of the chief items of expenditure
incurred in clothing the A.I.F. and
militia over the past 11 months:
Woollen piecegoods, ordered 5,532,204
yards, cost £2,103,947, delivered 1,820,979
yards; flannel, 1,421,948 yards, £251,173,
1,101,207 yards; blankets, 1,298,961,
£1,034,185, 972,196; leather boots and
shoes, 969,099, £678,881, 1,058,350; fur
felt hats, 580,480, £259,103, 467,619; khaki
drill hats, 214,000, £26,697, 144,573; ser-
vice dress jackets, 678,480, £834,988,
723,252; service dress trousers, 698,054,
£393,817, 685,258; singlets, 1,631,655,
£371,403, 1,495,221; shirts, 937,935,
£256,348, 725,954; socks and stockings,
2,315,053 pairs, £194,241, 1,757,137.
With 467,619 felt hats and 144,573 cloth
hats already delivered there should be
no shortage of headgear. However, these
represent only a small portion of the
outlay. The woollen mills naturally
figure largely ; for cloth, blankets, etc.,
they have received orders totalling
£3,400,000.
* * * *
It is not natural for Australians to
insure the life of a child and then cut
the kid’s throat in order to collect the
insurance. Yet some Australians are all
in favor of handing the cost of this war
on to their children, regardless of the
blight that must descend on those
children later on as a result. In reality,
the incidence of war cannot be escaped
by the present generation, and if escape
is attempted the incidence will be borne
twice —by the working people of this
generation and the next.
* * * *
An interim div. for the half-year ended
July 31 at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. has been
declared by Finney, Isles, the Brisbane
retail store. The div., to be paid today
(18th), is the same as for the correspond-
ing period of last year.
* * * *
Evans, Deakin, the Brisbane structural
engineering concern that has built several
bridges over the serpentine river on
which the northern capital is located, is
undertaking the construction of naval
vessels. The co. has had a fairly active
life since depression was left behind, and
profit for the year to June 30 last was
nearly twice the 1\ p.c. div. requirements.
The co. is making Tableland Tin’s big
No. 2 dredge.
* * * *
Self ridges (A/sia), Ltd., for the half-
year ended July 31 has shown a net
profit, after making provision for
taxation and depreciation, of £7482,
which compares with a net loss of £3272
for the half-year ended July 31, 1939, an
improvement of £10,754. (Something
over £22,000 was earned during the half-
year to Jan. 31, 1940, which included
the Christmas trade.) “Satisfactory im-
provements in turnover and gross profit
rate” are reported; for the month of
August the rate of sales increase has
been more than maintained. Difficult
stock conditions followed the practical
elimination of some non-sterling mar-
kets, but the co. was able to get supplies
of many things from Great Britain. The
co. says it is “in a happier merchandise
position than last year, so that, provided
general conditions are reasonably well
maintained, we may look forward to
improved results for the full year ending
January, 1941.” Finances are easier now,
enabling the co. to buy keenly. The co.’s
scrip has been listed on all Australian
’Changes. Paid capital is £285,000 in
£1 shares. These are quoted at 14s. 6d.
each.


UNCHBLED ADDITIONS
BOMBS ON LONDON: U.S. VIEW.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” leading article.)
What is directly at stake is the power of the
German air force to destroy Britain’s ability to resist.
What is ultimately at stake is civilisation itself, as
we have known it.
The German tide in the air over Britain is not
the result of racial superiority, or of rare intelligence,
or of truth embedded in an obscene “new order.”
It is the result of specialisation in the industry called
war. Where other nations chose to give a large part
their creative effort to produce the amenities of
civilised life, Germany gave all of hers to war. Under
Hitler she has produced war —war and war only. All
that was gracious, all that was Tree, all that was clean
and honorable in the life of the German people has
been swept aside to make way for the war machine.
Can there be any escape from the conclusion that
there can be no peace, no security, no safe island of
civilisation on this earth if the Power that rains in-
discriminate death on Britain is allowed to triumph?
Can we make treaties with such a Power? Can we
compromise murder and slavery on a territorial basis?
Can we buy from a slave Power, sell to it, travel
in its territories, welcome its besotted admirers in
our own land? If we ourselves propose to keep our
freedoni and our honor, we cannot.
This is not only Britain’s hour of peril. It is
civilisation’s. It is humanity’s. There can be no
lasting peace with this maniacal tide, this loathsome
plague.
Events shout to us to give Britain, while
there is yet time, the aid that both of our
national political parties have pledged themselves
to give. Nazism knows only one argument —
force. It cannot be appeased. It must be
cowed or beaten down.
Perhaps Britain, first successfully defending
herself, will beat it down. She has the will, the
magnificent self-discipline, the sublimity of
courage that may do it. But we had better con-
sider, not next January, nor next month, nor
next week, nor tomorrow, but today, what we
can do to save Britain and where we shall
stand if Britain falls.
Willkie’s U.S. Foreign Policy.
[This extract from Mr. Wendell Willkie’s
speech accepting the Republican nomination for
the United States Presidency gives a general
indication of what lines U.S. foreign policy will
follow if he is elected in November. Explaining
his personal position he made a statement
from which a text could have been taken for the
Australian Commonwealth election: “Today
party lines are down. Nothing could make that
clearer than the nomination by the Republi-
cans of a liberal Democrat who changed his
party affiliation because he found democracy in
the Republican party rather than in the New Deal
party.” Other parts of his speech are just as
applicable to the Australian democratic way of
life as to that of democratic U.S.A.]
“In all the democracies that have recently fallen
the people were living the same peaceful lives that we
live. They had similar ideals of human freedom.
Their methods of trade and commerce were similar
to ours. Try as we will we cannot brush the pitiless
picture of their destruction from our eyes or escape
the profound effects of it upon the world in which
we live.
“No man can guarantee to maintain peace. Peace
is not something that a nation can achieve by itself.
It also depends on what some other country does.
“In the foreign policy of the United States I
would do everything to defend American democracy
and I would refrain from doing anything that injured
it. We must not permit our emotions —our sympathies
or hatreds —to move us from that fixed principle.
“We must not shirk the necessity of preparing our
sons to take care of themselves in case the defence of
America leads to war. I cannot ask the American
people to put their faith in me without recording my
conviction that some form of selective service is the
only democratic way in which to assure the trained
and competent man-power we need for national
defence.
“We must honestly face our relationship with Great
Britain. We must admit that the loss of the British
Fleet would greatly weaken our defence. This is
because the British Fleet has for years controlled the
Atlantic, leaving us free to concentrate in the Pacific.
If the British Fleet were lost or captured the Atlantic
might be dominated by Germany, a Power hostile to
our way of life, controlling in that event most of the
ships and the shipbuilding facilities of Europe.
“This would be a calamity for us. We might be
exposed to attack on the Atlantic. Our defence would
be weakened until we could build a navy and air force
strong enough to defend both coasts. Also, our foreign
trade would be profoundly affected. That trade is
vital to our prosperity. But, if we had to trade with a
Europe dominated by the present German trade poli-
cies, we might have to change our methods to some
totalitarian form. This is a prospect that any lover
of democracy must view with consternation.
“The objective of America is in the opposite
direction. We must, in the long run, rebuild a world
in which we can live and move and do business in the
democratic way. The President of the United States
recently said: ‘We will extend to the opponents of
force the material resources of this nation, and at the
same time we will harness the use of those resources in
order that we ourselves, in the Americas, may have
equipment and training equal to the task of any
emergency and every defence.’ I am in agreement with
these two principles, as I understand them —and I
don’t understand them as implying military involve-
ment in the present hostilities. As an American citi-
zen I am glad to pledge my wholehearted support to
the President in whatever action he may take in
accordance with these principles.
“But I cannot follow the President in his conduct
of foreign affairs in this critical time. I believe it to
be the first duty of a President to try to maintain peace.
But Mr. Roosevelt has not done this. He has dabbled
in inflammatory statements and manufactured panics.
Of course, we in America like to speak our minds
freely, but this does not mean that at a critical period
in history our President should cause bitterness and
confusion for the sake of a little political oratory. The
President’s attacks on foreign Powers have been use-
less and dangerous. He has courted a war for which
the country is hopelessly unprepared—and which it
emphatically does not want. He has secretly meddled
in the affairs of Europe, and he has even unscrupu-
lously urged other countries to hope for more help
than we are able to give.
“ ‘Walk and talk softly and carry a big stick’ was
the motto of Theodore Roosevelt. It is still good
American doctrine for 1940. Under the present
Administration the country has been placed in the
false position of shouting insults and not even begin-
ning to prepare to take the consequences. Mr. Roose-
velt has been quick to tell other nations what they
ought to do. I should threaten foreign Governments
only when our country was threatened by them and
when I was ready to act.
“We have been sitting as spectators of a great
tragedy. The action on the stage of history has been
—“Daily Mirror,” London.
England yet shall stand!
relentless. The French people were just as brave and
intelligent as the Germans. The reason for their
collapse is now clear: the fault lay with France
herself. France believed in the forms of democracy
and in the idea of freedom. But she failed to put
them to use. She forgot that freedom must be
dynamic, that it is for ever in the process of creating
a new world.
“When the European democracies lost that vision
they opened the way for Hitler. While Germanv was
building a great new productive plant France became
involved in unfruitful political adventures and flimsy
economy theories.
“'We must face a brutal, but a terrible, fact. Our
way of life is in competition with Hitler’s way of life.
This competition is not one merely of armaments. It
is a competition of energy against energy, production
against production, salesmanship against salesmanship.
In facing it we should have no fear. History shows
that our way of life is the stronger way. From it has
come more wealth, more industry, more happiness,
more human enlightenment than from any other way.
Free men are the strongest men.
“But we cannot just take that historical fact for
granted. We must make it clear. If we are to out-
distance the totalitarian Powers, we must arise to a new
life of adventure and discovery. We must make a
wider horizon for the human race.
“I promise, by returning to those American prin-
ciples that overcame German autocracy once before,
both in business and in war, to outdistance Hitler in
any contest he chooses in 1940 or after. And I
promise that when we beat him we shall beat him
on our own terms, and in the American way.”
Communist Treachery in France.
(As reported to the U.S.A. by Mr. William Bullitt,
American Ambassador to France.)
“In France much of the most terrible and traitor-
ous work was done by the Fascists and Communists
working together.
“Many honest French democrats and liberals
had been snared by Communist propaganda and
argued that, because the Communists called them-
selves a political party and pretended at the time
to be in favor of democracy, it would be undemo-
cratic to deny to the Communists the rights of any
other political party.
“The honest French patriots and democrats who
protected the Communists did not discover until too
late that the Communists were acting as spies and
agents of the dictators, that the Communist party
was merely camouflaged as a. political party and was
in reality a conspiracy to commit patricide at the
direction of a foreign dictator. They discovered too
late that the Communists were traitors who were
claiming the protection of the State which they in-
tended to destroy only in order the better to prepare
for its destruction.
“When the German invasion began to sweep
into Belgium and France, Communists in each town
and village produced panic among the civilian popu-
lations by spreading fantastic tales of murdering by
the German troops of • men, women and children.
By this means ten million civilians were harried in
fear from their homes and clogged all the roads, so
that the French, British and Belgian armies could not
manoeuvre, so that transport of supplies became
almost impossible, and a magnificent fighting force
became a clotted mass of men and materials, a per-
fect target for bombing and machine-gunning from
the air.
“At the most critical moment of the fighting
in Belgium, Communist railway men stopped all traffic
on the Belgian railways so that there was no trans-
port by train for the French, British and Belgian
armies.”
Britain’s “Totalitarianism.”
[How Britain, with apparently dictatorial powers
granted to the Government, still differs in its “totali-
tarianism” from Germany, Italy and Russia, as
outlined in the “Wall Street Journal,” New York,
by its staff correspondent in London, G. V.
Ormsby.]
In some ways it is true that Britain, like
Germany and Italy, has gone totalitarian. It
is possible to compile a list running into prob-
ably several hundred printed pages of all the
Orders-in-Council issued since the outbreak of
war restricting and regulating the activities of
citizens. In many ways these regulations are
irksome, and businessmen naturally complain
of the many hours they have to spend filling
up forms and coping with the bureaucratic
interference of Government departments. But
in their calmer moments they would all admit
that in a war of this kind, where the whole
resources of nations are involved, Government
control is inevitable and axiomatic.
Indeed, the main complaint is that the
Government is not using its powers to the full-
est extent and in the most intelligent manner.
The people of Britain are only too willing and
anxious to make sacrifices to gain victory. In
granting apparently dictatorial powers to the
Government, Parliament was merely interpret-
ing the wishes of the community and in no way
going beyond them. But, contrary to appear-
ances, it is not true to say that Britain is ruled
by a dictatorship. There are several funda-
mental differences between the British regime
and those of Germany, Italy and Russia.
In the first place Parliament still exercises a highly
critical function despite the comprehensive powers
with which it has invested the Cabinet. This is proved
both at question time in the Commons, where Ministers
are subjected to inquisitorial examination of their
actions, in debate, and in reviewing the details of
legislation introduced by the Government. Members
of Parliament are as anxious as any other members
of the community to ensure that traitors shall be
brought to book, but they wish to ensure that there
shall be no Gestapo or Ogpu in Britain and that
citizens shall have rights of appeal. Nor, despite the
censorship, is the British press really muzzled. This
has recently been proved by the abandonment of an
atempt to impose stricter censorship upon the press
which was strongly resisted by all editors. Finally
the courts still function freely. For example, a Judge
of the Chancery division recently granted an injunc-
tion to a firm of machine-tool makers against the
Ministry of Supply restraining the Ministry from inter-
fering with the control and management of the busi-
ness of the company and its banking account.
Apart from the war aspect of the maintenance
of British freedom there is a longer term prospect of
what will come after the war. It must be realised
that Britain is going through a social revolution as
well as the temporary upheaval caused by the war.
This revolution was already in progress before the
war, and, as always, war speeds up existing trends. The
war-time urge of the community to give its services to
the State is bringing to the surface an already existing
tendency to replace the profit motive in industry by
the service motive. Britain before the war had
evolved a new method of nationalisation of public ser-
vices by setting up public service corporations in which
shareholders surrendered their equities for fixed-
interest-bearing securities. Good examples of these
are the Port of London Authority, which runs the
London docks, and the London Transport Board,
which administers the subways, buses and trams.
There seems little doubt that this principle will be
extended after the war to other public services, such
as the main line railroads, and possibly highway haul-
age and coastal seaborne traffic, coalmines, electric
supply and distribution and later insurance and bank-
ing if the Labor party has its way. Such an exten-
sion of the service motive would undoubtedly be
revolutionary, but if it is introduced gradually with
proper compensation to existing shareholders it need
cause no violent revolution. But whatever the out-
come of the war there is little doubt that many social
changes are certain and that the community as a whole


is ready to accept many modifications of the capitalist
regime.
° * * * * *
(Another staff correspondent of the “Wall Street
Journal,” also communicating from London.)
In the last analysis, to avoid inflation, reliance is
being placed here in Britain on voluntary effort and
sacrifice —effort to produce more, sacrifice to save and
lend more. Of the former, evidence comes in daily
from every quarter of the country. Men and women
are working too long and too hard, according to
medical testimony. Of the latter, the will to spend
as little as possible, to live like monks or nuns, there
is also evidence but not enough. When you earn
twice as much as before by working twice as long, it
is difficult not to indulge in a little extra expenditure
on a few extra comforts. In the circumstances, to
reduce your standard of living seems scarcely human.
But there is evidence of enough willingness to
self-denial to ensure that Britain will escape anything
worse than a mild inflation. She will show a far
better financial record than she did in the last war.
The burden will be spread more equitably over rich
and poor. As there will be less profiteering in high
places, there will be less extravagance in low. The fac-
tory worker will go without her fur coat and the
upstart war-contractor without his Rolls-Royce. It
is also not beyond hope that the Government will set
an example in economy—but that’s another story.
Japan’s Grip on China.
(Condensed from a New York “Herald Tribune” article
by Victor Keen.)
Japan now occupies 300,000 square miles of
Chinese territory and controls railways, waterways,
industries, commerce and mineral deposits within this
vast area. Every important Chinese seaport, every
formerly vital Chinese industrial centre lies within
Japanese-occupied territory. With the exception of
foreign business enterprise conducted from foreign con-
cessions in Shanghai and Tientsin, third-Power trade
and commerce in Japanese-occupied China is to all
practical purposes at a standstill.
Of 10,000 kilometres of railways built in China
before the war, largely with Western capital, 6000
kilometres lie within Japanese-occupied territory. On
Jan. 1, 1939, Western-owned railway bond loans out-
standing included £26,261,883 due to British holders.
The Chinese National Government, deprived of the
revenues of these railways, has been forced gradually
to default on bond payments. The Japanese, on the
pretext of military necessity, have refused to compen-
sate railway bondholders.
Not only has Japanese shipping increased enor-
mously in inland China waters, but in February, 1939,
it surpassed that of Great Britain in total tonnage of
vessels clearing for foreign countries in all ports of
China. Prior to the European war, British ocean-
going tonnage slightly exceeded that of Japan in and
out of the port of Shanghai, but now Japanese ocean-
bound vessels exceed those of any nation entering the
port of Shanghai.
In the field of industry Japan has fabulously ex-
panded her holdings in the occupied areas of China
by the simple process of military expropriation; Among
the Chinese industries which have been taken over
by the Japanese entirely or in part are dockyards,
cement plants, soap factories, distilleries, rayon plants,
flour mills, chemical works, sugar refineries, match
factories, paper mills and such utilities as power
plants, waterworks and gas plants. For example, 37
Chinese cotton mills have been expropriated in central
China alone.
Probably more vital to Japan’s economic welfare
than the expropriation of Chinese industrial plants has
been the seizure of China’s principal coal and iron
mines. All of the important Chinese-owned coalfields
of north China, which produced 70 per cent, of China’s
coal output prior to the war, now are being mined
exclusively for Dai Nippon. Japan has seized the iron
mines at Lungyen, Tayeh and Sanchanchen, which
contain more than 90 per cent, of the known iron
resources of China. The only important coal deposits
in China which are not under Japanese control are the
British-owned mines of Kaiping, Mentoukou and
Tsiatso in north China. And the British owners have
been coerced into contracting to sell more than half
of their output to Japan in order to remain in
operation.
While seizing industries and natural resources
and monopolising rail and water communications,
Japan also has acquired as a result of her military
adventure in China the lion’s share of China’s foreign
and domestic commerce. Prior to the war, China im-
ported from Japan less than 20 per cent, of her needs
from abroad. Today, Japan enjoys more than half
of the foreign trade of all Japanese-occupied China,
and 70 per cent, of the trade of north China, and this
despite the fact that Japanese manufacturing at home
is geared for the production of military necessities.
* * * * st
China’s Side
(From an article by a London “Times” special corre-
spondent at Chungking.)
Most of the Chinese people are still engaged in
the ceaseless struggle to extract a living from the soil,
but social and economic changes are taking place as
a result of the war which would otherwise have taken
50 years or more to bring about. The upheaval of
population and the spread of the new patriotism have
begun a transfer of loyalty from the family to the
State which cannot fail to have profound effects on
the future of the country.
History may regard it as one of the decisive facts
ol our time that the Chinese, driven out of the coastal
regions, deprived of their chief cities, rivers and rail-
ways, have been able to retreat into a rich hinterland
screened by range after range of mountains. Where
another country, in the face of the same losses, would
nave been forced to capitulate, they have found an
empire ready for building up in their war of resistance,
remote from attack by land yet still in touch with the’
outside world by aeroplane and a growing network of
highways. If the material effects of this have been
tremendous, the moral effects have been hardly less im-
portant, giving the Chinese a zest to carry on the
struggle which is more than half the battle. Here in
the interior, it is true, few luxuries can be obtained,
many necessities are scarce, and titanic problems of
all kinds remain to be solved. But the Chinese are
the most frugal people in the world, much of their
wealth is in the tireless energy of their people, they
have unlimited man-power, and they know how-to
suffer. They say, as a simple statement of fact, So
long as we have rice we can fight.”
By restoring trade, reopening the rivers their
own time, and giving the new regime “face,” the
Japanese hope to convince the Chinese, the foreign
trader and the world that money can be made under
the New Order in East Asia. Chinese of all classes,
however, have no desire to duck their heads to
Japanese sentries on the Garden Bridge in Shanghai
or anywhere else, and those who can leave the occu-
pied areas make their way into “free” China ; students,
doctors, officials and even office boys. The brains, the
character and the will are in this part of China. Mr.
Wang Ching-wei has failed to win a single adherent of
national repute to his cause. The Chinese are confi-
dent that, short of some malign stroke of fate at home
or abroad, they cannot fail to emerge from the war a
free people.
. Bombers Over Germany.
[Naturally more information is available about
German bombings of London than of the nightly
British raids on Germany, but that these latter are extra-
ordinarily successful is indicated in the graphic descrip-
tion of British bomber operations, given in this (con-
densed) New York “Times” article by Robert P. Post.]
Almost every night, and on many days as well,
the big long-range ’planes of the Bomber Command
take off from British fields and fly over conquered
— St. Paul “Pioneer Press,” U.S.A.
COMEDIE FRANCAISE.
France, Holland and Belgium to drop their deadly
loads deep inside Germany, bombing the Reich’s
industrial heart.
Unless something particularly spectacular happens,
it is only a line or two in the newspapers. Pilots of
the Bomber Command get none of the headlines and
few of the medals which go to the spectacular fighter
pilots who meet approaching ’planes and shoot them
down in sight of thousands. Nevertheless the boys
who take their big ’planes over Essen and the Ruhr
are the only part of the British military machine
which at the moment is carrying the war into enemy
country. They alone are carrying on the sort of
operations which all thoughtful Britons recognise as
necessary for eventual victory.
Few are the nights when the crump of bombs and
the whine of sirens does not tell the German people
that despite the victories of their armies there still
exists one powerful nation who will fight them to the
last. Most important gain of these raids, perhaps, is
the sudden cessation of work on the night shift as the
glare of fires in the sky denotes another dislocation
of the German industrial effort.
An immense amount of planning and preparation
goes into one of these raids. At Command Head-
quarters staff officers study their secret reports and
aerial photographs and decide what points shall be
attacked. Station Intelligence officers pore over their
files and maps. Every possible piece of information
about the target area is gathered. Captains and co-
pilots of aircraft come down to be “briefed” for the
night’s operations. In the afternoon the crews of the
’planes usually sleep, but meanwhile the field is in a
bustle of activity. Mechanics fuss over ’planes, testing
every strut frame and gadget. Bombs are locked in
the racks.
As the last evening light leaves the airfield, the
crews stroll down dressed in their heavy flying-suits
with yellow lifesaving jackets—known as “Mae Wests.”
They gather with the station commander for a last-
minute word. “Good luck!” he says as they climb
into the ’planes. One by one the ’planes roar off. The
tails lift, they circle once, get final clearance and then
they are off.
As the sound of the last ’plane vanishes the dim
lights of the airport go off and darkness clicks down.
There is nothing to do but wait five, six. or even seven
hours until once more the sky fills with droning and
the lightened ’planes begin to drop down from the
blackness. There is the little group waiting for them —
including the doctor, for even if a ’plane returns safely
it is possible that one of the crew, probably the rear
gunner, will be wounded.
As each crew surrenders its ’plane to the waiting
mechanics the men who have been out are rushed to
the Intelligence officers, as the information they bring
back may be just as important as the damage they do.
Each one is questioned in turn. Often the navigator
and bombardier see more than the pilot. The rear
gunner, perched alone way out in the tail, sees most of
all.
What are the results? Here is dangerous ground,
because in the nature of things no bomber can be cer-
tain what damage he has done. But the crews can
form a rough idea, and their judgment is supplemented
by reconnaissance photographs and information from
spies. These last are usually discounted 50 per cent.
What can be said is that the Air Force High Com-
mand, speaking with absolute frankness, is astonished
at the successes of the Bomber Command. The British
won’t say so officially, but their guess is that many of
Germany’s important factories have been hit. It seems
certain that the docks of at least one seaport have
been blasted into uselessness.
Above all, the amazing thing—and when he tells
you this the staff officer touches wood —is the small-
ness of the British losses. Night after night scores of
’planes are flying all over Germany, and when the bill
is reckoned up at dawn only one, two or three are
missing. The end of many and many a raid sees all
of the British bombers safely on the ground.
Bombers, like all other British aviators, have not
much to say for the German fighters, but they give
full marks to the German ground defences. Their
“flak” is agreed to be excellent, both in searchlights
and guns. But still the bombers get through.
There is a noticeable difference between the
bomber and fighter pilots. Bombers are the heavy
artillery of the air who have their missions—to do
their jobs and return. The fighters’ job is shorter,
never so certain. Different temperaments gravitate
toward different jobs.
Conscription and Democracy.
(From an article in Chicago “Daily News.”)
Identification with democracy of the essentially
aristocratic “volunteer system” of recruiting armies
is one of the queerest distortions of political history
in the annals of human thought. Now fainthearted
politicians tell us that conscription is undemocratic.
The volunteer system in history is associated with
comparatively small professional armies of mercen-
aries that are first met as bodyguards of kings and
tyrants. These armies might later be expanded, but
at the core of every one of them the “royal guard”
or the “imperial guard” remained. Even when asso-
ciated with a constitutional monarchy, an organisation
like the old British Army remains closely tied up
with the royal household.
Where armies of this sort are found under re-
publican forms of government, the “republics” were
usually oligarchies of rich men, such as Carthage,
Venice, Genoa or the United Provinces before the
House of Orange-Nassau assumed royal trappings.
Ancient democracies depended upon general
levies of man-power. Whether in a democracy like
Athens or in a warrior communism like Sparta,
military service was obligatory.
With the revival of democracy, the French Revo-
lution revived the citizen army based upon compul-
sory service. The concept of the “armed people”
was an integral part of democratic thought through-
out the nineteenth century, and survives today in its
purest form in the Swiss system of compulsory mili-
tary service.
In a large-scale voluntary recruiting campaign
the pretence of “volunteering” covers the ugliest kind
of coercion, applied through implied threats of social
ostracism, the scorn of pretty girls pinning white
feathers on “slackers,” who may have the noblest
reasons for not ducking imperative duties on the
home front, and similar methods of unsocial intimi-
dation. The volunteer system lacks a whole lot of
being voluntary.
This England!
[Reported by William Hickey in London “Daily
Express,” this could happen in probably no other
country in the world at war and under the imminent
threat of invasion.]
Long before the war I used to comment on a ten-
dency towards Nazism in the pacifist weekly “Peace
News” ; much space was devoted to airing Germany’s
“grievances,” Nazi propaganda for return of German
colonies was echoed closely.
Since the war began this line has been dropped.
“Peace News” has been purely, gloomily pacifist. The
current issue is less gloomy. “France,” says a “Peace
News” columnist, “has realistically accepted her
destiny, and decided to co-operate in the new Con-
tinental order under German leadership.”
He goes on to defend the Nazis against the charge
of tyranny in the lands they have overrun. “There is
not much solid evidence” for this, he says. He blames
Britain for putting money-making before “human wel-
fare,” adds, “The new Europe has other views”—
meaning that Nazism is primarily concerned with
human welfare?
Even more staggering is a passage in “Peace
News’s” front-page editorial. The editor remarks,
cheerfully, “Life goes on. While the German soldier
looks on benevolently in the Luxembourg Gardens in
Paris, the little children are sailing their boats once
more in the lily pond.” Benevolently ! There is “not
much solid evidence” for that!
In an adjoining column the editor, John Middle-
ton Murry, says that every Peace Pledger has a “moral
obligation” to send ss. a year to H.Q. He himself is
cutting down tobacco to loz. a week, though he finds
it “harder to renounce tobacco than to renounce war.”
Strongly though I am against Duff Cooper when
he toys with the idea of stricter censorship—even sup-
pression—“ Peace News” is one of the papers that seem
now and then to entitle him to such views.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Tattersall’s secretary, T. T. Manning,
was an unhappy man when rain was fall-
ing sharply on Friday and looked like
continuing. However, Saturday was all
that could be wished, and though an
attendance of 29,000 was 1500 less than
on the corresponding day last year it
was satisfactory. The totalisator turn-
over advanced from £35,722 to £37,037,
but that was of no interest financially to
Tatt.’s. It does not derive anything from
machine betting or bookmakers’ licenses.
The result of the Chelmsford further
demonstrated that a 71b. penalty does not
stand in the way of a good horse’s suc-
cess in that race. There have been only
two unpenalised winners in the last 20
years —Syce Knight and Mala. The sur-
prising part on Saturday was that backers
should, early in the betting, have been
able to get as much as 7 to 4 about
Beaulivre, who, early in the week, was
not to have been a starter, and Munro
had arranged to ride Reading. On the
latter’s withdrawal, the owner and trainer
of Beaulivre thought he might just as
well run.
Apart from Beaulivre and High Caste
only Buzalong was supported to any ex-
tent. Beaulivre did all that was expected
of him. High Caste was the early leader,
but Beaulivre, in second place, never let
him get far away and had him well
beaten a furlong from home. The race
really resolved itself into a match be-
tween the two, nothing else having a
chance, though Pandect, after being last
soon after barrier-rise, was beaten only
a head for second. St. Constant did
better from the straight entrance than
any of the unplaced division. Buzalong
was disappointing, as though, with Lucra-
tive, he was next to the leaders at the
half-mile, he lost ground in the straight,
and at the winning-post was behind
Mosaic, whom he met slightly better than
Metropolitan terms. As the distance
covered was 27 yards over nine furlongs,
the time, 1.51£, was better than Heroic’s
Randwick record of for nine fur-
longs.
In winning the Tramway Handicap Tel
Asur proved Randwick was more to his
liking than Canterbury Park, though
when he only dead-heated Vergure for
third in the Flying Handicap at that track
the previous week he did not get a good
run. Early Bird and Geebung were the
early leaders in the Tramway Handicap,
but they dropped out shortly after enter-
ing the straight. At the leger Radical,
Tel Asur and Red Thespian were together
in front, and, despite Katanga’s good
finishing run, Tel Asur beat him a head,
with Radical a close third.
Katanga’s sprinting form was some-
thing of a surprise, but he met Tel Asur
101 b. better than Epsom terms. Denis was
fourth or fifth at the bend, but was being
hard ridden to hold his place immedi-
ately after turning into the straight. Old
Red Thespian did well to get fourth, and
while Vergure ran fairly he did not show
Epsom form with a pound less than he
has to carry in that race. Adios was
outpaced throughout; while, in running
fifth, Bourbon pointed to the possibility
of a win over a longer distance before
spring racing is over.
Gundagai, with 81b. more than his
Metropolitan weight, got to the front
half way down the straight in the Spring
Handicap and hung on gamely to defeat
Old Rowley and Dashing Cavalier. The
luck of the race did not favor either the
second or third as much as the winner,
but, as a rule, it does not pay to make
excuses for beaten horses, and Gundagai
is likely to continue improving.
Gilltown and Buzzal were together in
front half a mile from home, and, though
the former weakened after leading into
the straight from Buzzal, Billposter,
Gundagai and Hope, he is improving.
Cooranga did better in the first furlong
than usual, and though she then dropped
back last she made a sharp run in the
straight. She did not sustain it to the
winning-post. Binnia Hero, after meet-
ing with a check or two, ran on well,
and Gladynev did so much better than at
his previous start that there is now hope
of a reproduction of his Maoriland form.
Hope was well beaten, but he had 181 b.
more than his Metropolitan weight.
Valhalla justified the shade of odds
laid on him for the Hurdle Race. Blackie
Miller flattered his backers by jumping
cleverly and pacing it with the chestnut
until near the six furlongs post, but then
the favorite drew away and there was
not after any doubt as to the result. Lord
Belmont was a poor third and Capaneus
a worse fourth. He will need a longer
trip to give him any chance of success.
Another hot favorite in Scientist ac-
counted for the Novice Handicap. Com-
mencing the last half-mile Serenade was
well clear of El Camarillo, War Trophy
and Scientist, but the last-named, who
ran up second at the straight entrance,
had the race safe a furlong from home
and gave J. Thompson a win at his first
ride since he met with an accident at
Ascot a few weeks ago.
Veiled Witch, who was prominent
throughout, was third, with Rhythmic
fourth, but of the unplaced lot War
Trophy impressed me most. He is a
Harinero colt owned and trained by J. H.
Abbs. Happy Lass was backed, but as
she got away too badly ever to have a
chance her failure can be overlooked.
Neither Panabil nor Pan Pipe showed
improvement on his recent efforts, but
Indian Emperor and Plimsol shaped
fairly. Serenade, who is by The Buz-
zard, should have no difficulty in win-
ning a six furlongs race of this class and,
on breeding, should go further.
The finish of the Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap was a repetition of the
Farm Novice at Randwick last month.
Pinero, meeting Evergreen 31b. worse,
again finished too strongly for the latter.
David Copperfield made the running, but
when Evergreen took charge from St.
Andrew, His Lordship and Pinero after
turning into the straight he looked a
winner. However, Pinero was a little too
good, notwithstanding he shifted about
near the winning-post. Pinero gave little
G. Young (son of Gloaming’s rider) his
first win.
John Peel’s fourth was distinctly prom-
ising, as he came home strongly, and a
return to the form he showed last
summer is probable. Bel Oiseau’s failure
to get closer than fifth was excusable,
and did not dispose of his chance of add-
ing to his winning account during the
next few weeks. He was hopelessly
placed after going a couple of furlongs,
and did not subsequently get a good run.
Panchio, St. Andrew and Black Banter
were prominent approaching the turn, but
none of them did anything suggestive of
Derby possibilities. Brazen Lad would
also have to show pronounced improve-
ment to enter into Caulfield Cup calcu-
lations.
Always one of the leading division and
a close third to June and Pen Name
entering the straight in the Welter Han-
dicap, Metallic was in charge a furlong
from home, and won nicely from Snow
Queen and Breeze. Snow Queen was
slow in finding her legs, and in the cir-
cumstances her second was meritorious.
It is not improbable a middle distance
would now suit her better than a mile.
Breeze’s third indicated that she is
back to form, and though Pen Name
tired after sharing the lead with June at
the top of the straight she is again look-
ing so bright that her return to the win-
ning list should not be far off. Mentor
was always prominent, while Thunder-
clap made up a lot of leeway in the
straight. His present owner, Mrs. F.
Penfold Hyland, gave four figures for
him, and, now trained by G. P. Nailon,
he is likely to win at middle distances.
Mandowie was one of the rear divi-
sion early in the piece, and after that did
not shape well enough to suggest that
with better luck at the commencement
he would have been dangerous. Haran
did well for a few furlongs and then
dropped out, while Climax made a poor
showing.
* * * *
Sun Valley enhanced his A.J.C. Derby
claims by a brilliant win in the Moonee
Valley Stakes on Saturday, and, although
last of the Victorian colts to reach Syd-
ney, he is by no means the least. In fact,
some of the keenest judges in Melbourne
consider him a better prospect than Pan-
dect, Lucrative and Fur Trader.
Figures favored Sun Valley, but the
manner of his success, even allowing for
a lucky run from the half-mile, dispelled
any doubts concerning his class. Reason-
ably well-placed from the start, he ran
past the pacemaker, Warbird, entering
the straight, where Industry was third,
and won as he liked from that pair. It
was the performance of a stayer, and if
Sun Valley be beaten at Randwick it
should not be due to his inability to get
a mile and a half. Winner of three of
his last four races and of five in all, the
Manitoba-Golden Gondola colt has been
a splendid bargain at his yearling cost of
525 guineas, and W. V. Manton, who
races him in partnership with his son,
has good reason to believe that Sun
Valley is another Salitros.
Sun Valley developed a mysterious
muscle soreness a couple of weeks ago,
and was under veterinary attention on two
occasions. The seat of the trouble has not
been located definitely, but there was no
suggestion of soreness on Saturday, and
his‘owner hopes that the sluggishness
shown by the colt when he works alone
is just a peculiarity.
No rider could have done better on
Sun Valley than Ted Preston, but he
will be replaced by “Scobie” Breasley in
the A.J.C. Derby. Breasley, one of Mel-
bourne’s most accomplished jockeys,
would have had the mount on Saturday
but for the fact that he is undergoing a
short term of suspension. He has already
won on the colt, and with Sun Valley
in the Derby and Landlaw in the Metro-
politan he appears to have two excel-
lent mounts at Randwick.
Though outclassed by the winner, War-
bird and Industry battled on gamely in
the straight. Added merit attached to
Industry’s performance by reason of the
fact that he conceded Sun Valley 71b.,
and his connections hope that Victoria
Derby success will not be beyond him.
They might be right, but, at the moment,
Industry’s best chance of important suc-
cess this spring seems to lie in the Caul-
field Guineas.
Sir Richard and Cyden’s Son, on trial
for the A.J.C. Derby, ran so far below
expectations that Sydney plans were
scrapped. Sir Richard, according to his
rider, did not seem able to handle the
track, and was unable to hold his position
after being fourth at the half-mile.
Owner Eli Phillips was obviously per-
plexed by his colt’s poor display, the
first time he had missed a place in five
starts, but it would be inadvisable to
condemn Sir Richard because of one
failure. Cyden’s Son only plodded on in
sixth position at the finish, and owner
Andy Morrow concluded immediately
that he was not up to Derby standard.
“There are easier races for him at home”
was Morrow’s summing-up.
Having already won a Melbourne Cup
with Wotan, trainer Jack Fryer is hope-
ful concerning the Caulfield Cup pros-
pects of Pantoon. Latter had nothing
outstanding to beat in the Budgeree Han-
dicap, but the field included a couple of
horses that have been backed at fairly
long odds for the first leg of the double,
and Pantoon carried a stone more than
his Caulfield Cup weight. Always
favorite, he moved up second near the
three furlongs, hit the front entering the
straight, and won decisively from Spear-
wings and Maluno. He is a particularly
fit horse, but more will be known of his
Cup chance with 7.9 when he meets a
better field over a distance beyond 10 fur-
longs. At present, some doubts exist
about his ability to run 1| mile right out.
Spearwings, backed last week for the
Caulfield Cup, did not impress. She ran
Pantoon to a length, but met him 31b.
better than Cup terms, and was not doing
as well as Fryer’s horse at the finish.
One of the roughest races in months
resulted in Con Naru beating Operatic
and Royal Comet in the Nulla Nulla
Handicap. Scrimmages occurred at the
start and halfway down the straight,
practically every jockey who rode in the
race being questioned subsequently by
the stewards. Apart from reprimands
no action was taken. Hard-luck stories
were possible for several horses, but per-
haps the greatest sufferer was Royal
Comet. Another runner cannoned into
him at the start, and, although last at the
end of three furlongs, he would have won
but for having to be pulled almost to a
standstill when squeezed right out in the
straight. In the circumstances he did
well to run the winner to less than a
length, and obviously is a better horse
than his narrow win in Trial company
a week earlier led many people to believe.
Con Naru, who also experienced his
share of trouble, generally runs his best
races at Moonee Valley. He is trained
in unorthodox fashion, seldom visiting
the training tracks, but doing plenty of
road and beach work. He thrives on the
treatment, and has been a good money-
spinner for owner-trainer H. Kilfoyle,
who broke him in and knows all his likes
and dislikes. Con Naru is engaged in the
Cantala Stakes with 7.4, but, apart from
doubts about him as a miler, he hardly
appeals as being up to that class. Adel-
aide gelding Operatic made a game
attempt to lead all the way, and will be
all the better for the race, which was his
first since a spell, but Pure Gold, favorite
at 5 to 2, ran badly. He struck trouble
at the start, but showed little dash subse-
quently, and beat only one home.
Displaying none of the dash which had
enabled him to win in fast time at his
previous start, Judean, 1 l-to-8 favorite
for the Boomerang Welter, was never
going like a winner, and finished only
fifth. Phoines, second favorite at 11 to
2, led throughout the last six furlongs,
and won decisively from Somerset and
Glaciate. A four-year-old gelding by
Windbag from Message, Phoines is
trained by F. Foulsham for D. A.
McNichol. He has not done a great deal
of racing, but has won two of his last
three races, and obviously is on the im-
prove. Whether he will improve suffi-
ciently to enter seriously into Cup cal-
culations is another matter, but, even if
not up to that class, he should continue
to pay his way in races of lesser import-
ance.
Despite his Australian Cup win on In-
dignity, former Sydney jockey H. Hanley
has not been overwhelmed with oppor-
tunities since he decided to try his luck
in Melbourne. Hanley is a competent
lightweight, and his winning double on
Phoines and Sir Ruff should help to
remedy matters in that respect. Few
backers, however, appreciated his effort
on Sir Ruff. Latter gave bookmakers a
“dream” result —a 100-to-l chance!
Sir Ruff, a five-year-old, formerly
raced in Sydney, but, after several failures
in Melbourne, was sold cheaply to Flem-
ington trainer W. Burke. Latter tried
him over hurdles at Ascot in July, but
Sir Ruff was not a success, and about
three weeks ago Burke leased him to
Harry Bird. On form, 100 to 1 was a
true reflection of Sir Ruff’s chance on
Saturday, but he had done well since
entering Bird’s stable, and the latter di
not allow him to run unbacked. Nor i
Burke, who had a small each-way o
gamble. Burke, however, would have
been better pleased had his own ma •
Ghippia, been equal to winning, Ghipp
was the medium of good support,
was never close to the leaders. Sir •
on the other hand, dashed through at
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Charity Novice: Serenade, 1 ;
War Trophy, 2; Happy Lass or
Rhythmic, 3.
Rosehill Guineas: Pandect, 1 ;
Tidal Wave, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
A.I.F. Handicap: Geebung, 1 ;
Delmestor, 2 ; John Peel, 3.
Red Cross Cup: Binnia Hero,
1 ; Old Rowley, 2; Cooranga, 3.
Hill Stakes (in the absence of
Beaulivre): High Caste, 1 ; Reading,
2; Mildura, 3.
Diggers’ Highweight Handicap:
Pen Name, 1 ; Windbrook, 2 ; Snow
Queen or Chiswick, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Leslie Stuart Stakes: Hilton, 1 ;
Aurie’s Star, 2 ; Manrico, 3.
Banyan Hurdle Race: Gold
Streak, 1 ; Erua, 2 ; Diaphane, 3.
Mentone Cup: True Flight, 1 ;
Prince Ariel, 2 ; Mac Rob, 3.
Dandenong Welter: Burrabil, 1 ;
Phoines, 2; Operatic, 3.
Yarraman Handicap: Distinction,
1 ; Positron, 2 ; Warbird, 3.
Hampton Handicap: French
Legion, 1 ; Grand Tour, 2; Cor-
redor, 3.


SAVE MONEY
& IT'S
K THRIFTY
■ TO INSTALL
" NEW
CHAMPIONS /
A
//CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
Even the best spark plugs
wear out. Replace them with
new Champions at least once
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and had.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
m
mm
m
• I w.
turn and won nicely from Anteros and
Miss Veronica. Isambard, backed to
favoritism, was never dangerous, and
Dollar Bill, second favorite, tired badly
after sharing the lead into the straight.
Dorset staged rather a sensational
“stop act” in the Mount Cotterell Steeple-
chase. Backers in running laid odds-on
him when he approached the last fence
with a lead of 10 lengths from Laveur,
but a lot of use had been made of him,
and, tiring rapidly, he offered little re-
sistance when Laveur ran to him halfway
down the straight. He was beaten two
lengths, with the favorite, Jangler, a poor
third. Jangler was having his first race
over fences, and should be all the better
for the experience. Deckard, always a
long way out of his ground, broke his
near foreleg when he fell at the last fence
and was destroyed. It was a stroke of
bad luck for owner “S. A. Rawdon,” as
Deckard was one of the best hunters seen
in Melbourne in years, and also starred
in open company. He was unlucky in the
bigger races, finishing second in Green
Cape’s G.N. Steeple and third in Mus-
tella’s Australian Steeplechase.
♦ * * *
Three weeks permit of considerable
alteration in the form of horses, but, as
a result of Saturday’s running, the early
backers of some Epsom candidates have
no cause for optimism. While High
Caste cannot be ruled out because of his
defeat there is no getting away from the
fact that Beaulivre “had it on him” at
any part of the final two furlongs of the
Chelmsford Stakes, and, though that does
not amount to anything, will meet him a
pound better. Many of High Caste’s
supporters look for considerable improve-
ment in him, but there was not much
amiss with his appearance on Saturday.
As Beaulivre gave Buzalong 61b. in the
Chelmsford he should be equal to giving
him 41b. in the Epsom ; and Denis’s and
Early Bird’s drop of 31b., as compared
with the Tramway Handicap, does not
put them in a better light than Tel Asur,
who also goes down that much. Radical
has 51b. less than on Saturday, but as
Katanga goes up 71b., Geebung 61b.,
Jocular 81b., Vergure lib. and Red Thes-
pian drops only 21b., it is difficult to put
them in front of Tel Asur. A hit in the
eye from a clod gave Bartle a nasty ride
and impaired Katanga’s chance in the
Tramway, but that 101 b. difference in
Tel Asur’s favor should again get him
home ahead of the latter.
St. Constant, with 81b. less than last
year, did so well in the Chelmsford that
it is impossible to put him among the “no
chancers,” especially as any racing he
does between now and the Epsom is
likely to improve him ; but, taking a line
through Saturday’s form, there does not
seem much hope for Cooranga, Breeze,
Pen Name or Bel Oiseau in the Epsom.
The last-mentioned two are probable
winners in the near future, but of some-
thing of less importance than an Epsom.
Last week’s form said more for Beau-
livre, Tel Asur and St. Constant than
any others of the Epsom candidates,
though it did not dispose of High Caste.
Presumably the Metropolitan is now
more likely than the Epsom Handicap
to be Gundagai’s special mission.
Maoriland mare Peerless, ridden by
A. E. Ellis, was one of the Chelmsford
Stakes field, but as she finished last it
looks as if her present trainer, P. Riddle,
will be lucky if he wins with her. She
was a good three-year-old, but, as she
is now five and has been unsuccessful
since she won the Great Northern Oaks,
she will have to drop in the weights in
order to pay her way in Australia. She
had two unsuccessful runs in Sydney last
spring, and did no good on returning
home.
* * * *
In the Spring Handicap at Tatt.’s meet-
ing Gundagai, Old Rowley, Dashing
Cavalier and Cooranga all flattered their
Metropolitan supporters. Gundagai won,
but backers of Old Rowley and Dashing
Cavalier reckoned luck was against
them. A longer distance would have
been more to Cooranga’s liking, as after
dropping back in her customary fashion
she had to be hard ridden to make up
her ground. She could have done it in
more leisurely fashion at a mile and five
furlongs, and that is one reason why
many backers are still keen on her
chance.
Compared with Saturday’s weights
Gundagai goes down 81b., Dashing Cava-
lier 101 b., Old Rowley 41b. and Cooranga
61b. Figures are therefore somewhat
against Old Rowley, but it is definite he
can get the Metropolitan distance. He
has the same weight as when second to
Marauder in the Australian Cup, and he
subsequently won two long-distance w.f.a.
races at Randwick. However, as Gun-
dagai is only four years old and there-
fore more likely to improve, probabili-
ties favor his again beating Old Rowley.
Dashing Cavalier has been placed in
a Derby and a St. Leger, but that does
not assure his seeing out a hard-run
mile and five furlongs in a handicap.
He certainly finished strongly at a mile
and a quarter on Saturday, but in my
opinion there is the possibility of an
additional three furlongs making a lot
of difference to him.
Binnia Hero ran on well in the Spring
Handicap, but he is at a considerable
disadvantage in weight compared with
those already mentioned. I have heard
doubt expressed as to his being a real
stayer, but he won Tattersall’s Cup at
only a furlong shorter distance than the
Metropolitan. Mosaic ran fairly in the
Chelmsford Stakes, but good as he has
proved himself he is likely to be troubled
by 9.11 in the Metropolitan. On Satur-
day Hope carried 181 b. more than he
has to put up in the big race at Rand-
wick, a difference so great that it was
not surprising it pulled him up. He will
meet Gundagai 101 b. better, but, though
he is likely to give a good account of
himself, he does not impress me as the
probable winner.
Buzalong was disappointing in the
Chelmsford Stakes, but he is a better
handicap than w.f.a. horse, and though
his effort was not encouraging he is sure
to shine more in a race in which he has
plenty of time to find his legs before the
serious business commences, St. Con-
stant ran second in a Caulfield Cup with
7.12, but an extra furlong may trouble
him. Gladynev’s showing in the Spring
Handicap with 8.3 heartened those
backers who have commenced two Cups
doubles with him. As he has only 6.7 in
the Caulfield Cup it is probable he is
more likely to be reserved for that race
than run in the Metropolitan with 8.0.
His Caulfield Cup price is unlikely to
flrift any further.
Own Folk, Bristol, Billposter, Foun-
tain, Beaupartir, Salivant, Mandowie and
Climax did nothing on Saturday to add
to their Metropolitan backers, and, so
far as that race is concerned, the possi-
bility of honors were with Gundagai and
Old Rowley. Next Saturday’s racing will
bring out a few more Metropolitan can-
didates and may lend itself to different
ideas.
$ * * * *
Particular interest will attach to Beau
Vite’s showing in the Hill Stakes. It
will probably decide whether he retains
his prominent position in the Metropoli-
tan betting. A fair idea should be gained
as to whether his Metropolitan prospects
equal those of Reading. It would be un-
wise to say Beau Vite could not win the
Metropolitan with 9.4, but the Melbourne
Cup—in which he ran so well last year
—may, with 9.1, give him his best chance
of an important handicap win this spring.
* * * *
Medmenham (dam of Ajax) recently
foaled a filly to Brueghel at Widden. If
this youngster is not a racing success
she will be valuable as a brood mare.
* * * *
Saturday’s racing at Randwick did not
affect Epsom quotations to any extent.
On Monday Beaulivre was still a sound
favorite, with High Caste next, and then
Mildura and Reading together, followed
by Tel Asur. Reading was the popular
selection for the Metropolitan, with Beau
Vite and Gundagai next in that order,
and then Beaulivre, Buzalong, Dashing
Cavalier and Landlaw in a bunch.
* * * *
In the matter of payment for their
services jockeys generally fare better than
trainers, and that is one incentive for
the former to keep going as long as they
can get riding. A trainer may have a lot
of trouble and anxiety in preparing a
horse for a big race and then see his
work thrown away consequent on the
jockey not being in as good form as the
horse. In the event of success the prob-
abilities are that the jockey will receive
greater financial consideration than the
trainer, notwithstanding that, at most, he
may have ridden it in a couple of gallops
prior to the race. There are, however,
owners who treat trainers and jockeys
the same —10 per cent, of the stake going
to each. Even then the odds are in favor
of the jockey faring better than the
trainer in the way of presents from
friends whom he assured his mount was
“sure to win,” not that he really knew
much about it, but principally because
he was the rider.
* * * *
Several supposed Derby chances were
discounted at Randwick on Saturday.
Some people smiled when Frank
McGrath, in delivering a short lecture
last week on “How to train Cup winners,”
invited his listeners to come out to his
stables and see a potential Derby and
Cup winner in Pandect. Now they think
he may not have been wide of the mark.
Pandect, as a Derby possibility, certainly
came out better than any other three-
year-old runner at Randwick on Satur-
day.
Slowly away ih the Chelmsford Stakes
he finished within a length of Beaulivre,
and was well ahead of Lucrative, John
and Nightbeam. Each of those three was
giving him 71b., but to all appearances
he could have beaten them at level
weights, and would have been better
suited by a longer distance than nine fur-
longs. Lucrative did much better than
John or Nightbeam, and it does not seem
now as if the last-named will enable F. W.
Hughes to make a substantial contribu-
tion to the Red Cross Fund.
Perhaps the run may do more for
Lucrative than Nightbeam, but there is
no reason for supposing it will benefit
him more than Pandect. Several three-
year-olds ran in other races, and of these
Scientist was seen to most advantage. He
ran out the mile well in the Novice Han-
dicap, and, giving weight to all except
two of the older horses, put up the same
time as Metallic, with 51b. less weight,
recorded in beating a useful field in the
Welter Handicap later in the afternoon.
Pinero had only 6.7 in the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap, but as he shaped
like a stayer that fact may cause his
owner to run him in the Derby. While
I doubt Pinero’s ability to win, he seems
more likely to get a mile and a half than
Panchio, St. Andrew, His Lordship,
Evergreen and Black Banter, who were
among those behind him on Saturday.
The fact that all those mentioned were
giving him weight may make a difference,
but, leaving Pinero out of the question,
their form did not compare favorably
with that of Pandect or Lucrative in the
Chelmsford Stakes.
Indian Emperor, War Trophy,
Serenade, Haran, David Copperfield,
Drava, Mentor and Passport, who were
left in the Derby last week, were also
Randwick runners, but it cannot be said
that any of that lot did anything to sug-
gest they were up to Derby standard.
Scientist and Pinero may continue im-
proving, but, as bearing on the Derby,
Pandect and Lucrative did most to com-
mend themselves last week.
Sun Valley’s win in Melbourne should
make him a Derby runner. His Moonee
Valley Stakes form was excellent, seeing
he won very easily with 8.9 in 1.41£ for
the mile, and was leaving his opponents
at the finish. The Rosehill Guineas may
put a different complexion on affairs, but
at present a large field for the Derby
seems improbable.
* * * *
There was no better type of colt than
Vallesano in the first division of the
Kensington Three-year-old Welter. He
won, and, though excuses were made for
some of those he beat, he would have
been unlucky to lose. The fact of run-
ning greenly nearly cost him the race.
He is strongly built, and is by Amalfi
(son of that good stayer Amadis), who
sired the Australian Cup winner Amalia ;
and his dam, Valaisanne (Valais-Elton),
was very brilliant, winning several good
sprint races in Adelaide, these including
the Goodwood Handicap. Bookmaker
F. Aldritt gave 60gns. for Vallesano as
a yearling, and present indications are
that he struck a real bargain.
* * * *
With Ajax a non-competitor nothing
came of the proposed match race on Red
Cross Day at Randwick. The respective
owners of Beaulivre and Beau Vite would
not have been averse to running them in
a match if it would have helped the Red
Cross Fund, but, with the uncertainty of
Beau Vite being at his best, it would not
have been a special draw, and the com-
mittee acted wisely in adding £5OO to
t^e pjjjj Stakes, and donating the other
£5OO to the Fund- Beau vite and Beau _
Fvre can sdd meet on Red Cross Day
in the Stakes
* * * *
It was cabled that Moses L. Annen-
Ber g } described as “lord of the racing
w j re serv j ces j n America,” was sentenced
to t h ree y ears ’ imprisonment for evasion
o£ j ncome tax> Annenberg’s profits from
runn j n g f our or Fve newspapers and
SU ppiyj ng bookmakers throughout the
States with starting prices—he had a
monopoly of the latter—must have been
tremendous. In June the Federal Gov-
eminent agreed to accept payment of
$9,500,000 over a six years’ period in
back income tax, and a first payment of
$BOO,OOO was made that month. At
present rate of exchange Annenberg’s
evasions would represent at least
£A2,750,000, so his derelictio'n made that
of any similar offender in Australia look
small. There was a temporary slump in
the Nationwide News Service which
purveyed information to bookmakers —
after Annenberg’s case commenced, but
a { latest it was going as strongly as ever,
though under other names. Too good a
thing to let drop. Annenberg started his
business career as a newsboy, and is
now 53.
* * * *
A.J.C. Derby results go towards
emphasising the fact that like does not
a i W ays beget like. Commencing with
1900 on jy f our winners of that race have
been by sires who were similarly suc-
cessful. Mountain King won in 1907,
and bis son, Mountain Knight, in 1914,
while the 1924 winner, Heroic, sired Hall
Mark and Nuffield, who scored in 1933
??i> 1938 respectively. Prince Foote
( I 9 ? 9 ) ! ,ad ,Sfi f a "! nner Richmond
M ?‘P > n 19i9 - When geldings were
originally debarred from the A.J.C.
, D « b y “ was Wllh >dea tha < * . woa ! d
lend to winners of that race being in
greater demand with studmasters. After
a n;l of a few years geldings were re-
admitted which permitted of Phar Lap,
? ne o£ the greatest racehorses Australia
has seen, being enrolled as a Derby
winner. Soon after Phar Lap’s success
the bar was again enforced, but whether
much will ever be accomplished in the
way of causing a greater demand for Aus-
tralian-bred Derby winners is doubtful,
*
Peter Pan, Hall Mark, Theo, Allunga
and Talking are five A.J.C. Derby win-
ners since Phar Lap now at the stud,
but they have not yet had time to prove
whether they are really acquisitions as
sires. Progeny of Allunga and Talking
have yet to race. Most Derby winners of
the last 40 years were by imported sires,
and they still have the call with Austra-
lian breeders. Practically everything ac-
corded a chance of winning the coming


No. 161
“TUMBA”
CATTLE DROVER POLEY
e
N.S.W.
Freight
on Saddles
Paid jor
Cash with
Order.
Our
Catalogue,
is Free!
Send for
One.
£9/17/4
(Complete)
This is a
mode rately-
priced saddle
o f splendid
quality. The
seat is of hog-
skin, and the
flaps of good
kip. The
pads are set
high up and
the stirrup
bars are free.
w
A.J.C. Derby is by an English-bred stal-
lion, and it will take another Wallace,
Maltster or Heroic to bring an Austra-
lian-bred stallion greatly into the lime-
light.
* * H* H*
Beaulivre is a sound favorite for the
Epsom Handicap, and is unlikely to lose
his position unless something shows ex-
ceptional form in either the A.IF. Handi-
cap or Hill Stakes at the Red Cross meet-
ing. Figures and form made Adios look
a fair thing last year, but he missed a
place, as did each favorite in the three
preceding years. Nightguard, at 7 to 4
in 1938, was the warmest favorite since
Beauford won at the same odds in 1921 ;
and the longest price on the field in the
last 27 years was the 7 to 1 going against
Wolaroi and Quaestor- when they respec-
tively ran first and second in 1921.
Commencing with 1913 favorites have
fared as under:
Epsom Handicap.
Year. Horse. Price. Result.
1913 — Gigandra .. .. 7 to 1 Second
1914 Royal Laddie .. 3 to 1 Unplaced
1915 Woorak .. .. 3 to l First
„ —Garlin 3 to 1 Unplaced
1916 Poly crates .. .. 4 to 1 Second
1917 — Norbury .. .. 7 to l Unplaced
„ —Ardrossan .. .. 7 to 1 Unplaced
1918— Publican .. .. 4 to 1 Unplaced
1919 Wolaroi .. .. 7 to 1 First
„ -—Quaestor .. .. 7 to 1 Second
1920 Remmon .. .. 9 to 2 Third
1921 Beauford .. .. 7 to 4 First
1922 — Rostrum .. .. 9 to 2 First
1923 The Hawk .. .. 5 to 1 Unplaced
1924 Blackadder .. .. 9 to 4 First
1925 Honan .. .. 3 to 1 Unplaced
1926 Amounis .. .. 5 to 2 First
„ —Fujisan .. .. 5 to 2 Second
1927 Vaals .. .. 6 to 1 First
~ —Gothic .. .. 6 to 1 Third
~ —Mullabawn .. .. 6 to 1 Unplaced
„ —Aorangi .. .. 6 to 1 Unplaced
1928 Amounis .. .. 5 to 2 First
1929 — Gilt Edge .. .. 3 to 1 Unplaced
1930 Mollison .. .. 7 to 2 Unplaced
1931 Pentheus .. .. 5 to 2 Third
1932 Chatham .. .. 4 to 1 First
1933 — Chatham .. .. 5 to 4 First
1934 Chatham .. .. 4 to 1 Unplaced
1935 Synagogue .. .. 3 to 1 First
1936 — The Marne .. .. 4 to 1 Unplaced
1937 Talking .. .. 7 to 2 Unplaced
1938 Nightguard .. .. 7 to 4 Unplaced
1939 Adios . . .. 3 to 1 Unplaced
When Chatham started favorite for the
third time and was unplaced he had 10.9.
* * * *
Jockeys last longer, as a rule, in Eng-
land than in Australia. B. Carslake re-
tired recently at 53, and at that age
Fred Herbert celebrated his silver wed-
ding in July. Herbert, who rode winners
in England this year, is still noted for
his smartness out of the barrier. He was
on his first winner in Toronto 44 years
ago, and will be remembered as riding in
Australia, winning the 1919 Adelaide Cup
on Dependence. In my opinion one
reason why jockeys retain their form
until a later period in England than in
Australia is that so many races are run
over straight courses and their nerve does
not suffer to the same extent as if they
were constantly riding on circular tracks.
# $ * *
At the Belmont Park (New York) 23
days’ meeting in June, $461,100 was dis-
tributed in prize-money. At the present
rate of exchange that would represent
about £138,330 in Australian money. An
average of about £6OOO a day over such
a long meeting could scarcely have left
owners with anything to growl about.
The principal winner was Col. E. R.
Bradley with $39,905, followed by Mrs.
Payne Whitney with $37,650 and G. D.
Widener with $31,595.
* * *
Heavyweights have a great record in
the Epsom Handicap, and if the betting
market is a good guide they will add
to it this year. Of the last 20 Epsoms
eight have been won by horses with over
9.0, six by runners whose weight ranged
from 8.6 to 8.13, and in another a run-
ner with 8.7 dead-heated for first.
Chatham won with 8.13 and then with
9.10, that being the most carried since
Marvel scored with 10.2 in 1891.
A year ago St. Constant (9.4) was the
only runner with over 9.0, but the pre-
vious year there were five with 9.0 or
over, these being Young Idea 9.7, King’s
Head 9.4 (winner), Stretto 9.4, Mohican
9.1, and Spear Chief 9.0. Of these Young
Idea, at 7 to 1, was most fancied, while
King’s Head was a 16-to-l chance.
Geebung’s 7.10 last year was the lightest
weight successfully carried since Satin
Bird won with 7.1 in 1917. In this years
race there are six acceptors with 9.0 or
over, and it seems certain at least four
will run. There are 18 first-acceptors
with 7.7 or less, but, while the odds seem
against the winner coming from that
division, Tel Asur must, at least, be given
fair prospects.
* * * *
The Metropolitan, unlike the Epsom,
has not been a particularly good race for
heavyweights. Rebus won with 9.10 in
1919, but since then only one winner has
carried as much as 9.0, that being
Speciality. David, who died recently,
made two good bids for the race, run-
ning second with 9.13 in 1923, and again
the following year with 9.8. Nightmarch
was second with 9.12, Pantheon with 9.6,
and Limerick with 9.5. Young Crusader
(6.11) was the lightest-weighted winner
since R. Wootton won with Queen of
Sheba (6.7) in 1902. Marvel Loch won
the following year, and, strangely enough,
the only mares successful since then were
mothers and daughters. Maltine scored
in 1909, and her daughter Jocelyn in
1928 ; and Loquacious and Feminist,
who were similarly related, won in 1929
and 1939 respectively.
# * * *
Figures certainly give Landlaw a
chance in the Metropolitan. He has 8.5,
against 8.11 in the Caulfield Cup and
8.8 in the Melbourne Cup. Since those
weights were issued he has shown form
sufficiently good to justify the Melbourne
handicappers’ opinion of him. Historian
beat him easily in the Heatherlie Handi-
cap last week, but he was giving that
horse 111 b., and Historian is now favorite
for the Caulfield Cup with 8.4. Therefore,
if the latter’s position is warranted, Land-
law must be considered well-in in the
Metropolitan with 8.5. In the spring
Landlaw ran second to High Caste in
the Caulfield Stakes, 9 fur., and Fisher
Plate, 1| mile.
* * * *
Freckles made the horses he beat at
Kensington look of poor class, and it
will be interesting to see how he shapes
in better company. Presumably his next
run will be in the Trial Stakes at the
A.J.C. meeting, and, going upon the way
he has run out a mile, an extra quarter-
mile should not be beyond him. Some
of the younger horses may worry him.
Four or five give the idea they should be
equal to getting the Trial Stakes dis-
tance, though for the last couple of years
that race has been won by one of the
older division.
* * * *
In Sydney two metropolitan and two
provincial clubs have received notice they
are to be delicensed, though a definite
date is not stated. One of the metro-
politan clubs has fared so badly finan-
cially for some time that many of its
shareholders might not mind dropping
out if they received fair compensation.
It will not be so with one of the pro-
vincial clubs, whose contribution to the
Red Cross Fund from a recent meeting
suggests it has been a miniature gold-
mine. The closing of Ascot and Kensing-
ton will lessen training facilities, and will
make things awkward for owners and
trainers whose homes and stables are
located near one or other of those tracks.
* * * *
Jockeys occasionally make mistakes in
their selection of mounts for important
races. Gordon Richards, for instance,
was twice on a stable’s elect for the
English Derby, and each race was won
by the colt the stable fancied least. After
Early Bird’s defeat in the Tramway Han-
dicap, W. Cook asked to be released
from his engagement to ride her in the
Epsom. Owner Devon consented, and
now Cook will be on Reading. He has
yet to ride an Epsom winner, and, though
probabilities do not now favor that idea,
it would be a blow for him if Early Bird
were to win from Reading.
* * * *
At the Randwick sales last autumn
W. Inglis and Son catalogued 609 year-
lings, and it is therefore interesting to
note that at Saratoga last month 723
were listed. It was anticipated that at
least 675 of these would be sold. The
outlook for racing in America was never
brighter. Prize-money has gone up since
the tote started operations in the State
of New York this year, and when the
adjoining State, New Jersey, also backed
by the tote, starts racing next year,
owners are expected to be in clover in
respect of prize-money possibilities.
* * * *
Nominations for spring and autumn
meetings in Sydney or Melbourne are
always interesting. They often give an
idea of the extent to which some owners
and trainers think their horses may im-
prove. For instance, Haran, Panchio and
Binnia Hero have not yet done anything
that takes them up to Craven Plate form,
but evidently those connected with them
think it is on the cards for them to do
so before that race is run. Nor do Yours
Truly, Old Serpent and Pantler appeal
as Randwick Plate possibilities. Perhaps
Old Serpent has been entered to assure
a sound pace for his stable-companion
Mosaic, but a glance over the field sug-
gests that neither the latter’s owner nor
trainer need have any fears on that score.
Last year, however, there were only three
runners, and Royal Chief, Mosaic and
Bristol filled the places in that order.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Australian Championship
For once the huge crowd that stayed
away from the Rushcutter Bay Stadium
last Thursday night showed sound judg-
ment. A worse fight for a heavyweight
title could hardly be imagined and cer-
tainly has seldom happened. In keeping
with chain-store tradition or something,
the Stadium people ordained that the
bill should be nothing under 11.6, ranging
up to 13st. It was a generous display
of prime beef; a most grievous display
of lean biff.
Challenged by Max Raynor (12.12),
Ron Richards (11.8|) both figuratively
and literally won in a canter. Sometimes
he walked, sometimes he ambled, now
and then he broke into a trot, occasionally
he galloped, but most of the time he
cantered. Even so, Max would never
have been in danger of defeat if the
contest had been conducted under
marathon rules. It lasted eight rounds,
in the course of which Max must have
circumnavigated the ring backwards not
fewer than 200 times. Whenever he man-
aged to catch up Ron flashed a straight
left into Max’s expansive dial, and late
in the race landed a couple of heavy
rights to the jaw. In one round both
of them—the challenger for the Aus-
tralian heavyweight title and the holder
—missed by a couple of feet with swings!
After seven rounds, by when Max, who
had lost the lot by a nice margin, had
palpably had enough (one of his hands
was bothering him —he must have hurt
it that time he hit Richards —and the
scattered roosters in the bleachers were
urging, “Go on, Ron, for Gawd’s sake,
we want t’ go home!”), words were ex-
changed between Max and Joe Wallis,
but the affair went on for another round.
Then more words, and Mr. Wallis waved
a resigned paw to indicate that Ron had
it on what might be called a technical
technical knock-out.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A man of whom bleed-
ing might be said to be a normal part
of his profession gave his blood for a
transfusion in the Children’s Hospital in
Melbourne recently. His six-year-old son
had been crushed by a truck and needed
preparing for an operation. The father
is Jack Carroll.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Dick Metz, winner of the Chicago
open championship with a record score
of 278 10 under par had his first
success for exactly a year. Metz is
the answer to the critic’s prayer; he
plays in a strictly orthodox manner and
is one of the straightest golfers I have
seen. In the 72-hole event Metz missed
only two fairways from the tees and
his drives were magnificent.
• •••• +
Par for the Tam-o’-Shanter course,
scene of the event, was 72, and 288
for the four rounds was beaten by
only 10 of the country’s leading 200
players. Ben Hogan, leading money-
winner of the 1940 season, and John
Revolta, who tied for second place with
scores of 279, gathered in £192 each
for their efforts, compared with £5OO
received by the winner. The prize-money
list extended to those with scores of 290
—Sam Snead collected £25 with that
total.
My 280 would have been worth £lOO
to a professional —£150 with a bonus
for the 66 which led the field in the
first round. Instead I received a
silver cup standing nearly 3ft., to-
gether with an electric shaver and
a leather travelling bag. The leading
12 amateurs received trophies for
their efforts. Unlike many Australian
clubs, the amateurs are encouraged in
every way in the United States, even to
the extent of offering automobiles in
some events.
I had a golden chance. Eight
under par at the 10th hole, I needed
only two birdies over the last holes to
win; and had a couple of 10ft. putts
dropped instead of twisting out of the
hole on the 13th and 17th holes I
would have tied with Metz. However,
my score was a glimpse of my
best form, and was the culmination of
three months’ play and practice under
American conditions, using the big ball.
Over 8000 paid admission of 7s. 6d. a
head to follow the final day’s play, while
nearly 20,000 visited the tournament over
the three days. The event was conducted
by the Chicago D.G.A., which netted
over £lOOO profit after paying out nearly
£2OOO in prize-money to the professionals.
Tiers of seats surrounded the first tee and
other vantage points, giving those who
didn’t care to follow their favorites a
comfortable seat.
The tournament committee at Chicago
had boys accompanying the leading
players with score standards showing the
players’ progressive scores from hole to
hole. Continued throughout the 72 holes,
it gave the spectators an up-to-the-
minute idea of just how the leaders were
going.
The Tam-o’-Shanter members acted as
gallery marshals during the comp., while
the associate members were official
scorers ; one was allotted to every three-
some to look after the cards. The tourna-
ment was a revelation to me. It was
wonderfully well conducted, even to the
extent of having two fore-caddies at every
hole to mark the competitors’ tee shots
if they happened to find the heavy clover
rough that abounded on the course. In
fact, no lost balls were reported by the
200-odd players.
Three amateurs finished in the first
ten, a feat unequalled since Bobby
Jones retired from open competitions in
1930. W. Turnesa, the 1938 American
amateur champion, was second amateur
with a score of 286, and W. Wehrle, of
the local club, was 287. Ellsworth Vines,
of tennis fame, was 303, an 80 in the
final round spoiling his total.
During the first two days’ play Lawson
Little, present open champion, and Ed
(Porky) Oliver, who tied with Little and
Sarazen for the open and was disquali-
fied, were my partners. Our threesome
attracted the largest gallery daily ; over
2000 walked round in the 100-degree tem-
perature. Before the tournament I
weighed 2091 b., but when it finished I
barely touched 195. It was by far the
hottest event I have ever played in.
Foothrawl
The crowd at M.C.G. for the second
semi-final between Richmond and Mel-
bourne got its money’s worth. Both
teams were in top form and they put on
a display of the national game at its best.
Gibb opened the Melbourne score with
two quick goals. Richmond’s first came
as a big fight broke out near the score-
board. Melbourne had a point lead at
quarter-time.
Richmond’s forwards fanned out well,
and the side steadily forged ahead, the
game being full of life and the barrackers
full of sound. Melbourne began the
third nearly three goals behind and
dropped back another at once. It had
the wind, and a desperate rally brought
it to within three points.
The last quarter consisted of furious
attacks on both goals, met by equally
furious defence. Twice Richmond had a
lead of 16 points and twice Melbourne
reduced it, but the Tigers hung on and
ran out winners by 16-11 to 14-17.
Official crowd figures were 54,763.
“Aw,” said the disgusted Melbourne
barracker who had lost his hat, “the
game’s goin’ back, it is. Fair the dink,
when she opened up t’day I thought she
was goin’t’ be a ripper. But how many
fights you reckon there was? Sixteen,
that’s all. A lousy 16! And most of ’em
in some other part of the crowd where
a bloke couldn’t get near.” He fell silent,
contemplated a skinned knuckle and,
slightly cheered, added, “Still, I know one
bloke won’t hear too well out of his left
earhole for the next few days, he won’t. '
He dropped off the tram and headed west.


4 : ...
tf
f*
WELL HERE 5 TO EE
t I
I in
i®
♦ %
llllplli
ill
7
■
3
0
i ** -r p >•
«
% J
-
■ ::
gtOOy
mm
■
■
*
* •-!
* %
H
TOOHEYS
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q LAND—Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1396 of 1940.
BETWEEN REGINALD ALFRED WAG-
HORN Petitioner and
MIRIAM DOROTHY WAGHORN (formerly
Miriam Dorothy Jarvis) Respondent.
TO MIRIAM DOROTHY WAGHORN late
of Bay Street Rozelle near Sydney New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said REGINALD
ALFRED WAGHORN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of September,
1940.
(L,s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
M. B. GILES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1303 of 1940.
BETWEEN EDNA MERLE NEWMAN Peti-
tioner and
GORDON HENRY CHARLES NEWMAN
Respondent.
TO GORDON HENRY CHARLES NEWMAN
late of 51 Liberty Street Enmore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDNA
MER.LE NEWMAN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse; and take notice that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Sixth day of December One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. R. BALDWIN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney. ___
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1061 of 1940.
BETWEEN THOMAS GEORGE ROBINSON
Petitioner and
HARRIET ROBINSON Respondent.
TO HARRIET ROBINSON formerly of Suther-
land but present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
GEORGE ROBINSON has commenced a suit
against you for dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse Alw
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Sixtn
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and forty and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining turtn
time the Petitioner will proceed and the sun
be heard and determined your absence notwitn
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersign i*
free of charge. , IQ , n
DATED this Twelfth day of September,
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
COLQUHOUN & KING, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last week, during the inferno of
bombing, this Letter stood at the salute
for the women in the East End of Lon-
don, for their Queen in Buckingham
Palace. No wonder our soldiers and
sailors are what they are. The old Spar-
tan mother’s parting “Come back with
your shield or on it” was no more in-
trepid than the 1940 mother’s final
“Cheerio, Bill!”
The women of England need a min-
strel to sing their praises! Boadicea must
ride her chariot above the Westminster
steps rising from the river the more
proudly thinking of the spirit she has
handed down. Last week, somewhere
in the docks area, a group of mothers,
grandmothers and young girls stood amid
the wreckage of their little homes, their
household gods. They clustered around
their young Queen, who had come to visit
them in their sorrow. Maybe inarticu-
late of themselves, they found a song
to sing. It was “There’ll Always Be an
England!” Ladies, the toast is “The
Women of England!”
Three hundred stalwarts of the B.E.F.
have been bringing the heroic, the un-
forgettable story of Dunkirk to Sydney
streets, to Sydney homes. Everywhere
these men go they make friends. Their
manners are simple, gentle and unassum-
ing. They won’t talk much about Dun-
kirk, and the only fly in the ointment of
being in Australia is the urge they all
feel to get back and have another smack
at the enemy. The proudest boast
any young Australian can make to his
schoolfellows is to announce, visibly
swelling: “My daddy (or my uncle)
brought home one of the Dunkirk sol-
diers last Sunday.” By now, there can
be scarcely a nook or cranny of beauty
spot that the men have not been taken
to. If there is, what about seeing to it
before they are forced to 'leave us?
General admiration flashes from" women’s
eyes when commanding officer Lieut.-
Colonel W. P. Scott, brave in his kilts,
steps into city restaurants.
There are still murmurs of approval
stirring among women punters who saw
the hats worn by the McKelvey lady and
Marie Coen to Randwick last Saturday.
Marie Coen’s had a peaked crown, and
was of glossy black coque plumage. The
McKelvey lady’s was small, black and
had a neat little snood. Phyllis and
Esme Reid from Adelaide put a splash
of purple into this Tattersall’s spring
meeting. Mrs. Dundas Allen wore the
hat with the Paisley drape she had
sported at the Red Cross party during
the week. Sailors are certainly “in,” and
the pinafore frock had an outing. Mostly
women refused to put faith in the fires
of spring, and stuck to the trusty winter
suit with a furlong or so of fur. Noted
the white pique gloves and white straw
sailor worn by Nonie Allen, of Mel-
bourne ; also a group of B.E.F. Dunkirk
heroes.
Moonlight and a wide sweep of peace-
ful harbor ways greeted the gaze from
the balconies of Florida on Sunday when
Glory Presgrave and Vera Metcalf gave
their party. This was to raise funds
to help the mannequin parade at the
Minerva on October 1. This in turn
helps Air Force House. The ballroom
was crowded with ’teen-olds and early-
twenties- —more than half the lads in
A.I.F. or Air Force uniforms. Betty
McCartney, who was publicity officer for
the success (about 300 turned up), wore
a flat little hat of Alice blue to match
her frock. Squadron-Leader Mclntyre
and his group were latecomers. He and
a comrade arrived at the door to remem-
ber the rest of their party was waiting to
be picked up at Double Bay. So it was
right-about turn for them.
One of these days the journalists in
Sydney are going shopping for an am-
bulance. In the meantime they aro
gathering and hoarding the money for
the grand splurge. Many ways of rais-
ing the wind are in full swing, and every
newspaper office is running guessing
competitions, window-ledge collections,
jumble sales and what not. One writer
is trying to line her window ledge with
pennies every payday. Pennies of all
creeds and political opinion are wel-
come.
Dora Payter, Mrs. Gwen Spencer and
Violet Roche are having a sale of
antiques, pictures and curios at the Aus-
tralia on the 27th of this month. They
not only wish you to come and buy, but
beg that you will part with some valued
possession to help the cause. The sale
will be held at the Australia Hotel.
The wife of General Anderson is out
to do things in a big way. She has, with
an eager committee, arranged an exhibi-
tion of pictures—“abstract and surrealist
art, by well-known artists of every
school.” Ball Green, the Anderson
home at Turramurra, will be gay for the
gala. Lady Gowrie will declare the
show open. It will continue for a
whole week to collect entrance shillings
for the journalists and artists’ war fund.
Root and branch and offshoot and one
way and another there are over 7000
varieties of orchid which the initiated
know at sight. Standing in the vicinity
of a fine specimen of the dendrobium
family, exhibitor C. H. Deane discoursed
to this Letter. The dendrobium these
drought times gets good marks because
none of its varieties needs much water.
Over 1000 dendrobiums and cypri-
pediums and others were receiving ad-
mirers at David Jones’s in George-street
last week. They were lending their beauty
in the cause of the Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund and the Food for Babies’ Fund.
Orchids are brought wild from the
jungle, tamed, and then hybridised and
cultivated and glamorised till they become
the perfect beauty. In which case their
money value is very great. Sometimes
they get bored with all this civilisation
and go bush again. Then as throwbacks
they are worth a great deal, too. Some
of them are just narks and stubbornly
refuse to be changed or improved one
iota. As Mr. Gilbert once remarked of
babies they’re born little Liberals or
little Conservatives.
Mayoress Crick opened the show, and
seemingly hundreds wandered up and
down the aisles gazing at the roped-off
beauty. Here were white petals spread-
ing from pale green throats. Here were
pale mauves with violet veinings, sprays
of creamy bloom, delicate and small
white flowers that might be woven into
a bridal wreath. Judge Markell’s and Tom
Nelson’s exhibits were close neighbors ;
and a fine array was sent in by Mrs.
Mitchell. From the Robert Dixsons, of
Castle Hill, came thriving plants to be
sold in the cause. The air was heavy with
garden opulence. In hard cash there was
said to be more than £3OOO-worth. A
display that attracted the gaze had been
flown from Java. Mixed in with the
gorgeous cymbidiums was the rather
sinister-sounding flower referred to as the
“Java Scorpion.” The point that the
experts stress is that almost any orchid
can be grown by the Sydney gardener
in the open air.
Orchids were, of course, the flower
worn. To have worn anything less would
have been tantamount to waving the red
flag at a royal reception. Like all dear
things, orchids wear well. The spray
worn by Mrs. Bertie Kelly had been
sent to her for her wedding anniversary
a fortnight earlier. Mrs. H. P. Christmas,
president of the committee, wore home-
grown orchids with her deep-blue frock.
The name of Florence Burt is known
among growers of the exotics. She was
there to hear the compliments paid to
her exhibits. Mrs. A. W. Keighley
and daughter Sylvia were admirers.
Mrs. Keighley told of schoolboy son
who declined to leave Eton and come
out to tke calms of Australia. Cakes
were sold by the American Women’s
Circle.
Those charming Lilliputs were at home
last Thursday, and importants of the
Red Cross called on them. Their man-
sion, while in Sydney, is set in Anthony
Horderns’ fine art gallery, and the scene
was very animated when the visitors
made their tour of inspection. The
Lilliputs, in the good old English style,
allow sightseers a glimpse of their
treasures in the interests of a good cause.
For the duration the Red Cross will
benefit. The mansion is beautifully
appointed. There are a refrigerator and
an electric stove in the kitchen. There
is also a mouse but the young
marauder is, alas! where he will do no
more harm. In one bathroom there is
even a foam bath —evidently some of
the Lilliputs are putting on weight.
The patience and ingenuity which have
gone into the collecting and contriving
of ornament and furnishings prove that
Mrs. Oswald Gibson has that hallmark
of genius—an infinite capacity for taking
pains. Take the whisky decanter ready
for Sir Gerald. It is made of an amber
bead, its neck is a white bugle and its
stopper another bead. The bases of the
crystal candlesticks are inverted glass
buttons. But the whole is greater than
the part, and an air of luxury is given
by real treasures in miniature, gathered
the world over by Mrs. Gibson. The
French drawing-room with its Louis XV
gilt and brocade, its tiny crystal clock
and petit point footstool will delight all
children.
Shipping knight Tom Gordon and
Alan Box, of the Department of Informa-
tion, were two of the conspirators who
planned the “One for all, and all lor
one” party to Prime Minister Menzies.
This filled the banquet hall of the Aus-
tralia with males one late afternoon last
week, prior to the P.M.’s Town Hall
meeting. There were 500 or more of
Mr. Menzies’s leal men to greet him.
But most heartening was the skirl of
the pipers who piped the guest into the
room, and strode about rendering more
airs with a real Highland bite to them
before they departed.
Mrs. Hope Gibson had a birthday last
week, and friends Mrs. Harold Bott and
Mrs. A. E. McCartney celebrated it by
giving her a lunch party at Prince’s. Of
course, music was well represented.
Heather Kinnaird (Mrs. Raymond
Beatty), Mrs. Roland Foster and the wife
of A.B.C.’s general manager Moses were
there. Heather and her husband are
about to set off on an A.B.C. concert
tour of Australia.
Hockey circles in Sydney were stricken
by the news of the tragic death of Nurse
Barbara Thomas, of Pymble. Sister
Thomas died as the result of one of last
week’s German air raids over London.
She had been buried in the ruins of the
nurses’ wing of a London hospital, and
died just at the moment the rescue squad
was freeing her. Nurse Thomas was a
splendid hockey player, and left Sydney
in 1930 as a member of the first Aus-
tralian women’s hockey team to tour
England and Europe. She was then a
B.A. of Sydney University, and in her
second year medicine. At the end of
the tour she entered St. Thomas’s, Lon-
don, as a massage student. At St.
Thomas’s she had a brilliant career. With
sister Randell, head of that institution’s
physio-therapy department, she wrote
Training for Motherhood. She was noted
as a lecturer and demonstrator. In 1937
she revisited Australia, and then cheer-
fully gave a great deal of her holiday
to producing a sound film for the Depart-
ment of Public Health. This film is now
used in the training of medical and
massage students and obstetric nurses.
The wife of Dr. Evatt, who, till he
stepped into the political arena, was a
Judge of the High Court, can make a
very good speech. She proved it last
week when she spoke to a meeting of
the women of the Barton electorate. She
shares her husband’s interest in modern
art, and has for some time been a student
of the Grace Crowley-Rah Fizelle
studio. Before her marriage Mrs. Evatt
was Mary Alice Sheffer, studying archi-
tecture at Sydney University, and a
daughter of surely the most kindly and
generous type of parents the U.S.A. could
produce. The Evatts have two children,
Peter and Rosalind. They live at Mos-
man, and are a clever and idealistic pair.
Dorothy Welding photo.
Color and cocktails proved a good
mixture when the Red Cross coo-eed
friends to a five-to-seven in the Educa-
tion Department’s Galleries. Here, sur-
rounded by the Society of Artists’ show,
the value of several miles of bandages
was sipped. When you came in the door-
way you were handed a slip by a bright-
faced, blue-clad V.A. This entitled you
to one drink which you could take from
a tray extended by another V.A. If you
were more venturesome you could ex-
change it with Jimmy Bancks or Dr. Reg
Bettington for a drink at a bar spread
with a counter-lunch. Up in the corner
opposite a band played, undisturbed by
the din.
Tony Shepherd, Denis Allen, Harry
Tighe, Dr. Hall Best, Syd Ure Smith,
Wal Taylor and a sprinkling of young
soldiers were a few of the male support.
Adrian Feint’s “Flowers in Sunlight,”
just bought by our National Gallery, was
admired. Mrs. Roy Buckland’s trig black
outfit was set off by a white camellia.
One of the Fleischmann heads was set
off by a sherry glass placed just under the
nose. From Mrs. Dundas Allen’s funnel
hat fell a drape of flowery chiffon. Hall
the women present wore those flower-
posy hats. Mrs. Alan McGregor, Betty
Maxwell and Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar
were among the party-makers ; so was
Mollie Cox.
Nellie Black will conduct her own
orchestra and, also play a part in “Pass-
ing Brompton Road,” the Brandon
Thomas comedy which once starred
Marie Tempest. The performance looks
as though it will crowd out the Con-
servatorium next Monday night. The
headquarters branch of the Red Cross
will benefit. Nellie is one of the Maori-
land musical family whose concert tours
took in Enzed, this continent and the
East. Dorothy Welding photograph.


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This Old Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
_ ft is surprising l how quickly many
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
Pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
used successfully the world over by millions
or people suffering with backache and other
~? ey disorders. They give quick relief and
will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes, go be sure you get LOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLg,
Miscellaneous.
International Pen-Friends’ Club.
MEMBERS all ages, Schools, Colleges.
Canada, U.S.A., S. Africa, Australia and
N.Z. Exchange News, Views, Stamps, Curios.
Membership 5/- per year from date of entry.
Juniors not over 18 years 2/6 per year. Stamp,
addressed envelope with inquiries. Write Box
499, Auckland, C.l, New Zealand.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
ALL PERSONS claiming to be next-of-kin of
ELIZABETH STANNARD, late of Westport, in
New Zealand, Widow, Deceased, are requested to
communicate with the undersigned immediately,
when they will learn something to their advan-
tage in connection with the estate of the above-
named deceased, who was the daughter of
EDWARD DOYLE and JULIA DOYLE, late
of Sydney, New South Wales.
COTTRELL & LOVELL, Solicitors, West-
port, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
IN THE MATTER of “The Trustee Act 1908”
Section 74 and
IN THE MATTER of the estate of ELIZA-
BETH STANNARD late of Westport in
New Zealand Widow Deceased.
PURSUANT to an order made by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
20th day of August 1940 NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all creditors next-of-kin and other
persons having claims against the estate of the
above-named deceased person who died at
Westport on the 14th day of October 1931
and Probate of whose will and codicils was
granted by the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Westport on the 11th day of November
1931 are hereby required to send in full par-
ticulars in writing of their claims to the Execu-
tors ANTHONY CRISPE COTTRELL and
HENRY LOVELL at the offices of their
Solicitors MESSIEURS COTTRELL AND
LOVELL No. 5 Brougham Street Westport
New Zealand not later than 42 days after
the last publication of this notice on the
25th day of September 1940 after which period
the Executors will proceed to distribute the
assets of the deceased among the persons en-
titled thereto having regard only to the claims
and demands of which they shall then have
had notice.
DATED at Westport, New Zealand, this
23rd day of August, 1940.
COTTRELL AND LOVELL, Solicitors,
Westport, N.Z., Solicitors to the Executors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
IN THE MATTER of an Agreement for Sale
dated the 21st day of July 1916 made
betweeen CO-OPERATIVE ESTATES
LIMITED of the one part and JOHN
BLOXAM PURTON of the other part.
BETWEEN CO-OPERATIVE ESTATES
LIMITED (in liquidation) Plaintiff
And JOHN BLOXAM PURTON Defen-
dant. „ „
TO JOHN BLOXAM PURTON late of Court-
ney Street New Town in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that an Originating Sum-
mons has been filed in this Court by the above-
named Plaintiff directing you to appear and
answer the claims set out therein viz.:
1. That it may be declared that the Plaintiff
is entitled by virtue of the abovemen-
tioned Agreement for Sale to an equitable
charge upon the lands and hereditaments
comprised in the said Agreement for Sale
(being Lots 171 and 172 on a certain sub-
division plan filed in the Lands Titles Office
and being portion of the lands comprised in
Certificate of Title registered Volume 234 Folio
21) for securing to the Plaintiff the sum
of £216/8/10 being the balance of principal
and interest calculated up to the Ist day
of July 1940.
2. That in the alternative it may be declared
that the Plaintiff is entitled to a Vendor’s
lien in respect of the said lands and heredita-
ments by virtue of the said agreement and
non-payment of the purchase money.
3. That the said lands and hereditaments may
be sold with the approbation of this Honorable
Court to enforce the said equitable charge
or Vendor’s lien and that all necessary and
proper direction may be given for carrying
out such sale; and that the conduct of the
sale may be committed to the Plaintiff.
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said claims proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid an appearance must be entered
at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart on or before
the 2nd day of November, 1940.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Our Lord Mayor is surely fast off the
mark. All in a few days he thought of
and launched an appeal for funds to help
the bombed British victims and called a
public meeting at which it was announced
that, although the collection campaign was
not formally opened, £BO,OOO had already
been sent in or promised. The meeting
lasted one and a half hours, for there
were many speakers—they occupied the
chairs all set for the orchestra for the
evening’s symphony concert. Mr. Menzies
received frantic applause, but probably
the most effective speech, which was also
the shortest, came from Ambassador-
elect John Latham.
The meeting, which half-filled the main
body of the Town Hall, was a cosmo-
politan one, and if impressions mean any-
thing it contained a good percentage of
businessmen and sporting interests, with
a solid middle-class backbone, also a
number of social workers. Everybody
was in damp raincoats with dripping
umbrellas. A couple from the Midlands
were typical of the stout British hearts
that beat in our midst. Neither should
have been out in such weather, but they
wouldn’t have missed the meeting, the
elderly wife leaning upon her husband’s
arm. To touch upon a lighter vein there
was present just one drunk, so wet that
he seemed to have swum the Yarra. Even
if he were surrounded with an aroma of
beer he also exuded patriotism. He
approved of the meeting and he let every-
body know it, but the only disturbance
he made was a call for “God Save the
King” during a speech he considered too
long.
The Y.W.C.A. has no chance of stand-
ing still during these days of stress and
vast happenings. There’s a scheme afoot
to which the American Women’s Auxili-
ary is lending an ear and a hand for
making the Y.W.’s cafeteria a better,
brighter place for lunch, so much so that
the general public will drift in that direc-
tion as a matter of course. The Y.W.
has also thought out a plan of good
citizenship open to young women who
want to feel better equipped to meet any
national emergency.
According to this plan a series of
weekly lectures has been inaugurated
(contributors are Dr. Amita Muhl, Dr.
John Dale, the Rev. C. H. Murray,
dietitian Betty Wilmot, Miss H. Gilbert,
who is a teacher at Collingwood Girls’
School, and Miss D. Whitehead, secre-
tary to a man of big business). Follow-
ing upon the weekly lecture the audience
divides itself into five study groups, mak-
ing choice from a variety of subjects to
be discussed, the most popular being
“Simple Physiology” and “Self-expression
ana Social Behavior.” Other subjects are
“Leadership for Recreation,” “Food
Values” and “Courageous Living.”
To collect funds to send overseas the
Y.W. girls attempted a mile of pennies.
They didn’t make the distance, but £5O
collected coin by coin in a bottle near
the cash till of the cafeteria and in a
miniature “hutment” at the front door
of the building was a worthy bit of work.
On Saturday there arrived news of im-
portance in the R.A.A.F. Nursing Service
—the appointment of Muriel Knox
Doherty as matron of No. 3 Base Hos-
pital at Richmond (N.S.W.). The Ser-
vice has been on tiptoe for some time
over the appointment. Among those who
guarded the secret well (and other
secrets: the appointments of nursing staff
to Laverton and Ascot Vale) were head-
quarters staff, Matron Lang and her effi-
cient helpmate at the typewriter, Sister
Mary Gay Greening.
Into their small, white-walled, well-
lighted office on the ninth floor of Cen-
tury House a steady stream of hundreds
of letters has been flowing for the last
few weeks. This vast correspondence,
which is dealt with on the spot by these
two efficient women, comes from nurses
who are breaking their necks to do a
job of real war-work and throw in their
lot with the newly-formed R.A.A.F.
Nursing Service. In the office with her
back to the window and all her thought
on her new job is Margaret Lang,
Matron-in-Chief of the Service, slim and
neat in her blue uniform, possessor of
brown eyes, smoothly-brushed hair and
a good sense of humor. At the moment
the Service is comparatively small, so
that most of her replies to applicants
have been regrets, but she is very pleased
at the enthusiasm shown by nurses in
all States. The aim of the scheme is
to provide hospital quarters with trained
nursing staff at every large Air Force
station in Australia.
The age range for Air Force nurses
(21-45) is much broader than for the
A.I.F. Matron Lang inclines towards
experience, but has weighed all circum-
stances, and has chosen applicants from
each age group. The outdoor uniform
is the smartest that has yet been evolved
for women during the war. It’s practical
but comparatively glamorous, for with
their Air Force blue suits the nurses wear
white blouses, black ties and shoes and
beige stockings (silk ones provided they
are not sheer).
Matron Lang hails from Wangaratta
and saw service abroad as a very young
nurse at the end of the last war, mostly
in Salonika. The job she left for her
present one was that of matron of the
Victorian Police Hospital, which, though
only a small brick building behind the
Police Barracks on St. Kilda-road, claims
to be a unique institution. It is said
to be the only Police Hospital in the
world, and during the last war it, with
the stables converted into extra wards,
was No. 5 Base Hospital.
Wearing a turban that becomes her
well is Penelope Little, who was ticket
secretary for the St. Moritz Ice Carnival,
held last night (17th) for Blarney House.
In between general skating for the ex-
perts and for those who insecurely stagger
round the edge of the rink there were
entertainments for everybody in the form
of exhibitions, ballets and a fast and
thrilling ice hockey match. Penelope’s
photograph from Broothorn.
Although they have closed their appeal
for funds and the money is in trust until
it can be sent with safety to Norway, the
Norwegians of this city are not sitting
back on their laurels. In their colorful
peasant costumes, helped by their cute
red-stockinged children on school holi-
days, they predominated among helpers
at the Red Cross fete in the Town Hall.
Everybody was up at crack of dawn
that day, for no stalls could be built
beforehand owing to the symphony con-
cert the previous evening. Quick sellers
were melt-in-the-mouth confections,
“Joletakk,” made by Mrs. E. Alstergren.
Two cunning little inventions on Mrs.
Sverre Lie’s stall were egg cosies, her
own handwork, made from baskets,
fleecy-lined with woolly knitted lids and
decorated with chickens. Thus while the
tardy family scurries through its morn-
ing toilet its boiled eggs may be kept hot
and snug.
The R.A.A.F. has a date for the night
of September 25. It’s no after-dark raid
of destruction, but a constructive little
show for the Locker Fund, and it won’t
even be a raid upon pockets, for the
prices are right to suit the paybooks of
“rookies” and A.C.Is. The affluent can
always buy boxes or a wad of seats for
their pals. The scene of activity for this
Whirr-a-Way Revue is the Princess, and
all but three of the 86 in the flight opera-
tions are on the R.A.A.F. payroll. The
lads are of many ranks and from all sta-
tions, and the girls rattle typewriters in
Century House or in others of the innu-
merable buildings commandeered by the
Air Force.
Organisers and producers-in-chief are
a bright pair of cobbers, A.C.Is. Harry
Hodges and Philip Opas. Harry has led
a dance band for years, but he’s also
been a commercial traveller for woollen
goods. Philip was a lawyer before he
was allotted a uniform and a share of a
clerical table in Century House. This
couple composed the sketches for the
show which is all comedy up till the
finale and 100 p.c. patriotic. During the
show the song “Air Force Blue” (Harry’s
music, Phil’s words) will be heard for
the first time.
The organising producers also attend
to most of the props, and to the book-
ings, and they keep everyone toeing the
line at rehearsals in the Athenaeum Gal-
lery (which has never had such a shock
in its respectable life —it’s not used to
strange sounds or late hours). The male
stars of the show are Flight-Lieut. Hugh
Niven and his bandsmen from Laverton,
Warrant-Officer Claude Jeacle, who is the
saxophonist and trainer of the male
ballet, A.C.Is. Kelvin Plant (tenor),
Victor Moore (baritone), George Daniel
(basso) and Billy Bennetts (tap-dancer).
Noel Miller, a lad with sergeant’s stripes,
is to be a fairy queen in tulle, golden
locks and moustache (he won’t part with
it). Noel comes from Coolangatta (Q.),
and pushed a clerkly pen before he joined
the R.A.A.F.
Herewith a Broothorn portrait of Mrs.
C. R. Duncan, whose thoughts this week
run on produce and groceries. She is in
charge of the market and grocery stall in
aid of Lady Colvin’s auxiliary for Navy
House, which stall has been granted space
and standing at the Arts and Crafts
Exhibition at No. 9 Darling-street, from
September 17 to 19. One of the stall’s
specialties is cream, for the clotted and
scalded article has been donated by well-
wishers. who own dairy herds of blue-
ribbon rank.
Jennie and Eileen Brenan are up and
away on a programme of ballet. The
dates are October 18 and 19, including
one matinee, which time isn’t so far
ahead, considering the rehearsing that’s
necessary. Beneficiaries are Blarney
House, Air Force House and the “Queen
Vic.” and St. Vincent’s hospitals.
Jennie, who loses none of her charm
as each year’s batch of young dancers
passes through her hands, and Eileen, of
the ever-cheery manner, rallied the troops
for a meeting to discuss the ballet fix-
ture, with sherry of goodwill handed
around as a final pledge that those
present would do their best to make the
season a success. In the absence of the
presidents of the four chosen institutions
Mrs. H. R. Hamer presided and spoke
on behalf of the “Queen Vic.” Blarney
House representatives were the Knox
lady and Mrs. J. J. Liston. The Fraser
lady was a deputy of Air Force House,
and Mrs. J. J. Daly stepped into the
place- of Mrs. Len Buxton for St.
Vincent’s.
Owing to the Woollies Shop (and depot
backstage) in Block Court thousands of
small fry are kept warm throughout the
winter. Now that the summer is on the
way they will be getting lighter-weight
goods, equally necessary for good health
and happy hearts. The Lady Mayoress
visited the Woollies Depot one morning
to declare open the selling department,
brought into existence by the excellence
of the work. Many garments are so
beautifully and elaborately made that it
is more profitable not to hand them out
to needy cases but to sell them and buy
materials with the proceeds. An ingenious
woman worker provides little pants
and braces for distribution to numerous
small boys without ever calling on the
depot for materials. She begs old golf
skirts from her friends, and, as she’s an
expert machinist, she runs up useful gar-
ments in no time for the cost of cotton
and buttons.
To make a really memorable night of
next Wednesday, 25th, the “Glamor
Boys” and their girl friends will first go
to the Whirr-a-Way Revue and later
arrive just in time for supper at the
Palais landing-ground for the Aero Club
ball for Air Force House and the Locker
Fund. Ball secretary is Tom Mitchell,
who can be found on Essendon ’Drome,
and tickets (at 10s. 6d. each) may be
had from Mrs. A. L. Walters (Win. 7273)
or Marjorie Price (UL2413).


Mars
AiA
m
m
fit >
m
as
•4*
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
w
e
BIG SIX
< ELECTRIC- FENCE CHARGER
m
■t\tr
• f '■
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
w
THE FLYING COLUMN
Red Morning Downs.
“Ek Dum”: German broadcasting
stations ushered in the war last year by
playing an old soldier’s song which
begins “Morning red... .Shall I soon be
lying dead?” 8.8. C. began with broad-
casts of the “Grand Old Duke of York,”
of a play called “Game as Ned Kelly”
and of children singing “The Lambeth
Walk.”
It took 12 months for Red Morning
to dawn over London in all its frightful-
ness—a little longer really, for September
7 was Red Morning. In the meantime,
all the nations of Europe had learnt
much about air warfare and the relative
methods of formations, of heavy and
light bombers and of what a Hurricane
or Spitfire can do to a flying murder gang
when it rips through the rear end of a
fuselage with a bandsaw of Browning
bullets.
The attacks on London, according to
Berlin, are reprisals for ferocious bomb-
ing of civilians in Germany. Cer-
tainly R.A.F. raids have been wide-
spread. An American who was in Ger-
many within the past two months and
who is now in Australia says that even
before he left the damage to Hamburg
and other ports was on a scale beyond
anything which has been advertised. But
the world will pay no attention to the
allegation of the enemy who reduced
Warsaw to ruins and transformed part of
Rotterdam into a vast grave.
The enemy technique has varied. The
first attacks on London were begun with
spearhead formations of heavy bombers.
Then came tactics such as were em-
ployed with heavy tanks on the ground
in France.
The staple machines used are the
Junkers JU9o’s. They are huge four-
engined jobs with a wing span of 115 ft.,
a length of 86ft. They look like a long,
ten-windowed passenger liner. About
the same tonnage as the Short Sunder-
lands and the Tasman flying-boats, they
are heavily armed enough to make lighter-
squadrons treat them with as much re-
spect as R.A.F. fighters show for any-
thing. They can carry with ease four-
ton loads of bombs from 10001 b. to \\
tons. Now and then they have been sent
over singly at widely-scattered intervals.
And they apparently move backwards
and forwards across the Channel from
dusk to daylight to a ferry-boat schedule.
Other types used are the slightly smaller
200 Condors, military developments of
the standard German passenger-machine
of peace-time, and the JUB6, which is
double-engined, has a span of 74ft. and
a length of 57ft., and is somewhere in
the same class as the Lockheed Hudson.
The German plan, as usual, is methodi-
cal and purposeful. It is not the out-
come of mere fury, though fury and
savagery have been shown. The scheme
obviously is to wreck and disorganise
London, to sweep chaos across the Kentish
peninsula and to leave a section of the
country along the Channel coast blasted
and desolate and bereft of defence so as
to provide a foothold for an invading
force.
September 7 was the 25th anniversary
of the day on which the retreat from the
Marne began in 1914. It fell conveniently
in a week-end, a favorite time for Get-
man aggression, when the people of Eng-
land are in their most relaxed and least-
organised mood. But Britain was not
caught napping.
The attacks began along the 100-odd
miles of Thames Estuary foreshore below
Tower Bridge, blasting indiscriminately
the docks and warehouses and the
huddled workers’ homes, bringing down
great buildings like cards and enveloping
whole sections in flames.
Each day for the first five days the
programme was the same, though the
formations of the attackers and theii
methods changed from day to day; and
each day the area of damage crept
further westward until it included the
whole of Central London.
Central London is a vast target. From
the river Lea, which runs into the
Thames just east of the Isle of Dogs, to
Kensal Green, it is about eight miles
long east to west; and north to south,
from Victoria Park to South Bermond-
sey station beyond Southwark Park, it
is about four miles deep.
But its targets are concentrated. By
the Lea there are vast docks and gas-
works —gasometer after gasometer. Then
the two great West India and Surrey
Commercial Docks on each side of the
Thames; then a thick cluster of tempt-
ing objectives in the square mile which
forms the ancient city proper—Cannon-
street, Liverpool-street, Broad-street,
Moorgate stations, the Bank behind its
wall, the Royal Exchange,, with Welling-
ton outside on his pedestal by the Lon-
don Great War memorial; Lloyd’s.
A block a quarter of a mile square
with St. Paul’s, the Old Bailey, the G.P.O.
in St. Martin’s-le-Grand, Smithfield
markets, Billingsgate down by the river ;
a mile further on, beyond newspaperland,
the Law Courts, the Inns of Court and
Australia House and the Record Office.
Another two miles embodies all the
great shopping and amusement centres
—Holborn, Strand, Regent and Oxford
streets —art and official centres. By
the river the huge Shell Mex head-
quarters, where the Hotel Cecil used to
stand ; Whitehall with the Admiralty and
Horse Guards, Downing-street, the
Dominions and Indian headquarters,
Scotland Yard, the Houses of Parlia-
ment, Charing Cross station, Victoria
station, Piccadilly underground.
Move half a mile south from the Strand
across the river, and there is Waterloo
station. Move less than that distance
north of Australia House along Kings-
way and there are Euston and King’s
Cross. Move westward from here to
Madame Tussaud’s. Cross the river from
Westminster and there are the London
County Council and the great electrical
works at Battersea. Round the belt of
park lands behind the Government
offices is Buckingham Palace, all too
close to Waterloo and Knightsbridge
Barracks.
All through this great area of 32 sq.
miles, there are devastation and death and
a population living like moles during the
nights, while raids go on from dusk to
dawn, striding in sullen anger to work
during the day past collapsed flat build-
ings and roped-off craters. Sometimes
the descriptions of the ruin are vague
but terrible enough.
In one spot, everything within a
quarter of a mile has been wrecked.
That block is equal to the bit of London
so well known to Fleet-street men, be-
tween Ludgate Hill and Fetter-lane,
where the Great Fire of London was
checked on September 6, 1666, after 436
acres of the city had been burnt out, and
back to Holborn.
A time bomb lies in St. Paul’s Church-
yard. Another explodes in the Strand
outside New Zealand House and the
Queensland Office, into which Agent-
General Pike and his staff dash to
rescue papers. A huge block of flats
collapses. Houses fall like cards round
the Elephant and Castle of the Surrey-
side, in the home of “The Lambeth Walk.’
A huge market by the river is hit; so are
hospitals, one the greatest children’s
hospital in London, of which Helen
Simpson’s husband —both are Austra-
lians —is medical superintendent. A
school used as a shelter takes the blast
with hundreds of people inside. There
is a crater in Piccadilly for Eros
to look down on presently beside Swan
and Edgar’s and those perennial haunts
of Australian visitors the Regent Palace
and Monico’s and the Piccadilly Hotel.
Somebody has evidently tried to bomb
8.8. C., which is in Portland-place, near
the pencil-point steeple of Langham
Church, where Kipling was married. The
vandal has succeeded only in blasting
the face of Peter Robinson’s drapery
shop and excavating the Tom Tiddler’s
ground in Oxford Circus, usually sacred
to the solemn metropolitan police ser-
geant and his assistant who bring order
out of the whirl of Upper Regent-street
traffic making to and from the west.
And in Buckingham Palace grounds on
Constitution Hill, on that 40 acres of
green and garden and lake where Im-
perial garden parties disport themselves
in an ordinary English a time
bomb lies alongside Aston Webb’s digni-
fied fa?ade. After three days it explodes.
Stone pillars are smashed. All the win-
dows in the King’s and Queen’s apart-
ments are broken, the furniture is dam-
aged, plaster falls from the ceilings.
Buckingham Palace is twice hit directly.
There were early in the week, too,
savage daylight raids, when fighters
chased the big bombers up the Thames
and gave them battle over Hammersmith,
the playground of A. P. Herbert. All
night searchlights stabbed the skies and
the guns roared above the rattle of the
Brownings. Over 150 German machines
crashed out of the sky between Sunday
morning and Tuesday evening. Casualty
lists after that became vague.
At night the attacks were continuous,
heard but not seen save by the calm
police and wardens in their tin hats, the
gunners and airmen and the sweating
firemen working like beavers, with a new
conflagration every hour or so on their
hands. And all the time the R.A.F.
ranged far afield. It cut a swathe across
the heart of Berlin, tore up the docks
of Bremen, Hamburg, Wilhelmshaven,
Wesermiinde and the flotillas and gun
emplacements along the North Sea and
Channel coasts, and spread fire and terror
over northern and western Germany.
Towards the end of the week new guns
were brought out in hundreds—the big
4.5 naval types, the Bofors double-barrels.
They throw an immense spray of shells
directed by electrical predictors. The
searchlights were left cold, but the upper
sky was lit by magnesium flames. The roar
and clatter of the artillery firing in section-
alised box barrages drowned the detona-
tions of the bombs. In the sky there was
no room for fighters. Shell fragments
pattered on the roofs like heavy hail.
In the squares and Hyde Park and St.
James’s, the branches were ripped off the
trees and strewn about the sward as if a
titanic hurricane had swept the city.
During the week till Friday night the
Germans lost 263 ’planes in the attacks
on London. They lost more in their
shorter bursts of fury in the week-end,
during which ’the capital enjoyed its
longest respite for seven days —8y hours
from 4.30 a.m. till 1 p.m. on Sunday.
But far greater damage had beep wrought
to the German cause than any which
could have been brought about by the
destruction of personnel; for the British
people had been lashed to fury by three
attempts to bomb Buckingham Palace, by
the slaughter of the innocents of the East
End and by attacks which had been
made on the very heart of London itself.
The raids culminated desperately on
Sunday afternoon, September 15, when
hundreds of bombers, spread along 100
miles of coastline, made towards London.
Over 1000 square miles of country the
attackers were mei by fighter squadrons
and walled off from their objectives by
solid anti-aircraft fire. The day’s losses
were the biggest which the enemy had
suffered during the war —175 machines.
They were falling out of the sky at one
period at the rate of one a minute. The
Air Ministry reports that the formations,
totalling 400 ’planes, which converged on
London were completely broken up.
The list of churches damaged in the
City shows how intensive and ruthless
had been the onslaught aimed at the third
of a square mile in which are the Cus-
toms House, St. Paul’s, the G.P.O. and the
Bank of England. Within this area no
fewer than eight churches were hit, in-
cluding St. Paul’s itself, the grandest Pro-
testant cathedral in the world, and St.
Mary Woolnoth, which stands on the
Lombard-King William-street corner at
the seven ways round which cluster the
Mansion House, the Bank and the Royal
Exchange —the busiest traffic corner on
earth. „ _ ,
From King to coster, from Palace
to slum, from the Abbey to the humblest
conventicle, no person or building »
London can be considered safe. Yet tin.
Londoners are sticking it, and their un-
daunted courage and endurance m
drawn tributes of admiration from tne
peoples of all the world save the baffled
and barbarous enemy.
The Air War Day by Day.
September 8-9: Continuous German
raiding of London’s Thames-side ana
central areas from twilignt Sunda
dawn Monday. A block quarter
mile square laid waste ; fires started, -
(<Continued second column next page)


KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42'-
OTHERS:
32/6 to 70/-
MONET .
BEETS.
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRRORS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
•
Free
Delivery
to all
Suburbs.
•
g===d(mtwfl
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEOBGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
FOOT^
No foof haytrdi
with Viyella- the only
sock with the
%yA* ANm
There is nothing more annoying than
a sock that has shrunk* So prove for
yourself the unshrinkable truth with
Viyella Socks. Be sure and see the
splendid range of plain Colours, in-
cluding Khaki and Air Force Blue, also
unusual fancy pattern* at your
favourite store . . . all hard wearers.
Remember to ask for ViyOlla Socks.
■'+ The foot rule strip is provided so that you can
check the size for yourself, before and after washing.
Viyella
SOCKS FOB ME N
UiMto/tifeed tUukhimAaMe>!
killed, 1400 wounded. R.A.F., with 1000
bombers, raids French Channel ports,
countering threats of invasion by sea and
extensively damaging shipping and
harbor installations. Main attacks against
Ostend, Calais, Essen, Black Forest and
Norwegian coast; there two supply ships
are hit and abandoned by crews. Machine
losses for two days, 155 German and
32 British.
September 9-10: German night raid
oyer London begins at 9 p.m. and lasts
nine hours six minutes; further raids
next day. Fires started in central London
between St. Paul’s and the Guildhall;
a maternity hospital and a children’s
hospital bombed, also County Council
housing estate. Public utilities damaged,
transport services interfered with; de-
layed-action bomb dropped in Bucking-
ham Palace grounds damages King’s
apartments. Casualties, 404 killed, 1400
wounded.
Berlin raided at midnight by R.A.F.
for 43 minutes. Main objective Neukoln
gasworks. Berlin authorities deny that
raiders reached centre of city ; say bombs
fell on apartment houses in northern dis-
tricts and further raid driven off from
Wesermunde. Tons of high explosives
dropped on Hamburg naval docks ; fires
started at Bremen and heavy bombs hit
naval barracks at Wilhelmshaven. Air
Ministry announces the use of celluloid
“leaves” to fire German forests and mili-
tary objectives. Other raids on Brussels,
concentrations of shipping at Ostend and
Boulogne and numerous railway junc-
tions.
September 1041: Another great raid
on London lasting 8* hours, followed by
daylight raids. Fires started in city ware-
houses and at points along the river ;
casualties (Sept. 11), 18 killed, 280
wounded. Goebbels boasts that 2500
German machines would rotate four times
a day between London and their supply
bases in France. Churchill announces
that R.A.F. and R.N. are ceaselessly ham-
mering German troop and shipping con-
centrations intended for invasion.
R.A.F. attacks Berlin at midnight,
dropping bombs on the old Reichstag
building, the Tiergarten, the official
quarter of the Wilhelmstrasse, the
Chancellery and the Potsdammer Platz
and railway station. Germans announce
the destruction of works of art, hospitals
and apartment houses. Numerous fires
and casualties. Bomb drops beside
Goebbels’s house.
Italian raid (the first) on Tel Aviv,
Palestine, killing 112 and wounding 151,
including 55 children and an Australian
trooper. R.A.F. raids extending from
Tobruk (Libya) to Metemma on Libyan-
Sudanese border and Massawa and
Asmara in Eritrea.
September 11-12: Fifth great night
raid on London ; scores of fire bombs
dropped, and delayed-action bombs fall
outside St. Paul’s and N.Z. House in
the Strand. Explosions in Piccadilly and
Oxford Circus. Daylight raids follow
over London and other parts. Berlin
raided for 92 minutes, R.A.F. again
attacking Potsdam station and then work-
ing to the south-east to bomb the Temple-
hof, Berlin’s aerodrome. Berlin officials
admit that bombs were dropped in Tier-
garten and northern parts of city and
accuse R.A.F. of aiming at famous
monuments. Bremen and Hamburg also
raided ; extensive fires started and many
persons killed and injured. Bombs on
Calais, Boulogne and Ostend and on
barges and shipping concentrations there
and in various harbors.
Sept. 12-13: Bombs in Downing-street
(ineffectual) and on Buckingham Palace
on morning of Sept. 13, blowing crater
in the quadrangle, wrecking the King’s
chapel and injuring three of the Palace
staff. Somerset House, Rotten Row and
Berkeley-square damaged. Other parts
of Britain raided. Huge fires blazing in
Hamburg and Bremen, the result of
R.A.F. bombing. Systematic raids on
Ostend, Calais and Boulogne. Italians
announce “devastating raids on Solium
and Sidi Barrani, causing fires and heavy
destruction.”
September 13-14: Further daylight
raids as prelude to another all-night raid
on London. Fierce battle over south and
south-west England ; one person killed,
20 wounded in Eastbourne. At midnight
on Friday Londoners had been under
cover for 14* hours. Buildings reported
to have suffered damage include House
of Lords, Westminster Abbey (a window),
and the home of the S.A. Agent-General.
Germans fail in three daylight attacks on
London, the largest with 200 bombers
and fighter escorts ; they lose 18 ’planes,
the defenders nine. German losses in
attacks on London for week till midnight,
September 13, 263 machines ; British, 62.
September 14-15: German night raid
on London, 10 p.m. Saturday to 4.30
a.m. Sunday; all clear until 1 p.m. Sun-
day. Three short raids in the afternoon.
Four more bombs dropped near Bucking-
ham Palace without damage; raider
blown to pieces. Several enemy ’planes
brought down in London suburbs. St.
Paul’s saved; heroic party extricates
huge time bomb. R.A.F., with R.N.,
makes 24-hour attack on German har-
bors and bases, smashing convoys and
port works. More fires at Libyan
seaplane base of Boma ; attacks on other
Italian N. African bases. Italians admit
R.A.F. heavy attack on their advancing
troops on Egyptian border ; claim two
Blenheims shot down, also that their own
’planes dropped bombs on Malta arsenal,
THE SERVICE MAN
Invasion Threats.
“Ek D: The long-threatened in-
vasion of Britain seems at last to have
become an immediate issue. There was
talk of an attempt in August at the full
moon. American reports allege that
one was made, but this is denied.
Mr. Churchill said on September 11
that invasion was evidently intended;
that hundreds of self-propelled barges
were moving down the northern Euro-
pean coast, dodging from port to port,
while large convoys of German merchant
ships were being moved through Dover
Straits under protection of the heavy
guns of Boulogne and Calais, and that
there were considerable gatherings of
ships in all the enemy’s harbors from
Hamburg to Brest. Preparations for in-
vasion from Norway were also to be
seen. Behind the shipping concentra-
tions, German armies were standing-to.
The P.M. emphasised the enemy’s need
for quick action, due to the fact that
the weather might break at any moment.
An obvious explanation of the cease-
less bombing of London is that it is
aimed at diverting attention from the
coasts to the capital and at disorganising
the administrative and military heart of
Britain. There have been heavy bom-
bardments of Dover and the adjacent
countryside ; at the same time there have
been concerted movements of Italian
armies at three points in the Middle East,
the greatest forces being those on the
Libyan border directed towards the
Mersa Matruh railway. On September
9 the Italians made a savage attack on
Tel Aviv, which could have been aimed
at no military objective save the units
and the organisation of the A.I.F., which
by that time apparently was not in the
vicinity. In that raid 112 innocent per-
sons were killed and 151 wounded.
It was reported from Rome on Septem-
ber 13 that the attack on Egypt had
already been begun, and on September 15
that Italian armies had crossed the border
and had occupied Solium, a village
(burnt out) with a disused anchorage,
10 miles inside Egypt, which Australians
who took part in the campaign against
the Senussi in the last war well
remember.
Ansaldo, who directs Ciano’s news-
paper “II Telegrafo,” referred to a mys-
terious telegram from Alexandria which
would “prove a bigger bombshell to
Britain than the German bombs.” Alex-
andria, however, was intact when last
heard of, and the only reports of African
fighting away from Libya concerned the
bombing of Mersa Matruh on September
11, attacks by Kenya patrols on a 200-
mile front and the shelling of Italians
on the Eritrea-Sudan border, where an
Italian drive from Kassala towards
Atbara and Khartoum is expected,
together with some minor naval and air
clashes.
Nevertheless, there were at the week-
end signs of synchronised movements by
the German fleets in North Sea harbors,
ceaselessly attacked by British ships and
bombers, and by the Italians in Libya,
Eritrea and Kenya. The full moon was
due in England on the evening of
September 16, on the eve of the anni-
versary of the day on which Hinden-
burg drove the Russians out of East
Prussia.
In England on Sunday night 3,000,000
troops stood ready, and in Egypt troops
were marching in from every port as the
transports came to anchor. Journalists
on the Continent reported that Hitler
had summoned the neutral and German
press to witness his invasion. But hun-
dreds of miles of coastline held by him
was shaking to the thud of British bombs,
and Berlin, Hamburg and Bremen were
still putting out fires started by the
R.A.F., while great new fires had been
sighted between Calais and Dunkirk. And
in the sea round Le Havre, Boulogne,
Dunkirk, Ostend, Antwerp and other
ports there was wreckage from the Ger-
man troop barges and convoys which the
British Coastal Command and the R.A.F.
and the R.N. were battering.
Diggers Back in Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: A little over 25 years since
their fathers first trod the streets of
Cairo the second generation of Diggers
throng the city.
They were given something that was
more like a welcome home than a greet-
ing by a foreign population, for the
Egyptians got on very well with the A.I.F.
during the last war and the Digger is
remembered along the Nile as a spender
without peer normally a good-natured
fellow but in moments of anger gifted
with the kick of a bull camel.
The troops went straight to a camp
which had been partly prepared for them.
They found the canteen in working order
and flowing Australian beer. And every
man, whether he had credit in his pay-
book or not, was given at least ten shil-
lings with his leave, and every pub from
Shepheards downwards was soon under
the impression that it was seeing ghosts.
It needed only a good sandstorm to
bring back the old-time atmosphere in all
its glory, and the sandstorm was forth-
coming.
When the new forces arrived they were
not without seasoned compatriots to show
them round. A.I.F. anti-aircraft batteries
have been in Egypt for some time taking
part in an air war of which little is heard
but which is almost continuous. Sporadic
raidings and reconnaissances go on day
and night in calm or storm from Tobruk
to the Suez Canal, interspersed with
occasional major raids on the Mersa
Matruh railway, Alexandria and the
Canal on the Egyptian side, and on
Bardia and Tobruk and Boma on the
Libyan side.
The Palestinian brigades in turn were
reinforced by a new influx which arrived
fresh from Australian cities and includ-
ing all arms—R.A.N. men going to join
the substantial H.M.A.S. convoy which
has been covering itself with glory in the
Mediterranean, additions to the A.I.F.
and the first R.A.A.F. men.
Sir Arthur Longmore, the R.A.F. Com-
mander in the Middle East, himself is
an Australian, and many other Aus-
tralians are among the senior command
staff. So that Australia occupies a privi-
leged position in the most Imperial sec-
tion of the British fighting forces, and
the R.A.A.F. chaps complete the Middle
Eastern aerial family party in which
squadrons from Britain, Australia, S.
Africa, Rhodesia, India and Kenya and
Egypt itself are now arrayed against the
massing Italians.


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WILL SHARE PRICES STAY UP?
FACTS AND FIGURES FOR THE INVESTOR
September Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Great Record
With the extension of services to Thurs-
day Island from Cairns, Australian com-
mercial aviation companies are now
covering 26,000 miles of air routes, if the
Sydney-S’Africa route operated by Qantas
Imperial is included. It is possible to fly
from Thursday Island to Perth in just
over three days, from Melbourne to
Perth the same day, from Perth or
Sydney to Darwin in two days. Brisbane
is in the same-day range with Adelaide
and Hobart.
In Commonwealth Government sub-
sidies the companies received £389,000
in 1939-40. Most of this was payment
for the carriage of overseas mail, but
commercial aviation proved its worth in
other ways.
Air Minister Fadden in his annual
report remarks that “by moving hun-
dreds of naval, military, air force men
and tradesmen to strategic positions at a
moment’s notice the services have shown
themselves of great military value.” And,
with one exception, they were given with-
out disorganising regular commercial
traffic.
During the year the subsidised sys-
tems flew 7,791,000 miles and carried
101,548 passengers—l,o47,ooo miles was
on the Singapore route, 258,000 by the
Rabaul mail, and 6,451,000 miles inside
the Commonwealth. During the twelve-
month—actually during 15 months —there
was not a single accident involving loss
of life. A performance of which the
companies and their pilots and the Civil
Aviation Department can be proud.
“Goode Island”: Thursday Island
won’t know itself when the Airlir;es-of-
Australia concern opens the air service
from Cairns on September 16. T.I. with
its few pearlers, its nest of Torres Strait
pilots, its goats and its pubs boasts the
smallest cathedral in the Commonwealth
—memorial to victims of the Quetta
wreck—and the smallest newspaper, the
Torres Strait “Pilot.” All it needs now
is a first-class pub for tourist traffic and
some advertising; for a back-to-nature
holiday there is no better spot in the
Commonwealth. T.I. has everything—
the color of the East, adventurers by the
score, sharks, crocodiles, sea breezes,
great fishing on the reefs and Cape York
and a dozen historic spots within easy
reach.
* * * *
“Rosewood”: The fertile Lockyer (Q.)
between Ipswich and Rosewood will miss
the venerable figure of Lutheran pastor
Heinrich Wallat, who, at 91, has been
burnt to death with his wife, eight years
his junior. Pastor Wallat was a relic
of an age when the people of the German
districts spoke German to a man, when
the pastor was the arbiter of all matters
of difference, the go-between who solved
problems with the Government, and who
often decided who was to be married to
whom and saw the good work done.
Ordained 71 years ago in Germany, he
had been in Queensland 50 years, and in
an earlier day his plodding nag was a
familiar feature on all the roads of the
district. He had always preached the
doctrine that an immigrant must become
a loyal citizen of the country which he
adopted as his home. He lost his life
trying to save his wife when an over-
turned lamp set his house on fire.
“Clayfield”: Brisbane City Council
may be extravagant in many matters, but
it certainly does not overpay its senior
officers. J. C. Slaughter has been
appointed town clerk of Brisbane at
£lOOO p.a. The previous incumbent got
£llOO. Slaughter was a junior clerk in
the Ithaca Council; then shire clerk at
Inglewood and Gatton, and town clerk
at Coolangatta and Bundaberg. During
his four years in the last position he col-
lected 100 p.c. of rates due without apply-
ing legal pressure to delinquents, chiefly
by means of a system of discounts and
concessions for prompt payment.
* * * *
“Balander”: Angliss, the meat man,
who has been looking over his properties
round the Towers, reckons Australians
have in eight years increased their beef
consumption from 1001 b. to 1431 b. a head
a year ; thus 725,000 extra head of cattle
are needed to meet local consumption.
“George Was always ambitious!”
Generally, Queensland cattle graziers
have had a good year for feed, and there
is a growing call from the south for beef.
Angliss, who should know, believes the
local demand will reduce supplies avail-
able for Britain and sees in this a great
chance for northern cattle-raisers.
* * * *
“Norther”: Queensland’s Bureau of
Industry doesn’t agree with the popular
opinion that only people on lower in-
comes have children, but it does suggest
the possibility that herding people in big
cities reduces the birthrate:
The most striking differences in fertility
are not between income groups, but between
rural and urban areas.
Looking into the influence of incomes
on offspring ratio, the Bureau found that
the average number of dependent chil-
dren per married male is 1.36 for in-
comes below £250, rising sharply to 1.72
for incomes between £3OO and £350.
After that there is a falling-off in the
middle-income class. Information re-
lating to high incomes can’t be got from
tax returns because of tapering off in
exemptions.
Unfortunately, no detailed conclusions
can be drawn because of the lack of classi-
fication by age and sex of income-earners.
Sticking up for its rural v. urban theory,
the Bureau states that in Queensland,
where 70 p.c. of the population lives
beyond the city gates, the net reproduc-
tion rate was 1.16 in 1939, chiefly because
the rural rate was 1.47 and the urban
rate 0.90. Even in rural areas “there are
significant differences between the farm-
ing and non-farming populations.” Evi-
dently Australia needs a “back to the
land” movement for more reasons than
are apparent at first glance.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Malay crews recruited
from the Aroe Islands (Dutch N.G.) for
the Darwin pearling fleets have enthu-
siastically adopted one habit of the oremg
Australie —they are setting about form-
ing a union. The attractions of Austra-
lian employment are the better food and
higher wages as compared with local
rations of rice, katjang hijau (a small
dried bean which protects against beri-
beri), isi sipoet (dried oyster meat) and
a little bread and tea, with the equivalent
of 30s. monthly and likely to be less very
soon. They return to their home towns
a stone or more heavier apiece and
bravely attired in latest gent.’s wear as
obtainable in Darwin, complete with 10-
gallon hat and brilliant socks. Admiring
fellow-citizens follow them round pro-
claiming them as dia orang kya betul,
those very rich men. But riches have
wings, and in a few weeks the plutocrats
are back to sarong, rice and dried fish,
glad to earn a few coppers at cargo-
humping for the Chinese merchants.
Prospects of solidarity are therefore very
poor.
H: H= H= *
“Darwarb”: In black dust and high
humidity Darwin’s first race meeting
in six years went off with a bang. About
1000 attended, and the Red Cross and
Comforts funds got £4OO out of it. All
arms of the Services were represented
officially, and Major-General Lavarack
and Acting-Administrator Giles moved
among the sweating bookmakers. You
can’t hide form at Darwin races, no
matter what the hide it’s in, and odds-on
was the best about most favorites, with
plenty of even money you couldn’t pick
one-two. The class war broke out in
full fury when the dog of a local business
bigwig took to that owned by the
N.A.W.U. organiser in front of the grand-
stand (hessian), and there was a rush
from the publican’s booth to watch them
Those responsible reckon they can hold
a meeting a month next year.
* * * *
“23-4”: Three weeks after blood tests
had shown that there had been a mix-up
in babies at Mt. Isa hospital (B. 28 / 8 / ’4O)
another woman turned up to declare that
she was convinced she had been given
the wrong baby in 1936 at the same
hospital. A half-caste Australian, she
swears she was given the child of a
Finnish, woman who was in the hospital
at the same time, and it is being freely
alleged that when the Finnish woman
took the baby home her husband gave
it a look and departed for parts unknown.
The Finnish mother and the child are
now believed to be in Finland, and
though a reporter who saw the half-caste s
child declared its features and coloring
to be typically Finnish, the chances of
obtaining a blood-test seem decidedly
small. Medical assurance that it would
be possible for her to bear a fair child
have not convinced the half-caste.
* * * *
“W i ppegong”:
Applause for “Scat”
(B. 4/9/’4O) for his
denunciation of
wordy inscriptions.
The model he quotes
stands in the heart
of our biggest city;
another, worthy of
mention, stands in
the heart of our
continent. Where
the Todd swings its
double line of river-
gums close to the
corner of the flinty
cricket ground at
Alice Springs is a
little obelisk bearing
the lines: “In
Memory of Henry
George Wilkinson,
Resident and Friend
of Central Aus-
tralia.” Frills never
did appeal to the
people of those
parts.
He He
“Ackami”: Stationed in an area where
the temperature seldom falls below
75deg., the feelings of troops at Darwin
couldn’t be expressed in the worst Bul-
letinese when cases of comforts were
opened up to reveal woollen scarves,
waistcoats, mittens and Balaclava hel-
mets. What the troops could manage
would be some fresh fruit, of which little
is obtainable, and that at prices from 2s.
to 3s. a dozen for apples and oranges.
Smokes and stationery are always wel-
come, but woollen wearing apparel is
definitely out. Even the baby’s bottles
and napkins which greeted the eager eyes
of the troops opening comforts parcels
in Egypt would have been of some use.
Napkins make useful sweatrags and the
bottles would hold beer. It only needs
the south to send up some hot-water
bottles to confirm our opinion of it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped-
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
H.W.M.: An idea, but it’s thin and gassy
as lemonade... .1.8. C.: Nearly found a perch
for the bird... .E.J.8.: That theme needs fresher
treatment .... T.M.S.: Try elsewhere ....
E.M.R.: In line 19 and elsewhere it plunges
into prose... .J.8.C.: Indistinguishable f ro P)
all the others saying “Britain, heroic land,
grim is the hour”... .F.L.: “I have intentions
of furthering my efforts along this line.
Tut W.M.F.: Close L.McL.: Remove
centaurs and town boys... .K.C.: 111 sit in
his soul.” Not here... .J.J.P.: The Digger
who fell for Elaine is staggering home....
GM L : Cute remarks of Little Blossom
had the Children’s Editor playing peep-bo with
the w.p.b G.M.L.: There’s too much of
“Multum in Parvo” J.F.: Thanks....
M.J.F.: Don’t like the demons.. . .M.J.S.: It
doesn’t blaze as it should... .L.L.H.: “Fields
the nearest....H.E.B.: How did the magpies
get on the rafter?...-P-K.: Can’t refuse the
first spring poem:
Oh, the wattle-oh, the wattle-oh,
I’ll go and see the wattle-oh,
It stirs me to the heart.
In fact, we’ll finish it for you:
If I can find a bottle-oh, a bottle-oh,
I’ll go and stoush that bottle-oh
And pinch his blooming cart.
G.T.: There was no mistake M.J.M.:
Only the lady can adequately reward the tramp
who, camping in a graveyard vault, found her
buried alive... .E.D.S.: “Whoa!” then....
R.C.: Didn’t like the chap who saw every-
thing upside down... .J.L.: Dodged the film-
struck flapper... .R.R.: Nothing here for th
pug with the permanent wave JT.I.;
They’re going home to roost... .D.S.•
“Shucks! ”it is F.T.M.: Flapper fodder.. • •
C.W.: Re-read it and repent J.J.: Not tar
off; keep trying... .M.T.W.: Doubtless “Ben>
vitality was amazing and a matching vivacity
rendered him a sparkling personality,” but we
weren’t dazzled.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.S.: That wheeze celebrated its cen-
tenary this year... .8.R.: Better than mos
first efforts, but that’s not enough...
Patriotism is sounder than workmanship-• ••
O.B.: Decorative only E.R.: As dull as a
family album R.R.: Jests might have strayee
from an old music-hall joke book
Even the w.p.b. is growing weary of that chest-
nut C.D.: We’re taking out a prohibition
order against that class of joke... .HA.
Shows humor and imagination, but is
constructed... .E.J.M.: You’re found guily
attempting to pass off a recent Bulletin
R.G.: Send your fashion-plate flappers ‘
one’of the women’s mags K.R.: Call an
remove the corpse... C M. : Try sornethm
less fantastic... .V.P.: Joke has a decayed an
musty 5me11....L.E.: Improve your Imeworu
.D.H.: Suggest that you do not draw ai
other barmaid until you come of age.---
A.S.C.: We decline to be dismal with you.---
E.L.J.: Try elsewhere.


Mrs. Atkins is doing war work
Her Cooker is an AGA
f
a
-v.
m
:
I
Since Mrs. Atkins bought her AGA
Cooker she has leisure not previ-
ously enjoyed—for the AGA
Cooker will bake, boil, braise, fry,
grill, toast, stew, steam, and roast
at a moment’s notice. Continuously
alight day and night, oven and hot-
plate temperatures are always “just
right.” A complete dinner can be
left in the large cooking oven to
cook by itself. This oven looks after
most of the cooking usually done
on top and also makes possible
overnight cooking.
In addition, the AGA is the most
economical cooker in the world.
The model “C,” illustrated, is
guaranteed to burn not more than
£3 worth of fuel (with coke at 30/-
a ton) in a whole year. Think of
it—2d. a day. It is so inexpensive
to run that the savings in fuel it
effects make its purchase a sound
investment.
e
We shall be (pleased to demonstrate the astonishing qualities
of the AGA Cooker if you call at our showrooms If you
cannot call, write for illustrated AGA Booklet R 9.
Levin & Co. Ltd. Established 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.),
45 King St., Sydney; 432 Bourke St, Melbourne;
and l at Wellington, N.Z.
South Aust. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
B.E.F. Men Parade.
In the hard sunshine of a droughty
September Sabbath, about 40,000 Sydney
people packed the R.A.S. ground,
attracted by the magic combination of
“Dunkirk” and “8.E.F.”
Headed by an Australian guard and
the inevitable dogs (a big white marched
with the Australians and refused to leave
them), the Tommies brought down the
house. In their rear rank marched a
squat little man with enormous outward-
turned feet, an irresistibly comic figure
as he padded along, until one realised
that those feet probably carried him into
Belgium and out of Dunkirk and would
plod on as comically but as gamely into
whatever new battles the future holds for
him. Then he became a symbol.
They paraded with a snap and pre-
cision that brought waves of applause,
marched past and performed evolutions.
Certain the whole thing was for their
special benefit, the four dogs waved
their tails—except one that had no tail
and got along on three legs—and strutted
as importantly as anybody. Those canines
missed nothing, not even the one that
dropped for a rest and was stood upon
by a large English boot as the parade
moved off. There was nothing else to
see, but the crowd, having come to see
part of the B.E.F. and having seen it,
went home to its tea perfectly satisfied.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Attack on the Steinway
Narrowed down from 900 entries,
seven competitors, six of them young
ladies, valiantly struggled with the Stein-
way at the Melbourne Town Hall last
week in a pianoforte concerto competi-
tion, the job of weeding out having been
rigorously performed at the University
Conservatorium.
The house was crowded and eager,
the atmosphere electric and the contes-
tants trained to a hair and keyed up to
the minute. They had the assistance of
Bernard Heinze and the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra. In between the
concerto items a variety of soloists
fought for supremacy in the prizeless
vocal division. William James sat at a
little table in the body of the hall ad-
judicating with his ears distended, and
Mancel Kirby and W. H. S. Lamble sat
in a secret room judging the contest
from the point of view of that important
person the radio listener.
The predominant feeling was utterly
different from the ordinary “celebrity”
concert with the audience already pre-
disposed by press propaganda in favor
of the Great Conductor and the Famous
International Virtuoso. The only thing
that was lacking was a posse of bookies
calling the odds in the foyers.
All the profits went to the Red Cross
and Comforts Fund and the winner got
a mere five guineas donated by a haber-
dasher.
A brilliant display of young Australian
talent resulted. Present commentator
liked the concerto in G major of Beet-
hoven, played by Marjorie Summers, and
the Symphonic Variations of Cesar
Franck by Mavis Ward; but then he
may be prejudiced in favor of those com-
posers. Both prizes went to Jean Star-
ling for her performance of Rachmanin-
off’s Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini.
* * * *
“Ladies in Retirement”
This play at Melbourne Comedy starts
off with pretensions to being a study of
human psychology. Leonora Fiske, a
gay blonde verging on middle age who
has been in the chorus, lived the naughty
life and been left money by one of
her admirers, has retired to an old house
in the marshes of the Thames estuary
with her spinster friend, Ellen Creed,
who is the sole support of two elder
batty” sisters, Louisa and Emily.
Leonora is induced to allow them to
come to stay, they find moral objections
to her past and make such nuisances of
themselves that, unable to control the
situation, she determines to turn them
out, which rouses the loyalty and com-
Pa !i Sl0 c en - A battle royal ensues
and Ellen creeps down at night and
strangles her friend while she is sitting
at the piano trying over a tune from a
new comic opera.
Having put the body in a disused oven
and bricked it up, Ellen gives it out that
the murdered woman has gone away on
a holiday and tells her sisters she has
bought the house. Complications then
arise with the dead woman’s bank, a
local convent and a spry young nephew
of the spinsters who has committed a
burglary, has the police after him and
makes the house his sanctuary. By a
series of ruses he forces Ellen to confess
the murder, then blackmails her; but
when she makes it clear that a desperate
woman who has committed one murder
would find a second no great matter
he clears out for Canada. The house-
maid, who is privy to the crime and
in love with the nephew, rushes after
him, a nun reports that the police are
approaching, and Ellen deserts her sisters
and runs out into the marshes, presum-
ably to commit suicide.
Halfway through the audience’s atten-
tion is shifted from the human problem
and focused on the murder hunt be-
tween Aunt Ellen and nephew, but one
is forced to admire the skill of authors
Edward Percy and Reginald Denham in
inventing new devices to replace the
shopworn situations of the conventional
crime story. Also worthy of admiration
were the consistent emotional tension of
Marie Ney as the protective sister, Ruby
May, thoroughly at home as Leonora,
John Stacy, good as the spry nephew,
Ethel Gabriel and Catherine Duncan, a
touching pair as the sisters sharply dif-
ferentiated in their mental obsessions.
The entire cast is Australian, and Alec
Coppel, the Australian playwright, fresh
from London, made an excellent job of
the producing,
* * * *
Second “celebrity” concert at Mel-
bourne Town Hall provided one of the
most engaging programmes of the series.
Eight of Beethoven’s symphonies have
been heard so often that it’s a wonder
the Town Hall doors don’t creak them.
The first has been neglected, and Ber-
nard Heinze’s baton made it an enchant-
ing experience.
Second highlight of the evening was
Oscar Natzke, the singing blacksmith
from Maoriland. An enormous, dark-
visaged fellow, with a nose like the prow
of a ship, a mouth like a trumpet and
a friendly, alert expression not unlike
his half-fellow-countryman, Chaliapin,
he produced from a chest of magnificent
proportions a bass so deep that it seemed
to submerge the auditorium in inky
waves. Anon it lilted and sparkled, and
it was never at a loss in dealing with the
maze of changing tempos and mixed
emotions of the “Possenti numi” from
“The Magic Flute” of Mozart and the
“La Calunnia” from “The Barber” of
Rossini. A crowded house signified its
approval with such vehemence that it
got the second song repeated.
AT THE TALKIES.
“AH This, and Heaven, Too”
Rolling along for two hours 20
minutes on the cartwheels of Bette
Davis’s always-astonishing eyes, this
Sydney Regent love-story is rather like
a nice funeral. It is slow, sad, seemingly
endless, and it’s not without some
grandeur.
Warner Brothers have taken a tip
from Sacha Guitry’s “Cheat,” and open
and close the film with Miss Davis, in
the character of a troubled governess at
an American girls’ school, narrating the
story of her life. Her pupils have found
an old newspaper showing that she once
figured in a first-class scandal in Paris
and are proceeding, in the amiable way
of small girls, to give her hell.
The governess begins to tell them all
about it, and, having listened patiently
for two hours, the girls fall weeping on
her neck, and Miss Davis, detaching and
drying herself, goes off to get engaged
to a parson.
During the two hours there’s a triangle
covered inch by inch with a minuteness
that gives the ancient situation consider-
able power. Charles Boyer is a French
nobleman with three small girls, an in-
fant son and a fruity, desperate, hysteri-
cal wife, whose alternate rages and im-
portunities drive him to distraction.
Enter Miss Davis, very demure, as
governess.
The children fall in love with her at
once ; gradually the father does. The
wife hates her at once; and she
gets madder and madder. After
several years of violent scenes, patient
suffering and the exchange of virtuous
sighs, duke murders duchess, and Miss
Davis, until Boyer poisons himself, lan-
guishes in dungeon deep as a suspected
accomplice to the crime. Then Yankee
parson comes to the rescue, the little girls
repent, and Miss Davis, holding hands
with parson, smiles sadly at the snow.
The acting, both of Miss Davis and of
Boyer, is splendid. Also the hysterical
duchess. Oddments of a priest and an
aged servant could have been much
better. The children, whose scenes with
the governess are of equal importance
with the triangle scenes, are sentimen-
talised, but fit the period atmosphere.
The little boy, when he’s dying of diph-
theria, doesn’t die —which is a consider-
able concession on the part of the film-
smiths.
* :I: * *
“Convoy,” Etc.
Sydney State has a dingdong bill, with
a realistic record of the war in one of
its most stirring aspects the convoy
work of the Navy the strong action
drama of this capitally balanced by an
uproarious support under the title of
“Scatterbrain,” using as a theme tune the
ditty of that name with which milk-oh
boys at the moment are letting the
roosters know it’s time to let the suburbs
know it’s time to turn over and have
another couple of hours’ camp.
In general outline “Scatterbrain” is yet
another film musicomedy concerning the
accidental discovery of a star. Inside
that outline it’s packed with witty
dialogue, and has tiptop people, headed
by Alan Mowbray, to put this over. Even
the plot has some originality, which it’s
hungry to expect in such concoctions.
Judy Canova makes a first-rate job of
a wild hillbillyess, and Eddie Foy gives
Mowbray good support in oral-cwm-
facial comedy. Directing in places is a
bit jumbled, but the total effect is violently
hilarious.
H= * * #
In the State’s main offering, “Convoy,”
there are many excellent sea shots. Action
is aboard a British cruiser, beginning with
the cruiser making port after a good job
of sub. sinking, and being ordered at
once over to Norway to lead a convoy
back.
On to the departing cruiser com-
mander, Clive Brook—comes the bounder
who, out in China, pinched Clive’s wife.
But this chap and the lady didn’t hit
it, and her presence now on one of the
ships that are being convoyed leads to
fair enough plot complications.
This yarn, however, is of interest only
in being a reasonably strong thread
through the documentary. The general
life aboard the cruiser, as well as that
on a tramp or two, a trawler, etc.; the
job of convoying, particularly the appear-
ance of a convoy; a sea battle ; sub.-
hunting and suchlike —all of this is finely
conveyed in clear, realistic photography.
One of the best bits is the ’tween-decks
depiction of European refugees in one
of the convoyed ships. They are singing
—not cheerfully, but nevertheless singing
—and the effect of this, their attitudes
and their expressions bring more home
to an onlooker than a vast amount of
word-depiction could do.
Sentiment, of course, is right to the
minute. As a result of this, and perhaps
appreciation of the fact that the film
turns the spotlight on to the sterling work,
the Navy is doing all the time, the audi-
ence burst into applause at the end.
* * « *
“Four Sons,” the latest Hollywood
anti-Nazi film, might have been designed
to bring home the futility of life under
a Nazi regime by its own morbid dreari-
ness. Tale deals with a Czechoslovakian
family: a mother, widowed in the last
war, and four sons who go their ways
like the little pigs of the fairytale. Num-
ber one son has every faith in the kindly
benevolence of the wolf and is duly con-
sumed. Second son prefers to remain
nootral, and follows a familiar path.
Third son tries his strength against the
wolf and becomes another dead son. But
the fourth son builds his house on the
other side of the broad Atlantic, and
of course survives under Gahd’s Own
Patronage. Don Ameche is the fourth
son —a role that should have been the
last thing on earth to give Don. Show-
ing at Sydney Plaza.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per Dacket. Packed by. FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through'
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
W ants.
Gentleman (39). Sydney, invalid pensioner,
office experience, able to type, seeks position.
—8195.
To buy second-hand textbooks on litera-
ture (short stories, journalism, etc.). Age or
condition immaterial. State price, title, author
and publisher.—B2l3.
To buy new or second-hand copies “Movie
Humor” or “Screen Fun.”—B2ll.
To buy books or other literature on running
cafeterias, luncheonettes, etc. —8212.
Chart issued during war of 1914-18 showing
color patches worn by the different units of
the A.1.F.—8194.
To buy Index Librorum Prohibitorum, Cen-
turia Librorum Absconditorum and Catena
Librorum Tacendorum, by Pisanus Fraxi, and
Nell in Bridewell, by Wilhelm Reinhart (trans-
lation from the German). —8229.
To buy Farm Accounts, published by The
Bulletin and now out of print.—*B234.
To exchange Golden Asse of Lucius Apuleius
(Adlington translation) for Moll Flanders.
Seven Pillars of Wisdom or Churchill’s World
Crisis (Vol. II) or other book or books. Also
wanted, Songs of a Sentimental Bloke, by
C. J. Dennis—Bl77.
Words of verse “The Song of the Flea.” —
8172.
Information Sought.
Names of Japanese battleships in service, and
some details concerning them ? —BOBI.
Kongo, Kirisima and Haruna, all 29,330
tons, carrying eight 14in. and 16 6in. guns
and eight sin. anti-aircraft guns, with four
torpedo tubes, i.h.p. 64,000, and a speed of 26
knots; Huso and Yamasiro, both 29,330 tons,
carrying 12 14in. and 16 6in. guns and eight
sin. anti-aircraft guns, with two torpedo tubes,
i.h.p. 40,000, and a speed of 22.5 knots; Ise
and Hyuga, both 29,990 tons, carrying 12
Min. and 18 5.5 in. guns and eight sin. anti-
aircraft guns, with four torpedo tubes, i.h.p.
45,000, speed not indicated; Nagato and Mutu,
both 32,720 tons, carrying eight 16in. and 20
5.5 in. guns and eight sin. anti-aircraft guns,
six torpedo tubes, i.h.p. 80,000, and a speed
of 23 knots.
* * * *
Is the money collected by and for the Aus-
tralian Red Cross Society used entirely for
sick and wounded Australians in the forces or
is a portion of it disbursed for the benefit of
men in other fighting forces as well as Aus-
tralians ?■ —7969.
Lady Gowrie, who launched the Australian
Red Cross Appeal at the outbreak of war,
stated: “I appeal for funds to enable the
society to carry out its humanitarian activities,
including therein service and assistance to the
sick and wounded of the armed forces of the
Australian Commonwealth, the British Empire
generally and its allies on active service in de-
fence of our country and our liberty and also
in respect of civilian casualties which may arise.”
* * * *
Are there French possessions in the Ant-
arctic ? —8073.
Yes, the territories and islands in the Ant-
arctic situated to the south of the 60th parallel
south latitude and between the 136th and
142nd meridian longitude east of Greenwich,
styled Terre Adelie, with an estimated area
of 400,000 square kilometres, which were for-
mally placed under French sovereignty by
Presidential decree of April 1, 1938.
* * *
Why is it that when anew British sovereign
takes the throne the coins then struck have the
image on them facing the opposite way to that
of the previous monarch? —8161.
All authorities seem to agree in the view
that there is no other reason for this pro-
ceeding than just custom that has developed
into tradition. As it was started by Charles II
it was believed by many that he desired to turn
his back on Cromwell by facing the opposite
way, Cromwell’s head on coins being to the
left. It may be mentioned that had King
Edward Vlll.had an English coinage the custom
would have been broken, as he had given
specific instructions that his head was to appear
to the left on his coins.
H* H*
When were Commonwealth estate duties in-
troduced, and what are the rates ? —BOB4.
The Commonwealth Estates Duty Assessment
Act came into operation on December
21, 1924, and provided for the imposition of a
duty on properties of persons who died after
the commencement of the Act. It is levied on
such of the estate as remains after the State or
States have had their cut. The rate of
tax is 1 p.c. of the value of the estate where
the total value exceeds £IOOO but does not
exceed £2OOO, and an additional one-fifth p.c.
for every thousand pounds or part thereof in
excess of £2OOO, the maximum being 15 p.c.
of the value of the estate. A reduction to two-
thirds of these rates is allowed if the
estate is left to the widow, children or grand-
children of the testator. The rates of tax have
remained unchanged since the inception of the
Act.
Polling figures of the A.I.F. abroad in the
two conscription referenda held during the
1914-18 war?— B23l.
At the first referendum, held on October 28,
1916, there were 133,813 votes by members of
the A.1.F., of which 72,399 were for, 58,894
against and 2520 informal. At the second,
December 20, 1917, there were 199,677 A.I.F.
votes, of which 103,789 were for, 93,910 against
and 1978 informal.
* * *
Must moneylenders be registered in N. S.
Wales ? —BO9O.
Under the Moneylenders and Infants’ Loans
Act, 1905, moneylenders must be registered at
the Registrar-General’s Office, Sydney, and they
must conduct their business only under their
own or their firms’ names, and at their regis-
tered offices. The term “moneylender” includes
every person or co. transacting the business of
moneylending, but it excludes licensed pawn-
brokers, registered friendly societies, institutions
incorporated by special Act of Parliament to
lend money, and banking and insurance com-
panies. The number of registrations in
existence during 1939 was 111.
* * * *
Where are the hottest and coldest parts of
Australia ? —8092.
The hottest area of the continent is situated
in the northern part of Western Australia about
the Marble Bar and Nullagine goldfields, where
the maximum shade temperature during the
summer sometimes exceeds lOOdeg. continuously
for days and weeks. The coldest part of Aus-
tralia is the extreme south-east of N. S. Wales
and extreme east of Victoria—the region of
the Australian Alps. Here the temperature
seldom, if ever, reaches lOOdeg. even in the
hottest of seasons, while in winter readings
slightly below zero are occasionally recorded.
$ * * ' $
How to conduct and adjudicate debates ?
8220
Teams usually consist of three speakers each,
one to affirm, the other to deny the question.
The leader of the affirmative speaks first, then
the leader for the opposition, and so on.
Speakers are usually allowed 15 minutes each.
In some cases the leaders are given the right
of reply (five minutes); if so, the opposition
leader speaks again immediately after his own
third speaker, and the affirmative leader closes
the debate. If there should be no right of
reply the last speaker (third for the negative)
is not permitted to introduce new material, but
must confine himself to rebuttal of arguments
and a summary of his side’s case; there can
be no new material in the replies. Adjudi-
cators have many and varied methods of award-
ing points. One is to have a maximum of
30 points to each speaker (20 for matter, five
for manner and five for method or arrange-
ment of material), and ten points for teamwork
—a possible 70 points for each side. If there
are replies, a maximum of 15 points to each
speaker in reply will be necessary—then 85
points in all. Speakers who exceed or who
fall short of their time limit should be
penalised. There’s a small booklet, The Art
of Debating, published in Melbourne by Robert-
son and Mullens; it would be found helpful.
* * * *
In poker what is the order of the hands
from the highest to the lowest? —B2ol.
Royal routine flush; routine flush; four cards;
full hand; flush; straight; three cards; two
pairs; pair; highest card or cards.
* * * *
(1) Can a Judge resign his office even if the
appointment be for life? (2) Do all the Judges
in Australia hold office for life ? (3) If not,
what are the terms of office in each of the
Australian States ? —BIB7.
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) High Court for life,
South Australia and Tasmania also for life,
Victoria till 72 years, N. S. Wales, Westralia
and Queensland till 70 years.
* * * *
(1) When, where and by whom were the first
motion pictures displayed in Sydney? (2) What
was the first Sydney theatre devoted entirely
to motion pictures, and when did it open ?
8173.
(1) By Carl Hertz, the conjuror, at the old
Tivoli on September 19, 1896. The subjects
included a view of the traffic crossing West-
minster Bridge, London, a burlesque of
“Trilby” and a round of a boxing match.
(2) The Salon .Lumiere, in Pitt-street, almost
opposite the Lyceum Theatre. There were 12
pictures to a programme and eight sessions
daily. It opened a few days after Hertz’s
arrival at the Tivoli.
* * * *
(1) What Australian wines are commonly
fortified? (2) What types may be regarded
as perfectly natural? —Bl7s.
(1) All sweet wines are fortified to retain
the sugar content. Unless wines containing
sugar are fortified to 35deg. by proof spirit
there is a grave possibility of secondary fer-
mentation, the yeast attacking sugar when in a
solution of a lower alcoholic strength than
that mentioned. The principal fortified wines
are port, muscat, Frontignac, sherries (sweet
and dry), and Tokay. (2) Perfectly natural
wines are claret, hock, burgundy and Chablis.
Sauternes contain a small degree of sugar, which
is retained by the presence of sulphur dioxide.
* * * *
(1) What is the basic wage in Q’land? (2)
Is it necessary for a person earning the basic
wage in Q’land to furnish income tax returns?
(3) Is it necessary for a person earning less than
£2OO a year (gross) doing small contract jobs to
furnish income tax returns ? (4) For how many
years back can a person be compelled to furnish
tax returns? —7746.
(1) Southern Division, Eastern District £219
p.a., Western District £238; Mackay Division,
£233; Northern Division, Eastern District £245,
Western District £264. Your town is situated
in the Southern Division of Western District.
(2) Yes. (3) Yes, persons resident in Queens-
land in receipt of a gross income from salary
or wages and/or income from property of
£l5O and upwards earned in or derived from
Queensland and sources outside Australia, and
persons carrying on any business, trade or
profession, no matter what the amount of in-
come for the year, are liable to render income
tax returns. (4) For any year since the in-
ception of the State Income Tax Act 1902.
* * * *
Who composed the English National
Anthem ? My father, when in Berlin before
the 1914-18 war, witnessing the changing of the
guard heard our anthem being played and im-
mediately exclaimed to his guide “Why, that’s
our National Anthem.” The German answered
“No, it’s not; it’s ours, but you use it.” —8098.
Words and music (not quite in their modern
form) are generally ascribed to Henry Carey,
who first sang the tune in public at a dinner
in London in 1740. Subsequently Dr. Arne
and Dr. Burney harmonised the tune. There
is a theory that Carey pinched the air from
one by Dr. Jan Bull or John Bull, in a manu-
script dated 1619, but the resemblance is only
slight. There is also a Purcell air (1696) that
has points of similarity. An attempt by the
Marquise de Crequi to claim Lully (1633-87)
as the author was quickly refuted. The tune,
rechristened “Lleil dir im Siegerkranz,” became
the Danish national anthem towards the close
of the eighteenth century, and a little later was
adopted by Prussia and then by Germany as a
national air. The Swiss national anthem has
the same tune. The Americans have also given
the tune quasi-national status, with words com-
mencing “My country, ’tis of thee, sweet land
of liberty.”
H: * *
Meaning of the terms “bulls” and “bears”
on the Stock Exchange? —Bl3o.
In the slang of the Stock Exchange “bulls”
are men who have bought stock for future
delivery, hoping to sell at a profit. “Bears”
are men who have sold stock which they do not
possess, hoping that a fall in prices will enable
them to buy at a profit.
* * * *
Can a N.S.W. publican sue for an amount
booked for liquor consumed in a public bar ?
—B2IO.
No, the Liquor Acts . provide that “No
licensee shall maintain any action for or recover
in any court any debt or demand for any liquor
sold or disposed of in any less quantity, at
one and the same time, than two gallons of
one and the same, unless such liquor has been
lawfully sold or supplied by such licensee to
bona fide lodgers or travellers.”
* * * *
What is the significance of the patches on the
Dutch national costume? —8159.
There is no such thing as the Dutch national
costume, all costumes in the Netherlands being
regional or local and about 170 different cos-
tumes still being worn. Presume you refer to
the patched costumes of Dutch fishermen. The
patches of these garments have no significance
at all but are applied to cover parts that have
been worn out or damaged.
* * * sf:
(1) Age and educational qualifications neces-
sary to become a subsidised-school teacher in
N. S. Wales? (2) Salary and conditions of
employment ? —8122.
Subsidised-school teachers must be at least
16, and must possess educational qualifications
up to the standard of the N. S. Wales inter-
mediate certificate. Subsidy allowed by the
department ranges from £2 10s. to £lO per
month, according to the average attendance
of pupils. The parents must provide free
board and lodging, but the question of any
payment to be made by them is a matter for
private arrangement between parents and
teacher.
& % % %
(1) What test must be passed by a girl seek-
ing employment as an office assistant in the
N.S.W. public service? (2) Any exemptions
from tests? (3) Scope of tests? (4) Dates of
tests? (5) What tests in shorthand and typing
are held? (6) Age limits? (7) Wages? —Bl2l.
(1) Applicants will be required to pass a test
in English, dictation .and arithmetic. (2) Appli-
cants who hold the intermediate domestic
science certificate, the intermediate certificate
or the leaving certificate may be granted ex-
emptions from the stated subjects, with the
exception of dictation, (3) The papers of Eng-
lish, dictation and arithmetic will be as set for
intending trainees under the Nurses’ Registra-
tion Act. Copies of papers set at previous
examinations may be obtained from the Gov-
ernment Printer, Sydney, 6d., plus postage, and
will give a good indication as to the scope
and standard of the examination in these
papers. (4) The preliminary educational tests
are held as required—usually at three-monthly
intervals in conjunction with the examinations
of the Nurses’ Registration Board held for
intending nurses, and candidates are advised
as to the particular test they should attend.
Failure at the preliminary educational test will
preclude the applicants from further considera-
tion for employment. (5) Successful candidates
at the educational test and those granted ex-
emption from such test will be required to
undergo further test, in turn of registration
of application for employment, in shorthand
at 80 w.p.m. and typing at 35 w.p.m. (6)
Fifteen and a half years and under 19 years
at date of test (referred to in answer 2).
The board may at any time alter the age limits
without notice to registered applicants. (7)
The salaries prescribed by the Public Service
Regulations as at February 9, 1940: Commenc-
ing pay of £1 6s. lOd. per week, minimum at
21 years of age £2 7s. 6d., maximum of scale
£2 16s.
w


HTS
LYS
pßoor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
w
e
w
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON’T WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Small Crossbred Clips.
“Ovis”: The demand for crossbred
wools is always heaviest in war-time.
The classing of a small crossbred clip
—up to 100 bales or thereabouts —is
always a knotty problem, because it
usually shows more variety than a clip
of finer wools. Aim at straight lines,
even if they are small. Uniformity of
quality is the essence of success. Staple
length and style are secondary.
A suggested basis for a 70-bale clip
which produces eight divisions is:
AAA Cbk. —Well grown, attractive
60/64’s.
AA Cbk. —58’s quality; well grown.
A Cbk. —60/64’s of the shorter and
heavier types.
Super XB.—Regular 56 /58’s; well grown
and attractive.
AAA XB.—Duller and shorter; 56/58’s.
AA XB.—Medium or 50’s.
A X8.—44/46’s or anything stronger
than 50’s.
XB. —46/50’s; short and heavy in con-
dition.
Anything dingy or cotted should be kept
aside.
In a smaller clip the divisions might be
reduced to four, ranging from Super XB,
well-grown and attractive 56/58’s, to
A XB, in the 44/46’s count.
With prices up a keen classification of
coarser wools for specialist purposes and
careful division of qualities and types
pay good dividends. If it is not even
throughout the value of a bale is often
determined by the poorest wool.
Handling Dennis.
“P. China”: Always go for the front
foot. If Dennis is running, that will make
him stumble and he can be easily turned
on his back. If you grab a hind leg you
risk wrenching out the stifle. If he is
not over when first caught, reach under,
grab the other front foot and pull it
back under towards you. This and a push
away with your knees should finish him.
Don’t pull a pig out of a cart by the
hind legs. If he falls the loins may be
injured. If cart is less than 3ft. above
ground let him jump out; he won’t hurt
himself unless extra fat. If he must be
dragged out, do it by the ears or front
legs.
Pigs can be saved a lot of knocking
about if the race loading is on the long
side. A light hurdle is handy to push
in behind the pigs as soon as they are
in the race. As they move along, keep
the hurdle up to them.
If carrying pigs to market in a spring
cart, a couple of empty cases in the back
of the cart will keep the pigs up in the
front. If you have few pigs and a big
floor space in the vehicle, pack boxes in
to keep the animals from rushing about
or falling over one another. Don’t trust
ordinary wire-netting to keep them in
the cart, though a doubled issue, firmly
fastened, should do the trick. Best is a
proper rope net.
Mares in Foal.
“Wundi”: Aim at moderation in feed-
ing and exercise. Fat in the mares leads
to poor heart action, swellings and
foundering. Feed should be kept up,
especially in winter months. Oats are a
good staple, but oat feeding should be
tailed off as foaling approaches.
For the first six months there should
be little disturbance of the animal’s work-
ing routine. Afterwards care is needed,
and, though exercise should continue
regular, it should become lighter as the
months go on, and the diet should be
made more laxative. Replace the earlier
oat portion of the ration with bran,
unless there is plenty of green feed.
Watch the udder. In young mares
inflammation is more likely than in other
farm animals.
See that the foaling paddock is clean,
level, well sheltered and well grassed.
The Wheat Position.
Charles Shaw (Vaucluse, N.S.W.):
Optimists are fond of assuring Australian
wheatgrowers that the European wheat
crop this year is far below normal, and
that therefore Australian wheat will be
needed.
Europe’s crop is below normal, and
no doubt certain Continental countries
“Come an give us a ’and to get the ’oney, Ma.”
would be glad to get Australian wheat,
but they’ve little chance of doing so short
°f stopping the war. While that lasts
lb e Continent could chew its last grain
and the Australian grower would still
have his surplus,
And Australia is likely to be glad of
that surplus. Throughout the wheat
country, at a time when the crop is
ma de or marred by spring weather,
drought, becoming unpleasantly like that
°f 1914, is raging. A month ago eastern
agricultural experts were giving the crop
another fortnight without rain. That
rain basn t come, and early this month
there were a couple of days of hot north-
westerlies in the Eastern States that
meant the end of thousands of acres of
a crG p already wilting. Only in relatively
small areas can fair yields be expected,
Where stock had been turned in little
was gained ; the ground is so dry and the
plants so poorly rooted that they come
out of the earth like stubble. Fallowing
has had to stop on many farms, the
north-wester raising clouds of dust that
showed what would happen wherever the
powdery surface was broken. Eastern
coastal areas south of Kempsey (N.S.W.)
are in no better state. Deep gullies in
the Blue Mountains had floors of dust
in early September, and the fear of bush-
fires is ever present.
A note from Westralia on 6/9/’4O said
that extraordinarily good rains were
needed within a week to save the crops
and grazing lands. Except in a small
area, mainly in the Midlands, a crop
failure looked a certainty.
Looking into the European position at
the beginning of the month, Dr. Roland
Wilson, Commonwealth Statistician, said
that, though Russia would have substan-
tially better crops than the rest, it was
doubtful if she could count on a surplus.
Sweden’s crop was about half that of
last year, the Danube yields were well
below domestic requirements, the Spanish
harvest was about 40,000,000 bushels
below home needs, Turkey had a big
crop and Italy’s was satisfactory.
As far back as June the U.S.A. was
expecting good yields to offset reduced
acreage, and its export surplus is now
set down at 60,000,000 bushels. Canada,
with its carryover from the previous
season, may have more than 150,000,000
bushels for sale. Britain has agreed to
take 100,000,000 bushels of this in
1940-41.
In his speech at Glenelg (S.A.) Deputy
Prime Minister Cameron gave growers
the straight griffin as to what he —a
wheatgrower—thought of market pros-
pects and how the poor outlook could
be prepared against. His speech con-
tained some thought-provoking items:
There is relatively little disturbance of
the production capacity of a large part of
Europe. Import deficiency is a current one
and will not necessarily lead to an accumu-
lation of demand after the war. There
may be unusual demand then to relieve
likely widespread distress, but exporting
countries will have accumulated stocks,
and they will probably be sufficient to meet
that demand. After they have been met,
if Europe settles down again to grow her
own wheat, the big exporting countries will
again have their marketing problems.
He suggested a change to mixed farm-
ing wherever possible, and pointed out
that those who cried for Commonwealth
control of wheat-marketing overlooked
the obstacle of the State Governments
and their control.
So far, Australia has sold 60,000,000
bushels of its record 210,000,000-bushel
crop of 1939-40 to Britain, but much of
it will not be shipped until well into 1941.
This, together with home-consumption
needs and some sales on long-credit to
Oriental countries, should reduce the
Australian surplus to about 60,000,000
bushels by the time the leavings of the
present crop are stripped. Most of that
carryover may yet be required for home
consumption, a circumstance that could
lead to what nobody expected six months
ago—an appeal by whatever Government
is in power next autumn to “grow more
wheat.”
Is Flax Worth While?
“Fibre”: Flax was one of the first
crops in the thoughts of the early settlers
in Australia. One of the earliest ex-
porters of primary produce, Simeon
Lord, and a few of his friends schemed
to turn Maoriland into a large flax-grow-
ing estate. Nothing came of it. The
prospects in Australia are again being
canvassed.
Local needs, according to N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department, are about 1570 tons
of fibre p.a., which, on Victorian ex-
perience, could be produced on at most
9000-odd acres. Victoria already has
about 2000 acres of flax, and produces
enough seed to plant 8000 acres. It does
not seem that other States would have
much chance, even if the climate were
suitable.
Flax is a tricky crop. It is choicy
as to soil and likes free loams. Rota-
tional sowing is vital. Flax is peculiarly
subject to a fusarium wilt, the spores of
which live for years in the ground. It
is better not to grow the crop on the
same land more than once in four years.
The climate must be mild and humid,
with a regular rainfall. The best of the
world’s flax is grown in countries where
there is a certain amount of crisp cold.
The crop needs heavy seeding—7olb. to
901 b. per acre, put in through the fine
side of a wheat drill. It must have a
fine, firm seedbed, free of weeds, and
calls for plenty of attention.
And, on Victorian experience, flax will
make nobody’s fortune. In the Warragul
district, on land worth £25 per acre, cost
of production from virgin grassland to
factory is £6 4s. per acre, the yield being
two tons per acre of flax straw, which
brings £5 per ton at the factory, so that
the gross return is £3 10s. per acre —
where there is a mill. Most farmers can
do better with other crops.
“St. Helier”: Dairymen everywhere
are wondering what has happened to the
cattle of the Channel Islands, which were
probably of an average standard un-
equalled anywhere else in the world.
Jersey, Guernsey and Alderney were
virtually big stud farms from which all
the world drew cattle. Rumor says that
most of the cattle have been slaughtered.
Not likely. Most of the breeders re-
mained on their farms, and the Germans


QUO VADIS
(Whither goest thou ) yjj&ff
mis
iii
\
sx
N
5^
Are you trav-
elling in a
circle
merely WISHING for financial security or are you
taking the direct course—saving a few shillings at a
time, week after week. No matter how small your
income, you can have a Commonwealth Savings Bank
account ... a trusty standby in time of trouble —a
reliable safeguard against financial worry. Don't let
money "slip through your fingers”: invest it in peace
of mind! Open a Savings Bank account next payday!
There is a Branch or a Post Office Agency of this
Bank in every centre in Australia.
commomuffliTti
sfluinos BflnH
Jloob
. . . THEN LISTEN
Look I To see your Radio is
fitted with Australian-made
RADIOTRONS. This simple
precaution, at a time when
imports are restricted, is your
insurance of uninterrupted
enjoyment from your Receiver.
Then listen, and experience that
full tone realism which is re-
sponsible for RADIOTRON’S
leadership as the World’s
standard Valve.
AN ADVERTISEMENT of AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Public Notices.
AUSTRALIAN BARLEY BOARD.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
having in their possession, control or disposal
any Barley acquired by the Commonwealth must
deliver such Barley to a Licensed Receiver be-
fore September 30, 1940.
Barley acquired by the Commonwealth, how-
ever, does not include Barley of the variety
known as Skinless Barley nor Barley owned
and stored by growers on their own farms for
use by them as seed or as feed for animals or
poultry and which is not for sale excepting the
sale of seed barley from farmer to farmer.
Persons failing to make delivery before that
date are warned that (in addition to any
penalties to which they may be liable) the Board
will take such failure into consideration m
recommending payment of compensation.
DATED the Second day of September, 1940.
AUSTRALIAN BARLEY BOARD,
K. K. ANGEL, Secretary.
AUSTRALIAN BARLEY BOARD-
WARNING TO PERSONS DEALING IN
BARLEY.
GROWERS are warned that it is illegal to sell
or purport to sell, either crushed or whole,
barley that has been stored as seed or feed, ex-
cepting that the sale of seed barley fr° m
farmer to farmer is not prohibited.
Buyers are also warned that supplies must
be purchased from the Board or from persons
or companies authorised by the Board to sen
on its behalf. Offenders will be prosecuted
under the National Security Act and the Aus-
tralian Barley Board Regulations. n . n
DATED the Second day of September, 1W
K. K. ANGEL, Secretary.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the
soil.
mnnim
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OK GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk IS for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
I
are not the kind to waste good breeding
stock. Possibly some were taken to Eng-
land, but foot-and-mouth disease, which
struck the islands a little while ago, may
have prevented that.
“Ghanam”: A lot of the present
N.S.W. wool clip shows the brand of
drought. Cuts have been smaller on
the average, wool lighter, and costs are
up. Hand-feeding, agistment, extra drov-
ing and veterinary attention all add to the
burden, and on top of that there are
rising war taxation, patriotic calls, stock
losses, lower lambing drops and extra
labor for tree-lopping and other work
which arises out of the dry time. In a
e
Outback Occupations.
No. XXXV.
Opening the Hay Season.
“Are we goin’ t’ get a new binder this
year, Dad?”
You look at young Tom. He’s tall and
straight and beginning to look much like
a man, though he’s only 17. Last week
he gave you a terrible fright by asking
what you’d do if he sneaked away one
night, went to town and joined the A.I.F.
by giving a false age.
“Don’t you be silly, Tom,” you had
said ; “war’s no place for boys. You”
“Don’t keep thinkin’ I’m a kid, Dad,”
he had replied, his voice low and serious.
You hadn’t said anything, but it set you
thinking about when you were 17 and
feeling pretty much like a man.
“We ought t’ have a new machine, I
reckon.” His voice brings you back to
the present.
“Well, Tom, if things was different we
would get one. But it looks like a crook
crop, an’ there’s this war an’ more taxes
an’ everything. We’ll have t’ try an’
make the old one do.”
Tom looks hard at the old binder.
“Y’ know,” he says, “when I was two
I broke me wrist failin’ over that thing.
Reckon I’ve had it snouted ever since.”
“Well, you’ll have t’ keep on snoutin’
it for a while longer. We can’t afford a
new one.”
You pick up the canvas and set about
putting it on the machine. Tom helps
but doesn’t say anything. You know he’s
still thinking about a new binder, so you
don’t say anything either.
You lace up the canvas and push on
it to test the tension. The canvas tears
away at one end, and your hand plunges
down among rods and things, and you
bring it up with most of the skin gone
from its back.
“Well, anyhow,” says Tom when he can
make himself heard, “y’ better get a new
canvas.”
This is where you have Tom tricked.
You march to the house, get the new
canvas you bought last week and return
to the machine. Pretending not to notice
your barked hand, you shove it on, and
then go over the machine, oiling and
turning and screwing.
“We’ll give it a go,” you say, “after
lunch. You can do a bit o’ stookin’.”
“I’d sooner drive the machine.”
“So would I.”
Tom sticks his bottom lip out. You
wonder how these disturbances rise.
There’s young Tom, as decent a kid as
you’d find anywhere, but he just wants
t’ run the place. Thinks you’re too old
or something. Well, you’re still boss of
the joint, anyhow. You go to lunch.
“Mind y’ don’t trip over that lip o’ yours,
Tom.”
After lunch you get the three horses
in and head for the crop. It’s a bit
spindly. In you go, throwing the machine
into gear, trying to watch the horses and
the gear at the same time. Hay enters
the fingers and falls before the knife as
the beaters sweep down. The hay stays
in the fingers. It jams up there. Puzzled,
you examine the position. You’ve put
the canvas on upside down, and just as
you realise it there is a grinding, crack-
ing noise as the slats start hitting the bear-
ings. You pull up, looking under your
hat for Tom. He’s right there, wearing
an expansive smile. Ignoring him, you
get down and proceed to clear away the
mess and get to the canvas.
The damage isn’t very great, and soon
you’re ready again. You get on the seat,
speak to the nags and are away. Hay
trickles up to the packer ; you see the
knotter flash back and in ; the ejector
kicks ; the sheaf flies on to the carriage.
Good-oh!
When five sheaves are on the carriage
you trip the gear to drop ’em. A large
bundle of loose hay falls in a draggled
heap.
“Whoa!” You get down and feel in
the loose hay. There isn’t a sheaf
amongst it. About 100 yards of binder
twine straggles away behind the machine.
Binder twine is entangled all round the
knotter, in the chain of the canvas drive,
the ejector—everywhere you look there is
binder twine. And, of course, with his
arms folded and a grin behind his im-
passive countenance, young Tom stands
by.
“What are you lookin’ at?” you snarl.
“Aw, I’m just waitin’ t’ do a bit o’
stookin’,” he says in the airy way of
youth
“Are y’? Well, just amuse y’rself be
tyin’ this stuff up while I fix this knotter.”
You go to it, so does Tom. He has
gathered and tied the hay long before
you’ve got the knotter right.
Off once more, the machine carries you
steadily along the headland, throwing out
sheaves steadily. They’re a bit mixed,
and most of ’em seem to come unstuck
when they hit the ground, but you go
grimly on, thinking that ought to keep
that young pest busy for a bit.
You swing round the corner, throw
the machine into gear again and head
back into the crop. There is a tearing,
snapping noise. Barbed wire whizzes
past your left ear. Pieces of knife fly
about. The filly on the off side falls on
her nose, gets up and jumps forward.
The older horses jump with her. You
fall off the seat, bounce on the big wheel
cover and hit the ground, still holding
one rein. The tight rein pulls the moving
team round short so that the beaters and
knife hit a strainer post.
When the flurry dies down you have
some of a binder and three horses. More
binder is wrapped round the strainer
post. Young Tom has raced up.
“Who left that flamin’ barbed wire
there?” you bawl at him.
“Are y’ all right, Dad? Are y’ all
right?” he pants.
His face is white. Suddenly you don’t
feel wild any more.
“Go back t’ the house an’ get the car
ready,” you say gently. “I’ll get y’ t’
come inter town an’ give me a hand a’
see about a new binder, Tom.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4!|d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Names and addresses must be published in the case of letters touching on the
Commonwealth election.
For a timely bit of history salted with humor, a Queenslander gets the double
rates.
Food Adulterators
Measures of discouragement against
the habitual cheaters in foodstuffs de-
nounced by “P.0.M.C.” (B. 28/8/’4O),
were more thorough and much more in-
teresting in former days.
In 1319 a London butcher, Will Sper-
lyng, who brought to market two car-
casses of beef adjudged to be “putrid and
poisonous,” was put in the pillory while
the defective meat was burned under his
nose. Jane Tunning, who sold under-
sized fish, was made to ride down Cheap-
side on an ass, her face to its tail and
fish hung round her head. James Fori-
wright, a lightweight-bread seller, was
drawn on a hurdle through all the
dirtiest-possible streets from the Guild-
hall to his house with the faulty
loaf hung round his neck. John
Penroe sold unsound wine—his sen-
tence was to drink two quarts of it and
to have the rest poured over his head
as he sat in the stocks. The lapse of
John Furness in 1420 arose from selling
bad eggs. He stood in the pillory while
the balance of his stock was shied at him
by enthusiastic onlookers.
Cannot something on these practical
lines be included in Pure Food Acts
today? Penalties could be so arranged
as to enable them to be carried out under
conditions which would permit a charge
for admission, proceeds to go to the
national war fund or the Red Cross. In
cases such as that of John Furness addi-
tional revenue would be forthcoming
from retailing the eggs amongst the audi-
ence at so much a shy. — Colonel Bung-
starter (Q.).
Not Elizabethans
While agreeing with Frank Harvey (B.
28/8/’4O) concerning the danger of
weakening Australian unity by introduc-
ing refugees, one cannot help feeling that
he is wide of the mark in describing Aus-
tralians as being the modern equivalent
of the English Elizabethans.
The Elizabethans were not apes. They
were willing to learn from others, but
they would slavishly copy none. Their
politicians did not meekly follow another
batch of politicians ten thousand miles
away. They did not dress, as did the
people of Saxony and Jutland, just be-
cause their ancestors originally were
Angles, Saxons and Jutes. They did not
condemn the people of their own country
for speaking with the accent of their own
country. They did not import all their
literature and starve their own writers
rather than read anything written in their
own country. They did not import
singers while their own had to go else-
where to gain fame. They did not destroy
their woods and forests. They did not
despise the talent of their own country.
Nor did they import professors and lec-
turers to fill the seats of their universities.
They did not affect the manners, modes
of thought and the customs in general
of a country half a world away.
Best of all, they did not whine about
being weak and about being deficient in
raw materials. They were never heard
to say that if they were attacked by a
Power in their own ocean they would
need protection from the colonies across
the Atlantic. Instead, they armed to the
teeth, built ships, trained men and defied
the world.
No. If a parallel is to be found it is
with the weak darlings of the Restoration.
They mimicked overseas ways of thought,
dress and speech. Resultingly, they fell
into such a decline that when a foreign
monarch (with an English princess for
a wife) decided to grab the throne he
needed only a handful of followers—
along with an extensive Fifth Column in
the country—to help him do it.
If Australia would think for itself, use
its own talent, arm itself and be content
to breed its fighting men in the magnifi-
cent traditions of the Australian soldiers
of 1914-18 instead of weakly borrowing
the traditions (and even in some cases
the dresses) of English and Scottish regi-
ments that, no matter how fine, were
never composed of Australian soldiers
fighting for Australia’s honor in the
world, then we might be able to com-
pare ourselves to the Elizabethans. Until
the modern Restoration-like craze in Aus-
tralia for weakly aping overseas thought
and fashions and culture ends, we will
have no claim to be the modern inheri-
tors of the spirit of Shakspeare and
Drake.— Austfirst (S.A.).
This Refugee Problem
Frank Harvey states that the refugees
(or, as he calls them, “other nations’
‘unwanteds’ ”) “bring with them a cul-
ture unknown to this country, a cul-
ture which has produced a system of gov-
ernment that we are opposing today by
force of arms.”
History does not justify the assertion
that culture produces systems of. gov-
ernment. Many of these people come
from countries whose culture has
existed alongside, and in spite of, vari-
ous systems of government going back for
centuries, but it could not be said to
have produced those systems. Any people
who can bring culture to a country are
surely a welcome addition, and possibly
no country in the world, except perhaps
America, another young country, has as
little traditional culture as our own.
Again, these refugees, many of them,
bring gifts of scientific, commercial and
industrial value also to be welcomed
in this country —and if against this, as is
sometimes the case, others of them tend
to lower the standard of living, is not the
remedy still in our- own hands, our fac-
tory legislation, housing conditions Acts,
etc.?
No, Mr. Harvey, let us welcome these
people from a humanitarian point of
view, and give to them the courteous
treatment which is due from a people
who have a tradition for justice and fair-
play. They have much to give us, and
we have much to share with them. Also,
let us not forget that numbers of these
people, ousted from their own lands, have
thrown in their lot with Great Britain,
and are today fighting loyally on her side
against the evils which have wrought such
havoc throughout the world. —V. J. (Vic.).
Why Depend on Petrol?
An unlimited supply of petrol (by cour-
tesy of the U.S.A.) has been taken so
much for granted by most of the nations
now at war that a sudden drastic curtail-
ment is a rude shock. Maybe it will even
shock us into realising the folly of de-
pending entirely on the petrol engine for
road transport. It didn’t in 1914, even
though the steam car and electric
brougham were ready and waiting, with
probably better prospects of improve-
ment than the petrol car.
The steam car was sabotaged at a time
when it was already a dangerous competi-
tor in efficiency to the motor-car. There
are still a few old “steamers” on the roads,
bearing witness with 20 years of continu-
ous running to their rugged endurance.
Now that we have plenty of coal and
not much petrol, there should be scope
for their revival.
Why the electric road vehicle didn’t
develop is hard to say. It was certainly
simple and efficient enough, and
had less to wear out than the
motor-car. Possibly it was too
good for the kind of motorist
who likes something new and
classy to be seen in every year.
A car with the 30-year life
claimed for the electric vehicle
would hardly be suitable
psychologically, however econo-
mical it might be.
Oil interests have been
blamed for a number of things.
Whether they are entirely re-
sponsible for the development
of a complicated, cranky, evil-
smelling conglomeration of
machinery like the internal
combustion engine, at the ex-
pense of the simpler steam and
electric vehicles, is not ours to
inquire. But we should be cursing some-
body for it today.— Plum (N.S.W.).
Use the Men Who Know
In addition to enlisting the services of
leaders in the industrial and financial
fields, Australia should make use of men
who know the country itself. This thought
came to mind when I read that A. M.
Blain, M.H.R. for the Northern Territory,
was a gunner in the A.I.F. Few men
know the North as well as Blain does,
and, as the North must figure largely in
any defence scheme, his knowledge should
be available to the defence chiefs at all
times. He is being wasted as a gunner.
Idriess knows the North inside out. He,
too, should be available to the defence
authorities for consultation. With Blain
he could give much valuable advice on
the nature of the country, the availability
of water and so on.
Blain and Idriess are just two of hun-
dreds who could be of great assistance
in framing defensive measures. They
should be used, even if they are not pro-
fessional soldiers. It is not only in war-
time that their knowledge would be valu-
able, however. They could be extremely
useful when developmental policies were
being framed. — James Mahoney, James-
street, West Ryde, N.S.W.
Up with the Bourbons!
I notice an anti-Bourbon bias in The
Bulletin. It is well to remember that
since the French Revolution Paris has
been occupied four times by foreign
forces, a disaster that never happened
under the Bourbons. The 26 years of
almost continuous bloodshed (1789-1815)
took a heavy toll of Europe, and of
France in particular. When the Bastille
was attacked it was just about as derelict
as the Tower of London. Prisoners in
the Bastille were far better treated than
in English prisons. Bastille prisoners
were composed of the upper and middle
class, not the workers.
I forbear to criticise the third Republic.
Its record is too well known. —C. C. B.
(M.L.).
Trade with Java
Now that Java is finding it difficult to
obtain supplies from overseas, she natu-
rally must turn to ports nearer home. Aus-
tralia, just 3000 miles away, is not taking
advantage of this opportunity. The U.S.A.
is, but its products, although good,
are not to be compared with Australia’s,
especially in the canned and bottled lines,
where Australian goods are vastly
superior. What is the matter? Can’t
Australia afford one representative to
show what it has to sell and the quality?
The business is here if it is wanted.
Is Australia going to sit by and watch
somebody else get it? T. McCourt
(Java).
Abused Freedom
I am not a Communist. Indeed, I am
not a very radical thinker at all —just a
working man who believes in giving a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay ; but
recently I read a newspaper report that
sent my blood to nearly boiling point,
so that I realised how these revolution-
aries must feel.
A Sydney woman applying to the
Registrar in Divorce for an increase in
her alimony stated in an affidavit that
she needed £26 per week “to live in
proper comfort.” Such a statement in
war-time is absolutely revolting. When
one thinks of the men who are willing
to risk their lives for their country for
seven bob a day, and their wives try-
ing to keep the home fires burning on
reduced incomes, this sort of claim can-
not but cause indignation.
Not long ago a lawyer in Hobart sug-
gested that the miners would feel that
their country was worth defending if
their conditions were better. He was
accused of hindering the national war
effort and of being disloyal; but he was
only talking clear logic.
We have determined to make an
all-in effort to eliminate the Nazi
menace, and it should be exactly that;
and to me it seems that we absolutely
cannot afford to have people spending
£26 per week living “in proper comfort.”
We are fighting for freedom, but that
freedom should not be abused. — Invictus
(Vic.).
Cost of Babies
“Barwon” (B. 28/8/’4O) has greatly
exaggerated the cost of an infant’s arrival.
In Queensland, at any rate, the costs
are much lower. The Government has
gone to endless expense to provide up-to-
date maternity wards in general hospitals,
and the charges are well within the range
of the average man’s salary. If entering as
a public patient, seven guineas for 10
days is the charge, and this includes
the use of the labor ward and doctor’s
fee.
It is true the infant’s layout does run
into about £5, but those whose husbands
are only earning small salaries are com-
pensated to some degree by the Com-
monwealth baby bonus.
As for clinic emulsions, the baby clinics
give valuable advice to expectant mothers,
and if this is accepted and put into prac-
tice the emulsions are seldom needed.
That a specialist should be in attend-
ance is rather a social than a physical
necessity, for, after all, childbirth is a
natural process, not a disease, and it is
only in abnormal cases that such extra
expense is necessary.
If the average woman were to forgo
her lavish expenditure on cosmetics and
perms, the result would soon be suffi-
cient to buy the requirements for the
“little stranger,” and surely the reward
would justify the sacrifice.
The high cost of babies refers more to
the personal inconvenience and suffering
of having them rather than the financial
outlay, and is a poor excuse for renounc-
ing motherhood. —P. H. B. (Q.).
Father of Ten
Old Jack, a friend of mine, is a cor-
poration laborer. He was once in the
Post and Telegraph Department, but was
put off to allow of preference to returned
soldiers. Old Jack is the father of 10
children, all living. ' Therefore he is
Australia’s Public Enemy No. 1, con-
demned to a lifetime of self-denial and
hardship on the basic wage awarded to
a single man. Soilong as Australia per-
sists in treating Old Jack and his kind
in this way we can expect a high birthrate
to be highly unpopular.—T. G. (Q.).
For the Simple Life
There are many women with only
one or two children who would very
gladly have more. There are also many
women with no children at all who, far
from willing it so, are feeling that they
have been cheated by Nature. While the
modern girl is obviously far better
equipped than her Victorian predecessor
to face life without a husband, the facts
mentioned make me begin to wonder
whether, despite her athletic achieve-
ments, she is as fit for the job of mother-
hood as her mother and grandmother
were.
Can it be that vitality is being
lowered by the noise and hurry of our
modern life? Everyone is rushing to
keep up with everyone else, and too often
the wireless makes a perpetual accom-
paniment, even when nobody has time
“ 'Ad letter from my boay l'other side. 'E's drioin' a tank.”


“Don't drive off yet , mister —I ain’t ready.”
to listen to it. So, for the sake of the
country’s birthrate, why not try a quieter
life? For one thing, while economising
petrol, let’s go back to the old-fashioned
restful, not necessarily dismal, Sunday.
More relaxation, and then, perhaps,
more babies! — Number Five (S.A.).
In Defence of Marriage
By all means let us have marriage re-
form. But let it be a re-forming, a re-
making, of home life. What finer thing
can we do to prepare for post-war social
conditions than to sow the seeds of the
renaissance of respect for the home, and
for the dignity of married life? Could
we not delete from the film, the radio
and the press and from our conversation
all belittlement of the married state and
all glorification of divorce and the
grounds for divorce?
Could not our official educators teach
in our schools the value of the home and,
to pupils of suitable years, the dignity of
the married state, the need for an intel-
ligent choice of a marriage partner and
for a preparation for marriage, domestic,
cultural and spiritual?—P. W. (N.S.W.).
War Marriages
Can there be any chance for future
happiness in the present war-marriage
scramble? Ido not think so.
Girls today are swept off their feet by
the glamor of a uniform whilst its wearer
makes the most of the moment, fearing
there may be no future for him.
Girl wives are left to worry, more than
likely to face motherhood, with this bleak
outlook to bear. Is it any wonder if
they become nervous wrecks? The war
may last years. Different interests will
claim both husband and wife, who,
when the excitement of returning has
worn off, will not be content to settle into
a drab, monotonous life, but will crave
their free, independent days again.
Marriage must be built on the old-
fashioned virtues of mutual regard, re-
spect and unselfishness to survive in these
hectic days.— Old-fashioned (Vic.).
Flooding Lake Eyre
The scheme for flooding Lake Eyre
(B. 28/8/’4O) was rejected by those
who seriously examined it, not be-
cause of the cost but because of
other far more important considera-
tions. For one thing, there was no
proof that making it into a dinkum lake
once more (even if a sea-water one)
would make any appreciable difference
to the lake’s sin.-a-year rainfall. (Think
of the shores of the Dead Sea.) The
reason why the seas affect rainfall is not
wholly their wetness but also the extent
of the surface of that wetness. It is
only necessary to compare the size of
Lake Eyre with, say, the size of the
Pacific to see the point.
The other big deterrent was expressed
by Prof. Gregory, whose Dead Heart of
Australia, as well as C. T. Madigan’s
Central Australia, should be read by
anyone wishing to discuss the notion. He
pointed out that evaporation in the area
is lOOin. a year, which means that if all
the year’s sin. of rain fell at once the
rain gauge would be empty two and a
half days later. Therefore the salt nor-
mally suspended in sea-water would be
deposited through evaporation at such a
pace that if Eyre were flooded from the
sea it would take only something like
22 years to fill it up to sea-level with a
solid chunk of salt.
The easy answer to this is that (at a
mere cost of doubling the scheme’s origi-
nal cost, which “O. Bill” tells us was
estimated at £30,000,000) a second chan-
nel could be cut from Port Augusta (the
proposed sea end of the canal) to carry,
away salt-impregnated water at low tide,
a constant supply of new sea water thus
being kept up. However, quite apart
from the fact that evaporation would
cause less water to come out than was
put in at high tide, there is the considera-
tion that, as the distance from Port
Augusta to the lake is about 200 air
miles, the channel would have to be as
wide as a gulf to allow the tides to
operate over that distance.
No, the lake-flooding theory is about
as bright as that which suggested grow-
ing immense date crops in the overflow
from artesian bores in the Centre. Within
a few years the mineral content of the
water killed the experimental trees that
were planted.
Schemes like these attract hundreds of
the unthinking who have never attempted
to study their own country. Yet Henry
Lawson’s dream of damming the Darling
gets little serious consideration, and the
billions of square miles of fish harvests
about our shores are left almost un-
touched.—lan Mudie (S.A.).
So Many Cities....
Having just completed a tour of the
mainland States, I am amazed at the
insularity of the capitals which prevent©
them from adopting practical notions the
one from the other. In an age when com-
munications are so swift and easy, one
would think that there would be some
degree of uniformity where methods tried
out by one city have proved a success.
Take the question of £?affic control.
In Perth, when the constable on traffic
duty gives the right of way, the motorist
takes a complete turn and goes on his
way if he wishes to make a right-hand
turn. A Melbourne motorist takes to the
outside and has to wait before he can
make the right-wheel. Sydney has much
the same idea as Perth, except that the
driver takes the inner route, as I found
to my sorrow when 1 was caught up un-
awares in the centre.
Adelaide pointsmen are protected by
an umbrella. Why this notion is not
adopted in Perth, where the thermometer
soars just as high in summer, is past my
comprehension. The only concession
that the Perth policeman is permitted is
a rubber mat to protect him from the
heat of the bitumen. Some years ago
Melbourne and Sydney motorists were
compelled to have separate switches on
their tail-lamps ; Perth instituted the same
dodge comparatively recently, but now
I find that a separate switch is no longer
compulsory in Sydney.
A most commendable practice that the
Eastern States could copy from Perth is
that of the transport of perambulators by
trams and buses. In a country like ours,
where the care of the mother is so vitally
important, one should expect to find that
the woman with a Family of little ones
should have her interests looked after
as far as possible. Still, I suppose some
people would prefer each city to have its
own peculiarities. But why, oh why,
doesn’t Sydney mark all its one-way
traffic streets clearly and distinctly?—
J. E. D. (N.S.W.).
Store Food
Not only the duty of liberating the
oppressed of Europe is falling upon the
Empire. The main work of succoring
them after liberation will fall upon it
also?
So soon as we are victorious the bulk
of the food which must go into Europe to
relieve the famine must come from the
British Dominions.
Is it not time then that we started to
fill our granaries against that day? Un-
less Europe is to go down into chaos, and
we with it, from pestilence and revolution,
our granaries must be filled to overflow-
ing.
So let us store wheat and stack it, and
store and stack whatever other food can
be stored and stacked. —P. T. (Q.).
Why Not Canned Meat?
Britain’s refusal to take certain lower
grades of meat from Australia will re-
sult in a surplus of those cuts on the
local market. The effect will be a re-
duction in prices, and the producer will
suffer. One remedy worth considering
is to divert the rejected grades to can-
ning and preserving works for treatment.
Canned meats are readily saleable in
war-time, when “bully beef” is an im-
portant article of military diet. Keeping
quality is greater and shipping space is
conserved with canned meat. It is worth
investigation, anyhow. Mullengah
(N.S.W.).
Importing Copper
Announcement of the intention to im-
port 10,000 tons of copper gives the
misleading impression that copper in such
quantities cannot be produced profitably,
if at all, in Australia. Nothing could be
more untrue.
During the years 1914-19 the Cloncurry
mineral field, one of the greatest in the
world, produced thousands of tons of
smelted copper. It could be doing the
same today if those responsible had not
permitted that great field to fall into a
state of semi-desuetude and utter de-
pendency on a State smelter situated
about a thousand miles away.
For years gougers have been “gouging
the eyes out of the mines” to provide
13-p.c.-and-over copper ores: lower
grades are unpayable under existing con-
ditions. Previously smelters operated at
Hampden and Mt. Elliott, and provided
employment for thousands of men. In-
stead of importing copper Australia could
be exporting copper.—AsQ (Q.).
“I Was Wrong”
My bit is being done in a Government
department which has to be kept going.
The objective is to fill up the places of
young, able-bodied officers who wish to
enlist. Actually in my particular de-
partment these young, able-bodied officers
show no mass desire to join the forces.
The few who do seem to be regarded
as young fools who have been led away
by patriotic guff.
The attitude is understandable. This
department is seniored almost entirely by
men who are not returned soldiers. They
got their opportunity whilst other men
were away, and hung on to all their
benefits. Their attitude to the returned
men who work under them is one of
rather pitying contempt; probably it has
been purposely adopted as an excuse for
themselves. In the situation there is
nothing to encourage the younger men
to enlist for this war.
There is a department or so in which,
by some circumstances, ex-Diggers are
at the head of affairs. In these there is
a remarkable difference. So many of the
eligible young men have enlisted or tried
to enlist that a refusal to sanction their
leave-for-war-service has been made in
many cases. The whole spirit of these
departments is completely different from
that of the others.
In the 1914-18 war I opposed con-
scription ; but this curious experience
has convinced me that I was wrong. It
shows me that if there had been an
enforced equality of effort in the last
war there would have been an equal
desire for service in this one ; the laggard
spirit is an inheritance from the failure
to equalise sacrifice in former times.
Not only to win this war but for the
propagation of a better spirit if ever the
call should come again equal service for
all capable of giving service should be
enforced. — Old Brigade (N.S.W.).
Land Tenure Loopholes
Some few years ago an unnaturalised
alien of what is now an enemy country
sought to buy certain freeholds. The State
Real Property Office will not issue a cer-
tificate of title to an unnaturalised alien,
but this pair got over the matter with the
aid of our own laws. They formed a
limited liability (pty.) co. of four persons,
the third and fourth members being their
solicitor and his clerk. After this pty. co.
had become the registered owner of
the properties that the aliens wanted, the
third and fourth (nominal) shareholders
transferred their shares to the other two,
who, being the co., are owners of the
properties that the State land laws pur-
port to prevent them holding.
Company secretaries receiving transfers
of shares have now to demand evidence
that a transferee is not an enemy alien.
But are our rulers content to permit
aliens to retain control of city property
by owning the whole or majority of shares
in a pty. co.? It would not be difficult
to eliminate such anomalies. — Account-
ant (Q.).
The Recall
The recall of members of Parliament
is a necessary complement to the theory
that Parliament should be subject to the
will of the people. If it were possible
for re-election to be forced on members
at the petition of a certain number of
the electors politicians would become
more serious, elections would be con-
ducted in a better spirit and a distinct
check would be given to the operations
of party machines.
The recall would give opportunities for
showing the feelings of the country
towards Government policy. At present
this depends solely on the fortuitous
occurrence of by-elections.
The recall is very popular in America,
where it is held to be a necessary item
in the machinery that expresses the
sovereignty of the people. It has spread
to several States.
Let the principle be applied not only
to State but to municipal affairs. —E. G.
(S.A.).
Against Too Much Federation
There is danger in the subtle, world-
wide campaign for World Federation
which is being stimulated and spread by
the works of such writers as Streit, Curry,
Mackay and H. G. Wells.
When we remember that the federation
of Australia was, in the Act, the handing
over to the newly-created Federal Gov-
ernment of certain powers already pos-
sessed by the State Governments, it is
easy to imagine that, in the event of
Federal Union becoming a reality, a
similar step to our local abolition-of-
States movement might be started for the
abolition of national Governments in
favor of one centralised international
control.
Australia is, in fact, already leaning
towards that higher central leadership, as
evidenced in our voluntarily reverting to
our pre-Federation relations with White-
hall (B. 14/8/’4O).
Strange as it may seem, all ot tne
advocates for F.U. take as their pattern
the Federated Statqs of America and not
the British Commonwealth of Nations.
They also strictly avoid any reference to
the shining example of the failure ot
federation—the U.S.S.R.— Helix (Vic.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel X > re< , i«iojf jfrrrrstTßj 'Vateh, Stainless
mm- BteeL
Uf
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
fully Gtri. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Qataloyuc.
DIAMOND
8- WATCH
SPECIALIST
dfiutikrtd')
112 MARKET SI
I SYDNEY,
OPP DAVIDJONES
DEAF?
Mew Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.T.8.5.T..
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
SUB.
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
uid will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street. Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
BRIGGS &STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle y
SINGLE-CYONDEB
PETROL MOTORS,
' to 5 HOBSEPOWISB
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
/
(A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
38:2 Kent St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
LAMBS SAVED
e
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
iO OPEN WOUNDS,
LIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment, 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the knife
T,ambs suffer no setback —fatten week
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses
Don’t judge this instrument by othe
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Trom all Agents or —
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
BOOKS
If you’re fond of reading yon should
become a member of READERS’ UNION
-the best book club.
Bv doing so you can get the best recent
books for a quarter of their published
price.
And it costs you nothing to join. Build
a library of your own with Readers’
Union books.
Write for particulars to:
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
w
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jti». knee pads. _3in. thigh
pads. 4Mn. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
3UILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RID EH.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
“LEVY’S OWN” ?“bacco
is still available at 7/- per pound; it is
honestly worth 10/- pound. Also “BKM-
KVEB” Flake Cut for the Pipe and FLAKh
FINE CUT for Cigarette Making at 8/- per
pound; honestly worth 12/- per pound.
Send 6d. in stamps for a liberal sample.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves pkt., 2/6 do/.
“Zig-Zag” Cigarette-making Machines, 1/-.
Call or Write to
e
tobacconist,
est. years.
ET, SYDNEY
Good* sent t'.O.D. if desired.
ClH'Mißl'NGy
TOWATO
L2JLS^ ET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism
Sciatica, 'Gout
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet^"""*'-' 1
w
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin,, Post Fret
e
Banjo Mandolin
w
for 59/6
We will send you a beautiful
BAM JO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 59/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tlines within 7 Jays,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
MILITARY SURPLUS STOCKS
K.S.W. FIREMAN’S LEATHER WELLINGTON
BOOTS, part worn. All sizes. Ideal for riding
and heavy farm work. Specially suitable for wet
weather. Only 10/6 pair; 2 pairs, 20/-.
MILITARY BAYONET SHEATH KNIVES, extra
long, 12/6.
TAN OFFICERS’ BOOTS, Leather-lined, superior
quality, only 22/6 per pair. NEAV.
ALL-WOOL KHAKI PUTTEES, 8/6 per pair. NEW
MILITARY POUCHES, 1/- each. BELTS, 4/6.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, .wand
new, made of the best English leather; size 2Tin.
x I7in. Worth £7/10/—. TO CLEAR, ONLY
£2/5/- per pair.
Also large range of Tents and Flys.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
(Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.)
wiM
m
A Genuine
Offer!
You can learn
the Steel tJuitar,
Banjo Mandolin
or the Mill-
billy style by
e o r respondence
lessons. O n 1 y
10/6 for a corres-
pondence course.
Tree Course if
you buy an In-
strument from
us—
MAYO KOA
HUNTER,
Hawaiian Conservatory of Music,
G3O Koyal Arcade, 492 George St., Sydney.
— •
[yourTia,
RUBBER
STAMP
just like good writing, to stamp your letters, linen,
books, cards, &c. Prevents mistakes. Clear
and distinct
exactly this style, with self-inking pad. Post free
to any address. Far better than pen writing. Pre
ferable to signing - your name for many purposes. Clear
and distinct, prevents mistakes. The UNION Manufacturing
and Agency Company, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne^C/__
T-JdE
BIG COWBOY HAT
e
Picture shows have made us familiar with
the graceful Cowboy Hat Its free and
toasy style suits everyone and its light
Rveight makes it very comfortable for hot
weather. Makes girls look charming. Its 1
closely woven fibre is wonderfully tough'
and will stand the roughest usage; it cam
be knocked about freely without injury Fils any head.
Uust the thing for the seaside and for working in the sun.
[for sportsmen, anglers, gardeners, etc. Only 1/S. post free.)
THE UNION MFG. CO. 299 Elizabeth St„ Melb., C.l.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
motv .toes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
w
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W
’Phone: LM4794.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality ,
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House. 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market tet.).
yjJNCHEST£R
e
SKATES
17/6-21/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
ADVERTISING BARGAIN !
In order to introduce ourselves to new clients,
we make the amazing offers listed hereunder:
RIDING WHIPS AND CROPS
Plaited Leather Riding Crop, with flap flong,
28in. in length, oane centre, with leather
covered knob handle, 2/ each, post free.
Cane and Leather Riding Crop, with flap flong,
28in. in length, with leather-covered knob handle,
extremities finished in deep purple, 1/6 each,
post free.
Sheep Sticks: Plaited oane with leather loop,
approx. 30in. long—ideal for use when handling
sheep, 2/- each, post free.
For Soldiers (makes an ideal gift to a soldier) :
Plaited Leather over cane Swagger Sticks —
leather knob at one end, 2/- each, post free.
For Officers: “Ironside” Swagger Canes, 2/-
eaeli, post free. Cash With Order.
Cynax Leather Company,
15 Hunter Street. Sydney.
E
lllllflF
RIVING
v Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
~ ii'"-
m.
y One application of
CHANDLER’S CHEBIICAL
DEHORNER
■will remove the horn
hud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. .lust apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—'the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An humane method. Price,
D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.,
MELBOURNE and all branches, ’post Eree.
6/6
TILLEY LAMPS
w
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on lj pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Pi
bo used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 57/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
YV. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Rtd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
cent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
SENSE
SOME COMMON
ABOUT
lv r '€ Discard the old type
8§ mikm? ||& steel Truss. Try the
wr amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SAVE £2O when buying
your RADIO SET, if no
Century Agent is in your
district.
Ten days’ FREE TRIAL, and 40%
off retail prices. This free trial is
to ensure your complete satisfaction
before purchasing. “Century” Radio
Sets embody all latest improvements.
World-Wide reception brings over-
seas news direct to your home. Per-
formance and price will delight you.
1940 “Century” catalogue of Battery
and All-electric sets post free.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
Wur.
.brings
y instant relief
&
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “FOOTEELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FREE TRIMS
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 12A),
65 York Street, Sydney.
GOOD AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
Direct from the Manufacturer to you.
PURE COARSE CUTS AND PINE
CUTS FROM 6/9 I’ER .POUND.
PLUG TOBACCOS PROM 7/-.
PEAKE TOBACCOS, 8/6.
SAVE MONEY—AND ENJOY V
PURE TOBACCO. SEND POR
PRICE EIST.
SEND TO
HILLMAN TOBACCO Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
NO SPRINGS—NO CUSHIONS
This latest invention by Ur. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40' years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
'The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27P), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
e
IN UN SEWERED
AREAS.
The UKBAh IXV
is spreading- deadly
disease germs.
SANI-TID can be
fitted to any lavatory
seat and banishes
flies, odours and germs
for ever. Supplied
with 6 months’ supply
of chemicals for only
•17/6. Model C (as
illustrated), complete
with 6 months’ supplf
of chemicals, 90/-.
Write for particulars.
Quirk’s Victory
Light Co.,
w
229 Castlereagh St., Sydney; 48 King St., Perth]
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
18/9/’4O (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne


m /, ,m
m.mm
\
f
M
m
&
/
5
■ if
w
r
If
?
m
m
• 9
• er^
u
ikf^
?c *•
i s
/
»as
/
★ A.W.A. Wireless Communication and
Direction Finding Stations have been
selected for the principal aerodromes
in Australia, Papua, and New Guinea.
A Designed by the highly technical and
experienced laboratory and
engineering staff of Australia’s
largest wireless organisation, this
apparatus is noted for its proved
efficiency and reliability.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A'SIA) L».
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
