

EENZO.
REMEDY
GIVES
INSTANT
RELIEF
MORE FOR YOUR MONEY
AND IS
NICE TO TAKE
x
MAKES
ONE PINT
li ■ , ■ ‘
■ ■ 1
Save lots of money by simply, in your own
home, adding a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water,
thus making ONE PINT of the world’s best
instant-relief, nice-to-take family remedy,
equally good and safe for children and
adults, as a speedy and pleasant cure for
chest, nose and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally
you quickly soothe and banish COUGHS,
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA. Experiments have proved
that the most effective and economical
treatment for CATARRH and COLDS IN
THE HEAD is placing a few drops of
made-up HEENZO up each nostril, night and
morning. To gain instant relief from SORE
and SMOKERS' THROATS, gargle with
made-up HEENZO whenever the irritation
is felt. HEENZO being pure, and free from
poisons or harsh drugs, cannot upset the
digestion of even the youngest baby. You
can also rfely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by
taking & dose before venturing out into
crowds, or cold, wet and windy weather.
m
m
rOu R
HOMf
GARGLE*, r
JODI THROATS
and
SMOKER’S THROAT.
Pleasant and Effective.
'HEENZ Ol
is equally good and safe for children and adults
INSTANT RELIEF
■ X
m
y.yjZfa*:
Mr. PETER DAWSON,
the world’s famous baritone, writes:—
“A few doses of HEENZO quickly
dispelled a cold that had troubled me
for some weeks.”
ElNZfl
HIRKZI
Sir
CATARRH
also
COLDS in HEAD.
A few drops up each nostril
night and morning gives the
greatest relief at amazing
low cost.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3144.
Wednesday, May 15, 1940.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
sm
iflU
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New f rce
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, ns
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B, 110
The Red Page
Novelists on the Warpath.
Mr. Jeffrey Dell has a word to
about the lunacies of the British film
industry; Mr. William J. Blake aims at
the battered target of the wicked, capi-
talist ; Pearl S. Buck observes ttf&i
idiocies of American hero-worship;
all three war lords are worth following,
Mr. Dell for light entertainment, Mr.
Blake for an unusual story with a power-
ful climax, Pearl Buck for a fine novel
and a revelation of an extraordinarily
versatile talent.
Mr. Dell’s strategy is to. reduce
his adversary to absurdity. His
Nobody Ordered Wolves (Heinemann;
Angus and Robertson) is a true satire,
not unlike an Eric Linklater novel in
its blend of horseplay, Rabelaisian humor
and fantasy. Phillip Hardcastle, a writer,
is engaged to write a scenario for
Paradox Film Productions, but is care-
fully prevented from working by
Paradox’s Mr. Napoleon Bott, who is
much too busy to be bothered about
authors. Hardcastle draws his salary
and fills in his time by getting amusingly
blithered with various “executives,”
thereby enabling Mr. Dell to make the
point that film “executives” never work ;
by observing the making of a film, so that
Mr. Dell can make the point that films
rarely get made ; by becoming engaged to
a glamorous film star for publicity pur-
poses and by encountering other stars for
Mr. Dell’s Rabelaisian purposes. Vaguely
linking the series of farces is the story of
Paradox’s wolves, hired and forgotten
like the author, and spending their time
multiplying themselves and their expense
account.
In spite of Mr. Dell’s ingenious
padding, this book really consists oh a
single joke repeated in a score of dis-
guises ; the humor, moreover, is often
juvenile; but it’s unquestionably funny
in spots.
Mr. Blake favors a direct attack on
his capitalists in The Painter and the
Lady (Cassell). It is the story of a
painter of genius who is destroyed at
the height of his powers because through
family connections and through an early
venture into commerce, he became en-
tangled in the warfare of rival financiers.
The time is the period of Blum and the
Popular Front in France; the place, the
south of France—love and painting and
labor troubles among the vineyards, in-
trigue in Marseilles.
The greater part of it labors under a
cloud of unreality. Mr. Blake does not
handle English prose as if he were accus-
tomed to it; especially when his charac-
ters are speaking colloquially he gives
the impression that he is translating
awkwardly from the French. His setting
is introduced with an abruptness that
presupposes an intimate knowledge of its
geography and its history. His dis-
quisitions on art, in spite of his painter
characters, seem imposed on the novel
from without. The ramifications of
Marseilles high finance are as intricate
as algebra. The squalid plottings and
revenges of the financiers, like the affairs
and quarrels of the lovers, seem im-
probable because they do not arise out
of characters the author has made
credible.
What most contributes to this
atmosphere of unreality is that Mr. Blake
has tried to combine a Leftist criticism
of society with the romanticism of a
Cervantes. Simone held up at the altar
while Onesisme waves his crutches at
her bullfighter lover belongs in a
picaresque romance; Simone painting
banners for the Popular Front can hardly
be fitted into the framework of the same
novel. Utterly unreal, again, is conver-
sation of this sort:
“You are too fleeting in your thoughts,
my love. Life to me is solid. It is like
the Canigou, that absolutely beautiful
mountain block, that solitary peak, ten
thousand feet high, geometrically perfect
as a pyramid, astounding.”
Somewhere under this turgid cloud of
artiness and Leftism are the three stories
with which Mr. Blake is essentially con-
cerned: the story of the brothers One-
sisme and Stephane Sabatier, one of
whom wanted to be an artist and ended
as a benevolent capitalist, while the other,
who wanted to be a businessman, became
a painter of genius ; the story of Stephane
and his stormy love affair with Simone
after she had become bored with his
brother; the > story of
Stephane and the financier
Levy-Ruhlmann ; all three
stories winding to their
climax when Stephane,
unjustly accused of the murder of
Levy-Ruhlmann,, gqillatfned. There
loihb df the scenes
i| fhefe stbrfes ( there are half a dozen
Sub-plots handled with .sharpness and
some : humor ; fyst|?hehe once” metre the
qpyel> is . confused V Mr. Blake has
strangled ft in the threads of his inven-
tiveness.
„ With a’subject that could have claimed
treatment as complex as that of The
Painter and the Lady, or which would
have lent itself admirably to Mr. Dell’s
uproarious satire, Pearl Buck’s Other
Gods (Macmillan) is simple and sym-
pathetic. It is an examination of
America’s need to create heroes, to make
demigods out of film stars, statesmen,
men of action—anyone in whom the
sentimental popular mind can embody
its dreams.
Among the Himalayas with a British
meteorological expedition, Bert Holm, a
mechanic with a 200 per cent.- American
background in a New York .State village,
slipped away on his own and climbed a
mountain. He was not looking for glory ;
a simple, ordinary mechanic who liked
climbing mountains. But he had done
something spectacular, he had outwitted
an Englishman, he was good-looking and
his parents were humble people, so
America made him a hero. He became
the dream lover of American flapperdom,
the dreanl son of spinsters Or unhappy
mothers, the dream hero of adventurous
young men in paltry jobs; he was copy
for all the newspapers; and from the
moment he climbed the mountain to fame
his easy, happy existence as Bert Holm,
mechanic, was replaced by the limeljt
complexity of life as Public Hero No. 1.
This in itself is an interesting study.
Pearl Buck has added to its dramatic
possibilities by giving Bert an intelligent
wife, completely unsuited to him, who
was attracted by his good looks in a
weak moment when she was trying to for-
get a love affair with a playwright. Both
in their public and their private life Bert
and his wife are continually on the edge
of disaster. The domestic life of Public
Heroes has to be beyond reproach, and
Bert has a divorce behind him and the
temptations of popularity to meet all the
time. The wife wants to divorce him
and marry her former lover. The state-
ment of Other Gods is that there is no
escape for either of them. If they, go
on being heroes, they live falsely and
stupidly; if they try to escape, the news-
papers will drag them through the mud.
The public will worship them or hate
them but never set them free. Pearl
Buck knows her Americans as well as
her Chinese.
A Myra Morris Novel.
Regarded as serious fiction-—for it is
too good in its Australian seascapes and
its domestic satire simply to be treated
as. light romance Myra Morris’s new
novel Dark Tumult (Thornton Butter-
worth) has three faults: the switching of
the setting from Australia to England;
the imperfect realisation of the princi-
pal character; an unnecessary death-
scene at the finish, rounding off the story
with the mechanical obviousness of the
conventional happy-ending.
In a magazine story, the heroine’s
sojourn in England might be an advan-
tage—the handsome English husband,
the ancestral home, the hostile family,
are useful props for romance. Here, in
a story that is essentially a study of an
Australian seaside town and a quarrel-
ling, close-knit, humorous Australian fam-
ily, the English scenes are an abrupt
break in the continuity of action and
character. The intention is to show how
Robin Lacey, poetically in love with the
sea, is called back to Australia by the
waves of Pipers Bay. By contrasting the
English and the Australian character Miss
Morris demonstrates that England and
Pipers Bay have nothing in common, so
that her plot works out satisfactorily;
but that seems also to suggest that England
shouldn’t be brought into a novel about
Pipers Bay.
The English characters, though care-
fully drawn, are out of stock. The
reserved, dignified, secretly hostile mother-
in-law ; the eccentric aunt; the scholarly,
kindly, cynical brother-in-law; the whole
family dedicated to preserving the ancient
home —none of these has a tithe of the
interest of the Pipers Bay family sur-
rounded by *cats, dishes, and the sound
of the sea. Nor is the comment upon
the English national character interesting.
Robin Lacey becomes merely a vehicle
for the expression of the common dis-
illusion of the Australian tourist.
By making Robin Lacey a. heroine
instead of treating her realistically as she
has treated all her other characters, Miss
Morris has considerably weakened the
novel. Robin is the white hope of artist
Lacey’s defeated, bickering family. She
is desperately loved by a young fisherman
and loves him in return until an English
doctor appears on the scene. She jilts the
fisherman, marries the doctor, travels with
him to England and lives a useless sort
of life with him in the family home.
Convalescing at the seaside after a miscar-
riage, she allows a second young fisher-
man to make love to her. There are
scenes when she returns to her husband
and she leaves him to come back to
Pipers Bay. Fisherman-the-first (these
men are symbols of her love for the sea)
is married, but she spends a night in a
shed with him. Then, when both she
and the fisherman have privately decided
that the affair must end there, he is
drowned. Robin refuses to be unhappy,
because Conn has “fulfilled himself” and
the sea remains to comfort her.
This bare recital doesn’t do justice to
Miss Morris’s powers as a storyteller,
but the story is here stripped to its
essentials to show how Robin has
been romanticised. Give the story to
another novelist and Robin could be
portrayed as the destroyer of four lives
—the two fishermen, her husband and
her unborn child. * The fact that Miss
Morris had to drown Conn to tidy up the
story is surely an unconscious criticism
of her heroine. It is also an evasion of
the book’s most interesting situation:
Conn with the simple girl he married out
of pity ; Robin divorced ; both of them
determined not to give way to their love ;
the only way for them to be safe lying
in avoiding each other’s company; and
that impossible in thd remote village.
Robin could still be portrayed sym-
pathetically, but mere devotion to the sea
—which is not, in any case, very strongly
brought out —is not a sufficient explana-
tion of her motives.
Only in the study of the Lacey family
and the more or less squalid inhabitants
of Pipers Bay is Dark Tumult fully satis-
fying as fiction, but this study, fortunately,
is strong enough to carry the burden of
the weaknesses listed. The village is as
real as Redheap, which, in the opening
chapters, it greatly resembles. The sat-
ire i| lighter than Lindsay’s, the charac-
terisation closer to reality. Philip Lacey,
the paterfamilias, is a disappointed artist,
using his prowess as a heavy father and
the respect of the locals to compensate
for his failure. He has a Dickensian
quality; possibly not quite credible, but
irresistible in both comedy and pathos.
His wife, once his model, seems con-
tent in a tousled plumpness, but has
astonishing dreams of a white, shiny
kitchen and a green bathroom; she
suffers from a constant “pain” and con-
ceals it out of regard for her husband’s
complacency. Stephanie, a daughter, is
a “whiner” with an overdose of her
father’s defeatism; she pretends to suffer
from sleepwalking so that she can dodge
a music examination that might have
given her a career. The son George loses
his chance to escape from the Lacey
atmosphere when the new schoolmistress
gets him into her clutches. These are real
people, and the somewhat sordid atmo-
sphere is lightened by Miss Morris’s wit,
and by the Laceys’ family-feeling that
though they never get anywhere they can
do no wrong.
Joad Saves Civilisation.
The last time Mr. C. E. M. Joad was
good enough to redeem mankind he made
the memorable statement that the ex-
ample of small, practically defenceless
countries such as Denmark proved that
pacifism was sound policy. He offers
the world somewhat better advice in
Philosophy for Our Times (Nelson;
Angus and Robertson). “Only thus,” the
blurb concludes its summary of his
opinions, “can civilisation survive.”
“Only thus” means only by recog-
nising the objectivity of values. Mr.
Joad surveys the contemporary scene,
noting the decline in respect for religion,
the effects of psycho-analysis and scien-
tific discoveries, the threat to the young
of war and unemployment, all leading to
a civilisation without values. Then, by
analysing a host of philosophers from
Aristotle to the apologists for Hitlerism,
he reaches the conclusions that values-
truth, beauty, goodness and so on -exist
as absolutes and should be pursued;
that, on the whole, the political organi-
sation of democracy favors the pursuit
of the true values ; that Nazi philosophy
hungers after false gods ; that the duty
of democracy is to define and recognise
its values and, illuminating its politics
with the ideals on which it is based, to
work for world federation.
All of which amounts to the most
tedious elaboration of the commonplace.
When Mr. Joad is developing a theory
about the “snobbery of anti-culture,”
meaning the timorous devotion to the
lowbrow of Hemingway and his imita-
tors, he has something to say. When
he is worrying about whether or not a
piece of sugar is a piece of sugar and
whether one does or does not touch a
table when one touches a table ; when
he devotes nearly a page to pointing out
that people don’t like getting into cold
water; and when after prolonged dis-
cussion he reaches such a startlingly
platitudinous conclusion as “We are, 1
think, entitled to say that the miser’s
desire for money for its own sake is a
perversion, and it is usually recognised
as such by the judgment of mankind,”
he is merely being tiresome. Unless he
is writing for children he would do
better to start his work of salvation by
admitting that his audience knows some-
thing about Darwin and Einstein and
Freud and, in most cases, has at least
heard a rumor about the invention of
the aeroplane.
Anthology for Soldiers.
The first thing that strikes you about
Lieutenant-General Tom Bridges’s Word
from England: An Anthology of Prose
and Poetry Compiled for the King’s Forces
(English Universities Press; Moore's
Bookshop) is that —though not a big
book —it won’t fit comfortably into the
pocket. Next objection (borne out by
an examination of the contents and
allowing for a couple of bits by “Banjo”
Paterson and Adam Lindsay Gordon) is
that it is too much a word from England
to satisfy an Australian exile.
A third complaint is that the pub-
lishers have made a clumsy job of it:
the authors’ signatures are in the same
type as the contributions, so that you
read straight on, “The blackbird saith
T. E. Brown,” or “This life is most jolly,
William Shakspeare.” Fourthly, Bridges
tried to cram too much into it, having
to give only extracts from poems such
as the “Ode on a Grecian Urn” in order
to make room for such snippings as “It is
under the British flag that the prosperity
of the British Empire must be rebuilt,
Lord Rothermere.”
Finally, one wonders whether the tone
of it will go down with the new soldiers.
Bridges quotes the humorous “I Don’t
Want to Die,” famous as a song in the
last war, but the spirit of the book as
a whole is the spirit of Kipling. It is
possible (Kipling has no imitators; he
founded no school that survived (the
post-.war years) that Edward Thomas, a
solitary realist among Bridges’s patriotic
poets, sounds a more appropriate note
for today:
This is no case of petty right or wrong
That politicians or philosophers
Can judge. I hate not Germans, nor grow hot
With love of Englishmen to please newspapers.
Beside my hate for one fat patriot
My hatred for the Kaiser is love true- -
A kind of God he is, banging a gong....
But with the best and meanest Englishmen
I am one in crying, God Save England, lest
We lose what never slaves and cattle blest.
The ages made her that made us from dust:
She is all we know and live by, and we trust
She is good and must endure, loving her so:
And as we love ourselves we hate her foe.
On the other hand, the war might
breed new Kiplings, new Brookes: like
Pitt’s map of Europe, the Sassoons,
Graveses, Thomases may not be wanted
these ten years. With its blemishes
allowed for, there is much that is both
noble and beautiful in the verse and
prose of Word from England.
Husky • Frank and Kenneth Conibear
(Peter Davies). Autobiography of a dog
for the benefit of his eldest pup. North
of Canada setting. The young should
like it.
War Rumors : Reginald Arkell (C. A.
Pearson, Ltd.).
The Siegfried Line, it is well known,
Protects the city of Cologne;
But tell me, Nymphs, what Power divine
Protects the poor old Siegfried Line?
This, like .Mr. Arkell’s other little verses,
is the sort of frightfulness that is inexcus-
able even in war-time.


“THE SENIOR STORE”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —business integrity.
End Sleepless Nights with a new and comfortable mattress
mmmm •
mf \
rj
*. I
all « i 9 ht '
d t urn
an
toss
why
WE WILL GIVE YOU
UP TO
FOR YOUR OLD
MATTRESSES
DURING OUR
BETTER AND
CLEANER BEDDING
CAMPAIGN
WHAT WE DO—WHAT YOU DO
WE ALLOW you £1 for your old mattress if you
purchase a new full-size one. If you decide on
one smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide, we allow you 107-
off the price of a new one. This, of course, is off
our listed prices.
THEN YOU SELECT your fresh bedding from our
fine range, the prices being, as always at Anthony
Horderns', the lowest possible, quality considered.
BUT, off our "Famous Low Prices” you receive a
generous rebate on your old bedding. We do
not include flock or fibre bedding in this offer, as
we do not recommend them as "Better Bedding.”
"HORDURA" TUFTLESS KAPOK MATTRESS
Developed perfectly to meet a demand for a mattress to give head-to-toe comfort
at a popular price. It is made with dividing walls which eliminate tufts. Ideal
for those who prefer a firm mattress. Hand made throughout, and covered with
high grade Belgian coloured stripe Linen Ticking.
Pillows, 11/- each.
...and save £1
A good night's rest, sound sleep and resultant
healthfulness depend on many things, one
of the most important being a comfortable
mattress on which the body can relax in a
correct posture, with relief to the muscles and
restoration of the nerves. If your present
mattress doesn't give you such beneficial
relaxation you should seize this chance to
dispose of it, and so enjoy the invigoration
that comes from the sound sleep that a new
mattress gives.
m
M
••• v
m
m
■M
m
m
m
m
m
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
You can participate.
Write for further particulars.
1/8 KAPOK REDUCED TO 1/5 LB.
Kapok, brought to Australia from the Dutch East Indies, has proved highly satisfactory
as a filling for mattresses. Only the best and purest is used in our mattresses, and
during this Better and Cleaner Bedding Campaign we are offering it at a- specially
reduced price. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, lb., 1/8. SPECIAL PRICE, lb., 1/5
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'PHONE M 2401
(Day and Night).
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.


VALUES
“This is Private Penrose, sir. He comes of an old English family .”
By A. C. HEADLEY
THE house stood two yards from the rickety
wooden fence. Its front was brick but the side-
walls were slats of warping wood. The woman
stood in the doorway, her hair frizzed and un-
tidy, her feet, uncovered by shoes, holding the edge
of the step with large toes. Behind her noise came
from within the house, the noise of children, high
and irritating. The baby was crying, and she screamed
at it impatiently. She went back into the house.
The children were moving around, getting in her
way, wanting something to eat before it was ready.
“You gotter wait,” she said. “Y’r father oughtn’t
to be long.”
Dick, her son-in-law, looked up from the paper.
His face was thin and dirty from beard. “’E keeps
them dorgs out too long,” he said. “Exercisin’ the
guts out of ’em.”
“I’m sick to death of dogs,” she said.
From outside there was the sound of the gate
scraping back over the bricks and the excited
whimpering of dogs glad to be home. Craddock came
into the house with the dogs. His face was grey
and the lines in it cut deep, his shoulders round.
“We got a draw,” he said, “in a Dingy Park qualifyin’.
Nex’ Tuesd’y.” He reached down and patted one
of the dogs. “’E oughter walk it in.”
“You an’ your damn’ dogs,” said his wife.
“Shut your whingein’.” He said it without force.
“Ain’t this what we been waitin’ for? All we want’s
the run. It’ll put us right.”
“Like that other dog you ’ad that was gonner
put us right, and couldn’ do no better than fifth in
a qualifyin’. They’re always gonner win races, an’
the kids an’ me can go without shoes while they’re
doin’ it. It’d suit y’ better to go out an’ git some
work. Yair, an’ Dick too. What’s ’e gonner do —
live ’ere the rest of ’is life?”
Craddock took a suck at the cigarette in his
mouth. “You know the state Dolly’s in.”
Mrs. Craddock was commencing to lay the table
with sheets of newspaper. “Yair, the state she’s been
in every year since she got married. Kids an’ kids
an’ kids.”
A thin voice broke into the room, carried from
the stairs. “I’m a damn’ trouble to youse. Why don’t
youse say it?”
Dick called unfeelingly: “You shut y’ trap.”
The thin voice whined again. “Anyway, what’s
wrong with y’? You git me endowment. It ’elps feed
the dorgs, don’t it?”
“Shut y’ trap,” her husband called again.
The kids were beginning to cry, and the room
was hot with anger.
“Youse kids be’ave y’self,” said Craddock, “or
you’ll git a taste of the strap.” He led the dogs out
of the house towards the kennels. Dick got up and
followed. “It’d drive a bloody man silly,” he said.
The yard was short and the kennels boxed into
the corner. They had a look at the bitch, and she
stood up, her belly hanging heavy.
“It shouldn’ be long,” said Craddock.
“The pups oughter fetch three guineas,” said
Dick. “They got good breedin’.”
“Y’ gotter keep an eye on ’er,” said Craddock.
“Sometimes these young bitches kill the pups.”
Dick grinned. “There won’t be no three guineas
killed while I’m around.”
The kids were standing around watching the dogs,
and the feeling of the dogs meaning something im-
portant to them was in their eyes. They were not
dogs to be played with but dogs to be respected. From
within the house Mrs. Craddock’s voice called them for
tea, and they moved obediently towards the steps.
The men came after a few minutes.
“Stew,” said Craddock.
Mrs. Craddock stepped her hands on her expan-
sive hips. ‘Y’ might git somethin’ different,” she
said, “if we wasn’t for ever buyin’ things f’r them
dogs. That’s where the money goes.”
“An’ that’s where it’s gonner come from.” Crad-
dock winked across the table to his son-in-law.
“There’s good money in dorgs,” said Dick.
“We oughter go pretty close t’ pickin’ up that
Maiden. It’s thirty quid.”
“You an’ your damn’ dogs,” said the woman.
“You’ll be talkin’ the other side of y’r face.”
Craddock said pleasantly.
“I’m sick t’ death of you an’ your dogs. Lettin’
the kids go without so you can feed a couple of
mongrels. If the welfare man found out about it
he’d stop the dole.”
From above came the thin cry of her daughter,
and Mrs. Craddock moved into the space of the
stairway.
“Wha’d’yer want?”
“She’s always singin’ out f’r somethin’,” said Dick.
Mrs. Craddock mounted the stairs wearily,
conscious of the tension in her legs. Outside the
dogs began to bark, and she saw the men get up to
go and attend to them. She came into the darkness
of the landing and turned into the room. It was
small and full of dry heat. The girl lay on a mattress
in the corner. There were other mattresses on the
floor. This was the room where the kids slept. Mrs.
Craddock lit the candle.
“What’s the matter?”
“It’s like I can’t stand it being in the dark. Why
doesn’t Dicky come up an’ talk to me?”
“’E will after,” said her mother. “ ’E’s busy
with the dogs.”
The girl’s voice rose. “Dorgs, dorgs, bloody
dorgs. Nothin’ but dorgs.”
“Your father says ’e’s got Body Blow in a
qualifyin’ at Dingy Park. It gives ’im a chance for
the Maiden. It’s worth thirty quid. They gotter look
after them.”
The girl was starting to snivel. “’E oughter
come up sometime.”
“I’ll tell Dick to come up an’ talk t’ y’.”
Her bare feet padded softly on the stairs. “Dolly
wants you,” she told Dick.
“Don’t she think I got nothin’ better to do,” he
said irritably, “except run up an’ down them stairs?”
“You been doin’ nothin’ but sit on y’r backside
all day. It’s about time you took a bit more notice
of your wife than you do of that bitch out there. It d
suit you better if you went out an’ got a job.”
He grinned. “We won't be vvorryin’ about jobs
when some of these dorgs git racin’.”
“I wish we’d never seen a dog,” she said
vehemently. But she didn’t mean it. She was tied up
in the dogs as much as they were. Ever since the
beginning when Dick had brought home the pup,
and the talk about the money a good dog could
win. The dole and the kids going without didn’t
mean anything. There was always the dog that was
going to turn out to be a Dingy Park staker.
“Jist because you got it into the qualifyin’,” she
said, “it don’t mean it’s gonner win.”
“ ’E’ll win it orright,” Craddock said confidently.
“ ’E’ll walk it in. You seen ’ow ’e run Sund’y down
at, the track. If ’e runs well in the qualifyin’ I’m
stickin* every penny on ’im in the run-orf.”
“That’ll bring ’is price down,” she said sarcas-
tically.
Craddock spat into a corner of the room. “I
got a way of gittin’ dough when I want it.”
“It’s pretty near your daughter’s time,” she said.
“Maybe a little of that dough you can get so easy
would come in ’andy.”
“I ain’t worryin’,” said Craddock ; “she’ll be
orright.”
“Sure,” seconded his son-in-law, “she’ll be
orright.”
“Fat lot you care,” she said. “You take more
trouble with that bitch.”
“Leave ’im alone,” growled Craddock. “He’s
orright. You don’t expect ’im to be f’r ever runnin’
up to ’old ’er ’and. You talk about it as if ’avin’
kids is somethin’ out of the box.”
A HUNDRED dogs in the trials. Ten heats and
** the winners of each in the final, the run-off for
the Maiden Stake. Every Tuesday ninety hopes swept
away because ninety dogs could not run fast enough.
The luck of the draw. Draw a good box and you
felt right. But there were other things—interference
on the turns, missing the jump. They were things that
made your nerves tight and hard.
Craddock felt tight and choked as he watched
them. His watery eyes caught the sweep of movement
from the boxes. Then he was following the dog
travelling outside the leaders. Body Blow was stretch-
ing out well, moving faster than the others but losing
the advantage on the turns. They swung into the
straight, and he seemed to be standing still while the
others, inside, moved away. Craddock swallowed
dry. Then sudden excitement came popping out of
him. In the straight the dog was stretching out. The
judge’s box was close, but now it was the other dogs
that seemed without movement. Craddock felt like
jumping with the excitement of it as Body Blow
caught them and went away by two lengths. A bad
box and he’d won. A good box and he would have
walked it in. He wanted to see Dick and see the dog.
A dog could knock itself about in a race. But Dick
had a grin all over his smart face. “What’d I tell
y’? He’d ’a’ won it be a street if ’e ’adn’t run wide.”
“If ’e draws well on Saturd’y ’e’ll walk it in.”
CRADDOCK brought the dog into the house when
he came home, and told them. “We’ll be in the
money from now on,” he said.
“The dog ain’t won yet,”' his wife reminded him.
But around her the kids were bursting with the cer-
tainty of it. She herself could feel a mixture of
elation and anxiety, as if something, sought for a
long time, was now near at hand.
For the rest of the week the dog was a ponderous
problem. It had to be dieted and exercised in just
the right way.
“I’d like to see the race,” she told Craddock on
the Saturday afternoon.
“What about the kids?” he said. “Besides, there’s
the bitch. The pups oughter come soon. Y’ gotter
watch ’er. She ain’t ’ad no pups before, an’ we don’t
want ’er killin’ ’em.”
“Them pups oughter fetch three guineas apiece,”
said Dick.
So she stayed home and listened to the crackling
comments from the worn-out radio. The box positions
came at half-past seven, and her heart stopped beating
while the numbers were called. She eased into her
breathing as the announcer gave “Body Blow—three.”
A good box, and a good box made a lot of difference
in a dog race. Her nerves jangling, she sat down to
wait the few minutes before the race. The kids were
kicking up a noise, playing the race among them-
selves so that Body Blow always won. The noise
was pounding into her head, but she was incapable of
stopping them. She thought of Craddock at the dog
track . . .
The dogs were moving around the yellow track
with the attendants. At the leger people swept to
and away from the fence. The roar of the ring in the
leger was like a closed-in sound. Craddock watched
the dog with the red rug bright on its back. Suddenly
the dogs were wheeling at the boxes. The abrupt


announcement from the amplifiers stabbed the air:
“Your attention, please.” The sound of the running
cable and all the things that can happen to a dog
flooding into your mind. The surge of movement
from the boxes. The swift sorting out and the red
rug near the front. Leger turn. The swing into the
straight. Red and white moving together, speed throw-
ing them wide. Black and white checks on the in-
side, moving faster. The abrupt silence of the cable.
Slowly Craddock tore his betting tickets in halves . . .
SHE jerked savagely at the radio, and the sudden
quiet seemed to make the room ache. For no
reason at all she cuffed one of the kids on the side
of the head. There was howling and noise. To get
away from it she went up to see the girl. She lit the
candle, and the girl’s eyes, round and open, followed
her.
“I ’eard the race,” said the girl; “it done no
good.”
“Them an’ their bloody dogs. They never do no
good.”
“It run a place, didn’t it? Y’ git somethin’ for
second or third.”
The older woman frowned. “You don’t want to
worry your soulcase about it. Whatever it is’ll on’y
go to feedin’ the damn’ dogs.” She went downstairs,
her bare feet padding softly on the stairs. With a
sudden sense of kindliness she picked up one of the
children and carried it back.
“ ’Ere ’e is, come up to see ’ow y’re gittin’ on.”
The girl mustered a smile.
“Gran’farver’s dorg,” said the boy, “was sixty-
four.”
It made his grandmother burst into a laugh. “He
knows as much about the dogs as the rest of ’em.
Six to four. The damn’ thing oughter been a ’undred
t’ one.”
The girl on the mattress closed her eyes. Her
mother looked at her anxiously. “How’re y’ feelin’?
You gotter give us time, y’ know, so’s we can git y’
down on the bed in the front room before the doctor
comes. We couldn’t ask ’im to come up ’ere.”
“Gran’farver’s dorg,” said the boy, “was sixty-
four.”
“Dorgs,” said the girl, “dorgs. Bloody dorgs.”
T" HE men came home late. The kids had gone to
1 bed. Mrs. Craddock waited, sitting quiet in the
chair, without movement. The night was hot and
the gleam of sweat was on her face. Her eyes fol-
lowed them as they moved into the room.
“What ’appened?”
There was no life in them. Craddock slumped
wearily into a chair. “ ’E’d ’a’ won it,” he said, “on'y
e pulled up to fight.”
“’E was a moral,” said Dick morosely. “ ’Ad
it sewn up.”
“Didn’t y’ git nothin’ out of it, nothin’ for a
place?”
Dick sagged into a chair, and the dog dropped
beside him. “He didn’t run no place.”
“’E got outed three months for fightin’,” said
Ciaddock.
Dick wanted to know how the bitch was.
“I ain’t ’ad a look for a while,” she told him.
He got up. “I’ll ’ave a bo-peep,” he said. “You
gotter watch ’er. We don’t want no dead pups.”
“It’d suit you better,” she said, “to take a look
at your wife. ’Er time ain’t far orf.”
He turned at the doorway. “Youse women,” he
said, “always makin’ out you're gonner be murdered.
Dolly’s orright. She’s ’ad kids before. She don’t
want me ’angin’ round all day.” He vanished into
the darkness.
In a few minutes he came hurrying back. His
face was red with excitement. He came into the
room with a bound. “They’ve come,” he said ; “six
of them. Six little beauties.”
They followed him out to *he kennels. The bitch
□linked into the light from the match.
“It’s the first few hours,” said Craddock; “if
she don’t kill none of them then, they’ll be orright.”
Dick said: “Youse can git t’ bed. I’ll be stayin’
around.” He leaned over and his hand stroked the
bitch’s throat. “I’ll look after 'em. Three guineas
each! That’s eighteen guineas.”
A s came into the light of the house she heard
the girl. She moved quickly to the stairs. The
children were awake in the room with the girl. She
ushered them out and down the stairs. Then she
called to Craddock. “You better git the doctor.”
She went back into the room. The girl was
moaning softly. Dick came into the house. She
heard him talking to the kids, and she came to the
head of the stairs.
“Dolly’s took bad,” she said.
He didn’t bother to come up the stairs. “She’ll
be orright,” he said.
She heard him go out into the yard. She stood
for a moment staring down into the patch of light
at the foot of the stairs. “Dogs,” she said. “Bloody
dogs.” But all the time she was thinking six dogs at
three guineas meant eighteen guineas. She went back
into the room to wait for the doctor.
CURSE OF THE CALM
By WILL LAWSON.
IN the middle of the year 1838 the American
whaling-ship Rebecca Sims put into Chatham
Islands, a well-known rendezvous for whalers, to
rest her crew and get wood and water. At that
time the islands were thickly populated by Maons
and Morioris, the aboriginal inhabitants of New
Zealand, and after the fashion of these people women,
accompanied by men, went out to offer themselves
to the seamen. One of the Maoris showed the cap-
tain a watch, a ship’s chronometer and some muskets,
these last-named being useless because the natives
had no powder or shot. Asked where he got the
articles, the native would not tell. But the Yankee
captain suspected that they belonged to the French
whaliqg barque Jean Bart, which was missing. He
bought the trophies, and sought the French war sloop
Heroin, then cruising in the vicinity.
The Heroin went to Waitangi Bay on the main
island and anchored. Wishing to get some natives
whom he might hold as hostages, in case there were
any survivors of the Jean Bart, the commander sent
ashore an invitation for natives to come on board.
There came only a chief, Eitouna, and his wife to
tell the story of the tragedy of the Jean Bart and
what provoked it.
EARLY in 1838 the Jean Bart, commanded by
Captain Gautray, put into Waitangi Bay for wood
and water. Dissension had been bitter among her
company. When the ship was safely at anchor a soli-
tary shot rang out, and the captain was seen to fall,
shot by his own hand. As he fell the wind fell also,
and a great calm settled on the sea, which usually is
lively with wind in that locality.
The mate took charge, and after the excitement
had died down somewhat, and the master’s body had
been placed in a coffin, he allowed the natives and
their women to come on board. But there proved
to be a shortage of women, and some of the men
asked the natives to get them some more or, failing
that, some young girls, in exchange for old clothes
and some knives. This was done, rather overdone, in
fact, for some whom they brought were only children.
Nevertheless they were seized upon by the crew, and
soon afterwards one man, enraged with a child of
five, drew his sheath knife and eviscerated her. Her
dreadful scream terrified the other women, who dived
into the sea and swam ashore.
Next day the calm still held. There was some-
thing sinister in the silence. Not a native or a canoe
came out to the ship, which lay without movement
like a model glued to a mirror; not even a cat’s-paw
ruffled the surface of the sea. All day the crew of
the French ship could see canoes filled with natives
coming into Waitangi Bay from the outlying islands
of the group. When darkness fell, scores of fires
glowed on the beaches.
Alert, nerve-racked, the Frenchmen watched sea
and sky for signs betokening the coming of wind.
Even a breeze would serve to work the ship offshore.
Towards dawn three boats were lowered to try to
tow the Jean Bart clear of the land. The tides were
too strong. The anchor had to be dropped hurriedly
to prevent their carrying the ship to the beach where
the battle fires burned. When dawn broke there were
hundreds of natives on the beach, and more canoes
arriving all the time. Like felons awaiting the execu-
tioner, the Frenchmen watched the grim preparations.
The dreadful day wore on: dusk fell, but no
breeze came. By this time the crew was frantic. An-
other effort was made to tow the ship, all to no
purpose. Men knelt and prayed for wind—for wind
at the Chathams, in the Roaring Forties, where hun-
dreds of stout ships have been blown ashore.
The mate ordered men with muskets to stand
in the chains, telling them to fire at the least indi-
cation of the approach of canoes or swimmers. At
midnight some of the crew clamored for the late
captain’s body to be thrown overside ; they believed
it had laid a curse on the sea and the ship. But this
was forbidden by the mate. Strangely, it seems he
never thought of taking his boats and men and going
ashore to fight the natives there, carrying the war
into their camp and by surprise defeating them.
Yet he must have known all whalers did how
Captain Jimmy Keppy in the Hobart brig Sophia,
22 years before, had landed in Otago Harbor, when
similarly threatened, and destroyed 42 canoes and 800
Maori houses, killing many natives, with only 14
men. And the Jean Bart had a crew of 30.
The sun rose, lighting a world of sea over which
lay an immense calm. Then 20 canoes, holding 300
men, pushed off from the beach. As they came
nearer to the ship it was seen that the warriors were
in their war paint. Their hair was ruffled and be-
plumed and their bodies daubed with red ochre. They
were armed with axes and short, sharp-edged clubs
of greenstone and with sharpened pieces of iron.
Under a heavy musketry fire the canoes came
on. When a rower fell another took his place ; nothing
could stop them. Filled with yelling men the canoes
crowded round the ship, the warriors piled on deck
in human waves and dreadful hand-to-hand fighting
began.
When it ended white men and brown lay in
heaps, dead on the slippery decks of the Jean Bart.
Then the natives towed the ship to the beach and
hauled her bodily high and dry. The bodies were
thrown from the deck to the beach and a great
cannibal feast held, with plenty of liquor from the
lazarette. It was the worst orgy of cannibalism ever
held in Maoriland, and it was lit by the blazing hull
of the ship, the red flames blowing and flogging in
a gale which had arisen as soon as she was put
ashore.
<<T" HE curse of the gods.” In these words the
l affair of the Jean Bart was described by the
Chief Eitouna.
Eitouna was'informed that he would be a prisoner
and would have to go with the ship to France to tell
the king about it. This news terrified his wife so
much that she jumped overboard and was shot while
swimming by a marine who believed she was Eitouna.
The chief, who was below with the captain, was
not told of his wife’s death, and believed she had
swum ashore. After many weeks, however, he sensed
something of what had happened, and strangled him-
self in his prison cabin. Thus the curse of that great
calm at the Chathams still prevailed long after the
returned.
“And don't come back drunk or I'll clap you in irons!"


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jj{poll Utim cf’la'ie meucwmfd andlouquet
Perhaps the most weird “house of
refreshment” in London is known as
“Dirty Dick.” It is a sort of perpetual
memorial to a dirty plus misanthropic
citizen named Richard Bently, who,
though he waxed fat and prospered
in the eighteenth century, had, it is a
reasonable assumption, never read or
indeed heard of the 92nd sermon of
his great contemporary John Wesley
on “Dress,” wherein occurs the ex-
pression, now a trite proverb, “Clean-
liness is next to Godliness.” In
Leadenhall Street this individual re-
sided, but though he furnished his
shop with valuable goods, he allowed
these and his home to acquire a filthi-
ness of condition that caused him to
be denominated “Dirty Dick.” Within
a stone’s throw of this property he
procured other allotments, one of
which at the corner of Artillery Lane
and Houndsditch, just after the latter
thoroughfare has been entered from
Bishopsgate Street, is located this
“house of call,” possibly better known
to tourists than any “pub” in the
metropolis. Inside the storage cellars
are lined with grey bottles of port
and barrels of wines, stored beneath
cobwebby arches. From the arches
depend dried rats, the corpses of
“sawfish” and several hundred
mummies of cats, with a pipe in the
mouth of each. In every room of
the establishment used by the public
the tradition founded by Dick Bently
is perpetuated, save that the containers
in which the liquor is served are
scrupulously clean. An establishment
of this remarkable character one
would imagine more fitted to the
Quartier Latin or the purlieus of
Montmartre than in matter-of-facl
London. However, there it is, and as
a commercial speculation has proved
a profitable investment.
LONDON’S WEIRDEST “PUB.”


PRIME MINISTER, ETC.
“Before Mr. Chamberlain resigned, the First Lord of the Admiralty was authorised to ‘prepare plans for the Chief of Staffs and supervise military operations from day
to day.’ Mr. Churchill is now P.M., Minister of Defence and the mouthpiece of all the services, none of the three service Ministers in the War Cabinet."
Oh I am the crew and the Admiral, too,
And—my duties are so immense—
Air Warden, in brief, I’m Commander-in-Chief
Of His Majesty’s ship Defence.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0.).
Wellington.
London : l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
CHURCHILL'S CROWDED HOURS.
The English mind is so constituted that when the short
cut to victory through Norway ended in blood and
humiliation it was inevitable that there would be a
scapegoat. Politicians and editors of all parties found
one ready-made in Mr. Chamberlain. Many of them
have never forgiven him because he didn’t lead the
Empire into war in 1938, though for this he will be
remembered with gratitude in the Dominions.
Regardless of what the Dominions might be think-
ing, there were fierce and vociferous demands for Mr.
Chamberlain’s head. None of the headhunters had
the grace to admit that his responsibility for the brief
fiasco in Norway was no greater than that of Mr.
Asquith for the long-drawn-out fiasco in Gallipoli (and
Mr. Asquith’s head wasn’t demanded then) or that
their idol, as First Lord of the Admiralty, had a lead-
ing part in both campaigns and that —except that things
forgotten or left undone were different —the points of
resemblance were too many and too appalling for him
to be acquitted without trial in the second case.
In an article contributed to the pro-Churchill
“S. M. Herald,” the historian of the A.I.F. pointed
out a feature common to both tragically muddled
campaigns:
When the British fleet early in 1915 began its unsup-
ported attack upon the forts of the Dardanelles, the
naval bombardment was accompanied by an outburst
of flamboyant, almost boastful, publicity, proclaiming,
if not by argument, at least by tone and volume,
the imminence of vast and even decisive results.
The “publicity” was Mr. Churchill’s. It was recalled
bitterly by the Allied nations, ironically by well-dis-
posed neutrals and with gloating scorn by the enemy
when failure could no longer be concealed. “The
bigger they are the ’arder they fall,” said the old
Australian fighting man Fitzsimmons, apropos of over-
grown heavyweights ; and the wilder the boasts of
war Ministers the worse the reactions to anti-
climaxes on the part of those to whom the boasts were
addressed. So it was again after the retreat from
Central Norway when critical friends and insulting
foes turned up the Churchill speech of April 11, thus
quoted by Mr. Bean:
“In my view, which is supported by the technical
advisers, Hitler committed a great strategical error....
The accursed [Norwegian] corridor is now closed for
ever. We will [now] take what we want of this Nor-
wegian coast We have gained militarily and strategi-
cally from the occurrences in Scandinavian and northern
waters We will be greatly benefited by these occur-
rences.” And so on.
Mr. Bean sums up this stuff as “inflated and impru-
dent publicity.” The War Office erred by saying too
little, the Admiralty by saying too much. Together
they left the public at the mercy of foreign liars, such
as those who announced that Bergen and Narvik had
been taken and Oslo summoned to surrender. But
Mr. Churchill’s fault was far more flagrant and harm-
ful since, “for what proved to be little more than
boasting, we threw away the vital advantage hitherto
conferred on us by the truthfulness of our official
announcements.”
The Admiralty announced that the German ships
had been cut off by minefields and had the slenderest
chance of getting back, and that mines had been
sown in an area opposite the whole Baltic coast of
Germany It was claiming upon singularly slender
evidence that certain German battleships and pocket
battleships had been sunk and badly damaged, and at
the same time was somewhat vague concerning the
naval damage on the British side. This caution as
to our own casualties may be necessary, but the
incaution as to the enemy’s is not, and is further evi-
dence of the fact that the publicity methods of the
Admiralty helped to build up greatly inflated expecta-
tions,
“All German ships in the Skagerrak and the
Kattegat will be sunk, and by night all ships will be
sunk as opportunity serves.” That was Mr. Churchill’s
promise in the Commons on April 11. His explana-
tion of why there was so little performance was that
“the immense enemy air strength”—which should have
been foreseen before a division of Territorials was
sent to Norway to beat the German army and the
German air force —“made the attempt to dominate
the Skagerrak with surface craft too costly.”
The explanation was given in the Commons on
May 8 in the course of a debate which exhibited the
House at its worst. There may have been similar
scenes at Westminster immediately after the loss of
the American colonies; but Burke, Fox, Sheridan
and Gibbon sat in that Parliament, and there are no
members like them now. What in the words of the
Liberal leader was to have been a Grand Inquest of
the nation turned out more like a post-mortem per-
formed by a drunken doctor in the presence of a noisy
horde of undergrads., except that there was no
laughter.
The Prime Minister was railed at by Labor and
Liberal members who, before Munich and after,
wanted him to risk war with Italy and Japan as well
as Germany; by malcontent Conservatives, rejects
from or disappointed candidates for office ; by a bitter
old forerunner who seems to hate to see this Chamber-
lain about the place, and by others of no political
account who turned against him because he
didn’t succeed in bluffing the dictators when —as
those persons knew very well —he had nothing in his
hand. A predecessor of Mr. Churchill demanded,
in effect, that an ultimatum should be sent to Musso-
lini. An elderly naval politician stormed because the
Admiralty had refused his offer to lead a squadron
into Trondhjem Fiord. In the other House another
elderly naval politician was performing, and a super-
annuated chief of the Air Force urged the bombing
of German towns. It did not occur to anyone in
either Chamber to suggest that the Dominions should
be summoned to the war councils of Britain, France
and yes Poland and Norway. Provided Mr.
Chamberlain was dismissed, the direction of the war
was to be left in the same hands, with perhaps Labor
and Liberal politicians, none known to be war-wise,
added.
There are generous streaks in Mr. Churchill’s
character. As far as he could in the disastrous cir-
cumstances, he defended his leader, his fellow-
Ministers and his service advisers, saying that they
were all in the Norway business, himself included —
though he was not personally attacked. But, up in the
clouds one week and down in the depths the next, he
said things which, if true, should never have been dis-
closed to the foe.
In this war we have frequently been asked why we
did not take the initiative. The reason is our failure
to obtain or to regain air parity with Germany.
Numerical deficiency in the air has condemned and will
condemn the Allies for some time to much difficulty,
suffering and danger, which we must endure until more
favorable conditions are established. We must not
exaggerate the new aerial factor, but we must not refuse
to give it its deadly due At no time in the last war
were we in greater peril than now.
Mr. Chamberlain, for his part, announced that
Mr. Churchill was to have powers greater than Mr.
Lloyd George had in the last war, powers greater
than any servant of the Crown has exercised since
Marlborough’s time: he had been “authorised to pre-
pare plans for the Chiefs of Staff,” to have “the special
responsibility of supervision of military operations
from day to day” and to remain First Lord as well.
On a Labor vote challenging the Government, 44
Conservatives crossed the floor, and, with 130 members
absent, Mr. Chamberlain’s majority was reduced to
81. Sounded as to whether they would join a national
Government under his leadership, the Opposition par-
ties refused. On Friday, Mr. Chamberlain resigned,
and Mr. Churchill received a commission to form
a national Government. The change was forced; the
enemy was already invading the Low Countries.
In his last speech from No. 10 Downing-street,
Mr. Chamberlain said —and said well —that “No man
in all history has been responsible for such a hideous
total of human suffering or misery as the leader of the
Nazis. If he has chosen the moment when he thought
this country was in the throes of a political crisis, if
he has counted on our internal divisions, he has mis-
calculated the spirit of this people.” It seems highly
probable that Hitler was influenced by Mr. Churchill’s
confession —or deliberate overstatement —of inferiority
in the air arm, and by the impending fall of Mr.
Chamberlain; on the basis of political debates and
manoeuvres the ex-Kaiser and his advisers made a
similar miscalculation in 1914 when, because of the
troubles in Ireland, they thought Britain was on the
verge of civil war. Be that as it may, it is clear that
the Nazi leader’s plans for the invasion of Belgium,
Luxembourg and the Netherlands —as well as all his
other neighbors—were long ago prepared. And as in
the case of Denmark and Norway, the instruments of
his criminal ambition were ready when he gave them
the signal to strike and spare not.
The April technique was followed. It was alleged
as a preliminary that the Allies were about to attack
the Ruhr through Holland and Belgium and that “the
unneutral attitude” of the inoffensive little countries
had been “repeatedly demonstrated.” They were
therefore to be taken under the Fiihrer’s “protection”
—Luxembourg also because it was “within the scope
of Allied machinations.”
It is possible that British politicians have had
stray thoughts of attacking Naziland by way of Hol-
land and Belgium. That any British Government
would plan such an attack without the concurrence of
the Dutch and Belgian Governments, and that the
Dutch Queen and the Belgian King and their advisers
would offer their countries as battlefields to be visited
with an accumulation of horrors such as only the
Germans are capable of inflicting, is fantastically in-
credible. None but a Nazi could invent such a lie
and submit it for serious acceptance by a world to
which Nazi faith has become what Punic faith was to
the Romans. There was just scorn in Queen Wil-
helmina’s “flaming protest against this unprecedented
violation of all that is decent between cultured States.”
Holland has scrupulously observed strict neutrality;
Germany’s sudden attack on our territory without warn-
ing has been carried out notwithstanding her solemn
promise that our neutrality would be respected. I and
my Government will do our duty now. Do your duty
everywhere. Everyone to the post to which he is
appointed.
These words, issued in a proclamation to the Dutch
people, will become historic, and historic also will be
the stubborn resistance of the Dutch-Belgians to the
crime committed against them, and the measures taken
by the Allies to thwart its consummation and avenge it.
The invasion of the Low Countries is a call to
Australians and Maorilanders to increase and accel-
erate their war measures and let nothing—and nobody
—stand in the way. But the Australian Government
should first intimate that it is sending Mr. Cameron
to London to represent Australia in the Imperial War
Cabinet and on the Allied War Council, and that it
will expect the necessary arrangements to be made
before he arrives.
With his experience of soldiering in war and
peace, his clear head and his resolute character, Mr.
Cameron is well qualified to speak for his native
country and secure its rightful share in the direction
of the war. He is not the sort of representative to be
overawed by the importance of his associates. His
rugged force is acknowledged by the Labor Opposition,
which, though it detests his politics, was the first to
predict that he would reach high office. Speaking as
a private member on May 9, 1939, he showed that
he had a better grasp of foreign affairs and a shrewder
perception of the weakness of the alliances then
fashionable than was exhibited by any British poli-
tician. Some of the points he made:
Certain principles ought to be observed by any
Government when considering an alliance with another
Power, especially if the alliance is likely to lead us into
hostilities after a short period. The first of them should
be a community of interests between the Powers affected;
the second, that there should be identity of objective;
the third, that there should be geographical or strategical
capacity to render mutual aid; the fourth, that opera-
tions of a military character will result in a concen-
tration of forces on the third party rather than in dis-
persion of the efforts of the allies.
Where exactly is the community of interest between
Great Britain and Russia? Where can be the identity
of objective between a country that is anti-Communist
and one that is Communist, especially when the matter
is viewed in relation to the third parties affected?
Where are those geographical and strategical con-
siderations which would render it possible for us and
for Rumania and Poland mutually to aid each other?
ln order to assist Poland we should have to attack
Germany on the Western Front. That is a prospect
to which no statesman can look forward with equa-
nimity. Rumania is a reed on which neither this
country nor Great Britain can afford to lean....
One of the principles to be observed should be the
concentration of your greatest possible force at the
weakest point in the defences of your enemy. With
allies of this description, not strength but weakness
would be brought to any alliance.
The U.5.A.?... .Once only has it been employed in
a European war, and, if 1 am any judge of its policy,
it is not only the intention but also the determination
of the American people that that time shall be the last.
My only concern is that the Government shall use
every endeavor, whenever the opportunity is presented,
to ensure that British policy is firm, strong and united;
above all, that it is well directed —that it is directed
towards tasks which are capable of accomplishment,
and, principally, capable of justification.
The author of those pregnant sentences is wasted
in a job where he has to concentrate on the affairs of
wheatgrowers and fruitgrowers. With his energy and
realism he could be of service, not only to Australia,
but to the Empire in the crisis that has come upon it.
He may —who knows? —be the makings of what the
Empire has rarely had: a first-class Minister of War.
After three years of the Great War Monash, under
whom he served, was almost as obscure, yet Mr. Lloyd
George has intimated, not obscurely, that if he had
known of Monash’s great qualities before it was too
late he would have tried to appoint “the Dominion
general” commander-in-chief.
Reds and Their Coal Strike.
The unfortunate coalminers, dragged into a strike in
four States on issues which meant nothing to over
four-fifths of them, and little to the rest, are learning
once more the penalties of Red leadership.
They were induced to leave work by a series of
votes taken at mass meetings on March 7. On Mon-
day, though the position was hopeless, the N.S.W.
and Victorian miners had been on strike since
March 9.
The mass meeting is a mob-orator’s weapon. Since
mob-orators prepare the resolution and arrange the list
of speakers and their mob is ready for vocal opposition
with insults and threats, a responsible man would hesi-
tate to hang a dog on its vote, much less plunge several
thousand human beings into idleness and poverty. But
there are game Australians on the coalfields, as else-
where, and, even though the dice were loaded in favor
of the mob orators and their mobs, the strike resolu-
tion in N.S.W. and Queensland districts was defeated.
On the Newcastle fields only half the men voted,
and the strike was decided upon by a minority of
members of the unions concerned. Nevertheless,
“Common Cause,” organ of the Miners’ Federation,
amid its “hands off Russia” splurges, had the gall to
tell the world that there “had been a great display of
solidarity,” and Mr. Orr, the Communist secretary,
“explained” that the Queensland vote “cannot be con-
strued as opposition because there has been confusion
in Queensland.” So the strike was launched with cries
of “The struggle is on; Unity will win.”
It was alleged, as usual, that funds and “credits”
would suffice till the Government caved in. Mr. Wil-
liams, himself a Miners’ Federation man, gave
the cold facts to a Queensland mass meeting
on Monday of last week. When the strike opened the
Federation had £330 in the bank, and held £1695 in
its office. In relief, £32,000 had been paid out and
£20,000 had been borrowed. On the first docket the
combined unions issued £11,300 worth of credit. They
owed £7500 on the second docket; Queensland alone
was waiting for £5OOO and there was no money to
meet it.
The Commonwealth Government has shown great
patience in dealing with the strikers. Its patience
reached its limit at the beginning of May, when, as
a preliminary to the introduction of other labor, it
issued the most stringent anti-strike regulations ever
gazetted in Australia ; and it had ample justification.
More mass meetings were held last week. At Cess-
nock the men were so equally divided that the chair-
man shirked making a count. Eventually it was


decided somehow that there had been a majority of
200 for continuance of the strike, compared with a pre-
sumed 2800 at the March meeting. Kurri again
rejected the strike resolution (900 to 300); so did
Adamstown (500 to 205). The total vote in N. S. Wales
was estimated at 5984 for continuing the strike and
4551 against. The Queenslanders voted 2 to 1 in favor
of returning to work ; and return to work they did.
A prelude to the mass meetings was a gathering
on the Sydney Domain at which Mr. Nelson, general
president of the strike committee, speaking from the
same platform as the chairman of the Communist
party, said that he had warned Mr. Menzies that the
Government was declaring “civil war on the coal-
fields.” Afterwards, Mr. Hoare, president of the
Northern Miners, shouted that the vote would “throw
back in Menzies’s teeth the lie that only a few leaders
are keeping the miners out” ; that “the fight is on.”
Secretary Orr told the southern miners on the same
day that “the fight” had “already been won.”
The fight has not been won, and could never have
been won. No strike led by Reds has ever succeeded
in Australia. Transport workers, seamen, meat-
workers, timber workers and the coalminers them-
selves could give bitter testimony to this fact. All
Red strikes fail because it is not in the leaders to
succeed. They are merely vain and incompetent
windbags.
They cry out for free speech, but are against it
when it does not suit their cause. They take advan-
tage of industrial law when it is to their convenience to
do so, and advise breaking it when they think an
advantage can be gained. They demand the legal
protection afforded to every Australian and at the
same time advocate the overthrow of the system
which protects them and the substitution of Oriental
methods of tyranny.
It is now incumbent on the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment —the others don’t matter —to see that the
Arbitration Act is so strengthened and the trade-
union law so altered that there will be no more Red
strikes in war-time or any other time. Anybody who
attempts Communist methods in future should find
himself in a place where he can do no further
mischief.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Income-tax Maze.
Year after year The Bulletin contended that taxation
of incomes should be exclusively a Commonwealth
matter, and that at the same time education should be
placed under Commonwealth control.
It was here pointed out that, as a rule, there was
very little difference between annual revenue from the
six “ordinary” State income taxes and annual State
expenditure on education in all its forms —at times
indeed expenditure on education exceeded income-tax
revenue —and that where marked provincial differences
existed the Commonwealth Government could make
them up.
It was shown in addition that one Australian
income tax would be a great convenience and would
lead to substantial savings in administrative costs and
private expenditure necessitated by the wilderness of
Acts and the horde of authorities; that it would
bring in more revenue from people who dodge State
taxes or contrive to avoid them, wholly or in part,
by spreading their investments, and that national con-
trol of education, besides dispensing with five Ministers
and their personal staffs, would benefit teachers and
pupils alike, the latter in particular by furnishing
adequate funds for and giving a national direction to
technical education, which the State Governments,
grossly improvident in most other directions, shame-
fully neglected. Even during the depression, when
an army of “laborers” had to be provided for, there
was a shortage of skilled labor in certain trades, and
other shortages have developed, embarassingly for the
Commonwealth Government, during the last 18
months.
Nothing was done. State Governments went on
neglecting education and spending riotously in other
directions. To meet this expenditure and their huge
losses on loan “works” and other enterprises they
increased their ordinary income taxes and their special
income-taxes, the latter being alleged to be for un-
employed-relief, although a lot of the money was
used for other purposes. Whereas in 1933-34 revenue
from “ordinary” State income and dividend taxes
(£8,771,798) was less than State expenditure on edu-
cation, science and art (£9,793,600, of which £580,100
was borrowed), in 1938-39 State expenditure on edu-
cation, science and art amounted to £12,639,498 and
income from “ordinary” State income and dividend
taxes to £17,279,900, to which special income taxes
added no less than £10,934,800.
In the process of levying these huge sums, State
Treasurers acted in complete disregard not only of
taxpayers but of Treasurers in other States and the
Commonwealth Treasurer. That gentleman, when he
started on his war Budget, found that, if he obeyed his
impulse to impose the highest additional rates on large
incomes, large incomes would dry up, in Queensland
at all events, for he and his Queensland opposite
number would be taking the lot. So he has been re-
duced to doing what he didn’t want to do —making
middle-class incomes bear much sharper increases.
State income-taxes actually paid are allowable
deductions from income taxed by the Commonwealth,
and for the protection of taxpayers against provincial
rapacity this concession must go on. During the
present financial year the Commonwealth is taking
from a property income of £lOOO £42 in Queensland
and £49 in Tasmania ; Tasmania is extracting another
£27 and Queensland another £9B. On a property
income of £40,000, Queensland and Commonwealth
taxes are now £16,494 ; Victorian and Commonwealth
taxes, £8278. On an income of £lOOO, the new Com-
monwealth and the 1939-40 State taxes will be £lB6 in
Queensland and £l3l in Tasmania; on £40,000,
£26,195 in Queensland and £21,677 in Victoria. On
£2OOO, existing taxes of £330 in Queensland and £2lB
in Westralia will go up to £5ll in Queensland and
£421 in Westralia.
Said Mr. Spender ruefully, “the highest State rates
of tax are two and a half times the lowest State rates
of tax. One result is that a good deal of taxable
capacity has to be left untapped by the Common-
wealth.” He is going to suggest uniform rates to the
State Governments, but they and the taxpayers ad-
versely affected will object.
There can be no educing of order out of chaos
until taxation of incomes (and with it control of edu-
cation) is taken over by the Commonwealth. For
this purpose every use should be made of Common-
wealth powers, and, though the Constitution doesn’t
expressly say so, no limit can be set to Common-
wealth powers in time of war. Parliament could, if
it wished, pass laws empowering the Government to
tax incomes 100 per cent, and giving it leave to take
what it needs for national requirements and distribute
among the State Governments what it thinks they
need. State laws taxing incomes even 1 per cent,
would then be useless under Section 109 —“When the
law of a State is inconsistent with a law of the
Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail, and the
former shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be
invalid.”
«
Case for Abolition.
Gathered haphazardly during the week from sundry
newspapers:
Bertram W. Ford, president of the N.S.W. Town Planning
Association, says three expert engineers are prepared to give
evidence condemning N.S.W. Government’s proposal to spend
£1,800,000 on repairs to Burrinjuck Dam. They hold that
a better job could be done for £50,000.
Minister Cameron excludes Victoria from the Common-
wealth grant of £500,000 for relief of “marginal area” wheat-
growers on the ground that the Victorian Government s plan
was hurriedly submitted in order to justify its claim for a
share if its request to be allowed to divert the money to other
purposes was refused. Mr. Dunstan calls it “victimisation.
Assistant Treasurer Fadden says the State Governments
are setting the worst possible example by their extravagance.
They have increased their taxation 47 per cent, in five years,
and their increased expenditure over the same period has
not given service commensurate with increased taxes.
At the forthcoming Loan Council meeting Commonwealth
will urge substantial cuts in State loan programmes owing to
necessity for conserving war finance.
Federal Ministers believe that income taxes are unduly
heavy in S.A. and Queensland and wages taxes too high
in Victoria and N.S.W., which are to receive most benefit
from grants for defence works.
In September, 1939, Justice Lowe pronounced the Act con-
stituting the Victorian Egg Board invalid. Subsequently the
State Parliament passed an Act validating board measures, and
Chief Justice Mann has decided that the legislation has a retro-
active effect and that it is not necessary for the board to
prove that a person produced eggs for sale before declaring
him to be a producer under its control. Two poultry-
farmers fined and ordered to pay all costs as result.
The Victorian Minister for Agriculture explains that
estimates of the State’s bulk-wheat scheme must be substan-
tially increased.
The coal strike catches N.S.W. Government departments
so short of coal that essential services suffer and citizens face
drastic conditions and serious increase of unemployment.
Panic-stricken light, fuel and power measures proclaimed,
causing blackouts and chaos in kitchens and threatening
another 100,000 wage-earners with unemployment.
During a debate on a proposal to set up another board
in N.S.W. Assemblymen stated that there were 312 boards,
50 having been created since the Mair Government took
office. Said boards control essential household commodities.
In Mr. Dwyer-Gray’s opinion it will be impossible to
raise £50,000,000 for war purposes by ordinary public loans
in Australia between now and June, 1941, plus “the legitimate
and inescapable loan requirements of the six States.” Mr.
Dwyer-Gray is Treasurer of Tasmania (pop. 240,000), which
has a Governor, two Houses of Parliament, nine Ministers
and a London Agency, and he is going to do more taxing.
There was a lot more, but the samples given,
added to the mountainous pile of evidence available,
help to clinch the already-damning case against the
further existence of State Parliaments.
Wars and Committees.
“Feng-Shui” : The English have been trying to win this
war with a committee. Unless you have an enormous
preponderance of power and can afford to make mis-
takes, you can’t win a war with a committee. You
might if the enemy was also trying to run the war with
a committee, in which case the committee which
made the fewest mistakes would win in the long run.
But that doesn’t apply in the present case because
Germany is not being run by a committee.
Hitler is the direct antithesis of a committeeman
and could not live on a committee for five minutes.
He would either have to dominate it completely, in
which case it would cease to be a committee, or he
would be kicked out. A committee is invariably com-
posed of the mediocre, and the mediocre cannot
tolerate anybody with superior attainments who makes
them feel inferior.
A committeeman is never concerned with his
own opinion ; he is concerned with the opinion of
the many. What he is trying to do is to find out how
the others are thinking ; the others are trying to find
out what he is thinking, and, as neither is thinking,
the conclusions they come to are the ordinary, com-
monplace ones which anybody could have thought of.
Hitler has never been on a committee and has
only concerned himself with his own opinion. If he
had to work through a committee, their opinion
of him would not affect him in the slightest. Conse-
quently, he has an enormous advantage over states-
men, generals and politicians who, from the tradi-
tional point of view, may have ten times more techni-
cal knowledge than he has.
In the last war cavalrymen were kept waiting four
years for an opportunity to charge like the Light
Brigade and the Scots Greys, such being the lengths
to which committeemen will go to remain faithful to
tradition. The changes made were attributed to Eng-
land’s capacity for muddling through to victory. You
can’t muddle through to anything. There was a
muddle, and it would have ended with a muddle if
Lloyd George hadn’t come along and dominated the
committees. Churchill has begun by trying to do what
Lloyd George did. He is on the right track ; it
remains for him to prove himself the man that Lloyd
George was.
For Editors and Radio Commentators.
“Tovarish”: Stunt Press editors and radio experts
would surely win the world’s championship in a
credulity competition. Somebody should count the
occasions on which Russian propagandists have had
them by the foot in the last year or two. The leg-
pulling process has been almost continuous.
We were told that Russia wanted an alliance with
the Allies, that Russia was the enemy of Germany,
that Russia was defending East Poland from Hitler,
that the Russo-German agreement was a trade treaty
which meant nothing in diplomatic relations (Stalin
killed that one with his birthday telegram to Von
Ribbentrop in which he spoke of the friendship of the
German and Russian peoples being “cemented by
blood”); that the domination of the small Baltic
countries was a blow to Germany ; that the Finnish
business was a smack in the eye for Hitler ; that fric-
tion had developed between the two dictators because
of Germany’s Norwegian adventure ; and so on.
At the height of the Finnish campaign and just
on the eve of its success, the European headquarters
of the Communist International moved to Vienna.
Editors and experts did not have the chance to specu-
late whether this was tantamount to a conquest of Aus-
tria under the noses of Berchtesgaden, because they
did not know about it till three months afterwards.
After the Finnish affair Russia retired into the back-
ground. It has come into the news again with the
usual legpulling accompaniments.
Voroshilov, head of the Red Army, a plain, ordi-
nary commissar or Minister, has been promoted to the
position of vice-chairman of the Council of Commis-
sars, or to be Deputy-Premier under Molotov, so that
the Stunt Press is moved to speculate whether he has
not fallen from grace. It can rest assured that his fall
was the same kind that made Archie Cameron Deputy-
Prime Minister of Australia.
“Klim” is one of the Big Four of Russia —Stalin,
Molotov, Voroshilov, Zhdanov —and Stalin is the last
man to take chances —especially with army com-
manders and public idols. If his dear friend had
fallen, it would have been in a dark cellar under the
Moskva with several bullets in him.
In any case, positions on the Council of Com-
missars do not matter much. Stalin holds no office as
a Minister. Neither does A. A. Andreyev, the “Chair-
man of the Soviet Union.” The Communist party is
the sovereign power. Stalin rules by virtue of being
its general secretary. The real Government of the
country is the C.P.’s polit-bureau —Stalin, Molotov,
Voroshilov, Zhdanov, Andreyev (chairman), Kagano-
vich, Kalinin, Khrushchev, Mikoyan.
When the Stunt Press hears that Voroshilov has
been thrown out of this coterie, it can begin to worry
about him. When it hears that Comrade Timoshenko,
who takes his place in the Defence Department, has
become a member of the polit-bureau, it can for-
ward congratulations on his promotion to the front
rank of Bolshevist leaders.
Meantime, all editors who publish the warning
from a Sofia correspondent of the Yankee Associated
Press that “Russia has warned Britain, France, Ger-
many and Italy that she will not tolerate any Balkan
adventure” should send a wire to ask the correspon-
dent whether Stalin proposes to take on all four
Powers at once or one at a time.
Sex Education in Victorian Schools.
“Pa wang” is against it:
A Melbourne professor is advocating the teaching of
biology in Victorian Government schools, and it has been
suggested that it be linked up with sex education. An
English poet once said that after he had been taught sex
at school from analogy with plants he couldn’t look a
daffodil in the face again; and there is something to be said
for the witticism.
Those who are for teaching sex en masse forget that to
every child every word has different associations. It is
everybody’s experience that a word which charms one indi-
vidual. adult or child, will disgust another, even in the most
intimate circumstances. How much more would this be so
when a teacher starts talking about such a delicate subject
as sex in the atmosphere of a classroom.
Moreover, the way we receive a thing depends on the
mood of the moment, and the mood of every child in a
classroom is likely to be different. To teach sex to a whole
roomful of children involves talking to individuals who are
all in different states of receptivity, and some not in any
state of receptivity whatever. Parents who blithely approve
of a teacher instructing their children in sex might ask them-
selves whether they themselves are capable of listening to a
lecture on the same subject in public without a certain
amount of acute embarrassment. If they are not, how can
they expect their children to be?
To teach sex to a pupil who, for some reason or other
unknown to himself, is unreceptive is to surround sex with
unfortunate associations for the pupil. Those associations
will tend to remain fixed throughout life, and when the
individual has certain feelings they will be a memory of his
unfortunate experience in the classroom.
Some of the pupils may like their teacher and others
may dislike him. What he teaches will be surrounded by
those associations with regard to sex, precisely as they are in
relation to arithmetic, geography or anything else he teaches.
If the pupil has been taught to be polite he will evade his
feelings, but that will not prevent his being conditioned by
them. If he has unfortunate associations around authority
there is not the ghost of a chance of his teacher giving him
a decent attitude unless he changes his associations; and that
can be done only by gaining his sympathy. The teacher can
gain his sympathy only as an individual ; he can t do it m
Some teachers say they find it difficult to talk on sex
to individual children, but can do it quite well in public.
But if a teacher cannot talk to a child in private without
embarrassment, how can he do it in public without feeling
the same embarrassment? And if he feels embarrassed he
will convey his feeling to his audience and will surround a
subject which he wishes to clarify with the most dismal associa-
tions it is possible to imagine. ...... , -
The whole idea of sex education in Victorian schools is
founded on a complete ignorance of psychology.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Sydney ain't so good. You can go for miles without seein' a gin.”
“K. Ley”: Answering the ’phone, I was
greeted by a voice with a distinct Mc-
Isaacs burr which informed me that its
owner was a Belgian who had been called
up for military service, was leaving Aus-
tralia almost immediately, had just im-
ported a lot of sample carpets and was
eager to dispose of them at absurd prices
before leaving. Could he call and show
them that night? Gently I replied that
I had sold up my shack and was putting
the proceeds into War Savings Certificates
before departing to serve in the Lafayette
Escadrille now being formed in—but just
then the voice interrupted with, “Can
the alibi, brother,” and bang went the
receiver at the other end.
* * * *
“B. Yabber”: A witness in a Sydney
court, asked if he was on excellent terms
with his neighbors, replied: “Excellent! I
might say ‘lt’s a nice day’ to them every
two or three years.” Reporters chose
to regard this as sarcasm, but anyone
familiar with life in the average Sydney
suburb will doubt it, for even to address
your neighbor every two or three years
marks you down as a garrulous and
objectionable fellow whose approaches
should be discouraged with firmness. I
shall never forget the time my hedge
caught fire and the man living directly
opposite telephoned to tell me about it.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It jars on me as much as
on “T.” (B. 8/5/’4O) to hear anyone put
the accent on the first syllable in the
word “romance”; nevertheless, Bret
Harte is a very unsafe authority. He
had a way of making a syllable long
or short to suit his own metrical pur-
poses, regardless of popular usage, as
in “The Society upon the Stanislaus,”
where “abdomen” is twisted into
“abdomen.” And he might be quoted
by either side for the pronunciation of
“romance.”
Bells of the past, whose long-forgotten music
Still fills the wide expanse
Tingeing the sober twilight of the Present
With color of romance
might sound conclusive, but how re-
concile it with this (from “The Return
of Belisarius”)?
’Twas just like your romance, old fellow,
But now there is standing a row
Of stores on the site of the cabin
That you lived in a twelvemonth ago.
Or this (from “Half-an-Hour before
Supper”)?
There’s my wife—(you must know) —we first
met her on the journey from Florence to
Rome:
It took me three weeks to discover who was
she and where was her home.
Three more to be duly presented; three more
ere I saw her again;
And a year ere my romance began where
yours ended that day on the train.
So the poet of the Sierras could be
happy with either romance or romance.
* # * *
“Nakh” : It is a strange war. A Mel-
bourne girl who had been studying at
a German university found herself at
the frontier three hours too late for a
passport. She wandered from town to
town looking for protection until a kindly
American Consul took her under his wing.
He kept her out of an internment camp,
and finally by his good offices she was
permitted to depart. But instead of being
passed into Belgium or Holland she was
passed through the Siegfried and Maginot
Lines six months after the outbreak of
hostilities. There is something staggering
about the idea of a lone woman walking
unscathed between the two greatest lines
of fortifications in history, manned by
millions of men armed to the teeth and
ready to blow one another to perdition
at a moment’s notice.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Mute, inglorious Lenins?
A Melbourne Communist had joined a
long queue which was winding its way
past the stamp department of the central
post office. Just as his turn came a bell
rang and the clerk slammed down the
window. “Bloody bourgeois bureaucracy,”
snorted the Communist, walking away
disgustedly.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: That “keep-it-out-
of-the-papers” feeling (B. 8/5/’4O) is
not confined to people in public positions.
Every pressman who has done a bit of
court reporting has been “approached”
by harassed relatives of somebody who
has “got himself into trouble.” Very often
the “trouble” is so trifling that no paper
would report it; but I have found it best
to assure the worried ones that a word
would be passed to brother pressmen
and all would be well. I have known
men of the world who dread police-court
publicity. A pillar of commerce asked
me to “see what I could do” about a
sorely-embarrassed nephew. It turned out
to be a mere drunk-and-disorderly case,
and the defendant pleaded guilty through
a solicitor and paid a small fine ; but next
day brought a letter with “thanks for
your services” and a cheque. The drawer
refused to take it back or to believe that
I had really done nothing to “keep it out
of the papers” ; and to this day he re-
peats his thanks when we meet.
* * * *
“Bisley”: The telephone cable-
pointers” were sorting out a maze of
wires. It was hot and thirsty and a
long way to knock-off time; and the
usual crowd of idlers were surround-
ing the manhole. Said one, leaning
over the guard-rails, “How on earth do
you find the wire you want among so
many?” “We smell it out,” a hardy
toiler replied disgustedly. “And for the
Lord’s sake ’op it—y’r feet’s destroyin’
our sense of smell.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne’s May Day
demonstration revived memories. In Paris
on May Day, 1920, I innocently took
a bus to the centre of the celebrations
near the Place de la Revolution. As we
got nearer, the crowd, composed chiefly
of well-dressed men and women, thick-
ened, but they seemed peaceable enough,
although every doorway bristled with
bayonets, aeroplanes roared overhead
and occasionally an armored car would
divide the mob. When we reached
the packed boulevards the bus suddenly
stopped, the driver and the conductor
were dragged from their seats, and I saw
them disappear in a whirlwind of
walking-sticks. I learned that they were
university undergraduates who had volun-
teered as strikebreakers. A general melee
followed, out of which I withdrew with
the speed of a frenzied camel. Casualties
included a Socialist Deputy and were
officially given as 700. Melbourne’s May
Day was different, and the amount of
passion and interest displayed in it would
not have been sufficient to propel a pea-
nut shell across a pond.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: During the depression
the Back-to-the-Horse movement, despite
street processions and oceans of propa-
ganda, was imperceptible, but the rise
in the price of petrol may make a differ-
ence. Anyway, Mark Evans, a Geelong
man, has applied for and been given a
license to drive an old-time horse drag
as a stage coach. They made good
coaches 50 years ago, and the vehicle
is still capable of bowling along with
its allotted total of 26 passengers. For
the last 10 years its only airings have
been annual visits to Flemington on Cup
Day.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: The headless woman of a
Sydney R.A.S. sideshow that did good
business turned out to be a 17-year-old
youth who had left home without in-
forming his parents of his whereabouts.
The flapper press, which must be almost
as gullible as its readers, displayed great
astonishment at finding the headless
woman to be a clever trick, and only
the Norwegian fiasco stopped them
writing leaders about it. Evidently a
flapper paper is just as ready to believe
in headless women as in the exploded
prophets it depends upon for its over-
seas information. The kid himself was
quite direct about it in a letter home:
I am a lady with no head.
I will send some money when I get it.
Enclosed is 3d. for the baby.
Probably swallowed by the baby as
eagerly as a cable editor swallows things.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Places where you get your
hair cut are “barber shops” in Australia
nowadays, and there are Hamburger
joints and neighborhoods called “Holly-
wood” and magazines modelled on
“Esquire” and Sunday papers written in
the Los Angeles lingo and many other
pathetic imitations of the inferior civili-
sation on the other side of the Pacific.
And now “S. M. Herald,” hitherto a
well of English undefiled, is beginning to
follow the detestable fashion. The other
day it called a member of a board an
“executive,” just as Hollywood does. I
trust that it is only a passing weakness
and that Granny will return to her decent
tradition.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: Florrie Forde, dead in Eng-
land, was the last of the music-hall girls
whom Australia doted on in the early
’nineties. Melbourne-born, and real name
Flanagan (some of her relations are in
Sydney), she was a fine figure of a woman,
had a powerful voice and used it to
effect in ditties like “After the Ball.” Her
great aversion was Sayles, the negro
cornerman, who persisted in gagging dur-
ing her turn; and one night at the old
Victoria Hall, Melbourne, she “busted
him over the haid”—as he put it after-
wards— with a paper packet of flour.
Probably her last Sydney appearance was
at Her Majesty’s in 1895, when George
Rignold tried the novel idea of playing
a drama and a burlesque on it the
same evening. This double bill, Jerrold’s
“Blackeyed Susan”—Rignold as William
—and Burnand’s burlesque, “Susan with
Two Black Eyes”—Florrie as William —
was well done, but the public didn’t care
for it. Florrie, always kindhearted, died
after entertaining patients at a naval hos-
pital. To the last she had earned a big
salary on the halls. Kindly obituary
writers say she was 64.
* * t= *
“Ike Hollar”: An Australian woman
has decided that she is going to give the
world the perfect baby, and has told
flapper papers how it is to be done. It’s
an idea that has been thought of before.
The old-time athlete George Seale —
greatest of all Australian middleweights,
some veterans still aver —aspired to have
the perfect son. Seale was well equipped
mentally as well as physically ; he chose
a mate who matched him, and they
planned for perfection in their offspring.
The son born to them was a very fine
boy, but directly he could think he
started to react against the proposal to
make him a superman. He grew up a
normal, likeable fellow, but there was
nothing supermannish about him.
* * * *
“T.”: Six months ago Churchill was
jumped on for a reference to “Hitler and
his Huns.” The temper of the English
has changed so much since then that a
recent London “Times” application of
the term to the enemy did no more than
start an argument as to how and when
it originated. As far as I know the
“Thunderer” has not satisfied the thirst
for information, but it could have done
so. When the last war broke out it
published these Kipling lines:
For all we have and are,
For all our children’s fate,
Stand up and take the war;
The Hun is at the gate.
The “Daily Mail” took it up and the
expression went round the English-
speaking world. When it was wearing
out in the King’s dominions, the Ameri-
cans gave it a new vogue. Full of indigna-
tion and desire of battle was Uncle, now
so nootral, “when the war clouds lowered
in 1917.”
* * * *
“Runa”: Maoriland nearly supplied
the dictionary with a new word (B.
8/5/’4O). A young captain of volunteers
had a few words with the Government
of the day over some bungling that had
caused him inconvenience and much lost
time. His name was Knyvett, and his
case received wide publicity. When the
captain turned in his commission people
began to use the term “knyvetted” as
meaning unjustly treated or forced out
of a position without chance of ex-
planation. But just when the argument
was at its height Halley’s comet came
along and the seventh Edward died, and
the public mind turned to higher things.
WAR BARDS.
Where are the minstrels who once would
hearten
The men-at-arms with their martial lays,
Like bold Tyrtaeus who fired the Spartan
Hosts with his verse in the ancient days?
Where are the Campbells and where the Kip-
lings,
Tennysons, too, in that line who shone?
Is their art denied to our modern striplings?
Where in the world are the war bards gone?
When the League of Nations got fairly going,
By Como’s lake were the harps uphung,
Whose music else might have set us glowing,
Whose stirring strains far and wide been
flung?
Is there never a son of bright Apollo
On our Parnassus or Helicon
The paths that his forebears trod to follow?
Where, can you tell, have the war bards
gone?
Are the tribe so busy with airy trifles,
Lyrics of love and of Nature’s charms,
That their ears are deaf to the crack of rifles
And the clang and clatter of deadlier arms?
Is there never a man of our sonnet-slingers
To take the torch and to hand it on,
The heritage from the old-time singers?
Where, would you say, are the war bards
gone?
Think of the poets whose rhymes were bruited
O’er bygone battlefields, hither and yon.
Why are the pipes they played on muted?
Where in the world have the war bards gone?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Jamwood”: Is there any feminine
pastime that hasn’t, or won’t, become a
leg-show? In the long, long thoughts of
youth I once decided that skating would
be free from the prevailing obsession :
but, Lord, how wrong I was! Nowa-
days skating girls seem to be cased in
less clothing than even ballerinas, and in
posing for the inevitable newspaper
photographer married skateresses show
more leg than single girls. I learn on
excellent authority that short skirt,
jumper and very short tights constitute
the conventional skating costume, but
for the tights many of the brats obviously
substitute scraps of silk or art. silk, and
how they keep bare legs warm when
cavorting on ice rinks is a baffler. I
suppose the tide of fashion will turn
some day and that women will skate,
dance and play tennis, hockey, vigoro
and so forth in heehlength skirts, with
corresponding accessories and fixings;
but it will be a long time turning.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A dramatic death in the
moment of victory came to an Adelaide
woman of 73. She took the stage in a
crowded theatre, the Tivoli, for an
amateur “popular artist” competition
and sang a sentimental war ballad to
immense applause. But the excitement
was too much for a weak heart, and the
game old girl collapsed on leaving the
stage. She was adjudged the winner
while she lay dead in the wings. Now,
what aged singer wouldn’t like to go
out like that?
“Lyndo”: It happened at a war bazaar
in our village. A sassiety damsel was
trying to rake in cash for a cushion
raffle, when her gaze fell on a youth who
was running a lucky dip. In shrill accents
she said “There’s Bill Blank hanging
round doing all sorts of silly things for
his mother. I wonder why he doesn’t
go to the war. I’d pass him a white
feather if I had one.” She turned to find
Bill Blank’s flapper sister listening, and
watched the lass rush over to Mrs. Blank
to report. The Blank flapper came back.
“Mum says she’s sorry she can’t give you
a white feather for Bill,” she announced
in a voice audible to the entire gathering.
“She says she had lots but used them
all up sending them to your father
twenty-:five years ago.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: An American nerve
specialist professes to have discovered a
remote cerebral control station which
causes tongue-tie. When he touched
a piece of tissue in the brain of a man
under a local anaesthetic the patient
started reiterating the same sound.
Bidden to repeat the alphabet, the
patient, the specialist found, could be
halted on any letter, and was incapable
of going on to the next one until the
stimulus had been re-
moved. The piece of
tissue is less than an
inch square. Whether
it occurs in all human
beings it is impossible
to say, as a difficult
brain operation is re-
quired to get at it. Still,
like most of the dis-
coveries connected with
the mechanism of the
brain, it doesn’t explain
the very things that
most need explaining—
for instance, why radio
professors become
tongue-tied when asked
to reconcile their
prophecies of last week
with what happened
this week. It can’t be due to the con-
dition of their brain tissue —unless, of
course, A.B.C. touches them up with an
electrode before they start their mono-
logues.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Melbourne school
for cooks, the first of its kind in the
Empire, for which Angliss, M.L.C., has
found £25,000, is not yet completed, but
is already being rushed with applications
from hotel and restaurant managers in
all parts of the Commonwealth. Aus-
tralia needs it. A daily-paper symposium
revealed that the two dishes most prized
by the gastronomes of Melbourne are
steak and kidney pie and apple pie and
cream —washed down, of course, by post-
and-rail tea.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A Melbourne painter re-
ceived an invitation to a dinner at
which it was promised he would be the
guest of honor. Palette arrived early, as
he had heard that the house he was to
"'Struth! It broke on the inside as Well!”
visit contained a couple of his pictures
and he was anxious both to renew old
acquaintance and see if the owner had
had the sense to get the paintings lighted
properly. Palette’s host showed him
round, and the artist made a few sug-
gestions on how the paintings could be
better displayed; but his entertainer
seemed to be embarrassed about some-
thing. Finally he blurted out: “You’ll
excuse me mentioning it, Mr. Palette,
but all my guests will be sure to have
dressed for dinner. As you will be the
guest—ah—of honor, it might perhaps be
better —ah—you know what I mean.”
“Precisely,” said the painter; “I’ll go
home at once.” “Extraordinary grateful
to you, old man,” said his host, relieved
beyond measure. Half an hour later
a taxi brought an empty dress suit with
a note appended: “Herewith I am send-
ing the guest of the evening.”
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The 6000-ton British
tramp steamer Castlemoor, a recent vic-
tim to a Nazi torpedo, once had her life
saved by an Australian fire brigade. In
September, 1929, she limped into King
George’s Sound (W.A.) in a huge cloud
of smoke, with her whole company in
the last stages of exhaustion
after a fortnight of fighting
fire in her cargo of coal. A
tug helped her up to near
Albany, she was beached in
a convenient place and the
fire brigade turned out. For
two days and nights it poured
water into her regardless of
explosions, red-hot buckled
decks, blasts of flame and
strangling acrid fumes, and
finally got the fire under.
She was towed off, and after
temporary attention pro-
ceeded to Port Adelaide
under her own steam for
repairs.
* * *
“G.P.”: An unemployed
friend has to thank Shirley
Jeffries, the S.A. Minister of
Employment, for getting the
wife’s wedding-ring out of
pawn. Ministers attending
to “sustenance” are usually a
bit on the tough side, but
when the pawned wedding-
ring was mentioned at a
deputation it hit a soft spot
in the lawyer - Minister’s
heart. Without any publicity
he provided the wherewithal
for the ring to be retrieved from Uncle
Ike.
* * * *
“Exdig”: In Palestine, they tell me,
Young Diggers can shop at the Australian
Grocery or pop into Young and Jack-
son’s, the First and Last, Carlyon’s and
other places with names dear to Diggers
from all parts of Australia. In the Great
War the opportunism of the trader was
best displayed in Le Havre, where the
Bull and Bush, the Elephant £md Cattle,
the White Horse, Tra | J
Piccadilly Cafe, Leicester L °ung
similar places existed to ma
soldiers feel at home. Wh n
struck Le Havie ali le o w °
hobbled beside marching troops selling
fruit from her basket. Her cry w
“Appoos! Appoos. Tree a penne
eash!” Her appoos were pears.
“Ming”: Old Dan was rouseabout at
the auctioneer’s, and not addicted to
social occasions, but when somebody
gave him a ticket for one of our
patriotic shows he went along. Dan
dozed through most of the items, but
was awakened by a shrieking soprano
who was singing a sentimental ditty, “i
Send You a Thousand Kisses.” She
essayed a top note, cracked on it, and
stopped. Old Dan took a kindly interest
in her. “Try startin’ ’im with five
’undred, miss,” he advised. “You can
always run up the biddin’.”
* * * *
“Canned Beans”: Uniformed women
written up and photographed by the
newspapers are not so popular among
ordinary folk as they imagine, and
some people are wondering how
the married ones find time to do
it. The latter had better beware,
for an English magistrate tartly
informed a female A.R.P. worker who
had summonsed her husband for deser-
tion and cruelty that her job was to
look after home and family, and if she
didn’t she could expect no help from
the law. The lady informed the press that
she did not intend to give up her A.R.P.
work, so the next move now lies with
hubby.
* * * *
“Obsy. P.Q.”: A favorite threat of
the old days was to promise that if you
hit a man you’d jar his great-grand-
children. Some such power must have
been expended upon a witness in equity
proceedings in Sydney, whose written
evidence contained the astonishing depo-
sition that “He hit me about the middle
of 1936 and kicked me in the kitchen.”
* * * *
“Willyn”: My spirit-stove ran out of
fuel, so I went to the grocer. He was
serving a customer, tattered and torn,
and reeking horribly. “Bottla metho,”
he wheezed through parched lips, at the
same time placing the exact amount,
fourpence ha’penny, on the counter —in
ha’pennies. The grocer gave him a
withering look of disgust and silently
wrapped up the bottle. We watched the
poor devil as he walked uncertainly from
the shop. The grocer looked at me and
smiled apologetically. “I think there’s
metho in his madness,” he sighed. “Poor
devil, he must have an iron throat to
drink that stuff. Oh, well, it takes all
sorts to make a world, and when a man
sinks that low —well, there’s nothing much
we can do about it. What can Ido for
you?” “A packet of tacks,” says I.
I WONDER.
I wonder when will girls devise
Some more alluring bait for males
Than pencilled brows above the eyes
And scarlet-tinted fingernails,
And when our Jenny, Jill and Jess,
Who’ve lately grown a bit rotunder,
Will swivel back to slenderness.
I wonder.
I wonder when we’re due to see
Menzies and Page the sort of pair
In mutual trust and amity
That Pythias and Damon were,
And when the angry Labor packs
Whom Lang again has split asunder
Will cease their strife and hole the axe.
I wonder.
I wonder when the wowsers’ quirks
Will put the lid on Sunday sports,
And pubs will yield the palm to kirks
As widely popular resorts.
And in the milit’ry demesnes,
Where sergeant-majors growl and thunder,
When will they run to wet canteens?
I wonder.
I wonder when the price of gold
Is like, if ever, to decline,
Or quids are destined to be sold
For years ahead at two-pound-nine.
And somewhere in our Austral soil
Will someone ultimately blunder
On reservoirs of precious oil?
I wonder. t
I wonder when the war we’ll win—
Doubtless a pretty general spec.—
When Hitler’s alley will be in
And Nazis get it in the neck.
But this conjecture’s thirsty stuff,
And here I terminate it under
The firm belief you’ve had enough
“I wonder.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


.
f.
'A
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
10 for 9d...20 for I'S
PREVENT
33
THR
36£_
POLITICAL POINTS
Churchill became P.M. in circum-
stances quite without precedent; and
that not only because his appointment
was an immediate sequel to a shockingly
bungled campaign for which, as chairman
of service Ministers, he would have been
called to account in an ordinary war.
His predecessors, Chamberlain, Baldwin,
MacDonald, Bonar Law, Lloyd George,
Asquith, Balfour, Salisbury, Rosebery,
Gladstone and Disraeli, were all leaders
of parties or coalitions. Churchill has
never held office in any of the party
organisations to which he has belonged.
He was re-elected in November, 1935, as
a private member. When named First
Lord last September he hadn’t been in
a Ministry for 10 years.
Though Stanley put up the best de-
fence of the sorry affair of Norway,
he is no longer at the War Office. Eden
is Minister of War, Alexander First Lord
of the Admiralty, and Attlee Lord Privy
Seal, with a seat in the War Cabinet;
Churchill is P.M. and Minister of De-
fence. Canberra, which gets the last in-
formation of what is going on in Europe,
might now ask these gentlemen, with
the humility evidently expected of Aus-
tralian Ministers, to shut up about Japan,
Italy and Spain.
Since Cameron became Minister of
Commerce he has been immersed in the
affairs of fruitgrowers and wheatgrowers.
Their affairs need attention, and the
wheatgrowing and fruitgrowing interests
are important; but they are not nearly
so important as that Australia should
play its proper part in the direction of
the war. And Cameron is obviously the
man for that job.
In Sydney on Saturday there was a
blackout of neon and electric shop-
signs. Bitter curses broke from the lips
of people interested in them when they
saw one sign twinkling in George-street
—the Railway Department’s. Their
glims were doused because the depart-
ment, which runs four powerhouses,
hadn’t had the gumption to lay in suffi-
cient supplies of coal, though the S.A.
railways and the Adelaide Tramway
Trust bought enough for seven months.
As Lord Roberts “passed in the very
battle-smoke of the war he had descried,”
so George Lansbury died while his
fellow-Commoners were raging about a
crazy campaign of the war he tried to
avert. In quiet intervals many fellow-
members must have looked at that vacant
seat and wondered whether old George
hadn’t been right after all —old George
who opposed “sanctions” and would
never admit that you can prevent war
by threatening it or waging it in some
form.
Dwyer-Gray is against Spender’s
Budget, not because, as Curtin and
Scullin complain, it doesn’t sufficiently
“soak the rich” —the old gentleman
handsomely admits that “this estimable
principle has inescapable limitations” —
but for a reason which simply must be
expressed in polysyllables. Spender is
“still too terrified by phantoms which
have no substantial existence to pursue
what really appear to be his personal
inclinations and accept the responsi-
bility of recommending a rational
utilisation of national credit.” So
there now!
Baker, the Tasmanian Opposition leader,
has cruelly advised Dwyer-Gray, the
little man who loves big words, to read
a book written by his own economic
adviser, Dr. Walker. The Doc.’s term
for advocacy of “national credit” (“a
general policy of financing by the issue
of tax-free loans”) is “simple-minded.”
Maltby, M.L.A., who was one of
Argyle’s Ministers, has enlisted in the
army whose objective is One Parliament
for Australia, though he has a safe seat,
Barwon. Maltby has given a pledge
that he will vote for abolition in the
Assembly, and work for one Parliament
on these lines:
Reduction of the superfluous Victorian
Legislature by the redistribution-of-seats
route.
Reduced Legislature to devote a session
to the framing of ways and means of
transferring its major powers to the Com-
monwealth and its minor powers to munici-
palities.
Amalgamation of small municipalities
as a step towards the handling of local
problems by local bodies.
Establishment of new provinces in the
Riverina and North Queensland.
Not a bad programme.
Swedish newspaper comment on the
fiasco in the neighboring kingdom was
so very nasty that Chamberlain referred
to it with some asperity. He said “if
[?] HANDS OVER.
“After a gigantic manoeuvre in South-Eastern Europe, Britain and France are attempting
to attack the Ruhr through Belgium and Holland.” —Hitler to his mugs.
Sweden has decided on a policy of neu-
trality, I trust that it will be strictly im-
partial.” The same day brought news
that Hitler and the King of Sweden had
exchanged letters “late in April” in which
each promised the other to be strictly
neutral. Now if the Swedes can get Hitler
to sign a non-aggression pact they will
be perfectly happy for quite ten
minutes, anyway.
Awarding damages totalling £1250 to
Citrine, of the Trade Union Congress,
and four members of the T.U.C. general
council for a libel published by the
Communist “Daily Worker,” Justice
Stable said it was “protracted, un-
scrupulous and inspired from abroad”:
I do not think I am entitled to infer
that Moscow paid for the attach —that is a
matter remaining in the decent obscurity in
which the defendant apparently prefers to
leave it.
It was mentioned on behalf of the
plaintiffs that they knew they would
have to whistle for the damages and
costs. In Britain, as in parts of Aus-
tralia (Westralia excepted), the newspaper
libel law is so defective that Corns, and
others can bring or defend actions with
impunity, being under no obligation to
find security for costs.
Lang dominated McKell for so many
years that he knows just how to deal
with him now that the interesting pair
have parted. In controversy the Big
Fellow crawls all over his former meek
subordinate ; for example, when McKell
objected to Lang forming branches in
factories and workshops, Lang retorted
triumphantly that McKell had never
objected to Communists forming cells in
factories and workshops. So far in the
organisation of “the Australian Labor
Party (non-Communist),” Lang and
Beasley have scored heavily over Mc-
Kell’s crowd.
Returning to the subject of the Red
bosses of the A.R.U., Chief Justice Beeby
said that their N.S.W. publication, “Rail-
road,” had carried on “a campaign of
gross misrepresentation and abuse
amounting to contempt of Court” ; that
the regulation strikes in N.S.W. were
“designed to bring the whole system of
arbitration into contempt” ; that the assur-
ances of the Federal and State secretaries
that there was no connection between the
regulation strikes and the Broken Hill
strike were “insincere and unworthy of
men occupying responsible positions,”
ana that if he were dealing only with
the N.S.W. branch under its present
leadership he wouldn’t have hesitated to
deregister. As it is, “special meetings
of branches in four States must be called
so that members may choose between
arbitration and strike action,” and
guarantees must be given that “official
union journals” would be prevented from
advocating “other than union policy.”
The Red bosses’ hearts are now in their
boots, and all their Moscow militancy
has oozed out of them.
Deregistration is the only punitive
power left to the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court when outbreaks of Mos-
cowmania occur, and Chief Judge Beeby
has shown that it can be wielded with
immense effect. But the Court can’t
initiate proceedings, and nervous em-
ployers and departments are very re-
luctant to take them. Six years ago a
benevolent Government found there was
an urgent need for the appointment of
a defeated politician as “inspector to
police awards,” and now a host of
other inspectors are to be appointed to
police other awards. The P°‘’
doesn’t extend to the awards that Reds
break.
Considering that “S. M. Herald had
been praising Churchill to the skies, and
protesting that he was still not “as free
as he should be to devote himself to the
reconciliation of strategy by sea, land
and air,” it was strange to find the old
girl permitting Bean to have a go at him.
It turned out to be Granny’s pretty way
of preceding slaps she herself had
to administer for “complacency and
optimism reflected in fine phrases about
‘purging the soil of the Vikings’ no
substitutes for foresight and decision.
Then Churchill became P.M., and treacle
had to be turned on again.
Though the votes taken in Queens-
land, Kurri and Adamstown (N.S.W.)
were overwhelmingly against the coal
strike, only four Wonthaggi (Vic.) men
were against it and 710 for. If continu-
ance of the sorry Government “enter-
prise” that employs them were put to
a vote of the electors there would be a
700-to-l majority fqr ending it. No
dearer way of buying trouble was ever
thought of than the mine in which tax-
money is lost at the rate of £3OOO a
week when the men work and £lOOO a
week when they strike.
Nowhere, except in the countries in-
vaded, was the shock of Hitler’s latest
crime more staggering than in South
Africa. Though not himself pro-
German, Hertzog regarded Hitler as a
fanatic with a case, and he, Pirow,
Malan and their followers paralysed
their Dominion’s war effort. Now, with
their opposition stultified, it is likely to
come in—at least to become a party to
the Empire air-training scheme.
Nobody who heard it will ever forget
the sincerity of deep regret and the calm
faith with which Neville Chamberlain
announced that we were at war. People
used to the ranting of politicians found,
in that hour, the old man’s words reach-
ing over wastes of sea and touching their
very hearts. When the time came for
him to relinquish the reins to his more
picturesque successor, there was no bitter-
ness. Chamberlain might easily have
rallied enough support to retain the
Prime Ministership, but he believed it
best that Britain should have a national
Government, he believed that a majority
of the people wanted it that way, and
without hesitation he made way. In his
resignation he was great.
“People who talk about the Govern-
ment building 5000 homes a year might
suggest where the money is to come
from,” said Premier Dunstan ; and he
tartly asked those who have compared
Victoria’s record with Maoriland’s if
they wanted him to adopt that country’s
financial methods. Well, if his Govern-
ment’s financial methods can’t prevent
Melbourne becoming more of a slum
city the sooner they are altered the better
—or, rather, the sooner State Parliamen-
tarians admit they are sorry failures the
better. A thousand new homes a year
won’t keep pace with the creation of new
slums. It is no use letting the grass grow
under one’s feet if the ground is being
removed from under the grass.
“X. 5.,” his confession:
I am a bit bewildered over this five-day
working week which public servants are ask-
ing for in Victoria and I don’t know what side
to go on. Since I don’t believe in red-tape, I
think the less we get of it the better, and try
as hard as they can the Victorian p.s. won’t
be able to use up as much of it in five days as
he can in five and a half days. But, if he gets
his five days, honest s.p. bookies and bookies’
agents in the service will be seriously affected, as
they do most of their business on Saturday
mornings when thoughts turn to rosy dreams
of the afternoon’s prospective winners. Cabinet,
however, is in a safe position. It does not
officially admit the existence of the s.p.b. in
the service, so it can come to an objective
decision without being accused of pandering to
a sectional interest. It has decided against
altering service conditions.


THE NARK AT “THE NOOK.”
Gaol for Busy Tongues.”—Headline in Sydney daily.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
OPPOSING INFLUENCES OF INTEREST RATES
AND TAXATION ON SHARE PRICES.
CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
FINANCIAL OUTLOOK.
May Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all Stares
VITAL-O-SAN
That dizzy feeling! Those splitting
heads! General irritability and frayed
nerves!
Each and every symptom a sure sign of
BLOOD PRESSURE
Cleanse the system of clogging waste
and impurity with VITAX-O-SAN, so
strongly recommended by the profes-
sion. VITAE-O-SAN embodies that
vital principle by which you may regain
the jby of living.
HELP YOURSEEE TO HEAETH and
DO IT NOW.
Complete literature cn application to
Box 1943 W, Brisbane, Queensland.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original*
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hal Pateshall Colebatch (“journalist”)
is back in the W.A. Leg. Council. It
used to be said that the Agency-General
was the grave of political reputations,
but Colebatch hasn’t found it so. After
one failure he became an M.L.C. in 1912,
was “Colonial” Secretary in two or three
Ministries and Premier for two or three
weeks. He succeeded to J. D. Connolly
in London, and on his return in 1927 won
a Senator’s seat. Not caring for Canberra,
he accepted the Agency-General for
the second time, with an extra
year or two thrown in for good
measure by a Labor Government which
hadn’t a handy successor for him.
A political life full and varied enougn
for anyone, one might think, but Cole-
batch, though well up in the sixties,
hasn’t had enough of it. He is as prac-
tised a speaker as he was formerly a
ready writer.
Anyone noticing a strong smell of
eucalyptus in the vicinity of W. F.
Blakely, of Sydney, shouldn’t be misled
into thinking he has a cold. He gets
it from his long and intimate association
with gum-trees, whose character, con-
formation and color he has studied for
over 30 years. His monumental Key
to the Eucalypts classifies over 500
species, and he is recognised as a wizard
on wattles and a magician on mistletoe.
A genial tramper of the bush, he re-
tires from the Botanic Gardens, after
40 years’ service, with the unique appel-
lation of eucalyptologist.
If bushcraft counts for anything, the
R.A.A.F. has just acquired a likely re-
cruit in Bernard O’Reilly, the young
man who fought his way through tough
country to the survivors of the Stinson
airliner crash on Lamington Plateau (Q.-
N.S.W. border) in 1937—they had been
missing for nine days and had been
sought in vain from Brisbane to the
Hawkesbury River. O’Reilly is to be
an air observer, and has done Light
Horse training.
John Stanley Murray, new chairman
of Adelaide Electric Light Co., was born
56 years ago, the son of pioneer stock
that settled on the land in S.A. over 100
years ago. He got his B.A. at Canter-
bury (Eng.) in 1908, and the following
year was admitted to the Bar of the Inner
J. STANLEY MURRAY.
Temple, London. He was a lieutenant
of artillery in the 1914-18 war, and in
Adelaide joined the legal firm of Mayo,
Murray and Cudmore. He is chairman
of directors of the “News,” is on the
boards of various companies, was a S.A.
Jockey Club committeeman for several
years, and is bitten by the golf bug.
Paul Hasluck has been granted a year’s
leave from his sub.’s chair in the Perth
“West Australian” to lecture in History
at W.A. University. A good dramatic
critic, he has dabbled in amateur theatri-
cals and done useful work for the W.A.
Historical Society.
Dr. C. R. Mcßae, M.A. (Melb.), Ph.D.
(Lond.), becomes Professor of Education
at Sydney University in succession to
Prof. A. Mackie, retired through ill-
health. The new prof, is a son of J. C.
Mcßae, former Director of Education
in Victoria, and went from Melbourne
to London on a P. and O. scholarship.
His pet subject is psychology.
Though W. S. Watt retires this week
from his job of supplying Melbourne
with its advanced weather knowledge, he
will not lose his interest in “highs,”
“lows” and isobars. He intends to prac-
tise meteorology as
a hobby. A Maori-
land native, he be-
gan as a bank clerk,
then went through
Otago School of
Mines and later
appeared in a Kal-
goorlie (W. A.)
cyanide works. His
enthusiasm for plot-
ting the probable
courses of storms
and other
phenomena was
given an outlet
when he became
Divisional Meteor-
ologist for Tas-
mania, whence he
moved to Melbourne
in 1927, to become
Director of the
Weather Bureau
there. He was at
the Empire Meteor-
ological Conference
in London in 1935,
and the inter-
national one at what
was then Warsaw.
In 1927 he attended
the South-west
Pacific weather con-
ference at Welling-
ton (M.L.). Satisfied
that the change-
ability of Mel-
bourne weather is
good for the health, he intends to remain
by the Yarra.
The Right Rev. Dr. J. N. McKenzie,
new Moderator- of the Presbyterian
Assembly in Victoria, has a unique dis-
tinction. The Japanese Government,
which has very little time for European
missionaries in Korea, gave him a
diploma to enable him to work among
Korean lepers, to whom he took much
experience garnered among the New
Hebrideans.
Geoff Reed, K.C., new chairman of
Adelaide’s Commonwealth Club, was an
Acting Supreme Court Judge and chaired
a royal commission on transport. Reed
formerly lectured at Adelaide University
on private international law and law
of evidence and procedure. He is back
in private practice.
Loudain Sainthill, the 22-year-old Mel-
bourne painter who began at Melbourne
Technical College and followed the
Covent Garden Ballet to London, where
he concentrated on ballet pictures, is
doing well. An exhibition at the Red-
fern Galleries (London) sold 50 of 52
pictures, and he got a commission to
design decor and costumes for a Russian
ballet. Some of his work is included in
the Art for Theatre and Ballet Exhibition
now in Melbourne.
“El V.,” his tribute:
George Lansbury, 81, one of the last of the
old guard of the British Labor party, has gone.
With his side whiskers and square head and
figure, the old man looked at a distance like a
typical John Bull, but his twinkling eye and
gentle manners advertised his possession of a
Celtic mother. He lived his youth in England
and emigrated to Queensland in 1884, but
spent only a year there. He was a pioneer of
women’s suffrage, an early editor of the “Daily
Herald” when it was the Labor organ, led the
Labor party for four years, during the depres-
sion after the formation of the National Gov-
ernment, and was best known in his later days
for his work for disarmament and his peace
tour of Europe, about which he published a
book in 1938. Many poor districts in England
will remember him better for his constant
assault on slums and his work for the unem-
ployed. Personally, he was genial, religious,
a teetotaller and a non-smoker.
Youthful Roland Wilson, who became
Commonwealth Statistician at 32, be-
sides being a surprise to those who expect
statisticians to come only in long beards,
is a Tasmanian who was a 1925-28
ROLAND WILSON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Rhodes scholar. During 1928-30 he
studied at Chicago University by virtue
of a Commonwealth Fund fellowship.
He is a Doctor of Philosophy of both
Oxford and Chicago. He left the United
States in 1930, having married an Ameri-
can girl, and until 1932 lectured at the
University of Tasmania. He then joined
the Commonwealth service as an
economist in the Department of Statis-
tics, rose to be economic adviser to the
Treasury, and in 1936 followed McPhee
(also a Tasmanian) as statistician. He
likes hammering nails and making metal
castings in his spare time.
George Ross, N.S.W. Under-Secretary
for Agriculture, who retired in March
owing to ill-health, never recovered. He
was 43 years a public servant, the last
14 as head of the Agricultural Depart-
ment.
Bulletin readers have seen a goodly
number of prominent people “modelled
by Frith.” Ted Scorfield has here
muddled the young man, as he depicts
MODEL OF A MODELLER.
himself, for the benefit of those who
have sometimes wondered what he looks
like.
“El V.” shares a joke:
Observant pressmen noticed Neville Cham-
berlain smiling in Downing-street after the
Norwegian-crisis vote. He must have been
thinking over the list of those who voted
against him for not being more active and
determined against the brutal Hun. First there
was Lady Astor, whose Cliveden set —if it
existed —was supposed to be the centre of
Nazism in England, the palatial den in which
Conservative politicians were led towards
appeasement. There was Hore Belisha, who
could find nothing of greater national import-
ance to do when he left the Ministry than
write syndicated tripe for the sensational press.
Labor provided a ferocious critic in Herbert
Morrison, who is described in Who’s Who as
once having been a “deputy circulation
manager.” R. J. Boothby, Winston Churchill’s
Parliamentary private secretary for three years
before the depression, was among the number,
and young Somerset de Chair, son of a N. S.
Wales Governor, who is secretary of the Cham-
berlain Club. But perhaps the one N.C. was
really grinning over was L. S. Amery. He was
the Baldwinite who was jumped from the posi-
tion of financial and Parliamentary secretary
to the Admiralty to be First Lord in 1922, and
who cheerfully superintended the slaughter of
the Navy according to the Washington Treaty.
Lindsay Keith Farquhar has been
appointed Commanding Officer of the
27th Battalion—the S.A. Scottish— vice
K. M. Best, retired. Born at Semaphore
(S.A.) 37 years ago, son of a former
Harbors Board Chairman, he joined the
battalion as a private and steadily moved
upward to lieut.-colonel. Actively asso-
ciated with the Scout movement for some
years, Farquhar went to the Wembley
Jamboree in 1924 and is still a scout-
master. In private life he directs the
carrying activities of Youngs (S.A.), Ltd.
Doyen of Melbourne’s art fanciers at
78, W. H. Gill is closing the green door
of his Fine Arts Gallery in Exhibition-
street for the last time. During the past
30 years the work of nearly every impor-
tant Australian artist has passed his
portals. He was always first with the
latest from Norman Lindsay; his early
Lindsay exhibitions caused a furore.
Harold Herbert held his first show at
Gill’s, Conder, Tom Roberts and Lam-
bert were his friends and he gave Mel-
bourne its first collective glimpse of
Hilder. He trusted his own judgment
and seldom made a mistake. The
only art showman in Melbourne to hold
a one-man exhibition by an aboriginal,
that by the Centralian Albert Namatjira,
he made it the most successful on local
record. Within five days every picture
was red-pockmarked, and a telegram had
to be sent to Alice Springs for fresh sup-
plies from the artist, who was out in the
desert with a camel caravan.


llllliuuiuiiniiuiujiiiuiiiii
"V,
/ U
ti
✓
%
m
wmmmm
mHßmk
1
y y. y
l&f
STATE EXHIESS 1333
Virginia Cigarettes {~^Z—ZL
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN: 9-6 d., 18-1/-, 27-1/6. Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Baldy wasn’t too
shook on the pair of Uni. undergrads,
who pitched their natty tent close to his
own humpy on the Murray and settled
down for a holiday. However, aside
from envious remarks at the strings of
fish Baldy hauled out of the river and
sincere gratitude when he occasionally
handed them a nice cod, they respected
his desire to be left alone and proceeded
to swim, fish (mostly in vain) and get
lost on the lignum flats with youthful en-
thusiasm. One night they diffidently
approached Baldy and asked for direc-
tions on making a soda loaf, the mail-
man having let them down with town
bread. Baldy obliged. Later, curious, he
wandered to their tent. “Oh, yes,” one
of them assured him blithely, “it’s in
the camp oven. Should be nearly
cooked.” The other was not sure and
invited Baldy to recapitulate the recipe.
“H’m,” wondered the doubter, “did you
put in baking - powder and salt,
Roderick?” “I thought you did,”
answered Rod. Both rushed the camp-
oven, whipped out the half-cooked sod,
and sprinkled powder and salt over it
liberally. Baldy, hiding a toothless grin,
left. He still treasures the dirty-brown,
roughly-round, iron-hard substance they
gave him as a souvenir. Their auto-
graphs, made with a tent-peg, are still
discernible on it.
“Mat’s Mate”: Years ago we got out
of the train at Murray Bridge (S.A.)
fresh from Victoria. A well-built young
man, clad in a navy-blue uniform with
a broad white stripe down each trouser
leg, and wearing a spiked helmet and
other dil-dals, came and stood by. Mat
said aloud, “Where’s the blanky circus?”
The apparition gave Mat a cold glance,
remarking “You better look out!” Mat
looked him over. “I don’t worry about
man mannequins,” he said ; “you stick
to y’ flamin’ circus, mate.” The manne-
quin promptly clamped an arm lock on
Mat. Usually I was the non-belligerent
partner in our axis, but I couldn’t stand
by and see my mate manhandled by a
circus advertisement. Reinforcements
arrived and removed us to the clink,
where a sergeant informed us, “Next
time you’ll know a South Australian
policeman when you see one,” and let
us go. We got the next train back to
drab Victoria, for, as Mat feelingly said,
“Cripes, if that cop had been an in-
spector we’d have taken him for first
prize in a raffle or something. I’d hate
t’ see what a S.A. fireman looks like
when he’s dressed.”
* =i= * *
“N. Sylvester”: Well, I dunno ; I’ve
worked in most of the hot dry parts of
W.A., and done some of the toughest
jobs—boiler-firing, iron- and brass-
melting, pig- and scrap-iron-breaking,
firewood-getting, just to mention a few
—but I never became a water addict to
the extent of five gallons a day (B.
3/4/’4O). Actually my mate and I never
drank water at all. A couple of pots of
tea at breakfast, a half-gallon billyful
at 9 a.m. and another at noon saw us
right through days when the mercury
went well over the century. And most
of our toil was right out in the sun.
Once a man starts on water —well, he
soon feels the stuff slushing about inside,
and he is done. Nor on spells out pros-
pecting in the mulga did we rush the
waterbag. Just a moistening of the lips
now and then. The longer a man can
endure the better he is, and one becomes
marvellously inured. Years of such
drought do, however, exact a penalty ;
one is apt to become afflicted with a
peculiar rheumatism, brought on by the
accumulation of uric acid in the system.
Old-timers reckoned that an occasional
booze-up on malt liquor was the only
real remedy for that.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Can’t allow “No. 1
Bench’s” slur on jarrah to pass up-
challenged (B. 17/4/’4O). Practically
every house in the West is floored with
jarrah, and some of those floors have
been down for 50 years, yet the nails
would defy the efforts of a Samson to
shift them. Westralian carpenters are
notoriously greyhaired, and they unani-
mously attribute the fact to renovation
jobs necessitating the extraction of nails
from jarrah which was green when the
nails were driven in donkey’s years ago.
Cases of iron-sickness do occur with what
the uninitiated might consider condemn-
ing regularity—but under conditions
which would play havoc with other
timbers in half the time. Nails will rust
“I declare it no contest !”
much quicker in Oregon than in jarrah,
but the result isn’t so obvious —the white-
ants get in first and destroy the evidence.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: The scrubs of the South
Burnett (Q.) are a mixture of trees, vines
and shrubs. The first-named comprise
crow’s ash, rose apple, lignum, copper-
wood, scented myrtle, belar, oak, ti-
tree, wattle, orange, redheart, plum,
milkwood, ironwood, corkwood, yellow-
wood, fig, red ash, leatherjacket, quinine
—to name a few. The adjacent forest
may be ironbark. Two undesired immi-
grants, redheart and orange, violate the
frontier. Both are insignificant, slow-
growing dwarfs, albeit fire-resistant and
tenacious of life. They manage* to get
naturalised and no more, each individual
usurping the living space of a tuft of
grass. Comes the inevitable bushfire.
The weather continues dry. Myriads of
wattle seedlings occupy the terrain. Our
hardy pioneers, redheart and orange, co-
operate with the faster-growing wattles
to choke the grass effectually and to
prepare the ground and provide shelter
for other co-nationals to follow. In the
fullness of time the last forest giant
succumbs to senile decay, and the meta-
morphosis is complete.
* * * *
“Ned Clay”: Those stove demon-
strators at past generous Royal Shows
(B. 3/4/’4O) could easily afford to give
away legs of mutton. Many a time I
saw such joints hawked around Vic-
torian towns, the primest of stuff, for
ninepence apiece. Came from the
boiling-down works; other parts of the
jumbuck went into the vats, rendered
down for tallow; the legs, being too
meaty for that, were practically given
away. So abundant were those days
that rabbits sold at sixpence the pair.
And it was common to see the “fisho”
chasing the cocky down the street trying
to sell him a barracouta “a yard long
and a foot through for a bob.” Apples
a shilling the case. Potatoes two bob
the sack. Flour 12s. the 2501 b. bag.
And everything else in like proportion.
Where has that superabundance gone to?
Taxed out of existence in carrying a
horde of non-producers, politicians, un-
necessary civil servants, railways that
never paid and never will, not to men-
tion interest paid to London on cash
borrowed and squandered during the
Great Loan Drunk that lasted just 40
years.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Judging from a view
of a big-game fishing party making its
way homeward with a couple of sharks
lashed up to the stern of a big seagoing
launch there will be some more records
in “White Deaths” before long. These
particular ones were in the full blast of
two powerful engine exhausts and must
have been cooked to a turn before they
reached the official weighing machine.
Cooking makes any shark white. Claims
for record sporting catches of any par-
ticular species of game fish, particularly
sharks, should require verification by a
, , . W 1 . . , ' -
skilled ichthyologist before they are
have .he ± h nece r? ? r 13
have the whole fish. Particulars could
be obtained from any museum concern-
ing details and material required for
accurate identification of any given speci-
men, and no other decision or opinion
should be accepted for allotment of
trophies, prizes or certificates.
* * * *
“Farnham”: Busty, a hamlet near
Apollo Bay (Vic.), was once named
Bustmegal, so called from the oft-repeated
observation of a carrier in the early days,
He used to pack merchandise from the
little seaport to the settlers in the hills
and it was his firm conviction that “them
hills will bust me gall one of these
days.’ Local history has no record of
his gloomy prognostication being ful-
filled, but later settlers considered the
name had too much of a personal infer-
ence and had it altered to the shorter
but rather fatuous Busty.
* * * *
“No. 1”: If I were starting over again
I would load up a utility truck with
water piping, joints and taps, pack a kit
of plumber’s tools, including a carbon
soldering-iron to run from the battery of
the utility, and visit outback homesteads
while the males were at work. Equipped
with a length of hose-pipe for demon-
stration work, which would consist of
making temporary connections from
tanks to kitchens, I would thus create
dissatisfaction with the humping of water
in kerosene-tins, which gets under most
female skins. The selling of the idea
would then be in reliable hands, and the
turnover should show a decent wage if
no more. Apart from the cash angle,
a statue should be erected to any man
eliminating this superannuated drudgery
from selections and dairy-farms. The
difficulty of securing the right man at
the right price and place is more to blame
than conservative ideas in most cases.
* * * *
“Plankton”: “R. E. Ader’s” par. (B.
20/3/’4O) anent octopus-ink recalls that
the Tyrian purple dye used by the
Romans was procured from a mollusc of
the Murex family. Equipped with similar
means to eject an inky “smoke-screen”
as camouflage are the somewhat sluggish-
looking sea-hares ( Aplysia ) not uncom-
mon on rocky Australian coasts. With
one exception all members of the cuttle-
fish clan are provided with an ink-sac.
The ink is contained in a small com-
partment inside a flask-shaped reservoir,
the latter ending in a narrow tube, the
opening of which is controlled by the
action of two separate bands of sphinc-
ter muscles. The exception referred to
is the pearly nautilus ( Pompilius), the
only living survivor of a once-numerous
four-gilled order ; other existing species
are furnished with only two gills.
* * * *
“Triumvir”: In the ranges out from
Marble Bar (W.A.) I witnessed a grim
struggle which would have been worth
quids to a movie-producer. Contestants
were a six-foot bungarra and a twelve-
foot python. When I
arrived the bungarra
was having the best of
the business, ripping
strips off the python
with his powerful claws.
Meanwhile the snake
squirmed and twisted, in
an effort to get a hitch
round a near-by stump.
Aware of the ophidian’s
intention, the bungarra
tore and ripped with
concentrated ferocity to
prevent the leverage
which might spell his
own doom. By degrees
the fight edged nearer
till in a flurry of claws
and whipping folds the
battle centred around the
stump. This time there
was no doubt as to which
held the advantage. Coil
by coil the python
encircled the valiant
bungarra, squeezing re-
morselessly until the
bungarra became unable
to use a single claw. It
looked a sure victory for
the big snake. But the
severe lacerations in-
flicted by the bungarra
began to take their toll,
and the python could
not sustain his grip ; as
his strength dwindled
the folds slackened and
a very wobbly bungarra
wriggled free.
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Lots o’ wimmen don’t
know when they’re well off,” said Old
Joe. “Y’ know that sour-faced old
wowser ’Enery Wishbone, odt at the
Eight Mile? Well, when I first knoo
’Enery' ’e useter like a drop as well as
any uv us. One uv them kind-’earted
drunks ’e wus ; more ’e’d get down ’is
neck more ’e’d want ter be cobbers all
round. Soon’s ’e’d get proper shikkered
’e’d start buyin’ lollies fer ’is kids, an’
stockin’s an’ things fer the wife, an’
skitin’ ’bout wot a ’appy famerly they
all wus. ’ls missus useter get a bit narked
’bout the money ’e’d spend in the pub,
an’ blowed if she don’t send fer one uv
them drink cures wot she’d seen in the
paper an’ shove it in ’Enery’s tea. Low
blanky game ter play on a man, but my
oath, Bill, she paid fer it. Stone the
crows if it didn’t cure ’Enery right orf!
’E’d go straight ’ome from gettin’ ’is
cream cheque, no booze, no presents, no
nothin’. ’Stead er sleepin’ orf Saturday
all Sunday ’e’d be pokin’ round the
flamin’ place wantin’ ter know why she
didn’t keep the kitchen tidy, an’ yellin’
at the kids ter shut up. After a bit she
tries leavin’ bottles uv beer an’ rum
about so’s ter get ’im started bein’ kind-
’earted again, but it wus too late. ’Enery
wus cured fer good an’ all. Next thing
’e starts tryin’ ter reform all us blokes,
an’ soon ’e ain’t got a real friend left
The kids all clears out soon as they’re
old enough, and now there’s that there
woman can’t call ’er soul ’er own, an’
all ’cos she didn’t ’ave the sense ter know
w’en she wus well orf.”
REEDS BY A RIVER.
Reeds, slim reeds by a river,
Crowned by their tassels tall,
Swaying and sighing ever,
Days of my youth recall.
Hid by a granite boulder,
Crouching together elate,
Shotgun pressed to his shoulder,
1 and my father wait.
Leashing the old retriever,
Breathless I wait until
Flash and explosion leave her
Free to bring in the kill.
Vaulting high tussocks over,
Bruising the scented mint,
Out from a rushy cover,
Fired with the chase, I sprint.
Never again together
Father and boy as one
Hunt where the wild duck’s feather
Glints in the morning sun.
Willows that shyly quiver
Over a singing stream,
Reeds by a winding river
Call from a land of dream.
Reeds, reeds, reeds by a river,
Though ever ye bend and sigh,
Waters of Life wiil never
Flow back to days gone by.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are concluding the actuality broadcast from the Zoo."
“Wang”: With an anxious look in his
eye the new hand tore across the pad-
dock towards the homestead. Twenty
yards behind him raced Dave, casting an
occasional backward glance. A hundred
yards behind Dave came Dad, fire in his
eyes, curses rumbling through his
whiskers, and brandishing an axe. Jimmy
Lynch, ploughing in a paddock near by,
stood and watched the procession. Next
day he met Dad. “I see yer trainin’ fer
the harriers yest’day,” he remarked
jocularly. Dad snorted. “Jist as well
fer that young Dave I wus blown out
when I reached the house,” he said, “or
I’d have murdered the cow. Why? Well,
we wus havin’ down where we’re
doin’ that bit of fencin’ when Dave
gives me a bit of back-slack, an’ I sed
I wouldn’t have that sorta talk from a
brainless young jackanapes like him. We
stand there swappin’ suchlike compli-
ments until he calls me a half-witted ole
bandicoot sufferin’ from an overdose of
ticks, so I grabs the axe an’ after him.”
“Yes,” said Jimmy, “but what was the
hand runnin’ for?” Dad chuckled.
“Well,” he said, “I s’pose he thought it
wise fer him t’ get a move on, too. Y’
see, jist before me an’ Dave started
slingin’ off at each other he’d been re-
markin’ how much alike in looks, ways
an’ ev’rything me an’ Dave wus.”
* * * *
“Valerin”: I have a theory that age-
long association with humans has com-
pletely changed canine nature, with the
result that hounds are as much responsive
to environment and example as to
heredity. By kindness and training a
mong pup can do his job as well as the
best. It is claimed by some authorities
that our best strain of sheep-workers has
a dash of dingo. Conversely, the worst
killers have often formerly been respected
and tractable sheep-dogs. So long as
the tyke does his job, what the blazes
does it matter whether he is blueblood
or mong?
* * * *
“Chink”: Have any of the Abo-
ologists ever seen the English starling or
any of our native birds “anting” them-
selves? The technique, as described by
bird-students, is for the birds to visit
antbeds on summer days, snap up ants
and ruo them beneath the wings. When
this queer practice was first remarked it
was supposed that the birds were merely
wiping off the formic acid as a prelimi-
nary to making a meal of the ants, but
the impression now is that the acid is
used as a kind of body tonic, something
in the nature of the oils used by humans
in massage. Considerable argument on
the point has developed in various
countries since the practice was first dis-
covered in Australia; the Yanks, of
course, claim to have known of it long
ago. An English writer mentions a tame
magpie that had the habit of picking up
ants, flying to a man’s shoulder, dipping
the ants in the ashes of a pipe, and then
applying the ant-cwm-tobacco mixture
to its body.
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: A varied and weird collec-
tion of edibles is included in a sheep’s
commissariat. They relish the pungent
mouth-drying leaf of the wilga tree, the
appallingly bitter wild quinine bush, and
the “leaf” of the belar. The latter can
be described only as a bundle of small
sticks. Sickly-sweet molasses they lap up
in mouthfuls, while plain salt is crunched
with gusto. Paddymelon, smelly of vine
and bitter of fruit, is not turned down.
For a titbit they relish above all else a
handful of tobacco.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Old Joe, the pen-
sioner, who lived by himself in the little
tumbledown shack below our place, was
ill. Mum, who had a soft spot in her
heart for him, dispatched me with the
ingredients of some egg-flips, Mum’s
infallible remedy for ’flu. “Tell him to
take one right away and go straight to
bed,” she instructed as she loaded me
up with a dozen and a half eggs, half a
gallon of milk and a bottle of brandy.
Eggs and milk were plentiful at our
place, and there was nothing miserable
about Mum. The old chap’s eyes
sparkled at the sight of the good things,
and, contemptuously dismissing my offer
to make the “flip” for him, he produced
a bucket, tipped the milk and brandy
into it, and commenced to break the
eggs. He used a big wooden spoon for
a beater, and when it was done to his
liking he sat down, took a deep breath,
upended the bucket and let it go. When
I got home Mum asked me if I’d made
the egg-flip for him, and I told her no,
he’d made it himself. “Bah!” she snorted.
“What does an old man like him know
about making egg-flips?” I didn’t tell
her.
* * * *
“Bufo”: If, instead of confining him-
self to a mere flat denial, “Halcyon”
(B. 24/4/’4O) were to give us a detailed
list of really good bush songsters that
are hatched from all-white eggs he would
make a more impressive showing. Were
he to add to it another, covering all those
of our best bird vocalists which do not
run to a spot of dandyism of dress, it
would be of definite ornithological in-
terest. As for his notion that white eggs
are laid only in well-hidden nests, I can
take him up to some of the Barrier Reef
islands later in the year and show him
acres of bare surface set with white eggs
so thickly that it is difficult to step be-
tween them. But, come along with those
lists of eggs and birds, “H.,” me lad. In-
cidentally, you can omit dollar-birds and
bee-eaters, the eggs of which frequently
show splashes of color.
“The Duke”: Old Oscar was cele-
brating his hundredth birthday at Wattle
Creek. “Wot made yer live so long,
Ocky?” asked “Bottle” Green. The cen-
tenarian paused for a moment, then
wheezed, “I never over-et; never smoked
or drank, an’ I always get up at five in
the mornin’.” “But,” protested “Bottle,”
“I ’ad an uncle who done all them things,
yet ’e only lived t’ seventy-eight! ’Ow do
yer account f’r that?” “’E didn’t keep
it up long enough, ‘Bottle,’ ” replied the
old chap calmly.
* * * *
“Ophir”: Several times I’ve been
chided for taking liberties with a snake
that has just had a heavy meal. After
a blowout a wriggler’s so helpless and
harmless that a man can stroke its fore-
head—any breed of the cusses. That
bulge in its middle restricts the move-
ment of its body; constriction isn’t pos-
sible while that lump stays there. That’s
one danger removed. As for its striking
—nothing doing; it has to dislocate its
jaws to swallow. Until the ligatures take
up again, and until the jaw is back in
position—which might take some days—
that snake can’t strike. Its jaws flap
like a wind-blown door, as bereft of
direct action as the broken sail of a
windmill.
* * * *
“E.A.8.”: It happened in the back o’
beyond in W.A., where men are men
and beer is beer, and where the little
parson held a service once every three
months. The township had been rounded
up when the good man’s visit was an-
nounced, and there was quite a muster
at the service. The parson was elated,
but noticed that as soon as the last hymn
had been sung the majority of the men
made a beeline for the pub. Approach-
ing one bearded citizen who had acted
as churchwarden, and who was about
to follow the crowd, he asked the reason
of the unusual Sabbath behavior. “Well,
parson,” said the b.c., “I suppose you
might call it the thirst after righteous-
ness ! ”
* * * *
“Raorut”: After 20 years of wrestling
with cows, old Bill Barlow considered
he was in the position to spread himself
a bit on the family. So he packed the
youngest of his five boys off to college
for an up-to-date education. At the end
of the first term the lad came home full
of the science course he was doing. After
the evening milking he regaled the assem-
bled family with scientific lore, leaping
lightly from the doings of the electron
to the antics of the farthest nebula, and
touching upon the number of light years
the universe is in extent. “And,” he
finished up, “they estimate that the sun
has only sufficient light to keep going
for another 700,000,000 years! ” Old
Bill stared solemnly at his son. “Cripes,”
he said, “I reckon we oughter start gittin’
the oats in!”
* * * *
“Dud Farmer”: Kopi (gypsum) gener-
ally occurs in hills and ridges, but W.A.
has places where square miles of it form
the subsoil. A farm on such land, which
will be sand-plain country, is inevitably
doomed, unless the owner finds out in
time and takes precautions. But given
the burning-off of stubble, together with
regular fallowing, and the topsoil is likely
to vanish through wind erosion. Know
one place where even the kopi, swept
absolutely bare, began in turn to move.
But before that the cocky had done his
moving. Not even a rabbit can live on
stripped kopi country. Knowledgeable
land-seekers inspecting virgin country
always take note of the number of
white-ants’ nests ; plenty of termite resi-
dences indicates a clay or loam subsoil,
an absolute essential to successful wheat-
growing in a nine-inch rainfall area.
Absence of termites means either a kopi
or a rock foundation, though even rock
is preferable to gypsum.
* * * *
“Aratta”: The hand sourly informed
Dad that he was going to leave. “Why?”
asked Dad. “Has the job got yer down?”
“No, it ain’t,” snapped the hand, “jist
the opposite ; it’s got me up too blarsted
much. Up before daylight, up an’ doin’
all the damn’ day an’ up half the night.
So I’ve made me mind up. I’m rollin’
up me swag, I’m hoistin’ it up an’ I’m
up an’ outa here. I ain’t puttin’ up with
this life any longer, I’m fed up.” “Oh,
are yer?” replied Dad, grimly. “That’s
all right then. I wus goin’ t’ sack yer,
v y er been gettin’ too damn’
uppish lately.”
“Ai believe my fathah came from Penzance, Mr. Tredizzick .”
“I knowed un —’e used to drink 'eavy."
GERANIUMS.
Long has the tin pot rusted away
That stood by the long-gone door,
But its shape is there in the timeworn clay,
There are living roots in its core.
Through heat that withers the bindi-eyes,
Through frosts and the flooding rains,
Stunted, but firm, while the hop-bush dies,
Its banners flung to the careless skies,
A red geranium’s bloom defies
The long, slow siege of the plains.
She planted slips in the lonely place
Warm with the dreams of the years,
And planted Hope in her own brave face,
And watered them all with tears.
But man is weak, and the plains are grim,
And man will yield at last.
He left the shack and she followed him,
As a woman must when the lights are dim.
She watered them once from the bucket’s brim,
And faded into the past.
Go where you will on the inland tracks,
When the land is barren or green;
By crumbling wrecks of the lonely shacks,
Wherever a woman has been,
There will you find in the blasted plain,
And staunch in the yellow soil,
On the grave of the settler’s hopes so vain,
The small red flags of her dead domain —
Memorials mute of a lost campaign
And the vanished years of toil.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. ; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The [?]
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1925.. 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1930. . 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 '
Trans, to General Reserve, £200,000 ; • 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000
1931.. 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488131,981 \ 177 7 . n
Trans, to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 j ’
1932.. 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976 321,594
To Staff Fund, £14,023 .. .. \ 000-709
1933.. 2,071,868 1,486,785 188,306 52 f
To Staff Fund, £7189 .. .. 1 ... 9S!!
1934.. 2,202,168 1,456,873 192,823 S 040, “° d
To Staff Fund, £10,882 .. .. 1,
1935.. 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 5 0
Profit on sale of securities, £7557 ..
To Staff Fund, £13,027 .. . . V 923,726
1936.. 2,649,319 1,446,134 273,988 J
To Staff Fund, £12,730 .. .. \ * n 77 qr 7
1937. . 2,806,347 1,422,983 290,006 2,641 j A,u "’ ao
To Staff Fund, £13,021 .. .. |
Profit on sale of securities, £3488 . . i 1,136,390
1935. . 2,951,504 1,512,566 293,015 J
To Staff Fund. £12,285 )
1939. . 3,090,661 1,551,769 317,545 9,646 ( q 74
To tax reserve, £lOl,OOO . . . . f ’
To general reserve, £124,000 . . J
•Includes dividends to shareholders.
tAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Df.partment.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.! Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 7 . r ,
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 ) 0 ’
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,009 267 7 , 7 . R 7,
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO J ’
1932.. 757,097 307,014 268,310 4062 177,711
To Staff Fund, £6293.. .. .. ) 9nl
1933.. 784,788 297,798 274,704 4750 ) <SU1 > 44 ' S
To Staff Fund, £6312.. .. .. 1 9Q6 arc
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834 $
To Staff Fund, £5063.. .. .. I 333 q-m
1935.. 920,562 291,691 288,557 1301) ’
To Staff Fund, £5677 ] w 772
1936.. 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 j ’
To Staff Fund, £5869 .. .. ••1 365 096
1937.. 1,126,782 390,476 363,237 2104 )
To Staff Fund, £6387 . . . . . . ) ,o n oao
1938. 1,248,539 405,902 401,264 4643 )*°’
Funds capitalised, £300,000.
To Staff Fund, £6217 1
1939. . 1,352,118 507.610 419,406 5733 I 0 48 652
To tax reserve, £32,000 .. .. f ’
To general reserve, £32,500 .. .. j
tAfter deducting taxes.
Again the M.L.C. was one of few life
offices in the British Empire to show
increased new business figures. Ex-
cluding term assurances, the amount put
on the books last year was £8,388,171
(up £155,036) in the Ordinary and
£4,596,793 (up £156,139) in the Indus-
trial section. Another indication of the
rate of growth was an increase of
£6,747,950 in the amount of business in
force (£89,309,883).
Other outstanding features were steps
taken by the management to guard
against effects and possible effects of war
conditions, a smaller divisible surplus,
and the capitalisation of £BOO,OOO of re-
serves, making paid capital £1,000,000.
This capitalisation, which will not inter-
fere with earning capacity one way or
the other, does not adversely affect the
position of policy-holders—actually it re-
moves the possibility of £BOO,OOO going
out of the business by way of cash divi-
dends. The reserves capitalised belonged
to shareholders, not policy-holders.
The business is divided into three de-
partments Ordinary, Industrial and
General —-all watertight, except that funds
in the General, or shareholders’, branch
are available for protection of policy-
holders in the other two. Of the divisible
profits, policy-holders are entitled to not
less than 85 p.c. nor more than 90 p.c. in
the Ordinary and to 80 p.c. in the Indus-
trial section. In the General branch
all net earnings belong to shareholders,
who have to earn from £5 13s. 4d. to
£9 for Ordinary and £4 for Industrial
policy-holders before they can take a
pound for themselves in each of these
departments.
After deducting income tax (£95,319,
up £37,599) the year’s total income in
the three departments combined was
£4,491,326, an improvement of £254,570,
of which £222,505 came from premiums,
etc. (£3,244,622), and £32,065 from in-
terest, rents, etc. (£1,246,704). After pay-
ing all legitimate claims and exes., in-
cluding depreciation, etc., shown as
written off in the table, there remained
in the Ordinary branch £1,211,701 (up
£65,778), of which £12,285 was sent to
the staff fund, £124,000 to the general
reserve (now £500,000) and £lOl,OOO to
the tax reserve (£215,000), leaving
£974,416 (down £161,974) to add to the
assurance fund, making it £20,936,470.
In the Industrial section the excess of
income over outgo was £419,361 (down
£17,361), and £6217 was sent to the staff
fund, £32,500 to general reserves (now
£100,000) and £32,000 to the tax re-
serve (£43,500), leaving £348,652 (down
£81,690) to add to the assurance fund,
raising it to £5,760,474.
The immediate effect of these heavy
contributions to reserves has been a
sharp contraction in the amount available
for distribution among policy-holders and
shareholders in the Ordinary branch, as
the following table shows:
1929. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Ordinary . . £692,946 £789,433 £849,680 £631,106
Industrial . . 76,730 102,594 115,459 124,715
Total . . £769,676 £892,027 £965,139 £755,821
The smaller amount available (down
£218,574) means a reduction in Ordi-
nary branch bonuses to policy-holders,
which, however, are still handsome and
compare favorably with other offices.
The aim in sending such large sums to
reserves is to ensure maintenance of satis-
factory bonuses in the future by making
immediate provision against the effects
of the drop in interest rates, quick growth
of taxation, rise in costs and the pos-
sible effects of war upon mortality
experience.
The dividend to shareholders drops
from 90 p.c. to 18 p.c., the lower rate
being equal to 85.5 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the bonus-share issues
already referred to. A further substan-
tial drop in the dividend rate can be
anticipated.
Including license fees, etc., exes, took
14.72 p.c. of net premiums, etc., in
the Ordinary section as against 14.44
p.c. and 14.96 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. In the Industrial branch, the
ratio of exes, to net premiums was 32.78,
34.45 and 33.04 p.c. respectively over
the same period. After deducting taxes,
the net effective rate of interest was
£4 10s. lOd. p.c. (down 4s. 3d. p.c.) in
the Ordinary and £4 12s. 2d. p.c. (down
Is. 4d. p.c.) in the Industrial department.
The co. assumes that its assurance funds
will earn only 2f p.c. in the Ordinary
and 2\ p.c. in the Industrial branch.
They are the most stringent bases of
valuation in use in Australia, and mean
very strong protection for policy-holders.
The co.’s expense rates are very low
ones, too.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the invest-
ment portfolio:
1938. p.c. 1939. p.c.
Public securities. £18,001,389 63.8 £18,856.602 62.5
Mortgages . . 6,541,585 23.2 7,569,898 25.1
Loans on policies 1,824,606 6.4 1,881,535 6.2
Cash, books debts,
etc 592,389 2.1 580,101 1.9
Property. . . . 698,976 2.5 690,528 2.3
Debentures, shares,
etc 566,068 2.0 594,670 2.0
£28,225,004 £30,173,335
Liabilities* .. 1,119,576 1,402,453
Net assets ..£27,105,428 £28,770,882
* Other than, under policies.
The year’s growth in total assets was
£1,948,331, of which £1,028,313 repre-
sented the increase in mortgages and
£855,222 the increase in Government
securities. The management is now pay-
ing a lot more attention to mortgages
than it used to. In 1934 public securi-
ties and mortgages represented 83.2 p.c.
and 3.9 p.c. respectively of total assets ;
at last balance the comparable figures
were 62.5 p.c. and 25.1 p.c. respectively.
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1930.. 138,108 9 p.c. = 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931.. 91,813 7 „„ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932 .. 66,776 4 „ „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933.. 53.727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934 .. 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 . . 57,973 4 „ ~ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 . . 61,337 44 „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,056
1938 . . 65,788 5 _ „ „ 62,500 3,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves, £20,000 .. ..1,025,344
1939 . . 71,121 5J p.c. = 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
1940 . . 71,393 54 „ „ 68,750 2,643 1,033,483
During the 12 months to the end of
March last the banks were provided
with a mixed grill. In South Australia,
where the Adelaide has been operating
for the last 74 years and where it now
gathers about 84 p.c. of its deposits,
Nature was for the most part kind. But
low prices for wool and wheat and a
heavy flow of imports threatened to de-
velop into tighter money conditions
toward the end of the first half of the
year. Then came war with Germany,
and with it a complete change in the
outlook. Immediately the Government
stepped in and took a much firmer hold
of the money market and of the economic
machine generally, the broad aims being
cheap and plentiful money, the direction
of investment into essential and away
from non-essential production, and the
conservation of our overseas funds in
order to pay for essential imports and
other things. Also, to prevent a run-
away movement in costs, legislative con-
trol of internal prices is being attempted.
At the same time the Government has
continued to spend for war purposes in
growing volume, and appearances are
that it will have to keep on doing so.
Thus far the money has been found
partly by the issue of low-interest-bearing
short-term Treasury bills, taken up by
the central and trading banks. Further,
the Government has refrained from
mopping up, by way of taxes and open
market loans, all the surplus cash that
has become available through defence
expenditure and better prices for all our
chief exports, which have been taken by
Britain under contract. Hence the grow-
ing liquidity of the banking system, which
augurs well for maintenance of cheap
money and the financing of our war
effort.
Thus far the stress has been upon
taxes rather than loans, as the recent
all-round increase in Federal tax rates
shows. Still, there is a limit to the
harvest to be gathered in the tax field
if production is not to be impeded. So,
as war expenditure increases, loan opera-
tions can be expected to grow, too. The
new taxation proposals will hit the banks
less severely than most other traders,
and immediate indications are that bank
earnings, which have remained at a very
low level of recent years, should con-
tinue to grow—for a while, at any rate.
After providing for contingencies, the
Adelaide’s declared net earnings (up
£272) were 5.7 p.c. on the £1,250,000
of capital last term, compared with 5.7
p.c. and 5.2 p.c. for the two preceding
years. In 1929 the net return on capital
was 11.6 p.c. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) last
year’s net result was 3.1 p.c. The div.
was lifted from 5} p.c. to p.c.
The market prices the £5-paid shares
(there is a contingent liability of £3
callable only in the event of liquidation)
at £6 as against £5 15s. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is a wink
over 4.5 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible backing is £9 2s. Bd.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a strong
financial structure and further improve-
ment in liquidity, already referred to:
1929. 1932. 1939. 1940.
Notes.. £6.713 £6,603 £6,574 £6,569
Bills, etc. 633,075 514,913 276,024 367,596
Deposits 6,177,592 6,031,331 7,000,719 7,391, 00l
L 'assets 2,857,214 3,417,291 3,252,263 4,650,449
Advances 5,949,107 5,108,010 5,950,855 5,010,0 <8
Premises,
etc... 347,434 343,117 395,416 422,997
A growth of £390,782 in deposits was
accompanied by a contraction of £940,777
in advances and an expansion of
£1,398,186 in liquids. When the books
closed liquids amounted to 59.8 p.c. of
liabilities to the public, advances to 67.7
p.c. of deposits, and the co. was holding
only £3 Bs. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. It is obviously
well equipped to expand its lending
connections.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 56,955 5600 111 p.c. = 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ „ 22,000 99,231
From specific reserves, £16,227.. •• 115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. •• 99,769
- 5.9 p.c.
1933.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 88, .80
Written off Vic. tile factory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £3748 . . 72,778
From specific reserves, £1503 .. • • 74,281
5.4-7 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.. 28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361.. .. 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57,563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ „ 30,800 16,875 45,686
1939.. 59,804 11,200 7 ~ ~30,800 17,804 63,490
To staff fund, £3OOO 60,490
1940.. 62,520 11,200 74 p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO . . . . . . 75,810
•After deducting bonuses to staff.
Founded by the alert and enterprising
Wunderlichs in the eighties of last cen-
tury, this co. is now the largest and most
successful of its kind in Australasia. Its
factories, spread throughout the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland, turn out
architectural terra-cotta (it has become
very popular in treating the facades of
public buildings), tiles, showcases, shop-
fronts, asbestos-cement sheets and other
building materials and embellishments.
Earnings, therefore, largely depend
upon activity in the building trade, and
need to be considered in relation to the
following table, which shows the value
of building permits issued in all the Aus-
tralian capitals and in Maoriland for the
calendar years mentioned:
1932 1938. 1939.
Melbourne . . £2,438,616 £8,202,384 £8,476,999
Sydney . . . . 1,566,226 14,042,219 12,219,467
Brisbane .. .. 699,337 1,972,871 2,030,5«0
Adelaide . . . . 289,582 2,031,481 2,382,237
Perth . . . . 678,751 1,885,890 1,591,160
Hobart . . ■ . 85,877 539,253 484,224
New Zealand . . 1,993,960 9,057,252 10,324,023
Although a definite recession in building
activity was registered in Sydney last
year, with less marked declines in Perth
and Hobart, continued expansion was
recorded in all the other Australian
capitals and in Maoriland.
However, what the co. missed in some
centres it picked up, with more besides,
in others. After making what appears to
be liberal allowance for depreciation
(£34,612, up £2099), the board figured net
earnings £2716 better at £62,520. That
was enough to pay the prefs. their full
contract rates and show 11.6 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 11 p.c. and
10.8 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
Half a point was added to the div.,
making it 1\ p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a. Over the last decade
the ords. have averaged 5.5 p.c. For the
10 years before that the average was
12 p.c., and £107,369 of staff-partnership
certificates was issued and paid for out
of earnings. This partnership fund (now


WORLD-FAMOUS SHIPS
USE EXIDE BATTERIES
■ '
* «*H|L 1, IIL
«»»»> iiliUl tlllii iiiliitUliUiiti HIIIHU U tlliiimNU IHMIIiI HtlHtlW if (MUlil I! RBWU MHHi Wmw W IWIiMm MIIW
«•»»* till M’tmnitxftHiP • <• 'T,~l7' »i. l ur-fT7r-i-dhTr7TTr-,T-T-.-triTvv--rr-r-rr-trn~r l ~rr,r-rTTr.-gTr-!iTiirrr-ir7Tr-ir
■ * '“*s—«■-»» Mi run iiirirTuriii MtfiTni
■Mi
tm y —
•V- .
\
; |t«ii:
» * ~ *
*
mm
n ms
■... " ■ ■.
li I iiSiSS
■—Jk
Nine out of ten British ships, including the "Queen
Elizabeth." 85,000 tons, "Queen Mary," 81,250
tons, "Empress of Britain," 42,500 tons, and the
"Mauretania," 35,000 tons—all depicted above-
all use Exide batteries for essential services.
In operating steering gear, navigation instru-
ments, telephones, wireless and many other
auxiliary services Exide plays an important part.
It is this faith in Exide, not only in the Mercantile
Marine but in industry, science, exploration,
entertainment, and in the world's great institu-
tions, that has built Exide into the biggest name
in the battery world today.
If organisations such as these can depend so im-
plicitly on Exide you are well advised to specify
an Exide battery for your car, motor-cycle, radio
or houselighting set.
ILvi^e
-
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
OBTAINABLE
FROM
DEALERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA


A book for
YOUNG MEN
g
How to be
Care-Free
You can
have
this book
FREE!
It will show you how to eliminate
anxiety about your finances.
Write for it /
If you have been unable to
make adequate provision for
your own old age, or your wife
and family, this book will show
you how to do it.
If you owe money on your
home this book will show you
how to make it free to your
family should anything happen
to you.
If you want peace of mind
for yourself and wife, this book
will point the way. Use this
coupon. The members of the
Society want you to read it.
To the A.M.P. Society:
I should like to read this new book of yours. Please send it to
me on the understanding that I accept no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sii Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
G. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.’
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. <J. HE YN OLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
?
If not you owe it to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN Off IT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P,O. t SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 8 5294
£27,500) is being replaced by a staff
pension scheme, to which the co. has
contributed £3OOO for each of the last
two terms.
The financial position further im-
proved:—
1933. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £520,000£600,000£600, 000 £600, 000
staff funds .. 39,700 31,700 29,000 30,601
creditors* .. 111,919 127,665 118,986 107,sis
Leasehoids 362 f 7 9 7 S29>0 2 tl 318 ’ 7 2 G 0 o
piant, etc. .. 242,990 198,703 170,339 158,307
Stocks . . 109,490 162,034 162,970 188,873
Book debts . . 33,901 98,939 112,846 118,623
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 6,436 5,918 57,464 56,328
Outstanding feature last term was the
growth of £25,903 in stocks, which sug-
gests that the management anticipates a
continued rise in costs. The amount
coming to trade creditors, which includes
an unspecified provision for taxation, was
reduced by £ll.lOB. The year's im r
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£204,122) was £41,652.
As for the current term, it is doubtful
whether any further increase in demand
need be expected, and costs remain on
the up-grade. Still, it seems unlikely that
7* pc to the ords. will prove out of
reach. On the basis of last year's pub-
lished figures, the excess war-time profits
tax wilt add £783 to the co.’s bill, while
the doubling of the land tax will take a
further bite, and the lift in sales tax
from fi n C tn 8 1-1 nr wnn’l heln cales
■ lorn 0 p.c. lo 8 1-.) p.c. won t nelp sales.
Mainly owing to taxation measures,
the market for the scrip has eased a
trifle. The first prefs. are priced at
235. 6d., the seconds at 21s. 10|d., the
thirds at 21s. 6d., and the ords. at 19s. 6d.
On the basis of last year’s distribution,
the return at these figures is 5.9, 6.4, 6.5
and 7.7 p.c. respectively. In the
same order, the net tangible cover
is £l6 17s. lid., £l5 17s. lid., £7 Bs. lid.
and 235. sd. respectively. Only the first
and second prefs. are subject to the
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act.
'riL i_ 1 *i hp* 1 « w 1
1 nabawleik tin Dredging, Ltd.
This tin-dredging offshoot of Austral
Malay, Ltd., by which 25.8 p.c. of the
capital is held, is in the fortunate posi-
tion of enjoying whatever benefits accrue
from international production control
without being pledged to restrict its
own output, its property lying in Burma,
which is not a party to the scheme.
But its situation it’s in wilrl nnrl
» »*uduon ns m tne wild ana
uimcult-ot-access Mergui district — is a
disadvantage as far as costs go road-
u P kee P being not the least item of ex-
pense. Also, though rich and shallow,
heaW clav hamhnn root! onH ntLer
/ u , y> GamGo ° rOOtS and Other
vegetable matter, together with an unre-
liable rainfall, make dredging difficult,
* the undulating nature of the
7°™!™ w ? hea P o£ dam-building
.* •- ' a f s eim , for example, vart-
" ° h S 18 amounlted toas
“ “Jh w f hlch ™ s more than the
. 8 P 0 wash dredged,
„ La !' n y i ar ' he P |ant , wa ? clo i? d down
tb ?. £or . remodelling-jigs have
mfin fhe h f a neW SCreen
ba,n « ,o , ‘ m P™ ve rfov-
n, • "
ISd Zd L,h ,m 7
d °“ ble f d ,'/" d ' *‘ th ™ e,alhc hmS
yS .afLh 3 cad mf', T"" 188
£30 ' 141 h,gher at £46 ’ 12 J f‘*' are Af™ :
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Ul ! Share?Shai'e! ‘* < AmtT'
1935.. £96,796 £49,98i £46,815 5/10 4/- £32,000
JSfc RJS S2S l',*- ftooo
1938 - 50, 371 40,391 15,980 2/- 2/6 2o’ooo
1939 " 88 > 356 42,235 46,121 5/9 2/9 22,000
• Includes depreciation: 1935 £4682 : 1936 nil:
1937, £1826; 1938, £siei;i939, £11,388.
That was after reserving £12,547 more
(£20,392 altogether) for depreciation and
taxes. Less than half disclosed earnings
were distributed in divs. of 2s. 9d. (up
3d.) per share ; a further Is. 9d. has gone
out since the close of accounts,
Here are results from the operating
angle on a 72 p.c. assay basis:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Cubie y ards •• i.m.000 1,736,000 1,279,000
aV. recovery t.o. 0.491 b. 0.54ib. o.’92ib.
Recovery p.c. bores 83 85 S 3
Mine costs, c.y. .. 3.74 d. 3.70 d. 4.45 d.
Forward price metallic
tin, ton .. £240/18/-£lB9/18/11 £224/4/2
The plant is now out of the low-grade
west leg of its area; hence last term’s
improved recoveries, which can be ex-
pected to be maintained or bettered over
the remaining life of the property. On
the basis of the last official estimate,
however, that is only four years, digging
1,800,000 c.y. annually. So far the board
has given no hint of what the more dis-
tant future may hold, but meantime a
nice heap of surplus liquids is accumu-
lating— including stores, etc. (£15,979),
and a holding of 12,500 £1 shares in
Austral N.Z. Mining, they amounted to
£97,753 stg. at Dec. 31.
Thabawleik has 160,000 £1 shares to
spread profits over, which the market
values around 30s. each, or £240,000
Aust. gross. Including depreciation
allowance, maintenance of earnings at
last term’s level for the next four years,
together with surplus liquids as at Dec.
31 last, would amount to £A409,000.
Life, of course, may be further pro-
longed. While a price lift to £263 stg.
a ton has followed extension of the
theatre of war, it needs to be remembered
that tin is not essentially an armaments
metal, although tinplate containers do
find some use in munition-production.
The £450,000 loan offering of the Vic-
torian Grain Elevators Board was under-
subscribed. The amount taken was
£297,000, or 66 p.c. The loan carried
the rather fine rate of £3 15s. p.c., term
12 years ; the issue took place during a
period in which Consols showed a ten-
dency to react after their long-sustained
rise, and the bond yield rose to around
£3 3s. 6ck per cent., after having been
as low as £3 Is. 7d. per cent, during
April. The underwriters, J. B. Were and
Son, will take that part of the issue
left by the public. On the other
hand, the Australian Gas Light Co.’s
£250,000 debenture issue was taken
within a week. But the rate offered
here was £4 2s. 6d. p.c.
* * * *
Barrier shares were interesting at last
week’s prices. South scrip could be got
at 255. 10d., and New B.H. was available
at 15s. 9d., down 7s. 4d. on this year’s
highest price. A longish-term proposi-
tion, with early hopes a little dashed
about the depth of the lode, N.B.H. is
nevertheless highly interesting from an
investor’s viewpoint at the current mar-
ket. A hundred shares in N.B.H. repre-
sents a bigger equity in potential silver-
lead ore than in any other case except
possibly Zinc Corp., which is a sort of
parent to N.B.H.
* * * *
At the Duffer mine, Dittmer (N.Q.),
development is proceeding fast. Main
shaft is now down 300 ft., vertical depth
226 ft., in a highly mineralised lode 7in.
thick carrying good gold values with
3 p.c. copper and approx. 6oz. silver per
ton. No. 2 North level has been driven
for 600 ft., and from its northern end a
rise connecting with No. 2 shaft 120 ft.
from the surface has disclosed 6oz. values
throughout. New power plant, to be in
operation by July, is expected to double
present output of approx. 150 tons per
month. All ore is sent to Chillagoe.
* * * *
Great Boulders (W.A.) have weakened
lately, despite early payment of the next
quarterly div. and local belief that ore
reserves and aggregate gold contents are
greater than ever. Rumor that output
is coming down lacks official confirma-
tion. With approach of the annual
meeting directors and shareholders’ com-
mittee are marshalling forces for an-
other tussle for control. The committee
states that its efforts “to secure long-
overdue reforms and independent ad-
ministration” failed last year owing
to holders of 600,000 shares out of
a total issue of 2,500,000 omitting to
send their proxies to either side. Share-
holders who sent proxies to the com-
mittee, it is claimed, exceeded in number
shareholders who gave theirs to the
directors ; but, it is added, holdings con-
trolled by the board outweighed the votes
held by shareholders supporting the com-
mittee. This group is now seeking
proxies from all “independent” share-
holders.
* * * *
Assisted by £4596 in divs. from the
Enterprise mine, revenue of Boulder
Perseverance (W.A.) in 1939 came to
£299,477 stg., or £2544 more than in
1938, thanks to the higher price of gold.
Millings expanded 2743 tons to 114,567
tons, but grade came down from 7.75dwt.
to 6.96dwt., and further reduction can
be looked for in current term. Costs
at 345. 3.2 d. Aust. per ton showed only
fractional change. That was because of
a saving of 8.6 d. a ton in treatment exes.
(11s. 10.6 d.); extraction and other out-
goings rose from 21s. 7.9 d. to 225. 4.6 d.,
owing largely to a lift of 3s. 2d. per
man in the weekly working wage. De-
spite the year’s extractions, broken,
proved and probable ore has grown
from 400,900 to 470,415 tons (four years’
mill-feed), but values have slipped from
7.2dwt. to 6.3Bdwt.
* * * *
Latest half-yearly estimate puts actual
ore reserves in South Kalgurli (W.A.)
at 165,500 tons, averaging 4.99dwt.;
probable is 94,400 tons, averaging
s.o7dwt. Six months ago the figures were
162,900 tons (5.24dwt.) and 95,500 tons
(5.05dwt.) respectively. There has thus
been a fractional net gain in tonnage, but
grade is again down. With crushings
lately showing a profit-margin of 6s. 9d.
or so a ton after paying for development,
loss of even |dwt. in grade is a matter
of some concern for this old producer,
particularly with costs difficult to restrain.
* * * *
Paringa, at the north end of the
Golden Mile, is developing payable ore
in various sections of its properties.
On the 520 ft. level in the Paringa
block a sample hole in the side of the
north drive pierced 19dwt. ore over sft.
In the Paringa Extended co. has been
breaking up to 7dwt. ore over Bft. In
eight months of the current term a mill
profit of £A57,249 has been won from
60,389 tons ore. For the past two months
the surplus has lengthened to over £B3OO.
* * * *
March quarter’s ore exposures in the
Happy Jack section, the only part of
Wiluna (W.A.) which now appears to be
being developed, show satisfactory values
at 800 ft., 1000 ft. and 1040 ft. Below, at
1400 ft. and 1800 ft., impoverishment
similar to that in the main workings
further south seems apparent from
diamond-drilling. Knight Walter James
has joined the board of the local operat-
ing co., Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd. Wiluna
was recently offered the shut-down
Edjudina Consolidated’s group at
Edjudina, but declined with thanks.
London has already sunk a lot of cash
in plant and prospecting on this property
and doesn’t seem inclined to sink any
more. The gold-carriers are kidney-
shaped, but unfortunately there doesn’t
appear to be enough of them to make
a mine.
* * * *
Bayley’s Reward, whose richness gave
Coolgardie (W.A.) a world-wide ad. in
the early ’nineties, is producing again.
First full month’s return from a 3000-
ton-a-month treatment plant is estimated
to be worth £A6500. Now known as the
Phoenix, the mine is under De Bernales
control.


GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Kembla Building,
Head Office:
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 30a Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
!!il
i nun
illli!
Illiilii;
''v'- <e
< r
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
•—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“He was a moral weakling, as pliable as
butter.” — Women’s paper.
Some woman will have him on toast.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Burns, who works as a timber-cutter,
weighs 22 stone.” — “D.T.”
A stout feller.
4* 4* 4« 4*
“English schoolmistress wants children sent
to bed at 8 p.m. in winter and 9 p.m. in
summer.”
This will allow Dad to do their home
lessons in peace.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Did you ever wonder what becomes of
old films?”— Film guff.
We were under the impression that
they were reissued with new titles.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An optimist is a man who imagines
he’ll have enough room in a modern flat
to practise a piano-accordion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Where does tripe come from?” asks corre-
spondent.
The radio, talkies and Parliament
House.
4* 4* 4* 4*
For sale. —Set of rose-tinted glasses,
apply cable headline writer, any daily
newspaper office.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Russia is making a film featuring puppets.”
—Scientific mag.
No doubt the Red bosses of the
A.R.U. will be given minor roles.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Politicians are subjected to abuse, and even
their private lives are assailed.”
—Political speaker.
Still, the game is worth the scandal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do you know how to arrange your cur-
tains to the best advantage?”— Women’s paper.
Yes; leave just enough space between
them so you can see what the people next
door are doing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Swing It, Laddie.
“The Burns Society has protested against
the broadcasting of Scottish airs to swing
music.” —“ S. M. Herald.”
Airs such as “A Wee Doch-an-Dorris”
suggest that Scots prefer swig music
to swing. But bagpipes have been
responsible for more swing items than
any other musical instrument. “I’ll swing
for that cow yet! ” is howled as one man
in our street when Angus Mac Tough
starts on his beloved pipes.
One day in the bar Angus was telling
of a beautiful gesture they once made
to a famous piper. They buried his pipes
with him. When someone innocently
asked if the piper was dead or alive
Angus started swinging dirty rights and
lefts in all directions.
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Clean Catch.
He had suspected her for some time,
but a careful watch on her movements
failed to discover anything of an incrimi-
nating nature. In the neat little home he
shared with her she was affection itself
and never failed to respond to his caresses.
Yet doubt gnawed at him like a rodent
in a biscuit box until the position became
intolerable. He had to know the truth.
His chance came when he went on
night shift. Returning home in the dark
an hour before dawn he crept to the rear
of the house and took up a strategic
position. The home was in darkness.
Silence reigned. Then the figure of a
man hurried from the lane, paused by
the back door, and vanished. He waited.
Then she came, walking without a sound,
passing through the gloom like a wraith.
But he recognised her.
Frantically he rushed into the house,
seized his wife by the shoulder as she
“ Hey, catch!"
lay in bed, shook her awake, and cried,
“I knew it, I knew it! That darned cat
is pinching the milk!”
MB.
“At Lincoln (Eng.) recently a man named
Herb Turnip married a Miss Carrot.”
— Women’s paper.
Well, they’re in the soup now.
4» 4* 4* *
“Wife in divorce cease admitted she refused
to let husband into house.”
Wedlockout.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Many a girl whose love has turned
cold refuses to cough up her engagement
ring.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Diary of a Lawyer.”
—‘ ‘A.B.C. Weekly.”
Composed no doubt of brief notes.
Victory Assured.
The pessimists—vocal as ever —are legion,
Their lips are a-droop and they think
we are lost
Because of one thud in the campaign
Norwegian —
But why should we deem it an abso-
lute frost ?
A battle’s not finally won till it’s over,
As squareheads will know to their cost
—not a doubt.
And here is the reason we’re heading for
clover :
Our flapper press soon will re-enter
the bout!
The “D.T.,” which ventured at least
within cooee
Of Oslo, will take it at point of the
pen ;
While the "Sun,” putting over barrages
of hooey,
Will shortly be capturing Narvik again !
K.
Solution.
Oh, love! How we’d smile at
The worries of life
If only your husband
Eloped with my wife !
T. W. N.
Honor to Those.
I raise my hat to him, although
He’s neither duke nor king,
Nor yet a boss to whom I owe
Respect of underling.
He isn’t muscular nor grim;
In fact, he’s shy and spare.
Still, I remove my hat for him —
The fellow cuts my hair.
P. O. M. C.
Record Breaking.
“At Canberra, in a little-used room at Par-
liament House, the P.M.G. (Mr. Thorby) came
across a safe weighing over five hundredweight,
containing important papers, which had been
missing for over a year.”
That’s one big advantage in having a
live wire around the place. Still, the
P.M.G. wants to be careful. Should he
get snooping around and find an old
set of pigeonholes inside which are the
recommendations of £735,000-worth of
royal commissions he’d be wise to avoid
poking his hand straight through the
inch-thick layer of spider webs they
might be redbacks. And it would be
impolite to get mucking around one of
the Treasurer’s ante-rooms and stampede
the herd of white elephants.
It is marvellous, though, how things
do get lost in Government offices. We
had quite an interesting case in the
Canary Seed Board.
When the growing popularity of
canaries made the problem of seed one
of “vital national importance” the Gov-
ernment decided to relieve the already
overworked Department of Birds’ Food
and create the Canary Seed Board. It
started with a chairman, a clerk and a
typist. Within a year or two there were
an assistant chairman, secretary and
assistant secretary, chief clerk and assist-
ant chief clerk, accountant and sub-
accountant, and a staff of 142. I was
one of the 142—fourth assistant to the
chief records clerk. The chairman reluc-
tantly accepted an extra £lOOO p.a. on
account of the big staff he now had to
control.
One day a complaint came in from
Thomas Twerpe, a temporary acting
assistant seed inspector up on the North
Coast, that he had requisitioned for
“boots, gum, thigh, size 9, pair of, 1,”
and had been supplied with size 8. I
registered the paper and marked it to
the stores branch for attention. That
was in 1912. Correspondence in those
days was briskly attended to, and within
six months not only was the answer sent
to Twerpe that as size 9 was not available
at the time the nearest smaller size had
been sent according to regulations, but
also Twerpe’s reply stating that the boots
were half worn out and he had developed
a corn on his off great toe. Would he
wear them right out and chance two
corns or would he send them back for
replacement?
By the time this knotty problem had
been thrashed out and a subsequent rul-
ing obtained from the Public Service
Board after the file had been referred
to the Solicitor-General for advice as to
whether the board would be liable in
the event of a compensation claim being
made by the t.a.a.s.i. for the surgical
removal of the corn, the file was assum-
ing quite respectable proportions.
It was after protracted correspondence
with the Railway Department when the
boots Twerpe sent back were lost in
transit that the file became really big.
By the time the report came in from the
chief seed inspector, who was instructed
by the board to make a personal inves-
tigation, the Great War was well into its
stride; the consequent correspondence
on the efforts by the board to get a
cheaper substitute boot than one of all
rubber, owing to scarcity and mounting
costs, necessitated the splitting of file
812/23409/63 into five sections, all
between millboards and bound with tape
(pink), and the marks on the register
denoting the various locations to which
the file had been sent, as it gravitated
from chairman to accountant, P.S. Board
to Under-Secretary and store to chief
clerk, made it look like a pak-a-pu ticket.
In 1924 the chief records clerk marked
the file “resubmit, 1 month,” but as it
would have necessitated the building of
11 more shelves in the “resubmit” room
it was decided to file it. It took four
strong laborers to bear it away to the
“filed” room, whence the entire records
for 1909-11 had to be removed to make
room for it.
A few months later t.a.a.s.i. Twerpe,
who in the meantime had received his
appointment to a.a.s.i., Riverina district,
wrote in to say that, as the district he
was now in was not as wet
as his previous one, he would
like knee-high boots in place
of the thigh type, when and
if supplied. Everyone, es-
pecially the laborers, cursed
when the file had to be resur-
rected, and by the time the
question of precedent had been
settled, the U.-S. had author-
ised “the purchase of a pair
experimentally at not-in-con-
tract price,” and the chief pur-
chasing officer had submitted
tenders, the file took up three
sides of the room.
With the final dispatch of
the boots to Twerpe the papers
were filed. As no space was
available at the board’s offices
special permission was given by the U.-S.
to file them in one of the disused vaults
in another Government building. Un-
fortunately the authorising document was
filed with the interred 812/23409/63.
Only a few weeks ago Twerpe, now
retired, applied for reimbursement of
medical fees which he paid for the re-
moval of a bunion which he claimed was
due to the wearing of the No. 8 boot.
All efforts to trace the whereabouts of
the file have so far proved fruitless, de-
spite several search parties. The resultant
correspondence about the mystery of
812/23409/63 has started another file
which bids fair to rival its parent in bulk.
Someone (perhaps a new chairman or
Under-Secretary) is sure to light on it
eventually, and will thus be in a position,
through reference to the old correspon-
dence, to give Twerpe a decision, Or,
if not to him personally, to his executors.
Bo.


PONTIAC proves that
yon can Have Economy
and Comfort — both!
*s5?r
.
f*
fl
M
&
*h
®o
' /
2 0 °et' «/,
*l> i*-*\A r ‘h
e r
y s
s,- ■*'7V. **>z
tit,’ lot*.
<-e/ l^ c
'o«/. J 4,.
6.s«y
r
&e t *C °°*
. C fnt <V>„ /fc,
- c
*V>A
618
tJINCE Wizard Smith drove a 1940 Pontiac
from Sydney to Melbourne at an
average speed of 33.3 M.P.H. on the amazing
petrol consumption of 43.1 M.P.G.,
Pontiac owners are awaking to the fact
that Pontiac can be more economical
to run than their wildest dreams.
Basically, of course, Pontiac is the
fundamentally thrifty car with such
additional features as a Scotch Mist Manifold,
Fuel Pre-heating, Octane Selector, etc.
Under ordinary conditions most owners
secure better than 20 M.P.G. in ordinary
driving, but if you follow a few of Wizard
Smith’s tips for economical driving you can
increase Pontiac’s natural economy extra-
ordinarily.
Come in and let us prove to you that in
a Pontiac you can still enjoy big-car comfort,
safety and performance together with an
economy that, from habit, you think is
possible only with a small, under-powered car.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
PONTIAC DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Pontiac Dealers throughout Australia
7><mtiac
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL THING ON WHEELS
THREE DE LUXE EQUIPPED MODELS
SILVER ARROW:
De Luxe Coupe : De Luxe Sedan
CHIEFTAIN:
De Luxe Sedan
Use the Convenient Q.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Taxes, War and Well-being
The Spender taxation proposals were
slowly digested as last week progressed,
and except for some loud opposition
from a section which describes itself as
“anti-deflation,” but which seems to fall
into the “inflation” category, there was
nothing sensational in the way of pro-
test. The singling-out of the £5OO-£lOOO
income class for a special contribution
towards the cost of war and sundry other
principles involved in the levying of in-
creased income tax were condemned in
some quarters, and the increase in land
tax was queried in rural districts ; but,
on the whole, the nation took the matter
quietly. Indeed, there were many who
expressed the opinion that they were
getting off more lightly than expected.
It is inevitable that some people will
get off more lightly than others, too.
No hard-and-fast rules laid down by
statute can guarantee equality of sacri-
fice. It is a fact, nevertheless, that in
peace-time certain sections enjoyed better
economic conditions, taking rates of pay
and taxation (especially indirect taxation)
into account, and these sections may be
called on now for what seems to be a
disproportionately high “extra” contri-
bution. In some respects the £5OO-£lOOO
income class was favored in the past,
especially in the case of small families.
The wage-earner usually has more chil-
dren than the salary-earner, and the
consumer of food and clothing in sub-
stantial quantities, as well as a fairly
regular quantity of tobacco and beer,
is a large contributor to revenue in
indirect taxation. The wage-earner with
a family represents, in the mass, the
largest spender in the country. He will
have to contribute to the war effort, too,
and he will do it through increased sales
tax similar levies, provided full
* sc £P e u no^ available tor him through
Arbitration Court awards.
.. If th . e contlnues to take toll of
the natlonal income it will be found
ne cessary to. acknowledge the fact in
OUr Arbitration Court awards. Passing
the buck is being blocked whenever pos-
sible under the price-fixing regulations
-witness the refusal of the N. S. Wales
Government to allow the price of gas
,0 be raised in order to protect the 6^ p.c.
somro/tte incr ase 'n ~
, . f t ti mav
, ot uvin § resulting from taxation may
bave to be borne by the wage-earner
without anv comnensatorv addition to
wnnoui any compensatory aaaiuon 10
tbe basic wage. This is a delicate matter
* oroblem of war
one ln our problem 01 war
o ta uji; tv olir a ; m TTn
ui iZ 1S , our economic aim. un-
labor the coal industry has
activity £or wee ks past . steel output has
been curtailed, amongst other things,
j-jgf-g is a case of disruption with little
or no excuse, yet the effects are disas-
trous, not only as regards Australia’s
domestic requirements of coal, power,
transport and factory output, but also
so far as our war effort is concerned.
The disturbing effects of inflation
would be just as bad as the coal strike
in the long run. There is an inbred de-
sire in many people, especially those who
favor the spectacular and the speculative,
to carry on war in a spirit of boom.
True, under an excited, stimulated and
uncontrolled economy there is often a
great show of activity, especially among
profiteers, but production isn’t in step
with the speculation. It is after a period,
comparatively short, as a rule, that the
really calamitous effects of unbridled
speculation and profiteering become evi-
dent. Interest rates soar, land and other
values puff up, wages become unbear-
ably heavy in the export industries, and
eventually speculators overreach them-
selves. At this stage someone gets
frightened and decides to get in out of
the wet. Then follow slump, dis-
couragement, endless labor troubles, and
the whole productive organisation of the
country gets out of gear.
The danger of inflation is ever-present
during a war. As we have mentioned,
critics of the Federal Government’s finan-
cial programme are condemning the pro-
posal to raise £20,000,000 in extra
taxation, suggesting borrowing instead —
in cases where “credit expansion at no
cost to the Government” isn’t suggested,
as has been done by Mr. Dwyer-Gray,
of Tasmania, who is old enough to know
better.
The Government in the present case is
advised on the right lines. The policy
being pursued acknowledges the fact that
war is a wasteful thing, and that waste
has to be paid for by us all. It also
acknowledges the principle that it is
better to face the problem honestly and
straightforwardly, without employing any
of those fanciful subterfuges such as
“expansion of the national credit” to
hoodwink the wage-earner into the belief
that he is escaping from his share of the
cost of the war.
In the ultimate it all boils down to
contributions of goods and services, not
money borrowed from someone or
whisked out of the air ; money of that
kind isn’t what it seems, and money of
any kind isn’t of use by itself. Its value
is only the same as the value of the useful
goods and services it will procure.
Actually, in the final analysis, it is goods
and services that Australians must con-
tribute, and if, because of these con-
tributions, the pay envelope or the bank
balance looks correspondingly lighter
at the end of the period, that is merely
because money has kept a true record
of the contribution. Money which doesn’t
record the contribution is the thing we
should avoid like the plague, because it
is a cruel delusion and a snare.
In his speech on 1940-41 taxation
(May 2) Treasurer P. C. Spender went
over some old ground and covered some
new with regard to the method of financ-
ing the war:
The outbreak of war found Australia in
a mild recession, and with the aim ot in-
creasing employment and income to the maxi-
mum the Government’s problem in the nrst
few months of the war was to carry out the
war programme without much diversion ot
spending power from private pockets.
Considerable help was afforded by the
banking system in providing loans so that
only modest calls have been made on the
public by borrowing or new taxation. A loan
of £12,000,000 was provided entirely by the
banks, principally by the Commonwealth Bank.
A further appreciable contribution can prob-
ably be made to future loans.
I say “probably” because the wise limits of
credit expansion are set by the economic con-
ditions at the time.
The effect of the defence programme has
been to bring additional men into employment,
without robbing other productive activities of
their finance or labor.
The banks have been able to support a con-
tinuous business expansion and at the same
time make substantial contributions to Gov-
ernment loans. Widespread benefit must accrue
from the success of the Government’s policy
of reducing interest.
Because of the improvement in the finan-
cial and economic position the time has come
when the emphasis of the Government’s finan-
cial programme will be shifted away from
borrowing from the banking system and thrown
substantially on to taxation and loans from
tiie market. If there is any sign that the build-
ing up of Treasury balancse is excessive, and
having adverse effects, the Government will
take appropriate action.
By relying upon taxation and public loans
to obtain funds the transfer of resources from
civil to defence activities can be more systemati-
cally effected. The diversion of purchasing
power from private to public use is the only
alternative to inflation.
The Government’s general financial policy
is one of liberalism, but stops short at reck-
less measures which could end only in a spiral
of rising prices and costs, growing industrial
unrest, inevitable war profiteering and gradual
but certain dissipation of the value of savings.
The only end could be financial and economic
collapse.
So far Government policy has been
successful in reducing interest rates sub-
stantially and in keeping prices from
rising unduly. Also, disruption of private
business has been kept at a minimum.
The future is likely to be more difficult
than the past, however, as the real
pinch of war’s cost begins to be felt.
Absorbing the increased cost of living
(or disguising the reduced standard of
living) that seems inevitable and at the
same time avoiding inflation will call for
skill on the part of the Government and
financial authorities and good temper
and understanding on the part of the
people.
There has been a steadying in the in-
flux of money to the trading banks, a
flow that became particularly noticeable
after Australia completed its war con-
tracts with Britain for the sale of most
of the surplus pastoral, agricultural and
mineral production. The changes that
have occurred in the banking position
over the past 12 months are seen in this
table, compiled by the Commonwealth
Bank. The figures apply to the nine
trading banks only:
Mar., Sept., Jan., Mar.,
1939. 1939. 1940. 1940.
£mil. £mil. £mil. £mil.
Liabilities.
Deposits—
Fixed 200.2 198.0 207.2 212.2
Current .... 121.4 116.6 135.0 140.2
Total ...... 321.6 314.6 342.2 352.4
A OOCTQ
Cash ..' 33.9 32.6 43.8 42.6
Govt, securities 21.6 22.0 28.5 39.0
Treasury bills 25.5 17.5 36.2 45.1
Advances .... 285.4 295.8 283.2 277.6
Ratios —•
Cash to de-
posits, p.c. 10.54 10.36 12.80 12.09
Cash and
Trsy. bills to
deposits, p.c. 18.47 15.92 23.38 24.89
Advances to
deposits, p.c. 88.76 94.02 82.76 78.78
Since this time last year there has been
an increase of £30,800,000 in deposits,
while advances have actually dropped
£7,800,000, making the position easier in
this regard to the extent of £38,600,000.
But though cash (the item includes coin,
bullion, cash balances and cash with the
Commonwealth Bank) has increased
£8,700,000, the main new outlet for the
additional bank funds available has been
Government and municipal loans, which
have expanded £17,600,000 over the 12
months. Treasury bills also have risen
£19,600,000 since March last year, and
£27,600,000 since the outbreak of war.
The diversion of banking resources
from private enterprise to the Govern-
ment’s conduct of the war is clearly evi-
dent from the summary of figures in the
table.
* * * *
Progressive figures for the current
financial year show that an increasing
quantity of iron and steel was exported
from Australia for the first three-
quarters of the period. Up to March 31
the value was £4,450,000, an increase of
£3,095,000 on the figure for the first
nine months of 1939-40.


Water Frontage to the Sea.
FOR SALE. —A home to retire to, and one
that is also close enough to Sydney to enable
a businessman to go in and out to his daily
work.
Surfing, fishing and privacy.
Furnished Cottage, Caretaker’s Cottage,
Garage, etc. Council Water and Electric
Light and Power. Refrigeration, Sewer,
Garden, Lawns, etc.
Twelve miles north of Manly. Total frontage
276 feet. A far better investment than money
out at low interest subject to high taxation.
A. J. Dadson, Hotel Manly, Manly, N.S.W.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
NOW READY
s/m
m
m
m
■
Hi
I
■
m
H
mt
H
■
If*
B 3 H
“77ns book of photographs. .. .should be on the
shelves of all Australian golfers, both for its in-
structional value and as a very faithful record of
the methods of our greatest player —From Eric
Apperly’s introduction to the book.
JIM FERRIER’S "GOLF SHOTS"
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action,
selected by Ferrier from a special slow-motion
film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated
and explained in a way that puts 80 off the stick
within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
PITCH WITH STOP
■
: I
:-;V-
Hi H
. •„ .... *<■ £
PITCH WITH STOP
n
*
f
Price 3 - (postage 3d. extra).
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
BUNKER PLAY
f
f
BUNKER PLAY
I
'U?
%
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
Chief points of interest in the Excess
Profits Tax Bill introduced in Canberra
last week:
(1) The rate ranges from 4 p.c. on
profits of between 8 p.c. and 9 p.c. on
“capital employed” to 60 p.c. on profits
in excess of 22 p.c. The rate of increase
is an extra 4 p.c. tax on each extra
1 p.c. profits until the maximum tax
rate of 60 p.c. is reached.
(2) “Capital employed” includes re-
serves, but excludes funds not used for
earning taxable profit.
(3) The tax at present applies to com-
panies only, individuals and partner-
ships not coming within its scope.
(4) Cos. affected are only those having
more than £12,500 of capital employed,
and small cos. depending on revenue for
personal services rendered will receive
special consideration.
(5) No distinction will be made between
old and new businesses.
(6) No additional taxation returns will
be required.
(7) Holding cos. may elect to have their
subsidiaries treated as branches, making
one company for tax purposes, or the
enterprises may be separately assessed,
allowance being made for inter-company
income.
(8) Cos. paying more than 8 p.c. on
pref. capital are empowered to deduct
from the pref. div. an appropriate pro-
portion of the tax.
(9) Although the statutory percentage
for minimum tax will be 8 p.c., a board
of referees will have power to determine
another figure when “capital employed”
is in doubt.
(10) The tax embraces Papua, Norfolk
Island and New Guinea, but does not
affect cos. carried on in those territories
by residents.
The sharemarket accepted the new tax
proposals with equanimity. The coal
strike was a greater worry last week.
* * * *
“Capital employed,” the measure by
which profit ratios are to be determined
for the assessment of war-profits tax on
companies, has been defined by Acting-
Treasurer Fadden as “shareholders’ sub-
scriptions, either in cash or valuable con-
sideration, together with all undistributed
profits held by the co.” This clears the
air to a considerable extent, and it should
dispose of most of the inequities which,
it was feared, would arise if the statutory
capital of cos. alone were used as the
measuring-stick for arriving at profit
ratios. Under the present definition
of “capital employed” concerns which
recently increased their paid capi-
tal by issuing bonus shares will obtain
no advantage over concerns which have
not transferred reserves, disclosed or un-
disclosed, to capital account.
* * * *
As the war-profits tax to be levied on
“capital employed” contemplates the in-
clusion of reserves with share capital in
calculating the ratio of earnings, there
is likely to be some disclosure —to
the taxing authorities, if not to the public
—of reserves hitherto not advertised as
undistributed profit. It is likely to result
in a keener scrutiny of all specific
reserves in any case. How excessive
specific reserves may accumulate is
shown by the latest accounts of General
Motors-Holden’s. During the co.’s last
term the value of freeholds, plant, etc.,
was reappraised, the new valuation sug-
gesting that depreciation to an excess of
£300,000 had been allowed in the past.
That sum has been transferred to general
reserves. Appreciation of land values
over the past 10 or 20 years is likely to
have produced many other parallel cases,
though mostly on a much smaller scale.
He He H« He
Felt and Textiles ords. went to a new
high level of 425. 3d. in the mid-week
revival that followed the shock of the
new taxation proposals. The concern
will probably bear a fairly heavy rate
of excess-profits taxation —visible re-
serves are small in relation to capital—
though the position is somewhat obscure
owing to the number of subsidiary cos.
that go to make up the widespread
enterprise. Apparently business has been
brisk of late, but it is hard to look far
into the future.
* * * *
Tooth shares could be bought in Syd-
ney last week at 51s. 3d. to yield 4.7 p.c.
This leading N. S. Wales brewery stock
has been quiet in its class for some
time, in contrast with a rather firm mar-
ket for Carlton in Melbourne, Castle-
maine Perkins in Brisbane and a strong
demand for Swan in Perth. The time is
not unfavorable for buying Tooth shares
where the buyer is content with the yield
offering. It is a good deal better than
in the case of A.C.I. or B.H.P.
* * * *
Yarra Falls shares went to a record
price last week. After sales at 445.,
buyers offered that price without drawing
out any sellers. The co. is Australia’s
largest manufacturer of suitings, etc., and
is handling some defence orders.
* * * *
World tin statistics for the last three
months:
Feb., Mar., Apr.,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Visible supplies .. 23,865 22,980 23,119
Straits carryover .. 4,168 3,897 4,564
Supplies received .. 11,863 15,961 12,808
Deliveries .. .. 12,796 16,846 12,669
The metal keeps above £250 sterling in
London. The Australian price is £306
for tin ingots, but about half our pro-
duction is exported ; at the moment the
average price from pooled tin in the
Commonwealth should be somewhere
near the Australian internal price. Statis-
tics in the foregoing table indicate that of
late production has got close up to con-
sumption, but that there is no indication
of rapid accumulation of stocks under
the present production quota.
* * * *
A. Goninan shares are the latest to
be affected by the war-investment fever.
The fever has gone through a number
of stocks, including 8.H.P., Bradford
Cotton and John McGrath, and has partly
or entirely left them. Goninan’s is in
the steel-processing business at New-
castle, and defence orders are reported
to be substantial; the sharemarket there-
fore has hopes that last year’s 18.5 p.c.
earned on capital may be bettered this"
term, and that the 8 p.c. div. may be
lifted. Both B.H.P. and Howard Smith
have some interest in the concern. The
12s. scrip was up to 17s. the other
day (weakening later) compared with
a highest of 15s. 6d. in -1939 and
a lowest of 12s. Previous highest
price in 1940 was 16s. In 1935
there was a writing-off of Bs. a share that
put the accounts on an even keel, and
prior to the outbreak of war the co. was
doing quite well. But buyers of the
scrip now should be prepared to wait
for anything more than 8 p.c. p.a. in
divs. ; that rate has been maintained in
an interim declared in March, and the
yield at last week’s price is £5 16s. per
cent. Prospects of “extras” from
war orders should be looked at through
the wrong end of a telescope. Excess-
profits taxes, policy and provision for
the aftermath of war have all to be
taken into account before estimating
profits under existing conditions.
* * * *
Permewan Wright shareholders will
probably get a div. this year, according
to the co.’s chairman. An interim was
paid last term, but the final half of the
year produced unfavorable conditions,
the twelve months closing with a profit
of only £1968. The co. had stocked up
with fodder in the drought at the end
of 1938, and when heavy rains came
early in 1939 much of this stock brought
a loss to the co. The current year
began in normal circumstances, but
heavier taxation later is inevitable. The
coal strike has been affecting deliveries
to the co. over the past few weeks, but
there are chances that this disturbance
will break down under its own weight
before long.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
POLITICIANS AND NORWAY.
[ln the House of Commons on April 11 Mr.
Churchill made a speech on which most of the false
optimism over Norway was based. Mr. Churchill’s
speech included the amazing statements here given.]
Another violent outrage has been perpetrated by
Nazi Germany against a small and friendly Power, and
the Norwegian Government and people are today
in arms to defend their hearths and homes. We shall
aid them to the best of our ability. We shall conduct
the war in common with them, and we shall make
peace only when their rights and freedom are restored.
In their very large, wild mountainous country —free-
dom, it is said, dwells in the mountains—in their very
large country, sparsely populated but rugged and full
of positions where free men can shelter and can fight,
they should be able to maintain vigorous and pro-
longed resistance costing enormous labor to those
who wish to subjugate them to tyranny.
* * * * *
In my view, which is shared by my skilled ad-
visers, Herr Hitler has committed a grave strategic
error in spreading the war so far to the north and en-
forcing the Scandinavian people or peoples out of their
attitude of neutrality. We have suffered from nothing
in our blockade policy so much as the denial of the
Norwegian coast and that cursed corridor, now closed
for ever. Hitler has effected, with his Germans,
lodgments of various strengths at many points of the
Norwegian coasts, and he has felled with a single
hammer-blow the inoffensive kingdom of Denmark.
But we shall take all we want of this Norwegian
coast now with an enormous increase in the facility
and in the efficiency of our blockade.
*****
It is the considered view of the Admiralty that we
have greatly gained by what has occurred in Scandi-
navia and in northern waters in a strategic and mili-
tary sense. For myself I consider that Hitler’s action
in invading Scandinavia is as great a strategic and poli-
tical error as that which was committed by Napoleon
in 1807 or 1808 in invading Spain.
Hitler has violated the independence and soil
of virile peoples dwelling in very large and expansive
countries capable of maintaining, with British and
French aid, prolonged resistance to his soldiers and
his Gestapo. He has almost doubled the efficiency of
the Allied blockade. He has made a whole series of
commitments upon the Norwegian coast for which he
will now have to fight if necessary during the whole
summer against Powers possessing vastly superior
naval forces and able to transport them to the scenes
of action more easily than he can.
I cannot see any counter advantage which he has
gained, except the satisfaction of another exercise of
the brutal lust of unbridled power. I cannot see any
satisfaction which he has gained which is any adequate
offset to these substantial and enduring facts. Grieved
as we all are at the suffering and misery which is now
extended to wider areas, I must declare to the House
that I feel we are greatly advantaged by what has
occurred, provided we act with unceasing and in-
creasing vigor to turn to the utmost profit the strategic
blunder into which our mortal enemy has been pro-
voked.
*****
We and the French are far stronger than the
German Navy. We have enough to maintain control
of the Mediterranean, and at the same time we can
carry on all our operations in the North Sea.
But out of the very much smaller forces of the
German Navy most grievous losses have been already
sustained. Four German cruisers—the Norwegian
batteries have taken their toll —that is to say, nearly
half their total of pre-war strength and much more
than their existing strength in cruisers, have been sunk,
and a number of German destroyers, together with
several more U-boats, have been destroyed, all since
April 7.
Up to the time I speak, those losses have been
sustained by the German Navy, and, after all, a navy
is an integral organisation with its battleships, cruisers
and its destroyers, and that navy must be regarded as
deeply mutilated in respect of this extraordinarily
important and indeed indispensable cruiser element.
Our submarines, which, I can assure the House, were
by no means asleep, have taken heavy toll from the
German transports and store ships now crossing into
Scandinavia. We have given them the fullest liberty
of action in all cases where humanity does not impose
restraint.
All German ships in the Skagerrak and the Katte-
gat will be sunk, and by night all ships will be sunk
as opportunity serves.
We are not going to allow the enemy to supply
their armies across these waters with impunity. They
have already ordered all merchant vessels out of this
area, and in this respect our advice coincides with
theirs. We hope to take unceasing toll. Up to the
present nearly a dozen ships, some of large tonnage,
have been sunk or captured, either in the Skagerrak
and the Kattegat or in other parts of the North Sea,
or in attempting to bring supplies to the forces which
were landed at Narvik. The Norwegian batteries have
had their successes, and I must consider the German
Fleet crippled in important respects.
But —and this is the gravity of the thought which
I venture to submit to the House—the very reckless-
ness with which Hitler and his advisers have cast the
interests of the German Navy upon the wild waters to
meet all that moves thereon, this very recklessness
makes me feel that these audacious, costly operations
may be only the prelude to far larger events which
impend on land. We have probably arrived now at
the first main crunch of the war. But we certainly
find no reason in the fact of what has just happened,
and still less in our own hearts, to deter us from
entering upon any further trials that may lie before
US. While we will not prophesy or boast about battles
still to be fought, we feel ourselves ready to encounter
the utmost malice of the enemy and to devote all our
life strength to achieve the victory of what is a world
cause.
*****
[Written some time before the storm of criticism
o V er the Norwegian campaign broke out, this article
war and suggests a way of avoiding it this time.]
How often the damning postscript Too Late had
to be added to the story of many an Allied enterprise
in the Great War which had been sound enough in
conception but fatally prejudiced by delay. A similar
bligh, also rested upin" our diplomacy in the east of
Europe, where first Turkey and then Bulgaria came
into the war against us. Too many colleagues,
pledged to other schemes, had to be conciliated ; too
many timid counsellors had to be persuaded against
their will.
For nearly three months after the Great War
began no sort of War Cabinet, Committee or Council
existed at all. The war was conducted nominally by
an unwieldy Cabinet of more than 20 members, but
actual control lay with an Inner Ring consisting of
Mr. Asquith, Lord Kitchener, Mr. Churchill and Sir
Edward Grey. Those in the Outer Ring of the
Cabinet had no voice in taking decisions and fre-
quently were not even asked to register them.
Not until October was it decided to transform
the Committee of Imperial Defence into a War Coun-
cil, by which means it was possible to obtain the ser-
vices of Mr. Balfour, and, early in 1915, Mr. Hal-
dane and Sir Arthur Wilson were also added. Yet
though it was this War Council, and not the Cabinet,
which finally determined upon the Dardanelles expedi-
tion, not a single meeting was held from April 6 to
May 14, during which time the expedition was fight-
ing for its life.
With the formation of Mr. Asquith’s first Coali-
tion Government the War Council became officially
-“Daily Mirror,” London.
THOSE “PROTECTING” HANDS.
known as the Dardanelles Committee, and then experi-
enced another reincarnation into the War Committee
when the great Gallipoli adventure was abandoned.
This committee will always have a place in history as
a fantastic combination of all the talents ideally
unsuited, when brought together, for the conduct of
a war. Look at the names —Mr. Asquith, K. of K.,
Lloyd George, Balfour (who succeeded Churchill at
the Admiralty), Austen Chamberlain, Curzon, Bonar
Law, Lansdowne, Crewe, Carson and Selborne.
Nor was it only too large. The departments de-
liberately withheld facts from its purview and ob-
structed and evaded its decisions, and it functioned so
inefficiently that by the end of 1916 the conviction
had steadily deepened in the mind of most of its
members that it was incapable, as then constituted, of
winning the war. Yet they could not contrive to
reform it without overthrowing the Government itself.
When Mr. Lloyd George set up his War Cabinet
of five, the most serious criticism was that it removed
the Prime Minister from the ken of the House of
Commons. But it was of inestimable advantage that
the Prime Minister secured release from daily attend-
ance at Westminster. He could thus devote himself
to his real job—the supervision of the conduct of the
war.
Such obvious advantages, which must already
have been weighed by Mr. Chamberlain, will prob-
ably have to be considered anew when the full fury
of the war has to be met.
The Prime Minister, happily, is showing no sign
of physical strain. Yet there is a general desire that he
should spare himself the fatigue of regular attendance
at Westminster and reserve his strength for the major
problems of the war. Even Mr. Churchill, though
younger than the Prime Minister, must occasionally
be conscious of “time’s winged chariot hurrying by.”
* * * * *
C Extract from a New York “Times” article by James
B. Reston, picturing Mr. Chamberlain as the driving
force of a “sound, safe” Cabinet.)
At a recent meeting of the Supreme War Council
in Paris, junior French Ministers attending for the
first time were astonished to find that it was Neville
Chamberlain who dominated these sessions,
The Prime Minister’s attitude pleased and sur-
prised some of his own Cabinet members. When tne
French suggested seizing German exports as reprisal
against the Nazis’ unrestricted sea war, it was Mr.
Chamberlain who pushed the measure through the
Cabinet When the German ship Altmark took refuge
in Norwegian territorial waters with 300 British
prisoners of war aboard, Mr. Churchill received creaii
for the swift order which released them ; but in fact
was Mr. Chamberlain who gave the comman .
* * * * *
[From a survey of possible successors to Mr. Cham-
Toifn slot,
sir Samuel Hoare or Mr. Churchill—by the Parlia-
mentary correspondent of London “Spectator.” Written
before the failure in Norway.]
The Government must be reconstructed, for the
simple reason that, as things stand at present, it cannot
be replaced. In the last war, when we still enjoyed
the advantages of a two-party system, the official
Opposition was an alternative Government. Today
Labor has neither the numbers nor the capacity to take
office by itself.
It is at least doubtful whether its leaders are
really anxious to encompass the defeat of the existing
Ministry. For they would be compelled to join forces
not only with the Liberals, but with a large number
of Conservatives. This would present for them a very
real difficulty. Their party would be seriously split,
and they would almost certainly be faced with a for-
midable revolt among their more “militant” supporters
in the country. As time went on they would need to
take responsibility for measures which would be re-
sented by Socialist enthusiasts and even by faithful
trade-unionists. Moreover, such a Government could
only be formed for one purpose—the more vigorous
prosecution of the war. Apart from its avowed
pacifists, the Labor party includes a not inconsider-
able element which still seems more concerned with
domestic, social and political issues
than with the achievement of vic-
tory. No one doubts the patriotism
or the will to win of the accredited
Labor leaders, but they have a
deep-seated and traditional objec-
tion to anything which impairs the
solidarity of their movement.
Mediterranean Survey.
(Condensed from London “World
Review.”)
Four principal forces are active
in Mediterranean politics: Italian
ambition, Franco-British conserva-
tism, the German Drang nach
Osten and the reawakening of the
Arab lands. A fifth is well pos-
sible, the Russian drive towards
the south, but unlikely. The recent
references to “British pirates’ nests”
show that an attempt will be made
certainly by Germany and perhaps
by Italy to show that we have no
right to continue to hold the keys
to an inland sea which for us
appears mainly to be a trade route.
One cannot be surprised if the
captains of large vessels which are
the pride of their nations’ mercan-
tile marine feel a certain humilia-
tion when these great vessels are
boarded by a tiny motor-boat when
they enter the Straits of Gibraltar. Indeed, commerce
in the Mediterranean is regulated now more and more
by a succession of fortresses; Gibraltar, Malta, Pan-
telleria, Cyprus, Libya and, finally, the Dardanelles
spring to mind. For Italy most of all the Mediter-
ranean is vital.
The economic interests of the great Powers in the
Mediterranean differ widely. So far as the Levant is
concerned, France has put more treasure, and cer-
tainly more blood, into these countries than any other.
England has invested in the Eastern Mediterranean
between three and four hundred million pounds. In
Greece she is the largest lender. The public debt,
which is nearly eighty-nine million pounds, is largely in
the hands of British financial interests. In addition,
one large financial company has invested five million
pounds in public utility services in Athens. If we
take banks, drainage companies and other industrial
enterprises we shall find about fifteen million pounds
invested. In Turkey the tendency until very recently
had been against foreign loans, for the Turks had
suffered severely from the exigencies of foreign
lenders, to such a degree that almost all the enter-
prises of the country belonged to Belgians, Germans,
French and so on. By the year 1938 Turkey had
freed herself from most foreign concessions, and it is
only recently that she has received large new credits
from England on terms very different from the loans
she contracted in the past. In Syria, which is a region
of French influence, the main interest of Great Britain
is in the pipeline of the Iraq Petroleum Company,
one branch of which debouches on the Syrian coast.
In Malta and Cyprus, strangely enough, British
capital seems to have been unwilling to participate
on any real scale. Such capital as is invested in the
Cyprus copper mines is said to be American. The
main British investments in the Mediterranean are in
Palestine and Egypt. It is thought that the invest-
ments of the Jews alone in Palestine reach eighty
million pounds; including the investments in Shell,
Iraq Petroleum, Palestine Electric and the insurance
companies (it is thought that one company alone has


invested one million pounds from its ample store),
there are fifteen millions of British money apart from
Jewish investments. All these sums, however, pale
before the Egyptian investment, for in Egypt the total
foreign investments amount to more than five hundred
million pounds, and Great Britain’s part is at least
two hundred millions. This is comprised in roughly
three divisions: first in the private property of British
subjects who have for many generations lived and
prospered in Alexandria; secondly in innumerable
companies and banks and agencies of British firms,
and thirdly in sums invested in companies which
operate at once with British and Egyptian finance.
These investments, in spite of their importance,
are not the main reason which makes it necessary for
Great Britain to keep her strength in that area. That
reason, of course, is the Suez Canal and the trade route
to India. In 1936, at the time of Sanctions, the ques-
tion suddenly arose in a violent form as to whether
Great Britain should defend her interests. In spite of
divided opinion the answer was emphatically yes, for
of the traffic which goes through the Suez Canal
Great Britain is responsible for 50 per cent. In spite
of everything, India is still the greatest market for
British merchandise, and if the safety of the Suez
Canal were ever touched it would be a grave blow to
this essential trade.
Great Britain must stay in the Mediterranean if
she is to keep her greatness. We may ask, then,
whether any durable accord can be reached on the
shores of the Mediterranean between England, France
and Italy, and, to a lesser degree, Turkey. The differ-
ences between France and Italy over Tunis must first
of all be settled, which perhaps they could be if
they were examined impartially by experts. The
remarkable work of Marshal Balbo in Libya, partly
wiping out the memory of the terrible suppression of
the Senussi revolt, has made that once desert land
a strong strategic base for Italy and removed for ever
any complex of inferiority towards France which she
might have in that region. Italy and Great Britain
have no real rivalry in the Mediterranean so long as
the Suez Canal and the Straits of Gibraltar are kept
free for Italian vessels. There is, however, always the
fear that a situation might arise similar to that of the
Dardanelles.
Hi * sfc * *
Liberal Italy
(From a London “Contemporary Review” article by
Count Carlo Sforza.)
The statesmen of liberal Italy could never help
feeling, in their relations with their German col-
leagues, a moral gulf which they never felt with the
English and the French, even when far from any
political entente with them. The Germans knew that
what we most worship in Mazzini, for instance, was
that he had said: “I like my country because I like
all countries,” and that Cavour was for us the man
who used to say: “I never feel so safe as when Par-
liament is in session.”
These Italian characteristics having for the time
being disappeared, and Nazism believing this dis-
appearance to be final, it is natural that the relations
between the German and Italian rulers are better than
ever in the past. For the first time the same moral
language is spoken—on the surface —on both sides of
our Eastern Alps. If one still hears in Germany sar-
castic doubts about the solidity of the alliance, one
may be sure that the speakers are pseudo-Nazis, people
who go on repeating the anti-Italian legends to which
full vent was given in Germany in 1915 and after.
The Nazis never repeat such things, preferring to find
in the events of 1914-15 a new proof of the stupidity
and incapacity of the Hohenzollern regime.
What is unaccountable is that sometimes one
hears people in France and England saying “After
all, these Fascist fellows may well betray the treaty
with Germany ; did not the Italians betray the Triple
Alliance in 1914-15?” The French and the English
who speak thus attain a result which to Italians seems
almost a miracle: they succeed in uniting, if only for
a moment, in an almost identical feeling, the Fascists
and my compatriots who, remaining faithful to the
ideals of the Risorgimento, long for a free Italy hav-
ing with free England and free France one of those
permanent ententes which can only be based on
reciprocal respect.
The most careful study of the diplomatic docu-
ments of the Triple Alliance period shows —contrary
to a legend created mainly by German and Austrian
historians—that in this manage de raison the incorrect
initiatives came always from Berlin and Vienna. In
July, 1914, at the time of the Austrian declaration of
war on Serbia, it was again Berlin and Vienna who
betrayed Italy. Article VII of the treaty bound Italy
and Austria-Hungary, in case one or the other should
decide to alter the status quo in the Balkans, to come
“to an agreement with the ally, based on the prin-
ciple of mutual compensation for each advantage,
territorial or otherwise, that either of the two Powers
might gain over and above its present position.” Aus-
tria, deliberately ignoring this article, violated one of
the most essential parts of the treaty.
Two reasons had induced the Ministers of Francis
Joseph to keep silence with Italy: not to be obliged
to give her the “compensation” to which Article VII
obliged them ; and even more perhaps to avoid Italian
opposition to the mad enterprise. In August, 1913,
hardly 13 months before, Vienna having informed
Rome of an Austro-Hungarian decision to attack
Serbia, Giolitti had declared his strongest reproba-
tion against an “inexcusable policy of aggression.”
When the Salandra Cabinet decided to enter the
war in May, 1915, on the side of Great Britain and
France, it obeyed the most essential necessities of
Italy as well as the almost unanimous sentiment of the
Italian nation. The treaty of the Triple Alliance had
been torn up by the Austro-Germans. And we knew
in Rome that when the German Government ended
by advising, in vain, the Austrians to cede to Italy the
Trentino and thus to provide the compensation im-
posed by Article VII of the treaty, the German
advice contained the secret reservation: “Of course,
after the war, not only will you take back the Tren-
tino from Italy, but we will together punish her for
all she now obliges us to swallow.”
It is evident that the position of Italy in 1914-15
was radically different from her political and juridical
position in 1939-40. The Berlin pact of May 22, 1939,
has not been denounced, the chief of the Italian
Government declared on September 23, 1939, that his
policy follows “the political pacts and agreements”
now in existence. What matters more, he has spoken
(and in December, 1939, his Foreign Minister re-
peated) the words of the “liquidation of Poland” as
of a fact henceforth not to be revised.
Of course, in a period where half Europe is in
the hands of people who baptise as “dynamism” any
violation of treaties, one may expect all sorts of
sudden changes. The Italians who remain faithful to
the noblest traditions of their country ardently hope
that Italy will succeed—under any regime, even
Fascist —in breaking the existing dangerous links with
a Reich whose victory would mean Italy becoming a
vassal State. But the compatriots of Gladstone will
find it natural if the Italians who keep sacred in their
hearts the spirit of Mazzini add that, jealous of the
honor of Italy, they hope that, if any breach with
Nazism is going to take place, this will not happen as
a result of some bellissimo inganno —as it was the
fashion to say in Cesare Borgia’s times —but as the
acknowledgment of those permanent moral values
which alone, in the long run, assure the greatness of
a nation.
*****
An Italian Viewpoint
(i Condensed from an article “guaranteed authentic” in
London “Time and Tide”)
It is safe to say that 95 per cent, of Italians want
to keep out of the war —but for varying reasons, and
with varying degrees of hope of being able to do so.
One cannot divide public opinion into “pro-German”
or “pro-Ally.” Apart from a certain number of pro-
German officers in the Army and Navy and a small
number of pro-Allies among the extreme anti-Fascists,
the mass of the public feel impartial distaste for both
—“Daily Sketch,” London.
WHICH TUNE IS HE PLAYING?
sides. If there is an increasing revulsion from Ger-
man brutality, there is resentment of English domina-
tion on the seas. (I overheard a usually moderate-
minded man exclaiming, as he caught sight of a pic-
ture of Gibraltar in an English picture-paper, “There’s
a place I shouldn’t mind bombing tomorrow.”) The
press, moreover, has made much of all the incidents
connected with British investigation of neutral car-
goes, etc., while giving a disproportionately small
place to the German sinking of neutral ships—and
suppressing almost all accounts of German rule in
Poland and Czechoslovakia.
The main concern, however, of all Italians now
is with their own interests. This springs largely from
a complete scepticism as to the intentions and motives
of each of the belligerents. The comment most fre-
quently heard is: “The worst thing possible for Italy,
and for international peace, would be a decisive vie-
tory on either side.” Faced by a choice between two
masters, most Italians, indeed, would say that they
prefer England to Germany, but they bitterly resent
having to make any such choice, and consider the open
military domination of Germany hardly more mon-
strous than the (thinly) veiled economic domination
of England. Moreover, they still (partly owing to a
constant stream of propaganda) tend to think of Italy
and Germany as representing the revolutionary, pro-
gressive trend in European politics, while England
stands for the conservative, retrograde forces of
capitalism.
It is only the extreme anti-Fascists who prophesy
S - it H ati H on M ann ? • P °»? Sibly
tamed, and that, indeed, Mussolini has no intention
that it should be. The average citizen is much more
optimistic. He believes that the Duce means to keep
out of the war—at any rate, until that moment, as
near as possible to the end, when an entry may be
most advantageous to Italy—and, most people would
add, “to the establishment of a just peace.”
The decisive factor in Italian affairs still remains
the same: Mussolini’s state of mind. The rumor
that he is “losing his grip” appears to be largely the
wish-fulfilment of anti-Fascists, or of exasperated
diplomats who have been handed on to Ciano.
Italy’s War Chances
C As summed up by Admiral Sir Reginald Bacon in
London “Evening Standard.”)
Surveying Italy’s balance sheet in the event of
a war with the Allies, it seems that Italy would have
to face so large a debit balance that it would be
highly improbable that she would throw away her
splendid position of neutrality, and all that it may
mean after the war, to enter upon a gamble.
Italy’s strategic position in the Mediterranean
renders her particularly vulnerable. She has a coast-
line of about the same length as that of England, Scot-
land and Northern Ireland together ; and, if Sardinia
and Sicily are included, another 1000 miles must be
added.
She is, moreover, burdened with three unre-
munerative colonies, Eritrea, Abyssinia and Libya.
Added to these she has some isolated islands in the
Aegean Sea commonly known as the Dodecanese.
Eritrea and Abyssinia are separated from the mother-
country by the Suez Canal, and Libya by a fair
stretch of the Mediterranean.
Mussolini has made a determined effort to increase
the sea power of Italy, but the Duce made the mis-
take of trusting too much to the submarine and motor
torpedo boat.
This war is rapidly proving that the submarine is
far less of a danger than had been imagined, since its
immunity below water may be largely illusory in
patrolled waters, or when vessels are suitably escorted.
In the event of war, Abyssinia would be com-
pletely cut off; for, without doubt, we should blockade
outside the three-mile limit of the entrance to the
Suez Canal. We could arm the tribes who irk the
Italian rule, we could send an expedition by Jibuti
and strike at Addis Ababa. Abyssinia would then
most certainly be lost.
Libya would be open to attack both from east
and west. Tripoli, the only port of first-class im-
portance, lies about 70 miles from French territory,
so would be an easy mark for both sea and air attack,
much the same as the two neighboring Allied ports
of Malta and
Bizerta. Libya,
unable to sup-
port its people
even with food,
would be in a
parlous position.
The Dode-
canese would be
a source of
danger to Italy.
Either ships
have to be dis-
patched to pro-
tect such iso-
lated places, or
they have to be
abandoned. In
the first place
force is dissi-
pated and seri-
ous losses are
sure to be in-
curred ; in the
second, pres-
tige is sacrificed.
Then, most
damaging of all,
the Allies could
blockade all the
three entrances
to the Mediter-
ranean—Gibraltar, the Suez Canal and the Dardanelles,
This would leave Italy with only the northern neck
through which to get supplies, a route already fully
occupied with supplying coal. Practically the whole of
Italy’s imports would be cut off. There would be no
need for us to dispatch a single transport to carry out
any of the aggressive work mentioned,
Italy’s position in the centre of the trade route
would be extremely inconvenient to us, but we could
still feed and supply our Middle East Army from
Australia and New Zealand.
Malta would feel the pinch, perhaps, but we
could still keep up essential communication with that
place. This is all that Italy could do at sea, for in-
vasion of Egypt or Algeria is out of the question,
For Italy to attempt to land on the French
Riviera, in face of the strong defences of that region,
would be lunacy. To attack Corsica would be a dis-
sipation of energy.
The Italian air force would be busy, but so would
ours. We might attack and destroy the docks at
Taranto. Malta should be able to account for any
aircraft which seriously attempt bombing operations,
The menace is not serious provided always that
Britain and France keep a preponderating sea force in
the Mediterranean.
_
Help from Uncle Sam.
( Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post” article
b y Demaree Bess.)
The U.S.A. has already made three handsome
.. . ~ A , J , ; , A
contributions to the Anglo-French side, and the stage
1S being set for a fourth. The first was the lifting
the arms embargo. The second was the mainten-
ance of the currency-stabilisation agreement with Eng-
land and France after war broke out. By keeping
up this, the U.S.A. indirectly strengthened the British
pound and the French franc, which are just as much
weapons in this war as airplanes and tanks are. The


third concerns the British blockade of Germany—the
most powerful weapon which Britain possesses.
One of the most significant differences between
this war and the last one is the American attitude
toward the use of this weapon. For two and a half
years during the last war the United States obstructed
and hampered the British blockade. This time the
United States has tacitly supported the blockade from
the outset. That difference may be a decisive factor
in the outcome of this war. Now that the United
States is no longer really neutral, as it was in the
first years of the last war, and has ceased to insist
upon the observance of rights which served to protect
all neutrals, there are few countries in Europe which
are not dominated by the blockade.
Germany necessarily expected, and was prepared,
to lose most of her overseas supplies. She had hoped
to compensate herself for this loss by increasing her
purchases in the 23 non-belligerent European countries
with which she maintains trade relations. But here
she has encountered a land blockade which may be-
come almost as effective as the Allied sea blockade.
As weapons on land, the Allies are using diplomacy,
force and money. The British and French have opened
trade negotiations with every country in Europe, in-
cluding Russia. Their aim is to corner all possible
goods which Germany needs. Some countries prefer
to sell to the British and French because in practice
they are no more neutral than the United States ;
they want England and France to win the war. Other
countries can be compelled to sell at reasonable prices
because they are dependent upon Anglo-French favor
to get necessary overseas supplies for themselves. And
all countries prefer to sell their goods for money,
which England and France possess, and Germany
does not.
In the first months of the war the British and
French were slow in extending economic warfare to
its absolute limits. An investigator for London
“Times” looked into the matter and reported: “The
root of the trouble lies largely in the inability of both
Government departments and of the able businessmen
whose help they have enlisted to throw overboard
the instincts of a lifetime and to face the fact that
economic war bears no relation to normal sound busi-
ness. They cannot bring themselves to seize an
opportunity to pay dearly for some inferior product
when better stuff can be bought more cheaply else-
where —to buy, say, dearer and inferior Rumanian oil
instead of Mexican. They forget that the more we
put up the price the more Germany will have to pay,
and that the inferior article might even be worth
while buying and throwing into the sea, so long as
Germany does not get it.”
But the British and French have rapidly learned.
A few examples serve to show what they are doing.
The British bought up most of the barges plying the
lower Danube River. These barges were a poor in-
vestment, since most of them are lying idle. But if
the British had not bought them they would now be
carrying Rumanian and Russian goods to Germany.
In Turkey the British bought tobacco which their
smokers do not like. Turkish tobacco figured in previ-
ous German barter deals, and had to be taken to
prevent other goods from reaching Germany. A few
weeks after war broke out the British contracted to
purchase one hundred thousand tons of Norwegian
whale oil, the entire output for an indefinite period.
This was a real blow to Germany, which uses whale
oil for margarine and in munitions. Normally the
British would have no use for so much Norwegian
whale oil, but they were glad to buy it to cut off
German supplies.
But economic warfare requires not only time
but also tremendous expenditure of money. When
I was in Berlin last October Germans there told me
that they expect to win this war by bankrupting Eng-
land. When England has used up its capital, they
argued, it will have lost its principal advantage against
Germany. If they can drag their rivals down to their
own financial level German economists believe that
the advantage in this war will shift to them. Their
continental system, as they see it, is already adapted
to barter trade, and the Germans are by now accus-
tomed to it, whereas they believe England’s imperial
system would be reduced to chaos without a ready
supply of money and credit.
How long can the Allies carry on economic war-
fare at its present maximum levels? The British
estimate that their cash reserves are good for at least
eighteen months, and may be sufficient for three years.
The next contribution the United States will be asked
to make will be golden bullets. We are a creditor
nation, having cornered the greater part of the world’s
gold supply. But we have decided not to loan our
gold to nations which refused to pay debts incurred
in the last war. And the foremost among those de-
faulting nations are Great Britain and France. If
and when the British and French use up their cash
reserves, will the money markets of the United States
be opened up to them again, in spite of their defaults?
The answer to that question can be found only in
our own country. But it is easy to see, in Europe,
that pressure for American loans is already being
quietly exerted, and that it will become intensified
as the months and years go by.
Propaganda-shy Uncle Sam.
[This acute study of the psychology of anti-
British feeling among ordinarily sympathetic Americans
is condensed from London “New Statesman.”]
A Frenchman who had been asked to speak to
American schoolchildren was quietly describing
evacuation schemes in Alsace. He was interrupted
by shouts of “propaganda,” which continued until he
had to abandon his talk. English visitors to the United
States often meet with the same kind of hostile
scepticism.
When American visitors talk to British people
nowadays their attitude resembles that of many Eng-
lishmen in 1938. Just as the British were dubious
about running risks for the Sudeten areas, so Ameri-
cans warn us that the United States will not entangle
herself in a war fought, as they are apt to put n, “to
make Gibraltar and Malta safe for Mr. Chamberlain.”
We are now “the distant country” struggling for exist-
ence, and America is the candid friend who lectures
us in our hour of trial and warns us against trying
to turn a conflict, localised in Europe, into what
British Ministers used to call “a world conflagration.”
And now it is the Americans who are conscious
of a moral dilemma. They want Hitler stopped, but
they prefer someone else to do the job. They hate
Nazi brutality ; they fear that our defeat would end
their own security. But then there is the other side.
Are not the problems of Europe hopeless just as the
Czech problems were hopeless? Heart and head can
find arguments both for running risks and for isola-
tionism. We have had experience of this moral and
intellectual dilemma ; we should be able to under-
stand it.
American readiness to seize on anything to our
discredit is a symptom of this internal conflict. Just
as some English people suddenly discovered in 1938
that the Czechs had not always been perfect in their
treatment of the Sudeten Germans, so the Americans
recall the unhappy story of British rule in Ireland
and do not always remember that the Free State is
now as independent as any neutral in Europe. British
policy, which has neglected some of the colonies and
given India neither freedom nor prosperity, has given
them plenty to criticise ; but Americans are not more
eager than we have been in the past to respond to the
reminder that no great Power has an untarnished
history.
One bold Englishman did remind an American
questioner who talked about British ill-treatment of
India that Americans, after all, have nearly exter-
minated their Indians, while we have multiplied ours
and given them at least partial self-government.
Others have pointed out to critics of appeasement that
America is still, even today, aiding Japan in China
by supplying her with munitions. But the tu quoque
argument never did much good. The truth is that
this criticism, whether justified or not, is made now
because it provides a balm for an uneasy conscience.
If help is not to be given to us, it is comforting for
Americans to find reasons for thinking that we are
not worth helping. And all the time Americans are
drawn by a deep kinship. Just because our ties are
strong and our relationship close, they fear that they
will be dragged into our inferno. Their bitterness is
a reflection of this fear.
America at the moment is certainly hard to
please. We are required both to fight a full-blooded
war —sometimes, judging from comments, a box-
office war for the benefit of American correspondents
—and also we are expected to be plaster saints. We
are at one and the same time to cease to be a domi-
nant imperialism with an Empire and a great navy
and yet to fight with as little help as possible against
the most powerfully armed State the world has ever
known.
Here is a situation easily seized upon by Nazi
propaganda. In the last war, British propaganda in
the United States was energetic and effective, while
German propaganda was incredibly clumsy. In this
war, British propaganda has almost ceased in the
United States. But the Germans are extremely active.
They know better than to do propaganda in favor of
Hitler, but they have organised an immense propa-
ganda against the Allies and in favor of American
isolation. The wave of anti-propaganda propaganda
has reached astonishing dimensions, and there are
millions of Americans who believe that they are fully
inoculated against all propaganda when, in fact, they
are far more the victims of Nazi propaganda than
they ever were of British in the last war. There is a huge
hostile organisation which arranges for countless fly-
sheets attacking Britain and supporting an isolationist
policy. The ramifications of this organisation are
far and wide, and many good Americans, who have
no idea of the source of their information, are un-
consciously doing the work of the Nazis, whom they
detest as much as we do. The well-organised Ameri-
can Nazi movement now keeps in the background and
leaves the work to usually innocent Americans.
It is a strange moment in American history.
Everything to the discredit of Britain is rumored to be
true. Every British reply is automatically labelled
propaganda, and when reports of our comparatively
good deeds do get across we are told we only do
them to influence American opinion. Even when the
American public was told of our good treatment of
German seamen, some papers declared that this was
propaganda to bring America into the war. The New
York “Times” countered a rumpus in other papers
about mails being held up at Bermuda “at the bayonet
point” by saying that this at least could not be con-
sidered British propaganda.
We have no quarrel with American isolationists
except when they make no effort to understand. It
was only after Munich that we reached the terrible
conclusion that war was better than a Nazi world.
We believe that an overwhelming majority of Ameri-
cans are glad that we reached that decision even
though their own conflicts are unsolved. Whatever
they decide to do, we ask them to admit that and to
remember it.
Writers in Retirement.
(From an essay by Harold Nicolson in London
“Spectator.’’)
I had been thinking of men over in the United
States who are not Americans. I thought of W. H.
Auden and Christopher Isherwood; I thought of
older men who also had retired within the ivory
tower. I thought of Aldous Huxley and of Gerald
Heard. These men have been my friends. Huxley
has exercised, and still exercises, a great influence
upon my own and the succeeding generation , wear
has brought the novelties of science within the scope
of the ordinary man ; W. H. Auden is rightly regarded
as among the most gifted of our younger poets , and
with Isherwood rests, to my mind, the future ot tne
English novel. Why should these four eminent
Georgians have flown? Mr. Stephen Spender
remains; yet 1 fear that the siren calls which reach
him from America may induce even that great bird
to wing silently away.
It is not so much that the absence of these four
men from Europe will cause us to lose the Second
German war. It is that their presence in the United
States may lead American opinion, which is all too
prone to doubt the righteousness of our cause, to
find comfort in their company. For if indeed four of
our most acute and sensitive writers demonstrate by
their exile that they wish to have no part in the blood-
stained anarchy of Europe, then surely the ordinary
American is ten times more justified in remaining alom
from so inhuman a business and in proclaiming that
isolationism is not only comfortable and convenient,
but righteous and intelligent as well? How can we
proclaim over there that we are fighting for the
liberated mind, when four of our most liberated in-
tellectuals refuse to identify themselves either with
those who fight or with those who oppose the battle?
For in truth the Americans well know that this is no
ordinary case of petty shirking. These four exiles are
striking figures ; they are men of high intelligence,
honor and courage.
Let it not be supposed that I am suggesting that
Aldous Huxley, Gerald Heard, Isherwood or Auden
should return to Great Britain and immediately engage
in mortal combat. Mr. Huxley, at least, has always
been a convinced pacifist, and I do not for one instant
criticise the sincerity of his convictions. Far from it.
I am well aware that (but for a strain of obstinacy
in my own character plus 30 years spent in studying
German psychology and the nature of Germany’s
ambitions) I might be myself a member of the Peace
Pledge Union. But of this I am quite certain, that if
I were a pacifist I should be a militant pacifist, and
that in times of stress and danger I should not desire
to remain outside the conflict. Mr. Huxley was
prominent, while still living in this country, as a
member of the Peace Pledge Union ; in fact it was
he who wrote the drill-book of the organisation. I
cannot but feel that if I, by using brilliant powers
of dialectic and persuasion, had induced many worthy
people to adhere to a cause which is now none too
popular in this country I should be anxious, when the
moment of acute controversy arose, to be present with
my flock.
Here, essentially, is my quarrel with these Four
Horsemen of the Apocalypse who have now dis-
mounted and led their horses back into the distant
Hollywood stable. I have small criticism to make of
the ivory tower so long as one remains in it. My
criticism is against those who leave their tower when
the sun of June is upon the meadows and then retreat
to it when the winds of autumn begin to howl.
War-time Paris and London.
(From “Critic’s” weekly notes in the “New Statesman.”)
Paris is more “normal” than London. The
University and most of the schools are open again ;
prices have not risen so steeply ; petrol is less severely
rationed and there are almost as many cars as before
the war.
French war-time lighting restrictions state that
“interior lighting must always be imperceptible to
observers from the air.” This is not interpreted by
theatres, cinemas, restaurants and shops to mean that
they must be blacked out, but only that they must
not allow direct rays to pour out into the street. In
front of cinemas large colored hangings of thin
material advertise the titles of films and faces of stars.
These are themselves adequately lighted, though they
shade the light from the street; the general effect is
more pleasant than the tawdry brilliance of pre-
war days. A similar compromise has been reached
over street lighting. Paris is largely lit by gas ; the
top half of the lamps has been blacked and the volume
of light thrown on the ground has been halved by
removing one of the two gas mantles in each lighting
unit. You can walk up the Champs Ely sees and read
a newspaper by lamplight. You seldom need a torch
in any of the main Paris streets.
I remember discussing with a high official the
proposal to leave London with decent lighting and
in the event of an air-raid warning turn the lights
off by a central switch. I was told that the insuperable
objection was that crowds of people would be far
from home and far from their shelters, and that an
air-raid warning followed by sudden blackness would
produce a ghastly panic. The argument seemed con-
vincing. Since then I have noticed that on any reason-
ably fine night, even when it is inky black, parts of
the West End are almost as packed with people as
they were in pre-war days.
Paris solves the problem by what seems a sensible
compromise. There is a system of blue lights at cross-
roads and at other important points in addition to the
ordinary lamps. When the preliminary air-raid warn-
ing is issued all the street lighting is extinguished
except for the blue lights; when the sirens are
sounded the blue lights and all lights on vehicles are
extinguished. As Paris now believes itself to have
an adequate number of street shelters, it is supposed
that people could find cover during the period when
the blue lights only remain on.
Altogether Paris is more cheerful than London,
and cheerfulness is officially as important as courage
and resolution!


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Everything was favorable for a large
attendance at Tattersall’s meeting at
Randwick, but war developments, the
coal strike, gas and electricity restrictions
and increased taxation must be worry-
ing even Sydney racegoers—and it takes
a lot to upset them—as there were only
20,000 present, against 24,500 a year ago.
There was, of course, a drop in the
totalisator turnover, and bookmakers
growled about the shortness of money.
Form and figures pointed to Blackie
Miller for the Hurdle Race, and, leading
throughout, he won easily from Tweed-
side and Phil, the latter cutting Bogan
Boy out of second money in the last few
strides. Different tactics were tried with
Bogan Boy this time, his rider waiting
on Blackie Miller most of the way. He
was going comfortably half a mile from
home, but the pace set by Blackie Miller
was too strong for him, and he tired in
the straight. Tweedside, who should be
all the better for her run, may win at
her next start. The others did not count.
Black Banter was a disappointing
favorite for the colts and geldings’ divi-
sion of the Two-year-old Handicap.
Though third, he never looked a win-
ner. Excuse was made for him on the
score that he was slow to move at bar-
rier-rise, and was subsequently ham-
pered, but he should have done much
better to justify his short price. Com-
mencing smartly Lejong quickly led from
Cumberland and Overjoyed, but though
the last-named ran about in the straight
he succeeded in dead-heating Lejong.
Some of Lejong’s backers found fault
with his rider, but they were probably
lucky to get a division of their bets.
Overjoyed is by Grand Joy from
Golden Glory (Backwood-Good Idea),
and is trained by A. G. Papworth, who
has done well this season with a com-
paratively small team. Lejong is by
Double Court, and is in J. M. Kennedy’s
care. Enderby, a strong Newcastle tip,
was always nicely placed, but was not
good enough. Trade Mark’s form was
below that shown by him at his previous
appearance. Cumberland, who has pace,
is by El Cacique from Elbogen, and is
one of B. Payten’s team. That trainer
had another runner in The Elk, but he
did not look wound up, and gave no
trouble. Early in the season he scored
three seconds.
Black Art, favorite for the fillies’ divi-
sion of the Two-year-old Handicap, was
sent to the outside at the barrier, but
came into the straight on terms with
Happy Bay and Wedding Belle. Oppo-
site the Leger Black Art had a clear
lead, but she had to be ridden right out
to beat Wedding Belle (El Cacique-
Crystal Wedding, half-sister to Silver
King), who ran on strongly. George
Price trains her, and Black Art is in
charge of F. T. Cush, who is having a
great innings with two-year-olds this
season, though he generally shines with
youngsters. Black Art, who is by Dunot-
tar from Goorabul (Magpie-Yarradool),
is the winner of two races, and is now
well ahead of the 150gns. she cost W. H.
Mackay as a yearling. Lady Neith was
closer to the leaders at the finish than
any other stage, and will be better suited
by a longer trip. Status, who did not
jump off as smartly as usual, was fourth,
and there was a big gap to Sally Rich,
who headed the remainder. Happy Bay
is still a poor stayer.
Brazandt made a good bid for the
Flying Handicap, but though he had a
useful lead at the straight entrance Denis
was a little too good for him in the run
home. The latter was meeting Brazandt
61b. better than when beaten by him at
Randwick a fortnight earlier.
Forward’s third gives him a chance at
one of the suburban meetings, and as
Mohican is again looking well it may not
be long before he shows improvement.
Rodborough, who also wears a healthy
appearance, will be seen to greater ad-
vantage on a dry track. Nebraska ran
fairly, considering she was hurdled off
at the barrier, and a suburban welter
should give her a chance of a win.
Hamurah never got in it, and June, again
commencing badly, was last early in the
piece.
Thunderclap stayed too well for his
opponents in the Novice Handicap, and
over a distance is going to be useful in
open company. Woolooga led into the
straight, but Thunderclap had the race
safe a furlong from home, beating Liege
Maid half a dozen lengths. Pennywise,
in third place, finished stronger than any-
thing behind her. Heavy going bothered
The Winger and Cryon, and, as the latter
had 9st., it was surprising he was favorite.
The time, 2.15 J, was decidedly slow, but
Lockray took 2.28 in winning the James
Barnes Plate at a furlong further, and
badly beat his opponents. The track was
particularly heavy, though safe.
The betting on the James Barnes Plate
was remarkable, five horses closing at 5
to 1. Lockray was one of these, though
8 to 1 was laid against him. Cook got
him to the front after going two fur-
longs, and, though Early Bird, Hilarious
and Plutus closed on Lockray near the
half-mile, he shot him away again nearing
the turn. Nothing had the slightest
chance of catching him in the straight,
the minor places going to Hilarious and
Plutus, but they were too decisively
beaten for their form to count much in
their favor. Bristol was fourth, but the
going was against him. It was the same
with Dashing Cavalier, who gave his
backers a very poor run. Early Bird
was prominent for a mile, but stopped to
nothing in the straight. Fearless looked
bright, but, as he ran last, he is either a
poor mud galloper or still a long way
from his old form.
The heavier scale, in conjunction with
the soft track, was to the liking of
Überous in the Welter Handicap, in
which he was meeting The Kite a pound
worse than when the latter beat him three
lengths in the Moorefield Handicap the
previous week. Old Serpent and Oppor-
tunist were the early leaders, but The
Kite looked a winner when he joined
them entering the straight. However,
Überous was much too good for the
Kite over the final furlong.
Fountain, who is now trained at Rand-
wick by A. J. Harris, was a fair fourth
and may shortly win a middle-distance
handicap. Old Serpent tired, and Gill-
town’s heavy weight on a soft track did
not give him much chance. Rathlin,
Bel Oiseau and Stalin were others who
ran as if they did not enjoy the condi-
tions, and Kurrawid, looking burly, did
not surprise by running last.
* * * *
• A feature of the racing at Ascot (Vic.)
was the return to form of eight-
year-old Pamelus, once one of the
greatest sprinters in Australia, who dead-
heated for first with Magic Circle in the”
£SOO Imperial Handicap. Latest form
indicated that Pamelus was on the tobog-
gan, but owner-trainer Harry Dukes has
never lost faith in his horse, who, after
looking a certain winner when he dashed
to the front halfway down the straight,
was just able to hold Magic Circle to a
dead-heat. Pamelus is not as good as he
was, but there is still plenty of life in
him, and maybe he will win another
race or two before he retires to the stud.
He has already done light stud duty,
having been mated with one mare in
1938 and two last year. Result of the
1938 mating with Air Wave, a Marconi-
gram mare, is a likely-looking colt foal
which will be raced later by Dukes.
Pamelus has been a wonderful propo-
sition at the 25 guineas he cost as a
yearling, but with more luck he would
have figured among Australia’s greatest
winners. He won an Oakleigh Plate, but
was twice second in the corresponding
race, twice second in the Futurity Stakes,
and second in the Newmarket and Can-
tala Stakes.
Magic Circle’s retirement was an-
nounced recently, but owner Ned
O’Dwyer’s decision to give her a few
more races has already yielded a profit.
Backed from 5 to 1 to favoritism at threes
on Saturday, she was assisted by a rails-
run in the straight, and would have won
outright in another stride or two. Like
Pamelus, Magic Circle was a cheap year-
ling. By the A.J.C. Doncaster winner
Simeon’s Fort from Crow Call, she cost
only 55 guineas, and her record now
stands at 10 wins from 37 starts. One
of the most improved sprinters in Mel-
bourne, her best performance was her
defeat of Aurie’s Star and other brilliant
gallopers in the William Reid Stakes at
Moonee Valley in January.
But for a slow start which necessi-
tated her making up considerable ground
over the final furlongs, Cumulus might
have given bookmakers a 50-to-l result
in the Imperial Handicap. She did par-
ticularly well to finish third, little more
than a length behind Pamelus and Magic
Circle, and, as it was her first race since
two successive wins in December, im-
provement can be expected. She is a
four-year-old by Brazen from Silver
Cloud, raced on lease by trainer L.
McCann from F. Carr, owner of Chats-
bury. Another promising performance
in the Imperial Handicap was that of
the imported grey mare Fourgates.
Latter, a four-year-old by the English
Derby winner Felstead from Tetrapylon,
won a Maiden Two-year-old Selling
Plate in England, and was imported to
Australia by A. W. Thompson and E. L.
Baillieu. Subsequent to the latter’s death
she was sold for 1050 guineas to the
St. Albans (Geelong) studmasters, H. G.
Raymond and H. B. Ranken. Her race
on Saturday was only her second in
Australia, and she unwound a burst of
speed that took her close to the leaders
at the turn. Whatever chance she may
have possessed, however, was settled
when she was carried very wide at that
stage.
Trainer Jack Fryer had hopes of a
field day with Le Grand, Prairie Prince,
El Golea and Pantoon, but the closest he
got was a dead-heat for third with Pan-
toon. Greatest disappointment among
them was the 1000 guineas Prairie Prince,
who was backed for the Montrose Handi-
cap as if the race were as good as ever.
Ascot, however, does not suit all horses,
and Prairie Prince, though fourth at the
finish, was never travelling smoothly.
The race was won by the 10-to-l chance
Devon, who, improving on his latest
form, finished too strongly for Ten
O’Clock. Devon, a colt by Devonshire
from Artless, is trained by Elwood Fisher
for H. W. Grimwade, who paid 200
guineas for him as a yearling.
Trainer Frank Musgrave was inclined
to blame pressmen for the short price
offering against Atlas for the second
Charlemont Trial division, but he has
been in the game long enough to know
that newspapermen do not make favor-
ites. Atlas had been off the scene since
his fourth to True Flight, Chatsbury and
Brazen Lad in the mile Elms Handicap
at Flemington in March, but his latest
track work had been satisfactory, and it
was only a matter of his repeating his
Flemington form to beat the weaker
opposition over a distance more to his
liking on Saturday. Never better than
5 to 2, and starting at 2 to 1, he duly
led most of the way, but Badger had to
ride him right out to win by half a
neck from Nomin, with High Falutin
third. Nomin was backed from 10 to 1
down to 9 to 2, and, although beaten,
her form was a big improvement on her
effort at Avenel four days earlier.
Atlas, a three-year-old by Heroic from
White Swan, realised third-top price at
the 1938 yearling sale series. He cost
A. W. Thompson and the late E. L.
Baillieu 1700 guineas, but after the latter’s
death was sold to Mrs. C. Cook for
1150 guineas. Both his wins have been in
Mrs. Cook’s colors.
Diaphane, now completely recovered
from rheumatic trouble which once
necessitated electric ray and other forms
of treatment, gave favorite-backers a fine
sight for their money in the £SOO Gran-
ville Handicap. Hitting the front about
seven furlongs from home, he wound up
with two lengths to spare from Great
Eastern, with Pantoon and Lalmoni
dead-heating for third. A gelding by
Caledon from Scintilla, Diaphane is in
his eighth year, but he retains his form
well, and further success should come his
way shortly. Great Eastern ran well,
and another win for him will not be out
of its turn. His last five races have
yielded a second and four thirds.
Lanarus never looked like justifying the
support that brought his price from
eights down to fives, but Barametric’s
chance was ruined by interference near
the half-mile. Great Eastern’s rider,
N. Powell, was suspended for one month
for contributing to Barametric’s misfor-
tune, and also for crossing Pantoon too
sharply in the straight.
All Talk, one of the most improved
horses in training, took his winning
sequence to three when he carried 9.13
to a ridiculously easy win in the first
Charlemont Trial division. Each of the
wins has been recorded in a similar class
of race at Ascot, yet All Talk is still
eligible for future events of this type.
Reason is that the race, which is for
horses that have not won a race on the
flat to the value to the winner of £IOO,
is invariably divided. Each of All Talk’s
wins has been worth £IOO advertised value
to the winner, but the usual deductions
have kept him within the £IOO “bar.”
This five-year-old gelding by Heroic
from Gabblegash was an odds-on chance
on Saturday, and, moving up second
rounding the turn, cleared away in the
straight to win easing up by four lengths
from Tente and Double Loch. His four
races since being purchased recently by
W. Filer have yielded three wins and a
third, and an open-company welter field
should be easy for him.
Connections of Snow White watched
that filly win the Jeffcott Welter Handicap
unbacked. Snow White was one of the
best fillies of her age up to a mile last
spring, when she won the Wakeful
Stakes at Flemington, but her race on
Saturday was her first since November,
and it was thought that she lacked the
condition necessary to win. Few book-
makers laid a bet against her, but, start-
ing at 33 to 1, Snow White was always
well-placed, hit the front close to home
and held on to win by a head from
old Somerset, with Ellison third. By
Gay Lothario from Heliostar, Snow
White is trained by R. F. Baldwin for her
breeders, H. G. Raymond and H. B.
Ranken. If Saturday’s performance is
any criterion, she will be better than
ever next time up. Her success completed
a winning treble for the season’s leading
rider, Harold Badger, who has returned
to form with a vengeance. Devon (10 to
1) and Atlas were the other winners
piloted by Badger, whose thick-and-thin
followers had a great day financially.
Sold for £3O after the spin of a coin
had determined whether the price would
be £3O or £SO, Afghan was having his
third race for his new owner, N. Heffer-
nan, when he won the Wimbourne Trial
Hurdle, worth £IOO to the winner.
Although his starting price was 15 to 1,
he was not allowed to run unbacked by
the stable, and there was jubilation in
that quarter after the race. Ridden by
former Maoriland and Sydney jockey
I. Rohloff, Afghan joined Ringford in
the lead near the six furlongs, had sole
charge at the end of another furlong, and
was not afterwards headed, to win from
Romulus, who blundered at the second-
last jump, and Paul Lois. Afghan is
partial to Ascot, having previously won
three flat races on this track.
* * * *
The “A’s had it” at the Adelaide Cup
meeting heavily-backed horses in
Aurie’s Star and Apostrophe taking the
two principal races. Form pointed to the
latter for the Adelaide Cup. He had won
at his three previous starts in a month,
and had only 7.6. In winning the Cup
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Sir Leigh-
ton, 1 ; Lasting, 2 ; Evercello, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Loyal Lad,
1 ; Wedding Belle, 2 ; Contestor, 3.
Members’ Flying Handicap:
Tobasco, 1 ; Samurai, 2 ; Forward,
3.
Turf Club Handicap: Herarde,
1 ; Bonnie L, 2 ; Court Gossip, 3.
Progressive Stakes: Tyrannus, 1 ;
Ben, 2 ; Baldmon, 3.
Campsie Handicap: The Kite, 1 ;
Osculum, 2 ; Cryon, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(To be held at Moonee Valley.)
(By “SENTRY.”)
Jororoit Trial Hurdle: Fighting
Cock, 1 ; Bureaucrat, 2; Paul
Lois, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Churchill, 1 ;
Balkan Chief, 2; Retnuha, 3.
Autumn Steeplechase: Henry
Tudor, 1 ; Tifone, 2; Bully
Hayes, 3.
Bay View Handicap: Diaphane,
1 ; Marcius, 2 ; Windrobe, 3.
Gellibrand Handicap: Glenfino,
1 ; Lord Walla, 2; Magnetic
Knight, 3.
Beach Welter: All Talk, 1 ; Denis
Girl, 2 ; Dannevirke, 3.


A.rtAZING vacuum helmet machine
BEFORE
FULLY
GUARANTIED
GROWS HAIR
FREE TRIAL OFFER TO
MEN, WOMEN. Scientf-
ncally renews thick hair.
? ure ? baldness, greyness,
dandruff, oily, dry hair, etc.,
by stimulating deep lying.
, dormant blood vessels, mil-
lions hair roots, etc. Simple to use CHEAP
PRICE. 75 other lines. Agents required. RE-NU
CO., Op. Richmond Stn.. Melbourne. U
he put up a remarkable performance.
Seven furlongs from home he was 20
lengths behind the pacemaker, Corodel,
and it was not until commencing the final
five furlongs that he really commenced
to make up his leeway. A long-sustained
run took him past Indignity shortly after
entering the straight, and he went on to
win by three lengths from Lady Kidston
in 2.44 f, against Doncaster’s record for
the race of
Cup win proved him a stayer, but he
evidently does not shine under weight.
Apostrophe’s price in the Ring was
7 to 2, but his tote dividend was at the
rate of slightly over 4 to 1. Apostrophe
was sold as a yearling for llOgns., and
is by Parenthesis from Soltex, who, on
the maternal side, runs back to Lady
Wallace, winner of a Victoria Derby.
Prior to her win in that race Lady Wal-
lace was a bad third to the stable com-
panions Noctuiform and Sun God in the
A.J.C. Derby. Noctuiform was an ex-
ceptional colt, but did not strike form
on going to England.
Ortelle’s Star, the Cup favorite, ran
fourth, but her chance was not a winning
one at any part of the race. Two days
before the Cup she fell on a road, and
was so lame the following day that it was
announced by C. T. Godby she would
be a non-runner. She subsequently made
such a good recovery that she was taken
to the course, and after they had in-
spected her the club’s veterinary surgeon
and stewards decided she was fit to run.
She shortened from 4 to 1 to 9 to 4.
Although winner of a few races, Ortelle’s
Star has not been really lucky for C. T.
Godby.
* * * *
Unless intentions are altered, Feminist
had her final race when she missed a
place in the Moreton Handicap at Bris-
bane last week. She was fourth in the
Brisbane Cup, and it is said that only for
stumbling she might have gained a place.
At Randwick she won the Metropolitan
with 7.12, but subsequent form in handi-
caps did not put her in the light of a
weight-carrier. Owner H. S. Thompson
will mate her with his latest English im-
portation, Golden Sovereign, a good
racehorse.
* * * *
When Nuffield was thrown out of
work last year it was thought the Turf
had seen the last of him. He has done
well during his long spell, and as he
appears sound again J. Holt will see
whether he will stand another prepara-
tion. Holt held a very high opinion of
Nuffield early in his three-year-old career,
regarding him as one of the best of that
age he had trained. Notwithstanding
Nuffield won both Derbies his form did
not quite uphold that idea. He comfort-
ably won the A.J.C. Derby, but Tempest
gave him a hard race in the Victoria
Derby. Melbourne Cup running did not
enhance Nuffield’s reputation, as, though,
with 7.7, he was second favorite, he did
not finish among the first dozen. At
three years he ran once in the autumn,
that being in the C. F. Orr Stakes, for
which, in a field of five, he shared favorit-
ism with Manolive (winner) and did not
get a place. While at Tarwyn Park Nuf-
field was given a few mares.
* * * *
When Spear Vale was beaten by not
only Katanga but a rank outsider, Earl
Rivoli, in the Queensland St. Leger, there
appeared something wrong with the form.
It was said the slow pace told against
Spear Vale, and he has since shown
himself a better stayer than in that race.
He followed up his thirds in the St.
Leger and Brisbane Cup by running a
close second in the Moreton Handicap,
and in the last-mentioned race, when in
receipt of 21b., ran past Katanga at the
finish. That form suggests Katanga
must have caught Spear Vale “off” in
the St. Leger. Although Spear Vale has
not done as well as anticipated, it would
now seem that he is a little better than
Katanga. The going was heavy on
Saturday, and that may have troubled
the latter, but it cannot now be claimed
that, despite the St. Leger result, he is
really superior to Spear Vale.
* * * *
The Q.T.C. meeting again brought it
home to Sydney owners and trainers that
“easy money” is not to be picked up in
Brisbane. Mildura and Katanga each
won a race of sufficient value to cover
their owners’ expenses, but, on the whole,
followers of Sydney horses had an un-
profitable time. Waireka and Feminist
were among the failures and the most
unsatisfactory part for Waireka’s trainer
was that she had shone in her recent
track work. Doomben will give further
chances to some of the Sydney division,
though, consequent on recent form, not
many owners may be anxious to take
on the Queenslanders.
# * * *
In view of some of the awful stallions
that have been foisted on Australia, with
very little more to recommend them
than a pedigree impressive on paper, it
is pleasant to touch upon one that has
proved his worth. England has many
clever sellers, and they have flattered
some Australians into buying stallions
that never proved themselves of any ac-
count. The Buzzard was second in
last season’s winning sires’ list with 45
winners of 104 races, carrying £33,523.
Spearfelt, another located in the northern
State, was third, with 47 winners of 101|
races, and £24,098 in stakes. Their
figures for this season will also be excel-
lent.
The Buzzard had two more winners
in Brisbane on Saturday, and he has
proved himself one of the most desirable
importations of recent years. He was a
good racehorse, and his stock has shone
at two years and upwards, and at all
distances. His notable winners at a mile
and a half or further include Buzalong,
Marauder, L’Aiglon, Old Rowley, Auto
Buz, Tragopan, Six Fifty and Own Folk,
and those successful at shorter dis-
tances are too numerous to mention.
* * * *
It may interest bookmakers who pur-
pose betting in the saddling paddock at
Doomben (Brisbane) that the cost in
fees of doing so is as follows: Govern-
ment tax, £SO yearly ; Q.T.C. license, £2l
yearly; fielding fees at Doomben, Satur-
days and holidays, £7 7s. per day ; mid-
week meetings, £6 6s. per day; betting
ticket tax, 3d. per ticket.
* * * *
Yearlings by Shakuni (son of Brazen)
were in demand at the Adelaide sales.
Shakuni could gallop, his wins including
the Ascot Vale Stakes, and some of his
progeny have shown they inherit his pace.
The top price realised last week was
400gns. for his colt out of Snowland
(dam of the New Zealand Cup winner
Arctic King), the buyer being Mrs. T. M.
Austin. Next came a filly out of Bonny
Nell at 275gns. The owner of Indignity,
Australian Cup winner, secured a half-
brother, by Shakuni, to that horse for
lOOgns. Several Virgin Gold yearlings
were sold, but mostly at low prices.
* * * *
Handicap figures occasionally work
out incorrectly when applied to set weight
two-year-old races. It was so when
John won the AJ.C. Champagne Stakes,
and Renown upset calculations when he
won the South Australian Stakes at the
Adelaide Cup meeting last week. In the
Strathmore Handicap on the opening
day he was a moderate third to Falcon
and Rainbar, and in the S.A. Stakes met
the former lib. better and the latter 31b.
worse. However, those two finished be-
hind him at their second meeting, though
both were much more fancied. Renown’s
price was 12 to 1, and the wonder is
that it was not longer. He is by Virgin
Gold, who raced in Sydney a few years
ago. Victorian Chatasan was supposed
to have a mortgage on the S.A. Stakes,
but, though he touched 5 to 4, was not
a place-getter.
* * * *
Mildura and Waireka have returned to
Sydney, but The Squire and Corolla are
remaining in Brisbane for the Doomben
meeting. Their trainer, G. Price, pur-
poses going to Maoriland this week to
have a look at the yearlings he has there
and arrange for their shipment to Sydney.
B. Payten has Katanga home again. He
is of opinion there is very little between
that colt and Spear Vale, but thinks
Katanga might be a shade too good for
the latter in set weight races. He was
much impressed by some of the northern
sprinters, and also the two-year-old
Condor.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes, who probably has more
horses in training in Sydney than any
other owner, has shown himself a public-
spirited man. He has announced that
during the period of the war he will give
20 per cent, of his stakes winnings to
war funds. In the circumstances it is to
be hoped his recent Maoriland purchase,
Nightbeam, will come up to expectations.
The colt is in the A.J.C. and Victoria
Derbies, for which first money totals
£7300. The owner named has built
stables inside the Ascot racecourse, and
at present the boxes are filled by nine
yearling fillies. He believes this will
accustom them to racecourse noises, make
them more tractable, and danger in tak-
ing them through the streets to a track
in order to work them will also be
avoided. W. Longworth and T. M.
Burke are also contributing a fifth of
their first money to war funds.
!|C * * *
Favorites have had a fair share of
success at Randwick this season. The
addition of Warwick Farm meetings has
brought the number of days at that track
up to 26. There have been 180 races,
and of these 59 were won by outright
favorites. In four others the winner and
another runner shared favoritism, and in
two the winner and four others were in
equal demand. Those occasions were
when Delmestor, one of the five, won
the Carrington Stakes at 8 to 1, and the
other on Saturday last in the James
Barnes Plate, when Lockray (winner),
Hilarious, Plutus, Bristol and Dashing
Cavalier were each at 5 to 1.
There has not been a day on which at
least one favorite has not been success-
ful, though they have not always given
a winning return to those who stuck to
them throughout the programme. Book-
makers have had a few bright spots. Com-
mencing with Tattersall’s meeting on
September 9 the following winners
started at double figures: —•
Price. Price.
Head Check .... 20 Session 25
Reading 14 Adios 20
Geebung 12 Radio Queen ... 10
The Albatross .. 20 Pen Name 20
Leif 14 Climax 20
Bristol 10 Bramol 10
Athboy 12 Morning Gilt .. 25
Glorious 10 Lady Neith .... 10
John Peel 10 Cherry Bar 14
Kurrawid 14 John 15
Our Barney ... 33 Baveon 20
Many Ways ... 10 Victorine 20
Klimop 10 Consonance .... 20
Tweedside 10 Billposter (d.-h.) 14
Miss Pentheus .. 14 Santa (d.-h.) ... 20
Billie 12 Blackie Miller .. 20
Pen Name .... 10 Gallop 10
Jazbeau 14 Lockray 16
Bringa 12
With the exception of four days two
or more favorites were successful, though
several were at very short prices, some
starting at odds-on.
* * * *
As weight-for-age racing for this
season in Sydney has concluded, the
following list of winners and favorites is
of interest: —
Warwick Stakes, seven furlongs—De-
faulter, 11 to 8 on.
Canterbury Stakes, six furlongs—Beau
Vite, 5 to 1; Brazandt, 6 to 4, third.
Chelmsford Stakes, nine furlongs—De-
faulter, 7 to 4 on.
Hill Stakes, one mile —Gold Rod, 9 to
4; Royal Chief, 10 to 9 on, second.
Colin Stephen Stakes, \\ mile —Royal
Chief, 5 to 4.
Craven Plate, 1| mile —High Caste, 3 to
1; Beau Vite, 11 to 8, second.
Randwick Plate, two miles —Royal Chief,
7 to 4; Mosaic, 2 to 1 on, second.
Rawson Stakes, nine furlongs—Dashing
Cavalier, 9 to 2; Royal Chief, 6 to 4, un-
placed.
Chipping Norton Plate, H mile —Read-
ing, 2 to 1 on.
Autumn Plate, 11 mile —Maikai, 7 to 4;
Mosaic, 6 to 4, second.
All-aged Plate, one mile —Ajax, 10 to 9
on.
Cumberland Plate, 1£ mile —Maikai, 10
to 9.
AJ.C. Plate, 2\ miles —Mosaic, 3 to 1;
Maikai, 5 to 4 on, second.
The largest field for any w.f.a. race was
10 for the Chelmsford Stakes. Many
backers have an idea that the safest way
to make money at racing is to back
favorites for weight-for-age races, but
the above results show they were beaten
in seven of thirteen events.
* * * *
At Randwick on Saturday a book-
maker was fined £lO for employing a
runner. He was out of luck, as runners
are still fairly numerous, notwithstand-
ing they are supposed to be non-existent.
At some of the suburban meetings you
have occasionally to display a lot of
smartness to avoid being bowled over
by the hurried rush of some runner to
safeguard the interests of his employer.
* * * !¥
Some horses are much better suited
by heavy going than others, and at Rand-
wick on Saturday this was further demon-
strated. Lockray shone on a soft track
when he won the Warwick Farm Handi-
cap last month, and, with conditions
similar, he shaped like an Ajax by com-
parison with his James Barnes Plate
opponents. They could not go with him
at any part, and though Lockray has
improved since he ran nowhere with Bst.
(71b. from the minimum) in the Wool-
lahra Handicap, won by Baveon, 8.5, at
the AJ.C. autumn meeting, it would be
difficult to compute how much better he
is on a soft than a hard track. His owner
may have the opportunity of learning
something on that score when he next
starts, as a substantial rise in weight is
certain.
Dashing Cavalier, on the other hand,
was all abroad in Saturday’s race, the
going having him in trouble from the
first half-mile, and he got worse as the
race progressed. The previous week at
Moorefield he finished strongly to win
easily the Brighton Handicap, one mile.
Hilarious was third, but, meeting him
21b. worse, she beat him many lengths in
the James Barnes Plate. Some good
horses can gallop in any going, but others
of class have proved almost hopeless on
other than a firm track. Several upsets in
important handicaps have been due to
heavy going, winners improving greatly
on previous efforts, and showing form
they did not repeat under normal con-
ditions.
* * * **
Rivette’s owner is hopeful she will
make a good bid for another Melbourne
Cup. It is to be hoped H. Bamber will
have no cause to regret not retiring
before then, but there is the possibtl y
that attempts to win big races un
weights she is now likely to * e< r, ei
besmirch her good record. .Maikai Pf
formances since she beat him iP
Melbourne Cup will assist to keep Rivette
high in the list, and, though she has
proved herself a great galloper and st y
under medium imposts, it is no certain >
a big weight will be to her hking. i
can be pointed out that Wakeful ran
second in the Melbourne Cup with lust.,
but she was a proved weight-carrier be-
fore then, having won the Sydney Cup
with 9.7. Since Wakeful the most carried
into a minor place in a Melbourne Cup
was Sarcherie’s 8.9 when third in 19J .
Therefore Rivette looks like having a
tough task, but that is a matter which
concerns her owner more than anyone
else.
* * * *
Trained for sprint racing only? some
horses retain their condition wonderfully
well. Dungala is a case in point. When
he won at Newcastle last week it was his
32nd or 33rd race in the last nine months.
Last season he ran in 41 races. Even
those old-time horses whose toughness
we often hear praised would have had
difficulty in improving upon Dungala s
record. Among the younger horses at
present racing in Sydney, three-year-old
Opportunist has had a busy time this
season with 26 starts for six wins. He
is by Baralong, another of whose sons,
Barametric, has been getting plenty of
racing, and showing consistently good
form in Melbourne.
* * * *
Golden Miller won five Cheltenham
Gold Cups for Miss D. Paget, and
Roman Hackle recently made that lady’s
total six. In a field of seven Roman
Hackle was an even-money favorite, and
beat the second horse, Black Hawk, ten
lengths. Six of the runners carried 12st.
each, and the other 11.5. First money
was £375 and a gold cup valued at £IOO.
The time for the three miles was 6.46 2-5,
which, from an Australian standpoint,
was decidedly slow. Redditch, with 12.3,
won the V.R.C. Grand National Steeple-
chase, 3 miles 1 furlong, in 6.5. Miss
Paget gave 3500gns. for Roman Hackle,
who is a seven-year-old gelding. At
Cheltenham Miss Paget also won the
Champion Hurdle Cup with Solford (a
gelding by Soldennis), who is probably
the best hurdler in England.
* * * *
Of recent years Gordon Richards has
rarely shone at the opening meetings in
the English racing season. This year was
not an exception. The first meeting
under Jockey Club Rules was at New-
bury on March 25, and, though Richards
had six mounts, his best effort was a
third. Among the successful jockeys was
veteran F. Herbert, who rode in Aus-
tralia several years ago.
* * * *
Form is occasionally as hard to fol-
low in England as elsewhere. Only a
little over a fortnight before winning the
Liverpool Grand National Bogskar ran
in the Burnham Beeches Steeplechase,
3 miles, at Windsor, a very easy course
by comparison with Aintree. Bogskar
had won at his previous appearance, and
was made a 5-to-2 favorite. He fell at
an early stage, and that was probably one
reason why he started at 25 to 1 for the
Grand National.
* * * #
They bet well on the totalisator at
Santa Anita. The turnover for the recent
45 days at that track was £A7,094,000,
a daily average of approximately
£A 157,600. On four days the profits
went to charitable funds. An occasional
charity meeting would not be out of
place in Sydney, but it has never appealed
to the proprietary clubs, apart from Vic-
toria Park a few years ago. The A.J.C.,
through its hospital for children, contri-
butes substantially to a charitable cause,
and Tattersall’s Club and City Tattersall’s
Club have always been liberal givers. It
is fair to add that all the Sydney clubs
are now “doing their bit” in helping war
funds.
* * * *
The bill legalising the totalisator on
courses in the State of New York pro-
vides for a minimum admission of one
and a half dollars —equivalent to about
7s. 6d. in Australian money. Tote is
certainly not making racing cheap for
New York racegoers. As previously
announced, the deduction from invest-
ments is 10 per cent., the State and
racing clubs getting 5 per cent. each. It


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2013 of 1939.
BETWEEN STANLEY MANNING BIGNELL
Petitioner
And WINIFRED .LOIS MARY BIGNELL
(formerly Winifred Lois Mary Dyer) Re-
spondent
And JOHN BAILLIE HENDERSON Co-
respondent.
TO WINIFRED LOIS MARY BIGNELL late
of Stony Crossing New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STANLEY
MANNING BIGNELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
adultery AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Seventh day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. MORGAN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2013 of 1939.
BETWEEN STANLEY MANNING BIGNELL
Petitioner
And WINIFRED LOIS MARY BIGNELL
(formerly Winifred Lois Mary Dyer) Re-
spondent
And JOHN BAILLIE HENDERSON Co-
respondent.
TO JOHN BAILLIE HENDERSON Care of
Mrs. Wantrup 329 Sydney Road Bruns-
wick Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STANLEY
MANNING BIGNELL has commenced a suit
against the abovenamed Respondent in this
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of adultery with you
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Seventh day of August One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. MORGAN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—depend upon the
quality of your tyres
Whether buying a new car or re-
equipping, your choice of tyres is
vastly important.
You need tyres which will stand the
stress of hard driving and rough
roads;
. . . tyres which will hold the road
and ensure your safety in any
circumstances;
. . . tyres which will give long and
faultless service;
YOU NEED
Olympic
Tyres.
Choose
OLYMPIC
TYRES
At all leading garages and tyre
dealers.
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY., LTD.,
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts., Sydney
SAVE MONEY
IT'S
1 THRIFTY
m TO INSTALL
W NEW
CHAMPIONS /
mi
(Z&imß
s
It
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
are an aid to
SAFETY
Good acceleration is a definite
aid to safety. Ability to dart
swiftly out of danger may save
your car from an accident.
Install Champion spark
plugs. They keep your car at
its peak performance. And
Champions save you money
in fuel economy. .
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
is anticipated that next year the State
of New York will collect at least
£ABOO,OOO. If so, it will have a greater
revenue from racing than any other State
in the United States.
# * * *
The longest meeting in America this
year will be at Suffolk Downs, East
Boston, Mass. Exclusive of Sundays
there will be 60 successive days. At
Hollywood Park (Inglewood, California)
there will be 47 days. Turf tracks would
not stand such a long spell of racing, and
before their conclusion such long meet-
ings at any track must become somewhat
wearisome. In Australia we are enthu-
siastic racegoers, but successive days for
a couple of months at Flemington or
Randwick would be too much for even
the most hardened “battlers.”
* * * *
Among the prominent English riders
now with the army in France is Bruce
Hobbs, who won the 1938 Grand
National on Battleship. In the last war
several ex-jockeys from Australia “did
their bit,” and some will again get to
the front this time.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Moore Trounces Sabatino
Chock-full of confidence, Archie Moore
strode out from his corner for his
Sydney Stadium engagement with Atilio
Sabatino and before it had gone three
rounds had the Puerto Rican looking
almost like a novice. Within another
round Atilio had accepted more than
enough, but, cross-examined by the Law,
elected to give the crowd a further
play of helplessness for its money. By
favor of Moore it turned out no worse
than that; with Atilio at his mercy
Moore dealt mercifully with him, and
probably did his next Sydney box-office
even more good by that restraint than
by the rest of his excellent performance.
At the end of the fifth Joe Wallis in-
spected Atilio’s facial damage and called
it a technical k.o.
Richards beat Sabatino just as easily
a month or so back ; despite that, and
whether or not Sab. has slipped a little,
this performance of Moore’s looked
magnificent.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The Masters’ Open Tournament —
Demaret won this year with 280—is next
to the Open championship in importance
in the U.S.A. To be eligible one must
have won a major event or finished in
the first 30 in the previous year’s Open
or Masters’. Although the field rarely
exceeds 60 competitors each year, the
players are the finest exponents of the
game in the United States, all regarding
success in this event as being worthy of
their best play.
The Augusta National course, scene of
the Masters’ Tournament, has the finest
practice putting green I have seen in any
part of the world. Like famous English
and Scottish courses which possess
excellent practice greens, Augusta
National’s has every type of putt one can
conceive, and, what is all-important, has
the same pace as the greens on the
course. Measuring about 75 yards
square, it has an 18-hole course on it,
requiring putts like those called for on
the way round.
• • • • ♦ •
“Pa” Stribling, father and trainer of
the ill-fated heavyweight boxer who
visited Australia, wishes to be re-
membered to his golfing friends in
what he terms “Down Under.”
Just as young-looking as ever, Stribling
is still a keen player and manages to
knock a ball around in the high eighties
at Thomasville, Georgia, scene of the
recent 5000-dollar open tournament. Still
training young boxers, Stribling manages
to play regularly, although he travels
something like 1000 miles a week in his
business.
Leading money-winners to date this
year are Jimmy Demaret (£2180), Ben
Hogan (£1750), Byron Nelson, the Open
champion (£1200), Craig Wood (£1100),
Horton Smith (£920), Clayton Heafner
and Sam Snead (£9OO each), Lawson Little
(£825), Harold McSpaden (£790), and
Paul Runyan (£750). Both Demaret and
Hogan are having a struggle for the Harry
Vardon Memorial Trophy, which is
awarded on points gained during each
season’s play. Demaret is leading with
212 points to Hogan’s 172.
The foregoing figures illustrate how
profitable good golf can be in the United
States. Although the winning scores may
seem extremely low compared with those
for major events in Australia it must be
remembered that the courses on which
these events are played are fairly dry
and fast, while play is abandoned on wet
days. Under winter rules the ball is
teed up on the fairways and in the rough
on certain courses where the lies are not
good. Such assistance to the players
helps low scoring.
Sam Snead is the only bachelor among
the golfing “greats” of the United States
professionals. All the other leading stars
travel all year round to the tournaments
accompanied by their wives. Automobiles
are favored by 80 per cent.
Several of the top-line professionals
have confessed to me that they get very
stale playing so much golf during the
year. Unable, through business connec-
tions, to refrain from appearing in the
tournaments, many of them retire half-
way through if their score is not within
striking distance of the leaders in order
to have a day’s spell and motor on to
the next town for the following tourna-
ment. This state of things shouldn’t
occur, as the professionals themselves
should see that they are physically and
mentally fit to play before entering.
While snowed-up at the Greensbow
tournament the professionals unable
to play conducted several interesting con-
tests. A poll taken showed that they
considered Ralph Guldahl, 1937-38
U.S.A. Open champion and winner of
the Masters’ Tournament on Bobby
Jones’s course, to be the best “money”
player. Guldahl, a tall, powerful fellow,
has proved himself a tenacious fighter
on the course when he sees a possibility
of receiving a nice fat cheque as a
reward. A keen competitor, he fre-
quently backs himself for substantial
amounts in matches against his oppo-
nents.
Another discussion agreed that Byron
Nelson, the present open champion, is
not yet at the top of his form and should
go on to even greater things. A dashing,
bold golfer, Nelson believes in shooting
at the flag at all times, and has his brave
play to thank for his present success.
Two Argentine professionals, Pose
and Bertolino, commenced their Ameri-
can tour at the Masters’ Open. They
are following in the footsteps of Jose
Jurado, another Argentine pro., who
nearly won the British Open at Car-
noustie some years ago. When Nelson
and Paul Runyan were touring the Argen-
tine last year both were decisively beaten
by these players, and on this perform-
ance the Argentinos decided to try their
luck in U.S.A.
Footbrawl
Defeat for Carlton and Footscray
evened things up in the V.F.L. competi-
tion. The former left its shooting boots
at home and could score only .12 goals
out of 30 shots, answering Collingwood’s
18-19 with 12-18. Though ’Wood’s
system won the day, its forward work
was nearly as bad as that of Carlton.
Thirty thousand saw the Footscray
side’s pace countered by Melbourne's use
of its weight in a game noted for fre-
quent flashes of the snappy, open play
that makes Australian football a spec-
tator’s joy, but as frequently spoiled by
crude work and heavy clashes. The
Demons had a three-points lead at half-
time. In the third, they got three quick
goals and a ’Scray rally sent the crowd
into hysterics, but poor shooting gave
them behinds instead of goals. After
which Melbourne maintained its grip
and won, 20-21 to 15-12.
North Melbourne went to St. Kilda
and got away to a quick lead. But the
Saints are never harder to beat than on
their own ground, and with better system
and aerial work they quickly overhauled
the leeway and came home with 12-12
to 9-11.
A foreigner from Sydney, wandering
on to the Geelong football ground on
Saturday, might have wondered whether
he hadn’t been suddenly transported back
to old school days when the local shire
president appeared with a tin of boiled
lollies and scattered them among the
scrambling kids. Whatever it was the
36 youths in the arena scrambled for, it
appears the home side beat Fitzroy by
16-19 to 13-8.
Voted by those who saw it as the best
match of the day in Melbourne, Rich-
mond and Hawthorn staged a ding-dong
go at the latter’s ground. The pace was
a cracker most of the time, and both
sides concentrated on driving down the
centre ; thus the forwards got plenty of
chances. The Tigers, older and more ex-
perienced at that sort of football, ran
out winners by 19-15 to 15-12.
The mix-up out at Essendon, where
“Sowth” was beaten by 12-14 to 10-15,
was responsible for some high marking
and long kicking at times, but was mostly
an all-in go with the weight being used
and each side trying desperately to bump
the other off —in the literal, not the
American, sense.
* * * *
The Vic. F.A. set up a mighty cheer-
ing when Williamstown seduced young
Todd from the League, but, since ’Town
now appears to be unbeatable, there is
dark murmuring in the wilds of Camber-
well, Preston and other parts. ’Town
has won four games in a row, and with
the utmost ease, and there is a wailing
among the victims that presages more
bidding in the slave mart.
* * * *
Randwick is still the only unbeaten
Sydney Rugby Union team. Its victim
on Saturday was Parramatta, put through
by 25-10. “Parra” had a 10-6 lead and
looked like holding it till well on in
the second half; then its forwards,
previously superior, tired, and the Rand-
wick backs did the rest. Manly was
beaten by fast-moving, sure-passing St.
George, the Illawarra men scoring 23
to 10. Hodgson again notched all the
Villagers’ points.
In the other matches Drummoyne
scraped home by one point from Gordon,
16-15 (it would have been the other way
about if O’Brien had not mulled an easy
chance of a goal with the last kick of the
day); East defeated West 16-12, and
University went under to North, 9-14.


I
mm
;-?yr
WE
CORDIALLY
INVITE
YOU
to visit our
Showrooms at
44 Bridge Street
00 We have created these Show-
rooms for your convenience. They
are the culmination of a constant
progressive effort extending over
half a century.
Since its inception, our Firm has
grown with one idea—complete
co-operation with the practical
“man on the land,” and our objec-
tive is to supply quality products at
the lowest initial and operating cost.
. Here is a list of the
celebrated M.V. Products.
Shearing Machinery
Jetting Plants
Diesel Engines
Petrol Engines
Kerosene Engines
Electrolux Refrigerators
Lighting Plants
Windmills
Irrigation Plants
Pumping Plants
Milking Machines
Sterilisers
Orchard Spray Plants
Sawbenches
Hay Presses
Fumigators
Chaffcutters
Being experienced Engineers and
Manufacturers, we are in the excel-
lent position to give sound technical
suggestions and advice.
If you have any mechanical problem
to solve, or need advice on any
matter —you are cordially invited to
consult our Expert. There is no
obligation whatever.
These Showrooms are situated at
44 Bridge Street, right in the centre
of the Pastoral section of the City,
and we want you to make full use
of the facilities they have to offer.
t
msm
Xv.
R fl
■*!
I
f
May we expect a visit when you are
next in Sydney?
Note the sign M.V.—Remember it —for wherever
you see it displayed you will know that there you can obtain Moffat-Virtue
products and Moffat-Virtue Service.
The letters M.V.” are your guarantee of excellence—lt is the Hallmark
of Quality.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS
11-25 PALMER, ST., SYDNEY, G.P.Q,
'Phone: FL5214 (6 lines). Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney.
ALSO BRISBANE AND LONGREACH, QUEENSLAND.
JOHNSON IRON HORSE
ƒ
GENERATOR
Electric Light For
Your Home Costs
Only 1/- Per Week.
* Electricity for Lighting
* Power for RADIO
* Power for Battery Charging
• 300 Watts
• 12 Volts
Lights 12-25 Watt Globes. Don’t be any longer without
the boon of today’s civilisation—Electric Light, which is now
available to everyone with this low-priced dependable generator.
Charging operates immediately the electric starting button is
pressed, and by turning a knob the output is controlled from
nothing to 300 watts. Electric Light (with the Johnson
Generator) costs you less than the messy, dangerous, old-
fashioned lamps—you can use three lights for 3£ hours every
night at a cost of approximately 1/- per week.
Here are some important features: 300 watts 12 volts
lights 12-25 watt globes—electric starting—full-range control
—special built-in generator powered by a Johnson Iron Horse
four-cycle petrol engine—automatic cut-out disconnects when
not running—quiet operation—minimum vibration —shielded
ignition—suction carburettor.
With Batteries,
£46/5/-.
Approx, cost per
Point for material
only 12/6. Ship-
ping weight, 1001 b.
Write for illus-
trated leaflet giving
complete details.
Cash Price (Not including batteries), £37/10'-
NOCKe.KIRBY Ltd.
417-421, also 188-194 A, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rn
AAie plough
"is a weapon
f 9 9
war . . .
At the call to arms, ploughshares were once
“beaten into swords.” Belligerent man-power was
the decisive factor. And although, in general prin-
ciple, there is nothing new in the dependence of
military strategy upon an adequate supply of food-
stuffs . . . Napoleon said “An army marches on its
stomach” . . . there is a vast change in the application
of a nation’s internal resources to its combatant
power.
Under such conditions, Australia’s vast primary
production assumes a new and vital significance.
With the plough as—literally—a “weapon of war,”
the co-operation given by the Rural Bank to the
primary industries of the State, becomes of even
greater importance than hitherto.
Public support of the Rural Bank thus adds to
the benefits of an up-to-date and efficient banking
service, a further opportunity to assist usefully in
the national effort.
A cheque account may be opened at any Branch
of the Rural Bank. Interest-bearing fixed deposits
are also accepted.
Rural Bank
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY


u
FRIED,
BOILED
or GRILLED
FISH
strikes the right
note for Winter
meals; and at the
HOTEL PLAZA
at Wynyard
in the special FISH CAFE this delicious
sea food is prepared and served with
all the skill of our professional FISH
CHEF.
All flsh is cooked to order, and if you
have a liking for any special method
of cooking, our Chef will be pleased
to oblige you.
Our Fish supplies are definitely freshly
caught, and retain that tang of the sea
so noticeable in quality fish, and so
essentially necessary to maintain our
high-class service.
For Courtesy and Attention.
f
I !l
at Wynyard
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Frith’s Models.
Done originally in plasticine, Frith’s
models of various well-known Aus-
tralians have been photographed and
reproduced from week to week on the
Personal Page of The Bulletin; they
have since been cast in metal, and an ex-
hibition of this work opens today at the
Jamieson Galleries, Sydney.
Every one of the models is an excel-
lent caricature, good-natured and in-
stantly recognisable as much by expres-
sion as by the slight and judicious em-
phasis of predominant features. The
skill with which the artist has caught
different expressions suggests that they
are but as momentary as in real life and
gives each model a seeming plasticity.
Features seem mobile and ready to melt
into another expression, and in that they
are strangely alive, insinuating that there
is something fluid and thinking behind
the metal exteriors. There seems to be,
for instance, a kindly consideration of
the observer behind Captain Frank
Hurley’s benign smile; Scorfield’s grin
is ready to dissolve into words at any
moment; judicial contemplation seems
to be holding Justice Evatt’s features;
while Frank Medworth might be select-
ing the precise word or phrase a second
before delivering it.
Practically all the models have that
quality of barely suspended animation.
One false note would make conductor
Dr. Malcolm Sargent spin round on his
pedestal; J. H. M. Abbott can barely
contain a historical anecdote; Andree
Hayward (“T. the R.”) is about to
recount the best story of the day ; and in
half a second Rod Quinn will lean down
to divulge some of his happy philosophy.
Priminister Menzies gazes blandly from
his pedestal, but for all the placid exterior
there seems to be a good deal more than
metal behind his gaze; there is the same
suggestion of an agile and comprehensive
mind behind the Olympian aloofness
of Ernest Fisk. Showman E. J. Tait
has just told a good yarn and will laugh
at it at any moment; Hugh ‘Ward is
about to twist his cigar to the other
side of his mouth.
There is amazing variety in the show
—Cameron, Street, Spender, Mair and
McKell from the political sphere ; knight
Sam Hordern, L. J. Hartnett (a beauty,
this one), H. Van de Velde and W.
Hudson Fysh representing commerce;
Peter Dawson and Sir Granville Bantock
from the world of music; the cheerful
grin of novelist lon Idriess; and artists
Will Ashton, Walter Jardine, Unk White
and G. K. Townshend. The sporting
fraternity is represented by excellent cari-
catures of Bradman, Ferrier, Maurice
McCarten, McCabe and O’Reilly ; archi-
tects B. J. Waterhouse and C. Bruce
Dellit are there, the later being the only
bronze that this commentator knows of
to sport a wide-brimmed hat and
glasses. The model of Dellit’s son
Victor is more than the model of a boy;
it is a model of boyhood.
The variety of callings is nothing com-
pared with range of faces on view. In
fact, as a representation of the wonderful
variety of dials with which Mother
Nature has endowed the human race, the
exhibition is positively startling. As a
study in contrasts, take Justice Lukin
and Norman Lindsay; G. B. S. Falkiner
and W. J. Cleary.
It might also be said of Frith’s models
that, apart from bringing out facial
contours and expressions, they also
illumine character. A child would place
implicit trust in venerable Julian Ashton
on the strength of Frith’s model of him.
There is a daring adventurousness re-
flected in the model of “Scotty” Allen
and in that of Captain P. G. Taylor.
The directness and vitality of Archie
Cameron are in Frith’s impression of
him.
Considering the exhibition as a whole
there are signs of a marked improvement
in Frith’s work as he has progressed.
The mild exaggeration of features has
become less and less until the models are
practically a faithful reproduction physi-
cally, brought to almost breathing like-
ness by the wealth of character and ex-
pression the artist has injected into them.
There may be something more than cari-
cature here, a purer form of art perhaps ;
certainly the best models are more alive
and more like the originals than some
of the sculpture which decorates the land-
scape around Sydney. On the other hand,
that may be the authentic art of
caricature—the production of lively,
illuminating likenesses instead of the gross
exaggerations and distortions which com-
prise the bulk of what passes for cari-
cature today.
Stage and Concert.
Menuhin
Yehudi Menuhin, back in Australia
for a short season under J. and N. Tait
A FEW OF FRITH’S VICTIMS.
management, opened to good business at
Sydney Town Hall. The violinist is still
the remarkable technician he was when
here as a youth five years ago ; and in
the young man there has been a notice-
able ripening of his powers, a new-
t a * r.;+,r
found matunty of feeling wfech he brings
to his interpretation. It was as though
he wished to make that obvious from the
first. The programme began with the
Handel E major sonata, finely under-
stood, beautifully rendered—a thing of
softness and life marked by a purity of
f
El^ S S n J , a , J, P , t m ‘
The Handel led to the rotund majesty
of Bach, the unaccompanied sonata m
C major. This was the core of the pro-
gramme, empty at first, certainly, as if
the player offered it as an exercise in
dexterity, then sweeping on into the
roundness and fullness of the final move-
ments, expressed with smoothness and
clarity and a depth of feeling Menuhin
could not have equalled when he was
here before.
For the rest the violinist exhibited the
range of his capabilities, running through
the whole spectacular and varied business
of violin technique—a Wieniawski con-
certo (the F sharp minor), a caprice by
Paganini, Brahms and the Locatelli show-
piece “Labyrinth,” none of them impor-
tant other than as tests of skill. The
programme finished, the Town Hall audi-
ence staged its well-known sit-down per-
formance, demanding a half-dozen
encores.
* * * *
Antal Dorati and the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra elevated the series of
war-funds concerts at the Town Hall last
week out of all proportion with a pro-
gramme of delightful music. The result
was a house almost as large as on sub-
scription evenings, although the regula-
tion music-lover who likes his first
nights was conspicuous by his absence.
There were two delicious nocturnes by
Debussy, the lovely rousing “Marche
Hongroise” of Berlioz, the first appear-
ance in Australia of “Under the Spread-
ing Chestnut Tree” of Weinberger, and
Ravel’s “Pictures at an Exhibition” ; as
well as some operatic excerpts by the Ice-
landic soprano, Miss Markan. If the
committee continues along these lines it
will benefit music as well as its war chest.
* * * .*
Adelaide Repertory has given two
plays, new, but already popular. In
“The Corn Is Green,” with Alex, Foster
producing, Robert Matthews and Phyllis
Simpson were powerful in the original
Emlyn Williams and Sybil Thorndike
P arts * French Without Tears was pro-
duced by Irving Johnston; a level cast
with Frank Waters and Roxy (Sims)
Byrne having (he bes( chances
sbow fjlied the big Tivoli Theatre for
three even i ngs
'
fa ih e Talkies,
“pi nOCC Jii 0 »>
To make a ldfish pear sed uctive
seems impossible, even Mr a goldfish,
but the task is not beyond Disney’s
‘.pj nocchio ” showing at Sydney State
_cieo, the goldfish, could give Mae West
points in turning on feminine allure,
That is only one aspect of originality
in a cartoon which, in its own way, is
every bit as lovely as “Snow White.”
Like that film, it is a simple little fairy
story clothed in all the enchanting fantasy
that the Disney craftsmanship can pro-
duce. The fairy-tale atmosphere of
imagination run riot permeates scene
after scene. The old village set in a
mountain valley with its cobbled streets
and toylike homes might be something
out of a Continental film; the toy maker’s
home with its amazing variety of toys
and fantastic clocks could be seen a
dozen times without being fully appre-
ciated for its beauty or for its ingenuity.
One bit of the film, with Pinocchio,
the animated puppet, searching for his
father on the sea bed, is as spellbinding
as Snow White’s journey through the
forest. Sea anemones, gorgeously-colored
fish, sea horses and other delightful
creatures teem through the depictions of
submarine life. And when the bogey of
the piece, Monstro, the whale, rushes
devastatingly through all this loveliness
the film has moments of almost terrifying
drama.
Children should be lost in this film,
both in its story and characters —
Geppetto, the old toymaker ; Pinocchio
and Jiminy Cricket, his official con-
science ; Stromboli, the villainous gipsy ;
and Figaro, the kitten, all brought vividly
to life.
* * * *
“Nine Bachelors”
Another French film which opened at
Melbourne Comedy on Saturday. Sacha
Guitry, as a cynical, suave business
entrepreneur, tries to exploit a new
decree, banishing all foreigners from
France, by arranging marriages between
alien women and French citizens over the
age of sixty. He opens a rescue home,
sweeps up nine aged bachelors, gives them
a lick and a polish, and offers them as
prospective bridegrooms at 50,000 francs
a head.
His advertisement attracts a wide
variety of women, beautiful young ones,
middle-aged ones and the madame of a
maison. After the mass wedding the
brides are supposed to go about their
business and the bridegrooms to go
quietly back to the hospice to moulder
away the rest of their existence. But
they feel cheated, get notions in their
heads and slip out of the refuge and
hurry off to present themselves to their
spouses. Each gets a different reception,
some wildly funny and some with a
deeper touch of pathos.
Film is a sharp, crisp, witty piece of
persiflage with overtones of human
emotion and a scene in the brothel which
neither Hollywood nor Elstree would
have known how to handle.
* * * Sfc
“Remember the Night”
A light romantic comedy, at Sydney
Mayfair, with Fred Mac Murray and
Barbara Stanwyck in the main parts.
Mac Murray is a prosecuting attorney,
Miss Stanwyck a jewel-snaffler up be-
fore the Beak a couple of days before
Christmas ; she is let out on bail to enjoy
Christmas, which, of course, means Mr.
Mac Murray.
The film staggers a little at the finish,
otherwise it runs along pleasantly enough
in light humorous vein. There are two
or three good comedy incidents, the best
of which are a hilarious satire of the
methods of second-rate lawyers and a
gentler laugh at the distribution and re-
ception of Christmas gifts within the
family circle.
Support, “Opened by Mistake,” is a
comedy-crime opus with Charlie Ruggles
back to his old and excellent form.
There’s a body in the bag, or rather in
a travelling trunk, a million dollars in
another similar receptacle, a second
murder and other odds and ends for
good measure. Sorting them out is as
entertaining as the main item on the bill.


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note SI
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may he warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a, day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in' your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, usedl
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a]
special remedy for the kidneys and will give
quick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
Leoral Notice.
TO RICHARD HAMILTON KERR formerly
of Port Adelaide in the State of South
Australia Ironmonger.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Local Court of-
Adelaide (Equitable Jurisdiction) No. 2932 of
1940 by ERNEST EDWIN DAVIS of Tapley's
Hill Road New Queenstown in the State of
South Australia Garage Proprietor in which the'
Plaintiff’s claim is to have an account taken of:
what is due on a mortgage made by deposit
of title deeds to a piece of land being The,
Whole of the land comprised and described iif
Certificate of Title Register Book Volume 432
Folio 95 by you with the Bank of Adelaide and
for an order that the mortgage may be enforced
by foreclosure And that it has been ordered
that service of the summons in the said actiort'
on you be effected by this advertisement If
you desire to defend the said action you mus) (
within Twenty days from the publication of this
advertisement inclusive of the day of such pub*
lication enter an appearance at the Local Court
Office King William Street Adelaide In de-,
fault of such appearance judgment may be
entered against you.
NORMAN, WATERHOUSE, CHAPMAN
AND JOHNSTON, Divett Chambers, Divett
Street, Port Adelaide, Solicitors for the Plain-
tiff.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Companies of white-clad young
women, upright and clear of eye, stood
at ease on the green grass of a parade
ground at Victoria Barracks last Satur-
day afternoon. Voluntary Aids, thou-
sands of them, had gathered, and there
would have been even greater numbers
but for the difficulty of transport. There
was a look of capable alertness about
both girls and men (oh, yes, there were
detachments of St. John’s Ambulance
men) and you would have wanted to
shout “Rule, Britannia” and “Advance,
Australia Fair” when you saw the march
past. It was superb! Lady Gowrie
took the salute, standing very erect in
her trig uniform. On the dais near by
was Lady Wakehurst (also in uniform),
and you should have seen the easy pre-
cision of her stride earlier as she walked
about the springy turf. The uniforms
worn by the vice-regals are the up-to-the-
minute V.A. officers’ uniform. On the
dais, too, was the wife of Lieut.-General
Sturdee, costumed and furred in nutmeg-
browns.
The State Controller of V.A.Ds.,
Colonel Wilfred Vickers, D. 5.0., could
be proud of his girls. His wife beamed
with pride, too, as the display went on
in triumph. Her red carnations and red
umbrella were brave against her black
ensemble. Mrs. F. A. Maguire, in sap-
phire blue, was there ; so were Colonel
Maguire’s mother and his daughter Alma.
Handsome Mrs. McElhone was con-
gratulated on the efficiency of daughter
Mabel, who is secretary for love of the
joint State Council of the State’s V.A.
detachments. The Hugh Poates were
in the official enclosure (he’s a wing-
commander). Major-General Charles
Rosenthal and his wife were interested
onlookers. The Hon. Henrietta Loder
wore her white V.A. uniform. General
Sturdee and Major Walsh were on the
dais, and Colonel Maguire, who had
lunched at Admiralty House, made a
speech telling exactly the services in which
the V.As. could play a part. Mrs,
Maguire’s tea party in the drill hall
rounded off the show.
The miners still regarding coal as
“black,” housekeepers who usually switch
on gas or electricity for the family cook-
ing have had to take up the white
woman’s burden. For in between morn-
ing and evening meals they are making
do with spirit lamps, oil-fuel stoves;
some have gone all Romany lass and
cook a meal over a fire in the garden.
Lucky the mother who has Boy Scouts
and Girl Guides in the family. The
city without the advertising signs, all a-
glitter and a-twitter, has an air of peace-
ful meditation. The streets have lost
the avid “let-us-make-hay-while-the-
moon-shines” clamor of the nights that
were lit with adjurations to use, eat,
drink or wear such and such commodi-
ties. However, having to get up in
the crack of dawn to bath and break-
fast is just another instance of man's
inhumanity to man ; so this Letter prays
that everybody’s daddy will go down the
mines at an early date.
A day of sulky cloud and recurring
threat of rain provided the right atmo-
spherics for the “Winter on Parade”
show at the Trocadero. The small, pretty
and active wife of Dr. Clement Chapman
had organised the display, which, of
course, was one of clothes. There was
one difference. Clothes for the sport
held the eye for much of the time.
Money from the show, which was re-
garded with fixed attention by an audi-
ence that crowded out the Trocadero,
goes to the Macquarie branch of the
A.A.M.C. Comforts Fund, of which Mrs.
Chapman is president. Dr. Chapman
served with the A.A.M.C. throughout the
1914-18 war.
Thrills of the afternoon included Mrs.
Kindsley, wife of Major Kindsley ; she has
held the woman’s ski-ing championship of
Australia for four years. Her outfit was
a tailored affair: trousers and waistcoat
of deep blue, blouse pale blue with a
red waratah—sign of Australian cham-
pionship. A symbol of her English
supremacy was the K embroidered on
the dark blue band around her hair.
Mrs. Chapman’s snow-white velvet
skating costume is simply going to knock
one and all at the Ice Palais. It is very
short, very flared, and carries a hem a
foot or more deep of white fox fur.
Its little tight bodice has epauletted
shoulders, and fastens with silver
buttons. It is lined throughout with red.
Other smart and popular skaters were
Mrs. Rainbow and Mrs. H. Douglass.
Skiers included Phyllis Welles and Lois
Latham. Roslyn Bowman, Diana
Downes and Lorraine See, three good
horsewomen, looked at home in their
tailored riding kit. Barbara Weeks, star
of “Dad Rudd, M.P.,” wore furs and
frocks of importance. The flower-sellers,
with their pastel evening frocks and the
red, white and blue flowers in their hair,
were other attractions. The Halse Rogers
lady was the guest of honor. Mrs. R.
Whiston Walsh, president of the
A.A.M.C. Comforts Fund, was among
the noted. Clothes were from Anthony
Hordern’s.
What with the dollar exchange and
restricted taking of boodle out of the
country these war days, local talent
seems likely to come into its theatrical
rights. Until a few weeks ago Peggy
Shea, herewith, was working in a Mel-
bourne office. But Peggy loved to sing
and to act. She appeared in scores of
amateur shows in Victoria, contested and
won many competitions and in intervals
sang over the air. Peggy got her pro-
fessional chance in “The Yeomen of the
Guard,” where, as Phoebe Meryll, she
was one of the gems of the show. She
is the lolanthe of the current Gilbert
and Sullivan opera at the Royal.
The Queen Victoria, Sydney’s pioneer
music club, has snared Mrs. Arthur
Scrivener again as one of its vice-
presidents. Since Mrs. Scrivener returned
from England she has been living out of
town —mostly in the mountains. With
many other Queen Victorians she was at
Charles Benson’s recital in the Australia
ballroom last Tuesday.
The programme was one of gentle and
polished music. Here were no thunders
of battling emotions; no ravages of
storm or stress. As became a tenor, Mr.
Benson sang of love; and, listening, you
understood the popularity of the
troubadour. While the lord of the manor,
home from the wars, loved to recount
the fury of battle and the glory of his
conquest, the troubadour sang softly of
kindly things, of flower and leaf and
love. And it must have been a bit of a
relief for the wife not to be constantly
saying “What a hero you are! What a
strong, what a masterful man!”
Anyway, to hear Charles sing “The
Perfect English Rose” is worth travelling
a long way. Pretty Evelyn Blanche con-
tributed Chopin and Pitfield, and Roma
Sumner’s violin Schubert and Wieniawski.
Hector Tinkler was the accompanist.
From the young girl who spat on
her hands to make them clap the
louder to the concertgoer who was so
bemused with beauty that he went
off into the night leaving a parcel
of saveloys behind him, there was no
doubt of Yehudi Menuhin’s success.
As those saveloys lay on their nest of
brown paper in the hands of the Town
Hall’s chief attendant, they represented
a victory of the artistic over the
material. Seemed to this Letter they
might have found honorable stance be-
side the laurel wreaths in the artist’s
room.
The Town Hall was packed. Applause
was loud and long, and at the end of
a programme which included the Bach
C Major Sonata he added five or six
encores. The violinist seemed effortless
and tireless, although Harald Bowden
told that he had worn down at least three
collars. For the first time since their
marriage Mrs. Menuhin missed being one
of Yehudi’s audience. The coal strike
means no sleepers on the Melbourne ex-
press ; so a young mother with a small
baby found it better to stay in Melbourne.
Mrs. Byron Wrigley’s coat of mushroom-
pink and black brocade was a bright spot
in an area of wet-night furs and black
frocks. One of the attractive was Mrs.
Gwynneth Paul; another was Jessica
Chard, ermine-caped and black-frocked.
Mrs. “Bill” Buckle’s black velvets scin-
tillated with diamente buttons. Mrs. H.
Robinson’s frock of lilac-pink net was
worn with a black velvet cape. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly brought Roman purples to
the night. Bertie and son-in-law Gual-
tiero Volterra, both musicians, had a
grand time. Marjorie Hambridge was
there ; so was Norma Cox. This young
violinist, who gives her recital in the
Conservatorium tomorrow, was a pretty
little figure in a hydrangea-blue frock
and an iris-pink feathery tippet. Mrs.
Talbot was an attentive listener ; so was
mother Mrs. Vert. The Ernest Lashmars,
Mrs. Feakes, the Moore Cosgraves, Mrs.
Rex Bennett and Lorraine Halse Rogers
were among the many.
The Conservatorium has chosen Bizet’s
“Carmen” for its next production, to be
held on June 15, 20, 21 and 22. Con-
ductor will be Florent Hoogstoel. The
cast includes Isolde Hill as Carmen, Cyn-
thia Garner (Micaela), Ruth Pearce-Jones
(Frasquita), Reginald Willoughby (Don
Jose) and Sydney de Vries (Escamillo).
All the pictures that Elioth Gruner
loved and had surrounded himself with
are now on show—view to sale—in the
Grosvenor Galleries. The Lambert and
the Margaret Preston top the list for
popularity, apart from the bits of dreamy
loveliness from Gruner’s own brush.
There is one lovely example of Syd
Ure Smith’s work. Snapped up, of
course, before you could even count
your pennies. Two of the Lane Mullins
sisters were early visitors to the show.
Gruner, it appeared, willed one of his
pictures to their father ; but John Lane
Mullins predeceased the artist. Banking
knight Claude Reading was another
caller. The Jimmy Bancks couple, Ruby
Adams, Mrs. Derek Burnell and Mrs.
Darling were among the admirers.
Every regular attendant at the Inde-
pendent Theatre Group’s productions has
fallen to the lure of Margaret Ruthven.
Margaret has brains as well as looks and
can get right to the heart of the senti-
ment in any play. Her work in Thornton
Wilder’s “Our Town” can still, in
memory, stir the emotions. A few days
ago Margaret became engaged to
Howard Craven, another pillar of the
Independents. Howard, by the way,
played the important part of the stage
manager in “Our Town.” Last week,
Margaret’s parents, the John L. Ruth-
vens, of Double Bay, gave a late-after-
noon party in celebration. The ring is
gemmed with sapphires and diamonds.
There is rejoicing in the home of the
R. A. Mallochs, of Killara. Daughter
Jean returns from England by flying-
boat today after an absence of more than
three years. Most of this time was spent
in the study of interior decoration in
England and on the Continent. Joan
comes back with a diploma of the
London School of Interior Decoration.
Her sister Lyn arrived home from
abroad in January, 1939, but returned
to England again in December last, and
in February was married to Donald
Ferguson Halliwell, of Bristol. Joan de-
layed her return to Australia until after
sister’s wedding. The Donald Halli-
wells are now settled in their home at
9 Appsley-road, Bristol.
Alice Gore-Jones, social editor of the
Brisbane “Telegraph,” like social editor
Winifred Moore, of the “Courier-Mail,”
spends all her holidays with us. Alice
came down by car last week. Up to the
time of departure she had recorded a
staggering number of weddings, and, be-
lieve it or not, on the way down each
hotel she stayed at was either preparing
for or in the throes of a wedding party.
As usual, she stays with her friends the
Brissendens, of Woolwich Point.
If Australia’s young actors are to find
their chance because of war-time upsets
to exchange, why not the young play-
wright? If the call should come, one at
least will be ready. He is Sumner Locke-
Elliott, clever son of a clever novelist and
playwright mother. To this writer s know-
ledge Sumner has written a dozen full-
length plays, and probably has created
many more. Like Noel Coward and
Emlyn Williams, Sumner acts in his own
plays. One of his recent works,
“Interval,” was a good study of the
theatre. Many of his plays have been
presented under the banner of the Inde-
pendents. One at least has been pro-
duced in Hollywood (stage, not screen).
His newest drama, “The Little Sheep
Run Fast,” is the coming bill of the Inde-
pendents. It will have its first night on
May 18. The playwright himself and
Dick Parry are the producers.
This is a Norton Trevaire photograph
of Mrs. V. P. H. Stantke. Her husband
is Brigadier Stantke, so her days are due
to be spent in Red Cross and Comforts
Fund activities for the duration. Like
all army wives, Mrs. Stantke has a
pleasant cheeriness, very heartening in
these war days.
The S.U.D.S. got a good effect in its
presentation of “The School for Scandal'’
by having the stage in the Great Hall of
the Uni. on two levels. The level on
which the scene was laid was in a strong
spotlight. In between, changes of furni-
ture to mark the differences in the Teazle,
Sneerwell and Surface abodes were made
in full view of the audience, and to slow
music, by three elegant footmen in the
brocades and wigs of the period. The
costumes were shimmering brocades and
satins, jewel-set, and shown to great
advantage on a set of figures that must
have pleased any master of anatomy.
Barbara Glasgow, as Maria, was both
pleasing and audible from start to finish.
Mrs. Peck’s Lady Sneerwell, Judy Halse
Rogers’s Mrs. Candour and Marion Johns
as the irrepressible Lady Teazle clothed
the immortal parts in dainty flesh and
the fashions of the day.
The play had a three nights’ season.
The first was in aid of the French-
Australian League, the Consul-General
for France the guest of honor. The
second night’s loot went to the Kinder-
garten Union. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst were at this performance—the
Governor in uniform complete with
military cape. The minute you stepped
from Rolls-Royce or taxi, a small army
of girls clad in moonbeam gossamer
stuffs offered flowers and programmes,
modestly demanding a silver coin. Within
the Great Hall the air was bitter chill.
One knowing gentleman sneaked off and
returned with two rubber mats for him-
self and his friends. Result of the coal
strike was no supper, as planned, in
the Union Refectory.


. Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JAMES WILKIE, formerly of Hastings, New
Zealand, but who went to reside in Sydney
about 10 years ago, please communicate with
MACLEAN & KINCAID,
Solicitors, Taihape, N.Z.
WILL JOHN McKENZIE, son of the late
Robert Peter McKenzie, of North Auckland,
New Zealand, last heard of in Forbes, New
South Wales, in 1932, and Coonamble, New
South Wales, in 1934, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei,
New Zealand?
ESTATE of ARCHIBALD JENKINS, De-
ceased, Intestate.—Will LILLIAN NORTON,
daughter of the said Archibald Jenkins, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts, please com-
municate with the undersigned, W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 741 of 1940.
BETWEEN GLADYS MADELINE ZORTEA
Petitioner
And ROY BUCKLEY ZORTEA Respon-
dent.
TO ROY BUCKLEY ZORTEA late of Giral
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
MADELINE ZORTEA has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Second day of August
One thousand nine hundred and forty and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed ana the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this third day of May One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
EIRE CIRCUIT COURT OF JUSTICE.
South Western Circuit No. 7, County of Clare.
Equity No. 1274.
IN THE GOODS of PATRICK McMAHON
late of 35 St. Flannan’s Terrace Ennis in
the County of Clare Retired Carpenter and
Army Pensioner Deceased.
BETWEEN JOHN GRIFFEY of 35 St. Flan-
nan’s Terrace Ennis Co. Clare Plaintiff
And the ATTORNEY-GENERAL of Eire
having his offices at Government Buildings
Upper Merrion Street in the City of
Dublin Defendant.
ADVERTISEMENT for Creditors Claimants
and next-of-kin of Patrick McMahon De-
ceased.
PURSUANT to a decree of His Lordship the
Circuit Court Judge for the County of Clare
made on the 12th day of January 1939 all
persons claiming to be creditors claimants
or next-of-kin of Patrick McMahon late of 35
St. Flannan’s Terrace Ennis in the County of
Clare Retired Carpenter and Army Pensioner
(Widower) who died intestate on the Ist day
of November 1936 and some of whose relatives
are supposed to have emigrated to Australia
are on or before the 14th day of September
1940 to lodge with the County Registrar for
the County of Clare Court House Ennis Co.
Clare a statement in writing of their claims
with full particulars of 'debts claims and of
relationship to deceased of such as claim as
next-of-kin and with relevant verified birth
death and marriage certificates proving relation-
ship and are also required to attend before
the said Registrar at the Court House Ennis
by themselves or their Solicitors on the 18th
day of September 1940 with all necessary proofs
and documentary and other evidence in sup-
port of their claims otherwise they will be
peremptorily excluded from the effects of the
said order.
DATED this 16th day of April, 1940.
MICHAEL KILLEEN,
County Registrar for the County of Clare.
F. F. CULLINAN AND CO., Solicitors
having Carriage, Ennis, Co. Clare.
Melbourne
Chatter
Authority has begun to frown on drink
licenses for charity dances. Organisers
of several big charity balls billed for
future dates are so worried over the sub-
ject that they are calling meetings to
discuss cancellation of their fixtures.
The Bohemian Studio party in the
lower Town Hall, run by Royal Academy
and other artists, fell right in for all
the licensing trouble. At the last moment
a license to sell drink was refused, but
no objection was raised to bringing in
grog on the hip. The bother for the
organisers was that so few of their guests
knew. Many arrived without “ammu-
nition,” expecting to buy their drinks in
the usual way. Finding they were none
for sale they went forth to their favorite
after-hours joint.
Turns, professional and amateur, perked
up the show, but interest languished over
a long-winded auction sale; Cr. Nettle-
fold and W. Sedon didn’t have a dog’s
chance of getting high prices while a
good dance band was on the spot going
to waste. Nemtchinova and Algeranoff
came and danced solos like a couple
of good sports. Toumanova came along
as soon as she could after the ballet, and
her “Momma” came early. “Momma”
and Paul Petroff had a gleeful ten
minutes watching “Spectre of the Shirt”
performed with deep concentration by
Beth Thwaites, Alan and Wilfred Mc-
Culloch, Arthur Boyd and Wilbur
Curtis. Wilbur as the best athlete did
the Nijinsky leap through the cardboard
window (on to his stomach).
There were kisses for everybody at
the wedding of Alexandra Denisova and
Alberto Alonso ; in fact, the officiating
registrar felt that any moment the ex-
cited foreigners present would start upon
him, even though the hour was the emi-
nently respectable one of 10.30 a.m. and
the place the proletarian background of
the Government Statist’s office. Only
special friends were at the morning cere-
mony, but all the Ballet Co. and many
extra friends were invited by Col. de
Basil to rejoicings that evening at the
Windsor. Things got going very soon
after the curtain went down on the
ballet at His Majesty’s, but the party was
over all too quickly for the dancers.
Early-morning rehearsal was the shadow
on the horizon which warned them to
say farewell while the night was stili a
pup.
Sentimental interest waxed around
Denisova, bride of only 17, during last
week when she danced the principal but-
terfly in ‘Papillons” (a role alternated on
other nights with Riabouchinska). Deni-
sova also enjoyed one of her favorite
ballets, for it was a week of a “Gradua-
tion Ball” revival and she and Moulin
never fail to evoke the applause their
dazzling technique merits in the dance-
step competition. Bridegroom Alonso
was the Blackamoor in “Petrouchka.”
Seen at the ballet one evening were two
tall young balletomanes in stripes; Mar-
garet Jolly’s greens and pinks ran hori-
zontally, but Betty Tweddle let her rain-
bow bands have a perpendicular fling
upon the corsage of her silk crepe frock.
Mary Saenger was not far away in black
and silver foxes, and Joan Trood was
there in white organza twinkling with
silver.
The Royal Melbourne and the Child-
ren’s Hospitals benefited to the extent
of £1162 between them from the ballet
matinee, a social occasion with a full
house and a special programme. Mem-
bers of the company generously gave
their services and their spare time for the
performance of “Swan Lake,” “Gradua-
tion Ball” and 11 divertissements. One
of these was danced by modernist Ver-
chinina to music by Margaret Sutherland
in a costume designed for the occasion by
Louden Sainthill. Rehearsals for
the divertissements were unavoidably
limited; some of the soloists had danced
to the orchestra for the first time only
that morning, and that in practice dress,
but they smothered their nervousness in
smiles, and few in the crowded house
suspected the sighs of relief that went
up in the wings after each number.
Lady Gowrie and Lady Dugan were
there, occupying a box apiece. There
was much selling of sweets and flowers
in the foyer, where a decorative effect
was achieved with autumn leaves, giant-
stalked gladioli and chrysanthemums and ;
baby trees in pots. Barbara Bayles was ;
in charge of the programmes, which
brought a prize to professor de dance
of the co. Anatole Ouboukhoff; his
programme was stamped with the lucky
number which made him the possessor of
the original cover design, a Daryl Lind-
say drawing. A particularly interested
spectator during the afternoon was Nurse
Clarke from the Children’s Hospital, who
watched the ballet from her wheel bed
in the aisle. She was a young staff
nurse at the Children’s when she became
a victim of the infantile paralysis epi-
demic three years ago.
Willie Spencer ran a “Flush-Brush
Hook-up” (i.e., it had something to do
with radio announcers) and spent most
of the evening ransacking the Town Hall
from tower to cellar looking for his
cornet; it wasn’t stolen but had just
been put away for safety. Barbara
Dougharty blew the cornet when it
arrived, and there were three lasses as
chorus. Others at the party who appar-
ently enjoyed it (for they stayed late)
included General Blarney and his wife,
Group-Captain and Mrs. Eric Harrison,
John Longstaff, Ken Niall, and a
wandering poet who makes his living
selling his verses from door to door.
Hardest-worked person on the day of
the party was Bill Rowell. He hung
practically every picture, poster and
decoration in the hall.
Organisers of the cabaret ball at the
Oriental for the Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital had their share of a week of
worries. Finally an agreement was
reached. Guests did not wilt through
thirst, but the powers-that-be insisted
that all games of chance should be elimi-
nated ; even the lucky dip went up the
spout. In spite of all setbacks the party
was a success, and every table was
booked. In a tactful little speech Dalziel
Kelly put everybody in a good humor
preparing for the progress of Mrs. Allen
Southey and Mrs. Kejth Fairley, each
carrying a soup tureen for donations
on the spot. The result was £5O. By
weight of his donation P. W. Tewksbury
won a portrait of Riabouchinska,
sketched by Borovansky, and an Esther
Paterson drawing went to Mrs. Alec
Cato.
Lurline Urwin, only child of Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Urwin, of Hawthorn, has
become engaged to Tom Griffin, elder son
of the late T. J. Griffin and of Mrs.
Griffin, of Lancefield. Tom, who is asso-
ciated with several sporting clubs and
who follows football with interest, is in
his more serious moments a chemist. Lur-
line, who has had her fair share of travel-
ling in Europe, is preparing to wear bridal
tulle and satin gown in November. As
plans are at present, the first home of
the prospective bride and ’groom will be
in Kew, but in the meantime a block of
land has to be acquired and a house built.
Lurline’s photo, from Spencer Shier.
If Betty Fogarty could have slipped
quietly out of Melbourne and into India
without anyone knowing (except one
most important person) she probably
would have done so. But the job was
complicated, for the Fogartys have so
many friends whose interest had to be
appeased at least in part. The important
man behind the scenes is Major Tony
Edwards, of the 2nd King Edward VII
Gurkha Rifles, and Dehra Dun is the
town where the wedding bells will ring.
The prospective bride and her trousseau
are leaving before the month of May
is over.
Though it’s early in the piece to be
planning the R.A.C.V. Ball, Mrs. Will
Plowright, who is one of the ticket sec-
retaries, is already sowing propaganda to
be reaped in three months’ time for the
benefit of the Comforts Fund and the
Alfred Hospital. Mrs. Plowright, who
has lived abroad a good deal, is a painter
and a collector of embroidery and valu-
able lace. She studied painting first in
Melbourne and later in London at St.
John’s Wood Royal Academy School
and at the Slade. She visited Germany
many times, and at Godesberg her pic-
ture of a Rhinesinger hangs in the Lin-
denwirtin Inn. The bearded subject of
this portrait presented Mrs. Plowright
with a guitar as a token of his apprecia-
tion.
Last week Mrs. Oswald Gibson and
the pride of her heart, Lilliput Mansion,
left for Adelaide, Mrs. Gibson travel-
ling by train and the dolls’ house by road.
It takes Mrs. Gibson six hours to pack
her house, the dolls and their furniture
into the two cabinets upon which they
stand when on exhibition. The Comforts
Fund will benefit from Adelaide pro-
ceeds. Mrs. Gibson hopes eventually to
raise £lOOO with her Lilliput Mansion.
Charities have already received £430
through its exhibition in Melbourne, in
several suburbs and in Geelong, and
18,000 people have seen the house.
In Broothorn’s photo, is Mrs. Allen
Southey, who no sooner has one iron for
the new Melbourne Hospital lifted out
of the fire than she puts another in. With
Mrs. Keith Fairley she was convenor of
the cafe chantant held recently, and on
Friday night, also with Mrs. Fairley, she
organised the cabaret dance at the
Oriental. Her next blue-pencil date for
the building fund is May 29, Lord
Lurgan’s recital in Mrs. Sidney Myer’s
home.
Mrs. M. J. Kortlang, of Essendon,
gives an illustration of the value of saving
goods and collecting them. She says
that during the 1914-18 war £1441 was
raised in her district for the Red Cross
in three years all out of “rubbish.” The
cost of collection was light, some shoe
leather (easily balanced by the advan-
tages of physical exercise), some petrol
and live horse-power. Women volunteers
regularly traversed by car or horse-and-
cart the districts of Essendon, Moonee
Ponds and Ascot Vale. Goods were
sorted and some were sold at a shop lent
free of rent. Best paying lines were
newspapers and metal scrap.
Mrs. Harry Creswick, canvassing for
“scrap” on behalf of her pet good work,
the Free Kindergarten Union, is only
one of the many people who realise the
value of waste goods. The general public
is helping, numerous garages are clut-
tered to the ceiling with old newspapers,
sugar-bags are filling up with metal odd-
ments, and every school child has his
or her ball of silver paper. When news-
paper collectors arrive from various
charitable institutions they are always
welcome.
Terence Crisp and co. gave audiences
a thrill every night of the week with
“Suspect.” Had Mrs. Smith committed
a murder with an axe? Jean Campbell
got herself into the skin of the grisly
female without any misfitting wrinkles.
Murielle Hearne was also convincing as
Goudie. She has a pleasing speaking
voice and can sustain a Scottish accent,
Alan Money, who has a lot of histrionic
talent, gratified expectations with his
Dr. Rendle, a straight part that needs
careful handling.
Celebrity subscription concerts, with
coffee, are all the rage in Melbourne, and
the Town Hall was full from truck to
keelson to hear Antal Dorati extract
from the Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra an entrancing, absorbing per-
formance of Beethoven’s Seventh. The
steep-browed conductor of the Russian
ballet was possibly all the more at home
in an opus which has as much dancing
in it, metaphorically speaking, as several
evenings of the ballet. Maria Markan,
all the way from Iceland under the
Broadcasting Commission’s aegis, sang
two numbers from Mozart’s “Marriage
of Figaro,” including the lovely “Dove
Sono.” She brought beautiful swinging
head tone to it, but the lyrical, rather
than the dramatic, seems to be her forte.
First-nighter steadies were conspicuous
for absence, but the general public managed
a silver fox now and then, a boiled shirt
here and there and much glamor in the
matter of stars of the ballet with no
shining to do on the stage that night.
The beauteous Grigorieva, escorted by
Maurice Martel, swept all before her
in a foamy gown of black chiffon, a
mantilla over her hair and consequential
furs. Also wrapped in furs was Mrs.
Staniforth Ricketson.
Though the money—five guineas—is
not dazzling, other little perks are
attached to this year’s competition run
by the Press, Arts and Letters Standing
Committee of the N.C.W. The 1940
competition subject is a song. Though
the words may be chosen afterwards,
many competitors will probably take the
easier way of wrapping their music
around the verses of some Australian
woman poet. The composers entering
must be women, Victorian-born or resi-
dent here for not less than 10 years.
Judges are Linda Phillips, J. A. Steele
and Louis Lavater. There is no entry
fee, and composers have until October 1
to seek inspiration.


Supercharged Producer Gas Units
Recommended by Federal Government Producer Gas Committee
We invite you to investigate this gas unit, which we claim to
be the most advanced in Australia or any other country.
Supercharged Producer Gas Units feature compactness, simplicity,
ease of operation, definitely no cylinder wear and economy of weight.
Unit for 3-ton truck weighs I9olbs. Made in various sizes suitable for
the size and horsepower of the vehicle to which they are attached.
Constructed by an engineering company of the highest repute and leaves
nothing to be desired. PRICES RANGE FROM £6O.
f CAR
Please send me particulars, and literature of your Gas units for \ TRACTOR
o Strike out where not required .) { TRUCK
SUPERCHARGED PRODUCER GAS UNITS,
Wingello House, Angel Place, SYDNEY. 8W5356.
Wanted.
WANTED to exchange postage stamps with
correspondents in New Zealand, Fiji and all
the South Sea Islands. —COXEN, P.O. Box 34,
East London, South Africa.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Shocks in the Air.
“Aileron”: Though the veil has not
been lifted altogether, it is now plain
from the experience in Norway that a
superior air force can do dreadful things
to mobile troops which are compelled
to establish their communications as they
move. And what the utterly unscrupulous
and merciless enemy did in Norway he
is attempting on a far greater scale in
the Low Countries.
The Territorials (Territorials!) landed
at Namsos and Andalsnes undertook a
twofold plan. Part of it was a pincer
movement towards Trondhjem. As well,
the southern line pushed down as fast
as possible through the Gudbrandsdal
to hold up the German advance. The
head of the force eventually found itself
before Lilliehammer, within less than half
an hour’s flight of the great central
German-controlled aerodromes round
Fornebu, behind Oslo. And aerodromes
along the Skagerrak also were within
easy reach of them.
Our men were moving sometimes by
rail, sometimes by road, and often waist-
deep in snow. Their positions were given
away by spies.
The terrain was ideal for air attack
upon them—they were confined in steep,
narrow valleys. Even had they had
adequate air weapons, air defence from
the ground was not easy, because the
arc of operation of the guns was con-
trolled by the steepness of the hills and
narrowness of the dales.
Transport of such anti-aircraft artillery
as escaped bombing in the fiords was also
a major difficulty. The most effective
defence from the ground is provided by
guns 3in. and over ; and a 3in. gun and
mounting weigh three tons.
The German policy was to blast
everything villages, houses, woods—
which might provide shelter for troops,
at the same time destroying visible bodies
of soldiery, tearing up railways wherever
possible and harassing sea bases.
The protective Allied air force was
even minuter than the land force, and it
had no effective bases. In the dearth
of A.A. guns and fighter ’planes based
on the spot and well supplied with fuel,
protection of troops had to be striven
for by attacks on German-controlled
aerodromes, but the statement of the
Air Minister, Sir Samuel Hoare, shows
that the force used was woefully in-
adequate for the purpose.
According to the Minister, 80 German
’planes bombed for 15 hours a British
aerodrome improvised on a frozen lake,
and though 30 of them were smashed
by 18 British ’planes—two squadrons—
unsupported by anti-aircraft guns, there
could be only one result for the small
British force—annihilation. Its machines
were Gloster Gladiators —slow biplanes
with half the speed of the latest fighters.
Seventeen of the 18 were put out of
action on the ground, and the sufferings
of the crews must have been horrible.
Thus the Germans secured control of the
air and there were no British reinforce-
ments to challenge them. “Everything
possible without air bases was done.
Where fighters were available they
showed that they could cope with the
Germans.” Thus the Minister, who is
Minister no longer:
No impartial judge will say that it would
have helped to have sent more aeroplanes
or more troops. So long as we could not
maintain our sea bases the effect of send-
ing more aircraft would have made the
situation worse.
He added that British fighters had
shown, over eight months, that they could
cope with German bombers and that the
British airman was superior to the Ger-
man. But “though quality is unsurpassed,
quantity is not nearly big enough, though
the momentum of production is gather-
ing speed.”
The vital question, of course, is not
whether individual British airmen are
better than individual Germans, or
whether one type of British machine can
cope with another type of German
machine. The decisive factor is whether
British and French air organisation in
all circumstances can outfight and defeat
the German air force.
Mr. Churchill, for his part, admitted
that the “intense bombing of Namsos and
Andalsnes prevented the landing of large
reinforcements, even of artillery supplies
for the troops already landed,” and pro-
tested there was “no means by which the
enemy air superiority could be over-
come.” The landing force was “com-
mitted to a forlorn-hope operation on an
ever-increasing scale, and I believe the
decision to abandon the Trondhjem plan
saved us from a very disastrous entangle-
ment.” He discounted German stories
that three aircraft-carriers had been seri-
ously damaged ; said actually one was
slightly damaged. His most serious ad-
missions concerned the general air situa-
tion ; they endorsed those of the War
Minister, Mr. Oliver Stanley (also since
“stellenbosched”), and the Air Minister:
In this war we have frequently been
asked why we did not take the initiative.
The reason is our failure to maintain or
to regain air parity with Germany.
The statements of all three service
Ministers tot up to the serious fact that
with at least 12 months for Britain
and France to catch up to Germany
in aircraft production, with thousands
of machines ordered from the United
States and Canada, and presumably
a thousand or more delivered, with
a marked superiority in aircraft-carriers
and fuel supply, both as to quality and
quantity, the Anglo-French air arm is still
inferior to the German—so much so that
surface warships cannot be risked nor
can a large-scale military offensive be
undertaken in places where the Germans
have superiority of approach and aero-
planes.
Australia will have to build aeroplanes
to the limit —and ships as well.
Parachutes and Troop-
carriers.
“Aileron”: In Norway and in the
Low Countries the Germans have given
the first effective demonstrations in
large-scale war of the use of troop-
carriers and parachute troops. In Hol-
land and Belgium they have been widely
distributed at strategic points in behind-
the-line areas.
Actually the enemy is following and
adapting methods introduced by the
British. Vickers troop-carriers were
standard equipment in India a few years
after the last war. Troop-carriers were
used in Afghanistan at the time of
Amanullah’s debacle 11 years ago —to
evacuate British from Kabul and to take
troops to strategic border points.
Parachute technique, also, had been
worked out thoroughly. Nearly two
decades ago “Blackwood’s” published an
imaginative description of a raid on the
north-west frontier, based on actual ex-
perimental work, in which troops, moun-
tain guns, provisions, ammunition and
mules were dropped among the moun-
tains. Active experiments were being
carried out in India in 1927 before the
Red Army knew what a parachute was.
And there were Vickers carriers in the
air before Berlin ever put an equipped
soldier into a ’plane. In more recent
years the isolated Hydramaut, at the
“Cant make it out , sir. She's never done that before !”
back of Aden, was completely reorganised
by the R.A.F.
Belgium and Holland are ideal
countries in which to apply the techniques.
The Lowlands, which saw the first air
force ever used in war —Jourdain’s bal-
loons went up in sight of Mons in 1793
are, as it were, made for parachute-
jumping. And troop-carriers coming
from beyond the Rhine, vulnerable as
they are, are only a few minutes in the
air on their way to any part of either
of the two countries ruthlessly invaded
or of northern France. They can reach
their objectives with fighter escorts at
high ceilings, at which they cannot be
quickly picked up. They are operating
in districts with a multitude of objectives
amid a teeming population Belgium
carries an average of 800 people to the
square mile —and with plenty of aero-
dromes to be captured by surprise
assaults, as some were.
Use of Allied uniforms, though a
damnable breach of one of the oldest
rules of war, makes the troops dropped
hard to identify. And modern light
armament of up to 37mm. guns is so
lethal and devastating that, once estab-
lished, even a small force thus armed
and with light machine-guns forms a
deadly nest which it is difficult to dig
out.
All this was demonstrated in the
capture of the Rotterdam aerodrome and
part of the city, and in other Netherlands
centres. Aimed chiefly at demoralisa-
tion behind the lines, the dodges cannot
be fully effective against properly planned
and prepared aerial defence. They can,
however, be a vastly disturbing adjunct
in the clash of large-scale forces,
especially when used with the complete
unscrupulousness and disregard of the
traditions of civilised warfare which the
Germans have shown.
Descents of troop-carriers and para-
chute-jumpers may obviously be tried
on a smaller scale in isolated parts of
Britain. But the chances of success
dwindle with distance. Time is the
essence of the contract. On the time
factor depend the extent of the risks
which the comparatively defenceless
carriers run and the intensiveness of their
distribution of troops through the
country invaded.
The largest troop-carriers can handle
over short distances up to 36 troops fully
armed. A fleet of two squadrons can,
therefore, carry nearly a battalion in a
flight. But in a country like England,
unless they can be fed with ammunition
and necessaries, the doom of such in-
vaders is certain.
“D.8.K.”: The latest Nazi weapon is
a bomb fitted with small wings—some-
thing of an explosive glider. The notion
is nothing new, having been conceived
in 1914 by an Italian technician. In
normal bombing with fin-controlled
bombs, the effectiveness of attack is
impaired by the low speed at which the
projectiles hit. The flying bomb would
be able to conserve for a long period
the propulsive force imparted to it at
the moment of release ; but directional
stability is the snag. Error is likely to
show up at one mile over a range of
12 miles. One possible development is
the combination of the rocket principle
with the flying bomb. If that is
successfully developed, greater range,
accuracy and penetration may be ex-
pected.
The Air War Day by Day.
May 7: Loss of three destroyers—
British, French, Polish —bombed in the
evacuation of central Norway, ad-
mitted. Sinking of battleship explicitly
denied.
May 8: Fate of 18 fighter ’planes in
Norway announced. Using an aero-
drome improvised on a frozen lake,
they put 30 German ’planes out of
action but were all lost, “chiefly on
the ground.” Denied that they arrived
without petrol; admitted that they were
unsupported by anti-aircraft guns.
May 10-13: German invasion of Low
Countries. Barbarous bombings of
cities, towns and villages in Holland,
Belgium and France, also refugee ships
and trains. Many civilians butchered.
In Holland and, to a lesser degree, in
Belgium, enemy soldiers land by troop
’plane and parachute at numerous
points ; seizure of Rotterdam and the
island of Dordrecht thus attempted,
with help of Fifth Column spies or
traitors. Dordrecht taken and retaken
by Dutch troops, with assistance of
R.A.F., which apparently makes cap-
tured Rotterdam airport untenable by
Germans.
Intense bombings on both sides of
troop concentrations, railways, roads,
bridges, trenches and forts. Many
air combats, with severe casualties.
Troop ’planes and parachute-jumpers
suffer in particular.


«***"!lo68»/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONiC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
f
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pert
Commonwealth
Cov’ment Action
“BETTER-THAN-EVER”
Empire Tobacco, devel-
oped by the Common-
wealth and State Gov-
ernments, makes our
Tobacco BETTER
THAN EVER.
Empire grown Tobacco is better
than ever because of the new
agricultural and scientific methods
developed by our Governments,
which have helped the Farmers
grow finer, better Tobacco.
WE ARE THE
MANUFACTURERS
Order your Tobacco
DIRECT FROM US
at practically half the price you pay
elsewhere.
With orders over £1 in all lines a
Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder
is included.
PIPE TOBACCO AND FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild .. .. .. 6/3
All British, mild .. .. .. 6/3
Kiverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium .. .. .. 6/3
Cavendish, strong .. .. .. 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . .. .. 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild .. .. 6/9
Soliders’ Own, miJd .. .. 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 8/-
Patakia, in pipe only .. .. 10/-
White Podge, medium .. .. io/-
White Podge, light 11/.
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium 10/9
Union Peader, medium .. .. n/-
Tender Peaf, medium .. .. 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only . 6/-
PPUG TOBACCOS
“Clinker,” plug mild .. .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong 7/6
“Three Sailors” 7/6
“Koyal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zag Papers. 5 Packets for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSPAND ONPY.
Add fid. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
Combined Growers,
COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
THE SERVICE MAN
Blitzkrieg in Being.
“Ek Dum”: The German invasion of
the Low Countries followed the pattern
of the invasion of Denmark and Nor-
way, but it was conducted on a much
larger scale and it met better-prepared
resistance. The enemy chose the tulip
time, when the Netherlands are at their
gayest.
On May 4, M. van Tonningen, editor
of the leading Nazi paper in Holland,
was arrested. German newspapers were
then alleging that the Allies would
attempt to strike through Holland. Many
German divisions had been moved to the
Dutch and Belgian frontiers. Dutch
coastal defences were manned, certain
areas closed to shipping, railway services
mobilised. An official announcement
declared that “this action can be taken
as a definite proof that we will fight if
attacked.”
Belgium, for its part, took no added
precautions, but the frontiers were fully
manned, as they had been for some time.
On May 8 Mr. Cordell Hull announced
that cables from Europe contained evi-
dence that the Netherlands were in danger
of being attacked. Neutral correspon-
dents were told in Germany that troops
were massed on the north-western
frontiers of the Reich “to meet a threat-
ened Allied offensive through the Nether-
lands.”
On May 9 Thursday the German
Foreign Office spokesman remarked that
Germany was prepared to strike de-
cisively at any point where the enemy
aimed a blow. When asked if this in-
cluded the Netherlands frontier, he re-
plied: “Obviously.” Germany called
“all ages and classes” to the colors.
Britain was in process of changing her
Prime Minister when Hitler himself went
to the Western Front to take supreme
command.
He addressed the troops:
The hour has come for the most de-
cisive struggle of the German people.
Britain and France have aimed for 300
years to prevent any consolidation in
Europe and especially to weaken Ger-
many The German people do not hate
the British and French people, but are
faced with a question of life or destruc-
tion Now the danger that we always
expected has come. After a gigantic
manoeuvre in south-eastern Europe, Britain
and France have attempted to attack the
Ruhr through Belgium and Holland
Your hour has come. The fight which
begins today will determine Germany’s
future for the next thousand years.
At 3 a.m. on Friday, May 10, while
it was still dark, and before the streams
of cyclists began to fill the roads on
their way to work, Germany struck
across three frontiers, against Holland,
Belgium and Luxembourg.
As in the Great War, Luxembourg
was soon disposed of. The Government
of the tiny State fled to France, save for
the foreign Minister.
In Holland, the attack was diffuse
and comprehensive. Huge seaplanes
dropped troops and rubber boats in the
Zuyder Zee and round the mouth of the
Maas at Rotterdam. At 4.20, the Schipol
aerodrome was heavily bombed. Am-
sterdam was simultaneously bombed, and
burghers were awakened by the noise of
explosions and of gunfire. While the
great Phillips radio station at Hilversum,
outside Eindhoven, a few miles from the
German frontier, told the Dutch of the
invasion, troops crossed the borders and
overran the Limburg section of the coun-
try, the small “appendix” which lies
squeezed in the west between Belgium and
Germany. The Dutch border flood
defences were put into operation further
up, but German parachute troops were
carried over them in large groups and
dropped at strategic points to the con-
stant accompaniment of machine and
A.A. guns.
At 6 a.m. the German Minister at
The Hague delivered to the Dutch Gov-
ernment a demand for surrender. His
ultimatum said that “any resistance
would be senseless. Germany guarantees
that Holland will retain her possessions
in Europe and overseas. Otherwise there
is danger of the complete destruction of
Holland. We, therefore, advise you to
address your people and establish contact
with the German military command.”
The Dutch Minister expressed his indig-
nation that the Government should be
accused of entering into a hostile agree-
ment with any Government against Ger-
many. He announced that Holland was
at war with the Reich and would fight to
the last drop of her blood. A similar
announcement came from Belgium.
While parachute troops landed all over
Holland, while the joint attack on
Holland and Belgium proceeded from
Aix, which lies just at the junction of the
three countries, while the German radio
appealed continuously to the Belgian
people to let the Germans pass since they
merely wished to attack the British and
the French, King Leopold took command
of his armies and the Allies hastened to
help them and the Dutch. Belgian cities,
including Brussels, aerodromes, railways
and canals were bombed. Attacks were
made on French towns along the Maginot
Line, on military aerodromes, French and
British, on Dunkirk and Calais and as
far south as Lyons, where several persons
were killed. Before the day was over
British and French ’planes were fighting
all over the flat country, amid a welter
of bombings, landings of enemy troops
and gunfire from land and air.
After the first day operations assumed
a larger scale. Incessant raids and drop-
ping of parachute troops continued.
British and French troops thronged the
Belgian roads and Allied ’planes were
active in many places.
The Dutch C.-in-C. on Sunday issued
a statement pronouncing the invasion of
his country “a failure.” The enemy
claimed that the Dutch and Belgians
had been everywhere defeated along the
frontiers, that German armies were
rapidly advancing despite destruction of
bridges, and that in Belgium strong
fortifications west of Maestricht, com-
manding the passage of the Maas (or
Meuse) and the strongly-fortified Albert
Canal, had surrendered. A French War
Ministry spokesman said that the Belgians
were withdrawing in good order in the
face of heavy pressure from the Germans,
who, after taking Maestricht, crossed
the Albert Canal. “The situation has
been stabilised at even the worst part
of the front,” said a later Belgian com-
munication.
The German plan appears to be to
isolate northern Holland by cutting
through the waist of the country, thus
depriving it of help from the Allies and
leaving it in a state of intensive siege
on all sides; to keep pressure on all
Dutch and Belgian fronts so as to hold
as many defensive troops as possible in
position; to demoralise civil populations,
road and air transport and sea
approaches by intensive air raids and
the dropping of nests of parachute
troops, and lastly to break through be-
tween the French and Belgians in the
Ardennes region and on the Saar salients,
at the same time keeping the whole
length of the Maginot Line at the ready
for a major attack.
In the Dutch East Indies 19 German
ships were seized, and all Germans over
16 were interned. A reassuring note was
struck at Tokyo, where a Foreign Office
spokesman said that the new invasion did
not concern Japan, which was following
a policy of strict non-involvement, and
that there was no evidence that the new
development would affect the East
Indies. Washington repeated its deep
concern in the maintenance of the status
quo in the Dutch colonies ; and the U.S.
battle-fleet remains based on Hawaii.
German Strategy.
“Ek D.” discusses it:
It was worked out long before the Nazis
came into power. Its chief exponent is Keitel.
The plan of the last war was invented by Von
Schlieffen. It was based on a conception of
two armies, forming clock arms, working on
an axis of fortresses on the French frontier.
The southern arm was to move back to the
Rhine, drawing the French armies after it.
There it was to hold fast, with Germany be-
hind it, a solid and immovable wall. Mean-
while, a great arm on the north was to begin
to swing, with every ounce of might and pres-
sure available behind it. It was to reach right
out through the sea coast through Belgium on
the end of the French lines.
The new plan involves the use of the pincer,
but in a sectional way.
The strategy begins with the conception of
Germany as a vast cogwheel, moved by power
generated within itself. First, Russian support
was enlisted to ensure that, except at one vital
point, Germany, when the moment came, would
be surrounded only by weak neutrals who
could be smashed easily. That having been
gained, the wheel began to move.
Its cogs tore through Poland. A new,
strong frontier was formed along the Vistula.
Germany and Russia between them secured all
the points in the north —Finland and the
Baltic States. Sweden from the beginning has
been afraid of German might—before war
broke out the Swedish papers were being
quoted by German radio as saying that if the
Allies attacked Germany they would commit
suicide.
The cogs next meshed with Denmark and
Norway, which were crushed. Then it was the
turn of Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg.
Holland and Belgium subdued, Britain would
lie in the mouth of vast aerial tongs, formed
by Norway and Denmark and the Belgian-
Dutch-German-Danish coasts. The inner regions
of this triangle would be untenable for British
naval forces. Air attacks could be made from
two sides with bases in Holland and Belgium
less than 100 miles from Britain, while the
northern Norwegian arm could provide an-
other avenue for air approach and an outlet
for German sea traffic. Meanwhile the German
army would be bearing down gradually on the
north of the Maginot Line in the country most
favorable to attack —low hill-less land, though
it is well fortified.
The scheme places the Allies on the defen-
sive—until one pincer arm is broken at some
point. But for every ill there is a remedy,
and for every kind of attack a counter. The
enemy has to win speedily or he won’t win
at all. The Allies have strong positions, great
forces well equipped, and unity of command,
and they have already made the invaders pay
dearly for their crime.
And the German is a slow-thinking strate-
gist. He is given to obsessions and is grand
only in victory. He does not stomach defeat
as well as other peoples.
Heard at and written about the British
Parliament’s post-mortem on Norway:
Many of the soldiers sent to Norway
were boys The continual air attacks
paralysed them; they were afraid to
move the last 24 hours we had no sleep
and no food Two anti-aircraft guns were
landed without trained gunners, range
tables, suitable mountings or means of
testing the sights One transport sailed
without a chronometer, a barometer, arms,
escort or charts of the fiord to which
it was directed —without even food for
half the men aboard or medical provision
for the wounded.
And Australia is without a represent
tative among the persons who thus plan
campaigns.
Around the Army.
XXVI.
THE TRENCH MORTARS.
Let the eighteen-pounder gunners claim
the credit
For a stunt that brings the enemy a
thud;
Let the P. 8.1. refer to having led it
As they leaped the bags and wallowed
through the mud.
Sigs. may claim they played their part by
bridging distance,
But the T.M.B. will modestly agree
They might not have won it but for the
assistance
Of gunners and, perhaps, the infantree.
The reinforcement new to the front
line may well think the old hands have
gone a bit batty when one of them, glanc-
ing back towards their own supports,
winds up a burst of pure Australian with
the cryptic remark “Here’s the esses
esses esses, blokes —time to hit the deep
spots,” after which those not on the fire-
step immediately mooch off to points
underground.
The reinstoushment, curious as to what
threat could come from their own lines,
will shortly see a small party come up
the communication trench lugging a
queer-looking contraption and a load of
101 b. bombs. Quickly setting it with the
barrel pointing at a high angle over no-
man’s-land, the n.c.o. in charge will say
“Give ’em two minutes rapid.” Fas-
cinatedly the infantryman will follow the
flight of the 40 bombs spaced at three-
second intervals. He will then see the
t.m. outfit fold up their burden and, like
the Arabs, silently steal away.
Presently the reinstoush. will hear a
heavy “Wumpf!” just outside and above
the barbed-wire, and a pall of black
smoke will drift over the trench. That
will be the first of quite a lot of “coal-
boxes” that will be coming back in re-
taliation for the mortars.
Interpretation of the triple “S” title
of the nomadic warriors will then soon
be forthcoming, and he will heartily agree
that the “shoot, shunt and scatter” sums
up the trench-mortar mob to a T.
The sector, before the mortars arrive,
will be “all quiet”—there is a legend at
all battalion headquarters that the T.M.B.
commander daily compiles a list of those
sectors of the line the holders of which
are hardly aware there is a war on, and
dispatches his men thither. After that
it is quiet no longer.
It comes as a distinct relief to the in-
fantryman who has been in what was
once a quiet sector and who has had to
withstand the “crabs” resulting from the
activity of the local s.s.s., to be detailed
for outpost duty to cover, say, the occu-
pation of new positions gained by a raid.
Out there he will find comparative safety
—until one night from his own lines there
will sneak a few coves lumping containers
of 101 b. bombs and a queer-looking con-
traption, nearly all barrel, which they
will set up almost alongside him. To
his vehement protests against this help
the T.M.B. n.c.o. —all T.M.B. n.c.os.
make a deep study of the tactical theory
of trench warfare —will quote from the
Standard Manual of Infantry Training
some such item as: “Mortars will often
be of great value with the outposts or
patrols covering the occupation of a
position, particularly if they cannot be
covered by artillery,” etc.
The swaddie with the rifle will be un-
impressed. “Look here, you know what
you can do with your Manual of In-
fantry Training, don’t you? Now nick
to hell out of here. Do y’ want to give
our possie away? We can look after
ourselves without you cows bargin’ in.”
The Infantry Manual also quotes:
“Many of the difficulties in connection
with ammunition supply which occur
when the mortar is used in a role re-
quiring mobility disappear when mobility
is not essential.” Excellent theory, and
the T.M.B. would undoubtedly put it to
the test but for one thing: the s.s. and s.
could visualise no circumstances, even in
the most bogged of trench warfare, where
mobility that is, their own was not
essential.


ww
The brightness of a room filled with smartly
dressed diners ... yet the quiet and home-
like privacy of your own table . . . are yours
in the Victoria dining room.
You will find it pleasant to stay at the Vic-
toria —for you will appreciate the excellent
food, the service, the comfort, and the luxury
. . . above all, you will appreciate the con-
venient location of the Victoria—right in the
heart of Melbourne.
POPULAR “ROOM ONLY” TARIFFS
Singles—s/- to 10/- per day.
Doubles—B/- to 18/6 per day.
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
\ ICTORfj
MELBOURNE’S
LEADING HOTELS
paiac*
S. D. HORNE—Manager.
NEXT TOWN HALL—LITTLE COLLINS STREET
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Impossible, Unchristian” ?
“XT.”: The Moderator of the Vic-
torian Presbyterian Church, the Rev. I.
Noble Mackenzie, is reported as saying
that “the white Australia policy is impos-
sible in practical politics and is certainly
unchristian.” He declares that the last
war “awakened the Orient to its rights,”
and that this war will certainly lead to
unprecedented developments in which
Australia cannot help being involved.
If the reverend gentleman thinks that
one of the “rights” which Australians
will concede is the “right” to break
down vital principles of Australian
policy, he has another think coming.
No Asiatic Power could successfully
invade Australia even with her present
population if her defences were in
order. Let anybody who doesn’t believe
this have a look at Norway, where the
Allies have been trying to get a foothold
only 400 to 700 miles from their main
bases and factories, backed by the whole
might of the British and French navies,
and opposed only by an invading force
of Germans which happens to be suffi-
ciently backed by modern aircraft —a
condition which would be impossible for
an enemy to achieve in an invasion of
Australia if we were adequately defended.
Reverend gentlemen who are in official
positions just now might do a better ser-
vice by advocating friendly planning
with Oriental countries to help them to
buy our products and make up their
shortages. By this means, it would be
possible to add to our white population
and help to make white Australia im-
pregnable.
And they might devote a little of their
time to telling young men and women
that, even though picture shows are
scarcer and less time is devoted to dogs,
ponies, s.p. and younger sets, the Far
North, which is most in danger of Asiatic
permeation, is a fine place for adven-
turous youngsters to make a career in.
“Lucinda”: North Queensland isn’t
downhearted about the financial situa-
tion. With an opulent sugar industry in
full swing, and wool, meat and minerals
in steady demand, building is going on
in every big town. Townsville is to add
a £150,000 block to its hospital.
“East Point”: Darwin’s Native Police
are to start off with 30 troopers, who
will be under white officers, undergo regi-
mental discipline, learn musketry, horse-
manship and simple motor mechanics.
They will be able to rise to non-com-
missioned rank. The old Queensland
N.P. never faced training nearly so
ambitious. Their great accomplishments
were riding, tracking and shooting, and
all came naturally to them. If the right
men are picked, the new force should be
a success and a good influence among
camp blacks, but everything depends on
whether its white officers know the
native mind or not. It would not be a
bad thing to enlist a few educated blacks
from Queensland abo. settlements as a
nucleus.
“George Street”: Queensland’s new
Government Printer is to be A. H.
Tucker, who has grown up in the service.
He graduated into it from the
Audit Department, so he is
unlikely to live up to the pic-
turesque tradition set by
Anthony Cumming. Anthony
built the office and immortal-
ised the interesting features of
his bearded Minister in the
two stone gargoyles which guard the
main entrance.
sfs * * *
“Kyabra”: The weather prophet most
western Queenslanders trust far beyond
any human is the flood bird. He usually
turns up sounding his queer trumpet note
in advance of heavy rain. Birdsville, on
the flat country out towards the border,
has had a fine chance of testing the noisy
fellow’s efficiency. He arrived in the
dry town, followed by his family, on
April 10, saluted the population in general
and then made himself heard in Bedourie.
Rain is a rarity round Birdsville —the dry
little village has at times gone without
it for a couple of years ; but on April
13 the first drops rattled on the iron
roofs. Mails were disorganised by flood-
waters within a few days, and are only
now beginning to get through in the
surrounding country.
* * * *
“Balander”: Once upon a time your
bagman was content to make a camp
under a handy bridge, in a clump of
scrub or a hollow log. The modern
type, however, prefers more comfortable
accommodation, a trait that has caused
country show societies a good deal of
trouble. Atherton society, finding doors,
locks and windows on its pavilions
damaged or destroyed by wanderers,
appealed to the shire council and the
police, but got little help. Warnings of
prosecutions for trespass were erected,
but found their way into bagmen’s
fires. Now the society has empowered
the chairman to select a dozen of the
more aggressive committeemen to act as
a forcible ejectment committee, and there
is liable to be some excitement when the
next camner refuses to auit
next camper refuses to quit.
„ *
Cretan : Fifty years or so ago
Catherine Coleman, then 24 and the
mother of two youngsters, arrived with
them, her husband and her brother Dan
on the wrong side of the Barcoo to find
it in flood. From N.S.W., they were
making for Isisford. There seemed
nothing else for it but to camp until the
river went down; then Mrs. Coleman
recalled the old myth of Perseus and his
mother adrift in the sea in a wooden
box. Shortly after that she and the two
children were launched on the Barcoo
in a large packing-case and brother
Dan was swimming sturdily against the
“Can’t say , Jim ; we’re sailin’ under sealed orders !”
stream, towing the craft. The old lady
celebrated her 87th birthday recently,
having remained in Isisford ever since.
* * * *
“C.Q.N.”: No article of feminine
apparel excites more grins when revealed
to the public gaze than the corset. Which
is probably why, after raiding a Coolan-
gatta shop window specially decorated
with gifts for “Mother’s Day,” the thief
or thieves left only a corset behind.
Either they thought no modern mother
would wear the thing, feared it might
be traced or, what is more probable,
dreaded the hilarity and chiacking that
would have followed its arrival in what-
ever lair they used to whack up the pro-
ceeds.
* * * *
“X. Purt”: If anybody’s holding a
competition for the oldest practising
shearer in Australia my nomination is
Harry Goodwin, of Goondiwindi, who,
at 78, still holds the job of shingling the
Umbercollie stud rams. He uses the
tongs. Harry was well among the shear-
ing troubles of the ’nineties.
* * * *
“L.R.”: Automobiles and aeroplanes
may have ousted the horse in the back
country, but Longreach still has its goats.
They had a muster there the other day
and impounded 1110 head. Claimants
were found for 1000 of them ; the unfor-
tunate 110 were destroyed.
* * * *
“Duster”: Old Bill Carrington, founder
of the Liontown field at Charters Towers,
passed out at 77 last month. He and a
brother landed at Townsville broke to
the wide and tramped out to the Towers.
There he did sundry things for a crust
before starting a line of coaches to Black
Jack. After that he took to timber haul-
ing, and it was while looking for some
horses in 1905 that he dropped on to
good dirt. The first crushing went 3oz.
Isdwt. to the ton. Carrington, his son
Jack and Hans Christensen became part-
ners in the show, over which a company
took an option. While waiting for the
option to be taken up, the partners
located another patch which crushed
14oz. 15dwt. to the ton, and a company
was formed. The field has yielded about
£270,000 worth of g ’
was the scene °f the a » f rom Tion
Towers. It took its n
one of the * #
* * „
Norther . Dios Y, mos tl v
have been anything but was mostly
was charged by Johnny Ah Mat
in Darwin Court with breaking and
£nteri Pla i n tiff described accused as a
crank fellow who ran about the jungle
wjth nQ c i ot hes on. “That,” remarked
tke g e nch drily, “is no sign of insanity
j n tke Territory.”
* * * *
“Rusty Cuss”: Few trees aro mon.
tenacious of life than the W.A. floo e
gum. For 10 years old Dunlop had
watched the big gnarled veteran down by
the creek. “When I first took up this
piece I ‘rung’ it,” he said. H acf no rea
need to—just a lunatic rushing round
with an axe kidding himself he was mak-
ing progress ; but still that old gum lives
on.” Certainly the veteran was show-
ing signs of age ; most of its timber was
dead ; but on one side still sprouted a
healthy tuft of green. On that same
side a big dead limb jutted out not more
than three feet from the ground. The
“ringing” scarf had been cut just above
this. Then one day of storm this limb
broke off, and there was revealed the
secret of the tree’s resistance to extinc-
tion. From under the top of the scarf
an aerial root had sprouted. As though
gifted with intelligence this root, at first
only a thin tendril, had crept down-
wards under the cover of the big low-
sprouting limb. Then in some way it
had found a chink that gave entrance
into the hollow trunk. From there to
earth was simple. So, hugging conceal-
ment, the root had grown, secretly carry-
ing life to its seemingly doomed parent.
Only when the concealing limb fell with
age was the secret betrayed.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Jerry McAuliffe, dis-
coverer of Kanowna (W.A.), set out
from that place early in ’94, striking
north-east in the hope of finding
another bonanza —himself, a black
and eight horses making the party.
Twenty miles out he met some
other prospectors, just about done
through thirst. Jerry gave them all the
water he thought he could spare. Fifty
miles out he found that he had parted
with too much, the country being abso-
lutely parched. Faced with a perish he
decided to make for Kurnalpi, then
newly discovered. Just about done, Jerry
climbed a hill for a last look round.
Miles away he sighted a cloud of dust
—rising, he realised, from where men
were dryblowing. The horses could
hardly stand, but, pushing them along,
he and the nigger just made it, the horses
collapsing the moment a halt was called.
His own thirst relieved, McAuliffe begged
for water to save his animals. At the
few condensers distilling water from the
brine of Lake Lapage scores of thirsty
diggers were clamoring to be served, but
towards night a collection of the precious
fluid was made, about ten gallons for
each horse. Jerry’s bill for that one
small drink came to £l5 11s. Nearly two
pounds per horse!


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
WALTHER t STEVEMSOMItd:
I 395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
OUR CATALOGUE IS FREE
SEND FOR ONE!
THE
No. 150
DEEP
SEATED
KEMP
STYLE
SADDLE
£B/18/6
(Complete)
It has Kemp pads,
deep seat, good long
kip flaps and short
panel with leather
points. Hogskin seat.
N.S.W. rail freight on Saddles paid for
cash with order.
HISTORY OF AUSTRALIAN MONEY
I"+TTI
LxO.
ill IBffli
1 9ta»
hh i
stnHBH
. 7,
“T"
ssmmii
w
PRESENTING THE LAST
BALANCE SHEET IN DOLLARS
The balance sheet of the Bank of New South Wales for
the year 1825 marks the dividing line between two periods in
Australian monetary history; the former in which Spanish
dollars, the latter in which English pounds, were the legal unit
of account. The Bank’s balance sheet for 1825 is shown below:
BALANCE SHEET OF THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
31st December, 1825.
LIABILITIES
Capital paid up _ _
Notes in circulation
Deposits
Dividends unclaimed
Profit and Loss, June 30
Dec. 31. 1825 _ _
Dollars
13,200.00
115,940.00
297.158.98
486.00
11.395.21
$468,180.19
ASSETS
Dollars
Dollars in chest 127,479.50
Government Store Receipts _ 27,691.24
Bills ______ 291,208.28
Mortgages _____ 20,295.67
Furniture _ 1,505.50
$468,180.19
The Bank’s assets of $468,000 in 1825 were roughly equivalent
to £93,000 in the pounds of that day. To-day, 115 years
later, its assets amount to £127,000,000, which is probably
more than a thousand times greater than in 1825. The
assets of the Bank of New South Wales are composed mainly
of advances to agriculture, industry, and commerce. The
tremendous increase since 1825 thus illustrates the magnitude
of the Bank’s contribution to the development of Australia.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE
FIRST
BANK
I N
AUSTRALIA
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor not to members of the staff personally.
A.S.: “Over the Hills” is far away
R.D.M.: It bangs the drum very nicely, but
it doesn’t ring the bell as poetry M.E.8.:
Pretty-pretty P.S.: Tumbledown E.D.:
“The Same Old Moon” is the same old moon.
J.W.E.: The world is unquestionably mad,
but prosy verse won’t cure it H.C.: Doped
animal staggering home 8.R.8.: “A golden
girdle doth accentuate thy youthful comeliness.”
Doth it, egad! H. MacD.: “Rise Up”
flopped from the start... .E.M.8.: It’s been
done before J.8.H.: It’s prose and it
moralises W.D.W.: Try elsewhere....
S-E.P.: This office is full of swans, all “honk-
ing” G.P.A.: Just an ember H.E.H.:
It rhymes ingeniously, but it’s unreal
R.8.P.: “Eclat” doesn’t rhyme with “that”
T.0.T.: That verse would horrify the Allies
as well as the Nazis A.W.D.: At least 32
lines too 10ng.... J.A.: Ship coming home at
once G.C.G.: There’s nothing like a foun-
tain when you’re short of a rhyme for mountain.
D.B.: It might make a song J.D.:
“But before I faint I go.” Before we faint,
t00....L.8.: “The Twins” got a cold recep-
tion 5.8. T.: “Duck-Shooter” coming home
with an empty bag 8.R.L.: Nicely written,
but it needs more than that to put it across....
H.M.E.: Characters are all right; try a couple
of sketches V.F.: The diary of a fishing
trip doesn’t make a yarn L.T.R.: A vein of
humor would relieve it G.L.R.: Gave “The
Blind Beggar” his fare home... .N.F.N.: Your
humor doesn’t carry over 6000 words
F.L.W.: Read that old friend, then helped him
gently on his way H.R.8.: You’ve crammed
an amazing number of errors into a thou-
sand words N.R.F.: “The incident was too
funny for words.” So it seems R.P.W.:
No room for faithful abo. who handed over
the treasures of his ancestors to pay off
the mortgage on the old homestead F.P.C.:
If you could build the idea around something
more substantial it might stand a chance
M.R.M.: “Tropical Love” cooling off in the
w.p.b G.R.L.: Swaggie is still travelling.
R.L.W.: A. A. Milne has written much
the same thing N.F.L.: You’re still a long
way off the mark G.R.: Resignedly await-
ing further contributions C.L.R.: You can’t
finish a mystery story by saying “and so
the mystery was unsolved and has remained
that way ever since” P. 8.5.: Schoolboys
don’t talk like that H.E.P.: “Doggy Doings
in Doggieville” might find a corner on the
Tiny Tots’ Page L.S.D., H.P., C.P.R. and
T.G.: Try them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.W.: May Day cartoon arrived too late
H.M.G.: No “spare corner” for your master-
piece F.G.: Strive for a bolder line
E. : Why is grandfather floating a few
feet from the ceiling? J.D.: Closely re-
sembles a drawing we published recently
F. : “Waltzing Matilda” was among this
week’s wallflowers E.H.: Try for sharper
contrasts in wash drawings... .J.R.R.: Looks
more like a patchwork quilt than a humorous
drawing... .P.L.: Tommy’s retort to the an-
gular schooldame couldn’t raise a grin
J.T.: Your abos. might have come all the
way from Harlem R.J.: Topheavy lady with
cricket stumps for legs just managed to totter
to the w.p.b D.W.: We liked that gag so
much 40 years ago that it was reprinted as
one of The Bulletin postcards N.S.D.:
Seasick passenger left to his misery W.H.:
You’ve a rugged, individualistic style, but you’re
much too raw for print M.H.: Decrepit
drawing and a cheerless jest F.T.8.: Gags
can be submitted without drawings and, if
accepted, are paid for at 7s. 6d. each T.C.:
Hopeless K.W.: Your rabbit-trappers will
have to set their traps elsewhere.
A MIXED GRILL.
There can’t be any paper shortage in
N.S.W. Government departments. The
two latest reports to be issued under Par-
liamentary authority weigh pounds. To
the proceedings of a Parliamentary com-
mittee on hospitals, 479 foolscap pages
were devoted, and the report of the Indus-
trial Commission on taxi-cabs runs to
230 pages. It includes a large map in
three colors showing “location of all
Sydney taxi-cab stands and portions of
such area in which cruising is prohibited.”
* * # *
“0.T.”: According to an Actors’
Union man, a film co. that got
a £15,000 guarantee from the in-
solvent Mair Government is paying
“extras” ss. a day beginning at
6.30 a.m. and ending sometimes at 7 p.m.
The man who runs the show has denied
it, declaring that they get 12s. 6d., with
lunch, for a day that never goes past
5.30 p.m.
The extras are as well paid as Hollywood
extras, and they have nothing to do but
sit down or walk across a courtyard.
N.S.W. will doubtless be glad to know
that the Mair guarantees have at least
established Hollywood standards in
local industry.
* * * *
The honorary administrator of the
Sydney Lord Mayor’s Patriotic Fund
having complained that out of 165
shires and municipalities only 63 had
remitted money to headquarters, prompt
and very tart replies came from the low
fellows in the backblocks. Cowra an-
nounced that it intended to spend its
money on Cowra men ; so did Dubbo.
As for Grafton:
The whole of the funds raised in this
area will be expended for the benefit of
the men from this area. None of it will
be spent in Sydney. The country is enlist-
ing two for one to the city, so it will
need twice as much money as the city for
comforts.
Don’t these darned bushwhackers realise
that Australia circulates round Sydney?
* * *
Melbourne cable trams are a quaint
survival, and the manner of their going
out is likely to be as quaint as their
appearance. The board announces that
the rumbling chariots will be run until
the cables break, when the new two-
decker petrol buses will be requisitioned,
Cables are imported, and cannot be re-
placed, so cable-tram patrons will con-
tinue to potter along the streets with one
ear cocked for a breakdown, which can
happen in three months’ time or to-
morrow.
* * * *
Few showmen make fortunes,
Frank Neil) who was killed on New
Year’s Day in Melbourne in a motor
accident, left £3761. Yet when he was
putting vaudeville back on its legs on the
Tivoli circuit, he spent tens of thousands,
Although he paid some of the biggest
salaries on record to imported variety
turns, most of the cash went into Aus-
tralian pockets. For years before that
Neil kept various companies going by
being his own playwright, producer,
principal man, publicity agent and bill-
sticker.
* * * *
< 4C , , , „
Spokeshave : There is sometimes a
streak of unconscious satire in these
ecclesiastical broadcasters (B. 8/5/’4O).
An Oxford-accented minister belonging
to an ultra-aristocratic church in onl of
the Melbourne suburbs gave an address
on the necessity of self-sacrifice. “We
will now finish the session with a choral
number,” he concluded. “The choir will
—ah—sing ‘Here Comes the Genteel
Saviour.’ ”
* * *
“Nakh”: Headmasters of Melbourne's
public schools are constantly deploring
the lack of interest in cultu « amonl
their charges. What do they expect?
Consider the remmen unnimllv
cf regimen annually imposed
on boys who have been selected
1° row ln the Head of the River
race. The lads are practically segre-
gated - What the y shall eat at
prescribed their 2 trainer^Th * S
£s3*? & mcksho™"^
gnawing in the stomach during the morn-
ing lessons they are allowed to suck a
piece of barley sugar. A special table
is reserved for them at lunch in the main
dining-hall, and here they sit in solitary
state while a particular diet of meat and
rice pudding is served to them. On the
day of the race intense precautions are
taken. Lest they become nervous at
the sight of other boys eating things that
are verboten, they must eat alone, wash-
ing down a piece of steak with strong
black coffee. Added to which is the three
months of hard physical training. What
must the lads deduce from this remark-
able business? That rowing is the most
respected activity of their college. If
masters applied the same discipline tc
thinking they would endow intellect with
equal importance.
S.A. Conservator of Forests reports
that the State has now close on 100,000
acres of forest, four-fifths of it of Gov-
ernment ownership, and three-fourths of
it planted within the last ten years. The
total of trees is estimated at about fifty
million.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” dives into the past:
An Australian pioneer almost forgotten now
was Captain George Gipps, R.E., Governor of
New South Wales, from Cape York to Bass
Strait between 1838 and 1846, and yet possibly
he was one of the ablest of all our early
vice-royalties, and of all of them his position
was more difficult than that of any since
Phillip. He had to represent Downing-street
at a time when the Colonial Office’s control of
the province was being fiercely disputed by
such men as W. C. Wentworth and Dr. Lang.
The sale of Crown lands and their leasing to
pastoralists, the discredited convict system, im-
migration, the police force and most other
important affairs were in Gipps’s hands when he
came here, but there was a new and intense
local feeling that such control should be in-
vested in a Parliament chosen by popular suf-
frage. Whilst personally in sympathy with “Corn-
stalk” and “Currency” aspirations, Gipps had
to support the British Government and vindi-
cate its authority. Through all the stormy
pe , r , lod of . chan s c from a P enaI t col , on y iat< ? *
self-governing community he stood resolutely
firm and came ( 0 fi e looked upon by the British
authorities as one of the wisest proconsuls of
his day. Which he undoubtedly was, though,
Wlth the exception of Darling, no Governor has
ever been so unpopular here as was Gipps .
There are two Australian memorials to him —
a mean street in Sydney and the south-eastern
corner of Victoria.. But h j s statesmanship,
courage and devotion are known only to
students of Old Australia.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — Dv S. ■ FORBES.
•With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne,' Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A CAREER FOR AMBITIOUS MEN AND WOMEN
advertising in Aus*!
Over £20.000.000 spent yearly
lor interesting work ... ■
1 branches for trained men and women. A big hft'P »"
4 any business career. (You need no* be able to
\ draw)j Successtyl students from. 16 to over 50 years
include* many leading advertising executives. Out-
standing success in public examinations. Complete.*
_ interesting.:, practical training. (Evening classes of
I individual postal tuition).. Classes start Feb.. June,,
-J Oct. Students join any time. ,
advertisement for big 54-page book, free to tnose-
ly interested "in advertising training. ,^ Trl
THE SCHOOZi OP APPLIED ADVERTISING
36 Qrogvcaor St., Sydney Esta£Ualied
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney, used to hard work,
rejected for military service, would like work
in city.—7o67.
To buy book on manufacture of plug and
twist tobacco. —7050.
To buy two new cylinder heads for twin-
opposed Johnson outboard engine (model AB-
-25).—7048.
Information Sought.
1 have been accepted by the R.A.A.F. as a
mechanic, sworn in, issued with a reservist
badge and given a number. When my age
group is called up for compulsory military
training shall I have to attend camp? —69ll.
No; young men accepted for the R.A.A.F.
are not to attend camp while they are waiting
to be called up. Such men, however, should
notify the Area Officer for the district or, if
they are attached to a unit, the commanding
officer of the unit that they have been accepted,
and should produce documentary evidence.
This does not extend to applicants for enlist-
ment in the R.A.A.F. who have not been noti-
fied whether or not they have been accepted.
* * * *
(1) How has the price of paper (not news-
print) increased in Australia since war was de-
clared ? (2) Is any serious shortage of paper
likely during the next 12 months? —6932.
(1) Percentage rises in paper prices differ
according to the country of origin. Paper made
in Tasmania and comprising at the most- 11
lines out of a range of perhaps some hundreds
has increased in cost by about 33 p.c. These
lines include M.F. and S.C. printing, which
are basic papers for publications other than
those printed on newsprint. Such papers as
are obtained from Canada have increased by
about 25 p.c. These comprise chiefly better
classes of printing and writing papers. Such
importation is limited by the non-sterling re-
strictions imposed by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. Some lines which have till lately
been obtained from Scandinavia and Conti-
nental mills, such as M.G. poster printing
paper, have increased 100 p.c. or more. If
now obtainable from U.S.A. the increase would
be much the same. Certain lines, such as
greaseproof, formerly obtained from the Conti-
nent or Scandinavia, are not now obtainable.
More expensive substitute lines, such as vege-
table parchment, can be obtained only at about
treble the former price. (2) Supplies from
England are doubtful, as the pulp formerly
came from Scandinavia. All other paper-pro-
ducing countries are subject to non-sterling
import 'restrictions which automatically de-
crease the value of paper imported in direct
proportion to the rising price. It is doubtful
whether the Tasmanian mill can supply 1 the
local demand even for such lines as are made
there, so that it is very probable there will
be a shortage.
* * * *
An old-age pensioner owes me some money
and I cannot get him to pay up. Can I
garnishee his pension ? —6980.
No. An old-age pension cannot be attached
or alienated by any process of law.
* * * *
(1) What, generally, are a poundkeeper's
duties? (2) Must he necessarily impound any
animal found trespassing ? —6984.
(1) He should keep the pound in good repair,
and is responsible for any loss or damage
incurred by the wilful act or negligence of
himself or his servants. (2) Not necessarily.
The owner of the animal said to have tres-
passed may, before it has been impounded,
have it released to him by paying the regula-
tion dues forthwith.
H* % * 1
(1) Details of Australian literature course to
be conducted at Sydney Uni. this year? (2)
What textbooks have been recommended for
the course ? —6976. - < ,
(1) The 10 lectures that comprise the course
will be delivered to day students at 12 noon and
at 8 p.m. on the Wednesday in each week
during Trinity term (commences June 3),
except that for two weeks in the middle of
June another lecture day will be substituted.
The examination in connection with the course
will be held at the beginning of Michaelmas
term on a date to be announced. Owing to
the shortness of the course the lectures will
cover only Australian literature from 1891 to
the present day. The fee for the course will be
£1 Is. (2) H. M. Green’s Outline of Australian
Literature, M. Barnard Eldershaw’s Essays in
Australian Fiction, Nettie Palmer’s Modern
Australian Literature, Hartley Grattan’s Austra-
lian Literature, A. G. Stephens’s Victor Daley,
and articles or chapters on Australian litera-
ture by H. M. Green in “Australian National
Review” for February 21, 1938; by Hartley
Grattan in “The Australian Quarterly” for
June, 1938 ; by A. W. Jose in his History of
Australia, and by Archibald Strong in The
Australian Encyclopaedia. The following an-
thologies have also been recommended: The
Bulletin Story Book, An Australian Story Book,
edited by Nettie Palmer, Australian Short
Stories, edited by George Mackaness, and An
Australasian Anthology, edited by Percival
Serle.
What flying ambulance services are there in
Australia ? —7094.
Flying Doctor” services operated by Aus-
tralian Aerial Medical Services are established
at Cloncurry, Port Hedland, Wyndham, Kal-
goorlie, Broken Hill and Alice Springs. A
service operating from Katherine is controlled
by the Commonwealth Department of Health.
* * * *
I understand that a new set of Pitcairn
Island stamps will be issued soon. From
whom and when will they be obtainable? —
7020.
A new pictorial issue is shortly to ,be. made
available. Unused stamps may be obtained
from the General Post Office, Suva, Fiji. Re-
mittances should be in the form of bank drafts,
money orders or British postal notes in sterling,
made payable in Suva. First-day covers of
these stamps can be obtained by application
direct to Mr. Christian, Chief Magistrate, Pit-
cairn Island, such applications to be accom-
panied by remittances as set out.
=F * * #
A few details concerning Madeira and the
Azores? —6693.
Madeira and the Azores are administratively
parts of Portugal. The Madeiras are a group
of islands in the Atlantic Ocean, about 520
miles west of Lisbon, and consist of Madeira,
Porto Santo and three uninhabited islands.
The total area is 314 square miles, with a
population of 211,601 in 1930. Funchal, in
Madeira, the largest island (270 square miles),
is the. capital, with a population of 31,352;
Ponta do Sol (6190), Machico (8619). The
Azores are a group -of nine islands (Flores,
Corvo, Terceira, JSao Jorge, Pico, .Payal, Gra-
ciosa, Sao Miguel and Santa, Maria) in the
Atlantic Ocean, with a total area of 922 square
miles .and a population of .253,035 in 1930.
Angra in Terceira, the capital of the group,
had a population of 10,642 in 1930; Ponta
Delgada (18,022), Horta (7643).
* * * , *
(1) Who was the author of “Peter Pan”?
(2) Titles of plays by Ibsen ? —7082.
(1) J. M. Barrie. . (2) “Catilina,” “The
Viking’s Barrow,” “Mistress Inger at Ostraat,”
“The Feast at Solha’ng,” “Olaf Liljekrans,”
“The Warriors in Helgeland,” “Love’s
Comedy,” “The Pretenders,” “Peer Gynt,” “The
Young Men’s League,” “The Master Builder,”
“The Pillars of Society,” “A Doll’s House,”
“Ghosts,” “An Enemy of the People,” “The
Wild Duck,” “Rosmerholm,” “The Lady from
the Sea,” “Hedda Gabler,” “Little Eyolf,”
“John Gabriel Borkman” and “When We Dead
Awaken.”
* * H* *
Some information concerning monopotas-
sium phosphate ? I believe it has valuable fer-
tilising qualities. Of what is it composed, and
in what proportions ? Where can I obtain
a small quantity of it in Melbourne ? —6902.
Monopotassium phosphate is a valuable fer-
tiliser in that it is completely water soluble
and contains both potash and phosphoric acid
in relatively large proportions, i.e., 3425 p.c.
of potash and 52.2 p.c. of phosphoric acid. It
is not 4 used commercially as a fertiliser be-
cause the cost is relatively high and equivalent
results can be obtained at less cost by the
use of appropriate amounts of sulphate of
potash and superphosphate. It m&y be
obtained in Melbourne from Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd.
*** * J
Where can I obtain a preparation called
photosensin used to increase vegetable crops ?
It is manufactured from coloring used in a
photography process.' - What is known about
it?— 6B23.
The agent for photosensin is G. Huppert,
Industrial and Trading Co., Rippon House,
154-156 Clarence-street, Sydney. The name of
the dye used is not known. The theory is that
the -dye finds its way into the leaves of the
plant and so increases the ability of the leaves
to absorb more light rays and to use more
efficiently the extra energy received. Experi-
ments carried out by the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department gave negative results.
* * j *
Why do beads of dew attach themselves at
night to the heads of used wooden matches
placed in a china tray on a table beneath an
open verandah ? What property is there in
charcoal to attract ■ moisture to form such
beads ? —6875.
At night, the atmosphere does not fall in
temperature nearly as rapidly as do solid
objects on the earth, such as grass-blades, trees,
stones and even dead matches. The air which
comes into contact with these cooled bodies
is itself cooled, and so reaches a temperature
when it begins to deposit the moisture it con-
tains upon the cold objects. The phenomenon
you have observed is due to charcoal’s power
to absorb moisture to a high degree.
* * * *
How can I trace my ancestors? What fees
are payable ? —6941.
Suggest you join the Society of Australian
Genealogists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney. One
of its principal objects is to be of assistance
to members in tracing their ancestry. It has
a large library of books of reference, and in
many cases has found information reaching
back to the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.
The subscription is 12s. 6d. p.a., and there is
no other fee as regards searches made in Aus-
tralia. In the case of searches made in Eng-
land, the society recommends the services of a
searcher there, and fees are a matter of
arrangement.
A simple method of cleaning an oil painting ?
—6994.
Lightly wash it all over with clean water,
not letting it run on to the back part of the
canvas, then rub the surface over with a piece
of raw potato; leave for a short time, then
wipe clean with a moist cloth. Should the
picture be discolored by old, yellowed varnish
and not surface dirt, take the canvas from the
frame and place flat on a table, then start
rubbing one spot with a circular motion of the
fingers until the varnish powders and comes
off. The whole of the surface must be gone
over in this way (a tedious business) and,
after it is clean, a new coat of picture mastic
varnish applied.
* * * *
Method of waterproofing a duck car cover ?
—6921.
(a) Dissolve soz. of alum in one gallon of
boiling water. ( b ) Dissolve 4oz. acetate of lead
(sugar of lead) in one gallon of boiling water.
Mix (a) and ( b ), leave overnight, strain, care-
fully and reject sediment. Soak canvas in the
clear solution, squeeze (do not wring) and
hang up to partly dry. While still damp
repeat dipping and hang up again till dry.
Solution may also be applied with soft brush.
Material must be free from dust and grease.
* * . * . *
. Suitable wash or paint for the inside of a
cool chamber made of porous cement to pre-
vent dampness affecting food? Butter goes
mouldy. —-6265.
The development of mould growth on butter
- and foodstuffs kept in a container such as
this is due to excessive humidity, and can be
cured only by reducing the porosity of the walls
by stripping the' outside soil and cement-
rendering the external faces of the walls.
* . :* *
Method of decarbonising 1 old-type solid
cylinders . belonging to. 1925 model Harley-
Davidson motor-cycle with caustic soda ?-r-
-6713. - v ;
Remove the cylinders from the machine, dis-
mantle all parts, such as valves,, etc., from
the cylinders and boil the cylinders 'in a
solution of caustic soda. This treatment will
loosen the carbon deposit, which can then be
scraped off. It is necessary to clean the
•cylinders thoroughly after they have been' im-
mersed in caustic soda , by washing. them in
boiling water. - Best method is to remove the
cylinders from the machine, , dismantle'valves,
etc., from the cylinders and remove the carbon
deposit from the cylinder heads with a sharp
scraper.
* * * *
Under what heading should brandy,- beer,
wine and stout be placed when considering
food-values ? Would you call them sugar, acid,
or what? Or, if in some entirely different
class, which can be taken with a protein meal,
and which with a starchy meal? —7014.
■ Alcohol is• a, separate compound. The. only
,form of alcohol to be considered from the
dietetic point of view is ethyl alcohol, which
is produced in all the .beverages in which it is
found by the fermentation of sugar by yeast.
.The special qualities of different alcoholic
beverages depend to a large extent on the par-
ticular kind of sugar concerned in the fer-
mentation. During this process by-products
• are produced as- well as alcohol, and the
amount and . nature of these profoundly . in-
fluence the character of; the resulting beverage.
•There . are no rules, as to the* type of alco-
holic drink to be taken with any particular
food.
* • *
My canary’s feet are very swollen and scaly,
and at times become red and inflamed. At one
time what appeared to be an abscess formed
on one toe and the bird lost the joint of
the toe. 1 have tried rubbing the perches
with a preparation and sprinkling it on ~ the
•sand-trpy. Also l.have.dipped his feet.in warm
olive oil. This seems to give temporary relief.
'What can be done to cure the bird? —67ss.,'
It is not an uncommon condition ,to be seen
in canaries that are kept for long periods in a
small cage that has not some soft material such
as sand on the bottom of it. This swollen
condition of the feet and toes-is commonly
referred to as gout. Have, at all times, a layer
.of fine sand placed on the bottom of the
cage some 2in. in depth. This tends to stop
any jar on the small feet of the birds. Pro-
cure from a chemist a small pot of salicylic
ointment and rub a little of-this over-the
entire legs and toes. If this is done daily for
a week, you will find a great improvement in
your bird. In these cases a balanced diet is
also essential. Once weekly add •to the
seed half, an eggspoonful of Irradol A
diluted in sufficient warm water so that it
.will be thin enough to have a consistency of
milk. See that the bird has plenty of green
food, such as finely-chopped-up lettuce, fresh
lucerne or the flowering heads of any of the
well-known grasses, such as clover, trefoil and
suchlike plants.
Does Anybody Know?
In what town and when did the late George
Ingram last show his circus? —7078.
Meaning of house name Ardna Casa? —7075.
Information Supplied.
’. 6607.—T0 catch frogs, go to the bank of a
creek, swamp or river and look for a spot
where good- cover for them is provided by
logs, fallen bark, rocks or rushes. Collect
dry-leaves and twigs, light them in a spot
'where' the smoke will drift over the cover, and
then get ready to do some frog-grabbing be-
"tween the cover and the water. The moment
they smell the smoke every frog in range makes
a bolt for the water. I’ve seen an aborigine
secure, a billycan of -frogs for fish-bait in a
couple of minutes this way. As for feeding
frogs in captivity, put them into an ordinary
fish-pond and cover it with bird-cage netting
—to keep out their enemies and to keep them
in. Let rocks project above the surface of
the pond for them to rest on; they’ll catch
their own tucker and get fat on it, too. If
you feed them yourself on worms and flies
you’ll find they soon become tame, friendly
and amusing little cusses. — Bogaduck.
Brief Answers.
P.A.G.: This preparation is a German pro-
duction and is now unobtainable. It is not men-
tioned in the latest list of Drug Synonyms and
Trade Names, compiled by the Pharmaceutical
Association of Australia and M.L W.8.C.:
The children of A and B, if born by previous
marriages, are stepbrothers or -sisters. In the
case mentioned they are also third cousins to
each other. No Australian law prohibits the
marriage of cousins of any degree. ...R.S.K.:
The book was published not by the firm men-
tioned, but by a London publisher. It is not
in stock in Sydney and would have to be
ordered from London. Cost would be approxi-
mately 165., and delivery would take about 10
weeks. Any bookseller could order it tor
you J.H.M.: Information not obtainable
locally. You would have to write to the
Consul for Great Britain at Amiens, France
A.S.: (1) Newspapers are not permitted to
mention the location of units of the A.I.F.
(2) The address should, clearly show the sol-
dier’s regimental number, rank, name and unit,
in the following form: TX.234, Private H.
Jones, 2/12th Battalion, A.I.F. Abroad....
J.R.D.: (1) Temple Press, Ltd., Bowling Green-
lane, London, publishes “Aeroplane,” “Commer-
cial Motor,” “Cycling,” “Light Car,” “Light
Metals,” “Motor,” “Motor Boat,” Motor
Cycling,” “Motor Ship,” “Oil Engine” and
“Plastics.” (2) MSS. submitted to one journal
and found unsuitable will be considered for
any of the other journals provided a request
to this effect is attached... .N.H.: The Artist
in Commerce, by Leonard Sharpe (A. and C.
Black, London, 3s. 6d.) E.E.J.: Durrant’s
Press Cuttings, 32 Holborn Viaduct; General
Press Cutting Association, 13 Farringdon-avenue;
International Press Cutting Bureau, 110 Fleet-
street; Romeike and Curtice, Ltd., 35 Shoe-
lane ; Woolgar and Roberts, 3 Dorset Build-
ings, Salisbury-square, Fleet-street—all London.
P.H.: Generally speaking, it is not neces-
sary to treat red oxide in a furnace prior
to sale. The following Sydney firms
are buyers of red oxide in its crude state:
Minerals, Ltd., 318 Botany-road, Alexandria,
McLeod and Co., Ralph-street, Alexandria,
Austral Rock Milling Co., Gladstone-street,
Newtown. Samples of the material available
should be submitted direct to one of these
firms H.C.: Thompson Engineering Co.,
Castlemaine (Vic.), and McPherson’s, Ltd.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney, are suppliers of
hydraulic gold-sluicing plants and equipment....
A. 8.: No mention of John Fletcher, captain
of the vessel Quickstep, has been found in the
indexes or in several volumes relating to the
South Sea Islands searched at the Mitchell
Library, Sydney. There may be some men-
tion of him in the daily papers of the period
mentioned about 1883. These papers are avail-
able to the public in the newspaper-room
at the Mitchell Library F.H.: Cannot say
without inspection of the premises. You should
call the attention of the local Inspector of
Nuisances to the matter. There should be no
.interference with the council’s gutter without
official sanction... C.A.: “Bellerive’s” real
name is Joe Tishler. An article about him
appeared in the Red Page of The Bulletin
'for September 19, 1912 T.R.: Addresses of
The Bulletin have been 107 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, from January, 1880, to July,
1880; 13 Bridge-street, July, 1880, to August,
1881; 24 Pitt-street, August, 1881, to August,
1896; 214 George-street, August, 1896, to
November, 1931; 252 George-street, November,
.1931, to date.. . .R.C.T.: The minimum age of
entry to the Navy is years. Schnapper
Island is a training depot for sea cadets who
are not permanently employed, and is not under
naval control. Full particulars of entry to the
Navy can be obtained from the District Naval
Officer, Beach-road, Edgecliff (N.S.W.)
R.S.H.: Details not available... .E.R.: It is
•difficult to indicate fine shades of pronuncia-
tion without using an elaborate code of special
signs (as in all modern dictionaries). Broadly,
the words you cite are pronounced ammatoor,
con-troversy (accent on first syllable, second o
as in “of”), kall-en-dula (accent on second syl-
lable), minuett (not minuay)... .C.McG.:
H. G. Wells acquired a scientific degree, B.Sc.,
from London Uni. in his youth, and holds
from that uni. an honorary Doctorate of
Literature. He is a writer of fiction, histories
and sociological treatises, and is not considered
an authority on any of the physical sciences.
....J.R.: (1) Yes. (2) N 0... .P.P.S.:
'Webster’s defines infirmarian as “a person
having charge of an infirmary” P.M.S.:
'lt' is the only organisation on record that
has its sole object the abolition of State Par-
liaments. . i .G.C.: (1) Cannot say without
knowing the name of the station. (2> The Syd-
ney metropolitan area now has an area of 246
square miles. (3) Douglas Hyde is the Presi-
dent of the Irish Free State... .G.H.0.: The
responsibility for charging the correct fare
rests on the booking clerk, and, although there
is a moral obligation on the passenger to make
good the undercollection, the booking clerk
would have to pay the amount in the event
of the passenger failing to do 50....K.C.: No
knowledge of grass mentioned said to sustain
cattle without water for long periods. In
localities densely infested with prickly pear cattle
have been known to hold their condition for
several months on this without water. Pos-
sibly this plant is referred to M.H.: (1)
Public Service Act in Victoria does not exer-
cise jurisdiction over relatives of public ser-
vants. (2) Yes... .L.J.C.: Publication of such
information is not permitted A.J.W.:
Nelson’s signal was, “England expects that
every man will do his duty” A.R.: (1)
The canine period of gestation is 62 days.
(2) A bitch usually comes in season at six-
monthly intervals. (3) It cannot affect future
litters... .M.M.: Get in touch with the
Australasian Steamship Owners’ Federation,.
247 George-street, Sydney 0.G.M.: Book-
sellers report that the volume is unsaleable
and has no value... .W. 1.: Use saddle-soap,
obtainable from any saddler. Put on the gloves
and use the soap as if washing the hands,
rubbing the soap well into every part of the
leather. Wipe dry with a fluffless cloth, which
should remove all soiling; if not removed, re-
peat process.


HTS
LYS
tk
p door
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Good Clip.
“Ghanam”: With appraisements nearly
complete the estimate of returns for the
wool clip is £58,500,000, plus profits
from resales. It is far from a record,
having regard to quantity, and in three
years out of the last six the per-pound
figure has been easily exceeded —in 1933-
34 the price was 16.2 d., in 1936-37
16.74 d., against the present 13.4375 d.
At the same time, with a production
of 3,400,000 bales, plus a carryover of
115,000 bales, a high price could not
have been expected in a normal season.
War-time demands, however, would have
made a big difference to an open
market.
It becomes ever more evident that
wool is a firmly-based and permanently-
needed commodity. Britain could sub-
stitute more of her wool with artificials,
thus saving heavily on shipping. She
prefers wool carried 12,000 miles, much
of the way under convoy, to substitutes
made on the spot or in adjacent
countries.
In 1916-17, in the middle of the last
war, the total production of wool in the
Commonwealth was 547,632,6741 b. ; in
the season just passed, N. S. Wales alone
produced 532,000,0001 b.; and the Com-
monwealth dip—for all of which there
would be a ready sale in a free market —
was double that of the average of the
last war period.
Blowfly Incidence.
“Ghanam”: The C.S. and I.R. has for
six years kept records of blowfly strike
in an experimental flock. Though the
data have not yet been fully analysed,
several important facts have been estab-
lished.
One flock left unprotected suffered an
average of 108 breech strikes per 100
sheep each year, and the investigators
point out that, since the average in well-
managed commercial flocks is about a
quarter of this figure, it is evident that
prevention methods in use are fairly
effective.
Strike has been proved to differ in
incidence according to the conformation
of the sheep ; but some of the findings
are unexpected. Polwarth ewes were
found to be less open to strike than
plain-breeched “A” class pure merino
ewes. The effects of the Mules opera-
tion have been found to last over four
years. Fleece rot is closely connected
with age.
Studies of attraction of sheep for fly
have shown that lambs attract flies
most; sex makes no difference. Scour-
ing or already-struck breeches presented
greatest lure; stain and damp helped.
The study of repellents is not far ad-
vanced, but citronella and sandalwood
oil have been found worth further ex-
periment.
Among poisons used to destroy
maggots, arsenic and selenium com-
pounds stand out for minimum dosage,
but for speed of destruction organic
poisons, particularly nicotine, rank
highest. Methods are a long way from
perfection, but there can be no doubt,
in the face of the findings, that preventive
treatment of sheep is worth while. One
thing, however, is certain: No cure for
fly exists which does not involve hard
work.
Pulpy Kidney.
“J.R.D.”: Now is the time to expect
trouble from entero-toxsemia (pulpy
kidney). There is no cure ; care is needed
for prevention. Although pulpy kidney
losses usually occur in lush seasons,
deaths were reported recently under dry
conditions with shortage of green feed.
The disease is caused by a germ, and
has spread over most of Australia and
M.L., even to areas formerly free from
all sheep troubles except fly-strike.
Except in actual drought, sheep should
be inoculated before deaths begin.
Vaccine works out as low as per
5-c.c. dose —so the loss of even one lamb
represents the cost of protecting up to
400 sheep. The vaccine will not take
effect for two weeks. Lambs are chiefly
affected, and most of the losses occur
when they are two to three weeks old,
but lambs cannot be yarded for inocu-
“Have you any eggs already shelled?”
lation at a few days old, so the only
method is to inoculate ewes before lamb-
ing. While one dose may give some
protection, two injections with a month
between are recommended. This not
only protects the ewe, but will also
carry the lamb for the first four to six
weeks of its life.
There is no need to drag ewes about
a yard or shed and turn them over for
vaccination. Fill the race as full as
possible so that sheep can’t surge about.
The inoculator starts at one end of the
race. He picks up a fold of skin be-
hind the shoulder-blade, inserts the point
of the needle at the base of the fold,
taking care not to puncture the flesh or
muscle underneath, and injects the dose.
With a modern automatic syringe that
can be thoroughly Sterilised by boiling
and with a graduated glass barrel to
register every dose, the job can be done
as quickly as drenching.
At this time of the year sheep will be
carrying a fair amount of wool. The
fleece should be held open behind the
shoulder by the right hand, which also
holds the syringe. With the left hand
pull up a staple of wool sufficiently to
lift the skin so that the needle can be
inserted without touching the tissue
underneath. If sheep are due for drench-
ing inoculation may be done at the same
time without ill-effect.
Lambs themselves must be inoculated
at marking time. The inoculator should
take up a position at the rail on one
side of the markers ; catchers bring the
lambs to him first and he injects the
5-c.c. dose of vaccine under the bare
patch of skin inside the thigh, first wiping
the patch with a swab soaked in methy-
lated spirits.
The choice of e.t. vaccine, when order-
ing, should depend on whether lambs
are to be killed for export. The latest
and most potent vaccines contain a large
amount of alum, which may leave a lump
or blemish at the site of inoculation for
several months. This type should be
used on all grown sheep, merino lambs,
studs, and any lambs that are being
kept for breeding purposes, but the old
type should be used on crossbred lambs
for slaughter.
A single dose will not render a sheep
immune to pulpy kidney. In a good
season a second dose is necessary.
Sheepskin Control.
“Fullwool”: The completion of
arrangements for the purchase of Aus-
tralian sheepskins by the British Gov-
ernment will put the trade on a stable
basis. Skins have been taken over under
an appraisement scheme similar to that
operating for wool. Full panels of
appraisers have been appointed.
The requirements of local fellmongers
are In he nrnvided for hv a first release
e .. P - . - i ,
of supplies of skins towards the end of
May. All skins for export must now be
appraised in the stores of approved pack-
ing houses.
Prices current in Sydney at the time of
the announcement were: Merino, 3fd.
for quarter-wools to lOfd. for fullwool;
pelts, to 2jd. ; lambs, id. to 2{d. ;
crossbred, for short to 9£d. for full-
wool ; Lincoln and coarse crossbred, 3d.
to 6d. for medium to fullwool.
From October last year to January,
skin exports were on a monthly quota
basis, which resulted in some accumula-
tions. But since January 20, no export
permits have been issued for stocks
bought after that date. Nevertheless, ex-
porters have bought large quantities, for
which some provision will have to be
made.
Wheat and the Market.
“Zedo”: Summarising the wheat posi-
tion, Commerce Minister Archie Cameron
says that deliveries to silos total
196,000,000 bushels. Australia will need
38,000,000 bushels, and 92,000,000 bushels
have been sold for export (shipping has
still to be found for 58,000,000 bushels),
so that there are 66,000,000 bushels un-
sold.
The outlook is not bright. It is ex-
pected that there will still be a large
carryover of this season’s wheat when
next season’s crop begins to come in ;
and though mice are abroad in some
districts there will be surplus even with
a short crop. If Australia owned ships,
the position would be different. The
British Government has requisitioned
every ton from British ports, Scandina-
vian shipping is disorganised, and much
neutral tonnage is being used to carry
urgent armament requirements and other
immediately needed war supplies
. t Jud B ln « b / the wea ! her > a " d takl “S
lnto ac “ unt he Euro-
P eaa » heat cr °P <hls seaso " will be ight
and lhd world crop not particularly
h i eav y i bu < countries which can supply
their export markets by means of short
voyages will be at an advantage, t here
is . however, some solid ground for belief
thal lhe carrying position will become
easier, though option prices have fallen
fair , ’ st f on F Ame F ican production.
Balt f c F ' ls for May s ] umped 3d .
Winnipeg market is down, so are Chicago
options, but there is an easier trend in
freight rates which the trade is confident
will become more marked in future,
The Commonwealth and M.L. Govern-
ments are negotiating with the British


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”:—
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE.—For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, 1-gallon, and 1-gallon tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.’
LYSAGHT’S RED ORB
• v
® For greater strength, per-
manence and economy, build
sheep pens with Lysaght's Red
Orb Galvanised Iron.
Photograph by courtesy of
Bullara Station, Carnarvon, iP.A
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
MUBOURXf. Ai>n4![)K VRtMASTII
h(4':o
Another Abbey
SPECIAL!
warn
BROWN
KROME
CALF
Shoe 24/9
At its price this Two-hole Derby
Golf Shoe is undoubtedly one of
the best values we have been
able to offer for some consider-
able time. Stoutly built to keep
your feet warm, dry and com-
fortable, from solid Brown Krome
Calf with Non-slip rubber sole,
it looks every inch a quality
shoe. It is, too, although its
price is only 24/9. Order by
mail at once while stocks last.
NOTE: Abbey Shoes are sent by mail to all
parts of Australia and the British Empire, so
order with confidence. Always state size and, if
possible, send a tracing of your stockinged foot.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
ABBEY
31fi GEORGE ST.,
224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
SHOES
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me a pair of your Brown Krome
Calf Golf Shoes. My size is Colour
wanted: Black Brown
I enclose remittance for 24/9 plus interstate
postage.
NAME
ADDRESS •
(Print in Block Letters.)
Al 9-1635
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handjman Can Instal I *^ n 1 t ®“ at » ail <^ Ve ' f fl^ r s ™-° eS i s>o 5 >0
Require Emi>tying—Over 1150 Sold —Shell Co., 0(5 Repeat Ord > ,k * *V—
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/16/- f.o.b. Sydney.
Plus 10/- crating when necessary.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
7 years’ guarantee against corrosion while in use.
f
m
V.
Government for more tonnage for Aus-
tralian products.
The Commonwealth Government is
facing heavier financial demands than
at any normal time, and will be able to
distribute only actual returns for wheat,
less expenses, and will not guarantee to
take all the wheat which farmers care to
produce whether it can be sold or not.
The average price received for the
105,000,000 bushels sold is 3s. 2fd. at
country stations—freight to port must
come off the price. Current price, bulk
basis, when the Minister spoke, was
3s. B}d., less rail freight to port. Thus,
the average for the whole crop, if this
could be realised for the residue of!
91,000,000 bushels undisposed of, would
be 3s. 6d. roughly, less freight to port
and less losses in store
In 1938 the Commonwealth set aside
£500,000, as part of its stabilisation
policy, to deal with marginal lands —
when somebody should decide what mar-
ginal lands were. Advances on last
season’s wheat so far have totted up to
2s. per bushel, less freight to port,
etc. —equal to 2s. 4d. net. Pressure is
now being brought on the Common-
wealth from several directions, and par-
ticularly by the Victorian Premier, to
make another advance of Is. per bushel,
less expenses.
The great thing is to keep farmers on
their feet, districts under cultivation and
producing and to find means to clear
wheat within reasonable time after it
comes forward. There can be no com-
pulsory restriction of acreage by the
Commonwealth, and the States are not
likely to attempt it. The only restriction
is likely to be brought about by economic
circumstances. Cameron says the matter
will be left to the farmers. He suggests
adoption of mixed farming in unpayable
areas, and says that the Federal Govern-
ment is considering assistance to a hay-
production scheme.
Every means of absorbing wheat should
be considered. Undoubtedly a large
quantity of grain could be sold o"erseasin
carcasses, for which the shipping position
is better than for grain. And much
could be used in maintaining the wool
supply. To market hay in the interior
districts in sufficient quantities would
need the close co-operation of the rail-
ways, but is worth investigating.
N.S.W. Wheat Census.
“A.A.D.”: Ten bread wheats officially
recommended for N.S.W. occupied 79
p.c. of the State’s total area of 4,625,000
acres sown in 1939. Two discards,
Nabawa and Baringa, were grown on 11
P-c.
A statistical variety census shows that
the Westralian Bencubbin, which outed
Nabawa, won first place with a total of
1,122,104 acres, or 25.26 p.c. of the whole
area. From 102,977 acres in 1936 it
increased to 746,093 acres in 1938, when
its high-yielding capacity probably con-
tributed largely to the season’s ten mil-
lion bushel excess over the harvest esti-
mates.
After two years as first favorite, Ford
dropped back from 994,110 to 831,515
acres, or 18 p.c., but was still the most
popular mid-season variety. No other
mid-season variety seems likely to dis-
place it.
Dundee, a consistently productive,
strong-strawed wheat of good baking
quality, had an unexpected setback,
ranking third with 641,027 acres (13.86
p.c.), compared with its maximum of
816,233 acres in 1938. Fourth was
Nabawa, 419,532 acres (9.07 p.c.), as
against 747,749 in 1938-39 and the State
record of 1,135,720 in 1934. Then fol-
lowed Ranee, 274,294 acres (206,020);
Waratah, 241,655 (286,088); Gular,
150,311 (95,264); Pusa 4, 135,352
(133,358); Bobin, 128,652 (146,285);
Geeralying, 96,149 (101,480); Ghurka,
63,361 (87,284).
For the current sowing Gular has been
recommended to displace Geeralying as
an early variety, because of its high bak-
ing and higher yielding qualities ; and in
the hallmarked list Ranee, Waratah,
Bobin and Ghurka are recommended for
defined areas only.
Of promising newer varieties the
census shows increasing favor for Pusa
3, Bordan, Fedweb 1 (rust-immune) and
Cailloux.
“Yanco”: A native beetle (Lanis
femoralis ) which has taken to rice crops
on the Murrumbidgee (N.S.W.) irriga-
tion areas has done damage up to 20
p.c. of some crops, and probably averag-
ing 3 p.c. to 4 p.c. of the whole. Dust-
ing with one part barium and four of
hydrated lime has given effective control,
but is not easily applied in submerged
fields.
Outback Occupations.
No. XVIII.
Fodder Conservation (2),
While you are still swollen with pride
over the fact that your stored fodder
won the district contest, the local paper
arrives. A fine black headline greets
you:—•
FORDCUBBIN WINS
Local Farmer Sets Fine
Fodder Example
Then it goes on:
It is with pleasure that we have to report
that Mr. J. Fordcubbin, of Cowra-road, one
of our most progressive and up-to-date dis-
trict farmers, won the first prize, a set of
cutlery valued at £lO 10s., given by the Dis-
trict Pastoral, Horticultural and Agricultural
Society for the best collection of stored fodders
within its area. By his win Mr. Fordcubbin,
who came to this district 14 years ago from
Eucahpivy and took up the well-known
property, Lindisfarne, has established a high
reputation for wise husbandry and that care-
ful attention to the needs of the future that is
in the best tradition of the yeomen of the
Empire.
It may well be emphasised at this juncture
that it is the application of the higher and
more scientific developments of primary pro-
duction in this grave crisis that affects our
national, nay, our very Empirical, position in
the modern world, that will enable the British
race not only to survive and conquer the
threat to its existence made by the brutish
barbarians of the Prussian type now infesting
modern Germany, but will also enable us to
rise superior and supreme to the inevitable
economic, social and psychological irruptions
and disturbances that may disintegrate those
unfortunate peoples who lack individuals of
the type of Mr. Fordc. etaoin shrdlu et.
By thus giving a lead to his fellow-farmers,
not only in this district but throughout the
State and to the sea-girt boundaries of this
splendid Commonwealth, Mr. Fordcubbin has
set an example that should prove an in-
spiration to all men, no matter what their
sphere of market operations with backfatters
at 225. 6d.
By winning the prize, he has established
himself as an agricultural leader in an agri-
cultural community, and has shown that he is
without peer in the knowledge necessary for
the establishment of a reserve of fodder cal-
culated to ensure the life of stock throughout
the lean period that inevitably follows a period
of plenty.
Speaking at last night’s meeting of the P.H.
and A. Society, the secretary (Mr. Dogthistle)
congratulated Mr. Fordcubbin in his absence,
and regretted that so little interest was shown
in the contest that Mr. Fordcubbin was the
only entrant.
“Blimey,” you say, not quite sure what
it means, but dead certain that every-
body else in the district is reading it and
that you daren’t show your nose in town,
at the sales or at church for at least
six weeks without encountering an un-
merciful chiacking.
But you are not even safe at home.
You answer the ’phone.
“Fordcubbin here.”
“Jones here.. Just been reading about
your win, Jack. Congratulations.”
“Thanks.”
“Oh, by the way, Jack, what about
sending a bit of your sweetest silage to
the Prime Minister? You know, the
paper says you’ll have to inspire”
You hang up and turn to the wife,
telling her that, no matter who rings
for the next month, you are not at home.
You add bitterly that as it was her idea
in the first place she can now accept all
the congratulations likely to come by
'phone, mail or word of mouth. More-
over, you add, as she sits and contem-
plates that lovely cutlery set she can
spare a thought for a devoted husband
who has made himself the laughing-
stock of the district and cannot
The wife interrupts with a cold re-
minder that she has not received the
cutlery set yet, and when you go to town
on Saturday you can call round on Mr.
Dogthistle and get it.
You declare emphatically that wild
horses wouldn’t drag you within a mile
of the town until the thing dies down.
On Saturday you drive round the back
of the town and sneak down side streets
to Dogthistle’s office.
“What about that cutlery set?”
“Oh, that,” he says. “Of course, it
will be presented next show day on the
showground.”
“What, have I got to come out in
front of a lot of grinnin’ hyenas t’ get
it? Not on y’ life!”
He explains that the rules of the con-
test insist on its being handed over on
show day, and adds that the rules of the
society are “as tight as the laws of the
Medes and them other blokes.” Then
he says that the R.A.S. judge and party
will be along next week to inspect your
fodder for the State divisional champion-
ship.
“It’s a great chance, Jack,” he says,
“ ’cos they have reporter blokes from
the city papers, with cameras. Take y’
picture an’ all, they do.”
You back hurriedly out of his office.
“Where are y’ goin’?” he cries.
“T’ burn me haystacks,” you shout
as you vanish down the side streets.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
In future names —though required as a guarantee of good faith—will not be
published unless it is clear that the writers don’t object. Many do, and give good
reasons—domestic, industrial, departmental, military—for preferring anonymity.
For a sympathetic study of the coalminer, “One of the Mob,” who writes from
Adelaide, draws double pay. Incidentally, capital contributions are coming from
South Australia.
Coalminers
To understand the coal strike one
must study the miners. Owing to the
peculiar and unnatural conditions of
their employment they are almost a race
apart, not only in Australia, but in all
countries. Two-thirds of their life, when
working and sleeping, is completely cut
off from the world as we know it. Coal-
getting has no educational value, no in-
spiration ; it is as near to a mental
vacuum as possible. Its only physical
effects are sweat and fatigue, hunger and
thirst.
The natural reaction to such depress-
ing toil is a desire for stimulation and
excitement and the company of the herd.
The average miner is a good-hearted
fellow, but he is easily led by anyone
more gifted with the gab than himself,
such as a strike agitator or a religious
revivalist, and he will follow either with
equal enthusiasm. He has no money
sense, and usually gets rid of his wages
by the fastest route possible. The future
to him is dark, and he lives only for the
next payday, which usually finds him
poor, no matter what his last cheque was.
Apart from sport, his favorite means
of self-expression is music. He will spend
more of his leisure than any other
worker at band or choir practice, and
he is a joy to teach and conduct.
His heart is in the right place, but
those who would reach it must talk to
him in a language he understands—
simple, forcible and backed up by plenty
of gesture. Billy Hughes used to know
the lingo. —One of the Mob (S.A.).
Desirable Guests
Whale oil is of definite military im-
portance as a basis for explosives, and
was used largely in Germany for .the
manufacture of margarine and soap.
For 10 years and longer the Norwegian
whaling fleets have been the world’s
largest producers of it, Britain coming
second. The Norwegian fleets are now
on their way back to Europe, and it is
practically certain that they will seek
British protection while German forces
remain in Norway.
If, instead of making their base in
British waters, the Norwegian fleets were
to transfer it to Australia for the duration
of the war, they would gain many
advantages. Safety from enemy attack
by air or sea is the most outstanding one
under present conditions —it would be
extremely difficult, if not impossible, to
replace any of the big factory ships with
their complicated outfit of special
machinery. Economy is another —more
than 20,000 sea miles of steaming would
be saved on the round trip each year
and the oil could be carried to its over-
seas destinations much more cheaply
by chartering tankers which leave empty.
First-rate harbor facilities, docks,
shipyards fully capable of building
chasers, engineering plants and all other
facilities for maintaining the fleets in full
efficiency are available. Food supplies
are cheap and abundant. Facilities and
assistance for bringing to Australia the
families of the crews would carry
advantages to Britain and ourselves.
Australia would benefit by the intro-
duction of a new and lucrative industry
in full working order. For more than
six months of every year the fleets would
be in Australian waters. If only for the
duration of the war we would gain
several thousand immigrants, all sup-
ported by the new industry and all con-
tributing to the support of Australian
industries. Many would probably elect
to remain permanently in preference to
returning to a war-shattered homeland,
and there are no better immigrants than
Norwegians.
It would be a gracious and proper
action for the Australian Government to
extend through the British Government
an invitation to the Norwegian whaling
fleets to make their base in Australia
for so long as their home ports remain
untenable or unsafe. No question of
interfering with industrial balance or
competing with local labor or industry
can arise. On the contrary, increased
employment for Australians would be
created.— Captain Pintle (Q.).
A Working Man
There’s a bit too much sneering at the
Italian. True, his ways are not ours,
and he persists in clinging to the language
and customs of his country, and because
of this he is not much of a social asset,
but he does manage to more than pull
his weight when it comes to hard work.
For example, during the recent drought
our Australian-born market gardener
made moan, looked apprehensively at
his water-meter, folded his arms while
his paddocks burnt up and waited for
the rain to come before replanting. Not
so the Italian on the next holding ; with
his sprinklers going all day and well into
the night he kept up a rotation of crops
and put more land under cultivation than
ever before. He got some astounding
prices for his produce, but, as our Aus-
tralian hastened to add, he must have
run up terrific expenses and “could not
have made much out of it all.”
That’s our attitude —nothing is worth
while unless it’s a “good thing.” The
Italian, however, was content to work
long hours under very trying conditions
and for small profits to supply Sydney-
siders with urgently needed greens. He
was also able to employ from six to nine
youths at award rates when they would
otherwise have been idle for about three
months. — Bungarrer (N.S.W.).
Example Needed
Our politicians are continually spout-
ing about the people making further sac-
rifices in the interests of national de-
fence. When Mr. Menzies follows the
example of the late Michael Savage and
voluntarily reduces his own salary and
those of his Ministers maybe the people
will be more inclined to make “further
sacrifices.” As it is, the poor basic-wage
and middle-class workers are doing most
of the sacrificing. Dinkum Demo
(W.A.).
Real Pacifism
There exists among a large section of
the community the mistaken conviction
that pacifism represents peace at any
price, even to the point of disloyalty and
treachery. Nothing could be more ridi-
culous. The genuine pacifist will use
armed force only as a last resource, but
use it he will if necessary. Never will,
he favor a negotiated peace if it in-
volves the sacrifice of honor or justice.
He realises too well that any other course
would be suicidal. It is this all-important
reservation that distinguishes the real
pacifist from the fraud.
A small number of self-styled paci-
fists have recently brought odium and
disrepute upon the whole movement by
their wild utterances. They are no more
pacifists than Hitler. The white-anting
proclivities of Moscow’s fifth-columnists
are well known. They will try to sabo-
tage any well-worth-while movement that
promises a better and a happier world.
Pacifism’s aim is to prevent war by
removing the obstacles that endanger
peace. Today the two greatest obstacles
to international goodwill and accord are
Hitler and Stalin. Until they are re-
moved there can be no true peace. And
that is why you find the true pacifists, in
many instances, on active service over-
seas and at home, not speaking beneath
the hammer and the sickle in the
Domain. — Ricardo (N.S.W.).
War and the Farmer
Instead of being engaged in activities
organised as part of the general war
plan, farmers are pursuing their own
ways, all certainly ready to do their best,
but not knowing which are the most
effective methods to adopt. There has
been no attempt at national organisation
or even a review of the possibilities.
Contracts for the sale of certain goods
to Britain have certainly been arranged,
but nothing has been done to ensure
that those contracts are filled to the
greatest advantage in the Allied war
effort.
Although it may depend ultimately on
the individual, some lead on a national
basis must be given to the primary pro-
ducers of Australia, who, as the war
goes on, will probably be called on for
increased production. Unimportant
activities must be replaced by work that
is vital, waste must be eliminated, costs
must be kept down and efficiency must
be increased.
At the same time, producers must be
placed in a position where they can meet
the readjustments which will be neces-
sary in the post-war period. A lead has
been given in Manitoba, Canada, where
a War-time Committee of Agriculture
has been set up to assist agriculture to
achieve its national obligations.
The committee’s programme consists
basically of the stimulation of ordinary
peace-time farm activities. It is working
for intensified drought prevention, con-
servation of fodder on the farm, guard-
ing against crop failures by diversifica-
tion and other means, improved breed-
ing of stock, reduction of wastage, such
as badly-balanced feeding and the feed-
ing of poor-type animals, replacement of
inefficient implements and machinery
and development of co-operation.
If they were worth a tinker’s damn,
Australian State Parliaments —all of
which have Departments of Agriculture
—would have organised agriculture on
a war-time basis months ago. Paul
Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Departments Are Privileged
With Government departments issuing
instructions to their staffs to economise
in the use of paper, an action of the
N. S. Wales Tramways Department is
remarkable. In every Sydney tram
notices were posted giving details of
changed services due to the coal strike.
The notices were pasted back to back on
glass divisions so that people in adjoin-
ing compartments could read them. If
the notices had been printed on both
sides, only half as much paper would
have been necessary. Mullengah
(N.S.W.).
Business in War-time
So “Celt” (B. 24/4/’4O) believes that
“gas, electric light, coal and other essen-
tial supplies should have been taken over
by the Government immediately upon the
outbreak of war!” Thank Heaven that
our Government had sufficient sense to
refrain from doing anything so silly.
If Governmental administration of in-
dustry in Australia —and there is plenty
of it —has taught us anything, it is that
the less the Government has to do with
the running of industry the better for
the community. There are matters in
which the Government should exercise
control, such as the supervision of factory
conditions, the regulation of hours and
the prevention of abuse of monopolies
where these are necessary. But even in
peace-time Governmental methods of
administration are unsuitable for indus-
try, as witness the failure of many un-
happy ventures in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria. In war-time, with constantly
changing conditions to be met, with quick
decisions to be made and risks to be
taken, Governmental control of industrial
concerns could lead only to widespread
dissatisfaction. If businessmen with
decades of experience in their particular
line find war-time adjustments difficult,
what chance would Governmental officials
with no experience have of making neces-
sary changes?
It is one thing to restrict profits and
cut down wastage in industry ; it is quite
another to “take over” major industries
and run them to the community’s advan-
tage. The Australian Government —beg
pardon, the Australian Governments —
already own coalmines and railways
which have to be kept going out of
national revenue. Can anything be
gained by adding to their number those
stable industries that now contribute to
national funds, but cannot be expected
to pay for themselves under Govern-
mental control? —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Art and Propaganda
Here we are in the eighth month of
the most momentous war in history and
not a single attempt has been made by
any one of our seven Governments to
make an artistic appeal to our people by
means of a well-designed poster. Look
at the billboards, station hoardings, and
other places where the advertisers try
to attract the attention of the public.
Somebody’s soap, somebody else’s beer,
somebody else’s fruit salts, innumerable
summonses to various picture palaces per
medium of sex-pull, but not a single
appeal for their full support in this war
of life and death.
There are lots of matters that should
be brought to the notice of the people,
and the mouths of politicians are not the
most suitable means for doing it. Why
doesn’t the Government call in the assist-
ance of a few Australian artists tQ design
some suitable posters for propaganda
work?
The deep-seated inertia of the
average Australian could be overcome
by well-designed posters. This is really
a war of propaganda, and it is time we
awoke to that fact. There are things
going on in our social life which are
hindering a united and intense war effort.
Many of these things our politicians
have not the courage to talk about. In
the ninth month of the last war horse-
racing was practically abandoned in Eng-
land on patriotic grounds. Have we
the courage to face that sort of issue?
Have any of our politicians the moral
courage to speak plainly about that sort
of thing?
The screen, too, should be made use
of in an artistic way. The visual im-
pression which properly designed propa-
ganda of this sort could convey would
have far more value than any number
of speeches by politicians.— Australart
(N.S.W.).
Fifth Column
We have been guilty of three major
sins of omission since this war started ;
we have failed to grasp the fact that
our Nazi enemies will stick at nothing,
we have regarded Communists as just
noisy nuisances, and we have been guilty
of the cardinal folly of imagining that
enemy agents in real life act in the same
way as the Hollywood puppets do on the
films.
If spies acted as do comic-strip charac-
ters of the “Schmidt der Spy” type, they
wouldn’t remain enemy agents for long.
In reality the enemy within the gates is
about the last person one would suspect.
He works like the white-ant —in the dark
and always under cover.
In countries where there is a strong
leavening of German stock, the Nazi
agent has no trouble about finding ready
ears and willing assistants. In countries
like Australia such activities among
people of predominantly British stock
would soon come to a drastic finish, but
there are other ways. Workmen would
reject a stranger who talked of getting
them to aid Germany, but they will,
and do, listen to Communists. They
couldn’t be bribed to throw a spanner
into a valuable machine or to sabotage
the lubricating systems by adding
abrasive powder to the oil but they
will come out on strike.
We have a Fifth Column. As in the
case of Poland, Denmark, Norway and —
probably America, they are the last
people you would suspect until their time
comes.
We have no shortage of sites for con-
centration camps.—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Sixth Column
Fifth Column agents are very much in
the news, but the press ignores the nit-
wits who comprise the Sixth Column.
These creatures spout nonsense about the
folly of war and sneer at patriotism. They
blame the Allies for everything, keep
harping about Versailles and Munich,
and argue that Hitler and Stalin are quite
reasonable chaps who have been blud-
geoned into war by Big Finance.
Sixth Columnists won’t fight anyone.
They would welcome any invader with
brass bands. Few *are Reds, but they’ve
swallowed plenty of Moscow tripe and
Nazi blather. Scared of being forced to
do anything, they keep up their spirits
by running down the nation’s war effort
and repeating “There’ll never be con-
scription in this country.”
Sixth Columnists aren’t dangerous at
the moment, but their sickening argu-
ments will gain converts in coming
months. — Blurtinax (N.S.W.).
Straight Talk from an American
After two and a half years in Australia
as U.S. Consul-General, T. M. Wilson,
about to return to his own country,
praised Australia’s tourist attractions, but
roundly condemned travelling facilities—
except the air services, which he believes
second to none —and hotel accommoda-
tion. The gentleman has seen most of
the place and wouldn’t mind settling
down here, preferably about Alice
Springs or some point farther north.
Apparently, the “Dead Heart” has no
terrors for him. Mr. Wilson’s remarks
should stir up Canberra, which pays out
£20,000 or so a year to a body called the
Australian National Travel Association,
though there are a crowd of Government
Tourist Bureaux and stacks of private
travel agencies.
Mr. Wilson’s remarks should also
bring home to State Governments the
deadly effects of their strangling transport


laws, which aim at confining long-dis-
tance travel to trains, often slow, dirty
and ramshackle. Mr. Wilson will be
able to travel from end to end of
America in luxurious motor coaches that
get over the ground at astonishing speed
with a maximum of safety and comfort.
There the railroads have to compete
against modern road and air travel, with
the result that the general standard of
passenger trains would make the ordi-
nary Australian traveller feel he was a
millionaire, so surrounded with luxury
would he be, while their average speed
would astound him.
Australia was on the verge of fast and
comfortable road travel when the Trans-
port Acts got their grip, forced budding
coaches off the roads and compelled the
people to go back to railways, which
make anyone who has to travel long dis-
tances on them, especially if taking chil-
dren, shudder at the prospect.
As for hotels, though there has been
some improvement here and there, the
general standard is quite as low as the
Consul-General suggests. Many travellers
now prefer to pitch an auto-tent outside
the town rather than stop at the pub.
In general, the various Licensing Acts
seem to confine themselves to policing
after-hours trade. Were the same energy
expended on forcing publicans to provide
civilised accommodation as is put forth
in compelling them not to serve a drink
on a hot night, the popular pastime of
avoiding overnight stops in country pubs
would disappear. Where the accommo-
dation is adequate, the cost is generally
beyond the average pocket.
Mr. Wilson believes Australia could
attract many American tourists, but the
poor travel and hotel accommodation
makes him hesitate to recommend it to
fellow-Americans, and no Australian
familiar with the country will blame him.
It seems to him the Australian is “a
hardy bird, prepared to put up with
things as they are,” and his words apply
to other things as well as to those which
inspired them. —O. T. (N.S.W.). .
The Country Mobilised
Recent overseas events have indicated
that the war may be brought uncom-
fortably close to Australia, and to meet
possible emergencies a much more com-
prehensive defence scheme than is operat-
ing now is necessary. Invasion is a ter-
rible thing, and we cannot close our eyes
to the fact that our country may be
invaded.
Australians are known throughout the
world as tough fighters, but fighting men
have to be trained and many of our citi-
zens have had no training. The present
compulsory system is a step in the right
direction, but it affects only a fraction of
our total man-power. Members of the
original A.I.F. and men trained before
the abandonment of the compulsory sys-
tem would swell the numbers of an army
for defence, but they could not be organ-
ised in a hurry. For that reason some
system of training and military organisa-
tion to include every able-bodied man in
the Commonwealth is a vital necessity.
A system can be introduced at a mini-
mum of expense, and without placing
any great burdens on the present defence
staffs. Defence groups could be formed
in every community—town or country—
throughout Australia, and they could be
trained and led by experienced fighting
men —members of the first A.1.F., who
are to be found everywhere in Australia.
Each group could comprise, say, up
to 50 men, who would undergo regular
elementary military training, and a cer-
tain number of groups could form a bat-
talion, with further grouping providing
brigades and divisions. Every man would
then know to which unit he belonged, and
trial mobilisations would enable the
whole defence force —which would com-
prise the whole of our man-power—to be
called out without confusion in a very
short time. Except for the supreme com-
mand, the whole of the organisation
could be left to the Diggers, and, as
defence of the country is an obligation
on everyone, there would be no payment
to any officer or man, and no exemp-
tions, except for illness or total in-
capacity.
Chief value of the system would be
smooth mobilisation, avoidance of con-
fusion, and the fact that every man
would know what he had to do and how
to do it. With the country organised on
such a basis, a potential invader would
think twice about tackling us. — James
Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Literary Appreciation
There has been a great deal written
about the Australian writer and the lack
of appreciation accorded him in his own
land, but I suspect that the truth of the
matter is that we do not appreciate the
great literature of any other country
either.
Since refugees have been trickling into
this country I have met various men
and women from Austria, Paris, Hungary,
Germany, etc., and in every instance I
have been astonished and delighted by
their appreciation and close knowledge
of literature. One of these people, a
French doctor, has read so extensively
that I began to wonder if there were any
English writer of note of whom he had
not heard, and he has even introduced
me to literary genius of my own country.
Then there was the young German Jew
of about 24 who was methodically read-
ing his way through Brett-Young’s The
House Under the Water, one of those
books that the average young male Aus-
tralian would dismiss as far too long
and heavy. I was able to discuss
Lawrence and Huxley with him, and as
soon as I mentioned writers he had not
previously heard of out came his note-
book and pencil.
I was ashamed to confess to this eager
young man, stumbling over the difficul-
ties of our language, that my own slight
knowledge of the great writers of his
own country was practically nil. My
shame was added to and the conversation
made awkward by the interjections of
other people who kept chiming in
with, “I used to love Rider Haggard.
Have you read She, or that thing by
Edgar Wallace?”
I recently read in an English weekly
that British publishers export no less
than a third of their total output. It
stressed the importance of keeping up
this export trade, not only for financial
reasons but because British books are
the best propagators of British ideals.
Neither can the fact be overlooked that
this idea can be reversed —by reading the
best literature of another country we, too,
may have an insight into the minds of
the people.
Surely something could be done in the
way of educating our children to appre-
ciate the best in the world of literature,
so that when they grow up they are con-
noisseurs of books. — Audrey F. Francis
(S.A.).
Writing for Love
In my particular case and, I suspect,
in the case of many others, “Wusslean”
(B. 1/5/’4O) is wrong when he says that
growth of new markets for the work of
the Australian writer can never help him
to write one whit better. It was John-
son who said something about a man
being a fool if he wrote without the
idea of pecuniary reward. Arnold
Bennett agreed with him. Like these two
gents, I write for so much a thousand
words, and experience no joy abounding
from the act of toil itself.
If writing is ever to become a labor
of free love, that time will approximate
my laying aside of the pen. In “Wuss-
lean’s” opinion I may be of the earth
earthy, but the freelance game is a pre-
carious existence at the best, and the
main trouble at the present time is the
scarcity of markets.
“Wusslean” seems to have ignored en-
tirely the time factor in the growth of
a writer. Today I’m writing better
stories than I wrote five years ago. It
stands to reason that with the accumu-
lated experience of the next few years
I’ll be turning out even better stuff.
Meanwhile I’ll be sending a few pot-
boilers to the new markets (there’s a
Wild Wester) and learning how to write.
I’ll still be learning how to write when
I die, but in the meantime I don’t intend
to hasten that day by starvation. — Eddie
Torial (N.S.W.).
Education and Its Critics
There were three of them this week
(B. 1 / 5 / ’4O) —“Retep” and E. Carol in
the “Other Fellow’s Mind,” and Stephen
Leacock on the Red Page. Teachers
came in for some criticism as well, but
let me point out that they are keenly
aware of the shortcomings. The Educa-
tion Reform Association in this State
was sponsored and is functioning mainly
because of the efforts of the peds.—most
of them in the State service. But being
aware of the defects and being able to
do much about it are two different things.
A teacher’s first job is to teach the
curriculum, and his advancement depends
upon his success in doing this. His efforts
to make the whole thing a live one are
subject to the opinions of reactionary
seniors, either in the job or as interested
parties. Naturally, very few teachers in
the service cross swords with their bread
and butter. But they are aware of the
shortcomings. They see youngsters
come to school lively, enthusiastic and
curious, and leave it in apathetic, scatter-
brained adolescence. What can they do
about large classes, useless examinations
and ridiculous subjects? The mills of
so-called education have ground out a
future citizen shorn of individuality and
the ability to think for himself.
Teachers have seen worth-while
schemes begin, or have begun them—
School Forestry, Young Farmers, Bird
Leagues, Australian Literature Groups,
and so on —to see them perish in a few
years through apathy from above or
lack of funds, or to be pushed aside by
the examination colossus. They know
that the subjects they study themselves,
to qualify, are as dry as dust and as
much divorced from life.
You don’t have to be a psychologist
to see where children’s interests lie, and
any teacher worth his salt could graft
school work on to these with the aid of
good libraries and equipment, and re-
lease from exam, requirements. As .'t
is, he sees the radio, the talkies, comics,
etc., usurp his power and show young-
sters the high road to emptiness. —
Athos (Vic.).
Superfluous?
The S.A. Public Works Committee is
not as superfluous as The Bulletin
(10/4/’4O) seems to think, and “V.H.L.”
(B. 1/5/’4O) might well have added this
point to his “retort courteous.”
In the past two years the committee
has saved the State an amount eleven
or twelve times greater than the cost of
its operations. It forced the Architect-
in-Chiefs Department to cut down the
cost of a new hospital at Wallaroo from
£56,000 to £37,000, a saving of £19,000.
Then the committee said that a boys’
high school which the department wanted
to build in Adelaide for £68,000 should
be obtainable for £53,000, and the Gov-
ernment, steering a middle course, has
set the limit at £60,000. As against the
net saving of £27,000 in these two cases
alone, the annual cost of the committee’s
operations to taxpayers is only £l2OO, or
£2400 in the two years concerned. —
Jake (S.A.).
Retort Discourteous
Of all the silly nostrums for improv-
ing the government of this misgoverned
country, that of “Nairb” (B. l/5/’4O)
takes the bun. Briefly, he plans to
abolish State Governments and set up a
central Government of 21 members
whose qualifications would be honesty,
competency and willingness to forgo
salaries and pay all expenses, even that
of travelling.
The one virtue in the scheme is the
abolition of State Parliaments; the rest
is so full of holes that it looks like a
colander. To begin with, the men chosen
would have to be absolutely honest, or
they might be bribed or use their power
for their own ends, there being no Par-
liament to check them.
The task of finding 21 men with the
integrity of Caesar’s wife would be further
complicated by the fact that they could
be sought for only among the wealthy so
that they could afford the demands to
be made upon them. I recall something
about it being easier for a camel to
squeeze through the eye of a needle than
for a rich man to enter heaven.
And if 21 impeccable and competent
men were to be had, who would dis-
cover them? Surely this would be im-
possible for the people at large. Then
if these difficulties were overcome, there
would still be the problem of getting the
chosen few to agree with one another
about a policy. They could not disagree,
because then they would inevitably form
factions which would result in the “party
squabbling” which “Nairb” condemns.
(Parties, after all, are only groups of
people who band together to obtain their
common ends.) On the other hand, if
they agreed we should have a dictatorship
of one school of thought, opposition to
it being ruled out as “party squabbling.”
Anyway, why is the diligent Parliamen-
tarian considered less worthy of his hire
than the pick-swinger or pen-pusher, and
why should he be expected to pay travel-
ling expenses necessitated by his work
when this could be afforded only by the
wealthy? Australia needs one Parlia-
ment, membership of which should carry
a salary worthy of the best brains of the
nation.—A. G. (N.S.W.).
Gambling
The wowser brays that man’s inherent
evil is the cause of gambling. An English
investigator hit the nail on the head when
he stated that the trouble today is not
petty gambling between man and man
but the emergence of gambling as a trade
and the systematic exploitation of a
human weakness by a professional class.
One has only to think of the organisation
behind racing in this country to admit
the truth of that indictment. Without
turf supplements and football competi-
tions circulations would flop.
On a population basis I would suggest
we are even worse gamblers than the
English. In Britain football pool betting
launches over 30,000,000 letters a week
addressed to the Goddess of Chance.
That, from a population of 45 million!
And the chances of guessing correctly
are one in many millions. I haven’t
the Australian figures, but proportion-
ately I fancy they are as great as Eng-
land’s annual betting turnover of
£400,000,000. This diversion of good
cash from productive channels is amaz-
ing and criminal when we learn that this
sum is almost equivalent to the com-
bined local expenditure in England and
Wales on elementary and higher educa-
tion, hospitals, public libraries, maternity
welfare, asylums, police, parks, poor re-
lief, sewerage, tramways, waterworks,
baths, cemeteries, fire brigades, elec-
tricity, gas, harbors, highways, justice,
housing, public lighting—and the rest.
Armed with these facts, you have all the
answers to those Fireside Fusiliers who
affect to decry war expenditure. There's
a power of money going west on Hairy
Legs every year in this country, and it
hasn’t even got the justification of war
expenditure.
Gambling, that imaginary, squalid,
mechanical, unlovely adventure of those
who have never been able to encounter
or create the real, necessary and salutary
adventure of life —as Maeterlinck
observed years ago—can be robbed of
its lure for the masses. Make the press
soft-pedal on racing, competitions and
the daily instilling of delusions of gran-
deur in thousands of readers who have
neither the education to realise the odds
against them nor the discipline to apply
themselves to better things.—C. Halbert
(Vic.).
Power Alcohol
The suggestion that we should produce
power alcohol in Australia (B. 24/4/’4O)
is always cropping up, but it is not one
that will bear critical examination by
anyone willing to do a little simple
arithmetic.
It is not possible to grow any known
crop as a commercial alcohol proposition.
The only practicable raw materials are
waste products or substances that are
practically useless for other purposes.
In Australia, molasses is the only suit-
able source of alcohol, but, though it is
a waste product, the methylated spirits
produced from it can hardly compete
with petrol even at current prices.
Since alcohol is already partly oxy-
genated, a gallon of it contains only five-
eighths of the energy of the same quan-
tity of petrol, hence it is worth only
five-eighths of the price of petrol as a
source of power. It can withstand higher
compression than petrol, and so can be
burnt more efficiently in an engine, but
under the best conditions its value does
not exceed three-quarters of that of petrol.
If petrol is worth 2s. per gallon, alcohol
is worth Is. 6d.
Potatoes are often suggested as suit-
able raw material. Only the starch con-
tent is convertible to alcohol, and of this
potatoes contain, on an average, less than
20 per cent., and of that about 45 per
cent, is recovered as alcohol in com-
mercial fermentations. In other words,
one ton of potatoes yields about 200
pounds of alcohol. This is about 24
gallons, worth, at the retail price men-
tioned, £1 16s. Since the costs of
carriage, manufacture, duties and market-
ing have to be met, the price that a
distillery could pay for a ton of potatoes
is obviously very low, and no farmer
could grow potatoes for alcohol.
Grapes, which do not average more
than 25 per cent, of sugar, would yield
only a little more alcohol, since other
factors are the same. The current price
of fortifying spirit from grapes in S.A.
is 4s. 6d per gallon. Wheat and maize
contain nearly three times as much starch,
and so are worth about £6 per ton as
alcohol. That is, if it cost nothing to
manufacture or market the alcohol,
wheat would be worth 3s. and maize 2s.
per bushel. Even the processing of wild
prickly-pear was not considered a com-
mercial proposition by a company that
investigated its possibilities.
Chemical processes, on the other hand,
show definite promise. To realise them
would involve a costly research into the
application of catalysts, though some
progress has already been made overseas.
The raw materials required are only coa;
or charcoal and water. A ton of coal,
if completely converted to alcohols, would
yield approximately 550 gallons. If M
efficiency of only 10 per cent, could be
obtained on a commercial scale, the yiek
of over 50 gallons per ton of coal would
allow of the product being sold at a
competitive price against petrol. A high
yield cannot be expected, but it would
probably greatly exceed 10 per cent
Estimates by technicians who understand
the problems are that alcohols obtained
by such a process should cost less than
6d. per gallon to produce—some say
much less.
An Australian oil company recently
stated that it had spent over £750,000
searching for oil in Australia. It is a
reasonable bet that much less spent on
chemical research would establish
catalytic power-alcohol production as l
commercial proposition.—Cho (SAJb


Mainly
Mail-Order
ROLEX OYSTER
PROVED
& TESTED.
NAVY.
AIR
FORCE,
fg
Will Give Service for 14*©.
DIAMOND
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
f
all
occupa
tions,
Water-
proof,
PRICE
£ll.
Tudor
Oyster
£7/10/-.
112 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIDJONES
310QVS A3lod NOIdNVHO
f
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Rest, selected kip
HjM.., Haps and - skirls.
Min. knee pads. Sin. this'll
pads. d-Aiit., to Sin. dip in
Seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost . . . Buy your
batteries direct from the manufacturers and
save approximately half. All typos of wet
batteries for cars,, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting. “Marshall”
batteries carry the full guarantee of this
leading factory. There is iio better battery
made. Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery
Mfg. Co.
42 HAKBOUB STREET, SYDNEY.
LE-PO the celebrated
JUMPING FROG
f
A Real Startler.
Always a favorite with
young and old.
Buy a, team and have
Competitions.
Price, 1/3 each.
Two for 2/- (posted).
good sport can be enjoyed by
having two or more Frogs and backing
your favorite for speed in getting off
the mark. Le-po is nicely made of metal.
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SI
Electric Fence Char
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime. *
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
1940 RADIOS
40 per cent, off'retail prices and Free Home
Trial in districts where we have no agents.
To make you as confident as we are that
“Century” Radios have no superior in per-
formance or appearance, we make this
astounding offer. Your money returned with-
out question after leisurely trial if not satis-
fied. “Century” battery or plug-in sets
bring direct to your home the great cities
of the world, at all hours of the day or
night. Be first with the war-news and latest
entertainment. Write now for our new
catalogue of 1940 Century modern models.
CENTURY RADIO MFG. CO.
15 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY.
*
(Si
a
k
Q
cfyc*>
Q*
%
\ IS
y A
Si
lw
/
j
-'ZF>
>• 0- "*■ f
"I've stopped that fellow flyin through the hangar —
/ just shut the back door."
sr Splitting Gun
KKVOIXTIONISJSS TIMBER SPOTTING.
(Pat. 6727-32)
•zr
m
Driven into timber
without boring. lines
ordinary blasting
powder and fuse.
<Jun is liin. diam.,
IBin. long.
X’riee (for improved
niodvi), 35/.-.
(Add exchange.)
Postage: N.S.W., 2/—.
lilsewhure, 3/G.
Obtainable froth stores or from the manufacturers ,
MALRIC CO., 161 River St., Earlwood, SYDNEY
Musical Instruments
Mf
for 59/6
We will send you a beautiful
BANJO-MANDOLIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra Strings
for 59/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
Send for Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural heaping.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
11. A. NOEDL, 1j.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
THE BEST” RAT TRAP
Made in Australia.
(Pat. Applied for- No. 2427/1939.)
Press bait into hole, set as above. Test
showed 100 per cent, kills of rats up to 18
inches long. BAIT CANNOT BE TAKEN.
A touch up or down on trigger releases spring.
1/- each (plus postage 6d.).
10/- per dozen (plus postage 2/-).
A. M. CAMERON, Macdonell House
321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE “KEMPERLING”
A Smoker’s Friend.
3/6 value for I^6
f
FOB A BETTKB, SWEET KB SMOKE.
The inner clay bowl anil mouthpiece are
interchangeable anil obtainable.
Semi (id. stamps for liberal sample of
“Kevysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- per lb.
Worth 10/- per lb.; for cigarette or pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 8/5 dor.
Qenuipe Meerschaum Pipe contained in its
own case for 17/6. Honest value, 30/-.
SOL LEVY
Tobacconist, Est. 89 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
SUPER DUAL WAVE
RADIOS! From £l2/12/-
Every set guaranteed by RELIANCE.
SPECIAL, FEATURES include Neo-
scopic Station Tuning, Automatic,
Volume Control (A.V.C.), Latest
Triode-type Valves, Low and High
Frequency Tone Control, Ball-
bearing I)ial Operation for Smooth,
Accurate Tuning, Magnavox Speaker.
Terms as low as 2/9 weekly.
(Terms allowed, metropolitan area only.)
RELIANCE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86981.
First window on rioht from Georae St. (nr. G.P.0.).
IT'S HERE-WORLD’S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
f
NO
TUBES OR
BATTERIES
FITS Y O U R POCKET,
WEIGHS ONLY SOZS. Long
distance over 100 miles clear,
natural tone; superior performance.
No crystal to adjust; no upkeep.
Anyone can use in Hotels, Boats,
Beds, etc- ; takes few seconds to
connect. Guaranteed 5 years. Pay
postman 42/-, or Wire, Write, Call.
RE-NU, LTD. (Est. 1932), opp. Richmond Stn.,
Melb. 75 other lines. Agents required. Employ-
ment offers. For full particulars and free
samples send lOd. in stamps, refundable with
first order.
Wireless Statics Aerial Eliminator, connects to
any Wireless. Price 15/6. Weighs 3oz. Midge
Broadcaster, operates thru your own radio.
Do your own Broadcasting. Price, £l/1/—.
Lip - Perfect
English
The 54 Common Errors
The method is habit-forming-. Each error
is considered separately and the pupil very
soon speaks correctly without hesitation or
self-consciousness! He is shown, too, how to
find the proper pitch of his voice and how
to improve intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post and includes
adequate tests, criticism and comment. Par-
ticulars from E. H. Welford, 396 Flinders
Lane, -Melbourne.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
f
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
Ae NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
ACTS
pice tuc muon
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION
CO.
27H), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
BRIGGS & STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle l
SINGEE-CVEINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
i to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £18/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices yladly forwarded.
/
■P-'
AMPLIOH (A/SIA) pty limited!
■ S83 Kent St.. Sydney, N.S.W. J
WINCHESTER
g
SKATES
15/—2O/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
g
LAMBS SAVED
By Using- the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
-100 p.e. efficient—
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Twq Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
SOME COMMON SENS?
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE C 0...
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ĝ
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
15/5/’4O (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department, "The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


WORRY
ABOUT
PETROLS?
THE NE W
TEXACO
POWERCNItF
(Orange-Tinted, Anti-Knock)
SOLVES PROBLEM
You only get good mileage when
the engine develops FULL
POWER. It does that on the New
Texaco Power-Chief (orange-
tinted, anti-knock). Look at the
results of these recent R.A.C.A.
Tests:—
Chevrolet Sedan
Austin 8 H.P. Tourer
Vauxhall 14 H.P.
Willys Sedan
Morris 8/40
27.38 m.p.g.
45.95 m.p.g.
32.89 m.p.g.
33.03 m.p.g.
48.5 m.p.g.
ASK YOUR FRIENDLY TEXACO DEALER I
