

Life
Assurance
The safe
investment and
the family’s
safeguard.
Use it for your
own peace of
mind and the
security of
your Family.
COMMONWEALTH-
|«okaI umm
War Risk
Full risk is
carried on
pre-war
Policyholders in
their Country’s
Service either at
home or abroad
without extra
Premium.
HEAD OFFICE;
CORNER HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Xshe
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879
An Insurance Society which belongs to its Policyholders
and
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia
t
Assets Exceed £10,000,000
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED. WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3153.
Wednesday, July 17, 1940.
Open Season for Scapegoats
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


tlffi
sJJIsg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, us
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
ANCIENT MASTERPIECES.
Hear the dainty history of Bert and
Daisy, Arthur the dissolute and Violet
the virtuous; with pirates, brigands and
villains, a norrible scene of blood-
sacrifice, and true love triumphant at the
end. Bert was a pretty youth of no
great strength of character, and Bert was
going to marry Daisy on his old man’s
orders. But beautiful Violet his cousin
came to stay with the family and Bert—
shame on him—fell in love with her.
So did Arthur. The dirty dog made
up his mind to abduct her and hired a
band of pirates to do the foul deed. The
pirates, mere boneheaded men of action,
ran off with Daisy by mistake, and Bert,
though somewhat regretful at Daisy’s sad
fate, took full advantage of the absence
of his fiancee to woo the fragrant Violet.
Straying innocently into her bedchamber
one night, Bert struck a nasty snag in
Violet’s ma, and after a few more trials
and tribulations the lovers decided to flee
to sea.
The wind blew and the waves roared
and the ship sank and Bert and Vi,
clinging to the same piece of wreckage,
prayed that they might drown together
or be swallowed by the same shark. But
the happy pair floated safe ashore and
were promptly captured by brigands. The
course of young love, Bert observed
pithily, never did run smooth when
authors were short of a few bob. Worse
was to follow. The brigands were
attacked by soldiers and Bert escaped,
leaving his sweetheart in the brigands’
vile clutches. And then, as the poet has
it, the things they did to that poor kid
would shock Chicago city.
While Bert watched the proceedings
from a hiding place, they sacrificed the
girl on an altar in a particularly messy
manner. Bert’s heart was broken. But
just as he was about to stab himself over
the coffin in which the brigands had left
the remnants of his darling, up rushed a
couple of blokes, friends of their cruising
days, who had also been captured by the
brigands and who, they told the
trembling lover, had been forced to do
the sacrificing of Violet. With great
presence of mind they had fitted her with
a false abdomen and had performed their
grisly duty with a theatrical knife, and
the long-suffering female was indubitably
still alive in the coffin.
Well, after that Bert made advances
he really didn’t oughter to Vi and Vi
sent him hopping, and then a soldier
gave Vi a love-drug but Vi went potty
and foiled him ; and then another villain,
hiring another pirate band, abducted Vi
and bounded away over the bright blue
sea. Bert, though wounded, chased after,
and the brutes cut off Violet’s head and
threw her body in the sea.
So Bert married a widow. And then
Violet (for the pirates had cut off some-
body else’s head after all) got a job in
the widow’s household and gave Bert
beans. Then Bert got it in the neck or
elsewhere from another source, for the
widow’s husband (who was supposed to
, have been drowned but hadn’t been)
turned up. and gave him a thrashing.
Hubby locked Bert in an outhouse, then
put him in gaol and tried to murder him,
and also tried to make improper sug-
gestions to Violet. But it all turned out
all right in the end because Bert and
Violet got away and then found that the
dissolute Arthur, who had kidnapped
Daisy, had reformed under her gentle in-
fluence and wanted to marry her, so Bert
was free to marry Violet and they all
lived happy ever after except whoever it
was who had had her head chopped off.
Substitute Clitophon for Bert, Leucippe
for Violet, Calligone for Daisy and Cal-
listhenes for the wicked Arthur, and you
have a summary of one of the most
famous of the ancient Greek novels, the
Leucippe and Clitophon of Achilles
Tatius, supposed to have been written
about the third century a.d. As Pro-
fessor F. A. Todd of Sydney University
points out in Some Ancient
Novels (Oxford University
Press; Angus and Robert-
son), Tatius might well
be “a hack novelist pro-
ducing month by month his instal-
ment of a serial; not knowing, on
the delivery of his instalment, what he
is to write for the next; sure only that
he must be both sentimental and ‘sen-
sational,’ and that at the end he must
exhibit love triumphant.” But the Pro-
fessor also points out with justice that
the formula of young love, trials, villainy
and the happy ending is being worked as
industriously today as ever it was by the
ancients. Plots as ridiculous as Tatius’s
keep Hollywood and the love mags, alive.
Tatius (and Hollywood, too, it might as
well be granted) was not bound by any
canons of reality; he myths.
For contemporary reading, his great
fault is not so much the impossibility of
his incidents as the woodenness of his
characters. Bert (or Clitophon) does have
one human moment when he succumbs
to the wiles of the widow, and the widow
herself acts amusingly like a human
being, but .generally speaking the people
are puppets. Professor Todd quotes Bert
declaiming absurdly over the body of
Violet after she has been “sacrificed”
by the brigands:
They divided up the mysteries of thy
belly, and accursed were the altar and the
coffin that brought thee thy sepulture. Thy
body lies here but thy bowels where? If
the fire had consumed them, less grievous
had been thy fate; but now the sepulture
of thy bowels has become the sustenance
of bandits.
If this is the rhetorician at his worst,
there is nonetheless sufficient of the
euphuist in Tatius to give his writing
much charm and, for anyone who can
get hold of the translation by William
Burton (brother of the anatomist of
melancholy), there is the additional
attraction of Elizabethan prose.
Professor Todd’s next ancient novel, the
Daphnis and Chloe of Longus, is de-
servedly much better known than the tale
of Leucippe and Clitophon. It has its
share of absurdity, for its hero and
heroine are impossibly innocent, and the
incident of Dorkon’s cattle overturning
the pirate ship and swimming to the shore
when Chloe called to them upon the
herdsman’s pipes is one for the marines,
yet there is a degree of realism in the
descriptions of the family life of the
shepherd community, in the account of
the lady who taught Daphnis some of
the ways of love, and in the landscapes:
The place lay off about 10 furlongs; and
yet the Snow that lay unmelted found him
somewhat to do to passe through it. But
all things are pervious to Love, even Fire,
Water and Scythian Snowes. Therefore,
plodding through, he came up to the
Cottage, and when he had shook the Snow
from his thighs he set his snares and
prickt his lime-twiggs. Then he sate down
and thought of nothing carefully but Chloe
and the birds. There flew to the bushes
many birds, and a sufficient number was
taken to busie Daphnis a thousand ways,
in running up and dofan, in gathering, killing
and depluming his game. But nobody
stirred out of the Cottage; not a man or a
woman to be seen, not so much as a henne
at the door; but all were shut up in the
warm house.
Less realistic, but with a mellifluence
of vowels that must have delighted
Tennyson if he ever came across Geo.
Thornley’s translation, is the description
of the garden which Lampis, the “un-
toward, blustering fierce Herdsman,”
trampled in spite:
For all the Venus of the place was gone,
and nothing remained but a lutulent soil:
If any flower had escap’d, it bad yet, as it
was then, a half-hid floridness, and its
glance; and still was fair, although it was
laid. And still the bees sate thick upon
them, and all along in a mourning
murmur, sang the Funerall of the flowers.
Professor Todd pays due tribute to
the sweetness of the pastoral, but might
have stressed further Longus’s skilful use
of suspense; interest in Daphnis and
Chloe, purely as a story, never flags, and
that is because Longus is able, with
hardly any of the crude mechanisms of
Tatius, to suggest and then withhold his
climax in scene after scene until he
relents in the very last paragraph. One
other point is that the Professor hardly
does Thornley justice when he quotes his
advertisement, “A Most Sweet and
Pleasant Pastorall Romance for Young
Ladies,” without quoting Thornley’s
deliciously impertinent preface, in which
he makes it quite clear that he is address-
ing his translation to pretty broadminded
young ladies.
Professor Todd speaks truly when he
proceeds to Roman novels and says “We
find that in the novel, if in little else,
the Romans not only equalled but ex-
celled the Greeks.” Both the Satiricon
of Petronius and The Golden Ass of
Apuleius are as real as cheese or ditch-
water or the lower end of George-street on
Friday night. It doesn’t need the special
references, of which scores can be found,
to trace their influence down the ages.
They present the spirit of Cervantes, of
Rabelais and of Balzac, of Falstaff and of
Tristram Shandy, and they are as imme-
diately funny as Eric Linklater. Both
of them owe much to the so-called
“Milesian tales,” those traditional stories
of the type that found their way into
the Arabian Nights and the Decameron.
The best of Petronius is, of course,
Trimalchio’s famous dinner. Professor
Todd, possibly because a professor
doesn’t care to claim an expert knowledge
of such matters, omits to mention how
extraordinarily accurate is Petronius’s
description of the progress of this colossal
debauch, but it is a point worth noting.
When the host is carried in to the feast
he is sober enough to want to finish a
game of chess. As the wine flows, host
and guests go through all the correct
stages of intoxication: good humor,
love-making, quarrelling, Trimalchio’s
magnificent exhibition of the maudlin,
and then the general disgust in which
the guests escape.
There is no exaggeration in Professor
Todd’s praise of Petronius’s “miraculous
skill in character delineation,” contrasting
so strongly with the Greek novelists’
marionette shows. Here is Trimalchio’s
wife summed up in a paragraph of table
gossip (a translation by Professor Todd):
That’s Trimalchio’s wife: Fortunata is
her name; she measures her cash by the
peck. And only the other day, what was
she? You’ll excuse me, sir, you wouldn’t
have taken bread from her hand. Now,
without why or wherefore, she’s God
Almighty and Trimalchio’s factotus. In
fact, if it’s mid midday and she tells him
it’s dark, he’ll believe her. He doesn’t
know what he has; he’s fairly rolling in it;
but this bitch sees to everything, and
where you wouldn’t expect it. She’s a
steady, sensible body, full of good ideas:
why, look at all this gold; but she has a
nasty tongue, and clacks and clacks in
bed. If she likes you she likes you, if she
doesn’t she doesn’t.
Trimalchio himself, the nouveau riche
boasting of his possessions, dominating
his hangers-on, threatening and bullying
his servants, publicly upbraiding his wife,
growing maudlin and discussing the
arrangements for his funeral and forcing
his toadies to recite the speeches of praise
they will make over his dead body, is a
superb creation. So, too, is Eumolpus,
the indefatigable poetaster, composing in
the bath, reciting in the streets and at
dinner, continually being mocked or
stoned for his pains. Here (William
Burnaby’s translation) is the poet in a
shipwreck: —-
Unwonted Murmurs, like that of some
Beast, laboring to get out, proceeded from
the Master’s Cabin; upon which, following
the sound, we found Eumolpus sitting
alone, and in his hand a large Scroll of
Paper that he was filling, even to the
Margent, with Verses; we were all amaz’d
to see a man amuse himself with Poetry,
at a time when he had reason to think each
minute wou’d be his last, and having
drawn him, making a great noise, from his
hole, we endeavor’d to recover him from
his Frenzy; but he was in such a heat to
be disturb’d that, “ ’Sdeath,” said he, “let
me make an end of this Couplet, it
finishes the Poem.” On which I took hold
of the Madman, and order’d the still mur-
muring Poet to be hail’d on Shore.
Fantastic as is the story of The Golden
Ass, set in the mad land of Thessaly,
where “statues will walk, walls will speak,
oxen will utter prophecy and from the
very sky and its radiant orb will come
of a sudden oracles,” its scenes and
characters are completely convincing;
even its witches are likely ladies. Pro-
fessor Todd likes Adlington’s translation
and is wise in his approval, for only
Elizabethan prose could have brought
out the full humor and charm of such a
passage as that of Apuleius’s falling in
love with that disastrous Fotis whose
error of judgment afterwards turned him
into an ass: —
When I was within the house I found
my deare and sweet love Fotis mincing
of meat and making pottage for her master
and mistresse, the Cupboord was all set
with wines, and I thought I smelled the
savor of some dainty meats: she had
about her middle a white and clean apron,
and she was girded about her body with
a swathell of red silke, and she stirred the
pot and turned the meat with her faire
and white hands, in such sort that with
stirring and turning the same her loynes
and hips did likewise move and shake,
which was in my mind a comely sight to
see.
To demonstrate the suitability of
Elizabethan prose, the fine as well as
the rough, as a vehicle for expressing
the spirit of these ancient stories, Pro-
fessor Todd quotes from Walter Pater —
the version in Marius the ' Epicurean of
Apuleius’s delicate Cupid and Psyche
interlude:
Psyche, in those delicate grassy places,
lying sweetly on her dewy bed, rested
from the agitation of her soul and arose in
peace. And lo! a grove of mighty trees,
with a fount of water, clear as glass, in
the midst; and hard by the water, a dwell-
ing-place, not built by human hands but by
some divine cunning. One recognised, even
at the entering, the delightful hostelry of a
god.
That, as the Professor indicates, is
well done, but self-conscious. Here is
Adlington’s version:
And when she had refreshed herselfe
sufficiently with sleepe, she rose with a more
quiet and pacified minde, and fortuned to
espy a pleasant wood invironed with great
and' mighty trees. She espied likewise a
running river as clear as crystall: in the
midst of the wood wellnigh at the fall of
the river was a princely Edifice, wrought
and budded not by the art or hand of
man, but by the mighty power of God:
and you would judge at the first entry
therin, that it were some pleasant and
worthy mansion for the powers of heaven.
Apuleius ends his account of the
comical adventures of the ass with a
burst of religious fervor, due, the his-
torians agree, to hi? having been con-
verted to the worship of Isis. It is a pity.
Professor Todd submits the ending to
the traditional story from which Apuleius
borrowed his essentials: the on
recovering his human shape, revisits a
lady who had shown him much favor in
his donkey days ; but the lady tells him
she much preferred him as an ass, and
sends him away.
One could hardly recommend Some
Ancient Novels as a substitute for the
stories themselves, but as an introduction
to them its pleasant, humorous discur-
siveness could hardly be bettered, and
there are points of scholarship and criti-
cism that make it worth while for any-
one familiar with the tales. It is as free
from the aridity of the lecture-room as
are the four fascinating novels with which
it deals.
Maigret and Another.
Not the least unfortunate result of the
domination of France by Hitler’s Ges-
tapo, to detective-story readers anyway,
would be the possible termination of the
happy arrangement whereby Messrs.
Angus and Robertson are publishing
Geoffrey Sainsbury’s translations of
Simenon’s Inspector Maigret stories. And
that the Gestapo chiefs should resent
Maigret is not at all unlikely. He’s too
much the dreamer, given to quiet con-
templation of the facts of a case, sensi-
tive to atmosphere, basing his decisions
always on analysis of character.
There’s the charm of freshness about
these Maigret stories. The second of the
series, Maigret Goes 'South, again con-
tains two stories, “The Madman of Ber-
gerac” and “Liberty Bar,” different in
setting, in character and in approach;
entirely different, too, from the couple
in The Patience of Maigret. The mad-
•man who has terrified the little town of
Bergerac is tracked down while Maigret
lies in bed in a hotel room, recuperating
from a wound. His wife acts as his
assistant, bringing him news of the town,
descriptions of the houses in which his
suspects live, little sidelights on their
characters. Through her eyes and through
his bedroom window Maigret sees every-
thing that happens.
He solves the problem of the Liberty
Bar murder while drinking with an old
woman in a low-class den in Cannes.
Descriptions and characters are built up
briskly and vividly, and enlivened with
bright touches of humor.
“Little” Jack Robinson, who makes his
first appearance in Rupert Crayson’s
Introducing Mr. Robinson (Eldon Press),
although only an amateur and gravely
inexperienced, seems to have many of
Maigret’s qualities. He, too, bases his
deductions largely on a reading of char-
acter and, as does the Frenchman, he
regards detection as an art. But he’ll
need to become more detached, less given
to despair, if he’s to make any great suc-
cess of criminology. Certainly in the case
of Varick Trevanna he should have dis-
covered the motive earlier, but to solilo-
quise on the lines of “Because of my
blindness —my damned inefficiency —I
must, it seems, become in effect the acces-
sory to another foul and damnable
murder” is carrying zealousness too far.
In the business of the poisoned choco-
late, too, he showed a lamentable lack
of perception, but those little faults
should be overcome as he gains in experi-
ence. For a beginning, Robinson would
be well advised to sever all connection
with the Mr. Greene who served to intro-
duce him.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING —wove than a slogan, a law at Anthony Horderns’,
“THE SENIOR STORE
... i,"
Wwli&uijv.u] ttns
v&i
msm
§^SIIbSS
M
i ■
e
HEAT STORAGE
COOKERS
•l ?■ / «>
A Dinner or any meal is made by its
cooking and a well-equipped kitchen
is the better if it includes an ESSE.
The cooker is the very heart of the
kitchen . . and here science has made
its most wonderful advance. Patient
research and drastic practical tests
have enabled the patentees to over-
come the deficiencies of ordinary
methods, and to produce the ESSE
Heat Storage Cooker, which is the
very latest complete equipment for
good cooking. An ESSE is definitely
an asset. It saves you pounds every
year. It's on duty day and night.
PREMIER WITH AUXILIARY OVEN
The Premier ESSE can be supplied with Auxiliary oven,
as illustrated, which gives extra cooking space as well
as ample "hot-cupboard” room. Smaller and larger
models may also be inspected in Showroom on the lower
ground floor, Pitt Street.
A PRACTICAL COOKER
WITH EVERY FACILITY
The three roomy extra high ovens are evenly heated and
give three different cooking temperatures, maintained
automatically by a thermostat. They provide healthy,
fume-free cooking and conserve the essential juices and
flavour of the food.
P
BETTER, EASIER, SAFER COOKING.
The Premier ESSE is simple and safe in
use. It is always ready for service at
correct cooking temperatures, and is so
flexible under thermostatic control that it
will respond quickly to exceptional de-
mands. Chefs and cooks all over the
country express delight with the ample
accommodation and the improved flav-
our of the food.
-fair"
*s*
' •
mil«
r
w
■gwiniiNffliiiwui 11 " iliiippnpf|||i||||||||||||||||||j|j||jj|j| |
v
*
m
■
V : . •
60% LESS FUEL REQUIRED
COMPLETELY INDEPENDENT OF PUBLIC POWER SUPPLY
Running costs are the lowest known. A prominent
feature of the Esse Cooker is the low fuel con-
sumption; for, by virtue of its economy, the Esse
practically pays for itself. It operates at from
one-fifth to one-twentieth of the cost of ordinary
coal, electricity or gas. The Esse stays alight
continuously, and is entirely independent of out-
side supplies, which makes it indispensable when
gas or electricity are restricted.
$
'ts/
PRICES AND CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
Esse Cookers, Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery
area
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Phone M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE SAVAGE BREAST
By PHILIP WATERWORTH.
THERMOS is one of those hot, flat towns —about
fifty or sixty tin houses, a pub, a store and a
hospital big enough for a Sydney suburb. The
whole show was quivering like a jelly in the
afternoon heat when I arrived, and I found a dried-
up old man on the pub verandah.
“What do you do with yourselves here?” I asked
him.
“What the ’ell does that matter to you?” he said,
and reached for a brick.
“All right,” I said. “It was only idle curiosity.”
I hooshed my camel down and went into the bar.
“A beer and a room, please,” I Said. “Nice town
you've got here.”
“What d’yer mean?” said the barman, and shot
his jaw like a detachable cuff.
“I mean you’ve got a nice big hospital and a
commodious-looking pub and so on.”
“That’s all right. I thought you might be knock-
ing the town.”
I drank my beer in silence because it seemed
better than saying anything. Then I parked my camel
and went out to have a look round. There was a
house next to the hospital with a moth-eaten date
palm in front and a shortish bullet-headed man sit-
ting in its shade. He had a glass in one hand, a
bottle of Hennessey’s at his feet and a waterbag
hanging from the tree. I took a look at the brass
plate behind him.
“You’d be Dr. Slattery?” I said.
“I am. What can I do for you?”
“You might tell me what’s wrong with this town.
The doctor smiled tolerantly: “A bit irascible,
aren’t they? But they don’t mean any harm and you
get used to it after a bit.” He mopped his face with
what looked like a pillowcase. “Come and have a
drink if you don’t mind using a cup. I had a few
friends in last night and all my glasses got broken
except this one.” He poured me a Hennessey s and
added a little water. “It’s surprising how you do get
used to it,” he went on, “but of course I’m specially
privileged. There’s no other doctor about and they
want to keep me on my feet.”
“But what’s wrong with them?”
“Well, I suppose if you really boil it down, they’re
bored. Therefore they drink like fish. I’ve analysed
the local brew and it goes about twelve per cent,
alcohol. They’re shoving it into themselves at the
rate of gallons a day, but in this infernal heat it’s
like pouring it on to a hot stove ; the water goes off
in a cloud of steam and leaves the twelve per cent,
firmly embedded in their systems. You’re really deal-
ing with the equivalent of about a hundred Anglo-
Indian colonels.”
Back at the pub I was met on the doorstep by a
pleasant-looking, muscular young woman with a
dark wary eye. “You’d better mind your step, she
said, “or, better still, get out' while you’re still in one
piece. This is a tough town.”
“Thanks,” I said, “but I’ve business to do.”
'“What sort of business?”
I produced my card. “Name of Longmore, ’ I said.
“Representing the Durable Songbird.”
“And do you think you can sell pianos in
Thermos?”
“I can sell ’em anywhere,” I said. “They sell
themselves.” *
The young woman threw back her head and
laughed.
“What’s so funny about it?” I asked.
“Oh, just the idea of you selling a piano to this
congregation of Dawn-men. You might sell them a
whisky-still or a sub-machine-gun, but not a piano.
“You’ll see,” I said. “You haven’t heard the
Songbird yet. What else is there to amuse the
natives? There don’t seem to be any pictures, and
as far as I can see you haven’t a wireless in the place.”
“No,” she admitted. “The reception’s pretty bad.”
“So what the town needs is something to amuse
it. Do you think you can persuade the boss to let
me use a room here for a demonstration? If we can
do that it’ll sell itself.” •
“I’ll see what I can do with father, but he’s diffi-
cult. Anyway, I’ve warned you. They’ll only smash
it up and you, too.”
“The Songbird is not easily smashed,” I said ; “in
fact, you might say it’s unsmashable.”
“That’s good. Well, come along to the bar and
see father.”
We went along, and damme if the man who’d
served me with beer wasn’t father, but after a bit
we fixed things up.
“Where’s the piano?” asked the girl.
“Jerry’s bringing it along in the morning he’s my
offsider. You see, I go ahead to prepare the ground
and then he comes along by caterpillar-truck and
brings the Songbird. He should blow in about ten
o’clock in the morning.”
I fixed up a couple of notices saying that a con-
cert would be given on the Songbird at 8 next
evening in the bar ; then I went up to bed, locked the
door and put the washstand against it.
JERRY arrived next morning about eleven, and
apparently the word had got round because there
were about a hundred tough-looking gentry hanging
round in the shade waiting for the show. Miss Harri-
gan had done herself up for the occasion, and looked
pretty good standing on the verandah. Jerry stepped
down from the truck and waved to me, then his eye
fell on her and he stopped with his hand on the cab
door, just looking at her in a startled sort of way. I
thought she mightn’t like being stared at, but I needn’t
have worried because she was doing much the same
herself, which isn’t surprising, I suppose. Women
generally like Jerry. He’s about six-feet-four and
something like two feet through the chest. In addition,
he has a large, cheerful, if rather rough-cast, face and
a lot of fair hair.
“That breaker's a long time coming."
After a bit I went down the steps and touched
him on the arm. “You got here all right?”
“Who’s the girl?”
“Miss Harrigan, daughter of the pubkeeper.
“What’s her other name?”
“I don’t know.”
“Gosh!” he said.
I’d noticed that she was a well-designed young
woman and seemed a good sort, but apparently she d
knocked Jerry all of a heap, which was all right in its
way, only I’d been taking some notice of the position
in Thermos, and it seemed that every man in the
place wanted Miss Harrigan for his own, and was
quite ready to do murder to get her.
“Let’s get it into the bar,” I said.
“Right,” said Jerry, pulling himself together, and
when we had the piano uncovered he looked at the
crowd: “What about a couple of you coves giving
us a lift?”
After a bit a voice from the back said: “’E
thinks ’e’s a ruddy dictator,” and the rest said “Uh!”
“What’s wrong with ’em?” Jerry whispered.
“They’re just like that.”
“Cripes! We’d better get it in ourselves.”
We got the piano into the pub, then I locked
myself in my room again and lay low until Jerry
came in after dinner and said he’d been out for a
walk with Miss Harrigan.
“Gosh!” he said. “She’s a marvellous woman,
Long. She was educated in Sydney and has only been
back a year. Her old man’s put the screws on and
says she’s got to stay here and serve in the hotel, but
we’ve got to help her clear out when we’ve unloaded
this piano.”
“Cripes!” I said. “I’d rather pinch tiger cubs.”
BY eight o’clock the bar was full of the same hun-
dred or so lean, tough-looking males who seemed
to represent the entire manpower of Thermos. The
bar ran right along one side of the room, so we d
put the piano at one end and all the chairs we could
find at the other, but there were men standing around
the door, which I didn’t like much.
“We can use the window,” said Jerry, following
my line of thought.
Miss Harrigan, who was behind the bar, gave
me an encouraging nod and I got up, leaned on the
Songbird in an intimate manner, and got on with it:
“Ladies and gentlemen,” I said ; “I bring you the
famous Durable Songbird, an Australian product of
outstanding quality. Of its musical properties I shall
say nothing, as it will speak for itself, but I should
like to draw your attention to a few of its more strik-
ing points of construction. The body of the instru-
ment, as you can see, is made of the finest Tasmanian
blackwood, reinforced with drop-forged steel. It is
also white-ant- and fireproofed”
At that point one of them, who’d been leaning
on the door cutting his nails with a sheath-knife,
pushed his hat back and said: “Why the ’ell don’t
yer shut up and play the thing?”
“See what you can do,” I said to Jerry. “I don’t
seem to be gripping them.”
He began with “On the Road to Mandalay.”
Jerry has a fine voice, and I’d always regarded this
as one of his best songs.
“Perhaps that’s a bit highbrow,” I said. “Try
? ‘lt Ain’t Gonna Rain No Mo.’ ”
He did.
“It might be your voice,” I
said. “Perhaps a bit of Bach.”
But after a few minutes of that a
bottle hit the lid of the Songbird
and fell into the strings with a
noise like a modern composition.
Jerry leapt to his feet and the
crowd made a menacing forward
move.
“If the” began Jerry.
“Stop it!” Miss Harrigans
voice cut through the rising row.
She lifted the flap of the bar and
came over to the piano. Jerry set
his chair upright for her and
dusted it with a religious sort of gesture and took out
the bottle.
She sat down and started to sing “Silver Threads
Among the Gold.” And she was good. I’ve rarely
heard a voice that went straighter to the spot. She
worked faithfully through her first number and
paused. There was dead silence, but quite a differed
sort from the one that followed Jerry’s efforts. If the
crowd had thought of it they might have clapped,


but they didn’t. They just sat there with their mouths
open.
“Go on,” said Jerry.
She went on and did three more, all of them
dealing sympathetically with the aged-mother motif,
and there was no doubt she’d struck the psychological
bull’s-eye ; the crowd was all steamed up. I was try-
ing to swallow a lump in my throat when I felt a
touch on my arm. It was Harrigan.
“Would you step into my' office a moment, Mr.
Longmore? It’s just behind the bar,” he said. “My
little girl” he continued, when we’d got in and
shut the door. “Just to think of it—my little girl.”
He blew his nose. “How much is it, Mr. Longmore?”
“Eh?” I said.
“The piano.”
“Oh, the Songbird— two hundred.”
“Would you prefer it in cash or by cheque?”
I said I’d have cash, and we fixed it all up while
his nervous system was still shot to pieces.
Miss Harrigan was behind the bar when I went
out, and Jerry was leaning on it, deep in conversa-
tion with her. Their heads were about as close to-
gether as they could get them with the bar between,
and that probably explains why they hadn’t noticed
the gang standing in a semicircle behind Jerry. Before
J could do anything the storm broke.
A tough-looking bloke lumbered out of the crowd,
put a hand like a tray of buns on Jerry’s shoulder and
said: “ ’Ere you! ” Jerry brushed it off without look-
ing round and said: “Go away. I’m busy.”
The bloke drew back his arm, but just at that
moment Miss Harrigan returned to reality and
screamed. Jerry ducked and got clear by inches. In
the second or so that followed the girl grabbed one of
those stone bottles of “Bols” and laid the bloke out
with it. Jerry stopped another of them with a crack
that lifted him off his feet and sent him running back-
wards across the room, barely keeping up with his
centre of gravity. Then he took the “Bols” bottle
from her hand and grinned at her, while she selected
another for her own use, and the battle closed.
A outside the window woke me, and I remem-
' ber thinking it must be a fool of a bird to live in
Thermos when it could fly somewhere else without
much trouble. Then I found Dr. Slattery feeling my
pulse. “Hullo,” he said. “How are you feeling?”
“Not too good.”
“No, I don’t suppose you do, but you’re lucky
your skull isn’t fractured.”
I sat up and had a look round. You could see
why Thermos had such a big hospital. The place
was bung-full of human wreckage, mostly from last
night’s fight, and Jerry was in the bed next to mine
with about two feet of him hanging over the end. I
swooned away after that and knew no more until Miss
Harrigan woke me in the grey dawn.
“Sh! ” she said, and held up a finger. She woke
Jerry and did the same with him. “Come on, get out
quickly.”
My head was making a noise like a vacuum-
cleaner, but there was no denying her urgency, so
we got up and followed her into what seemed to be
the dispensary.
“There are your clothes,” she said. “Get into
them and for goodness sake be quick. I’ll be at the
hotel.”
“But what the” began Jerry.
“You do as I tell you and be quick about it or
you’ll be sorry.”
We got dressed in about two shakes and lit out
for the pub. She was there with the truck and my
camel.
“Quick!” she said. “Get in.”
I tied the camel to the back of the truck and we
piled in.
“What’s this all about?” I asked anxiously, while
Jerry was cranking the engine.
“Father’s fighting mad and they were all coming
round after breakfast to beat you up and take back
that two hundred pounds. They broke your piano
up last night and father says you told him it wouldn’t
break.”
"Neither it would. There must be some mistake.”
You should have seen it,” she said. “There was
a small pile of wood, a few pieces of twisted metal
and a lot of wire.”
Just as Jerry got the engine to start a head
appeared round the door. Its owner yelled and tried
to jump on the running-board, but Jerry fended him
off with a large hand as we gathered speed, some-
what hampered by the camel, which seemed to want
to hang back. Doors opened here and there and men
ran out yelling. From overhead there came a
rific bang and a pattering on the roof of the cab.
That 11 be father with his gun,” said Miss Harrigan.
I looked back and saw father at an upper window,
reloading. My camel no longer seemed to want to
hang back, but was trying to climb into the truck.
“Another half-mile at this rate, Bert, and she'll be up."
“NOW THAT I’M WORKING AGAIN”
By DON EDWARDS.
NOW that I have a job again I’ll write to Helen.
I came into the city this morning and
the first advertisement I answered I got the
job. I can tell you it feels good to be work-
ing again after doing nothing for so long. I was
beginning to think I wouldn’t ever find work. Now
I’ll be able to get Claire back from her grandmother’s
and have her with me again. The kiddie will be as
pleased as anything. Every night when I see her she
says “When can I come and live with you again,
daddy?” and asks over and over “Is mummy coming
back? When is mummy coming back?”
I tell her “Soon, Claire. She sends her love and
kisses to you,” and I feel just rotten and sick about
it and almost as if I was to blame. And her grand-
mother looks at me and I know that she is think-
ing “Why don’t you try to forget about Helen and
let Claire forget her too?”
But I can’t forget her and I don’t know that I
want Claire to forget her either. She was so pretty.
I used to see lots of people staring after her when
we were out and I always felt as proud as could be.
Sometimes I would say to her “You’re the prettiest
girl. I’ve ever seen,” and she would laugh and toss
her head in a way that let you see she knew how
attractive she was, but that she was pleased you had
told her.
That was soon after we were married, of course,
when I was working steadily. In those days everything
looked great. Sometimes I would worry a bit.because
we weren’t saving any money, but Helen had always
been used to plenty of outings and dances and good
clothes before we were married, and she used to say
“A girl shouldn’t have to give up things just because
she’s married, Victor.”
Well, I wasn’t earning a whole lot and we never
had any money over, and sometimes I got a bit worried
when I looked ahead, but we had a good time and
Helen was happy. It made me happy to see her
enjoying herself, and even if her clothes did cost a lot
she looked so lovely in them that I used to wonder
why she married a chap like me.
I can remember our first row. It was over a
flat that Helen wanted to move into. I said we
couldn’t afford it, and she said I was a slowcoach
and too cautious, and we had a real quarrel. She
sulked for a few days and things were pretty miserable.
The new flat was bigger than we needed, but
Helen was so nice to me after we got settled in it
that I was pleased I had given in to her. I’ll never
forget that outing we had on the Sunday to the beach.
Generally she only liked to go out in a party to a
dance or a show, but she knew I liked a day at the
beach with just the two of us, and she was so pleased
with the new flat that she suggested we should go.
It was the first time we’d been out alone for
about six months. We had a wonderful day. It was
getting on to autumn and there weren’t many on
the beach. We surfed and ran about the beach and
chased each other like two kids, and then lay in the
sun and talked about all the good times we’d had
together. The night was warm and we stayed there
till quite late, listening to the waves and making plans
for the future, till I felt that there was nothing that
could stop me from making a success of things.
After the baby arrived Helen couldn’t get out so
often and we didn’t have as much money to spend
on outings as before. She liked the baby a lot, of
course, but she didn’t like staying about the flat.
I think everything would have been all right though
if I hadn’t lost my job. It was rotten luck, but what
with the depression and no money about I guess I
wasn’t hit any harder than lots of other fellows. For
a time I picked up jobs here and there —nothing
permanent, but enough to allow us to keep on in the
flat. Then jobs became harder and harder to find, and
we had to move to a cheaper place and finally into
a room.
Helen changed. Instead of being bright and
lively, and dancing and singing about the place, she
became moody and quiet. I used to say to her “It’s
only for a time. Things will turn out right again
soon.” I had to make myself believe it even though I
could see that she didn’t. She wouldn’t answer me at
all. When I came home at night after hunting for
work she wouldn’t bother to ask if I had a job. She
knew. She even seemed to turn against Claire. Once
I said to her “We still have each other,” and she
slammed the door and walked out of the room as
if she didn’t care twopence for the kid or me.
One night when I arrived home I could see that
Helen was in a pretty good mood. She looked happy
and carefree again like she used to look just after
we were married. She had a job. She had gone into
town and got a job as private secretary to Mr. Carle-
ton, of Carleton’s Stores. I suppose when he saw
Helen, so slim and pretty in that blue dress, he just
couldn’t refuse her the job, especially when he heard
she had been a secretary before she was married.
1 had to stay home and mind Claire, but when-
ever I got a chance I went out looking for a job. I
didn’t like the idea of Helen working while I stayed
about the room, but she was so much happier now
that it was almost like old times. Not that we had
many outings, because she often had to work back,
and after a few months she had to work during week-
ends occasionally. I would never know what time she
would be home. Generally it was late, and often
after midnight. When I asked her why she was so
late she would laugh and say “Extra work tonight,
and Mr. Carleton asked me to get it finished. Gee,
I’m tired,” and she would flop into bed and go to
sleep. x
I would lie awake thinking about how it should
be me that was working and coming home late and
tired and earning the money, not Helen. I was never
tired, with only work about the room to do, so what
with looking on myself as a pretty mean sort of
failure who couldn’t earn enough to keep his wife and
daughter, I would lie awake half the night. Having a
job again now will be great, but I wish it had come a
few months ago.
At first I didn’t take any notice of the rumors,
but when I asked Helen straight out she had to admit
everything. I don’t blame Mr. Carleton, because
Helen is very attractive, and as soon as I get home I’ll
write to her and tell her that I still love her, and that
myself and Claire want her to come back to us, now
that I’m working again.
Yesterday.
If from your cot, in waking, on the wall
The paper story of Cock-Robin’s fall
Calmed you; if mice its canvas backing stirred
Billowing, by candlelight, each witty bird;
Or curlews screamed, and you in terror heard,
Being by night alone; or soiled moon creeped,
Silvering the shaky lilacs, and you peeped;
Know this: such joys, such fears, are absolute,
As valid now as then. They flower in fruit.
N.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
mellown^smcUmuj^d
SOUTHEND PIER FROM ROYAL TERRACE.
After the Nore Lightship has been passed, and the Thames fully entered upon, a town closely associated with London, residentially
andas a health resort, Southend, on Ehe Essex shore, is an object of interest Fronted by 'IThE S “ <Zed bjl mom
“solid land” till it reaches navigable water. It is not, in the main a modern structure ?„recemyears having
or less ornate pavilion. The town is at the foot of a short, steep day format,on, and has made wonderful stride in l r £“ J Hal{
become a deservedly popular residential suburb 42 °"f matter>
ITZ Blackpool might
t ::r "d d „“ s “itr-i
However, since 1885 many things have happened, and, thoug e genera bracin® air wooded cliffs, public gardens,
new order prevailing, and the “old drawbacks” removed. To a Y ou en . interest j ng t o recall”that for a long period the famous
splendid facilities for all forms of sport, aerodrome and musica es lvat • to § serve for a brief period in a service she may
Australian liner Ophir tugged at her moormgs off the pier end before being brought to serve 101 y
be said to have adorned.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61.—N0. 3153.
July 17, 1940.
BACK TO THE BASTILLE!
“When Bastille Day came round, conquered France had, instead of a President, a Chief of State (Petain), with nearly all the powers of the Bourbon kings. The
Republican Constitution and provincial system are to go.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.U.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .) ' ,
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates. .
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fijic New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
OPEN SEASON FOR SCAPEGOATS.
Last week’s cables carried the reassuring news that,
despite the threat of invasion hanging over Britain,
despite the unlimited supply of momentous news in
world-shaking happenings on the Mad Continent and
much nearer waiting to be reported, despite paper
shortage and other editorial worries, the grand old
sport of scapegoat-hunting still flourished. Those
famous hunters the “News-Chronicle” and Mr. Gol-
lancz (the publisher) led the pack, with ample news-
paper space in Australia to report the doings at length.
If the hunters get all they are after they will have a
striking collection of the heads of monsters to hang
up on their walls.
The “News-Chronicle” ferreted out —in the course
of a “survey of opinion” in which a nation-wide
cross-section of voters” was questioned that 77 p.c.
favored pelting Mr. Chamberlain, 63 p.c. ditto Lord
Simon, while over 50 p.c. nourished like feelings about
Sir Kingsley Wood and Lord Halifax. With the
assistance of a pseudonymous author, Mr. Gollancz
was able to add to this prospective bag of approved
scapegoats Sir Samuel Hoare, Lord Baldwin, Mr.
Ernest Brown, Mr. H. D. R. Margesson, Lord Calde-
cote, Dr. Burgin, Mr. W. S. Morrison, Sir Reginald
Dorman-Smith, “and others.” Joining in the hunt
with gusto, a “shop stewards committee, claiming to
represent 14,000 employees of Electrical and Musical
Industries, Ltd.,” sweepingly named as fit and proper
game for scapegoat enthusiasts “Mr. Chamberlain and
his associates.” More sweeping still was another list,
darkly including “those in high places,” from whom
“any new failures will not be tolerated” and at whom
“a finger of scorn and detestation will be pointed
throughout the ages of history.”
On the face of it, an embracing enough listing, and
no doubt the hunt will not be in vain; it will be extra-
ordinary if Mr. Chamberlain, for one, is not shortly
bagged. Questions that may possibly occur to many
are (a) whether the whole of this hunting is not inspired
by curiously muddled and fallacious thinking, touch-
ing on the nature and working of British democracy
and the British Parliamentary system of government;
(b) whether or not, in view of these and related cir-
cumstances, the lists published should be regarded as
far too limited, and be at once extended to include prac-
tically everybody who has spouted, written or voted
in British democracies over these past 20 years.
Scapegoats are not hunted like other game purely
for sport or for the table ; they are hunted as noxious
vermin, held to be guilty of some crime or other.
The brand of crime either stated or implicit in the
published lists is that these prospective scapegoats are
responsible for the shortage of means of waging war
from which Britain—the rest of the Empire, also—is
now suffering; that they are to be held guilty for the
shocking mess out of which this still underarmed
Empire now has to fight its way, unaided.
The purpose here is not to defend any of the
prospective scapegoats named. Measured against
former conceptions and performances of statesmanship
most of them no doubt cut a poor figure. What can
be questioned —perhaps with profit for the future —is
whether they alone should now be judged guilty and
pelted; whether they are not merely symptoms of a
fundamental weakness in the modern conception and
working of British democracy (that is, the conception
and working of the British Parliamentary system of
government since the last war); whether pelting them
is not an easy resort for putting away a bad conscience.
In short, whether it is not merely the so-called
“leaders” of British democracy over these past 20
years but the entire electorate that should be held
guilty; and whether, finally, if there is not now a fac-
ing up to his own share of guilt in the matter by every-
body, the same slipshod ways, the same crimes of
omission, the same disastrous mistakes, the same in-
ability to distinguish between fantasy and reality, the
same drift, will not all begin over again.
The notion that the so-called “leaders” and they
alone are to blame for the late disasters and the current
shortages would seem to be based on an obvious fal-
lacy. In order to accept it, it needs to be accepted
that the British system of government, as worked over
these past 20 years, is one in which leadership has
come with iron resolve from above; from leaders—
themselves uninfluenced by prevailing ways of thought
—legislating, and able and allowed to legislate, with
no other consideration than their country’s safety ;
working away for that one end like a single-minded
community of beavers, utterly unaffected by the cur-
rent body of opinion about them. That, no doubt, is
the ideal; but is there the slightest reality about it?
Is it any longer possible —has it for a long time been
even thinkable—that, say, Canberra should move on
any really big matter of public import one step in
advance of public opinion?
Nobody in his senses reviewing British demo-
cratic government at work over this period could help
noting the overwhelming influence on it surging up
from below —from the electorate at large. The
so-called “leaders” are not here held to be guilt-
less; but it is remarkable, taking their performance
year by year, how directly and continuously that per-
formance has reflected the general body of opinion
prevailing in the electorate at the time. A hangover
of war weariness lasting in the electorate for years is
seen reflected in the corresponding years of disarma-
ment legislation; the sudden recovery from that
general feeling is reflected in the later frantic legislat-
ing, striving to recover the lost position under the
increasing threat and the outbreak of war.
Those are the main trends in legislation through-
out the British Commonwealth democracies over these
past 20 years —both directly dictated by the electorate ;
not by so-called “leaders” but by the prevailing body
of public opinion, this in turn shaped and formulated
by countless thousands of irresponsibles doing their
bit through newspapers and radio, and thereby in con-
tinuous touch with the body of people, moulding its
views and thoughts all the time. Evidently there can
be' no remedy for this state of things ; but when it
comes to hunting scapegoats it certainly enlarges the
field enormously that this state of things in fact exists,
and has existed since the last war, at least, becoming
more and more firmly rooted.
What else but the force of public opinion—shaped,
directed and surging up from below —cast the halo on
Mr. Churchill? What else but the same force—then
conditioned by prevailing horror at the idea of war —
encouraged and abetted Mr. Chamberlain along the
lines of “appeasement,” and would now have his scalp?
Probably this weathercock force is now inseparable
from the working of British democracy short of a
revolution in the system that would nullify the power
of irresponsibles over public opinion, or short of
some genius in statesmanship arising with the strength,
integrity and impregnability to override it.
That last, all things considered, would seem a
faint hope. This being so, British democracy must
presumably have to go on alternating between its
moments of lotus-chewing and its moments of despair.
Meanwhile, the scapegoat season having been declared
open, it must be admitted that there is an abundance
of game. __________
Pals for Eleven Months.
With Eastern Poland, part of Finland, the other
Baltic States, Bessarabia and North Bukovina all in
Russian hands, gullible newspapers cling to the hope
that Czar Stalin will yet save the civilised world by
turning on his German partner.
It is possible, though it is far more likely that his
partner will do the turning. Thieves fall out. Rival
imperialisms clash. Certainly written obligations to an
ally will trouble neither of the dictators. Each in other
years attacked the other in terms previously unknown
in international relations since the Dark Ages, though
in the past 11 months each has made cynical use of
the advantages that the other could offer.
What their real feelings must be may be judged
from the past utterances of their servants. Dr.
Goebbels, for example. His key speech on Bolshevism
was delivered at the annual Nuremberg rally of Sep-
tember, 1935, the text being a British newspaper article
to the effect that Germany and Russia, “once so widely
different,” had been “schooled and driven into pat-
terns drably similar.”
Goebbels was indignant. He declared that Bol-
shevism “ignored all the idealistic and higher strivings
of men and nations through its own crass and empty
materialism” ; that it “denied religion fundamentally
and entirely,” whereas Nazism placed its “belief in God
and that transcendental idealism which has been
destined by Nature to bring to expression the racial
soul of a nation.” English women shoppers who were
machine-gunned in a provincial city the other day and
the refugees of Belgium and France no doubt realise
the truth of this dictum.
Goebbels proceeded to give an account of the
condition of Russia:
Millions of workers on hunger wages srch as are
not thought of in western Europe; millions of afflicted
peasants who have been robbed of their land, which
is being completely ruined by the stupid experiment of
a paralysing collectivism; famine which claims millions
of victims year after year in a country of such vast
extent that it might serve as a granary for the whole
of Europe; the formation and equipping of an army
which, according to the claims of all leading Bolshevists,
is to be used for carrying out the world revolution;
the brutal and merciless domination of this madly-led
apparatus of State and party at the hands of a small
terrorist minority all this speaks another language
which the world cannot listen to permanently because
it rings with the story of nameless suffering and inde-
scribable hardships borne by a nation of 160,000,000
people.
And Goebbels was no mere purveyor of words.
He had facts at his fingertips. He told how Bela Kun
ordered the execution of between 60,000 and 70,000
people in the Crimea ; he quoted a Red Cross report
that 272 sick and wounded were dragged out of a
hospital and slaughtered at the gates; he quoted
Chiang Kai-shek as saying that in the Kangsi province
a million Chinese were murdered by Communists and
6,000,000 robbed of all their possessions:
All these bloodstained and horror-raising events have
reached a climax in the mass murders committed
throughout Soviet Russia.
“According to returns given by the Soviets them-
selves, and taking trustworthy sources into account,”
Goebbels placed the number of persons executed dur-
ing the first five years of Soviet rule in Russia at
1,860,000. Of these, he said, 6000 were teachers and
professors, 8800 were doctors of medicine, 54,000
were army officers, 260,000 soldiers, 105,000 police
officials, 49,000 gendarmes, 12,800 civil servants, 355,000
persons of the upper classes, 192,000 workers, 815,000
peasants. He mentioned 8300 clerics murdered in
1930. He said that Oganowsky, the Soviet statistician,
had estimated the number of persons who died of
hunger in 1921-22 at 5,200,000. He quoted the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury to the effect that the victims of
the 1933 famine were nearer 6,000,000 than 3,000,000.
Finally,
We have thus before our eyes a full picture of this
fearful and harrowing mass terrorisation which is only
approximately paralleled by even the most bloodcurdling
examples of war or revolution that are recorded in the
history of the world. This is the actual system of blood-
shed and terror and death which is carried out by hys-
terical and criminal political maniacs who would have it
copied in every country and among every people with
the same terrorising practices, in so far as they might
find the possibility of doing so.
Instancing 111 cases of Communist treason in
Germany, the head of the German Propaganda De-
partment said that the Communists regarded the Nazis
as their most dangerous enemies, and that the
“eternally recurring themes of this Communist agita-
tion are the story of war preparations in the interests
of German imperialism, preparations for a revanche
against France, annexations in Denmark, Holland and
Switzerland, in the Baltic States and the Ukraine.”
That is Bolshevist propaganda. That is the form in
which it clothes itself and lives, using falsehoods and
slander and chicanery, so as to make the nations sus-
picious of one another and hate one another, thus
spreading a general spirit of unrest; because the Bolshe-
vists know so well that they can never bring the Com-
munist idea to triumph except in an age that is
distracted and sceptical.
“A bald and staid account from official sources”
was how Goebbels described his indictment of “iniquity
under a political mask... .which must be met with the
same ruthless and brutal means with which it seeks to
usurp power.” Here, he said, there could be no bar-
gaining, because the danger that threatened Europe was
acute. Overnight it might spread “universal catas-
trophe.” The greatest service which the Fiihrer had
rendered to the world was' that in Germany he had set
up a barrier against Communism. History would one
day give him credit for saving Europe from the most
acute and deadly peril by overthrowing Bolshevism in
Germany and thereby saving the whole civilisation of
the West from the abyss that yawned before it.
And all that was said in 1935. In 1939 the
savior of Europe and the leader of the hysterical
and criminal political maniacs, “guided by the desire
to strengthen the cause of peace between Germany
and the Soviet Republic,” undertook “to refrain from
any act of force, any aggressive act and any attack
against each other or in conjunction with any other
Powers.” Within a few weeks they had marched into
and cut up Poland, one of Russia’s associates in the
League. A few weeks later —again in repudiation of
the covenant of the League —Stalin carried blood-
shed and terror and death” into Finland, his alleged
object being to safeguard the northern part of his
dominions against a Franco-British invasion. Hitler,
for his part, began “saving Europe” again by over-
running Norway, Denmark, Holland, Luxembourg
and Belgium, using weapons and methods which made
the Georgian look the clumsiest of bunglers. The
“transcendental idealist” completed his job in Western
Europe by crushing a France undermined by Com-
munist propaganda. Then it was that Stalin, in viola-
tion of his pledge to Rumania, seized Bessarabia and
part of the Bukovina that was Austrian when Hitler
was an Austrian subject—perhaps as a protection
against an Afghan invasion of his southern dominions.
It is easy to estimate how much goodwill stands
behind the agreement signed and sealed on August
23, 1939. While the spoils hold out the partners will
continue to make a parade of friendship, each hoping
that the worst will befall the other. When there cease
to be spoils to share, the precious neutrality agreement
may go the way of all the other undertakings into
which these men of blood entered with a parade of
virtue.
Meanwhile the invincible asses of British “Liberal
politics and journalism, the wrecks of whose foreign
policy are to be seen from Galicia to Jersey and from
Narvik to Toulon, are urging Britain to stand by the
foreigners who are supplying arms to the Chinese
through Burma, even if it means war with Japan, to
reassure Russia”!


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Hindered and Confused. "
Of all the new British Ministers, Mr. Bevin, the
Minister of Labor and National Security, seems to
have made the greatest impression; and when
appointed he wasn’t a member of Parliament, though
a seat has been found for him. Mr. Bevin was in
Australia attending the Commonwealth Relations con-
ference in September, 1938, and he placed on record
an impression of our clumsy and costly apparatus
of government trying to get a move on.
It was most evident at the time of the [Munich]
crisis that Australia was hindered and confused as a
result of having seven Parliaments.
Hindered and confused it has been from the same
cause ever since September, 1939. In its every war
measure, the latest being emergency powers and
petrol rationing, the one Government that matters has
lagged behind Maoriland’s one Government. The six
other Governments have stood round demanding
loans for “works and deficits,” cumbering the war-
taxation programme (in N. S. Wales by getting in
ahead of the national Government with shameful
exactions, the consequences of mad extravagance),
proffering stacks of unsolicited advice and demanding
conference after conference. And, completely insen-
sitive to criticism, they have not bothered to make a
show of keeping their “Parliaments” busy. All the
“Parliaments” have had long holidays on full pay.
For the year to June 30, 1938, the Commonwealth
Statistician gave the cost of Parliamentary govern-
ment in Australia at £1,354,900. The figures are no
doubt right as far as they go, but they do not nearly
cover the whole field. Such items as cars and car-
hire for Ministers and members are not included ;
neither are the salaries and expenses of the secretaries
and other swarming officials who wait on them, nor
those of the staffs of the Parliamentary Works Com-
mittees with which the landscape is strewn. Such
satellites on six Governments and six Parliaments make
up no inconsiderable proportion of the 365,409 Gov-
ernment employees whom the Commonwealth Statis-
tician counted on the date mentioned ; among them
were only 10,589 permanently employed members of
the three fighting services.
Costs of the gorgeous Ministerial and bureau-
cratic globetrotting that went on in that year were
also omitted from the calculation. So were annual
subscriptions to the Empire Parliamentary Associa-
tion and thfe League of Nations Union, “honorariums”
to professorial and other advisers, political grants to
clamorous State Governments, lavish gifts to shows
like the “National” Travel Association and heaps of
other things.
And the terrific cost of government goes on in-
creasing. The Commonwealth Government has
appointed a Co-ordinator of Works (the übiquitous,
though able, Mr. Brown), so the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment must appoint a Co-ordinator of Works. He
was recommended to the taxpayers as the official who,
after a long and expensive inquiry, produced a porten-
tous report on the Sydney milk trade, a thing which
one of the six Industrial Commissioners who rank as
Judges (they drew £15,600 last year) is in process of
doing all over again, and which a Milk Board is
employed to do all the time.
And although there has been a slump in litigation
and Industrial Commission work which is likely to
last throughout the war and probably for a long time
afterwards, another Puisne Judge has been appointed.
That made ten. Last year there were nine, who drew
£23,600 in salaries; when N. S. Wales set up as a
Federal State there were two at £3OOO. And the
Melbourne Government’s first striking contribution
to the war effort was to provide a special salary for
the leader of the third party, as well as the leader of
the Opposition.
Mr. Bevin was secretary to the Transport and
General Workers’ Union. If the Australian Labor
movement has a man like him, and no doubt it has, the
taxpayer would be glad to see him added to the
national Government whether the Labor party joins it
or not. More especially if he would make it his busi-
ness to see that “Australia was” no longer “hindered
and confused as a result of having seven Parlia-
ments.”
The Wisdom of the Dead.
Lord Fisher’s Memories and Records should be read
and studied by the men who have the handling of
Australia’s war effort. The old Admiral of the Fleet
was the greatest naval organiser Britain has had in
modern times, and his foresight and insight were
wonderful. But for Fisher, Britain might not now
hold naval supremacy in the eastern Mediterranean.
There are battleships in Alexandria Harbor because
I entreated Lord Cromer to cut a channel deep
enough for a Dreadnought; and he did it, though it
cost a million sterling, and thus gave us a base of
incalculable advantage in certain contingencies.
The contingencies arrived last September.
There are several references in the book to Aus-
tralia and Australians. As members of the Dar-
danelles Commission, Andrew Fisher and Thomas
Mackenzie made an independent report which evoked
my everlasting gratitude,” for both supported the
First Lord’s view that, though “decidedly against the
iJardanelles operations from the first,” it was his duty
to carry out the instructions of Ministers responsible
to Farhament and to the people. Lord Fisher was in-
viiea to Austraha to advise on its naval defence, but
naa Mr Reginald Henderson sent instead—“a splendid
seaman who devised a splendid scheme.” He remained
. e npinton that “what Australia wants to make it
impregnable is not conscription ; it’s submarines.”
«i She l Was a , great desi §ner and builder of ships,
Ansi™r C ae toda y would assuredly advise
Australia to build more ships—all kinds—and train
more seamen. No one has written more glowingly of
“the magnificent merchant navy”:
Seven million tons sank under these men, and the
record of so many I’ve seen who were saved was “three
times torpedoed.” And they didn’t even get paid
for the clothes they lost, and their pay stopped the day
the ship was sunk.
He would have had the merchant navy incorporated
in “the navy of the nation, with all the rights of money
and rank and uniform and with widows’ pensions and
pensions in old age.” A reform still neglected by the
rulers, though it would not be begrudged by the people,
of the Empire, for which the merchant navy is once
more doing “magnificent work.”
Lord Fisher had no use for European campaigns,
fought by huge improvised armies ; “endeavoring to
swell ourselves out, like the frog in /Esop’s fable, and
become a great Continental Power!” Defence of the
realm by an army sufficient for that purpose, yes. But
Every soldier that is recruited on any other basis
means so much tonnage and shipping that has to be
provided, not only to take him to the Continent, but it’s
got to be kept ready to bring him back, in case
of his being wounded; .and all the time to take him
provisions, ammunition, stores. Those vessels again
have to have other vessels to carry out coal for those
vessels, and those colliers have again to be supplemented
by other colliers to take the place of those removed
from the normal trade, and the coalmines themselves
necessitate more miners or the miners working beyond
the hours of fatigue to bring forth the extra coal; or
else the commercial work of the nation gets diminished
and your economic resources get crippled, and that of
itself carried in extremis means finishing the war.
He was fated not to witness the shattering of the
Continental alliance-and-adventure dream; but his
spirit still lives in the Navy.
Petrol Rationing.
The Commonwealth Government could have learned
something about petrol rationing from Maoriland,
which has had it for a long time ; but it dawdled till
June. Then forewarning was given of a plan which
was to take effect “probably” in August. The prob-
able basis was stated —one which would give ordinary
pleasure cars about 300 miles running per month, with
a sliding scale of increase for commercial vehicles.
July arrived with a Stewart scheme, to come into
operation on September 1, which cut these figures in
halves. Even then the estimates were based on
optimism. It was reckoned that 8-h.p. cars would, on
a four-gallon monthly allowance, be able to travel
160 miles, and that 20-h.p. cars on an eight-gallon
allowance would go 168 miles.
Cars used 50 per cent, for business purposes
were to have a 50 per cent, increase on basic
allowances, which increase—with good driving on good
roads —would give them a range of round 250 miles. A
third category provided for a 400-mile range, and ordi-
nary cars used strictly for business were to be per-
mitted enough fuel for 600 miles per month on econo-
mical running. Commercial vehicles were graded into
seven divisions providing for quotas of 2500 to 15,000
miles running per annum.
The whole thing was hotly criticised, and the
representatives of the Chamber of Automotive Indus-
tries withdrew from the Petrol Advisory Council,
which was asked to approve of it. The secretary of the
Sydney Motor Traders said that it would have a
“tragic effect” on the industry. Other spokesmen for
the industry joined in, and Dr. Page swelled the chorus
with some rasping remarks about the probable effect
on dairying and timber-getting in his principality. The
din was such that Mr. Stewart —he is a Minister —
could scarcely be heard, but he was understood to
say that he had been misreported or misunderstood or
something. Then Melbourne reported that “Cabinet
would review the whole position on Wednesday.”
The crux of the position is that Australia is isolated
from main sources of petrol supplies by thousands of
miles of sea. Twenty per cent, of its oil fuels come
from the Persian Gulf, which is now adjacent to, if
not in, a war area. With the collapse of France, the
entry of the Italian Navy into the war and the develop-
ment of unrest in the Far East, the burden of the
R A F. and of the navies of the British Common-
wealth has been trebled, their flying and steaming dis-
tances extended beyond measure. More mileage and
the scattering of battleship and air forces place an
immense strain on tanker accommodation ; and Britain
owns the tankers.
The position in Australia itself is unsatisfactory.
A 20-h.p. car would need nearly 200 gallons of petrol
to take it from Sydney to Darwin. And in case of
invasion, what might normally be a two-year supply
of oil fuel might be used up in a month.
What the community has a right to complain of
is that for over 10 war months petrol usage has been
allowed to continue on a normal basis, and that no
real step has been taken to replace overseas supplies
with local fuel.
A Wet Season.
“0.T.”: Two summers of record heat and dryness
doubtless had something to do with the fact that
N.S.W. drank more beer in 1939 than in any year
of the previous decade. Man, woman and child, the
State got away with 12.87 gallons a head and paid
£6 os. lid. for it and the relatively small quantity of
spirits that went with it.
The new president of N.S.W. Temperance Alli-
ance, Rev. Tomlinson, calls this a “revelation,” and
suggests that it shows we “should take more notice of
Mr. Spender’s suggestion that we should go slow on
luxuries.” Mr. Spender will no doubt be edified by
this support. It should fortify him against the Sydney
“Sun’s patriotic desire to protect its advertisers.
All the same, it is the fervent hope of many that
Mr. Spender won’t support Mr. Tomlinson’s view of
what constitutes a luxury.
The Australian rite of beer-drinking has never
received proper attention from psychologists or writers.
Thousands of men who never get drunk actually drink
more beer throughout the year than those who do.
There is something about sharing a glass with a mate
that appeals to all sections of the community, and the
fact that thousands will frequently take shocking risks
to break the liquor laws is not so much an indication
that they are victims of the demon Drink as a public
manifestation that they think the law is silly.
Prohibitionists have come out with the opinion
that prompt closing of hotel doors at 6 p.m. in this
State would reduce consumption, but that would
only increase the frantic rush to down as much as
possible between knock-off time and closing time. It
has been frequently claimed that extension of closing
hours to 8 p.m. would greatly reduce the struggling
mobs that fight for a drink around six every night,
and there is good ground for giving the proposition a
trial for (say) a year. Future decisions could then be
based on a statistical analysis of the result.
It is certain that much more beer is drunk in
private homes than 10 years ago. There has grown
a remarkable trade in quart bottles of draught beer,
so great that city hotels now carry enormous stocks
of quarts packed ready for purchase.
Although the State Legislature is frequently urged
to reform the liquor laws, there is some ground for
the growing belief that in their present condition they
bring in much more revenue than if reformed. Few
people have any idea of the huge amounts collected
in fines every year from publicans and sinners caught
disposing of pots after hours, few drinkers realise how
much of what they pay for a beer goes to the Gov-
ernment in excise and fewer still realise the revenue
collected in taxes of all kinds from breweries, pubs,
glass merchants and their employees.
And few would care two hoots about it if they
did know, so, long as the beer is good and somebody
willing to shout.
Queer State.
While the N.S.W. public was trying to swallow Rail-
way Commissioner Hartigan’s refusal to carry soldiers
for fares within their small means, travelling home, per-
haps to see the last of Dad and Mum, being “for their
personal amusement and pleasure,” a lorry giving sol-
diers a free lift from their camp into Parramatta was
bailed up on the road. The bailer-up was a Road
Transport Department official, and he ordered the
driver to disgorge the load and cease the unseemly
practice forthwith.
About the same time, several hundred people who
had given their cars, petrol and time free for use of the
military received an order to remove at once windscreen
stickers bearing the words “Emergency Transport.”
N.S.W. has a Minister for Transport, a Mr.
Bruxner. Mr. Bruxner seems to think he’s Operator
X of the Secret Service, and these days is generally
to be found examining with a magnifying glass foot-
prints along Macquarie-street in search of a clue to
the mysterious Enemy Alien at Large.
Importuned for an explanation of the lorry inci-
dent, Operator X mumbled something about soldiers
being killed and wounded in motor accidents, peered
closely at the inquirer’s boots and lapsed into silence.
Into the breach leaped Road Transport Com-
missioner Neale:
It is imperative that everything possible should be
done to protect the lives of the fine young men. The
Department of Road Transport set out to provide suit-
able and safe accommodation in properly-equipped
passenger yehicles.
The “properly-equipped” vehicles carry fare tickets
which soldiers must buy in order to be landed, not at
Parramatta, but at a wayside station.
As for the windscreen stickers, “transport authori-
ties” stated that the words “Emergency Transport”
couldn’t be allowed because there already existed a
Government organisation known as National Emer-
gency Services.
These strange performances are being enacted in
a State whose Premier, a Mr. Mair, is fond of assuring
the people that they are waging a war for freedom.
"Partant Pour La Syne."
From “Ente Marid”:
Sydney “Sun” has transferred its Mr. James Aldridge from
Finland to Syria to give us the straight griffin about that
country Mr. Aldridge “toured all over Syria,” and “before
I was hurriedly thrust out by the French authorities I saw
clearly the development of the political division”—into “semi-
rascist totahtarians” and the Party of Independence.
As one experienced in Syrian travel in peace-time with all
its paraphernalia of passeport, veseka and o la-la, yi yi! I
will swear solemnly on the Communist Manifesto that ’if
Mr. Aldridge “toured all over Syria” in the time to which he
must have been limited he is supreme among modern travellers
And if Mr. Aldridge saw politics “clearly” in Syria he
must have the complicated eye of a common housefly.
The town Syrian is a person who wears the same kind of
• a ? . ssur banipal on the Assyrian friezes, and below it a
nightshirt and slippers which are authentic Cruickshank from
the Pickwick Papers. You find him leaning against a wall
tethered to a pet sheep, a purple band painted round its
abdomen for decoration. The commercial activities of the
country are run by Semitic gentlemen who range from refugee
Armenians to Lebanese and Samaritans. The rest is Arab
I went to Syria armed with every kind of introduction
ranging from those of Foreign Offices to that of T E
Lawrence. After days of headaches, the only clear-cut ex-
pression of the political condition and aspirations of Syria
was summed up in a protocol from the management of the
Hotel Baronne at Aleppo:
francs 500; shop, francs 90; cognac, francs
t' francs 5 > bierre, francs 143.5; cigarette
trancs 200.
I also had a pocketful of silver mejidieh, Syrian francs
Turkish liras, chayrakes, piastres, tomans, French francs sous'
a sweated gold Turkish coin, an Egyptian pound (it was
fixed together with stamp paper) and a shin plaster from a
sous-lieutenant. The state of the currency is the measure nf
the political condition of any country measure of
The only person within 500 miles who seemed to have
any clear-cut I( ?eas about Syria was King Feisal in Bagdad
King Feisal said We have been robbed of Syria It was
promised us. He added something which the interpreter
thought it better to leave out of the translation.
.. However, one thing was, and is, clear: the Arab is the
KH me t n * in S y™ an d Lebanon, which depends on its
land industries, as elsewhere in the Middle East. He is i
proud, fierce fellow. His language is the national language
his religion the prevailing religion. ® ® ’
. If some frightened editor wants to reassure himself lei
him sit down and try to reconcile Arab individualism with the
Pass methods of Fascism, as practised in Europe, and tribal
law and habit with the national regimentation of Nazism.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Craiser”: The spread of Japanese
imperialism is having its effects on Aus-
tralian foreign missions, and the field
grows ever smaller. No absolute embargo
is imposed by the authorities of Nippon,
but they maintain such a constant sur-
veillance on the Christian evangelist that
his converts get fewer and fewer. A
Melbourne missionary just returned from
Korea found himself a living exemplar of
the axiom that cleanliness is next to god-
liness and learnt also that to be a man of
God one must mortify the flesh. The only
way he could get converts was to repair
to the public baths daily, sit in the steam-
ing water and converse with the naked
coolies. The amount of washing he did
was out of all proportion to his bodily
requirements, and, as the Japanese like
to be parboiled and the Koreans have
followed their example, he lost two stone
in the evangelistic cause.
* * ?.« *
“T.”: Said the Sydney solicitor: “I
have a pal in camp, a fellow who’s worth
a hundred thousand if he’s worth a penny.
Knowing how casual he is, I told him
the last time we met that he would have
to put his affairs in order —give me a
power of attorney, and all that. ‘Come
up to the office now,’ I said. ‘Not me!’
he replied ; ‘there’s a girl I want to meet.
Do the job yourself.’ I explained that it
was impossible, and he explained that it
was impossible to give up the appoint-
ment ; sq we compromised: I was to
post him a list of simple questions
and he was to write replies. Back came
my memorandum about a month later,
after I had sent four letters and three
telegrams saying it was urgent. I had
set out eight points, and four were
answered after a fashion; the rest were
blanks. But there was a footnote on
the memorandum: ‘I don’t feel equal to
replying to any more of your ruddy ques-
tions. I have just finished emptying and
scouring 34 sanitary pans.’ ”
* * * *
“Toper”: Police investigations in Port
Pirie (S.A.) brought to light a still, some
grapeskins and 36\ bottles of “ooza,” and
led to a Greek’s appearance in court.
“Ooza,” explained Pappinopoulis in de-
fence, “is more than a beverage; it’s a
cure for the cough and cold, and a lini-
ment —in Greece, everybody make it.”
’Sonah, smelling the brew, remarked that
he had “profound respect for its proper-
ties as a liniment” and fined the aston-
ished Hellene £35 plus costs.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: An irritable young
sub-editor got himself into trouble in a
variety of directions over a war cable.
After leaving the censor it conveyed the
information that an unidentified ’plane
believed to be of enemy origin flew over
an unknown town on the south-east coast
of England. The sub. completed the pic-
ture with: “The incident occurred at an
undisclosed hour; an undetermined
number of British ’planes took to the
air firing an unestimated number of
times. The outcome is unknown, and the
incident has not been verified.” Un-
luckily, the boss noticed it—or, at least,
looked it up after hearing some chaps
laugh about it at the club.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Three youths had been com-
mitted for trial on shopbreaking and steal-
ing charges at Tallangatta in “the Kelly
country,” 200 miles from Melbourne.
Bound for Pentridge, they were taken
aboard a train under the escort of two
constables and securely handcuffed to-
gether. Soon after leaving Seymour the
constables were sitting securely handcuffed
together, with their prisoners in posses-
sion of their entire armament. One of
the lads had succeeded in pinching a
pistol from an official building before
they were - handed over to the escort.
When one of the constables left the com-
partment at Seymour the young desperado
drew the pistol from his pocket and made
the other policeman deliver up his re-
volver. When the first constable came
“ Anti-tank gunners, F-I-R-E!”
back he found himself menaced by two
revolvers: He was made to help his
companion unlock the handcuffs, which
were promptly snapped on to their own
wrists. In the upshot the constabulary
restored its prestige when the fugitives
were found sitting on a park seat in Mel-
bourne: Constable Jones, disregarding
a threatening pistol, flung himself on
the leader and hurled him between an-
other policeman and a second armed
man. The third youth escaped in the
confusion.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: A Queensland commission
agent has sounded a note of hopefulness.
During examination in bankruptcy he
announced that he had prepared a list
of his charges for attending the examina-
tion and for all the times on which he
had* had to visit the Official Receiver. A
dazzled-Registrar recovered his wits suf-
ficiently to inform the financial optimist
that if he made any claims of that nature
they would need to be made against him-
self.
* * 4! *
“D.E.”: One of my favorite recreations
used to be reading spy-stories. You know
—those novels of the William Le Queux
school in which handsome young English-
men in all manner of disguises, aided
by mysterious countesses, all surpassingly
beautiful, pinched the enemy’s most
treasured plans and bore them, com-
plete with countesses, to the War Office
or the Admiralty, refusing all rewards
except special marriage licenses. Never
again! The charm of that branch of
letters was snapped when it was borne
in on my mind that the British secret
agent has missed the bus everywhere.
Heavens, how that hopeless dud and his
female partner, if any, have let their
employers down! , And in spite of
novelists and the sludge press, this seems
to have been the case always in the
present century. Anyway, since dis-
illusion came to me, I spotted this pas-
sage in Jacky Fisher’s “Memoirs”:
It is very deplorable, not only in the
late war, but also in the Boer War especi-
ally, how utterly our spies and our Intelli-
gence Department failed us.
The grand old seaman mentions that
“through the patriotism of several mag-
nificent Englishmen who occupied high
commercial positions, I got a central
forwarding station for information fixed
up privately in Switzerland ; and... .was
thus able to obtain all the cipher messages
passing from the various foreign em-
bassies, consulates and legations. I also
obtained a key to their respective
ciphers.”
But as to any information from an official
source reaching me, all our diplomats and
consuls and intelligence departments might
have been dead and buried.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The military expert of one
of the Melbourne dailies attributed the
downfall of France to Leon Noel and
Laval, and pointed out that it was a
fact not lacking in significance that
Laval’s surname spells the same back-
wards and frontwards and that the other
fellow’s monicker is charged with even
more of this sinister meaning. This
reminds me of the extraordinary im-
portance that was attached to the names
of the French and English generalissimos
in England at the beginning of the last
war. The last three letters of Joffre’s
name and the last three of French’s
made “French,” and the first three of
Joffre’s and the first three of French’s
did the same trick for the Gallic leader,
This occult occurrence did not prevent
their being superseded.
* * * *
“Sing 9”: C. Hodgins, secretary of the
R.A.C.A., has come out with a plaint
in the newspapers that motorists don’t
understand that question (“Do you apply
for preferential rationing? If yes, give
reasons”) in the applications for licenses
to buy petrol. He advises said motorists
not to make their applications until the
question is clarified. Well, it looks simple
enough to me, meaning that if I think
I should get privileged treatment if and
when rationing becomes severe I must
give reasons. I’ve given them, i.e., that
sight of air-raid shelters in Sydney
Domain makes it necessary that I should
have enough juice to bolt for the Darling
at any time in the near future.
* * * *
“D.A.”: A prisoner who vexed the
patience of the Court, the police and
witnesses had his hash settled in the end
at Sydney Quarter Sessions last week,
One Patrick Brady, who called himself
a shearer, and two others were charged
with conspiracy over the uttering of
worthless cheques at places ranging from
Sydney to Bourke. Brady conducted
his own defence, more than once tripping
up the prosecution and questioning court
procedure to some effect. His was no
Blitzkrieg on the Crown’s case, either.
The trial lasted for 20 days, Brady talk-
ing much of the time, and there were
1000 pages of typed evidenpe. A hand-
writing expert was cross-examined for
three days, and the patience of the Judge
was tested. When, on a reference to
police “spleen,” Brady sought to refer
to an “event that happened five years
ago,” he was stopped. In his address
to the jury he mentioned the intrusion of
the police into his home —“a citadel of
peace.” Also,
I don’t ask for mercy, for mercy is the
deadliest injury to mankind if bought at
the expense of justice. Every crime creates
a law and every law creates a crime; and
the law should always be strict and pure.
Brady said the points he made in favor
of himself also applied to the two other
accused, adding, “I have done my best
for these two men, though I have no-
thing in common with them.” All to no
avail. Guilty, with seven years for Brady;
three years and two years for the others.
When asked if he had anything to say,
Brady responded: “No ; it is a case of
the vanquished and the victor.”
“R. Tape”: A witness in the Brady
case, an Australian, was brought from
Samoa. After being at the mercy of the
police and civil service for a few weeks
he is convinced Australia will never be
conquered. The case over, he wanted
to get back to the Islands by the next
boat, so he applied for his witness’s fees,
There were disallowances of his out-of-
pocket expenses galore, but he grimly
agreed not to dispute them in order to
catch his ship. He went from office to
office having initials put on his claim.
The Crown Law Department told him to
come back in 24 hours for his cheque.
A special conference with the Treasury
was necessary to get the deed done in
an hour. Then he made for the Customs
to have his passport endorsed. Come
back in seven days, he was told. His
plea of urgency availed him nothing. It
took the influence of his firm—a weighty
one—to get the rubber-stamped formality
put on by an aloof official—in half an
hour.
* * * *
“Odd Pint”: I see be the papers where
a couple of English lasses have started
one of these here matrimonial bureaus
in London to provide wives for them
A.I.F. blokes. I’d give a bit to know
what sort of occupations the prospective
bridegrooms claim to follow in civil life,
I once called at a house in a western
N.S.W. town for a handout, and found
a woman slaving at a washtub while a
beery-lookin’ cove dozed under a tree in
the yard. We got talking, and she told
me she was English. “Met and married
him there,” she says, noddin’ at the cove ;
“told me he was a squatter. Too right
he is! He’s done nothin’ but squat
around here dodgin’ work ever since he
brought me out.”
CHIANG KAI-SHEK.
“At the beginning of the fourth year of the war,
Chiang Kai-shek reaffirmed his determination to
fight until all enemy forces were withdrawn from the
country.”
A million and more of his men have been
hurled
From one to some other Celestial world;
Of those who are homeless the total amount
Is far beyond any statistical count;
His principal cities have long been laid low,
His Yangtze is ploughed by the keels of the
foe;
But those who conclude that his country’s a
wreck
Past saving are scoffed at by Chiang Kai-shek.
Three years they have fought with their backs
to the wall
And been battered with blows that distress and
appal,
But they’re still full of fight as an egg is of
meat
And stoutly dismissing all thoughts of defeat.
The harder they’re hit, the more surely they’ll
strive
To hit twice as hard when their turn shall
arrive.
We’ll wear down invaders and hold them in
check,
And finally out them,.says Chiang Kai-shek.
There’s a maxim—or so I am credibly told —
Among hundreds laid down by Confucius of
old,
Predating that Ingoldsby Legends refrain,
“Take a suck at the lemon and at him again!'’
But bearing a purport exactly the same,
For none can foretell the result of a game
Till this side or that gets it fair in the neck.
So it’s Nil desperandum for Chiang Kai-shek.
Too sanguine he may be, perhaps, but at least
It looks like a tip to the West from the East.
With more of such stiff’ning her blood to
enrich
Would France be so dismally down in the
ditch?
As one of the stayers, the Fabian type,
Who’ll never be party to skying the wipe
While he’s armies to move at his nod and his
beck,
I’m draining a glass to old Chiang Kai-shek.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“What, chief not there? Well, ask him to ring me — Brown, BX4141 —as soon as he comes in.”
“Pitt-street”: Though the sight of. a
bolting horse is nearly as rare in Sydney
as hen’s teeth, a nag provided the Law
with a bit of excitement recently. It
was meditating on the passing of its race
in Anzac Parade when a couple of dogs
developed an argument under the cart
to which it was attached, whereupon it lit
out for home. A startled traffic cop,
indignant because the neddy refused to
heed his signals, commandeered a taxi
and. gave chase. All Oxford-street
downed shopping bags, window rags and
mugs of beer as the procession, now rein-
forced by two cops on motor-cycles,
careered westward. Finally the horse
stopped. The Law congratulated itself,
reprimanded the wayward animal, and
was about to lead it off to durance vile
when another taxi disgorged a calm-
faced individual who climbed into the
cart and drove serenely off about his
business. Uncertain whether it consti-
tuted a case under the Transport Act or
the regulations • for preventing unlawful
gatherings, the Law scratched its head,
mounted its motor-cycles and also
departed.
* * * *
“Redfin”: Terrigal, a popular resort
on the coast north of Sydney, bids fair
to rival Darwin (N.T.) in its accumu-
lation of bottles. Over a million of
them, so the Gosford Licensing Court
was told, are collected between Christmas
and Easter every year. The information
was part of the evidence in support of
a storekeeper’s application for a license.
There are no pubs nearer than seven
miles to Terrigal, which is probably why
the marines suffer so much mortality
there.
“J.H.M.A.”: Mention of the small
redoubt, the flagstaff and the powder
magazine set up in 1788 where Sydney’s
Macquarie-place is now (B. 10/7/’4O)
recalls the tragic affair of the six marines
who were hanged there in a batch for
robbing the commissariat stores in the
earliest days of settlement. In place of
the Moreton Bay figs that have adorned
the pretty triangle for many years, some
big gum-trees grew near the mouth of
the Tank Stream in those days, and it
was from the branches of one of these
that six corpses dangled on a morning
in 1789, to the order of his Excellency
the Governor, in sight of the whole of
White Australia and some Black Aus-
tralians. All about in the partly-cleared
scrub stood the rush-thatched huts of the
tiny hamlet that hadn’t yet been named
Sydney, the garrison was paraded under
arms, and Arthur Phillip explained to his
subjects the enormity of the offence for
which the sea-soldiers were about to die.
They had conspired together to rob the
stores whenever one of their number was
posted over the primitive building as a
sentry. A broken key in the padlock
and the confession of one of them gave
the show away, and vengeance was
prompt and grim.
* ' * * *
“R. Volt”:, According to Minister
Street upwards of 500 letters a week
reach Army Headquarters in Melbourne
concerning suggestions for repelling
Hitler’s projected invasion, with specific
reference to the immobilising of tanks
by means of electrified streams of water,
wires trailed from overhead charged with
high potential or cables hidden under-
ground. Most of them come from indi-
viduals who have evidently learnt the
laws of electricity from a brief perusal
of radio manuals. The inventors might
be able to electrocute a general travelling
in a motor-car insulated from the earth
by its rubber tyres; but tanks are a
different proposition. They provide a
perfect path to earth per medium of their
metal caterpillar wheels, and the occu-
pants would be in no more danger than
a citizen in a suburban villa in a thunder-
storm.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Add to quotations from
mid-Victorian days that seem equally
applicable to recent events in Europe
four lines from Tennyson’s “Riflemen,
Form,” originally published in the
“Times” in 1859:
Form, be ready to do or die!
Form, in Freedom’s name and the Queen’s!
True we have got —such a faithful ally
That only the Devil can tell what he means.
No need to ask who the ally was. The
verse is also useful as showing the cor-
rect pronunciation of a word which is
woefully maltreated by the present
generation.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The seafaring community
in Australia is small relatively to popu-
lation compared with Britain, but when
the Naval Staff Office in Melbourne
called for recruits for the R.N.V.R. from
the ranks of yachtsmen it was snowed
under with applications. They were
mostly for the seaman class, however, for
navigational knowledge is much rarer
amongst yachtsmen than most landsmen
imagine. Some of the longest yachting
cruises taken in Australia have been made
by skippers and crews who could not box
“When testing wheels, Jones, a gentle tap is quite sufficient !”
the compass, let alone take an observa-
tion. I knew a yachtsman whose summer
cruises ranged from Bunbury to Carnar-
von, a distance of upwards of 700 miles.
But in the Westralian summer the wind
blows offshore in the morning and chops
round to the south-west at two in the
afternoon as regularly as clockwork, and
it was exceptional for him to lose sight
of the coast for two hours together. He
was as ignorant of navigation as a cocky
farmer in the Mallee, but otherwise a
first-class seaman.
* * * *
“Norther”: Just when the police in a
Newcastle station were thinking it was
to be a dull night, a frantic voice on
the telephone apprised them of the sinister
fact that a gang was digging a grave or
something on a vacant allotment near
Hamilton. Reconnaissance revealed that
the gang was in force, so steps were taken
to surround it. Ready for anything, the
Force closed in. There were 30 men in
the gang, and they were digging all right
—for worms.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The discussion about
T’othersiders recalls the time when Aus-
tralians regarded other Australians, if
they were from other States, as foreigners.
The spirit of the day v/as well illus-
trated by a “gift song” given away with
a Christmas issue of the Sydney “Mail”
in the ’nineties, when the gold rush to
Westralia was at its height. This refrain
ran to dirge-like music:
Back! Call them back from that far-off land
Where in search of gold they roam,
For it’s happier they’d be ’neath the old roof-
tree —
Back! Call our loved ones home.
Occasionally there are sneers about the
benefits of Federation, but those who
sneer have forgotten or never knew the
feelings of former days that now appear
incredibly foolish. The idea that another
State is a “far-off land” where its sons
would naturally feel themselves exiles
would get the loud laugh in any State
today. Yet once the “inevitability” of
war between Victoria and N.S.W. because
of rival interests was seriously discussed
in the old “Evening News” by the Pro-
fessor Roberts of that particular day.
* * *
“Spokeshave”: The pride of the vil-
lage in a Gippsland township is a veteran
of 93 who repairs to the local hostel
every evening and sinks his six or seven
pots with marked enjoyment. A com-
mercial traveller from Melbourne, lost
in admiration of his prowess, asked him
whether it didn’t affect him. “Affect
me!” he snorted. “Country ale can’t
affect you. It’s that city beer that does
the damage. Now, if I were to drink
even two pots in Melbourne I’d be under
the table.” “Don’t let on,” whispered
an explanatory townsman to the c.t. “His
memory began to get a bit hazy twenty
years ago when there was a brewery in
the town, and he thinks he’s still drink-
ing the local brew, though it’s actually
Carlton.”
* * * *
“S. Buster”: The scene outside Sydney
Town Hall on a recent night, when 3000
women fought for admission to a
Women’s Australian National Services
rally, had its counterpart outside Mel-
bourne’s civic centre later on, except
that there was a fair proportion of the
male sex and the object was different.
Many in the crowd that struggled to get
in had travelled long distances ffom the
country, and there were fainting fits and
hysteria in plenty. The occasion was a
lecture by the • British-Israel World Fed-
eration, which is just now assuring any-
body who’ll listen that the ten lost
tribes found their way to Britain and
founded the British
race, and that, no
matter what fell
schemes the dictators
spring, the Empire
will emerge victori-
ous. Inside, the pro-
ceedings were en-
livened by the
strategy of a young
woman who jumped
on the stage, handed
the lecturer a note —
this he proceeded to
broadcast as a mes-
sage to someone
—tripped to the
other microphone
and declared “I am
the R e v e 1 a tion.”
This was too much
for Hollins, M.L.A.,
who grabbed the
charming interloper, called for reinforce-
ments and had her removed. After that
the lecture proceeded in peace, though
hundreds of fists battered on the grimly-
held doors and hundreds of voices uttered
cries of despair without. And there are
plenty of Melburnians who jeered at the
Yanks for being stampeded by a Wellsian
broadcast alleging an invasion from
Mars!
THE CRYPTIC PHRASE.
“Mr. , Curtin said that Mr. Lang was talking
through his hat.”
A curious idiom, entre nous,
A quaint expression (is it not?)
To indicate your private view
That somebody—no matter who —
Is uttering egregious rot.
I wonder what inspired the phrase
And who the politician that
First heard himself, in distant days,
Accused of “talking through his hat.”
Some orators essay to wipe
Opponents out in party feuds
By charging those who at them snipe
With “frothy fustian,” “turgid tripe”
Or “clotted inexactitudes.”
All useful taunts, no doubt, but none
So terse and homely, plain and flat,
As pinning upon anyone
The guilt of “talking through his hat.”
The feat implied provokes a smile,
Since physical restraints forbid
A chap, however versatile,
From perorating through his tile
Or controverting through his lid.
Who knows, our learned profs, among,
The metaphor that he was at,
Whoever ’twas to give our. tongue
The trope of “talking through your hat”?
But there it is. From rural deans
To those who roasted peanuts cry,
From urban joints to sylvan scenes,
We’re all awake to what it means,
Though nobody can tell you why.
So when you next your lungs inflate .
To give your fellow-men a chat,
Let facts and figures, square and straight,
Supply the gist of your debate,
Or else you’ll not have long to wait
For someone to insinuate
You’re only “talking through your hat.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


'S?"
c?
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
/
é
>E SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
At the beginning of the week it looked
as if the nasty dispute with the Japanese
over the traffic in arms via the Burma
Road might be settled. Failing a settle-
ment Downing-street ought to let the
Dominion Governments have a go. A
negotiator like our Chief Justice Latham
would be an asset to the whole Empire,
and perhaps to China as well.
According to all accounts, the arms
reaching Burma consigned to China are
foreign, and they must be carried in
foreign bottoms—it is inconceivable that
Britain could spare either arms or ships.
Thoroughly loyal as they are and will
remain, the Dominions would take it un-
kindly if they were involved in more
trouble in defence of a “principle” which
in the circumstances is not worth defend-
ing, especially as it means fattening the
profits of foreign arms manufacturers and
shipowners, and furthering the aims of
Moscow imperialism.
The Duke of Windsor is going to the
Bahamas as Governor and Commander-
in-Chief. The population is about 67,000,
so the army should consist of at least
one sergeant-major, possibly white, and
a score of coons; the capital is Nassau,
where the rum-runners came from, and
the salary is £3OOO p.a. As King-Emperor
Edward had a civil list fixed at £410,000
p.a., of which £llO,OOO was appropriated
for his privy purse, together with the use
of historic palaces, country houses, royal
coaches, cars, carriages and what not.
And from the heights of glory he de-
scends to the kind of job to which the
Steynes of his great-grandmother’s time
used to send their whisky-soaked embar-
rassments like Rawdon Crawley.
“Giving Australia leadership” once
more, Sydney “Telegraph” has come out
with a five-point programme, the fifth
being “We must have a Minister for
Tokyo.” Modesty forbids the “Telegraph”
to mention that the Minister should be
Theodore, but as chairman of directors
of the paper which in 1937 and onwards
demanded “positive action against Japan,”
and in 1939 clamored for the extension
of the “alliance” with Russia to the Far
East, Theo. has qualifications which are
positively extraordinary.
The whirligig of time keeps bringing in
its revenges. During the Boer War the
French proposed a Continental alliance
against Britain. It was the Kaiser who
would have none of it.
The Victorian Labor bosses are still
reeling from the shock of the Coburg
by-election. Exercising what they called
their “right” to nominate the branded
candidate, they picked a man who wasn’t
even a resident, and when a resident
Laborite, Mutton, came out they pro-
nounced him a scab. Coburg elected
Mutton with a majority of 2614 over
the bosses’ man; and now the whole
policy as well as the methods of the
bosses is in danger. They have been
following Dunstan meekly for five years.
Parish-pump politicians in Victoria still
don’t know there is a war on. Follow-
ing the fashion, Victoria has acquired a
Co-ordinator of Works, and the C.O.W.
wrote to all local-government and
“semi-Government” authorities urging
the immediate need of submitting their
works programmes for consideration by
Chief Co-ordinator Brown. Last week
was set as a time limit. Forty munici-
palities ignored the ukase. Flowever,
Brown, who when post-office boss
learned the ways of departments and
councils, was ready with his riposte.
Bodies that won’t give details of their
alleged requirements will get no money.
Sydney has two exploded Premiers on
the premises, Stevens and Lang, both
striving desperately for public notice.
Lang has the edge on his old rival, for
at least he has a party (“Non-Com.”).
Stevens is reduced to babbling at obscure
meetings and to being patronised by un-
knowns who write to the papers about
him.
Beasley, who leads a Labor group of
his own, told a Paddington (Sydney)
crowd that “soldiers at the Showground
have been put in sheds that pigs were
taken out of.” Beasley was a member
of the Government that abolished
national training, thus reducing Aus-
tralia’s military-training establishments to
“sheds that pigs were taken out of.” But
the Beasleys never refer to their own
blunders.
From the report of a “State-wide No-
Conscription Congress,” convened by the
“Minister Stewart is already bending to the storm aroused by his petrol-rationing plan.”
“Gentlemen, gentlemen, this is unnecessary. You should know from my record
that I always back down.”
Sydney A.L.P. (“Hands Off Russia”) and
the Labor Council:
Congress overwhelmingly defeated a
motion for the creation of an armed
workers’ militia.
Mr. Wilson, president of the Newcastle
Trades Hall Council: “We are going to
say to Mr. Menzies, ‘We will preserve our
democratic rights or we will stop produc-
tion of munitions.’ ”
“The Menzies Government fears that the
workers in this and other countries will
revolt to preserve their liberties.” —J, S.
Garden.
E. Ross, of “Common Cause”: “The
Menzies Government has gone very far
along the road that led to the French sell-
out ”
But let played-out demagogues and writ-
ing-boys rant. Australian Labor has
taken Moscow’s measure.
Auburn’s old warhorse rushes into the
fray:
While the War Cabinet debates about
sending a Minister to Japan, another
Cabinet member cries “Long live Russia!”
This is typical of the Menzies Govern-
ment; they are having trenches dug in the
Domain and are issuing propaganda, yet
on the foreign policy question they can’t
decide whether they want to make friends
with Russia or Japan.
A bit mixed, perhaps ; but then so is our
foreign policy, if we have one.
The latest newspaper furphies con-
cerned Minister Thorby and a compul-
sory loan plan attributed to the Common-
wealth Government. Thorby, it was
alleged, was to be hauled over the coals
by Cabinet because he had had some-
thing to say about conditions at the Syd-
ney Showground camp and the necessity
for guarding against an outbreak of in-
fectious disease in a spot surrounded by
a crowded residential area. He wasn’t
hauled over the coals by Cabinet; and
the other tarradiddle brought a flat denial
from Menzies and Spender. Once upon
a time editors of newspapers demanded
accuracy first, last and all the time.
As soon as word went round the N. S.
Wales prisons that Treatt, the Minister
of Justice, had cancelled two-thirds of
a defaulting solicitor’s sentence to let
him join the A.1.F., Treatt began to be
snowed under with appeals for similar
favors from inmates who are not soli-
citors. Reaching the flustered man with
difficulty, reporters were informed that
“Mr. Treatt will reject all such appli-
cations unless there are exceptional cir-
circumstances.”
It is estimated that Melbourne workers
have to be transported at the rate of
3000 a minute in peak hours, a number
likely to be nearly doubled by the petrol
restrictions. Transport heads are getting
aches thinking about it, and there is a
resurrection of the “staggering” idea. The
Master Drapers and Traders are against
it. Similar troubles are bound to occur
in Sydney, and the nation is beginning to
realise the folly of having a third of its
entire population concentrated in two
cities.
Things that can be still heard, and
sometimes read, without venturing into
hospitals for the feeble-minded:
If the Tory Government in London had
backed Stimson, of Washington, in 1931,
the Japanese would have been stopped.
If Eden had had his way, he would
have settled those Nazis and Fascists.
Stalin would have knocked Hitler rotten
in 1938, but Chamberlain and Daladier
showed the white feather.
Private armament manufacturers caused
it all. You never hear of bombers attack-
ing Krupps or Vickers.
The bit about Russia is Exhibit A.
And that holy thing State manufac-
ture of armaments didn’t prevent the
Reds from invading Poland, Finland,
Latvia, Estonia, Bessarabia and North
Bukovina.
The Victorian Parliament met in May
for a week. It hasn’t been seen since,
but will reappear on July 30. Nobody
missed it while it was in recess, and few
would miss it if it never appeared again.
And this applies to the other five State
Parliaments, all of which are in recess.
After all, Britain is not sending
children to Australia ; it is sending in-
terned aliens instead. It can’t spare
convoys for children. This suggests
that Australia could help J.B. —and
itself —more by building ships as
rapidly as possible (and also, of
course, ’planes and tanks) than by enlist-
ing, equipping and training masses of
volunteers. They are splendid fellows,
but, the shipping and naval position being
what it is, heaven knows what they are
to do and where they are to go when
licked into shape. Without any preliminary
fuss B.H.P. has started building ships at
Whyalla (S.A.). From Albany round to
Hobart, and north to Bowen, there are
at least half a dozen ports where ships
could, and should, be built.
The President in his latest message to
Congress:
We will not use our arms in a war of
aggression. We will not send our men
to take part in European wars.
We sigh when we recall what he
said last month. Still, if only in charity,
it should be remembered that the Demo-
crats are about to choose their Presiden-
tial candidate.
The latest from Rumania is that “the
washed-out descendants of Trajan’s sixth
Legion” “detained” British tugs, grain
lighters and oiltankers and threatened to
fire on French vessels transferred to British
companies if they hoisted the British
ensign. What a crazy policy it was to
take these corrupt ingrates under British
protection! For a tenth of the money
that has been wasted on the scum of the
Balkans, British Governments could have
shifted thousands of fine, loyal people to
build new shipbuilding yards, arsenals,
workshops and factories in Australia. But
they followed the shifting mirage of Con-
tinental politics and let places like Jarrow
rot.
From the official Australian war corre-
spondent, now in Britain:
On Wednesday night I met two privates,
one from Brisbane and the other from
Sydney. “We’ve just left Chamberlain,”
said the first casually. “He came at us
with his hand out, so I gave him a nod.
‘Why don’t you get out of the Cabinet?’
I said.”
It recalls that Charles Bean left the
Policy of the Paper out of his 1914-19
war reports. His stuff read all the better
for the deliberate omission.
For the year to June 30 old age and
invalid pensions cost approximately
£16,459,200. That was more than twice
the bill for war pensions (£8,147,000) and
nearly 40 times the amount paid in
maternity allowances (£416,900). One
certain outcome of the war is that mater-
nity allowances will have to be extended
and increased. In other days, as an in-
genuous politician of the period put it,
“the ’ighest lady in the land” could “go
and draw her five quid and no questions
asked” ; and those days are coming back.
Nominee-Senator Sheehan, Parker
Moloney, Hendrickson and McAdam are
to be the Victorian Labor ticket for the
Senate election which will have to be
held this year. Hendrickson, a postal
linesman at Bendigo, is without political
experience. McAdam was M.L.A. for
Ballarat until Hollway established a
mortgage on that seat; and Moloney was
Scullin’s Minister of Markets and faith-
ful supporter during the 1931-32 palace
revolution (“Moloney and Brennan con-
cur”). The four are reckoning on Dunstan
U.C.P. support. It is improbable that
the Dunstanites will show up their weak-
ness in the electorate by running candi-
dates of their own.
Several large and rain-swept persons
invaded Melbourne from the Gippsland
ranges seeking help to combat drawbacks
and institute improvements in their coun-
try. They saw the usual State Ministers
and got the usual answers. If there is
one thing more played out in Australia
than the conference habit it is the
equally-useless deputation-to-the-Minister
habit. Without State Parliaments, and
with regional councils having wide local
powers, these districts wouldn’t know
themselves by 1950.


THE POWER OF PATRONAGE.


YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL ...
But even with approx. £2O you can
have a stake to-day in 20 leading
Australian industries.
Custodian Trustees for Investors,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Informative Free Booklet No. 1 is
yours on request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.0., Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
“CONSCRIPTION
OF WEALTH”
HOW IT WILL OPERATE.
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A new recruit to the A.S.C. of the
A.I.F. in Melbourne brings some unique
experience. He is L. G. Diamond, who
was supply officer to Sun Yat-sen when
that mission-trained revolutionary was
impressing his Three Principles on China
with the most remarkable collection of
guerrilla armies in history. The Mel-
bourne man helped Sun to defeat General
Ch’en in 1923. Then he returned to his
homeland and started to develop the
now-important art of parachute-jumping.
He broke a leg in a desperate descent in
a gale of wind at Kaniva, Percy Leason’s
birthplace in the Mallee, but it has
mended so well that the recruiting officers
passed him without a stain on his physi-
cal reputation.
The mild perplexity which Dubois has
registered on the phiz of Harold Ireland
HAROLD IRELAND JOHNSON.
Johnson is probably a reflection of his
troubles as gen. sec. of the N.R.M.A. —-
the latest is petrol rationing. Born
in Sydney in 1890, Johnson learned his
three Rs at Kogarah and put his foot
on the first rung of the ladder as a junior
clerk at the old Town Hall in 1906.
The 1914-18 war found him in Palestine
as a subaltern, and he returned as a
major in the Light Horse —he is now
colonel in command of the 4th Cavalry
Brigade. In 1922, when the National
Roads and Motorists’ Association was
heading for the rocks, he took over and
was mainly responsible for building the
organisation up to its present standing;
he has been general secretary since 1923.
He has visited England and the U.S.A.
to study road service methods. He now
gives his spare time to golf and improv-
ing his property at Port Hacking, though
he has been a keen yachtsman—he owns
the auxiliary cruiser Scot Free.
When the Duke of Windsor is in-
stalled as Governor of the Bahamas he
will meet one old friend of Melbourne.
He is U.S. Consul James W. Dye, one-
time American Consul in the southern
city.
Mars has made inroads on the flying
doctor service, and no medico with the
requisite requirements has yet been
found in Victoria to fill the place of
Clyde Fenton since that intrepid in-
dividual enlisted. To fill the gap Dr.
K. B. Hope has been transferred from
Melbourne to the N.T. Not a flier, he
will have the use of a ’plane and a
pilot when he pays his flying visits. He
has been lent by the Commonwealth
Health Department.
Frank Chaffey, dead at 52, had been
ailing for a long time, but his courage
disguised the fact. He belonged to one
of the old grazing families of the New
England (N.S.W.) district, son of the late
W. A. Chaffey, of Nemingha. He was
a Hawkesbury College boy, and served
five years with the A.1.F., coming back
a captain—he was mentioned in dis-
patches. He was one of the founders of
the Farmers and Settlers’ Association,
and all his interests were primarily farm-
ing. A fine judge of cattle, he was never
missing from the Shorthorn judging ring
at the annual shows of the R.A.S. In
politics he was not a brilliant success,
because he lacked the ruthlessness and
drive of the successful politician; but
he sat in every U.A.P. Ministry from
1922 onwards until a little before his
death, and he was always popular with
his staffs, and particularly with the police
force, which he controlled for many
years.
John Gent, town clerk of Footscray
(Vic.), has completed 50 years in muni-
cipal service. He went to the Ballarat
East town hall as a junior clerk in 1890.
He has been 23 years town clerk of the
odorous suburb which has provided
generations of Tiv. comedians with joke-
material.
S.A. has lost a great citizen soldier at
close on 90 —Col. James Rowell. He
led the S.A. contingent
in London for the
Diamond Jubilee in
1897, commanded its
Bushmen’s force in
S’Africa, and helped
with transport work in
the European war.
Gardener and orchard-
ist in private life, he
had half a century on
the council of S.A.
Agricultural Society,
and became its presi-
dent ; also his popularity
took him into the
Senate. His son Sydney
was one of the original
cadets at Duntroon in
1911, and is now a
brigadier in Palestine ;
another son is Adelaide
manager for the Mc-
Ilwraith McEacharn
Co.
Rudall, Minister for
Crown Lands in S.A.,
was “introduced” at a
recent luncheon of the
St. Peter’s College
Association by his own
son, the chairman, who
vouched for his good
repute—“l have known
him for 18 years.” The
elder Rudall is one of
the very few Rhodes
scholars who have
taken up the leading of
their country in the way Rhodes in-
tended.
Having collected the degrees of B.M.
and B.Ch. at Oxford Uni. at the age of
24, John Joseph Pritchard, South Aus-
tralia’s 1935 Rhodes scholar, has been
invited to lecture at University College,
London. Educated at St. Peter’s, Adel-
aide Uni. and St. Mark’s, he gained his
B.Sc. at 18. The eighth student of St.
Mark’s to become a Rhodes scholar, he
is on the medical staff of the Mill Hill
Emergency Hospital, London.
A Melbourne medico, Dr. W. E.
O’Hara, earns the distinction of being
the only Briton to date to be com-
pensated for damage sustained when
Shanghai lay in the line of fire between
the Japanese and Chinese Chapei in the
hostilities of 1937. He has been granted
approximately £2OOO for the destruction
of his home. He has been practising in
the British pale for many years and
comes of a well-known Melbourne
medical family.
“C. 8.”: The return of legit, has
brought that fine actor Frank Bradley
back into the limelight in Melbourne as
the bored father of v Quiet Wedding.”
Bradley has a continuous job in the
present opus, but he used to be the artist
of the little vignette, and often provided
the only interesting part of an Edgar
Wallace thriller. Playing opposite
Moscovitch, he had the part of a
watch-house doctor. After doing
his stuff he went home to bed, and,
although the play ran for a couple of
months, he never knew which of his friends
were bumped off, poisoned, dropped into
the mud of the Thames or otherwise ex-
tinguished in the subsequent proceedings
by the bloodthirsty Edgar. When off the
stage Bradley likes nothing better than
to go out painting the Australian land-
scape.
Edward Stephens, who claimed to be
100 years old and Victoria’s oldest living
native-born inhabitant, has passed out
at Stawell. He was born in a house
on a spot opposite the present Elizabeth-
street post office, the son of a Welsh-
man who came over with Fawkner’s
party from Tasmania. Later the cen-
tenarian became a breeder of sheep and
Clydesdales in the Nhill district. Of his
family of 15, eight are still living.
Brigadier-General STANTKE, who succeeds Major-
General Miles as Adjutant-General, A.M.F.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Caulfield-born, 37-year-old Dr. Hugh
Christian Trumble, chief agronomist at
Adelaide’s Waite Agricultural Research
Institute, is back from Britain, Canada
and the U.S.A.; he has been studying
the planning of cropping and grazing
systems and problems of soil conserva-
tion. He visited England in 1928 at the
request of the Adelaide ’Varsity, and at
the request of the Empire Marketing
Board reported on pastoral conditions
in Morocco, Algeria, Palestine and Trans-
jordania. He tacked D.Sc. to his name
in 1937.
Keith Macpherson Smith, who nowa-
days represents the Vickers interests in
Australia with an office in Sydney, is one
KEITH SMITH.
of those Australians who helped to make
air history. Born in Adelaide just on 50
years ago, he followed a mercantile career
with Elder Smith and Co. till the war-
gong clanged, and he became a member
of the R.F.C. and later of the R.A.F.
In 1919 he was co-pilot and navigator
with his brother Ross in the first flight
from England to Australia —their ’plane
was a Vickers-Vimy-Rolls. Keith joined
the Vickers firm in England in 1923. He
is a director of various companies, a
member of the Institute of Aeronautical
Engineers and holds the gold medals of
the Royal Aero Club and the French
Aero Club.
Passed over at 85, Walter Carncross,
for 21 years Speaker of Maoriland’s
Legislative Council. Born in Victoria of
shrewd north of Ireland stock, he arrived
in Otago a very young man. He started
a newspaper at Taieri and was returned
to Parliament as a Liberal in 1890, for
a time being Whip under Seddon. He
retired in 1902, and next year Seddon
put him in the Council. In 1918 he was
made Speaker, and in 1922 a knighthood
came his way. Politically he was always
a Vicar of Bray, but was well liked. A
son was killed in the 1914-18 war.
An aboriginal dictionary, entailing
years of patient research for its author,
Father Nekes, of the Pallotine Mission,
is to be published shortly. Along with
fellow-Pallotines, Father Nekes has been
working among the Kimberley natives
for some years.
Arthur Peck, Melbourne’s veteran
architect and its leading deep-sea yachts-
man, celebrated his 85th birthday recently.
Peck is commodore of the Davy Bay
Yacht Club, Frankston, and life member
of most of the others, and what he hasn’t
learnt about Victorian and Tasmanian
waters is scarcely worth knowing.
“Toombul”: W. F. Webb, of Queens-
land, isn’t the first Industrial Judge to
become Chief Justice as suggested (B.
3/7/’4O). The Queensland Industrial
Court’s first President, Tom McCawley,
appointed in 1917, became C.J. in 1922.
From 1922 to 1925, when he died, he
was both C.J. and President of the In-
dustrial Court.


m
m
m
II
m
m
11
M
'
lllill
mm
i
?*»*>s
&£>:|
Here’s
what
you need
—at bedtime!
AI7HEN wet and worry and waiting about
have chil ed and depressed you, this is
what you need: White Horse, a whisky as fine
as a fine liqueur. Its great age and quality
make it a tonic to the mind, and the
wonderful glow for which it is famed is a
proved defence against colds and ’flu. Take
White Horse at bedtime for long, deep sleep.
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch Whisky, matured and
maturing, ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies.
Screw-cap flasks on sale everywhere.
WH4x4O


ABORIGINALITIES
“K. Ley”: Red Louis and Barcoo,
sharing a hut, refused to heed warnings
when the river rose, and went about their
business of trapping, wood-cutting and
fishing while others on the flats got on to
higher ground. Came a night when Red
woke up to find the floor under water.
He and Barcoo grabbed some clothes and
tucker, waded out into the darkness and
found their boat, which, luckily, was
caught by the painter in a dead tree.
Adrift on the flood they found their
bearings gone and not a star showing to
guide them. They rowed through the
darkness in what they thought was the
right direction, their craft frequently
bumping trees and logs or scraping
through submerged bushes. Night-hawks
shrieked, from somewhere far off a
mopoke called and once a half-drowned
rabbit scratched at their boat. Before
long Red and Barcoo were arguing about
direction, whose fault it was they hadn’t
got out sooner and who owned the
blanky boat, anyhow. Then the boat hit
something, the flooring bulged and water
poured in. They fell to baling, but the
water gained. “Well,” growled Red,
“we’ll hafta swim f’r it now.” He stood
up, balanced himself and dived over-
board. Barcoo heard a splash, followed
by hearty curses, then a silence and, just
as he had begun to grieve, a chuckle.
Red had dived into two feet of water.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: There was another “one-
man” horse (B. 10/7/’4O) and he began
life as a brumby, being among the last of
the wild horses of the N.S.W. Riverina.
Caught and tamed by the old boss of
Tapalin about 30 years ago, the little
horse ran with the station mob but would
let nobody handle or work him but the
boss, and kicked several buggies to bits
to prove it. If put in a long-shafted
vehicle he’d simply lie down. But when
the old boss took the reins, the little
horse would step out as proud as a prize-
winner dt the local show. The pair of
them covered some incredible distances in
their time. *
* * * *
“Plankton”: Touching on the idiosyn-
crasies of climbing plants (B. 26/6/’4O),
admittedly clockwise-spiralling is most
common, but numerous exceptions in-
clude the convolvulus family, at least one
smilax and also the scarlet runner.
Hereditary influence has probably fixed
the direction characteristic of the spiral-
ling movement in some families. To
complicate the problem further, some
plants evidence no consistent spiralling
habit, examples of this being Sayphanthus
elegans and Lonsa aurantiaca. The latter
was carefully observed by Charles
Darwin himself. Out of 17 plants exam-
ined, eight spiralled anti-clockwise, five
clockwise and the other four twisted first
in one direction and then reversed. One
of these made seven right-hand spirals
followed by five left-handed ones. It
may be noted that the tendrils of pump-
kin plants exhibit similar tendencies.
* * * *
Healesville (Vic.) is possibly
the only town in Australia to have a
tombstone as an ornament in its main
street. Some five years back an agitation
arose to place a tombstone over the
neglected grave of Barak, last king of
the Yarra Yarra tribe, in the old abo.
cemetery at Coranderrk. A Mrs. Bon,
a nonagenarian, donated one which many
years before had adorned her husband’s
grave at Bonnie Doon. Reinterment of
the remains released the tombstone for
reinscription over the bones of the old
Binghi chief, but by parish-pump perver-
sity it was erected where it stands today
in Healesville’s main street, a monument
to a dead king whose grave, scarcely a
mile distant, is almost obliterated by a
wilderness of weeds.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I’ll back the sparrow against
any other bird when it comes to taking
“They must have a navy somewhere!”
cover in a hurry. In a stableyard in my
S.A. district is a huge old boxthorn. The
ground around it may be literally brown
with feeding sparrows, but within a
second of a hawk’s appearance every
spag is safe in the heart of that spiny
bush ; how they escape impalement on
the needle-sharp prickles is a mystery.
The predatory one is left to perch
gingerly on top of the bush and gaze
longingly at the tasty tucker which
huddles safely in twittering bunches a
couple of feet below. Only two birds
don’t scoot for cover —the pet magpie,
whose dagger of a beak and swiftness in
attack secure him immunity, and the
wagtail, which flutters elusively a foot
or so above the hawk’s head.
* * * *
“Muttonhead”: Mutton-birds need
no cliff from which to take off (B.
3/7/’4O) because, like the vultures, they
make use of the rising columns of warm
air which are found in sub-tropical coun-
tries. These “thermals” are well known
to gliding enthusiasts. Any ordinary
“thermal” will take a vulture —or glider
—up to 2500 ft.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A full gale roaring up
unheralded from the Antarctic ice had
forced the 60ft. fishing ketch, built, owned
and sailed by Teddy Boyne, into such
shelter as a rocky kelp-fringed headland
on the ironbound southern coast of Tas-
mania could afford. For two days it
plunged at the anchors, the crew parcel-
ling the chains to prevent them from
sawing through the hawse bollards with
the incessant movement. A point or two
of windshift, and they would be smashed
like an eggshell against the 100 ft. cliffs
a cable’s length astern. A chain parted,
and they ran out their last anchor on
a coir, with a messenger to ease the
range on its bight and to keep the flukes
from lifting. As they changed wet clothes
below Teddy put on his shoregoing suit,
complete with collar and tie. To the
expressed surprise of his two mates he
explained the new sartorial glory. “S’pose
the lines go or the wind shifts east’ard
an’ it’s ’ats on the water after all? Well,
if y’re picked up before the crays get to
yer, y’d like ter look yer best for layin’
out, wouldn’t yer? And if yer do get up
them cliffs, a good suit of clothes’ll make
a good impression if a bloke’s got to ask
for a bit o’ tucker while ’e’s hoofin’ it
home.” The lines held, and the wind
didn’t shift or this par. wouldn’t have
been here.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: “Nor’-west’s” lady turtles
(B. 3 /7/ ’4O) seem to affect different social
habits from their north-eastern kin. In-
stead of 120 to 150 eggs as the usual
family effort, 60 to 80 are the customary
nestful on N.Q. beaches in the October-
December season. Can it be that birth-
control is sapping local turtle character?
The Queensland lady is much more sus-
picious. Instead of gadding about after
discharging her cargo, she spends a lot of
time in making false nest-mounds to
deceive raiders. For years in succession
she will come back to the same beach
at each laying season, testimony to an
accurate sense of locality. The parch-
ment-like shell of the freshly-laid eggs is
faintly pink. A day or so later a small
white spot appears, and gradually in-
creases until it covers the whole shell —
then the young hatch out. The whole
process takes nine weeks, but at any
stage of it turtle eggs are plenty good-
pfeller kai-kai in the opinion of Brother
Binghi.
* . * 1 ,
Balander : Ive never been lucky
enough to witness it, but several bush-
whackers have assured me that the casso-
wary will hop into the nest-robbing wild
pig on sight. In this it differs from the
emu, which is larger but not so sturdy
as the bird that wears horsehair for
feathers and is too timid to fight. Friend
Casso goes the pig with beak and legs,
and I have been solemnly assured that
one crack from the beak will stun a
pig, while a kick from either leg in either
direction will break a man’s leg. I’m
up for drinks if this isn’t denied.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Further to those hide-
ous saddle-sores which sometimes be-
spatter the oont (B. 26/6/’4O). Writer
was once fated to help hoist some female
tourists aboard the camel-string led by
old Luritja Jim, and one of them came
early to see her mount saddled. “Oh!”
she cried, “I couldn’t possibly ride that
poor beast. Look at the terrible sore
on it.” “Where?” was Jimmie’s bland
reply. “There! ” she gasped, pointing to
a blood-red pulpy patch that indicated
the position of the hipbone. “Aw, that,”
said Jim. “That’s orright. He goin’ to
hurt you a lot more than you hurt him.”
And he did.
**. * *
“Thorn : Cripes, Bill, I wouldn t
have a snake tattooed on me body if I
were you,” Long Ned advised when Bill
told him of his intention. “A few years
ago I was on a railway construction job
tip at Bandywilly and the cook there had
a death adder tattooed on his right arm;
the tail was on his wrist and the head
rested on his bicep muscle. Every time
he’d tense his muscles you’d think Joe
was just starting to crawl. Well, one day
the bab’s lyin’ under a coolabah having
a snooze. It’s a hot day and he’s only
got his pants and athletic singlet on. One
of the new coves happened to be going
past just as some reflex nervous action
made his muscle jump. The bloke grabs
a waddy and socks into the snake. Yair,
snapped his arm like a carrot.”
, * . _
Naturala : Mother spiders in b.
Queensland may dine on their offspring
(B. 19/6/ ’4O) but in W.A. we breed them
with much finer maternal instincts. Any-
where around our south-west parts one
may come on big ground spiders, pug-
nacious but non-poisonous. At times
one will find some of these ladies darker
in color and apparently covered with
scores of tiny round knobs. Touch these
knobs with a straw and they immediately
fall off, taking on individual life. Baby
spiders. So faithful this mother that she
turns herself into a vehicle, carrying her
children with her wherever she goes,
Even her legs will be loaded. Nor will
she desert her offspring. Have brushed
all the knobs off a large female and
immediately she curled herself up and
shammed dead, her loading each doing
the same. A little while, and the coast
being apparently clear, she stretched out
and stood up. Instantly her infants were
up, too ; all scrambling on board mother
like city workers boarding the 8.15 bus.
* * * *
“Atrax”: I frankly prefer the original
sonorous paradoxus t 0 the modern
. „ +u „ •«„ tv> P
atia inus e . P , n ...
Polypus following the chesty Ornitho-
rjiyncus family title. The unobtrusive little
are rnuch more numerous than is
generally supposed. A few months ago
f sa w on f busily searching a weed patci
i n the Yarra, less than 10 miles from
Melbourne G.P.0., and within 100 yards
of a house. Last week, from a busy traffic
bridge within a half-hour car run from
Brisbane, I watched two collecting then
evening meal. Thus engaged, they have
a curiously reptilian look, resembling
water-tortoises rather than furred
animals. The reptilian resemblance goes
deeper than mere looks. Their average
body temperature is some 14 degrees
lower than that of any other mammal ex-
cept their echidna cousins; it goes up
and down with the surrounding tern-
perature, and the embryo young have an
egg-breaker projection on the snout
similar to that in many reptiles. Also,
the teeth which remain until the young
platypus is about a foot long resemble
those of, an extinct reptilian species.
THE WIRE.
It’s strung around the Commonwealth, it marks
oft' roads and runs,
It wanders down the mountains, chain by
chain,
It struggles through the mallee scrub, beneath
the burning suns,
It runs from town to town across the plain.
It climbs the tree-clothed coastal hills, by fern
and creek and glen,
All bent and burnt and torn by flood and
fire;
It fades out into distances, beyond the haunts
of men,
Australia’s million miles of fencing wire.
It holds the wild-eyed cattle on the western
Barcoo side,
It keeps the wild dogs back from Jindabyne,
It curbs the stud merino in his dignity and
pride,
And bounds the road from Perth to Yellow-
dine.
In plain and barbed and No. 8, a multitude
of lines
Has marked the country’s landscape, shire
by shire;
It flings the washing on the breeze or holds
the trellised vines,
Australia’s million miles of fencing wire.
It binds the wheels of ancient traps and some-
times straps our swags,
It swings ten thousand billies o’er the blaze,
It holds the roofs on humble shacks and
hobbles many nags,
And frequently some bushman’s pants it
stays.
And though the tractor and the car have
changed things, more or less,
When something breaks with consequences
dire
The native-born will take a bit and make repairs
and bless
Australia’s million miles of fencing wire.
We often sing of pioneers, and of our progress
boast,
And tell the world of how we tamed this
land.
We drink to famous men we’ve bred, and epic
deeds we toast;
We’re proud of what we’ve won by brain
and hand.
But, whether we live up at Broome or down in
Hobart town,
In canvas tent or ’neath a concrete spire,
It’s plain we owe a drink or two —come, glasses
upside down,
“Australia’s million miles of fencing wire!”
N.S.W.
Old-timer.


“B. A. Ker” : The station wag chris-
tened him “Dainty,” but as he camped
in a shed on his own and did a bit of
suckering for his tucker, the fact that he
saw more birthdays than bathdays didn’t
worry us as much as his other vice. Every
pension day he would footslog the six
miles to town, heading for the post office
and the pub in that order. If we were
lucky he fell by the wayside coming
home ; but generally he would roll into
our hut at about 2 a.m. and rave at the
unknown practical joker who had tied
the calf in his shed. No amount of per-
suading would convince him that there
was no calf there ; and somebody had to
get out in the cold and chase the imag-
inary animal out before further sleep was
possible. One pension night the wag
decided to give Dainty real cause for
complaint, so he tied a poddy to the old
fellow’s bunk. We had an undisturbed
night, and next morning, thinking the
old soak hadn’t got home, I glanced into
his shed. There was old Dainty sound
asleep with his arms around the calf’s
neck!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It’s Mat’s yarn: I’m
broke in Adelaide, except for two bob,
an’ I see in the paper where a bloke is
wanted t’ sell music. So I goes to the
place, an’ the upshot is I hands over me
two deeners an’ a bloke gives me a dozen
pieces of music—you know, songs an’
that—an’ I’m t’ sell ’em at a spraf apiece,
hawkin’ ’em round the suburbs. Well,
after trampin’ most of the day I’ve only
sold one piece, though I dropped the
price t’ fourpence, an’ I’m doin’ a famish
an’ me feet burnin’. I sits down on the
kerb an’ takes me boots off an’ I’m
havin’ a spell when a little cove comes
along, spots me an’ starts askin’ ques-
tions. He finishes up buyin’ me a few
drinks an’ a feed an’ takes the music f’r
a dollar the lot. “You’ll do me,” he
says ; “I’m a journalist, an’ I’m told t’ do
an article on musical appreciation”—or
something like that —“an’ here’s you,” he
says, “sittin’ half-starved an’ with sore
feet after tryin’ t’ bring art inter the
people’s homes at cheap rates. You’re a
crusader, that’s what y’ are,” he says.
Well, I don’t care what he calls me, ’cos
I’ve got a feed an’ sold me music, an’
if that’s crusadin’ I’m finished with it,
because I know where that dollar’ll take
me—hay-diggin’ on a Gawler farm.
* * * *
“The Duke”: W’en I started on
shore leave,” reflected the sailor as he
helped himself to another swig of rum,
“I went on a bender with me cobbers
an’ finished up a bit shot the first night.
I called a taxi, ’opped in and gave the
driver directions. We ’ad almost reached
w’ere I wanted to go w’en I began diggin’
in me pocket f’r me Oscar, but I’m bust
wide open. Suddenly I got an idear, an’
jumped up and shouted t’ the driver
bloke, ‘Stop at the next terbacconist’s!
I wanter git some matches. I’ve dropped
a fiver in ’ere an’ carn’t find it in the
dark! ’ Soon the taxi arrived at a terbac-
conist’s shop an’ slowed to a stop. I
opped out an’ ran inter the shop, and
the taxi disappeared like a four-inch
shell—just as I thought he would!”
* * * *
“Clinton Cape”: Westralia occasion-
ally boasts that its people are the most
English of all Australians; certainly its
nomenclature keeps nearer to that of
the Old Land than most other parts. Take
the word “creek.” In Eastern Australia
a “creek” is any stream too small to
be called a river. In the West such
streams are properly called brooks, and
“Hey, Ali, where's the nearest cloakroom?”
dozens of examples could be quoted ; a
creek, as in England, is a small arm of
the sea, such as might readily be mis-
taken for a river mouth. Up the north-
west coast are scores of such creeks.
Many are scenes of beauty. One sails
in on crystal-clear water through an
avenue of tall green mangroves growing
right into the water on both shores. The
impression is that of entering a fine river.
But a mile or two up the'mangroves close
in, and it is the end.
* * * *
“Hay St. Perth”: If bushmen really
were deficient in the sense of location
and direction (B. 19/6/’4O), Australians
would still be confined to the seaboard
of this continent. Yet thousands of men
have successfully returned after breaking
into new country without the aid of
“familiar landmarks.” Once went ’roo-
shooting out from Carnarvon, W.A.,
around across the Ashburton to Onslow,
a trip of about 700 miles. None of us
had traversed that district before. So
at the start old Tom laid out the formula.
“ ’Ow many ’ave un brought down, lad?”
“The sun rises in the east and sets in the
west, moving round through the north,
That gives any mug the four points of the
compass. Make sure at starting out which
point you’re taking. Keep note every time
you turn round. Judge the hours by the
length of the shadows. Keep an eye open
for landmarks: queer trees, stumps,
rocks, quartz-blows, ironstone ridges, any
kind of dry creek. Get the direction such
a creek runs —the sun will give you that.
Watch the hills, too ; every one is dif-
ferent.” All this is elementary to the
bushwhacker, but it enabled the three
of us to go through that little stroll
without becoming seriously bushed.
Observation is the secret of hushcraft.
It becomes second nature to the bushman.
* * * *
“D.C.”: A rabbiter I know gave a
young sheep-dog a piece of ham. It
became violently ill, and though doses of
milk saved its life its reason was per-
manently affected. It had forgotten all it
had learnt of rabbiting and had even to
learn afresh such simple things as get-
ting through fences. The rabbiter swears
that salt meat is poison to dogs, and he
has the backing of a lot of people about
these parts. Probably, though, the ham
was unfit for human consumption and
the meat —by then a poison—was thought
good enough for the dog. But I’d never
heard before of poison having other than
physical effect on a dog.
* * * *
“Dominic E.”: Watching a city angler
muddling in tying a hook to a length of
gut moved me to show him just how.
Take your end of line, bend to a loop
which lies down the shank of the hook
to the bend. This leaves the gut with a
long end leading back to the reel and
a short end that lies by the eye of the
hook. Now take this short end and wind
it round the shank and loop down to-
wards the bend of the hook and the
eye of the loop. After from four to six
turns slip this short end through the loop
and draw tight. This forms a series of
double half-hitches which hold the hook
in a line with the gut, registering nibbles
which with looser tyings would pass un-
noticed. Out snapper-fishing in the
schooling season one learns to tie on
hooks quickly. For with fish well on
the bite and fifteen- to twenty-pounders
cdining up over the side there isn’t time
to extract the hook from the fiercely
struggling catch. One just cuts the line
at the eye, leaving the hook in for more
leisurely moments. Of course, plenty of
line is needed to allow for cutting. In
good seasons I’ve known a couple of men
land a hundred big snapper inside two
hours.
* * * *
“0.P.”: Two greyhounds, a rabbit and
a big goanna arrived at the entrance to
a hollow log at the same time, all in a
hurry. The rabbit managed to slip
through the hole first, followed by the
go., while the dogs walked excitedly
round outside. Then the rabbit shot out
of the log again, a performance which so
surprised the hounds that they lost valu-
able yards, and the bunny got away in
some underbrush. Meantime, sounds of
struggle came from the interior of the
log, with some yowling and spitting, and
presently the go. came out backwards
and took to the tall timber. There then
emerged an outsize in domestic cats gone
wild. Scarred, yellow and full of fury,
Tom took station at the entrance to his
invaded home and dared all to come on.
The greyhounds surveyed him carefully,
then drew off and trotted back to the
homestead.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: With a booming sound of
powerful wings, what looked like the
great-grandfather of all cockroaches
zoomed through the open window,
cannoned into the lampshade, fell on the
table, capsized a teacup, and lay waving
broad, hairy legs. Three inches long and
solidly built, with a full six-inch wing-
spread, it seemed about the last thing
to be suspected of being a swift and
deadly under-water hunter of insects,
small fish and frogs. Yet such is the
way in which Lethocerus indicus, giant
fishkiller in the vernacular, makes its
living, stalking its prey amongst the
weedy patches of creeks and pools often
many feet below the surface, seizing its
victims in spiked hinged forelegs, and
sucking out their life-juices with the
sharp, strong beak. At intervals it comes
to the surface to renew its air supply,
hanging head-down and watching for
more living provender to pass beneath.
When food runs out or the mating urge
comes on it, the killer takes to the air,
always at night, and covers great dis-
tances. Its strong flight and ravenous
appetite have enabled it to acquire a
habitat extending from India to south-
eastern Australia, and on summer nights
flocks of the fierce giants may sometimes
be seen zooming about Sydney street
lights. It is inadvisable to pick one up
—they can be surprisingly handy with
the forelegs-beak apparatus on occasion.
* * H= *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Shortly before the
original owner of the 12ft. carpet snake-
skin which now decorates my office wall
died from a gunshot wound it had swal-
lowed the turkey we had been fattening
for Christmas. I have come across an-
other with a well-grown wallaby in its
travelling larder. Is there a recorded
instance of a child having been taken by
one? In my late-1880’s youth there was
a legend on the Tweed River (N.S.W.)
of such a happening at a cedar-getters’
camp in the great Cudgen scrub. A
woman had put her sleeping baby in its
cradle under a shady tree while she made
a damper in the hut. Returning, she
found the cradle upset and empty and
the baby gone. Her shrieks brought help,
a search was organised and a huge carpet
snake found with the dead child in its
gullet. But, old Comoy, patriarch of all
local abos., would have none of the yarn,
and he would assuredly have known,
directly or by tradition.
* * * *
“Arev”: Old Bill had had a grudge
against “all o’ these ’ere cows that mag
yer into buyin’ things you don’t want”
ever since a travelling dentist had button-
holed him in Tim Healey’s pub one
Saturday afternoon when Bill was feeling
a bit glad. An auriferous tooth promi-
nently displayed in his upper jaw had
been the upshot. Thereafter, despite
George Mooney’s opinion that it “made
him look quite flash,” Bill gave short
shrift to any travellers who would have
sold him anything from insurance to
tractors. But last week George met
old Bill driving a fine little heifer calf,
and the broad grin on his usually lugubri-
ous face pulled George up with a start.
“Aw,” said Bill, in explanation, “there
was a traveller up our way buyin’ up
old gold. He offered me a fancy price
for me gold tombstone, so I let ’im
’ave it, and bought ’er with it.” He
jerked his thumb towards the heifer.
“Little beauty, ain’t she? I’ve called he;
‘Traveller’s Delight’! ”
GATE-OPHOBIA.
Whenever to the scrublands
My sated spirits stray,
From cool and fragrant publands
To fields of sober gray;
Whenever I’ve a yearning
These city rags to doff
And go where “dings” are burning
The northern paddock off;
There’s something I remember—
Some sullen inly surge,
Some unextinguished ember,
Which makes me fight the urge;
A damping stream of soap and
Cold water on my “nut” —
The something gates I’ve opened,,
The censored gates I’ve shut!
Long gates, strong gates I see ’em—
They haunt me in my sleep!
Queer gates that the Museum
Would part with pounds to keep;
Tall gates with bends and binges;
Small gates that come undone;
And gates devoid of hinges—
Huge gates that weigh a ton!
Limp gates that quake and quiver;
Taut gates that scorn to flinch;
And gates that rack your liver
To budge a gory inch;
Old gates devoid of hope and
Young gates that buck and butt —
The something gates I’ve opened,
The censored gates I’ve shut!
Now from the trap descending
Again and yet again,
My choicest language rending
The silence of the plain!
Now halting on the slope and
Now pausing by the hut —
The something gates I’ve opened
The censored gates I’ve shut!
O Pete, who guards the portal
Of Blessed Paradise,
At least I know one mortal
On whom you’ll ne’er set eyes!
To me the Door of Hope in
The jasper walls is but
A something gate to open,
A censored gate to shut!
W.A.
ROUSEAROUT.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAI 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. MaAsie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.G.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life -or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you haye a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., X,TD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 HindleV Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
££* £ £
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074:644
Premiums on new shares, £457 .. 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2i „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
<To contingency reserve, £420,000 .. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 2\ p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 .. 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1.656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ „ 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 ~ „ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 . . 1,643,304
S'urplus sale investments, £1636 . . 1,644,940
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 . . 1,623,283
1939 178,024 62,500 4£ p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
Added goodwill, £4lOO . . .. 1,626,707
1940 260,096 62,499 Gl p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
The business—pastoral, pastoral-finance,
wool- and stockbroking and merchandis-
ing—is well scattered throughout the
Commonwealth, and keeps on expanding
by absorption and otherwise. It is strong-
est in N. S. Wales, where the co. receives
nearly half the wool it handles, does most
of its livestock turnover and is a large
runowner as well.
The spring of £82,073 in last year’s net
earnings was largely the result of a better
season in all States, though most of
W.A.’s pastoral areas remain parched,
higher average prices for wool and live-
stock, increased turnover in agency and
merchandising business, and better
returns from the co.’s own properties.
An extra 79,569 bales of wool were re-
ceived, and the quantity sold or appraised
increased by 28,631 bales:' —
f— 1 —Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1933.. 317,704 327,147 30,747 £ll 9 1
1934.. 295,416. 318,035 8,128 20 4 5
1935.. 307,648 253,841 61,935 12 13 4
1936.. 306,777 358,232* 10,480 17 12 3
1937.. 301,598 292,873 19,205 20 14 2
1938.. 314,078 257,889 75,394 15 15 3
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
1940.. 382,132 380,422 27,876
* Includes 25,52,5 bales burnt and appraised.
t For year to June 30.
The average price per bale hasn’t been
published yet, but the flat-rate purchase
price under British Government contract
is 13.43 d. per pound as against 10.57 d.
per pound obtained in the open market
during the previous season. Last season’s
appraised price was 1.03 d. per pound less
than the contract price. This difference,
together with the 10 p.c. retention money
(10 p.c. of the appraised price is retained
temporarily as a protective measure
against possible overappraisement), will
be paid to suppliers of participating
wools through selling brokers on July
26. The sums involved for the whole of
Australia are £5,742,044 retention money
and £4,880,738 flat-rate adjustment pay-
ment, total £10,622,782, which is a very
handsome sweetener to a cheque already
'fatter than its predecessor. Considering
the work involved, the promptness with
which settlement is to be made is a fine
testimony to those in control of the
wool-purchase scheme.
The co.’s turnover in all sections
of the business combined exceeded
£12,000,000, a record, and gross profit
benefited by £178,074:
Provi-
Year Gross Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5,000 311,880
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5,000 318,647
1930.. 795 ? 752 539,787 62,646 2,500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2,500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2,000 63,294
1933.. 508,675 367,137 62,553 2,000 76,985
1934.. 615,705 354,321 62,553 -3,000 195,831
1935.. 566,424 402,683 62,553 3,000 98,188
1936.. 658,195 415,726 62,552 5,000 174,917
1937.. 725,511 456,290 62,552 10,000 196,669
1938.. 772,660 518,801 62,516 10,000 181,343
1939.. 734,649 548,125 62,500 8,500 115,524
1940.. 912,723 642,858 62,499 10,000 197,597
Exes, were up £94,733, mainly because
of increased taxation (£73,269, up
£44,824) and the fact that more wool
was handled in a shorter period. After
paying the debenture interest and send-
ing an extra £l5OO to the staff provident
fund, the net result was 8.2 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 4.8, 7.5, 8.2, 7.2, 4, 8.1 and
3.2 p.c. back to 1933. A couple of
points were added to the div., making it
6j p.c., and the average over the last
decade 5.5 p.c. For 20 years before that
the average was 15.8 p.c., but those days
have gone and are not likely to return.
On capital and reserves combined the
£197,597 of profit claimed was only 4.8
p.c., so the co. isn’t likely to be affected
by either the excess-profits or undistri-
buted-profits tax.
The already-solid financial structure
was further strengthened:—•
1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. .. £2,400,000 £2,400,009 £2,400,000
Debentures . . 1,417,702 1,417,586 1,417,586.
Sundry creditors .. 858,692 840,138 915,152
Liquid assets . . 481,214 333,416 493,662
Advances .. .. 4,751,588 4,743,648 4,745,476
Properties.. .. 224,987 f . QO , „ n -
Premises, etc .. 837,915 J l,O0 !* 266 994,900
Plant, stock, shares,
etc 219,823 310,516 360,337
The growth in the amount coming to
sundry creditors (up £75,014) reflects
gathering of additional deposit moneys.
The increase of only £lB2B in ad-
vances indicates the better season, heavier
clip and steady clearances under the
appraisement scheme. The new bulk
store now going up at Tottenham (Vic.)
isn’t yet reflected in the accounts ; it will
accommodate 20,000 bales of wool. Most
of the money that became available dur-
ing the year was put in the bank, the net
growth in liquids amounting to £160,246.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£2,906,400) was £87,060.
Obviously the co. is in an excellent posi-
tion to extend further its lending connec-
tions when opportunity offers.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is satisfactory, though most of
Westralia and outback N. S. Wales need
further rain if a lighter clip is to be
avoided, and anxieties and uncertainties
in respect of shipment and marketing
have been removed by the British wool-
purchase scheme, which is for the dura-
tion of the war and one full wool season
thereafter. Import regulations, however,
can be expected to affect the co.’s mer-
chandise sales, while taxation and the
continued upward trend of costs will take
a deeper bite out of earnings. Because of
these things and the possible effect of
war developments on the wool-purchase
scheme, upon the smooth working of
which the co.’s earnings and many other
things depend, the market prices the co. ? s
pound shares at 235. 3d., as against
21s. 9d. a few days ago and 295. 3d.
earlier in 1940. At 235. 3d. the return
is 5.6 p.c. on a 6} p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is 335. lid. per share.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Added
to Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 22,806 7 p.c. = 21,000 1,806 119,986
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
Special depreciation, etc., £25,025.. 88,978
Profit.
1932.. 2,625 Nil 2,625 91,603
1933.. 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91,833
1934.. 14,492 12* „ ~ 12,000 2,492 94,325
1935.. 16,910 15* „ „ 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 t „ „ 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 t „ „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 t „ „ 16,000 4,398 111,540
1939.. 12,594 § „ ~11,000 1,594 113,134
To investments depreciation reserve,
£15,000 98,134
1940.. 18,176 | p.c. = 16,006 2,176 100,310
* Pref. only, f Pref., 6 p.c.; ord., 4 p.c.
t Pref., 6 p.c.; ord., 5 p c. § Pref. 6 p.c. ; ord. 2J p.c.
Exes, incidental to disposal of the
Mildura branch and the sudden im-
position of a heavy flour tax pulled
down the net return in 1939. Dur-
ing the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was more money
about, especially during the latter half
of the term, when defence expenditure
and British war contracts bumped up
bank deposits. Employment was main-
tained at a high level, too, and the co.’s
sales benefited, while the management
made a further and successful assault
upon costs.
Gross earnings of the co. and its three
subsidiaries —Swallow and Ariell (Ice
Cream) Pty., Swallow and Ariell (De-
hydrated Products) Pty. and Heparidine
Distributors Pty.—were £2156 better at
£160,435. Exes. (£138,288) were pulled
back £5699, despite the rise in wage and
other costs, including taxation (£11,191,
up £5371). The allowance for deprecia-
tion was £24,008 (down £1984), or 6.8
p.c. on the book value of freehold and
plant combined. The net result benefited
by £7855, reaching £22,147, of which
£18,176 (up £5582) was in respect of the
parent’s and £3971 the subsidiaries’ opera-
tions. The £22,147 was enough’ to pay
the prefs. their minimum requirements (6
p.c.) and show 8 p.c. on the £200,000 of
ord. capital as against 4.1 p.c. for the
previous term. The ord. div. was lifted
from 2\ p.c. to 5 p.c., and, at the moment,
prospects of the higher rate being main-
tained during the current term are en-
couraging.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the parent and its subsidiaries:
1939. 1940.
Paid capital . . £300,000 £,300,000
Bank overdraft . . 35,575 27,495
Sundry creditors . . 36,731 , 51,216
Tax provision . . 7,953 11,450
Freeholds .. .. 206,373 203,088
Plant, etc 155,456 146,341
Stocks .. . . 51,532 72,558
Debtors . . . . 60,482 73,362
Cash, etc. . . . . 3,625 3,662
To carry an extra £21,026 of stocks, add
£12,880 to debtors’ balances and snip
£BOBO off the overdraft the board leant
upon sundry creditors for a further
£14,485. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£70,871) was
£27,538.
The co. is in the biscuit, cake and
plum-pudding business, in which competi-
tion is very keen, and that means fine
profit-margins and difficulty in passing
on increased costs to consumers. It also
explains the moderate returns share-
holders have had on their £300,000 of
capital, of which £lOO,OOO carries a cumu-
lative 6 p.c., with the right to advance
beyond that point with the ords. For
the nine years to the close of accounts
in 1920 the ords. averaged 8.6 p.c., for
the next decade 7.4 p.c., and for the diffi-
cult decade to the close of last accounts,
the first half of which was dry, a shade
over 2 p.c.
Mindful of all this and of the upward
trend of costs, including taxation, and
doubtful as to what the future holds, the
market prices the fully-paid pound ords.
at 10s., as against 15s. a year ago. At the
lower figure they return 10 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 225. yield
5.4 p.c. The net tangible cover (book
value) is £3 19s. lid. prefs. and 295. lid.
ords.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends > Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 11,549 2700 41 p.c. = 7,491 1,358 2,694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350* Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1,913 21,397
1935.. 8,299 4741 f Nil 3,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 73241 4 p.c. = 6,659 6,107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 „ „ 13,821 7,205 4,529
Reserves.
1938.. 28,945 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 10,545 6,016
Loss realisation property, £1299 - • 4,717
1939.. 28,328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,645
Profit sale property, £324 .. •• 14,969
6.97 p.c.
1940.. 15,241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
* Six months. f 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l,
and 6.9 p.c. for 13 months to 31/10/’32.
} Includes all arrears.
Disappointing to shareholders, but a
wise move nevertheless, the passing of
the ord. div., albeit sufficient for a 6 \ p.c.
payment was earned. It reflects the man-
agement’s resolve, under the altered trad-
ing conditions, “to conserve all resources
to meet whatever emergency may arise”
—a policy no doubt framed with an eye
on the moderate tangible support for
capital, the amount of outside money at
risk, and the size of debtors and stocks,
both of which could easily prove trouble-
some, though the continued uptrend in
costs removes for the present much of
the danger inherent in large stock-sheets.
Builders’ and plumbers’ hardware,
sanitary-ware, sheet-metal, dairy utensils,
hotel- and cafe-kitchen equipment are
among the lines turned out at the Alex-
andria (Sydney) works and marketed
through six selling branches —five in
N.S.W., the other in Brisbane. Patently,
the co.’s fortunes are closely linked with
those of the building trade.
It was reduced activity here that partly
caused last term’s profit-slip. Recorded
value of metropolitan building permits in
the year to March 31 fell £2,097,000 in
Sydney and £117,000 in Brisbane:
Mar., Sydney. Brisbane.
1939.. £13,788,000 £1,959,000
1940.. 11,691,000 1,842,000
Unrecovered increases in manufacturing
and other exes, cut into profit-margins,
too —severely in the second half of
the term apparently, “very substantial
increase in turnover and in net profit”
having been reported for the first half.
After writing off £797 more for depre-
ciation (£4377), allowing £9OOO (up £2000)
for tax commitments, and tabbing £2OOO
as extra provision against doubtful
accounts, the board wrote the net result
£13,087 lower at £15,241. The N.S.W.
interest-reduction provisions were applied
to the pref. div., reducing it to £6 19s. 6d.
p.c. That left £13,149 to strengthen re-
serves—including £324 profit on sale of
the Wilson-street store, now £28,118 in
excess of goodwill, etc. (£22,682).
Here is the financial structure: —-
1931. 1933. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities* . . 17,714 23,833 115,344 127,620
Freeholds . . 55,632 55,859 84,444 90,738
Leaseholds . . 17,272 15,680
Plant, etc. .. 40,304 40,820 50,094 49,072
Stock.. .. 54,772 50,960 97,048 106,991
Book debts . . 24,465 32,035 136,123 139,239
Cash, etc. .. 11,677 1,642 1,635 1,791
* Including provision for taxation.
All assets have been taken in on a “most
conservative basis,” the board reports.
Respective increases of £9943 in stocks


*
NO THANKS
Id rather have a
Red Capstan
i
■
I V
l
Vv
p
f/—3
K
COQ
par
s
tert Cii^\avi
la
V.i-I
&
-
y 3<W
Asr'
•I - L i
&
rW'Wf
m
(l**
H
am
H. B. Armstrong, well-known Mel-
bourne cartoonist, gives us this im-
pression oi his favourite phrase,
"No thanks. I'd rather have a Red
t l Capstan."
Time fora
CAPSTfI N
they’re blended better
eras
*
SS<5f S 3
■r4^
iWiim^BKK!-&i:;:ijii£ >^
10 for 6° " 20 for /*
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild Red Packs
Capstan Medium Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength .. Brown Packs
CAPSTANS
621 E-4.40


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
Xhis Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
O. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Marager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
é
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mining Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES,
NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend
of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been declared
on all the issued shares in the capital of the
Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Tuesday,
the 6th day of August, 1940.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 18th day of July,
1940, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday, the
20th day of July, 1940, and shareholders regis-
tered on Friday, the 19th day of July, 1940,
will be entitled to receive the dividend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Registered Office: 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne. 10th July, 1940.
Position Vacant.
MECHANICAL ENGINEER, required for
Singapore.—Qualified Mechanical Engineer
capable of undertaking Bucket Dredge design,
erection and working. Only applications from
persons possessing experience in the above
work will be considered. Salary S.S. $7OO per
month, equivalent to Australian £1220 per
annum. Applications with Testimonials and
stating age, qualifications and experience to be
sent by Air Mail to Post Office Box 194,
Singapore, S.S.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Adyt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * H=
ORES.—Try O, T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony.
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLI.ISON, Patent Attorneys. 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
and £3116 in accounts owing reflect the
growth in costs. To increase premises
by £6294, it necessitated adding £12,276
net to the debt, of which £63,904 (up
£35,062) is coming to the bank. The
more or less liquid surplus (£120,401)
recorded little movement.
There has been little in it for ord.-
holders over the past decade, and, though
turnover is now spread over a wider field,
war conditions render the immediate out-
look obscure. Further slackening of
trade appears probable, and the burden
of costs and taxation is more likely to
become heavier than lighter. There is no
mention of any defence work yet being
forthcoming.
From 20s. Id. a year ago the pound
ords. have slumped to 15s. sellers, which
would yield 6.6 p.c. on the basis of, say,
a 5 p.c. div. At 235. the 30,000 prefs.,
which have the right to a premium of
2s. 6d. per share in the event of liqui-
dation or capital repayment, return 6 p.c.
at the statutorily-reduced rate. The net
tangible backing is £8 12s. prefs., 225. lOd.
ords.
One of the odd happenings in an odd
period was the correction of a div. an-
nouncement last week by Zinc Invest-
ments. On July 5 a div. of p.c. on the
4s. shares was declared —6d. a share. The
market responded lightheartedly, though
accounts were not yet to hand, and
lifted the price from 2s. lid. to 4s. 7d.
a share. On July 9 the correction was
announced ; the div. was 6d. in the £
(1.2 d. a share), not 6d. a share. The
market fell over backwards in its first
surprise, sales taking place at prices down
to 3s. 4d., but buyers offered 3s. 6d. later.
The co. has 150,000 £1 ord. shares in
Associated Pulp and Paper, 42,000 de-
ferreds in same, and interests in the old
De Bavay minerals separation cos. (which
recently have been “materially affected
by the expiry of certain patents”). Paid
capital is £250,000 in 1,250,000 4s. shares.
H=. . * * *
G. J. Coles ords. were affected severely
in the market by war developments and
excess-profits tax proposals, but last week
a final div. of 10 p.c. was announced,
making 17£ p.c. for the year, compared
with 18| p.c. in the preceding term.
After sinking as low as 525., the ords.
recovered to 565. 3d., then dropped back
to 555. 3d.
H= * H: *
Wellington Alluvials, the B.H.P. float on
the Macquarie (N.S.W.), reports doubled
earnings for the year to April 30 —
£57,052 net, as against £28,981. Depre-
ciation charged was £14,299. Expanded
turnover (3,180,000, up 470,000, c.y., a
third of which was overburden), improved
recoveries (2.24 gr., as against 2.16 gr.) and
reduced costs (5.28 d., compared with
5.51 d.) all helped. So far the co. has
had a disappointing run —there has been
a succession of dredge holdups, values
have failed to come up to scratch and
costs have been unexpectedly high—but
with the debt now down to £21,600 the
div. stage is getting within reach. At
3s. 9d. per share the market values the
show at £468,000, or eight years’ purchase
of the latest profit. At flotation four
years back dredging reserves were esti-
mated at 38,000,000 c.y., recoverable
value with gold at £4 Aust. per
ounce, rising to 60,000,000 c.y. with gold
at £B, and more wash should now be
profitable. Recoveries have lately shown
improvement.
* * * *
To elude the British taxgatherer the
Great Boulder board is thinking of form-
ing an Australian co. to acquire the
present London concern. This would
mean winding up the latter and handing
to its shareholders shares in the proposed
Australian co.—purely a formal matter.
On a profit of £450,000 a year it is esti-
mated the present London co. would
have to pay £392,000 in British and Aus-
tralian taxation, the greater portion to
the British Treasury. It suggests that the
sharp decline in the grade milled of recent
months may be due to treatment of low-
grade ore while taxes are heavy. The
English-domiciled mining cos. appear to
have grounds for grudge against arbitrary
“excess”-profit legislation which appar-
ently makes no allowance for expansion
of treatment capacity since the base year
the tax is reckoned on.
* * * #
Triton, n.-e. of Cue (W.A.), anticipates
being able to send out the usual 6d. divi-
dend in September. The assumption
therefore is that the May distribution
has been passed, not just “deferred.”
Development continues to be a heavy
drain on revenue. Current programme
includes the opening-up of three new
levels, and main shaft is already down
to the proposed No. 13 horizon. Ore
above No. 9 level is about three years
ahead of the mill.
* * * *
After charging £26,323 for investiga-
tion and development, Western Mining
Corp. cleared £26,431 (down £12,927)
for the 12 months ended March. The
tax allocation is £2350, and the whole
of the balance with £1764 besides is
written off or reserved against proper-
ties. Principal interests of the co., itself
almost entirely owned by Gold Explora-
tion and Finance, are an 81 p.c. share-
holding in Central Norseman, at Norse-
man, and 75 p.c. in Cox’s Find, Erlistoun
(W.A.), where mining is becoming
no less difficult and ore-grade has
shown sharp shrinkage. At Central
Norseman profit of £201,301 for the latest
year compares with a loss of £11,980 in
1939. That was before appropriating
£45,251 for depreciation and £128,328
for capital expenditure. Throughput ex-
panded from 64,344 to 96,021 tons, gold
yields from 4.4dwt. to B.6dwt., and there
was a saving of 4.85. a ton in unit costs
(28.35.). Ore reserves are estimated at
366,000 tons, of which 345,000 (B.2dwt.)
is in the main mine and 21,000 (7.2dwt.)
in the recently-acquired Lady Miller
block. In consideration for advances,
Gold Exploration and Finance holds
options over 2,000,000 ss. Central Norse-
man shares and 300,000 10s. shares in
Western Mining Corp.
He He He *
Including £27,000-odd received on its
20 p.c. interest in Yellowdine Invest-
ments, Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment and its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Moonlight Wiluna, netted £67,100 stg.
last year, of which £36,070 was written
off development, etc., and £11,890 ear-
marked for taxation. The p.c. div.
(£37,500) was therefore not earned. At
Moonlight Wiluna ore reserves at 353,800
tons (5.3dwt.) compare with 433,900
tons a year earlier, and though this may
be added to, owing to unfavorable de-
velopments at depth the mine must be
regarded as a salvage proposition only,
the management says. Last year's
throughput was 106,699 tons for 24,4880 z.
gold ; costs were 28s. lOd. Aust. (down
2s, Id., thanks to a change in treatment
practice). For the first quarter of the
current term working profit of £A24,115
was earned, compared with £A19,383 for
the last quarter of 1939. For the same
period Yellowdine cleared £A28,053 on
operating account. Here, two makes of
ore ranging from 6dwt. to 17dwt. are
being opened up between Nos. 2 and 3
levels. London shareholders in the Gold
Fields co. include next-door neighbor
Wiluna Gold Corp., Camp Bird, Asso-
ciated Mining and Finance and Gold
Fields Rhodesian Development.
* * * *
Mention is made in the half-yearly
report of the De Bernales Westralian gold
group to American and Canadian mining
interests, which include the Oroville Cali-
fornia, Carmen Valley Colombia and
Bald Head British Columbia. At Oro-
ville, preliminary treatment results indi-
cate that satisfactory returns may be ex-
pected. At Carmen Valley activities have
been impeded owing to machinery trans-
portation problems created by the rela-
tive inaccessibility of the property. The
Bald Head plant is nearing completion.
* * * *
Decreased earnings, mainly in the
second half of the term, have brought
another cut in South Kalgurli’s div. —
from 3s. to 2s. 6d. (less tax) per share
for the year to March 31, compared with
3s. 3d. in 1937-38. Further reduction is
threatened unless liquid resources —
equal to approximately half the present
market for the scrip—are to be drawn
on. For the past year monthly surpluses
aggregated £A52,700; on the basis of
recent showings the figure may be nearer
£36,000 this year, owing to a combination
of lower yields—the ore supply is be-
coming harder to keep up—and higher
costs. Surpluses are now down to 6s. 6d.
per ton of ore treated, which doesn’t
leave much margin for untoward even-
tualities. Much depends on developments
in the Hainault block, concerning which
the board broadcasts only once a year
—at the annual meeting.
* * * *
One of the mysteries of the Herberton
(N.Q.) tinfield —it has been the most im-
portant lode district in the State—is the
flat floor that never fails to come in to
cut off the tin shoots. The Wild Irish-
man stands silent witness to the bane
after a wonderfully good run, and now
its near-neighbor, the old Lyee-Moon,
later christened the Cornishman, has
met the same trouble after respectable
production for 60 years. Its counter pro-
posals include diamond-drilling for the
lost ore, and thousands of feet have been
done. At present, drilling from the
bottom level at 400 ft. is in progress, but
there is no word of the main lode having
yet been picked up.
* * * *
In the Irvinebank district (N.Q.) a
host of small tin shows are developing,
with every owner hoping to strike a pipe
like the old Vulcan. The Gordon, Bluff,
Dolly, Submarine and Valetta are all on
tin, and some don’t regard 5 p.c.
oxide ore as anything out of the box.
Yet others are working stuff down to
1 p.c. Irvinebank concentrates are a
bit lower in grade than Herberton, and
the local mill is treating 400 to 500 tons
a month.
* * * *
A little desultory prospecting is being
done on the Bartle Frere goldfield (N.Q.),
where a few parties are located on reefs
up to 2ft. wide—values low to medium
by prospecting dish. Several small bat-
teries are operating. The Coronation,
expected to be one of the big hits of the
field, is idle.
* * * sH
Mons Meg and Midas, on the Lol-
worth field (N.Q.), two shows that spon-
sored a new type —till then —of aurifer-
ous greisen formation, have been greatly
hampered this year by the heavy wet
season. They are now getting nearer
normal production, but ore grade is down
compared with their earlier record of
crushings. The Mons Meg has located a
big 3dwt. formation on the west side of
a diorite intrusion, but the mine’s last
crushing of 105 tons returned 6dwt. to
7dwt. per ton. Midas is raising low-
grade ore at present, its seconds just
about paying for treatment. Flooding of
the mine below the 70ft. level has ham-
pered development of the better-grade
ore.
* * * *
Years of prospecting on the New
Gympie end of the Gympie field
(N.Q.) have left that mine at a
critical stage. A meritorious effort to
lest the plumbago beds in depth, north
of the Lady Mary Crosscourse, has been
most disappointing. Still, it had to be
done, for the work might have restored
the old goldfield to a decent measure of
its former productivity. It is not that
reefs were lacking—the normal system
of west-dipping reef is there. In fact.
New Gympie mine proved at least six of
them; but the plumbago breaks were
absent. Small tonnages of ore have come
from No. 6 reef at the 470 ft. level; if
this should give out the mine may not be
able to keep going.
* * * *
After going below par, Arahura (M.L.)
pound ords. can now be had at 22s. —
14s. below the top price recorded this
year. Consistently good returns con-
tinue to be forthcoming, the surplus on
operating account for the first (June)
quarter of the current term being at the
rate of £104,500 p.a. A shilling div. has
so far been paid, and regular distribu-
tions should now be the thing.
* * * *
“M.H.”: Marble limestone—it really
looks too handsome to be used as a flux
—will be shipped to Whyalla from Rapid
Bay, near Normanville, south of Adel-
aide, at the rate of a couple of cargoes
a week when the B.H.P.’s development
programme is complete. A new electric
power-line is being laid from Willunga,
and a little new town is appearing in
the virgin coastal scrub. Rapid Bay will
be about the seventh new population
centre 'the Prop, has created in the
wilderness in South Australia during its
mining and metal-treatment history ; the
others were successively Port Pirie, Iron
Knob, Whyalla, Iron Baron, Iron
Monarch and Port Gibbons (dolomite).
* * sH
“L.”: South Australia partly has to
thank a Hungarian refugee for speeding-
up the decision by Electrolytic Zinc to
make lithopone, a non-poisonous base
powder for paint (B. 3/ 7 / ’4O). The Hun-
garian asked Australasian United Paint,
an Imperial Chemical Industries asso-
ciate, to put up some money. Govern-
ment’s industries-assistance officer Rich-
ardson also became interested, and both
Paint Co. and Government got after
Colin Fraser.-
ifc :£
“Platman” lets his imagination go:
Years ago I worked with a party prospecting
for gold on the Lakekamu River flats (Papua).
The gold values were poor, but there was a
large amount of magnetic iron-sand throughout
the wash. It was a nuisance to pan off, and
the magnet was used when the prospects were
reduced. I would not venture any exact esti-
mate of the quantity of iron per yard, but
I am of opinion that it might average over
1001 b.
The ground is ideal for dredging, averaging
some 24ft. deep, of which 20ft. is iron-bearing
gravel. Other prospectors and alluvial miners
all had the same tale to tell. Seeing the small
cost per yard of dredging for tin or gold, it
might be possible to devise a system of mag-
netic recovery of the iron-sand as it goes
through the sluice-boxes. There are miles of
flats available.
* * h= *
The South African goldmining industry
established new records in 1939. Milling
was at the rate of 5,000,000 tons and
profits £3,000,000 a month. Divs. fell
just short of £20,000,000. In the latter
part of the year three new producers
made their appearance, but their com-
bined crushings amounted to less than
600,000 tons.


SMOKE-OH!
“Men seldom get any fresh ideas after they
turn forty.”— Writer.
Many typists will bluntly refute this
assertion.
4* 4*
“Housewives are requested to send their old
pots along.” —Patriotic appeal.
What! Has total conscription come in?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women have striven to imitate men in every
walk of life.” — Women’s paper.
They’ve taken man’s pants and they
burn up his smokes ; they’ve taken his
work and they tell all his jokes. On his
ancient preserves they’re encroaching—
or, rather, they try to. Still, none yet
can boast “I’m a father!”
“ ‘Old school tie.’ In Intelligence office.”
—Sydney weekly.
One advantage is that it needn’t be
straight; they welcome knotty problems.
4 1 4* 4 1 4*
“Many officers of the public service are con-
tributing a pound each fortnight to the war
effort.” —Press report.
Quid pro patria.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“In grandma’s days a young woman seeking
a husband looked for a man who was strong
and healthy.”
The modern miss prefers a man who is
weak and wealthy.
A Lost Art.
“During the Maori wars one old chief re-
fused to capture ammunition intended for the
other side", protesting it would be unfair to fight
men who ha|d no ammunition.” — “D.T.”
It makes one sigh for the days when
men killed each other in straightforward
and manly fashion, and possessed
chivalry like that of old Colonel Bung-
walloper, who used to rush from his
tent bristling with anger and howling
for his second in command.
“You cad! This isn’t cricket!” he
would fume. “Can’t you see that the
enemy’s cannon-balls are missing us by
miles? Proceed at once to the enemy
lines and tell ’em I am willing to wait
until they learn to shoot. Present my
compliments and a bottle of the best to
their commander.”
Still, the old Maori’s idea misfired with
Mrs. Blinker. Ashamed of belting a
wart like Blinker about, she proposed
that he go to a rest-home and build up
his resistance for bigger and better belt-
ings.
Blinker returned after a month, and
next day the ambulance received an
urgent call to take Mrs. Blinker to
hospital.
Blinker had skipped the rest-home,
but a good instructive month with Big
Chief Thunderclap, the all-in wrestler,
produced results.
D. McM.
Floorwalkers* Course.
• New York the Maternity Centre Associa-
tion holds classes for expectant fathers.”
—“ World’s News.”
A few “don’ts,” as advised:
Don’t think the baby is a weakling
just because its bottle hasn’t got a crown
seal.
If you have no safety pin and you
have to use a nail to pin diapers together,
. n t use a rusty one—a pricked finger
might cause blood-poisoning.
Most important: Don’t ever so much
as touch the baby without first getting
the combined permission of its mother,
grandmother, nurse, aunts, grown-up
sisters and all visiting female neighbors.
F
Strategy.
Gloomily the Commander-in-Chief
watched the motor transports roll, to a
stop and platoons of strangely-assorted
women, all in tailored uniforms, pour
out of them and line up. As the rather
portly specimen in charge of them came
up she saluted smartly and said, “Sir, the
Women Signallers are ready for duty.”
“Er—-thanks,” muttered the C.-in-C.
“Er—carry on, will you?”
Back at h.q. he called his adjutant.
“Look here, Smith, something will have
to be done about these confounded
women. They not only clutter up the
place, but the men cannot keep their
minds on their work. They”
“Can’t you order them to clear out,
sir? After all, this is a war, and”
began Smith.
“Can’t do it, Smith, can’t do it! Their
leaders are social bigwigs or Under-
secretaries’ wives or the daughters of
politicians. But something must be done,
otherwise”
He stopped as the adjutant jumped to
his feet and, with hope gleaming in his
face, cried “I believe I have it.” Then
he rushed from the room.
Moodily the C.-in-C. went outside in
time to see his adjutant and several men
vanishing in a motor-lorry. All about
the headquarters wandered women, chat-
“Forgot his 'anderchief again.”
tering, laughing, powdering their noses.
The Commander sighed.
Shortly afterwards a woman signaller
peered into the distance. She called out
something and got out her binoculars.
The Commander could see her lips mov-
ing and another woman writing on a
pad. Then the two women ran towards
their own commander. Orders were
given, there was a flurry among the
transports, and within a few minutes the
whole Women’s Signal Corps was being
rushed away.
As the last of them disappeared over
the hills Adjutant Smith and his men re-
turned. The C.-in-C. rushed forward.
“What . . . how”
Smith grinned. “We took a helio out
there and flashed a message back:
‘Censor ordered all newspapers delete
any reference to women on active ser-
vice. Papers urged play up home-lovers
and mothers caring for families.’ ”
“With men like you, Smith,” said the
C.-in-C fervently, ‘‘we’ll win this ruddy
war yet!”
Tab.
“In Brazil the correct way to eat dessert is
with a knife.”— “World’s News.’’
Diners just get in for their cut.
“Careful motor-drivers in Texas are pre-
sented with free tickets for the cinema or
theatre.”— “World’s News.’’
If they don’t stall their engines in
heavy traffic they get back stalls ; and
if they always drive straight they’re put
in the circle.
“How to keep your household accounts
down.” — Women’s paper.
Put the flat-iron on them.
•j*
“Why not women as jockeys?”
—Racing gossip.
At least their racing colors would
never clash.
•i' *
Then there was the girl who married
the carpenter and made him give up
all his vices.
“A man is always reluctant to admit his
mistake.” — Women’s paper.
Especially if she comes home unex-
pectedly while he’s having a beano.
*!• »!* •!'
“Because all there was to drink was ginger-
beer one night her husband made a disturbance
at a party.” —Divorce report.
Nightmare.
My darling, since you went away
I haven’t slept a wink. I turn
And toss and blink till break of day
And, driven nigh distraught, I yearn
For trancelike sleep to fortify
My jaded nerves and weary brain.
But if l dare to close an eye
I DREAM THAT YOU ARE HOME AGAIN!
P.O.M.C.
Old Soldier.
From war and all its ceaseless strife
He made escape with ease.
He simply walked out on his wife
And volunteered tto risk his life
In service overseas.
ME.
Like Son, Like Father.
“A boy always wants the biggest piece.”
—Psychology article.
To get the lion’s share he’ll plan
Or scheme or plot.
And when he grows to be a man
He’ll want the lot!
P.C.
Defence.
“The soldier who wishes to drink himself
into a coma is a menace to his country.”
-—Dry canteen advocate.
We regret that a soldier should fracture
the law
After drinking himself to a state of
disgrace,
But surely, midst all this aerial war,
An occasional blackout is not out of
place !
T.W.N.
Pop popped up at the party brave
And gay; but, caught upon the hop,
When gingerpop to Pop they gave
’Twas natural Pop went off pop.
H.M.
Return of a Seeress.
The reception room of Sir Borpleby
Fitzßowser’s town house in Berkeley
Square buzzed with animated conver-
sation. Sir Borpleby’s intense interest in
letters and affairs was reflected by the
presence there of litterateurs, editors of
some of London’s Great Dailies, and not
a few members of the Government. But
even Cabinet Ministers had to take
second place in interest this night to
the two figures around whom were clus-
tered some of the brightest of Mayfair’s
B.Y.Ts. and intellectuals.
“Do tell us how you thrillingly escaped
from Paris, Madame Tabouis,” pleaded
the Hon. Henrietta Simp.
“Mais certainement!” responded
Madame. “I ’ave what you call ze article
to write, oui ? Ze ’planes drop ze
bombs—poof!—ze guns go off —bang!
1 but I, Madame Tabouis, ’ave got to
give my gr-reat public ze disclosures of
what ’appen, eh? I know zat Goring
he ’ave ze great row wit’ ’ltler ze day
before in ’is room in ze Wilhelmstrasse
over zheir midnight cafe. Ze marshal
’e want to straightaway send 3000
bombers to New York, but ze Fuhrer
tell ’im ’e will ’ave to wait one, maybe
two, week till Britain conquered. Only
ze Fuhrer’s chain mail under ’is vest
save ’im from Goring’s knife. Ze mar-
shal, it is known, is under close arrest.
“Bien! lam bashing ze typewriter—
so!—with nevaire a thought for ze
Bosche perhaps even zen coming down
ze Bois de Boulogne, when I get ze ver’
important dispatch saying Russia an’
Greece ’ave combine to smasji Ger-
many’s eastern frontier. Zey ’ave
arrange wit’ President Salazar of Portu-
gal, ’oo will ’ow you say? simul-
taneously attack Spain, Italy and occu-
pied France. Zey agree to meet on ze
Rhine. I”
“Parbleu !”—it was Madame’s fellow-
exile “Pertinax” who broke in on her
discourse—“lt was ze concierge at my
flat ’oo say ’e ’ear zat from ’is wife’s
cousin whose ’usban’ works ze lift in
ze building close up by ze Quai
d’Orsav.”
“Pah, Perty. Zat is ze only source
of information your rag depend on. Did
I not prophesy last August zat trouble
was likely to break out in western Europe
sometime unless peace could be guaran-
teed? Sucre bleu ! Is it not come true?
“Anyway, I immediately realize ze
situation for ’ltler resemble ze one faced
by Cromwell at ze Malakoff in 1428
when ’e was caught between ze Normans
on ’is right an’ ze Round’eads on ’is left.
Always does la histoire repeat itself,
oui ?”
“But, Madame,” broke in Lady Snood,
“Portugal hasn’t moved yet.”
Madame Tabouis looked .at her pity-
ingly. “Per’aps you not know,” she said,
“zat Stalin an’ Molotov while flying to
Lisbon to arrange details were shot down
and are even now prisoners in ze Reich,
’eld as ’ostages for ze Red Army’s con-
duct in ze Balkans. Zeir doubles act in
zeir places an’ nobody in Russia outside
ze Kremlin knows anyzing about it!
“Well, I ’ave now to write ze column
up about zese latest developments, as
well as my article. When I finish I ring
lor ze copy boy. ’E tell me ze editor was
last seen on a bicycle going—’ow you
say?—flat-out for ze Apennines; so I
put all my secret dispatches in my case,
take ze taxi past ze Bosche tanks an’
’ere I am.”
Madame’s brilliant disclosures of
Europe’s subterranean manoeuvres were
the immediate sensation of Mayfair, and
it was no surprise, therefore, to Fleet-
street when the
“Daily Honk” an-
nounced next day
that “the famous
diplomatic corre-
spondent, Madame
Tabouis” had been
persuaded to join its
foreign commentat-
ing staff, and that
“her sensational dis-
closures of events
behind the European
chessboard” would
be a regular feature
of the paper.
And real cyclonic
stuff it got, too. The
mildest in the open-
ing article was the
disclosure that Hitler
and Goebbels had a
duel with daggers
over Leni Riefen-
stahl, the actress.
Hess being fatally
stabbed while inter-
vening ; and that the
only thing that saved
Hitler from a firing
squad was the Pro-
paganda Minister’s
craven fear of Bertha Krupp, who had
taken the Fiihrer under her protection.
“These rumblings in high places,” wrote
Madame, “presage the imminent disin-
tegration of the Nazi Party and the re-
turn to power of a republican govern-
ment. Sixty million Germans are only
awaiting the word from Otto Strasser,
after which an anti-Nazi flood will be
released that will swamp Hitler and his
minions. The situation in Germany can
be likened to that of the Dutch in 1874
under the Prince of Orange Nassau be-
fore the kingdom, through corruption
and the failure to stand up to Louis
Napoleon’s pressure, was swept under
Belgian domination.”
A few days later the editor of the
“Honk” sat in his sanctum chewing
savagely at a cigar as he conned some
copy. He punched a buzzer. As the
chief sub. came in the editor pointed to
the final paragraph in the script before
him.
“Here! we can’t let this go through.
It would be all up with us if we did,”
he exploded.
“Why, what’s wrong?” asked the be-
wildered c.s., glancing at the copy.
“Listen to this,” snapped the editor.
“ This island is now at deadly grips with
Germany. In all her 700 years since
Alexander conquered the country, Eng-
land has been free. And I prophesy that
she will overthrow Germany completely,
and before very long, too.’ I know it’s
from Madame, but can’t even you see
something glaring about it?”
“What,” began the c.s., “about
Alexan” ——
“Forget Alex. No. That’s too precious
to alter. But can’t you see that the
Tabouis is prophesying a British victory?
That means, on her past performances,
that Fritz would be a monte to win.
Either get Madame to alter it the other
way round, or, if she refuses, strike that
bit out altogether and let the comps,
have it.”
Bo.


s
LV
BULLETIN OF COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
MILLS PTY, LTD,, PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
A
m
f
VI
ad
m
rn
Id ad
rhs
law
U~\
OWN'
--- L
i ri'i liiijiMiiß
>
K C.,
. ■ #
i
.
imm
;■ - -v ' i
;V,
IS
1
:■ •;
,V-.L.s-
-illßfißl
Mlßi
•J
jL OU can depend on Armco-
Lysaght Enamelling Iron to be
uniform and ductile; you can be sure that
it will not sag when properly handled under normal
firing conditions; that it will bond consistently; and
that it will give both you and your customers
satisfaction on every job.
Porcelain enamel and Armco-Lysaght Enamelling
Iron are as good a team as can be found.
For more information about Armco-Lysaght
Enamelling Iron or for technical advice on your
problems write to us.
Moden electric overhead cranes at the C.R.M.
plant efficiently handle the routing of all sheets.
P T Y.
D.
(THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION)
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
Business,Rollery,Etc.
There are two main aspects of
munitions production and defence supply
—the physical and the financial. The
physical aspect is concerned with the
marshalling of labor, skilled and un-
skilled, the development of raw-material
resources, and the diversion of industrial
activity to the desired ends. The finan-
cial aspect is an involved one, concerning
which much steam is being let off by
the B. S. B. Stevens variety of economist
at the moment. In it are wrapped up
the questions of how the burden of
war’s cost is to be borne and by whom,
and whether the load is to be openly
acknowledged or disguised by economic
subterfuge.
In openly acknowledging the cost and
waste of war there are two methods
of finance: taxation and borrowing.
Taxation more truly acknowledges the
waste of war, since it is bad financial
policy to create debt on “assets” that
are entirely unproductive of revenue.
Most of the machinery of war is useless
except for purposes of destruction of
the enemy. But, rightly or wrongly, the
Governments of the British Empire do
not feel disposed to charge the full cost
of each year’s war outgo in the form
of taxation. They prefer to borrow as
well as to tax. Still, they are aware that
the borrowings they raise must come out
of the current earnings of the nation
rather than out of savings already laid
by, since most of those past savings
have already been put to work. In a
word, they acknowledge that new
borrowings must really be, in effect, a
tax on current income, with the tax
refundable later on, plus interest.
To see the reason for this we have to
turn again to the physical side of war
finance for a moment. It is plain that
the energies and materials devoted to the
pursuit of the war cease to be of value
to the people for the purpose of their
ordinary welfare. Therefore their stand-
ard of material welfare must fall, unless
amongst ourselves we work sufficient
overtime to make up for the time and
materials lost in the cause of defence.
The expenditure on defence must be a
gift by the people to the nation. No
one but ourselves will give us defence
forces; therefore, if we want defence
forces we should fully realise that they
must be of our own giving and creation.
However a Government may try to
disguise this position or soften its finan-
cial incidence, defence has to be paid
for almost as soon as the necessary forces
and equipment are created. The
Treasury asks us for tax money and
loans to do the job. Whether in taxes
or loans, the money is taken away from
the ordinary channels of spending and is
devoted to defence. And when that
money is spent it comes back into circu-
lation and again a proportion is drawn
off for defence purposes. Production
for domestic consumption has already
fallen, unless we have done the harder
work already mentioned; the money
available to buy the domestic production
has also fallen, unless by harder work
we have created more money. The reason
for the drop in the money available for
buying domestic goods is that the Gov-
ernment has taken a proportion to buy
war goods. But if no inflation in prices
has occurred the new level of “domestic”
money should be sufficient to take care
of “domestic” production, so that an
unsaleable surplus of necessities would
indicate that something had gone wrong.
We must not have any delusions about
the part borrowing plays in a war. It
is definitely a tax, deferred, perhaps, but
very dangerous if not acknowledged as
a tax. The purpose borrowing serves is
that it enables people with savings to
invest to ease the burden of taxation
temporarily on the people as a whole.
The investor makes a double contribution
to the conduct of the war; he pays his
taxes to begin with, and then he con-
tributes in the form of loans. He loses
the use of his money in both cases,
but receives 3 p.c. or so interest on the
portion that he lends. . In order to make
this system of war finance work properly,
after the war is over the taxation for
war purposes should be continued until
all war loans have been redeemed. Only
thus can artificial conditions be avoided.
Where the Treasury has explained the
necessity for diverting part of almost
everybody’s income to the national de-
fence account there has been ’ abundant
criticism of this “deflation” policy a
“policy of disaster,” as one outraged
party called it. Those who clamor for
“free spending” on luxuries, etc., in the
face of the obvious fact that we must
cut down production of many such
luxuries favor a type of hit-and-run
economics and apparently don’t believe
that their sins must find them out. But
a nation’s economic sins, of commission
or omission, invariably find it out. In
the 1914-18 war we tried to evade the
real issue and lived in a fool’s paradise
for some years afterwards. Nemesis
overtook us in 1930.
Although the Federal Treasury has not
made its ideas on the real functions and
limitations of its borrowing operations
very clear, it has been definite in its insist-
ence that loans and tqxes must be
balanced by a drop in private spending
so that defence programmes will not have
to compete with private enterprise. Once
defence has been looked after the people
will be perfectly in order in producing
and buying what they like. It will ad-
mittedly require great efficiency on the
part of the Defence Department for it to
live up to the programme laid down
by the Treasury. Efficiency is not
usually synonymous with defence. But
this at least can be said: the Treasury’s
ideas on the matter are mostly sane and
realistic, even if muddle elsewhere is not
entirely unavoidable.
The part that increased work and effi-
ciency may play in lessening the need for
restricted private spending has been
stressed in this article. War nearly always
introduces new methods of fast produc-
tion, and when we get into our stride it
may be found that the waste of war is to
some extent offset by increased production
per head. The same, however, may also
apply to the enemy, and he has the right
to set the pace for war-waste if he feels
so disposed. While getting into our stride
of defence production, too, we need a
clear plan to work on. That is what the
Treasury is endeavoring to present.
Australia is not alone in the way it is
shaping up to this problem of finance.
A piece of realism comes from Maori-
land’s Finance Minister Nash:
Generally speaking, the real economic burden
of the war falls on those who are compelled
to do without the goods and services which
have been diverted from ordinary civil con-
sumption to the war effort. It is essentially
a sacrifice which has to be borne now and as
the war proceeds. . -
By spreading taxation widely and so ensuring
that the necessary reduction iii consumption is
brought about, prices will be prevented from
rising and nobody will be able to gain any
advantage in the shape of higher incomes or
greater profits from war conditions..
Mr. Nash has further explained the need
for tapping current income and current
production for war purposes. There is
little doubt about what he means when
he says:
Of the £17,750,000 which will have to be
•raised within New Zealand during the current
financial year, not less than £14,120,000 is
estimated to accrue from special war taxation.
The choice between taxation and borrowing is
not as it is often represented to be—a choice
between putting the burden on the present
generation and putting it on the ,future.
The raising of a loan for war purposes, un-
less it is an external loan, does not relieve the
community of any of its real burden. A loan
would certainly give the money we need, but
it cannot provide more men of military age
than are now alive. It cannot make available
for the purposes of the war more uniforms,
more munitions, more coal, more food than is
at. present available or in the process of pro-
duction. In other words —and this cannot be
emphasised too often or too strongly—the war
is essentially a current effort.
We cannot fight the war with men or muni-
tions or materials of any kind which are to
be produced after it is over. We can only
fight the war with men and materials that aie
with us now, or are produced before it ends.
Another Dominion is also preoccupied
with the problem. This comes from
Canada: —• '
The underlying thought in many instances
has been that, as long as unemployment re-
mained, private spending should be maintained
at a high level, to keep business active and
increase employment. But, under the stimulus
of war, we must expect effective full employ-
ment and in due course a definite short-
age of labor. We should make our
plans for such a contingency in advance.
If • individuals persist in spending in-
creased purchasing power for their own needs
or luxuries, there can be only one result —
inflation. To obtain war supplies in sufficient
volume, the proportion of the country’s pro-
duction taken by the Government must be
tremendously increased.
.A man who makes munitions con-
sumes civilian goods without producing
any. Therefore,
with the supply of consumption goods in-
creasing less rapidly than consumers’ income,
competition between individual consumers and
between individuals and the Government for
the supply of. products available would force
prices to rise. If, however, consumers do not
materially increase their demands from pre-war
levels and save their increases in income for
war purposes, the supply of consumers’ goods
should in most cases continue to suffice, and all
increases, in production would go directly to
our-war effort.
Study of the foregoing will show that
other, dominions —Maoriland especially —
are taking every bit as sober a view as
Australia. The special war taxation of
£14,000,000 which it is proposed to raise
in M.L. this year is, on a per capita basis,
equal to three-fourths of Australia’s total
budgeted war outgo, both taxed and
borrowed.
It is not too much to hope that, should
the present clear-sighted policy of the
Empire be courageously pursued, Aus-
tralia will emerge from the war with
financial precepts and examples no less
valuable than the new industries that are
now rising up.


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF B "* bane ' ' 2 * h Ju,y ’ ' 94o '
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and fifteenth Report, with
the Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last, after allowing
for Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits
end Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stoclc, all assessment's
of Income, Land and other taxes payable during that
period, reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts
£3OOO, making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
and all known Contingencies and including Recoveries,
amounts to. . . . ■ . . .
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year
ended 30th June, 1939 . .
Making a total of . .
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 5 %
per annum for the Half-Year ended 31st December, 1939,
amounting to
Leaving for Distribution . . . . . .
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 5 % per annum for the Half-Year
ended 30th June, 1940 (not subject to Queensland Income
Tax and State Development Tax) . . . .
Balance to be Carried Forward . .
£88,030 18 0
During the twelve months, advances decreased by £649,794, while deposits
are greater by £203,417. This is attributable to the high level of primary production
coupled with the purchase by the British Government of the greater part of our
exportable commodities.
While certain portions of the State experienced a dry time towards the latter
part of 1939, excellent rains over practically the whole of Queensland during
February and March last gave promise of one of the best seasons for many years,
although in the North serious flooding on the coast, following cyclonic conditions,
did a measure of damage to the 1 940 sugar crop in some areas.
The value of the State’s primary production reached record figures in 1939-40,
material increases being shown in sugar and wool totals. Butter returns were slightly
less than the peak figures of the previous twelve months, but were the second highest
on record.
Share values reacted to the War crisis in September and October and have
fallen since to lower levels with the tide of recent events.
During the year the Bank purchased at‘ a profit £12,826 of its Interminable
Inscribed Deposit Stock.
Reserves have not been drawn on during the year.
£3OOO has been written off for Depreciation of. Bank Premises and Furniture.
During the year a Branch of the Bank was opened at Inglewood (Queensland).
By Order of the Board,
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
The Queensland National Bank Limited,
BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised
Capital ..£2,000,000 0 0
Subscribed
Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
Capital paid
up .. ..£1,750,000,0 0
Reserve Fund 860,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 65,837 10 10
Interminable
I n s c ribed
Deposit
Stock .. 2,677,307 2 0
£5,353,144 12 10
Bills Payable 442,972 16 8
Deposits and other Liabilities 9,441,381 13 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
A u stralian
Notes and
Cas h Q
Bankers ..£1,852,850 18 4
Commonwealth
Loans
(under
cost or face
value) .. 2,226,977 6 6
Commonwealth
T r e a sury
Bills (face
value) .. 75,000 0 0
Cash Balances i 29,951 12 3
Bills, remitted
and in
tfansitu ’.. 746,351 0 10
Money i n
London at
call and on
short notice 20,000 0 0
: . £5,051,130 17 11
Advances to Customers, Bills
Discounted and all other
Accounts (exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubt-
ful Debts) .. .. .. 9,610,696 6 5
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery (at cost less
amounts written off) .. 575,671 18 10
£15,237,499 3 2
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, for Year Ended 30th June, 1940.
Cr.
To Interim Dividend paid 15th
Feb., 1940 .. £43,750 0 0
„ Balance at 30th June, 1940.. 65,837 10 10
By Balance from 30th June,
1939 £21,556 12 10
„ Net Profit for Year ended
30th June, 1940 88,030 18 0
£109,587 10 10
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
By Balance
£860,000 0 0
The total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London, and
Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year ended 30th June, 1940,
was £2675.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
W. HAMILTON HART, Director.
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
We report that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on the 30th June, 1940.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
LANCE A. JONES, F.F.I.A. \ .
E. D. SUMMERSON, F.C.A. (Aust.)J Aua,tors -
12th July, 1940.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, 15th August, 1940, at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1940. To
elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
Australian Stock Exchanges banned
bear operations in investment stocks last
week. Forward trading is still permitted
in mining scrip. In B. 12/6/’4O some
action to stop the rot In share prices
was advocated in view of the perilous
position of a number of investors and
those carrying them, and the slowness
of the Stock Exchanges to do anything
to stop bears, who could scarcely “go
wrong” on such a market, was criticised.
In introducing the new regulation last
week the chairman of Sydney ’’Change
said that in the opinion of the Stock
Exchange bear operations have had little
effect on trading prices in recent weeks.
The fact remains that bears were very
active and prices went very low.
One result of the anti-bear rule on
’Change last week was the impossibility
of “making a market” in a stock where
buyer and seller were holding off for
more favorable terms. For instance, if
a stock were quoted at 255. buyer, 265.
seller, the buyer would be precluded
from offering to sell at 255. 6d. (in
order to bring the other seller’s price
down) because he really had no scrip
to sell, and would have relied (in the
unlikely event of anyone taking up his
offer) on buying it in from someone else
in time to deliver. This new market
feature made “wide” prices inevitable,
and on Tuesday of last week Australasian
Paper old ords. sold at prices ranging
from 265. 3d. to 275. 6d. Buying “at
best” therefore became a somewhat open
undertaking, and this state of affairs had
something to do with the revived tone
of the market early last week. The
better atmosphere on London ’Change
was the chief reason, however. And,
anyway, as The Bulletin pointed out,
prices previously had gone too low.
Last week’s market revival at a
glance:
Jan. June July July
31. 29 5 12
Bank of N.S.W. .. £29’.0 £24.9 £24.5 £24.6
National (£5) .. £6.1 £5.1 £5.2 £5.3
Carlton Brewery .. 68/- 55/- 54/6 59/9
C.-Perkins .. .. 22/- 17/9 17/9 17/11
Tcioth .. .. 52/3 43/9 43/3 45/6
Metropolitan Gas ..£13.5 £12.8 £12.9 £13.0
Q’land Insurance .. 58/- 49/- 49/- 49/-
Associated News ..16/6 10/6 9/6 10/-
Mfclb. “Herald” .. 57/- 43/- 43/- 47/-
Adelaide Steam ..36/- 27/6 28/3 28/-
Huddart, Parker .. 59/9 48/6 48/6 48/3
Australasian Paper.. 34/3 23/- 23/6 27/3
A. 38/3 30/9 31/6 33/3
Bradford Cotton .. 37/6 28/- 28/6 30/-
B. Prop 49/6* 39/9 40/3 41/-
Burns, Philp .. 54/- 49/6 49/6 49/3
Colonial Sugar .. £50.6 £46.2 £46.3 £47.0
David Jones .. 33/6 23/6 23/6 25/3
Drug Houses .. 26/6 23/- 23/3 23/2
Electrolytic Zinc .. 58/9 40/6 41/3 42/6
Fajrymead Sugar ..37/- 31/6 31/- 31/6
Felt and Textiles .. 38/9 29/6 31/- 33/-
G. J. Coles .. .. 74/3 52/6 55/- 55/6
JJenry Jones .. 56/6 48/- 49/- 51/-
Howard Smith .. 24/3 19/- 18/9 19/
Kandos Cement .. 29/9 24/-
Meggitt .. .. 29/- 24/6 24/9 26/6
Winchcombe, Carson 28/- 23/6 20/6 22/6
Woolworths .. .. 22/9 13/4 13/11 14/3
W. R. Carpenter .. 45/6 32/6 29/6 31/-
Yarra Falls .. 42/- 37/6 36/6 37/-
North B.H. .. 47/6 30/6 31/- 32/9
B.H. South.. ..29/9 20/3 21/3 22/6
New B.H 20/- 10/- 11/3 11/7
Mt, Lyell .. .. 32/- 22/6 23/9 24/9
* Ex issue.
■Most outstanding recoveries were in
Melbourne “Herald,” Australasian Paper
old scrip, Carlton Brewery, Tooth and
David Jones ords.
* * * *
Sir Geoffrey Whiskard, British High
Commissioner, has been figuring in the
news from Canberra and other parts of
Australia lately. Last time Sir Geoffrey
received any mention of note in the press
the duty was removed from British
cement brought to Australia, and Henry
Gullett and his “trade-diversion” policy
were going great guns. It may or may not
be fair to connect the name of Whiskard
with that of Gullett in the disastrous
trade stunt that lost Australia a large
portion of its Japanese wool market;
and, as it turned out, the cement-duties
removal brought no great good or harm
to anyone, lack of shipping space and
a big demand for the stuff in Britain
being an effective protection to Aus-
tralian manufacturers. But while Sir
Geoffrey is near at hand it may not be
out of place to remind him that the
Australian balance of payments with
Britain is still bad, taking interest
charges into account. In spite of the
large wool clip and cheque that is due
to us for 1939-40, as well as the improved
income from butter, sugar, wheat, gold
and base metals, the Commonwealth’s
favorable balance of trade with the
world was still some millions shy of in-
terest and other less visible commitments.
And that is without bringing the cost
of maintaining the A.I.F. overseas into
account.
We all know about the urgency of
conserving dollar exchange for defence
purposes. Therefore it follows that the
Empire is rapidly turning to self-
sufficiency wherever possible. In other
words, where something that can be
bought in the U.S.A. may also be 'bought
in Britain the buyer is steered by the
National Security Regulations toward
the British product. And rightly so.
But if Britain becomes our only mar-
ket we may be forced to pay too much
for British goods. The British manufac-
turer can be primitive in his trading
methods the same as some Australian
manufacturers, and obviously there are
dangers of this kind which need watch-
ing. In any case, Australian trade figures
for 1939-40 as so far presented have
been dissatisfying to all except the
Customs Department, which has collected
an enormous revenue. True, we have
been buying up reserve stocks of many
things, and imports may fall off later.
Also, owing to a shipping shortage, some
of our 1939-40 export income may not
yet have gone into the trading account.
We won’t know for some time. But
on the face of things The Bulletin
feels justified in getting in with an early
warning.
* * * He
The Australasian Paper and Pulp Co.’s
old ords. are entitled to one half-year’s
div. more than the new fully-paid ords.
On the basis of an 8 p.c. div., which,
“subject to taxation exigencies,” the
directors are confident will be main-
tained, that amounts , to 9.6 d., payable
in October; the March, 1941, interim
will be payable on both classes of shares.
Therefore lOd. a share should have been
the maximum premium that the old
ords. commanded over the new paids
last week. But during a day on which
the old ords. sold at 265. 6d. last week
the new shares sold at 255. Another day
the old-scrip sold at 275. 3d., the new
at 255. 9d. The new scrip was really
better buying to the extent of 9d. a
share, especially as in the price of the
old shares extra money is paid only to
be handed back in three months’ time.
In the case of Cumberland Paper the
market position last week was different;
the old scrip sold at 245. 9d., the new at
245. 6d. The div. position is exactly the
same as in Australasian Paper’s case—
-9.6d. in favor of the old shares.
* * * *
There was a story from Canberra last
week to the effect that the Government
intended raising compulsory loans from
all classes of people at the source' of
income. Sydney “Sun” helped to kick
the story into circulation with a little
contribution of its own. “Commonwealth
economic advisers who are advocating
deflationary measures to finance the war
are now visualising compulsory loans to
increase this year’s war expenditure to
the colossal figure of £150,000,000,” it
bawled with relish. The Prime Minister
said next day: “The Government has
never thought of compulsory loans.
Publication of these reports is deplorable
because public credit is weakened and
interest rates are raised.” If the Gov-
ernment has never thought of compul-
sory loans it will only be because it
cannot • think ; but what Mr. Menzies
obviously means is that compulsory
loans form no part of the Government
programme, and that we are better off
without them. As to the sum in-
tended to be spent, the Treasurer
said “it is impossible to. make any
accurate forecast of the amount which
will be spent in the current financial
year.” The Budget estimate was
£79,000,000.
* * * *
Following official disclosure that con-
sumption of alcoholic drinks in N.S.W.
during the 1939 calendar year was the
highest for 10 years, having risen to
£6 os. lid. a head compared with
£5 16s. Bd. in 1938, the shares in Tooth
and Co., leading N.S.W. brewery, rose
strongly. These shares kept around
435. 6d. even when revival was evident
in many other sections of the market,
but last week any scrip floating round
was cleaned up at prices running to
455. 3d.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
BLITZKRIEG.
[Explaining the collapse of the French forces in the
face ot the German advance M. Paul Reynaud said:
“The truth is that our classic conception of the conduct
of war has come up against a new conception.” The
aim with the items here condensed is to provide informa-
tion and comment throwing light on this new-style
warfare as developed and as practised by the Germans
in the present conflict, so far with wellnigh incredible
success. The first item, condensed from an American
“Foreign Affairs” article by Henry J. Reilly, gives an
outline history of the development of the method.]
“ Blitzkrieg ,” or lightning war, is not a German
term for just any kind of quickly waged and violent
war. It is a name for a special kind of quickly waged
and violent war which has a technique of its own. The
ideas which lie behind this technique began taking
shape in Germany after the failure of either the Allies
or the Germans to break through on the Western
Front during 1915 and 1916, and they matured during
the civil war in Spain.
The Blitzkrieg objective is not the enemy civilian
population but the enemy armed forces, both ground
and air.
In the last war the British and French developed
the tank and devoted considerable effort to a study
of its best tactical uses, and more and more
a school developed in England which wanted the
tanks utilised in groups, to smash a hole entirely
through the enemy line ; the tanks would use their
own speed and fire power and would not be held
down to the pace of the accompanying infantry. In
general, the partisans of this plan wished to revive
something like the crushing charge of the armored
knight against the unarmored foot soldier.
On August 8, 1918, such an attack was made.
It was a great success. The lack of morale shown by
the German foot soldier on this occa-
sion caused Ludendorff to call August 8
the black day of the war.
General Fuller, the British Tank
Corps leader in the last war and one of
the most brilliant military minds of this
century, has since 1918 had more to do
than any other soldier with developing
the uses of the tank, armored car and
other motor vehicles for land combat.
In planning the Blitzkrieg, the Germans
adopted many of his ideas.
In Ethiopia the Italians found that,
while aviation alone could seriously
damage the enemy by bombing points
of military importance out of artillery
reach, such bombings did not produce
decisive results. Only when the aviation
acted in direct support of troops operat-
ing on the ground were decisive victories
gained. They also found that tanks
operating alone not only failed to pro-
duce decisive results, but frequently were
in great danger, and sometimes were
lost, when surrounded by enemy infantry.
They found, further, that tanks operating
in conjunction with infantry, artillery,
cavalry and aviation as well produced
excellent results.
However, the conclusions drawn from
the Italian campaign in Ethiopia were
tentative. They could not be considered
conclusive because the Ethiopians were
deficient in artillery of all types, and had practically
no tanks or aviation at all. But new opportunities
for experimentation soon were provided in Spain. Until
the battle of Teruel in the winter of 1937-38 the civil
conflict in Spain consisted merely of isolated opera-
tions. Beginning with the battle of Teruel, however,
and continuing through the final campaign in Cata-
lonia, the number of troops, guns, tanks and ’planes
engaged was sufficiently large to permit drawing defi-
nite conclusions.
In Spain aviation played a role which few had
foreseen in advance. Such reliable evidence as exists
shows that bombing of civilian populations did not
produce results worth the risk to ’planes and pilots,
particularly where modern anti-aircraft fire had to
be faced. Bombing of important military objectives
far in the rear, while causing considerable damage,
was never decisive. However, in battle and pursuit, the
role played by aviation was so important that we are
safe in saying that, in battle where two sides are equal
in everything Mt aviation, the side which possesses
it and uses it it was used in Spain will win. It
was there further proved that mechanised forces sup-
ported by aviation can strike surprise blows which
may prove decisive.
With the acceptance by the German and Italian
High Commands and General Staffs of the accuracy
of these conclusions, and following the reorganisation
and rearmament of their armed forces accordingly,
the long evolution of the theory of Blitzkrieg was
over. It was ready for use as a well-rounded concep-
tion of military strategy.
The Albanian dress rehearsal showed that the
technique had been properly developed. The suppres-
sion of the Polish Republic next proved that a brave,
well-armed, well-equipped and well-trained army, ac-
cording to ordinary standards, is incapable of resist-
ing a Blitzkrieg attack. And I might say in passing
that the Regular Army and National Guard of the
United States would fare no better today, and for
exactly the same reason.
* * * * *
Blitzkrieg Let Loose
(From an article written by a military correspondent
and issued by the British Department of Information.')
The German attack on an enemy position begins
with an assault by aircraft, dive-bombers and light
bombers, flying low and using bombs and machine-
B uns against troops on roads. These aircraft take the
place of an artillery barrage. Immediately after them
comes the advance of a terrific concentration on a
COmes l “ e aavance or a C ° n , ° n d
narrow front of heavy and light tanks, the .ormer
leading in a solid phalanx. In some cases parachutists
have been dropped, simultaneously with the tank
.. , . ,Ky , , P ,■ ,• _
attack, close behind the defending line to machine-
gun the defenders from the rear.
After the first advance the heavv tanks ("because
, the hrst adva « ce the hea yy tanks lP ecaus e
t^ieir l° wer speed and greater petrol consumption)
tend to dro P behind and the light tanks are pushed
out as screens or for reconnaissance work, advancing
sometimes as fast and as far as possible, but waiting
for the support of the heavy tanks where much oppo-
sition is encountered. The light tanks are followed
by motorised forces intended to hold the positions
secured by the tanks. They again are followed by the
infantry divisions.
In the first attack very close contact is maintained
between the tank forces and the aircraft. In the sub-
sequent advance the contact is less immediate, but
the tanks when held up by anti-tank defences do not
attempt to push their attack but signal by wireless for
dive-bombers to clear the way for them
The seizure of aerodr omes behind the front,
which • Holland was effected bv narachutist troons
. s . P P
R atv , lirnp \ ° um J) jf rance ( Peronne and
, ’ . ® tne lig „an s.
Sustained bombing, which caused much
damage to towns and roads, is done by bombers tak-
iug U P position at about 22,000 feet. On a white flare
being dropped by the squadron-leader all dive from
the sun to the attack, turn and on the same signal
—“Daily Sketch,’’ London.
WELL DONE, ADOLF!
(The New York “Times” military correspondent, Major Hanson Baldwin,
estimates the total dead of all nations in the war in Europe to date as between
200,000 and 300,000; German dead, 50,000.)
repeat the attack. Crews of aircraft shot down place
an incendiary bomb in the filler cap of petrol tanks,
There is a pull-off type of detonator which sets off
the bomb in two minutes.
*****
Parachute Attack .
rr rn m h “r
' anc Jes ei uat ian '
We have to be prepared for a technique of attack
that has been most carefully worked out, and it ought
to be examined by us in every detail, for on detail it
depends. The best account that we have seen appeared
in “L’Ordre” of Paris, which published a translation
of an article sent to his paper, the “Corriere della
Sera,” by Mr. Tomaselli, its correspondent in Ger-
many, describing how the aerodrome at Rotterdam
was captured:
A squadron of German ’planes flew over the site,
which had been carefully studied beforehand, at a
distance of about two miles from the aerodrome. The
troop-carriers came down low. The parachute used opens
XTlotLdsto 'SnTto ’ground. AIVSKf
10 minutes a troop of about 100 men, well armed,
s^ ts itself in good order and marches forward. Soon
Atffifsame-moment‘the ’pkne°s whTch have brought
the troops bomb and machine-gun the landing-ground.
The aerodrome is seized. The ’plane on which is the
squadron' of troop-carders. 6
brings the “landing troops.”
The troop-carriers now descend on to the con-
d;Xdraerodro,ne - Eisht hundred men land in halt
, , , ~ ,
, That we have to guard both aerodromes
and a Pretty deep surrounding belt of country. We
have to do the same for man y other important points
besides aerodromes. We have to prepare against para-
chutists and to make sure that near all important
P oints there are n .° ]on g and level spaces for the land-
mg of troop-carriers. At such places private estates,
municipal parks, arterial roads, golf links and sports
fields all require attention.
* 4 * * * *
{From a New York "Times” article.)
The German parachute troops are specially
«***■ ««« “ if °r ed
soldiers, organised in small units. The Russian Army
had dropped as many as 1000 men at a time in para-
chutes and had transported whole regiments, together
with light tanks and field artillery, by air. The Ger-
mans took up and greatly improved upon the Russian
technique.
The Reich Army first experimented with para-
chute troops three or four years ago, but most of
their experiments have been closely guarded secrets.
The training programme, as the experimentation pro-
gressed, was ruthless and rigorous.
The Germans realised the disadvantages of drop-
ping troops from 1000 feet or more. The men—sway-
ing like pendulums beneath the shrouds of their para-
chutes as they drifted slowly to earth made excellent
targets for machine-gunners or riflemen on the ground
and could be seen for miles. The men were taught to
jump at lower and lower altitudes —and many were
killed in the training—and a quick-opening parachute
was devised which permitted leaps at heights almost as
low as 100 to 200 feet—heights which generally would
be considered suicidal in other countries. By leaping
at such low altitudes the men are vulnerable to ground
fire for only a short time and the transport ’planes can
be so manoeuvred that men can drop behind a screen
of trees or the crest of a hill, thus quickly disappear-
ing from the sight of enemy observers on the ground.
The parachute troops are heavily armed with
automatic weapons such as light machine-guns, semi-
automatic or automatic rifles, automatic pistols,
grenades and even light trench mortars.
They are trained to unhitch their parachute har-
nesses quickly upon landing, and to seek cover and
beat down enemy resistance —which usually is taken
by surprise or materially weakened by the prior attack
from the air. The position—be it an airfield, a road
junction or a railroad —is then consolidated as quickly
as possible ; machine-guns are mounted to command
the terrain, and just as quickly as possible reinforce-
ments are dropped from the skies, or, if
feasible, are landed in big transport
’planes.
The objective of parachute troops
may be varied and many. In the Low
Countries they seized airports, as at Rot-
terdam, and prepared the way for the
landing of transport ’planes in such
numbers as to enable an advance into
Rotterdam itself. They established islands
of resistance in the heart of the Nether-
lands and Belgium, thus forcing the High
Commands of these two countries to ear-
mark many of their reserves for duty in
the interior, instead of being able to
utilise their full strength in the front lines.
They brought the war to every door-
step, enabled the seizure and at least tem-
porary disruption of communications
within the Netherlands and Belgium,
obviously caused shock and surprise to
the defenders and made the threat of
action against the enemy’s rear areas and
flanks a real and perpetual one.
They are, therefore, a menace to any
defence, no matter how well organised.
So they have proved, though at great cost
to themselves —for these men are in real
truth men of the “suicide squads.”
German parachute troops normally
are uniformed in one-piece grey-green
suits of the coverall type. The trouser
legs are baggy at the ankles, like ski pants,
and high-cut black shoes are worn instead of the
infantry kneeboots. Even the helmets are designed to
fit these troops’ special mission, being of light-weight
metal, without the usual flanged edges.
st: h* H: * &
German Air Power
(From a London “Evening Standard” article by Dr.
Herbert Rosinski, formerly lecturer in the German
Naval Academy .)
Air power was developed in Germany with a
strategy of its own to fit into the larger war strategy
of mobility and surprise. It aims at superiority in the
air, not by great battles with opposing aircraft but
by bombing bases and, if possible, occupying oppos-
ing airfields. Mass effect rather than individual effort
permeates the whole system. Types are simplified to
the utmost, and the number of types kept as small as
possible. There is no lack of daredevil pilots, drawn
from the Hitler youth air training organisation num-
bering 100,000.
Today the strength of the German air force is
estimated at 9000 first line and 7000 second line (in-
cluding reconnaissance and training) machines. It is
backed by 30 airplane and 15 engine factories, with
110 separate works, employing over half a million
people. The monthly production now attained, it is
believed, is well over 1500 aircraft. With 650 airfields,
500 of which have permanent staffs, the Air Com-
mand is able to concentrate or disperse its forces with
the utmost flexibility, making it difficult for the Allies
to ascertain with any certainty where the bulk of the
aircraft are located.
*****
Total War Threat to Britain
(From a London “National Review” article by
lan G. Colvin.)
The British Government lamely stated that the
German invasion of Norway had evidently been
planned a long time in advance. Of course it had.
The Germans would not risk the lives of their soldiers
on a hasty plan. This is total war. Hitler did not seize
Norway to break through the blockade; he wanted it
for its bases, as his “inner strategic line.” He now


holds the coast of Europe, with air bases. What a
chance for the supreme weapon of Germany!
There are two plans which could be employed
against the British Isles, one new, the other old.
Hitler would choose one or both of them and graft
them with the general air war. One is the dropping of
parachute troops, for which Norway would be a con-
venient point of departure, and Scotland and Ireland
the big and sparsely inhabited targets; this refers
particularly to the Highlands. The shock of a night
or dawn attack on an aerodrome, the subsequent diffi-
culty of dislodging the occupying forces and prevent-
ing reinforcements arriving, the ease with which para-
- chute troops can coagulate in lonely districts, these
are all new aspects in warfare.
Hitler is a political thinker, an actor strutting his
hour on the stage of history. To be able to tell the
world that German boots have set their heel print on
Scottish soil! To announce that German troops are
fighting in rich England, where no Continental force
set foot since the reign of King John! These blows
will come from a clear sky.
The second plan is a revival of the plan which
Tirpitz drew up for invasion of England, on the sup-
position of strong naval • support and cover from
long-range guns based on Dunkirk. He planned
a strongly-escorted convoy system, which would land
troops in Southern England. Conditions are now
different. The plan has been modified. Innumer-
able light surface craft must replace the heavier
units sunk off Norway. Guns of even longer range
are available. There are two new factors. German
aeroplanes can form a roof of steel over the Channel
corridor. They can drop thick belts of magnetic mines
on each side of it. The deterrent effect of aircraft
to costly surface vessels has already been proved.
Such are the features of the new Tirpitz plan, as it
undoubtedly exists.
*****
The Nature of Quislings
(From a London “Spectator” article .)
Treachery is one of the “surprises” of this war.
Long prepared, opportunely exploited, it has worked
havoc. This is something we had not expected.
That Hitler had valued resources in the form of
a Fifth Column was, of course, well known. There
had long been apprehension about the network of
Nazi spies in Norway, Sweden, the Low Countries and
all the Balkan States. It was well known that every
German Legation was a centre of intrigue, and that
the armies of German commercial travellers and
robust tourists who travelled in neutral countries were
up to no good and were a constant danger to those
who harbored them. But these people were at least
Germans. Even in the last war the danger from
people of German origin or known German sym-
pathies was fully appreciated. In like manner from
the first it was realised that the presence of so many
refugees in Allied countries, of whom at least a few
might be real enemies, constituted a big danger.
If that were all, we should at least know where
we are. But it is not all. The invasion of Norway
revealed that there was an enemy within more dan-
gerous than the German who was recognisable and
suspect —men of Norwegian blood and nationality
who were in league with the enemy, who were in-
forming him and waiting to help him, and in the criti-
cal moment betrayed the keys of the fortress into his
hands. There was Quisling. There were hundreds of
Quislings. They were in positions of trust. They
gave faked orders by telephone. They helped the
Nazis into Oslo and Trondhjem and the other ports
which fell so easily into their hands. Treachery was
the secret weapon against which Norway had no
defence, and the same enemy from within did his
virulent work in Holland, Belgium and France.
If we ask how it has been possible for much of
Europe to be infected with so horrible a malady it is
not easy to give an answer. Nothing of this kind or
at least on this scale has occurred in modern history.
The case of the religious wars of the seventeenth cen-
tury is not comparable, since they were not between
nations but religionists. We must go back to the time
of the ancient Greeks for famous examples which are
really comparable, as when in 431 b.c. men of Plataea
admitted Theban-raiders within the walls of their city.
This much at least is self-evident, that this organisation
of treachery on so vast a scale is no hurried improvi-
sation, but must for years have been subtly and assidu-
ously prepared with amazing thoroughness. But when
we ask what inducement can have been offered to win
over so many persons in responsible positions in so
many countries the mystery becomes deeper.
There are doubtless people of peculiarly low
moral standards who may be bribed with money or
with offers of advancement, who may be seduced by
appeals to their pockets or their ambitions. But no
such explanation is enough to account for perfidy on
this scale. Such inducements cannot account for the
fact that thousands of people were capable of joining
in plots to destroy their own country, risking death
and lasting ignominy if discovered.
One is forced to the conclusion that the Nazis
used more insidious means for the manufacture of
traitors, and that it is into their minds that they in-
stilled their poison. Doubtless they studied in the
school of the Communists, whose propaganda for 20
years has done its work in some sections of society
throughout the world. The very hatred which Com-
munism succeeded in inspiring in another section of
society prepared the soil for the counter-propaganda
of Nazism. Moreover, both of these propagandas,
which were working not only against each other but
against the settled order of the State, were helped by
an utterly different propaganda which in its purpose
was humane and beneficent, that of the people who
wished to discredit nationalism and patriotism in the
interest of internationalism and world peace, but in so
doing weakened the sense of loyalty to compatriots.
A sentimental internationalist converted into a fana-
tical Communist or Nazi was the raw material of a
traitor.
Working on such material the Nazis created in
every country their doped traitors, to be used once and
thrown away, the victims of a mental and moral disease
which has sapped the strength of vigorous nations and
yielded them to the enemy.
In the Hotchpotch Balkans.
[This frank and human depiction of political and
living conditions in the Balkans is condensed from a
London “Fortnightly” article by George Pendle, recently
returned from one of his regular visits to the still-
largely-Ruritanian part of Europe of which he has made
a special study.]
In November, 1939, Greece’s dictator Metaxas
prophesied that the characteristic of the new Europe
would be general poverty. He added that the Greeks
were not afraid of poverty: they knew all about it
already. Greece is bare. Nothing that anyone can
do to them will make the Greeks much poorer. As
peasants, and as men driven to sea by the stony
barrenness of the land, their strength is in their
austerity. This austerity cannot be taken from them.
It will be a valuable quality in the new Europe. And
against their background of rock the Greeks have the
true peasant reverence for fertility. Fertility is good.
Fertility is the good. The Greeks reverence the fertile
woman and the fertile soil.
So it is with austere and earthy human material
that Metaxas has been working to build a united
Fascist State. His main obstacle has been the essen-
tially democratic nature of the Greek people. Decades
of oppression under the Turks equalised the Greeks
—“Daily Mail,” London.
THE BRITISH GAMECOCK.
in a remarkable degree. They are real democrats to
one another. Thus Metaxas’s design has been modi-
fied by the nature of the people, and the resultant com-
promise in internal affairs is not unsatisfactory. The
iEgean climate, which for two-thirds of the year en-
courages the people to sleep at midday—the peasant
in his field, the fisherman beside his boat, the bour-
geois on his divan —does not favor rigid discipline.
Many of Metaxas’s original decrees have melted in
the sun. Those regulations that the Greeks could
accept without too much resentment have remained,
giving a definite and welcome stability to the State.
Police interference is unpopular, but many of the
decrees that the police enforce —such as those regulat-
ing prices, hours, wages, insurance—are beneficial.
The police are much smarter than in the days of
Venizelos and Tsaldaris. They shave in the morning,
instead of when going off duty at night. The traffic
police in Athens wear shining metal helmets shaped
like those of ancient Greek warriors.
The Metaxas regime belongs to the school of
Mussolini and Hitler. Metaxas was educated in Ger-
many, and his pro-German policy in the last war
brought disaster on his king. But whatever Metaxas’s
sympathies may be, there can be no doubt that his
main object will be to keep his country out of war.
Meanwhile, bread is dark but nourishing. There
are certain meatless days. Petrol is rationed. Taxa-
tion is heavy. Success has attended the effort to
reduce imports. In 1939 Greek-grown grain supplied
74 p.c. of the national requirements, and Greek
factories provided 81.64 p.c. of the nation’s demand
for manufactured goods. While imports have been
drastically curtailed, there has been a big increase in
exports.
So the Greeks wait, glad to be still at peace, be-
wildered by conflicting news reports from foreign
radio stations, and only mildly restive under the dic-
tatorship. They have not forgotten how they were
bullied in the last war, and they expect to be similarly
treated this time.
The train climbs the dry southern slopes of the
Greek mountains and descends into the rich valleys
of Serbia. Here men, women and children work the
land. When the oxen have ploughed in the manure,
the women break up the larger lumps of earth by
hand. Then the oxen pull bundles of brushwood
backwards and forwards, harrowing. There are no
tractors. No machines for sowing the grain. Often
the women are barefoot. The corn that they sow
comes out of the naked hand and is cast with short,
deliberate gesture. It is a land to be coveted for its
fertile soil, as Greece is a land to be coveted for its
coasts and harbors. In both countries the peasants
are poor. Changed frontiers, Parliaments, dictator-
ships have not improved their life. Their surplus sons
cannot be absorbed in agriculture, nor can they now
emigrate. They must go to provide cheap labor in
the factories. They are at the mercy of the capitalist
machine, whether on the land or in the town.
In 1938 during an excursion in the Balkans Dr.
Funk said: “We can absorb the total production of
Yugoslavia. We can provide Yugoslavia with all that
she needs. We can offer her a long term commercial
treaty, with prices such as no one else can give. In
our programme we have planned the increase of
Yugoslav and South-east European production in
general.” Yugoslavs take it for granted that the
natural out’ for their surplus products is Germany.
A business.... .n in Belgrade said to me: “Britain and
France are unnatural customers. They only came to
us for political reasons, and will abandon us. Then
what would happen to our trade, if in the meantime
we diverted it from Germany? Nor can we forget
that Germany helped us in the bad years.” This
argument is supported by the feeling that it is better
to give Germany all that she demands, rather than
suffer the fate of Poland.
The country is overrun by plainclothes Germans.
The only flags to wave over Belgrade’s International
Fair were bright new Nazi banners. During April a
car drove through the centre of Belgrade broadcasting
pamphlets in which the Serbs were advised to “wel-
come the friendly army” when it should arrive. An
attempt has been made to control more strictly the
coming and going of foreign “tourists,” and large
sums have been allotted to armaments. Croats un-
kindly say that these funds go into the pockets of the
gentlemen in Belgrade. In the residential suburb of
Dedinje, a Croat said to me: “This is our Maginot
Line,” pointing to the luxury villas.
The Rumanians have more holidays than any
people in Europe, but the oil continues to gush from
their wells. Such riches soften a people’s fibre. The
Rumanians are easygoing, flashy, ready to please.
They are hospitable and they make the most lavish
and well-meant promises. The faculty for offering
much and delivering little, the faculty for flattering
and pleasing and for smoothing over an awkward
situation ; these are qualities which must have tried
the patience of the methodical Nazi trade envoy, Dr.
Clodius. Rumanian officials in their dealings with
European States are apt to make commercial treaties
that look most favorable on paper, but no non-
Rumanian on earth can foresee all the loopholes that
will materialise—the easygoing evasions ; the time lag.
Carol is royal landlord, chief shareholder in the
country’s industry. He does not intend to be tricked
out of his heritage. What will he do, what can he do,
to save it?
“Tourism” in Rumania has been flourishing on a
gigantic scale. Hotels, cafes, trains are full of Ger-
mans. Since January, 1940, 12 new German busi-
nesses have been formed in Bucharest, and each
of these firms has imported between 30 and 40
German employees; that example is typical. The
newspaper “Universul” has protested: “Tourists have
developed a sudden mad passion for our country.
Dne meets them everywhere. At Sibiu and Brashov
they have a particular urge to know the details of our
industrial production. In the post offices our guests,
instead of sending picture postcards to their families*
dispatch parcels of food —butter, chocolate, soap and
sausages. In the trains it is impossible to find a seat
owing to the number of tourists, and they travel so
constantly that you can recognise the same face in


two or three different towns on the same day.” To
this the paper “Curentul” retorted that the most un-
desirable tourists are not the Germans, but the Jewish
refugees.
Rumanians have complicated theories for per-
suading themselves that they will escape the horrors
of war. Most of these theories rest on the assump-
tion that Italy will not allow any Power to seize the
estuary of the Danube. Italy’s diplomatic position
is very strong in Bucharest.
* * s' * V
{From an article by London “Star” diplomatic
correspondent .)
Although the various Balkan countries are still
at a comparatively low level of economic develop-
ment, they are potentially rich ; their riches are still
unorganised and unexploited. More rational agricul-
ture could increase the output of cereals, fruit and
vegetables a hundredfold, and large-scale capital de-
velopment might change the Balkan peninsula into an
extremely important producer of industrial raw
materials.
Hungary possesses reserves of lignite and bauxite,
Turkey is one of the world’s largest producers of
chrome ore, Yugoslavia’s mines already yield bauxite,
coal, iron ore, lead and copper, and in Rumania are
the oil wells, whose annual output is over six million
metric tons a year.
Before Dr. Schacht’s Balkan trade drive, launched
in 1935, the markets of the Balkan States had been
fairly evenly divided between the great Powers. Ger-
many gradually squeezed out her competitors, and, on
the eve of war, she accounted for about 50 per cent,
of the total foreign trade of Rumania, Yugoslavia
and Turkey, and over 60 per cent, of Bulgaria’s.
The seizure of Vienna gave Germany a hold upon
the Danube, that great artery of commerce which
gives the south-eastern States their economic unity.
Since March, 1938, the Nazis have been building a
great fleet in the shipyards of Vienna. It may only be
a matter of time before German gunboats advance
downstream to “protect the Danube.”
Germany entered the war with her advanced
posts secured in the Balkan economy, and since then
the general outline of her economic strategy has gradu-
ally appeared. Germany’s aim is quite simply to in-
corporate the Balkans into her Lebensraum, to organise
there a vast supply system and, by developing the re-
sources of the peninsula, secure the foodstuffs and in-
dustrial raw materials from which Britain’s sea power
has cut her off. Dr. Clodius has been at work since
war began to increase German purchases of Balkan
supplies, to set up German trading companies to buy
up existing industrial plants and install new ones, to
squeeze out Allied capital, and invest Germaii money
in the Balkans’ comparatively unorganised industry.
Attempts are also being made to organise the peasants
by distributing seed, supplying agricultural implements
and arranging for the marketing of their cereals,
cotton and oil seeds (naturally to Germany). These
tactics have had a measure of success, but it is obvious
that they constitute a long-term policy.
It is no fervent desire to spare small peoples the
horrors of war that has restrained Hitler’s hand in the
Balkans, but simply the knowledge that to organise
the Balkans as a vast supply system he must have time
to develop industry and agriculture, time to overcome
the resistance of the Governments, time to create a
Nazi stranglehold on trade and commerce from the
Baltic to the Bosphorus. War would wreck Balkan
industry and change the countries of the south-east
from economic assets to military liabilities.
Spain and Gibraltar.
{From a London “Fortnightly” article by G. T.
Garratt.)
Far too many in Britain treat Spain and her
ambitions as negligible.
Britain’s traditional policy in the Mediterranean
has aimed either at occupying strong points on the
land or else ensuring that the courttries shall remain
in the hands of relatively weak and friendly nations.
Thus Britain was led, not only to capture the Rock
of Gibraltar, but also to take a keen interest in the
ownership of the opposite seaboard.
For a long time Britain insisted upon the inde-
pendence of Morocco. It was only after 1904 and the
formation of the. Entente that we were willing to
allow France a free hand in that country. Even then,
in accordance with our general policy, we insisted on
Spain being assigned the northern strip opposite Gib-
raltar, while the little Tangier zone remained “inter-
nationalised” under the control of France, Spain and
Great Britain. During the first 14 years of this cen-
tury our foreign policy was repeatedly influenced by
our refusal to allow Germany any foothold in the
neighborhood of the Straits. For this we achieved our
hardly-won diplomatic victory at Algeciras in 1906,
and five years later almost went to war over the minor
incident of the Panther’s visit to Agadir.
With Italy an active enemy Spain might easily
become an actively hostile Power. It was certainly the
opinion of the German military leaders at the begin-
ning of the war that both these countries would be
joined with the Nazis. It maj/ be remembered that
this view was reported in October last by Mr. Garri-
son Villard and other neutral observers. In this event
the threat in the Mediterranean would become ex-
tremely serious. Spain’s strategic position is stronger
than that of Italy ; with the help of German aeroplanes
and pilots she can upset the position in the western
Mediterranean. From southern Spain she can make
Gibraltar almost valueless as a naval base.
The British public has heard much about Fascist
ambitions, but is perhaps unaware of the similar talk
in which the Falangists indulge. The latter also
want an Empire which will stretch southwards across
the Straits into Africa, and they look to this war as a
means of fulfilling their ambitions. How far Spain is
ready or willing to fight is a matter on which very
few Englishmen can venture an opinion, but it would
be unwise to dismiss her claims as absurd or to forget
that she has now an army which has learnt to fight,
and can call on a vast number of resident German
“experts.” Our Mediterranean danger probably lies
in the west.
Nazi Propaganda.
[Further extracts from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Edmond Taylor, portion of which appeared
in earlier “Uncabled Additions.” Now, after the event,
some of the incidents which the author vouches for as
authentic throw a sharp light on the collapse of
France.]
The basic doctrine of modern war is that victory
is won by destroying the enemy’s will to resist, and
Hitler believes propaganda can do this.
Some Nazi propaganda stunts have been so odd
that they seemed almost like schoolboy pranks. The
purpose, however, was not to enjoy a joke at the
enemy’s expense, but to discredit his leadership by
ridicule and to sow doubt in his mind. Here are two
examples of this type of propaganda:
When Churchill and Eden visited the French
front early in the war, an official lunch was organ-
ised for them in Lille. Naturally, the whereabouts of
such distinguished visitors was a jealously-guarded
secret. Yet half an hour after they sat down
to lunch the menu was being read over the German
radio, and it was correct in every detail. Again, when
President Lebrun, also early in the war, was taken
to a lookout post on the Rhine, the first thing he
saw was a huge banner on the German bank read-
ing “Welcome to the President,” and simultaneously
a German loudspeaker started “The Marseillaise.”
The luncheon menu and the itinerary of President
Lebrun were passed on by means of clandestine radio
—“Western Mail and South Wales News.”
THE POACHER: “ Sapristi! I didn’t reckon on big game around here."
transmitters which could be heard only by German
SCOUting ’planes, sent over specially for that purpose.
During the first months of the war, the French police
would sometimes bag 20 clandestine radio stations
in a night. .
When the French first advanced into German
territory at the beginning of September, the German
soldiers, acting under orders, retired without firing a
shot. They left placards and banners in French, tell-
ing the poilus that Germany had no quarrel with
France, that German troops would not fire on them
unless fired upon.
Again, a German submarine early in September
stopped a French fishing boat in the Bay of Biscay.
The U-boat commander went on board the French
vessel, but he did not make the crew prisoners or
scuttle the ship Instead, he made a little speech in
French to the effect that it was all nonsense to say that
France and Germany were at war presented the
Fiench skipper with a bottle of brandy and a box of
cigars, and went on his way This authentic incident
was suppressed by the French censorship.
When, a few days later, Capt. Leo Deschanel, son
of the mad French President, the late Paul Deschanel,
was killed on the Saar front and his body picked up by
a German patrol, the Germans buried him with great
pomp on a high hill looking toward France, and
broadcast the whole ceremony in French for his ex-
countrymen.
Another authentic case: In the first week in Sep-
tember, French soldiers in the black of night were un-
loading barges at the river port of Strasbourg. Sud-
denly the Germans, from their bank of the river, turned
a nowerful sparrhhVht nn them “Don’t bp afraid
a powerful searchlight on them Don t be afraid,
, wSLIir 3 "wTin^'ls ”
so vou h can SMt P better' Wve been dolne the® s*ame
so you can see better. Weve been doing the same
work on out_s.de, and we know how tt is The
French took the enemy at h.s word and worked on.
The strategy of Nazi propagandists is to attack
from within, by indirect propaganda. They do not
try to fool all the people all the time. They content
themselves with sowing seeds of doubt and dissension
in a social group. If only a few of the seeds fall on
fertile ground, the group morale dissolves. When
group morale dissolves, organisation breaks down, leav-
ing the group a prey to better-organised forces,
Doing the job thoroughly, on a national scale,
presupposes having not only numerous agents, de-
liberate saboteurs, in the enemy’s camp but also thou-
sands of more or less unconscious sympathisers.
Unprepared Uncle Sam.
(Condensed from an American correspondent’s article
in London “New Statesman .”)
The problem is not “Will Uncle Sam help?” but
“how can America help in time?”
The United States possesses the second most
powerful navy in the world, but over all navies now
hovers the shadow of the dive-bomber. That navy,
in an excellent state of preparedness, is on police
duty in the Pacific. The United States is scheduled
to have 2600 army aircraft by June, 1940, and a most
efficient aircraft industry which is being geared-up
to produce 50,000 war ’planes a year and which, given
time, can produce enough bombers to “darken the
skies over Germany.” I would not put an annual pro-
duction of 50,000 ’planes a year past the potentialities
of America’s aircraft industry. But on land and in
the sphere of mechanised equipment the United States
is starting almost from scratch.
The U.S. army today consists of around 491,000
troops, including an authorised 251,000 National
Guards, who are only partly trained. Only 73,000 of
those troops are at present properly equipped for
modern warfare. Production of tanks, guns and equip-
ment is to be rushed, and it is hoped to have 750,000
fully-equipped troopS by next summer. Today it is
doubtful if the United States army could, in an emer-
gency, do more than deal with Fifth Columnists and
saboteurs. With 25 per cent, of the total population
of German race, and the whole country stiff with Nazi
agents, the United States may safely be presumed to
have a Fifth Column within its borders of imposing
dimensions!
So far as material is concerned, the U.S. Army
and Navy air arms possess some 3500 ’planes, with
more on order. A number of those at present in use
are said to be obsolete. To train the
25,000 additional pilots in two years
called for by an army extension
programme authorised by Congress,
it is estimated that 6000 flying in-
structors are needed. At the
moment the army has 300! .To
keep President Roosevelt’s 50,000
war ’planes in the air would require
an air force of 500,000 men ; the
United States is not even in sight
of proper equipment for 500,000
men in its whole army, declares
General Hugh Johnson.
Behind the American Front
stand marshalled 167,000 factories,
8,000,000 farmsteads, an oil output
totalling more than one million
barrels daily, a steel industry which
in peace-time exported on aver-
age two million tons of steel
products annually, and which
can jerk that figure up 500 per cent,
within a few months.
But —the United States is at
this moment a steamroller, just get-
ting up a head of steam.
“The Offensive Spirit.”
C Condensed from an article in the “Aeroplane.”)
In the last resort the men will win the day.
Everybody in touch with the operations has been
astounded at the rate of destruction achieved by the
R.A.F. In the air the British are outnumbered on
almost every occasion. Theoretically, they could be
attacked from above and below simultaneously. There
could be enemies on either flank and before and
behind. Yet when fighters meet fighters the weight of
loss on the enemy side is enormously the greater ; and
usually the British fighters manage to pick off a few
bombers when they have disposed of the escorts.
Part of the credit for that must go to the aero-
planes and their armament, but the quality of the men
counts for most.
A belief in the offensive spirit in the air pervaded
British air power in the last war. It informs the whole
of the air force today. It is not imposed from above.
It seethes upwards from below. It is to be found in
such actions as that of the pilot who had to be left
behind on one raid and, reluctantly obeying orders,
asked his O.C. to sign a chit on which was written:
“lOU one show.” It is seen in the case of the fighter
pilot who had seven fights in the course of one day
and was so tired at the end of it that he fell asleep on
getting out of his machine and slept for 24 hours. The
offensive spirit cannot be casually labelled “courage”
and tucked away in its appropriate pigeonhole. It
demands courage, but it goes beyond it and is of the
essence of that peculiar quality which the machine
can never replace and regimentation can never hope
to reproduce.
Training, discipline, tradition, mechanical excel-
lence can all have their share in creating a good airman,
and then, unless he can bring to his task something
more than the system has put into him, he will still be
cold meat for the man who can. Is it initiative and
self-reliance? Is it dash and high spirits? Is it de-
votion and self-sacrifice? Not one of these young
men could analyse and dissect it. If it could be
tracked down and defined by them it would probably
cease to exist, for that which is natural would then
have been reduced to the mechanical. Because it is
unconscious and involuntary it cannot be imitated or
counterfeited. And it cannot be defeated by the
mechanical and uninspired. These young men, who
serve the machines and live by the machines, bring to
their duty a zest and a flair by which they will save
us from the curse of the machine misused.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOuR HAIR
A. LOVELINESS THAT DAIZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A friendly disagreement concerning 50
guineas had its sequel in Blackford win-
ning the Grand National Steeplechase
at Flemington on Saturday for his S.A.
owner, T. S. Ryder. Also, it was the
direct means of enabling ex-amateur
rider L. Meenan to complete the National
double, the first “leg” of which he had
won on Cheery Jack, and of giving Mel-
bourne trainer Harry Gabel his second
success in this race. Latter prepared
Sandhurst for his win in 1929.
Blackford’s Flemington record for 2\
miles over hurdles has stood since 1936,
but he is rising 11, and a bleeder, and
Ryder quoted 100 guineas when asked
by an acquaintance several months ago
to place a price on the gelding. There
was a proviso—that Blackford’s future
activities be restricted to hunt events,
and that he be not raced again in open
company. The would-be buyer expressed
willingness to agree to these terms if the
price were reduced to 50 guineas, but no
business resulted. Instead, Blackford
was sent to Melbourne, and his only two
races since his arrival have yielded as
many wins for £2lOO in stakes. His
owner put £5O on him in the
National, and had the pleasure of seeing
Blackford improve on First Brigade’s
second in the G.N. Hurdle. First Brigade
is owned by Ryder, but raced on lease
by J. Langham. Both horses were also
bred by Ryder, who was unlucky to miss
the 1924 Melbourne Cup with their sire,
Stand By, the latter being beaten by
Backwood.
Unorthodox preparations preceded the
National wins of Cheery Jack and Black-
ford. Cheery Jack succeeded at his first
attempt over jumps for eight months, and
Blackford had raced only once in seven
months before he tackled the gruelling
3 miles 1 furlong on Saturday. Notwith-
standing that Blackford became favorite
after his Wanda Steeple success on June
15—a position he lost when it was an-
nounced on Friday that Turf Boy was a
definite runner —many keen- judges
doubted his ability to win on such a light
preparation. Blackford, however, had
done a good deal of preliminary work at
his owner’s property at Mount Gambier
before his return to Melbourne, and,
hard ridden over the last six furlongs,
won by half a length from Man of Ayr
after the latter had looked a certain
winner 100 yards from home. Amazing
as his performance was, it seemed im-
possible that he could have equalled Red-
ditch’s course record of 6min. ssec. on
such a heavy track, but the clock was
there to prove it. Blackford’s appear-
ance belies his age, and presumably he
will now be set for the Australian Steeple-
chase.
Man of Ayr’s rider, J. McMahon,
came in for his share of criticism after
the race. His detractors claimed that he
may have won had he gone straight for
the post instead of looking round several
times in the straight when the race
seemed to be as good as over. Such
tactics do not help a horse, especially at
the end of a long journey, but no danger
was apparent, and, even if McMahon did
err, his critics certainly thought at the
time that defeat was out of the question.
Blackford, with 151 b. more weight, was
going right away from Man of Ayr on
the post, but the latter will get another
opportunity in the Australian Steeple.
He is young as ’chasers go, rising seven,
and probably will improve.
Brightello, though beaten over a fur-
long from home, demonstrated by finish-
ing third that he is an improved stayer.
Owner J. Abraham received £250 for the
placing, and St. Robert, also raced by
him, won the Footscray Steeplechase
later in the day.
Turf Boy, lame after his success
in the Steeplechasers’ Flat three days
earlier, was pronounced by owner-trainer
Maurice McGrath on National day to be
fit to win. Favorite at 4 to 1, Turf Boy
moved freely enough on his way to the
starting-point, but broke down after
moving up fifth or sixth about a mile
from home. Fullarton did not persevere
with him subsequently, and dismounted
immediately after Turf Boy had passecf
the post in tenth position.
Raised from 11.7 to 12.6 for his G.N.
Hurdle success, Cheery Jack gave further
proof of his class by a clear-cut win in
the Doutta Galla Hurdle, a race he lost
on protest to Green Cape last year.
Heavy going enhanced the value of his
performance, and some keen judges, who
previously scorned a suggestion that
Cheery Jack could be compared with
Pooley Bridge, one of our greatest
hurdlers in years, have changed their tune
somewhat. Comparison is possible
through the fact that Pooley Bridge won
the G.N. Hurdle with 11.3, and a week
later the Doutta Galla Hurdle with 12.0.
Cheery Jack carried 11.7 and 12.6 re-
spectively in these races, and made record
time in the National.
Cheery Jack led over the last mile of
the Doutta Galla, making a good re-
covery after getting in too close at the
hurdle near the seven furlongs. Had
there been any weakness in his make-up,
Bureaucrat would have found it. Latter,
with a weight advantage of 411 b., ran to
Cheery Jack rounding the turn, but was
outstayed and beaten two lengths. Cheery
Jack has been a splendid proposition for
owner J. M. C. Forsayth, who originally
raced him on lease, but later exercised
an option of purchase for £5OO. Unless
the weight (12.9) be deemed exces-
sive by his connections, Cheery Jack will
be a runner for the Australian Hurdle on
August 3. Success in that race probably
would mean his being weighted out of
future hurdles, but he can receive only
the maximum, 12.7, in next year’s Grand
National Steeple. That would represent
only 21b. more than his handicap for
the corresponding race last Saturday.
After Prairie Prince had beaten Coun-
sel half a head in the Two-year-old Mile,
his apprentice rider, W. Hooton, was
suspended for one month for interfering
with the runner-up near the six furlongs.
No protest was entered by Counsel’s
rider, N. Percival, but, in view of the
fact that the stewards thought the inci-
dent serious enough to warrant more
than a caution, backers of Counsel won-
dered why the stewards did not take it
upon themselves to enter an objection.
Big money was at stake, as Counsel
started favorite at 9 to 2, and Prairie
Prince firmed from eights to sixes. As
inches separated the two horses at the
finish, the interference, even so early in
the race, might have made the difference
between success and defeat for Counsel.
Possibly the stewards took the view that
Counsel had his chance in the straight,
and was not quite good enough. He
looked to have Prairie Prince beaten
inside the last half-furlong, but Prairie
Prince fought back gamely, and worried
him out of it.
Prairie Prince, a Manitoba-Strepera
colt who cost Archie Crofts 1000 guineas
as a yearling, deserved his win. An out-
side post position in mile races at Flem-
mgton is a disadvantage at any time, but
Prairie Prince, in addition to drawing
the extreme outside in a field of 14, was
hurdled off at the start. A slow getaway
appeared to prejudice his chance further,
but he worked his way through the field
and over to the rails, and was only
behind three horses entering the straight.
A good stamp of colt who has now won
two races at Flemington, Prairie Prince
has a long way to go before he can be
classed with the best of his age, but he
seems to have a bright staying, or at
least middle-distance, future. His spring
engagements include the Caulfield Cup
with 6.10 and the Melbourne Cup with
7.0.
Mentone trainer Duncan Mcßae,
whose gymkhanas have raised a con-
siderable amount of money for patriotic
purposes, experienced almost a field day.
Brightello, a member of his team, was
beaten into third place in the G.N.
Steeple, but he landed a double with Fly-
ing Comedian in the Trial Hurdle Race
and St. Robert in the Footscray Steeple-
chase. Most backers lost interest in the
Trial Hurdle when Paljune, 6-to-4 favor-
ite, fell at the second jump, and it was
left to Flying Comedian, a 10-to-l chance,
to outstay Metabus and The Brewer.
Flying Comedian, a gelding by Graculus
from Winged Victress, had nothing much
to beat, but he is only a three-year-old,
and may soon be seen to advantage in
better company. *
St. Robert has raced in New South
Wales, Tasmania and Victoria during the
last year or so, but his ’chasing form
since his arrival in Melbourne did not
say a great deal for his chance in the
Footscray Steeplechase. Starting at 15
to 1, he revealed improved jumping
ability. He ran past Brimboal after the
last fence, but had to be ridden right out
to win from the latter, who raised an-
other effort in the straight. St. Robert
gave former Sydney jockey L. Abrahams
his first metropolitan win in Melbourne,
and maybe will be the means of
Abrahams receiving better opportunities.
Reef, favorite for the third successive
time since his surprise win at the Valley
last month, repeated his performance of
a week earlier in the Kensington Steeple.
He fell when in front at,the mile jump.
A strong Sydney flavor was associated
with Astounding’s win in the July Handi-
cap. He is still owned in Sydney by
Mrs. D. L. Clayton, but is now raced
on lease by V.A.T.C. 'committeeman
Norman Robinson, for whom he is pre-
pared by ex-Sydney trainer J. Donohoe.
Unplaced in three previous races in Mel-
bourne, Astounding was backed from
tens down to sevens on Saturday, and,
last with Glenfino rounding the turn, un-
wound a sensational run to win from
Scarlet Toi and St. Fervent. An uninter-
rupted passage alongside the rails assisted
him, St. Fervent, leader a furlong from
home, veering to the outside of the track.
St. Fervent’s failure brought to a tem-
porary conclusion the great innings which
had been experienced by his rider, V.
Hartney. Latter was fined £5 by the
starter for disobedience at the post, and
was suspended for one month for forc-
ing National on to Scarlet Toi, causing
the latter to lose ground, near the six
furlongs.
* * * *
Moorefield distributed £l6lO in prize-
money on Saturday, but received a satis-
factory return in the way of attendance
and tote turnover. At the next meeting
the club’s new tote will be working
in the saddling paddock ; in the leger
later. Features of the afternoon were
two large dividends, Grand Boy pay-
ing £25 19s. 9d., and Dublin Lad £22
16s. 6d. Grand Boy gave the books the
best race they had experienced for a
long time at a suburban meeting.
Bianconi’s form at Rosebery a few
days earlier did not. suggest he had much
chance of winning the Hurdle Race; and
he was one of the long-priced division.
An even greater outsider in Leap Year
looked a winner at the straight entrance,
but Bianconi, who made up a lot of lee-
way from the five furlongs post, was too
good for him after clearing the last
hurdle. Phil also finished well to get
third. King Otho, who was always
prominent, was fourth. Jack Mac, Ti-
Trol and Trekster all struck trouble dur-
ing the race, but each must have been
affected by his hard run at Rosebery, as
none of the three ever looked like realis-
ing his backers’ hopes.
Guinness had not. raced for some
time, but evidently his work had im-
pressed some of the morning visitors to
Randwick. Always at a short quote, he
finished at odds-on. Third to Zel and
El Camarilla at the turn, it was by only
a half-head he defeated Zel, who is a fine-
looking filly. Denis Boy missed a place
by a narrow margin, and will do better
over a longer distance.' Helenik Boy and
Excursion are others worth remember-
ing. Electra showed pace, but dropped
right out at the finish, and both Buck-
shee and My Dear failed to act up to
their previous best.
Luck in running favored Metallic in
the second division of the Encourage
Stakes. Thanks to Schiehallion hanging
out and carrying Simple Simon with him
Metallic got such a clear run on the rails,
from the three furlongs that he had the
race safe at the leger. His time was 2sec.
slower than that of Guinness. The minor
places went to El Kenny and Litigation.
Metallise was fourth, and a long way
ahead of Last Gold and Bland Princess,
who headed the remainder. Simple
Simon and Schiehallion showed pace, but
Gretchen made a poor showing, as did
the two-year-old Passport, who, as he is
by Hall Mark from Gloaming’s Sister,
should be able to gallop. Metallic is by
Metallurgy (Rossendale-Calcite) from
Kapiti, by Wolaroi. Metallurgy was sold
recently for 200gns., and has gone to a
station near Coonamble.
A return to his earlier form made St.
Andrew a comfortable winner of the
first division of the Juvenile Handicap, in
which Glamour Star was the early leader
from Dawn Mary and Loyal Lad. Mar-
theus, the favorite, did not find his legs
as smartly as usual, and being unable to
get to the front at an early stage was
not a winning possibility at any part of
the last half of the journey. The stewards
inquired into his running, but whether
there was any need for it is a matter of
opinion. Presumably it pleased those
who lost on him as well as upholders of
reversal-of-form inquiries. Happy Lass
(Cheveley Lad-Carefree) did well to run
second after striking trouble, and may yet
do credit t > her breeding. Her stable
companion, Air Link, did no better than
at Canterbury Park.
Moderation was credited with having
a mortgage on the second division of the
Juvenile Handicap, but though he was
the early leader Dublin Lad had him well
beaten before reaching the straight. Gold
Earth (Fox-Earth-Delhi Queen), the best-
looking colt in the field, ran greenly,
but finished third, and will see a better
day. Serenade (Buzzard-Gay Song) was
strongly supported, but could not get
near the front. Mabonga will improve.
Dublin Lad is by Denis Boy from Kitty
S., a half-sister to Pretzel and Boss Poppy,
both well-known winners in Sydney.
The result of the Carlton Mile was a
complete upset. Grand Boy’s recent
form said little for him, but taking up
the running along the back he was not
after headed. Brazen Lad and Opportu-
nist were nearest him at the turn, but,
though 50 yards from the judge’s box
Brazen Lad’s chance was a winning one,
he failed to quite reach Grand Boy. A
half-head separated them, and Hope, im-
proving greatly on his Rosebery running,
was a similar distance away. A change
of riders helped him. Mohican, who is
still a long way from his old form, could
not go the pace set, and Shipley and
Opportunist failed to stay. It was the
reverse with Climax, who, in fourth posi-
tion, was running on, and is in line for a
win. The track was not to Caesar’s liking,
and he was always a long way back, as
was Bristol. Denita got into a lot of
bother.
Tickle won two mile 7 and-a-quarter
races at Moorefield last season, and
again demonstrated her liking for the
track. Waiting on the pacemakers,
Brown Bomber and High Dividend, from
the start of the Moorefield Handicap she
dropped back fourth at the turn, but
running on again in the straight she won
by half a length from Brown Bomber,
who defeated High Dividend half a head.
Anpapejo was not suited by the track,
and ran no better than Highborn, who
made up ground in the straight. Vestal
dashed into third place at the turn, but,
though she then weakened, a win at a
mid-week meeting should shortly be pos-
sible for her.
Sologram, a hot favorite for the first
division of the Flying Welter, collided
with the rails after going two furlongs,
and that settled his chance. As he fin-
ished fifth it is probable that with ordi-
nary luck he would have given his backers
a good run. Going up the hill Beryl
Joyce and Rival Chief were together,
followed by Belvoir, and they were so
far ahead of the remainder that it seemed
certain one of the trio would win. Before
turning into the straight Belvoir ran
past Beryl Joyce, and then, when he
shook off Rival Chief in the straight, the
race appeared over. However, Belvoir
was under pressure to make up ground
early in the piece, and that told against
him when he was tackled by Shot Gun,
the latter winning by a head. Among
those behind the place-getters Windbrook
did well enough to suggest he will not
be long in acting up to his earlier form.
Snow Queen, who is now raced and
trained by M. Poison, was backed as if
she could not be beaten in the second
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By “PILOT .”)
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Capaneus,
1 ; Saratoga, 2-; Festoon, 3.
Nursery Handicap: The Elk, 1 ;
Celebrity, 2 ; Overjoyed, 3.
Flying Handicap: Desert King,
1 ; June, 2 ; Radical, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Brazen
Lad, 1 ; Highborn, 2 ; Climax, 3.
Progressive Stakes: Gundagai, 1 ;
Rival Chief, 2; Widden, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Rathlin, 1 ;
Mischief, 2 ; All Dark, 3.


division of the Flying Welter. That idea
was correct, as after Beau Mari had taken
the lead from Sir Hugh and Moaveil
rounding the turn, Snow Queen fairly ran
over him in the straight, eventually win-
ning at her ease from Sydney in a
quarter-second slower time than Shot
Gun recorded in the first division. Snow
Queen, who is by Beau Pere from Curt-
sey (Limond-Sal ute), will have no diffi-
culty in winning in better metropolitan
company. Sydney will be hard to beat
at his next appearance, as will Beau
Mari, and Bull Chase is a mid-week or
provincial possibility.
* * * *
Beaulivre must have a tough constitu-
tion. It is probable his indisposition a
few days prior to the Doomben New-
market cost him that race, and yet he
made such a good recovery that, notwith-
standing he had scarcely done an ortho-
dox preparation for an 11-furlongs race,
he easily won the Doomben Cup with
9.1 in 2.151—-only a quarter-second out-
side Burlesque’s Australian record. For
the next few weeks Beaulivre’s position
as the headliner for the Epsom in doubles
ending with the Metropolitan is assured.
He has 9.4 in the Randwick mile, and if
he should fail in that the Cantala Stakes,
with 9.1, will still give him a chance of
landing a big race. However, as he ran
out 11 furlongs so well he may, if beaten
in the Epsom, tackle either the Metro-
politan or the Caulfield Cup, in each of
which he has 9.0. He has 8.13 in the
Melbourne Cup.
Beaulivre’s win also causes him to
enter strongly into calculations for the
match race at Randwick on Red Cross
Day. His owner will probably be willing
he should start, and either nine or ten.
furlongs should suit. The same applies
to High Caste and Beau Vite, and, whiie
it is possible Reading’s owners would
prefer a mile and a quarter, that would
be unlikely to cause them to stand'out
if the race were at a shorter distance.
However, as I wrote last week, it would
be advisable for the committee to come
to an arrangement with owners of pos-
sible contestants as to the most suitable
distance. Ajax may not be here, but in
his absence High Caste, Beaulivre, Read-
ing and Beau Vite —if he is given the
trip—would make an interesting field.
Presumably they would meet at weight-
for-age, and in the Epsom the A.J.C.
handicapper puts only 41b. between them,
Beau Vite having 9.6, High Caste 9.5,
Beaulivre 9.4 and Reading 9.2. High
Caste is not in the Metropolitan, but
Beau Vite and Reading meet on Epsom
terms in that, and Beaulivre, as compared
with them, is 21b. better off.
Chatting won another race in Brisbane
on Saturday, and, in cutting out the five
furlongs with 9.5 in 59| made a time
record for Doomben. Both that track
and Flemington were exceptionally fast
during the past fortnight. Chatting, who
was bred by P. Miller and sold as a year-
ling for 220gns., is by Chatham from
Dashing (Heroic-Queen Gossip), dam of
Dashing Cavalier. Royal Charter, Lady
Tattler, Count Ito and Roman Spear are
others that come into Chatting’s pedigree
on the maternal side, so it is not surpris-
ing she is a galloper.
* * * *
Heavy going, in conjunction with 12.0,
proved too much for Padishah in the
big steeplechase at Wellington (Maori-
land) last week. He was a poor third
to the lightly-weighted outsider Chat and
Ballybritt. Chat, who is a recruit from
the hack-and-.hunter ranks of steeple-
chasers, is a six-year-old mare by Sieg-
fried. Royal Star 11, who won the Whyte
Handicap, 1 mile, the same afternoon,
is one of Maoriland’s hard-worked horses.
Up tq the middle of last month he had
started in 25 races this season, and, though
he had won only one, did not finish
further back than fourth in 15 others.
Last week’s win was probably his second
this season, and he must be at home
in mud, the course being so heavy that
the mile took 1.50|.
* * * *
Cheery Jack’s two wins at Fleming-
ton caused him to stand out from all the
hurdlers in Australia, and it can now
be claimed for him that he is one of
the best that have raced in this country.
Of course it will be contended that “our
hurdlers are not what they were.” They
never are, but as they continue to make
faster times with as much weight it is
difficult to see where the deterioration
comes in. Before he won the National
J. M. C. Forsayth contemplated having
Cheery Jack prepared for flat-racing in
the spring, and there is no reason why he
should depart from that programme,
though the Australian Hurdle Race with
12.9 may tempt him to give his horse
another run over the jumps.
It would not be the first time a horse
ran in the Grand National and Mel-
bourne Cup the same year. Sheet Anchor
did so. He started a 5-to-4 favorite for
lBB5 Grand National, in which he
had 10.12 and was unplaced. Less than
four months later he won the Melbourne
Cup with 7.11, and he was then a seven-
year-old stallion. The Yeoman, the only
three-year-old to win a Grand National,
ran third in the Melbourne Cup the fol-
lowing year.
If Cheery Jack runs in the Australian
Hurdle Race he will probably be favorite,
with only 31b. more than he successfully
carried in the Doutta Galla Hurdle Race,
2} miles, and must be very hard to
beat. Our Boy must be given a
chance if he recovers from his recent
trouble, as must First Brigade ; but for
an early choice I shall take Mamillius.
Man of Ayr, though up 71b. for his G.N.
Steeplechase second, has an excellent
chance in the Australian Steeplechase.
Collier was below expectations in the
G.N. Steeplechase, but may do better in
this race.
H= H: * *
If judge Dudley Smith were not of
placid disposition he would spend many
sleepless nights consequent on his alleged
mistakes. He admits that at one time
loudly-voiced demonstrations against his
decisions did slightly upset him. Now
they do not, nor is he worried when he
reads that some disappointed owner,
trainer or jockey is doubtful whether his
eyesight is all that it should be. He still
believes that the man in absolute line
with the winning-post really does know
more about a finish than the one who is
anything from ten to fifty yards above or
beyond it, though the backer of a loser
is always hard to convince. The warmest
demonstration against any of his deci-
sions he can recall was when Amounis
defeated Paganelli in the Canterbury
Stakes.
* * H= H=
McMenamin is still hopeful of beating
W. Cook for the jockeys’ premiership in
Sydney, but the odds are against him.
He rode five favorites and a second
favorite at Moorefield on Saturday, but
as the result was-only one win the day’s
riding left him seven wins behind Cook.
There is no reason for supposing the
latter will suddenly lose form or strike
a patch of bad luck, and as his advantage
in weight may* give him more mounts
than McMenamin he seems fairly safe
for first place. Racing for this Season
at Moorefield concluded on Saturday, and
J. W. McCurley won the £75 for the
most successful trainer at that club’s
meetings. F. T. Cush got £l5 for second
and G. P. Nailon £lO for third.
* * * *
Today’s results will have bearing on
tomorrow’s Grafton Cup possibilities. A
win in the C.R.J.C. Handicap will mean
a penalty for the Cup. Rodborough can
run the Cup distance, but recent form
says more for Salivant, Tickle and Mab-
son at a mile and a quarter and a hun-
dred yards. Hilarious ran fairly in the
Doomben Cup, but I expect Bristol to
win. He ran in the Carlton Mile at
Moorefield on Saturday, and though he
was outpaced in the first half-mile was
making up ground at the end.
H= * * H=
Blackford is one of the few horses
that have made or equalled record times
over the hurdles and in steeplechases.
At Flemington in March, 1936, he made
a record of 4.34 for 2\ miles in a hurdle
race, and in last Saturday’s Grand
National Steeplechase equalled Redditch’s
record of 6.5 for three miles and a fur-
long on that track.
* * j!s H=
With the war as an aid many opponents
of racing in Maoriland thought they
would be able to have the sport greatly
reduced, if not temporarily abandoned.
However, the Government does not see
eye to eye with them. This was stated
by Mr. Parry (Minister of Internal
Affairs) when addressing the New Zea-
land Racing Conference last week. He
expressed the opinion that it would be
time enough to cut down racing when
it interfered with war effort. Later there
might be restrictions, but only when they
were actually necessary. It is to be hoped
the N.S.W. Cabinet looks at matters in
the same light when dealing with the
proposed reduction of racing in and
about Sydney.
* * .* *
There has been a complete abandon-
ment of racing in England. The yearling
sales customary in July did not take place,
and many horses have been destroyed.
Bargains in thoroughbred stallions and
mares could now be picked up in Eng-
land, but owing to the trouble that would
be entailed in getting them here Aus-
tralia will not benefit. America may.
Recently numerous purchases of young
horses were made in Ireland for that
country.
* * * *
Manrico had an ,easy task in last
year’s Cantala Stakes with 8.5, and 9.1
does not dispose of his chance of a
second win. He is a great weight-carrier,
and in the Lawn Handicap, run down
the straight six at Flemington last week,
he made light of 9.11, winning easily
from horses that had been showing form.
He will be six next month, but at that
is not too old to improve upon his
good deeds of the past. His stable-com-
panion Pure Gold, whose Cantala' Stakes
weight is 9.3, was a runner for the Lawn
Handicap. He did not look ready, and,
though in receipt of 81b. from Manrico,
finished some distance back. Interest
now attaches to the reappearance of
Nuffield, another in Holt’s stable.
* * * *
The Australian Jockey Club is admit-
ting another 100 members, bringing the
total to 1700. The addition is not suffi-
ciently great to create inconvenience in
the official stand. There is still a long
waiting list, and some of those at the
bottom will necessarily wait a long time
before attaining membership.
* * * *
Opportunity is a great thing, and in
England Godiva gave it to the 17-year-old
apprentice D. Marks in the New One
Thousand Guineas and Oaks. Prior to
the One Thousand he had ridden only
six winners, and it was surprising that
a comparatively inexperienced rider
should have been chosen by owner E.
Harmsworth and trainer W. R. Jarvis for
such an important race. Marks handled
the filly coolly, always having her in a
good position, and sending her to the
front two furlongs from home. Godiva
was at 10 to 1, and Golden Penny, who
ran second, at 11 to 8 on. Godiva’s time
for the mile was 1.40.3-5, against Djebel’s
1.42 3-5 in the Two Thousand.
He * * H=
The suggestion of a Racing Control
Board in N.S.W. is not one well received
by all who have the good of racing at
heart. There would be a deal of out-
side influence brought to bear on such
a body, and all clubs or people might
not be dealt with similarly. America has
its State racing commissions, and the
“Blood-Horse” says that, though they are
the best form for the government of
racing, an important issue centres round
the personnel of any commission. It then
continues:
It is a conviction of ours that the per-
sonnel of a State racing commission ought
not to be too intimately connected, either
through finance, friendship, politics ox-
marriage, with the management of the race
tracks under its control. Paradoxically, it
is in Kentucky, where the commission form
was originated and where horsemen have
the greatest interests, that the race tracks
have most completely dominated the com-
mission.
Finally, and most emphatically, the office
of racing commissioner ought not to be a-
political plum. The Jack Horners who pull
out such plutns must be politicians, and
politicians must represent political superiors.
The racing commissioner ought to be first,
last, and always faithful to the best interests
of racing. Both politics and racing will
fare better if they can manage to fare
separately.
One can imagine the keen competi-
tion there would be on the part of some
Sydney clubs to get someone appointed
who would as far as possible give priority
to their particular interests.
$ * * *
It is rather a pity that many men who
are regular patrons of racing do not
indulge in ownership. Their financial
position permits of it, but though they
do not mind putting a few pounds on
every race they would not think of buy-
ing a horse and expending, say, £250 a
year on racing it. They would have
the chance of winning a valuable stake
or two, and also the opportunity of tell-
ing their immediate friends of that pos-
sibility when the time came round. Not,
of course, that they always would, but
they might. As it is, they are not in a
position to give a return to owners who
vouchsafe them information. There is a
certain amount of worry attached to
ownership, and though that may be the
reason they avoid it I am afraid they
abstain because they think the other way
the cheaper.
* sfc H= *
Flying Knight’s gameness pulled him
through in the Flying Handicap at Rose-
bery. A furlong from home he was
under the whip and Samurai seemed to
have him beaten. Then he worried the
latter down, and hung on well to stall
off the late-coming Denita, the only
runner to whom he was not conceding
weight. I had a good look at Flying
Knight before and after the race, and,
though he has been mentioned as a
potential Derby winner, his conformation
does not lend itself to that idea. He is
heavier-quartered than in the autumn,
but otherwise is rather lightly framed.
It is never wise to be too pronounced in
opinions concerning horses, but Flying
Knight’s appearance at present suggests
that he is more likely to shine at short
than long distances next season. There
are several three-year-old races that may
suit him better than a mile and a half
with 8.10. However, similar ideas have
proved wrong on previous occasions, and
may do so again.
$ % ifc *
A good 14.2 pony is still a useful asset
in a Sydney stable. In slightly less than
three months Lady Gay has won seven
races carrying £5BO in prize-money.
During that period she has also scored a
couple of minor placings. F. T. Cush,
who trains Lady Gay, has her on lease,
and though he has won only two races
of real importance this season —the
Kirkham Stakes and December Stakes
with Dark Elegance—he has had a most
satisfactory catch of little fish —suffi-
ciently large, though, to be sweet.
* * * *
A correspondent who holds that names
are now too freely duplicated writes as
follows:
Dear Pilot, —As a lover of horses, trainer
and breeder for more than half a century, 1
would like to ask the racing authorities when
are they going to stop the duplication of names
of racehorses. I suppose it does not matter
much in the case of geldings, but in stallions
and mares it must eventually lead to mistakes
and confusion. Why not adopt the English
system of adding a numeral to the name that
is duplicated? Here is a little list that I have
noted in the last few weeks of names
that have all been used before: Fearless,
Whernside, Flashlight, Denmark, The Squire,
Decoration, Afghan, Blackthorn and Dolphin—
all old steeplechasers.
Then there are Amiable, a Newmarket winner,
by Lochiel, if my memory does not trick me;
Amnesty, now racing in S.A. ; Bungebah, a
noted sprinter; Devon, who ran several Cup
seconds; Fortuneteller, Pink TJn, Alarm, High-
born, a horse that received nearly four stone
from Carbine and afterwards won the Sydney
Cup and three Viceroy Cups in India. Le
Grand is another I see copied, and I have no
doubt there are scores of others.
1 have made nomenclature a hobby, and
one of the best and aptly-suited names I have
noted was the New Zealand Tasman, by Van
Diemen’s Land from Distant Shore. Amnesty,
by King’s Pardon from Reversit, is neat. There
are many others, but this little lot will suffice.
Si! * * *
An unusual claim at law was heard
in England in May. Sir Hugo Cunliffe-
Owen claimed £BOOO from the Transport
Ministry for, among other things, losses
on the Weir Bank Stud Farm owing to
the noise caused by piledrivers and
mechanical excavators on a new by-pass
at Maidenhead. It was stated that the
foaling season 1939 to 1940 was the worst
in the history of the stud, this, it was
alleged, being due to the noise upsetting
the mares. A veterinary surgeon called
on behalf of the Ministry said he did
not think the noise was the conclusive
cause of the fall in production. Other
factors were environment, weather and
nutrition. A decision in the case had not
been given when the latest papers left
England.
* * * *
It would be interesting to know the
position of breeders and owners in
France. Presumably all horses the
property of English subjects have been
confiscated by the Germans. These
would include those in which Lord Derby
was interested, and all at the Aga Khan’s
studs in that country. After Djebel won
the Two Thousand Guineas it was stated
in English papers that if he was success-
ful in the Derby it was probable he would
be for sale if any English or American
sportsman wished to buy him. However,
he did not run in the Derby, and while a
sale for England would now be impos-
sible there might be German objections
to his leaving France for America.
* * * *
The handicap of most importance at
the Belmont Park (New York) meeting
a few weeks ago was the Suburban, and
the time for the mile and a quarter was
better than Manolive’s Australian record
of 2.2. The winner, Eight Thirty, carried
8.13, and recorded 2.1 3-5. Earlier at
the meeting he won at six furlongs in
1.9 4-5. Another interesting race at
Belmont Park was the Withers Stakes
for three-years-olds. There were eight
runners and, on the strength of his
Preakness Stakes win, it was supposed
to be little more than a walk-over for
Bimelech. He started at 5 to 1 on, but
was beaten a length and a half at level
weights by a 42-to-l tote chance, Cory-
don, who ran the mile in 1.37 1-5. He
is by the English-bred sire St. Germans.
The value of the race to the owner of
the winner was $16,650, and was Cory-
don’s second win. Last year he ran in
15 races for one win, two seconds and
four thirds, earning a little less than
£4OO. Bimelech subsequently won the
Belmont Stakes, \\ mile ($35,030 for first),
in 2.29 3-5. His previous conquerors,
Gallahadion and Corydon, were unplaced.
* * * *
Long-distance horses are not over-
numerous in America. The advertised
feature for the Tanforan (California)
meeting on May 4 was the Tanforan
Cup, four miles. There were so few
entries that the distance was reduced to
two miles. Even that did not have the
desired effect in the way of nominations,
and eventually the race was run at eight
and a half furlongs. This makes one


SAVE MONEY
W
ITS
thrifty
TO INSTALL
|| NEW
CHAMPIONS
VNSS'sv
sss
Ssis
|gp|£
2 11
flew
CHAMPIONS
Bring
GREATER POWER
Worn-out spark plugs are the
thief of power. Install new
Champions and see the dif-
ference in speed, acceleration
and power. They soon pay for
themselves, too, in the fuel
they save.
An Empire Product—made in Windsor, Can.
smile in view of the fact that a few
American writers are always holding forth
on how greatly England and Australia
would benefit by the importation of
American stallions.
* * * *
English horse Greenwich, who made
a good impression when he ran second
in a race on the opening day of the
Grand National meeting at Flemington,
is in the two Cups, but, though at three
years he twice won at a mile and a
quarter at Newmarket, his best form last
season was as a sprinter. He won the
Arthur Loraine Memorial Handicap, 1
mile, with 8.11 at Sandown Park, and
ran third with 8.7 to Caerloptic (8.12)
and Galsonia (7.11) in the Ascot Royal
Hunt Cup, 7 furlongs 155 yards, one of
England’s principal short races. Over a
distance his best efforts at three years
were second in the Derby Breeders’ St.
Leger, 1| mile, and third in the Scottish
Derby, 1 mile 3 furlongs.
* * * *
It is probable several Maoriland horses
will be here in the spring, and in order
to get thoroughly in touch with their
form backers could not do better than
subscribe to “N.Z. Raceform,” published
by Organ Bros., Ltd., Wellington.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Moore v. Richard's
This should be said for Archie Moore
—unlike some other cullud imports, such
as Ossie Stewart, he gives the onlooker
something to look on at all the way.
He’s a pretty and a crafty boxer, the
most sinuous, weaving scrapper seen here-
abouts for years, proprietor of a marvel-
lously fast left and a snappy right; and
when in a hard fight he reaches the stage
where boxing craft tends to be forgot-
ten, he can still make a darned hard mill
of it, standing and mixing it in a slogging
match, depending on sheer fighting in-
stinct.
That’s how his return encounter with
Ron Richards concluded at the Rush-
cutter Bay arena last Thursday night.
It was a fight to win each of them a re-
served seat in Valhalla. They were
evenly matched and also careful; there
was nothing wildly eventful nor really
picturesque about it, except Moore’s
flashy style ; there was neither grimness
nor ferocity in it, nor anything else that
could be definitely labelled. Yet it kept
the huge crowd keyed up with excite-
ment by the sheer quality of its dra-
matic suspense, each of them fighting
keenly and well enough to make it look
likely that something sudden and drastic
would happen at any tick of the clock.
The expectation wasn’t fulfilled. The
first round was catlike and mutually re-
spectful ; Mr. Wallis could have scored
the points to himself for all that the dif-
ference mattered. In the next Ron re-
vealed his plan of campaign, which was
to take the fight in close—if he could.
Moore’s advantage of reach and whip-
like left made that no easy matter. Ron
hooked him with a left and pounded a
right home to the side of his head, but
the incessant left halted the attack. Next
Ron fairly leapt at him, regardless of
anything, like the Ron of old, hitting
out, and scoring, with both hands —heavy
punches to the jaw, but high.
References to pineapples and other
fruits of Ron’s native heath came down
like a wash of fruit-salad from the
bleachers as they shaped up for the next.
It failed to inspire Ron. He stood off
on his yard-wide stance and ate Moore’s
left glove instead. He’d lost to Moore
in their first match that way: his backers
turned colder than the evening, and it
was chilly enough. In the next he
raised their hopes again to paradise, or
as near to it as punters might hope to
attain. One right to the chin sent Moore
back a yard, and three more heavy
punches followed it; the crowd bellowed,
but none of these had landed as clean ,as
it all looked. Moore boxed handsomely
back, but the round looked a shade Ron’s
way.
The fifth was another of the catlike
variety. Ron did get his right home
fairly clean to the jaw once, but, when he
tried presently to repeat the dish, he him-
self was served a peach of a right in
the same sector, and he didn’t seem to
care for the taste of it. After this
round, which was even, Ron stood flat-
footed while Moore danced and weaved
in front of him, flashing out his right
till it had Ron’s broad nostrils emulat-
ing the Archibald Fountain, Moore pick-
ing up two nice rounds by the devas-
tating speed of his boxing. In the eighth
this hostile attack stung Ron out of his
semi-trance. He went in fighting, but
Moore gave back as good as he took,
winning the round. In the two follow-
ing rounds Ron shaped magnificently.
He fought for the body and aloft,
landed a fearsome right the best
punch of the scrap flush on the
jaw, got in another, and for the first
time had his right uppercut working. He
beat Moore in every sort of way, win-
ning both those rounds by the length
of Queensland.
That was the end of the affair as a
boxing spectacle. In the concluding
two rounds it was Moore, still compara-
tively fresh, who came in, and proved
himself capable of staying there. It
finished over these two rounds a rugged,
struggling mill a heaving mass of
sweaty muscle; art and craft waylaid
by both of them ; both of them back
to the primitive, natural tooth-and-claw
state. Ron’s great burst in the ninth
and tenth had left him without the vigor
for this vigorous business ; had he de-
layed it one more round he might have
been all right. Done in, he. was driven
to fighting on the defensive, with Moore
swarming over him without let up. Be-
fore these two rounds Ron was a shade
ahead, but after them Mr. Wallis with-
out hesitation gave it to Moore.
Afterwards it came out that Moore
broke his left mitt. If he broke it as early
as they said—in the second round—he
deserved to collect his share of the gate
in medals.
In the main eight-round prelim. A 1
Walker dropped Novocastrian Dick Clare
with his old devastating right to the jaw
in the second round. Clare had fought
a good scrap on the Moore-Henneberry
night, but he looked easy to Al, whose
ringcraft has been greatly improved. His
right hand probably carries the most
lethal punch now at large in these parts.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The 36-hole qualifying rounds for the
1940 open championship played all over
the United States were a serious day’s
golf for the 1100-odd players who keenly
contested the 139 places for the final
at Cleveland. Qualifying here is vastly
different from similar tests in Australia.
Entries are split into nearly 30 districts,
which are allotted places in keeping with
the number of entries received. It is
possible to just miss qualifying and yet
still play in the event; if a player who
qualifies is unable to make the trip to
Cleveland he allows the best non-qualifier
to take his place.
At Chicago the four players who just
missed qualifying by one stroke played
off afterwards to determine in what order
they would be placed to fill any possible
vacancies. Usually in these circum-
stances many good players compete in
the classic event after failing to qualify.
Ben Hogan, leading prizewinner this year,
failed to qualify in New York by one
stroke, creating the sensation of the year,
but, fortunately, someone dropped out
later.
Many of the critics state, and I
thoroughly agree with them, that there
should be no substitutions when quali-
fiers drop out. The practice has been
the cause of unpleasant rumors of good
professionals who failed to gain a place
offering an inducement to qualifiers to
drop out. This ruling is not in keeping
with the traditions of the royal and
ancient game.
There was a storm of protest when the
U.S. Golf Association refused to allow
past open champions, of whom there are
only 15 alive today, to compete without
qualifying. Golf writers and players con-
demned the leading body for making such
old masters as Walter Hagen, Gene
Sarazen and Chick Evans, even though
their chances were thought to be slight,
struggle for a place to play in the event
they once won.
In Lawson Little’s amazing round of
65 in the Chicago qualifying rounds for
the open, the player needed only 11 putts
in his wonderful 31 out for the first nine
holes. He sank six birdies and needed
a par four at the ninth for a 30, but
went through the green and put on a five.
In a practice round with me the day
before he played the first 10 holes in
five under par; holing two 30-yard chip
shots, he completed the round in 67-
five under par.
The committee of the Canterbury club
at Cleveland paid special attention this
year to the rough on the club’s course.
By encouraging its growth at various
spots on the fairways play has been made
much more difficult. As one player said,
“It looks like a nice crop of young
wheat.” The club officials were deter-
mined that low scores would not be
recorded. One estimate of the winning
total was 292, or an average of 73
per round; this, however, in my
opinion, was high.' I thought around
288 would be the figure. fGene
Sarazen and Lawson Little tied with 287.)
Canterbury, however, is a windy spot
near the lake, and feels the slightest
breezes. A new set of back tees has added
over 370 yards to the length of the course,
and has greatly altered many of the old
features.
Although the war has greatly curtailed
British golf, I read that the game is being
encouraged by those at the helm of
affairs. While the open and amateur
championships have been postponed, local
and county events are being held. One
writer says, “Play must not be allowed
to cease.” A recent suggestion is a
“London Championship,” a 72-hole event
open to amateurs and professionals.
The cost of the game has, and is going
to be, increased greatly in Britain as in
other parts of the world. The latest in-
formation points to top-grade balls being
more expensive from now on, the cheaper
grades having already been increased.
The commodity known in the trade as
“tjipetir,” the product of which covers
are made, comes from Batavia, and has
gone up 80 per cent, in price, besides
becoming increasingly scarce.
Although the Australian championships
have been cancelled, I hope that the
authorities will continue to conduct
minor events. The standard of play will
slip if competitive golf is stopped. And
our standard of play is high consider-
ing the small number of players.
* * * *
Ferrier won his way to the semi-final
of the western amateur championship
at Minneapolis. Then he encountered a
Chicago youth, George Victor, who
sprang 14 one-putt greens on the Aus-
tralian ; and Victor was the victor.
Ferrier, 1 down at the 34th, halved the
35th and 36th.
Footbrawl
It was a wet day down south when
Melbourne and Essendon, two of the
three teams sharing the V.F. League lead,
met at M.C.G. After the ’Dons greeted
their opponents all they saw was a blur
of flying bodies, kicking feet, reaching
hands and goal umpires’ flags. Some-
where in the midst of this, Essendon sus-
pected there was a football, but
couldn’t be sure of it until the game was
over. Melbourne, 17-20 ; Essendon, 7-12.
Those who expected a good game be-
tween Richmond and Footscray got it.
Both sides were striving to hold their
places in the four, and they turned on
the sort of football that makes the game
what it is. On its own ground ’Scray
led at quarter-time, Richmond led at
half-time, ’Scray had a point lead at
three-quarter time, and then Richmond’s
ruck play told and the Tigers drew away
to win by three goals, 15-10 to 12-10.
There was little between Norths and
Hawthorn in a dull game, played mostly
in a drizzle at North Melbourne, and
the Northers managed to win by 11-11
to 9-16.
Something like its old spirit infused
Collingwood, at home to South Mel-
bourne. Slippery ground and greasy ball
appeared to flummox Sowth, but the
Woodsmen hailed the soggy leather with
glee and proceeded to punch it through
the sticks with enthusiasm. Hopelessly
outplayed, Sowth raked up 4-18 to the
home side’s 19-14.
At Carlton, barrackers were served
with one of those finishes that send them
home with distended larynxes and a topic
of discussion for the next week. The
Blues, at home to Geelong, took the
lead early, lost it and set out to regain
it. They failed by a point in a desperate
finish, 12-19 to 11-24, and Geelong now
shares leadership with Melbourne.
St. Kilda, always hard to beat on its
own ground, stood off the improving
Fitzroy side in a game full of bustle but
short of goals. St. Kilda, 8-11: Fitzroy,
6-12.
* * * *
Leading Manly by 13 points to three
with the second half far advanced, Uni-
versity looked certain to score its fifth
successive win in the Sydney Rugby
Union competition. Then Biddulph, the
Manly full-back, joined his three-quarters
in a dash and dived over for a try ; a
few minutes later he repeated the per-
formance. Both were converted, giving
the Villagers a 14-13 win. Magnificent,
but it mightn’t have happened if Hard-
castle, the Uni. forward, hadn’t been
hurt when playing a great game. Rand-
wick still leads. North couldn’t cope
with its speed, though the weakened side
from the other side of the harbor led
at half time: 12-6 at the finish.
Out behind the sandhills of St. George
there are high hopes of the Dragon-
killers carrying off the premiership.
A solid 14-9 win over Drummoyne
enabled them to hold their third place
on the table. Manly is second. Gordon
ran over West (25-8), and the Parra-
mattans touched off East by a point—-
10-9.
Miscellaneous
Bill Howell has followed his old
skipper Noble to the Elysian Fields. A
first-class bowler, with an accurate length
and a great off-break, Bill was also a big
hitter and a most likeable fellow. He
had three trips to England with Aus-
tralian Xls, and in his first match there
—against Surrey in 1899—he took 10
wickets for 28 in one innings. In Test
matches Bill bagged 35 wickets at
35.37; in Sheffield Shield games, 159 at
23.59. A martyr to rheumatism for many
years, Howell was given “out” at Castle-
reagh (N.S.W.) at 71.
“Hamer”: As a small boy I was
present at the Sydney Cricket Ground
when Bill Howell made his debut as a
bowler against Stoddart’s XI. Bill, a
burly bee-farmer, had been picked as a
batsman. When the Englishmen were
knocking the bowling all over the place
he said to the skipper, “I think I could
get some of those blokes out.” And,
tossed the ball in despair, he did. Stod-
dart he skittled first ball, and with the
crowd almost delirious he proceeded to
go right through the English side. And
I remember a match in which he knocked
up 40 in two overs ; and they were six-
ball overs then.


Cutting from the “Herald,*’ June 13, 1940.
Manufacturers Told
Tc^Get_Bu s Y
pETRoTRATIOH^i,
Stewart - ) today.
PRODUCER GAS
ENGINEERING AT
HOME
Authorities agree that
before the end of 1940
Producer Gas Units will
be in general use
throughout the Com-
monwealth to a degree
previously undreamed
of, and that petrol for
trucks, tractors, etc.,
may be almost entirely
replaced.
In a recent statement to the press Sir
Frederick Stewart said —“Car kerosene will
not be available for road users except with
the approval of the Commonwealth Con-
troller. The chief substitute for petrol will
be producer gas.” Here is your opportunity
to get into a field which is rapidly expanding
to meet ever-growing demands —PRODUCER
GAS.
The simplified Producer Gas home study
course of the Kingsford Smith College
makes it possible to gain a thorough
knowledge of Producer. Gas engines in
your spare time at home.
The course covers all phases of the
subject manufacture, conversion of
engines from petrol or oil, service, and the
preparation of the charcoal which pro-
duces the gas. There will be a wonderful
opportunity in every district to make good
money for those who learn about
Producer Gas engines early.
Whether you intend to get into the busi-
ness of Producer Gas manufacture, con-
version or service, or require to learn
HOW TO CONVERT AND
MAINTAIN YOUR OWN
VEHICLES AND PLANT.
The Kingsford Smith Course is the
simplest way to learn. Everything
is made clear by simple, easily-fol-
lowed diagrams and instruction-sheets, and
the course includes coaching by Producer
Gas experts to suit the individual re-
quirements of every student. A practical
course for practical men! An essential
for every truck and tractor owner, garage
man, service station owner.
OWNERS OF STATIONARY ENGINES
will find the course particularly use-
ful. It shows how to convert farm engines
to Producer Gas and how to prepare the
charcoal.
No big cash outlay. Post coupon imme-
diately. (The College can supply the
necessary conversion parts if required.)
BIG MONEY
for those who
get in early!
ē
: KINGSFORD SMItH COLLEGES" |
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney. I
" Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas Course. I
l NAME .:. |
[ ADDRESS 1
I B. 17/7/40 ■
O commonplace to-day that it is
accepted as a matter of course, a cheque
account is one of the most useful of
modem conveniences. Another banking
convenience is an interest-bearing Fixed
Deposit for the investment of surplus
funds from £5 upwards. Both Fixed
Deposit and cheque account facilities are
provided for all reputable persons and
firms by this Bank.
RURA
OF
tldfm
RANK
WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. K. MeKERIHAN (PRESIDENT)
H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD,
“CONRIK” Improved
lOin. Swing, Self Acting
Sliding and Surfacing
LATHE
Write for
Illustrated Leaflet.
This latest addition to our com-
prehensive range of Bench
Lathes has been designed for
use in garages, Production
Shops, Machine Shops, Techni-
cal Schools, Workshops, etc.
All kinds of work in wood,
metal, catalin, bakelite, etc.,
can be performed with a great
degree of accuracy.
The highest standards of work-
manship are maintained through-
out. Materials are to our usual
high standard, and rigid inspec-
tion of all components, during
the various stages of manufac-
ture, enables us to guarantee
you years of trouble-free opera-
tion.
Ease of operation is an out-
standing feature. Conveniently
placed controls, graduated com-
pound rest, instantaneous lever
locking device on tail stock,
lever reverse gear and ball type
handles reduce the possibility
of errors and result in a saving
of time.
PRINCIPAL DIMENSIONS
Size of Face Plate, 83in. diameter.
Height of Centres, oin.
Distance between Centres, 2ft. 4in.
Length of Bed, 49in.
Width of face of Bed, Cin.
Hole through Mandril, 13/lfiin.
Diameter of Mandril Nose, ljin.
Length Overall, 4ft. lOin.
Breadth Overall, 20in.
Height Overall, lGJin.
Swing over Saddle, 7Jin.
Swing over Gap, 13»in.
Swing over Bed, lOin.
Dimensions of Saddle, lOiin. x 10Jin.
Dimensions of Boring Table, BJin.
x 4fin.
Diameter of Bead Screw, Jin. Acme
Thread.
Diameter of Feed Shaft, Jin.
Back Gear Ratio, 6 to 1.
Cone Pulley Steps, sin., 32*n., 2sin.,
fin. drop.
Distance Face Plate to Edge of
Gap, 3in.
Weight, approximately 3201b5.
Head stock Centre Bored No. 3
Bushed to No. 2 Morse Taper.
Tailstock Centre No. 3 Morse
Taper.
price £67/10/"
NOCK & KIRBY Ltd.
417-421, also 188-194 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ENGINEERING
NEEDS
YOU!
YOUNG MAN EARN REAL MONEY!!
IF YOU have a Mechanical or Electrical turn of mind, one of these
four Correspondence Courses MUST mean a LOT to YOU.
No. 1 Motor Car Engineering No. 3 Diesel Engineering
No. 2 Electrical Engineering No. 4 Engine Driving
(Working Outfit Free).
A GIFT PRICE FOR A MONTH !
These Correspondence Courses are being: offered at a really gift price
for one month. DO NOT MISS THIS OFFER!
WRITE NOW to our Chief Engineer, Australian Technical Schools,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson St., Sydney. He will show YOU the way.
The JOB and the PAV!
£6 to £lO per Week!
Many of our successful students have written and thanked us for what
we had done for them. Here are a few extracts from the letters of past
correspondence students: —
£lowT E k}
“Since gaining my diploma, I have secured a
of a Diesel power plant at £lO PER WEEK,
directly responsible for me being able to fill
position in charge
, Your School is
that position.’’
PQ PER \
£0 WEEK J
"1 must thank you for helping me—since getting my Diesel Cer-
tificate my wages have been OVER £8 PER WEEK, driving
Diesels.”
DIESEL
CHIEF
ENGINEER
“I was recently appointed Chief Engineer to a Factory and Trad-
ing Co. The plant includes 5 Diesels and 4 Electric Generators. 99
NOW VVii'tl
THE
“1 thank you for your help in getting me the position of Cadet
Flight Engineer in the R.A.A.F. If I had not taken your
Course I couldn’t have passed the trade test.”
SERVICE
MANAGER
I.H.C.
'*l received your Motor Engineering Diploma. I been
appointed service manager for International Harvester Co. for
the Northern District. I thank you.”
FORESTRY
DIESEL
OPERATOR
“Thanks to my training with your School, I have now a position
with the Forestry Dept., driving a Diesel Tractor.”
£6/6/- }
PKR WEEK 1
“I thank you for putting me where I am to-day. I am receiving
£6/6/- per week.”
m
«/MO d
%
IJS3IO
riHi
133
FREE
BOOK
IT TELLS
HOW YOU
CAN LEARN
DIESEL ENGINEERING
IN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME
Technically trained men
are in great demand !
Post This Coupon for FREE BOOK
The Chief Engineer, E.B. 740
Australian Technical Schools,
Assembly Hall,. Jamiesson St., Sydney.
Flease send me (without obligation) your
FREE BOOK, advice, particulars, and
special offer about your correspondence
course.
No dealing with
Name
Occupation
Age


SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Devils, Binghi and Ballet
To any sworn balletomane it would be
sacrilege to suggest that King Billy and
tribe indulging in a spot of tribal danc-
ing somewhere beyond the Diamantina
are doing much the same thing as Col.
W. de Basil’s Ballet is doing at Sydney
Royal. And it would be a greater sacri-
lege to suggest, with reservations, that
King Billy and tribe can do it much
better. But the point is that, if devils are
to figure in his dance, as soon as he starts
dancing King Billy believes that there is a
dinkum devil in the offing, and when he is
properly wound up he knows that all the
devils from hell are right on his tail, and
500 missionaries couldn’t convince him
otherwise. And no matter how often he
goes through that dance he will always
know that those devils are there and
will stay there until he’s danced ’em
safely back to hell again.
Although it is accompanied by the
music of Mozart, Strauss or so forth,
and although, from the white-pfeller
point of view, it is developed to a high
standard of physical grace and agility,
ballet of the Col. de Basil kind
differs only from King Billy’s in
degree and not in kind. Both are a
primitive form of symbolism. And there
King Billy has it over the Colonel —his
primitive mind enables him to believe
more readily that he is a wombat or the
moon or that seven devils are chewing his
kidneys. It requires a much greater
effort for the possessor of a highly-
developed white-pfeller mind to believe
that he is the personification of fate or
passion or something ; but a good dancer
must succeed in making that effort —pos-
sibly that continual strain was a contri-
buting factoi* to Nijinsky’s insanity.
From the foregoing point of view the-
best dancing on Saturday night was that
of Roman Jasinsky in Lifar’s “Icare.”
Jasinsky did seem as though he were try-
ing to fly, as though he were first afraid,
then courageous and assured, and then
broken after the disaster. Dmitri Ros-
toff, as Daedalus, was similarly convinc-
ing. The rest of the dancers were just
dancing and seemingly oblivious of the
fact that they were taking part in a
symbolic ritual.
David Lichine and Tatiana Riabou-
chinska were delightful in “Graduation
Ball.” In “Les Presages,” Tamara Tou-
manova and Nina Verchinina seemed
possessed of the qualities they were sup-
posed to represent, but if Riabouchin-
ska, or the other dancers in that
item, or if any of the dancers in
“Les Sylphides” were trying to imagine
that they were doing anything except
executing various ballet movements on
the stage of the Royal, this commen-
tator will roll his swag and go out to
help Binghi dance devils away.
* * . * *
“Our Town”
Thornton Wilder paints a melancholy
picture of life, love and marriage in this
play without scenery staged by Gregan
McMahon at Melbourne Comedy. The
audience finds the curtain already up on
an empty stage, on to which strolls the
Narrator, who proceeds to describe the
streets, houses, environment and popu-
lation of Grover’s Corners, and continues
to trace its development from 1901 until
1913, when most of the characters have
found their last resting-place in the vil-
lage graveyard. In between, the various
individuals go to school, fall in love,
marry, beget children and die from dis-
couragement, or pneumonia, the only
person with spiritual yearnings being the
local organist, who relieves his boredom
with drink and commits suicide.
In the closing scene the dead are
sitting on chairs on their graves discuss-
ing their vague hopes of a better life to
come when a funeral procession is heard
approaching. A young mother has died
in childbirth. She takes her place
amongst the ghostly community, but finds
their conversation no better than in
Grover’s Corners. They advise her to
settle down to an eternity of boredom,
but she yearns to recapture the 1 appy
hours of maidenhood, and returns tb life
on her twelfth birthday, only to find that
in the light of her subsequent disilluwion-
ment the memory is too painful. One is
left wjth the impression that if all , the
world’s Grover’s Corners were like Mr.
Wilder’s it wouldn’t matter much if they
were all swallowed up in an earthquake.
Norman Tucker as the village doctor,
Betty Rae as his wifq, Reginald Hood as
the newspaper editor, J. Clifford Dodd
as the boozing organist, Tony Riddell
as a young lover, Noela Adams as his
sweetheart and S. Goldboom as the milk-
man were all well cast, and Mark
Frederickson as the Narrator, who owned
the drugstore and talked throughout with
a mixture of humanity and American
slickness, was wellnigh perfect.
* * * *
Friedman with Orchestra
Sydney Symphony Orchestra, just
released from Georg Schneevoigt’s
tutelage, and awaiting the arrival of Sir
Thomas Beecham,
was brought under
the baton of Prof.
Bernard Heinze at
Sydney Town Hall
one night last week
to give a potpourri
programme, princi-
pal item of which
was the Tschaikow-
sky pianoforte con-
certo with Ign a z
Friedman as soloist.
Friedman’s robust
tone and firm phras-
ing make him an
excellent concerto
pianist, but the band
in this (as in other
works) seemed not
to be taking the
occasion very seri-
ously, and the music
suffered.
The mental atti-
tude of the orches-
trions didn’t matter
in “The Age of
Gold” suite of
Dimetri Shostako-
vich, a specimen of
Soviet music which
sounds like a deliri-
ous parrot with a
distorted sense of
harmony imitating
a mechanically - de-
ranged barrel-organ.
Paganini’s “M ot o
Perpe t u o” was
breezed through
more or less off-
handedly, Elga r’s
“Enigma Variations”
were good in parts
and the proceedings
were concluded by a
performance of the
“Tannhauser” over-
ture that didn’t settle
down smoothly till the halfway post was
reached.
The big attraction of the evening, the
chance of hearing Friedman with
orchestra, was not broadcast, though the
concert, presumably, was under A.B.C.
auspices.
* * * *
Adelaide
The outstanding stage item in Adelaide
is the departure of Agnes Dobson.
Skilled in the profession from infancy,
she has, in about seven years’ residence,
built up the amateur Little and Indepen-
dent theatres to high grade, lending valu-
able help sometimes to the senior Reper-
tory.
The stage of the Royal is frozen
solid over an area 60ft. by 40ft., to take
the Ice Show. The correcting of the
stage’s natural slope was one of the
hardest details.
Gladys Moncrieff has an immense
success in the old comic-opera ballads,
going back even as far as “I Was Dream-
ing” of long before her own time. Lionel
Cecil and Raymond Lambert helped her
to fill the Town Hall.
* * * #
Sir Thomas Beecham’s final appear-
ance at Melbourne Town Hall resulted
in a fine rendering of the Requiem that
Brahms wrote after the death of Schu-
mann. The Philharmonics sang the deep,
rich harmonies magnificently. It is
doubtful if Melbourne has ever heard
better choral singing. Lisa Perli used
her lightweight but sweet and tuneful
soprano to excellent dramatic purpose,
though the highlight of the evening was
the splendidly rotund and sensitive bari-
tone of Australian Harold Williams.
Saint-Saens’s “Le Rouet d’Omphale,” in
which Hercules is depicted doing penance
at the spinning wheel as a voluntary
prisoner of Queen Omphale, and the bar-
baric music of the choral dances from
the “Prince Igor” of Borodin made up the
second half of the programme, the latter
giving conductor, orchestra and singers
equal opportunities for displaying their
vitality.
* * * *
Made her debut at one of Bernard
Heinze’s matinees for children at Sydney
Town Hall last week, Claire Simpson,
aged 15, who was soloist in the Max
Bruch concerto. She has a good tone,
a firm touch and plenty of confidence.
She repeated her performance at Mar-
rickville Town Hall in the evening, and
was very heartily applauded.
* * * *
Mosman Musical Society shook the
naphthaline out of “The Quaker Girl’s”
petticoats last week, dressed the (still)
young lady in some brightly topical gag-
ging and put her on the boards again
for a three nights’ season at Cremorne
(Sydney) Orpheum. Wilma Gregory was
an attractively demure and tuneful
Quaker miss, and Frank Brookes made
her an engaging dancing teacher. For
Robert Taylor (tile according to film and not to Frith)
making love to Vivien Leigh under the severe disapproval
of Marie Ouspenskaya (and Frith) in “Waterloo Bridge,”
at Sydney St. James.
the rest the strength of the production
lay in its humor. Zanita Cannis, Margot
Fletcher, Harry Nott and Ron Weaver
revelled in the funmaking. There will be
another performance tonight at the Con-
servatorium in aid of patriotic funds.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Saps at Sea”
Learned and erudite reader, who are
we to sit in judgment on the Masters,
fallible and full of foibles as we are,
and practitioners of a parasite craft to
boot?
Consider this. Here we are, treated
by Sydney Plaza with the utmost kind-
ness and courtesy, shown in to as sump-
tuous a seat as caliph ever sat on, per-
mitted to renew our joy at Cheery Jack
bringing home our couple of bob each
way in the Grand National Hurdle,
shown wonders of science in technicolor
and other marvels, and, to wind up a
rich bill, Laurel and Hardy in “Saps
at Sea.” And we have the cold ingrati-
tude to ask from what dark and for-
gotten filmic moth-hole were the comedy
ingredients of this one rooted out!
Understanding reader, they have a
goat aboard yacht with them, and this
apparition recalled that once, in the
wilds of this State, a goat ate our 9 by 6
residential while we were out hewing
blackbutt; that that nightfall it rained
as it can rain on the Tweed, and the
sight and sound of goat have been
anathema to us ever since. No doubt
that may have influenced the herein-
before ingratitude, by the irresistible
force of association of ideas, since in the
normal way of things we are L. and H.
addicts of an extreme variety. Indeed
as a rule we begin to guffaw as soon as
their theme tune begins to cuckoo, and
by the end you could put us through
a mangle without getting another laugh
out of us.
But there it is. If Messrs. L. and H.
did not collaborate and connive together
to collect the materials of this job
of work from about the period when
another party of comedians were con-
triving the Colossus of Rhodes, we hereby
and without further ado pledge ourselves
to join the ancient order of hat-
consumers forthwith. And may our
old cobbers L. and H. (old; to have
made this posthumous saga of slapstick
they must be the patriarchs of Film-
dom); anyway, may they and Allah —
and Methuselah —forgive us!
* % *
“Swanee River”
If you can put up with Don Ameche
and a few pints of sentimental stuff, this
current item at Sydney Mayfair is a
pleasant enough opus, done out in rich
technicolor and sprinkled with the tunes
of Stephen Foster—“Oh Susanna,” “Ring,
Ring de Banjo,” “Swanee River,” “Old
Black Joe,” “De Camptown Races” and
so on. Foster, who is reported to have
got his inspiration from listening to
■negroes improvising tunes as they worked,
is also reported to have taken to booze
and subsequently died in poverty. No
matter how much he tries, Don can’t do
that convincingly, but he’s quite pleasant
to look at in technicolor, as is Andrea
i Leeds, figuring as the wench who gives
him as much inspiration as he gets from
the darkies. AJ Jolson is leader of the
minstrel troupe 1 which sings most of the
melodies, present addict of such fare
finding them much more entertaining
than the noises modern darkies make with
trombones and other instruments of
torture.
“Waterloo Bridge”
It takes some patience to sit through
the first half of this purged edition of
Robert E. Sherwood’s play, showing at
Sydney St. James. In spots it has some
nice acting from Vivien Leigh, but it
consists mainly of Robert Taylor making
love, which is a test for even toughened
stomachs. The film picks up about half-
way through when Miss Leigh believes
Mr. Taylor has been killed at the front
and shortly afterwards hawks her charms
to all and sundry, discovering later that
her man is still kicking, then wondering
what she should do about it, and finally
chucking herself under a heavyweight
lorry. If the sugar-coating was done
away with it would be a better film, but,
with tiptop short supporting features, it’s
just bearable.
* * * *
“My Little Chickadee,” at Sydney
Capitol, is well-seasoned burlesque with
plenty of laughs. Mae West and W. C.
Fields are old hands at this line of stuff,
and dish it out with zest. Mae, rising
sixty, is -still a sweet young thing, look-
ing every inch of the legend which has
been built up around her.
International Film Competition
The first-prize winner out of 34 entries
in the Australian Amateur Cine Society’s
international competition is “Sunshine
Over Sydney,” by H. R. Booth and
G. Cox. The film, which easily justifies
its placing, is a Kodachrome 16mm.
effort, quite the best example of
this type of color cinematography
yet seen in this country. The streets
and fine buildings of the city and
the picturesque waterfront have provided
material for a gay pageant, excellently
arranged. Second-prize winner, “All’s
Fair,” by R. Bowie, a Maorilander, is
an Bmm. monochrome production,
chiefly notable for some remarkable
slow-motion shots of ski-ing tumbles.
For third place there is a tie between
two films, “Tie-dyeing,” by Kato (Japan),
and “The Operation,” submitted by the
S.A. Amateur Cine Society. The Japan-
ese film (16mm. monochrome) is a line
exposition of a typical and interesting
Nipponese industry. “The Operation” is
slapstick comedy of a rather revolting
sort. Fifth place (no fourth is awarded)
goes to a nice nature-study effort in
16mm. monochrome, “Mystery in the
Forest,” by Tsukamoto (Japan).
A film from the U.S.A., “In the Be-
ginning,” by F. C. Ells, which has won
two international championships, but
which gained only seventh place in this
competition, was also screened. It is a
very leisurely presentation of nature-
study material —nice photography, and
splendid in bits, but lacking the concise-
ness and logic of the Japanese examples
in this genre.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
VJ
m iff
11
II
LUi
' r,
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4141 (10 lines).
Situation Wanted.
Experienced Governess requires position, or
as Nursery Governess. —“Governess,” P.O. Box
132, Murwillumbah, N.S.W. ’Phone 176.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they -will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
•why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The first prize in the race meeting art
union for the Red Cross is a gold A.I.F.
emblem, its value £l5OO. Then there is
the diamond bracelet, worth a mere
twelve hundred, dropped into the collec-
tion box by Frank Albert. Tickets are
only one shilling each; and among con-
solation prizes are radios, furs and a
motor-car (nothing said about chucking
in a supply of petrol). The way this
effort is being worked is by glean-
ing from every family its waste
gold. The organisers of the art
union should, following the Gov-
ernment’s example, arrange for cart-
age of the cast-aside nuggets. Altogether
by last week-end about £BOO worth of
the gold for the first prize had been sent
in. It had arrived in the form of pencil
cases, wedding rings, mesh bags, watches,
brooches and bracelets. One of the
guerdons worth betting a shilling for is
a gold and diamond bracelet given by
vice-president Mrs. Wilfrid E. Johnson.
Four O’Connell-street is the address at
which to ask for tickets.
As one of the army of win-the-war
women this writer can’t help being
assailed with doubt as to whether girls
in uniform would ever draw the house
that girls in ballet skirts did last Satur-
day night. The De Basil Ballet is storm-
ing Sydney again, and the Theatre Royal
was electric with the purring and ap-
plause of fans. The willowy grace and
rather saccharine sweetness of “Syl-
phides” opened the bill, and as the
dancers floated together, swirled and were
dissipated by the breeze of the music it
really did seem as though beauty were
all. Then suddenly came a mental pic-
ture of a long, long poplar-lined road
in France, congested with flying, fright-
ened women and children. Somehow
then the girl in uniform who is trying to
master her A.R.P. and first aid and other
emergency work took on a glory of her
own.
Loveliest bit of color of the night was
the cloth-of-heaven blue worn by the
ballerinas in “Icare.” The gayest move-
ments were supplied by the mischievous
romping in “Graduation Ball.” In the
audience, which was still clapping en-
thusiastically after 11 o’clock, were Mrs.
Laidley Dowling, golden flowers on her
black frock, Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar
and Marie Burke, flame and gold lame
her choice. The ultimate word in ermine
wrapped Mrs. Frank Albert. Mrs. Harald
Bowden, bright of eye because of an
afternoon’s drill with the W.A.N.S., was
there. Amethyst-toned were Mrs. F. J.
Davy’s moires. Faith Macarthur Onslow,
who scarcely misses a performance, was
one of the wearers of ground-length
black velvet coats. Mrs. W. Buckle was
another in black velvet. Likeable was
the snugly-fitting cream cloth jacket
frogged in gold worn by Olga Philipoff
with her black skirt. Cherry-red was the
cloth in Mrs. Sam Jones’s frock and
jacket.
Now the W.A.N.S. is about to
roller-skate to victory. If you didn’t
report at the Exhibition Building to try
out your legs on Monday or Tuesday, go
along this afternoon at five o’clock and
have a lesson. The manager of the rink,
Mr. Lynam, is providing the instruction.
The W.A.N.S. is to form units of yachts-
women and motor-launch skippers. Viki
Gordon, a daughter of knight Thomas
Gordon, of Birt and Co., who is pretty
useful about a launch, has promised to
do her bit in helping form this unit.
Leading yacht clubs are to be appealed
to for help, come the balmy summer
days. The W.A.N.S. is doing everything
in military style. There will be platoon
leaders, lieutenants, captains, comman-
dants. If you are very smart to the
“form fours” and the “three paces to the
rear” you might be picked for a leader,
and then you’re given a special course
of training in the Fort-street Girls’ High
every Tuesday night.
If you need brightening up pop
into the Carlton this afternoon. Dolly
Hollander Moore and Gladys Verona
are running a music party for the King
George V Memorial Hospital. For three
shillings you’ll get tea and an all-star
programme of vocal and instrumental
works. Brunton Gibb is one of the
entertainers, and if you lift your voice
and shout he may give you his piece
about the Digger at Buckingham Palace
or even “The Admiral Gave the Orders.”
And if that doesn’t make you laugh may
you never win the lottery!
A salon of living masterpieces (it’s
those old friends tableaux vivants over
again) is to be held in the Conserva-
torium in August. Sydney’s prettiest and
smartest girls are being yarded up by
president Mrs. Clement Chapman, and
the telephone in her flat at the Astor
is trembling like a racehorse with excite-
ment. The living pictures will be the
first shot fired in the campaign to col-
lect £25,000 for the King George V
Memorial Hospital. This new R.P.A.
venture had been earmarked for mothers
and babies, but it has been offered to the
Defence Department for military use for
the duration. The duet of the mortar
and trowel will end on the new building
in January, but after that it has to be
furnished and equipped. Well-knowns
among the artists like Theo Cowan,
Maud Sherwood, Dora Jarret, Will
Ashton, of the National Gallery, Syd
Ure Smith and Fred Leist are on the
committee looking after the production.
If you’ve ever thrilled to Kipling’s
“Road to Mandalay” you’ll feel envy for
the lot of Mrs. H. Forrest, whose home
is in Rangoon, where the temples and
the temple bells are part of the atmo-
sphere. Mrs. Forrest has been in Sydney
some time putting daughter Alison to
school in Moss Vale. She expects
to be here another six months or
so. In Rangoon the domestic-help
problem simplifies itself. All the lady
of the house has to remember is not to
mix Burmese and Indian servants. She
must have all of a kind. Mrs. Forrest
says that the Karen “nanny” runs neck-
for-neck with the Indian ayah in devo-
tion to her charges. Tennis, golf and the
popular swimming club (fresh-water
baths) at Rangoon supplied most of Mrs.
Forrest’s recreations. Peter Pan photo-
graph.
Something of a prodigy is Charles
Mackerras, of Turramurra. Recently
his composition, “Marsyas,” a pastorale,
was performed in the small hall of the
Sydney Conservatorium. Charles is now
14, but this work was composed, orches-
trated and everything by him when he
was 13. His mother, who wrote the
libretto, is justly proud of the achieve-
ment. Charles, now a student at the
Conservatorium, is a talented pianist,
and plays the oboe in the orchestra.
Both words and music of “Marsyas”
follow the style of the early eighteenth
century, and the story of the shepherd
boy who challenged Apollo to a musical
contest finds melodic and dramatic ex-
pression through Charles’s pen. Charles
has a special interest for Bulletin
readers. His grandfather was Dr. Charles
MacLaurin (of Post Mortems fame), who
wrote a great deal for this paper. His
mother, as Catherine MacLaurin, wrote
Red Page articles and short stories.
Charles’s great grandfather was Chan-
cellor of the Uni. Normand MacLaurin.
Gentlemen, buying roses and other
posies for ladies, Mrs. Elink Schuurman,
pencil-slim in black, a blue brushed-wool
toque on her dark head, selling tickets for a
trip to Java, long tables on which turkeys
coyly displayed slices of smooth chest —
these were features of the Netherlands
party. Mrs. Blok, the complete hostess,
wore a great spray of roses and violets
on her black frock, and was happily tell-
ing friends of a cable received from rela-
tions in Zaandan, Holland, saying they
were well.
Queen Wilhelmina from her portrait
looked down on her subjects who were
making merry that the lot of their less
well-placed countrymen might be a little
easier. Pictures of fields gay with tulips
must have brought a wave of homesick-
ness to many. Well-knowns of the Dutch
community were on every side. The
Bakker couple were there with daughter
Elaine and son Jim, of the A.I.F.
Knight Thomas Gordon and his lady
were much greeted. Mr. Grunwald, from
Java, turned out to be a man in big
business who is a comedian out of office
hours and just for fun. He is anxious
while he is here to do something for
our patriotic funds. The Hector Hamil-
tons seemed to be in the lead for the
Popularity Stakes when this Letter left
about seven o’clock. Mrs. Barringtcn-
Hearn’s small hat had a wimple with a
provocative air. Mrs. Pao wore black
and a small garden plot of violets. Vice-
Consul for the Netherlands Van der
Mandele and his wife were among the
guests.
Clever Sydney dancer Adele Romano
is now on her way home after spending
three years in Paris and Milan. Adele
■was born in Bathurst. She first studied
dancing in Sydney with Jan Kowsky.
When the Monte Carlo Ballet Co. came to
Australia her dancing was so praised by
its leaders that her mother decided to
take her to Paris for further experience.
With her mother and her brother, who
is studying drawing and sculpture, she
went from Paris to Milan. Here, be-
cause of the excellence of her dancing
(Serge Lifar himself has commended her
art), she was admitted free to the Scala
ballet school. She also appeared in
ballets on the stage of Scala. These
were in the operas of “Tosca” and “The
Sleeping Beauty.” Mrs. Gilmour, of
Elizabeth Bay, is counting the days till
the homecoming of her daughter and
grandchildren.
In the turning by the foot of the stairs
at Angus and Robertson’s was a sort of
poets’ corner last Thursday. There were
Jerry Moll (his collected poems will
appear after he sets out on his return to
America), Hugh McCrae, Rod Quinn in
song if not in the flesh, for Dr. Mac-
kaness held a book of Rod’s poems, a
poetess or two and Neville Cayley.
Jerry Moll (he’s tall, thin, dark
and has a pointed beard) by the time
this reaches you will be on his. way back
to the heart of Oregon, where the firs
grow strong and tall. He is an Aus
tralian who went to America as a very
young man, graduated at Harvard and is
now at the University of Oregon. He
came to Sydney to the Teachers’ College
on transfer through Dr. George Mac-
kaness, who had been interested in his
writing. With his wife and two children
he had made his home at Cronulla.
Neville Cayley says, by the way, it should
be Coronulla. The first part means a
wave and the second has to do with the
hammer to break open the shellfish which
the wave swept in. Farewells were said
to the American-Australians at the
Metropole.
The party at the Pickwick Club in aid
of the Sydney Industrial Blind Institution
was last Thursday’s highlight for 150
young dancers. The doors opened at
nine o’clock, and shutters went up at one.
Posies for the buttonhole were sold to
the men by a group of dewy-eyed girls.
Secretary Winsome Hume, whose party
was the largest, had her table banked
with red, white and blue flowers, over
which a monster porcelain bulldog, tied
up with red, white and blue, kept guard.
Winsome wore spreading rose taffetas
veiled in black net. Treasurer Betty
Neilley’s bouffant sheers were black. Her
belt was wide and crusted with diamente.
President Mrs. Hoogstoel, vice-president
Mrs. Murray and Roy Kippax were
among those at the official table.
Rows and rows of schoolgirls bit on
the bullet and stoically endured the
blast that seared the ankles at the Inde-
pendent Theatre last week. “The Tem-
pest” (to be swatted for the Leaving) was
the play, and it must be said the girls
followed it with an attention so close it
was almost grim. The cold of the atmo-
sphere might have been responsible for
a certain flatness in the tone of some of
the players, otherwise Caliban and co.
carried on business according to the best
traditions. Ethel Gabriel can run to a
plume in the cap for her design of Mir-
anda’s robes of sea-green and silver,
though how Miranda could have man-
aged her sweeping train among the
boulders and the seashells remains
wrapped in mystery. Still a Miranda in
shorts is unthinkable. The tropic setting
of the isle had bloomed in Lesbia
Thorpe’s brain and J. L. Clugston had
materialised it.
Violet Roche, well known as publicity
woman, came back to Sydney last week
from an extended holiday in her native
Maoriland. All things worked together
for good. She had intended returning by
air Clipper, but was forced to come a
week later by ship, thereby arriving on
the 24th. The tenants of her flat finished
up their lease on the 22nd, so she dug
right in, and is once more a King’s Cross
habitue. Friends welcomed her back in
a great tea-drinking at the Forum Club.
Dora Payter, Mrs. Burnell, Mrs. Gilmour
and Mrs. Martin were the hostesses.
From four till half-past five the guests
were coming. Every second arrival had
had the bright thought to bring posies
of violets.
The death of Mrs. Mark Foy, senior,
in Coronado, California, removes a strik-
ing figure from Sydney social and welfare
circles. Mrs. Mark Foy owned good
jewels and knew how to wear them. One of
her possessions which this writer remem-
bers seeing her wearing at a Town Hall
function was a deep collar of diamonds.
Its voltage was stimulating. Deportment
must have been part of her ’school cur-
riculum. Her back was as straight as
a young boy’s. Her waist was tiny, and
she danced as lightly as a girl. She and
her husband had travelled extensively in
foreign lands, and their home on Bellevue
Hill is rich with collected treasures. But
greater than diamonds or coronets were
her kind heart and generous hand. Many
committees working for the poor will
miss both. Her husband, daughter Sheila,
son Mark and his wife were with her at
the last. Son Jefferson and daughter
Mrs. McGahey are in Sydney.
The Hope Gibson couple have,
since last week, a third son. He was
bom in Roslyn private hospital, Lind-
field, and mother says she has given an-
other engineer to the world. Father, who
is on the staff of the School of Engineer-
ing at Sydney Uni., is pretty pleased over
things, too.
Eleanor Dalton became Mrs. Alan
Bridge in the chapel of Riverview
College, of which Alan is an ex-pupil. A
pale-blue ensemble and a matching pill-
box hat, its brim wreathed with field
flowers, suited the bride. Brother Kevin
gave her away. The Wentworth held the
family reception. Mrs. E. B. Dalton
wore a black frock and a brimful black
hat. Bride’s father was E. B. Dalton, of
Orange. Groom’s parents are the Lionel
Bridge couple of Elizabeth Bay.


Divorce Notices.
TO JAMES WATT KERR formerly of
Charles Street Northcote in the State of
Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that WINIFRED BESSIE
KERR has instituted proceedings in the
Supreme Court of the State of Victoria against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion.
Should you desire to defend* this suit you must
enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria
at the Law Courts William Street Melbourne
within Fourteen days from the publication
hereof and also file an answer in the said
office within Twenty-four days from the publica-
tion hereof otherwise the case may be heard
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
DATED the Sixth day of July, 1940.
W. E. C. TREYVAUD, of 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 531 of 1940.
BETWEEN VIOLET MARGARET MARTIN
Petitioner
And WILLIAM MARTIN Respondent.
TO WILLIAM MARTIN Respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
MARGARET MARTIN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left hqr continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Fourth day of October next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of July, a.d. 1940
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. W. GRAHAM STARLING, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, Hardy's Chambers, rear of 5
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
JOSEPHINE MURPHY or FRANK
MURPHY, stepsister and stepbrother respec-
tively of MISS FLORENCE TERESA Mc-
CALLUM, late of Bridge Street, Bendieo,
Victoria, but now deceased, is requested "to
communicate with COHEN, KIRBY & CO.,
Solicitors, Victoria Chambers, Pall Mali’
Bendigo.
Melbourne
Chatter
The most heart-warming sight at
Puckapunyal during a recent boisterous-
weather week-end was that of Mrs. R.
Kelly, wearing blue slacks (she can wear
them) and handing round sleeping-bags
to a couple of hundred clamoring
troops. “Sleeping Bags,” of 258 Flinders-
lane, is out of the swaddling clothes
stage and is now a bonny bouncing
youngster, growing larger and healthier
every day. More people are helping
make the bags. The troops are hearing
about them and wanting one apiece.
Gifts of blankets, time or money are
welcomed at the depot, where Mrs.
Kelly is also issuing propaganda for to-
night’s do (17th), the Warm-Us Ball at
Earl’s Court. She and A. V. Barnett are
ticket secs. Eight and six is the mild
price asked for a heart-warming time at
this party.
Something of Norway, its charm and
simplicity, came to Central Hall last
week for a two nights’ pageant in aid
of King Haakon’s appeal for funds.
Wearing their national costumes the
Norwegians danced, laughed and sang,
all believing, although their hearts aren’t
as light as they seem to be, that their
beloved country will some day rise again.
So successful were the bookings that the
Melbourne effort for the cause should
soon be near the £3OOO mark.
Norwegian Consul J. A. Schreuder
knew all about the pageant, for not
only did he sit in the front row on both
evenings but had watched preparation
progress at home—his wife, mother and
two offspring were among the per-
formers. The presentation “From Child-
hood to Old Age” was based on pictures
by Adolph Tidemand and progressed
through Childhood,” “The Mountain
Horn Calling the Cattle,” “Learning to
Make a Fishing Net,” “The Betrothal,”
“Adorning the Bride” and “The Wed-
ding.” The shy young bride was blonde
Annelise Borhaven, attended by her
equally blonde sister Johanne, by Alida
Longum and Adelma Andersen.
Gunnersens and Alsteigrens often
appeared on the programme as villagers
and dancers. A new arrival in this
country is Inger Amundsen, who left
Norway only a few months ago. She’s
a relative of the explorer. Wearing a
distinctive Stavanger costume with black
stockings instead of the customary red
was graceful Christina Helleren, of
Norwegian and Danish parentage, born
in Scotland and living in Australia.
Incidental folk dances were directed by
Vanda Stenborg. A preliminary to the
evening was a color film by an excellent
amateur photographer, T. W. Gunner-
sen, who with his family was in Norway
when war broke out.
When the fiddler collected money in
a wooden bowl during the wedding
ceremony it was real money, for no
Norwegian would think of stage coin on
such an occasion even if it’s only play-
acting. In Norway the wedding collec-
tion is a present for the bride and
’groom. The wooden bowl used in the
pageant belongs to Mrs. C. C. Borhaven
(who assisted Mrs. M. R. McMillan as
organiser and producer of the presen-
tation). It is engraved with its date,
1795, and in its time must have graced
many a festive board when hardy Norse-
men drank foaming ale from its smooth
rim.
A war funds restaurant has been a
long time coming to Melbourne, but
when it does get here it’s going to be
something out of the box. Head serang
is Dr. Deborah Buller Murphy, who is
going to make the institution her war
work to such an extent that she has put
her house in Toorak-road on the market,
is preparing to sell her British-Museum-
worthy antiques, her pictures and most of
her furniture, and come down to a small
maisonette and maybe a modest acre or
two in the country just for relaxation.
The United Services Restaurant will arise
on the site of The Dell, which premises
will be so reconditioned as to be un-
recognisable as the country cousin after
a groom-over by a fashion salon.
Dr. Deborah will use some of her own
furniture and furnishings but would be
grateful for gifts of lounges, etc., of rugs
for the wide floor space, of monetary gifts
and of promises of service. Neither
family trees nor birth certificates are
necessary for volunteers, reliability be-
ing the only necessary attribute. Chefs
excepted, all labor will be voluntary.
Funds will be devoted to British children
at home and abroad.
Already specialists are being discovered,
and it is hoped that a liaison will be
reached with the chefs. For instance,
Mrs. Monty Brearley, who is half-French
and possesses the Frenchwoman’s culinary
cunning, has offered to make omelets.
There will also be Chinese food avail-
able, cooked by those who know how.
On the opening night, during the first
week in September, there Will be venison
to tempt the epicures. The stags are
even now running wild in the heart of
the Dandenongs. In one forest valley
they have increased so rapidly that they’ve
become a menace.
Herewith the E. J. Rupert Atkinsons’
daughter Yvonne, of the auburn hair and
artistic inclinations, who was married
very quietly on Saturday afternoon
(13th) in Melbourne Grammar School
chapel to Tony Daniel. Her choice of
array was a mushroom woollen frock
plus little coat and a frivolous flowery
turn in hats. The honeymoon is to be
a few days up at Ravenswood, Miss
Helen Atkinson’s station property out of
Bendigo. Tony is an R.A.A.F. cadet,
at present stationed at Somers, so that
for the time being Yvonne will live
under mother’s wing at home in Grange-
road. The ’groom shares his beauteous
young bride’s interest in art and, although
he isn’t exactly an expert with a paint-
brush, is a kindred spirit in a studio atmo-
sphere and has bright ideas about posters.
Yvonne’s photograph from Broothorn.
The brave boys who sail the ocean
blue are being given a boost from some
July fixtures. The next important date
is Wednesday, 24th, a bridge party at the
Australia at £1 per table. Well-wishers
who haven’t the time or the inclination
for cards may take tea and survey the
party for a modest two shillings each.
The Mission to Seamen has to work hard
for results, for salty jerseys and seaboots
don’t stand as much chance with the
young and the flighty as do the saucy
forage caps of the R.A.A.F., but there
are staunch hearts on the committee and
the general public is gradually realising
the debt it owes to the merchant fleet.
Lady Dugan showed her interest in the
Mission when war broke out, and has
promised that nothing will interfere with
her engagement to be present at next
Wednesday’s bridge party. Incidentals
will be stalls (cakes and meringues;
novelties ; produce). Among the market
goods, picked or dug only that morning,
will be decorative bowls of seedpods and
gourds, very useful at this time of year
when flowers are scarce. Mrs. G. R.
Blackwood is convener of the organising
committee, members of which are likely
to accost their friends at any moment
with pencils and art-union books. The
prizes are worth while —a Norman
Lindsay picture, “Painted Barge,” which
is a gift from Mrs. Pomeroy Greene ; a
handbag, a beauty box, a beermug, an
order on Hicks Atkinson’s and sheer silk
hose.
If the celebrity is big enough, extra
“celebrity concerts” here go over well,
for there’s a vast band of people who
can swallow highbrow music and even
understand it though they are almost
beyond the pale in not being symphony
concert subscribers. Last week’s extra
concert was for the Red Cross, and the
additional draw was Beecham, Bart.
Extra attraction was Lisa Perli, garbed
in glamorous pearly pink, and altogether
a vision easy to gaze upon. Evening garb
is never a strong point at an “extra”
concert of this sort, but a few boiled
shirts were noticeable, with floor-lapping
skirts to match.
One couple who looked the goods
were the Harry Grant Taylors, she in a
lame coat with forceful stripes and
Oriental-potentate sleeves, with which
went long gloves and earrings. Mrs.
Harry Rosenthal’s full-skirted coat was
of loam-colored broderie Anglaise. A
quintet from the Duration Group sold
raffle tickets in the foyer, and would have
done even better business if no one had
wanted change prospective “victims”
slipped through their fingers and out of
sight during the dive of a hand into a
purse.
In control was Mrs. E. M. Dye, wear-
ing a fur coat over a duet ensemble of
black skirt and white beaded tunic.
Helpers were Barbara Haynes; May
Angliss, in a cloak of lipstick-red woollen
as warm to the watching eye as to the
mind of its wearer; Joan Denyer, in
pleated white chiffon (icy blasts just
didn’t matter) and a silver fox cape; Jon
Deravin, in another woollen coat of
swamp-green with invasions of fur at
neck and kneeline.
Ticket secretaries for the Grand
National Ball, Peggy Finkelstein and
Barbara Dougharty, went to the party
with pencil and card index impedimenta
and returned home with an armful apiece
of toy animals with winning ways. From
the lucky bat stall Peggy got a panda (a
bear with spots) and Barbara became
possessed of Ferdinando the Bullo. Her
mother, Mrs. M. L. Dougharty, won
something less cuddlesome" but doubtless
more useful —a leg of lamb from the
lucky dip.
The cabaret dance for the Comforts
Fund and the Ministering Children’s
League (Boys’ Home at Diamond
Creek and Convalescent Home at Black
Rock) was at St. Kilda Town Hall. The
masculine element present ran strongly to
khaki and R.A.A.F. blue and the femi-
nine to woollen coats and frocks. One
such was Mrs. Geoff Burston’s wool
jersey dress in Patou-pink, which featured
pockets of generous proportions. Black
gowns of individuality were worn by Pen
Stead, hers of chiffon with silver fox
draped upon the shoulders, and Mrs. Rex
Ebbott, whose hailspot net carried a
couple of highfalutin orchids.
One of last week’s brides was Mona
Rogerson, whose photograph comes from
Spencer Shier. The ’groom, George J.
Connor, R.A.N.R., eldest son of the
W. C. Connors, of Brighton, waited at
Scots Church with best-man George
Kemp, and afterwards friends gathered
at Dr. and Mrs. H. Rogerson’s home in
Kew. The bride had no ’maids and car-
ried no flowers, but her spray of pink
hyacinths gave a touch of color to her
misty-grey ensemble. A newly-furnished
flat in East Kew awaits the bride and
’groom on their return from Buffalo,
where they are hoping for plenty of snow.
Mona, who is an “old girl” of Clyde, is
no amateur upon skis, and enjoyed snow-,
fields in Europe when she was abroad
during the Coronation year.
The padres are busy as ever. Mollie
Clapham and Ray Watson were married
down at Mt. Eliza in the little country
church with the charming old-world
name of St. James the Less. Erica Bur-
ston and George Kincraig Russell walked
up the aisle of Christ Church one after-
noon and were followed to that church
the same evening by Patricia Hepburn
and Llewellyn Wettenhall.
Mary Stephens and Hal Clapp had
neither fuss nor flutter about their wed-
ding, but Mary’s fancy lit upon all-white
with effective results. As white as her
simply-draped frock of jersey and posy
of white hyacinths were the pure white
roses and white cloth upon the family
board where Mr. and Mrs. Lytton
Stephens welcomed intimate friends after
the afternoon ceremony at Christ Church.
Bridegroom Hal js the younger son of
the Harold Clapps. New home of the
newly-wedded couple is a small but
furnished->with-care flat in Bruce-street.
Stormcoats and waders were the only
sensible attire for visiting “Our Town’s”
premiere. But floods or not, Marie
Rendle wore a floor-trailing frock and
raindrops, both real and diamente, in
her hair. Mrs. Bessemer Clark also
swished the foyer with a fragile
geranium-red gown. A medical front
was present in the persons of M. R.
Healy, John Hayden, Byron L. Stanton
and H. N. Featonby, complete with their
respective wives, though Mrs. Healy de-
serted everybody in the first interval to
telephone her family and remind them
that the poor hungry dog hadn’t been
given his dinner. The audience seemed
slow to tumble to the idea of no scenery
and a narrator wandering backwards and
forwards, but was appreciative once it
grasped the general trend of the play. A
small baby squeaking in the back of the
circle caused neither comment nor con-
demning turn of heads. It was appar-
ently thought to be a stage sound out of
Polish Town, one of the imagined en-
vironments of Our Town.
After a very successful season in Adel-
aide Mrs. Oswald Gibson and her dolls’
house are en route for Brisbane, where
Mrs. Gibson will stay at the Moreton
Club. House and dolls have under her
management raised £630 for war chari-
ties in 163 days of display. The boy
dolls are now in khaki and the girls
have been given a few extra bracelets
and a new hair do apiece. New effects
are an electric fan and a mousetrap.
Mrs. Gibson reports no breakages on
Lilliputian travels, and attributes that
fact to her own careful packing and to
cotton-wool stuffing around each tiny
gadget.
A Kanimbla romance, aided and
abetted maybe by full moons and starry
nights, culminated last week in the mar-
riage of Lorna McCardle and W. A. (Bill)
Pearson. The bride, who is a Mus.Bac.
of Melbourne University, was pianist in
the Kanimbla for three years, from the
ship’s maiden voyage to her last trip
before she was commandeered by the
Government. The ’groom, who’s an Eng-
lishman, was the Kanimbla’s second
officer and is now afloat in one of
B.H.P.’s ships.
The bride, who was given away by
her brother Brian, chose raiment of
white lace, tulle veil and bouquet of
azaleas. ’Maid and trainbearer Vera
Lynch and Therry Asbjornsen were both
in honey-gold. ’Groom’s supporter was
George Scholer, a pianist and musician
of talent, whose inclinations run to swing-
time rather than the classics. After the
wedding ceremony in St. Coleman’s,
Balaclava-road, the bride’s mother, Mrs.
E. McCardle, welcomed well-wishers at
Tudor Court. A flat in Sydney will be
the first home of the newly-wedded pair.


■ "it
7/Mv.
4 y
_ '« &>&<*
°9<*
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C,
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director..
THE FLYING COLUMN
John Bull at Bay.
“Aileron”: At every point the
R.A.F. holds its own. In theory it should
be as much on the defensive as was the
French Air Force while the French Air
Force existed ; but it is difficult to be-
lieve at times that the R.A.F. is not
master of the initiative.
Britain is a small place. Its transport
centres, its munition works are concen-
trated. It has more population in small
towns and more small towns devoted to
industry in given spaces than Germany,
especially the Germany which has
assumed the defence of French, Belgian,
Dutch, Danish and Norwegian ports,
nearly all accessible and nearly all bat-
tered. Even the southern coastline of
France has become a responsibility to the
conquerors, who cannot afford to take
the risk that British troops might sud-
denly land on French soil and provide
headaches for them.
The widening of German military in-
terests has widened the R.A.F.’s play-
ground. Part of that playground—
enemy-controlled northern France —it
knows like the palm of its hand. The
rest, especially in northern and western
Germany, provides it with plenty of room
for surprise and manoeuvre. Where
British limitation of targets also makes
for compactness of effective defence,
Germany’s defensive task is considerably
greater.
Germany’s defensive areas do not
always interlock. It has internal har-
bors and rivers. Its longer distances and
greater number of routes from industrial
centres provide more marshalling yards
and railway junctions to be bombed,
more nests of oil-tanks widely spaced.
Troops, guns and mechanised columns
are longer on the road or rail, and there-
fore run more risk of air attack. For
effective assault on England, Germany
must maintain a long line of coastal
aerodromes. After the R.A.F. has
bombed these, as it does regularly, every
inch of the return journey to England
brings the German pursuers nearer
reprisal.
The British, too, have a fine nucleus
of men accustomed, through training
over long airmail routes, with the Navy
abroad and with the defence forces of
India and the Middle East, to work-
ing in unfamiliar conditions. Ger-
man training hitherto has perforce
been confined to Germany, with
little chance of learning an overseas
technique. German fliers are land-birds.
Most British fliers are amphibious, an
exceedingly useful qualification when
defending an island surrounded by storm-
racked and often fogbound seas.
Differences in training have led on to
a logical conclusion. The British went
into the war with an air technique estab-
lished. Though their force was smaller,
it was nicely balanced in its elements.
The only equipment in which it was'
weak —• long-distance fighter-bombers
was soon strengthened by the acquire-
ment of U.S. machines designed and built
by people with a continental instead of
an island mind. The Lockheed Hudson,
as Australians are glad to know, has been
an asset. And British fast light two-
engined bombers of the Blenheim family
showed themselves capable of adaptation
as two-engined fighters for long-distance
work as soon as the double-engined
Messerschmitt 110 appeared and Norway
became part of the war zone.
German offensiveness and its develop-
ment have made curious watching from
the beginning. Up to June, most of the
enemy’s attacks looked to be in the
nature of experiments. The first were
made on Scottish and other northern
points, with flights of three bombers un-
protected by fighters, which tackled dis-
tant objectives and came home in pieces,
if at all. At best, these raids were hit-
and-run affairs, with little damage done.
They were paralleled by careful recon-
naissances in France, in which the
vaunted Messerschmitt 109 s were taught
that speed is not everything, that power
guns, manoeuvre and personnel count, and
that when a light aeroplane, irrespective
of its speed, bumps up against what is
called “heavy stuff,” its speed is chiefly
useful in helping it to get out of the
way if it has not concentrated gunfire and
quickness of aim.
In the beginning, German machines
carried two to four guns, often movable,
on the theory that breadth of field counts.
The two leading British fighters—Hurri-
cane and Spitfire—would have been
better called flying pompoms than aero-
planes. They carried their eight barrels
fixed in the wings. There is only one
brain directing both the machine and the
withering fire. Aiming the Spitfire and
“Here, duck out and put some air in the near side tyre!"
the Hurricane, in effect, means aiming
the guns. Effort is reduced to a mini-
mum ; co-ordination of action of guns
and machine is perfect and foolproof.
Speed in taking the initiative is as near
perfection as it can be brought.
German bombers were not long in
learning what this meant. They ad-
justed their armament.
Last month they began to follow
British practice in bombing raids, send-
ing out their bombers fighter-guarded.
This method was made more practicable
for them by the conquest of northern
France, which brought England more
easily within fighter range.
Added to this was the use of another
defence element height. Bombers
operated at 32,000 feet, as did those which
attacked Paris. At that ceiling they had
the advantage in surprise attacks over the
fighter, which needs to get off the ground
and make a tortuous climb to reach
them. Where bombing has been indis-
criminate to terrorise civil populations,
it does not matter much to the enemy
where the bombs fall so long as they
destroy enough houses and kill enough
civilians.
With the introduction of height and
fighter protection, German method
approached the British in technical
though not personal efficiency. The one
thing remaining was to achieve a method
of mass attack on a scale sufficient to
do damage worth a heavy loss of
machines.
The “sky roofed with ’planes” has
been a favorite topic with air strategists.
But aeroplane “roofs” which have tried
to cover defended positions have always
so far found themselves full of leaks.
The Russians tried the dodge against
the Japanese on the Mongolian border. A
force of Japanese fighters equal to about
one-third of the attackers soon proved
that ’plane masses are hard to manoeuvre
and that when the heavens become too
cluttered the smaller number of machines
has the better of the bargain. They are
not in danger of hitting their own men.
They can place themselves in positions
where the more numerous enemy cannot
fire on them without the risk of strafing
his own squadrons. The more closely
they become involved in the attacking
mass, the less the enemy can do to them,
while they have an all-round field of fire
and plenty of targets.
The Germans now seem to have settled
down to a wave technique on the British
model, which was developed on its larg-
est scale in an attempt to close the Dover
Straits last week. The attack was made
by 200 machines in wings of three squad-
rons, of which the cores were heavy
bombers with fighter escorts.
This kind of fight, again, is on the
side of the defender. He comes off his
own ground with only one operation to
attend to —air strafing. He is assisted by
naval and ground fire, and he is facing
a force with two jobs on its hands —
attack by the bombers, defence by the
fighters—and with, perforce, two ranges
of speed. The defenders can set their
speed to suit themselves ; the attackers
must set it to their slowly-moving objec-
tives —the ships of the convoys on which
their onslaught is made. The defenders
have only the enemy to consider. . The
fighters of the attacking force must avoid
getting mixed up with their slower
bomb-laden craft, and thus avoid involv-
ing them, while they are heavily loaded
and difficult to manoeuvre, more es-
pecially against acrobatic machines like
the Spitfires and Hurricanes.
The result of the combat —conducted
like a giant sky wrestling match with the
cliffs of England for a grandstand—was
entirely satisfactory from a British view-
point.
The first wave of the German raid on
a convoy which had put into a southern
port went home short of five of its
number. Despite German claims to have
sunk or damaged 40,000 tons of shipping,
including a cruiser, and 10 escort ’planes,
the bombs dropped seem to have done
damage mainly to the water of the straits.
British machine numbers all the time
are creeping up on German initial
superiority. Lord Beaverbrook an-
nounces that the sky is the limit with
orders from the U.S.A.:
We have spent £3,125,000-per day during
every day of the Aircraft Ministry’s exis-
tence
—a total of nearly £190,000,000 Austra-
lian, which would represent, say, 6000
Lockheed Hudsons.
The Minister says Britain is not short
of aeroplanes for present needs, though
doing everything to provide increase
above necessities. It is significant that
the Secretary for Air has advised the
Commonwealth Government that ship-
ment of machines to Australia is to be
resumed.
Meanwhile invasion of Britain has
not been attempted. At the moment an
attack on Gibraltar looks much more
likely.
“Caudron”: The first U.S.A. Clipper
carrying mail for Maoriland left San
Francisco on July 12. Clippers are fitted
to carry 74 passengers by day and 40
sleepers, but no passengers are to be
taken during the earlier runs. There is
a crew of 10. The sole cargo on the
pioneer journey is a mail of 125,000
letters. The timetable provides for the
ship to leave San Pedro at 4 p.m. on
Friday and arrive at Honolulu at 9 a.m.
on Saturday (6.30 a.m. Sunday, Sydney),
after hours in the air. She leaves
for Canton Island at 5 a.m. Sunday,
and leaves there 6 a.m. on Monday for
Noumea, where she will spend a day.
She gets to Auckland on Thursday after-
noon, Australian time. Return services
will leave Auckland on Saturdays and
reach San Francisco on Wednesdays.
The Air War Day by Day.
July 9: Eighteenth German raid on
Britain since June 18 ; Wales, southern
Scotland, Kent and northern England
reached. One woman killed and a few
persons injured; Messerschmitts
machine-gun spectators in a field but
without damage. Crowds watch British
fighters drive off attack on Channel con-
voy ; two bombers down. Number of
German machines shot down over
Britain in three weeks, 50 ; since begin-
ning of war, 117. R.A.F. bombs enemy
supply vessel at Boulogne; large ship
damaged, along with canal gates at
Ostend. Aerodromes at Hornum
(Frisian Islands), Heide (Westerland),
Wesel, Brussels and Rotterdam bombed ;
two R.A.F. machines missing.
On African front, railway shops at
Diredawa (Abyssinia) bombed, also Zula
(Eritrea), where jetty and stores set on
fire. Italians admit raids (“little material
damage”), and give casualties as one
dead and two wounded.
July 10: Thirty German machines
attack England in daylight. Bombs do
little damage, though some of them were
delayed-action type. German heavy
bomber attacks Welsh town ; six bombs
dropped and several persons killed.
Other raids ; in all, 10 enemy bombers
brought down and others damaged.
The Chief of the Civil Defence
operational staff announces that deaths
from air raids during the preceding week
were fewer than half the road fatalities
in the corresponding week of 1939.
Coastal Command ’planes return from
attack on the Danish coast and report
that a Lockheed Hudson lifted a mine-
sweeper out of the water with a bomb.
Another Hudson bombed and machine-
gunned supply ship which settled by the
stern. Mrs. Norman Cardwell awarded
Empire gallantry medal for —unarmed-
capturing German who parachuted from
a disabled machine in England.
Casualties at Malta since Italian esntfy
into the war, 82 civilians /killed, in-
cluding 20 under 14 years of age, and
194 wounded. One enemy ’plane shot
down over Valetta ; another a large
Savoia bomber descends in Crete,
riddled with bullets.
June 11: An air battle, described as
“the greatest of all time,” fought over
the Channel. R.A.F. beats off 200
German machines which sought to secure
control of the Straits of Dover, and
attacked convoys. Germans came over
three squadrons at a time at heights of
from 6000 ft. to 12,000 rt.; 15 shot down,
at least 23 others damaged; British lose
two fighters. Germans claim that only
four of their machines are missing, that
10 British fighters were shot down,
that a cruiser and four merchantmen,
totalling 21,000 tons, were sunk, and that
another cruiser and three merchantmen,
totalling 19,000 tons, were left burning.
They assert further that chasers shot
down a formation of seven British
machines which attacked Amiens.
Italian report: “300 machines took part
in two naval battles with British sweep-
ing squadrons in western and mid-
Mediterranean ; only three Italian
machines lost.” Enemy alleges that the
great battleship Hood was set on fire and
damaged and that the aircraft-carrier Ark
Royal was struck by two heavy bombs ;
Admiralty denies injury to either Hood
or Ark Royal. Italians claim that a.
heavy raid on Malta naval base set off
explosions and started fires in the arsenal
and on vessels ; that three British pursuit
’planes were destroyed and that their loss
was two machines. R.A.F. communique
says one civilian killed, damage slight and
three Italian machines brought down.
Bombs dropped on objectives in Ger-
many, France and the Low Countries;


THEN
BUY
II
■
ym
m
Ok
&§®
mm
sz
The Savings Bank account provides the most practical, the easiest method
of saving for a specific purpose. Whatever the necessity or the luxury
upon which you have set your heart, you will, if you are an average
citizen of average means, find it necessary to plan ahead for unusually
heavy expenditure. While you put every effort into attaining your
objective, your Savings Bank account will receive each sum you save, hold
it safe until you need it for that planned spending, and meantime pay
interest on your money as it accumulates.
The best place for your savings
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BASK
v * OF AUSTRALIA A ,
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George's Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO ERIC WILLIAM KELIER whose last
known address was Rolfes Lagoon near
Clermont in the State of Queensland (but
whose present address is unknown) formerly
Concrete Worker but whose present occu-
pation is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action No. 21 of
1940 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton
by petition filed therein and writ of summons
issued thereout on the Twenty-eighth day of
June 1940 by ANNIE CAROLINE KELIER
of care of Grand Hotel Mount Morgan in the
State of Queensland married woman claiming
a dissolution of her marriage with you on the
ground of your desertion for five years and
upwards and it has been ordered that service
of the said writ of summons and of the said
petition by filing and sticking up on the Notice.
Board in the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Rockhampton a copy of the
said writ of summons and of such order an
office copy of the said petition and the affidavit
verifying the same and a copy of this notice
and by advertising this notice once in the Sydney
“Bulletin” a newspaper published at Sydney in
the State of New South Wales shall be deemed
to be good and sufficient service on you of the
said writ of summons and of the said petition.
If you desire to defend the said action you
must within thirty days from the date of the
last act done in compliance with the said
order cause an appearance to be entered for you
at the said Registry and in default thereof the
said ANNIE CAROLINE KELIER may by
leave of the Court or a Judge proceed therein
and judgment may be given against you in your
absence
DATED the Tenth day of July, 1940.
(1.5.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
THOS. J. HALLY, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Sharpe’s Chambers, East Street, Rockhampton.
medium bombers, covered by rain and
sleet, dive down at dawn and destroy
five German machines and damage
others. Second raid made on a con-
centration of 20 German machines;
five ’planes do not return. R.A.F.
reports 10 Italian machines destroyed,
and two others very probably shot down.
Three downed in Eritrea, three during a
raid in East Africa, and three in a Malta
raid. Italians claim to have raided British
ships at Malta in waves, and to have hit
an aircraft-carrier, which was set on fire,
and two destroyers.
July 12: R.A.F. shoots down four
German raiders early in the morning.
Raiders come over in waves of 12, at
various points from Scotland to the south
coast of England. Further raids on
Germany, particularly the Ruhr.
July 14-15: R.A.F. attacks Emden
naval base near the mouth of the Ems.
Twenty tons of bombs dropped and
flames could be seen 70 miles away.
Though anti-aircraft fire was almost solid
and 200 searchlights were concentrated
on the raiders, they suffered no casual-
ties. Kiel was also bombed for the
second time in a fortnight, causing a fire
in the dockyards. Other raids were made
on Brussels, Bruges-Ostend Canal, on
which massed barges were subjected to
salvoes, and Mannheim.
Further German raids on Channel con-
voys and on England. Germans claim
damage to four British merchantmen and
destruction of ten British machines
against one German. Communique adds:
“Five British ’planes were shot down
during raid on western Germany; non-
military objectives slightly damaged ; we
lost three ’planes.”
Air Ministry reports the bagging of
six bombers and six fighters among the
latest lot of raiders. It places German
losses between July 4 and July 12 at 79
machines against 56 British ; total losses
since June 18: German 131, R.A.F. 87.
Scores of other Germans were badly
crippled.
Italians raid Malta, Alexandria and
Aden, where two natives were killed and
a British corporal and three natives
slightly wounded. At Malta two civilians
were killed and three wounded ; at Alex-
andria there were no casualties. R.A.F.
raids El Aden, El Guboa and Port Bardia
(Libya) and shipping at Tobruk; also
ammunition and petrol dumps near Assab
(Eritrea), where hits were made on a
petroi dump which caught fire. Several
hits scored on the aerodrome at Mas-
sawa (Eritrea), in the face of strong air
counter-attack. One R.A.F. ’plane miss-
ing.
“Devastating” R.A.F. raids over Ger-
many, also north Holland and Belgium ;
three bombers missing. Seven ’planes
attacking shipping in Straits of Dover
brought down with loss of one British
fighter.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Naval War.
“Ek Dum”: While day and night air
raids racked parts of Britain and Ger-
many last week, there were naval
operations of importance in West Africa
and the Mediterranean.
At Dakar, in French Senegal, under
the shadow of Cape Verde, the new
35,000-ton battleship Richelieu lay at
anchor. Launched at Brest only last
year, she had about the|same speed as
the big British battle-cruisers and the
new 35,000-ton George Vs, carried eight
15in. guns and 15 six-inchers, and had
side armor up to 16in. and deck armor
up to Bin.
Dakar is over 1500 miles from
Gibraltar, and it says something for
British naval might that the R.N. was
able to spare units from the protection
of the Channel and North Sea coasts
and from the Mediterranean to make
the voyage.
On Sunday, July 7, the commander
of a British squadron sent a sloop
ahead to demand the surrender of the
Richelieu. Her captain warned the emis-
saries that they must not approach the
port or they would be fired upon. For
a time he refused to negotiate, even by
signal. A demand for surrender within
a stated time limit brought no satisfactory
answer.
So in the early hours of the next
morning Commander Briscowe set off in
an ordinary ship’s pinnace loaded with
depth charges. The Richelieu’s lightest
armament could have blown the little
vessel to glory, but Briscowe crept under
the counter of the 800 ft. ship after
safely passing the harbor’s boom de-
fences, laid his charges under the port
quarter and began to retire.
The boat’s engine then gave trouble —
a habit with small engines which are
being run throttled down or handled in
haste ; the same thing happened in the last
war at Zeebrugge to the escaping heroes
who had just plugged the end of a sub-
marine loaded with high explosive into
the Mole. However, the crew calmly
effected repairs just as the hue-and-cry
was raised. They made the open sea
while the larger French vessels which
ran out in pursuit became entangled
in their own defence nets.
The Fleet Air Arm then went into
action, the depth charges having in the
meantime exploded and sent the Riche-
lieu down by the stern —£8,000,000 worth
of guns and armor which had never had
a chance to fire a shot. Torpedoes were
dropped. Briscowe, still in the harbor,
heard five explosions. When he left,
the Richelieu had a heavy list to port
and oil covered the waters around her.
There remained the French squadron
at Alexandria to be dealt with. Fortu-
nately it was helpless in the face of the
strong British forces which lay around
it. After friendly negotiation, one
battleship, three heavy cruisers, a light
cruiser and some smaller vessels were
demilitarised, their crucial armament
taken ashore. They were left with only
maintenance crews who are to be paid
by Britain. The balance of their crews
were allowed to leave to join the French
armies in Syria.
That left only one French battleship,
the Jean Bart, unaccounted for, and the
Jean Bart “cannot be completed for ser-
vice for some months.” She “rests in
a Moroccan harbor.”
Irresponsible newspapers wrote of the
action against the French at Oran as
a “victory.” This drew an anguished
protest from General de Gaulle, who
has been conducting his spirited cam-
paign in the face of all sorts of difficul-
ties. At Oran and Dakar the French
ships made no attempt to assume de-
fensive positions. They lay at anchor
in unsheltered roadsteads, a position
which no naval commander would choose
when he could use the advantages of
speed and manoeuvre. In each case the
Royal Navy had to do the job entrusted
to it, and the Royal Navy did it, but
“victory” cries it leaves to stay-at-homes.
On July 9 an Italian squadron in
which there were two battleships—ltaly
has six, two of which are new 35,000-
tonners and the rest 23,000-tonners of
the Great War era—was discovered east
of Malta by a British squadron which
included heavy units of the Atlantic
Fleet. One of the British ships had
barely time to make a hit on one of the
enemy battleships at extreme range be-
fore the Italian destroyers laid down a
smoke screen behind which their ships
retired to safety, harried by the Fleet
Air Arm. There were no British
casualties. The C.-in-C. in the Mediter-
ranean, Admiral Andrew Cunningham,
described the action as “disappointing.”
The Italian force was apparently lighter
than the British. It was certainly fast
enough to escape, but it was pursued till
it was under the shelter of Italian land
defences.
The Italians admitted the loss of a
destroyer and a submarine but asserted
that the British had suffered losses—
“certainly” a cruiser and “possibly” a
battleship.
There were engagements between
Italian aircraft and a second British
squadron engaged in a sweep south of
the Balearics. The enemy acknowledged
that he lost three ’planes, but alleged
that the Hood, the greatest naval ship
in the world, was set afire and damaged,
and the aircraft-carrier Ark Royal—
officially “sunk” by the Germans early
in the war —was hit by two large bombs,
adding, for good measure, that both had
had to be docked. The Admiralty bluntly
reported that no damage was done to
either.
Air battles on a large scale were fought
contemporaneously with and subsequent
to the naval operations. The Italians
numbered their aeroplanes engaged at
300, and mention “three” as lost. Accord-
ing to their own account, they attacked
British warships on three consecutive days
and “repeatedly hit” battleships and
cruisers, but lost a destroyer and a sub-
marine. On the other hand, an Italian
torpedo-boat sank a submarine. But to
the end of last week the Italians had lost
14 submarines and three destroyers, and
had a battleship and a cruiser “heavily
damaged.”
There were other raids —by the Italians
on their favorite target, Malta, where two
of their machines were destroyed ; by the
British on the Sicilian naval port of
Augusta. There a destroyer and a hulk
—apparently a supply ship—were sunk.
Torpedoing of a 22-year-old de-
stroyer, the Whirlwind, was announced
by the Admiralty last week, and the
Escort, a destroyer of the 1934 vintage,
was reported lost on Monday. She foun-
dered while in tow, after being torpedoed
in the eastern Mediterranean; two
ratings were killed.
As for destruction of merchant ship-
ping, the commander of one German
warship claims to have sunk 195,000 tons
British. But even with the heavy sinkings
of a few weeks ago the average British
losses are placed by the Admiralty at only
60,000 tons per week, which is small when
it is realised that 2,750,000 tons of ships
are being entered and cleared at British
ports every week.
Two important facts emerge. The R.N.
has taken the initiative everywhere, and
its superiority in ships and sea personnel
has been proved. And the heaviest con-
centration of aeroplanes seen in war has
failed to close the narrow Straits of
Dover or to do material damage to
concentrated British merchant convoys,
although the capture of several merchant
ships, with cargoes, is asserted.
Britain remains mistress of the seas,
though she fights alone and was sud-
denly deprived of the co-operation of the
next-greatest navy in the European zone.
General Blarney, now in Palestine, told
officers of the Sixth Division last week
that “practically all” the Italian sub-
marines in the Red Sea had been sunk
or were in British hands, and that as
long as the British Navy maintained its
hold on Alexandria there was no danger
of.an invasion of Palestine from the sea.
“A considerable extension” of A.I.F.
leave is contemplated, not only Jerusalem
but Cairo being included in the plan
which is being worked out. All very
reassuring, even if the position in Syria
has become chaotic. Not only General
Mittelhauser but many of his staff have
resigned, and French as well as Poles
are joining the British in Palestine. It is
now midsummer in the Middle East —
the worst possible season for large-scale
campaigning.
* * * *
Gayda, who is regarded as Mussolini’s
journalistic mouthpiece, says the attack
on the British Empire will be threefold:
“at home, in her imperial territories and
at sea.” Italy’s task is to strike at Egypt,
from Cyrenaica, at the Sudan, at Kenya
and British Somaliland. The Italians are
also to “harass British shipping from the
Atlantic to the Indian Ocean” and to
“immobilise a great part of the British
Fleet in the Mediterranean.” Nearly all
the “striking” has so far come from the
British side.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The most persistent recruit
has come to light in Melbourne. Re-
jected because one of his toes was so
long as to interfere with his walking, he
returned to the charge, to the astonish-
ment of the recruiting sergeant, with a
perfectly normal set of extremities. He
had had the offending member shortened
by a surgical operation.


LYSAGHT’S RED ORB
m
• For greater strength, per
manence and economy, build
sheep pens with Lysaght's Red
Orb Galvanised Iron.
Photograph by eourtety of
Bullara Station, Carnarvon, W.A.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
i>J>.V£y HKDBAHE MELBODkM ADELAIDE FRFMANTIE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Mica in the N.T.
“P.D.”“S. M. Herald” has suddenly
discovered that “large quantities of mica,
which is valuable in the nation’s war
effort, are held by Italians, who have
control of the Commonwealth’s richest
mica deposits,” and that “the Italians are
said to be holding their mica off the
market until the shortage drives the price
up.”
“The Commonwealth’s richest mica
deposits” are in the Hart’s Range district,
some 150 miles north-east of Alice
Springs. To June 30, 1939, the field had
produced mica worth £134,000 ; for the
year to June 30, 1939, it yielded 31.71
tons of mica, worth £12,124. Australians
from the neighborhood report on the
present position of the field:
The main mica-producing shows at the
moment are the Spotted Tiger, the Rex,
the Central, the Spurio, the Vendrimini
and the Jenkins —the one Australian mine.
There are 40 men on the field, and 36 are
Italians, few of whom can speak English.
Since war was declared the price at the
mine has risen from 7s. or Bs. a pound to
about 15s. a pound.
The Minister of Customs states that
the price will be fixed at not more than
15 p.c. above the price current on August
31, 1939. That is satisfactory so far as
it goes, but more will have to be done.
So much is obvious.
In May, 1938, Norman C. Bell, the
N.T. mining warden, visited Hart’s Range
and reported unfavorably on the mining
methods employed. On the Spotted
Tiger in particular “the mining methods
were both wasteful and expensive”:
Australian users of mica have become
alarmed at the difficulty of obtaining suffi-
cient mica for trade requirements, and
representatives of several mica-using firms
recently visited Alice Springs and Hart’s
Range to try to make contracts to obtain
supplies. But miners are needed to open
up the mica mines in a systematic way, so
that mining can be efficiently and economi-
cally carried out. There is at present a
unique opportunity for the acquiring and
reopening of some of the old mica mines,
and for very great expansion in the pro-
duction of high-grade sheet mica.
Another visitor to Hart’s Range was a
capable Sydney man Hodge-Smith,
mineralogist to the Australian Museum.
He made two visits, and reported that
“the mica consists of muscovite and bio-
tite, the former occurring in sufficient
quantity and quality to be of consider-
able commercial value.” Also that “this
field is of national importance, but should
be undertaken by a large organisation
capable of overcoming transport and
water problems and willing to employ
experts in mica mining and marketing.”
It certainly is a matter of national im-
portance, and a full and careful investi-
gation should be made to ensure that
makeshift mining does not ruin the field
for further operations. The proper de-
velopment of the field should also be en-
sured and regulations instituted to pro-
vide for the proper marketing of mica in
Australia—it should be graded accord-
ing to size and type, as is done in other
mica-producing countries, and not sold
anyhow at the mine.
Brisbane’s New Bridge
“Clayfield”: It extends from Bowen
Terrace to Kangaroo Point. On the open-
ing day 60,000 crossed and cars passed
over at the rate of 40 a minute.
The bridge is all-Australian in design,
materials—l3,l6o tons of steel from Port
Kembla and Newcastle —and workman-
ship. It dwarfs the old Victoria Bridge
further up the river and the newer one
at Grey-street which carries the railway.
The cost £1,600,000 was under the
estimate and includes resumptions.
One thing which the bridge seems to
promise, apart from opening new suburbs
and greatly extending old ones on the
East Brisbane side, is an outlet for the
exuberance of Brisbane’s heady youth.
Part of the structure runs above the
roofs of Kangaroo Point houses. On
these the bright lads of the capital
already have begun to hurl bottles when
the spirit moves them.
“U. 8.”: I see where Billy Hughes has
been saying that some of the richest mica
deposits in Central Australia are, to his
“certain knowledge,” in the hands of
Australians. I hate to do it, but I can’t
help referring to the 1938 report of the
N.T. warden, in which he mentions that
“at the Billy Hughes mine, about eight
Italians were engaged in mining and
hand-cutting mica.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: The droving of a mob of
cattle which arrived in Melbourne from
the Elsey and Hodgson Downs stations
(N.T.) was doubtless a great achieve-
ment ; but what about waste? Mel-
bourne, it seems, was the nearest re-
munerative market. When I was in
Darwin our beef was imported from
southern States and had to be carried
1000 miles to its destination in our
stomachs. There are 50 times more
stomachs there nowadays, but I suppose
the Administration still frowns, as it did
then, on northern cattle-stations. And
I suppose the Canberra politicians don’t
see any anomaly in this situation. They
are so accustomed to the same tortuous
methods in their legislation that they
doubtless think it quite normal.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: The appointment of an
Administrator to Papua has not yet been
made, but there have been comings and
goings and canvassings in Canberra. In
view of the new importance of the Terri-
tory there should be no delay in choosing
a successor to Hubert Murray. The
change in the title from Lieut.-Governor
to Administrator is not a healthy move,
If anything, the status of the headships
of Papua and the Mandate should be
improved instead of reduced. Britain is
generous to its colonial Governors, be-
cause it knows the value of keeping up
their status and dignity with the native
races and with foreign neighbors,
Edward of Windsor is to go to the
Bahamas, which are less vital to Britain
than New Guinea is to Australia. His
salary will be twice that of the Papuan
Administrator £3OOO against £lsoo—
the population is about 66,000,
mostly negroes. Papua’s population is
over 300,000, and that of the Mandate
“Are you GRINNING at me, my man ?”
not far from 1,000,000. However, Aus-
tralian territorial Governorships are a
catch-as-catch-can business. The North-
ern Territory is in the hands of a
lieutenant-colonel ex-M.P., while the
speck of Norfolk Island is under one of
the most distinguished soldiers of the
A.1.F., Major-General Charles Rosen-
thal “Rosey” would be a good man for
Papua, where the bulk of the white popu-
lation are returned soldiers, particularly
as Port Moresby is now a vital link in
our defence scheme.
* * * *
“Balander”: Something new in gifts
for the troops comes from Kingaroy, the
only town in Australia with silos erected
for storage of peanuts. Edwards, M.L.A.,
has given a ton of peanuts for distri-
bution to the army, and the Australian
Comforts Fund is now faced with the
problem of distribution. Voluntary per-
formers at camp concerts will now know
whom to blame when the rising crescendo
of crackles comes out of the darkness,
though the A.C.F. still doesn’t know
whether to issue them in small bags or
just heap them up about the camps and
let the troops help themselves. All the
same, the nuts will be welcome.
* * * *
“Shingler”: What amounts to a social
upheaval has occurred out Longreach
way. A race meeting for patriotic funds
was arranged for the Monday of the
King’s Birthday holiday. It was then
discovered that the Methodist, Anglican
and Presbyterian Sunday schools had
arranged their annual picnics for that
day. Believe it or not, two of the
churches agreed to hold their picnics on
the Saturday so as not to clash with the
races, the third having found its arrange-
ments too far advanced. All four
functions were well attended. But who
ever heard of a Sunday school consider-
ing the feelings of a race meeting before?
“23-40”: Two members of the
Women’s National Emergency Legion
accompanied a Longreach ambulance car
to that patriotic race meeting at Rodney
Downs. A child took ill at the meeting
and was carried by the ambulance back
to town. While it was away, as “our
local correspondent” naively reports,
“the legion members were called upon
to arrest a haemorrhage of the nose.”
What the district wants to know is
whether these ladies can claim to be the
first members of their organisation to see
blood spilt in actual warfare.
*„* - .
Mataranka : N, Territorians not
escaping war taxation and some: of the
new imposts are unhkely.to help outback
development. Police stations have issued
a curt notice that all motor licenses,
aboriginal licenses and dog licenses ex-
pired on June 30, and in place of the
old £1 registration per vehicle for motors
the charge will be £2 for private cars
and utilities, £5 for hire cars and £3
for trucks. For Darwin it may be a
fair thing, but for the outbacker who is
struggling with wear and tear and who
often chops his own road ut of the
bush, it is too much of a slug ; especially
in view of the price of petrol. Even at
Pine Creek they pay 295. a case, or
3s. 7|d. a gallon, and it is certain to
go higher. For an ordinary 25-h.p. U.S.
car that works out at nearly 3d. per mile
on a fair road for fuel alone. On some
bad roads it may be even sd. per mile,
The new tax would be a different matter
if it were likely to yield much revenue,
but it is scarcely worth the Administra-
tion’s while for the few pounds it will
bring in, especially when cost of collec-
tion is reckoned. Outback cars used
for development should be under subsidy
instead of tax, seeing that they have a
value to defence, and in peace-time are
at the disposal of the whole community
in emergency.
*„*, * * , .
. Marburg : A robbery on a dairy
farm near Woodford (Q.) proves that the
old German habit of keeping the family
currency about the premises has not
died. When the last war broke out it
was one of the biggest headaches the
authorities had to face. The older
bauerei of the frugal Moreton farming
districts had a far greater trust in a
buried kerosene tin than in a bank, and
it was feared that if there were disturb-
ances a lot of kerosene tins would be
missing. The owners of the specie, on
the other hand, were afraid that their
property might be confiscated. I helped
to persuade some of them otherwise,
Some curious hiding places were re-
vealed. One old fellow had the hollow
legs of all the family bedsteads filled
with sovereigns. Another favored the
manure heap. Farm dams were common
repositories. A bright lad had cut off
the tops of bamboo stalks and burnt out
the inner joints. But burying came an
easy first—either under the verandah or
under the taproot of a tree. The victim
of last week’s looting, however, was not
original. He had £3OOO in a box behind
a curtain in his bedroom.
* * * * .
Colbun : Outside St. George (S.Q.)
stands a big riv -gum whose wide-flung
branches enclose a tragic story of co-
incidence. When the Balonne River came
down in fury a generation and more ago
the young man who had just then
acquired the country on which the tree
stood tried to swim across to where some
°f h> s cattle were marooned on a hig
ban'x. The current swept him down an
h a d almost overwhelmed him when his
belt caught in a branch of the tree and
he climbed to safety till a rescue party
came. Later, when he employed men to
clear the property, he instructed them that
the tree which had saved his life was on
no account to be harmed or injured in
any way. He prospered, married, and
an only son was born to him. Eleven
years later the youngster saw a birds
nest high up amongst the branches which
had saved his father’s life. He climbed
to get it, a branch broke, and he was
killed by the fall.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
w
PITCH WITH STOP
ŵ
ẁ
PITCH WITH STOP
ẃ
ẅ
(postage 3d. extra).
Price 3 -
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOX 252188.
bunker play
w
e
BUNKER PLAY
w
e
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and addiess must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.C.8.: She may be able to bake a cake, but
your atrocious rhymes about it cooked your
goose W.H.S.: As you say, “Um!”
C.C.: No prospect here for “Ballade of a
Dispirited Insurance Agent” A. 8.: Nice
enough, but slight D.C.H.: Read Mase-
field’s “Cargoes” H.G. (California): We
don’t reprint, even from the Pasadena “Star-
News”. .. .L.8.P.: He “passed on his way”
so often that at length the poem followed him.
JJ.S.: That parody would crack the
“Grecian Urn” R.H., C. 0., G. 8., D.McD.,
J.S. and D.E.M.: D.E.M. and St. George win
the day:
And shall the glorious meteor flag of England
Be trampled by a wild barbarian horde?
Shall this fair, verdant New Jerusalem
Echo to footsteps of a conquering Lord?
Shall these fair cities, built by Freedom’s hand,
Lie broken ’neath a bloody tyrant’s heel ?
Ao —by St. George of England—they shall not!
M.M.: Try it on “Sue’s Own” J.F.K.:
That’s J. H. M. Abbott’s close preserve....
S.V.: Those Russian revolutionaries were shot
out on sight... .L.S.H.: Dress him in chaps
and send him to Arizona; he’d be more at
home there... .J. 0.: A very naughty young
lady... .T.M.C.: Cut and come again....
F. : Early-day reminiscences are a drug on
the market... .R.P.V.: Stuff like that has been
printed but not here J.K.F.: Vql’s wander-
ings roused little interest 8.K.P.: Thought
it was the old tale of the second will till you
produced the third one J.H.8.: “The One
That Got Away” didn’t land here... .P.A.M.:
“Clean Stock” given the office brand, w.p.b.
S.I.E.: “The Pawnbroker” did no business
here F.M.N.: “Thou shalt not do it!” Thou
hast done it... .G.N.H.: We handed your
bomb-catapult idea on to the office-boy
C.M.H.: “He was falling; flying madly through
space.” He landed in the w.p.b W.J.D.:
Found guilty and fined a quart! You can’t do
that to us and get away with it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.E.: A feeble jest, yet too heavy a load
to carry R.A.A.: A gloomy batch K. 8.:
No use copying another man’s style....
G. : We “appreciate individuality” cer-
tainly, but not those freakish females....
N.J.A.: Save those “highlights on the march
to Berlin” for a later day J.L.: It’s the
oldest of commercial-traveller jokes P.F::
You’ve a lot to learn about the use of wash.
P.J.M.: No water-colors, thank you
A.C.W.: They’re merely decorative posters....
T.T.L.: The same old argument between the
drunk and his lady and her rolling-pin
C.8.A.: Try them on the “Kiddies’ Korner.”
N.L.: You’ve imposing initials, but we
doubt you’ll ever draw them on a Bulletin
receipt.. . .D.A.S.: Liked the fish, but you’ve
surely libelled the fisherman... .M.H.W.: Can’t
see the resemblance between your caricature
and its subject L.E.G.: That lion may have
terrified the eagle, but why draw him with
only three legs?... .G.M.P.: Hurried out for
a noggin at first sight of those smudged and
grimy atrocities... .T.R.S.: Thirty-seven draw-
ings on the one sheet of paper! Spare the
engraver... .0.F.: Parachuting parsons are five-
a-penny D. 8.: Can’t judge from copies
E.M.N., J.A.W., H.S. and G. 8.: They’re time-
worn wheezes.
A MIXED GRILL.
“0.T.”: A question buzzing in my
mind as a result of reading Mair, Brux-
ner, Manning, Treatt and the rest on the
war: If an enemy made a landing and
invested Sydney and Newcastle, would
their Parliament, now “resting,” have the
power to treat with the invaders for a
separate peace?
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: A Sydney bookseller who
is becoming noted for his originality puts
over a nasty one. In his window is a
large white card bearing the legend, in
heavy type, “Portrait of a Leading Fifth
Columnist.” Neatly pinned in a black
circle is a small bunch of red tape.
* * * *
“F.S.”: There has been a rumpus at
the Nat. Gallery in Melbourne. Private
owners offered two Gruners to the trus-
tees, one for £525 and the other for £257.
Art Director MacDonald reported that
in his opinion the first wasn’t worth any-
thing, being “a compound of Streeton,
Penleigh Boyd and J. R. Jackson” ; the
second was better, but the price was fan-
tastic. “Gruner’s work has been unduly
boomed in Sydney,” he added, “but now
that he is no more its monetary value will
lessen.” Trustee Keith Murdoch said
that insulting remarks should be avoided,
but it is difficult to see how the Director
can do his duty without speaking plainly.
=i= * * *
“Ek D.”: A little Old Digger hopped
on the tram beside me waving a familiar
paper. “Well, I’m in,” says he, showing
marked signs of his celebration. “You
were there last time?” says I. “How
far are you going?” “Thanks, Digger,”
says he, “but I got me disabled pass.”
“What issue?” says I. “Gas,” says he,
“Lagnicourt. I was with Duffy’s mob.”
“Well, you did well to get through.” He
looked at me gloomily. “They still got
to look at me X-ray,” he said, “but I
don’t think they’ve copped me out. I
got a broken arm about six weeks ago.”
“What doing?” “Playing football,” he
whispered confidentially. He must have
been 50 if he was a day.
* * * *
Sounded his last chord, at 74, Prof.
William Adolphus Laver, for 10 years
Ormond Professor of Music at Melb.
University and once a familiar figure on
concert rostrums. He was born at Castle-
maine (Vic.), but learnt all his music in
Germany. He was a picturesque-looking
figure. An aftermath of his early sojourn
Germany was a correspondence with
the Kaiser after Big Willie’s retirement
to Holland. Frank Laver, the inter-
national cricketer, was a brother ; another
brother was Dr. Laver, the Westralian
mining man after whom a township was
named. Both predeceased him.
* * * *
“Charlie” doesn’t sound just the right
way to address his Worship the S.M.,
but Charlie Gillespie, new northern cir-
cuit stipendiary magistrate in S.A., would
be the last to want his friends and ac-
quaintances to call him anything else—
except when he’s Beaking, of course.
Formerly second Assistant Crown Prose-
cutor under Joe Chamberlain and Arthur
Pickering, Gillespie is only 35.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Somerset Maugham was
reported among the missing in France,
but Britain’s most-travelled author next
to Curie has since turned up all right.
It used to be said in Sydney press
circles that Maugham was the only
distinguished man who had ever en-
tered the harbor and escaped through
the newspaper net. Twenty years ago
he arrived in Sydney, took a look
around for several weeks and left, and
it was only by chance that a reporter,
engaging him in casual conversation on
the boat deck of a departing liner, dis-
covered that he was talking to the author
of Of Human Bondage. The plots of
most of his Eastern tales were obtained
by dropping in on lonely planters and-
talking to them incognito.
* * * *
Cyril Holyman, marine superintendent
of the Holyman shipping firm, famous
in the Speck’s rough island story, has
died in a Melbourne hospital. He was only
51. He was born at Devonport (Tas.) and
entered the family concern as a young-
ster. Captain Ivan Holyman, manager
of the firm, was a brother, and another
is Dare Holyman, traffic manager of
National Airways in Melbourne. Wings
in the air as well as on the ocean in-
terested this stout old Tassie clan very
early.
* * # *
“X.S.”: Popular nomenclature of
members of the Russell-street (Melb.)
special investigation squad should delight
the hearts of crook-film addicts and
strike terror into those of evildoers. Its
new commander, Detective-sergeant
F. W. Lyon, is colloquially known as
“the Tiger.” His predecessor, Det.-
Inspector Carey, who has been trans-
ferred to Bairnsdale, is “Wolf” Carey
Nobody calls the S.I.S. other than “the
homicide squad” these days.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
Genera!- Manager —D. S. FORBES. . . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, 'also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasiai andit he Worldl this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Elderly ex-Digger, clerical, and handy with
all classes of tools, wants job. Suit property-
owner or contractor.—7s32.
Butler, 33, educated, travelled, lately with
British Legation and American Consulate
abroad, wants similar position with lady or
gentleman in Sydney.—7s43.
Well-educated young man, air force and
army reject, accountancy and commercial quali-
fications, wants work as clerk, tutor or similar
occupation.—7s24.
Short-story writer will read and constructively
criticise manuscripts. Moderate fees. —7517.
Lonely male cook would like to exchange
letters. Also any reading matter. —7554.
To get in Touch with former drivers for Cobb
and Co. Reply direct to Philip Whelan, Camp
Hill, Carew.-street, Dee Why, N.5.W.—'7537.
To buy, isecond-hand, Frazer’s The Golden
80ugh.— 7574.
To buy, second-hand, handbooks by Grosbie
Garstin. Also any< books by C., C. Scrogi-
gins.—7sB6.
To buy books containing recitations entitled
“Murphy Shall NoQSLng To-night” and “Nora
Murphy and the Spirits.”—7s7o.
: To buy “Wide-World Magazine” for March,
1931, and February, 1936—7541.,
To buy two copies'of Milne Curran’s Geology
of Sydney and-. the\ Blue Mountains— 7s3s.
To buy Ftousrpan’s War Letters of -Fallen
Englishmen, Pedley’s Only • This, Turner’s The
Struggle in the-Air, John Brophy’s The 'World.
Went Mad, Francis Brett Young’s Jim : Redlake
arid V. M. Yeates’s Winged Victory.—ls 3
Second-hand copies of Carl Crow’s Four
Hundred Million Customers and My Friends
the Chinese.— 7sB3.
Pen-friend "about 18 in Canada or the'U.S.A.
—7576.
'I. V
.Information Sought.
Is colored labor employed in the pearling
industry im Australia? If so, why,, and how .
is this consistent with the White Australia
policy ?—7627.
The Commonwealth Year-Book puts it like
this: “In accordance with the White Australia
policy it was originally determined that the
employment of Asiatic labor in the peaFlshell-
ing industry should be„ restricted and ultimately
cease, and it was,proposed that after December
31, 1913, permits to bring in Asiatics for the
pearling fleet should no longer be issued. In.
view, however, of the disorganisation of the
industry occasioned by the war, the time was
extended to June 30, 1918, after which date
permits to introduce Asiatic labor were to be
granted only in cases where the diver and tender
of a boat were Europeans. The royal commis-
sion appointed in March, 1912, presented its
final report in 1916, The commissioners stated
that, though it might be practicable, they did
not consider it advisable or profitable to
attempt to transfer the industry from Asiatics
to Europeans. They further stated that, while
the !■ labor employed is almost entirely .Asiatic,
they did riot consider that the' White Australia
policy would be weakened or imperilled by
allowing the industry to 'continue as then con-
ducted.” i
* * ; * * \ .
What is the. situation in regard to railway
gauges throughout the Commonwealth?— 76ll.
The Government railways of each State vary,
so that it is impossible for rolling, stock to be
interchanged, except to a certain extent between
Vic. and S.A. Taking privately-owned: rail-
ways into consideration, S.A. has six different
gauges, W.A., Vic. and N.S'.W. four each, Q’land
three and Tas. two. The Commonwealth terri-
tories (FederaLgarid l Northern) are the only
divisions with'' one gauge each, and those gauges
are not the same. The standard gauge in N.S.W.
is 4ft. All other '4ft. B£iri. lines are
Federal. The standard gauge of Vic. is sft. 3 in.,
and of Q’land, Tas., N'T. and W.A. *3ft. 6in.
S.A. adopted the sft. 3in. gauge'for'her lines
around Adelaide and those running towards
Vic., and 3ft., 6in.. for the rest. The longest
railway journey possible in Australia, from
Meekatharra in W.A. to, Dajarra iri Q’land, in
a distance of 5500 miles involves five .breaks
of gauge. ' ' '
* * * *
How many horses are there in the various
States of Australia ? —7619.
Figures are for 1937. ,N. S. Wales 528,625,
Vic. 359,106, Q’larid 445,916, S.A. 197,334, W.A.
151,067, Tas. 31,578, N.T. 31,662, A.C.T. 1225.
* * * #
What is the expenditure on education, science
and art in each Australian State, and from what
sources is the money derived? —7621.
1937-38: From revenue N. S. Wales spent
£5,122,834, Vic. £3,094,110, Q’land £1,754,243,
S.A. £1,057,432, W.A. £837,053,. Tas. £373,722.
From loans N. S. Wales spent £407,435, Vic.
£137,138, Q’land £228,470, S.A. £66,537, W.A.
£52,430, Tas. £54,453. Vic. spent £14,278 from
other funds and Q’land spent £195,102 from
unemployed-relief tax fund. When receipts
from education, science and art were deducted
the net expenditure for each State was: N. S.
Wales £5,418,372, Vic. £3,182,062, Q’land
£2,153,585, S.A. £1,087,703, W.A. £861,702,
Tas. £426,436.
Does the Parliamentary and National Library •
at Canberra get a copy of every book published
in Australia? —76l6. |
It should; in 1912-a provision was included
in the Commonwealth Copyright Act requiring
the publisher of every book, pamphlet, etc.,
printed in Australia to supply a copy free to
the library.
* * * *
How many nationalities are represented in ■
the population of Australia ?— 7613.
The 1933 census gave the figures as British
6,569,518, Chinese 7792, Danish 1279, Dutch
915, Estonian 838, Finnish 1062* French 1647,
German 3672, Greek 5652, Italian 17,658,
Japanese 2084, Norwegian 12381 Polish 1757,
Russian 2055, Spanish 596, Swedish 1370, Swiss
952, : U.S.A. 2557, Yugoslav 282'6, other 4309.
*** t *
Is there an organisation in England which
works to prevent cruelty to children? Particu-
lars ?—' 7630.
You probably refer to the National Society
for Preyention of Cruelty to Children, which
'covers-England, Wales and Ireland; and To
the Royal Scottish Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Children, which covers Scotland.
In 1939 the former dealt with 49,000 separate
cases of alleged neglect or ill-treatment, while
the Scottish “ society' handled over 8300 cases.
About 280 full-time salaried inspectorsare em-.
ployed, and £200,000 is required annually and
subscribed. ' ,
■** * *
Particulars of medical inspection of State
school _ children in Tasmania 2—7615.
Tasmania was the first ‘Australian State _to
provide-.such -inspection, - the system being
initiated in 1906. In 1931, however, for finan-
cial reasons, medical inspection of schools
ceased and the servifces of all doctors terminated.
School medical and dental services are now
controlled by the Department of Public Health.
: There are now-two part-time medical officers
who examine children in Hobart and Launces-
ton, and 10 fulltime Government medical.
officers who examine, children in country dis-
tricts. There are! also, four nurses . who visit
the homes of to advise parents re-
garding the • treatment 5 of any defects revealed
by-the medical examination. There are six full-
time' dental officers working at dental clinics
in Hobarfi and Launceston and visiting country
schools.
* <?*;<■ * *
Some particulars regarding ’the history and
size of the \ Statue of Liberty on Bedfoe’s Island
in New York Harbor?-— 7614. -
It was first proposed'soon after the Franco-
Prussian war by a • group of Frenchmen, who
commissioned one of their number, the sculptor
Frederic Auguste Bartholdi, to carry out the.
work. In . France, 180 cities, 40 general
councils, many, societies and thousands of people
raised 700,000 dollars, while in the U.S.A.
300,000 dollars was raised for the pedestal.
The statue was finished in 1883, and the corner-
stone of the pedestal was laid eon Bedloe’s
Island on August; 5, 1884. The statue was
landed from France at New York in June, 1885,
arid the work of putting it. together begun in ■
May, 1886. The statue was unveiled on
October 26 of the same year. It weighs 225
tons, and 40 persons can stand imthe head .of
the figure; there afe 161 "steps from the pedestal'
to the head, and 54 rungs in the ladder in the"
uplifted arm. It is 305 ft. 6in. from-the founda-
tion of the pedestal to the torch, 111 ft. 6in.
from the heel to the top of the head; the index
finger is Bft. long, with a fingernail measuring
13in. by lOin. The head is 17ft. 3in. from
chin to cranium and 10ft. through from ear
to 1 ear; the eyes are 2ft. 6in. across, the nose
is 4ft. 6in. long, and the mouth 3ft. wide. 1
* * * * t
What is the policy of the Administration of '
New Guinea with regard to the selling or leas-,
ing of land?— 76lB.
The Land Ordinance of 1922-39 provides for
sale as well as leasing of land belonging to
the Administration. „ British policy in the
. Pacific usually provides for leasehold only, but
the exception was" made in the case of New
Guinea with a view to disposal by sale of the <
freehold properties taken over from the Ger-
mans, ahd which until 1927 were controlled
by the Expropriation Board. The general
'and policy of, the-Administration is based on
the leasehold principle. All Administration
, grants *• or leases contain 'a reservation to the
Administration of all minerals, including mineral,
oil. 'Leases "are* generally for a term of 99
-years. Administration lands, except in towns,
are classified by a.Land Bpard into land suitable
foj agriculture (Class A) 'and land, not suitable
for agriculture (Class B), and the unimproved
value of the land is assessed. For agricultural
leases for more than 30 years „ the rent is
5 , p.c. of the unimproved value, with power
to' remit during the first 10 years, and subject
to reappraisement every 20 years. Pastoral,
leases (Class B) may be granted for terms not,
exceeding 30 years at a rental of 2} p.c. ,of
the unimproved value, subject to reappraise-
ment every 10 years. Agricultural leases are;
subject ,to improvement conditions: and pastoral
leases to stocking conditions. Leases of town
allotments may be granted for terms not ex-
ceeding 99 years, at a rent to be fixed at such
a ; percentage of the unimproved value as is
prescribed.
% * ajc
Particulars of the timber forests of Tas-
mania. ? —7629.
The temperate rain forests occupy the greater
part of the west coast forest area, spread into
the north-west and recur in the north-east.
Timber in this district, which appears to need
a minimum rainfall of 50in., consists mainly of
myrtle or beech, usually associated with black-
wood, sassafras and native willow, with a few
celery-top pines. Patches of eucalyptus are
found on the better-drained spurs and ridges,
and there is generally an under-storey of leather-
wood, lancewood, native pear, music and other
species. The Huon pine is also found in this
area, and, though it has almost disappeared,
it may yet be saved from extinction. The sclero-
phyllous forest falls into two groups—(a) the
closed eucalypt forests of the higher-rainfall
and better-class-soil regions in the north and
south, and (ft) the open eucalypt forests of the
drier soils and climates of the north arid east
coastal regions. The most important of the
eucalypts are: the stringy gum (in the north-
east) or . the swamp gum (in. the ; south)
( Eucalyptus regnans), stringy bark (E. obliqua),
gum-topped stringy bark - (£. gigantia), blue
gum (E. globulus ) and Tas. ironbark (E.
suberiand). .
* * * *
Details of the life of Westralian Judge E. A.
Stone?— 76lo.
Edward Albert Stone, second son of George
Frederick Stone, one-time Attorney-General of
W.A.,.was born in 1844 and educated in Eng-
land. In 1860 he was appointed clerk to the
Attorney-General of W.A., was called to the
W.A. Bar in 1865, and from 1870-74 was Clerk
of the Leg. Council. He acted as Attorney-
General in 1879, was appointed Crown Solicitor
in ,1881 and acted as Chief Justice, becoming a
Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court in 1884.
He acted again as Chief Justice in 1887, 1889,
1890, and received the appointment on the
resignation of A. C.. Onslow in 1901. Stone
was knighted in 1902, and in 1906 retired frqm
the Chief-Justiceship and was appointed Lieu-
tenant-Governor. He died on April 2, 1920.
* * * *
Some information regarding Maitland
(N.5.W.)?—' 7345.
Although Maitland (East and West) is situ-
ated adjacent to the mines of the Greta coal
measures, it is a commercial centre for the
surrounding agricultural and pastoral areas, and
is. not primarily a mining town. ; It . does,
however, get a large amount of transit traffic
from the coalfields because the private railways
join the Government lines near West Maitland.
It is also an important junction on the Govern-
ment railway system (north-western lines and
North Coast line). East Maitland is develop-
ing into a residential section of the town,
while West Maitland is the commercial section.
The greater part of the cultivated area in the
immediate .vicinity - is devoted to the pro-
duction of > lucerne * and . green fodder. East
Maitland has an area of .1813 acres and,-a
population of 447 Q; West. Maitland an area of
10,755 acres* and population of 8270. Meteoro-
logical data are available only for .West Mait-
land, which has an annual average rainfall
(over 72’years) of 33.62in.,/and an average
annual temperature (over 62 years) of 64.5 deg.
The mean summer temperature is 74.6 deg.,
and the mean winter 53.4 deg. Highest tem-
perature ever recorded was 115 deg., and the
lowest 28deg.
* * „ * *.
Brief biography of operatic singer Stella
Ancfreva,? —7625. . .
She'was born in London (real name Browne)
and studied at the R.A.M. For five years she
appeared in pantomime.' and made., her first
appearance 'in' London at the Piccadilly in
November, 1929,’ as Kathie in a revival of
“The Student 'Prince.? She has since taken
leading roles in .grand opera, including appear-
ances. at Co-vent Garden in- ( 1935, .1937. and
1939. ' '
* ' * * *
(1) Composition of the present Common-
wealth Ministry ? (2) War Cabinet? (3) Eco-
nomic-Cabinet? —7509. ,
j (1) R. G. Menzies, Prime Minister, Minister
for Defence Co-ordination, 1 Minister for In-
formation-and Minister • for- Munitions; A. G.
Cameron, Minister for Commerce arid ; Minister
for the Navy ;■ W. M. Hughes, Attorney-General
and Minister for Industry;. G. A. Street,
Minister for Army and 1 Minister for Repatria-
tion; H. S. Gullett, Vice-President of the
Executive Council; G. McLeay, -Minister for
Trade and Customs;' H. V. C. Tho'rby, Minister
for Health and P.M.G.; P. C. Spender, Trea-
surer; H. S. Foil, Minister for the Interior;
F. H. Stewart, Minister for Supply arid De-
velopment and Minister-for Social Services; J.
McEwen, Minister for ..External, Affairs; J.-V.
Fairbairn, Minister for Air and Civil Aviation;
P. A. M. Mcßride, Minister assisting Minister
for.Commerce;/A. Wr-Fadden, Minister.assist-
ing -the Treasurer and- Minister assisting the
Minister for. Supply arid Development;
H. B. Collett,- Minister assisting the
Minister for Repatriation and Minister in
Charge of War j Service Homes; H. K. Nock,
Minister assisting the , Prime ■ Minister, the
Minister in charge of External Territories, and
the < Minister for the Interior. (2) Menzies,
Cameron, • Hughes, Street, Spender, Frill,
Stewart, McEwen and Fairbairn. (3) Menzies,
Cameron. McLeay, Spender, Stewart,, Mcßride
and Fadden. r r
* * *
(1) Recipe for peppermint fondants.? (2)
Caramel chocolates ? —-7527.
(1) In a saucepan-boil-31b. sugar, two cups
water and -teaspoon of.cream of tartar. When
soft-ball stage is reached, lift off stove arid
leave, till warm, and then-stir in one Teaspoon
of . essence of peppermint till the mixture begins
to harden. Knead with hands and shape into
sweet. Any toffee mixture can also be flavored.
(2) Put into a saucepan two cups of soft sugar,
|-cUp of milk, 4-cup of treacle, one dessertspoon
butter, 20z.; unsweetened phocolate., Boil for
15 minutes, stirring, regularly. When a little
of the mixture dipped, into cold water turns
hard and brittle, take-off. the heat and beat
steadily till the mass begins to cool. : Add one
teaspoon of vanilla and turn out lin. deep in
' flat buttered tins. Cut into squares before the
mixture hardens.
* •-• * ! " * - *
Ist it a .fact that Lord Baden-Pdwell can use
either hand without difficulty ?— 7623.
Yes, it is said that he can use either hand
equally well, and that in his heyday he could
mount his horse from either side with equal
ease; use sword, lance and pistol equally well
with both hands; shoot from the left shoulder
as rapidly and as efficiently as from the right;
and that his right-hand and left-hand writing
are indistinguishable from each other.
Brief Answers.
C.V.S.: Advertise in “jLadies’ Home Journal”
or some similar American women’s magazine.
C.A.McG.: No M.H.: No informa-
tion so far A.R.P.: A sectioned model pro-
ducer-gas unit is on exhibition at thp Sydney
Technological Museum... .A.M.C.: The Tines
are * from Tennyson’s “Locksley Ha 11”....
V.H.P.: Write direct to the Department of
Agriculture, Brisbane, for information regard-
ing tung oil, ramie and soya beans. The
Bureau of Tropical Agriculture at South Jc«m-
stone is engaged in the investigation of tropi-
cal crops and may also be able to help y0u....
C.8.M.: A mixture of horizontal retort tar and
pitch provides a v satisfactory protective coat
for galvanised-iron tanks for water storage.
Suitable paints are on the market, including
the bituminous base “Permalastic AA,” but
make sure that they will not taint the water
before buying any... .R.J.C.: (1) When a
country goes off the gold standard it no longer
freely exchanges gold coin for notes at face
value. (2) England went off the gold standard
in September, 1930.... A. 8.8.: Yes, an Aus-
tralian could join. There are variations, but
on an average the medical standards are about
equal... .R.W.1.: Yes, by virtue of the N.S.W.
Mining Act, 1906, and amendments, mining
wardens may hold courts to determine dis-
putes within their districts as to possession of
mining lands or claims under mining contracts.
In general their procedure is summary and
fheir decisions final, but appeal lies in certain
cases to a District Court sitting as a Mining
Court or, on points of law, by way of stating
a>case tp the Supreme Court... .N.R.: The
N. S, Wales Registrar-General registers cer-
tain occurrences' and transactions of special
legal significance as prescribed by Act of Parlia-
ment. Registrations are made of births, deaths
and marriages; deeds, titles to land, transfers,
land leases; mortgages and liens; companies
and firms, and documents under the Real
Property Act; bills of sale; and instruments
under the Newspapers and Printing.. and
certain other Acts; also, business names'
required to .be .registered . under the Busi-
ness Names Act, 1934... .B.W.G. Michel
swam the .English Channel in llhr.. smffi.
on September' 10, 1926... .G.8.R.: The
A.I.F. in France voted for conscription at both
referendums. The vote in October, 1916, was
72,399 for, 58,894 against, and 2520 informal.
The vote in December, 1917, was 103,789 Tor,
93,910' against, and 1978 informal. . . .L.P.T.:
In the 1914-18 war there were 48" airship raids
on England, 12 of them being on London;
59, aeroplane raids' included 20 on London,-and
there were, 12 bombardments from the sea.
Airship raids killed 275 men, 171 women and
110 children; ’planes killed 520 men, 195 women
and' 142 children; bombardments killed 69
men)"4s women"and 42 children... .L.T.N.:
At the end of 1937 the world population was
estimated at 2134 millions, of which, mom,than
half lived in Asia. -.. .P.L.R.: Write to the N. S.
Wales,' Agricultural Department, Sydney.,...
J. : You could make the trip from Perth
in a day comfortably... .P.G.R.: Could not
prescribe treatment without inspection. Consult
your doctor... .P.G.H.: Write to Charles
Ruwolti ‘Pty., Melbourne... .K.T.G. : Alumi-
nium was discovered in 1827. Its melting-point
is 659.7 deg. C., and its boiling-poirit 1800d6g.
C K.T.L.: Symptoms of-arsenic poisoning
are severe pains in the stomach, purging and
vomiting, severe cramps in the, legs, dryness
of throat, cold sweats and shock. Call a doctor,
meariwhile making sure that" vomiting is re-
peated until stomach is thoroughly washed out.
Give castor oil and stimulants of coffee or
ammonia if necessary. Keep warm... .L.T.8.:
Joseph. Bradl, of Austria, made a ski jump
of 350196 ft. at Panica, Yugoslavia, in 1938..*..
P.T.R.: James I of England was James VI of
Scotland. He ascended the Scottish throne on
July 29, 1567, and the English throne on-March
24,- 1603... R.8.W.: The kingdom of Eng-
land has an area of 50,337 square miles; Tas-
mania is-26,215 square miles... .P.R.8.: In
1937 there were 24,431 applications by foreign
workers for admission to Great Britain. Of
the 21,319 admitted 12,043 were for domestic
service, 3438 musicians and artists, 2701 . for
industry and commerce, and 578 for hotels,
etc.... .P.T.8.: King Haakon VII of Norway
was born August 3,' 1872, and accepted the
crown on November 18, 1905. He married
Princess Maud, daughter of Edward' yil, who
diedj November 20, 1938....T.N.G.: .Write 4o
the. Mines Department, Perth W.C.: Try
K. S. Baker, 12. Royal-arcade, and A. C.
Campe, 13 Sydney-arcade, King-street—both
Sydney; and C. J. McDonald, 363 ‘Little
Collins-street, Melbourne F.R.T.: Write to
secretary, N. S. Wales Taxpayers’ Assoc.,
Cathcart House, Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
C.A.: Edward Sylvester Sorenson, > who died
recently, was the son of Jacob Sorenson, of
Norway. He was born near Casino (N.S.W.),
and educated at Green Ridge public school and
at Sydney, Commercial College. He was
apprenticed to a farmer for two years, and
then went off stockriding, farming, dairying
and droving in ■ N. S. Wales and Queensland,
and gold-digging, shearing and woolclassing in
n.-w. N. S. Wales. He contributed, stories, verse
and articles to many newspapers. His publica-
tions included The Squatter’s Ward, Quinton’s
Rouseabout, Life in the Australian Backblocks,
Friends and Foes in the Australian Bush, Chips
and Splinters Spotty the Bower Bird and
Murty 8r0wn.... D.M.V.: The largest “sou-
venir” captured during the 1914-18 war was
probably the 15in. .German naval gun taken
bv the 3rd Battalion at Arcy Wood, near
Chuignes, on August 23, 1918... .L.P.Y.: Yes,
the prosecution of bogus returned soldiers is
provided for. under the Defence Act (Section
goE) L.P.R.: In December, 1938, there were
15 775 persons receiving sustenance in Vic.
Of these 13,498 were working for sustenance.
XHR.:’ The karaka (Corynocarpus Icevi-
Vata) has shining dark green foliage and large
orange drupes. The kernel contains a virulent
poison, but the flesh is edible. Maoris treated
the kernel to render it innocuous A.G.L.:
Know of no books which give any description
of an electro-encephalogram. The work is very
recent and has been published in American
medical journals, but these are not available
to the lay individual P.R.T.: Latest figures
give the annual rice production of India and
Burma as 44,000,000 tons. ;


WHERE GRASS IS FROSTBITTEN, FEED
zJAjI-CaJL-Ch-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to supply just those minerals that the scorched pastures lack,
and so enable stock to make the most of the fodders.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having
a guaranteed minimum of 32.5% phosphoric acid and 40%
lime —it is the most economical and reliable form of calcium
phosphate for all stock feeding. Improve production with
Tri-cal-os.
Folders mid all information from—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne, Victoria.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
m
o
A
<(EP 0$?
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1 -gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
£65,000,000 for Wool.
“Ghanam”: Wool-appraisement results
have not worked out so badly—within
8.3 p.c. of the contract price for the
whole Commonwealth —and the return is
estimated by the Central Wool Council at
£59,841,898, appraised value.
Ten per cent, of returns was held
back as “detention money,” and
£5,742,000 will become distributable on
July 26, through brokers. On the same
date £4,880,000 will be handed over to
adjust the appraisement rate up to the
flat contract rate, the two sums making
The total return for the
season is, therefore, £64,722,636, a record
figure, to which must presently be added
half the profit on British sales.
Tasmania with its small choice clips
topped the market averages at 14.46 d.,
with Victoria next at 13.21 d. and N.S.W.
third at 12.45 d.
Lambing Points.
“Gumeraka”: Normally ewes need no
assistance at lambing. Don’t disturb them
when there are signs of delivery, but if
after three or four hours no lamb is in
sight some help is needed.
The most common causes of „difficult
delivery are large lambs and malpresen-
tation. In either case, the ewe should
be assisted. As soon as the lamb is born
place the ewe in a paddock by herself
for two or three days until the lamb is
strong. It is often advisable to give the
ewe a drink of warm water with a little
bran. It will help to prevent milk fever
and caked udder. For the first three
days after lambing the ewe should re-
ceive little grain.
It is well to make sure that she
has milk. Massage of the udder will
sometimes help to get milk secretion
under way. If this fails, feed cow’s milk
to the lamb until you can find a foster
mother.
Small and weak lambs should be
attended to immediately. Owing to a
difficult birth, a lamb is often born with-
out sign of lung action. Prompt action
may revive the infant. Remove the
mucus from mouth and nostrils. Blow
into the mouth gently three or four
times to start action of the lungs. Poke
gently on the ribs op both sides ; move
the front feet back and forth. Blow again
in the mouth. If there is life left in the
lamb it will respond.
A ewe that has lost her lamb may quite
easily become a foster mother. This
should be done when the ewe. has plenty
of milk. A twin lamb or a lamb from
a ewe that has no milk may be given
to her. The easiest way is to skin the
dead lamb and put the skin on the lamb
that is to be adopted. Failing that, rub
a little of the ewe’s milk on the nose
of both ewe and lamb. The ewe recog-
nises her lamb mostly by smell. Another
way is to tie the ewe in one corner in
a small pen and make the lamb suck
every two or three hours. After four
or five days the ewe generally will own
it.
Topdressing Results.
“J.R.D.”: The record of topdressing
results obtained on Delegate station
(N.S.W.) over the past 14 years is worthy
of attention. Delegate has been owned
by members of the Jeffreys family for
over 100 years and is mostly open
Monaro country on the N.S.W. border,
today comprising 13,500 acres.
Topdressing was commenced by A. H.
Jeffreys in 1926 with 50 tons of super,
and some sub. clover, which was dis-
tributed in strips across a few paddocks.
Stock kept that sweeter growth eaten
short, while the non-dressed areas carried
a body of rank dry grass lacking nutri-
tion. The topdressed area has been pro-
gressively increased until today it amounts
to 8000 acres, needing 400 tons of super,
annually. On the granite country, 901 b.
“Well, I still don't think they're the best choice for a window-box!"
super. and 31b. sub. clover seed per acre
have given good results.
In 1926 Delegate carried 12,062 sheep
and 378 cattle. The average weight of
wool cut was 81b. per sheep. Two years
later sheep numbers were up by 2700,
but 100 fewer head of cattle were car-
ried. The increase in both has been
steady ever since, and in 1936, after 10
years of topdressing, 17,420 sheep and
860 cattle were carried. Approximately
the same numbers are carried today. Last
year the sheep cut 121 b. per head as
compared with 81b. per head from 2000
fewer sheep 10 years earlier. That year
the clip amounted to 350 bales ; in 1939
it was 670 bales. Delegate cattle are also
well known. These black polls, chiefly of
Abington blood, are in keen demand by
Victorian buyers.
Last autumn a large portion of the
property was burnt out by bushfires and
about 2000 ewes were lost. The value of
topdressing was evident, however, when
the rains came. Enough growth was
established to carry stock through winter.
Phalaris has been established and is a
great standby in the prolonged Monaro
winter. Italian rye and other grasses have
also proved successful, and each year a
large area is sown with turnips for winter
feeding off.
Pigs, Poultry, Wheat.
“8.C.”: Realising at last that Australia
can grow many more pigs and that wheat
fed to pigs often realises more per bushel
than when sold as export grain, the Agri-
cultural Council has decided to consult
the Federal Government as to the chances
of having wheat made available to pig-
raisers at reduced rates.
Pig-raisers and would-be pig-raisers are
wondering why time should be wasted in
consultation. They say they want the
wheat and can help to reduce the grain
surplus.
There aren’t enough pigs in Australia
to eat all the surplus wheat on an eco-
nomic basis, of course, but some opti-
mists believe pig and poultry farmers
between them could dispose of about
16,000,000 bushels if given the chance.
Poultrymen think 4s. a bushel would be
too costly for them; so do some pig-
producers. Other pig-raisers, however,
reckon that wheat turned into pig is worth
anything from 4s. 6d. to 6s. 3d. a bushel
on the hoof. It seems evident that, prop-
erly handled, there is a good chance of
using a big part of the surplus wheat as
stock food.
Farmyard Manures.
“J.W.”: Farm manure —the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department calls it a “valu-
able fertility conserving asset”—is half
the basis on which the agricultural sys-
tems of the Old World have been brought
to a standard of production which is the
envy of Australian farmers. The other
half is hard work. In England, Bel-
gium, France and Germany .the luscious
pastures and rich grain and root fields
are the product of 1000 years of farm-
manure conservation.
Farm manure contains large quantities
of organic humus, in which the coastal
soils of Australia become particularly
weak when farmed. Humus is important
as a nitrogen supplier to build up leaf
crops and pasture, and it is particularly
helpful as a holder of moisture. It also
has an effect on soil temperature, and
feeds the useful micro-organisms which
help the soil to function.
A compost heap is part of the normal
equipment of a European farm. Here
it is almost unknown. The vegetable
garden is the only part of the property
which gains from yard offal. One reason
why farm manure is so little used in
Australia lies in the size of farm pad-
docks, but, especially where land is free-
hold, farmers are learning. Rotational
grazing on well subdivided properties and
regular harrowings after each grazing
are the secrets of making good clover
fields.
The Danish system is a good one —
stock are grazed behind light, portable
fences and moved on when the grass is
down to the right level. Under that sys-
tem all paddocks are virtually self-
manuring.
Drifting Sandhills.
“Bogaduck”: Splendid work can be
done in the reclamation of sandhills. Six
yeprs ago one area I know was a waste
of white sand which was encroaching on
the adjoining £5 p.a. farming land at the
rate of three acres a year ; on the oppo-
site side it was exposing a stretch of use-
less limestone sheet-rock. The owner
netted it.
After that, 200 roots of the com-
mon bamboo were planted on the wind-
ward side ; banksia cobs were roasted in
a brush fire and scattered along a chain-
wide strip on the same side, together with
wattle seed which had been soaked in
boiling water. Couch-grass roots and
lupin seed were harrowed in ; super, at
the rate of half a bag to the acre was
broadcast. Sheep manure was scattered
by the shovelful from the back of a dray,
and finally the whole strip was covered
with raked straw and cut gum boughs.
The object was to “make something
grow.” Quite a lot did, from the grass
seeds which had been in the sheep
manure to young banksia plants.
Each season thereafter the treatment
wais repeated a chain farther in, leaving
an intervening strip of equal width un-
treated save for a light coating of raked
straw. Today the whole area is covered
with lines of bamboos, clumps of banksia
and wattle. The intervening ground
carries a coating of grass and lupins, to-
gether with native bushes which appeared
without being planted. No further drift
has taken place.
The owner’s latest report is: “We find
that sheep do no harm there now, and
get a fair bit of feed, too, as long as
they’re a big mob and are only put in
for a few days at long intervals.”
Remember rabbits were kept off ever
since the work started. Without the
netting the job could not have been done.
It needed 160 wooden posts, 320 steel
posts, one mile of netting and two miles
of barbed wire, plus three weeks’ work
for two men in the first year and one
week every year thereafter. Against this,
set the fact that if the sand-drift hadn’t
been stopped it would have smothered
an additional £9O worth of wheat land
by now.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: A farm topdressed annu-
ally with at least lcwt. of super, per acre
will provide all the minerals for a dairy
herd. Give coarse or rock salt in boxes,
as a cow needs loz. to 4oz. of salt daily
Mineral licks help to provide calcium


STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man ccn fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9'9'-
GUARANTEED FOR 5 TEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
JSSSL.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
J 1
f IKaa
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
Tf n
ja§jj*,gjgi
r r
yjip
MB
WdSW
r&
?- L-
. ■- :
m mm
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/'
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte. • '
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
and phosphorus, but are not enough,
Topdressing with super, is best.
“Pappamosca”: Make paddock pig-
sties movable, no more than about 10ft.
x sft., half-roofed, the sides of the roofed
portion covered with asbestos sheet in
preference to iron. They should be given
a little flexibility up’and down by being
fitted in slots. The other sft. x sft. space
is made up of four batten rails. Floor
vith wood as light as possible. Run an iron
axle through fore and aft, and fit four
12in. wooden wheels. The trough should
be in the yard part.
“Fumi”: When spraying fruit-trees
keep the mixture well stirred. A piece
of soft soap about the size of sixpence
to two gallons of any mixture will help
it stick better. When treating the trunk
and the lower limbs let the mixture run
to the trunk-base and soil to clean up
any pests sheltering there. Lime the soil
(lib. to each tree) and dig it over a fort-
night after the spraying. Don’t spray
when the sun is hot or when leaves are
wet with rain or dew.
“Tryana”: Mitchell-grass seed should
be distributed some time in the spring,
about 41b. to the acre. Smaller quan-
tities have been known to give fairly
good results provided the sower is pre-
pared to wait until the following year
for the grass to thicken. The seed needs
a really good rain to start it off. It will
lie in the ground without deteriorating,
and will not germinate except in very
warm weather. Surface sowing is essen-
tfel. The seed will not germinate from
an Y depth. About 200 to 300 acres a
day can be sown by the use of a motor
truck. After germination it is essential
that stock be kept off the paddock, as
die young plants do not become firmly
rooted until after the second rain follow-
seeding. Another method of sowing
* s t° scatter the seed, eat the paddock
right out with sheep and allow the sheep
to tramp the seed in, removing them Im-
mediately rain falls.
“Mt. Boppy”: A good ration for dairy
cows is -01 b. ot oaten chaff, ..lb. of
crushed oats and 21b. of linseed meal
divided into two feeds a day. If the cows
respond to the ration give a little more
but in the same proportions. Increase
quantity until the cows fail to respond
further.
“Don p e dro”: Working in England,
Robert Bakewell 150 years ago revolu-
tionised stockbreeding. He worked with
British breeds, the Leicester sheep and
cattle and a strain of black horses. His
most successful plan for breed-improve-
ment was careful inbreeding of out-
standing individuals, a method that had
been held in fear and contempt in former
years. He let out rams for seasonal ser-
vice to neighboring farmers. In this
way he could see how each ram was
breeding, and sell those that he did not
fancy as sires. In Maoriland the same
tactics are being followed by Wioro-
ngari stud, the foremost breeder of Rom-
ney Marsh sheep, with which strain M.L.
breeders must be close to leading the
world. Wiorongari has a system of
“climatic out-crossing” and selling with
option of repurchase to offshoot studs.
That is as sound genetically as Bake-
well’s scheme, and slightly more fool-
proof.
“S.T.S.”: S.A. botanists think that they
have found the worm-seed oil (Cheno-
podium) plant, which is said to be the
one really satisfactory source of oil for
drenching pigs. It was known to exist
locally as lately as 1925, but a recent wide
hunt produced only hybrids of no real
commercial value. Now, however, a patch
found growing just above high-water
mark at Largs Bay has given enough
bush for distilling a trial sample, also
enough seed for starting the industry
properly if the sample proves pig-worthy.
“Moonraker”: The grant by the British
Government of £2 per acre for grassland
ploughed and sown with flax also applies
to about 2,000,000 acres sown with other
crops. The Commonwealth Government
is guaranteeing a minimum return of
£4 10s. per acre. Seed is 15s. per bushel.
It is certain that no records will be made
if we harvest only 800 tons. The average
yield of flax straw in Victoria has been
1.6 ton per acre, so it is expected that
20,000 acres will yield about 32,000 tons
of straw. The average fibre content
looked for is 10 p.c., so if the yield of
fibre falls below 3200 tons someone will
be disappointed. World’s record harvests
obtained in Maoriland were from native
perennial plants which have no botanical
connection with flax.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXVI.
Still AMONG THE BEEF.
“Heard y’ was lookin’ for a likely line
of cattle,” says Harry Anderson, stopping
you in the town one day. You don’t
know Harry, except that he lives on a
rambling sort of property way out west
of the river near the hills.
“Well” you begin doubtfully.
“Y’ oughter see what I got,” he says.
“Herefords, most of ’em, with a few
Devon crosses. The calves are about
ready f’r weanin’, and if y’d care t’ come
out an’ have a look at ’em” ——
It’s 15 miles from your place to
Harry’s, and you set aside a Sunday for
the inspection, running out in the car
with the two boys.
Harry is ready for you. He has three
horses saddled,' and with himself on a
fourth leads you and the boys through
a wilderness of stringy scrub, wild
tobacco and Bathurst burr until you
come on the cattle. The white-faced
cows eye you wildly, the calves put their
tails in the air and race in several dif-
ferent directions, and a couple of young
bulls roar and throw dirt about, and your
horse begins to dance sideways until you
get a pain in the side and feel a rawness
on the inside of your legs, not having
ridden a horse for several months.
Harry, who sits as comfortably in the
saddle as you don’t, keeps up a running
commentary on the quality of the stock,
frequently calling your attention to this
one or that. Generally, by the time you
get your eyes focused on the animal he
means, all you can see is its rear eleva-
tion, which is moving rapidly among the
stringy scrub.
Tom, your eldest boy, edges his horse
over to you. “Y’ want t’ get a closer
look at ’em, Dad,” he advises. “Y’ can’t
tell what they’re like chasin’ about like
this.”
“They’re not bad,” you tell Harry ;
“could we have a closer look at ’em?”
Harry ponders this, and then says,
“Yair. There’s a bit of a old crush yard
down in that corner” —waving an arm in
a vague southerly direction —“if you an’
the boys’ll help me run ’em down there.”
With which he pulls his hat tight,
shortens the reins and goes charging
among the burrs and brambles, yelling
“Ho, boy! Ho, bully!” Your two boys
also charge away, shouting and waving
their hats. You sit still, thinking you’ll
wait till the cattle come past and then
amble along behind.
Three cows and five calves burst sud-
denly out of a clump of box suckers, look
at you as though astonished that you
should be sitting still at such a moment
and promptly turn about and plunge back
into the suckers again.
Your horse trembles beneath you. You
tighten the reins. You don’t know it, but
that is a signal to him. He wheels as
though on a pivot. Marvellously you
hang on by one heel, get back into the
saddle and are carried at breakneck
speed into the scrub.
“Whoa, you blanker, whoa-a! ” you hiss
at the horse.
“Whoa yourself,” he snorts ; “you’ve
come to see cattle and you’re going to
see ’em.” He whirls round bushes or goes
straight through them, leaps fallen logs
and small washaways like a steeplechaser
and draws ever nearer to some cattle
crashing along in front.
Somewhere on the right you hear yells.
There are more yells ahead. The cattie
your horse is following wheel sharply ;
so does the horse, and, because you’ve
become merely a supernumerary in the
affair, you wheel, too, conscious that part
of the right leg of your best Sunday
trousers is hanging on a dead stick some-
where in the rear.
You now have a pain in both sides and
along the back. You’re sure the inside
of the left leg is bleeding and the flamin’
horse is out to murder you.
Just when you’ve made up your mind
to jump off and chance it, the horse
bursts out of the scrub on to a small
open plain and stops dead. He seems a
bit indignant to find you up amongst his
ears, but waits with a sort of pained
patience till you get back. You, the
horse and fully 100 cattle are alone in
the little plain. There is no sign of Harry
or the boys. You seize the opportunity
and slip to the ground, where you man-
age to stand up somehow, lean against
the horse and pant. A blessed relief
steals over you. “Cripes,” you marvel,
“must be months since I was on a horse,
and a stockhorse at that.”
The horse has a good blow and you
notice he’s in a bit of a lather. “Serve
y’ right,” you mutter, “takin’ advantage
of a man like that.” The horse waves his
near ear and stamps idly at a fly ; you
feel he isn’t impressed by your ability.
The herd is quiet. Time passes. You
begin to feel a slight alarm. Suddenly
there is a hail and Harry rides easily in
from the opposite direction to which you
had expected him.
“What’s goin’ on?” he asks.
You indicate the cattle. “Thought I’d
hold ’em,” you say.
He grins. “These ain’t mine. You’re
on Norton’s place.”
Then that was a fence the horse
jumped!
“If y’ don’t mind,” you say, “I’ll walk
back. Bit sore. Ain’t bin on a horse
for months.”
“If y’ like,” says Harry, “but it’s three
miles.”
Somehow you get back on the horse.
Every time he puts a hoof on the ground
one of your ribs goes through a lung.
When Harry breaks into a canter your
horse does the same. Then all your ribs
go through all your lungs. You smother
your grunts, grit your teeth and try to
stand in the stirrups. Several years later
you and Harry are met by your two
boys.
“The cattle have broke, Mr. Ander-
son,” says Tom. “The back end of the
yard was down and they”
“Dammit!” says Harry. “Meant t’ fix
it last Christmas. Well, it’s too late t’
round ’em up again t’day. We’ll have
t’ have another Sunday on ’em.”
You get off that horse, totter weakly
to a handy log, sit down and say, “You
boys ride in with Mr. Anderson. I—-I
don’t feel too good. Bring the car out
here an’ pick me up.”
“Will y’ be out next Sunday, Jack?”
asks Harry.
“We’ll see, we’ll see,” you reply, sink-
ing luxuriously down to the ground and
closing your eyes.


THE OTHER
FELLOW
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Names—though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
Australia very obviously needs more ships and more seamen. On the latter score
a seafaring man makes out a case against shipowners, which should be answered if
it can be. Anyway he is placed first and paid double.
Where Are the Seamen?
It was announced recently over the
radio that shipowners report a shortage
of skilled seamen because so many are
going ashore or enlisting. There is a
shortage, but there are other reasons
for it.
An able seaman must first serve as a
deckboy for 12 months, then for tw r o
years as an ordinary seaman, after which
he may sign on as an able seaman —if
he can get a job. The average mail
steamer carries two boys, the average
cargo steamer one boy, and our average
coaster none. One of the largest coastal
companies in Australia has but two boys
on its payroll, and some have none
at all.
In the course of years at sea I have
turned away dozens of lads who would
have signed on for nothing if necessary.
This position has obtained for many
years. Even when skilled seamen were
scarce during the last war, influence was
required to secure a job as deckboy, and
still is.
Generally the boys at present in train-
ing are the sons of skippers or some
other influential persons. As most of
these intend, and will succeed in, going
up the ladder and in obtaining an ofli-
cer’s rank, even they will not provide
the replacements for able seamen.
Where does the shipowner expect to
get his replacements? For years now
most of- our replacements have come
from the British Isles, with' quite a sprink-
ling of “Dutchmen,” but that supply will,
of course, be cut off, and the matter be-
comes urgent. In any case, why should
a nation like this have to depend on
other countries for its trained seamen?
Years ago the owners had no objec-
tion to signing on boys for men’s work.
The Navigation Act now requires them
to carry a specified number of able sea-
men regardless of the number of boys
employed, so the owner economises on
boys, also the space required for their
accommodation and their food. Boys,
however, are still trying to go to sea, so
let shipowners face the facts and mend
the position before it is too late.
A boy starting sea today will be an
able seaman three years hence; and
didn’t Mr. Churchill tell us that we
may have to fight for years? And
the merchant service steams on at all
times. — Keep Stroke (N.S.W.).
Naval Defence
Fifty to a hundred years ago wooden
vessels were built in practically every
little port, harbor or river mouth in
Australia. Why not get the men who
know how to build good vessels to
organise wooden shipbuilding? Vessels
could be designed to have adequate
length and beam and to have sufficient
speed to help defend our shores from
an invasion. They could carry one or
two torpedoes and a few machine-guns,
and, as small targets in the hands of
resolute men, could do great damage
amongst enemy transports.
There are hundreds of young men on
the waiting list of the Navy now who
should be training, and these could be
trained in the innumerable small boats
that are in every harbor and river in
Australia. There are plenty of ex-naval
officers, non-coms., etc., who could train
them.—X. (N.S.W.).
Air Defence
To know the position at any time of
enemy or friendly ’planes anywhere in
Australia, observation stations by volun-
teers could be created in a few days.
In nearly every Australian town and
a § e v ere can f° u nd a couple of
theodolites, compasses, clinometers, etc.,
and men knowing how to use them. Bases
could be measured off and quick observa-
tions taken of ’planes either by sound or
SUrect vision, and their height and posi-
tion calculated in a few minutes. The
observations could be telephoned or sig-
nalled to the nearest wireless station,
which could broadcast the information.
The personnel to man these stations
could be easily obtained voluntarily and
kept under the command of a surveyor,
engineer or any man who could use the
instruments.
The plan would prevent a surprise
attack by aircraft and would be invalu-
able to our own fighting ’planes in find-
ing enemy ’planes.—S. N. McL. (N.S.W.).
War Finance
The basic wage is generally about £4
a week, the idea being that this is the
value of food and lodging costs of a
family of four.
Many earners are single men, so how
about compelling them to save a speci-
fied amount of their wages each week in
savings certificates? The same prin-
ciple could be applied to women earning
above a certain amount each week.
Should the single people get married
their savings could be immediately re-
leased. — Intombizan (W.A.).
Cheap Generosity
Much of the hero-worship of our
soldiers is well deserved, but there is a
kind of homage that smacks of popu-
larity-hunting on the part of those who
practise it loudly in the market-place and
in the press. One group of flag-wavers
—evidently not engaged in sordid trade —-
declare that no volunteer should be re-
quired to satisfy his creditors, no matter
what the nature or extent of his debts.
They talk of the “bloodsucking rapacity”
of those who would demand their “pound
of flesh.”
But circumstances alter cases. A owes
B umpteen pounds, enlists, marries and
secures the two guineas per week susten-
ance. Mrs. A continues to live with her
parents, keeps her good job, collects her
cash and buys a fur coat first-off. Mean-
while B is left lamenting, too poor even
to buy buttons or gilt-edged bonds like
the hot-air patriots.
Then there are the prosperous butchers
(say) who think that the poor musicians
should give the work of their hands gratis
at every “war-work” concert they “organ-
ise.” If the ivory-ticklers suggested a free
and frequent handout of sausages at these
functions the butchers would be furious.
Along the same lines is the immensely
popular demand by a portion of the
press for free talkies for all the men in
khaki. While this is a consummation
devoutly to be wished, so also would be
a free issue of the paper which so fer-
vently advocates free entertainment.
By all means let the troops get the
best of everything, and let everybody
give generously according to his ability,
but there is neither patriotism nor gener-
osity in shouting for the mob when some
other fellow has to pay the score.— Stung
(S.A.).
Pretty Uniforms
Large sums of money are being wasted
on pretty but very expensive uniforms
for various women’s war-work associa-
tions. These uniforms are far more
attractive and far more expensive than
the A.I.F. uniforms —a ridiculous state
of affairs. If women want to do real war
work sincerely they will do it in ordinary
civilian clothes without the unnecessary
expense of making a pretty uniform. —
Thorn (N.S.W.).
Home Defence
<( What on earth is the use of appointing
“a band of Diggers in each district” to
be military leaders (B. 3/7/’40)? More
years separate us from the 1914-18 war
than separated the Boer War veterans
from their war experience in 1914, and
1914 war experience is no more useful
for 1940 purposes than Boer War experi-
ence was in 1914.
If we put every man in the country
between 18 and 60 into khaki (assuming
we could clothe them all), and even sup-
posing we could give each of them a rifle
and bayonet, they would have little or
no chance against a properly-mechanised
invading force. France had millions of
men and failed, though she fought gamely
enough. France actually overreached
herself in the matter of man-power, and
I would be prepared to ascribe France’s
surrender to the fact that she had too
many men with the colors. The normal
life of France was turned more com-
pletely upside down by the war than that
of Germany. One immediate effect was
a great slump in production, and even
some munition factories in France lost
over 30 per cent, of their workers. France
was not a rich country, and when war
broke out there was real anxiety about
her financial position.
Same here. Our real requirements are
not in man-power, but rather in mechani-
cal equipment for war. We want tanks,
’planes and sea-going craft. Marching
and physical training are all very well in
their way, but if this country is invaded
our troops won’t have to do any march-
ing. The attack, if it comes, will not be
directed towards Snooperdoop, but to
Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin, etc. And if
the cities fall, though we take to the
bush and continue guerrilla warfare from
there it won’t be any use. If the capitals
are occupied, then Australia is gone.
Even assuming that these Diggers were
used merely to train recruits in outside
districts it would necessitate having the
Diggers retrained first. The fact that a
man was once in the army—22 years ago
—is no guarantee that he would be any
use as an instructor, even in drill, for
present-day requirements. Our imme-
diate difficulty, however, is fully to
clothe, house and equip the men we have
already got. Ex-Imperial Officer
(N.S.W.).
Free Travel for Soldiers
A workman when he joins the A.I.F.
receives far less than his award rates in
civilian life; he sacrifices the difference
to serve his country, and his country
should reciprocate wherever possible.
Members of Parliament serve the coun-
try—or are supposed to —and are given
many privileges, which include free rail
travel. Why not give that prerogative
to the A.1.F., who are prepared to make
sacrifices so that the politician and the
rest of us can keep our jobs?—R. V. J.
(Vic.).
Patent Applied For
We drink hot lemonade until our
throat and temper are boiling, we swallow
aspirins till they pile neatly up in our
necks on top of each other, we dodge
draughts, and crawl up to our ears in
overcoats. And then we blithely use
a public telephone and literally get on
to speaking terms with the very best
germs.
At G.P.O. today I saw a gent, with
an unfortunate bronchial cough go into
a booth and prove to be a spit-and-blow
maniac, coughing and gurgling into the
transmitter as though paid for it. The
mouthpiece wasn’t cold, of course, before
someone else was using it.
A daily flick over with disinfectant isn’t
enough treatment for telephones. Why
isn’t there some simple adjustment which
(when the receiver is replaced after use
of the ’phone) automatically sprays the
mouthpiece and thus protects the next
user?—E. (N.S.W.).
Men Needed
With so many young men enlisting
from Central and North-west Queens-
land the future holds a serious employ-
ment problem for these areas. A labor
shortage exists for a period of every
year even in ordinary circumstances.
On a population percentage basis the
west is contributing more men than the
more closely settled coast and cities. Each
week the Cloncurry mail train carries
30 or so men to the camps, and the same
applies to the Winton line. Burr workers,
lamb-markers, stockmen and ordinary
laborers are becoming more and more
difficult to procure, and, if the present
rate of egress continues, will be unobtain-
able.
Before the position becomes acute a
Bureau of Outback Employment should
be set up in the capital cities. Men
selected, preferably young men, to receive
free rail fare both ways if they remain
for a term of, say, six months; wages to
be governed by the existing awards.
The bush worker hasn’t the pleasures
or conditions of employment of the man
in the city, but he receives a certain
amount of freedom, and can have a
smoke and yarn without being pounded
by the boss. He is surprisingly indepen-
dent, and, if showing any inclination for
the work, will find he is seldom interfered
with, and is practically his own master.
It’s a healthy life and a free one. You can
save money and have a month’s or six
weeks’ holiday a year, or, if anxious to
succeed, can continue for several years
and invest your savings in some small
business.
It’s an opportunity many young men
in the cities should appreciate.—A. W. B.
CQ-).
Expensive Buffoonery
This morning I opened my paper and
found, as I had expected, half a column
devoted to a “thrilling account” of the
previous night’s wrestling bout. I ex-
pected it because I have read that same
“thrilling account” twice a week, six
months a year, for the past three or four
years. “Wrestlers run amuck. Referee
knocked out in wild melee. Rows of
seats smashed. The bout ended in the
fifth round when Oscar Cruncher was
disqualified. Cruncher had to be escorted
from the ring under police protection.”
And so on.
I get all this for the price of a paper.
What is more to the point is the fact that
hundreds of pounds come out of Aus-
tralian pockets every week for the privi-
lege of watching these exhibitions. Surely
with nations at death grips we have
enough of fighting without paying to see
imported buffoons burlesquing it.
There is talk of curtailing racing for the
duration. Racing in Australia is more of
an industry than a sport, with thousands
of Australians depending upon it for a
living. There are other sports which
should go before racing, and the first
should be the imported American clown-
ing exhibitions called “wrestling.”—P. M.
(N.S.W.).
A Moral
There is a sort of tragic humor about
France’s downfall. Accepting the Com-
munist doctrine, “The boss is the real
enemy,” French workers* indulged in
Popular Front movements —strikes, with
the objective (finally achieved) the 40-
hour week at the old rate of pay. Came
the war and a reversion of hours to 'the
old 48. Disgruntled, many workers
listened to the Communist whisper “Go
slow,” and, once the leader in world
aviation, France’s aeroplane production
became infantile. And the lack of ’planes
was possibly the greatest contributing
factor towards defeat.
Now, humbled to the dust, French
workers, under the whips of German
taskmasters, will probably work 72 hours
a week. They may even be compelled
to work Sundays. Thus they will pro-
duce aeroplanes and engines of war
designed for the conquest of Britain.
Which conquest, should it come to pass,
would destroy for all time all hopes of
French regeneration.
There seems to be a moral about this
somewhere for some Australians. Of
course, Australians would go on strike
against any slave-driving foreign task-
master. But just let the French worker
try going on strike from now on. —
W. C. C. (W.A.).
The German Life Stream
In claiming that Germany possesses
an immensely prodigal life stream, the
only real wealth of any nation, T. J.
Palmer (B. 26/6/’4O) is merely repeating
false Nazi propaganda. On latest avail-
able figures the German birthrate four
years after Hitler came into power (18.8
per 1000 of mean population) was lower
than that of Europeans in the Union of
South Africa (25.1), Canada (19.8),
Northern Ireland (19.8), Tasmania (20.7),
Queensland (19.4) and Westralia (19).
Compared with the 1908-13 period it had
fallen at a faster rate than that of Aus-
tralia or Great* Britain. Two years later,
Hitler was issuing frantic commands to
Nazi Germany to increase and multiply,
and offering substantial inducements for
cradle-filling, legitimately or otherwise.
From this it is clear that the German
life stream is failing at its source to an
even greater degree than that of the
British Empire. Official figures of the
Reich Health Service show that it is a
contaminated and weakly stream. In the
first five years of Nazi rule diphtheria and
dysentery doubled, cerebro-spinal menin-
gitis trebled and infantile paralysis quad-
rupled in numbers of reported cases.
Tubercular diseases increased still more.
Official explanation ascribed it to poor
nutrition (the result of “encirclement”),
fewer doctors and midwives (many had
been driven out as Jews), fewer food in-
spectors, insanitary overcrowding in
youth movements, and excessive working


hours. The most astonishing official ad-
mission was that 75 p.c. of all male Ger-
mans had at one time or another suffered
from some form of venereal disease.
On Germany’s own admission, there-
fore, the life-wealth controlled by Hitler
is a debased currency, failing at its
source of supply, which will assuredly
collapse into bankruptcy once any real
strain is put upon it. Recent vast losses
of young men will take a full generation
to repair, and the profound interference
with normal ways of living in Germany,
far greater than in Britain and the
Empire, must have a lasting detrimental
effect upon the German life stream. And,
man for man under equal conditions,
both this war and the last have shown
that we are the better fighting stock.—M.
Turlutu (Q.).
“Long Live Russia”
There were two items of especial in-
terest on the same page of my daily news-
paper. One was a quotation from a
Rumanian paper referring to outrages by
Russian troops of the Blood-Red Army
then pouring into northern Rumania. The
other was a quotation from that blither
of our Mr. Hughes: “And so I say with
Mr. McGillick, ‘Long live Russia.’ ”
Mr. Hughes also said that he would
welcome an alliance between Britain and
Russia to crush Germany. Has he for-
gotten that only a few months ago Stalin
told the world that the hour for world
revolution was ready to strike? Does he
imagine that the Christian Churches
would welcome an alliance with Mos-
cow? Does he wish to destroy Austro-
Japanese friendship by too-friendly
gestures towards Russia? And does he
want his Government to become a sort
of spiritual inheritor of the pro-Russian
lunacy of the “Popular Front” Govern-
ment that did so much to destroy France?
—Ausfirst (S.A.).
“Boots Mended”
Having just seen an expensive pair of
my wife’s shoes ruined by the attentions
of a so-called boot repairer—wrecker
would be better —I agree with those
honest tradesmen who contend that any-
one setting up in the bootmaking and
repairing business should produce inden-
tures to show that he is master of his
trade.
At present, anyone can start a business
as a boot repairer, and he can damage
a lot of footwear before his customers
become disgusted. This sort of thing is
not confined to boot repairing. There
are tailors who would be better employed
digging potatoes, garage “mechanics”
who appear to do their work with an
axe and sledgehammer, dry-cleaners who
should be shot, bakers who couldn’t make
a decent damper and many others who
are actually unable to give the service
for which they expect payment.
Usually the loss sustained by the cus-
tomer is so small that it does not justify
a prosecution, and a person has to be
bitten once before he is aware of the
“tradesman’s” ignorance of his task.
Where there is a chance of the public’s
being robbed by inefficiency, some proof
of ability should be necessary before a
business can be started. — Sam Square
(N.S.W.).
Refugee Children
“0.T.” and “A.W.R.” (B. 26/6/’4O) do
not grasp the spirit of Australia’s offer
to help with refugee children. We Aus-
tralian women feel sick when we think
of bombs falling on defenceless children,
and, although we realise the trouble an
unknown child may be, we prefer to
accept that trouble and know the child
is safe.
There will be a flood of complaints, no
doubt, but the children will be well and
whole in Australia, and not mangled
little corpses because we feared possible
bother if we saved them. The orphans
“A.W.R.” refers to are not in danger
of their lives.
Another important point to bear in
mind is that the parents in England will
fight for us with steadier nerves knowing
their children won’t be destroyed before
their eyes at any moment of the day
or night.
“The detestable habit of making offers
in public prints” is not detestable; it is
a most necessary form of propaganda
and will be the cause of many more
children finding sanctuary. Follow-my-
leader is quite a normal procedure in
our social structure. —O. L. (N.S.W.).
Paper-saving
This, we are told, is a national neces-
sity. The daily press uses up paper by
the shipload, and distributes it to every
home in Australia. Once read, the paper
is valueless to the reader, but is still
valuable to the nation. Thousands of
tons annually are used as fuel or thrown
as rubbish to the void.
In the present scarcity a few young
patriots go out with hand carts to collect
an infinitesimal quantity of what is scat-
tered abroad by fast machines. They
might as well go gleaning between the
rows of a rich harvest.
What is required is a definite command,
uttered over the air that every newspaper
reader shall drop his “empties” into
roomy receptacles placed at such strategic
points as railway stations, post offices or
tram stops within one week from the
date of purchase. Transport from these
depots could be effected by rail, military
wagons, gubernatorial limousines or
other official vehicles.
If the resulting heap proved to be too
big to be stored in the empty Houses of
Parliament it could be stacked in the
centre of a racecourse and thatched with
waste newspapers. The present collectors
would lose a lot of fun, but they might
be employed making bonfires of the
surplus.
If the Australian public—boundary-
riders and sundowners and prospectors
exempted —objects to this form of con-
scription of rubbish, it deserves to be
deprived of its “Hansards.” — Paper
Money (S.A.).
“Yampi”
A large deposit of iron ore hear Narvik
recently caused no end of fuss. There
is also a large deposit of iron ore in W.A.
at Yampi Sound, but the Federal Govern-
ment does not consider this deposit worth
the attention of even 40 men.
In the meantime, country State school
children in Westralia are interested in a
new game. By request they are scouring
town and country for scrap'-iron to be
sent to the smelters. The youngsters have
a sense of humor —they call the new
game “Yampi.”—J. T. Ollor (W.A.).
“Making Fun of Degeneracy”
The “sissy-boy act” (B. 3/7/’4O) began
with an occasional guarded allusion from
the pie-faced comedian. Then youths with
vaudeville turns from America intro-
duced the curtsy, which is traditionally
feminine, and the sissy-act, the more
obvious the better, duly followed. Gradu-
ally audiences became accustomed to it,
and now no smart comedy or variety act
is complete without it. The producers
were simply following a fashion, and
goodness knows who created it.
But there are dozens of other things
which have equal entertainment value in
the modern theatre. References to beds
and bedroom utensils and even babies
are equally effective. The effect produced
is the measure of the repressions of the
audience. Their repressions come from
the age-old taboos which they share
with the performers. According to Malin-
owski, the Trobrianders have an entirely
different morality from ours. They have
taboos of their own, but they are not our
taboos, so a joke that would be instantly
appreciated by an Australian audience
would be completely incomprehensible
to a Trobriander; and probably vice
versa. Remove the repression and there
would be no audience-reaction, the show
would be considered dull and the pro-
ducers would have to think up another
one.
Hence any. form of prohibition would
merely increase the repression and there-
fore the entertainment value of the thing
that “M.” wants to eradicate. She talks
about glandular tests and of medical
brains doing something about it. Medi-
cal opinion is divided on the subject, and
the glandular theory is by no means an
unchallenged explanation. But I don’t
suppose a person with a truly scientific
attitude towards the matter would find
the sissy-act any more exciting than the
burlesque of a cripple or a madman.
Audiences like the one and don’t like the
other because of their repressions. Edu-
cation is the only thing that will blunt
the edge of this weapon for entertaining
the public.— Pawang (Vic.).
Democracy
In a speech at Temora (N.S.W.), Mr.
Bruxner, after stating that we were fight-
ing to save democracy, defined democ-
racy as the right to stay away from work
when we felt like it and tell the boss to
“go to hell.”
Some other rights he might have ex-
horted us to defend are the right to pre-
occupy our minds with trivialities and
our bodies with sport; the right to prefer
easy living to good citizenship ; the right
to choose domestic comfort rather than
have babies ; the right to expect tariff
protection and bounties instead of striv-
ing for efficiency in production ; the right
to relegate thousands of men to the un-
employed scrapheap; the right to borrow
and borrow and not worry about repay-
ment; the right to be a paid member of
one of six unnecessary State Parliaments.
Our democracy, in its ideals at least,
is better than that, but fighting is not
going to be worth while if we are going
to relax when it is over. Then we must
accept our opportunity to build a true
democracy ; it will need hard work, con-
structive thinking and conscientious liv-
ing.—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Jury System
To abolish the jury system, even tem-
porarily (B. 3/ 7 / ’4O), would be veering
dangerously towards the totalitarian idea
of administering justice.
The fact that “36 good men and true
forsook workshop, office and consulting-
room” to attend court and deliver judg-
ment on one of their fellow-men says
much for the equitable decision which
such jurymen, with their wide and varied
experience of human nature, could un-
doubtedly reach.
It would be false economy to attempt
to win a war for democracy by pulling
away one of its sturdiest pillars. — Peter
Piper (N.S.W.).
Waste
A prime example of wastage scars the
face of Melbourne's tree-lined Queen-
street. Erected at the order of some tin-
pot authority or other, it stands in front
of the R.A.A.F. recruiting centre in the
form of an open bandstand. For more
than a month it has been depriving the
council of at least three bob per day in
parking fees. For the space of an hour
on the first three days after its erection
it was occupied by bands playing mar-
tial airs. Somebody put a stop to this,
and from the third day no sound has
proceeded from the raised platform.
If a band were needed to play for
recruiting purposes, which is doubtful,
there is no good reason why they could
not set up their music stands on one of
the tree plantations in the centre of the
roadway. Certainly the bandstand offered
no covering from the elements, and I’ve
yet to meet the brass band that needed
a raised platform to make itself heard.
Good sound timber went into its mak-
ing, unnecessary paint topped it off, and
several men were engaged in the task of
putting it together. One assumes that
they were paid for the job: Admittedly
no enormous sum was involved, buti
whatever the amount it was sheer waste,
and waste by a municipal body in war-
time will hardly inspire the citizens to
cut out luxuries and spend their surplus
cash and energies in helping the national
war effort. —Nairb (Vic.).
End of Press Prestige
Over the last few years we have seen
the daily press putting up hero after hero
as champions of causes many of which
were well lost before the press discovered
them. One after another the heroes have
fallen —and have been allowed to slip
quietly into the background. Now, with
a constant stream of war news coming
in to inflame their hysterical writings,
most of the knights of the special edition
are forgetting their old, successful tech-
nique. Now, when champions, from
Chamberlain to Weygand, fall, the press
does not let them recede gently into the
background. Instead, it turns on them
with vicious phrases and all the venom
of hero-worship that has seen the feet of
clay. Worst of all, the ejecting of venom
is done with an “I-told-you-so” air.
This might be a wise course if the
public had as short a memory as the
flapper press likes to believe. However,
a newspaper hero is treated with such
loudness of praise while he remains a
hero that when he falls and the tykes turn
on him the public does not quite forget.
Instead, the newspaper reader grins, and
says, “Remember what they were saying
about him last week?”
So wanes the power of the hysteria
press. In future, perhaps, its readers will
not be so ready to join in the chorus of
praise for new Haile Silassies. Litvinovs,
Pasionarias and Red Armies. And again,
perhaps.— Unpopfront (S.A.).
Fares and Flats
There is more to this problem of flat-
dwellers and consequent restriction of
birthrate than mere selfishness. One of
the biggest factors is expense. Among
my many friends who begin married life
in a flat quite 50 per cent, move to
homes of their own in the outer suburbs.
The tragedy of it is that so often they
cannot afford to make the move until
age or the restrictions they have for-
merly had to employ prevent the fulfil-
ment of family life.
One of the main reasons for flat-dwell-
ing in the earliest years of married life
is the fact that the young man, not yet
in receipt of a really comfortable income,
needs to live near enough to his work to
make transport a workable item on the
family budget. Beyond any but the
inner suburbs fares are so high that,
even on a monthly or quarterly ticket]
a traveller has to budget an amount out
of all proportion to income.
Because of this the newly-weds look
for a home in an inner suburb, where
rents for houses that are roomy and com-
fortable are exorbitant. Flat rents are
lower, but there are no gardens for a
child to play in. No landlord is going
to leave idle garden space where he might
build another flat or two.
If fares for regular wage-earners,
travelling on season tickets, were made as
cheap for the outer suburbs as for the
inner ones young couples could live
where there is space for family expan-
sion and Australia would have more of
her best immigrants.— Tilda (Vic.).
Women and War
The dyed-in-the-wool feminists must be
gnashing their teeth at the setback their
cause has received through the war. Not
only have women been relegated to a
minor position in national affairs, but cer-
tain of them are showing a marked capa-
city to be troublesome.
Women’s service organisations are rent
with the anguish caused by social snob-
bery, women are becoming nuisances to
the police by organising boycotts of in-
offensive aliens, women are wasting the
time of military authorities by bringing
to them fantastic tales of fifth-column
activities.
Women have been told that they can
win wars, but it is by the very un-
feminist method of just having more
babies.—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Public Spirit?
So often now one hears political
leaders calling on the “public spirit” of
the community that it behoves every Aus-
tralian to realise fully the significance of
the term.
Many years ago the inhabitants of the
earth resolved to send a message to Mars.
It was decided that at a certain time on
a certain date every man, woman and
child would gaze upwards and shout, it
being thought that such a volume of
shouting would surely rise far into the
heavens. The momentous day arrived,
but when the hour struck not one shout
arose. Instead, there reigned on earth
a silence never before known. One indi-
vidual confessed that he did not shout
because he thought his voice amongst so
many millions would never be missed.
Unfortunately everyone else thought the
same.
In Australia today there are too many
people dodging the “shouting.” Too
many sitting back with the self-satisfy-
ing thought that their small effort
amongst so many thousands would never
be noticed. This dormant public spirit
must awaken itself in every individual
if Australia is to put forth its greatest
effort. — Jack Zuber (N.S.W.).
Green Roads
Airmen flying at night have frequently
stated that white concrete roads are easy
to pick out from the air and easy to
follow. As most of our white concrete
roads lead from the city to our big
towns they would prove a great aid to
enemy aviators, who could follow them
to a city or a large town. It should not
be a very difficult or expensive matter to
make all concrete roads green by mixing
a coloring matter with the concrete. It
would be a good defence move, and
motorists would find the green roads
much easier on their eyes. —W. P.T.
(N.S.W.).
War Loans and the Farmer
A good deal of money for war loans
is being raised in country districts, and
even from among wheat-farmers. When
it is realised that wheat-farmers have for
years been working on large overdrafts,
it means (in most cases) that money
given or lent to the Government by those
with overdrawn accounts is given or lent
at bank rates of interest, which is much
higher than the rate received for war
loans. Thus the farmers are increasing
their overdrafts in endeavoring to help
provide funds that could more economi-
cally and with far fewer collection ex-
penses be obtained direct from the trading
b^nks
In view of the fact that the Common-
wealth has the power to mobilise wealth,
it does not seem just that the hardest-hit
section of the community should be ex-
pected to contribute to a loan when by
so doing it only plunges itself deeper
into debt. There is no question but that
the farmers desire to help the war effort,
but they can really do so only if they are
in a sound financial or productive posi-
tion. — Toxites (W.A.).


w
The following paragraph is extracted
from a letter received just after this
announcement was prepared. We in-
clude it because of its appositeness.
The writer completed the Pelman Course
in Oct., 1937. His letter asked for
advice on reading relative to geographic
and economic aspects of the war:
June 26, 1940.
“It is now some years since my
completion of the Pelman Course,
and I would like to tell you that,
as time goes on, I respect more
and more its principles. Indeed,
at a time such as this, when our
very survival is dependent on our
efficiency, one could well wish that
our complete Empire had been
‘tuned up’ by Pelmanism.”
R. 1126.
The efficiency of which the writer
speaks and which we emphasise in “The
Home Front” rests on an extension and
development of the following attributes
and qualities:
Self-confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Judgment
Will-Power
Self-Control
Observation
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments,
prices and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism develops these qualities
quickly and permanently. They become
habitual mental processes manifesting
themselves smoothly and evenly, and
largely without conscious effort.
Address inquiries about Pelmanism to
The Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
e
NEW ZEALAND INQUIRERS
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send
readers of The Bulletin a
copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free.
You can write us fully, or
you can make just a bare
application by using or copy-
ing the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be re-
garded as a confidential
communication; we have no
outside representatives.
To tlie Pelman Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy of
“The KHtcient -Mind.”
Xante
Address
11 7
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
w
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
J enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Patersoi
"Banjo" Paterson’s book of verses dealing mamly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDT AKERS,’ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
0^
iP
NfJ S
0
o v
ft)
e
\y
*>V
..-■> s#y£
V \e
vs s
1V


YOU CAN CET STRONG
'U!i
in one
SPECIAL EXTRA—PRICE SMASHED!
Now Only 20/- or 2/6 Deposit
HERE’S an opportunity for you to develop big muscles
and obtain great strength by taking advantage of this
astounding bargain! Now only 20/-, or 2/6 deposit, for this
famous £3 value Complete Home Gymnasium. Watch your
muscles grow! Surprise your friends! Everything GUARAN-
TEED. The big chest expander alone is worth more than you
pay for the entire outfit. This offer is limited, so we sincerely
advise you to get the coupon away to-day.
HERE’S WHAT YOU GET WITH THIS
SMASHING BARGAIN!
I.—Complete Set of Wall Apparatus Attachment.
2.—Two High-tensioned Grip Apparatus; builds strong
wrists and forearms.
3. —Book on Ju-Jitsu (Japanese secrets exposed).
4.—Foot Stirrup; for legs, thighs, stomach.
s.—Complete Muscle Building Course.
6.—Complete Boxing Course.
7.—Rowing Machine Attachment.
B.—Three-strand Progressive Chest Expander.
THIS OFFER EXPIRES 30th AUGUST
HURRY COUPON!
GYM. SUPPLIES, Sales Dept. 24,
24 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
I enclose 20/-, or 2/6 as first payment, for your complete
Muscle Building Outfit and Courses, and in accordance with your
Guarantee, if I’m not satisfied you will refund my money in full.
1 7/7/’4O
NAME . . ,
ADDRESS
LIMITED
OFFER
ONLY!
RUSH
COUPON
' MONEY BACK|
| IF NOT if
ksATISFIEoJ
o
¥1
'J
i i IM
llfil
ii
If ,1?
*
v
:40tm
V.
w/uc
HQJkL«S£
fcQ
H
c C&
' WIwSavKKSS
«&» wakm-
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
Let us send you this whole wonderful Muscle Building Outfit, Courses, etc., to try at our
risk, for only 20/-. If you’re not satisfied within 10 days of using, just return the
apparatus and your money will be refunded in full. We will send it C.Q.D. if you like.
Just pay the postman a few pence extra for postage, or pay by instalments of 2/6 per
week until 25/- is paid in full.
GYM. SUPPLIES, SALES DIPT. 24, 24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Secret Art of Voice Throwing
Exposed for the First Time
NEVER before have the secrets of ven-
triloquism been offered to the public.
Now for the first time YOU can, learn to
throw your voice. You can get endless
lun from ventriloquism, you can amaze
the “wise ones.” Send for this startling
FREE literature and within 24 hours you
will know many of the secrets of ventrilo-
quism .
NOW YOU CAN LEARN
VENTRILOQUISM
Throw Your Voice Amuse Your
Friends! Make Money!
FOR the first time the rage of America
reaches Australia and New Zealand.
Now you can learn at home this most
amusing and entertaining art. Startle and
amuse your friends —throw your voice—
give entertainments—make money in your
spare time. Send for FREE literature
telling you EVERYTHING about Ven-
triloquism. Send this coupon TO-DAY!
WHAT THIS FREE
LITERATURE WILL
TELL YOU!
• How to throw your voice.
• How to make a doll speak.
• How to entertain with ven-
triloquism.
• How to make money in your spare
time.
• How to get roars of laughter.
• How to be popular and admired.
• The inner secrets of ventriloquism.
BE A VENTR(IQQUIST/P
. \
taT:.-?J f—-
Get Greater
Popularity —
Win Friends !
POST
COUPON
NOW!
/AINON ON QNIS
VALENTINE FOX, Dept. 86,
Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Send me bv return post your
FREE LITERATURE all about ven-
triloquism.
NAME
ADDRESS
i 7/7/’4O.
(Euolose stamp for postage.)
e
THIS GREAT OFFER
DEFINITELY EXPIRES
30th AUG.—RUSH COUPON!
VALENTINE FOX, Dept. 86,
BOX 3573 RR,
G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AIE
<£<s\
//fit
Which
EVL
m
\
ft
one
W:\ti
of
N ‘l /i
W
m Ml
:A
/#
men
represents
OR IT COSTS YOU
NOTHING /
TEST THIS METHOD
AT NO COST!
BY deciding at once—NOW —you can
make a test in your own home of this
amazing method, at absolutely no cost to
yourself if you are not satisfied. Tall
people to-day are the winners—the short
person is pushed aside. Why remain short
when you can be your normal height?
You can stand above your fellows and
command the attention and respect which
only tall people receive—nothing adds
more to your personality than height;
and yet all this is within your reach.
You can NOW get this extra height—
you can be the person you have always
wanted to bet
GENUINE PROOF
GAINED 2 INS. IN TWO WEEKS!
“I have added 2 inches to my height in
two treeks.”—H. MOSCHETTI, 1., W.A.
GAINS ‘il INCHES!
"I thank you for adding 2* inches to
me.”—T. GAYLORD, H., NX
GAINED 2 INCHES.
“1 have improved very much in health,
and hate gained 2 inches. It is a splendid
success.” —M. ARCHER, L., Tasmania.
ADDED 11 INCHES IN 3 WEEKS!
“I have only hod two weeks at it, but
am already 1$ inches toiler.”
—K. JUER, G., N.S.W.
These letters and hundreds
more can he seen at our
offices at any time.
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE
Dept. 91, Wayile House,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
GREAT DIFFERENCE
IN JUST 14 DAYS
YOUR friends -will be amazed at your
increase in height. Within 14 days
from NOW you can be taller! You can
do what others have done —add inch(;s
to your height. It does not matter what
you have tried or what you have done.
If you DESIRE to be taller, get that
coupon in the post to-day!
STARTLING SECRETS
OF HEIGHT— FREE!
THIS’ remarkable literature will amaze
you! It will show- you the short
eul, to a tall, commanding personality.
Through reading this wonderful Treatise,
hundreds have already increased their
height, hundreds are doing so at this
moment. For a short while you can get
one of these Treatises Free— -if you Eer.d
ril; once! Get this coupon in the post now . -
.MAIL NOW*...
" The Principal,
I Sydney Physical .Institute,
" l»ept. 94, Wayne House,
| Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
| Dear Sir, —Please send me your re~
- markable literature, “How to Increase
I My Height.” I enclose stamp for
| postage.
S na’mp:
I
