

Famous
“The Grapes”
Limehouse - London
Charles Dickens loved
this curious old tim-
bered inn, which rises
from the north banks
of the Thames to offer
hospitality to its
har trees
AfHOOHKIOI
IN
v ■>
V * /
yv
w
sir
Jfx
ft rw\
•V
' hh
-
- V .-. :
iP«*
C=
K
min
t
r
n
m/
III'!
ost
o
says:
”J us t as ships from near
and far bring to London
the varied products of the
world, so do I assemble the
ingredients for my Wor-
cestershire Sauce.
I brew in the good old-
fashioned way, and mature
it until it is mellow and
appetising.’*
f s
e
'O/j
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3134.
Wednesday, March 6, 1940.
Holidays More Important
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Ttoru Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New P rsc
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, 03
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 340
The Red Page
The Two Poets.
One day when naked flowery Spring
Lay on the trees, I touched the string
That shook awake the red-gold king
Whom men and woe call “War.”
He took the tablet from my knee,
Said, “Let me read this poetry.
There’s much behind your lines,” cried
he, f „
“But behind my lines there’s more.
I argued, “But I cannot read
These lines you show.” Said he, “You
need
Sockets for eyes and brains that bleed
Across the pages red.
I write in the heroic style:
Ten battalions to the English mile;
The sonnet is the rank and file;
The sequence is the dead.
I have spring flowers of sanguine hue,
And murmuring shells, long, round and
blue,
My naked fauns and satyrs, too,
In the gunners and their gun.
See that airy sprite in the iron cloak
Flying through my vers libre smoke?
Ah! he fell in flames just as I spoke
And his halo whirls in the sun.
I scribbled this off just now,” said he.
Holding half of a dead man out to me.
“See what unearthly agony
In this great hemistich?
The distich, of course, is a form I know,
And practise oft, for the wounded go
So easily earthward, row on row. . .
But the dithyramb’s for the quick.
Written with bayonet, mystic with gas,
What an ode I can make of a flying mass,
While machine-guns stammer ‘Alas!
Alas!’
And human skulls bleach fast.
For ballads, the women’s hearts I take—
Pressed to murdered children, how they
ache!
What a musical moan they make as they
break
And my love song is finished at last.
You write,” said War, “because you must.
The thought flowers out from you, the
dust.
I write from some such striving lust
As you do, now and then—
But with what fierceness, with what pain!
God prints me; yes; but I remain
In one edition, nor again
Am I read by thinking men.”
Maoriland.
Eve Langley.
The Hitler Myth.
In two hundred years’ time, when it
has been definitely established that
Bernard Shaw was never quite so good
as he said he was, successive boostings
and debunkings of Hitler may have built
up some credible picture of the man who
told Mr. Chamberlain that he was willing
to take the risk of a world war, and
who has already some thousands of
deaths on his conscience.
Most of the Hitler studies so far pub-
lished in English have set out to belittle
him. Hitler Speaks (Thornton Butter-
worth ; Angus and Robertson) goes to
the other extreme from such idiocies as
“Adolf in Blunderland” and seeks to
portray him as Antichrist in person,
It is written by Hermann Rauschning,
ex-Nazi and ex-President of the Danzig
Senate, whose view of Nazism as pure
nihilism, a dynamic of violence out of
control, has already been publicised in
Germany’s Revolution of Destruction.
Hitler Speaks purports to be “almost
verbatim reports” of conversations with
Hitler, and Rauschning himself says of
it, “To have published these conversa-
tions only six months ago would have
earned me at that time a reputation for
malicious invention and defamation.” The
programme emerging from these often
contradictory monologues is: first, the
disciplining of Germany; then the
creation of an “Aryan” aristocracy,
which later is to rule the world ; the
subjugation of neighboring countries to
make Germany impregnable; the accept-
ance of the inevitable war with Britain
and France; the subdivision of Europe
into unions of vassal States ; and then
the spread of Nazi influence throughout
the world.
The reason for all this? A belief
in war and struggle as the fundamental
law of life and a Nietzschean vision of
a German superman who will ride the
tide of destruction. He quotes Hitler as
saying:
Just as the conception of the nation
dy a na a m ic eV f°eu U daTSe C s, a and juTas iUntro-
duced a biological conception, that of the
people, so our own revolution is a further
step, or, rather, the final step, in the re-
jection of the historic order and the recog-
nition of purely biological values. And I
shall bring into operation throughout all
Europe and the whole world this process
of selection which we have carried out
through National Socialism in Germany.
And the man? Rauschning paints him
as the genius a step away from the
madman. Six months ago, as the author
says, it would have all sounded like
nonsense; and even today
the numerous inconsisten-
cies don’t help it to sound
convincing. On page 254
Rauschning says:
Hitler does not know how to work
steadily. Indeed, he is incapable of work-
ing. He does not know what it is to work
continuously and unremittingly.
On page 266, however:
But he does work, day and night,
seriously and with determined tenacity, on
plans of foreign policy. He holds all the
threads in his hands. He controls a vast
. organisation.
In one place he has Hitler’s associates
privately jeering at the Leader; else-
where he reports that everyone even
Schacht feels an extraordinary exal-
tation in his presence. He says of one
of Hitler’s apartments that not a single
piece of furniture showed any evidence
of artistic taste, and then he suggests
that the man is a really great architect.
He has a cheap sneer at the ex-house-
painter, and then goes on to portray one
of the strangest characters in history.
Nevertheless, the general portrait of a
dangerous visionary—a sort of shallow
Wagner with humanity for his keyboard
—is at least more satisfying than the
Charlie Chaplin version.
Two Clowns.
Mr. Nicolas Bentley (laughter) has
written another funny book, Le Sport
(Gollancz). At least, it’s either a funny
book or it’s nothing; it takes about half
an hour to read it, and nothing shouldn’t
take as long as that, so it is most likely
a funny book. The drawings, certainly,
are brilliantly funny. And so, most
likely, are the occasional remarks of the
quality of, “The otter, like Mr. A. P.
Herbert, is a long brown thing which
enjoys messing about on the river.”
But only Mr. Bentley himself (laughter)
and those who are prepared to accord
him the licensed comedian’s privilege of
being considered excruciatingly funny
when he is merely being feeble are likely
to laugh their heads off at imitation
Ten Sixty-six and All That observations
such as “De mortuis nil nisi Badminton.”
Mr. Bentley (laughter) apparently laughed
his head off —and not before it was time
—at his essay on hiking which concludes
the book; all he has to say on the sub-
ject is:
Everybody already knows about hiking.
It is therefore unnecessary for me to add
anything to this particularly unsavory
chapter in the history of English sport.
He should be given credit for the dis-
covery that the hockey player, unless
she is in the Japanese army, “has black
woollen legs of impressive size, and an
expression which is forthright, serious
and a little frightening in repose, though
much more alarming when she laughs,”
and also for his quotation from Edith
Sitwell’s superb English Eccentrics about
the horsy, leathery Mr. Hirst who didn’t
approve of horses except on the race-
track and who went shooting mounted
on the back of a fat bull, using “a crowd
of vivacious and sagacious pigs” for
pointers. Mr. Bentley (laughter) has his
points all right, and the drawings—the
real reason for the book —are a delight,
but, as he says himself, the Englishman’s
fondness for facetiousness is a dark and
dreadful mystery.
When he is talking about fishing Mr.
Bentley says that rather than hold a
rod he likes to lie by the stream reading
“works of an improving character, such
as those of Bunyan or Runyon,” and
there he’s talking sense, for Pilgrim’s
Progress and More Than Somewhat are
both classics in their way. Runyon, the
Yankee humorist whose style is a mix-
ture of Ernest Hemingway, Gertrude
Stein and Anita Loos, has a new tome on
the market, gentler in tone than his
gangster comedies, but no less amusing.
My Wife Ethel (Constable ; F. W. Preece,
Ltd.) is a picture of the domestic life
of the Turps, told in a series of letters
from Ethel’s husband Joe.
The effect is not unlike that of the
talkies’ familiar studies of the Typical
American Family ordinary domestic
happenings held up for you to laugh at.
Ethel has a Mother, and a Father with
Views, and a black-sheep Uncle; she is
mad on hats and Robert Taylor; she
has a mania for asking questions and
arguing, and a brilliant talent for making
Joe say the wrong thing. Nothing very
new in all that —but Runyon’s satirical
wit and inimitable style make it astonish-
ingly funny.
Dear Sir the other night when we came
home from the movies I was reading the
paper and my wife Ethel was looking at
herself in the mirror and she ses hay Joe
do you think I am getting fat?
I ses why no Ethel. I ses you are just
nice. She ses you are not looking at
me at all. You are reading that old paper.
I ses Ethel I do not have to look at you
to know how you look and you are just
nice.
She ses well I think I am getting a little
hippy. I ses no Ethel you do not look
hippy to me. She ses well I wish I was
as thin as that Katharine Hepburn. I ses
yes she is thin all right and Ethel ses 1 sup-
pose you wish I was as thin as she is.
I ses look Ethel you wished it your-
self. I ses all I ses is Katharine Hepburn
is thin all right. I ses she has a nice
pair of bunting-sticks too.
She ses well anyway I think I will go
on a diet day after tomorrow. I ses what
again? I ses maybe if you took some
exercise instead of dieting you would
knock off a few pounds and Ethel ses O
you do think I am geting fat then?
I ses good night Ethel and went to bed
and two hours later she woke me up and
ses look Joe a bicycle and diet will not
make my legs like Katharine Hepburns be-
cause nothing helps legs and I ses Ethel
sweetheart your legs are just nice good
night.
That is the method by which Joe tells
how Ethel got a new dress out of him
because he couldn’t afford to take her
to Paris; how they both decided they’d
never again go to a talkie where the
fellow says I can explain and the girl
won’t let him; how Ethel scared herself
into fits listening to a murder play on
the radio but wouldn’t turn it off be-
cause she had to find out who killed
who; how they went to see a round-the-
world flier land and how the cop kept
saying Get back there; how they would
have been booked for a traffic offence
if Ethel hadn’t bamboozled the cop into
thinking they were people of importance
so that he muttered Turp Turp Turp and,
though doubtful, let them go ; how they
sent Uncle Dan some baby alligators
from Florida and Uncle Dan put them
in the truck-man’s beer and a fight
started.
Portrait of a Sailor .
The introduction doesn’t say so, but
Captain Gorham P. Low, of Gloucester,
Massachusetts, was almost certainly a
descendant of the Puritan Fathers.
Having to cope with storm, mutiny,
pirates, murderous natives, he was the
antithesis of a swashbuckler ; he accepted
hardship and danger as natural to his
trade ; offered the “pickings” that came
a sea-captain’s way, he declined them ;
and when all the merchants got drunk
at a dinner party in Batavia he decided
to go and talk to the missionaries.
His autobiography The Sea Made Men
(Bodley Head), now published for the
first time, is a portrait of a man who
was sober without being sombre; he
was humorous, and he Was not a prig.
A story of one of his voyages to Sumatra,
when he met the bullying Captain
Francis Thompson of Dana’s Two Years
Before the Mast is typical. Captain Low
had secured a monopoly in pepper from
the Rajah ; Captain Thompson, unable
to trade, was furious ; he boarded Low’s
ship to vent his wrath. “The first thing
he said to me was, ‘Man to man and
ship to ship, I don’t care a damn for
anyone on this coast.’ When I laughed
in his face he did not know what to
make of it. I told him that we had
come on the coast for a cargo of pepper
and not to "talk about ‘man to man and
ship to ship,’ and that I meant to have
the pepper in this port, for it was mine.”
The son of a sailor turned farmer,
Low went to sea at the age of 15. His
brother, who was in command of the
vessel, put him through the most rigorous
tests of courage and seamanship. At 18
he was second mate of the barque Gar-
land trading in the Baltic, at 20 he sailed
round the world as chief mate under a
captain who tried his hardest to break
his spirit; at 23 he was in command
of his own ship.
Though the writing is quiet, the record
is packed with adventures. Two scenes
stand out:
Looking to the northward, we could not
see where the sky and ocean met, but one
immense mass of blackness was rushing
fiercely upon us. It struck us with such
force that, before the vessel had time to
heel over, it took the house that was
secured to the longboat, and all its con-
tents, and whirled them high in the air.
I saw heavy handspikes flying as if they
were feathers, and the next moment the
vessel was on her beam ends with the
yards in the water, and she was settling
fast.
That was a hurricane in the Indian
Ocean. The second outstanding incident
was the launching of a small boat in a
storm to carry spare sails to a disabled
vessel. “One moment we were at the
top of a high wave, and the next at the
bottom of a deep valley. It was a wild
sight and I never had such a view of a
ship before. I could see her keel when
she rose to the top of a wave and then
the hull would be entirely out of sight
as she sank in the trough of the sea.”
Before the rescue work was finished dusk
had come and Low and his men in the
small boat were in danger of not being
able to find their own ship again in the
storm and darkness.
The Sea Made Men, apart from its
dramatic interest, is worth reading as a
first-hand piece of history; both in
Europe, when he fought against floods
and ice on the Elbe at Hamburg or when
he fed the “gaunt, pale, hungry” Swedes,
and at Sumatra, when he bargained with
the native rulers, Captain Low was an
acute and entertaining observer. It is an
intensely personal book, so faithful a
reflection of his character that —differ-
ences of scene and temperament allowed
for—it has something of the quality of
Pepys or Izaac Walton.
Jack and Jill: Ernest Weekley (Mur-
ray). All about Christian names. Prob-
ably of dire importance to young parents
and Sir Earle Page, and of interest to
anyone looking for curiosities such as
the fact that a maiden born at Liverpool
(England) in 1880 was whimsically named
Anna Bertha Cecilia Diana Emily Fanny
Gertrude Hypatia Inez Jane Kate Louise
Maud Nora Ophelia Quince Rebecca
Starkey Teresa Ulysis Venus Winifred
Xenophon Yetty Zeno Pepper. Ham-
mond, incidentally, is said to come from
the Anglo-Saxon meaning “High protec-
tion,” which may account for dry
canteens.
The Christmas Companion (Dent).
Direct descendant of the Week-end
Book; anthology of stories, poems,
carols, games, food and the like centred
on Christmas. A new note is the in-
clusion of extracts from broadcasts,
including a brief bit from a Maoriland
broadcast. It’s uniform with the pub-
lishers’ other “Companion” vols. Dents
always do this sort of book well. *
Wild Chorus: Peter Scott (Country
Life). Another of the beautiful produc-
tions that may make Country Life pub-
lications collector’s pieces when the arty
books turned out by scores of “special
presses” at unholy prices are regarded
as junk. In many of these books of
drawings and paintings, eked out by
letterpress, Country Life has put on
record a great deal of the natural and
other contemporary life of present-day
England, and done it superbly. This vol.
is a collection of Scott’s paintings of
waterbirds in their natural settings.
Letterpress is the artist’s adventures in
pursuit of his bird-pictures, told in broad-
casts, letters and essays.
Music for the Multitude „ by Sidney
Harrison (Michael Joseph), is a sort of
“popular” history of music and musical
tendencies, with excursions into the
technique of harmony, counterpoint, in-
strumentation and composition. The best
chapters are towards the end, where there
is a good survey of the moderns, a quite
original article on “performers at work 1 '
—Mr. Harrison is himself a concert
pianist of some note —and a fair appraisal
of “jazz” and “swing” and their peculiar
technical terms. The uninstructed but
appreciative listener can learn much from
this book.
The Way Out, by J. Bostock and
L. J. J. Nye (Angus and Robertson), is
a discussion of Australia’s spiritual and
material problems. The writers are enthu-
siastic advocates of the federation plan
put forward in C. K. Streit’s Union Now,
and are strong on the duties of citizen-
ship.
Fiddle-dee-dee, by Charles Hilton, and
The Poems of Pem, by Emily Alice Cot-
ton (Emily McGregor), are books of
children’s verse from Paterson’s Press,
Ltd., Perth. Both should please the
very young. Pem is aimed particularly
at the type of insect that likes dolls and
fairies; the other has a more general
appeal.
Ghosts of London: H. V. Morton
(Methuen). Beefeaters, lamplighters,
cabbies and such by the ghost of the
H. V. Morton who could write anything
as satisfying as In Search of Scotland.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE ’
m
■l
■a
:
‘ % J
■
tSSJIP
'
9BS :
■
JZ&®
• v.
HI
■ i
iHuHi
mm HI»»
E 1
■
i :p:
VI
%
r *, v , :
l*p*
mm «
LI
•v
SH
HH
*
.
.
H
... .. ‘
n
*
$
u
v •Xv¥-'- J ' " 7
11
SADDLE TWIST TROUSERS
Olive, Dark Grey and Fawn. Tunnel loops and side
straps, side and hip pockets, Cuff bottoms.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS', Price, pair -
23/6
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BUSHMAN WORK SHIRTS
Made in our own workrooms from reliable British material,
double sewn seams and cut full for comfort. Collar and
pocket attached. Heather and Blue shades in sizes
Hi to 19 inches. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS', each
7/6
POSTAL ADDRESS
Box 2712 C, G.P.0.,
Sydney
f n / /
l V
'-'7
S
ii
/Vt /-• I
/ W?
>
l-L////*^,
Aa
Cotton Tweed TROUSERS
Strong cotton tweed. Grey ground with
stripes. Side or cross and hip pockets.
Khaki band and pockets. AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
14/6
COTTON TWIST JODHPURS
Made of strong cotton twists in Olive and
Fawn. Khaki pockets and band linings.
30 to 40' inch waist.
ANTHONY HORDERNS' ...
AT
21/-
WOOL TWIST
TROUSERS
Heavy weight all wool. Fawn,
Olive and Dark Grey. Best
make, suitable for saddle
work. AT ANTHONY nrj/r*
HORDERNS', pair Z//b
VENETIAN
TROUSERS
Venetian Twist in Olive, Fawn
and Dark Grey. Cross or side
and hip pockets of khaki. Sizes
from 32 to 46 waist. AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
12/9
• Work Clothes — Grd.
Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all
railway stations in
N.S.W., and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
/
I
f
i


OUT OF PAST
J-H-M- ABBOTT.
A DIP IN THE RIVER.
IT was a blazing hot morning in 1830, and the
patient bullocks —ten yoke of them —stood behind
the primitive slab-and-bark woolshed at Martin’s
Plains, flicking the flies off their backs and off the
noses of the beasts behind them with their tufted tails
and looking as if the 120-mile journey to Sydney over
the Blue Mountains was but a trifling incident in the
round of toil.
The last of the queer, loose-looking bales —wool
spaded into the packs and pressed into indifferent com-
pactness by blucher boots —was being rolled up on
to the dray. Hanging from the gallows of the killing-
yard that stood between the woolshed and the home-
stead a slaughtered beast was being dressed, and
outside the little house with the skillion at the back
little old Tommy Martin, the owner of Martin’s Plains,
was talking with his bullock-driver, George Meeks,
affectionately known throughout the district of
Bathurst Plains as “Big George.”
A fine fellow, this young Englishman—tall and
broad, flaxen-haired and open-faced. A few rabbit-
snares set near Woburn Green in Buckinghamshire, a
keeper with more zeal than discretion who had earned
the merciless beating that had come his way by using
a gun when he might have used his fists, an outraged
bench of magistrates and a land-owning Judge at the
Assizes—and young George Meeks had been trans-
formed from a yokel into a felon for a term of seven
years, to be spent in the colony of New South Wales.
After the first twelve months the colony had come to
mean for Big George the districts westward of the
Blue Mountains in which little Tommy Martin, once
himself a prisoner of the Crown, played the part of
a pioneer.
Tommy Martin, all hair and vigor, looked up at
his tall henchman now with a sort of loving admira-
tion. The big man smiled down at him, drawing the
silken lash of his long whip through his fingers, pleased
and gratified by what his master was saying.
“Well, George,” remarked the owner of Martin’s
Plains, “all I can say to ye is ’tis damned good of ye.
Ye became a free man yesterday, and might ha’ gone
your own way as it pleased you. Like most of ’em
do when they become their own masters. And ye’d
ha’ left me in a fix now to get the wool down to
Sydney. I couldn’t get another bullock-driver now for
love or money. ’Tis good of ye indeed. I’ll see to it
ye don’t lose by the journey.”
“It be less than nothing, Mr. Martin. Ye’ve been
a good master, and I’m a thankful man, I do assure
ye. We’ll make a good trip of it, me and Dick Berry,
and won’t waste no time in Sydney over gettin’ home
wi’ th’ back-loadin’.”
He turned towards his team, but Tommy Mar-
tin detained him. “A moment, George lad. Have a
bit of a spree in Sydney—’twill do ye good. I’ve
written to Mr. Campbell to give ye foive pound.”
NT OONTIDE was blazing, and the heat beat up from
* the dusty Bathurst road in waves that could
almost be felt. They had travelled about five miles
when they came into it, a little on the Bathurst side of
the Macquarie River. As the sweating bullocks, slaver-
ing copiously, plodded down towards the line of tall
eucalyptus and whispering she-oak that marked the
stream, both men felt as those feel who come upon an
oasis in the wilderness.
“We’ll spell ’em an hour or two, Dick,” said Big
George, “an’ boil our quarts.”
“Bin a lot —o’ traveilin’ towards Sydney
’smornin’,” drawled Dick Berry, pointing to the tracks
in the road. “A hell of a lot. Looks like —asif
all th’ Bathurst folk’d bin along th’ road, don’t
it?”
“By cripes, yes,” said George, nodding towards
the innumerable wheel-marks and hoof-tracks. “Looks
like mebbe there was races somewhere down th’ road.
Rum we’ve not heard tell on ’em out to Martin’s
Plains!”
But it wasn’t a race-meeting that had drawn half
the settlement out of the little town in the direction
of the mountains. It was nothing less than a visit of
that mighty potentate Lieutenant-General Ralph Dar-
ling, Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief in and
over his Majesty’s Territory of New South Wales, to
the limits of Australian civilisation.
Bathurst was only fourteen years old in 1830, and
still remained the centre and the hub of all the vast
lands stretching vaguely to the mysterious and un-
known midst of the continent. A vice-regal progress
across the ranges was a notable event in those years—
a thing before and after which other minor events
would find their dates. It was little wonder that the
whole of the official world of the Western Settlement,
and most of the unofficial, had turned out to meet his
Excellency. Nothing could be more important, nothing
call for greater display of such pomp and ceremony
as the community of Bathurst Plains might aspire to.
Major Enderby, the Commandant, had seen to it that
such was the case, and he himself led the cavalcade to
meet the Governor.
As soon as they were halted on the higher bank
of the river in the shade of a great “apple” tree, the
bullocks lay down, and the two men took their quart-
pots from the dray and scrambled down to the water-
side to fill them. A little above the crossing-place they
stood upon the denuded roots of a great and ancient
tree, where they might dip easily into the deep pool
that dammed itself up above the shallow ford. The
cool waters of the river flowed through a shady
arcade of the dark she-oaks, whispering and sighing
as she-oaks do upon the stillest days.
“By gum, Dick, a swim wouldn’t do us any
hurt,” said Big George, crouching upon his hams as
he stooped to fill his pot. “ ’Twould cool us proper.”
Dick nodded and pulled off his shirt, and in half a
minute both young men were splashing in the river.
They had hardly been in the water five minutes
when Big George uttered an exclamation —half aston-
ishment and half alarm. “Down wi’ ye, Dick,” he
cried. “ ’Tis a party o’ the nobs. Keep under water.”
Down the more gradual slope of the further bank
six file of mounted troopers of the Border Police,
headed by a sergeant, clattered with swords at the
“carry” towards the crossing. Behind came an open
carriage drawn by four fine horses, with postilions
mounted on the two near ones. In the carriage sat a
stern-looking gentleman in a cocked hat, a red coat and
much gold lace. Opposite him was a lady, and the
two other seats were occupied by officers also in
uniform. Beside the carriage rode Major Enderby, and
in the dust behind cantered an assorted column of the
magnates and the gentry of Bathurst and its district.
To the Governor and Major Enderby was afforded
a momentary vision of two nude men as the carriage
rattled and splashed into the water behind the foam-
ing escort. Then, the men were down in the river to
their chins, so that Mrs. Darling saw only two heads
above the surface as the long reach above the ford
came into her field of vision. In a few seconds the
glittering, clattering, splashing equipage was across
the Macquarie and out of sight of the men in the
water —but they saw the Commandant rein in his horse
upon the upper bank and stare, with his hand shading
his eyes, in their direction. After a long look he shook
his fist at them, wheeled his horse and galloped after
the Governor’s carriage. The rest of the procession
roared with laughter as they passed by the surprised
bathers.
* t- it * *
N j EARLY a year afterwards ten men, heavily
l manacled, clanked and rattled their irons as they
stood to hear the sentence about to be pronounced
upon them in the Court House at Bathurst. They had
been found guilty of having caused the death of
sundry liege subjects of his Majesty King William IV.,
of bushranging, and of having levied war with arms
upon his said Majesty.
“George Meeks, Richard Berry, Timothy Driscoll,
Michael Kavanagh, Thomas Spencer, Walter Forsyth,
Peter Doone, John Saul, Isaac Mulready, Thomas
Fisher,” said the Clerk of the Court, “you have been
adjudged guilty of the murder of Thomas Clare and
Abraham Crawley, constables, and of
George Doolittle, overseer. Have you
any of you aught to say why sentence of
death should not be imposed upon you
by the Court?”
For a few moments none broke the
solemn silence of the long whitewashed
room. It was hot and close, and the still-
ness was almost as much to be felt as
the heat. Then, with a clank of irons,
a man stepped forward to the spiked
rail of the dock. It was George Meeks,
the leader of the gang.
“Y’r Honor,” he began —and his voice was hard
and rang like smitten steel through the silent
“Y’r Honor, I’ve a word to say. May I speak?
Mr. Justice Therry inclined his head. He was
a kindly man and a kindly Judge, and, although he
knew that a man who was as good as dead was
speaking, was inclined to listen —on the mere chance
that some comfort might lie in it for the men he was
about to doom.
“Y’r Honor an’ gentlemen, ’tis little I’ve to say,
and I’ll not detain ye long. But ’tis only right
me having led these lads to th’ gallus —that I should
say what I’ve got to.” He paused a moment, and
then stretched both handcuffed hands horizontally
above the spikes. His right forefinger pointed down-
wards at Major Enderby, seated in the body of the
court. “ ’Tis on th’ head of that man —th’ Comman-
dant —that th’ blood of them that’s dead lies —aye,
an’ th’ blood o’ them that’s a-goin’ for to die. He found
me and Dick Berry here a-bathin’ in th’ river when
Gov’nor Darling an’ his lady was a-comin’ into
Bathurst last year. How was we to know they was
a-comin’, I ask ye? An’ we crouches down, respec-
table like —an’ there was no harm done. Why, th’
gentlemen what’d come for to meet Gov’nor Darling,
they laughs at th’ good joke!
“But ’twas no joke for me an’ Dick Berry.
Major Enderby, he sends back th’ horse police-con-
stables for to bring us into Bathurst, an’ here he sits
in this very room, wi’ none but our two selves an’ th’
constables, an’ him a-sittin’ as a magistrate, an’ sen-
tences us two free men —I’d done my time that brought
me to th’ colony two days before —to one hundred
lashes o’ th’ cat.
“Neither of us had been flogged afore. It broke
our hearts —it drove me mad. ’Twas me as persuaded
Dick Berry for to take to the bush —me and none
other. ’Twas me collected these poor lads together
for to rob an’ kill —me an’ none other. ’Twas me
alone that kep’ ’em at it all them months —hopin’ for
to catch the Commandant, an’ flog him cruel, as he
caused us to be. ’Twas me, an’ me alone —and I
alone should suffer. But I know well, y’r Honor, as
we’ll all swing alike. What I’m a-sayin’ now is but
for to put th’ blame where th’ blame belongs. Thir-
teen lives that man took when he flogged me an’ Dick
—th’ ten of us here in th’ dock, and th’ three we
killed. He turned me from a man into a devil and
a wild beast —and th’ blame is all his. Ye black-
hearted hound of hell!” —he shook his clenched and
manacled hands at the Commandant, and the Judge
interrupted him.
“Prisoner, prisoner! I cannot hear you further.
You have been found guilty, with your companions, of
the crimes charged against you, and it is my duty ”
Three days later Big George Meeks and Dick
Berry, with their eight companions, paid their last
reckoning for that dip in the Macquarie.
DUT that does not quite end the story.
' Mr. Justice Therry, during his stay in Bathurst,
had been the guest of the Commandant, and he won-
dered vaguely, as he disrobed, after the trial was over,
o Continued on next page)
“ Blime, Charlie, look Wot the missus ’as sent me —sunburn lotion !”


how he was going to get through the evening before
him. Fortunately, the case of the ten bushrangers was
the last item on the calendar for the present sessions,
and he would be free to set out for Sydney on the
morrow. Nonetheless he did not look for-ward with
pleasure to dining with his host that evening.
The outburst in the courtroom had not caused him
much surprise, for he knew as well as everyone else
in the official world of New South Wales the reputa-
tion of Major Enderby as a martinet. Nor had he
any reason to doubt the truth of what the prisoner
Meeks had asserted. That queer little old fellow Mar-
tin had given the latter a high character when he went
into the witness-box to testify on his behalf, and so had
a couple of others, including the sergeant of the Border
Police stationed in the town. It was not going to be
easy to enjoy Major Enderby’s society.
While he and his host were seated at the dinner
table that evening, Mr. Justice Therry a little con-
strained in manner and Major Enderby effusively
hospitable and reminiscent of his army services, the
Commandant’s butler announced a visitor.
“Who is it, Jenkins?” inquired the Major.
“A lady, sir—a young woman.”
“Good-looking?” asked Enderby roguishly, glanc-
ing at his guest.
“Very, sir,” replied the butler.
“Oh, well then, Judge, I think we’ll have her in,”
laughed the Commandant. “Place a chair for her,
Jenkins—there, by the window —and then bring her
in.”
What happened then is described by Sir Roger
Therry himself —not in his well-known Reminiscences
of Thirty Years’ Residence in New South Wales and
Victoria, but in a letter to a relative in England who
had made some inquiry as to Major Enderby.
“As to Enderby’s coolness in an emergency
and fundamental courage I can pay the fullest
tribute, though l must confess / dislike the man
himself extremely,” he says before he relates the
incident with which we are here concerned.
After telling the story of George Meeks and
Richard Berry, with its tragic conclusion, he
goes on: —
“So the butler ushered in the young woman,
who, though it was a warm evening, wore a
shawl over her plain dark dress. As soon as
Jenkins had withdrawn from the room, she took
from beneath the shawl a heavy horse-pistol,
and aimed it with a remarkably steady hand at
my host’s head. Enderby did not move a
muscle, but gazed at her smilingly, whilst I sat
frozen to my seat. Jhe girl was very beautiful,
very pale and very sad.
“ ‘Major Enderby,’ she said, ‘George Meeks
was my lover, and through you he is to hang.
But you will die first.”
“Enderby stood up and acted so astonish-
ingly quickly as almost wuy incredible. Risking
everything, he leaned across the table, grasped
the pistol by the barrel, even though it pointed
at his chest, and wrenched it from the girl’s
hand. I heard a click as the hammer fell, but
there was no explosion. ‘Ah,’ said Enderby,
examining the weapon, 7 thought so, my dear.
You forgot the priming. Pray sit down,
madam, and take a glass of wine.’ The girl sank
into the chair placed for her by the butler, and
burst into tears. ‘Look, Judge,’ said Enderby
laughingly, ‘just like a woman. Carefully
loaded and bulleted, and not primed. Well,
well! What shall we do with her, 1 wonder ?’
“ ‘There is only one thing to be done, Mr.
Commandant,’ I said, ‘and that is to regard
this incident as closed —as if it had never hap-
pened.’
“ 7 agree with you,’ he said with surprising
decency. He rang the bell for Jenkins, and
instructed him to escort the young woman to
wherever she might desire to go. It seems, from
what the butler told us on his return from this
escort duty, that the girl was a daughter of old
Martin, Meeks’s former master. A sad busi-
ness, indeed! As for Enderby, this part of it
is the only part that does him credit. But
though l learned then that the Commandant at
Bathurst is a cool and brave man I cannot
sufficiently regard him with detestation,”
THE
THUNDERSTORM
BY GAVIN S. CASEY
OUT of a black, low, seething sky volleys of rain
are peppering the sheet-iron roofs and walls
of the mine buildings. Over the gables and
gutterings the water tumbles in sheets that fold
and shatter on the red earth beneath. Streams course
down the sides of the lofty grey dumps, and where
there is earth that has not been hoisted from far
underground, speckled, muddy torrents eddy between
rocks and posts. The sun is shut out, and poppet-legs
and buildings a few chains distant are vague and grey
behind the screen of lashing water. But there is light-
ning dancing above the clouds, making flashlight pic-
tures of the workings every few seconds, and there is
thunder, gathering force as it rolls, and making the
whole sky tremble.
On the Bonanza South the first wind-borne
tongue of rain whirls over the broken earth, and licks
beneath the loose-timbered chattering roof of the
boiler-shed. It hisses against the hot fire-doors, and
there are oaths, and a rush for shelter beneath the
woodstacks. Then the drenching begins, and wherever
two sheets of iron are joined together the water seems
to find a way through. The hot dirt in the roasters
bubbles, and their fires fume and steam as the moisture
seeps into them. In the mill, where the big belts lash
to and fro between the electric motors and the revolv-
ing drums, a sheet of flame that rivals the lightning
leaps from the wall as the main fuse bucks out, and
the plant settles into silence with a final grunt. Up
on the poppet-legs the cracker stops, too, and it
seems that the only life left on the mine is in the
winding-engine, from the joints of which steam oozes
as usual, and in the frantic human figures that dash
about through the mud.
The cracker-hands and the sailor-gang swarm
down their ladders and run for shelter in the change-
room. Old Tom, from the roasters, rushes out with a
sodden bag over his head, swearing, and making for
the same refuge, and only the carpenters and the
fitters, who occupy sound, well-cared-for buildings,
remain unconcerned and amused. From the office
the engineer makes a wild rush for the silent mill, but
gives up the attempt half-way, and arrives in the
winder-shed streaming and puffing.
“Where’s Sid?” he roars excitedly. “Where’s Sid
or any of his gang?”
Bill Jason, who drives the engine that drops and
pulls men and dirt in and out of the shaft, has the
brakes on the big drums and is not concerned. He
is reflectively examining a leak in the roof, imme-
diately above his seat at the controls. “Sid?” he yells
cheerfully when he is ready. “What’ll Sid or any
other blasted electrician be able to do until this is
over?”
“Well,” says the engineer, losing his excitement
and sitting on a box with his head in his hands. “It’s
stopped the mine, and that’s that. It’s the motor on
number two mill, I’ll bet, but there’ll be more than
that to fix when it’s over.”
“It’s good for the farmers, anyway,” says Bill
philosophically, watching water churn itself to foam
at the foot of the near-by Consols dump.
The two men sit and watch the water toppling
off the roof. A chain of white-hot brilliance staggers
down out of the sky, blinding them both and scaring
the engineer. “If that didn’t hit the smokestack on
“I say, Harrison, you can't shoot at a sitting target. Wait till I make him move.”
the Consols I’m a Chinaman,” he says shakily. But
the tall chimney still stands in the rain, and Bill jeers
silently.
The falling water leans against a gust of wind
and dives in under their shelter. With a screech, half
the rusty iron of the boiler-shed roof tears away,
whirls into the air, and piles up in the mud and water
against the wall of the store. Another tremble of
thunder climbs above them and goes muttering and
crackling on its way inland. A temporary post, carry-
ing electric wires and sunk in the soft sand of a dump,
sags wearily, and the engineer swears.
“It won’t hurt underground, anyway,”- says Bill.
“It won’t reach ’em down there.”
What happens underground is no concern of the
engineer’s, and he is suddenly jealous of the half of
the mine’s staff that is out of the storm.
“Heck! I wish I was down there,” he says dis-
gustedly.
“The lights’ll be out,” says Bill. “They’ll prob-
ably have the wind up.”
“Wind up! ” snorts the engineer bitterly. “They’ve
had the lights go out before, and they’ve got carbide
and candles.”
The rain shows no sign of stopping, and the
thunder grumbles on. The engineer thinks about the
double shifts that he and the electricians and most
of the surface hands will have to do, cleaning up
the mess when the storm is over. He envies the men
who will be hauled out of the depths when the sun is
shining again, who will be surprised to find mud on
the ground. He scowls at Bill, who is responsible for
nothing but driving the winder. He wonders if old
Tom has pulled the fires from the roasters before he
dashed for shelter, or left them to become masses of
mud and clinker. The rain batters the roof, and the
winding engine breathes steam, softly.
From the west more oceans of cloud loom up.
They are black and purple, wind-torn at the edges, but
appearing too solid to hasten, even when lashed by
the gale. Sheet-lightning flares hectically, and chain
breaks through it, fingering the wet world, lightly and
luridly. A grunt behind the black curtain gives warn-
ing, and then there is a thunderclap that really shakes
the ground. The engineer falls off his box, and spears
from the sky seem to pierce his eyeballs. He yells as
he falls, and as he blinks his way back to sight he
yells again.
“God!” he bawls. “It’s struck the poppets! The
lightning’s hit the head!”
The tall timbers have a weird lean. The cables
that droop to the winder and drop down the shaft
to the skips have jumped their tackle, and the engineer
guesses that someone down below has had a rare
fright when the skips have suddenly sagged three or
four feet without warning. “Well,” he says, with mild
satisfaction, “those chaps can stay there and be cosy
for a bit longer now. They can stay there or sweat,
climbing the ladders.”
But Bill has seen more than his boss, and he is
still staring down over the lease, with a white face.
He fastens his fingers into the flesh of the engineer’s
arm and points to the toolshed, which is leaning, too.
“They’ll stay down a long while,” he croaks soberly.
“Look at that, y* fool! ”
The engineer looks, groping after his wits. The
poppets and the toolshed are both leaning, but there is
nothing scarred or charred. He is stiff with alarm, but
he struggles to reject his thoughts.
“But it was the lightning,” he falters. “We saw
it, and felt it, and heard the thunder.”
“Thunder me eye!” roars Bill. “The last one
wasn’t from up above. It was from down below, y’
donkey.”
The pair have moved forward, and they are
where the leaping water whips them. It lashes as
fiercely as ever, and the sky is a sombre pattern shot
with scorching flame, though there are rays in the
west that indicate that the gale will be as brief as
most inland thunderstorms.
“My God! My God! ” mutters the engineer, sud-
denly aged by a vision of the men “snug and warm”
underground. Then he, who has no responsibility for
underground, and the engine-driver, who has no re-
sponsibility for anything but his winder, make stiff,
terrified haste across the pools of raw red mud to
the shaft’s mouth, and they both know that there will
be nothing but double and treble shifts for both of
them, for them and for every man on the mine and
all the surrounding mines, and grief and useless, bitter
hatred of the depths where they will dig, for days and
nights to come.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf <fyd liine melleumeu midJmiquel
In troublous times the Stock Exchange
may be regarded much in the light of
Great Britain’s, the Empire’s, and even
the world’s, financial barometer. Prac-
tically between the Mansion House and
the Bank of England, this classic build-
ing, from the steps of which declara-
tions of war are proclaimed, is appro-
priately located in the very heart of the
city. In the space in front, “looking up
Cheapside,” stands the bronze equestrian
statue of the Duke of Wellington. The
present structure is the third of the name
which has stood on the site. The first,
Gresham’s, was destroyed in the Great
Fire of 1666. The second was burned
down in 1838. It was an ornate affair
with a lofty bell-tower, carved walls
and statues of British Kings and Queens
from Edward the Confessor to George
HI. Before it was a statue of Charles 1.,
thrown down by the citizens immedi-
ately after his execution, and this inscrip-
tion placed on the pedestal, “The tyrant
is gone ; the last of the Kings.” But
these selfsame citizens who recorded
their hatred of royalty were the first to
recognise the claim of his successor to
the throne, the “elegant and worthy”
Charles 11. The foundation stone of
the existing edifice was laid by Prince
Albert in January, 1842, and the new
Exchange opened by Queen Victoria on
October 28, 1844. For years the head-
quarters of Lloyds were located here
until their own new and palatial quarters
were erected comparatively recently. The
glass-roofed interior court, illustrated
with Westmacott’s statue of Victoria in
the centre, is a dignified and classic
“apartment.” All around, in the peram-
bulatory, are what are known as the
merchants’ “walks.” Rising from the
main building is a tower 177 feet in
height, on the top of which is the grass-
hopper which formed the wind vane of
the old Exchange. The grasshopper was
the crest of Gresham, the founder of
the Exchange, and legend relates he
assumed it from having, when a babe,
been discovered by his nurse close to
the river’s edge, to which he had crawled,
he being led thither by the chirping of
the insect.
IN THE ROYAL EXCHANGE.


THE TRAVELLER.
“Can I interest anybody in a peace prahposition?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Auj.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.).
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE SPREADING WAR.
Events in the north of Europe—British assistance,
official and otherwise, to Finland; the Navy’s move-
ments in the same quarter—and happenings in the
Middle East and Near East —where Australian and
Maoriland troops now help to swell the considerable
British and French forces stationed there —indicate
the vast sweep this spreading war might presently
take unless Mr. Sumner Welles can bring off a miracu-
lous peace. In its latest Memorandum of Information
the soundly-informed Imperial Policy Group sets out to
explain the forces causing the spread and its probable
shape.
Dealing first with the position working up to a
head at the northern tip of the Mad Continent, it
declares that “this whole business of pressure on
Northern Europe was arranged between Moscow and
Berlin months ago” as “part of a general plan which,
if it works out, will eventually involve a large part of
Europe and Asia.” The first part of the plan is to
“cut off Scandinavia and the Baltic from intercourse
with the Western Powers and direct the flow of trade
into Central Europe”—the trade including huge sup-
plies of timber, agricultural supplies, iron (Sweden’s
iron deposits are among the richest in the world and
unsurpassed in quality), steel and the product of the
Petsamo nickel mines, on developing which British in-
terests have just spent upwards of £6,000,000.
“Northern Europe is therefore a very rich prize in-
deed” ; if, the Group holds, it should fall into enemy
hands, “the gravity of the situation which would then
arise can scarcely be overemphasised.”
“Influential French opinion” is given as support-
ing action by the Allies in that quarter, for reasons
additional to the question of that trade, natural human
sympathy with Finland and the strategic use com-
bined Germany and Russia could make of Scandi-
navia. The “influential French opinion” holds that
the northern theatre of war is in reality one of Ger-
many's vulnerable flanks, and, having regard to the
stalemate which exists in Western Europe, the military
opportunities which support of Finland offer should
not be ignored.
Methods advised for taking those “opportunities”
are “to break off diplomatic relations with Russia and
to give effective help to Finland.” Argument in sup-
port of such action:
Internally it would have the effect of stimulating any
part of the population which may be finding this war
boring; externally it would have the effect of stimulat-
ing neutrals, like the Scandinavian countries, which feel
themselves menaced by the Russo-German bloc, and
those like Italy and Spain which are fundamentally anti-
Bolshevik. If we do nothing we shall be playing
Hitler’s game.
Mr. Chamberlain’s latest enunciation of war aims
might also be mentioned here as possibly having some
force in this matter. Mr. Chamberlain has laid down
that “firstly, the independence of the Poles and the
Czechs must be secured.” If Britain has that obliga-
tion to the Czechs —with whom it had no treaty-
why would it not have a similar obligation to the
Finns, the Norwegians and Swedes, or any other
people who became the victims of aggression?
The Imperial Policy Group places alongside the
French arguments for action in Northern Europe the
objections of critical observers in Europe—first,
Turkey’s present determination not to become involved
in hostilities with Russia unless directly attacked;
secondly, “the fear of Russia taking revenge for
Allied interference in the North by starting trouble in
Asia.” This latter argument the Group overrides. It
holds that “if the Soviet intends to interfere in Persia,
Afghanistan and India, she is going to do so what-
ever we say,” and “her intervention would be far less
effective if she were engaged in a really serious struggle
in northern Europe than if her hands were to become
free in that area.” Turkey’s reservations in regard
to Russia it considers “very serious,” but suggests
that “this policy may become modified in due course” ;
and “modified” it seems to have been in the last
fortnight.
Supporting the French case for breaking off diplo-
matic relations with the Soviet —it describes the case
as “very strong”—the Group points out that the Com-
munist party in France is largely financed through the
Russian Embassy. It describes the close association
of Russian Ambassadors in the internal affairs of
foreign countries as providing a “dangerous channel
of communication” with a country which “is in close
alliance with Germany.”
If we ignore the information which shows that
Russia and Germany are working in partnership, we
shall, of course, disregard the most important intelli-
gence available about world affairs, and the whole
march of events will prove quite unintelligible.
Mr. Chamberlain described the Nazi war aims as
“the destruction of Britain and the domination of the
world.” The Group quotes a “confidential summary”
which upholds that view, but includes the Soviet. It
insists that Stalin and Hitler “are united in a common
aim—the destruction of the British Empire—and until
this object is attained there is no likelihood of their
quarrelling.”
The Soviets are conducting war against the democ-
racies after their own peculiar methods; by clandestine
intrigue and by lying propaganda they strive to corrupt
public opinion, to sow dissension, to confuse the issue,
to incite the masses against the authorities, to under-
mine the morale of the nation. Their numerous agents
are conducting in this country and in many others
a campaign of defeatist propaganda. The Communists
have always maintained that disruption in the rear
should precede a military offensive at the front, and
they are now putting their theory into practice.
With the foregoing as the Nazi-Soviet line-up, the
Group declares that Germany has always been deter-
mined to remain on the defensive behind the Siegfried
positions, using these, with certain neutral countries
and the German air force, as a strategical screen
behind which it would strike out at limited objectives.
Russia’s policy, as the Group sees it, is also to strike
out at limited objectives, using the state of war between
Germany and the Allies and Turkey’s reservations
as a safeguard against Franco-British intervention in
northern Europe and elsewhere. The grand strategy
of the Allies, in the face of this situation, the Group
sees as: —
To maintain command of the seas, to gain com-
plete supremacy in the air, to immobilise the greater
part of the German land forces in the West, and to
build up a strategic reserve in the Near East to be
used in the defence of our vital interests. Behind these
forces wc have to create a general reserve, which can
be switched to any theatre of war where the enemy
presents a vulnerable flank which can obviously be
penetrated at reasonable cost and with good effect.
With the equipping and expanding of their forces
making steady progress, and with their economic life
well ordered, the Allies “can afford to await the best
moment for striking,” meanwhile doing nothing “reck-
less in the West.” The Group points out, however,
that much depends upon the attitude of Italy and
Turkey—ltaly having it “in her power to alter the
whole situation in the West.” “So long as Italy is
neutral it is difficult to see how stalemate in the West
can be broken.” If the Italians “continue neutral and
Turkey insists upon her friendship with Russia, the
struggle will be prolonged and the decision taken
farther to the east than many people imagine.”
Mr. Chamberlain in his latest declaration of war
aims further laid down that
We are fighting for the freedom of individual con-
science, for freedom in religion. We are fighting
against persecution wherever it may be found. We are
fighting to abolish the spirit of militarism, and the
accumulation of armaments which is pauperising Europe.
He left it open to Germany “to take the next step
and show us that she has abandoned the thesis that
might is right.” In the view of the Imperial Policy
Group there is little ground for hope that Germany
will accept that invitation.
The truth is that we are face to face with evil
forces which are bending all their considerable energies
and exercising all their wits in order to destroy that
which is best in our highest conception of life and
its meaning. Such a struggle cannot be abandoned,
even if we wished it so, nor indeed can it easily be
resolved.
As for the sweep of the spreading war, the signs
are clear enough that it may presently extend from
the northern tip of Europe to the Balkans, the Middle
East and across to Iran (Persia) and beyond. Refer-
ring to Persia, the Memorandum insists that “if there
is one area in the world from which we shall drive
German and Russian forces or undue influence, this
is certainly it. Our whole instinct tells us that here
is an issue of life and death.” And that, unless a
miracle happens, must serve as a definition of the
issue of this war as a whole.
Holidays More Important.
There is a Ford factory at Geelong, which dominates
the Corio electorate. Angling for votes last week,
Mr. Curtin intimated that his party would oppose
ratification of the A.C.I. car-manufacture agreement,
and that a Labor Government would “examine the
potentialities of the plants at present in Australia,
and would formulate its policy in the light of the
ability of those plants to provide a complete car” —a
very deliberate process. He complained that ex-
Minister Lawson, when introducing “the bill for the
bounty on motor-vehicle engines,” did not mention
that the Government had been negotiating with “a
particular company,” or that it would “use powers
vested in it under the National Security Act.”
Mr. Curtin described “this omission” as “serious,”
and so it was. But so also was his party’s “omission”
to demand all pertinent information concerning a
matter involving, for one thing, the distribution of
£1,500,000 of tax-money. It asked for no information
and gave support without stipulations. Government
and Opposition alike failed in their duty to the people.
The “bill for the bounty” was one of a multitude
introduced during the annual rush to get done “before
Christmas.” On these occasions the House and the
Senate and most of the State Chambers (the Queens-
land show generally starts late and finishes early)
become parodies of deliberative assemblies, their object
invariably being to put through the maximum of
business in the minimum of time.
On December 6 the House began sitting at 2.30
p.m., and, with adjournments for dinner (6.15 p.m. to
8 p.m.) and supper (11.56 p.m. to 12.30 a.m.), kept
going until 1.25 a.m. on December 7. It resumed at
10.30 a.m., and with six spells—l2.4s to 2.15 p.m.,
6.15 to 8 p.m., 11.46 p.m. to 12.16 am., 7.17 to 11
a.m., 12.45 to 2.15 and 6.15 to B—continued8 —continued till 10.5
p.m. on December 8. Thereupon, having dealt with 18
bills at that sitting, it adjourned for the “Christmas
recess.” The Senate, for its part, debated the revised
estimates and dealt with 27 bills in about 15| hours.
The Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty Bill was intro-
duced about 4.40 p.m. on December 6, being preceded
and followed by a parcel of tariff measures for which
the same Minister, Mr. Lawson, was responsible. His
second-reading speech lasted nine or ten minutes.
The debate was resumed at 12.20 p.m. on December 8,
members having, with four of the intervals mentioned,
been “deliberating” since 10.30 a.m. on the previous
day. Mr. Forde spoke for 25 minutes, and after a
break of an hour and a half for lunch he went on
for another 16 or 17 minutes. Then came Mr. Price
for ten minutes, Mr. Cameron for eight minutes (the
Country party leader moved an amendment that “the
bill be deferred and the proposal submitted to the
Tariff Board in the light of present world conditions”),
and other gentlemen for a couple of hours. When
they had finished “the amendment was negatived, the
original question resolved in the affirmative,” and
the “bill read a second time and passed through all
its remaining stages without amendment or debate.
That was about 5.10 p.m. At 7.37 p.m. it was
in the Senate and being introduced by Assistant
Minister Mcßride. There were only six speakers,
and they were so brief that by 8.20 p.m. the bill
was through, the “House of Review” having approved
of everything without being in the slightest degree
inquisitive.
Mr. Curtin is now “satisfied that when the
history of the negotiation of the agreement and its
nature is taken into consideration Parliament should
not ratify it.” On December 8 he was as enthusiastic
for the preliminary measure as the party leader in
the Senate, who said, in a speech of a whole minute’s
duration, “The Opposition rejoices to see that the
Government is making this move and gives to the
bill its blessing.” Mr. Curtin himself said:
I come to the great thing. This bill is the outcome
of a covenant that the Government made with the
people of Australia and the motor-car industry.... The
policy that the Government is applying in this instance
is the programme of the Australian Labor party. We
originated this policy There are at present even more
urgent reasons than ever for the immediate establish-
ment of the motor-car industry. I endorse the passage
from the speech of the Minister for Trade and Customs
(Mr. John Lawson) that considerations relating to
defence preparedness make this bill a matter of national
policy... .The time is opportune to embark on the
manufacture of complete motor-cars.... We say this
industry should be established.
Now it seems there is no hurry for it. Three
months ago Mr. Curtin’s party was in such a hurry
that it didn’t pause to inquire whether any particular
company or group of companies was to receive the
bounty. All hands and the cook, except Mr. Cameron
and the ten members (two are U.A.P. men) who voted
with him for reference of the matter to the Tariff
Board, were in a hurry to get the thing over and the
business-paper cleared so that they might enjoy the
“Christmas” recess. This kind of thing happens every
year in all our Parliaments, except the one in Queens-
land. In the early part of this session there is general
dawdling; at the end, bill after bill is passed as
drafted; work which, properly handled, would take
a month is whisked through in 48 hours or so by
men often too weary to know what they are about;
and hence all manner of complications and “amend-
ing bills.”
This is the Australian way, but it is not the British
way. The House of Commons never loafs or scamps
its work. After one of the most anxious and exhausting
years in its history, it returned to its duties in January,
and, while each of our seven Parliaments was out
of action, it began sitting five days a week. The
Commoner’s salary is £6OO a year, plus free transport
from the electorate to London when Parliament is in
session. For a tithe of the work that Commoners
do and for a fraction of the responsibilities they
shoulder, even Westralian Assemblymen and Coun-
cillors get £6OO a year, plus free passes in Government
trams and over all the railways in the Commonwealth
and Maoriland. In Westralia the legislative year lasts
about four months, and Councillors have been known
to sit a whole 14 hours in a month.
The Parliamentary broth is spoilt in Australia
because there are too many cooks and because their
methods are slovenly and shiftless. Slovenliness and
shiftlessness have become the fashion, even in the one
Parliament that matters, and the only one that is
necessary. The output of legislation and the number
of Legislatures, Ministries, Governors, departments,
boards and commissions is sinfully excessive, and the
cost is terrific. And along with this plethora goes an
increasing plague of government by regulation. Boards,
commissions and departments decide policies, make
what are tantamount to laws, and spend the people’s
money without Parliamentary sanction. Witness in
N. S. Wales the scrapping of Government trams for
Government buses; and this in war-time, when every
gallon of fuel used in the buses has to be imported.
Witness also the report of the N.S.W. Auditor-General
that in 1938-39 £322,900 was spent on the insolvent
Government railways (accumulated losses for 15 years,
£24,304,200) without appropriation or Governor’s
warrant. This in any other country but Australia
would be regarded as a most serious matter, and the
Auditor-General insists that it “requires investigation
by the Public Accounts Committee.” But in N.S.W.
Parliamentary control of the public purse and the
Public Accounts Committee are merely bad jokes.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Smashing Blow.
The Government and the Ministerial candidate for
Corio tried to make war policy the one issue in the
by-election for the seat that was ex-Minister Casey’s
for eight years, but the majority of the electors had
other views. They were determined to show the
Government that they objected to it on grounds
unrelated to the war ; and they did it to some purpose.
No doubt women were influenced by Labor
exploitation of their old fear of conscription, but the
chances are that as many or more men who have
little use for the Government were driven to vote for
it by Labor’s opposition to “expeditionary forces,” and
by its stupid recommendation of preferences for the
Communist, withdrawn though it was before polling
day.
The car-manufacture contract and its astonishing
sequel counted for more than war policy. There are
2000 men employed in the Ford works at Geelong,
and, believing their jobs in jeopardy, they and their
womenfolk must have voted for Mr. Dedman in a
body. The dissatisfaction of producers with the
arrangements made for their industries, pointedly
expressed during the campaign by woolmen and
fruitgrowers, also told against Mr. Vinton Smith. In
the result Mr. Dedman beat him by 3000-odd votes ;
the Communist lost his deposit. Mr. Casey’s last
majority was 6675.
In nine months the U.A.P. has been reduced to
25 members by the loss of the late Prime Minister’s
seat (Wilmot) and by that of the Minister who was
transferred from Canberra to Washington. The moral
is that the people want a Labor Administration, and,
instead of talking nonsense about the Government
being “ahead of public opinion” or entering into un-
cordial negotiations with the Country party, Mr.
Menzies should tender his Government’s resignation
and recommend the Governor-General to send for
Mr. Curtin, as the leader of the largest party (32) in
the House. And, remembering the precedents set by
Mr. Watson in 1904 and by Mr. Fisher in 1908, Mr.
Curtin should accept the commission. If he declines
it, he should recommend the Governor-General to
send for Mr. Cameron. At all costs an election should
be avoided until the term of the present House runs
out and the people can decide the composition of
both Chambers.
"The Butcher Mannerheim."
With the tide of battle evidently turning against the
Finns, the Red bosses of various unions and Trades
and Labor Councils are busy expressing their sym-
pathy with the aggressors and their abhorrence of
the defenders. An Adelaide Metal Trades Council
resolution communicated to the “Advertiser” reads:
We recommend to all affiliated bodies that they do
all in their power to prevent ’planes and munitions
being sent to the butcher Mannerheim, the murderer of
the Finnish workers, and to prevent the world capitalist
plans to use Finland as a base to attack the Soviet
Union.
That ought to get the author an A.B.C. engagement.
He is more forthright than the “Journal of the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission,” which explains in
its March 2 issue that the invaders (though it doesn’t
call them that) “are trying to set up Kuusinen, a Fin-
nish Red trained in the revolutionary school of the
Comintern, in place of Mannerheim, the Swedo-
Finnish aristocrat, trained in the school of the Czarist
Court.” The old general was not a member of the
Finnish Government when he was summoned to lead
his embattled nation against the Red hordes ; but the
other words may pass.
Kuusinen is, in fact, a Red Finnish Franco, with
the not-so-Mighty Soviet behind him. He is trying to
“overthrow the constitutionally elected Government,”
which is what Moscow and its millions of mugs, in
thousands of newspaper and magazine articles, books,
films and broadcast speeches, said Franco set out to
do, and what, according to their propaganda, he did
in the long run. The main differences are: (1) The
Francoists could fight; (2) they had most of the
Spanish people behind them ; (3) the “Government”
they rose against was a plundering anti-God mob
formed on the Russian model and supported by
Spanish Chekas and Ogpus; (4) their insurrection,
although, after the Spanish fashion, it met ruthlessness
with ruthlessness, did not violate the covenant of the
League of Nations. This the not-so-Mighty Soviet
did by invading Finland, killing large numbers of
outnumbered patriots and wrecking Viborg with its
damnable bombs ; and all in support of a set of
traitors who could not have even entered Finland
without its assistance.
But let the long-necked geese of Metal Trades
Councils and Trades and Labor Councils and Left
Book Clubs hiss hatred of the little Republic which
has spoilt so many Red battalions, and let them read
the “A.B.C. Weakly” article if it is any comfort to
them. The “A.B.C. Weakly” obviously went to Left-
ish sources for some “facts,” such as that “the heavy
guns of the Mannerheim Line were in range of Lenin-
grad,” which is rank nonsense ; and in a disingenuous
account of the defeat of the Red Terror in Finland
22 years ago it quotes the Encyclopcedia Britannica:
Some 15,000 men, women and children were
slaughtered, and by June 27, 1918, 73,915 Red rebels,
including 4600 women, were prisoners of war
These words certainly appeared in one of the “new”
volumes added in 1922 to the twelfth edition of the
Encyc. Brit., but they were preceded by these other
words: “The terrible cruelty of the Reds, however,
led to the White Terror as the price the country had
to pay for being dragged into Mittel-Europa.” By a
very strange coincidence, the same tricky omission
was made by a Red in a letter to a Melbourne daily.
Murray, of Papua.
John Hubert Plunkett Murray died as he would
have wished to die —in harness. He was on one of
his regular district inspections in Papua when the
call came.
Murray was Australian in every sense of the
word. Three generations of the family linked the
twentieth century with the days of Macquarie.
The grandfather, Captain Terence Murray, of
the 48th Regiment, came to New South Wales in
1817, the year in which the name Australia was first
officially used. His son, Terence Aubrey Murray, was
a pioneer of the Murrumbidgee region, a magistrate
and a public man. Member of the old Legislative
Council (1843-56) and of the first Assembly (1856-62)
he became Secretary for Lands in the two Cowper
Ministries (1856 and 1857-59), resigning to make way
for John Robertson. He became Speaker of the
Assembly and succeeded Wentworth as President of
the Council.
Hubert was Terence Aubrey Murray’s eldest son.
Hubert and his brother Gilbert were sent to Sydney
Grammar School, then to school in England—Gilbert,
born in 1866, was five years the younger. Both went
to Oxford. Gilbert married a daughter of the Earl
of Carlisle a year after he had become a Fellow of
New College. He has long been recognised as Britain’s
greatest living Greek scholar.
Hubert went to Magdalen College, after some edu-
cational excursions into Germany, taking his degree
with a first-class in literce humaniores. He was called
to the Bar at Lincoln’s Inn, the 6ft. 4in. giant having
meanwhile won the heavyweight boxing champion-
ship of England. A great career was open to him in
England, but he preferred to return to Australia. He
practised at the N. S. Wales Bar and became a Crown
prosecutor, went to the S. African War and returned
an Imperial major.
Again, anything he cared to take in the way of a
career lay open to him. But, meeting Sir William
MacGregor, he became fascinated with New Guinea
and surprised his friends by becoming judicial officer
in that then wild region.
In 1907, when the Commonwealth took over
Papua, Murray became first Acting-Administrator;
then Administrator ; finally Lieutenant-Governor.
When he went to the island, Moresby was a dan-
gerous outpost in which 64 fever-stricken whites
existed precariously on the edge of a country full of
savage headhunters.
When he died every corner of a territory nearly
twice the size of England and Wales, and as fertile,
had been made safe for whites and natives alike.
Murray and his men improved native health and agri-
culture and education out of sight. They taught most
of the coastal natives to manage their affairs on Euro-
pean lines, and some of the largest native villages
have modern improvements, even electric lighting.
Murray would have been one of the last to adopt
the ambiguous title of anthropologist—he once said
“I distrust all ‘ologies’ ” —but he was one of the
world’s greatest authorities on native races. For two
years he was president of the Australasian Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science. He was, how-
ever, primarily a great Administrator, and as such this
Australian will have an honored place in history.
Bradford Is Still Bradford.
Minister Stewart said on November 15 that “pre-
war negotiations for the sale of Australian commodi-
ties to Britain” had been “conducted throughout the
year.” The people who produce the commodities, and
who have had to put up with poor prices, were told
nothing about these “pre-war negotiations.”
In July, according to Mr. Stewart, “it was agreed
that, in the event of war, the entire Australian wool
clip would be purchased by the Government of the
U.K. for the term of the war.” War broke out on
September 1. Arrangements for wool sales were
nevertheless allowed to proceed till the last moment.
A month elapsed before woolmen were given an
official assurance of what they were to get and when:
appraised price (to date about 12.3 d.) within 14 days
of appraisement; less 10 per cent., to be held till end
of the year; the 10 per cent then to be paid, plus any
amount due in averaging the general price for the
Commonwealth up to 13.4375 d. And at the end of
the chapter—the war period, plus one year —half the
profit made by the British Government on the price
of raw wool “for use outside the United Kingdom.”
It has now dawned on the Wool Board that Aus-
tralian wool delivered in England is going into store
instead of into consumption. If sold outside Britain,
it will be sold as far as possible in manufactured or
semi-manufactured form and Australia will get none
of the profit.
Thus, at the end of the war the equivalent of a
couple of clips might be accumulated in Bradford.
These could be held over Australian growers’ heads
for a decade to manipulate prices to the advantage of
the British manufacturer.
What is happening was here indicated in
January. Then tops prices in England were reason-
ably consonant with existing appraisement prices—
31id. for 70’s, for 64’s merino. But the
British wool control authorities had on March 1 given
permission for tops prices to rise to for 70’s,
41|d. for 64’s merino. The price of the raw wool to
the Australian grower was not going up on March 1.
Indeed, the average appraised price has worked
out at 1.2 d. below the contract price. The balance
remains in the hands of the buyers, plus 10 per cent,
for adjustment—a total of 2.4 d. roughly—till the end
of the season. The Wool Board chairman points out
that when Australians were getting 16d. for their wool
64’s merino tops were bringing only 38d.
In effect, Britain is buying our wool at 13.4375 d.
Buyer and Wool Board are holding about a fifth of
the price till the end of the year. Bradford appears
to be bent on turning Australia’s regular direct
foreign raw-wool market into a manufactured
market for Britain, thereby getting round the agree-
ment to share the profits with growers. The market
price for Australian wool under the contract at
13.4375 d. is consonant with a tops price of 32£d. for
64’s merino. A price of 41yd. for 64’s merino tops,
which came into force in England this week, is equiva-
lent to 18d. per pound for raw greasy wool, or 4}d.
more than Australian growers are getting.
The Wool Board, which should have seen the
danger from the first, is now “alarmed” and it has
called home its expert, Dr. Clunies Ross, so that he
may give information which “secrecy and censorship
make it difficult to obtain.”
Munitions and Mental Cases.
On June 5, 1939, as the Duchess of Kent was leaving
her house in Belgrave-square, London, a shot was
fired. Next day, Ledgwedge Vincent Lawlor, described
as an iron-welder, aged 45, was charged at West-
minster Court with having “had possession of a fire-
arm and ammunition with intent to endanger life or
cause serious damage to property, contrary to the
Firearms Act.” He was remanded for a week.
On June 13, 1939, Lawlor again appeared, and
the prosecutor said, “The accused is an Australian
who arrived in London on April 6.”
A second charge of the same nature was pre-
ferred against him, the allegation being that on June 4
a window in the Earl of Harewood’s London resi-
dence was broken by a pellet. Police said that 21
rounds to fit a sawn-off gun of .22 calibre, picked up
in Belgrave-square at the time of the arrest, and 10
air-gun pellets were found in Lawlor’s possession, and
that 1000 more pellets were found in his lodgings at
Newington Causeway. Lawlor disclaimed any intent
to harm anyone, and said he “wanted to see dukes
and kings.”
On June 29, 1939, Lawlor was bound over and
released on condition that he left for Australia within
a month. He had pleaded guilty to possession of fire-
arms and ammunition with intent to damage prop-
erty, but not guilty to intent to endanger life. Police
said he had served with the 15th Australian Light
Horse in the 1914-18 war, and had been discharged
with the rank of sergeant and a 20 per cent, disability
pension. He had been an estate agent in Australia,
had been committed to a mental home in 1932, was
twice allowed out on trial leave and escaped once.
He was discharged in 1937. He suffered from perse-
cution mania, and believed himself to be the illegiti-
mate son of a duke. The Judge remarked: “I think
your mind was not in a state to arrive at sensible,
balanced decisions. I think it best to get you back
where you have blood relations.”
On December 7, 1939, two men were shot and
wounded while drinking beer in a park at St. Kilda,
Melbourne. Neither could give any reason for the
shooting. On February 27, 1940, Lawlor, now stated
to be 42, was charged with the shooting, but was found
not guilty on the ground of insanity and committed
to custody. The Crown Prosecutor told the Court
that Lawlor, when questioned at his place of em-
ployment, had a sawn-off pea-rifle in his pocket. The
place of employment was the Footscray munition
works.
Lawlor is an unfortunate poor devil, but a dan-
gerous one: far too dangerous to be turned loose in
a munitions works with his delusions of persecution.
Whoever placed him there should be called upon to
explain, and the Minister should interest himself in
the method of examining prospective employees at
such places before any more dangerous lunatics get in.
The Healesvllle Sanctuary.
A. H. Chisholm, president of the Royal Australasian
Ornithologists’ Union, writes:
Briefly, the Healesville (Vic.) sanctuary arose on the basis
of a fauna research reservation established by Dr. Colin Mac-
Kenzie some 20 years ago. When Dr. MacKenzie went off to
Canberra, Robert Eadie became hon. curator of the place
and began an attempt to build it up as a small edition of the
Kruger National Park, which he knew well in his African
days. Later, David Fleay took charge, and under his care
the sanctuary has continued to improve and to gain in popu-
larity. Cages have been replaced by commodious apartments
in which birds may fly or mammals may roam—kangaroos,
koalas and the like live there virtually in freedom, so large
are their areas —and now, after much labor, the next-to-Nature
ideal seems to be within sight.
Meanwhile, many important breeding achievements, both
among mammals and birds, and reptiles as well, have been
recorded. Eadie and Fleay have contributed greatly to
natural-history knowledge in Australia through their experi-
ments and observations at Healesville.
The financial side of the undertaking was borne at first
by the Healesville Shire Council and later by private contribu-
tions: that is, gate receipts and donations, in some instances
quite handsome, by public-spirited citizens, so that now the
place is self-supporting. The Government makes no cash
contribution at all. If it did —if there were, in fact, any basis
for Morwell Hodges’s statement (B. 17/1/ ’4O) about “public
money being ladled out in handfuls” —the Nature Park ideal
would be still closer to consummation. (Nor, by the way, does
the Government give grants to national parks, which is one
of the reasons why Wilson’s Promontory is not the ideal
sanctuary Morwell Hodges seems to think it is.)
Possibly, as is darkly hinted, business people of Heales-
ville do benefit through the public interest in the sanctuary,
but I, as an outsider, see no reason to object to that—
and I suspect that Morwell Hodges himself wpuld hold the
same view, with justifiable enthusiasm, if the visitors came his
way. That, however, is no affair of mine. My only concern,
as a representative (with Professor MacCallum) of natural-
history interests on the management committee, is to endeavor
to ensure that a sound balance is struck between the welfare
of the fauna and the desire of the public to see that fauna
under the best possible conditions.
Education of the public is the soundest means of pro-
tecting wild life. This has been demonstrated, in recent years,
by the fact that both the platypus and the lyrebird have
increased in numbers coincidental with public knowledge and
appreciation of them; and we of the natural-history societies
believe that the Healesville sanctuary is a very promising
spot for extending that knowledge and appreciation in respect
of Australian fauna generally, both among Australians and
visitors from other countries.
On the whole, therefore, it would seem that Morwell
Hodges can most profitably serve the cause of knowledge
by continuing his researches into the natural history of Homo
Healesville ns is, leaving the interests of fauna to those who
have made some study of the subject.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Jamwood”: Believers in astrology
have their own paper now, and in this
enlightened age of flapper papers, colored
comics, film stars, s.p. betting and Mos-
cowmania, there are so many of them
about that I suppose it is sure of a brisk
sale, especially as it promises “a horo-
scope for everyone.” Nor is the circu-
lation likely to suffer because of the
synchronous publication of reports of a
case in which three Waterloo (Sydney)
aldermen were charged with having “cor-
ruptly solicited” £5O as “consideration”
for a rag-dealer’s license in their dingy
suburb. The rag-dealer testified that he
had handed one of them an envelope
containing £5O in notes, the numbers of
which had been kept, on his premises
at night, prior to a council meeting.
“Fancy the old cow remembering where he put 'em after all these years!"'
Detectives were in hiding, and they
grabbed the astonished impersonation of
municipal justice. One of them gave
evidence that the alderman said “I can
see you have got all the numbers; I’m
gone.” Then: “When do I get my sum-
mons? According to the stars this was
to be my lucky day.” “The stars couldn't
have anticipated where you would be
tonight,” the “demon” replied.
* * * *
“Hamer”: As one of David McKee
Wright’s closest pals, my comment is that
the memory of Tom Mills (B. 28/2/’4O)
slipped. When David Wright revolted
from his church, the revolt was very
thorough. Almost his first job was as
organiser for the Wets, for whom he
wrote a lot; he campaigned down the
West Coast on their behalf. It was from
that employment he raised the cash for
his descent on Sydney. He had long
ceased to be a wowser by that time ;so
that was not his reason for declining to
drink with that party. Probably he was
short of cash; he always refused to
drink unless he could do his full share
of shouting.
* * * *
“Sider”: Comedy in a Sydney court :
Plaintiff: I claim 30s. deposit from defendant.
He made a coat which doesn’t fit me.
Defendant: I have never made a better
coat
Magistrate: You talk too much.
Plaintiff: I want to
Magistrate: You keep quiet, too.
Defendant puts coat on plaintiff, who raises
arms and twists to show how it fits or doesn’t
fit.
Defendant: Can I talk now?
Magistrate: If you let that coat speak for
you I can give only one verdict.
Defendant: It doesn’t talk, but it fits per-
fectly.
Magistrate: Refund the deposit and pay Bs.
costs.
* « * *
“Adelaide”: W. S. Gilbert would have
enjoyed a recent court case here. A
Melbourne newspaper was fined £ls in
a police court, under the quaint S:A.
laws, merely for having advertised that
a Melbourne tipster “would if required
give advice as to the probable result
or intended horseraces.” The paper
appealed. Then, in S.A. Supreme Court,
its lawyer said he had been instructed
to drop the whole matter ; and a K.C.,
for the police, admitted that the news-
paper had “stated that it did not intend
to pay the fine; and there was no means
of enforcing it.” Appeal dismissed with
£3 3s. costs —presumably as irrecoverable
as the fine.
* * * *
“Erua”: A North Sydney suburb had
a case of a missing ’ youth some time
ago when the 15-year-old son of the
house disappeared after an argument with
Dad. The police couldn’t find him, and
Mother used to go out each morning,
look at the lad’s verandah bed and weep
over it. She kept it made, poor soul, hoping
against hope. One morning she noticed
that the bed sagged a bit in the middle.
That night she rose when the household
were all asleep and crept out to the
back porch. There lay the missing one,
sound asleep. She went back to bed,
but was about at 5 a.m., in time to see
the lad awake with the milk and rise,
make the bed and steal away. He was
challenged next night and said that he
had taken a job with a grocer in another
suburb, but as his wages did not run to
both board and lodging he had to come
home to sleep.
* * # *
“Zac”: A rather neat way to avert
criticism on the score of racial prejudice
was used by Sydney “Sun” the other
day in describing Natasha Bagration, a
princess who translates English news
into Croatian for 8.8. C. broadcasts to
Yugoslavia. “Her pet aversion,” says
the paper, “is ham. And she attributes
this to the fact that her family are sup-
posed to be lineally descended from the
House of David.” After puzzling this
out, I came to the conclusion that, What-
ever Natasha is, she is no American
Indian.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The exhibition of photographs
of Britain’s fighting services opened at
Melbourne Town Hall in aid of the Red
Cross tends to confirm my belief that the
camouflage business has got into the
hands of academicians, ancient and
modern. A 9.2 in. coast-defence gun is
described as having been camouflaged to
look like a primeval monster. I don’t
know what sort of primeval monster was
intended, but the artist has made the gun
easily the most conspicuous feature of
the landscape. The attention of an
enemy airman would immediately be
arrested by it. Modernistic artists aren’t
likely to be the best advisers on camou-
flage. Their theory is that a picture is
beautiful to the degree that it doesn't
look like Nature; but there is no
evidence that they know what Nature
looks like.
* * * #
“Cauboy”: 1 was somewhat amused
to hear a lady, at the microphone in
the Melbourne Town Hall chamber,
tell the world that she was bitterly dis-
couraged with the small attendance at
the Red Cross show of military and naval
photographs, she having counted the
heads and found only 78 adult ones
present. If she had known anything about
the show business she wouldn’t have
broadcast a poor, house. A real showman
put on a play at a Melbourne theatre,
the great thrill of which was a madman,
infected with a frightful disease, chasing
the passengers over a Zeppelin in mid-
Atlantic. “What are you going to say
about it?” he asked me after the lament-
able affair was over. “What can I say?”
I retorted. “The thing is awful.” “You
can say anything you like,” says he, “so
long as you don’t mention that the house
was rotten.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: It has come out that Kipling
was a generous contributor to Fairbridge
Farm School funds, and under his
widow’s will they will come in for a
large slice of the Kipling estate on her
only daughter’s death. Kingsley Fairbridge
would have been proud of that. He him-
self was a poet, strongly influenced by
Kipling, and some of his verses appear in
South African anthologies, though the
best of them, as he would have been the
first to acknowledge, were far from equal
to “Into Battle,” the lovely Great War
poem of his friend Julian Grenfell, whom
he beat for the heavyweight boxing cham-
pionship of Oxford. Grenfell’s death in
France was a great blow to Fairbridge.
On learning of it he advertised in the
‘ Times” for a locum tenens to enable him
to enlist in the British Army—the A.I.F.
doctors wouldn’t have him because of
his malarial condition—but his directors
were unwilling; in any case, nobody
applied. In Perth he always got on well
with the press boys, and his closest pal
was Vic Riseley, editor of the “Primary
Producer.” Once when Vic was on holi-
days, and again, I fancy, when he stood
for the Senate in 1919, Fairbridge took
his. friend’s place in the chair. Fair-
bridge himself had had a shot at Parlia-
ment—as a Country party candidate for
the district in which his farm school was
situated, his opponent being a roaring
old ironmaster named George. Though
he failed to shift George, he did much
better than Riseley, whom, though a
cheerful soul and the merriest of racon-
teurs, the electors declined to take seri-
ously as a politician.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: A Dr. David Seabury,
described by Melbourne “Argus” as
“noted,” says that Hitler is suffering from
paranoia, delusions of grandeur and split
personality. Can’t understand where the
eminent psychologist gets that notion.
Hitler seems to me to be one of the most
completely focused individuals in his-
tory, not excepting Peter the Hermit and
Mahomet. He is so completely focused
that he has Germany all focused in the
same direction, and most of the rest of
the world is focused to prevent him.
Nor does he show the slightest resem-
blance to a paranoic or a person suffer-
ing from delusions. He is the ruler of
Germany. If it is madness for him to
believe that very evident fact, then who’s
sane?
* * * *
“Zeter und Mordio”: Der Fuhrer’s
official newspaper announces that there
is to be a crusade against English words
in use in German. There are plenty of
them. The word “gentleman,” for in-
stance, is a favorite of certain types of
German journal. It
could easily be blotted
out of the dictionary as
no longer needed. How-
ever, Herr Hitler’s
“V 61kis c h e r Beo-
bachter” actually has its
eye on a horserace as
a first effort in trans-
lation. Because the
Derby family—of which
Oliver Stanley, the new
War Minister, is a
member —is “typical of
British robbery, land-
grabbing, t r e a c hery,
tyranny and murder,”
the name of the Ham-
burg Derby is to be
changed. Hamburger
Steaks sounds a fairly
reasonable substitution.
* *
“P. Street”: A Syd-
ney police court re-
cently heard with some
sympathy the claim of
a witness for £5 ex-
penses on the ground
that had he not been
serving the interests of
justice he would have
been at the races and
would have backed the
first two winners. As
far as possible the
Courts compensate a
witness for expense to
which he may have
been put, but this plea
was a poor one, there
being no reason to
assume that any punter,
having successfully
backed the first two,
could be tempted to cease betting. Nine
out of ten would carry on, and finish
losers. The Court might have argued that
by acting as a witness the punter saved
money.
# * > *
“Trevdee”: Bill the fisherman was
reading about the Maoriland welcome
home to the men of the Achilles. “I
see they’re going to name two streets in
honor of the fight,” he said; “Achilles-
street and Ajax-street.” Mick the punter
bounded in as Bill was talking. “Yeah?”
he growled. “An’ what about ’lgh
Caste? I never ’eard of that Akillees,
but ’lgh Caste is a ’orse an’ a ’arf.”
WANTED.
“Lady would appreciate meeting- grazier, Presby-
terian, non—dancer, homely.”
—“ S.M.H.” view—mat. ad.
D’you hear her, Presbyterian grazi-ers,
The lass who thinks she’d like to link her lot
To whomsoever of you she prefers?
Nor does it signify a tinker’s jot
Whether your problem is concerned with burrs
In wool or tick in hides. No matter what
Or where you are, this mating-call amounts
To firm conviction that it’s faith that counts.
She wants a husband owning herds and flocks,
A lord of ram and ewe, of cow and bull,
To “push him forward through a life of
shocks”
(Quoting from Tennyson); but here’s the
pull:
He’s got to recognise the creed of Knox
As more important than the price of wool.
Or else —it’s tolerably certain biz —
He never will be hers, or she be his.
Mere “homeliness” will be a circumstance
(Whatever meaning is therein implied)
That needn’t spoil a'pastoralist’s chance
Of clasping to his arms this blushing bride —
Except that, if he’s ever learned to dance,
His marble’s in, his blinking towel skied.
Respond, if anything romantic stirs
Your bosoms, Presbyterian grazi-ers!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SHORT MEMORIES.
To check the advancing host
A chasm deep and wide,
Invisible, impassable, yawns—till one god-gifted
man
Crosses it in his stride.
Humanity follows him,
A vast surging mass.
The chasm fills up and all, young and old,
Swiftly, easily pass.
Unthinking they go forth,
Forgetting so soon,
How he drew them over, as the mass of waters
Is drawn by the moon.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
“Mac Hoots”: Touching these shy
lottery winners (and I wish I could), I
knew one who had a darn good reason
for shrinking from publicity.
I had to locate him for a
Shanghai daily and had the
devil’s own job ; he denied
that he was he, denied that
he’d won the lottery, denied
that he’d ever taken a ticket,
and even when I proved to
him that he was he, that he’d
taken a ticket and won the
lottery, he still lay low and
said nuffin’. Thinking that he
merely wanted to avoid dud
shares, vacuum cleaners and
grand pianos, my paper pub-
lished the story. A few weeks
later there was a melancholy
sequel when the lucky win-
ner’s wife, from whom he was
separated, sued him for arrears
of maintenance and was
awarded nearly half his wind-
fall.
* * *
“Specker”: Latest city to
celebrate its centenary is
Launceston. And since it is
proud of its historic connec-
tion with Melbourne a feature
of the opening pageant on the
Tamar was an old sailing ship
rigged out to look like John
Batman’s Rebecca and
manned by Launcestonians
dolled up to represent Mel-
bourne’s first worthies. The
importance of the Speck’s
early associations with Mel-
bourne aren’t so well appre-
ciated in Melbourne. At a
movie quiz contest one of
the questions put to the audience was:
Where did John Batman, the founder of
Melbourne, come from? Nobody knew,
although the house ran to a couple of
thousand and the reward attached to the
right answer was a guinea.
* * * *
“Ek Dum” visits a lady’s retreat:
So Miss Freeman-Mitford, der Fiihrer’s
alleged friend, is to be taken far out of reach
of the pursuing and vengeful flapper press to
the Isle of Inchkenneth, in Loch-na-Keale.
Well, I couldn’t imagine anywhere more con-
ducive to recovery from a nervous breakdown.
Johnson and Boswell paused there one Sunday
during their tour of the Hebrides to visit Sir
Allan Maclean, chieftain of Duart, to listen
to the reading of Ogden’s Sermons and hear
the tinkle of the gentle Miss Maclean’s spinet.
Out of her front door to the west the young
lady will look to an adjacent island rearing its
head 1000 feet to the top of Beinn Chreagach,
and divided from Mull by a little strait, im-
mortalised through another heroine:
Now who be ye would cross Lochg'yle,
This dark and stormy water?
0 I’m the chief of Ulva’s Isle,
And this, Lord Ullin’s daughter.
For the island is Ulva, where Governor Mac-
quarie was born and which his clan owned for
centuries. A mile or so away from Inch-
kenneth he himself lies, and Inchkenneth itself
is cradled round with the lands which he
bought while in India. All round her the
Mitford lady will see dozens of little places
with names that have been transferred to the
Australian map; to the south-east snow-capped
Beinn More; away beyond Ulva, to the south-
west, Staffa, with its Cave of Fingal, which
was brought to the notice of the world by
Joseph Banks just after he had returned from
his voyage to Australia with Captain Cook.
* * *
“Dhas”: I don’t think I approve of
anybody banning anything, but if the
film of Steinbeck’s Of Mice and Men,
which the Commonwealth Censor has
banned, were shown in Australia I
wouldn’t advise anyone to go to it. Syd-
ney “Sun’s” description of the story is
typical of the arty twaddle which Stein-
beck fans use to disguise the fact that
it is based on sadism, and of the Lettish
sentimentality which disguises the fact
that Lennie is a sexual pervert and mur-
derer, pitiable, of course, but nonetheless
loathsome. In his later Grapes of Wrath
Steinbeck did show “the tragedy of the
men who have almost nothing to expect
of life,” but that, if the “Sun” meant it
as an economic statement, doesn’t apply
to Of Mice and Men, for the wandering
hero could have saved up and bought
his farm if he hadn’t preferred to look
after the half-wit who kept losing his
jobs for him. In essence the book was
not concerned with the underdog but
with the idiot who liked to kill small
animals because they were soft and furry
and who eventually—and inevitably—
strangled a woman. Steinbeck, a great
ardst j n understatement, made the mur-
derer a character so sympathetic that the
« Sun ~ merely calls him “this creature of
the open spaces,” but that’s not -the term
one applies to such monsters in real life.
1 imagine that the film, unable to under-
state, shows Lennie as he really is: re-
pulsive to normal people, and possibly
dangerously attractive to sadists of his
own type-
* * * *
“Elk”: Tell “Uramao” (B. 31/1/‘4O)
there was a well-established Maori form
of marriage by capture A family group
might resolve to demand a young woman
“Keep your seats, everybody — there's nothing to be alarmed about.”
from a neighboring clan as a wife for
one of their number ; a party would go
to take delivery of the damsel. Owing
to the unwillingness of the girl, or the
feeling that resistance was the correct
attitude, her people might refuse to hand
her over. A wild scene would ensue.
The claimants would seize the demanded
woman and try to carry her off. The
lady’s friends would hang on to her and
try to beat off the raiders. In the struggle
the desired one was in danger of dis-
memberment before losing consciousness,
which returned in the whare of her
admirer.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: This broadcasting business
is creating a new literary aristocracy
which violates all my prejudices as an
old newspaperman. The other evening—
a warm one —I encountered a young an-
nouncer hurrying along Bourke-street in
a white mess-jacket, a black tie, a boiled
shirt and dress trousers, and with his
hair nicely parted in the middle. He
looked perfect, and I said: “Hello, are
you going to a party?” “No, worse
luck,” he answered. “I’m going to con-
duct a Labor broadcast.
* * * *
“Feng” : I trust that Melbourne at least
will never emulate London (B. 21/2/’4O)
and have a squad of men going round
cleaning up its statuary. Melbourne’s
collection looks much nicer with a patina
of green and would be further improved
if arms and noses were knocked off.
A good deal of the charm of the
ancient Greek statuary lies in the fact
that Time has worked its chasten-
ing hand on it. When it came fresh
and new from the sculptor’s studio
it probably did not look half so well.
For one thing, it was painted in bright
colors, and the Parthenon may have
looked as garish as the State Theatre in
Melbourne looked when it staggered the
city 10 years ago.
* * * *
“F.S.” on pictorial journalism:
“I love to see people enjoying themselves
in a respectable way,” says “Reader Over 60
Years” in the “Argus,” “but I do not know
how people can make a public exhibition of
themselves in a near-nude state. I have seen
disgusting behavior on the beaches.” I am
also a reader of the “Argus,” though not of
60 years’ standing, fortunately, and, unless my
memory is faulty, its pages used to be full of
photos, of the people its ancient reader objects
to. Then the war broke out and now it is full
of another kind of photo.
The “Argus” itself is so pleased with its
new pictorial pabulum that it has opened an
exhibition of over 4000 photos, from its pages
at the Athenaeum. Some of the titles: Bombs
Over China,” “Civil War in Spain,” “Ton-
quest of Abyssinia,” “Sinking of the Grai
Spee,” “Poland Overwhelmed.”
I went along to the exhibition and founTfl
Devastation
railway smashes and shipping disasters seem
to have a peculiar fascination for the “Argus
in peace-time, and in war-time it is equally
charmed with bombs, mines, gas-masks, tanks
and similar lethal material. There was such
a parade of these implements of warfare and
of the ruin and suffering they produce that a
nirture of the Venus de Milo would have
looked utterly incongruous if it had got into
that setting by accident—in fact, it would have
looked positively shocking.
It is a strange set of values which makes one
engaging that it merits an exhibition in a gallery,
with a Lord Mayor to do the opening.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: With evident approval
“Harold Hardupp” (B. 21/2/'4O) men-
tions the case of a publican who was
t.t. and had t.t. sons. I know another pub-
lican who takes an occasional glass. I
was in his bar one day when a customer
happened to remark that he had never
seen the publican’s adult son in the bar.
“Doesn’t he drink?” he asked. “No,”
replied the publican. “Sam is a good,
clean-living boy. Thank God he never
touches it.” Being a nasty sort of chap,
the customer retorted: “Why do you
sell it if you think it’s a curse?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Since others have started the
topic, rape can be an ugly word, but
poets and historians do use it quite
innocently and correctly, since it is
merely the noun form of the adjective
“rapacious,” to which nobody could
dream of objecting. My dictionary assures
me that it can also be (1) a division of
an English county, (2) the refuse stalks
and skins of grapes, or (3) a plant of the
cabbage tribe, used for fattening stock.
And this recalls a quaint coincidence
which caused a stir in the office of the
old Adelaide “Register” when it was a
power in the land. Chief Justice Way
had felt bound to moralise about an
unusual crop of unnatural offences that
had come before the Criminal Court.
The “Register” printed his grave re-
marks ; and next day the agricultural
editor, innocent and humorless, had an
enthusiastic article headed “The Advan-
tages of Rape.”
* * * *
“Lawnston”: The climate of the Speck
has a soothing effect on the human spirit.
There had been some slight industrial
disturbance at the Storey’s Creek tin-
mine. When it was over the manager,
Egan, found that in taking his car in
and out of his garage he had twice driven
over a detonator attached to eight sticks
of gelignite. The police took notice, and
the men held an indignation meeting, and
passed a resolution that each man should
do his utmost to smell out the respon-
sible miscreant. The manager announced
that he did not associate the miners in
any way with the incident.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Repton School in
England, where “Good-bye, Mr. Chips,”
was filmed, isn’t unknown in Sydney,
which used to possess a
Boys Association; it was the school or
an unc ie of mine who came to Australia,
and ]n b j s com pany I met quite a num-
ber of the R ep tonians. Apparently the
d epression buste d the association. Rep-
ton boys had an
m the film-making. Hundreds ot them
we re brought back to school, by arrange-
jpgut with their guardians, eight days in
advance of time to enable the crowd
uences to be filmed ; the boys were
* . the scree n people and given
X. . . and + be sc hool was
lashings of ice-cream , and tne senoos was
also the better for a £2OOO scholarship,
* * * * ■ __
“Craiser” : The announcement that Neil
jyj ac ]sj e il the new headmaster of Wesley
College, Melbourne, has issued a ukase
that no little Wesley boy is to have side
pockets in his trousers amuses me. An-
other departure at Wesley is an order
that all boys shall stand when a master
comes into a room, whereas formerly
this compulsory gesture was reserved for
the headmaster. Mac Neil evidently
thinks that children are lawless pagans,
whereas the vast bulk of them are con-
ventional little creatures, and the diffi-
culty is to teach them to be individuals.
In a modern school in Melbourne it is
the fashion for all boys to go shoeless,
although their parents have plenty of
money. One day a small boy arrived with
a new pair of shoes on and suffused with
embarrassment. When he saw the aston-
ishment of his colleagues he blushed to
the roots of his hair, stuck out his chest
and said: “I’m not a sissy. I put ’em
on to kick with.”
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: Down in Victoria’s Goul-
burn Valley you have to keep your wits
about you when in custody of valuable
property. Several young fellows decided
to celebrate a mate’s departure for mili-
tary training with beer and song. Arriv-
ing at the rendezvous with the beer, they
found that nobody had thought of invit-
ing the guest of honor, so they went to
his home to collect him. Returning with
joyful anticipation to the party scene,
they found that someone had eloped with
the beer.
* * * *
“O. Deer”: The association had met
to see what it could do about blue-
edged items in broadcast programmes,
but a member from a southern branch
was out for blood, and several supporters
interjected that the broadcast discussion
was a lot of piffle. The chairman imme-
diately invited all those who said “piffle ’
to stand. They did so, and were asked
to produce membership cards. Three
couldn’t. The chairman then ordered
all unfinancial members to leave, and
great was the disorder thereat. In a
statement afterwards, a disgruntled mem-
ber said, “There are greater things facing
the workers today than the problem of
abolishing risque jokes. It has been
alleged that our branch contains a Com-
munist element. I came up to see about
that.” Another A.L.P. expulsion move?
No, the matrons of the Housewives’
Association, fighting for cheaper butter
or something.


, v
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
-[fa* !
.
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
PREVENT
EUB66
POLITICAL POINTS
The Government lost the Wilmot
(Tas.) seat on June 2, and on March 2
it lost Corio (Vic.). General-election
voting was 28,845 for Casey (U.A.P.) and
22,170 for Carmody (Labor); with 2000
or 3000 votes to be counted, Dedman
(Labor) had 25,207, Vinton Smith
(U.A.P.) 21,753 and O’Day (Com.) 1411.
Reeling from the dreadful shock, Menzies
protests that the Government is “ahead
of public opinion on war policy,” and
will “proceed with vigor and determi-
nation.”
Geelong dominates Corio and has done
so from the beginning, but it has no
lingering prejudice in favor of local men
as Federal members. Nearly all its
Federal members, from Crouch to Casey,
were strangers to the district when they
stood first. The only remembered excep-
tion is Ozanne, who was Labor M.H.R.
for Corio in two Parliaments. Ozanne
was beaten in 1917 by Lister, who was
visiting Geelong on a recruiting tour,
when it occurred to some of the local
Nats, that as a soldier he would be a
good man to run against another soldier.
He held the seat for 12 years.
Kept busy for most of a year big
with the fate of nations, and with only
a short Christmas adjournment, the
House of Commons is now sitting five
days a week. That could never be said
of any of our seven Parliaments, except
on very rare occasions, and always on
such occasions they pass bills at the
rate of ten or so a sitting by way of
preparing for a “Christmas adjournment”
that lasts six months.
When the N.S.W. coalminers went on
strike in 1938 their leaders boasted that
they had “£250,000 of credits.” The
bottom had fallen out of the boast at the
end of a week. Now their cry is that
£lOO,OOO or so is “in sight,” and that
their beautiful strike will begin on March
U. People will believe them when it
happens.
Because of the unnecessary State elec-
tion, Victorians have had to put up
with three policy speeches. Argyle’s
had most readers, if not listeners; he
astonished everyone by the vigor with
which he attacked Dunstan, his lieutenant
for three years, who twisted on him in
1935. He was comparatively mild then.
Boiling over in his policy speech at
Malvern, Argyle remarked, amongst
other things, that Dunstan the Wrecker
was at his old tricks, that you could
search the political records of the Empire
and find nothing to equal his career of
political treachery, chicanery and oppor-
tunism, that the appointment of friends
to. salaried positions had been rife, and
that this was indirectly the cause of the
unwanted election. The first nine minutes
of Argyle’s boiling over, in which these
observations occurred, did not reach'the
ear of the public listening to 3LO, a
condenser having failed. According to
Argyle a C.P. man got a copy of the
speech before delivery and threatened
legal proceedings if it were broadcast.
He says he will repeat the impeachment.
Something new in Sydney municipal
history turned up when three Waterloo
aldermen got three months on a bribery
charge. According to evidence, the firm
concerned was informed that “the boys
considered £5O little enough,” and police
were in hiding when £5O was handed
over. Notice of appeal was given.
Had the Communist candidate for
Corio got in, instead of losing his deposit,
his right to sit as member would cer-
tainly have been challenged. Section 44
of the Constitution says: “Any person
who is under any acknowledgment of
allegiance, obedience or adherence to a
foreign Power or is entitled to the
rights or privileges of a subject or a
citizen of a foreign Power... .shall be
incapable of being chosen or of sitting
as a Senator or member of the House.”
Trade and Customs seems an unlucky
department for politicians of all parties.
In the course of 25 years, the portfolio
has been held by Groom, Tudor, Archi-
bald, Jensen, Watt, Greene, Rodgers,
Chapman, Groom again, Pratten, Bruce,
Gullett, Fenton, Forde, Gullett again,
White, Lawson and Menzies, with Perkins
and Guy as assistants. The only substan-
tial terms were those of Pratten (1924-
28), who died in harness, and White
(1933-39), who was not reappointed when
Lyons died. Jensen and Lawson struck
trouble in different forms, and it settled
Jensen. Greene and Guy were defeated
at the polls. Tudor, Fenton and Forde
figured in party splits which curtailed
their tenure of the office; so did Archi-
bald, but he was only a stopgap Minister,
So look out, Bob!
It was remarked during Dunstan’s
policy speech in Bendigo that he referred
KEEPING AHEAD OF PUBLIC OPINION.
“The by-election indicates that the Government, so far from being behind public
opinion in relation to the war, is ahead of it.... The duty of the Government is to
proceed with vigor and determination.” —Menzies on Corio.
to his group as the “Country party.” Pre-
viously it was -“United Country party.”
Actually Victoria has three Country
“parties”: (1) Dunstan’s, (2) Hocking’s,
(3 ) Cook’s. Cook, the sole representative
0 f his show in the Assembly, calls it the
“Liberal” Country party, it being liberal
j n everything but numbers,
The population of Australia reached
seven millions last week—at least that
is the Commonwealth Statistician’s
reckoning. Though it has gone up two
millions since the end of the last Great
War year, the average annual rate of
increase over 15 years has slowed down
to one per cent. Failure of the costly
attempts to make Australian farmers of
British immigrants is responsible to some
extent. Transfer of factories, workshops,
mills, shipyards and fisher fleets would
have brought immeasurable benefits to
both countries; but in Britain, as in
Australia, politicians thought of emigra-
tion only as something to do with farm-
ing.
Victorian Labor politicians are laugh-
ing at Argyle because he has come out
for redistribution of Assembly seats. He
pointed out at Malvern that 461,562 pro-
vincial electors have 37 members,
whereas 696,048 metropolitan electors
have only 26. They point out it is all a
result of an arrangement he himself
made 14 years ago. But 14 years bring
changes, and even a Nationalist rising 73
is entitled to repent. His critics pay only
lip-service to redistribution ; hence their
people can’t possibly gain a majority of
seats, though they have for years past
had a majority of votes, and the Corio
by-election suggests that it has increased.
The U.A.P. campaign in Corio was
anything but well directed, and com-
plaints on this score are bitter. But
nothing done or left undone on the
Ministerial side came anywhere near the
Labor blunder of advising the faithful
to give the Communist their No. 2 votes.
Coming immediately after the sullen re-
fusal of the Adelaide Trades and Labor
Council to co-operate in R.A.A.F. re-
cruiting and the pro-Soviet declarations
of other bodies of the kind, it had
very unfavorable reactions. This was
recognised in time, and the idiotic in-
struction was withdrawn.
There is no sounder district in Aus-
tralia than the Riverina, nor one with
greater possibilities. Nor has any other
district felt more keenly the disadvantages
of the multiple system of government.
Situated along the border of N.S.W. and
Victoria, the Riverina has suffered from
State frights, differing rail gauges, eon-
She"" 8 and ,#>
and other consequences of benighted Big-
Ci y rule. It has 24 municipal and shire
councils and they are to send delegates
to a convention at Narrandera on March
ILZ "T S \tl, prop ° sals f ”, widar
powers 01 local government, with
the object of eventually assuming all
powers not of purely national character
and so bringing about abolition of State
Parliaments. Riverina might thus launch
the avalanche of national feeling on this
ma tter.
Minister Street describes as “a gross
and unhappy exaggeration” the report
that before Ingleburn camp could obtain
30s. worth of kerosene to deal with
skeeters the requisition had to pass
through 30 officials. He says the number
could not have exceeded 10. In any ordi-
nary business the office boy would be
given the money out of petty cash and
told tQ get the stuff from the nearest
store. Still, it would never do to run a
war on ordinary business lines.
N.S.W. Auditor-General Spence re-
ports (1) that the appropriation for ex-
penditure on the Government railways
for 1938-39 was exceeded by £322,983 ;
(2) that railway losses for 15 years
totalled £24,304,264 ; (3) that a payment
made to the Treasury by the Railways
was entered in the Railway books as
“sinking fund, £747,000,” and in the
Treasury books as “sinking fund, £O,”
and (4) that though the Comptroller of
Accounts has certified that works to the
amount of £1,610,671 have been aban-
doned they are still included in the bal-
ance sheet as fixed assets. The Commis-
sioners’ Union can hardly be blamed if it
regards Spence as a dead nark.
“Not guilty on the ground of insanity”
was the verdict in the case of L. V.
Lawlor, who, whether or not he tried
to shoot the Duchess of Kent, was proved
to have shot two Melbourne men while
employed as a Government munition
worker. “Guilty but insane,” the Eng-
lish formula, is far more sensible. It is
at least some safeguard against premature
release at the instance of some noodle
of a Minister yielding to the represen-
tations of some political clique or group
of addleheaded humanitarians.
If petrol must be rationed to “con-
serve dollar exchange,” why are films,
pulp magazines, syndicated comics
and pugs—black and brown—
being allowed to come in without
restriction?
Response to the appeal for funds
to build the urgently-needed Royal
Melbourne Hospital was described
by the “Argus” as “amazing,”
£78,000 being subscribed in a few
minutes at a Town Hall meeting.
But the hospital authorities want
£lBO,OOO, and if they can’t get it
£BO,OOO will have to be drawn from
endowments. So the cadge will
begin again, and this time in com-
petition with war-time charities.
One speaker complacently re-
marked that Melbourne people,
unlike those of some other States,
prefer to depend on individual
effort for the maintenance of their
sick bays rather than lay the re-
sponsibility on the shoulders of the
Government. They do not; but the
last thing the politicians would do
is to admit it.
Having gone to the country, the
antics of the Dunstan Government
suggest a man having thrown himself
from a window trying to reach the pave-
ment in a dignified position.
Boss Hocking, of the Disunited
Country party, is standing for Allan-
dale (Vic.) against Labor-member
Denigan. It serves the Labor heads right
for keeping Hocking’s group in office
for five years without even bargaining
for some alteration of the cockeyed
electoral distribution which has given
Hocking’s crowd more Assembly seats
than Labor, although Labor has eight
times as many voters.
Some American reporter excelled him-
self when he alleged that mail for Ger-
many carried in one of the Clippers had
been removed in Bermuda by Britons
armed to the teeth and flashing bayonets.
Fantastic as the yarn was, it was believed
by a parcel of Washington politicians,
and there followed the familiar ex-
plosions of rage and threats. Like so
much of the American reporting that
has been done since 1935, it was sheer
invention. Red and Pink American re-
porters are not guiltless of the blood-
shed in Europe.


PASSING THE BUCK.
“Thirty different officials were alleged to have handled a requisition for 30s. worth of kerosene for the Ingleburn camp. Minister Street replies that ‘the number could
not have exceeded 10.’ ”


QUALITY CUTLERY
42—BAKER’S STANDARD RAZOR, Best
Full Hollow-ground, Black Handle, fin.
Each, 12/6.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
Quality
Blade
śd
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.
No. 15 BAKER’S
D AGGING AND
BOTTLE OUTFIT.
Consists of Red Tang
Shear, £ Pint Galv. Tin
Bottle and 4| x I x |
Oil Stone. The Sheath
is made as No. I 7 Out-
fit. 23/6 complete.
Postage 1/3 extra.
Fitted with Copper
Bottle, 3/- extra.
3 Hunter Street,
Sydney
sdf
523—BREAD BOARD
AND KNIFE, coloured
Knife Handle and
Coloured Design on 4
Corners. Knife slips
into slot' at top of Board.
10/6 complete.
Postage 1/- extra.
OR SMALL
MODEL PINK-
ING SCISSORS.
Size overall,
sin. 25/-.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-General E. K. Squires, who
came from England 18 months ago to
reorganise the Australian military forces,
died in Melbourne on Sunday, at 57. He
was born in Poona, India, and was edu-
cated at Eton and the Woolwich R.M.A.
He received his first commission in 1903,
served in the 1914-18 war, and was
Director of Staff Duties at the War
Office. Upon his recommendation the
Australian militia strength was doubled,
and organisation was simplified by adop-
tion of the command system.
“Ek D.”: His associates literally were
compelled to look up to Lieut.-
General Squires—he was 6ft. sin., an
inch taller than Allenby and Edmund
Ironside, and nearly on a level with Lord
Halifax. His military career had been
an unusual one. A son of the Church,
he was a splendid all-round athlete. Most
of his earlier military life was spent in
India. Severe wounds received at Givenchy
in December, 1914, and at Ypres several
months later did not put him out of
action —he fought in Mesopotamia, and
took part in the Afghan campaign of
1919. Nevertheless, he always had the
look of a man fighting with pain, though
it did not affect his perennial lively good
humor, which could turn to icy determi-
nation when things went wrong. He had
a precise mind, developed during his engi-
neering training, and it was this ability
and a faculty for handling men which
secured his transfer to the general staff
in India eight years ago, and led him
to higher things.
Sideshowmen at the Sydney R.A.S.
call him “The Colonel” respectfully;
the stock rings to a man call him
—no less respectfully—“ Barney.” In
“THE COLONEL.”
(Modelled by Frith.)
actuality, G. C. Somerville, C.-in-C.
of Sydney Royal Show, is a colonel
—holding an active military com-
mand. Goulburn (N.S.W.) born, he was
educaved at Brisbane Grammar School,
commissioned in the C.M.F., and was
on the staff of the Ist Division, A.1.F.,
when it went to France—J. T. Hobbs,
R. G. Casey, A. H. Sturdee and Cecil
Foott were fellow staff officers. In
December, 1917, he was transferred as
second to Brigadier Carruthers in the
Administration Division of the Anzac
Corps headquarters. He came home
with a D. 5.0., C.M.G. and several men-
tions in dispatches, to become Director
of Repat. in Melbourne, and in 1925 suc-
ceeded Monte Somer as secretary of the
Sydney R.A.S. He is a lover of animals,
has a mind perennially fertile in invention
of show-building expedients, is a sound
disciplinarian and literally lives on his
job. One of his council once defined
his working hours as “from 6 a.m. Mon-
day to 6 a.m. Monday.” Under his guid-
ing hand Sydney R.A.S. has ceased merely
to be a show society—it manages most
of the N. S. Wales herd-books, carries
on the regular publicity of the breed
societies and holds seasonal competitions
in pasture and grain improvement. It
has become, in fact, a second Agriculture
Department.
“Kaloa”: When Hubert Murray first
went to Papua he was a tall, upright
military figure, lean as a yard of pump-
water, and at 46 as fine an amateur
with the gloves for his age as the Com-
monwealth owned. He was a quick and
steady walker, and it was amusing to
see some small and rotund official trying
to catch up with him. He was a great
chooser of young men —Jack Hides, Leo
Austin, the Champions (one of them is
now Acting Lieutenant-Governor), his
nephew Leonard, Pinney (who was his
Commissioner for Lands, Mines and
Agriculture, and who married Murray’s
daughter before he became Adminis-
trator of Norfolk Island), O’Malley arid a
dozen more were all pro-
ducts of his training, and
he rarely chose a young-
ster who failed him. He
was not afraid to pick
locally-born boys Hides
was one of them. Murray
was twice married. One
son, Brigadier - General
Terence Murray, fought as
an officer in the 1914-18 war
with distinction. Another,
Patrick, has made a name
for himself in science.
Dead in Melbourne at
76, George Lewis Aitken,
one of the veterans of the
Australian wool industry.
Born at Skipton (Vic.) and
educated at Scotch College,
Melbourne, he entered Dal-
gety’s as a clerk m 1882,
became sub-manager and
then joint manager with
M. R. Macrae. He became
Melbourne manager in 1915
and retired in 1936. Few
men knew more about the
pastoral industry, and big
pastoral investigations were
incomplete without his
presence in an advisory
capacity. The Pastoral Re-
search Trust was founded
at his instigation, and he was its only
president until his retirement.
The 19th Battalion of the old A.I.F.
has lost its beloved “old man,” Lieut.-
Colonel H. M. Beiers, who passed out
at 50. A Bundaberg (Q.) native, he was
an engineer, and enlisted from the Gov-
ernment dockyards at Newcastle as a
sapper. He was on Gallipoli, and went
to the Somme as boss of the 19th. He
collected a Military Cross and several
mentions in dispatches. After the war
he was secretary of the Federated Wine
and Spirit Merchants’ Association.
Rear-Admiral Crace, who holds the
sea command of the R.A.N., was born
in the Monaro (N.S.W.), but has spent
most of his life in the R.N. His one
visit to his native land in recent years
REAR-ADMIRAL GRACE.
prior to assuming his new office last year
was when he came to Australia in com-
mand of one of the light cruisers with
the Atlantic Fleet in 1924. In appear-
ance he is ascetic-looking, and in mufti
might be taken for an Anglican vicar
of the sterner sort on leave ; he has
the reputation of being a firm dis-
ciplinarian with no nonsense about him,
who likes everything shipshape and Bristol
fashion, and sees that he gets it. In
private life he is quiet and retiring, and
dislikes fuss.
It is 55 years last Friday since Aus-
tralia’s first expeditionary force left
Sydney to join in the Sudan campaign,
and there is at least one survivor left in
Melbourne. He is Charles Wearne, of
Moonee Ponds. A grandson, Athol
Wearne, is flying with the R.A.F.
Passed over at 81 in Bendigo, R. H. S.
Abbott, one of Bendigo’s leading citizens
and president of its Art Gallery. He
represented the Northern Province in the
Legislative Council in 1907 and again
in 1922, and was a member of the Senate
for six months in 1932. His inventor son
was killed by a motor-truck in Melbourne
two days previously.
Captain R. H. S. Abbott, killed in a
motor-car accident in Melbourne, had
over 80 inventions to his credit. Badly
wounded after the Gallipoli landing, he
had charge of the first batch of Aus-
tralian soldiers invalided from Egypt to
England, where a notion of his com-
mended itself to the British military inven-
tions branch, which gave him a chance to
assist in the improvement of various lethal
weapons. Then finance took his fancy,
and as a partner in the banking firm of
Close Bros, he helped to finance the Yukon
Railway, Burmese power and irrigation
and home-building in London. Then
he produced the scale buoy which re-
moves the rust from the boilers of Vic-
torian locomotives, and which has
been marketed in most countries. A
visit to the U.S.A. started him on the
science of hydroponics, the soilless grow-
ing of plants in troughs filled with water
charged with the elements of fertility.
There are hundreds of disciples of his
system in Victoria, and householders in
Melbourne suburbs turn out remarkable
crops of vegetables and flowers.
Japan’s adviser on Australasian matters
is the 31-year-old Ballarat-born Prof.
Peter A. V. Russo, who occupies the
Chair of Modern Languages in the
Japanese Imperial University of Com-
merce. He is also a lecturer for the
Imperial University of Literature and
Science. In his vacations he does a lot
of travelling, and has made three exten-
sive journeys throughout China. He is
the only non-Japanese associated with the
Japanese Government
Propaganda and Culture
Office. Incidentally, he is
a correspondent for the
A.B.C. He visited Australia
with a Japanese mission five
years ago.
Harry Betts, head and
front of the effort to pro-
duce a new evening paper
for Melbourne, is an ex-
soldier who contracted the
desire to be a journalist and
own a paper during the war.
He got no encouragement
from newspaper pro-
prietors in his search for
a job ; but he brought out
the “Radioprogram” and,
in spite of opposition, car-
ried on until the “Radio
Times,” which developed
from it, became a good
property.
The passing of Dave
Harkness, veteran president
of the Sydney Swimming
Club, severs a picturesque
link with Sydney’s past. He
lived in Darlinghurst all his
life, witnessed the transition of the ’Loo
and Potts Point, and had memories of
toll bars, windmills arid bushrangers. As
a schoolboy he used to watch the blacks
fishing in Rushcutter Bay, and saw
meetings of the warriors beneath the
giant figtree at Elizabeth Bay. For a
generation his bronzed figure was to be
seen at the Domain Baths, and during
his long term as president of the club
he taught thousands of schoolchildren to
swim.
Gordon Edward Sunter, appointed
president of the S.A. Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation, an office he has held before, is
G. E. SUNTER.
an Adelaide sharebroker and an alder-
man Adelaide City Council and of
St. Peter’s Council. Born at Norwood,
S.A., 58 years ago, he graduated at
Adelaide University. He took up
, At u-i TT i_ .
accoun,a ” c y. a " d £ ° r a wl " le was Hobart
mana § er for the Queensland Insurance
Co - In 1936 he was chairman of the
S.A. Board of the Federal Institute of
Accountants.


777
THREE SEVENS
A Better Smoke
at your
favorite
price!
11l
__ —
tot
64
V
TO-DAY’S
BIGGEST
cigarette
VALUE
s
m
■&
22
c
771
Co r
7?
77|
V*9 T *
i
1
r ~\ ' c A\S///mL^,
KJWwQH
S7^7-e
isr \\
Product
VISCACELLE WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
651 E-3.40


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
camped on the Goulburn River (Vic.)
and had just settled down to sleep when
his pillow—a gunny-bag full of lucerne
—gave a convulsive heave. Mat sat up
and eyed the pillow suspiciously, but, as
there was no further movement, lay down
again. The pillow then dragged itself
from under his head, made a zigzag rush
towards my bunk, stood on end and fell
over sideways. Mat and I grabbed what-
ever was handiest, and stood by to strike,
Then the pillow erupted a fair-sized
goanna, which gave us a supercilious
look and made for the outer darkness,
“Y’ silly cow,” Mat roared after it, “why
didn’t y’ word me that y’ was there!”
A burst of profanity from outside
stopped us dead, wondering wildly about
that go. ; then old Dick put his head in
the tent and demanded to know what the
flamin’ ’ell we meant, chuckin’ goannas
at him.
* * * *
Pinler : Tne yabbie of inland creeks
and dams could teach us a few things
about water-conservation. In a tank-
bed that had been dry for months near
Lascelles (Vic.), I followed a yabbie hole
down with the shovel. It was just on
sft. from the mudcap on top to the 3in.
of water and the yabbie in the bottom.
* * * *
“Dewey”: Many a parent has silently
cursed the habit of small children de-
manding drinks at unearthly hours of
the night, but an Orange (N.S.W.) farmer
thinks it’s a blessing. He had six hay-
stacks, and one caught fire just before
dawn. About the same time a child
on a neighboring farm called for a drink,
and a grumbling father, getting out of
bed to satisfy the demand, saw the flames
reflected in the bedroom mirror. The
fire was quenched and the other stacks
saved.
* * * *
“M. Urray”: Though he charges
“Jayem” with a bad memory concern-
ing rabbit prices (per pair and skins),
“Peedamulla’s” own memory must be
a bit weak when he alleges (B. 28/2/’4O)
there wasn’t even a demand for bunny’s
skin during the 1914-18 war. I was a
station-hand in N.S.W. Riverina in the
winter of 1918, and every squatter had
a job to keep men ; all wanted to go
rabbiting, there being plenty of rabbits
and skins bringing up to eight bob a
pound!
* * * *
“Naturala”: I fancy “Splodger” (B.
7/2/’4O) credits Nature with just a shade
too much speed when he speaks of a
bone-dry swamp suddenly flooded bring-
ing frogs to a full cycle of life inside 13
hours. Actually, those million full-grown
frogs had been in the adult stage for
months previous, lying dormant under
the caked mud. The females, too, had
been full of spawn. So it was not so
very amazing that they should have re-
appeared and shed their spawn within
his 13-hour period. If the spawn had
also hatched out in that time it would
have been. But Nature would not hurry
“Is it pulling, sir ?”
overmuch about that part of the cycle,
though she was well aware that the
swamp might quickly dry up again,
dooming millions of tadpoles to an early
death. Her counter-remedy for that lay
in those schools of half-grown frogs. In
the event af a sudden drought they
would disappear underground, to emerge
later full grown and well stocked with
spawn. Observation shows that the
Dame pursues such a system of stepped
hatchings with practically all fresh-water
aquatics, so that there is always a suffi-
ciency of virile, partly-grown young to
carry the race over any sudden catas-
trophe.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When two rat-
catchers at Katanning (W.A.) decided to
experiment on two of their captives, they
started something that will take the police
force and the Emu Machine-gun Corps
to settle. The rats were, in the first place,
treated to a dose of arsenic, which re-
suited in the death of one and its con-
sumption by the other, which, however,
showed no ill-effects. A dose of cyanide
seemed merely to increase its appetite,
an( j a feed of strychnine filled it so full
of beans that it gnawed through the
w i res D f j ts cage anc j escaped. The
inhabitants of Katanning now venture
out after dark only in threes, and the
police have got so jumpy they shoot at
the first sound,
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry had made a
claim against the railways for one of
his horses that had been killed on the
line. “How much would you say that
this horse was worth?” asked the railway
lawyer. “Not a penny less than £50,”
declared the long un. “Pedigreed, I
suppose?” “No, but you couldn’t judge
a horse like that by its parents.” “No,”
the lawyer agreed; “I’ve sometimes
noticed how crossing it with an engine
will improve the breed.”
* * * *
“White Ibis”: Timber, like a good
paper—l am reminded that The Bully
is 60 years young —can keep its strength
with the years. Here at Comaum (S.A.),
three years before Archibald cradled the
infant weekly, a chap with a heart like
a lion hewed some red-gum slabs for
the walls of his cottage. Average width
12in., 3in. thick, 7ft. long, and a spirit-
level couldn’t fault ’em. They’ve been
exposed to all types of weather ever since,
and when I used them recently in building
a woolshed proved 100 p.c. solid. Such
timber and the men to dress it aren't
plentiful these days. If my shed outlasts
The Bulletin those slabs might well
achieve a magnificent record for the red-
gums.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: There is one place in
Australia where it is always on the cards
that one may get a nocturnal crocodile
thrill. Wyndham, the town and port,
and Wyndham, the meatworks, are two
distinct entities, separated by a vast salt-
marsh, joined by a long causeway that
traverses said marsh. Piercing this cause-
way are many culverts which permit high
tides to sweep back right to the foot of
the Bastion Range. Along this causeway
one trudges to the town to get a drink.
Back to home at midnight, the reveller
is apt to follow this elevated path more
by blind instinct than by sight. Around
in the tide, or perhaps exploring the
culverts, crocs, are apt to be paddling.
Popular theory holds that no croc, will
leave the marsh to climb the rather steep-
sided causeway. Possibly not, but to
flash a torch or a match at the paddling
noise below and discover a 16ft. saurian
doing a patient stalk in the hope that a
meal may fall overboard—well, many a
drunk has been jolted right back to
sobriety, and has covered the rest of
the way in nearer to even time than he
had ever dreamed possible. Crocs, pos-
sibly are a bit shy of a white man —
smell, probably—for they have never
actually been known to collect a white
for dinner ; but it isn’t possible to per-
suade the abos. or any other colored folk
to traverse that causeway after dark.
“L.E.L.”: Hearing through your teeth,
is it (B. 7/ 2/ ’40)? The horsedriver in our
Queensland road camp, an ardent Abo-
liar, was also good on the mouth-organ.
He suggested giving us something dif-
ferent this night, so he told us to go
along the wire fence for about 300 yards,
grip the middle wire with our teeth and
plug our ears with our fingers. I ex-
pected to be sold, but the tunes that came
to us througn our tatts were beautifully
clear. He played with his instrument
gripped against the wire.
* * * *
t • Henry G. Lamond: Thanks to
“Golive” for his intelligent criticism of
my story “Choice” (B. 21/2/’4O). He
argues, in the main, soundly, but I can't
have it that he or any other man may
lay down hard-and-fast rules about what
dingoes may do at a given time. I have
dug a litter of pups out of a burrow
early in May. I have seen a dingo
bitch occupy the dress-circle and
look on while her dog killed for her
—that was how I got her with the
rifle ; she gave a sitting shot. If “Golive”
has seen enough dingo fights to formulate
rules about their mode of warfare then
he knows more than any other man I
have ever met. I have seen only one fight
—it was at a carcass of a bullock on
the road near the Georgina, Lake Nash
station. Those dogs fought —it was
really only a skirmish—in the manner I
described.
* * * *
“Tiatuckia”: The straying-cow pest
has been ended in our town, and for
this blessing we have to thank a retired
Indian army officer who settled among
us last year. When the blooms which he
had been getting ready for the local
show were ruined he cursed and promptly
counter-attacked. Next morning loud
wails arose from numerous homes ; the
milk smelled like a week-old dead fox
and tasted worse. It was the same the
next morning—and the mornirig after
that. The cow owners rushed off to the
scrub to cut new posts, the storekeeper
was inundated with orders for barbed-
wire and Cyclone gates, and the town
embarked upon an orgy of repairing cow-
paddock fences, for only by keeping
the brutes at home could they get milk
fit for human consumption. Then peace
settled on the town. The old major has
just let me into the joke. “An old Irish
custom, me boy,” he chuckled ; “you
cut little bunches of lucerne or other
green fodder, and in the middle of each
you put a big stalk of garlic, tie them
up with a twist of grass and drop them
around the town for the strays to pick
up. The garlic doesn’t harm the cow —
in fact, it seems to do her a lot of good
—but as long as she eats garlic a starved
cat wouldn’t touch the milk.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Birds aren’t the only
wild creatures that exhibit surprising
knowledge in their handling of heat-wave
problems (B. 14/2/’4O). Scores of times
I’ve seen kangaroos lick their wrists and
then hang their arms down in the breeze.
It is at the wrists that the main blood-
stream comes nearest the skin, and they,
like Homo sapiens, are aware that if
that portion is cooled the whole body
benefits.
* * * sis
“Javem”: Red Victor was puzzied to
see Harry standing in the middle of the
cow paddock while his wife drove the
car round him, then towards him, tooting
the horn constantly. Victor tied his horse
up, walked over to the fence, and
watched the performance for a few
minutes. “Cripes, Harry,” he said when
he could restrain his curiosity no longei.
“what’s the idea?” Harry beckoned his
wife to stop, and then told Victor, “It’s
like this,” he said. “I’m goin’ down to
Sydney for the show, and I’ve heard
that much about the way these jay-
walkers are gettin’ fined that I’m trying
to get used to traffic.”
H= * * *
“Paddle-splasher”: The kookaburra
isn’t alone in its ability to bluff a goanna
(B. 21/2/’4O). Jacko’s young cousin the
"kingfisher is pretty good at the same
game. I saw a big go. half-way up a
gum with his eye on a nest above him.
Then the householder, a little kingfisher,
decided he didn’t want his eggs pinched,
and determined to take a hand. Swear-
ing and screeching, the little chap com-
menced a series of swoops, passing within
half an inch of the go.’s head, though
never actually pecking him. The big
bloke crawled up a foot or so further,
his head waving back and forth in a
futile endeavor to shake off his tor-
mentor, though I doubt if he even saw
him —the bird was so fast. The last I
saw of the pair was five feet of go.,
chased down the tree, tearing along to
the nearest scrub, with 4in. of indignant
kingfisher still swearing as it wheeled
overhead.
* « * *
“Flight”: That expert diver the little
grebe has a reputation for ability to stay
submerged for long periods, especially
if danger threatens. I, too, thought he
possessed phenomenal lung development
until I solved the mystery in a tank about
100 ft. in diameter, with water crystal-
clear. Previously, when stones kept the
little chap diving, he would go down and
stay down. But when I had him where
I could see him I noted how he did it.
After several dives, and when a stone
landed near him as soon as he broke
the surface, the bird came close enough
to the surface merely to break the water
with the top mandible of his beak, gulped
a pint of air, and slid under again with-
out causing a ripple. In muddy water,
and on a biggish hole, that wouldn’t be
noted even by the sharpest eyes.
FIVE-FATHOM SHOAL.
Crying fitful protest from a darkened sky
Flew the swans at sundown, winging north,
and high.
Whimbrel on their sandspits nurse a secret woe:
Salt is in the sea-wind, and the glass falls low;
Louder yet and louder sounds a muffled roll
Of unquiet waters, drumming on the Shoal.
Now with roaring challenge comes the storm
away;
At the tnroat of Gabo leaps an angry spray,
Where a silent warden dares the sullen night
With his scornful lances; turns accusing light
On the hungry wolfpack waiting for a toll
Hard by Tullaberga, at Five-Fathom Shoal.
When pulsating springtides, aching with desire
For the moon’s embraces, for her cold, white
fire,
Turn from cloying beaches, seeking blue relief,
Womanlike her voice is; womanlike, the reef
Hides her jealous longings, masks her sinful soul
With a silken love-song—Siren of the Shoal!
Now her mask has fallen. Now an ebon night
Weds her to Defiance. Now, while Gabo light
Flashes faithful warning, o’er the hurricane,
O’er the shouts of thunder, shouts of sea and
rain,
Like a wild Valkyrie riding from the Pole
On her mad seahorses, screams Five-Fathom
Shoal.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“ 'E used to be a cavalry ’ orse .”
“I thought they didn't bring 'em back after the last war."
“Old-timer”: Silent Louis, a bachelor
of some 40-odd summers, had been on
the place longer than anyone else, and
occupied a two-roomed hut on his own.
Then many letters began coming through
the mail for Lou, and curious eyes noted
that the postmarks ranged from sheep-
towns in western N.S.W. to the boot vil-
lages along the Yarra River. Lou him-
self changed, becoming finicky as to the
state of shirts never previously noted
for their immaculateness, and shaving
once a week instead of twice a year.
Speculation ran hot, and bets were made,
but Lou himself remained non-committal
to all questions, direct or otherwise. Then
there arrived one day a large packing-
case, and observers saw Lou take from
it several dozen glass-preserving jars.
This could portend only one thing, and
the boys then began betting on whether
she’d be dark, fair, plump or skinny. A
few days later Lou, outfitted like a bush
Brummell, left for points south. Time
passed. Lou returned, semi-sober and
with all the signs of a big bender. That
night they watched him struggle down
to the river with the case and heave the
jars one by one into the water. They
knew that old Lou was throwing a dream
out of his silent heart, and from that
day they never spoke of the thing again.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Freak memories? A
former resident revisited us recently
after an absence of 17 years. I took
him around to renew old acquaintances,
but his memory for faces was very poor.
Invariably his response to a reintroduc-
tion was, “Well, I wouldn’t have known
you!” On the way home, however, he
stopped outside a grazing paddock, the
light of recognition in his eye. “See that
chestnut? That’s old Ginger; the old
man bred him just after the war,” he
declared. I expressed doubts that a man
could recognise a horse after so long a
time. “I’ll bet you drinks that he’s
branded DC on the off-shoulder,” chal-
lenged my guest. “Well, it beats me,”
I said, as I paid up later, “and yet you
couldn’t recognise your old cobbers!
“That’s different,” he retorted. “All men
are alike, but horses have individuality.”
* * * *
“Wang”: “Some wimmen, so I’ve
heard,” remarked Dan, “is fond of talkin’
’both the operations they’ve had; but
in a camp I wus in one time there was
a bloke who never magged about any-
thing else. Accordin’ to him he’d had
every part of him either broken or hacked
about it was possible to have. He neally
druv us mad. One night he’s holdin
forth ’bout some operation he’d had done
to his napper, when a quiet sorta bloke
named Alf Brown-Jones ses, with a sly
wink at the rest of us, ‘l’ve never tole
’bout my operation, have I? Marvellous
one, it wus. I wus workin’ in a sawmill
one time, when the circular-saw broke,
an’ a piece of it flew over t’ where me
an’ another bloke wus standin’, an’ cut
both our heads clean orf. My nut was
smashed up proper, an’ the other bloke s
body wus done likewise. They rushed a
doctor in, an’ he clapped the other bloke s
head on my body an’ stitched it on.
That’s why I’m called Brown-Jones, y’
know. Me body’s Brown, an’ me head
is Jones—that wus the other bloke’s
name. As y’ say, surgical science is a
wunnerful thing these days. But, all the
same, it wus a marvellous operation,
wasn’t it?’ We all agreed, barrin’ the
much operated-on bloke. He got his
time next day an’ cleared out.”
& * * *
“Numb”: “Naturala’s” experience of
snakes and fire (B. 21/2/’4O) is a new
one to me. Usually when threatened
by bushfire and no friendly root-hole is
handy Joe flattens out thin as a strap
closely pressed to the ground and suffers
little as the flames go over him. He also
uses his nut when whirled from his water-
side retreat by flood waters. By simply
coiling himself round and round the
shape of a soup plate and placing his
head on the surface centre of his own
coils he drifts away until wafted to the
margin of the floodwaters at a friendly
bend of the river.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: From my neighbor’s
wash-house came bitter complaints about
the hardness of the well-water. “It’s
always the same, summer after summer,”
said an indignant female voice. “We
run out of rainwater soon after Christmas
and we don’t get any more until winter
sets in. Money can always be found
for everything else except another rain-
water tank” My neighbor then led
me out of earshot. “It’s like this,” he
explained ; “I know the homestead roof
has a big enough catchment to fill an-
other rainwater tank, and I could buy
another tank all right, but this is the
point. Have you ever tried to please
women by giving them every damn’
thing they ask for? It doesn’t work.
They want a new car, and when you
buy that they want to refurnish the
house. They just can’t be happy unless
they’re wanting something. Well, in my
case it’s another rainwater tank. It suits
me, because I don’t
have to think up a
whole lot of new argu-
ments ; I just trot out
the same old ones, and
it saves me about £3OO
a year, which I can
spend on necessities.” I
may be a traitor to my
sex by giving the show
away like this, but now
the women all over the
outback who are rais-
ing the annual wail
over the summer short-
age of rainwater will
know why the Old Man
can’t be bullied or
cajoled into buying an
extra tank.
* #
“Murbah”: Mac, a
good sleeper-cutter still,
gets hot and bothered
about some of the new
hands in the game.
“Nothin’ like what we
was in our prime,” said
Mac. “They ain’t too
bad .in the day when
I’m settin’ the pace for
’em, but, strike me pink,
you should see ’em in
camp at night! ’Struth! There’s a bloke
in me camp now what ’as a portable
wireless an’ listens to music ’arf the
bloomin’ night. Fancy me an’ me ole
cobbers doin’ that! A few good yarns
an’ we rolled in in the good ole days.
But that ain’t all. ’E washes ’is plates
o’ meat every night, an’ dosses in per-
jamas! Blime, they’re gettin’ like
sheilahs. Who ever ’eard of ole-timers
goin’ to sleep in them things?”
contemptuously while I chipped in, “But
surely there’s no harm in that, Mac?
It’s his affair, after all.” “P’raps so,”
went on Mac. “Still, I can’t see why ’e
ain’t like me. I sleeps in the raw —
always. Besides, ’ow the devil can he
catch the flamin’ fleas an’ ticks an’ such-
like with them things coverin’ ’im all
over?”
* * * *
“Old Eland”: The liangle mentioned
by “Karaway” (B. 14/2/’4O) reminds me
of another curious abo. creation made
of rose, gidya or other fancy woods by
the now-extinct natives of the Cooper
Creek country. Known as boo-thella,
this piece of artistic streamlining started
with a fine point, which gradually de-
veloped to a circumference of an inch or
more, and again streamlined to an 18in.
slender length. With unerring precision
it was thrown to brush the leaves of
tree or shrub, the slight impact thus
causing a direct ascent skywards of the
missile, which made a sound strangely
like the name boo-thella as it spun
at wonderful pace, later to arc gracefully
to earth.
jjj ijc ❖ *
“N.-w.”: Compared with the low-quality,
half-rancid pig bacon so often retailed
by far-out storekeepers —when they have
any at all —a rasher of dugong, salted
and smoked over a wood fire, tastes like
“Willum, I Want 'ee t’ make this into a prunin’-ook."
something straight from Kilkenny. But
in my opinion the flesh of no wild thing,
bird or animal, can compare with that
of the domesticated variety. Take the
wild duck ; its flesh certainly has a rangy
flavor which makes it a zesty dish, but
all round it can’t compare with the crisp-
skinned succulence of the barnyard bird,
Take the oft-vaunted wild pig. As a
sucker just the thing, but in the adult
stage practically devoid of that creamy
pork fat, with flesh frequently as tough
as that of a mountain goat.
* * * *
“Nugget”: The blue-tongued lizard,
alias sleepy, alias stump-tailed —call it
what you like —I’ve often wondered how
the poor feckless reptile has survived
through the ages against the omnivorous
abo. appetite. For bluey-sleepy-stumpy
certainly won’t get out of anybody’s way
—it’s doubtful if he moves out of the
path of a bushfire —and Binghi will cer-
tainly eat anything. Then how comes it
that he has survived? Is he for some
religious reason taboo to the nigger? Like
the goanna, he is pretty good eating,
which fact the go. seems to be aware
of, hence his fleetness when anything
like a hungry abo. appears on the land-
scape. But bluey-stumpy never moves —
he doesn’t care! And he isn’t in any
way scarce. Which reminds me of when
old Jack Dawe landed in the Woorooloo
Sanatorium, in from the Nullagine, where
for most of a lifetime he had favored
a native diet. Jack’s oft-expressed desire
for a feed of “overland trout” induced
a couple of us to take a bush walk. The
tally was half a dozen. Jack was sup-
posed to be a bed patient, but he man-
aged to totter up the hillside out of the
matron’s sight, build a fire and cook his
lizard abo. style. “I’ll have one blanlcy
good feed before I snuff.” And “many
the hundred I've et” was his snorted deri-
sion when we declined to share the feast.
But even he couldn’t explain how bluey-
stumpy had survived the abo. appetite.
Merely reckoned Binghi didn’t eat him.
Why?
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: The shed boss was a nark.
“You chaps must make the bales heavier
or get out,” he yelled at the sweating
pressers struggling to get 2501 b. of
springy, light crossbred fleeces in a bale.
They gave him a nasty look, but the next
bale weighed 3201 b. After the cut-out
the cocky was worried by blunt instru-
ments. Later he received a stiff letter and
a heavy package from his woolbrokers,
but he was pleased to sharpen his axe
again on the old grindstone.
* * * *
“Tapstone Jones”: Touching on that
“Queen of the Earth” par. (B. 17/1/’4O),
“Dryblower” Murphy used to tell this
yarn. The piano had just been closed,
one night after a couple of hours of
music, when a figure, bootless, clad only
in a tattered pair of pants, staggered
into the circle around the wagon and col-
lapsed. Thirst. It was next morning be-
fore the visitor was able to speak. Too
poor to pay the £1 which would have
carried his swag on a wagon, too sensi-
tive to brave the scowls of the teamsters
who objected to hard-up swampers dog-
ging their parties (which meant having
to hand out a dole of precious water
should the hard-up one start to perish),
this poor devil had been trying to make
Coolgardie on his own. Leaving The
Cross, he had got near to Woolgangie,
and then somehow had lost the track.
Swag gone, coat, shirt and boots ditto,
he had fallen down, probably to die,
when from afar across the desert had
floated the sweet notes of a piano. It
had seemed at first merely pait oi his
delirium, but when it had persisted and
there had come, too, the taint echo oi
a male voice singing, he had been stirred
to crawl toward it, impossible though
he believed it to be. Is there anything
in fiction the world over that could lm-
prove on that situation. Incidentally,
the crowd put up enough to provide him
with food and water as far as the Big
Camp.
TO AN OLD MATE.
We used to ride on an old bay hack,
When the mornings were cold and clear,
Down by the creek and follow the track
To the ford by the wooden weir.
Then up by the fallow, fresh and brown,
To laugh at the wattle-birds’ cries,
As we kicked the gelding and galloped down
To the old bush school on the rise.
There, while the day on its journey went
From the dawn to the evening star,
We’d learn what a five-times table meant;
That a Russian king was a czar.
Then out, when the long gum shadows fell
And the sun rays dazzled our eyes,
We’d mount the bay and ride with a yell
From the old bush school on the rise.
We used to drive in an old-time car,
When frost held the night in its grip,
O’er ruts and stumps with many a jar
And the headlights cutting a strip
Where possums played on the winding road,
And the wild swans threaded the skies,
As the old car carried its happy load
To the old bush school on the rise.
There, while the night to the dawning fled,
Piano and flute and fiddle
Would strike the tune as the dancers sped—
“Y’ partners swing in the middle!”
There was joy in the waltz and the sets and
lancers;
In the looks and the smiles and sighs;
There was laughter—you knew —in the hearts of
the dancers
In the old bush school on the rise.
We used to go when a friend had died
Who’d known the creek and the weir,
And sober we’d stand while women cried
And the parson prayed by the bier.
And oft in our Sunday suits we’d hear
From fresh young lips good-byes,
And give to the married pair a cheer
From the old bush school on the rise.
The gelding is dust, and dust are the czars,
And fiddle and flute are still.
Nobody cares to look at the stars
Or the lonely wreck on the hill.
The little bush school has seen its day,
But present and past have their ties,
And we’ll go, when next you come our way,
To the old bush school on the rise.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


TRUSTEESHIP
7
With an uncertain present and a still more
uncertain future, you are assuming a grave re-
sponsibility in accepting appointment as
Executor or Trustee of a friend’s estate.
Therefore, despite any ties of affection or re-
lationship, you will he wise to counsel the
appointment of The Trustees Executors &
Agency Company Ltd. as Executor or Co-
Executor of the Will.
The Company has had over 61 years’ ex-
perience in the administration of estates,
and its services are available at a fixed and
moderate fee. It also offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties.
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Lid.
1 BEIGH STREET, SYDNEY
401 COREINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £901,115
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Lieut.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White. K.C.B. Iv CM G.
K.C.V.0.. D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray. John Fordvce
Sir Claude Reading, Iv.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS-
__ r Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart r. t. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: ,T. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
«. W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
This commercial forestry venture is still
in the toils of unravelling the intricate
tangle of constitutional and other prob-
lems inherent in the cumbersome and
very expensive bond-selling method of
financing such an undertaking. And the
management has yet to try its teeth on
what promises to be the hardest nut of
ail —realisation of the forest products
at a reasonable profit on all the money
put into the venture.
To begin with, N.Z. Perpetual Forests
sold and/or issued bonds to an aggregate
face value of £4,400,000-odd to people
all over the Commonwealth and Maori-
land, and as far afield as Eastern and
Southern Asia, S. Africa and Great
Britain. On behalf of bondholders, it
planted some 172,000 acres in Maoriland
with Pinus radiata. It did very well out
of selling the bonds, and, when the tide
ran out, it handed over the planted areas,
together with a large sum of money to
cover maintenance, etc., to the corporate
representative of the bondholders, at the
request of their trustees, and went into
voluntary liquidation. It carried out its
contracts in both the spirit and the letter.
The trustee for the bondholders, Aus-
tralian Forestry Bond Trust Co., has
gone into liquidation, too, the bond-
holders having formed their own co.,
N.Z. Forests Products, Ltd., at the end of
1936 to take over their interests in N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, Ltd., and thus gain
complete control of the undertaking.
Meanwhile, to help straighten out the
tangle, the Maoriland Government
stepped in and set up the Bondholders’
Incorporation Commission. Its first big
job was to see that bondholders were
properly protected ; that is to say, it was
the guiding hand in the constitution of
the bondholders’ co. Next came the com-
pounding and maintenance agreement,
which involved determining what sum of
money, etc., was to be handed over by
the Perpetual co. to the Products co.
to cover the unexpired portion of the
maintenance contracts, which were for
a maximum period of 20 years. The
problem now in hand is consolidation
of the Products co.’s shares into one
class and adjustment of rights of bond-
holders (now the shareholders) inter se.
At present there are 28 classes of shares,
all of which have interests arising out of
separate contracts affecting different
blocks of land planted over a period of
about 12 years. When consolidation is
complete-—it is essential to enable the
undertaking to be worked as an indivis-
ible whole—holders of the various bond-
issues will know more definitely where
they stand in relation to one another.
With the Products co. now in full
possession of the forests, and with the
compounding and maintenance agree-
ment settled, bondholders have a reason-
ably clear picture of what they own.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it at the end of March, 1939:
Paid capital. £4,280,170 Freehold,
Forfeited forests, etc. £3,870,172
shares res. 541 Plant, etc. . . 12,332
Compounding Forest inventory 3.073
adjustment Share sub-
account . . 539,990 sidiaries . . 7,997
Sundry Loan sub-
creditors . . 42,637 sidiaries . . 27,938
Due under
compounding
deed . . 9,953
Debtors . . 48,377
Investments,
cash, etc. . . 883,496
£4,863,338 ] £4,863,338
The compounding adjustment account,
or most of it, will be ultimately trans-
ferred to capital account, which, under
existing conditions, is definitely top-
heavy. When the books closed, there was
£62,660 (outstanding payments on bonds)
still, to come in on capital account. With
the balance of £9953 due under the com-
pounding agreement, this makes the
amount available in cash and readily-
realisable securities £956,109, excluding
shares in and advances to subsidiaries
and other debtors. The capital and forest
accounts are both subject to further
adjustment in accordance with the terms
(when decided by the commission) for
consolidation of the present share issue.
For shareholders the proposition is still
a long-term speculation. Apart from
the possibility of the co. being able to
sell some of its forest and other lands
outright, returns will have to be looked
for by way of dividends, not lump sums,
and it is far too early yet to talk about
dividends.
No hint is given as to whether all the
£956,000-odd already referred to is likely
to be swallowed in maintenance charges,
etc. For the 18 months to the end of
March, 1939, £52,108 was spent on
forest maintenance, etc. Interest, etc.,
turned in £42,512. The difference of
£9596, together with a year’s adminis-
trative charges (£13,832), the cost of a
topographical survey (£13,536) and the
p. and 1. debit taken over (£38,389),
making £75,353 in all, was capitalised by
being added to the book value of the
forests, etc.
The co. has obtained a license from
the M.L. Government to manufacture
fibre-board. Its production and sawmill-
ing activities are to begin “as early as
possible.” The capital outlay involved
is estimated at £350,000. Appearances
are that co. can provide this sum from
its own resources without endangering
maintenance work. An export market
is spoken of, but its development on a
profitable basis looks like wishful think-
ing at the moment. Costs, which have
prevented Whakatane’s half-million-pound
cardboard plant from being a monetary
success, are one stumbling block ; another
is to develop a turnover large enough to
support the capital structure.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 246,233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152. . 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623. . 2,286,598
1931.. 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,419,668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 .. 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,643 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
Transferred to specific reserves, £ 1000. . 2,511,585
1933.. 365,478 192,134 99,239 74,105 2,585,690
Taxation refund. £18,307 .. ..2,603,997
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,602,997
Taxation reserve included £21,000 . . 2,623,997
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755.616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
1937.. 386,732 294,378 104,0721 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold, £1631 . . . . 2,802,326
1938.. 389.295 327,166 103,176 2,761,279
Tax refund. £8439 2,769,718
1939.. 389,796 350,183 106,466 2,702,865
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1928,
£17,015; 1929, £8537 ; 1930, £8926; 1933,
£4463; 1934, £8926; 1935, £9000; 1936-39,
£4500. f Nine months, tineluding- loss on King-
street property, £4994.
It is more than a decade since share-
holders gave the present board a man-
date to put the business on an even
keel. This has been achieved, so far
as achievement has been possible. Not
only was all the deadwood that could
be got at pruned out of the accounts,
but the organisation was overhauled and
savings made in overhead. Also, the
basis of valuation was strengthened by
adoption of the net premium method
and by lowering the rate of interest the
office assumed its funds would earn. This
greatly increased the protection for
policy-holders, who now receive regular
annual bonuses ranging from 30s. p.c.
to 60s. p.c. on whole-life contracts,
according to their age.
Shareholders, however, have not fared
so well as might have been expected.
That was mainly because the manage-
ment inherited a crop of troubles in
connection with mortgages and short-
term endowment assurances. Although
the co. has long since ceased lending
on mortgage, moratorium legislation has
anchored many of the old troubles,
especially in Maoriland. As for the
endowment assurances, adequate reserves
of tangible revenue-producing assets were
not accumulated in the early years of
these policies, so the business has to
bear the strain now. No hint is given
as to how long this is likely to continue,
but the relative reduction in total claims
paid must be gradual until the board's
alteration in the acceptance of risks
makes itself felt. Death claims are well
below expectation under the mortality
tables used.
The board rightly decided that share-
holders, not policy-holders, should bear
the strain just referred to. One result has
been that the div. has remained at H
p.c. since 1936, and it doesn’t look like
being lifted—for the present, at any rate.
What effect war will have upon the
business remains to be seen. Policies
issued by the co. prior to Sept. 5 last
do not exclude war risks, which increase
the death strain according to the severity
of battle casualties. Stationery and other
costs can be expected to increase, and
so can Government bleeding by way
of taxation. However, there promises
to be a good deal of money about —in
the immediate future, at least —and that
should make the writing of new business
less difficult than it might be.
The co. scores heaviest from returns
from investments. Last term interest,
rents, etc., turned in £119,569 (down
£1991). After deducting taxes and exes,
connected with the administration of
property, etc., the net effective return
on the mean assurance funds was around
4.3 p.c., approximately the same as in
the preceding term. Since the co.
assumes that these funds will turn in only
3 p.c. (a very stringent basis of valua-
tion in the circumstances), there is a
satisfactory margin there.
Last year the amount of new business
put on the books in the Ordinary de-
partment was £1,049,692 (up £7771), and
the average amount per policy (£202)
increased by £l9:
1932. 1934. 1938. 1939.
S u m
assured £418,829 £516.393 £1,041.921 £1,049,692
Fir s t
premiums 11,951 15,511 32,199 31.412
Renewal
premiums 231,026 200,982 199,490 203,405
Interest, etc. 113,133 115,533 121,360 119,369
Claims . . 202.881 196,661 309,362 333,333
Exes. .. 78,462- 79,836 85,009 88,612
Claims (up £23,971) were about 170 p.c.
of the 1934 figure. Excluding taxation
(£6327), depreciation (£2792) and
mortgage losses (£3405), exes. (£76,087)
took 32.4 p.c. of the year’s net premiums
as against 32.2 p.c. for the previous term.
Combining the figures of the Accident
branch (here there was a surplus of
£5408) with those of the Ordinary de-
partment, the year’s gross income was
£389,796 (up £501). Including the div.,
total outgoings and charges were £456,649
(up £26,307, owing mainly to the claims
already referred to), leaving the balance
£66,853 on the wrong side.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
193 G. 1938. 1939.
Public securities. . £1,412,297 £1,314,692 £1,273,452
Mortgages .. 093,935 553.057 517,449
Loans on policies,
etc 137,562 130,129 119,389
Book debts, cash,
etc .88,420 95,09.4 97.365
Equipment . . 10,463 14,627 16,088
Properties. . . . 726,389 813,761 814,462
Shares in other
cos 321,313 359,324 385,321
Tangible assets. £3.300,379 £3,280,684 £3,223,526
Sundry creditors.. 119,812 149,906 151,218
Net tangibles . . £3,180,507 £3,130,778 £3,072,308
Assurance fund*.. 2,758,352 2,703,556 2,629,681
Paid capital .. 360,000 360.000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £18,441,
1936; £15,000, 1938-39.
The effect of heavy maturities again
shows up in a contraction of £58,470 in
net tangibles and of £73,872 in the
assurance fund. The surplus of net
tangibles over the assurance funds was
£15,402 stronger at £442,624.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
—Dividends——,
Prof. Old. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 17J p.c. 17 J p.c. serves.Reserves.*
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930.. 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
Hi p.c. lli p.c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.035
1933.. 234,540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
12A p.c. 121 p.c.
1937. . 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 . . 1,782,424
1939.. 528,892 .37,500 328,125 163,267 1,945,691
*Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
The new Companies Act in Victoria
has made the co. disclose more than
it used to. Consolidated figures for the
parent and its subsidiaries are now pre-
sented, and there has been a change in
the grouping of some of the assets and
{Continued on page 20.)


ATTRACTIONS
AT THE
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
JUMPING
Trotting
traces .
Mnlild vulking,
COMPETITIONS ,
STEER RtOING,
\ ON PIERCE
7) Brahma. Bulls.
Bulldogqing .
NUsslto Lucas.
\Mo«Ld famous
Trick, RIDER,.
FROM ,U,SA.
\
Bucvc Jumping,
Contests.
Niks Trixie M e Cormicvc v r
Renowned G\RL from u.sa
' Jasso
on his buckjngi Ford ,
MARCH 16 to 27 • 10 DAYS and 8 NIGHTS


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.')
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.. M.L.C. . (Chairman) ; J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. ; Janies Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2s—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Companies yielding, at present
prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. I, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Slelb.). — Advt.
%&s
1
m
n 7
mm
m
Then Choose
GOODWELD
SPIRAL WELDED PIPE
•
FOR
SLUICING,
DREDGING,
AIR DUCTS.
WATER
SUPPLY.
•
Suitable for
Water, Oil, Gas,
Air and Steam.
Also types for
industrial and
agricu ltural
use.
If you need pipe for a short
run or a line of several
miles, Goodweld Spiral Steel
Welded Pipe will show you
direct savings.
Goodweld pipe is low in first
cost. Freight and haulage
charges are smaller, for
Goodweld is light in weight
—an advantage that also
helps speed up handling and
laying and makes installing
easy even in close quarters.
Finally, Goodweld strength
and resistance to corrosion
means longer pipe life.
Industry is finding profitable use for Goodwelc
pipe ... in mines, in steel works, in oil
refineries; for piping water, gas, air, oil or
steam.
We’ll be pleased to give you full particulars
of the Four Types available covering light
and heavy duty service, together with details
of protective coatings and linings. Send us
your specification or brief outline of working
conditions.
A.E.GOOOWIN PTY.LTD
RAILWAY PU AD
LIDCOMBE , N.S .W.
PHONE UX 7 463 (l LINES)
AN D AT POUT K E M B LA
in the method of presenting p. and 1.
figures. In the process the tidy sum of
£972,000 was taken out of the cupboard
and put in the window ; and a further
£162,028 of reserves (£2,107,719) not
previously visible is now to be seen in
the consolidated sheet.
The position so far as C.U.B.’s own
balance-sheet figures show it compares
as follows;
1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2.925,000
Sundry creditors.. 271,725 490,478 590,831
Brewery freeholds 200,925 234,789]
Hotel freeholds .. 004,180 903,304 ! 1,871,281
Leaseholds .. 0,724 5,580 J
Plant, etc. . . 339,967 335,891 655,851
Stocks and excise
stamps .. .. 229,130 313,923 303,053
Book debts, etc. .. 845,185 1,252,159 1,300,264
Cash, investments,
etc 672,464 569,002 719,886
Brewery and hotel freeholds (now lumped
with leaseholds and together up £727,602)
and plant, etc. (up £319,960), appear to
be where most of the inner reserves now
disclosed were deposited. Although
£100,353 was added to the outside debt,
cash and investments were strengthened
by £150,824; and the reduction of
£10,870 in stocks and growth of £48,105
in debtors’ balances, etc., were healthy
movements, too. When the books closed,
more or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £1,726,372, or £87,706 more
than at the previous balance.
Further, the co. enjoys a lion’s share
of the trade in Vic., and helps to quench
part of the thirst in hot northern
Queensland and the N. S. Wales Riverina
and elsewhere as well. And there is no
price-cutting in this class of business.
Competition largely takes the form of
buying up hotel freeholds, a policy
which the management has pursued with
vigor of recent years, thus widening and
anchoring turnover, which at the same
time is fattened by returns from rentals,
etc. Between 1933 and 1938 C.U.B.’s
freehold rentals, interest, etc., increased
from £56,854 to £142,499; last year’s
figure is not broadcast.
The next table shows the sale and
consumption of beer in Victoria:
/ Consumption ,
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060.730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21.327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,409,853 19,538.800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 20,750.800 11.2
1938.. 27,647,194 23.099,800 12.4
1939.. * 23.555,700 • 12.5
* Not available.
Consumption, the increase in which has
reflected lengthening payrolls, wage lifts
and improvement in conditions gener-
ally, now appears to be at or about its
peak.
After setting aside £67,857 for depre-
ciation, the spring in C.U.B.’s net earn-
ings last term was £35,224. The £528,892
of profit claimed was 18.1 p.c. on capital
as against 16.9, 15.5, 13 and 9.2 p.c. for
the four preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 12} p.c., equal to 18£ p.c. on
capital as it stood before the one-for-two
gift scrip issue in 1934.
Allowing for outside interests, the
aggregate net profit of C.U.B. and its
pups, after providing £76,221 for depre-
ciation, was £545,127, or 18.6 on C.U.B.’s
capital.
As for the current term, the Army’s
shortsighted policy of dry canteens and
the dispatch of troops overseas won’t
help the consumption of beer. But costs
are the point at which the shoe is likely
to pinch most. Excise on beer, lowered
from 2s. to Is. 9d. a gallon in 1933, was
bumped up to 2s. again in September
last, and further increases in income tax
are promised. Still, the 12| p.c. appears
to be in no danger.
The public is interested in C.U.B.
through the following half-dozen holding
cos.:
Shares Last Div. Market
Paid in Div., Cover, Yield,
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carlton . . £816,992 928,295 15 21.2 4.4
Melb. Co-op. 431,981 986.901 26jf 42.6 4.5
Castlemaine. . 225,000 176,121 10 14 6 5.3
Foster . . 115,200 124,574 13 20.2 5.0
Shamrock . . 141,345 124,574 11 16.4 5.1
McCracken’s 62,438 62,438 121 18.6 4.7
The dividend cover is the proportion of
C.U.B. and subsidiaries’ net earnings
(only 67 p.c. was distributed last term)
belonging to each holding co. expressed
as a percentage of its own capital. In
addition, some of the holding cos. gather
something in rents, etc., themselves.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
This 1929 float has been a disappoint-
ment to shareholders, who have received
divs. aggregating only £502,717 while
losing three-quarters of their capital,
reducing the figure to £1,118,033 in ss.
shares. The £3,354,217 lopped off went
mainly to cut £2,891,728 off the book
value of property and to prune prospect-
ing account by £439,549.
The leases are on the Edie Creek field,
New Guinea. In addition to alluvial
equipment, extended last term by pur-
chase of the Bulolo Gold Deposits assets,
there are the Golden Ridges mill on the
lower area and a 20-head stamp battery
and cyaniding plant at Edie Creek
(upper section), both handling around
3000 tons monthly.
For the year to Sept. 30 there was
an expansion of £103,599 in income
(£321,599); but declared net earnings
(£67,230, or 6 p.c. on capital) benefited
by only £16,744. Excluding tributors,
the output was 29,0390 z. gold and
72,7880 z. silver, up 72550 z. and 23,3510 z.
respectively. Operating profits, etc., from
the various sections compare this way: —■
Net receipts— 1938 N , 1939
G. Ridges . . £9,182 £36,242
Edie Creek . . 14,820 17,325
Alluvial . . 35,166 8,025
Koranga.. .. 5,594
Tributors .. .. 15,211 22,510
Sundries . . . . 6,991 5,239
- £81,370 £94,935
/. css—
Depreciation ..£17,297 £16,919
Administration . . 13,587 10,786
30,884 27,705
Net profit .. £50,486 £67,230
But £36,358 (up £33,017, charged mainly
to Golden Ridges) was written off re-
demption account before striking profits,
so that the year’s retained earnings, in-
cluding depreciation, were actually
£120,507 (10.7 p.c. on capital), as against
£71,123 in ’3B. Div. was unchanged at
5 p.c., absorbing £55,904.
Improved lode-mining results were
entirely responsible for the better show-
ing:—
, — —Gold—— v —Silver—
Treated, Dwt., Dwt., Costs,
Tons. Oz. Ton. Oz. Ton. Ton.*
Edie Mill—
-1938.. 39,973 12,192 6.1 41,351 20.7 48/
1939.. 37,727 11,191 5.9 53,279 28.2 46/3
Golden Ridges—
-1938.. 15,053 2,629' 3.5 2,999 3.9
1939.. 29,152 12,932 8.1 .15,765 10.8 41/3
* Including royalty.
Outstanding feature was the improve-
ment in Golden Ridges extraction from
63.9 p.c. to 92 p.c., following reconstruc-
tion of the mill in ’3B. The effect on
costs is not discernible, the plant having
operated principally on tailings in the
preceding term. At Edie Creek, where
a further Is. 9d. a ton was shaved off
costs, despite increased development,
recovery averaged 86.5 p.c. and, though
better is possible, the outlay involved is
not considered to be warranted.
Including Karuka, proved and probable
ore has declined from 64,672 to 46,818
tons at Edie Creek, with a further 26,000
tons labelled possible, but Upper Ridges
and Anderson’s Creek reserves jumped
from 43,000 to 103,600 tons. Grade
—0.540 z. gold at Edie and 0.430 z. at
Upper Ridges a year ago—is not in-
dicated.
The sharp fall in alluvial earnings re-
flects delay in bringing the Upper Edie
and Koranga deep alluvials to produc-
tion :
, —I—Gold 1 —Gold v Silver
Treated, Dwt., Dwt., Costs,
C.y. Oz. C.y. Oz. C.y. C.y.*
1938.. 89,470 0963 1.55 5087 1.13 5/Oi
1939.. 270,775 4916 0.36 3744 0.27 2/2“
* Excluding redemption and royalty.
The figures exclude tributors’ output—
-78390z. gold and 53510 z. silver, or 60
р. more than the co.’s own production.
During the year £22,042 was spent on
race construction, etc., for Kaili 4, and
£45,975 on the Big Wau and Koranga
races and purchase of the Bulolo assets,
benefits from which should show up in
the current term. On Edie Creek and
the Bulolo River alluvial reserves are
set down at 1,222,000 c.y., averaging be-
tween 4s. and 55., with a further 9,000,000
с. of Is. wash in the Koranga or Wau
section.
Despite capital outlay of £85,031
debited to redemption account, the more
or less liquid surplus was only £20,094
lighter at £212,906. At the annual meet-
ing chairman J. Kruttschnitt announced
the board’s intention of making capital
repayments as circumstances permit, the
first possibly this year. For practical
purposes, however, it makes little dif-
ference whether cash distributions are
made as return of capital or dividend,
except that the former is longwinded
and more costly, involving application to
the Court.
At 2s. 3d. per share market value of
the undertaking is £503,000, or, allow-
ing for surplus liquids at Sept. 30 less
the div. since paid, less than three
years’ purchase of 1939 retained income.
Working surplus for the first four
months of the current term was £35,012,
despite imposition of the Commonwealth
gold excise on top of the 5 p.c. N.G.
royalty—an obvious injustice. Construc-
tion of the goldfields road, which would
mean a saving of £l5 a ton in trans-
port costs to the co., still hangs fire.
With a maiden div. apparently not far
around the corner, Arahura Dredging
(M.L.) is a stronger sharemarket fancy
than Kanieri, notwithstanding its shorter
life at the present rate of turnover. That,
however, takes no account of a lot of
low-grade ground outside the selected
area which may also repay digging. On
3.3 gr. recoveries working surplus for Feb-
ruary jumped to £18,190, bringing the
seven months’ total to £60,390. The co.
should now have a credit cash balance of
£lB,OOO or so ; a shilling div. would call
for £15,000.
* * * *
Before the meeting of New Occidental
G.M. was held in Sydney last week two
candidates for the board, Malcolm New-
man and G. C. Coburn, withdrew their
nominations. A ballot resulted in the
election of two retiring directors, T. G.
Murray, M.L.C., and W. H. C. Chappie,
and Ralph E. May, a new candidate
from Melbourne, displaced G. H. Blake-
more. The directors who did not retire
at the election were Arthur Vickery,
T. M. Owen, W. U. Goodall and Eli D.
Aboud.
* * * *
Inspector of Mines on Murchison gold-
fields (W.A.) sums up:
During 1939 Wiluna did 24,552 ft. of develop-
ment, apart from 7563 ft. of driving and cross-
cutting and 2706 ft. of rising and winzing.
Continuous smelting was suspended, and modi-
fied low-temperature roasting adopted. Mill
throughput averaged 50,000 tons a month.
Following disappointing developmental results
the mine and town are now rapidly declining.
....On the Moonlight Wiluna group 14,236 ft.
of development was done. Grade of ore shows
a marked decline on the 1230 ft. level, as com-
pared with the 1030 ft. level... .Coolgardie
Brilliant is crushing with 10-head of stamps
on Wiluna East and has a cyanide plant in
operation. A 4ft. quartz reef on the property
has opened up reasonably well. Future pros-
pects appear bright At the beginning of
1939 Youanmi’s development was well behind
and ore reserves were insignificant. Develop-
ment is now being pushed ahead.... Big Bell
had a prosperous year. Development is behind,
though not seriously.
* * * *
Flushed with the success it has achieved
on the south-eastern end of the Golden
Mile, Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie is boring
in two places about half-way between
Kalgoorlie and Boulder on the western
side of the field. One of the drills is
operating on the Ironsides block and the
other on the Adeline lease. Years ago a
quantity of alluvial gold was obtained
from deep leads on these areas, and years
before that a co. promoter declared that
the Boulder lode was shaped like an
octopus, and that some of the tentacles
sprawled over the ground now being
stabbed by the two drills mentioned.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) announces an operating
profit of £A10,685 for the final quarter
of 1939, compared with £16,712 for the
third quarter. Fall is said to be due to
the treatment of a lower grade of ore,
better grade being temporarily unavail-
able during the preparation of the work-
ings for future production. Capacity of
the mill is being increased from 5000 to
7500 tons a month, and thickening and
filter units are being added to enable
a much larger proportion of the higher-
grade ore to be treated. The enlarged
plant is tipped to be in full operation by
July or August. Co. proposes to spend
£lOOO a month on development for the
next 12 months. This work will include
sinking the shaft to 840 ft. (from 750 ft.).
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.J.S.: (1) Capital should be fairly safe,
but there are some features of the cash-order
business, especially in regard to book debts,
where quality of management means more than
mere balance-sheet figures. In the present case
the scrip seems fully priced, the yield being
commensurate with the risk. (2) No; only in
Sydney. (3) There was talk of Government
regulation, but nothing has been done so far.
. ...L.8.5.: (1) About 170,000 acres. (2) No.
(3) They deal in the scrip. (4) Best write to
their Sydney office and inquire. (5) A specula-
tion. See review, this issue. .. .Anxious: A
speculation. There is little promise of profit
from pine forests yet, and, though such forests
may become valuable later on, only waiting will
decide the question N.G.Y.: (1) and (2)
The shares are not listed, and their market
value is doubtful. (3) The co. has been a dis-
appointment ; the hotel is not yet built, and its
future is uncertain V.M.: (1) and (2) Can’t
say, but present co. formed in Jan., 1926. (3)
22\ p.c. in 1933-34. (4) There are four lodes,
deepest workings being at 2600 ft.


AUSTRALIA’S BEST MONTHLY
It’s a new kind of digest . . .
is the most smartly produced
and comprehensive in the
world. And it’s Australian.
1/- everywhere.
SMOKE-OH!
“Military uniforms are made in 18 different
sizes.” — Women’s paper.
They’ve got one similarity, though —
they’re all wrong sizes.
4* 4*
“That music frequently expresses human de-
sires is illustrated by the fact that 12,500
American song titles begin with the words “1
want.” — “World’s News.”
The most popular being “I want to be
a nootral.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Battle of Waterloo lasted only nine
hours and was fought on a front of two miles.
— “World’s News.”
We had no idea Eton had such ex-
tensive playing fields.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A prawn, after all, cannot sing.” — “D.T.”
Still, kept long enough, it will hum!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The aim of the worker today is (1) security
of employment, (2) a basic wage that will give
him a surplus.”— “Daily News.”
In short, a job he can bank on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Streets to be named after politicians/
—News item.
Especially those with vacant blocks.
4* 4* 4* 4*
She thought that a master of languages
was a house-to-house canvasser in King’s
Cross.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Can any reader give me a simple remedy to
stop hiccups?” asks correspondent.
Yes, drink nothing stronger than tea.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Give a builder an inch and he’ll start
building a block of flats.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Robert Jones was sentenced to a month’s
imprisonment for introducing a game of chance
in a hotel bar, it being his sixth offence.”
— “Sun.”
A bob in.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boot Trade. —Wanted, smart Boxer.”
—“ S.M.H.”
To tan their hides?
“We can’t fight Nature,” declares Goring.
Still, he could try reducing.
4* 4” 4*
“Men don’t value their wives enough.”
— Women’s paper.
What’s the use? They get no offers
for them.
“Campaign for Wet Canteens.”
— “D.T. heading.
Champagne would be better.
*l< 4* 4*
“We all love to sing.”—' "Sunday Sun.”
But if we do, it's the neighbors who
really make a song about it.
4* 4* 4*
“Chair for guitar-playing established in
Spain.”
Electric?
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Little honey-parrots among the gum-
blossoms get so tipsy that they can sometimes
be caught by hand.” —Sydney “D.T.”
That’s the danger of taking hops from
flower to flower.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Is it not a fact that the Nelson spirit con-
tinues to cause dismay to the Empire’s
enemies.” — “Sun.”
As the Nazi agent reported to the
Wilhelmstrasse: “Ve zom zecret antidote
to put in the Pridish Navy’s tea must find.
Der secret of dere sugcess in der fact
lies dat effer since Drafalgar der blood
of Herr Nelson dey saved haff, und
at regular intervals small portions off
dis to der seamen issued iss. Der block-
ade could lifted pe could some means
of destroying der store of dis commodity
found be, aindt it?”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man aged 81 on Government payroll/’ #
Still, that’s as good as being retired.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Midnight sale of furniture.” “D.T.
Sounds like a clearing-out sale.
4« 4* 4*
A statesman is a man who does what
a politician talks about doing.
Master Stroke.
Hurrah ! I’ve met success at last !
I’ve proved my dismal fears untrue;
My hour of penury is past,
My skies of grey have turned to blue.
Although my head was bowed of late,
I knew the time was coming when
I’d overcome my adverse fate,
And —now I’ve borrowed four pounds
ten.
NAT.
Rumors of Roomers.
“I’ve made up my mind. We’re going
to get a bigger place and let rooms.
There’s a fortune to be made at it;
people will pay anything for them during
the holidays,” said Maria. “Look at
Mrs. Blowbellows; she started in that
small cottage at the corner and now she
owns those big Razzledazzle Flats. You’re
not going to say I haven’t as many brains
as Mrs. Blowbellows!”
I’m not. I wouldn’t be such an idiot.
“Why should we go on paying rent
all our lives when we could get other
people to pay it for us?” demands Maria.
That is my chance to point out that
during past tentative efforts with Maria’s
great idea our lodgers had evidently
asked themselves the same question. And
they found a better answer than we ever
have.
“Why, I knew from the start there
was something queer about those people.
If I’d had my way I wouldn’t have let
them into the place at all,” says Maria.
“Why, you said they were charming
people and that you were sure we were
going to be most happy”
“I may have said that; but what did
I say before they’d been here a week?
Answer me that! ” Maria has a way of
twisting arguments like that. “And
through your folly in letting the wrong
sort of people in we have those rooms
vacant again.”
“The couple who looked at them this
evening seem as if they might take them,”
I submit humbly.
“Oh, yes!” snorts Maria. “Wouldn’t
you like that! Don’t you think I saw
the way that woman smiled at you when
her husband’s back was turned and she
thought I wasn’t looking? Oh, no,
Aitchem, I’m not going to have a woman
like that in the house.”
Perhaps Maria isn’t constitutionally
fitted for making a fortune out of room-
letting. But still the roomer rumor comes
up. Only when we have decided upon
the new premises where we are to launch
out Maria announces suddenly: “I took
a new flat today. It’s five shillings a
week more than we’re paying now, but
it’s a lovely flat.”
“But what about”
“If you think I’m going to work my
fingers to the bone carrying out your
crazy idea of keeping lodgers because
you don’t like paying rent, you’re mis-
taken, Aitchem,” snaps Maria.
Actually lam relieved. I believe that
when the room-letting idea comes up
“Poor dear; her husband Went bankrupt before she finished the treatment .”
again in a month or two I will be ready
to pay some tenants to owe us rent so
as to put Maria off it.
H. M.
“Do your hip exercises daily.”
— Women’s paper.
An exercise that’s really good,
Provided you don’t trip,
Is to hop aboard a moving tram
With a bottle on each hip.
E.
A Business Routine.
“The good poker player is likely to turn out
a success in business.” —Article on psychology.
It was my firm belief in this thesis that
influenced me in rejecting the pater’s
rather old-fashioned advice that, in anti-
cipation of setting up in business, I
should acquaint myself with the funda-
mentals of double-entry, self-balancing
ledgers, contango, ad valorem and other
mysteries of commerce. I had long been
cultivating an inscrutable smile, and I
make no idle boast when I say that, com-
pared with me, Da Vinci’s “Mona Lisa”
simply shrieks her thoughts from the
canvas. I began my business education
proper by joining a small school—penny
for cards and a threepenny limit in rises.
So rapid was my progress that I felt
qualified to get among the bigger money,
so I joined a bigger suburban school —
six players, Is. for cards and 2s. over
the “blind.” I met with immediate suc-
cess. Strangely enough, whenever I was the
dealer I had no difficulty in filling a one-
end-open straight, buying three to a flush
or sitting on an ace and a swinger and
clicking for the other three aces. This
efficiency, combined with my ability to
chew a cigar to destruction over long
periods, would, I felt, eminently fit me
for any executive post in the business
world.
But I decided to gain still further ex-
perience in a big school—Bs. and 16s.
for cards, and up to a fiver for royalties.
Here I specialised in pure bluff, for I
realised the importance of putting
through Big Deals in which you don’t
cut beforehand. It was almost laugh-
able the way I cleaned up on busted
flushes, and to see fellows toss in “butchers
up” while I collected on a pair of deuces.
My master stroke was to wait for queens
on the down the third time and sit pat
on a small routine, and in the buy give
the rest of the school hands ranging
from straights to fours. I also specialised
in filling the middle of a royal routine.
As a post-graduate course, and to en-
able me the better to take with easy
sang-froid the chair at a shareholders’
annual meeting, I did a year in shipboard
smokerooms and on inter-State trains. It
was during this “finishing” phase that l
mastered the rolling of a cigar along my
teeth, from one side of my mouth to
the other.
My business education being now com-
plete, it merely remained to choose the
particular line of business I was to be
a success at. I finally decided not to
tie myself down yet awhile to a lot of
company boards, but to start off by
buying up bankrupt stocks to sell at
fancy prices.
Soon I had a warehouse full of goods
I had snapped up at a ridiculous figure.
One line I bought at the gift price of
85s. doz., c.i.f. and e., was a big ship-
ment of last year’s model women’s hats.
I reasoned that it would be only a matter
of time before the cycle of fickle fashion
would once again bring the shape into
favor, and then I would unload at my
price. I also bought up a lot of horn-
type gramophones, motoring veils, anti-
macassars, Turkey-twill nighties, albums,
neck-to-knee bathing costumes and bassi-
nets. I argued that as poker —assum-
ing your fellow-players are watching you
closely—is a gamble, so is business, and
that with any luck any or all of these
articles might at any time be restored
to popular favor. Time enough for a
snappy selling campaign later.
In some of the auction-rooms I fre-
quented, there was a fellow-merchant
named Lazarus Baumstein, a stout,
dark man with eloquent arms who I
suspected was non-Aryan. He appeared
to derive keen amusement from my
buying. Indeed, on one occasion he
was openly sarcastic. I resolved then
to teach him a lesson.
One lot being put up was fifty dozen
pairs of silk pyjamas, which I knew were
not worth more than 108 s. a doz. My
long experience at poker told me —for
Baumstein’s face reflected his eagerness
—that my rival was determined to get
them. He and his friends constituted a
“ring” designed to squeeze other bidders
out. But I was on the job ; so when he
confidently bid 18s. I calmly doubled the
ante. I could see I had touched him on
the raw.
“Vorty-eight pob!” he snapped.
“Ninety-six,” I said out of my poker
face. That would give him a jolt.
“Ninety-nine pob!” he said viciously.
1 gloated to see him almost dancing with
rage.
I knew my own hand, while his,
through his face, was as an open book
to me.
“One hundred and ninety-eight!” I
replied, still displaying my enigmatic
smile. I determined that when, in his un-
pokerlike excitement, he overbid me
again, I would drop out and leave him
carrying the baby. That would demon-
strate to him the folly of trying to out-
bluff a seasoned poker-player.
“You can haff it!” he said, and the
grin he turned upon me I found dis-
tinctly repellent.
It was the Official Assignee who, dur-
ing the examination of my Statement of
Affairs, expressed surprise that it was
necessary for any good poker-player to
engage in commerce at all. It struck
me then, the deuce it is! Still, I would
easily have made a success of it had
Lazarus, in the parlance of the game, had
the guts to have a peek at me.
BO.


C Tor Safety and Convenience
#
OPEN A CHEQUE ACCOUNT
In your business, large or small,
and in conduct of your private
affairs, always pay by cheque.
Settle your household accounts
by the same safe, convenient
method.
A cheque can be used at any
time or place, and saves carry-
ing large sums in cash. Your
pass-book or pass-sheet and
cheque butts are a complete
record for yourself. In addition,
your cheques, if properly drawn,
may be used in proving pay-
ment.
It is quite simple to arrange for
a cheque account to be opened
at any branch of the Bank of
New South Wales for even small
amounts.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IN THE YEAR 1817
'X
r
K
AUSTRALIA* ITALIA
§WM© km
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
Business.Rollery,Etc.
The War and the Loan
Australia’s first war loan opened last
Friday, for 118,000,000. Over half of
•, ■ . ’ ’ . j
£ ? -. the r r ay ' ,( CI T l!
fr&°So o£ '• ,S f ° r -fa’r ?
110,000,000 being earmarked for Com-
monwealth and State works decided on
before the outbreak of war It was an-
nounced relat.vely early alter Sept. 3
that States borrowing programmes would
not be upset dunng 1939-40. The pio-
gramme for 1940-41 will depend on the
course of events. ... .
The loan offered is in optional securi-
ties. A short-term issue, repayable in
five years, carries £3 7s. 6d. per cent.
Then there are 16-year Consols carrying
£3 12s. 6d. per cent. Both issues are at
par, and are subject to Federal income
tax, though still having the attraction or
freedom from State taxes.
When introducing a Supplementary
Budget on Nov. 30, 1939, Acting-
Treasurer P. C. Spender visualised a
1939 -40 defence expenditure of
£62,000,000, of which £13,780,000 was to
come from revenue, £2,053,000 from the
Defence Equipment Trust Account and
£46,181,000 from loans. Since then esti-
mated outlay on defence this year has
lifted by about a further £10,000,000,
raising the total to over £70,000,000, and
the extra, presumably, will have to come
mostly from borrowing, though tern-
porarily inflated customs revenue may
help. But, in any case, it seems that
borrowings for defence will be in the
vicinity of £50,000,000 for this financial
year.
The last public borrowing operation in
Australia was made in June, 1939, when
£4,750,000 of stock, yielding, with re-
rlpmntinn -n IQc npr ront was
ciemption, to lys. za. per cent., wa„
offered. At the same time the Common-
wealth Bank accepted £3,000,000 worth
of 31 p.c. Consols, of four years’ cur-
2 * . . ’ . r £
rency, in replacement of temporary
accommodation previously granted on
Treasury bills.
J A , ‘ » . . . . x
The first loan for defence in the present
war was arranged in November. The Com-
monwealth Bank, with the assistance of
the trading banks, then granted the Loan
Council £10,000,000 at p.c. With the
£8,000,000 now being asked for that
makes £18,000,000, which would suggest
a . l . , • nrvr . nrvn t
that there is still over £32,000,000 ot
defence-loan money to be raised.
For some time, however, we have been
spending an average of about £6,000,000
a month on defence, and it appears that
the Federal Government has been get-
tin 8 temporary accommodation from the
ba " kln 8 s f te . m , 10 can T “ trom ‘? an
to loan. Such temporary finance, when
availed of, has its limits, and will
not obviate tbe necessity for exten-
sive blic borrowing or taxing .
when Mr Spender , a b st week men _
tioned .‘, he considerable monetary
expansion which has alread , aken
p|ace; . he was refcrring t 0 the credit
f ac jij des extended to the Government by
(be c olnmonwea lth and trading banks,
Great efforts have undoubtedly been
mac j e by financial authorities to clear
awa y an y hindrance to the swift and
a dequate conduct of our part in this
war Skill anc j judgment in more than
usua i measure are necessary, because for
two y ea rs before the outbreak of war
Australia’s economic position was dis-
integrating ; the national revenue was
falling at a time when costs were rising.
Mr. Spender is hopeful that our war
activity may reduce the necessity for ex-
penditure on public works and maintain
employment at the same time. Ordinarily
the transfer of men from necessary
domestic work to that of defence would
create a shortage of essential goods and
services in the civilian community. But
the transfer of men from public “works”
may not cause anything so upsetting,
With a population that has been very
slow to reach 7,000,000, the necessity for
many of our public “works” is doubtful,
an d the substitution of defence for
“works” may create little disorganisation,
The Acting-Treasurer has again spoken
pertinently on our war effort and the
financing of it:
We have in these past six months created
the framework of a war machine surpassing
anything that could have been imagined a
few y ears a g o Because so far it is largely
a framework—in the circumstances it
could not be much more—it has been
criticised as inadequate But within the
next few months it will begin to pour
forth its results in ever-increasing volume,
The cost of this effort in terms of re-
sources and in terms of money will be
enormous. On its economic side it means
the transfer of tens of thousands of men
to war activities, the absorption of vast
quantities of materials, and the production
°“g 'KttaS
the expenditure of hundreds of millions
of pounds. This financial year the esti-
™ated expenditure of the Commonwealth
Government on war purposes is more than
£70,000,000. Next year the expenditure
may well be much larger. What it will be
s a g|g quent years * sdad not hazard even
Now, in view of the considerable
monetary expansion which has already
taken place, the two remaining sources
from which this money will chiefly be
drawn are taxation and loans. How it will
be shared between these two sources it
is not possible yet to say. You have been
told on former occasions—and I think the
prospect is generally accepted—that taxa-
tion will have to be severely increased.
That is inescapable if we stick to the only
sound principle of paying for the war as
we go, so far as that is practicable.
It is reassuring, if not at all comfort-
ing, to hear the acknowledgment that
we must pay as we go, as far as practic-
able. It is the only way to get sound
results from a national effort. Since we
have to provide most of the effort from
our own materials and labor, we may as
well square up amongst ourselves as
quickly as possible. Borrowing helps to
spread the burden of war’s cost over a
longer period, but borrowed money has
to be spent wisely if inflation is to be
avoided. And, as the outlay has to be
borne by the individual sooner or later
—even the renewal of loans will not
necessarily defer the burden —it is better
that we pay to the utmost through well-
spread taxation now.
Mr. Spender again:
But taxation, however severe, cannot
yield the whole amount required. We will
have to borrow on an increasing scale.
We will have to ask people, firms and other
institutions to put more and more of their
savings into Government stocks and bonds,
so that the means will be at hand to pay
for our ever-widening war commitments.
This loan is the first step in that borrowing
programme.
The war-time problem confronting
those who look after Australia’s finances
really boils down to one of men
and materials available, plus whatever
maierials can be bought abroad from
proceeds of exports. Much labor and
material is going into non-productive
defence equipment, and the financial
problem is how best to accelerate the
work economically and without disorgan-
isation, and how to spread the cost.
Money alone won’t buy us an adequate
army, navy and air force. The money
has to be drawn from the community
in equitable and balanced proportions,
and it must be spent with full regard to
the men and materials available. Other-
wise we shall get a dose of hot-air into
our system that may worry us for a
generation.
The difficulty such concerns as the
Malayta Co. (a subsidiary of Fairymead
Sugar) might have in getting their copra
shifted to Europe was mentioned on this
page some time back. The only cos. in
the copra trade having shipping of their
own are Burns Philp and W. R. Car-
penter, and it looks as though their
vessels will be diverted to other uses
shortly. So the matter of lifting copra
from Island ports seems like expanding
from a minor one to a major one;
already stocks are accumulating at
wharves and jetties. Apparently the
British Government is well supplied
with copra at present —the price is com-
paratively low, at £l3 sterling a ton —
and stocks of this commodity will have
to take their chance until supplies of
more urgently-needed products are reach-
ing Britain in satisfactory quantities.
Still, the industry supplying the shipping
shouldn’t be neglected altogether, even
if the public purse has to be opened
slightly to make some appropriate com-
pensation, such as in freight subsidies to
foreign shipping if no British ships are
available for copra transport.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell is considering increasing
copper production above 13,000 tons a
year, and the directors have authorised
expenditure on further new plant. A
geological survey of areas adjoining the
present workings is to be considered.
Last week the copper bonus to employees
of 3s. a week became effective. It fol-
lowed the lifting of the Australian price
of copper to £76 a ton, of which £4 a ton
is to be applied toward increasing pro-
duction of the metal.
* * * *
Ormonoid Roofing’s half-yearly div.
has been maintained at 15 p.c., paid the
day (Feb. 26) the rate was announced.
Turnover is reported to be keeping up.
Sharemarket support for the stock has
been weaker since the outbreak of war,
though it picked up slightly following
last week’s announcement.
* * * *
C. Crofts, secretary of the Gas Em-
ployees’ Union, about the time mass
meetings of employees were being held
in Sydney last week to decide whether
to strike or not to strike (“immediate
action has been postponed”), assured Aus-
tralian Gas’s chairman, S’Samuel Cohen,
that “employees will not deviate from
their course of pressing for improvements
in their standard of living and further
amelioration of their working con-
ditions.” There has been a crop of
such strike threats since the outbreak of
war; though profiteering is prohibited
on the part of employers, there is no-
thing, apparently, to stop employees
trying to “improve their standard of
living” even if the country can afford it
less than ever because of the cost of
fighting a war. With gas employees it
isn’t a question of accepting a reduced
living standard because of any increase
that may have occurred in living costs.
Arbitration looks after that.
Referring to the A.G.L. chairman’s
statement that unless an increase in the
price of gas is granted the co. will have
to reduce its service to customers or
cut the 6 p.c. div., Mr. Crofts stated that
the obvious remedy was that gas cos.
should be handed over to the County
Council, which runs the electricity under-
taking free of income taxes cutting
out “the payment of nearly £300,000 a
year in dividends,” and saving “thousands
of pounds a year now wasted in cut-
throat competition between the two con-
cerns.” There is a lot of false reasoning
in Mr. Crofts’s argument. Handing the
gasworks over to the County Council
wouldn’t save £300,000 a year in divs.
At best it would save the difference be-
tween about 5 p.c. (new gas scrip is
offered at auction, and the capital, when
the premium received is taken into
account, costs much less than 6 p.c.) and
the rate the County Council can borrow
at—say, 4\ p.c. In any case, the com-
petition of gas cos. with the semi-Govern-
ment concern supplying electricity is all
to the good. It’s a pity there isn’t more
private competition with Government
and semi-Government “services.”


GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
V i| m Head Office:
tvembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide’
_ ■ Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.'
WE MUST
DEVELOP
AS WELL AS
DEFEND
Progress must not be stayed while war wages.
We are fighting for our existence and will
need every penny we can get to prosecute the
war. But our ability to wage war depends
upon our economic strength, and our economic
strength depends upon development. It is the
duty of every Australian citizen to do his or
her bit in this time of crisis, but especially
perhaps is it the duty of those whose incomes
will enable them to do so to invest in the
Defence and Works Loan now open. Here is
an opportunity to do a national service at
personal profit, for the security offered is
Australia itself, a fair and reasonable interest
rate is payable, and both Bonds and Stock are
readily saleable on the open market. £lO is
the lowest amount which can be subscribed
to this Loan, and every £lO will be acceptable.
This Loan, which is issued under the authority
of the Australian Loan Council, will close not
later than 15th March, 1940. Applications may
be lodged with any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
INTEREST = £3/7/6% per annum for 5 years
or = £3/12/6% per annum for 10-16 years
PRICE OF ISSUE ... PAR
DEFENCE AND WORKS
LOAN
THIS IS THE TEST OF YOUR FAITH
IN AUSTRALIA WILL YOU HELP ?
Acting Treasurer.
During the day on which over
£9,000,000 was subscribed to the war loan
(last Friday), the index of industrial
shares in Sydney fell to 131.15, which
compares with 136.54 on Jan. 16. The
general index of shares declined to
124.66, against 129.73 on Jan. 11. This
page has for three months or more ex-
pressed the opinion that the share-
market was riding for a fall. Fortunately
the level of values has moved down
quietly so far, with few shocks.
* * * *
The tin-production quota for the
quarter Mar. 1-June 30 will be 80 p.c. of
standard tonnages, compared with 120
p.c. for the first quarter of 1940. Under
influence of the high quotas existing
since the outbreak of war world produc-
tion of tin has risen sharply (96,400 tons
in the last four months of 1939 against
87,300 tons in the first eight months of
1938), though up to the end of January
consumption of the refined metal
more than kept pace with produc-
tion. Visible world supplies of tin
fell from 30,695 tons at the end of
October to 24,866 tons at Jan. 31, the
Straits carryover rising from 1340 tons
to 4998 tons in the same period. Con-
sumption (including additions to private
stocks) rose from 10,035 tons a month to
18,402 tons a month. Notwithstanding
the drop in the world’s available supplies
of tin, stocks of concentrates at smelters
are reported to be the highest since July,
1938 ; hence the reason for the cut in
the quota, which is hardly evident from
the usual tin statistics.
• • * • •; ft
Early in 1939, before the outbreak of
war, the Tin Pool was having a struggle
to keep the price at £230 on a 45 p.c.
quota, of which 10 p.c. was for the pool
—in the second quarter the quota was
40 p.c. flat. After the outbreak of war
the quota rose in erratic leaps to 120 p.c.
—all quotas retrospective to July I—and,1 —and,
though demand was far ahead of supply
for some months, the pool kept the
London price at £230 sterling, while
sales to U.S.A. were being made at over
£3OO a ton. In December the London
tin price was freed, and the metal
rocketed to £276, reacting later, and
gradually slipping down to under £240
in February. Last week, following the
cut in the quota, the price rose sharply
to £255 sterling.
Australian tin-producers have had the
price of their product fixed at £306 a
ton for local consumption. The smelters
get something over £3O a ton of this.
More than a third of the Common-
wealth’s production is exported, and this
would be worth nearly £320 (Australian)
a ton at last week’s price, so that the
average return, if recent London prices
hold, will be slightly above the local
price. In arriving at the average price
paid to the tinminer account is taken
of the Australian price for ingots, daily
London tin quotes, the cost of smelting
and of shipping, and the ratio of exports
to local consumption.
Chief Australian producer of tin is
Briseis, sluicing at Derby (Tas.), turning
out about 600 tons a year. Aberfoyle Tin,
another Tasmanian show (at Rossarden,
near Avoca), is producing more than
300 tons a year. Tableland Tin, a dredg-
ing concern at Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), at the
moment is turning out a ton Of high-
grade concentrate a day (it assays about
75 p.c. metallic tin), and, provided no
more mechanical troubles develop, it
should soon be a leading Commonwealth
producer. The outlook for Australian
tinmines just now is more promising than
tor several years. They are not affected
by quota restrictions, but their export
surplus benefits by the increased price
such restrictions aim to bring about.
* * * *
Considering that Australia had an
adverse balance of trade amounting to
£14,129,000 with non-sterling countries
in 1938-39 (the reference includes
Canada, Newfoundland and Hong
Kong), the sale of all our wool and
most of our other products to Britain —
wool for the duration of the war and
other items for varying periods —is
going to make Australia’s own trading
account with “foreigners” during 1939-
40 look particularly lopsided. Britain
will have first call on the yen, dollars,
francs, etc., obtained from the sale of
wool to non-Empire countries, though
revenue we get from wheat disposed of
in Asia and Malaysia will still be
credited to our own foreign trade
account. The fact that the export price
index covering most of the products we
send abroad is at present about p.c.
higher than in 1938-39—most of the
prices of goods sent to Britain are fixed
by contract —means that our total ex-
ternal income this year should be con-
siderably higher than in 1938-39, in-
creased quantities assisting better prices;
but the money will be available in Lon-
don rather than in other parts of the
world. This would be all right if con-
ditions prevailing before the outbreak
of war were still existing. Up to August
last any money Australia possessed in
London could be freely exchanged for,
say, dollars in New York. Now Britain
wants all the money it owns in New
York to pay for aeroplanes, other muni-
tions, etc., and is reluctant to let Aus-
tralia have more dollar credits than are
absolutely necessary for our welfare.
Hence the matter of petrol rationing,
which is something not to be considered
lightly in Australia.
In Britain the motor trade has gone
to pot. According to the “Times” of
Feb. 7:
Only a morbid academic interest attaches
nowadays to the motor-vehicle registration
figures. Petrol-rationing, onerous taxation,
increased fuel costs and the emphasis on
economy have naturally combined to re-
duce the domestic demand for private cars
to a minimum. For what they are worth,
however, the latest statistics show that in
December the contraction compared with
1938—82 per cent—was slightly less than
in November, and that contrary to expecta-
tion the reduction in small cars was nearly
as heavy as in other models.
Until it is shown that defence work can
absorb any men thrown out of jobs by
the shutting-down of the motor industry
in Australia, the question of petrol-
rationing is going to be a very touchy
one.
* * * *
W. Osborne, Cobar secretary of the
A.W.U., writes:
In an article published in a Sydney weekly
recently, it was stated that miners employed at
Cobar in the New Occidental mines were re-
ceiving from £3O to £35 per week.
This is an unfair and exaggerated statement
—entirely misleading, in fact. Whilst the
earnings of miners employed on piecework at
the Occidental compare favorably with most
mines, there is nothing exceptional about them.
The average earnings of Occidental miners
were 365. per day for the last financial year
of the New Occidental G.M. Co., the percentage
above wages for miners being 76 per cent.
The average rate per day for all men em-
ployed on piecework in New Occidental mines
for same period was 325. 6d. a day, or 69.43
per cent, above award rates.
* * * *
Coal, as mentioned here recently, is
paying a bit better this year. Caledonian
Collieries has declared a 3 p.c. div. on
its 6 p.c. prefs., representing arrears for
the half-year to June 30, 1929, the year
of the big strike. It is the first div. of
any kind for over 10 years. Caledonian
is a Howard Smith co. in which the
public has a fairly extensive interest.
The prefs. have been as low as 9s. 9d.
this year ; later they firmed to 10s. 6d.,
with sellers asking 12s. 6d. last week.
Howard Smith, Ltd., has maintained
its ord. div. at 5 p.c., payable March 18.
Caledonian’s pref. div. was declared after
the close of accounts.
* * * *
The Commonwealth’s wheat yield has
swollen still further, 215,000,000 bushels
being the latest estimate, which is a mil-
lion bushels over the 1932-33 record.
Standard of the grain is generally high.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
EASTERN FRONT.
[“Eastern Front” is here used to cover the Balkans
and Mediterranean countries, and the Near East and
Middle East —all that area which, with stalemate on the
Western Front, and for other reasons (mainly oil), must
be regarded as a probable major scene of fighting if
the war ever gets going properly. This symposium of
items condensed from various acknowledged sources gives
information on issues in the balance there and the
gathering forces, these now including the Australian and
Maoriland divisions.]
Forces the Anzacs Have Joined
{Condensed from a London “Daily Express” report
by Alan Moorehead .)
Britain’s second biggest army has been quietly
training in the Egyptian desert for six months past.
I flew down to Egypt from Malta over nearly
1000 miles of the Mediterranean, past patrolling
British warships and past Italian Libya, with its scat-
tered frontier outposts. It is troops all the way —
dark-skinned gunners at Malta; Italian riflemen
strung along the twenty-fifth degree of longitude,
where Mussolini has erected a barbed-wire fence to
mark the border between Egypt and Libya ; Egyptian
troops just across the frontier in a dry watercourse on
the coast at Solium ; then more British again at Mersa
Matruh, the place where Cleopatra used to bathe,
and so on through the desert to Alexandria and Cairo.
British warships steam on patrol out of Alexandria
and down the Suez Canal. A New British Army is
assembled on the banks of the canal and out into
the desert past the pyramids—men new to the desert
from the rains of England and from the upland
plains of India, who in six months have built them-
selves roads and tent cities in the sand.
The old spectacular Camel Corps has been re-
placed for the most part by balloon-tyred trucks and
armored cars camouflaged in a way that makes them
indistinct blurs a few miles away, despite the hot,
brilliant light of the desert.
Suez Canal traffic has dropped. Only about a
dozen ships go up and down daily now —mostly
British. Nothing for or from the Nazis passes
through the canal. At the outbreak of the war the
Allied navies closed in on that bottleneck, and Ger-
many’s great trade with the East was strangled over-
night.
In 1914 we had no armies in Palestine and Syria,
since they were in enemy hands. Also, Turkey was
then our enemy instead of our friend.
* * * * *
[There is some confusion in the use of the terms
“Middle East” and “Near East”: cables report .Lord
Ruthven as criticising Mr. Eden for using “Middle East”
in reference to the Anzacs’ arrival, and pointing out that
Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Turkey are the Near East;
India, Irak and possibly Malaya, the Middle East. The
“Times” Cairo correspondent, in the report here con-
densed, uses Middle East as used by Mr. Eden and in
most newspaper reports.]
Though there is at present no fighting in Egypt,
Palestine, Irak, Iran or Arabia, and none of them is
actually at war, in defence preparations the peoples
of the Middle East are solidly behind the Allies and
giving every assistance within their power. In Egypt
steps had been taken at the time of the Munich crisis
to put defences in order, but when war broke out
they were not complete. Now this part of the world
is as ready as it could ever be to withstand attack.
Red Russia’s active partnership with Nazi Ger-
many has served to strengthen the determination of
the essentially Moslem Middle East. The threat of
Russian aggression has amalgamated the Moslem
countries into a solid bloc, for if Hitlerism was de-
tested and despised Communism is regarded as the
implacable and ultimate enemy of the Moslem faith.
Before the outbreak of war, by insistent propaganda
and liberal expenditure Germany had gained a
number of supporters through the Middle East.
Directly the Russo-German Pact was signed they
disappeared overnight. If war should come to the
Middle East, with either Russia or Germany or both
as the enemy, every able-bodied Moslem would be
ready and willing to lay down his life for Islam.
The fanatically brave spirit which would animate
the peoples is not of itself enough in these days of
mechanised warfare. A potentially formidable but un-
trained, undisciplined and ill-equipped army must be
directed and its efforts co-ordinated. That is the task
of Britain and, to a less extent, France. England has
long maintained a sizable garrison in Egypt to protect
imperial lines of communication, and when the war
clouds began to loom in Europe the forces here, army
and air force, were greatly strengthened, while an
important part of the Mediterranean fleet was diverted
to Egyptian waters. Also, the British military mission
to Egypt was increased and strengthened, and steps
were hastened in building up Egypt’s new army.
Just as war broke out, Lieutenant-General Sir
Archibald Wavell took over command, and, soon
after, the British garrison was increased. General
Weygand was sent out to Syria to take up a similar
position at the head of French troops in that country ;
troops which, when war was declared, were greatly
strengthened, especially by the calling-up of all French-
men of military age in this part of the world. The
greatest secrecy is maintained about the numbers and
disposition, and also the units, of British troops in
the Middle East. It can be said, however, that, be-
sides maintaining an adequate garrison, Egypt parti-
cularly, but also Palestine and the Sudan, are used as
a training ground for Indian and other overseas
troops as well as British regiments. Troops arrive
whence we know not and go to unknown destina-
tions. One has only to look around on the busy
streets of Cairo to note the variety of regiments sta-
tioned somewhere in Egypt, and each week familiar
badges disappear and others take their place.
These troops, British, Egyptian and Empire, sta-
tioned in Egypt, Palestine, the Sudan, Kenya and
other countries, form the nucleus of the Middle East
defences. Headquarters are in Cairo ; from this nerve
centre a widespread organisation is controlled. G.H.Q.
also keeps in contact with the neutral but essentially
friendly countries, such as Irak, Iran and Afghani-
stan, the French allied troops in Syria, and the less
concerned but no less friendly nations of Arabia, in
the planning and maintenance of a defensive scheme
that is ready for all eventualities.
Here as elsewhere a vital part is played by the
Royal Air Force, of which also Cairo is the head-
quarters for the Middle East. From Cairo the Air
Officer Commanding in Chief, Air Marshal Sir Wil-
liam Mitchell, controls an area extending to Malta in
the west, Irak in the east and Rhodesia in the south,
taking in also the Red Sea and Aden. Egypt has
always been an important R.A.F. base, but upon
the outbreak of war its importance and efficiency were
immediately increased. All squadrons were refitted
with the latest aircraft and given a new “mobility” ;
they and all their accessory services can be moved to
any point in the area at great speed. Their work so
far, like that of the army, has consisted mainly in
organisation and training, which has been brought to
such a point of perfection that they too are ready for
any emergency.
* * * * *
The Balkan Scene
[On present indications, in no part of the prospective
Eastern Front is the position so delicate or so much of
a tangle as in the Balkans, especially Rumania. The
following general survey of the situation there is from
Manchester “Guardian.”]
The frontiers of Rumania and Greece are guaran-
teed by Great Britain ; Turkey is our ally. In this
troubled world with great and acquisitive Powers so
near, one would have, expected these three small
countries and Yugoslavia to band themselves
for a common defence. When their pact was signed
in 1934 the four countries guaranteed the security of
all their Balkan frontiers against aggression, though
later Greece and Turkey made the reservation that
this should not lead them into war with a Great
Power. Now, however, there seems little likelihood
“Petit Parisien,” Paris.
“NICE VIEW!”
[A French comment on the “Eastern Front” : Hitler
and Stalin looking over their balcony in Galicia
(Southern Poland).]
of a stronger common front. Their pact has never
been weaker than when it should have been at its
strongest.
The reason is that for one or two of these States
the danger is so threatening and so great that to em-
phasise Balkan solidarity at this moment seems to
provoke a disaster which the strongest unity would
be too weak to prevent. Germany is the fear, though
Russia, for all her temporary discredit, comes into
account.
Germany looks out over the Balkans with a
jealous eye. She regards them as her hinterland, one
of her main refuges from blockade, and she has already
felt the first strokes of Allied economic warfare in
this area. If she could enforce her interpretation of
Balkan neutrality it would mean that the Balkans
traded only with Germany. In 1938 Germany took 43
per cent, of Greek exports, 50 per cent, of Yugoslavia’s,
35 per cent, of Rumania’s and 47 per cent, of Turkey’s.
Some of the most essential of these to Germany Britain
is attempting to buy with its valuable free currency.
Hence the German alarm, hence the pressure and the
threats.
Yugoslavia is the weakest link in the Balkan
Entente at present. German divisions have been
placed admonishingly in Carinthia, Italy imposes con-
straint from the other side in Albania, and Yugo-
slavia’s own minorities, the Croats and Slovenes (let
alone the Germans and Hungarians), have not been
satisfied.
Rumania is cursed, as she might think just now,
with oilfields. As certain of the wells are in British
and French control we should not like to see their
produce going to swell German reserves, but Ger-
many asks for more with strong voice. Rumania
fears Russia as well, and she knows that if either
Germany or Russia moved against her Hungary and
Bulgaria could hardly be restrained.
If Rumania finds any new comfort in this gloomy
encirclement it springs from the recent diplomacy of
Italy. Italy is struggling hard to be the guardian of
Balkan peace ; if it is torn, she foresees a Russian
entry through the rents. She is said to have promised
Rumania support if she is attacked by Russia and
to have bidden her friend Hungary hold her claims
until the next ordered settlement of Europe.
For the time being Russia’s trials in Finland
should keep her out of the Balkans, and only Ger-
many is left. Germany regards the Balkans as a
feeding ground (from which, it is true, we shall do
our best to drive her). But such an area is not im-
proved by being .fought over, and Germany nas
already seen one economic field ruined by Kp ss * as
going to war. Again, for Germany to attack a. Balkan
State would open a German flank —a chance tor us
and a hazard for her which she probably appreciates,
* * * *
[Early last month the Balkan Entente —Yugoslavia,
Rumania, Greece and Turkey—met at Belgrade to discuss
future policy in view of war threats. Opinions on tne
fruits of that conference varied. “Great Britain and
the East" held that, as a result of the meeting, the
Balkan Entente stands today as a more solid union
than ever before,” and that “reports of satisfaction m
Berlin may be described as sheer nonsense. me rsew
Statesman” declared that the conference ‘reached no
decisions that were either novel or important, and went
on to give the following frank survey .1
In the political sense this backward Balkan penin-
sula seems a chaos. It stands, nonetheless, m a vital
economic relationship to Western Europe, but more
especially to Germany. One may call it for want ol
a better word a colonial relationship. It cannot,
indeed, be settled from the West, for its soil is closely
peopled and laboriously tilled. There is in it no
Lebensraum for mass emigration ; the German sword,
in Hitler’s phrase, cannot here clear the way tor the
German plough. But it could offer careers to large
numbers of German officials and technicians. Above
all, it produces a big exportable surplus of agricul-
tural produce —pigs and plums, wheat and maize,
currants and tobacco. Rumania has also her fatal
political wealth of oil, though her wells are nearmg
exhaustion. There are deposits of aluminium, which
like the oil, furthers the activity of more civilised
Powers. Industries are few, inefficient and dependent
on high tariff walls.
Since the great slump ruined the world s tree
market, trading has become avowedly political. It is
the German Reich that trades: over the counting-
house hum the bombing ’planes with the swastika
symbol. Chattering still about its independence and
neutrality, the Balkan State finds itself the vassal of
the armed merchant from Berlin. He may march
down the Danube, if he does not get all the wheat and
oil he wants. On the other hand, if he is satisfied,
he may further the territorial designs of a complacent
client and defend him from the appetites of his
neighbors. But a Balkan statesman, before he sells
his pigs or his tobacco, must scan the whole horizon.
There are Allied ships beyond the Dardanelles and
an Allied army assembled in Syria.
Why, in this unenviable situation, do the Balkan
States fail to combine? For many weeks before the
Entente met in Belgrade, the Turks had been trying
to bring this about. Their ambition was to include
Hungary and Bulgaria within the Entente, and then
to consolidate all the States of the Danubian basin in
an armed league of neutrals, pledged to render each
other mutual support. The Western Allies naturally
favored the project, but Germany and Russia worked
as inevitably against it, while Italy, a candidate for
hegemony in this peninsula, disliked a plan that would
have lessened her influence over each unsupported
State.
On Rumania falls the responsibility for thwart-
ing the expansion of the Entente. In this microcosm,
as in the greater world, there are sated and unsatis-
fied Powers, and the Entente was in its inception a
league of the sated to maintain the status quo. It may
seem singular that Rumania, a weak military Power,
threatened at once by Russia, Hungary and Bulgaria,
should have refused to seek her own safety by con-
cessions which would have turned two neighbors into
allies. The explanation seems to be that she has
bought the protection of the Germans by satisfying
their economic demands. She will deliver an increased
tonnage of oil and maize and turn Bessarabia into a
vast plantation for raising soya beans. In return for
these raw materials of victory, it is believed that
Germany has vetoed or at least postponed the threat-
ened Russian march across the Dniester.
Of the two unsatisfied Balkan States, Bulgaria is
the more modest. Her unhappy adventures under
King Ferdinand seem to have taught her wisdom —if
it is really true that she is content to wait until the
settlement after this war for the satisfaction of her
reasonable claims. Rumania ought to restore that
portion of the Dobrudja which she snatched in 1913,
for it has a solid Bulgarian population. As natural
is Bulgaria’s wish to have a port on the Aegean. The
problem that Hungary raises is more difficult. The
population of the territory she was compelled to cede
to Rumania is perplexingly mixed with 43
Rumanians, 35 Hungarians and 11 Saxons in every
hundred. It is a nice question which section of it was
the more unhappy—the downtrodden Rumanian
peasants under Hungarian landlords in the old days,
or these expropriated magnates and the alien middle
class, Saxon and Hungarian, under Rumania. Home
Rule for Transylvania, the solution usually proposed,
would not of itself ensure justice to races locked in a
class struggle. More might be hoped from a system
of cultural autonomy that would allow each race to
manage its own social services. But, for the present,
Rumania will concede nothing.
There are experts who see salvation in a future
Balkan Federation. It is not an easy solution to
imagine. The sated must turn generous: the furies
of past struggles must be forgotten: neighbors must
learn to talk with courtesy in many languages. More
awkward still are the contrasts in social structure.
The aristocrats of feudal Hungary look with disdain
on the peasants of Yugoslavia and Bulgaria. Nor is
there in this peninsula any State predestined to lead
the rest, a Prussia or a Piedmont. But the chief
weakness of this solution is that it fails to solve the
central problem of the colonial relationship. Even
in the military sense it limps. A Balkan Federation


A
n
i
u
f
THE WINE
OF TRADITION-EST-1847
would be in population a Power almost of the first
rank. But the taxable capacity of its peasants could
not sustain a modern army. It could afford neither a
great air fleet nor the mechanical equipment of
motorised divisions, nor any navy worth reckoning.
Nor could it manufacture its own arms and munitions:
it would have to buy them on credit from abroad,
through the banks of Paris, London or Berlin. Finally,
it still would be the market garden of the urban West,
a client as before in its economic life. The single
colonies would have federated, so to speak, into a
Dominion. Of which Empire?
*****
(From London “Spectator.”)
The communique issued at the close of the con-
ference contained seven clauses. From it certain
salient points arise. The four States are determined
to maintain their regional unity and their neutrality
in relation to the present war ; to develop friendly
relations with neighboring States (by which may no
doubt be understood particularly Italy, Hungary and
Bulgaria); to prolong the Balkan Pact, on which the
Entente rests, for seven years from February, 1941 ;
and to initiate new commercial and economic under-
standings among themselves.
This brings into the picture two essential features
of it, Hungary and Bulgaria. Hungary is not a Balkan
State, but if the peace of the Balkans is to be secure
there must be an assurance that Hungary will not be
the instrument of German schemes. Italy, which has
no desire to witness the insertion of either German or
Russian fingers into the Balkan pie, has gone some way
to avert that by persuading the Hungarians to with-
hold their hand from Transylvania in the event of
Rumania being attacked in another quarter. Equal
statesmanship has been shown by the Turkish Foreign
Minister, who urged, and the Bulgarian Prime Minister,
who agreed, that Bulgaria likewise would maintain
her neutrality even if a German or Russian attack on
Rumania offered her a tempting opportunity to walk
into the Dobrudja.
No Balkan bloc has been created, but a sense of
regional consciousness and of common interest has
been evident, and it is far more probable than it was
that, even without any formal agreement to that
effect, an attack on any one of the four States would
be regarded as a matter of concern to all. That, it
would appear, is in general accord with the views of
Italy, the Great Power which considers herself, since
her acquisition of Albania, most directly interested in
the Balkans.
Great Britain, bound by special relations to cer-
tain of the Balkan States and by unmarred friendship
to all of them, desires nothing better than that they
should complete the process they have begun of con-
solidating peace among themselves, and by their
strength and unity make themselves impervious to
menace from any other quarter. They may have a
great part to play as a peace nucleus, stretching from
the frontiers of Italy to the frontiers of Iran, to which
other States may one by one adhere.
* * * * *
(From a London “Observer” article by J. L. Garvin.)
Bulgaria had a bitter and even crucifying experi-
ence in the second Balkan War and the World War.
The former was the fierce overture to the latter. The
Bulgars have had enough of unsuccessful adventures
at a fearful cost. They bide their time, ardently as
they still desire to recover the Southern Dobrudja
and an independent outlet on the Algean. This would
make possible the solidity and security of the Balkans
under a defensive federation. As yet, that view is out
of the picture. But who knows?
Whatever her claims, Bulgaria does not desire
see the Russian shadow extended over the Balkans.
The price would be too high. She would become a
Soviet annexe. She wants to keep out of war and
keep off chaos. So do they all. But for different
reasons and by different ways.
If Turkey’s vital interests are assailed, directly or
indirectly, she will fight like a larger Finland. The
world will see something. But the last thing the
lurks want is to be driven to it.
Rumania’s P os^on by far the most hazardous.
She alone has to reckon with the possibilities of com-
bined German and Russian attack. For either of these
aggressions would start the other. To be plain, what
Rumania fears is destruction before th£ Allies and
1 urkey could come in sufficient strength to her aid.
Because King Carol, in these stark circumstances,
pursues a supple dualism he should not be crudely
accused of playing a double game. On the one hand,
he will make considerable economic concessions to
Germany if by this, as Berlin insists, he can gain a
Nazi guarantee against a Hungarian attack on Tran-
sylvania and a Russian attack on Bessarabia.
Yet if King Carol broke with the Allies—and the
determined aim of Hitlerism is to bring him to this
by degrees—the Nazi guarantee would become “a
scrap of paper.” Rumania, like Czechoslovakia, would
be subjected first and dismembered afterwards. Ger-
many’s fixed object is to gain the complete domina-
tion of Rumanian oil whether by squeeze or violence.
This is a grim dilemma. The sequel may decide the
crucial economic struggle in 1940 between Nazi con-
tinentalism and the Allies’ oceanic power.
Yugoslavia stands in another light. Like Turkey,
she would like to see Rumanian concessions both to
Bulgaria and Hungary. Failing a Balkan bloc, Yugo-
slavia cannot stand at all costs with Bucharest. Yugo-
slavia while she remains neutral cannot be touched
by Germany. Rome forbids. The Nazis themselves
have made the most intense efforts to cultivate friendly
relations with Belgrade. Next to Rumanian oil, what
they most want in these parts is Yugoslav copper.
In a word, while they all want to keep well with
the Allies, they all desire not to precipitate war with
Germany or Russia, much less with both. The great
Finns have prolonged Balkan peace at the expense of
their own.
*****
Turkey’s Policy
(As outlined by the Turkish Foreign Minister,
M. Sarajoglu.)
“Turkey is not neutral but is outside the war. To
be neutral or outside the war does not mean resigna-
tion to fate ; it means the taking of all necessary
measures to prevent the flame of war destroying the
roof over our head. Only thus can peace be pre-
served. Turkish policy is clear and precise. We have
no secret engagements, nor could we have. Such
engagements as we have are as clearly defined as our
frontiers. They were not the object of aggression, and
“Karikatur,” Ankara.
TURKISH COMMENT ON THE BALKANS.
“Won’t you please go first!”
“No, thank you, after you!”
if nothing happens to make us fulfil our engagements
we are decided to remain in the path of peace which
we have chosen, but vigilant and active as the situation
may demand.”
*****
(From an article by Arthur Merton, London “Daily
Telegraph” correspondent in the Near East.)
Even before last September the Turkish Govern-
ment had been actively developing its organisation so
as to be able to defend its frontiers and the interests of
its Balkan Allies. With the outbreak of war Turkish
activities became accentuated, and wide-reaching
measures have been concerted to safeguard national
resources. There has been slight increase in the cost
of living and a shortage in some imported commo-
dities, but, unlike its neighbor Greece, where white
bread can no longer be obtained, the country has
ample food supplies, and actually a surplus of cereals
and livestock. Generally, life in Turkey is normal.
Simultaneously, defences in Thrace have been
hurried on. Much-needed landing grounds are being
created. Welcome war material is arriving from Eng-
land, and the training of pilots is proceeding apace.
Naturally wishing to help her Allies and husband
and develop her own resources, Turkey has never-
theless to bear constantly in mind that she is neutral
and must do nothing to violate that neutrality, parti-
cularly vis-d-vis countries like Germany and Russia,
whom it is vital she should not offend at the present
juncture.
Germany has erected several factories in Turkey,
and has supplied much machinery and many locomo-
tives. All require spare parts and machine tools.
British and French manufacturers cannot meet the
demand, because that would entail changing over part
of their plant, which is fully occupied producing war
material. Only Germany can do it.
Exports to Germany continue, though only a
fraction of what they were before the war. The
quantity is restricted by the obligation to pay cash
and by the question of transport. For this German
steamers, prevented by the outbreak of war from
passing out through the Dardanelles, are being used.
They have been earning part of the port dues their
enforced stay in Turkish waters has. incurred by
transporting German purchases of Turkish and Rus-
sian produce to Bulgarian ports on the Black Sea.
All Germans engaged on work connected in any
way with defence have had their agreements ter-
minated. But the Government has had to seek the
return of experts who had gone back to Germany
on the outbreak of war, so that two submarines sup-
plied in sections by German shipbuilders may be
assembled under German supervision.
One instructive development brought by the early
stages of the war is the radical change in the popular
view of the Russians. Before the Finnish campaign
there was much apprehension of a conflict with
Russia, always regarded as a formidable opponent.
Today the Turks feel confident that the army is quite
capable of dealing with any menace from Moscow.
*****
(From an article by the "Times” Balkans correspondent.)
United to Greece by a far-reaching alliance,
Turkey’s policy coincides with the British guarantee.
Relations with her Black Sea neighbor Rumania are
those of solid friendship. Though not bound by treaty
to aid Rumania in resisting aggression (indeed, by the
Anglo-French-Treaty specifically spared the obligation
of fighting Russia on any account), it is felt in Angora
that a Soviet aggression there would almost certainly
involve Turkey.
Under the Anglo-French Alliance Turkey would
have to let Allied warships through the Straits, which
Russia (or Germany for that matter) might well con-
sider an act of war. Russia could reply either through
a subservient Bulgaria grateful for the gift’of the
Dobrudja (if King and Government were unable to
resist the pressure of public opinion to that end) or
through the Caucasus.
So far as Bulgaria is concerned Turkey persists in
seeking a reconciliation between Sofia and Bucharest.
So far as the Caucasus is concerned Turkey feels less
anxious. In case of a Russian assault on Iran to turn
the Turkish flank, there exist fair possibilities of Allied
intervention from Irak at a highly vulnerable point in
the Russian war economy. As for a direct attack on
Turkey across the Caucasus, there are but two feasible
passes in a barren country much harder for the attack
than the defence.
Supervening on all these considerations is the
problem of Turco-Italian relations. As the Berlin-
Rome Axis has waned and the Moscow-Berlin line-up
has waxed, so the signs of an aggressive policy on
Italy’s part (instanced by the Albanian occupation,
which was a severe shock to Turkish nerves and occa-
sioned large concentrations in Thrace for the defence
of Salonika) have given place to a policy professing
anxiety for the solidarity of the Balkans in the face of
the Bolshevist menace and for the settlement of out-
standing disputes. Therewith Italian and Turkish
policies have automatically begun to fall into line along
with a cessation of press attacks. But, like the clari-
fication of Turkish policy in other respects, the further
improvement of Turco-Italian relations is conditioned
by the relations between Italy and Turkey’s Western
Allies.
Labor’s Declaration of Policy.
[Here is the full text of the Declaration of Policy
issued by the National Executive of the British Labor
party.]
Loyal to its Socialist and Democratic faith, and
fully maintaining its opposition to the Chamberlain
Government, the Labor party calls upon the British
people to contribute their utmost effort to the over-
throw of the Hitler system in Germany. This over-
throw is essential to the achievement of Labor’s
programme of social justice, the maintenance and
extension of democratic liberties and the building of a
peaceful commonwealth of free peoples.
Britain in the past has led the world in the
development of Parliamentary democracy and civil
freedom. If these precious gains are not now to
perish, it is imperative to break the evil power of
Totalitarian tyranny in Europe.
The Labor party, therefore, unreservedly supports
the Allied War of resistance to Nazi aggression, be-
cause, though loathing war, it regards this war as a


lesser evil than the slavery which finally would be
the only alternative.
Through the short-sighted weakness of the British
and other Governments over a term of years, a crisis
came in 1939, when the simple choice in Europe lay
between Liberty and Serfdom. Month by month,
as Hitler advanced, the threat to British liberty itself
was intensified. It was high time —indeed it would
soon have been too late —to make a firm and final
stand against the expanding Nazi tyranny. Had British
Labor not supported this stand, it would have been
false to its ideals.
The Labor party issues this declaration of Peace
Aims now, although the war is not yet won. Victory
is our immediate task. But, before the peoples are
still further estranged by hatred and suffering, a last-
ing and just peace may be brought nearer by stating
clearly now what our immediate war purpose is, and
what should be the principles and methods of the
final settlement. Discussion of territorial details is
out of place at present; but a statement of the brdad
lines of settlement may be useful and opportune now.
Moreover, if it is brought to the knowledge of the
German people that they can have an honorable
peace under fair conditions, this might contribute
to a shortening of the war.
The Allies’ war purpose must be to defeat Hitler-
ism, and to undo the wrongs resulting from Nazi
aggression without creating new wrongs. It must be
shown beyond all doubt that we shall not allow aggres-
sion to succeed. Victory for Democracy must be
achieved, either by arms or economic or —
better still—by a victory of the German people over
the Hitler regime, resulting in the birth of a new
Germany.
The Labor party is convinced that the Allies ought
not to enter into peace negotiations except with a
German Government which has not merely promised,
but actually performed, certain acts of restitution. In
view of the experiment of recent years, no one can
trust a Nazi Government honestly to perform such
acts, or to abstain from future aggression.
Restitution must include freedom for the Polish
and Czechoslovak peoples. No promise of independ-
ence for these peoples will suffice unless accompanied
by the withdrawal of the German forces and police.
Austria’s people, even earlier victims of Hitler’s
aggression, must be left free to decide, without intimi-
dation or coercion, whether or not they wish to
remain within the German Reich.
Recalling, moreover, the British Government’s
statement that “we seek no material advantage for
ourselves,” the Labor party demands that undertakings
shall be given to the German people that, in the
general rearrangement after the war, the just and
real interests of all the peoples will be respected,
including those of the German people.
Whatever else may be contained in the Peace
Treaty, this will assuredly not be the last war in
Europe unless, when this war ends, we can succeed
in reconciling the French claim to Security with the
German claim to Equality. If Britain is either inatten-
tive or impatient towards either of these claims, she
will already have incurred a share of responsibility
for the next war. The French people, who have
suffered so often and so cruelly, must be assured
of protection against violence and menace, and the
German people must be given acceptable and peace-
ful outlets for their energy and ambition.
In reply to the just claims of the French, the
Labor party answers:
“We share your determination that this recurrent
German menace, requiring these repeated mobilisa-
tions of the whole manhood of France, shall not
plague your next generation and ours, if our strength
and foresight can prevent it. Henceforth, in resistance
to any German aggression, our two peoples must be
not merely allies for a season, but brothers for all
time.”
In reply to the Germans, the Labor party would
say:
“We are opposed to any attempt from outside
to break up Germany. We do not seek the humiliation
or dismemberment of your country. We whole-
heartedly desire to welcome you without delay into
the peaceful collaboration of civilised nations. We
must warn you, however, that Hitler and his system
prepared and started this war. He could not continue
it if you ceased supporting him. Until this accursed
Nazi regime is overthrown there is no hope of peace
between us.' But if you establish a Government
sincerely willing that Germany shall be a good neigh-
bor and a good European, there shall be no humilia-
tion nor revenge.”
History teaches that any attempt to keep Ger-
many an outcast after this war, or to deprive her of
such security as her neighbors rightly claim for them-
selves, will fail. The most far-sighted and least dan-
gerous policy is to seek to win the co-operation, as
an equal partner, of a Germany governed by a poli-
tical system whose aims and needs run parallel with
ours. Only the equilibrium thus created, on the one
hand by the effective guarantee of France’s security
and on the other by the recognition of equality to
the future Germany, will make possible a new and
hopeful approach to the achievement of our peace
aims. If we fail to create this equilibrium, we shall
find either France or Germany, or both, intractable.
Labor has always stood four-square against
aggression. We had hoped that Soviet Russia would
join with the democracies for the collective organisa-
tion of peace and resistance to aggression. We worked
hard to that end. We condemned the clumsiness of
the British Government in its earlier relations with
the Soviet Union ; but this cannot excuse the Russian
Government’s Pact with the Nazis on ihe eve of the
war, much less its unprovoked attack on Finland in
shameless imitation of the Nazi technique in foreign
policy. We should regard the extinction of the free
Finnish democracy as an intolerable disaster for civil-
isation.
Six years ago the Labor party defined its purpose
in foreign policy as “the building of a co-operative
World Commonwealth,” and declared that “to have
peace we must subordinate national sovereignty to
world institutions and obligations.”
This is still Labor’s peace aim. The Labor
party, therefore, demands that the peace settlement
shall establish a new Association or Commonwealth
of States, the collective authority of which must tran-
scend, over a proper sphere, the sovereign rights of
separate States. This authority must control such
military and economic power as will enable it to
enforce peaceful behavior as between its members, and
thus secure the all-round reduction of national arma-
ments to the level required for the preservation of
internal order. All international disputes, wherever
arising and of whatever sort, must be settled by peace-
ful means, through predetermined procedure of arbi-
tration and conciliation.
The present close co-operation between the British
Commonwealth, France and their Allies in the poli-
tical and economic spheres should be the nucleus of
this wider association, membership of which should
be open and advantageous to all nations.
All nations, great and small, must have the right
to live their own lives, free but co-operative within
the framework of the new world order. Labor will
be no party to imperialist exploitation, whether capi-
talist or otherwise. Labor, therefore, demands that
colonial peoples everywhere should move forward as
speedily as possible towards self-government. In the
administration of colonies not yet ready for sell-
government, the interests of the native population
should be paramount, and should be safeguarded
through an extension and strengthening of the Man-
date system. There must be equal opportunity of
“Handelsblad,” Amsterdam.
DUTCH IDEA OF BELLIGERENTS AND
NEUTRALS.
“If you don’t love us any more, look out!”
access for all peaceful peoples to raw materials and
markets in these colonial territories.
A new world order which applies these principles
can only be securely founded on socialism and democ-
racy. The necessary unity of purpose will be lacking
if the peoples remain divided internally into two
nations, sundered by wide differences of wealth, privi-
lege and opportunity. Lasting peace depends on social
justice within States, no less than on political justice
between States. The necessary vigor and power of
growth will be lacking if the individual citizen is
treated as the slave of the State or is denied such free-
dom of opinion, speech and faith as is compatible
with the freedom of others. These elementary free-
doms should constitute a new and world-wide Declara-
tions of the Rights of Man.
A very grave economic crisis will confront all
nations at the conclusion of this war, when the world’s
productive powers must once again be turned to peace-
ful ends. This problem of transition, unless handled
with great skill and courage, may provoke mass un-
employment and vast social catastrophies in every
land. In addition to national policies of reconstruc-
tion, therefore, there must be bold economic and
financial planning on a world-wide scale.
International public works, conferring benefits
on more than one nation, and covering also the com-
prehensive development of great colonial territories
now divided between two or more colonial Powers,
as in Africa, must be undertaken through an Inter-
national Authority with a budget and powers far
greater than the League of Nations ever had. Such
an authority must make full use of scientists and tech-
nicians. It must plan with vision and execute with
efficiency. The purpose of such schemes should be
to make available greater abundance both for the
inhabitants of these areas and for all mankind.
Further, to aid in raising the standard of living
of workers in all lands, a new impetus must be given
to the work of the International Labor Organisation.
The ineffectiveness of the League, often quoted to
discredit international co-operation, was partly due
to the lack of conviction and sincerity of its leading
member-States, and partly to its comparative neglect
of economic questions. Successive British Govern-
ments, since 1931, have a heavy share of responsi-
bility for its collapse. We must learn the lessons of
experience and build better next time.
The repeated aggressions of the last few years
and the evasive neutralities in face of aggression
mark the breakdown, moral and material, of the old
world order. The foundations of a new order must
be laid now.
Victory must come to the arms of Britain, France
and their Allies ; the peace must be won for humanity.
Hitler’s Eyrie.
[Many descriptions of Hitler’s Berchtesgaden retreat
have been written; in the brief one here given from the
French diplomatic Yellow Book, M. Poncet, French
Ambassador, seeks a key there to Hitler’s character
and state of mind.]
From a distance it looks like a kind of observa-
tory or a little hermitage perched 1900 metres aloft on
the top of a rocky ridge. Nearly ten miles of zigzag
road cut out of the rock lead to it. This road ends in
a long tunnel, the entrance to which can be shut by a
heavy double bronze door.
At the end of the tunnel there is a huge elevator
with copper walls. It rises 110 metres up a well
cut through the living rock. There, the visitor’s sur-
prise reaches its climax. The building is squat and
massive. It contains a gallery with Roman pillars, an
immense room with great bay windows, a huge fire-
place in which enormous logs were crackling, a table
and about thirty comfortable chairs.
From the windows one looks down as from an
airplane over an immense panorama of mountains. In
the bottom of the bowl lies Salzburg, dominated all
round the horizon by chains of peaks, fields and
forests. Near the house, which looks as if it were sus-
pended over the void, rises an abrupt wall of naked
rock. Seen in the shadowy light of an autumn even-
ing, it is grandiose and unreal.
The visitor is not quite sure that he is not dream-
ing. He has to pinch himself to make sure that it is
not a hallucination. Is it the Castle of Monsalvat,
where the Knights of the Holy Grail lived ; or a Mount
Athos built for the meditations of a cenobite, or
the Palace of Antinea rising in the heart of the Atlas?
Is it the realisation of those fantastic drawings with
which Victor Hugo adorned the margins of the manu-
script of Burgrave’s The Fantasy of a Millionaire, or
merely the den where brigands take their rest and
accumulate treasures? Is it the work of a normal
spirit or that of a man tormented by the folly of
grandeur, by a haunting desire for domination and
solitude, or simply a prey to fear?
Those who seek to appreciate the psychology of
Adolf Hitler might give attention to this detail that
the opening to the tunnel, the stairways and the sur-
roundings of the house are protected by machine-gun
nests.
Dean’s Approval of Russia.
{From a London “Sunday Times” criticism by G. M.
Young of “The Socialist Sixth of the World,” by the
Dean of Canterbury .)
The combination represented by Dr. Hewlett
Johnson of Communist, engineer and dean is so rare
as to give a peculiar, and perhaps unique, interest to
his views. When I closed his book I felt there were
only two points on which I still desired to be informed.
One was, how many people have been robbed, starved,
tortured, imprisoned and murdered to bring about
the state of affairs which he finds so hopeful? The
other, how many of Russia’s smaller neighbors would
whole-heartedly endorse the Dean’s judgment that
the Soviet Union stands for peace, democracy, and the
right of nations to self-determination?
On the first, he does permit himself to observe
that “political liberty in the narrow sense of the right
to upset the Plan... .is non-existent,” and as the Plan
descends to the minutest details of Russian life one
can therefore understand why the accusation of sabot-
age is so frequent and so deadly. On the second, he
is less explicit.
What explanation is there for the dreary and
ghastly take of purges and liquidations, on a scale
almost amounting to massacre? How am I to account
for the attack on Finland?
Those who have had most personal experience
of the colossal inefficiency of Russia are inclined to
suspect that a great part of the Plan is pure make-
believe, an irqposture which can be kept going only
by ruthless suppression of criticism, and by the con-
stant diversion of attention from the last failure to the
next. Very likely that is part of the explanation. But
not, I think, the whole.
A planned Communist economy, by its very
nature, doubles and multiplies the opportunities of
power, while it diminishes the possibility of control;
and therefore tends to infect the whole system with the
vices that especially attend the exercise of authority
and the craving for advancement: faithlessness and
the lust of domination: which today seem to be the
outstanding characteristics of Russian policy.
The Dean may think this is only a passing phase:
or he may consider it, perhaps, the price, painful but
necessary, and therefore worth paying, of that rebirth
of hope and joy and love of which Holy Russia is
the scene today. If so, I would suggest that he should
have the following passage from his book translated
into Finnish and scattered by brotherly aeroplanes
along the line from Petsamo to Lake Ladoga:
Stalin is no Oriental despot. His new Constitution
shows it. His readiness to relinquish power shows it.
His refusal to add to the power he already possesses
shows it. His willingness to lead his people down new
and unfamiliar paths of democracy shows it. His
genius is revealed in the short, simple sentences which
enshrine the Basic Law of the U.S.S.R., where in clear,
clean language stands the charter of the new rights of
man in the Socialist Society. Here is a document
which ranks among the greatest in all human documents
in its love of humanity and its reverence for human
dignity. To read this astonishing document gives
fresh encouragement to every democrat in every land,
and incites him afresh to struggle against every opposi-
tion, and in face of the most brutal opposition, for
that new and richer freedom that all the world’s great
minds have longed for.
The Apostle of Finland was an Englishman, St. Henry
of Upsala. I am sure the Finns would reverence, as it
deserves, such a message from St. Henry’s Church.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Post-mortem on the 40-to-l New-
market Handicap success of Mildura,
whose three latest races had been over
distances from li mile to 1| mile,
yielded a verdict by representative rac-
ing men that horses drawn on the out-
side of the Flemington straight-six might
just as well stay home for all the chance
they have, and that, in fairness to owners
and trainers, the V.R.C. will have to
consider the advisability of scrapping the
straight course and running future six-
furlong races round the turn. Mildura
drew No. 5 at the barrier, and won from
Hilton (20) and Chatsbury (18).
One of the few dissentients cynically
remarked, “Maybe the track is not to
blame. Perhaps Mildura’s win is evidence
that our crack sprinters are not quite as
good as we thought.” He instanced that
Mildura had a big pull in the weights,
having been handicapped as a stayer, and
that the riders of Hilton and El Golea,
both drawn wide, had excuses to offer for
their mounts after the race. Phillips,
rider of Hilton, declares that Bursary
kept hampering him, otherwise he would
have been much closer to the winner,
while Creighton (El Golea) considers that
he would have been right in the firing
line at the finish had he not been forced
to pull his mount almost to a standstill
when Gold Salute, who had veered
across the track from his rails position,
went under his neck about a furlong and
a half from home. El Golea, starting
from 17, ran on well in fourth position
at the finish.
• • • • 0 *
Mildura, however, won too decisively
for any excuses to be really worth while.
He made the most of his inside post
position, had the race won some dis-
tance from home, and wound up with
two and a half lengths to spare. Man-
rico, backed to threes from his over-
night price of 7 to 1, No. 24 post position
notwithstanding, lasted only three fur-
longs, Aurie’s Star (No. 26) led the out-
side division until about 100 yards from
home, but finished only sixth, and the
Oakleigh Plate winner Unishak (No. 23)
was never a possibility over the last half
of the trip. It was reported that the
“slow” side of the track had been rolled
well in an attempt to balance the luck
of the draw, but the difficulties confront-
ing horses so far out are best reflected in
the words of Chatsbury’s rider, S. Ralph,
who declared after the race, “the marble
beat me.”
Mildura was the first Sydney horse to
win the Newmarket since Greenline in
1930, and he gave trainer George Price
and rider Ted Bartle their first success
in Australia’s greatest sprint. A four-
year-old entire by Manfred - Miss
Meadows, Mildura must be considered
one of the most versatile horses seen out
this season. It is difficult to realise that
he was able to beat Australia’s best
sprinters little more than a month after
he had finished second in the Anniversary
Handicap (1| mile) at Randwick, and two
weeks after he had been unluckily beaten
in the Bond Handicap (11 furlongs) at
Caulfield, but backers did not reckon
with the judgment of owner E. J. Watt.
Latter capitalised on the handicapper’s
lenient treatment of the horse by in-
structing his trainer to freshen Mildura
up and start him in the sprint. Majority
of bookmakers operating on the New-
m^rket-Australian Cup double reported
a “skinner,” but, even though Mildura’s
win was one of the greatest surprises
associated with the race, a few course
bookmakers were losers. Best bet laid
against Mildura was £lOOO to £lO, others
including £lOOO to £looo to £2O
and several of £5OO to and £5OO to
£lO.
The Broadcaster “bubble” burst with a
vengeance in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Backed from 7 to 2 to 5 to 2,
Broadcaster retired after leading the field
until about a furlong from home, and
obviously is not as good as when he
won the Maribyrnong Plate in the spring.
Another Sydney representative, Trueness
(Harinero-Truest), who had finished only
fifth in the Maribyrnong Plate, won in
fine style from Lucrative and Halifax,
but, although there was good support for
her at 10 and 8 to 1, trainer Bayley
Payten states that he was not keen on
her chance.
Payten inspected the seven furlongs start
before the race, and concluded that
Trueness would be at too big a disadvan-
tage from No. 13 at the barrier. He based
his contention on the probability that
Trueness would not be able to get across
to the inside and would be forced to
cover a lot of extra ground. He was
correct in that estimate, as Trueness was
never able to cross to the rails, but she
made a fast move rounding the bend,
and had the race in her keeping a fur-
long from home. Trueness was the first
filly to win the Sires’ Produce since
Nedda in 1929, and she has been a won-
derful proposition for owner Mrs. M. J.
Mackay, who paid 550 guineas for her as
a yearling. Some owners spend fortunes
in quest of a good horse, but Mrs.
Mackay had the luck to obtain a rich
prize in her first racing venture.
Some racegoers like nothing better
than a mystery, and the fact that Halifax
tackled the Sires’ Produce Stakes without
a prior race since the spring, and had
not been reported as having done any
really fast track work, led to wild stories
being circulated about him. Most popu-
lar of the tales was that he had been
doing his fast work at night, and color
was lent to the rumor by heavy support
for Halifax, whose price shortened to
sixes after tens had been laid. Owner
Victor Plumb, however, described such
stories as “utter nonsense.” He added
that Halifax had never worked away
from Caulfield, where he is first on the
track every morning, and the colt would
knock up in his races if too much were
asked of him in private. Halifax, who is
by Christopher Robin-Bareena, has
started only four times for a win, a
second and two thirds, and is one of the
most promising colts in training. He did
not have the best of luck in Saturday’s
race, and the probabilities are that he will
be given an opportunity to reverse posi-
tions with Trueness in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes.
Luck of racing was reflected in
Gladstone’s success in the Flemington
Centenary Cup. Six or seven months ago
he could have been bought for £5OO.
Gladstone, though winner of two races
at the time, suffered from weak knees,
and, failing to find a buyer, owner A. E.
Kimpton decided to have him fired. The
firing operation was a complete success,
as Gladstone has not only won two races
and £l9OO in prizes since his return to
work, but appears to have a first-class
chance of landing the Australian Cup.
Gladstone has been penalised the full
101 b. for the Australian Cup, making his
weight 7.8, but he carried 7.7 on Satur-
day. Again he lan about at the finish
and seemed anxious to “have a go” at
Pageant when the latter challenged, and
it is to be hoped that this is not a per-
manent trait. He beat himself by attempt-
ing to savage Plymouth Hoe at Caulfield
at his previous start, and many keen
judges were of opinion that a protest
would have been warranted had Pageant
finished second on Saturday. On the
other hand, the closest Pageant got to
him was about three-quarters of a length.
Although beaten, Pageant must be
conceded a fair chance of winning the
Australian Cup for the second year in
succession. His race on Saturday was
only his second since he went amiss in
the spring, and improvement is to be ex-
pected. On Saturday, however, he was
not quite as impressive as the runner-up,
Valmiki. Valmiki struck more than his
share of bother during the race, made a
long-sustained run round the field from
the six furlongs, and was going well at
the finish. Adelaide horses have a good
record in the Australian Cup, and Val-
miki, who obviously has improved con-
siderably since he raced in Sydney, has
a good chance of improving the record.
A three-year-old colt by Harinero-Alt-
mark, he drops 21b.
Reading’s V.R.C. St. Leger stocks
slumped somewhat following his defeat
out of a place in the Brunswick Stakes.
Reading started at evens, but 8.12 was stiff
for a three-year-old, and on the day he
was not equal to it. In front early, and
then eased in behind, he was cramped
for room on the rails on several occa-
sions, but the opening was there in the
straight had he had the dash to take it.
He fought on gamely under the whip, but
it was obvious a furlong from home that
he could not win, and Amiable just beat
him for third money, behind Historian
and Early Bird. Historian, another three-
year-old, and in receipt of 181 b. from
Reading, hit the front soon after entering
the straight, and won well. Historian,
who cost Darcy Eccles 500 guineas as a
yearling, gave good promise last spring,
and the probabilities are that he will be
sent to Sydney for the A.J.C. autumn
meeting.
Success for Early Bird in the Bruns-
wick Stakes would have relieved starting-
price bookmakers of a collective fortune.
It is not suggested that either of the part-
owners of the mare was behind the move,
but s.p. operators reported that there
was an almost unlimited “town” commis-
sion for the mare, who started at 10 to 1.
Early Bird, who is raced by W. Devon
and A. E. Cooper, was a long way out
of her ground coming to the turn, but
she finished strongly.
*.*••••
Glowing, owned and trained by Bill
McKay, who is better known in the light-
harness sport, upset general calculations
when he beat the favorite, Glenlonan,
out of a place in the Pines Hurdle Race.
Always well placed, Glowing landed
over the last hurdle ahead of Glenlonan,
and went on to win well from Imitari,
who is engaged in both Hurdle Races to
be run at Randwick this autumn, and
Glenlonan. Glowing is a four-year-old
entire, and, like many of David’s stock,
is a natural jumper.
Niello won his fourth race from his
last five starts when he beat Testudo and
Gold Glare in the Victoria Steeplechase.
He made several awkward jumps, but
raced up to Nevizes and Testudo com-
ing to the last fence, landed in front,
and, although veering out owing to weari-
ness towards the finish, held on to his
lead. Nevizes again weakened in the
straight, while Dornford, who was hav-
ing his first race over fences, lost his
rider about seven furlongs from home.
He was sharing the lead with Nevizes
at the time. Niello, like many other
good ’chasers raced by “S. A. Rawdon,”
is a recruit from the hunting field, and
his success on Saturday completed a
double for lohnson, who was on
Glowing.
* * * *
Long programmes are favored by the
public nowadays, and eight races proved
an attraction at Rosehill. Favorites in
Tarn and Yours Truly were successful,
but, unusual to relate, F. T. Cush re-
ceived a setback with two-year-old
favorites from his stable —Dark Elegance
and Ensign. Considering she had 10.1,
Dark Elegance ran well to finish a close
third. I read that Cush expected a great
deal of her in the autumn, but I think
she will find Trueness a stumbling-block
at seven furlongs in the A.I.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes and Easter Plate.
Rival Spear, who is a good-looking
son of Spearfelt and Tilt, comfortably
won the Granville Stakes from Cryon
and Vulpine. Ras Desta, who led round
the turn from Rival Spear, was beaten
half-way down the straight, and though
at one stage Conlon looked like giving
his backers a good run he tired before
reaching the winning-post. Guy, the
trainer of Cryon, complained to the
stewards about Hughes’s handling of that
horse, but subsequently expressed him-
self satisfied. The real trouble was that
Rival Spear was a bit too good. The
winner cost 400gns. as a yearling,
‘
, ei ® bt sto P s the best, and though
v ark Elegance, from No. 18, lost no
tjme in getting to the front in the first
division of the Juvenile Stakes, she was
quickly joined by Dawn Mary, who
started from No. 2. Turning for home
there was little between Dark Elegance,
Dawn Mary and Wedding Belle, but
then the first-named’s 10.1 had its effect,
and Dawn Mary won by a head from
Wedding Belle, who narrowly defeated
Dark Elegance.
Good-looking Patrician, who did not
have the best of luck in running, was
fifth, just ahead of him being Sobersides.
Next to them was the Queenslander Fast
Company, who may pay his way here.
Timkin, a strongly-built Denis Boy colt,
was another that displayed pace, but
Merry Monarch did not show up, and
Chatoona was not in as good condition
as when racing earlier in the season.
Again drawn on the outside, and a
long way from the leaders at the straight
entrance, Valve put in good work over
the final furlong of the second division
of the Juvenile Stakes to win from the
solid-looking Happy Bay, who will be
all the better for her race. Kenthelda,
Status and Ensign all figured prominently
to the turn, but the last-named died
away to such an extent at the end that it
is improbable much is to be feared from
him in either the Sires’ Produce Stakes
or Champagne Stakes.
Red Pete, who was third, is a well-
grown colt by Peter Pan from Admired,
and, trained by W. Kelso, is certain to im-
prove. Staying may be his forte. Panchio
(Harinero-Rio Rita) and Celebrity (Hari-
nero-Marcana) did well enough to make
them worth keeping in mind, but, admit-
ting that he had 71b. allowance, the
honors of the race were with Valve. At
the same time he looks so thoroughly
strung up that I doubt whether there is
much room for improvement in him.
Kenthelda, though a half-sister to De-
faulter, completely failed to stay.
An apprentice allowance of 71b. proved
useful to Tarn in the Westmead Handi-
cap. At the half-mile she led from
Jembra, Bonny Loch, Brazandt and
Merry Smile, and hung on well to beat
Aureus half a length. Bonny Loch was
third, after being one of the leading divi-
sion throughout, and he should be at his
best for the' A.J.C. meeting. Flying
Knight, Brazandt and Rodborough (who
looked a trifle burly) did well. Merry
Smile was again handicapped by a bad
post position, and, though she showed up
in the straight, was unequal to running on.
Pantler, who is among the early tips for
the Sydney Cup, was erne of the field, but
did not run any better than could be
expected at six furlongs.
In the Rosehill Club Handicap Yours
Truly gave a taste of his Maoriland form.
He met a moderate lot, but finished
strongly to defeat The Blizzard after the
latter had taken the measure of the pace-
maker, Plutus, who should shortly have
a winning turn at a mid-week or provin-
cial meeting. Fountain, in fourth posi-
tion, was well ahead of the other four
runners, and, as he is again looking well,
is sure to win for Battye during the
next few weeks.
A rattling finish saw Sleight of Hand
and Yellowstone dead-heat for the first
division of the Maiden Welter. Majunga
was going so well in the lead approaching
the turn that a win for him appeared
more than probable. He stopped so
badly in the straight that he was well
beaten a furlong from home, but he is
such a good stamp of horse that I think
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
THURSDAY.
Hopeful Stakes: Tidal Wave,
1 ; Positron, 2 ; Big Warwick, 3.
King’s Plate: High Caste, 1 ;
Ajax, 2 ; Reading, '3.
Ascot Vale Stakes: Halifax, 1 ;
Trueness, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
SATURDAY.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: Ajax, 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Manrico, 3.
Australian Cup: Gladstone, 1 ;
Cooranga, 2 ; Valmiki, 3.
(By “PILOT.”)
THURSDAY.
King’s Plate: Ajax, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; Reading, 3.
SATURDAY.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Ajax, 2 ; Manrico, 3.
Australian Cup: Gladstone, 1 ;
Pageant, 2 ; Son of Aurous, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
By “PILOT.”
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Merry Smile, 1; Bonnie L.,
2 ; Baveon, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Welcome
News, 1 ; Loyal Lad, 2; Indian
Emperor, 3.
Rawson Stakes: St. Constant, 1 ;
Mosaic, 2 ; Feminist, 3.
Railway Handicap: The Squire,
1 ; Cigarette, 2 ; Tel Asur, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: 'lusculum,
1 ; Gold Spark, 2 ; Fountain, 3.
Parramatta Mile: Asnazu, 1 ;
Astounding, 2 ; Überous, 3.


EASTER
'V
Kod2&
foa
What’s a holiday
without snapshots! Remember
your most important Easter in-
vestment,the Kodak that makes
sure of capturing those picture
souvenirs you must have.
Now while the holiday spirit is in the air See
the Kodaks (from 12/6), Brownies (from 6/-)
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS and
KODAK (A'asia) Pty.Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton, Cairns, Newcastle, Ballarat.
he will yet do much better. Sleight of
Hand looked a winner when Majunga
dropped out, but Yellowstone did slightly
the better in the last few strides. Dun-
kerry and Roving Eye are two in line
for a win, but Evertrue is seemingly
getting a little more weight than she has
a fair chance of carrying successfully.
Sleight of Hand is one of R. Wootton’s
breeding, being by Irish Prince from
Vanished, and Yellowstone is by Caledon
from Nan Kourgan, who was useful.
Peekmond, after outpacing Enchant
in the second division of the Maiden
Welter, led into the straight with a win-
ning advantage, but curled up in pro-
nounced fashion when challenged by
Panabil at the leger. The latter, who
won easily, is by Pantheon from Sweet
Annabel (sister to Windbird), and was a
225gns. yearling. There was little be-
tween two heavily-backed runners in
Royal Head and Tinker Bell for third,
and the former, who is by Bullhead
from Eager Air (Redfern-Diamond Hill),
and has done little racing, is likely to
improve considerably. Spearama came
home fairly, as did Corolla, who dropped
out completely after going a couple of
furlongs.
Asnazu, favorite for the Rydalmere
Mile, was the early leader, but dropped
back to fourth before reaching the turn,
where Australasia and Katanga were in
charge. In the straight Asnazu made a
game effort, but Katanga held him off.
The latter will improve, as will Tel Asur,
who was well placed entering the straight,
and then tired after looking a winning
possibility at the Leger. Mitsui did
better than at his previous run, and there
is still hope for him, also for Bonnie L.
Curiosity, though wearing a healthy
appearance, was a bit above herself in
condition, and did not get near the front
at any part, nor did Cherry Bar. Old
Rowley, who has been on the easy list,
was always well back.
* * * *
Gladstone was my original selection
for the Australian Cup, but, penalised
101 b., he, of course, does not read as
well as when he had only 6.12. Badger
declared 21b. over for him in the Cen-
tenary Cup, which took him up to 7.7.
He will have a pound more in the Aus-
tralian Cup, but though he will meet
Valmiki and Pageant 31b. worse I expect
him to beat them again. Of Valmiki
and Pageant, the latter may benefit most
by last Saturday’s run.
* ~ * * ", * *,
According to the backers of Valmiki
and P^§ eant both were unlucky not to
ave beaten Gladstone in the Centenary
but winnin g generally out_
weighs excuses, especially in long races.
Z 1 three-quarters at Fleming-
ton is lar enough to permit of any horse
working into a winning position before
reaching the straight. Gladstone did,
and though he shifted about at the finish
he was equal to stalling off Valmiki and
Pageant.
; ' * * * *
h » stated that the owner of Glad-
st°ne is disputing J. H. Davis’s right to
rehandicap that horse, this on the score
that some of the printed conditions of
the Australian Cup exempted the winner
■ .^ e Centenary Cup from a penalty,
This was the original intention, and the
advertisement in the official Victorian
Racing Calendar of December was
to that effect. It was changed in Janu-
ary, and the entry form for both races
had the word “Amended” on it. In this
it was provided that the “winner of any
handicap flat race or races” could be re-
handicapped up to 101 b. for the Austra-
ban Cup.. In the circumstances I do not
think there is much likelihood of the
penalty being avoided,
......
Round Up’s running in the Centenary
Cup did not enhance his Australian Cup
chance, but a drop of 61b. may make a
difference. It also appears as if Son of
Aurous, Elanage, Seven Fifty, Sir Grey
and Dark David will be troubled to turn
the tables on the Centenary Cup place-
getters. Nevertheless, I shall not be sur-
prised if Son of Aurous shows consider-
able improvement. In his last two races
he was making up leeway, and his con-
nections have thorough belief in him as
a stayer.
......
Cooranga is a stayer, but the fact of
having done little racing for some months
may tell against her. I am writing before
the decision of the Autumn Handicap,
and the result of that race may tell more
than is actually known at present con-
cerning her Cup chance with 61b. more
than she carried in the Melbourne Cup.
A win in the Autumn Handicap will per-
mit of her being rehandicapped. In the
belief that Gladstone is getting better
with each run, I shall stick to him, de-
spite his penalty, and of the remainder
prefer Pageant and Son of Aurous.
* * * *
F. D. Jones arrived in Sydney on Mon-
day with Royal Chief and Moorsotis, but
the latter, who has changed ownership
and will eventually go to India, may not
race here. Royal Chief, who last started
in January, looks very well.
* * * *
Early double-backers had a rough time
in connection with the Newmarket Han-
dicap and Australian Cup. In lists issued
on the tenth of last month High Caste
and Maikai were on top at 40 to 1. Then
came High Caste and Rivette at 50 to 1,
followed by High Caste with Actor,
Seven Fifty and Tomito at 66 to 1.
Backers of High Caste did not get a run ;
Maikai, Rivette and Actor dropped out
of the Cup, and Seven Fifty and Tomito
are now at liberal prices for that race.
However, unpleasant monetary experi-
ences such as those mentioned do not
teach inveterate double-backers caution,
and, without awaiting the weights, some
are indulging in Doncaster and Cup
combinations at what appear decidedly
short odds.
* * * *
Three favorites have won the Aus-
tralian Cup in the last 15 years, and some
have failed at very short prices. Imitator,
Bunkie and Yarramba were notable in-
stances, as was Backwood, who earlier
the same season won the Melbourne Cup.
Pilliewinkie was favorite when he won,
but though Spearfelt’s price was only
11 to 2 Bunkie and Naos were at shorter
odds for the race he won. Commencing
with Backwood in 1925, favorites have
fared as follows:
Price. Result.
1925 Backwood, 9.4 .... 3 to 1 Unplaced
1926 — Pilliewinkie, ‘9.6 .... 5 to 2 First
1927 Bunkie, 6.12 5 to 2 Unplaced
1928 Imitator, 7.10 2 to 1 Unplaced
1929 Mondiago, 7.11 .... 9 to 2 Unplaced
1930 Octember, 7.7 6 to 1 Unplaced
1931 — Glare, 9.0 5 to 1 Unplaced
1932 Blatherskite, 7.3 7 to 1 Third
1933 Yarramba, 8.6 5 to 2 Unplaced
1934 Gippsland, 7.7 3 to 1 Third
1935 La Trobe, 7.9 3 to 1 Second
1936 Amalia, 8.3 9 to 2 First
1937 Pooley Bridge, 7.5 .. 7 to 2 Second
1938 Marauder, 7.4 3 to 1 First
1939 Bourbon, 8.13 9 to 2 Unplaced
Omitting the successful favorites—
Pilliewinkie, Amalia and Marauder
given in the foregoing table, the prices of
the other winners were as under:
1925 —Answer, 6.8 50 to 1
1927 Spearfelt, 9.13 11 to 2
1928 Sea Money, 6.10 10 to 1
1929 Some Quality, 7.5 7 to 1
1930 Nadean, 7.5 20 to l
1931 Carry On, 7.3 10 to 1
1932 Madstar, 7.3 25 to 1
1933 Topical, 7.8 9 to 1
1934 — Heroic Prince, 8.5 8 to 1
1935 — Sylvandale, 8.3 5 to 1
1937—Mutable, 7.3 33 to 1
1939—Pageant, 7.8 8 to 1
* * * *
City Tatt.’s is giving £2900 and a
trophy of £lOO for its six races on April
13. The value of the Denman Stakes
is £650, which is £l5O more than last
vear, and the Club Welter has been in-
creased by £5O. City TattersalFs Gold
Cup carries £lOOO and a trophy of £lOOO.
Entries close on Monday, 25th inst.
* * * *
Mildura’s Newmarket win was remi-
niscent of that of Cetigne. The latter
won the Villiers Stakes with 9.4, but
when the weights for the same season’s
Newmarket Handicap were declared and
he received 9.0 the general opinion was
“Well treated, but the distance is too
short for him.” He ran second to Desert
Gold in the St. George Stakes, and at
his next start won the Newmarket. He
was well backed, the possibility of the
moving start greatly helping him being
taken into account by his connections.
When G. Price was over here last week
his idea was that if Mildura happened to
be slightly on the move at barrier-rise he
was likely to run much better than most
people anticipated in the Newmarket.
Mildura’s owner, E. J. Watt, really fan-
cied him, but I am unaware whether he
benefited to any extent by the long price
that was on offer against his horse right
up to the start.
* * * *
Bob May, who superintends W. Inglis
and Son’s Newmarket yearling stables,
has started upon a busy time. At the
end of last week about 350 of the 609
catalogued had arrived, and potential
buyers were looking round to see what
might tempt them
As usual, P. Miller has stabled his
youngsters according to what he regards
as best. Piccadilly’s progeny are given
pride of place, No. 1 box being filled
by a bay colt out of Chatterbox, dam
of Avenger, Talkalot and Tuckerbox,
He may be the pick, but it will not sur-
prise me if something else by the same
sire beats him in price. Then in order
come the colts by Piccadilly from
Kowulka, Impression (I like this fellow),
Sweet Land (dam of Panto and Red
Sails) and Cyden. The Double Remove
yearlings from the same stud are well
grown, and there is likely to be keen
competition for those from Baryta (darn
of Halifax) and Biddy Menda, who aG
a winner in William Pitt at Hawkesbury.
H. S. Thompson has several promising-
looking Melforts, and, though Melfort
has not yet quite come up to expec-
tations, it is probable his draft of this
year includes some youngsters that wu
make first-class racehorses. The Heromca
colt is good, as is the one from Sweet
Maggie (dam of Air Link). The J. R.
Smith youngsters from the same stud
lack nothing in size, and, as he was a
good stayer, should sell well, even though
this is his first batch to be submitted.
* H= * *
When backers believe in a horse it is
hard to shake their faith, and that is the
only way to account for Broadcaster’s
warm favoritism for the V.R.C. Sires
Produce Stakes. Excuses were made for
his Caulfield failures, but his form in
his two races at that track did not put
him in the light of a probable winner
last Saturday. There was no lack of
pace in his effort, but he could not
finish.
* * * *
There was nothing special in the
racing at last week’s Hawkesbury meet-
ing. All the hardened racegoers were
there, and Brazandt, at 8 to 1 for the
Flying, was the best result of the day
for most of the books. In winning the
Hawkesbury Handicap Last Chance gave
O. Pettit a change of luck, but, as bearing
on the future, nothing gave more promise
than Response, winner of the first division
of the Novice Handicap. He scored as
he liked in a second and a quarter faster
time than Willie Green put up in the
second division. As he is by El Cacique
from Secret Wedding, a daughter of
Wedding Present (winner of the Villiers
Stakes, Challenge Stakes, Doncaster
Handicap, and Tattersall’s Club Cup),
he should be able to gallop.
A Melfort two-year-old, Insignia, won
the Nursery Handicap from School Boy,
who is an indifferent stayer. Insignia is
related to many good performers, his
dam, Headgale, being by Spearhead from
Yippingale, a three-quarter sister to
Popinjay, dam of Magpie, Cross Bow
and Good and Gay.
* * * *
Attendances approaching those of
Flemington or Randwick are unknown
in Ireland. That country’s record was
made when 20,000 witnessed Jack
Chaucer (favorite at 4 to 1) win the Red
Cross Steeplechase, of £3OOO, at Leopards-
town at the end of January. Some Eng-
lish-owned horses competed, but the six
that finished were all trained in Ireland.
There were 22 jumps in a little over four
miles and a furlong. In addition to the
added money, forfeits and sweepstakes
increased the value of the prize, of which
75 p.c. went to the winner, 15 p.c. to
the second, and 10 p.c. to the third. The
£3OOO was presented by the Irish Red
Cross Society, in conjunction with Hos-
pital Trust, Ltd.
$ * * *
Exception has been taken to the fact
that, in its new rule bearing on the draw
for post positions, the A.J.C. has used
the words “two persons.” This was
purposely done, instead of using the
word “stewards,” as, while the latter
would always be available for metro-
politan meetings, it would be asking too
much for Sydney stewards employed at
Newcastle or Maitland meetings to be
present at the drawing of positions for
meetings taking place a couple of days
later. The committees of those clubs
can be relied on to select reputable “per-
sons,” and not individuals who are in the
least likely to connive at anything im-
proper in connection with the draw. In
a not very remote period it was alleged
that there were meetings— not those held
at Newcastle or Maitland where ar-
rangements could be made for a favor-
able post position, but keener super-
vision altered that.
* * * *
Runners for the Westmead Handicap
at Rosehill included Limulet and
Herarde, who have furnished into fine-
looking horses. Although, at six, he has
reached an age at which horses are not
expected to improve greatly in appear-
ance, Herarde has done so. It would not
be surprising if he later did well at the
stud if afforded fair opportunities. He
is by Heroic. Neither of the two was
forward enough in condition to make a
good showing in the race, but another
three or four weeks will make a lot of
difference.
* * * *
While the V.R.C. St. Leger attracted
only three runners, and again failed to
warrant the prize-money it carries, there
may be keener competition for third


i
It I:
pm
IPs T ..
11,
■MmWWik
- '• " "V-;
URlfli ?* Mii "••snasT;- * .j. w m'»Ji
i «Hr .I # . t
!*.,**. Jvi KJ 4 *- L ,J: »,,• *.
i IW L, .. >, <%. * *%*} mwLwPwamm m HHfe*
:
Slit fH ~~ JL ■«
«Er I r /. 3
hP mPhT f
BHifii I ,| *' -a t6l I
Si 1 'I
!
\
V
r
n
:> ■ *
fa : s *«.
;
»
IP'
VI
*«
" Hff
fcy
j&
|X s
mm
, JK3|
■■isMHHh
i , >*>.***-
W\ A>*k 4
■Tt 5
$ *^?' s -
; ;
- ' w ' r M
:::„-. . I gjßffisSBBSBS&3&&* At, TO.. 3g»fe >8
■ -; ■ ■ .•:'■■ ■
&% w*
'tttt tsttStt; |
w
mm
\i &,, '
‘ : " : ' 4 ( |^ S
t
' 1
¥ i
WM&w jp
#ty& m, •.
s * %.
& W f<
m , gen
fij*. . : y*
Ji •- V:.^.; *..
■
:s!i % ***
sa lli’
iSBKfc„,
HOWTO
fncrecis e
TOUR
WOOL
CHEQUE
AS a wool grower there is only one way to
increase your- income —by increasing
your clip in qualify as well as quantity.
In other words, you have to produce better
sheep.
It costs as much to run bad sheep as good
sheep but every farthing increase in
appraisement value per lb. and every
ounce extra per head represents nett profit.
The way to improve sheep is by buying
better rams and classing out the less desirable
types of young ewes each year.
During the last 4 years at the Sydney Ram
sales Haddon Rig Stud rams have realised a
greater aggregate value than any other stud.
In fact, the Haddon Rig Sales in this period
equal about 25% of the total of all the other
merino stud selling rams in Sydney put
together.
The fact that Haddon Rig can produce such
outstanding stud sheep places it in a position
to produce flock rams of outstanding quality.
FLOCK RAMS FROM 4 GUINEAS
HADDON RIG STUD
GEORGE B. S. FALKINER
HADDON RIG, WARREN, N.S.W. TEL. WARREN 74
and 4 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
money in the A.J.C. St. Leger. Some
that were left in after first acceptance
do neater credit to their owners’ sports-
manship than their judgment, but, though
their prospects of downing either High
Caste or Reading are not bright, such
N S.W.-owned colts as Katanga, Dashing
Cavalier, Gold Salute, Marengo and
Diogenes may assist in making up a good
field to fight for third money. Others
remaining in are Valmiki, Moorsotis and
Pure Gold. Last year there were six
runners, with Respirator favorite at
10 to 9, and Mosaic next at 2 to 1.
The latter won easily from Limulet,
Respirator running third. In the last 10
years there were only three runners on
two occasions, the respective winners
being Phar Lap and Limond.
° * * *
It is to the credit of R. McAuliffe, ex-
chairman of the Newcastle J.C., that he
took his recent failure to gain election
to the committee in good part. He
stated that, as a member of the club for
52 years, he would assist the new com-
mittee. In similar circumstances many
men would have said : “I’ve finished with
the club.”
$ H* H 5
Respirator is on his way to India,
where it is improbable he will commence
racing until the close of the year.
Although he scarcely did as well as ex-
pected in Australia, Respirator ran few
bad races, and may be a success in his
new home. He is a stallion, but not
heavily fleshed, and that should stand
to him in India.
* * * *
Many years have elapsed since a New-
market and Cup double has been so
profitable for bookmakers. The with-
drawal of early Cup favorites in Maikai
and Rivette was a throw-in for them,
but that Mildura should suddenly de-
velop the dash necessary to win a New-
market was something they could not
expect. By comparison with what he
recently carried in middle-distance handi-
caps Mildura was favorably weighted,
but the general opinion was “It’s no good
backing him at six furlongs.”
His success from an inside position
has gone further towards confirming
public opinion that horses on the out-
side are disadvantaged, but it is prob-
able that the strong wind that blew up
the straight, and contributed to the slow
time of 1.134, bothered the topweights.
Aurie’s Star and Manrico, from the out-
side, were among the leaders when half
the distance was covered, but could not
see it out. Unishak, another well placed
for a long way, also failed at the end.
Gold Salute, from next the rails, seem-
ingly ran all over the place, and as,
despite that, he finished fifth, owner
Cooper will now be looking hopefully
forward to the Doncaster Handicap.
As against the contention that there is
no hope for horses near the outside it
can be pointed out that Chatsbury (No.
18), who ran third, was always promi-
nent, and that Hilton (No. 20) finished
second, notwithstanding he was unable
to pace it with the speedier horses in
the early part. Considerable interest will
attach to what the Leonard Stakes on
Saturday will show in respect of inside
and outside positions.
* * * *
Last week Seabiscuit definitely proved
himself America’s greatest horse by win-
ning the Santa Anita Handicap with 9.4,
and running the mile and a quarter in
2.0 1-5. Previously placed in the Santa
Anita Handicap on two occasions, Sea-
biscuit broke down shortly before it was
run last season, and it was thought his
racing career was over. Saturday’s suc-
cess increased his total earnings to
437,000 dollars, and he now heads the
list of winners in America.
Kayak 11., last year’s Santa Anita
winner, was second with 9.3, and Which-
see third with 8.2. C. S. Howard, owner
°r a °d Kayak 11., must be one
°£ Fortune’s favorites. It was remark-
able luck that, after Seabiscuit went
amiss a year ago, he should have such a
SO°d one as Kayak 11. to represent him:
With 246,905 dollars which represents
£A61,726 at four dollars to £1 —Howard
was second in the winning owners’ list in
America last year, the Belair Stud being
first with 284,250 dollars. In addition
to his large earnings as a racehorse,
Seabiscuit will now be of great value
at the stud. During his retirement Sea-
biscuit was given a few mares last season.
* * * *
We are repeatedly told “There’s no-
thing in lime.” In support of their con-
tenhon, those racing men who hold that
belief can point out that some records
afe ky horses that could not be
rated first-class. That is correct, but
time is really the only means by which
we can compare the merits of racehorses
of the past with those of the present,
there are many who vow there has never
been a better racehorse than Carbine,
and yet I have heard some whose experi-
ence went further back declare “He
wasn’t in it with The Barb.” That would
be difficult of belief.
• •
Admitting that racecourses are better
and riding tactics in long races have
changed, it must not be overlooked that,
though the “forward seat” has been the
general thing for the last 34 years, or
more, times, have gone on improving,
both in public and private. Full tribute
must be paid outstanding horses of the
past, but it is probable that as a whole
the second-raters are much better than
those in the same class in the early
part of the century. On the same courses
they do times that would then have been
considered almost impossible. There are
ver Y ew Australian trainers who are
not guided by the watch in the prepara-
|jon Q f their horses, so they must be
included in the believers in time. Sprint
races have always been ridden the same
—“go” p rac ti ca ny from start to finish —
hut up to T 902 the Newmarket record
was 1.14. Now it is 1.10!. The first
time 1.39 was broken in a Doncaster was
by Hyman, who did 1.38! in 1909.
Sarcherie’s 1.35 k is now the record. Per-
haps racehorses may not be as tough as
they were between 40 and 50 years
ago, but improvement in speed is definite,
M n Dfiflaptu
iVI.V* «•»« _ Y
Australians in Action
It was like a fight night from half-
forgotten times, with fight to match,
when Ron Richards (11.4!) met Fred
Henneberry (11.3) at Sydney Stadium
for what was billed as the Empire
middleweight title. A muggy night to be-
gin with, by the time the cavernous place
was packed, even on to the rafters —
with some thousands more outside maybe
heatedly cursing their bad luck—it was as
sweltering as Old Snootie’s boudoir. The
ice-cream people who presented a spank-
ing belt to the winner couldn’t have
picked a better night for boosting their
goods.
At five in the afternoon the crowd was
already lining up along the Old South
Head-road. That broad thoroughfare
and the cross street passing the main
entrance were massed thick by seven,
with car and tram traffic having the job in
front of it to get through. The park by
Rushcutter Bay was a dark mass of
cars - When the doors opened, as fast as
the turnstiles could run the crowd surged
into the bleachers ; by the time the pre-
lims. came on extra pews were being
carted in to hold the ringside crush. It
was an excited, good-humored crowd.
It got more so as proceedings ad-
vanced. Prelims., without being anything
to write home about—except for another
nice bit of boxing by young Joe Symes—
were all good solid scraps; then the
main fight came up to expectations in
practically every particular. First, it
was a stirring and vital splash of fight-
ing. Secondly, Richards won it. Thirdly,
it ended as many expected it would end.
Since it ended with a foul, that might
seem hard saying ; it’s a comment, rather,


most
mm
OCCUR AT NICHT
■JO :
■1
HHiJ
U
:■ -■
m-mm :, a
<c
umi
»
PIT
M 2 U 2 (UNIT CEM-'IJ
_ FOR | h« U 2
LOUCHE ; 0R
N—rjoßCHiS;
<%
2*«M
"QOLICE records show that most accidents
Jfc occur during the “wee sma hours ... so
play sale and carry a torch when you go out at
night. Never in the way, but indispensable in
an emergency, its friendly beam of light pre-
vents stumbling and fumbling in the dark, saves
time and temper. You can get a genuine
Eveready Flashlight anywhere for a few
shillings and "factory fresh" Eveready Flash-
light Refills are obtainable everywhere.
Illustrated is one of the
Eveready Standard
Flashlights, No, 3773,
cell Focussing Spotlight ,
inch Reflector.
new
Line
2 -
m
CO
H
rrj
Gs*
IwSmr
8* g
ppl
C/3
>
Mf*l
~n
o
C/3
' W
* EVEREADY (AUSTRALIA) PT Y. LTD., SYDNEY, N. S. W.
T 43—1368
on Fred’s style of scrapping—head down
and jutted forward, making butting
almost inevitable when he’s been stung
and goes in wildly.
The crowd gave both men a good re-
ception, with a background of barrack
to Henneberry’s portion. For so long
as Fred still showed out well, applause
was both hearty and impartial. But as
soon as Ron rose above the stiff testing
of the bullocking early rounds and began
to assert his mastery, there was no
longer any doubt about where the crowd s
sympathy lay. It was heavily on the
champion’s, side, and deservedly. In the
early part, with Fred rushing him, he
gave a fine exhibition of cool and game
counter-fighting. Even then the finest
weapon in his collection —his right upper-
cut —was frequently in action, despite
Fred’s crowding him. Forced hard
back against the ropes, Ron could still
get enough give out of the hemp to
make room for shooting up that clink-
ing punch.
Later, when it and splendid left hooks
had taken the sting out of Fred’s attack,
the right uppercut had Fred’s head con-
tinually bobbing and jerking back. Ron
employed straight left and right cross
also with deadly effect. Fred made him
miss fairly often with his heavy right
crosses, but enough got home to com-
plete the devastating business of the
uppercut, pounding the whole left side of
Fred’s visage, eye included, into a
desperate state.
Throughout, Ron fought as clean as
it’s possible to fight. The same could
not be said for Fred. Still, barring the
lapses that seem inevitable in his manner
of fighting—and a damn’ shame it is!
he fought a grand losing fight. He was
mainly responsible for the crowd’s get-
ting real value for its money. At the
opening bell he came out of his corner
fighting, and he kept on fighting, in his
fashion, to the end.
No plan of attack could have better
suited Richards, who’s nothing if not a
dandy counter-fighter. Fred bullocked
into him, rushed him into the ropes,
forced him back to and fro from one
side of the ring to the other, pounding
away with a continuous battery of
punches, but none of it rattled him. He
took Fred’s frequent left rips easily on
his right elbow, and through the fusillade
of Fred’s slather-and-whack smiting kept
coolly picking Fred off with short lefts
and the shooting uppercut —a punch that
might have been specially cultivated to
beat Fred’s head-down style.
Fred is not the Fred of old. His
timing is bad ; worse, he does his block.
He was always a fierce fighter, but he
used to be deadly calculating with it.
The old Fred would never have wasted
strength, stamina and pluck in such tyro
strategy. He would never have tried to
beat a solid counter-fighter by flying at
him and keeping it up in the face of such
a conclusive demonstration that it was
a mug’s game.
Even so, it can be written that the
Riverina lad’s as game and as tough as
ever. His fighting courage was an in-
spiration to the up-and-coming race of
scrappers. As for his toughness —as early
as the third round his left eye, cut above
in the second, was bunged-up ; before
the end it was a tragic sight. As well,
he was severely punished by the fre-
quent uppercut under the chin or full in
his teeth. Either a lightning left hook
or a powerful right which his jaw stopped
in the ninth would have outed most
scrappers. In this same round he
stopped three successive right uppercuts,
every one of which shot his head up.
Right through, from the opening bell to
the end of this round, the only effect of
all the punishment he took was to make
him fight more fiercely still.
The ninth round was the end of his
good scrapping. He had made the pace
a cracker; had fought without his old
cold cunning, but he certainly had
fought. Now Ron—ahead on points by
virtue of his cleaner hitting—definitely
established superiority. He outfought
Fred from every angle, towards the finish
of the round staggering him with heavy
punches to the head. Their effect was
to make Fred fighting mad. His visage
a red ruin, he saw red. He ignored the
bell, and kept up a wild attack till his
corner dragged him off, as he’d also done,
less savagely, at the end of the fifth. He
came out for the tenth with all the fight
gone out of him. Against Ron’s now in-
creasingly fast and confident boxing, he
only bullocked, like a beaten prelim,
veteran —a depressing spectacle for any-
one present who knew him at his fighting
best. .
It finished suddenly in the eleventh.
Ron staggered him again with a heavy
right to the side of the head, then with
left and right. Fred, beaten and getting
badly damaged, rushed in berserk, lead-
ing with his head, and with no hesitation
Joe Wallis crowned Ron the winner on
a foul.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
While one is inclined to be facetious
about the novice who cuts up large
divots all around the ball before even-
tually connecting with it, the taking of
a divot is one of the important points
that go towards making a successful shot.
To most golfers the taking of a divot
in the playing of a stroke is seemingly
unimportant; but the piece of turf that
is dug out really has a lot of bearing
on the stroke.
Of course, there are divots and divots.
The correct divot varies in size according
to the type of shot played. For instance,
a No. 8 iron cuts a larger slice of turf
than a No. 2, especially when the
fairways are green and soft. In prac-
tically every case divots are taken with
the iron clubs and sometimes with
the spoon or No. 4 wood. Among the
modern school of players more golfers
are taking larger divots than previously.
Many of the older players learnt their
golf in such a manner that they are in
the habit of just grazing the turf and
picking the ball up cleanly ; but, with
the game now developed into a keenly-
studied pastime, modern golfers have
found that a divot must be taken.
Compared with a few years ago, when
most of the tees were comparatively un-
marked, I have found it difficult during
championship meetings to find a spot
for the ball and my feet among the
hundreds of divot-holes. With the up-
right swing more universally used these
days—it calls for a downward hit —the
divots are bigger than in the past, when
the flatter swings swept the ball off the
top of the grass. From the tee, of
course, when the driver is in use the
ball is hit more on the upswing, and
consequently there is no divot taken.
The Americans have made divot-
taking a fine art. Close observation of
their methods shows that in playing their
iron shots they nearly all strike the ball
a slightly downward blow, crushing it
off the grass into the air. To play this
stroke you must take a divot, but it will
be noticed that the turf is taken from
the spot where the ball lies and not be-
fore the club reaches the ball. In other
words, the ball must be connected with
first; if the turf is cut before the ball
is hit the shot is generally mishit or
taken very heavily.
The average golfer does not realise
that by consistently hitting his iron shots
slightly downward he will add more con-
trol to his stroke-making. A ball hit in
such a manner is much more likely to
hold its line on windy days than the shot
taken cleanly off the grass. E. L. Apperly,
a former Australian amateur champion,
is a prolific “divoteer.” For many years
our leading amateur, Apperly is famed
for his divots, which have been nick-
named “stair carpets,” for they are long
and narrow, and at times measure a foot
in length. At Manly (N.S.W.), where
the fairways lend themselves, owing to
softness, to large divots being taken
easily, Apperly is an excellent short
approacher, as he strikes the ball a sharp
downward blow, putting a great deal of
backspin on the ball and pulling it up
in a very short space. At the same
time he has full control over the ball.
At the short holes I have found that
I can obtain more stop and can play
the stroke easier from a slightly teed
ball, for it is just clear of the turf, and
the club in striking the ball is on a
downward movement that crushes the
ball away. The average player knows
little of how to hit down on the ball.
His interpretation of such a swing may
be entirely different from the correct
swing, so it is advisable to seek the ad-
vice of a professional before attempting
to put this advice into practice.
It has taken me some time to perfect
such shots, but in bad weather con-
ditions especially a ball hit down upon
is an invaluable asset.
With the spoon and No. 4 wood I
have found that by taking a small divot
I can keep the ball considerably straighter
than by hitting it cleanly, for unless the
clean shot is made accurately it lacks
power. Gene Sarazen is another who
takes a small divot with his fairway
woods and a fair-sized piece of turf with
his iron clubs. Handicap golfers gener-
ally take a divot just before reaching the
ball, thus losing a great deal of the
momentum of clubhead speed, as well
as substantially increasing their chance
of error.
If a golfer were to concentrate on
striking the turf at the spot where the
ball lies he would find his shots be-
coming crisper and possessing added
punch. Regular practice with the iron
clubs and concentration upon hitting the
ball first will assist anyone to develop
“hitting down” on to the ball and give
the player an idea of what is required
in correct divot-taking.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(. Formerly of the “Referee.”)
To provide a Saturday for the N.S.W.
v. The Rest match, the latest Sydney club
round was got over in one day, each
side having two hours ten minutes at
the crease. The result was in most cases
little better than harum-scarum, hit-at-
anything cricket.
O’Reilly grabbed the honors. As
skipper of St. George, he ordered fast
scoring at Parramatta, and the Dragon-
killers slaughtered Cumberland. During
their stay at the wickets they made 255
for five. The first three batsmen were
left-hand and merry movers: Stapleton
75, Steedman 41 and Morris 39. Cum-
berland was rattled out for 96 and 52 ;
O’Reilly 5 for 31 and 8 for 27. St.
George outright, and O’Reilly s club
figures now 74 wickets at a little ovei
seven runs apiece.
Petersham, strong rivals for St. George,
clapped on full sail against Manly.
Pepper usually does the bulk of the
bowling for Petes, but on Saturday the
openers, Roper and Rose, had eight of
the Villagers back for 51. Pepper, in
at the death, gathered 2 for 1.
Sid Barnes pulled the first ball from
Trumper, the Manly captain, for six. in
half an hour Petersham closed at 61 tor
one wicket; Barnes 40 not out. His las.
three club innings have been 143, to
and 40, all not out.
• • • * * *
When Manly had 7 out for 94 in the
second innings Petersham looked outrigni
winners, but a young colt, J. Hodgson
(39 n. 0.), upset calculations. Manly closed
at 7 for 141, leaving Petersham 3b
minutes to get 141. Frank Easion,
former State ’keeper, smote up 61 not
out, but it was only 101 for 2 at stumps.
In seven of the eight Sydney matches
the day’s total ranged from 359 to 46/,
in the eighth it was 292. Chipperfield
got 27 in eight minutes, and Mmter ll
in 10 minutes (two sixes). Surprise ot
the day was first appearance of 16-year-
old G. Cansdell for Balmain: he made
91, jumping in to hit the State bowlers,
Lush and Gulliver, with plenty of con-
fidence.
* * * *
Melbourne ’Varsity closed at 8 for 263,
and then got rid of Melbourne for 15..
(Rigg 17, Beames 7). Cordner took
5 for 54, and Barry Scott 2 for 27.
Melbourne has now been supplanted by
St. Kilda at the top of the V.C.A. table.
Fitzroy, last season’s premiers, is fourth.
* * * *
Bradman has been on the job during
12 seasons in Australia. This time his
aggregate (1448 now) is his fourth-
highest—l69o, 1558 and 1552 were
better. His average (144) is second only
to last season’s, when he scored at the
rate of 152 per innings.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
YV rite or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(.England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla: d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
gggg
AT THE
New Variety Kevue, “LUCKY STABS/'
featuring MARIE BURKE and
New Oversea Variety Acts,
“SPICE OF LIFE” Variety Revue,
by New Company Oversea Stars,
LEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
FIVE CLEVERES, GEORGE WALLACE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Graduation Ball”
Half of the ten-minute ovation Syd-
ney Royal gave to Lichine’s new ballet
“Graduation Ball” might have been a
symptom of the audience’s approval of
itself for being present at a first night
and a “world premiere," but the ballet
itself fully earned the other half. Gay,
swift and sparkling, it’s a light comedy
that has surely come to stay. Its humor,
based on the visit of young cadets to
a girls’ school for the graduation ball,
might easily be precious or childish, but
there is an undercurrent of sympathetic
satire that keeps it acceptable. It made
the audience laugh, and that’s no mean
feat, for the Royal has a somewhat
ecclesiastic atmosphere on ballet nights.
Its success came very largely from the
enthusiasm with which it was danced.
Riabouchinska, always delightful in light
comedy, was the chief of the schoolgirls
and Lichine, brilliantly in character, the
first of the cadets.
* *
The principals of the reorganised Gil-
bert and Sullivan Co., to start its season
in Sydney on March 16, include three
from S.A.: Sara Gregory, soprano,
Richard Watson, bass, and Vincent Mc-
Murray, tenor.
Also prominent in Williamsonian
musical shows staged in other capitals
lately are the Adelaide amateurs Mary
Dempster, Gwen Coffey and Joy
Parsons ; Howard Pfitzner, Phil Peake,
Ron Beck and Lewis Dawe ; as well as
Alan Chapman, the producer. As for
Rex Dawe, the reckless humorist of radio
and stage, his Dame in “Aladdin” was
such a success that he is turning pro.,
and is to go with the panto, about Aus-
tralia and to M.L.
All this is on the musical-comedy side
only. The various strong amateur
dramatic societies in Adelaide promise
keen competition for the coming season.
The Independent has opened it with the
Barrett drama. Agnes Dobson as the
poetess and Robert Matthews as the
poet Browning brought long experience
to their characters, and rather stole the
show from John Maher as the unpleasant
Mr. Barrett.
AT THE TALKIES.
Previewed at Fox Movietone, “The
Anzacs March Again,” supposed to be
a review of Australia’s war effort, is an
imitation of “The March of Time” and
“Confessions of a Nazi Spy.” As such
it’s pretty good. The excellent shots of
the signing of the Munich agreement are
as important a piece of history as the
films have ever been allowed to present.
Chamberlain’s jubilant return flourishing
the “No More War” declaration (how
short a time ago that was!) is also well
pictured. But as a piece of Australian
film-making, and a piece of Australian
propaganda, it’s not so hot. Surely, with
“We of the A.1.F.” for a guide, Fox
could have produced something suited to
the Australian temperament instead of
this false, hysterical denunciation of
Hitlerism. Hollywood, which doesn’t
fight, squeals at Hitler like an angry
rabbit; Australia, which does fight,
laughs—and, since there are bound to
be many more propaganda films, the
filmsmiths might keep that in mind.
* * * *
“The Tower of London”
This current Sydney Capitol offering
is Hollywood’s gorily decorated version
of the rise and brief rule of Richard 111.
In outline it pays some allegiance to
fact, but it’s filled in with dyed-in-the-
wool Yanks who plunge into the story as
though it were part of the latest gangster
opus.
Basil Rathbone rises above the story
and does make a character of Richard ;
the rest —lan Hunter, Ralph Forbes,
Miles Mander, etc. —might be any others
except the characters they are supposed
to portray. Boris Karloff as executioner
and chief torturer drags a clubfoot
behind him and frightens the wits out of
small boys in the audience.
* * * *
“The Light That Failed”
This Melbourne Capitol feature, based
on Rudyard Kipling’s novel, is branded
“not suitable for general exhibition”...
why, goodness alone knows.
Ronald Colman is the stuffy hero
Richard Heldar, involved from boyhood
in a romance with Maisie (Muriel
Angelus), who devotes herself to art and
wants him to do the same. Unable to
decide, he goes off to a war in the
Sudan, learns in an Egyptian cafe that
his sketches of the campaign have earned
him fame in London and hastens back
to gather the money and applause.
At the height of his fame he once
more runs against Maisie struggling with
the problems of her art in a private
studio. Into their unpromising love affair
intrudes Bessie (Ida Lupino), a London
waif with no romantic illusions about art
but a real horror of poverty. Colman
sees her as the perfect model for his
“Melancholia,” and starts to paint, but
she wants to attach herself to someone
and chooses Torpenhow (Walter Huston),
Colman’s friend of his fighting days.
Touched and flattered, poor old Torpen-
how falls in love and gets as far as kiss-
ing the lady; but Ronnie catches him at
it and gives him advice that Queen Vic-
toria would have approved of, especially
as recruits are wanted. Torp would
sooner dare a thousand spears than Col-
man’s moral disapproval, and goes off to
the Sudan,* while Bessie goes back to
the gutter.
Colman, informed by a specialist that
a sabre cut has damaged his optic nerve,
has the choice of a year of sight if he
looks after himself and a very short time
if he doesn’t, and in the best part of the
film elects to use up his remaining eye-
sight in painting a final masterpiece, with
Bessie as the model. Full of whisky
and inspiration, he paints in a frenzy, and
then goes completely blind. Bessie, in a
fury of resentment, creeps back to the
studio, gets a rag and a bottle of turpen-
tine and obliterates the picture—which is
no loss to art.
Mr. Colman receives the congratula-
tions of kindly critics anxious not to dis-
illusion him, until Bessie, driven by her
sense of guilt, confesses. Colman then
goes off to the Sudan, by a series of
occurrences unique in military annals gets
into a British square besieged by Fuzzy
Wuzzies, joins in the subsequent cavalry
charge, and, pursued by the faithful
Torp, achieves probably the most ro-
mantic death of his whole screen career.
Film has its moments, but would have
been better if its confectors had been
less concerned with preserving Mr. Col-
mans romantic reputation, for he por-
trays the mediocrity of Heldar and his
, -U • „ .. „
obsession with his own emotions so well
lhal it Might b, second nature. .
<<n . j p ~
Disputed Passage
This Sydney Prince Edward offering
might have passed muster as attempting
to prove that genius is akin to madness,
It, however, tries to make it appear a
natural and reasonable thing that a great
surgeon who believed his assistant would
become another great surgeon should
scheme to separate the young man from
his sweetheart. About all it succeeds in
proving is that Miss Dorothy Lamour
should stick to her sarong, for nothing
is more certain than that the sarong is
the only thing that sticks to the Lamour,
so far as screen value goes.
Akim Tamiroff, as the great surgeon,
turns in a performance that saves it
from utter failure . John Howard, as
th as „ istant k n i Pasin „ if . trifle inn
-5 assl f ant ,’ 1S pleasing it a trifle too
intense (cant these fellows relax some-
.• 0 v T _ • ,
“ ting^agged^th^gh
American college and operating-theatre
scenery, the audience stirred when the
great one persuaded the lady to flee and
the young one found out and chased her
clear up into China and got bombed in
an air-raid for his trouble. It relaxed
into boredom again at the banality of
magnificent surgery and lurv combining
to save his life.
JOHN HOPS, ZOE, ETC.
You’d never suspect it of the man in
blue who patiently untangles the trams,
cars and pedestrians in the shade of
Sydney Town Hall, nor would you be-
lieve it of the placid, good-natured copper
who saves late shoppers from being
spread out on the tram lines outside
Wynyard. In fact, you’d never think it
of any of the austere guardians of the
Apprehending the Darlinghurst Tiger.
law, whether they be apprehending the
Darlinghurst Tiger or helping Grandma
over a crossing. We wouldn’t have be-
lieved it of them either if we hadn’t
taken sixpenn’orth of tram to Sydney
Showground to see the N. S. Wales police
stage their annual carnival and prove
that, even if all the crooks and law-
breakers in Australia went on strike, the
force could still make a living as enter-
tainers.
Not knowing what was going on we
were let off with a caution for arriving
late. The shot-putting, caber-tossing,
hammer-throwing, discus-throwing and
all the other athletics had gone before,
and, judging by what followed in the
afternoon, the morning session must have
been a tophole show.
Ben Hur would
have snatched his
time.
Anyway, when
we turned up the
athletes had done
their bit and were
parading in singlets
and white pants just
to show that they all
go about 14 stone
and have biceps that
even Joe Louis
would be proud to
call his own. After
the athletes came
the boys in uniform,
standing like a ruled
blue line while the
wind fluttered the
legs of their pants as
evenly as it shades a
field of wheat. Next
to them the horses stood and shone like
polished furniture, and beyond were the
patrol cars, motor-cycles and Miss Maria,
all gleaming in the sun like polished black
beetles. And around them all the grass
spread out to where the spectators
fringed the red gravel ring like a scatter-
ing of colored boiled lollies.
It would be impossible to say what
was the best of the show. Maybe it was
Mr. Peter Dawson manfully declaiming
and well his anxiety to be taken back to
Mandalay, though personally, after hear-
ing him deal with that and other ballads,
we’d far rather he stayed here and con-
tented himself with telling us how the
flyin’ fishes play and the dawn comes
up, etc.
Then there were the neddies playing
something like musical chairs and appar-
ently enjoying it immensely and knowing
as much about the whole affair as their
riders. They can turn on a hat, pivot,
sidestep and waltz as easily as any light-
footed biped that ever scraped a dance
.floor. And, incidentally, seeing the trim
of those neddies and their coats shining
as brightly as the sun itself, we wondered
if any racehorse could do better than
spend his years of retirement under a
mounted cop.
Then there was the band delivering
good martial airs while weaving itself in
and out of all intricate shapes and de-
signs with all the skill of a Chinese-puzzle
maker. And equalling the manoeuvres of
the band and the horses were the motor-
cycle police turning their cycles in cart-
wheels, figures of eight and other com-
plicated patterns—which, no doubt, they
conceive while chasing speedhogs through
George-street traffic on a busy day. Then,
just to prove how much a police bike can
stand, fifteen hefty coppers piled on two
bikes and drove around the ring with
the uppermost passenger perched high
enough to arrest an aeroplane. And even
Ben Hur would have snatched his time
after seeing the chariot races with two
riderless bikes harnessed to a chariot
Presented the force
with four recruits.
and driven
around the ring
at an alarming
bat.
At this stage
the proceedings
were interrupted
by the announce-
ment that Tess,
the police Alsa-
tian, would not
be present , be-
cause there had
just been a
blessed event
whereby she had
presented the
force with four
recruits. But Zoe, the White Alsa-
tian, more than compensated for her
associate’s absence. This remarkable
lady had the whole ring to her-
self and received her instructions per
medium of a small wireless set strapped
on her back. She lighted a string of
crackers and, though very excited about
the clatter, remained at her post within
a few feet of the explosions. Next she
lit a paper hoop and jumped through it
several times while it was still blazing,
and after witnessing those and other
feats we decided that Zoe is the last
person we’d like to meet after we’d rifled
the kid’s money-box, and that includes the
missus herself.
You could go on for hours about what
went on. There was the changing of the
guard with the police marching like stiff-
ened toy-soldiers and hanging their wash-
ing on the Siegfried Line while the
Union Jack and Tricolor flapped over-
head ; there was the small boy next to
us who disposed of seven ice-creams and
five cool drinks without showing any
visible effect; there was the Sailor’s
Hornpipe as hornpiped by the policemen-
cn/n-sailors; there was the bayonet drill;
and there was, in fact, just about every-
thing that could be asked for, except a
burglar in the audience.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
sas* 1
9*
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 276 of 1940.
BETWEEN MARY AMELIA PITKIN Peti-
tioner
And ERNEST ALBERT PITKIN Respon-
dent.
TO ERNEST ALBERT PITKIN of Collarene-
bri.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
AMELIA PITKIN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Twenty-seventh
day of May One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of February,
1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. K. DIXON, Solicitor for the Petitioner
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Denominationalism does not apply
when Sydney citizens think of Archbishop
Kelly. His serious illness drew
forth expressions of sympathy for his
failing strength and admiration for his
life-work from followers of every creed.
His great ambition was the freeing of St.
Mary’s Cathedral from debt, and it was a
happy thought of the various parishes
in the archdiocese to take over the re-
maining debt among them. This was
their gift to the Archbishop on his nine-
tieth birthday.
As mischievous as a spring wind,
David Lichine’s new ballet “Graduation
Ball” frolicked about the stage of the
Royal last Friday. How Bonnie Prince
Charlie got to that party, however, is baf-
fling. Much had been said about a world
premiere, but even so there were empty
seats here and there in the circle. First-
nighters were there in force, fine feathers
and festive manner. The uniforms worn
by the junior cadets to the Graduation
Ball were harebell blue, but an even
more beatific blue was Nan Garvan’s
dress. This Letter gives the dress and
its wearer the night’s laurel wreath.
There was a white frock that might make
an angel weep for Paris. It was a souffle
of white lace, net and organza ; the
spreading skirt was embroidered with
white flowers. A little, closely fitting
cherry jacket snatched it from insipidity.
A ground-long fitting coat of mist
blue and silver Chinese brocades had
a design of trees and oxen and other
scenic effects. Barbara Salenger sug-
gested a pink rosebud. Mrs. Salenger
wore a deep ermine cape with her thick
black silks. Theo Cowan, now recovered
from her long illness and taking up her
sculping again, was in burgundy crepes.
Mrs. Walter Brunton, Mrs. Sep Levy,
in gleaming grey satin, Mrs. Douglas
Levy, among the fur-caped, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, cloaked in Tyrian red, Mrs.
Marcus Rex, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax and
Jessica Chard, pretty and fair, in black,
were among those who clapped for cur-
tain calls after the ball. But why didn’t
John Pye, Warwick Fairfax, John Mc-
Donnell and David Pye take a bow, too?
They had been responsible in cash pay-
ments for the costumes and effects.
Strella Wilson, whose brilliant singing
in the broadcast of “Aida” is still being
talked about, is due back in Sydney soon.
In Gilbert and Sullivan revivals she will
revive friendships with theatregoers. She
will also be the star singer of St. Patrick’s
night concert.
Fashion parades are the most popular
and probably the easiest money-raisers
of the times. Last Friday the ballroom
of the Australia was crowded for the
Leap Year display. This benefited the
Dalwood Home, and it was presented in
an unusual way. Each mannequin car-
ried a red, red heart in her hand. This
she presented to the Susceptible Young
Man, who was soon as hung about with
the emblems as a Red Indian might have
been with scalps. Cupid with his sheaf
of arrows was handy, and helped in the
final decision. This led up to the grand
finale of almost every fashion parade—
the wedding scene. Dresses shown were
for morning, afternoon and evening
wear. Raymond Beatty opened the
scene by singing “Bachelor Gay,” and
just before the bride and ’groom’s entry
he and Heather Kinnaird sang “The
Keys of Heaven.” Gladys Moncrieff was
the guest of honor, and was entertained
by Princess Radziwill.
J. P. Osborne, chairman of the Syd-
ney Sports Ground Trust, is arranging
a night entertainment to be held at the
Sydney Sports Ground on Wednesday,
March 13. Profits will go in equal parts
to the Benevolent Society of N.S.W.
and the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
The function will be known as a sport-
ing cocktail, a little of everything.
Mrs. Ben Edye did all the spadework,
though David Lichine actually uttered
the magic word as far as speechmaking
was concerned at the opening of Enid
Dickson’s show of ballet sketches. These
hang about the foyer and the stairway of
the Theatre Royal, so, if you feel that
way about the members of the company
(and apparently many in Sydney do), you
will regard the latter as a sort of Jacob’s
ladder tenanted by your particular angels.
When Enid is not sketching ballet per-
sonalities she’s doing a job on the staff
of the P.L.C., Pymble. Her drawings have
power as well as delicacy. This Letter
likes as well as any the picture of Roman
Jasinsky on the wall of the downstairs
entrance, to the right as you come in.
Ballerinas pictured on the walls arrived
in twos and threes: Nemtchinova,
Tatiana Riabouchinska, Mrs. de Basil.
Ballet addicts were everywhere. Talk,
when not directly concerned with the
pictures, was all of David Lichine’s new
ballet, “Graduation Ball,” to be produced
that very night by himself.
Knight Tom Bavin’s younger daughter
Valerie was joined in holy wedlock to
Gordon Tod, of Yandilla (Q.), last week.
St. Mark’s at Darling Point was all white
favors and pretty flowers for the occasion,
and the bride was happily circled by her
family. Mother, father and grandmother
(Mrs. Winchcombe), also sister, brother
and nieces, were present. Little nieces
Prudence Bavin and Valerie Horn
stepped proudly in the bridal procession.
The reception was in the decorous but
fashionable surroundings of the Queen’s
Club. After a honeymoon at Port Hack-
ing the Gordon Tods will make their
home at Yandilla, Darling Downs (Q.).
’Groom’s sister Marjorie was one of the
bridesmaids.
Among the Gordon Tods’ wedding
presents were some unusual Chinese
embroideries, suitable for wall pieces.
They were the gift of China’s Consul-
General and Mrs. Pao. These Chinese
embroideries are almost always symbolic.
A set which this writer saw recently
embodied the filial virtues, and were ex-
quisitely stitched on rich red back-
grounds. One told the story of the son
who lay on an ice-bound pond all night
in order to melt the ice sufficiently for
him to catch a fish for his ancient mother.
Another pictured the youth tirelessly
chasing away the flies and mosquitoes
from a wide and comfortable-looking
bed that his mother might rest at ease.
Mrs. Stanley Coleman (her father was
Walter Baker, a well-known actor in
Bland Holt’s Co. when drama flourished
in Sydney) made the Town Hall of
Kuala Lumpur echo with applause when
she recently produced “A-ladd-in Selan-
gor.” The pantomime was written and
produced by Mrs. Coleman, who also
acted the part of Aladdin. As Daphne
Leigh Mrs. Coleman played many parts
in the Banvard companies. She has
appeared on the Australian stage and
in one or two Cochran revues. The
pantomime was in aid of the Malaya
Patriotic Fund, and netted over three
thousand dollars. The costuming of this
presentment was vivid and varied, and
altogether it was an outstanding show.
Up on Brickfield Hill this Letter met
a new color last week. It is artichoke
green, and it flourishes in many of the
new season’s suits and day frocks on
show at Anthony Horderns’. Particu-
larly likeable was a slim suit in this
color, the trigly-buttoned jacket of which
ran up at the back to a monk’s hood
lined with bright tartan. The straight
skirt has disappeared. There are flares,
pleats (many of the latter of the un-
pressed style) and tucks that swing into
fullness above the knees. A soft grey
frock patterned all over in criss-cross
tucks wears its tailored coat of a deeper
tone of the grey. Bustle bows, but not
of the exaggerated type, have a coquettish
look on many an evening frock. Even-
ing frocks are mostly of thick silks,
though black velvet makes some strik-
ing appearances. Any girl would look
her best in the model that wedded a
black velvet shirred blouse, peasant style
with its short and slightly flared basque,
and a ground-length flared skirt of thick
black silk.
No student who has been sent to
London by public subscription has done
better than Eunice Gardiner, pretty and
gifted pianist. Eunice has worked hard
and has achieved awards and recognition
overseas. Last year she was among the
Empire students Who played for the
Queen, and the royal lady complimented
the young Australian. Eunice comes
back early in May to fulfil a three
months’ contract —a studio tour and
appearances at orchestral concerts.
The surprise wedding of last week
was that of “Sandy” (Lionel) Jaques.
He and Mrs. Lyall Burling (she was a
Miss Henry) were married in the early
afternoon at the 'Randwick Registry
Office, and later held their wedding re-
ception around the cocktail hour at the
Carlton Hotel. The bride . wore a soft
grey coat over a deep blue frock, and
her small toque was feather-wreathed.
The honeymoon is being spent in Tas-
mania.
Dorothy Helmrich, now on her way
back to Australia, gave before her de-
parture from London three concerts of
chamber music at Wigmore Hall with the
co-operation of the Kurcher String Quar-
tet. Dorothy’s most notable group was
Gustav Mahler’s “Songs of a Wayfarer.”
Gerald Moore was the accompanist.
The boy in khaki whose people aren’t
Sydneyites hasn’t too much to lavish on
himself when he comes to town. This
thought was at the back of the meeting
at Federation House one day . last week
when it was resolved that, all meals served
at the Anzac Buffet in Hyde Park should
be free. But of course we’ll all have
to help with gifts of money, foodstuffs
and cigarettes, because, as Miss Leo
Wray, who presided at the meeting,
pointed out, the £lOOO contributed by
the various returned-soldier funds to the
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund for the upkeep
of the buffet could not last a great while
when the buffet is visited some days by
two thousand or more healthy, hungry
men. At the week-end as many as 2400
meatpies are consumed, plus cold meat
and salad. Then there’s sugar. Ten
bags a month are used at the depot.
After the meeting offers from 10 persons
to supply a bag a month each were
gladly received. Depots for the receiving
of gifts are to be opened.
Only one of just-dead Hubert Murray’s
family of three now lives in Australia —
Mary, wife of Capt. Pinney, is living
at Springwood (N.S.W.). Capt. Pinney,
now retired, was the Administrator of
Norfolk Island. The eldest son, Terence,
a brigadier-general in the Imperial Army,
married Philippa, daughter of General Sir
Walter Kitchener, and Pat, who is a
Doctor of Science, now lives at Cam-
bridge with wife Marjorie, who is also a
science graduate. Leonard Murray, the
Governor’s nephew, was with him on his
last journey ; also Acting Lieut.-Governor
Champion, who married Florence Mur-
ray, Hubert Murray’s niece. .
There was a full house at the Little
Theatre, in Phillip-street, last Sunday night
to see Robert McCaughren’s six one-
acters. Of the two this writer saw, “Run-
ning Water” stood out. It shows a sense
of drama, and there is a feeling for the
tragedy of lost beauty in the dialogue
between Karl and his doctor. The young
playwright will soon be publishing a book
of his plays.
The Lees family is one of the oldest
established in Wollongong. Its record
of medical service to that South Coast
town goes back a long way. In the local
tennis and golf annals the name holds
its own. Now Jocelyn, daughter of the
Dr. Geoffrey Lees couple, of Wollon-
gong, returns to Australia after nursing
service abroad which included two years
as sister in the Queen Mary Hospital
in Hong Kong. This was a British Gov-
ernment appointment, and, as those who
know the epidemics of the tropics will
realise, it was no kid-glove job.
Veronica McPhillamy, of Bathurst,
was sick at Christmas time, and had to
forgo the seasonal parties. Before she
went to the City of the Plains, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly decided this little grand-
daughter should have a party. It was a
party to make the hair of any small
girl, however straight it be, pop into
curls from sheer excitement. To begin
with, it was timed from four to six.
It commenced with a luscious tea spread
on long trestle tables painted the blue
of the Della Robbia plaques on the
house wall —though probably no young
visitor noticed that. Then followed a
series of pretty dances by Frances
Scully’s child pupils. After that came
a conjuror ; after that a Punch and Judy
show. Well, Veronica, it sounds a pretty
full programme!
No millionaire’s daughter, no prince’s
son could be greeted by an outfit more
dainty and warm than the kits now being
prepared for the babes of Britain and
her allies by the Anzac Fellowship of
Women. Since the war began these Syd-
ney women have shipped just on 4000
garments, hand-knitted and hand-sewn
for new-borns and the sixes and sevens
overseas.
How a manufacturer’s sample of tweed
is turned into a smart topcoat for a
man of five, how an end of navy serge
is whisked into a pleated skirt for young
Miss Ally, can all be seen by a visit to
the rooms in Hosking-place. How girls
in shops and factories buy the wool and
knit the garments, how two little boys
from Manly give a threepence out of
their weekly sixpence, how a small girl
has given up the weekly box of choco-
lates dad brought her, is proudly told
by Mrs. Forbes, Mrs. Hill, Mrs. Berry
and Dr. Mary Booth.
The London branch of the Anzac
Fellowship of Women has been display-
ing with pride the kits for babies sent
over by Dr. Mary Booth and her fellow-
workers of the Sydney Baby Kit Society.
The society was founded during the
1914-18 war, and Dr. Mary was its first
president. It has now been revived,
and, as the London branch has adopted
a trawler, these outfits are going to
bring joy to many a young mother’s
heart.
Big party of the week-end was that in
honor of Lieut. Murray Robson, M.L.A.
Florida at Rose Bay was a seething mass
of humans, and Major Doyle, F. W.
Allen and John Fuller, who were the
instigators of the party, could look
around and find their work good. The
Minister of Justice, the Postmaster-
General and mayors and mayoresses were
among the guests. Mrs. Murray Rob-
son, wife of the guest of honor, was all
in white, even to the gardenias that
formed her hat. Among the loveliest
was the fair-haired Mrs. Ruth Wilson.
Her deep-blue marquisette frock was
flower-spattered. Knight Thomas Gor-
don was there with his lady. He is part-
owner of that noble steed Yours Truly.
Since last Saturday Captain Geoffrey
Cooper, A.1.F., is truly McAndrew’s
Him. For at St. Stephen’s in Macquarie-
street Jessie Mary McAndrew became
his bride. White lace and tulle and
stephanotis were mixed with charm in
the bride’s attire. ’Groom’s sister ’maided
in blue. Mrs. Geoffrey Cooper has - more
than the ordinary measure of brains,
and was secretary to the P.L.C. at
Pyrrible. Captain Cooper is a S. Aus-
tralian, member of a widely-known Adel-
aide family. Reception was at Elizabeth
Bay House.


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night Because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
svmptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When,
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids 6tay in the blood.
, addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
ee s you may have backache, rheumatism,
Kf iatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
* Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Take
■nOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
Strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der banish pain and aid in ridding the system
e harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Divorce Notices.
TO JOHN JOSEPH McKILLOP formerly of
75 Evans Street Port Melbourne in the
State of Victoria driver but now of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EDNA
MARY McKILLOP has instituted a suit 1940
No. 75 in the Supreme Court of Victoria
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes jurisdiction
for dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards If you intend to de-
fend this suit you must enter an appearance at
the office of the Prothonotary Law Courts
William Street Melbourne on or before the
Twenty-eighth day of March 1940 and file an
answer to the said suit on or before the Fifth
day of April 1940 and in default of your so
doing the suit may proceed in your absence
Copies of the citation and petition in this suit
may be obtained at the office of your wife’s
solicitor John Robertson Macmillan 191 Bank
Street South Melbourne.
J. ROBERTSON MACMILLAN, 191 Bank
Street, South Melbourne, Proctor for Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 133 of 1940.
BETWEEN JOHN RICHARD ROBINSON
Petitioner
And RUBY IRENE ROBINSON Respon-
dent.
TO RUBY IRENE ROBINSON late of 55
Railway Street Petersham.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOHN
RICHARD ROBINSON has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion by you in that you
failed to comply with the decree of this Honor-
able Court for restitution of conjugal rights
made on the Nineteenth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight in suit
No. 803 of 1938 AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Twentieth day of
May One thousand nine hundred and forty and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application by you to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of February,
a.d. 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
NEIL McTAGUE, of MESSRS. CLIFTON
R. PENNY & NEIL McTAGUE, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Lightweights clashed with heavy-
weights in the Flemington fashion stakes
on Saturday. Summery ensembles kept
company with furs, a muff or two, jacket
suits and velvet millinery. The last roses
of summer clung to bushes still in full
ieaf, and at the outset it looked as if the
weather intended showering its favors on
the lightly-clad. Before the day was out
the sky had clouded over and the new
autumn styles showed up to advantage.
Nothing made for startling effect, but
revolutionary changes were indicated in
cut and figure line. Coats and jackets
showed long back curves and fronts with
a definite “nip in” at the waistline.
Wearers of the latest had that well-
corseted look which their grandmothers
cultivated with pride in their heyday, and
apron tunics drawn up to the back to
finish in bustle bows dated back to the
same era.
It must have dawned upon milliners
that something would have to be done
to hide the ugly backline of tilted-forward
tiny hats. On Saturday they were decked
with bows, back sashes or snoods hang-
ing from crown to shoulders. All the
hats of the moment were set off with
this kind of trimming. The same sort
of bow or streamer dangled whether
crowds were as high as toppers or flat
as breakfast plates. Gold jewellery, an-
other link with fashions of the past,
gleamed at the neckline of a black bustle
frock, and Freda Connolly, in black with
a bustle, did her brightening-up by draw-
ing on long gloves in pinkish mauve
coloring. Wearing a frock in the shade
of dark wine, June Winter-Irving worked
out her color contrast by matching a
velvet cravat and gloves with her navy-
blue snood.
Louise Lovely covered her platinum
thatch with a black velvet hat with back
curtain attached. One of the dashing
figures was that attractive matron Mrs.
Leigh Falkiner, who set off the softest
of soft wool suits in cyclamen color with
dark-blue finishes. Mrs. R. G. Casey
walked and sat with her old friend Mrs.
Arthur Bullivant, of Sydney, but judging
by matron Casey’s conversation her
thoughts were more with son Richard in
Washington than on the horses. Although
the opening day of this autumn meeting
marked the hundredth birthday of the
Flemington course, there was not much
ado about it. There was a Centenary
Cup in the racing programme, and the
V.R.C. let it go at that.
Lady Dugan got into khaki for a
couple of parties last week. Wearing the
dun-colored, scarlet-tabbed uniform of
a Red Cross Divisional Commander-in-
Chief she entertained several hundred
w orkers in the movement at Government
House, taking them in batches, seniors
one day and juniors the next. Before
the serving of tea the visitors, politely
attentive, listened to speeches praising
their service and asking for more. Dr.
Mewman Morris supported the hostess in
sending out the supplication from an
improvised rostrum in the garden. The
vice-regal lady’s right arm must have
ached. She insisted on shaking every-
body by the hand.
Her Ex. had an extra word or two
With one of the veterans in the cause —
the Peacock lady, whose coat lapel car-
ried a service medal. Her Creswick
Red Cross branch has been carrying on
the good work for the last 25 years.
Another country visitor was Mrs. Ross
Watt, of Gisborne. In the background,
Wheeled by his Nanny, Jimmy, the
U-months-old son of Captain Paul
Henry, of the vice-regal entourage,
guzzled his orange juice and kicked up
b * s heels with a fine disregard for the
company. Jimmy’s mother was busy in
tbe canteen which she and Mrs. G.
Rodd are running in the ballroom
annexe. Visitors made the most of the
invitation to have a look at the work-
room. They surged into the ballroom
and asked so many questions that work
was suspended for the time being. The
PYJ air fas and surgeon’s overalls were first
favorites. The Bruche lady, in a be-
commg linen outfit of butcher blue, and
tbe Argyle lady did their best to cope
whh the traffic and the queries. A silent
rem i n d e r of the discipline in this work-
l o om was a placard in large lettering
tbr ? e WOrds > NO SMOKING,
PLEASE, with the last word underlined.
Mrs. Marchant Penfold went to morn-
ing-tea last week without a care in the
world, and came home shouldered with
the secretarial duties for the Victoria
League supper dance, to be held at Men-
zies on April 12. In the last year she
bas had a good deal of practical experi-
ence in this kind of thing, and should
face the new task with the confidence of
a veteran. Plans for the event were dis-
cussed at the home of Dr. Deborah Buffer
Murphy, who as convener will take the
ad ‘.- * s ordy one * be stnn B s to
the Victoria League’s bow to raise money
for its patriotic funds. In another
quarter well-known figures are working
for the success of a bridge party on the
afternoon of the same date as the dance.
One of Mrs. Marchant Penfold’s
charms is her winning smile, caught here
by the Broothorn camera. This youth-
ful matron is the daughter of Mrs. David
Etheridge, of Toorak, who wears smart
clothes with an air of distinction, and
wife of Captain Marchant Penfold, a
former A.D.C. to a N.S.W. Governor.
The social surprise of the week was
the wedding of Frances Winter-Irving
and Francis Wilbur Reed, a young
couple who have been seen in each
other’s company a good deal lately, but
who gave no hint of rushing into matri-
mony. There has not been so quiet a
wedding in village for many a day.
Seemingly one fashionable wedding in
the family is enough for Frances. She
is just about old enough to remember
how the crowd got out of hand at the
church on the day when her sisters Joan
and Margaret had a double wedding.
It was at sister Margaret’s home that
Frances’s own wedding took place, the
bride wearing a tailored suit in one of
the new greens, with a hat to match,
that suited her blonde coloring to perfec-
tion. The bridegroom’s father, the Rev.
T. V. Reed, performed the ceremony,
and the bride was given away by her
father, John Winter-Irving. At various
times Frances has deserted the gaieties
of social life to earn her own crust as a
showroom saleswoman. Her young hus-
band has often been heard over the air,
and has also made several appearances
with the Gregan McMahon players.
Winter can’t be far behind. Skaters
have taken to the ice again. St. Moritz
Rink ushered in the new season with
a gala flourish. Graceful figures in skirts
short and flaring, topped with color,
showed up effectively against the frozen
floor. Judging by the way the majority
glided Australians seem to take to the
ice like ducks to water. What with the
Tyrolean band, the scenic effects and
the gaiety of the woollies, it was easy
to imagine oneself in Switzerland. A
couple of Canadians, Edward Rushka
and Gladys Beauregard, cut some clever
capers, but the little Australian, Betty
Cornwell, held her own in the exhibi-
tion numbers.
The Brookes lady lost no time in get-
ting back into harness after her return
from abroad. She was no sooner back
than Kurneh, her Toorak home, was
once again a scene of social activity, the
hostess having sent out a speedy call
to some of her friends to come along
and have a cup of tea and support her
in a scheme for raising funds for the
Poles, Turks and Finns. This campaign
has to be made short and snappy, be-
cause there are so many calls nearer
home crowding in. A week ago, when
the Fraser lady issued invitations for the
P.T.F., few knew what the letters signi-
fied, but a good- deal has been heard
about this appeal since, and every guest
came prepared to help, some with money,
many with service and others willing to
place lovely homes at the disposal of the
entertainment committee.
More than £lOO was raised on the
spot, a cheque for £5O being forwarded
by Lady Dugan. By the time parties
are held at the homes of Mrs. Geoffrey
vSyme, Mrs. E. Russell and Mrs. Norman
Myer, the coffers should be spilling over.
There will also be something to collect
from the National Theatre and a show
to be run at the Village Theatre, Toorak,
by the Gullett lady, aided by Mrs. Chester
Guest, Iris Connolly and Maisie Curtis.
With business off their minds, the visitors
gave themselves up to making the most
of the social side of the afternoon.
Diamond clips, pearls and silver brace-
lets imparted a festive air to the hostess’s
modish frock in the new tea-green.
Years pass so swiftly that schoolgirls
are in the classroom today and out in
the world tomorrow. Somehow it seems
difficult to realise that the little girl who
used to romp on the lawns at Govern-
ment House when her father, Lord
Stonehaven, was G.-G. is about to marry.
This week the engagement was announced
of the Hon. Ava Baird, younger daughter
of Lord and Lady Stonehaven, to Captain
Ronald Chance, of the King’s Royal
Rifle Corps. Ava will celebrate her
twenty-first birthday this year.i It was
Ava and her elder sister who set the
vogue for tailored coats and Breton felts
for children’s wear. This is how they
were outfitted when they were allowed
to go to the polo or some other informal
festivity.
At last Irene Mitchell, a talented Aus-
tralian, has come into her own. She has
devoted years of earnest study to
dramatic art and suffered many rebuffs
in struggling for professional recogni-
tion on the Australian stage. She was
ready for good parts several years ago,
but had to be content with playing them
in amateur shows. To gain more experi-
ence she came down off her leading-lady
perch and went on as a super with the
Sybil Thorndike company. She had the
luck to get chatty with the English star,
who passed on some of her wisdom.
“Play any part you can get to gain ex-
perience,” advised Dame Sybil; “try to
get some character roles.” Irene tested
her flair for character-acting at the
Little Theatre, and found she was very
much at home in parts that needed this
sort of aptitude.
Encouraged by her success, she sug-
gested that Garnet Carroll might give
her the role of the fussy mother in
“Giving the Bride Away.” But Garnet
shook his head. He could see Irene only
in a straight part. However, she was
allowed to rehearse the part, and won
him over. An Australian who saw Bertha
Belmore play this role in the London
production hands a bouquet to Irene
Mitchell for her comic by-play, in which
she sacrifices personal appearance to
make fun. Bertha dressed herself up, but
disdained making a show of herself,
while Irene gets one of the merriest bits
of fooling in the piece by undoing her
corsets and suspenders and letting her
stockings fall down over her shoes. This
is a good photograph of Irene, for which
she sat at the Antoine studio.
Aided by gusty winds and occasional
showers the Cann sisters, one snooded
in green, brought forth their winter
models in weather to suit. In some Feb-
ruary days of the past mannequins
weighed down with fur have swooned
on parade with the heat. Fur was very
sparsely used in this collection, only
appearing in bits and pieces. Pockets
ousted from fashion by the straight
silhouette have sneaked back. Every
time a mannequin appeared at this show
she had her hands thrust into patch
pockets. A grey coat of military cut
sported a slit pocket set across the chest
in addition to a couple of roomy ones
below. Just at the moment when most
of the women were wondering what on
earth induced the designer to put a pocket
in such a silly place, a foreigner chipped
in with “So handy for the passport,
my dear.” But who wants a passport
these days? A black silk moire cape
standing out stiffly with the aid of big
box pleats was only one of the many
elaborate cloaks that dated back to the
time when every fashionable draper had
a “head of the mantles” in his showroom.
Mrs. Harrison Owen is meeting old
friends again after an absence of nearly
20 years. She still bears a strong resem-
blance to the Comtesse de Noailles,
France’s picturesque and distinguished
poetess. Mrs. Owen left for England
soon after her marriage, and with her
literary husband settled among the great
in Chelsea. One of the Dyson family,
Ettie Owen has been reared in an atmo-
sphere of art and literature, but she is
not one of those arty people who are
proud of not being able to cook a chop.
Ettie can run a home, cook a dinner and
turn up at a fancy-dress ball and cause
a sensation. The Owen couple have
some lovely bits of old furniture now on
their way to Australia, and the owners
hope to set their house in order very
soon. During the waiting the Owens
have settled in a flat at Stratford Manor,
St. Kilda-road.
Some time this month an Infant Wel-
fare Centre will be opened in a city store.
For many weeks Sister Maud Primrose,
the Truby King enthusiast, has been in
touch with the management of Buckleys,
conferring about the floor space the man-
agement is giving and equipping for the
Truby King League. Big firms in Sydney
and Adelaide have established baby wel-
fare centres of this kind, but the idea is
new to Melbourne shoppers.
This centre will be run on the
rules that Dr. Truby King stand-
ardised for the whole world. The
league is full of life at the moment.
Sister Primrose and her followers are feel-
ing very proud of themselves. They have
been able to install a kindergarten teacher
at their model centre at Springvale. The
job has been given to Thea Wilkinson.
Recently J. T. Tweddle, always a good
friend to children, sent along £4O worth
of toys. In addition to running her
baby welfare centre at Preston, Sister
E. F. M. Holland, one of Victoria’s
pioneers in the Truby King movement,
runs a senior class for home nursing for
the Red Cross.


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
THE SERVICE MAN
Viborg.
“Ukko”: After three months of re-
sistance to vastly superior numbers and
weight of metal, a resistance as heroic
as any in history, the Finns, as this is
written, are defending the suburbs of
Viborg, at the head of Viborg Bay,
which is at the western end of the
Karelian peninsula. Viborg is important
from a strategic point of view—how im-
portant is not quite clear. It is taken
for granted that, once it is captured, the
Russians will command the end of the
Mannerheim Line ; but that remains to
be seen.
A main northern line which runs
through the heart of Finland starts from
Kuvala, half-way between Viborg and
Helsinki. It is unlikely that strong de-
fences have not been provided for that.
If Viborg falls —and fall I suppose it
will—the loss will be severe enough in
itself.
It is the second-largest city in Finland.
It is—or was, perhaps—connected both
with Leningrad and Helsinki by rail. It
is the seaboard port for the whole of the
eastern railway systems of Finland ; and
from it the great Saima canal begins to
link with the sea all the chain of lakes
to the north. So it is possible to travel
nearly 300 miles into the heart of Fin-
land to Idensalmi —almost in the same
latitude as Onega Bay—by water.
The moral effect of the capture, how-
ever, would be greater than the material
effect. Viborg is the holy town of Fin-
land. Here Torkel Knutson built his
castle just on 650 years ago. Here is one
of the most ancient of its schools —or
here was ; castle and school have, I sup-
pose, been blown to smithereens by the
new barbarians. Here are —or were —his-
toric parks and squares and streets each
connected with some historical event.
And here was the fountain-head of Fin-
nish Christianity, home of its first bishop
and patron saint —St. Henry, who was
an Englishman.
The destruction wrought in Finland
will inspire in the Finns, a devout and
patriotic people, the same sort of feel-
ings which would be engendered among
Englishmen by the desecration of West-
minster Abbey or St. Paul’s.
There appears to be a “strong impres-
sion” among diplomats that “moves are
taking place to end the war in Finland
on the basis that Russia and Finland
should jointly hold the Karelian Isthmus.”
And “Hitler is believed to have advised
Moscow to end the war with a declara-
tion that Russia’s object in protecting
Leningrad from invasion has been
achieved.” There may be something in
it. But it has to be remembered that
Moscow has set up a Finnish Com-
munist “Government” which would be
shot, out of sight if it set foot on Finnish
soil not occupied by Russians. Moscow
cannot bargain with the “murderer Man-
nerheim” without letting down Mr.
Kuusinen and his friends and every
agent it has in the world. This, of course,
would not stop it, if its tail is going
down, seeing that it allied itself with
the Brute Hitler and the Beast Goring,
and had its new fleet designed and partly
built by the “Fascist vultures.”
Battleships Damaged.
‘E.V.” : It has been revealed that H.M.S.
Nelson, the largest battleship in commis-
sion—unless some of the new 35,000-ton
British and German ships which have
been launched are in service—struck a
magnetic mine last September, but came
to port for repair under her own steam.
The Nelson is of 33,950 tons displace-
ment, 50 tons larger than her sister-ship
the Rodney. Both were completed in
1927.
H.M.S. Barham, 31,100 tons, was also
struck by a torpedo, and has been under
repair.
The Admiralty was justified in keeping
these accidents quiet; but they were not
kept very quiet. The German story of
the sinking of the Ark Royal may have
originated in the Nelson incident; with
her immensely long foredeck and
peculiar build and arrangement, the
Nelson may have been mistaken for the
aircraft-carrier at a hurried glimpse in
a mist. All the Nelson’s big guns are
for’ard of tower and funnel, which are
perched so far astern that she has scarcely
any quarter-deck.
British naval strategy is summed up
in a quotation from Frederick the Great
which Roger Keyes wrote down in his
notebook early in the last war:
Attack alone achieves positive results,
mere defence always supplies only negative
results. The maximum possible success is
by itself therefore possible only through
the offensive, and the results of the offensive
are increased by boldness.
In the last war the Germans had a
navy immeasurably stronger than that
of Hitler, and it inflicted severe losses
on the Royal Navy; but in the end
it was the Kaiser’s Navy that committed
suicide in Scapa Flow.
In his memoirs old fork-bearded Von
Tirpitz wrote savagely of the effects of
inaction when his ships lay tied up in
German harbors:
The monotonous daily routine became
almost unbearable. All peace-time com-
forts were banished from these iron
boxes. At the same time the men were
always standing by, so that they had little
leave and hardly any relaxation. Thus,
with time, this life, which would depress
any but the most fish-blooded, resulted in
a school of grumblers and a hotbed of
revolutionary infection.
Hence “the destruction of our sea power
and our whole Empire. The only right
action politically and strategically was
to seize the initiative.”
The British and French this time have
overwhelming superiority over the Ger-
man Navy, instead of the slight margin
they possessed last time, having regard
to the fact that their interests covered
the seven seas, while Germany’s power
was concentrated. They have the power
to immobilise and harass the German
fleet and keep it tied even more tightly
than in the last war, provided they show
boldness —as they are doing. The accom-
plishment of that purpose is worth the
risking of capital ships.
In any case, it would be right out of
tradition for battleships like the Nelson
or Barham to skulk in safety or to ven-
ture out only with 100 p.c. protection.
The Nelson, a flagship, carrying the
heaviest naval armament in the world
(nine 16in. guns), the largest torpedo tubes
(24.5 in.), the heaviest armor (Min. belt,
16in.-9in. turrets, 15in. barbettes and
6|in. on the decks), is also the best-
protected ship against torpedo attack —
she has alternative hull protection instead
of bulges,
Barham is a battered ark which has
seen more vicissitudes than any other
capital ship in the Navy. She and her
sister Warspite grew as tough in the last
war as a pair of old pugs, but they always
came back.
Commissioned in 1915, with the rest
of their class, Warspite ran aground in
the Firth of Forth and had to be docked
in the Tyne. Coming out on November
24, 1915, she met her mate Barham, and
they had a friendly ramming match
which might have ended the careers of
less hardy adversaries.
But they were both out of dock back
in the Fifth Battle Squadron, the Barham
leading the line with Evan-Thomas’s flag
up top, when they set out in the wake
of Beatty and his Lion on May 31, 1916,
to find Hipper and Von Scheer off the
Jutland Banks. And it was Barham
which opened up a few hours afterwards
on the Von der Tann, straddling her
with her fire.
Warspite was knocked out while de-
ploying, isolated, and was ordered to limp
home. Barham was in the middle
of the fight for five hours, was hit by
heavy shells six times, came out trium-
phant with 26 killed and 37 wounded,
a turret or two a bit mangled, but intact.
After the war surgeons got to work
on her: rearmored her, bumped her up
from 27,500 to 31,100 tons, added 43ft.
to her length, 14ft. to her breadth and
a couple of feet to her draught and
gave her a full complement of anti-
aircraft guns.
Her armament has since been much
further modernised. And though she
was due originally for scrapping in 1935,
she is still fighting fit by the newer
standards.
One of the R.N.’s little ruses while
Barham was in dock and the Graf Spee
was in Montevideo harbor was to
delude the world that she was cruising
off the River Plate. The thought of that
packet of trouble, with her 15in. guns
primed waiting for them outside the
harbor, must have given the Germans
on the Spee blue shivers.
The Scapa Flow Mystery.
Of Scapa Flow Mr. Churchill said last
week:
Since the sinking of the battleship Royal
Oak by a submarine, the Navy has been
unable to use it as a base for the fleet.
This is a great misfortune, as it was
Britain’s best-situated base, and enabled
warships to save a good deal of steaming.
Old naval men must have read that state-
ment with stunned amazement. It is
true that in ihe Churchill era of the last
war the Grand Fleet left Scapa and re-
turned, but after Jutland Roger Keyes
wrote:
Scapa Flow was a securely-defended base,
with every conceivable facility for the main-
tenance of the fleet, except a dock for capital
ships and cruisers... .The Flow was always
occupied by ships and flotillas, both night
and day, raising torpedoes, carrying out
range-taking exercises and gunnery practice
with primary sub-calibre and secondary
armament... .Two entrances had been made
anti-submarine proof with heavy anti-sub-
marine nets, suspended between numbers of
moored trawlers; these were defended
against destroyer attack by shore bat-
teries and the approaches to them
through Pentland Firth were swept daily
by a wonderfully efficient sweeping force.
The northern and eastern entrances were
blocked by sunken ships.
Now, when “Germany has not sufficient
ships to form a single line of battle”
(Churchill), when it has far fewer sub-
marines than it had in the last war, when
Britain has Asdig detectors and air
patrols ranging to the German harbors
and beyond, the R.N. is “unable to use”
the base which remained impregnable
from December, 1915, till the time when
the German Fleet rolled in there for
internment. War has its mysteries no
less profound than peace.
“D.8.K.”: The outbreak of war was,
for British Empire radio experimenters
and those of many neutral countries,
literally the “end of the world.” Their
voices and Morse keys are silent along
the peaceful ether-lanes of private inter-
communication, but thousands are hand-
ling Morse keys with the fighting ser-
vices. Some have already given their
lives in action. Radio Society of Great
Britain has been including in its monthly
publication “T. and R. Bulletin” lists
of British radio amateurs serving with
the fighting forces. Their names, call-
signs and service appear, but not the
individual units. Result is that many
amateurs have met each other on the
Western Front and elsewhere. In Aus-
tralia the W.I.A. decided to publish an
honor roll of amateur members in
“Amateur Radio,” but was told that such
a list would not be permitted under the
National Defence restrictions. One
fails to see how the publication of names
and callsigns of Australian radio amateurs
serving with the colors could help Hitler
and co. In Jamaica John Grinan,
known as VPSPZ, has been officially in-
vited to operate his equipment as a
short-wave broadcaster under his original
callsign for the duration of the war.
Arosdfund the Army.
XVII,
The Runner.
From trench and duckboard track to
sunken road
He skips, to dodge the bullet, shell or
mortar,
His thoughts for ever dwelling on a mode
Of making such excursions ever
shorter.
On pitch-black nights he gropes his way
about
With naught but fitful Verey lights to
guide him.
Though easygoing, still he gets a snout
On non-coms, who for tardiness may
chide him.
Were Hollywood to romanticise the
Aussie battalion runner in a “colossal,
heart-wringing epic” the script would go
something like this:
“Now, men, the telephone lines are
all shaht down and our only hope of
survival rests in our getting the mes-
sage through to the battalion on our
left flank. It must get through. It
grieves me to ask one of you to face
such a danger, but, remember, it is for
the honor of your regiment! Now,
buddies, I call for a volunteer!”
Unhesitatingly every man would step
forward. The colonel would make a
swift choice.
“You, Robinson, are fleet of foot, you
know the terrain and you possess un-
questioned courage and determination,
as you have so often proved. I promise
that your gallant effort will not go un-
rewarded. Here is the message. Gahd-
speed! Three cheers for him, boys! ’
Then, a firm handclasp, and the stern
but kindly colonel dramatically steps
back, violently blowing his nose in an
effort to conceal his emotion, his eyes
slightly moist as the handsome runner,
immaculate in knife-edge creased
breeches, silk khaki shirt, ten-gallon hat,
and complete to stiletto and the Colts
swinging at his hips, salutes smartly
and leaps out of the trench on his mis-
sion of life and death.
The reality differs slightly. A corporal,
envelope in hand, comes down into a
dugout. “Seen Robbo about anywhere?”
“No. S’pose you’ll find him playing
‘sudden death’ with Johnno and the mob
behind the cookhouse.”
The corp. does. Robbo hasn’t had
a shave for just on a week and is clad
in breeches, singlet, boots and tin hat.
“Here, Robbo, you’re supposed to be
on duty, aren’t you? Here’s a message
for A Co. Urgent!”
“Orright! Chuck it down somewhere.
I’ll go after I finish this game.”
“You’ve to go right away!”
“Square up! I’m out fifty onks and
I want a chance to get ’em back first.
Anyway, I’m damn’ certain I’m not
going before I’ve had a feed.”
“But the colonel says”
“Look here, Les, you can go an’ tell
the old blankard from me that if he
wants it to go in such a hurry he can
well take it himself!”
The directions which the old-hand run-
ner gives the reinstoushment for his
guidance may be slightly bewildering to
the newchum, especially if he has been
in the line only once before, but at
least they are explicit. The first thing
he’ll do will be to sink down on his
haunches, level a patch of mud, grab
a bayonet and draw a plan.
“Y’ go down the communication trench
here till y’ come to where that dead
Fritz’s mitt’s stickin’ out, see? Y’ bear
half-right from there till y’ hit the double
duckboard track near two 5.9 holes that
lip each other. Go along that till y’
come to a donk in a water-cart pokin’
out of a shellhole. Y’ turn half-left
there, an* foller the old light railway to
the big crater full o’ green water; y’
skirt that, an’ you’ll see a bunch of our
mug-gunners on the left of a sunken
road. Duck y’r melon goin’ past there—
it’s a crook spot. Make for the tree a
bit to y’r right that’s lyin’ across an aban-
doned trench. All y’ got to do then is
to foller that to Cheese Corner, an’ y’ll
see some of the mob. Y’ can’t miss it.”
Occasionally the monotony of running
with messages will be interpersed with
the duty of conducting an inquisitive
brasshat from the back areas from
brigade h.q. up to the front line. The
fact that he may have crossed-swords up
will not prevent the visitor’s being told
peremptorily to “Duck y’r scone! Do
y’ want its both to get an issue? Jerry
can sight us from the ridge.”
As they progress assorted ironmongery
—from whizzbangs to the needle-pointed
9.2’s—will be slung at them in ever-
increasing numbers. At the end of a
gruelling two-hour scramble the visitor
will arrive, safe but badly shaken, in
the front-line.
As he wipes his face, he will say “My
word! There’s certainly some heavy
shelling in this sector. I’ve never seen
anything like it!”
To which the runner will answer
laconically: “Ar, it’s dead quiet today to
what it gen’rally is.”
They call him a runner. The only
times he’s ever been known to run are
(1) when he accidentally gets mixed up
with a barrage, and (2) on his way down
the lines to railhead and leave.
S. W. K.


’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus-
tralian equivalent of 3 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
tx''°S , A/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
fsd
RaDIOTRON VALVES are
supplied in factory-sealed
cartons YOUR guarantee
that the valve you buy is
new. The carton must be
destroyed to remove the
original valve . . .
For more enjoyable radio
entertainment
RADIO!
VALVES
A SEALED FOR
YOUR PROTECTION
Advt. of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co.
Ph, i M
THE FLYING COLUMN
Bomber Visits Eire.
“DH4”: Modern war flies have some
definite advantages over the old-timers
who had never heard of blackouts. The
1918 machine that lost a bit of her
anatomy was finished even if the acci-
dent happened within sight of home.
The difference is pointed by the ad-
venture of a two-engined British bomber
which got into holts \yith a Dornier off
Norway. The rudder control was put
out of action by a bullet, and the rudder
merely flapped about like a politician
in a crisis.
The pilot set out for home steering
by aileron and engine compensation,
after pulling the bus out of a dive which
ended a few feet from the sea.
Navigation, in the circumstances, was
impossible. Darkness and a thunder-
storm did not help. After 400 miles or
so of flying, the air beneath so dark that
no one aboard was even sure whether
they were over land, a radio signal was
picked up which showed that they were
just on the point of arriving in Ireland,
after having flown across blacked-out
Britain. Clinging to the friendly wireless
like a limpet, the pilot then went home.
Landed without a rudder? You bet
he did. He came down sideways like
a crab, with the crew of three un-
scratched.
They gave him the Twenty
years ago it would have been a halo.
“Arenas”: What a nerve-straining job
the pilot of that Blenheim must have had
with rudder controls gone after a mix-up
with a Dornier! I was an unwitting
participant in a minor affair of the sort
and I still wonder how the old kite got
down in one piece. A youthful member
of the old R.N.A.S. early in 1918, I sat
in the spare seat during a test flip of a
BE2C at Mudros. The pilot took her
around a bit and climbed to 5000 ft.
Although not a stick-handler myself, I
realised that all wasn’t as it should be
when he gingerly edged back to the
’drome doing very gradual flat turns. He
got her into wind and made a kangaroo
landing, whereupon the ailerons hung
limply down on both sides. The main
cabling had parted company quite noise-
lessly during a steep bank up there. We
were lucky, and I was the more lucky
to have been aloft when it happened with
a pilot par excellence. The Greek pioneer
airman Moriatinis, he was killed by
flying in mist into the cliff side of
Samothrace.
Scandinavian Air Forces.
“D.8.K.”: Before the Red invasion
of Finland Sweden had about 200 first-
line ’planes: heavy and light bombers,
fighters and reconnaissance machines.
The bombers are mostly Junkers 86;
the fighters, Gloster Gladiators; and
Hawker Harts are used for reconnais-
sance work. The standard school
machine is the North American 8.T.9.
British machine and engine types are
constructed under license by the Linkoe-
ping Co., and the Junkers come from
a Stockholm branch. Armaments and
bombs are provided by the large arsenal
at Bofors, a name given to a particularly
effective twin-barrelled A.A. gun widely
used in Britain’s defences.
Norway had about 125 fighting
machines. The air force is divided into
fighter and reconnaissance formations,
and has Hawker, Armstrong Whitworth
and Fokker types, built under license
in Government factories at Lillestroem
and Harten. In November Norway had
no bombers, but the Italian Government
granted a license for the construction of
Caproni types.
Finland’s 230 first-line machines were
of excellent quality, including Avro
Ansons, Bristol Blenheims, Hawker Harts
and Furys, and Bristol Bulldog fighters.
Fokker ClO’s and D2l’s are built under
license at Tampere. Since the Red on-
slaught foreign ’planes have been reach-
ing Finland in increasing quantity, and
it may be expected that the wheels of
“ When you've finished with the sergeant-major I'll have a go at the cook!"
aircraft industry have been humming in
Sweden and Norway.
Development of Aero
Engines.
“Aldis”: Research into aero engines
has become more elaborate than in the
last war. It is no longer possible to
design and build engines within a few
weeks, as was done early in 1918 in the
case of the Liberty engine, which was
going to work such wonders in France.
Cost of producing new types is very
high, and thus the number of types on
the market is relatively small. Both the
liquid-cooled 12-cylinder Vee and the
air-cooled radial are results of long years
of gradual evolution. These two types
conform with the Air Ministry’s stand-
ardisation policy.
So versatile is the radial type that it
is certain to be in widespread demand
for many years to come. No special
machine tools are needed for manufac-
ture, and such problems as exist are
mainly straightforward. The sleeve-valve
air-cooled radial is a more attractive
proposition to the manufacturer for war-
time quantity production than any other
known type. Increased power is the
cry now, both for military and civil
aircraft, and the double-row air-cooled
radial engine can easily give the 2000
h.p. already demanded by aeroplane
designers. There are signs that power
plants for 3000 and 4000 h.p. will have
to be considered.
Methods of carburation have provided
ample field for research. Adoption of
petrol injection by German aero en-
gineers proves that the injection system
is practicable, but British engineers are
so far sticking to the carburettor.
The sleeve-valve seems destined to
play an increasingly important part in
engine design. For about 14 months
this type of engine has been in produc-
tion, and it comes well up to expectations.
The four-engined Imperial Airways fly-
ing boats which carried out regular trans-
atlantic crossings last summer relied
entirely upon sleeve-valve engines. Main
claim of the sleeve-valve exponents is
that such engines require no servicing
except routine plug inspection. The
sodium-cooled poppet exhaust valve has
reached a remarkable stage of efficiency,
but the best of poppet valves needs clear-
ance test occasionally even though no
adjustment may be needed. The sleeve-
valve seems to have the advantage be-
cause it needs no attention whatsoever
between servicing periods.
An all-important point in war-time is
the interchangeability of power units in
the interests of easier servicing in the
field —an idea pioneered by the Bristol
Co. 16 years ago. Briefly, the method
means that a fully serviceable aeroplane
need not be kept out of the air for minor
engine attention. The complete engine
is exchanged for another at short notice,
the old engine being serviced whilst the
’plane carries on.
British and German reports for six
months agree as to the number of German
’planes lost in raids over Britain and the
North Sea —40—but it is the only point
on which they do agree. The enemy
claims to have shot down 285 British
and French ’planes, “to which must be
added 50 sunk with the aircraft-carrier
Courageous,” and alleges that he lost
only 35 “as a result of direct enemy
operations on the Western Front.”
* * * *
“Aldis”: It has been revealed that the
British ’planes employed in the Heligo-
land fight of December 18 were Handley
Page Hampdens, and that the Nazis were
forewarned in some way. They used
Messerschmitt MellO’s. The reconnais-
sance flight of the R.A.F. over Vienna
and Prague recently was done by Arm-
strong Whitworth Whitley “flying suit-
case” bombers.
* * * *
“Ailo”: Catapulting ’planes by gravity
instead of generated power is the latest
idea to be considered in U.S.A. This
scheme of assisted take-off resembles in
its main features the device employed by
the brothers Wright; in the new arrange-
ment, however, the falling weight drops
down a shaft built in the centre of the
aerodrome instead of falling from the
top of a tower. The theories have been
applied to a Douglas DC-4 airliner with
an all-up weight of 65,0001 b., a take-off
speed of 90 m.p.h. being assumed.
Greatest difficulty is the construction of
the shaft. The normal take-off run of
the aeroplane will need to be exceeded
by the depth of the shaft, but it may be
possible to use a system of pulley blocks
and sheaves to shorten the drop, with
an addition to the weight.
“D. 8.”: The first “plastic” type
’plane took the air for tests recently in
U.S.A. It is a two-seater open tandem'
military training monoplane known as
the P-T 160-K. The construction
process, named Nuyon, incorporates
a triple criss-cross laminated spruce
plywood structure heavily impreg-
nated with phenol formaldehyde, a
substance very similar to the bakelite of
radio. The resultant sheet may be formed
to shape by the application of heat and
pressure. High-speed fighters are to be
constructed in the same way, with 1250-
h.p. engines and speed in excess of 400
m.p.h. The new “plastic” application
may have considerable influence on
future aircraft design methods generally.
The Air War Day by Day.
Feb. 24: R.A.F. Blenheim bomber un-
successfully attacked by five Messer-
schmitt Me 109 fighters during recon-
naissance over Heligoland.
Feb. 26: R.A.F. leaflet raid on Berlin.
German defences used colored search-
lights and A.A. fire, but no attack on
British ’planes by enemy fighters.
R.A.F. patrols also over Northern
Germany and Baltic Sea. Two Heinkel
bombers shot down —over Firth of
Forth and off coast of Northumber-
land.
Feb. 29. —R.A.F. leaflet raiders over
Berlin for third night in succession.
No opposition on any occasion. Re-
newed attacks on fishing vessels and
flying-boats off Yorkshire coast. No
casualties. A German ’plane reported
over Thames estuary.
March 3. —Still another reconnaissance
flight over Berlin. Pursuing Heinkels
over German territory, two British
fighters attacked by six Messerschmitts;
they shoot down two and return safe.
French fighters bring down two Ger-
man reconnaissance ’planes over
French lines. Three Belgian fighters
patrolling over Belgian Luxembourg
attacked by German bomber while
signalling to her to land, and crash;
a patrol-leader killed. Belgian Gov-
ernment protesting against infamous
breach of neutrality.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
MONEY IN THE BANK—WOULD IT BE SAFER
IN SHARES OR PROPERTY?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Deserve Fund . . .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Cyclone in the North
“Q.C.R.”: The Queensland cyclone
was more serious than any southern press
account suggested. The damage was
spread along hundreds of miles of coastal
country.
Townsville had the worst time in 37
years. Its new £3OOO sea wall was
pounded to pieces. Anzac Park, on the
foreshores, was covered with sand and
treetrunks. Three open-air baths were
destroyed. Magnetic Island Surf Club
house looked as if it had been bombarded
by the Russians. All the low-lying out-
skirts of Townsville city were flooded.
Ingham, 60-odd miles away, bore the
full brunt of the storm. Its magnificent
avenue of raime-trees, which have been
a landmark for more than a generation,
was torn to pieces. Water got into the
wards of the hospital and wind un-
roofed buildings, among them hotels and
the Italian Club.
Babinda, Tully, Cairns, Ayr, Hali-
fax, Palm Island aboriginal station
and places in between all have long rolls
of damage —uprooted trees, flooded farms
and wrecked buildings. And at Major’s
Creek practically the whole of the
tobacco crop went out on a flood.
Aerial, Geological and Geophysical
“X.T.”: The 1938-39 report of the
Aerial, Geological and Geophysical
Survey of North Australia begins with
a full-page list of the staff —a Minis-
terial' committee of three, an executive,
two consultants, a secretary, 10 “field
headquarters” men at Cloncurry, four
more in a Queensland geological field
party, and “five field assistants, including
three motor-drivers, one laborer and
one cook.” Then there are an N.T. geo-
logical field party —four geologists, six
field assistants (including three motor
drivers), two survey hands, a cook ; a
geophysical field party of three with four
field assistants, and an intermittent W.A.
party of five.
Expenditure to June 30 was £186,000.
It included just on £2OOO for post-
ages and telegrams, £5381 for petrol,
oil and grease, £7626 for travelling
expenses, £7839 for car hire and
air, boat and rail fares, and £111,600
for salaries. If anybody can find
anything in the report which will be
of the slightest assistance to any pros-
pector, he is hereby offered a copy, gratis,
as a prize.
One of Ihe Survey’s discoveries is
that the formations of the long-mined
Brock’s Creek area are “recent, late Ter-
tiary, Jurassic (?)” and that the “area
includes deposits of gold, tin and copper,
those of gold being most important.”
Ah Ming and Ah Fat,, who waxed pros-
perous 40 years ago from those metals,
could have told the Government that.
And residents could have provided the
information that “work on the Howley
Line is at present confined to a few indi-
viduals,” and that “the workings are ex-
tensive and warrant further investiga-
tion.”
“Clayfield”: Despite the wholesale
“reforms,” the Greater Brisbane Council
is at it again. An alderman said
last week “There is a story that the
council proposes to hold £20,000 to put
men in jobs before the elections.” An-
other said “A team of billygoats could
do better than the council’s grass-cutting
machines.” Ratepayers are hopping with
anger as they receive rate notices billing
them for Is. 14d. in the £ unimproved
value of land miles from the centre of
the city. A man who has land out near
the new University which he and his
agents value at £2OO must fork out over
£l6 in rates this year. Aldermen are
almost snowed under with applications
for jobs, but a mere 685 men so far
have been re-employed under the loan
schemes.
* * * *
“East Point”: J. A. McDonald,
Darwin’s Napoleon of the North Austra-
lian Workers Union, has met his Water-
loo. Strangers coming North to do war
work have swamped the older unionists
and put in as secretary a new prophet
“It sounds so good I think Well ’ang on to it, Ma.”
in L. T. Craig, picturesquely described
as a “journalist and lugger master.” Mr.
Craig proposes, among other things, to
abandon the Arbitration Court and secure
housing, increased compensation and
numerous other privileges by using the
strength of unionism. That has been
tried before in Darwin with no particu-
lar benefit to anyone.
* * * *
“McDoodlakine”: It has come at last.
In the heat of the last of the monsoon
season, 40 braw laddies and lassies for-
gathered in Darwin, and, raising their
queighs to about the optimum angle
of Big Bertha, drank throatily tae Rabbie
Burns. Then the haggis was piped in,
and wee Bertie Brewster gave the address
in proper form, and a Caledonian Society
was solemnly constituted, with Mrs.
Christina Gordon, late of the Victoria
pub, First Chieftainess, in absentia. Mon,
but the wee musquitees are in for the
best time in history since they drove the
Black Watch out of kilts and into trews
in India a century or so ago.
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: Exit Brice Henry, of
Tully (N.Q.). He was a pioneer of the
district, and had been chairman of the
Cardwell Shire for four terms, but was
best known for his coastal fattening
scheme for beef cattle, which had at-
tracted attention from all over the world.
No Governor-General, scientist or poli-
tician ever went within reach of Tullv
without a call on Brice Henry. He leaves
behind sons who will carry on his work.
They should be successful in the cattle
business-—they have the blood of the
Tysons in their veins.
* * * *
The sugar agreement, which has just
celebrated its silver jubilee, is to be re-
newed for another five years. The first
embargo on the import of foreign sugar
was imposed in 1915, and since 1925,
by regular agreements between Queens-
land and the Commonwealth, marketing
arrangements have been supervised by a
sugar board and prices fixed under
periodic agreements. Thirteen years ago
the price for home consumption was
£27 per ton, out of which £1 went for
administrative expenses and concessions
to manufacturers. The last agreement
began to operate in September, 1936;
it will expire in September, 1941. For
the succeeding five years prices will re-
main as at present: 1A refined, £33 4s.
a ton ; first quality mill, £3O a ton to
ordinary buyers and £29 Bs. to manu-
facturers ; retail, 4d. a pound in capital
cities.
* * * *
“X.T.”: A list of applicants for N.T.
mining leases, published at Darwin in the
“Government Gazette” of Feb. 2: Ber-
nado Rech, Said Mulladad, Amedulah
Khan, Carl Keefa, Ralph Hancock, Fritz
Ruger. At any rate, the Ah Fongs seem
to be out of mining development.
* * * *
“Philp”: By sea it’s 200 miles, or
thereabouts, from the Daly River settle-
ment to Darwin, and when S. Eshelby
set out to make the trip in his lugger
Wanderer he didn’t know what he was
in for. The boat was carrying a cargo
of 70 pigs, which left standing room only
for Eshelby and his black crew. The
Daly was flooded, the boat kept bumping
on sandbanks, the pigs behaved as only
pigs can, rain put the auxiliary engine
out of action, and sleep was impossible.
Then the pigs had to be taken ashore
for food when their rations of peanuts
ran out; a storm broke at the critical
moment and Denis was so alarmed that
he had to be carried ashore. When
Eshelby arrived in Darwin about a
month after leaving Daly River, the staple
of his first meal was pork.
% % % *
“Marble Bar”: Watching a young
bride fingering her wedding ring admir-
ingly, I was reminded of Topsy, a young
abo. bride of yesterday’s Nullagine
(W.A.). Topsy had just been presented
by her mother-in-law with the abo. sym-
bol of ma'trimony, the wannera. This
was simply a wooden staff pointed at
one end, roughly chisel-shaped at the
other. It had plenty of uses —as a walk-
ing-stick, as a digging stick in the search
for roots and for water, as a poker for
the fire, and not the least as a weapon
of defence or offence in arguments with
other women, though it was generally
when the bride became older and the
wannera, through much fire-poking, be-
came shorter that such quarrels arose.
The Nullagine once turned up a wan-
nera, life-size, carved perfectly in hard
stone.
“Arev”: “I was runnin’ a pub up on
the Paroo once,” said Ted Hogan, “an’
I sent to the city fer a barmaid an’
asked them to pick a good-looker, not
too faded. She came along, an’ I could
see at once that she was the right sort.
The boys rolled up in droves an’ she'd
talk to ’em an’ get ’em so interested that
they wouldn’t want ter leave. There
was only one fly in the ointment. The
blokes had no conversation but cattle,
grass, waterholes an’ droughts. Bein’
reared in the city, she couldn’t under-
stand the chivvy, though she made a
good job of listenin’. ‘Mr. Hogan,’
she says, ‘I want you to let me have
a week off so I can travel the cattle
country an’ get to know the ropes.’ I
reckoned it a great idea, so I gave her
a week’s holiday on full pay, lent her
a horse an’ paid her exes, while she
toured about. She had plenty of invi-
tations, an’ when she came back at the
end of a week she could discuss drovin’
an’ brandin’ as though she’d been reared
in the cow country. Business fair
hummed when she resumed work, but
just as I was thinkin’ about enlargin’
the bar the blow fell. Yair, she married
the richest cattleman in the district, a
cove who’d been tongue-tied.” Hogan
sighed. “That’s what a man gets for tryin’
to be too smart. If I’d stuck to her city
backchat and small-talk I’d’ve been
better off.”


BRANDAUER’A
m
t*''*
CSV
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BBAHDABBR * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
iMtdSOk
Ai mßmeb
.
mmm
Iff
THE
No. 136
"TUMBA"
CATTLE
POLEY
£l3/15/-
(MOUNTED)
The flap is
sewn direct
on to the
seat, giving a
narrow grip.
Every stitch in
the panel is put in by
hand, and all the dees
are lined with metal
and attached strongly
to the tree.
N.S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles Paid
for Cash with Order.
WALTHER it STEVENSON S??:
; 395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office —371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane.
fVingello Mouse. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
l/te£KBIMiSIS
Over £20.000,000 spent yearly on advertising in Aus-t
us-f
iny|
ffl
r £20.000,000 spent yearly on advertising
3. Opportunities for interesting work in many|
5 branches for trained men and women. A big Help i
i any business career. (You need not be able I-
\ draw)j Successful students from 16 to over 50 yearsi
' include many leading advertising executives. Out-I
standing success in public examinations. Complete.!
interesting, practical training. (Evening classes of
**!££*%. Individual poilal luillon). Class.! slots fob.. June.l
Oct. Students join any time. J
this advertisement for big 56-page book, free to those*
nely interested *in advertising training. _____ _ 1
. THE SCHOOL OP APPIiXED ADVERTISING!
r 36 Grosyenor St., Sydney E*t*bli«lxed 182%
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Owen E. Friend.
Robert J. A. Massie. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
GD.: It has a lilt, but neither “Scotchies”
nor Australians are given to ejaculating Hey,
nonny, nonnyl”... -E. de G.: Don’t know
that you should call Britain our “common”
mother.... A. 5.8.: Just verses.... D .W. Y.:
“Beauty” bumpy. •• .H.D.Y.: Wispy....
A.M.H.: The press clipping’s priceless, but the
verse isn't worth a brass farthing
A.S.McC.: Still stumped A.H.R.: Turk
verse terrible.. ■ .E.C. - Ole Billyum s \Vhale
is, I think, quite good as a laughable farce.”
Well, it’s undoubtedly a farce J.D.S.: “The
Encore of War” was slaughtered W.S.F.:
Damned by the Religious Editor C.H.: Con-
tributors five times your age have written
worse R.D.: Try elsewhere H.M.8.: It
has a lyrical lucidity that makes it irresistible:
Gentlemen, the faggots
The artist he should have a wave
His feet should perm hair oil.
Maybe I’m a wee bit late
Still and all a classic gate
Canny but be cackle.
E.L.: “Bitter-sweet” is good-bad... .J.D.H.:
The old bus tried to do too many rhymes to
the mile L.F.8.: A cheerful bit of doggerel.
L.A.S.: Good subject; but the funny bits
aren’t funny enough, nor the poetic bits poetic
enough H.A.: All those exclamation-marks
deafened us—J.C.: Say it in prose....
W.J.L.: Failed to weep at demise of big-
hearted Johnnie—J.L.M.: “Gun” does not
rhyme with “come” P.S.: Verses begin-
ning with “Australia! ” are rarely successful;
verses about “dear little gardens of dreams”
are always hopeless A.R.J.: The bird set our
teeth on edge... .H.G.F., A.M.: Missed....
P.E.0.: Throwing “Fish” back E.T.: “Mrs.
Manton’s Tenants” got five minutes’ notice.
H.E.R.: The sentiments need dressing
differently... .J.T.8.: For a really honest
opinion consult the nearest navvy... .C.J.T.:
If your brain “gives birth” to any more ideas
like that send them to an orphanage....
L.C.G.: The only thing your detective didn’t
find were 80-peep’s sheep F.S.R.: “The
Miracle Man” will need more than a miracle
to get himself into print.. ..F.D.L.: “They still
carry six-shooters and lariats outback.” But
they don’t say “Doggone it” and “Dangblast
my hide” 5.T.8.: Of its sort it’s bright
enough patter, but it’s not a yarn 8.R.8.:
It s original.” And unique, thank heavens.
....C.T.C. Appears to have been written with
a spur dipped in roof-paint R.S.K.: “Alf
Smith’s Chickens” are old birds N.T.H.:
Try a monthly magazine that uses yarns of that
length F.D.L.: Not interested in “The Truth
About the Pied Piper”... .T.C.L.: The family
album is the place for “Reminiscences”....
C.R.H.: Even the green ink won’t get it
through. .. .V.D.P.: Have read worse....
J-T-W.; Even the four-page covering letter
doesn’t explain it a 11... .D.L.E.: We shudder
to think that you might repeat the offence.
C.D.P.: Indiscriminate slinging of mud
doesn’t make an article... .G.D.L.: Begone
with your “misty-eyed maid of the mountain.”
- ...L.D.P.: It might make a Sunday-school
lesson.... R.V.: “Stranger Than Fiction” is in
the best fisherman tradition... .8.R.5.: Re-
ceived the same advice free on the back of
our last pay envelope... .C.F.T.: According
to our reading of it, the detective killed
the secretary who killed the manager who killed
the detective F.G.R., C.D.1., F.G.: Try
them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.M.F.: Among the 99 reasons for rejection
was the "fact that the gag was mouldy... .D.A.:
Misplaced lines, blots and smudges E.N.A.:
About as humorous as a geometrical design....
N.M.L. “Strange Bedfellows” appeared in a
score of different forms at the time of the sign-
ing of the Russian-German pact C.W.: Too
pale and streaky for successful reproduction....
8.M.: A neat signature, but an untidy drawing.
. ...F.A.S.: Not so bad for a maiden effort.
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
E.W.C.: Fate of the old sundowner
brought a lump to our throat but didn’t cause
us to dip our hand in our pocket A.D.:
The playful shark was left stranded on the
sands MJ.M.: Not in the market for light-
ning sketches done qn crumpled brown-paper
bags H.A.: Pathetic little sketch of three
blind mice was tenderly wrapped and returned
to its owner G.G.: Have you just realised
the fact that “black clouds are over Europe”?
E.S.: Caricature bears no likeness to
person whose name is below the picture
H.M.: Kindly remove gravediggers H.G.:
Ornamental and decorative, but little humor in
it P.P.H.: It might cause a faint titter
among a bunch of schoolgirls.
A MIXED GRILL.
Naturally the Churchill press saw “the
Churchill touch” in the Altmark affair—
“quick decision and resolute orders; a
communique conveying Mr. Churchill’s
command of English and unusual sense
of the dramatic,” and so on. A Sydney
paper came out with a cartoon showing
Long John Silver (“Nelson”) and John
Falstaff (“Drake”) slapping Gladstone on
the back and saying, “Nice work,
Churchill! ” The Navy is doing the
work, not Churchill.
* * * *
“5.H.0.”: Pottie’s Scottish Highland
Oil, advertised in the first issue of The
Bulletin and mentioned in the Jubilee
number, is still on the market. In fact,
it is made by John Pottie and Sons at
Redfern. John Pottie was a veterinary
surgeon, and John Pottie and Sons manu-
facture veterinary products.
Arthur Griffith, of Sydney, who as
Minister for Works in the McGowen
Government established and controlled
the Richmond aerodrome as a State in-
stitution during the first two years of
the 1914-18 war, has been appointed a
member of the Air Force Recruiting
Committee. The ’drome trained and
dispatched to Britain direct over 200
pilots, who were on arrival taken over
by the British air authorities. The Com-
monwealth Air Board refused to recog-
nise the training centre, so it dealt direct
with the British Government.
* * * *
“Trimah Kaseh Bunyah”: Among the
alleged terms which a victorious Ger-
many will impose on the Allies will be
the recession of Malta, Gibraltar, Singa-
pore and the Falklands to their “original”
owners. Acceptance will be difficult in
the case of Singapore. Having been
destroyed by the Javanese in 1377, the
island was uninhabited, except for a few
Malay fishermen, in 1819, when it was
ceded to Raffles by a sultan of Johore
who was subsequently said to be bogus.
Today there are not nearly so many
Malays there as Chinese. The Malays like
playing Soccer and driving the white
man’s car, the faster the better. They
show about as much interest in matters
of administration as a cockroach, and
in the country districts would have been
wiped out by malaria if they had not
been constantly kicked out of their
lethargy by the British. If Singapore
were handed back to them they would
be as embarrassed as an Australian abo.
in a jam factory.
Hi H« H« *
Does anyone now remember the Holly-
wood film called “Confessions of a Nazi
Spy”? On people whose favorite studies
are films and the flapper press the im-
pression it produced was that Uncle
might declare war on Hitler at any
moment. It didn’t quite strike “S. M.
Herald” that way, but the “Herald” re-
viewer approvingly mentioned the
fiercely anti-Nazi commentary and “the
unpleasant-looking German characters”:
Some are obvious weaklings; others have
the square, brutal, overbearing faces and
figures of the German officers who used to
be seen in films during the Great War.
Germany is at present in a virtual state of
war with the United States, says the com-
mentator, so the parallel is understandable.
No one was ever bolder than Hollywood
till the third of September. Never was
there a swifter descent of cold to the
extremities.
* * * *
Dead ill Melbourne at 75, Alexander
Cameron, formerly chairman of the
Tramways Board. Son of a Victorian
pastoralist, he graduated in law at Mel-
bourne University, and practised as part-
ner in the legal firm of Crisp, Cameron
and Hemby. As a member of the Malvern
Council he interested himself in the es-
tablishment of tramways to serve Mel-
bourne suburbs, and was first chairman
of the Prahran and Malvern Tramway
Trust, formed in 1909 largely as the
result of his efforts. When the larger
body was formed in 1919 he became its
chairman. The electrification of Mel-
bourne tramways followed a visit by
him in 1923 to Britain, Europe and the
U.S.A. to study tramway development.
* * * *
Heard chanticleer for the last time,
James Carter, 73, poultry farmer, of
Werribee (Vic.). He began work as an
enginedriver in Lancashire, but a son fell
sick, and Carter came to Australia. With -
half a dozen birds he started a concern
which became the largest egg-producing
enterprise in the Southern Hemisphere,
if not in the world, with all sorts of sub-
sidiary industries springing up to feed it,
and the delicate son is now one of the
two brothers who are partners in it.
Their father retired 17 years ago.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SiLK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a (id. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
S'ILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUEKDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
Generai. Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, slight hospital training, wants
position as nurse in private house. Queens-
land coastal district preferred. Refs. —6387.
Refined, companionable governess to teach
one child in grade 111. Refs, essential.
Country.—63B6.
To get in touch with person inquiring
recently for Harold William Dingle.—63B9.
Information Sought.
Number of killed and wounded in the
war of 1914-18? Give figures ' separately for
the various countries engaged, including the
British Dominions. —6362.
Gt. Britain and Ireland, killed 812,317,
wounded 1,849;494; Canada, 62,817, 166,105;
Australia, 60,456, 154,722; New Zealand,
18,212, 45,946; South Africa, 9032, 17,843;
Newfoundland, 1609, 3628; colonies, 52,044,
78,535; India, 73,432, 84,715; France, 1,393,388,
1,490,000; Belgium, 38,172, 44,686; Italy,
460,000, 947,000; Portugal, 7222, 13,751;
Rumania, 335,706, no record; Servia, 127,535,
133,148; U.S.A., 115,660, 205,690; Germany,
2,050,466, 4,202,028; Austria and Hungary,
1,200,000, 3,620,000; Bulgaria,'lol,224, 152,400;
Turkey, 300,000, 570,000; total, killed 7,219,292,
wounded 13,779,691.
* * * *
Residential qualification for old-age pension
in M.L.; age, male and female, maximum
pension, and circumstances which prevent re-
ceipt of maximum pension, especially as affect-
ing equity in property or holding of other
assets? —6147.
Any person who was resident in the Dominion
on March 15, 1938, is required by the law to
have at least 10 years’ continuous residence in
M.L. prior to receiving a grant of age benefit.
Continuous residence is not deemed to be inter-
rupted by any absences which do not aggre-
gate more than 12 months. If the absence
does exceed 12 months, but does not exceed
that period by more than six months
for each year of residence in M.L. in excess
of 10 years, then a benefit may be author-
ised, provided the applicant has actually
been in M.L. for at least 12 months prior to
the date of application. Age is 65 for men and
60 for women, but a reduction of five years
is made when the applicant is parent of two
or more dependent children under 15. An age
benefit is payable at the maximum rate of £7B
a year for a single or widowed applicant, and
is reducible by all other income in excess of
£52 a year. There is also a reduction on
account of property, and where a single person
has liquid assets to the value of more than
£5OO the benefit is reduced by £1 a year for
each £lO of such excess property. The term
“property,” however, does not include any
interest in land or in mortgage on land. Com-
municate direct with the Social Security Dept.,
Wellington, for additional particulars.
* * * *
What is the population of (1) India and (2)
China ? —6285.
(1) The population of India (British territory
and Indian States) in 1931 was 349,500,000.
(2) According to the estimate of the Chinese
Ministry of the Interior issued in 1936, the
population of the Chinese Republic (excluding
Manchuria) was 422,707,868. Including outer
China (Manchuria, Mongolia and Tibet) the
total population given by the same authority
was 457,835,475.
* * * ■ *
My husband and I have a joint account in
the Commonwealth Savings Bank. In the event
of my death or that of my husband, what
happens to the joint savings? —6399.
The joint account implies joint ownership,
and in the event of the death of either party
the whole vests in the survivor.
* * * *
My friend’s husband has been enticed away by
another woman who is much younger and with
a good business in the city. If my friend can't
have him back can she get damages against the
woman ?-- 6394.
Some years ago an English Judge (Mr. Justice
Darling) had a somewhat similar case before
him. A married woman claimed damages
against a single woman alleged to have enticed
away the married woman’s husband, and it was
held that an action for damages would lie.
* * * *
/ am about to sell some property l pur-
chased four years ago. Have any legal for-
malities to be complied with on my part? It
is under Torrens Act. —6407.
It is for the purchaser to see that the land
is properly conveyed to him. You should
on receiving the purchase money hand over to
him the certificate of title.
* * * *
If a medical man had to give evidence that
a person wus asleep how would he do so ?
Is there any instrument or method which de-
termines this? —6233.
There are various physical phenomena
associated with normal sleep. For instance,
by the use of the opthalmoscope it has
been discovered that the optic nerve at its
point of entry into the back of the eye is
paler during sleep than in the waking state,
the arteries in the retina are contracted and
the veins swollen. Certain muscular reflexes
are absent. The muscle which lifts the upper
eyelid is relaxed. If the eyelids be raised,
the eyeballs are seen to be rotated upwards,
and to have a constant slow lateral movement,
the two globes moving independently of each
other. The pupils are contracted. Other signs
of sleep—regular, audible breathing, the appear-
ance of' general relaxation, the characteristic
mutterings in dream states, etc.—are familiar
to ordinary observers.
V** ' . *
On what principle does the kerosene-operated
refrigerator work ? Are there any books de-
scribing it and how it is operated? Would it
be possible for a man with access to a good
tool shop to build one himself? —6142.
In the Electrolux gas refrigerator, a small
gas flame is applied to a generator containing
a 30 p.c. solution of ammonia and distilled
water. This gas flame vaporises the ammonia,
which is liquefied in a condenser by the cool-
ing action of the air in the room passing
over a fin-type coil. In the evaporator, hydro-
gen gas flows in a counter direction and pro-
duces rapid evaporation of the ammonia, with-
drawing heat from the ice trays and box, thus
causing cooling to occur. The ammonia gas
flows beneath the lighter hydrogen thrbugh a
heat exchanger to the absorber, w'here the weak
liquid, flowing over baffle plates, absorbs the
ammonia gas and returns it to the boiler, thus
completing the cycle. A secondary methyl
chloride circuit carries off the heat given out
by the ammonia within the : absorber. In the
kerosene-operated refrigerator, a small kerosene
lamp takes the place of. the gas burner, be-
fore construction would be possible, it would
be necessary to obtain accurate details as to
the size of the various portions of the equip-
ment, the pressures used and many other tech-
nical details which have not been disclosed by
manufacturers.
* * * , *
I lent a sum of money on a N. S. Wales
city property as a second mortgage in 1929
for three years. Before the term expired the
Moratorium came in force, and the mortgagor
has refused to pay me my principal or inter-
est up to 1938, when he paid a year’s interest,
and has since refused to pay any more, leaving
a balance of £l5O owing. How can I recover
my principal and interest? Can l take out
a bankruptcy order against him if he refuses to
pay the interest, and would it be advisable ?
6282.
The N.S.W. Moratorium Act relieved mort-
gagors from personal liability on their covenants
to pay principal and interest and extended
the due date of repayment of the principal.
It also prevented a mortgagee from exercising
any of his rights and remedies under a mort-
gage without leave of the Court except in cer-
tain circumstances (e.g., interest or rates in
arrear for two years). You should see .a
solicitor and get him to apply to the Court
for an order giving you leave to exercise all
your rights and remedies under the mortgage.
* * * *
(1) Should an author insist on “no altera-
tions" in text of play in any written agreement
with a producer? (2) What is the custom re-
garding attendance of author at rehearsals? —
6388.
(1) It is generally agreed between author and
producer that no alteration should be made to
the text without the author’s approval. An
author should protect himself by the insertion
of a clause to this effect, but if he trusts his
producer he would be wise to allow him a fairly
free hand with alterations. (2) The author has
the right to be present at all rehearsals. Inci-
dentally, the wise author does not insist on
this, as in practice it is found that the author’s
presence at all rehearsals hampers both pro-
ducer and artists. It is best if the author is
present at early rehearsals in case of needed
alterations and then absents himself until a
few days before production.
* * * *
How could a boy of 16 learn the technique
of television ? Is there any place in M.L. or
Australia where this subject could be studied?
—6195.
Television is an application of general radio
and other well-known principles, and, therefore,
a sound knowledge of radio is essential before
specialising in television technique. The
operator of a television station would require
a first-class commercial wireless operator’s
certificate of proficiency, in accordance with
international regulations.,' and the additional
technical work, so far as television itself is
concerned, could be regarded as a post-graduate
training for the holder of such a certificate. As
television receivers necessarily include an ordi-
nary broadcast receiver, servicemen require a
general knowledge of radio principles in addi-
tion to a specialised knowledge of television
practice. For these reasons the television course
conducted by the Marconi School of Wireless
is available only to persoits with sufficient pre-
liminary radio training, and the fee for the
course, which can be studied by correspondence,
is £lO 10s. The boy should study radio to
the standard of a first-class operator’s certifi-
cate. No television stations will be in opera-
tion, or are likely to operate, in Australia or
M.L. until after the war.
* * * *
Some biographical details concerning Will
Ogilvie, the poet, and titles of his books ?
6161.
Will Ogilvie was born at Kelso, Scotland,
on August 21, 1869, and arrived in Australia
in 1889. He was in outback N.S.W. droving,
horsebreaking, etc.; author of popular rollick-
ing ballads and charming lyrics; wrote verse
for The Bulletin under the nom de plume
of “Glenrowan” and his own name. He re-
turned to Scotland in 1901, and also spent
some years in the U.S.A. teaching at an agricul-
tural high school. During the war of 1914-18
he wrote in “Punch” a tribute to the Anzac
as “the bravest thing God ever made.” Pub-
lications: Fair Girls and Grey Horses (1899),
Hearts of Gold (1901), Rainbows and Witches
(1907), My Life in the Open (prose, 1908),
Whaup o’ the Rede (prose, 1909), The Land We
Love. (1910), The Overlander and Other Verses
(1913), The Honor of the Station (1914), The
Australian and Other Verses (1916), Galloping
Shoes (1922), Scattered Scarlet (1923), Over the
Grass (1925), A Handful of Leather. (1928), A
Glean Wind Blowing (1930), Collected Sporting
Verse (1932), Saddler Again (1937).' '
** l * • *
Some particulars concerning John Farrell, the
Australian poet ?— 6380.
John Farrell was born on January 18, 1851,
at Buenos Aires, and brought to Australia'by
his parents at the end of 1852. He was reared
on his father’s farm near Maldon, Vic., and
privately educated. In 1870 he began work
at a Bendigo brewery, and for the next 17
.years was mainly employed in . that trade,
with short intervals during which he tried gold-
mining in- northern Queensland (1873-74) and
.farming at Benalla (1876-77). In 1887, when he
was part-owner' of a brewery at Queanbeyan,
lie determined to abandon the trade altogether
and take to journalism. From 1876 he had
been' writing' occasional verse and prose for
local newspapers,- and in 1882 he became a
contributor to The Bulletin. He bought a
newspaper at Lithgow which was a literary suc-
cess but a financial failure, edited a single-
tax journal, and from February, 1890, to
June, 1903, was a leader-writer on the staff
of the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” with an in-
terval during which he was editor. He died
on January 8, 1904.
* * * *
Some of the chief food items of the Hay diet ?
—6175.
Hay founds his dietetic methods on the theory
that proteins and starches should not be eaten
at the same meal. Starches, he says, need
alkaline conditions for their digestion, while
proteins require acid. The main principles of
the Hay, diet are that one should eat sparingly
and only when hungry, that none but nourishing
foods should be eaten, and that two foods
should not be eaten at the same time which
cannot easily be digested together.
* * * *
Is there at present any research being carried
out to find a permanent cure for Hodgkin’s
disease? What is the disease and its cause,
and where can successful treatment be
obtained ? —6llO.
Hodgkin’s disease is a grave disorder in
which great enlargement of a malignant nature
takes place in the lymphatic glands of the body.
Very little is known of its-causation. It may
occur at all ages, but is rare after 60. Men
are the subjects' twice as often as women.
The chief features are the glandular enlarge-
ment and severe anaemia. In treatment, arsenic
has been of great benefit in some cases, but
must be given in gradually increasing doses.
In cases where the enlargement has been con-
fined for some lengthy period to one group of
lymph glands, the patient has occasionally im-
proved after these have been removed by
operation, though relapses are likely. Treatment
by deep X-ray therapy has given promising re-
sults ; this may be obtained from specialists and
at certain large Australian hospitals. Re-
search'into the cause and treatment of the dis-
ease is sill proceeding.
*.•• * * *
Reason for the greying of human hair ? Any
connection with diet ?— 6216. ,
The greying of hair simply means that the
pigment which should impart the color to the
hair shafts is no longer being produced. Snow-
white hair is believed to be due to the for-
mation of small air bubbles in .the hair shafts.
There is no evidence to show that the general
run of people turn grey any earlier now than
formerly, but. during the 1914-18 war it was
noted that many comparatively : young men
were so affected with comparative rapidity.
There seems to be no connection between diet
and grey hair in young people.
V
(1) Method of mounting paper maps on
cloth ? (2) Type of cloth and where obtain-
able? (3) Type of glue and where obtainable ?
—6209.
(1) Cloth is pinned .flat on large table, covered
thinly with the glue and paper map then laid
on, face up. Map is patted flat with brush
(clothesbrush will do), another sheet of paper
laid on and the whole carefully rubbed till
adhesion is complete. (2) Bookbinders’ cloth,
Ideal Agencies, Bond-street, Sydney. (3) Glue
pearls (Davis), from any oil and color men.
* ■ * * *
Where was Vince Blackburn born, and what
Australian championships did. he win? Where
is Blackburn now? —6257.
Blackburn was'born in Sydney. He won the
Australian bantamweight championship, from
Jack Jannesse in 1917, and lost .it to Jack
Green in 1920. Blackburn also won the feather-
weight title from Sid Godfrey by outpointing
him. on August 18, 1917, but Godfrey out-
pointed Blackburn when they again fought for
the featherweight championship on October 27,
1917. Blackburn; is licensee of the Bellevue
Hotel, Redfern, Sydney.
Information Supplied.
6202. —To find the date on which Easter will
fall in any year up to 1999: (1) Find the
remainder when the year is divided by four.
Call such remainder A. (2) Find the remainder
when the year of the century is divided by
seven. Call this remainder B. (3) Find the
remainder when the year of the century is
divided by 19. Multiply this remainder by 19,
add 24 (or subtract six) and again find the re-
mainder when the total is divided by 30. Call
this remainder C.. (4) Add together twice A,
four times B, six times C and three. Divide
this total by seven and call the remainder D.
(5) C and D added give the number of days
after March 22 on which Easter Sunday will
fall.—Will Dewdrop.
Brief Answers.
A.P.: A person domiciled in N.S.W. whose
total income from all sources during the year
ended June 30, 1939, did not exceed £lOO is
not liable for N.S.W. State income tax or un-
employment relief and social services taxes.
You state, however, that your income is £4
per week, and if that is the case you should
furnish returns of income to the. Dept, of Taxa-
tion, Sydney... .K.G.: (1) Efficient incubators
can be .obtained heated by either hot water or
hot air. Hot air appears ■ most popular. (2)
Communicate with Denhams, Ltd., or the
Poultry Farmers’ Co-op. Soc. —both of Roma-
street, Brisbane... .D.J.: Jascha Heifetz played
four numbers in “They Shall Have Music”
and a fifth was played with the accompaniment
of the children’s orchestra. They were ‘ Rondo
-Capriccioso,” by Saint,Saens, “Hora Staccato,
by Dinicu-Heifetz, “Estrellita,” by Ponce-
Heifetz, “Melodie,” by Tschaikowsky, and the
slow movement of Mendelssohn’s Concerto in
E Minor (accompanied by children’s orchestra).
.... J.P.: The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act
provides that where a pensioner has property
other than the home in which he permanently
resides the' rate of pension otherwise payable
shall be subject to a deduction of £1 for every
complete £lO. by which the net capital value
of the accumulated property exceeds £5O. .-50
in the savings bank will not affect the pension
rate in this case... .A.D.D.: Captain James
Cook, by Surgeon Rear-Admiral Muir
(13s. 6d.)... .T.M.: James Thomas Farrell, the
American author, was born at Chicago
’(U.S.A.) on February 27, 1904; son of J.
Francis and Mary Farrell, educated Chicago
Uni., married Dorothy Patricia Butler, of
Chicago, in April, 1931. He served as clerk,
American Railway Express Co. and cigar
store, filling-station attendant and part-time
newspaper reporter... .W.G.L.: (1) Install a
12-volt car generator driven at 1200 r.prn.
These are obtainable new from Invincible
Motors, Ltd., 53 . George-street, Sydney, for
£3 ss. (2) Any firm of car-wreckers in Brisbane
should be able to supply a second-hand one.
(3) The acid content of the battery should be
1220 (specific gravity), measured by a hy-
drometer (cost, 25.). (4) The charging rate can
be regulated, by the tnird or movable brush
on the generator, and should be kept to about
six amperes... .E.M.: Write Maritime Ser-
vices Board of N:S.W„ Circular Quay, Sydney.
V.S.B.: There is no scientific basis for your
conclusions... .G.M.H.R.Not a matter fol
this page J.K'.M.’: (1) It is a matter within
the discretion of the police. . Identification by
fingerprints has of recent years extended in
many directions- beyond that for the purpose
for which it was originally used, criminal
identification. (2) and (3) Yes, so far as they
may,be applicable... .E.D.: If, as you say, the
sawmill is “right in the town area” it is
assumed the town has a shire or municipal
authority, and, if so, it has power to deal with
the nuisance. You should in such case call the
attention of the local Inspector of Nuisances
to the matter. If there is no local authority
you might call the attention of the police to the
fact that the, conditions complained of con-
stitute “a common nuisance,” and they may
move in the matter... .G.O’C.: (1) It is
assumed that the filters referred to are of the
open-gravity type, and pressure is therefore
atmospheric at that point. Consequently the
hydraulic gradient at the commencement point
of the pipeline downstream of the filters cor-
responds with the top water level of the filter
beds. (2) Question implies that the pipeline in
places rises above the hydraulic gradient.
Strictly speaking, this cannot occur, and the
hydraulic characteristics of the whole line will
be composed of a number of varying hydraulic
gradients , which would have to be studied in
relation to 1 the rate of flow and the profile
of the pipeline. (3) Passage through filters will
lessen the pressure, the pressure loss for any
given flow increasing as the filters become
clogged... .W.J.H.: Would suggest you write to
either, of the firms of patent attorneys whose
business cards appear on page 20'of this issue.
The usual charge by reputable patent attorneys
is £5 ss. for obtaining a provisional protec-
tion, which lasts for nine months and can be
extended into a full 16 years’ patent at any
time during the period of protection at a cost
of from £23 to £25 E.M.D.: Try mixture
of hydrated lime, in the proportion of 81b.
per bag of cement used in the mixture... .J.A.:
Write to T. and G. Life Assurance, Colonial
Mutual Life, Australian Provincial Assurance,
and Mercantile Mutual Insurance, asking
whether they will quote for that particular
form of accident insurance policy M.P.:
The term “blood tonic” may mean anything or
nothing. You don’t say for what purpose
you want to use it. Sarsaparilla is of no use
in the treatment of psoriasis... .C. 8.: This con-
dition is often improved by X-ray therapy at
the hands of a specialist in the treatment; fail-
ing this the only hope of cure lies in opera-
tion C.M.8.: Use a good shampoo fre-
quently, washing away all soap afterwards,
drying the scalp well. Massage is also helpful.
A suitable lotion is: Salicylic acid four parts,
castor oil six, spirits of rosemary 50 and spirit
150 parts. If the hair is very dry the amount
of oil may be increased... .D.M.L.: The Holly-
wood 18-day diet is nothing but fasting with
expensive frills. The victims are permitted to
eat grapefruit, raw vegetables, Melba toast and
oranges; but this regimen provides only 600 or
700 calories (or heat units) per day, instead
of the 1000 or 1200 which are the minimum
number necessary to preserve health. The diet
is lacking in all the essential carbohydrates,
fats, minerals and vitamins and is a menace
to bodily well-being... .K.T.: Description
strongly suggests an enlargement of the prostate
gland which is not amenable to medical treat-
ment but requires surgical operation. Best
plan would be to consult a specialist in this
branch of surgery S.A.: Write to Dr. F. G,
Roberts or Dr. John D. Maude —both 135
Macquarie-street, Sydney C.C.: (1) A slight
loss of function, either muscular or in sensa-
tion, for which no physical cause, either in the
form of actual damage or disease of the nervous
system, can be found. (2) Treatment usually
takes the form of attempts to re-establish the
patient’s confidence. Nerve tonics are useful,
and good results have followed massage, hot-
air baths and light treatment... .R.D.: (1)
Foods must be selected which are most com-
pletely absorbed, and which leave little residue
or “roughage.” Too many green vegetables and
too much wholemeal bread must be avoided,
therefore, and rice, dry toast and minced meat
included in the diet. (2) Belladonna; but this
drug should be taken only under medical super-
vision.


JOObd
x
SJUH
SAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
-.r:ry
ms
v : '
«*
‘I 1 .
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
S P EC I FY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Wool Prices.
“Ghanam”: Australian wool prices
for the four months ended January 31
averaged 12.32 d. per pound, against
10 54d. last season, but there is a leeway
of over Id. to be made up to reach the
agreed average price.
The difference between Australian and
S’African prices is marked. Last year
S’Africa’s average greasy export price
was Bid. sterling—just on 10.6 d. Aus-
tralian—against the Australian average
of 10.3 d. S’Africa this season has re-
fused to enter fully into the Imperial
contract, and, though British buyers are
present and bid up to the rates ruling
for Australian wool, foreigners steadily
outbid them. In December U.S.A.
bought 22,483 bales, France 20,496 bales,
Japan 14,843 bales, Belgium 5243 bales,
the U.K. 3746 bales and Italy 3496 bales.
Holland and Norway also were in the
market.
From July to December the S’African
average for greasy —377,000 bales sold—
was llfd., S’African currency—roughly
equivalent to sterling which means
14d.A. per pound, or 1.68 d. per pound
above Australian appraised prices so far,
and more than id. above Imperial con-
tract rates. And S’African woolgrowers
get the whole of the id. over contract
rate and at once.
Australians will have to split any
margin their wool makes in foreign selling
with Great Britain, and wait for the
money till the end of the war and a bit
later, besides having a portion of their
current returns held up till the end of
the season. A dividend on retention
money may be available in July.
Sickness in Ewes.
“Bungaree”: If seasonal conditions
remain the same as at present losses are
likely among ewes due to lamb in
autumn. Bulky dry feed that would keep
them alive may be deficient in the pro-
tein to replace the demands made by the
lambs. Ewes need a welhbalanced
ration.
Bulk i.n the shape of scrub or hay and
protein-rich concentrates —grain or meat-
or bloodmeal are necessary. Sheep
nuts or grain alone will keep sheep alive,
but are not suited to the animals’ diges-
tion.
Dry grass will fill the sheep, but there
it little or no nutriment in it, and unless
this is supplemented the ewe is unable
to nourish the lamb she is carrying ex-
cept by a tremendous drain on her own
constitution. This is one of the chief
causes of pregnancy The
symptoms are that the ewes wander
away singly and appear dopey and take
little notice of dogs or men. Signs of
paralysis develop, and the ewes go down
and eventually die. In its early stages
the disease may be arrested by dosing
with 2oz. Epsom salts and -|lb. molasses
dissolved in warm water, but nothing can
be done in the later stages.
Protein supplement feeding should
begin six-eight weeks before lambing is
due. Good lucerne hay can make a sound
ration, but with dry grass a protein
concentrate will give best results. Four
ounces meatmeal has a protein value
equal to lib. of bran or nearly of
oats, wheat or maize.
Grass tetany or lambing sickness is
often confused with pregnancy toxaemia,
but it is caused by a sudden lime de-
ficiency in the blood. It is more likely
to occur in flush seasons. In this case,
also, prevention should be aimed at by
supplying sheep with a lick containing
lime and phosphorus. Salt plus dicalcic
phosphate fills the bill better than any-
thing else. This lick is also recommended
for any sheep on dry grass, and will
help considerably when used in con-
junction with, although fed separately to,
the protein ration outlined for pregnancy
toxaemia.
Beef at the R.A.S.
“Mookau”: The beef cattle section at
Sydney Show this time will be smaller
than last year—ss2 against 599. The
demand for breeding stock has increased
and is heavier than it has been for years.
Many studmasters who were wondering
a year or two ago whether there would
be any business at all have had to re-
“ Well, so long, Jim.”
“So long, Bill”
duce their exhibits to meet the urgent
needs of stations.
Quality of entries will be high. Of
the exhibitors of the last war period
a few are left. The Whitney Pastoral
Co., Carcoar (N.S.W.), is the pioneer of
them all. High-class beef Shorthorns
have been on the property since the
twenties of last century, when it was a
grant to Thomas Iceley, whose imported
Rodney, bred by Lord Althorp, was one
of the first authenticated stud Shorthorns
in Australia. He later imported the
famous Bates-bred Duke of Cambridge
(3637), which was one of the classic team
to fight it out with the Booths at the
Cambridge Royal in 1840.
Among the established breeders repre-
sented will be K-ikiamah, Binnia Downs,
Nalpa (S.A.) and A. J. Simpson, of
Clifton (Vie.), who now ranks among the
world’s greatest producers of Shorthorn
blood. D. R. McCaughey has an im-
posing team —13 sons of Calrossie Red
Baronet (imp.) among them —and Peel
River is sending down an imposing lot
from Goonoo Goonoo, including Abbots-
lea Maid, which has won the R.A.S.
female championship for the past two
years.
Polled Shorthorn classes have 40
entries. J. T. Scrymgeour, the blind
Digger breeder of Warwick (Q.), who
exhibited from Callandoon at the Queens-
land National before he enlisted, has
entered seven of the offspring of his
imported American champion, Red
Victor.
The Hereford entries number 171.
The Reynolds families —Hobartville and
Glendarra who have been breeding
since the ’forties, will have well-stocked
stalls. Mrs. Biddlecombe, Golf Hill, Vic-
toria, the greatness of whose herd was
built on judicious buying of Hobartville
stock, followed by able breeding and
careful infusion of some of the world’s
best imported blood, will again be a com-
petitor. J. A. Beattie, who moved to
N. S. Wales from Gisborne (Vic.), and
who judged the entry last year, has a
team; also the pioneer Van Diemen’s
Land Company. Mrs. U. M. Hordern,
Milton Park, is sending an outstanding
exhibit of polls.
The Angus classes are small, but
backed as usual by old supporters of
the classes —Norman Forster, H. Gor-
don Munro and -Trangie Experiment
Farm.
Sales should be interesting in view of
the improving demand.
A Bushfire Plan.
“Rina”: During last spring and early
summer the NSW Riverina had heavv
summer the N.b.W. Riverina had heavy
rains. Result was an abnormal growth
of grass and weeds over many thousands
of acres. When this began to dry off
fires, which broke out in several places,
swept through the dry grass, destroying
homesteads, fencing, farm buildings and
stoc k*
Bushfire brigades formed in country
districts have done good work. But all
the schemes for dealing with fires seem
to begin after the fire has started, the
pre-fire preventive plans apparently being
confined to inviting people not to drop
lighted matches or leave campfires alight,
Property-owners are urged to burn or
plough breaks, but the work is left to
the discretion of the landowner. There
have been cases where breaks on one
property have been the cause of damage
on others.
The matter is one for a district body
which in late spring should plan fire-
breaks right across the area, with due
regard to prevailing winds and the lay-
out of similar breaks in adjoining dis-
tricts. By a link-up of such breaks a
whole section of the State could be in
a position to check any outbreak.
If a shire had running across it, say
at intervals of a mile, strips of ploughed
or otherwise grassless land not less than
a chain wide, and linked up with a
similar system in adjoining shires, no
fire could get away. Where the strip
crossed freehold or leased land, owner
or lessee should make it, the Crown to
carry it o.n through Crown lands, and
so on. A very small acreage levy would
meet all costs. Then, with the supple-
mentary breaks to be found on most
properties, there would be an end to the
reports of 200,000 acres burnt out such
as came from Wagga district.
In cities fire regulation is strict; in
the country, where fires are harder to
confine, there is need for even stricter
control.
“Ghanam”: Maoriland has inspection
legislation in operation to prevent the
export of inferior sheep to Australia, but
the law is full of holes. No provision
is made for unregistered sheep. The
British Breeders’ Society in Australia has
been trying to tighten up the position
at th f s end b / askil ?S for a duty of £2
per sheep not carr y in S a Maonland ex-
certificate. It would be a fair thing.
* « The hazards that man and ships must
undergo to carry goods on sea voyages
are putting freight rates up to fantastic
levels.” Thus T. H. Bath in the Westralian
“p r i mary Producer.” He points out that
a f re ight rate of 555. per ton equals
Is. 5.68 d. per bushel; 105 s. per ton equals
2s. 9.75 d. per bushel; 1355. per ton equals
3 S . 7.39 d. per bushel; 140 s. per ton equals
3s. 9d. per bushel; 150 s. per ton equals
4s. per bushel.
“Derrimut”: The difficulties under
which outbackers labor in keeping up
herd standards is instanced by trans-
port arrangements being made for a con-
signment of valuable Turanville (N.S.W.)
sires which are on their way to Anna
Plains, in north-west W.A., near Broome,
The youngsters—all yearlings—are being
carefully trained for several weeks to
make them docile in strange conditions,
They will come 200 miles by rail to


$
WV/
>
2933.
Ideal for Hard Country Wear
LS 1 br ° gued Shoe made with imported Scotch Zebu Leather. Heavy
übie sole and welted heel with good quality leather back linings.
Mocked in full and half sizes in medium fittings. PRICE 42/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.’’
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Land Men /
Don t be worried about Income Tax
The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts y the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking— Wages Page 39
Rations •••••»... jg
Sheep bought .... ’’on
Wire netting ] [ [ | | ] | | | ” gj
and so on. ”
There is a page for every item.
rvr . Wh « n completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
U Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
TTuT^tTilleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Commonwealth
Cov’ment Action
“BETTER-THAN-EVER”
Empire Tobacco, devel-
oped by the Common-
wealth and State Gov-
ernments, makes our
Tobacco BETTER
THAN EVER.
Empire grown Tobacco is better
than ever because of the new
agricultural and scientific methods
developed by our Governments,
which have helped the Farmers
grow finer, better Tobacco.
WE ARE THE
MANUFACTURERS
Order your Tobacco
DIRECT FROM US
at practically half the price you pay
elsewhere.
With orders over £1 in all lines a
Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder
is included.
PIPE TOBACCO AND FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild .. .. .. c/3
All British, mild . . .. .. 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . .. .. 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . .. .. 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . .. .. 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild .. .. 6/9
Soliders’ Own, mild . . .. 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. 7/0
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong . „ .. .. 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium .. .. .. 8/-
Eatakia, in pipe only .. .. 10/-
White Bodge, medium . . 10/-
White Bodge, light .. 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium .. .. .. 10/9
Union Beader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Beaf, medium .. .. n/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only .. 6/-
PBUG TOBACCOS
“Clinker,” plug mild .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium .. .. .. 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” .. .. .. 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug .. .. ... 6/6
Zig Zag Papers. 5 Packets for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSBAND ONBY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
Combined Growers,
COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
Sydney; then do 2450 miles by ship
to Fremantle. An 800-mile walk will
take them to Anna Plains, where there
are 13,000 head of Shorthorns owned
by Macansh Estates. The youngsters
are sired by Pendley Viceroy (imp.), 1935
Sydney Show champion. A breed which
can stand up to this sort of thing and
still breed good exportable meat scarcely
needs zebu infusion to make it fit for
the tropics.
‘E.M.”: The bulrush, which has be-
come a nuisance in the channels in most
irrigation areas, has been receiving some
attention from the C.S. and I.R. Sprays,
soil poisons and ordinary cutting have
proved useless. The C.S. and I.R. remedy
involves cutting the stems under water
at intervals, and not allowing them to
reach the air. Patrols keep bank-growth
down once the main crop has been
“drowned.” Murrumbidgee has 2000
miles of channels to be handled—about
half originally badly infested but the
original £15,000 which it cost to deal with
the “cumbungi,” as the weed is locally
called, has been reduced to £3OOO.
“A.L.”: Drought after drought and
repeated efforts to carry stock on grass-
less country have led to the deaths of
countless mulga trees out Cunnamulla
and Thargomindah (Q.) way. Graziers
relied on mulga to see their flocks
through when all else failed. Now it
looks as if it has gone back on them
over a large territory, for there are
miles of country with dead tree stumps.
Some evils follow in the train of the
loss of mulga. One is the loss of shade
when the sun is fierce ; another, loss of
protection from raging duststorms;
and the tendency to create areas of stony
surface through soil erosion,
“Tnmn otvor”. n * • 1 *
of X l l! r^uw?^° St f ° rmS
to 24/^/’4ru b K lt t a +L < !f nger ? US
t n h h i 4/ i 4( £’ thistle-root-
*bow one h ,hln t m
t h e avera ; .P 0 10,00 9 baits being
t chan " Q occasional horse if
Re. mf e l th^ of ,oaded
baits. Results, especially in hot summer
months when grass is short and dry,
are eminently satisfactory. In thick
rabbit country 500 baits have knocked
as high as 480 bunnies—one run only,
Another advantage is that thistle-root
bait is potent months later, following a
heavy dew or shower of rain. Poisoning,
however, is in any event only a check
to bunny.
“Ex-V.”: Hoary cress bane of the
victorian Wimmera, is showing up in
NS - W - especially round Corowf and to
a i esser extent on the M j A _ A <jeep-
rooting perennial, it is as serious a threat
to wheat land as skeleton weed, and
isolated plants should be pounced on at
once. Hoary cress is easily recognised
by its leathery-looking, dull-green leaves
and the white flowers that cover it in
spring. Crop rotation, use of quick-
growing and tall-strawed wheats, and
lucerne in the last rotation will hold it
where infestation is already thick. On
the fruit block a crop of irrigated lucerne
will beat it, and isolated plants can be
dug or poisoned. Crossbreds will keep
it down where it is mixed with lucerne
and other grasses,
“A.A.D.”- Means for the effective
C °" ,rol o£ leaf mildew ’ a S
affecting glasshouse tomatoes in N.S.W.,
has been determined after a two years’
investigation, in which 30 houses were
kept under observation. Best results
were with a spray combining sodium-
salicylic-annilide. Fortnightly spraying
after planting gave almost complete pro-
tection, extended the picking time by
three to four weeks and increased yields
of fruit by 50 p.c. to 60 p.c. The net
profit amounted to approximately £4O
per standard house.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
A method of calculating number of tons in
haystack of meadow hay when two months in
stack; also cubic feet to the ton? —62ol.
Multiply length by breadth and the result by
the height from the ground to eaves added to
half the perpendicular height of eaves to ridge.
For stacks with round ends, the length should
be measured from points at the middle of the
curve at both ends. For round stacks the
diameter should be squared and multiplied by
11-14ths, and this again multiplied by the
height. The result in each case will be the
number of cubic feet in the stack. The number
of cubic feet per ton will vary according to the
quality of hay and its stage of maturity and
whether in sheaf or loose, and according to
the height of stack and the period the stack
has been built. For average-quality hay under
average conditions, meadow hay which has
been stacked for two months would require
400 cubic feet to be allowed per ton if loose
and 350 cubic feet per ton if in sheaf. »
Outback Occupations.
No. VIII.
GROWING CURRANTS.
To grow currants, all that is necessary
is to put up a lot of fences across a
paddock and tie some currant vines on
to them. In the winter the grower goes
round with a pair of nippers and cuts
all the shoots off the vines. This is done
because he has realised that the things
are no good, and that if he doesn’t cut
them they’ll be all over the paddock, and
he won’t be able to grow any green peas
between the rows of fences. But cur-
rants are hardy weeds, and by spring
they are all out in leaf again. The
grower cunningly waits until the fruit is
forming on the bunches, then he goes
round with a sharp knife and ringbarks
every vine on the place.
Staggered by this treatment from one
whom they had come to regard as a
friend, the currants pause and consider
their position. Then the local water
ganger comes along and tells the grower
he’ll “have t’ take the water.” This
doesn’t mean going to Moree for the
mineral baths, but that the Irrigation
Department, having more water than it
knows what to do with, is determined
to flood its surplus on to this particular
grower. To get rid of the flood quickly
the grower runs furrows down the pad-
dock, and down them the water runs
and flows out on to the road at the bot-
tom, so that the shire-council roller can
get bogged and its driver have a couple
of days off till the road dries off. Thus
is the Irrigation Department’s plan foiled
and the grower fined for allowing water
to run on to a shire road. As he feel-
ingly remarks, “What did they want me
t’ do? Drink it?”
But the effect of the water on the
currants offsets all the grower’s previous
efforts to destroy them, for their roots
suck up the water with such haste that
it forces the bark to grow over the cinc-
tures, and before anybody can do any-
thing the paddock is a riot of currant
vines, their green-clad canes waving in
all directions. The poor grower becomes
desperate, seizes a heavy knife and starts
hacking his way up and down the rows.
It now becomes obvious to him that
the only thing to do is pick the ripe cur-
rant bunches, dry them off, and send
them to the market.
There is an invasion of people known
as pickers. He hires a few and leads
them out to the currants. Before he
starts he warns them not to go mad and
start eating the grapes. He knows they
are sweet, but their effect on the intes-
tinal organs of people not used to them
is drastic. But the pickers know him
for the mingy cow he is, and see quickly
that the warning is issued because he is
too tight to let a poor worker have a few
grapes. As soon as he is out of sight
there is a concerted rush, and the pickers
feast royally on the lovely black bunches.
Presently, gorged, they begin to pick
a few bunches and drop them in the tin
buckets provided.
It is hot and the water-bag in demand.
About 4 p.m. odd pickers begin to look
white about the gills, others twist their
faces up and make queer noises, still
others make sudden rushes into the dis-
tance. Next morning only one per cent,
turn up for work. The others —well, the
grower grins to himself, knowing that
before long the rest of the physical
wrecks will waver up with sheepish looks
and start picking again.
Having been picked, the currants must
now be dried. The stickler for detail
will want to know how they became
wet, but that’s beside the point, which is
that they have to be dried. To do this
the grower builds a thing like a birdcage,
only, instead of sides, it has the netting
in tiers horizontally. It is called a rack,
probably because it is here that the
grower is found in tears both horizon-
tally and perpendicularly, and on it the
currants are spread.
After a time, provided there has been
no ram, or storms, or high winds, or a
fall of snow, the currants are dry. Now
comes the climax, the wild hour of glory,
the setpiece up to which all this effort
has been leading. Down come the hes-
sian side walls, the grower and his helpers
line up along each side of the rack. At
a sudden word they hurl themselves at
the netting, fasten prehensile fingers in
it, and shake and worry like dogs with
an old coat. Dead currants, long past
all resentment at human brutality, fly in
all directions. The jerking netting tears
off fingers and whiskers, but the attackers
are now berserk, and will not stop until
the last currant is down, and all that is
left of that splendid harvest of sun and
soil are a few withered stalks hanging in
the netting as the sad skeletons once
hung at the old crossroads.
But the work isn’t finished. The cur-
rants are raked up in heaps and shov-
elled feverishly into wide wooden boxes.
These are called “sweat” boxes, prob-
ably because it takes two strong men to
lift them, and because the dead currants
jammed into them immediately begin to
ferment. So the grower rushes them to
the packing-shed, the next stage in their
journey to the currant bun, and retires
to his fastness to gloat over the money
he is to receive—perhaps.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
A Melbourne man, who writes interestingly on the difficult subject of criminals,
gets the double-rates award this week.
Criminals, Bom and Made
It is heartening to see Bulletin para-
graphists taking up the cudgels for a
more sane system of criminal control
and punishment.
The general public is being fed on the
syrup that there is no such thing as a
born criminal. Such a conclusion is
tragically incorrect. Over half of our
prisoners, and perhaps all of our
habitual criminals, were actually born
criminals. They are men to whom
heredity has left a bequest of violent
anti-social tendencies and who would
break the law, whatever it might be, in
any land. You cannot reform them, for
they were not properly formed in the
first place. Although it is necessary
that society be protected from them, it
is even more important that they be pro-
tected from society. They need some
congenial institution or simple environ-
ment where they can be kept under
trained supervision. Many sex offenders,
who could never be cured, come into
this category of born criminals.
The other type of criminal is made,
and not born. He is an offender against
the criminal code, a victim of bad en-
vironment, which often exists in the
wealthiest of homes. The occasions of
crime for juveniles range from too much
money and too much parental regard
to abject poverty and utter neglect. Most
“made” criminals can be traced back to
a delinquent childhood—in the life of
every one of them there was a time
when correct treatment could have
averted the fall.
The idea of abolishing most punish-
ment for crime seems absurd, but in
America it is slowly being realised that
prevention is the cure for crime. In
many States, the police, aid societies,
psychologists and psychiatrists are work-
ing hand in hand, and the results are
amazing.— Pip (Vic.).
“Pip” is T. J. Dwyer, of Park-street,
Parkville (Vic.).
“N.B.G”
Robbery under arms is comparatively
rare today because it is a fool’s game.
Yet the robbing can still be done with
less risk, just as efficiently, and without
any threat of violence.
Having done a job of work for a
gentleman largely endowed with person-
ality, I was “paid” with a cheque which
was dishonored at the bank. “Very annoy-
ing,” I said to the teller. “What should
I do about it?” “Forget it,” was the
sage advice offered. “Unless you really
want to get rid of real money. So far
you’ve lost only time and energy.”
Then I met a detective friend and
stated my case to him. “What’s the best
procedure?” I asked. “Grin and bear
it,” said the man of experience. “Use
more care in future if you can, but it
won’t pay you to make a case of it.”
Getting on the ’phone, I tried to warn
a couple of competitors in the same line
as myself, but found that they had
already been bitten. “What are you
doing about it?” I plaintively queried,
and got the same reply from both in
almost identical terms: “Letting it slide.
We’re too poor and too busy to follow
it up.”
I made general inquiries and found
that dud cheques are fairly frequent if
not legal tender. Counterfeit notes and
coins are frowned upon by the law, but
the victim of the artful dodger armed
with a cheque-book has to do his own
expensive frowning. Why?— Twice Shy
(S.A.).
Sport and Physical Fitness
Once Governments urged us to be-
come intelligent and to take an interest
in the affairs of the country and its gov-
ernment. Now they print on the back
of the pay envelopes exhortations to
become physically fit as a-national duty.
The old, old one about a sound mind
and a healthy body is trotted out for
platitudinous repetition on every occasion,
appropriate or inappropriate.
While we are being implored to be-
come muscle-bound megalomaniacs for
the sake of the race at large, it is worth
while stopping to consider a few points
about this sudden frenzy for sport in
relation to the affairs of the nation.
We find, for instance, that the glory
that was Greece is remembered, not in
her classic athletes but in her culture as
represented by men like Sophocles and
Socrates, who probably hadn’t the slight-
est idea of how to run the Marathon
course or how to throw a discus. Again,
I am told that Napoleon was so puny
physically that he couldn’t fire a musket
and that he rode through St. Bernard
on a donkey because he was not able
to ride a spirited horse over the rough
way. Kant, another writer reminds me,
was a hunchback, Beethoven was deaf
and Lord Byron was a cripple.
To me, this sudden emphasis upon the
physical seems wrong. This is a moment
when we want our mental faculties at
their best, and it is doubtful if sport
does bring them high. There are, of
course, the examples of men like Nansen
and Noel Baker, who were great athletes
as well as great thinkers. They, however,
took sport as a recreation and not as
a fetish. —J.B. (Q.).
The Little Fleas
A lifetime spent in commerce con-
vinces me that the amount of blood
sucked per capita of population by the
more spectacular parasites (surplus Par-
liaments, departmental waste, etc.) is not
half so great as that mopped up by the
legions of unnamed and invisible spon-
gers-on-trade, whose percentage and
variety would astound the uninformed.
I know that a large credit-clothing
firm writes off a sum running to four
figures monthly for bad accounts. The
bigger lines of hire purchase (furniture,
pianos, etc.) tell the same tale ad
nauseam. Many such accounts to a con-
siderable value are opened with an airy
casualness that never visualises finality.
When they follow their inevitable course
the goods are either sent back or repos-
sessed in a deplorable state, while legal
processes bring little redress from the
knaves and the fools who had no right
to embark on the transaction at all.
Another human insect that helps to
inflate overhead expenses is “Mrs. Fly-
high,” whose “on-approval” experiments
(due either to caprice or week-end visi-
tors) leave the trader with deteriorated
rugs, coffee tables, eiderdowns and what
not on his hands. The brazen exploita-
tion of the “customer is always right”
myth by this type of woman has to be
seen to be believed.
Other wheezes and shabby ingenuities
might be quoted, but the straight-out un-
paid account, large and small, is the most
widespread and pestilential bramble of
the lot. A heart-to-heart talk with any
trader, from the emporium manager to
the widow in a suburban “mixed,”
will reveal the load that they and their
good customers carry among them.
Worst in this line is the feckless house-
wife who runs big bills with baker,
butcher, grocer and milkman to the last
ounce of credit (any hard-luck excuse
backed by fervent promises serves her
turn), and then transfers her “custom”
to another victim when she has used
that one up.
If business could be relieved of its
suckers, the present margins between
wholesale and retail prices could be cut,
and with lower retail prices more money
would be available for commodities that
lie just beyond our present reach. Profits
would not be affected, since losses would
be cut, and the extra spending power
would give industries a fillip.—Washing-
ton (Vic.).
Price Fixation
I cannot understand why people have
been gulled by that hollow mockery the
Prices Fixation Commission. The com-
mission aims to retain prices at the pitch
before the war. That is, if a firm made
£lOO profit on sales before the war, it
is allowed to raise prices until it is again
making £lOO profit. In other words, the
system does not stand for fair prices, but
the retention of old and unfair prices.
Last year I saw a list of prices quoted
to the Government for materials. Over
50 p.c. was allowed off listed prices on
some articles, and few were under 10 p.c.
discount. The firm is still making a fair
profit at that price or it obviously
wouldn’t sell, so what percentage profit
is it making from the general public?
Lately, at concession rates, I saved
30 p.c. on lubrication oil and tyres, but
wholesale rates were cheaper still. Hun-
dreds of examples of artificial prices exist,
but the public has to stand for them,
in the process building up exorbitant
profits for businessmen and middlemen.
Control of prices is eminently desirable.
At a bank 4 p.c. is fair interest, so why
allow more for business? Let us have
an active Prices Investigation Committee
to go into prices from the point of
view of cost of production, and to allow
only a fair percentage of profit. If there
have to be middlemen, let them remain,
but grant only a fair percentage to them,
too.
Prices control would bring about better
conditions, leave money and employment
stable and deal a shrewd blow to ex-
ploitation and profiteering. — Rufus Joe
(N.S.W.).
Government by Regulation
Last October the Queensland Parlia-
ment passed an Act dealing with various
aspects of transport. This February
regulations were issued. They contain
an amazing clause which is, in effect, a
resolution by the State Transport Com-
mission that the Act made by Parliament
didn’t go far enough, so the commission
is extending its operation to classes of
vehicles not contemplated by Parliament.
The fact that the commission is a
very junior one adds to the enormity
of the position. Obviously Parliament
botched its job. Indeed, the frequency
with which Acts are amended and regu-
lations are issued by irresponsibles is
striking evidence of the lack of fore-
sight on the part of the gentlemen to
whom we are expected to look for
wisdom in the conduct of the affairs of
the country.— Benn (Q.).
Subsidies
It’s about time Australia recognised the
danger of subsidies. Surely it is not diffi-
cult to realise that the dependence of
private enterprise upon the goodwill of
the State can end only in disaster to both.
Australia has developed a dangerously
extravagant outlook towards industry. In
other countries private enterprise gives
the lead to the State on many an occa-
sion ; but in Australia private industry'
will act only with backing from the
Government. Industry, therefore, is re-
tarded while the business world kicks its
heels in Governmental ante-rooms hoping
for choice plums to drop into its lap.
We are faced, in consequence, with a
ridiculous situation. Some industries are
receiving bounties ; others set up a clamor
for this money which is being so mag-
nanimously tossed about. Ships will no
doubt be forthcoming when the Govern-
ment is prepared to trot out the necessary
subsidy.
Have the times passed when men of
courage and enterprise would dare
failure and start out for themselves in
a chosen profession? If this is so, it
is time for the Government to foster
financial expansion along proper chan-
nels without developing the habit of
costly subsidising.— Kia-ora (N.S.W.).
A.B.C. Concerts
As one of the million-odd who pay
21s. p.a. for the privilege of listening to
A.B.C. broadcasts, I protest against the
scraps which are doled out to listeners
from the Commission’s visiting artists’
public recitals. Why not permit holders
of licenses free entry to the concerts?
It’s our brass that is paying for it. —
Valerin (N.S.W.).
Contributions Wanted
I hasten (if belatedly) to assure “Zend-
Avesta” that all editors in England are
not like the one he mentions (B.
6/12/’39) whose paper’s policy is to re-
fuse all matter “submitted by foreign
or Empire writers.” The “Trident,”
London, welcomes Empire writers, and
the average monthly issue contains 20
to 25 p.c. of overseas matter.
The following mild grouse may also
help would-be contributors to English
journals. Too many send MS. which is
so dirty, dog’s-eared and generally be-
draggled that it has obviously been the
rounds of every paper in its “country of
origin” before being shot out on the last
forlorn-hope flight to England. Mere
sight of it is enough to make an editor
retch and/or reach for a disinfectant
and a declined slip.
Others plainly have never seen the
mag. they are shooting at, because what
they send is often entirely off the re-
quired beat. Others again, having heard
of a mag. in England accepting overseas
material, appear to collect a whole heap
of ancient mariner rejects and push them
off together in a wad big enough to choke
a horse. Most blandly ignore the normal
stamped return envelope; or those who
regret no British postage stamps avail-
able don’t know that their own P.O.
could supply an Imperial Reply Coupon
for the few pence needed.— Boyd Cable
(London).
Censorship
It is characteristic of every British
country that war-time censorship pro-
duces many anomalies and much dis-
satisfaction. yet the good sense of the
people makes them realise that, however
distasteful such proceedings may be, they
are necessary.
But surely it’s not expecting too much
for Australia and M.L. to co-operate
over such a vital matter? If the censors
don’t know then it’s time they realised
that there are thousands of Maorilanders
in Australia and vice versa. Moreover,
with many ties of kinship between the
two Dominions it is obvious that a large
number of the publications of one
country are sent to the other. In addition,
quite a number of journals command a
large sale in each Dominion. This state
of affairs would lead one to suppose
that identical rules of censorship would
apply in each case. They don’t.
Certain things that happened in Aus-
tralia were published in papers circulating
in M.L. but printed in Australia. But
M.L.’s own papers were not allowed to
print a line. Again, M.L. papers have
printed details that have been censored
in the Commonwealth.
It’s time effective co-ordination of the
censorship in the two countries was
established. If the matter can be released
in one place then it is obvious that it
can convey no more information to the
enemy by being released elsewhere. —
F.R.A.S. (M.L.).
What Price Peace?
This war had no sooner started than
British Left-wing intellectuals became
feverishly busy devising plans for ever-
lasting peace. The proposals range from
the grandiose concept of a World-State
down to an international police force.
A IJnited States of Europe backed by a
Supreme Court seems to be the favorite.
With touching unanimity the peace-
planners insist on a free and happy Ger-
many. The injustices of Versailles, it is
emphasised, must not be repeated. •
The Treaty of Versailles, which all
now seem united to condemn —often with
small knowledge of its contents—-freed
some four-fifths of the minorities of
Europe. The war-guilt clause rightly
brought home to Germany the respon-
sibility for the war. Granted that the
indemnities forced on Germany were
excessive, they, with the arms-limitation
clause, reduced her for the time to
military impotence.
And is not this the objective of the
present war? It seems to me that the
basis for an enduring peace must rest
on another Treaty of Versailles, no less
harsh in its conditions and more ruthless
in its insistence on their fulfilment. If
a free and strong Germany is incom-
patible with the continued existence of
the British Empire, with the peace of
France and the freedom of Poland and
Czechoslovakia, then let there be no free
and strong Germany.—C. A. B. (Q.).
Who Dunnit?
Who made the decision that canteens
in military camps should be dry? I know
many politicians, and very few of them
are teetotallers. My knowledge of
generals is more limited, but I have never
yet met a military man of high rank who
would knock back a whisky and soda.
The Defence Act permits wet canteens,
so there must be a mystery somewhere.
The Diggers might be able to get their
beer now that several padres have issued
a statement in favor of wet canteens. —
Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Easy Money
The cost of this war is going to soar
to astronomical figures, and every known
avenue of taxation will be exploited to
the full. The following list suggests a
way whereby a few cool millions may
be gathered without hurting the ordinary
everyday citizen.
All talkie blurb emanating from Holly-
wood regarding child prodigies, matri-
monial mix-ups, fake-jewel robberies and


the like to pay a surcharge of one shil-
ling per inch.
Daily newspapers, weeklies and maga-
zines which run bathing-beauty contests
to be required to lodge with the Com-
missioner of Taxation a sum equal to the
first prize and, in addition, to pay a royalty
of five shillings for every half-witted,
near-naked moron’s photograph they
publish.
Cocktail-party celebrants to pay an en-
tertainment tax of half a crown per head,
with double rates if the affair is reported
in the social columns.
All stunt weddings, whether celebrated
in aeroplanes, speedboats, motor-buses,
on speedway tracks, roller skates or
motor-bikes, to be charged at the rate of
fifty pounds per performance.
Russian Ballets, colored pugs, wrest-
ling-mat fakirs and overseas musicians
to pay half their takings into the Com-
monwealth War Chest.
Astrologers to take out annual
licenses; charge, £lO. Horoscopes, charts
of the Zodiac and weather predictions by
the stars, etc., to be rated at ten shillings
per thousand words. — Melton (Vic.).
Women at Work
In most occupations men are more
proficient than women; the ladies hold
their positions only because their labor
is cheaper to buy than men’s. Give
them equal wages and out they will go.
No one but a moron would deny that
woman’s ultimate occupation is mother-
hood, and leading gynaeocologists like Dr.
Halliday Sutherland attribute the falling
birthrate in some measure at least to
the early lives of the nation’s potential
mothers. The majority of occupations,
especially the sedentary ones, are con-
ducive to a degree of sterility which is
alarming when viewed proportionately.
A few carefully drafted clauses in a
statute would be enough to end the rot
in this part of society. Unless we do, we
shall ultimately see childless homes with
hubby cooking the dinner; and, God
knows, I know of a few homes like that
already.— Taurus (Vic.).
U.S.A. and Australia
There is no need for America to take
Australia (B. 21/2/’4O). She has already
taken it. The latest fashion is for local
press lords to go about with “body-
guards.” In Sydney Domain circles
Judge Rutherford is the New Messiah.
Our ravishing maidens have all become
models of the Garboesque or the Diana
Dustbin technique. The cocktail is our
national beverage and the Wild West is
the spiritual home of every young Aus-
tralian under 15.
In the old days, I dare say, many
young Australians had soaring ambitions
to become pioneers; now the height of
their ambition is to rival Mickey
Rooney on the screen. In time past every
fond Australian mother hoped that her
little daughter would grow up both vir-
tuous and domesticated. Nowadays the
fond mother hopes that her daughter will
never grow up at all, because it prevents
mother from passing herself off as a per-
petual girl.
The truth of the matter is that the
spiritual home of most Australians is the
land of Uncle Sam, and the Australian,
in place of having a family, adopts an
American motor-car. — Hi-di-ho (N.S.W.).
Guinea Mudpacks
The modern boom in synthetic beauty
must be one of the richest Tom Tiddler s
grounds in commerce. If the Govern-
ment were to follow recent American
legislation and compel manufacturers to
publish the ingredients of their wonder-
working lotions, creams, etc., perhaps the
bubble of dizzy prices would be pricked.
One firm’s catalogue of what a woman
must have to defend her skin, hair, facial
contour, hands, neck, etc., against the
contingencies of everyday life and keep
at the peak in grooming makes astonish-
ing reading. A supply of the lines stipu-
lated, even buying the smallest packages,
would run out at approximately £3 10s.,
while the unfortunate possessor of blem-
ishes or a “mature and ageing skin”
would have to add 50 p.c. to that figure.
So long as formulae remain trade secrets
it is almost impossible to expose the
truth about these inflated prices. Any
chemist, however, must know that lash-
ings of witch-hazel, almond oil and
glycerine, with sundry dashes of this and
that and a soupfon of some distinguish-
ing perfume, must be passing over coun-
ters . at 20 times their value. It would
be interesting to know what particular
ingredient in any jar of face-cream can
justify the price of half a guinea.
The quarrel is not with woman’s
natural desire to make the most of her
appearance, bless her heart, nor with the
equally natural wish to protect herself
by eschewing the “cheap and nasty.” But
the better lines are obviously marketed
with an eye to the long purses of the rich,
the fears of the less-rich and the foolish
glamor propaganda that has been subtly
built up during the last two decades.
Compulsory revelation of ingredients
would throw some needed light on the
whole business. — Tinmuch (S.A.).
A Political Truce
It is a pity that even now, when a war
effort is required and greater trials lie
ahead, Australia hasn’t a semblance of
political unity. Since the war began, our
rulers have found the usual paltry things
to argue about, and the same old drivel
goes on, plus the same old monetary
wastage. Victoria, for instance, is to have
a general election over some mysterious
rift in the Country party. There is even
talk of another Country party!
When England was faced with grave
internal trouble nearly 10 years ago, a
National Government was created, and
members forgot partisanship in a supreme
endeavor to master the crisis. The re-
sulting national recovery was only
another proof that union is strength.
Surely we have men, Federal and State,
big enough to join hands “for the dura-
tion” and devote themselves to non-
party government until spacious days
are with us again.— Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Wake Up, Labor
“Paul Pilgrim” (B. 24/1/’4O) over-
looks the real trouble with Labor. Any
party is only as good as its leaders. To-
day Aussie Labor has not the inspiring
leadership of former years. Hence the
rank and file have lost that punch that
was so much to the fore years ago.
Leaders today are more concerned with
petty fights for power than in carrying
on the duties of an active Opposition.
Contrast the present M.L. and Aussie
Labor parties to see the difference of
personality. Whether one agrees with
their policy or not is beside the point,
for even opponents concede that the
present M.L. leaders have the manly
equivalent of what the flapper press calls
“It!” But the Aussie leaders wouldn’t
raise a cheer, or even a boo.
Probably Labor in M.L. will have the
same lesson, since success always brings
in its train faction fights that in the old
days of adversity were under control.
Such fights invariably occur under un-
inspiring leadership.— Tinopai (M.L.).
“Cook the Blasted Tea!”
Unk White’s cartoon “Come home and
cook the blasted tea!” (B. 14/2/’4O) hit
the nail fair on the head.
Doubtless the slush dished up for women
in the flapper press has largely contributed
to the notion that every woman finds
the home “too narrow a background for
her crowded interests.” Certainly the
“no-toil-only-boil” attitude to domestic
life has made many women scared of
housewife’s hands, and caused them to
seek “seductive charm” —although no
explanation is given as to why a well-
married woman needs to play Cleopatra
to a stable, hard-working husband.
The agenda of many women’s groups
disclose that women spend hours discuss-
ing stupid topics or what must be done
for those in distress in foreign lands,
while realities like their own families and
the unfortunates in their own districts are
dismissed.
Too many homes are being neglected,
and husbands and children emotionally
deserted by this new type of mother who
is “broadening her outlook and direct-
ing her energies beyond the narrowing
influence of home life.” — Eve (S.A.).
Slum Prevention
So “W.P.T.” (B. 31/1/ ’4O) thinks that
supervision of landlords is all that is
necessary to have “cleaner, brighter and
better suburbs.”
It is a generally-accepted condition of
tenancy agreements that the tenant shall
make good any damage for which he is
responsible—either directly or through
negligence—such as broken windows,
choked drains, broken light fittings and
door locks, etc. The landlord is respon-
sible for such “outside” repairs as leak-
ing roofs and for the replacement of
baths, heaters, stoves, etc., where the
necessity for such replacement is due ;o
normal wear and tear and not to abuse.
The tenant is also required to keep the
house and garden reasonably clean, and
to pay his rent promptly and regularly.
How many tenants keep their part of
the bargain?
Some years ago in Adelaide, Authority
built a number of houses in a garden
suburb and let them to workers at low
rentals. They were as clean and attrac-
tive as new houses usually are, and some
of the tenants looked after them as if
they had been their own property. But
the others! Windows were broken, walls
defaced and doors, skirting-boards and
even floors pulled out and used for fire-
wood.
A more recent Adelaide case is that
of a family on Government relief. They
liked roaring fires in winter, and their
fortnightly ration of 3cwt. of wood never
lasted more than a week at most. After
that they broke up a door or perhaps
some furniture they had obtained on
time payment. Their rent was always
in arrears, but before the landlord be-
came too inquisitive they quietly dis-
appeared—to repeat their vandalism in
another house.
I have never yet been in the happy
position of landlord, but I have known
many of them. Some have been hard,
but I have never yet met one who failed
to keep his part of the bargain so long
as I kept mine. You can’t expect a man
to spend money on a property that re-
turns him little or no income.—E. M. G.
(Vic.).
Victorian Housing
The Victorian Housing Commission
has received plenty of kicks over some
80 houses built at Preston as part of its
campaign to shift families from con-
demned and sub-standard houses. Criti-
cism, which comes mainly from muni-
cipal councils which have done nothing to
improve the housing conditions of the
low-wage earner, generally consist of de-
scribing the newly-constructed places as
“glorified cowsheds” and “architectural
monstrosities.”
Granted the new buildings have low-
pitched roofs, but I have yet to be shown
that a high-pitched roof serves any useful
purpose in our climate.
However, the houses are well finished
both inside and out, are modern in de-
sign and interior fittings, and are in-
tended to cater for families ranging from
two to 12, The rent ranges from 6s.
to 16s. per week. The place I rent from
a landlord for 30s. per week is three
times too dear compared with the Gov-
ernment houses.
Municipal councils could be better em-
ployed in giving constructive thought to
relieving the housing shortage, rather
than in making sneering comments on a
genuine attempt to relieve those living
in appalling conditions, which have been
well known to the civic authorities for
many years.— Timothy Titun (Vic.).
Thrift Pride
Those with limited means are often
inclined to envy their more affluent
friends, and to feel sorry for themselves
because they have to make a little money
go a long way. Many develop a defi-
nite grudge against life because of this
lack of money.
Would it not be better to take a pride
in being thrifty? Thrifty ideals are
rarely given the publicity they deserve,
nor are thrifty people sufficiently ad-
mired. But being thrifty is really a com-
mendable talent, a flair for making the
most of available assets. A thrifty out-
look should always be encouraged in
both public and private enterprises. It
can be cultivated gradually and strength-
ened by experience so that in time it
ceases - to become a shameful burden
and is a pleasure. Thrifty people are
certainly cleverer and wiser than those
who are too short-sighted to realise the
value of an economical outlook.
There would be less poverty and
many homes would be happier if men
and women, young and old, realised the
value of money as well as the necessity
for the prudent handling of it. —R. Rad-
won (Vic.).
Victorian Bushfires
Despite the tragic losses in Victorian
bushfires last year and the scathing com-
ments in Judge Stretton’s report, an out-
break of fire close to where lives were'
lost last time revealed that no complete
provision has yet been made for dug-
outs as shelter in time of danger. There
is also every danger that more of what
is left of valuable forests will go up in
smoke and more lives will be en-
dangered. If the delay is due to the
Forestry Commission, it is time the Gov-
ernment demanded the reason; if it is
due to the millers, the law on this matter
can and should be enforced. — Titun
(Vic.).
Railways or Roads?
Despite that “Plain English” article
(B. 20/12/’39), I won’t have it that that
proposed Inverell-Guyra line is to be
built against the wish of local residents.
Not even a State Government could pro-
ceed in opposition to city taxpayers, the
motor and oil trades and The Bulletin
in combination without darned good
reason —presumably that, like others of
its kind, the line would assist our export
trade. Meaning that someone is going
to get his haulage below cost, that as
a result the general rail service will be
a bit more anaemic, and that there will
be another “bankrupt” line for The
Bulletin to moan about. Not this time.
I’m all against it.
If there’s five million going beggjng,
treat the railway as an ordinary business
and consolidate a bit. God knows there’s
plenty to be done which would return
a domestic profit. Bribe the Victorians
to standardise their line from Albury to
Melbourne ; build a bridge, safe at more
than eight m.p.h., over the Hawkesbury
(20 years overdue this); electrify Parra-
matta-Lithgow and Sutherland-Thirroul;
introduce second-class sleepers on night
trains and provide the increased loco
power to haul them (no increase here
since 1914) ; sink a few more million
along the North Coast to speed up the
Brisbane express; why, you might even
run to a streamlined, air-conditioned
cocktail bar on some train or other.
None of these things would increase our
trade figures one iota, but who cares
about that? They certainly would help
to balance the railway budget, and that
seems to be much more important. As
for the blokes who won’t get their line,
give ’em all a direct cash subsidy if you
think that a less painful method.
The Bulletin thinks “Australia can’t
afford more railways —it needs more
roads.” On the contrary, it needs the
cheapest form of transport possible; not
the most convenient, spectacular, com-
fortable, modern or fashionable, but the
cheapest on all counts. There may be
countries which can afford roads but not
railways. Australia is not one of them.
—Ex-Loco (Calcutta, India).
Neglect of Roads
Any traveller who has to cover the
suburbs and country will readily agree
that far too much money is spent on
main roads and far too little on other
roads. Main roads are of little value
if the roads leading to them are in the
shocking condition that many of them
are today.
It’s all very well to have concrete and
tarred highways, but in many cases they
are merely speedways for roadhogs and
week-end tourists. The man who uses
the roads most spends far more time on
secondary roads than he does on main
roads, and the road leading to a farm-
ing community is just as important to
the nation as a scenic road.
Leave a main road anywhere in N. S.
Wales, and after you have gone a mile
or so the road develops into something
little better than a cart track. My idea
for getting better roads would be to cut
the “Main” out of Main Roads Board
and give this body the responsibility f or
the maintenance of all roads. Monev
would then be spent on all roads accord-
ing to their importance to the commu-
nity.—Eureka (N.S.W.).
Country Doctors
“Sandpatch”: (B. 14/2/’4O) appears to
have a well-marked phobia on medi-
cal men. He objects to £lOOO p.a. for
country M.Os., and implies that no M.O.
can give service worth that.
To emphasise his medicophobia, he
states that “lads decide to become doc-
tors chiefly for three reasons —bettering
their social position, they are attracted
by the extraordinarily high incomes and
lives of comparative leisure of many of
the front-rankers, and they want to be
their own boss.” What’s wrong with
those ideas as part of one’s ambitions?
Doesn’t everybody, even a country bank
manager, dream that way?
I present “Sandpatch” with the follow-
ing prescription (gratis), and think that
after taking a course he should improve.
R.
Spt. Frumenti Hoz.
Aq. ad 3oz.
Ft. Haust.
St. post prand. et hora sornni.
—S. Q. L apian (Tas.).
Accompanists
Why is it that the accompanist to a
singer seldom gets any recognition? Few
people realise how much practice and
how much artistry and sympathetic
understanding are embodied in a success-
ful accompaniment. A poor singer is
helped by a good player, and a fin e
singer could be ruined by a poor musi-
cian.
When both are in perfect accord, as in
the case of Peter Dawson and his accom-
panist and other concert highlights, the
effect is delightful.
In Peter’s case he always sees that his
accompanist shares his glory, and rightly
so. Many others could follow suit with
advantage, and so let the hard-working
and valuable accompanist reap some
reward for his or her efficient work."
Middle C (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
ACTIVE
SERVICE
Waterproof
Shockproof
Dustproof
-
/■/•/in/ POSJ
Just wear it. Guaranteed. *.O/10/- FREE.
Send for free illustrated catalogue.
N on-magneti c
Automatic
Winding
DIAMOND
*. WATCH
SPECIALISTS
fsd
112 MARKET SI
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
DEAF
sdf
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid —
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 6018, City Mutual
81dg:.,, cur. Hunter and
Bligli Sts./ Sydney.
;
- ■
ei
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MUSHROOMS
“PERFECTION”
100% pure culture
spawn.
Made in Australia
and is developed
under skilled super-
vision. Enough to
grow 401 b., 4/6 post
free.
But first send 2d.
postage for
FREE BOOKLET
giving full instructions as' to preparation
compost, method of growing, etc.
T. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
84 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■
'
LAMBS SAVED
By Using- the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or —
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
sdfsd
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
-
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
m
■ i * *
i
-
r.
P
n
•• mm*
mm**.
met
‘Enemy in sight, sir—better zigzag, sir!
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-- COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
1«1 nASTLHHKACH STREET. gTDNEI
BRIGGS&STRATTON
Air-cooled 4-cycle V
SINGEE-CAEIjNDER
PETROL MOTORS.
£ to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £lB/17/6.
Also Petrol Electric
Generators from £25.
Agents all States.
Illustrated Bulletin with
prices gladly forwarded.
fs
aMPLIOh (A/SIA)
SB2 Kent St.,
PTY LIMITED I
Sydney, N.S.W. |
A. SCREWCAP OPENING
for refilling Ua.
C. SHUTE. Through which
small quantity o{
powder is dis-
charged. each
time Lid is
used.
C-HINGES
KLO Closet Powder
Renders Pans Odorless. Kills Germs.
Keeps Plies Away.
SANDS HANDI Pumpless Irons.
Aladdin and Coleman Damps.
Damps, Stoves, etc.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Closets.
T. W. SANDS, 387 Donsdale St., Melb.
GENUINE “G.B.D.
Silver-mounted London-made Briar
df
To You, 8/6.
Usually, 15/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample ot
“Iievysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb. —
worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe contained in its
own case for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOL LEVY
Tobacconist, Est, 39 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent O.O.D. if desired.
How to Live 120 Years
or longer. Read Dr. Ambramowski’s Famous
Book “EATING FOR HEALTH,” Third Edition,
revised and enlarged by Rev. <T. T. Huston.
The theory of HEALTH WITHOUT MEDICINE
steadily gains converts among thinking people,
and the truth of the saying “a man is what
he eats” is daily more generally accepted. It
appeals to one’s eommonsense, and experience
in the treatment of typhoid, rheumatism,
pleurisy, asthma, lung, digestive and other
troubles by diet regulation strengthens belief
in Dr. Ambramowski’s statement that “as long
as a man eats the food to which his body is
adapted he does not know sickness and his life
is extended to the normal term of 120 years or
more.” The method advocated and the reasons
for it are fully set forth in this most interest-
ing book of 187 pages, originally published at
5/6, our price, while the small stock lasts,
only 3/- post free.
THE UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth SL, Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4iin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
- ' -7j
57/6
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
llin. wide, din.
deep, 6in. high—
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
STOPvou ß ßupture
Worries?
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
comfort
I -14 DAYS FREE TRIAL 4 "
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WNcumvt
SKATES
13/6—lB/6
sdf
COWLES
and DUNN
U KING STREET, SYDNEY
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, 1i.1.8.5.T.j
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
CLIP THIS AD—
and post it to ns, with your Name and Addres®,
and we will send you in return a FREE sample
of our famous Everlasting Plant Labels. They
cannot crack, rot, rust or tear —and in shape
and size are just right. The name will never
come off—it can be read after years just as
easily as the day you write it on. In fact,
they are the perfect plant label.
OR, if you are not too suspicious—and will
take our word for it —send 6d. for a dozen,
1/- for 25, 3/6 for 100, or 32/6 for 1000.
Post Free anywhere in Australia.
WARNES SHELL LIME COMPANY
(Established 1882),
Shell Lime, and Fertiliser- Manufacturers,
Contractors to N.S.W. Government.
City Address: 56 Dixon Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME • • •
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Aust .ha
Zealand should send '
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
6/31*40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department. "The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


There is only
ONE liquor -
m
-'A
m
\\
\'
1
A
a
fr
u
188
’ll
"U ia>
t
that is “Schnapps”
The term "Schnapps” signifies a unique spirit
produced in Schiedam, Holland, and it originated
over a century ago with the introduction of the
distinctive beverage which has long been world-
famous in association with the name of "Wolfe’s.”
No other liquor possesses the potent medicinal
virtues that distinguish "Schnapps,” and no other
liquor can be truthfully described as "just the same
as Schnapps.”
To make certain of obtaining genuine, pure,
aromatic Schiedam Schnapps, always ask for
OLFE
=E=««ODUCT OF HOLLAND
THIS
BtSggftTtC ALCOHOLIC
irMSSHtaetured %Kclu*ivel» i
and inpredwnt. bu
am' beat possible quality* •••*
fc»' The attention of ARa*t#«i
tcamatai to the SißnnfWy*a»
tga-COag-.ami to the Title of“
eniUoC^Rp
tauiotiao*.
=3BtTurl every attempt at Infringe
ft^yacn.UnlariataiU.oloW l^
=i~ilET:lH«rifLo2l
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
is obtainable in large, half
and quarter size bottles at
all hotels .
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR 'MEN
W. 5.135. B.F.P.
