

IfIJJIfI
imrIUHMIf
m
m
pa
RTMTHTT/I
minim
I-.K
I
t<ll
„r I
4>
In
- -b
C
w nw- 1 1
r I*
<>
■4
Em
fSA
J<!
I 1 i
PA~4
-i
gdiO
l,\\„ IHI
■TV
H ,
liOs^ 5
\\
r
I /.wiH
o
w
3" 1
=sssr v *->.
ll\\ V.
o.
II
<*s:
7a
m
w
sr
W
— ,cp®7 ~r
&
i :
L
&
-i
ia; •>•'(
I M \
>-■';■■ 1 ’lfi'x
di'i \
■I, .
fcr!
i 1 11
' -..i
m
a
H
5*
P7W»f Mrffrri^TT
Mil
' *1
m
k.
-1
|>T<
V
It
LO
"if
rx
411
TO \ /,/
; :
P
<
1
lit!
*
I'
rN
-==jr£i.
< ;
mmstacmJ-: \T l*»
“~7 — .' I i ' !i I l
nr
\f^=
v *ij
n
*
Ift
r
ft
In
m.
Hi'
<A
o
1
&
H
ill' i
.
n *■>
* HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The dignified Angel and Royal Hotel, Grantham,
in Lincolnshire, is rich in interest and history.
Eight hundred years ago it was known to have been
a possession of the Order of Knights Templar, the
Members of which, on returning from the Crusades, had
pledged themselves to defend the Christian faith.
Centuries later, in the very room where one may dine
to-day, Richard 111. signed the death warrant of the
Duke of Buckingham, whose rebellion had been frus-
trated by the flobded River Severn.
-The House of Holbrook has a history, too. Founded
in 1798 in the little village of Stourport, on the Severn,
its products have become known the world over for their
quality and excellence.”
SMooaaTOH
WORCE STERSHIRE
eiaa
SAUCE
rT\
,-,v
SOLB'KOOK&I!
|VoJtT WORCESTtf^,*
■
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3167.
Wednesday, October 23, 1940*
A Soviet Survey (Uncabled Additions)
Price 6d.
Registered at' the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GRAHAME BOOK SERVICE.
London New York
BOOK IMPORTERS SUBSCRIPTION MANAGERS
Let us quote you the LOWEST AND
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or Book
published. Information gladly supplied.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place. 8424!
(1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your yew free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship
VO ur Muscular Movement System of Writing,
advertised m the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140 .
The Red Page
THE PRIOR PRIZE WINNERS.
[At the request of the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize Trustees, one of the judges, Frank Dalby
Davison, here describes, as they appeared to
him, the three MSS. which equally shared the
accumulated prize-money in the 1940 competi-
tion. The other judges were Miss Beatrice
Davis, head reader of MS. for Angus and
Robertson, and H. M. Green, Fisher Librarian
at Sydney University. The joint winners were
two novels, The Pea Pickers, by Eve Langley,
and The Brown Van, by Kylie Tennant, and
a biography, Lachlan Macquarie, by Malcolm
Henry Ellis.]
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is six
years old. In 1935 and 1936 it was
awarded for Kylie Tennant’s Tihuron
and Miles Franklin’s All That Swagger
respectively. In 1937 and 1938 there were
no entries which, in the opinion of the
judges, were worthy of the prize. In 1939,
with three years’ prize-money, the judges
awarded only one year’s prize-money to
Who Was Joseph Furphy ? by Miles
Franklin and Kate Baker. This year
they find three books each of which, in
(heir opinion, might have won the prize
in any one year. They make their award
accordingly, but without attempting to
place the books in any order of merit.
The judges were unanimous in their deci-
sion.
The winners this year comprise a work
of history and two novels. In the opinion
of this judge, monumental is the word for
Lachlan Macquarie, both in respect of
bulk and treatment. It is a very long
book, beginning with ' Macquarie’s most
remote Scottish ancestors and following
through to his death in comparatively
obscure circumstances. It takes the first
third of the book to bring him to his
arrival in Australia. The whole book is
traditional, an attitude to which the
author sets his signature with seal in the
concluding half-dozen paragraphs. It
moves heavily in places, and in others
it takes light and warmth to itself; more
couldn’t be expected in a work of such
length. It is as richly documented as
its hero.
The interpretation of history is some-
thing that is under constant revision ; so,
within reasonable limits, competition
judges are safe in regarding a historian’s
conclusions as his own affair. The point
about Lachlan Macquarie is that through
the discussion of its hero it gathers into
relationship the significant facts, in vast
array, of a period that influences our lives
today.
For the least derivative of novels —and
The Brown Van is one —appropriate
literary godfathers often occur to the
reader. In this case it is Maxim Gorki,
leavened with a dash of Lawson’s humor,
and more intimately conditioned by the
author’s determination not to be com-
pletely taken in when life cries out for.
sympathy. It is a lower-depths novel, of
the time of the industrial depression, and
deals in the main with that section of
the population that took, or was driven,
to the roads and the goods trains. It
follows a track well blazed by Kylie Ten-
nant in Tiburon, but has fresh material
to bring forward.
It is held in shape by a long story, but
its chief interest is in its social documen-
tation, its procession of most convincing
people, its detached and vivid portrayal
of the interplay of personality and social
circumstances; It is an experience to live
in the travellers’ camps of The Brown
Van. The author has no vested interest
in what takes place; life is free and
fluid; the good, the bad, the indifferent,
the eccentric and the eminently sane, the
incapable and the capable, their petty
squabbles, their scrappy political theoris-
ing, their loyalties and their dirty tricks,
their sadness, their mirth, their heroism
and their triviality—the reader sees it all
in play and feels that he has looked upon
life and learned much.
In the matter of characterisation the
author of The Brown Van draws better
from life than from imagination. This
affects the frame rather than the sub-
stance of the work. I know that saying
so takes something from the book, but
as against that it is a big thing to say
of a writer’s work that it makes you feel
that life as it flows is vastly more in-
teresting than anything that can be in-
vented about it, and that the writer has a
special gift for so dealing with it.
The Pea Pickers is another depression-
time story, but it doesn’t rest on the fact.
It deals with the experiences of two
girls who dress in boys’
clothes and set out to catch
a living by odd jobs with
the small farmers of Gipps-
land. That their grand-
parents were Gippsland pioneers is
one of the few slight threads of
running interest that hold the book
together. Before starting out on their
adventures the girls lived with their
mother in a ruinous little cottage in an
old orchard. The authorities were for
condemning it, but they clung to it be-
cause the trees in their season dropped
ripe plums down the chimney.
That’s the sort of book The Pea Pickers
is; it has a highly individual scale
of values, and drops fruit in prodigious
quantities down the reader’s stay-at-home
chimney. On the journey to Gippsland
the train “burned its way” through a pad-
dock of standing grain ; at a station the
guard didn’t bustle about with his whistle
in his mouth, but “the guard’s whistle
ran around wearing his beard like a
sporran”; and a chock-and-log fence
bounding a crooked road “flung itself
about” as the car’s headlamps parted the
darkness.
The pea-pickers took few preconceived
ideas to their adventures, few ready-made
defences against life, so all things and
persons loom enormous at first sight, and
with a fleeting appearance of fantasy that
turns out to be really a swift imagi-
native interpretation. A foul-mouthed
youth, encountered in the dark, towers
like a monster of depravity until another
side of his character is revealed.
It takes more than a change of clothes
to conceal sex. The girls live in camp
among men, and so are the objects of
respectable suspicions and sometimes of
less respectable aspirations. It is all very
revealing, not least so the treatment
accorded them by farmers’ wives and a
very solemn and dutiful police.
The characters are legion, each of them
a shade larger than life but no less real;
the whole human range of an Australian
countryside passes through the book, from
auctioneers and prosperous farmers to
laborers and tramps, with a liberal
sprinkle of Indians, Italians and Chinese.
The book is held together in greater
part by no more than a quality of mind,
a love of life, a little sentiment, a little
self-mockery, eagerness and tenderness,
a passionate love of natural beauty and
a level-eyed gift of observation that is
quick to turn to mirth. The narrator is
youth with all its fret and impatience for
life’s fulfilment; Blue, her mate, is youth
with all its loveliness. Blue isn’t quite
real; you wouldn’t want her to be ; she
is an adorable abstraction. When things
are troublesome she takes out her violin
and plays to herself. You don’t believe
in that fiddle for a moment, but you
wouldn’t be without it for the world ;
it is something in youth that life can’t
tbuch.
The narrator dares to be extravagant.
On a moonlight night following a par-
ticularly happy visit to the home of an
old Italian peasant, she walks barefoot
across the grass, her mind filled with
thoughts of life close to the earth. She
lifts her eyes to the misty hills and her
voice to the sky, crying “Oh, patria mia! ”
The Pea Pickers burkes no unpleasant-
ness but deals with it with that under-
standing that transcends mere delicacy.
It has the dew on it. It contributes some-
thing fresh to Australian literature. It
is rare. I think it will be cherished.
F. D. D.
Professor at Large .
When Mortimer J. Adler says that the
only writing one ever reads thoroughly
is a love-letter —every word pored over,
every phrase examined for every possible
shade of meaning—he lays a good foun-
dation for his How to Read a Book
(Angus and Robertson). He argues that
to learn to read intelligently is just about
as difficult as learning to listen to music.
Professor Walter Murdoch, in an enthu-
siastic introduction to* the American pro-
fessor’s book, makes the good point that
“young intellectuals think that being
advanced means having read the latest
rather than the greatest,” and Adler him-
self scores early with the aphorism “All
. books will become light in proportion as
you find light in them.”
But about halfway through How
to Read a Book, after a lot of long-
drawn-out stuff that everybody knows
about the number of nitwits whose only
reading is magazines or imbecile daily
papers (and nothing about the other sub-
merged tenth whose dope is the radio),
it becomes apparent that Adler is con-
cerned only with philosophy and history.
He devotes only one sketchy chapter to
poetry, fiction and belles lettres.
Moreover, he’s the hairsplitting sort
of sophist who takes down his dictionary
to define “reading” before he can start
talking about it. Then, as far on as 2
page 143, gallantly “risking being 1
repetitious,” he bursts out with:
The word “reading” has been used in I
many senses in the course of our discus- 1
sion. Let us take three of the meanings: {
(1) reading in the sense of getting amuse-
ment; (2) reading in the sense of getting c
information; and (3) reading in the sense J
of gaining insight. Now let us symbolise
the word “reading” by the letter X, and (
the three meanings by the letters a, b and c. *•
What is symbolised then by Xa, Xb and 5
Xc are not three words, for X remains the
same throughout. But they are three terms, j
on the condition, of course, that you and
I know when X is being used in one defi- '
nite sense, and not another. If I write ]
Xa in a given place, and you read Xb, j
we are writing and reading the same word,
but not in the same way. The ambiguity ‘
prevents communication. Only when you <
think the word as I think it do we have
one thought between us. Our minds
cannot meet in X, but only in Xa or Xb
or Xc. Thus we come to terms.
True enough, but how laboriously
obvious. If X equals Professor Murdoch
and Y equals Professor Adler, and the -
square on the hypotenuse is equal to the
sum of the squares on the other two
sides, one still hasn’t solved the problem
of how to read How to Read a Book.
A Melbourne Rhymer .
Most of Melbourne Bread and Cheese
Club’s attractive little books of verse have
had exactly the earthy, pleasant flavor
of the club’s name. The latest, J. Alex.
Allan’s Revolution, is still a ballad type
of verse, but it’s not so deliberately Aus-
tralian, more like wine than beer. It’s
a good, strong vintage.
Allan is a romantic and a traditionalist.
The only quarrel with these attributes is
that at times they lead him into dead
“poetic” language, weakening his state-
ment. Such a verse as this is made en-
tirely of pale, faded imagery, almost
meaningless:
There was a fret in me
Never so long ago,
To follow the trail of that phantasy
The feet of the restless know —
Glamor of spells that throw
Nets for the hearts of men,
Luring them on where their kin have gone
And their kind shall go again,
Groping for stardust, seeking in vain
Chateaus of gossamer, castles in Spain.
It’s like getting hit with a tennis ball
when you’re expecting a bullet. But in
the same poem he has as neat an image
as:
And the glass of my living may run its sands,
So it be cupped in your two white hands.
He can see a submarine as “the adder
of the seas”; around the cradle of
revolution watch “a myriad patient, hol-
low eyes” ; in “The Little Homes That
Wait” (Allan overworks that “that”):
Rubbed nailheads fleck the footworn floor —
Naked and scoured and white as bone—
The seasons scar, the wheel-strokes score
The jutting steps of stone.
About them broods a nameless thing
Woven of dreams and soundless feet,
A silver stillness listening
“The Bride Wakes,” though a somewhat
sentimental poem, is a fine clear picture.
“Guns” and “The Frenchmen” are clear,
ringing verses. And the worn imagery
is turned to good account in his dirge
for Pavlova:
Birds’ voices cannot waken her.
The world roars by, as once it used
Before it knew her soundless feet;
The silver cord hath frayed and loosed,
The mourners go about the street;
The bow is slacked; the shaft is sped:
The Swan is dead!
A Radio Play.
If the late Mr. Aristotle could have
read The Shadow of the Swastika by
A. L. Lloyd and Igor Vinogradoff
(Bodley Head) he would probably have
hanged himself from the nearest olive
bough, for the authors have shown that
a radio play can disregard every canon
of the theatre, ignore the unities of time
and place, and still hold the attention
of some 12,000,000 listeners.
In this dramatised history of the rise
of the Nazis and the remorseless pro-
cession of the German people towards
world war, there are roughly 57 charac-
ters, from unnamed thugs down to Hitler
and Goring. The action darts about
all over Europe, giving a brief scene in
Prague, a moment in Vienna, a couple
of minutes of the Fiihrer orating at
Munich, a flash of workmen grumbling
in Berlin, and so on. It includes half a
dozen putsches and revolutions, a glimpse
of the Reichstag fire trial, and the
scenes at Berchtesgaden when the unfor-
tunate Schuschnigg and Hacha took
their turns on the mat. Hitler repeats
his unforgettable lies, his murderous
intolerances. Holding the vast theme
together is a “narrator,” who makes such
explanations as are necessary to allow
the sudden switches in time and place.
On the air in Australia it ought to be
as successful as it was in England. To
repeat Hitler’s speeches, isolating them in
all their barbarous fanaticism, is the
most forceful way to present them.
Though they’re familiar and historically
true, they seem new and incredible.
From reading the script it’s impossible
to say how effective the whole thing is
as drama, but it apparently satisfied the
8.8.C.’s listeners.
As a book The Shadow of the
Swastika is almost worthless. It’s old
stuff, presented with no literary skill
worth mentioning. Anyone interested
in new dramatic forms, or in writing for
the radio, will find it interesting. Radio
plays are still in their infancy ; this one,
in its factual reportage, corresponds to
a Norse saga, still a long way short
of Chaucer.
Homicide Squad .
Dorothy Sayers, E. R. Punshon, R.
Austin Freeman, G. D. H. and M. Cole,
Elizabeth Ferrars, Freeman Wills Crofts,
they’re all names sufficient to sell a dozen
volumes to anybody who has ever read
detective stories, and they’re all on the
jacket of Faber and Faber’s Detective
Stories of Today.
The editor, Raymond Postgate, was
instructed, “on a new principle, to seleci
both the established favorite authors and
those whom he had noted as rising stars.
Consequently, alongside Elizabeth Fer-
rars’s “After Death the Deluge (the
corpse is discovered in a flat-building
which is being flooded with water from
a busted tank in the roof, and the inves-
tigation is carried through neatly and
cleverly while the water continues to
bring plaster from the ceiling down on
the detective) are “The Gilded Pupil,
by Ethel Lena White, and Francis Beed-
ing’s “Me Ne Frego,” neither of which
should ever have been seen outside the
covers of a woman’s magazine. E. C.
Bentley’s carefully constructed story of
one of Trent’s cases, “The Sweet Shot,”
has Anthony Berkeley’s “The Wrong Jar”
and Richard Keverne’s “The Night Call”
as unfortunate cell-mates. The good
stories lose a lot of their charm for being
obscured among a preponderance of
rubbish.
Postgate’s “today” is curiously elastic.
The best of this batch, R. Austin Free-
man’s Thorndyke story, “The Case of
Oscar Brodski,” was an anthology piece
15 years ago; Beeding’s story, which is
perhaps the worst, is sub-titled “An
Episode of 1.935.”
New Zealanders and Science : S. H.
Jenkinson "(Department of Internal
Affairs, Wellington, N.Z.). Rutherford,
of course; and a number of others well
worth putting on record. Another of tie
excellent centennial surveys.
From the publishers, J. F. Shaw and
Co., London, “The Little Grey Mouse.”
verses and music by George Sutton, with
decorations by Reginald Hicks. The
tune is a good one, though not quite
simple enough for children, and the
verses are cleverly written. It is an effort
in the vein of Fraser-Simson’s setting
of A. A. Milne’s “When We Were Very
Young” ditties, and like that opus will
probably be much more popular with
adults than with children.
Mathematics for Airmen: F. G.
Brown (Angus and Robertson). A
“refresher course” and an “introduction
to air navigation and air work in
general,” by the expert whose Air Navi-
gation was recently highly praised on
the Red Page by P. G. Taylor.
Granaries of Time: John Christopher
(Frank Johnson, Sydney). A collection
of short poems, mainly on the themes
of love and time, sometimes in
Elizabethan sonnet form, sometimes in
the French forms popular in the ’nineties.
Occasional images of solitude the in-
dividual “like a dead star swinging un-
seen through space”—are original state-
ments. The consolatory verses, though
conventional, are sometimes smoothly
turned:
When the last summer glows, the end shall find
Me, too, rich-ripened, ready for the scythe.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and nothing but the truth.
“THE SENIOR STORE’’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Low Prices
• MAKE YOUR
MONEY FIGHT!
Buy WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
NOW!
m
40
k
w.
<£
J»l
1
$ ;
m m
U
\n iw
:.X
-■■■" :■'■
/'* S
■■' s
i»
«
*
\ ..: y / ~<r / *' ‘ y ‘v ;
Strong and Durable
7/11 WORK SHIRT at
Reliable British Khaki Drill, with collar
attached and pocket, double sewn
seams. Size 14£ to 18 inch neck.
Tb
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 7/11. Sale: 7/6
ft 7/
ft
ft
ft
m
m
II
11
1
im
m
itii
m
n
it
m
::Zr*
mm
in'.
tm
mm
mi.
m
m
Pi
mm
:iS
Hi
Hits
a
/r "
::~i ft
sy
British Poplin
12/6 BUSINESS SHIRTS
Striped British Poplin Business Shirt
with V-cctsed front, double cuffs, 2
detached fused collars to match. In
I0 7 6
a range of blue striped effects. Sizes 14 to 18 in.
neck. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 12/6.
Sale Price 10/6
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
SYDNEY
Phone M 2401
Day & Night
Postal Address :
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
12/6 POPLIN PYJAMAS
Seasonable Summer - weight
Pyjamas of striped British Pop-
lin. Made in our own work-
10 / 6
rooms. Finished with square or V sports
collar. Small, Medium and OS. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, 12/6. Sale: 10/6
m
SZm
%
)
f
35/- DRESSING GOWNS
è
é
ored, with silk cord girdle to tone. Navy,
Green, Brown, Wine, Black. 36 to 44 chest.
Regular Price, 35/-. Sale Price 27/6
1/8 ATHLETIC SINGLETS
Three standard makes of Men's
White Ribbed Cotton Athletic Sing-
lets. Size 34 to 42 chest. Athletic cut,
16
no sleeves. Anthqny Horderns' Regular Prices,
each ; 1/8, 2/3, 2/11
Sale Prices, each 1/6, 2/-, 2/8
Unbeatable Value!
3/6 HALF HOSE
Fancy Cashmere Half Hose.
All the latest check effects
on Navy, Fawn, Grey and
2/3
Brown grounds. Size 10 to 12. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, 3/6. Sale: 2/3


OUT OF THE
PAST
A COAL RIVER RASCAL.
J-H-M- ABBOTT.
IT was Mr. Andrew Thompson, of the Green Hills
settlement on the Hawkesbury—Macquarie re-
named the place Windsor in 1810 —-who first gave
the inquiring Mr. De La Rue some insight into
the character of Lieutenant James Magnus.
“The mon’s nae guid—a drunken rake, and the
worst liar in New South Wales,” he said. “When
the wastrel’s drunk, he brags and boasts intolerably
aboot what a great mon he is, till it sickens ye tae
listen. And when he’s nae drunk, he’s juist a ninny.
If ’twere not for the ser-rgeant o’ the detachment the
ordinar’ wark o’ government’d no get done at all. A
wee time back we’d some trouble wi’ the native blacks,
so we applied for meelitary asseestance to drive them
awa’ frae the river flats. Would Magnus move? Not
a step. ’Twas not until the ser-rgeant an’ mysel’
plied him wi’ rum the whole o’ ane nicht, and a’ the
next day, that at last we persuaded him, completely
fuddled, to gi’e a drunken order that the blacks should
be dealt wi’. We shot three o’ the puir creatures, an’
hangit one in a tree, and we’ve had nae bother since.
But ’twas nae thanks to Mr. James Magnus.”
Mr. George De La Rue, that very exotic free
settler with large ideas and heavy disappointments,
had made Thompson’s acquaintance when he first
came to the colony, and always remembered with a
grateful feeling the many kindnesses extended by the
young Scotch emancipist to a stranger in a strange
land. He would have given much for his advice and
assistance in that January of 1808 when he found
himself one of a herd incarcerated overnight in Syd-
ney Gaol on account of supposed sympathy with the
deposed Governor Bligh.
It was late in the evening of the 26th when two
convict constables came and took him away from his
home in Pitt’s Row, and dragged him through the
dimly-lit streets to the military barracks, where he was
ushered into a large room in which three officers of
the Corps sat at a table holding a sort of court-martial
on various captives supposed to be inimical to the
usurping Government.
When his name was called, Mr. De La Rue was
paraded by his captors before the tribunal. Of the
three officers composing it, one he recognised as the
subject of Andrew Thompson’s disparaging remarks,
Lieutenant James Magnus, recently Commandant at
the .Hawkesbury. He was not quite drunk, but neither
was he completely sober. At once he picked out Mr.
De La Rue. The other officers were Captain Kemp
and Lieutenant Laycock, Quartermaster of the N.S.W.
Corps.
“Ho, by God! ” cried Mr. Magnus. “Look, Kemp
—d’ye see whom we have here? Friend o’ Billy
Bligh’s—closest pal the villain’s got in Sydney. A
damned insolent fellow! Oh, by God, we can’t let
him stop here. Coal River for him, I say.”
Captain Kemp looked the well-dressed Mr. De La
Rue up and down with disfavor. “What d’ye say,
Laycock?” he asked.
The huge Quartermaster —he was a giant of a
man —shook his head. “Better send him away, sir.
He’ll be out of harm’s way up there, and a little dis-
cipline will do him good. Too much of the high
gentleman about this Mr. De La Rue —too blasted
superior. Coal River, I vote.”
“You will go to the Coal River then, my good
sir,” said Captain Kemp suavely. “See that you
behave yourself. There are worse places than Hunter’s
River, you know. Take him to the gaol, and put him
with the rest of ’em.”
So Mr. De La Rue was marched out of the room,
and out of the Barracks, and down High-street to his
Majesty’s prison.
"THE old Sydney Gaol was a primitive affair. There
*■ were only a few cells used for special prisoners,
such as those condemned to death, and the bulk of
its inmates were confined in a large building that con-
sisted of two rooms, each 32 feet long by 22 feet wide.
At some distance from this prison house a high wall
surrounded it, and in Essex-street, at its northern end,
the permanent structure of a large gallows, in frequent
use, ornamented the slopes of “The Rocks.” The aver-
age number of prisoners shut up in the main build-
ing any evening was between eighty and ninety, but
on the night of that notable Anniversay Day of 1808,
the room in which Mr. De La Rue found accom-
modation contained no fewer than one hundred and
fifteen assorted specimens of humanity.
His fellows in misfortune were drawn from every
class in Sydney’s very mixed community. They were
fearfully crowded, and as the windows were small, and
high up in the wall, the sweltering throng were almost
suffocated for lack of air. It was out of the question
for the whole of the prison’s inmates to lie down at
once, and even if they lay with their heads between
the legs of their companions some twenty-five or
thirty were still compelled to stand. Never did George
De La Rue welcome the rays of dawn more gladly
than when they came creeping into that stifling prison
about four o’clock in the morning. By that time the
atmosphere was almost unbreathable, but it was not
until six o’clock that the door into the yard was opened
and the prisoners were per-
mitted a breath of air. When
he got out into the fresh morn-
ing, Mr. De La Rue was almost
at the very limit of his powers
of endurance.
The prisoners were fed,
soon after seven o’clock, with a
ration of hominy, and not much later the main gate of
the prison was opened to admit a dozen file of sol-
diers, under the command of Lieutenant Magnus. He
was accompanied by Mr. Nicholas Bayly, whom the
rebel leaders had appointed Provost-Marshal, in place
of Mr. Gore, who had been arrested.
“Stand over there!” shouted Mr. Magnus, point-
ing to the wall opposite the main gate. “Shove them
back, men,” he commanded the soldiers, who drove
the prisoners into a dense mob against the side of the
main building with the butts of their muskets.
“Now then, ye scum,” cried Mr. Magnus, “give
proper attention. Hearken to this list Mr. Bayly’s
a-going to read ye, and answer to your names.”
“I really think We should have let it go,
Sir Charles .”
The acting-Provost-Marshal stepped forward with
a paper in his hand, surveyed the crowd malevolently
for a moment or two and then began to shout a list
of names.
“George De La Rue!” he called.
“Here!” replied that gentleman, bowing with a
courtesy that was entirely wasted upon Mr. Magnus.
“Say sir, ye insolent hound! ” roared the officer.
“Here, sir,” meekly responded Mr. De La Rue.
“Get over there, damn ye! And stand still. We
know how to deal with your sort.”
The Provost-Marshal continued calling out names,
and there were presently some forty of those suspected
of leanings towards Governor Bligh formed up into a
little column, which the escort marched out into High-
street —it did not become “George” until Macquarie’s
time —and headed towards the harbor.
As they walked through the streets the short dis-
tance to Sydney Cove they noticed a great difference in
the aspect of the town from that obtaining overnight.
All the excitement had died away, and the people’s
faces carried an anxious, half-terrified look. The
seriousness of the business had begun to make itself
felt, and its danger. They were bewildered and scared.
They were aware that the Governor was a prisoner in
Government House, over on the hillside across the Tank
Stream —but they knew also that he was none the less
legally Governor of New South Wales, and that any
act against him was high treason against his Majesty
and his realm. However, up at the Barracks was es-
tablished the usurping Government, and it was one to
be feared, since its self-conferred powers were un-
limited —for the time being, at any rate. The people
were full of misgiving this morning, and the sight of
the little column of victims of the mutineers’ distrust
did nothing to allay it.
THE prisoners were herded on to the Government
wharf, where a schooner lay alongside, marched
aboard, forced into the hold and battened down under
hatches. They were not removed for three almost
foodless and waterless days, and when they were the
schooner was at anchor in the mouth of the Hunter
River, after a miserable period for the exiles of starva-
tion, thirst, foulness, suffocation and seasickness. A
black nor’-easter had delayed their progress up the
sixty miles of coast. To Mr. De La Rue’s disgust and
apprehension he found that Lieutenant Magnus had
come up, too, as the new Commandant of the settle-
ment.
Newcastle, or, as it was known at that time,
King’s Town, was easily the most primitive outpost of
settlement in Australia. It had been in existence only
a few years. It had been primarily established for
obtaining coal, but later on very valuable timber was
cut along the river and its tributaries and sent down
to Sydney. The village straggled from the riverside
up the slope of the hills to the southward. Away to
the north-east, a long white beach curved for nearly
twenty miles to Port Stephens. The houses of the
hamlet, with the exception of the cottages of the mili-
tary and civil officers, a commissariat storehouse and
a rudimentary gaol, were no more than miserable huts,
thatched or bark-roofed. At the most there were never
more than two or three small vessels lying at anchor
in the stream —usually there were none at all.
The exiles were simply turned loose to shift for
themselves, a weekly ration issue from the stores
being the only assistance vouchsafed them by authority.
For housing and shelter they had to do as best they
could, but after a week of strange vicissitudes, when
he slept for several nights on the beach, Mr. De La
Rue was able to obtain possession of a hut on the
hillside, not far from the top of the thoroughfare now
known as Watt-street. Its owner, an Irish political
prisoner, had been granted a free pardon.
He was a remarkable man, this Dr. Martin Hayes,
a good soul who was always helping his fellow-
creatures, and always trying to cover up his charitable
tracks. A graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, he
was at the Coal River because of an arbitrary action
of Governor Bligh’s. in ordering the demolition of
some cottages in Sydney which his Excellency main-
tained had been erected on Crown lands. The doctor
had valiantly championed the cause of the unfortunate
tenants, and so had fallen foul of Captain Bligh, who
had peremptorily ordered his deportation to the Coal
River.
Mr. De La Rue always remembered Dr. Hayes with
pleasure and spent many an evening sitting outside his
cottage in the summer evenings, smoking and talk-
ing, as they gazed up the coast towards the Blue
Mountains behind Port Stephens. One night about
sunset as they were thus engaged, Lieutenant Magnus
walked past the front of the cottage on his way down
into the town. He was about half-drunk —the collar
of his uniform jacket was unbuttoned, and his stock
was unhooked —and would have presented a pretty
figure to point out to a stranger as the Commandant
of the settlement at the Coal River.
The doctor chuckled as he passed by, and Mr.
Magnus, with a drunken man’s acuteness of hearing,
turned instantly. He regarded the two gentlemen with
alcoholic dignity for a few moments, and then laughed
contemptuously.
“Ho! ” he cried, “ ’tis the croppy doctor and Billy
Bligh’s lickspittle friend —and both drunk. Well,
drinksh no excushe for dishrespec’. By God, ye’d
snigger as Igo by, would ye? I’ll teach ye better.
Take care I don’t send ye both to work at Lime-
burners’ Bay, ye scum. I can do it, and by God I
will, if I have any of your damned insolence.”
“Ha, ha!” laughed the doctor quietly after the
Commandant had passed on. “Our noble vice-
excellency’s a little sprung. A pleasant fellow, isn’t
he? But I’d go carefully if I was Mr. Magnus. Almost
nightly he meets a soldier’s wife out along the cliffs,
and if some of these Coal River rascals laid for him
in the darkness —well, it’s a long way down to the foot
of some of those bluffs, and the rocks at the bottom
are pretty hard.”
“Quite an idea, doctor,” commented Mr. De La
Rue gently. “Quite an idea!”
Half an hour later, with a bottle tucked under his
arm, the Commandant came up the hill again. He
saw the two friends still smoking in the moonlight,
and growled a curse as he passed on his way. “To
hell with ye both!”
The doctor giggled again, but went on with what
he was telling his companion about some of the tribal
customs of the aborigines. Mr. De La Rue fidgeted
a little on his chair, but listened until Hayes had con-
cluded what he was saying. Then he rose to his feet.
“Doctor,” he said, “I think I’ll take a stroll in the
moonlight before I go to bed. I’ll not be long away.
We’ll have our nightcap when I come back.”
T ONG afterwards, when they were both old men,
I—' Dr. Martin Hayes wrote from Dublin to George
De La Rue, Esq., of Mulgoa. Part of his letter has
to do with our story.
“..../ knew well that evening what your
object was when you followed Magnus along
the cliffs. I knew quite well what your meaning
was when you remarked on your return,
‘Doctor, I’ve become a Coal River rascal!’ I
knew what had happened when I overhauled
the body on the beach next morning. But, my
dear De La Rue, my respect for your excellent
self did not abate in any degree whatsoever.
In fact, the only conclusion I came to, and it
is one I still maintain to myself all these years
after, was that by becoming ‘a Coal River
rascal’ in the way you did you had rendered a
singular and inestimable service to the com-
munity of the Coal River Settlement.”


I NEED THE MONEY NOW
By S. RUSSELL SMITH.
I’VE come back to my corner
after shaking hands with
Judd Sullivan. All my ner-
vousness has gone now.
I'm not ashamed of feeling nervous before a fight. It’s
the waiting that gets a man down.
I’ve never fought a negro before. When he shook
hands he seemed very calm, as if he didn’t have a care
in the world. He walked towards me in a mincing sort
of way, as if he wasn’t sure if the floor of the ring
would support him. There’s a big crowd here to see
the fight tonight, but they didn’t come to see me.
They came to see Jack Bennett. I don’t know how
they will like me.
The gong goes.
“Box him, Ralph, box him,” says my trainer, Jeff
Walker, as I leave my corner.
The negro comes out towards me pretty slowly.
He is well built and moves smoothly, like a tiger. I
keep my left well out. They say this Sullivan can
hit very hard. I’m feeling fit, but a little tired.
Suddenly he moves very quickly, and the right he
lets go just misses me and I let him have a hard left,
following up with my right. Then he feints and I
walk into a hard one that hurts. He is coming for
me now, but I stand up to him. We stand in the
centre and fight hard. The gong goes, and it is very
welcome.
“You’re doing fine,” says Jeff when I sit down.
“That’s only one round,” I think to myself. I
sit back and wonder how Stella is.
1 MET Stella on New Year’s Eve, nearly two and
1 a half years ago. I was feeling mad because some
of the fellows had walked out on me. They had told
me that they were going to have some great fun. Then
they went out in a car without calling for me, and I
was at a loose end. I went to St. Kilda and wandered
around the sideshows.
Stella was there by herself and feeling lonely.
We walked along and talked. At times we talked a
lot, and then we would just walk along without saying
anything at all. I found out that she was an orphan
boarding in South Yarra. Both her parents had been
killed in an accident in the country. There was some-
thing about the way she smiled. It was different from
the silly grins I used to get from the girls I knew.
Stella was nice and pleasant.
CULLIVAN looks as if he doesn’t care what
happens ; but he means business all right. He can
move very fast, too. I make him miss badly two or
three times and that makes me feel proud. I give
him a hard right to the jaw, but it has no effect. He
is a showy boxer, but he can hit hard ; and that’s the
sort the crowd like. And for every time I hit him
he hits me twice.
I keep my left well out and try to stop him
from coming too close. I can’t get rid of the feeling
that he’s only playing with me like a cat playing with
a mouse. I give him a hard right and he backs a
little. I let him have it for all I’m worth. Then he
lets me have it —right in the solar plexus.
I’m on the canvas feeling very sick. The count
goes to eight and I stand up to take some more. I
wonder if a man’s a fool to get his brains knocked out
for thirty quid. It’s worth a hundred if I can win.
Somehow I don’t think I’ll be able to do that. This
negro is good, too good for me. I keep him off for a
while and the bell saves me. I still feel pretty ill as I
stagger back to my corner.
AFTER that New Year’s Eve I saw quite a lot of
Stella. They boys used to wonder where I got to
of a night. My mother couldn’t understand me at all.
I began to shave every day and I became careful
about the clothes I wore. As soon as I came home
from the engineer’s shop where I worked I would put
on a collar and tie.
I won a couple of preliminary bouts and Jeff
Walker started training me. He changed my style.
I used to be simply a fighter.
“You want polish, Ralph,” Jeff used to say to me.
“It may be all right to use haymakers against novices,
but it don’t get you anywhere ’gainst good boxers.”
I didn’t like to tell Stella that I was a professional
pug. I didn’t know how she would take it —she was
so nice. Then one night I proposed to her and she said
yes. I went home feeling like a millionaire.
We got married and went to live in a small house
in Brunswick. And then about six months after that
I lost my job. There wasn’t much doing in the fighting
game either. Whenever I was able to get a bout I
used to win it, but that wasn’t often. As the weeks
went by money began to get scarce. I was often
bad-tempered. Stella was not very happy, but she
never complained. One night I went out with the
boys and came home as drunk as a lord. When Stella
saw me she sat down and started crying pretty badly.
“What’s the matter?” I growled, sitting down on a
chair. “Don’t sit there whimpering.”
“Where have you been, Ralph?” she asked after
a while. “I’ve kept your tea hot for you.”
“I don’t feel like anything to eat,” I said.
She looked at me with a queer expression on her
face. “I’m going to have a baby, Ralph,” she said.
I felt wild with her. Money was scarce enough
as it was, and babies cost money.
MY legs feel as if I’ve been walking for days. I
think the crowd are restless. I don’t blame them.
They’ve paid their money, and they’re entitled to get
their money’s worth. They don’t want to see a man
who must look as slow as an old woman.
Sullivan comes at me pretty fast. I make him
miss again. It’s an old trick that Jeff taught me. He
gives me two hard ones on the face, but I stand up
to him. I’ve never run away from trouble yet. And
I’m certainly meeting trouble now. I can feel warm
blood trickling from my nose. Every bone in my
body seems to be aching. I clinch, and the ref. makes
us break. He is watching me closely. He must think
I’m nearly all in.
I land one on Sullivan’s jaw, then we stand in the
middle of the ring and fight for all we’re worth. I’ll
give the crowd their money’s worth if it kills me. But
I don’t know how I keep going. What worries me is
that I can’t make any impression on Sullivan. He
looks as if he’s in a training bout. It all seems so easy
to him. I stop a left with my arms, and let him have
a hard right underneath the heart. I see him wince,
and I feel pleased.
I come back very shakily to my corner at the end
of the round.
“You’re doing well,” says Jeff.
"I’m training it for one of ze Diggairs."
“You had him thinking
then,” says Ted Barnett, the
other second.
I might have had him
thinking, but he’s got me thinking a lot more. Only
three rounds gone, and I feel dead beat. I don t care
how the crowd are taking it. I don’t care much for
anything now.
FOR a couple of months we weren’t very happy.
Through it all Stella never used to complain. I
think she used to cry to herself when I wasn’t home.
Then I managed to get a job.
After that we got on pretty well together. I began
to feel glad about the baby. I hoped it would be a
girl—l don’t know why. We used to talk about the
name we were going to give it. Stella wanted some-
thing uncommon.
Then, on Friday night, we were sitting down
to tea. “Oh, there’s no sugar,” said Stella.
“I’ll go and buy some,” I said.
“It doesn’t matter, Ralph,” she said. “You’re
tired. I haven’t done much today.” She went out to
the small shop at the corner of the street.
I read the paper —all about the fight on Saturday
night. The main bout was between Jack Bennett and
a visiting negro, Judd Sullivan. It was Sullivan’s first
fight in Australia, and it looked like being a good one.
I wanted to see it, but I couldn’t leave Stella in the
house on her own. I heard a car’s brakes squealing
in the street outside, and I went out to see what was
the matter. I saw a big car pulled up, and Stella on
the footpath, breathing quickly. There was fear in
her eyes. The car must have just missed running her
down.
“Why don’t you look where you’re going?” the
driver yelled out to Stella.
“You big mug,” I shouted at him.
He looked hard at me and drove on.
“I’d like to push his face in,” I said to Stella.
“What happened?”
“I didn’t see him coming, and had to run,” she
said.
Suddenly she screwed up her face.
“What’s the matter, Stella?” I asked quickly.
“It’s a pain, Ralph,” she said.
I could see that she was in agony. “You get to
bed,” I told her. “I’m going for a doctor.”
The baby was born at two o’clock in the morning.
I went to bed at three, and was up again at six. I did
not go to work in the morning. About ten o’clock
Jeff Walker came to see me. He’d been sent by the
manager of the stadium. Jack Bennett had been in a
car smash, and wouldn’t be able to meet Judd Sullivan.
There was no other boxer available at such short
notice. Would I fight Sullivan?
“You’re fit, Ralph,” said Jeff. “Here’s your big
chance.”
“What’s it worth, Jeff?” I asked.
“A hundred quid if you win, thirty if you lose.
That’s a lot of money, Ralph.”
“All right,” I said.
I went with him to see the manager, and I signed
up for the fight. I didn’t tell either of them that I
was a father. I didn’t tell them that I had had only
three hours’ sleep. A man can’t fight on three hours’
sleep —anyway, not a boxer like Sullivan who moves
like lightning. It was the worrying that wore me out
more than anything —worrying for Stella, and for the
youngster.
I should never have taken on this match. But
thirty quid will come in handy.
T ’VE never been beaten up like this before.
I I move forward slowly. When we meet Sulli-
van hits me hard, and I’m on the canvas with my
head aching. There’s a roaring in my ears. I don't
know whether it’s the crowd or whether I’m going out
to it. God, he hit me hard that time. I’ve only got to
lie here and I get thirty quid.
I can hear the ref. counting. He gets to nine and
I climb to my feet. Suilivan comes at me to finish me
off, but I spar, and my head clears a little. He gives
me a hard right to the chin and I go down again. I
won’t get up again this time. A man’s a fool to get hit
about for nothing. But I get a hundred quid if I win.
I feel very giddy, but I don’t care. I can’t see
very well, and it’s hard to hit a fellow you can’t see.
Sullivan comes at me, and he’s careless. He’s care-
less because he thinks he’s got me where he wants me.
And so he leaves an opening, and I hit him on the
chin. I don’t know where I got the strength from, but
it stopped him with a jerk. And now I’ve hit him in
the solar-plexus, like he did to me in the first round.
It was a haymaker like I used to do before Jeff took
me in hand.
There’s an expression all right on his face now.
It’s one of agony, and he’s dropped his hands to his
side. I see my chance, and I let him have as hard a
right as I can give. And he’s down, and I stagger to
a neutral corner.
The ref. seems to be counting too slow. Sullivan
still lies there. He’s not even moving, and I don’t
know how I’ve done it. I feel like crying. The hun-
dred quid will be very handy. I’ll win some more
money if I can, and it will give that youngster of mine
a chance in life. I don’t want him to turn out to be
a big mug like me.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jfzrblt mnevf' Wie melloumej4andl-mquet
TEDDINGTON WEIR.
Just so Jong as London remains the home of a vast concourse of people, the noble river upon which it stands must ever remain, in
a physical sense, what has been described as its “most notable attribute.” The citizens have always realised this. An illustrative incident
is recalled. When an angry King once threatened to remove his Court from London, the reply of the Lord Mayor was, “But Your Majesty
cannot take away the river.” Politically, commercially, socially, the Thames and London are to all intents and purposes interchangeable
terms. Above Richmond it has, with poetic appropriativeness, been christened “The Silver Stream.” From this favored town right to its
fountain head in the south-eastern slopes of the Cotswold Hills, the general character of the scenery is that of a calm and tranquil beauty,
appreciated in times such as 1940 witnessed when peace seemed to be almost banished from the world. Three miles upstream from
Richmond is a famed resort —Teddington. Here the first lock on the river has been placed. The village with the broad sheet of water that
rushes over the weir forms a picturesque setting in a scene already beautiful. It has had many inhabitants celebrated in their day, but in
widely different ways. Elizabeth’s Earl of Leicester occupied a house here. William Penn, founder of the great State of Pennsylvania, and
father of the Quakers, was also a resident in 1688. The famed Rev. Dr. Stephen Hales, F.R.S., naturalist and physiologist, held the living
of Teddington for over 50 years, and “Pretty Peg Woffington” was another worthy. The church, a not unpicturesque amalgam of the new
and the old, contains memorials of some whose names are familiar today. Thus the monument to Margaret Woffington, who died in her
thirty-ninth year in 1760. At the end of her somewhat wayward career she could not have found a more peaceful resting-place than the
beautifully-kept churchyard. In the church is a tablet to a really great man to whom the Empire owes so much, John Walker, founder
of the “Times,” who died at Teddington. While the village is not actually on the river’s brink, it is sufficiently near to render a visit
from the boat or launch no inconvenience.


IN “OUR SEA.”
“I don’t hear you singing, Benito.”
“I didn’t hear YOU singing after that Graf Spee business.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London : Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 40-43 Chancery
Lane, London, W.C.2.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
MIDDLE EAST WAR OR BLUFF?
The series of fights in which H.M.S. Ajax added to her
glorious record occurred in the course of “a 3000-mile
sweep of the Mediterranean” by “the biggest battle
fleet” assembled in that sea “since the war began.”
The sweep lasted seven days, and from Alexandria, the
starting point, the majestic division of the R.N., with
H.M.A.S. Sydney and several Australian destroyers
accompanying it, reached the neighborhood of Sicily,
protecting “important convoys” on the long voyage ;
but, except for a submarine or two, the only hostile
craft sighted were the three destroyers sunk by the
Ajax and a cruiser and other destroyers that got away.
In a graphic account of the astonishing operation
“S. M. Herald’s” war correspondent characterises the
failure of “the Italian Grand Fleet” to accept so long-
drawn-out a challenge in “Our Sea” as “not the least
curious feature of the Middle East war situation,
which has many curious features.”
Many curious features it has, and Italians are con-
cerned in most of them. Except for a spurt in British
Somaliland, which has led to nothing material, they
have shown no particular activity anywhere or with
any arm. The proceedings of the commission they
sent to Syria are as mysterious as their operations in
Western Egypt, which came to a sudden halt at Sidi
Barrani. Mysterious also is the neglect of the Ger-
mans to strengthen the Italian Air Force and make use
of Italian bases for operations against Malta, Alex-
andria and Haifa ; and the cessation of British attacks
on Italian cities and towns may be added to the
category. It has annoyed British commentators of
the kind that is always demanding “action” such as led
to Narvik and Dakar; one very angry newspaper
editor insists that Venice would be a grand place to
bomb. But seeing that one possible explanation of
Italy’s military inactivity is that the war is unpopular,
and that it is obviously in Britain’s interest to exploit
that feeling, if it really exists, the bombing of Venice
or of Florence or Rome would be an act of madness.
The “commentators” are “increasingly convinced”
that “the big challenge of the Axis Powers to the
Empire is coming in the Middle East.” They quote as
evidence the German military occupation of Old
Rumania. Still it is a long way from Old Rumania to
the Middle East, even for aircraft, and in going into
the faithless kingdom that Britain guaranteed the Ger-
mans may have had other views. They certainly
wanted to get control of the oilfields and prevent
Britain from firing the wells or smashing the machinery
or both. Such attempts were doubtless made —if they
hadn’t been the Britons engaged on the oilfields would
have been unworthy of their race, and of Norton
Griffiths and his men who set them the example in
1916 —and they may have alarmed the enemy, who is
using up so much liquid fuel and can draw supplies
only from Rumania and Russia. Reckoning in what
they have stolen in the countries they have occupied,
the Germans claim that their reserve supplies of all
types of fuel oil exceed by a million tons what they
had at the outbreak of war, and allege that they can
get along without Rumanian oil, though with it they
have “more than enough.” The Italians say nothing
about their supplies.
By taking military possession of the Rumanian
remnant Hitler has turned Stalin’s position in Bess-
arabia. This fact was pounced on at once by the
Russian-alliance brethren, and they began babbling
and spilling ink with all their old assurance. It was
a palpable threat to Moscow and it would find
Moscow resentful and ready ; Moscow had a huge
army in Bessarabia and the huge army was prepared
for anything; Moscow would also back Turkey to the
limit, and, since Turkey would be faithful to the
British guarantee, an attack on or even a threat to the
Turks would bring Moscow in on the British side. The
old fanciful tale with new trimmings.
In Article 1 of the Nazi-Soviet treaty “the two
contracting Powers” undertook “to refrain from any
act of force, any aggressive act and any attack against
each other or in conjunction with any other Powers.”
In Article 3 “the Governments of the two contracting
Powers” agreed to “remain in consultation with one
another in order to inform themselves about questions
which touch their common interests” ; in Article 4
they pledged themselves not to “join any other group
of Powers which directly or indirectly is directed
against one of the two” ; in Article 5 “the two part-
ners” bound themselves to “solve disputes or conflicts
by friendly exchange of views, or, if necessary, by
arbitration commissions.” Their subsequent proceed-
ings showed that there must have been secret arrange-
ments as well. By virtue of these the Red Army
marched into Eastern Poland, attacked the Finns and
carried out its promenades into the Baltic States and
the Balkans, in each case grabbing what it was per-
mitted to grab. In the case of the Baltic States, the
irruption was preceded by a withdrawal of Geman
settlers so that there would be no possibility of a col-
lision that would embarrass “the partners.” There
was no withdrawal of German settlers (about 800,000
altogether) from Rumania, as it existed then.
There is nothing to show that the dismemberment
of Rumania —with North Bukovina and Bessarabia
presented to Russia, Transylvania to Hungary, the
Dobrudja to Bulgaria and the oilfields to Germany—
was not arranged at Moscow in the form in which
it has happened. It would be strange if the Aryan
partner, in offering the Muscovite partner guarantees
against the war with which each threatened the other
in the most violent language for so many years, would
require nothing for himself. If he has gone beyond
the letter of the revealed and unrevealed agreements
of August, 1939, it must.be because he hasn’t the
slightest fear that Moscow will come into “the Second
Imperialist war” as an adversary. He may even think
that, by offering new bribes or resorting to old
threats, he can induce Moscow to go through the
motions of preparing a Middle East war of its own,
against Iran or Iraq or both, and so perhaps save him
from long and doubtful campaigns in distant regions
which would have to be organised from the beginning.
The war for which the Germans prepared so
thoroughly and in which they gained such resounding
successes was a European war. They are still no
doubt capable of extending that war to the shores of
Greece, and to the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles if
the Turks are overawed or forced into a decision to
make a stand in their Asian homelands. But, those
points gained, the Axis would still have to reckon with
what, in circumstances more propitious, it has so sig-
nally failed to master, British sea-power and air-
power ; and there would remain the problem of a war
of invasion in remote and inhospitable regions, defi-
cient in motor roads and railways and in supplies of
almost every description, and subject to extremes of
heat and cold, recurrent famines and destructive epi-
demics. For unacclimatised soldiers from Europe,
who would have to carry with them everything they
required and maintain ever-lengthening lines of com-
munication and fight valiant and active defenders, pos-
sessed of modern arms and equipment, it would be a
far more trying experience than a war of movement
over magnificent roads in the most fertile parts of
western Europe ; and this the Germans know well
enough.
They will tackle this tough problem only if there
is no alternative. The alternative they would obvi-
ously prefer is an early peace, and there are indica-
tions that all their recent moves have been made with
that object. The alliance with Japan, the military
occupation of Rumania and what may follow from
both manoeuvres —possibly, in the case of Russia, a
four-Power arrangement such as Tokyo is gleefully
predicting—may all be construed as parts of a pro-
gramme designed to force Britain into a fatalistic
acceptance of the position that it is no use going on with
the war. Simultaneously with the blotting out of
Rumania as a State guaranteed by Britain, there was a
sudden intensification of the air war on British cities
and towns and an equally sudden return to the drop-
ping of leaflets instead of bombs. Father Bull has not
weakened, nor will he weaken if he has to bear the
brunt of uglier developments of the coercion plan.
His dauntless people have been assured that the war
will not be continued a day longer than may be
necessary; but if Hitler and Mussolini are anxious
to get out of it it is for them to make their want or
need known in specific terms —which, of course, must
include an offer to abandon the use of and discuss
guarantees for the total abolition of the bombing
’plane, that deadly threat to civilisation itself.
In the House of Commons on October 15 Mr.
Churchill was questioned on the subject of war aims.
As reported in certain Australian newspapers, he
replied that “the time” had “not come” for an official
declaration, “beyond the very carefully considered
general statements already made” ; but he went on to
say, “amid cheers,” “I do not think that anyone be-
lieves we are fighting merely to maintain the status
quo. We are fighting to survive.”
When he speaks like that, he can claim to speak
for the whole Empire. The war, as the peoples of
the Dominions view it, is not a war for the mainten-
ance of the map of Europe, as redrawn at Versailles,
but a war for the preservation of their liberties, pos-
sessions and systems, and—in association with the
other peoples of the Empire and under the leadership
of the King-Emperor—they will go on fighting until
their liberties, possessions and systems are secure, and
until the ghastly rule of barbaric force, as expressed
in the bombing and firing of cities and the torpedoing
of passenger ships carrying children, is banished from
the world. But this does not mean that they are
resigned to the arbitrary arrangement which denies
them a say in the direction of the war and the shaping
of the peace. As the “Daily Sketch” puts it, “the
Dominions could choose men for an Imperial Cabinet
as easily as they choose High Commissioners,” and the
men so chosen “would bring to this supreme Empire
Executive intimate knowledge, initiative untrammelled
by undue respect for convention and .formulas, and
complete freedom from the ties of British party
politics.” And refusal of this representation cannot
be supported f>y “a single valid argument.”
Progress.
It consisted of a pub and a couple of houses and a
mail-change when McGinty first saw it. McGinty was
one of 13. He got his early education as best he
might, and by the time he was ready to go to work
there were a few more houses and talk of applying
for a school. In those days the land for miles around
was owned by two families, and all McGinty and his
young contemporaries could hope for was a job on
one or the other station, or to go rabbiting or post-
cutting in what they called the back country.
When McGinty was 22 the township contained
about 200 people, and he courted one of the young
women and married her. Thers was a big shivoo in
the new hall, which stood between the store and the
new post office, opposite the new school, and there
were people there who had come upwards of 100 miles
to dance, fight, get drunk and pound McGinty on the
back.
McGinty remembers that when the new hall was
opened a local bigwig said something like this:
This new structure is a mark of our progress. It
proves that our township is forging ahead and that the
vision of those pioneers who first opened up this part
of the country was not misplaced. Our growth has
been very rapid indeed, and I am satisfied that it will
continue until we have made this the populous centre
of a thriving district.
McGinty recalls that the same or another local big-
wig said practically the same thing when the post
office was opened, and again when they opened the
school, which was having some additions made to it
when McGinty’s first boy was ready to attend.
Pretty well all the town’s 800 people gathered to
give a send-off to McGinty’s first boy and the others
who were on final leave in the 1914 summer.
McGinty’s other four boys and his three daughters
were sitting in the front row.
After that, McGinty remembers, the Government
bought one of the stations and cut it up for soldiers’
blocks ; and McGinty’s first boy—his second was left
in France —got one of the blocks and became a farmer.
There was a pretty big celebration the year they
brought the railway through, and new cars flashed in
the sun or smothered the place with dust. And the
member for the district, addressing nearly 2000 people,
about half of whom lived in the town, told them that
the railway was a mark of their progress and forecast
big things.
There was a lot of money about in those days.
People built houses, and made streets and roads,
and there was electric light, and here and there par-
ties were held at which the host proudly displayed a
crystal set and gave McGinty the earphones so that
he heard music and a distant voice talking.
It was about two years after that when McGinty’s
two girls went off to the city and got jobs in offices.
One of them married in the city and had a child. She
still has the child. The other sister has become a
“secretary or something” ; she’s grey and very smart
and lives in a flat with a poodle. Before she turned
grey she sent for one of her brothers and got him
started as a clerk in the place where she works. He’s
married. But he and his wife have decided that the
world isn’t safe for children and won’t have any.
McGinty reckons they’re not game, but nobody takes
any notice of McGinty.
McGinty’s third daughter married a man who
races dogs in the city. The other boy still loafs
round at home. He’s had a lot of jobs, none of
them constant, and he reads a lot and talks about the
money-power and vested interests and occasionally
goes out to his brother’s farm for a week or two.
About 10 years ago they built a fine trunk road
through the town, and one of the pubs was delicensed
and the brickyards closed down. Most of the young
fellows had nothing to do. A few went to the city
and got on “the relief” or opened fruit-barrows, and
one or two got other jobs. A chain-store was opened,
and one bank reduced its staff and another closed
up. The two newspapers amalgamated into one and
the council went broke and the Government lent it
money to build a swimming pool. The flour-mill works
only part of the year now, and two of the five
orchards outside the town have been abandoned.
McGinty says the place is very “dead” these days.
Nobody gets married, and every year the smartest
kids leave the school and go down to the city to start
in offices or something.
Bagmen camp in the delicensed pub, or in one of
the several empty houses, and the kids play gangsters
and cops round the empty shops. McGinty’s wife
has gone to the city to live with her youngest daughter.
McGinty read in the paper the other day that the
population of the city was increasing rapidly, thou-
sands of flats were being built and the Premier or
somebody was talking about a new water scheme to
cost thirty millions. That, McGinty thought, was a
bit funny, seeing there are so many unemployed and a
war on. He can’t make out why the town is so dead
these days or where a lot of people have got to. He
reckons something must’ve happened to the place.
You’ll find McGinty easily enough if you visit
that town. What town? Take your pick. There’s
plenty of them scattered through the country, all dying,
all forgotten—except by the children of McGinty and
his kind ; the children who, at odd moments in the
rush of their city life, suddenly remember the old town
and shudder to think how dull it would be to go back
and live there again.
Still, they shouldn’t be downhearted, for the city
is triumphant and the little towns are fighting no
longer. In a hundred years or so, strangers, pushing
inland, will discover their deserted ruins and ponder
on what caused them.
C. H. S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Alternative to Menzies.
The lines “From harmony to harmony Through all
the compass of the notes it ran” were not written of
the performance at Canberra last week. There was no
harmony whatever in the preliminary proceedings of
the Country party, which resulted in the Agrarians
going to the four-party conference without a leader.
After an obscure wrangle concerning the omis-
sion of Albany (W.A.) as an accredited wool centre or
something, the question of leadership came up. Mr.
Cameron refused to stand again, and Dr. Page and Mr.
McEwen were nominated. With Mr. Cameron abstain-
ing, the vote resulted in a tie. A second vote was
taken, with the same result; and as neither gentle-
man would withdraw or toss for it the factions were
reduced to nominating Mr. Fadden as deputy leader
and leader for the time being. The member for
Darling Downs, with Mr. McEwen and Dr. Page,
attended the meeting of the four parties—Mr. Coles
was also present. Mr. Cameron meanwhile offered his
resignation as Minister of the Navy and of Com-
merce to Mr. Menzies, who would not accept it.
The conference was summoned by the Prime
Minister in reply to a letter in which Mr. Curtin con-
veyed the text of resolutions adopted by his party,
and communicated also to Mr. Beasley, as leader of
the Non-Com. Labor group, and the two Independents.
In these resolutions Curtin Labor expressed “its
resolute determination to strengthen the war effort,”
declared that, “as an essential part of the war
effort, steps should be taken to put into effect the sub-
stantial aims of Labor’s election policy” and invited the
co-operation of “all other parties and the Independent
members.” Mr. Menzies intimated in reply that he
and his Ministers were still “willing to participate in
the formation of a national Government on an'
equitable basis.” Mr. Beasley, in his reply, interpreted
the result of the election as “an indication that the
people desire a change of Government,” and said that
his group was ready to “discuss the formation of a
Labor Government with the Official Labor party,” but
pointed out, with “regret,” that such a discussion had
not taken place. In the circumstances the Beasley
group was willing to “discuss the formation of a
Government and the consideration of a common
policy to be pursued by such a Government that
would at once reflect the economic and social policy
of Labor and ensure the successful prosecution of the
war.”
Then the party managers and Mr. Coles entered
upon “talks of an exploratory kind.” Nothing came
of them, but it was arranged to continue the explora-
tions at Canberra on Monday, with Mr. Wilson as an
additional explorer.
Back in Sydney, Mr. Beasley complained that
details of “a confidential talk” had leaked out, and
that the attitude of his group had been misrepresented.
Justifying the attitude it had taken up by its strong
poll on September 21, he said: “We refused to give,
in advance, a promise of unqualified support to de-
cisions of Mr. Curtin’s party in which our party would
have no say,” and “we informed Mr. Curtin that we
could not enter his party until provision was made for
amalgamation of the party organisations in N.S.W.
and the parties in the State Parliament.” As for
representation in a Labor Government, “we made no
stipulation about the number of seats we would
require, but we did claim that if we were to accept
responsibility for Labor Cabinet decisions we must
take part in it.” At the same time, “our attitude was
not a bar to a Labor Government being formed,
because Mr. Curtin admitted that he could not com-
mand sufficient support from other parties to form a
Government.”
Mr. Curtin came back with “an attack on the
Beasley group.” Mr. Beasley’s “announcement,” he
said, “would give profound satisfaction to Mr. Men-
zies and the anti-Labor parties in Parliament” and
“strengthen the anti-Labor hand in the current nego-
tiations.” Though his own party “includes elected
representatives of Labor from all over the Common-
wealth, numbering 32 in the House [3l really, since
Kalgoorlie is to be the scene of a doubtful by-
election] and 14 in the Senate, Mr. Beasley insists that
they should take orders from his coterie of six.”
This means the very antithesis of representative
government. Mr. Beasley’s statement is not inconsistent
with his record with Labor Governments —if he can’t
boss them he will destroy them.
So much for the two Labor parties and the
Country party —if there is a Country party now.
Compared with their pitiful wrangling, the U.A.P.
presented quite an impressive picture of dignified
unity in the presence of national danger. It re-elected
Mr. Menzies without opposition, and the Sydney
morning papers found it expedient to stop railing at
the man and the city he comes'from. There may be
a national Government, but it is not now likely. It is
more probable, though by no means certain, that there
will be a War Cabinet on the Maoriland model. But
whatever else may happen, Mr. Menzies will remain
Prime Minister ; and even people who still dislike him
for some reason or other, or no reason at all, admit
that there is no alternative P.M.
Millions and Madness.
One of the most maddening things of the present time
is the airy way in which State Governments talk
of millions of pounds for all sorts of hare-brained
projects from the diversion of the Snowy River to
Sydney to providing Melbourne with underground rail-
ways and elaborate “civic centres” on top of them.
Ignorant people could be pardoned for thinking
that Australia had never heard of war or drought,
and had no Treasurer trying desperately to finance a
tremendous defence scheme nor any Prime Minister
telling the people they must give up more of their
money and luxuries in order that the country might
be made safe for Australians.
The Sydney Premier who could mention with
scarcely a tremor £30,000,000 for a Sydney water
scheme—this, just before budgeting for another
deficit, £l,s39,ooo—must be blind to the condition
of the country which has to pay the money ; the
Melbourne Premier who is reading the “comprehen-
sive report” envisaging £8,800,000 for a Melbourne
city railway scheme must have forgotten the Wimmera
and the Mallee and the dying towns in the north and
along the coasts. Both must have entirely forgotten
the war. . .
How long the war will allow them to forget it is
doubtful. Even were it to end by Christmas, Aus-
tralia would be up for a colossal sum, not only to
meet interest and repayment of what has already been
borrowed, but also for repatriation and reconstruc-
tion. She would still have her drought and her suf-
fering wheat industry ; she would still face the need
for adequate defence —for this can never be allowed
to slip back as it had done before 1939 —and she
would have to deal with innumerable problems, most
of them costing money, that arose from the war.
All this and much more is self-evident to every
adult Australian except, apparently, these State Pre-
miers. It is unlikely that their grandiloquent schemes
will get past the talking stage for some time to
come ; all the same, the fact that they can dabble with
such things at such a time shows that neither they nor
their Parliaments are necessary to the country’s war
effort or are taking any serious part in it, and that, left
to their own devices by a harassed Federal Govern-
ment, they may become a positive menace to the
nation.
Next to the absurdity of even talking about such
things at a time when £30,000,000 could be used
quickly for aeroplanes and £8,800,000 for a couple of
cruisers, is the shocking idea of spending these
amounts on schemes solely designed to make life
easier in two great cities while the surrounding country
is steadily being depopulated and allowed to fall into
ruin.
State Parliaments should have been abolished
long ago ; these latest manifestations indicate that at
least they should be closed up for the duration of the
war. Australia can’t afford to think about Snowy
River diversions and underground railways now, nor
can she afford to maintain useless institutions that
might spring them on her before she could stop them.
"We Have With Us"
About the middle of the year, when France was fold-
ing up and Fritz fancied himself likely at any minute
to greet London with the “Horst Wessel Song,” sundry
literary and other arty gents departed for the U.S.A.
Seymour Hicks was heard asking if they had gone to
Hollywood to make a film, “Gone with the Wind Up.”
It seemed rather unfortunate for Mr. Noel
Coward, whose plays, musical shows and other works
had netted him a fortune, that he should have decided
to hop across the Atlantic about the same time. Some
nasty person in the Commons wanted to know all
about it. Mr. Harold Nicolson explained that Mr.
Coward had gone to America, “with the knowledge
and approval of the Prime Minister,” to make the
British marble good by lecturing, calling on the Presi-
dent (“with whom he has long been on terms of
friendship”) and so forth. He has been, there ever
since.
Now Mr. Coward is to come to Australia, osten-
sibly under the aegis of the Red Cross and, according
to the press, enthusiastically supported by our Mr.
Casey. He will spend a month sizing us up and then
return to them there United States to describe us in
lectures and broadcasts.
Australia has nothing against the young man,
except perhaps the very frothy nature of some of his
works, but it is doubtful if the average Australian will
be pleased with the idea of being investigated in order
to make a Noel Coward holiday. If Mr. Casey really
wants the Americans to know something about us,
he might suggest to Cabinet that some good Australian
be commissioned to do it.
Until this development, nobody ever suggested
that Mr. Coward was capable of observing a nation
in a few weeks and then lecturing to another nation
about it. His knowledge of mice and men is confined
to the theatre, where the race is to the swift and the
fight to the unscrupulous. None of the Coward plays
has any of the stuff of real life in them. A better
playwright, Mr. Somerset Maugham, spent the blissful
pre-Blitzkrieg weeks in France and filled Empire
papers with articles about the French that proved
entirely false and misleading.
Mr. Coward will no doubt receive a royal wel-
come from the mob that keeps the cocktail bars going
and will be snowed under with information. But no
man can know the real Australia like the Australian.
If the Americans have to be told, let an Australian
do it. If he wishes, Mr. Coward can write a theme
song for the lectures, something like “Mad Cows of
Aussies Persist in Drinking Tea.”
Policies, False and True.
“The policy of Continental military alliances has once
more played us false. Britain’s commitments in
defence of small Continental nations are a misguided
departure from the practice of former generations by
which Britain became great.” This is not The Bulle-
tin repeating itself —though the same ideas have been
expressed in many issues of this paper over the last
five years —but an extract from a book, Sea Power,
the work of an anonymous author, described as “a
well-known writer on naval and military affairs,” and
published by Jonathan Cape.
Admiral Fisher always held that the improvisa-
tion of huge armies for service on the Continent and
elsewhere was a blunder, for which a terrific price was
paid in 1914-18. Anon, is of the same opinion,
and he condemns also the dispatch of the 1939-40
B.E.F. to Europe. He boldly describes it as a “mis-
take, from which fortunately Britain was liberated
by the collapse of the French armies.”
Certainly the concentration of effort necessitated
by the complete failure of all the Continental enter-
prises has been attended with results which, them-
selves magnificent, have made a far greater impression
on the world than when Britain was playing second
fiddle to France. In the process the Royal Navy and
the merchant navy have been liberated from obliga-
tions which imposed a tremendous strain on both and
cost both many brave ships and thousands of brave
men. The R.A.F. also has been spared for its proper
job instead of having to lose hundreds of machines
and intrepid pilots in hopeless attempts to withstand
the advance of the German legions. But the work of
all three services, noble as it is, would have been more
effective still if notions which events have exploded
had not dominated the minds of Britain’s war leaders ;
if they had not underrated the value of sea power ;
if they had not been “looking simultaneously to the
sea, to the air and to the land.”
“The air weapon is incapable of winning a land
war.” Our anonymous author ventured to set that
down before the Blitzkrieg on Britain began, and who
will now say that he was wrong? “The vital factor
in naval warfare is not bases but ships. The sup-
posedly vital British need of keeping the Channel ports
out of enemy hands is a delusion.” Here again cir-
cumstances have justified him. Then he contemplates
the European scene, quotes Napoleon (“England can
never be a Continental Power and in the attempt must
be ruined”) and suggests a policy for the future:
Having insured our own security by a plentiful pro-
vision of ships and aircraft, we should again maintain
a watching brief over the European turmoil, intervening
when an opportunity occurs advantageously to us, but
careful not to rush prematurely into the main European
dogfight. Our principle should be to maintain ourselves
as an outpost and a rallying point of freedom and sanity
while the great German conflagration burns itself out.
In effect, the policy of the second Pitt before he was
seduced into backing Continental allies who let him
down and broke his heart: “England has saved her-
self by her exertions and will, as I trust, save Europe
by her example ” The British Empire has paid dearly
for following the mirage of collective security and the
will-o’-the-wisp of guarantees, but it can once more
save itself —and will.
Rights and "Concessions."
Mr. Bruxner, the N.S.W. Transport Minister, has
announced what he calls an “additional and important
concession” to farmers in border districts. These
farmers may now drive their vehicles 50 miles into
N. S. Wales, provided “they are carrying their own
farm produce or freight used in connection with their
business as farmers,” without having to register the
vehicles in Mr. Bruxner’s State. The previous limit
was 10 miles.
Mr. Bruxner has not found the Transport Czars
of the other States very eager to reciprocate, but hopes
the N.S.W. action will lead to uniformity.
This is something, but it is not enough. So long
as there are any State restrictions on border transport
Section 92 of the Constitution, which provides for
free and unrestricted trade and commerce between the
States, is being flouted. It is fortunate for State Gov-
ernments that these border districts haven’t the voting
power of the cities. If they had, transport restrictions
would have gone long ago.
The State politicians’ attitude is revealed in Mr.
Bruxner’s use of the word “concession.” The border
farmers have been given no rpore than a partial
restoration of their rights as free Australians to travel
and trade freely in their own country. These rights
are the prerogative of all, but they will continue to
be restricted or withheld so long as State authorities
are allowed to control national services like transport.
And heaven only knows what it costs the nation to
endure this control.
■—‘
More About Ties.
“Ente Marid” puts his side:
Anent the old school tie (B. 16/10/’4O), I don’t think
“El V.” would have so much enthusiasm for it if he could
have a close look at its influence at work. As a textbook
I recommend to him a heady volume by a young aristocrat,
My Early Life.
The young aristocrat started life in a ducal family, with
Harrow, Sandhurst and the 4th Hussars to follow. Presently
he found himself in India and Egypt drawing double pay as
cavalry officer and newspaper correspondent. Then he toddled
on to S. Africa, where, “at Estcourt, I found Leo Amery,
the monitor I had unluckily pushed into the bathing pool at
Harrow 10 years before.” .
Followed a period in the young man’s life in which his
tie led him into all sorts of scrapes. At last he found himself
in the presence of dear old Sir Redvers Buffer, V.C. (Eton).
Let him report the rest:
“ ‘You have done well,’ said the General. ‘ls there
anything we can do for you?’
“I at once replied that I should like a commission in
one of the irregular corps.
“The general after a considerable pause, inquired:
‘What about poor old Borthwick?’ meaning thereby Sir Alger-
non Borthwick, proprietor of [my paper] the ‘Morning Post.’
I replied that I was under a definite contract with him as a
war correspondent and could not possibly relinquish this
engagement After the Nile, the War Office had definitely
and finally decided that no soldier could be a correspondent
and no correspondent a soldier. Here then was the rule in all
its inviolate sanctity, and to make an exception to it on my
account above all others —I had been the chief cause of it —
was a hard proposition.”
But Sir Redvers was game: “‘All right. You can have
a commission in Bungo’s regiment. You will have to do as
much as you can for both jobs, but you will get no pay for
ours.’ ” ■
Immediately good old Bungo—Julian Byng of Vimy—
“made me assistant adjutant, and let me go where I liked
when the regiment was not actually fighting. I stitched my
badges of rank to my khaki tunic and stuck the long feathers
of the sakabulu bird in my hat, and lived from day to day in
perfect happiness.”
Who was this brazen young exploiter of privilege? Mr.
Winston Churchill. He and dear old Leo Amery—the monitor
he ducked at Harrow —are now busy abolishing ties for the
delectation of Herbert Morrison and the “Daily Roarer.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“V. Cluse”: Owing largely to his in-
ability to pass a pub on the way home
from work, the domestic life of my neigh-
bor was far from tranquil. Sudden war-
fare broke out almost every night of
the week, when high words and sundry
missiles flew. Being on friendly terms
with both sides I was constantly attacked
with propaganda from both and some-
times was compelled to shelter one or
the other from violent attack. The other
Sunday, seeking a quiet spot by the sea,
I came on the lady and her brood of
children gathered round a picnic cloth,
and a few yards away was the husband,
contentedly fishing. “Why,” I remarked,
happy at this change for the better, “I
see you do like him, after all.” “Oh,”
she said, “we’re always good cobbers on
a Sunday, Mr. Cluse; always good
cobbers on a Sunday.”
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Hearing strange noises
emanating from the chimney, a Ballarat
(Vic.) resident was about to investigate
when a pair of human boots came into
view. Attempts to get the occupant of
the sooty passage out by pulling and shov-
ing failed, and the chimney had to be
partially demolished before he could be
released. He had been jammed there four
hours and had to be taken to hospital
and treated for shock. On recovery he
became the subject of police attention,
and his feelings may well be imagined
when he was charged with “having been
found within an enclosed yard without
lawful excuse.” Whether he was getting
up or down the chimney when he stuck
hasn’t been established, but the incident
should prove a warning to intending
Santas this Christmas.
* * * *
“Avon”: History is repeating itself in
Maoriland in the matter of medical
examination of men called up for mili-
tary service. Of the latest territorial
draft in Auckland 55 p.c. of the men
were rejected, in Dunedin 56.4 p.c.
Wellington got on better with 37 p.c.
of rejections. It was the same in the
first years of the 1914-18 war. Young-
sters with biceps like balloons and chests
like barrels were told they had flat feet
or athlete’s heart; less spectacular torsos
were passed out on sight as physically
undergrade. But by 1916 most of the
Cl rejects of 1914 were fighting in
France, C2’s were on their way in troop-
ships, and even some of the C3’s were
in camp. Experience of the way men
shaped on service had a lot to do with
it. So many of the “medically perfect”
specimens cracked up and so many of the
less obviously fit developed unsuspected
powers of endurance that standards were
drastically revised.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Chungking, Chiang Kai-
shek’s capital, presents some resemblances
to and differences from present-day Lon-
don. For many months it has been sub-
jected to bombing, and the ratio of ruin
to ton of bomb is greater than in London
because Chinese houses are mainly built
of rubble. Chinese care of the civilian
is in inverse ratio to the size of the
population, and I daresay A.R.P.
measures are as primitive as Chinese
methods of fire-fighting. Apropos, I
once watched a huge fire in the
Shanghai native quarter. The water pro-
pelled on to the blaze came from a
hand-worked fire pump, and supply was
maintained by an endless string of
bucket-bearing coolies who brought the
water up from a river. A clerk sat at
a little table and as each coolie passed
him he handed him a little wooden ticket.
On his return, having emptied his bucket,
the coolie exchanged his ticket for a piece
of cash and wended his way back to the
river. After a while the finances gave
out. The moment payment ceased, so
did the fire-fighting.
* * * #
“Old Gold”: It was a proud boast of
that hero of my youthful days Tom
Mix that no prad would ever kill him.
Mournfully I have to record that it held
good, for the man who shot more rustlers,
Indians and renegades, loved more inno-
cent goils and saved more ranchers from
land-grabbers than any other screen hero
of the West was outed by a motor-car
which overturned on top of him. He was
60, having begun as a cowboy, served
with the U.S. Army in the Philippines,
the Spanish-American war and the Boxer
affair, and with the British in South
Africa. Later he became town marshal
in Oklahoma, and was three years with
the Texas Rangers. About 30 years ago
"We ran out of sleepers."
he began to delight the youth of count-
less towns and cities with his feats on the
screen.
* * * *
“Aroushka”: “Gore Hill’s” par. (B.
9/10/’4O) about Sydney land grants being
bartered for rum reminds me of a story
recounted by Commander Henry Capper
in Aft from the Hawsehole of the town
acre upon which Adelaide’s Town Hall
now stands being exchanged for a bottle
of brandy. On the last night of his visit
to Adelaide (King William-street was then
a row of shanties) a Sydney man was
urged by some acquaintances to buy
drinks for them. As he had only one
c °in left, a sovereign, he refused. “If
you’ll shout,” said one of the thirsty, “I'll
transfer you my town lot in exchange.”
The Sydneysider agreed, and when the
document was signed, witnessed and
handed over he paid for a bottle of
b . ra ndy. Years later he returned to Adel-
aide and found the forgotten title in a trunk
he’d left behind. Being broke, he visited
a s °hcitor to ascertain whether it was of
any value, and was informed that in the
meantime the Town Hall, G.P.O. and
other buildings had been erected on his
lot. Proceedings were instituted but with-
drawn on the payment of £lOO,OOO.
There’s not an atom of truth in it, but
it’s a lovely story. Sailors are apt to be
told yarns like that,
* * * *
“Tuart”: Rocking it into the exhibi-
tion of contemporary art in Sydney,
Lionel Lindsay asserted that “one-third
of the exhibitors bear foreign names.”
Among those he mentioned are Daniel
and Cohen ; but are these really foreign
names? There was an Elizabethan poet
named Daniel, and a very good one. As
for Cohen, I once knew an Irishman of
that name. He used to write Home Rule
articles and deliver Home Rule speeches
in Perth, and had a secure place among
the bhoys. What’s in a name anyway?
In two cases reported in Sydney recently
refugees have adopted Anglo-Saxon
patronymics.
, *
Doodlakine : Peop 1 e strangers
effiefly—who rail at the Americanisation
ot Sydney are deceived by superficial
appearances. Although Sydney s favorite
recreation is going to the pictures, and its
young women look like moving-picture
actresses, and its young lions of journal-
ism try to write like their American maga-
zine heroes, Sydney is fundamentally the
most English of Australian cities. Its
principal streets are named after the third
George and his sons and his Pitts, Castle-
reaghs and so forth. Its slums preserve
the English architecture of the industrial
revolution; its speech is Cockney, with
a bit of American slang added, and its
newspapers continue the English parochial
tradition, as witness the fact that they
are for ever screeching at Melbourne,
which never screeches back. Its alleged
Parliament closely follows the worst Eng-
lish models, and its law, with its absurd
division of practitioners into barristers
and solicitors—abandoned in really
modern Australian communities—recalls
the days of Sergeant Buzfuz (the Bar is
rarely without a Buzfuz) and Jarndyce v.
Jarndyce, cases dragging on for years,
Because of a company law which is as
full of holes as a colander, and because
of procedure which takes no account of
time, Sydney has been the prey of a long
succession of common swindlers, very few
No* Sydney™ no?Amerfcan, but Eng!
lish i«so Fmdish 5
* % * *
“S.T.S.”: “You can’t lay it on too
thick” was evidently the motto of
a man from N.S.W. who appeared in S.A.
proposing to sell “Coinage Island, off the
Queensland coast,” for £4500, and signed
himself “The Honorable Alexander Mac-
Pherson McLeod, Knight of the Garter.”
He got a lot of money, with a home and
the unlimited use of a car, from a farmer
while pretending to track down “fifth
columnists”; but on being arrested
claimed instead that his host was one of
them, and that the hospitality he received
was really “German gold.” This sugges-
tion was repudiated by the P.M., who also
had to check frequent “laughter in court.”
Twelve months’.
* * * *
“Berra”: Only one thing could have
kept Texas Green away from the
Caucus meeting last week, and it was the
thing that comes to us all. His old com-
pamons reflected sadly on the good stories
he used to tell at these post-election
gatherings and his artless confidences
about his financial affairs. Once he be-
came friendly with a party of Chinese
engaged m the sandalwood-export trade,
and with boyish elation he revealed that
° n ° ne , transaction be cleared £2OOO. It
enabled him to write himself down a
farmer when farming divisions were in-
eluded in his vast electorate, but I’m
afraid most of the £2OOO stayed on the
farm. “Texas” was a good mimic. His
raciest bit of work in that line was an
imitation of the technique of a young
recruit to the party who took up a huge
hunk of conditional-purchase land about
Esperance—described by one of Green's
predecessors as “the nacheral poort of
these shwelterin’ gooldfields”—and tried
to sell choice Esperance allotments to
fellow-members. Sometimes he was
knocked back with a morose quotation
of lines tin the mout h of a Coolgardie
auctioneer with landed interests by a con-
temporary poet
ni sell ; ou a crock
Or an Esperance block
Located far out in the sea.
if the prospect weakened, but protested
t h a t, except for his salary, he hadn’t a
feather to fly with, the enthusiast would
magnanimously offer to take something
down and p.ns. at “three, six, nine and
\2 months.” The merchant of Esperance
blocks didn’t remain long in the party,
* * * *
“P.S.”: There ought to be some sort
of a society for the defence of defunct
authors. Came across this in an Adelaide
paper that ought to know better: “Some
country people finish their dinner in front
of the wireless set rather than miss the
latest activities of Steele Rudd’s imperish-
able creations.” Steele Rudd never
created the congenital idiots which a corn-
mercial radio station uses to advertise
certain products ; he would have pro-
tested bitterly if he had lived to witness
the atrocity. His Dad, Mother and Dave
were real Australians.
“Ex-Mister”: An interesting visitor to
Brisbane has been the three-masted
auxiliary schooner Director II eight
months out from New York ; ia f he
and Marquesas/Tahiti, Samoa,
F 1 ! 1 and ew Caledonia. The ship s com-
P a ny includes the mother and wife of the
ow “ er - s f ki Sheridan Fahnestock, the
™ fe °, f hls f second-in-command, an an-
tbroPol°gist, a n artist, a museum collec-
tor’. seven c ? ege students, an Indian
cook ’ a mesS w° y Galapagos tortoise as
ascot ’ a Manchurian spaniel and a
Siamese cat. Study of bird-life and native
musi £ a^ d general scientl^c collecting
? re °f the voyage. After dock-
!nB^ n Brisbane the projected course will
be mner Barrier route to Torres
* rai *- ar ? d Koepang, returning to the
C.S.A. via the Philippines by the end of
1941 ~ 1f international happenings permit,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Hearing “Mr. Gandhi
wants to see you,” Lud Mayor Coles sat
up and was all attention. He momen-
tarily had the impression that the
sa ge of India was about to walk into his
office in his white cloak and loincloth and
earnestly recommend him to start a fast
to bring the rival Federal parties to their
senses. But it happened to be only a
namesake of the apostle of passive resist-
ance, although a fellow-Indian. He in-
formed the Lud Mayor that he was
cycling round the world with two of his
compatriots, had already done 43,000
miles and wanted the civic seal on the
usual battered passbook as a guarantee
that he had been in Melbourne.
ALL TOGETHER.
“The House of Commons has easily adapted itself
to’ the unprecedented situation of functioning without
an official Opposition.” —English paper.
Then why should we be hesitant or queasy
To follow in the Mother Country’s steps?
Seeing the House of Commons finds it easy,
Why not the House of Reps.?
“Tune in to Britain” is an old persuasion
We often listened to —and sometimes not—
But surely this is one supreme occasion
On which it hits the spot.
Close up the ranks! To hell with feud and
faction,
With party slogan and with hustings shout,
When all of us should be arrayed for action
•Against the foe without!
With half the world trapped in the toils and
tangles
Of bloody war by land and sky and sea,
How trivial appear the petty wrangles
Of Tweedledum and -dee!
Close up the ranks! We’ll give them greeting
hearty,
The times for which we’ve had so long to
wait.
The good old days when “none was for a party
And all were for the State.”
Ours is a race to win, a storm to weather,
And ours to see it that the task be done
As oarsmen, pulling steadily together, ,
From stroke to bow, as one.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Casa”: All the elements of a thrilling
drama enfolded a N.S.W. district north
of Sydney the other day when it was
reported that an armed man had held
up a family walking home and abducted
a girl of 17 or so under her parents’
eyes. Police gathered in force and,
reinforced by a tracker, took to the scrub
and spent most of the next day hunting
the couple. When night fell no trace
of them had been found, and a watch
was set on roads and railways, while
lookouts were posted to watch for camp-
fires in the hills. When morning broke
the search was about to be renewed when
the anti-climax came —the couple were
waiting on the police station steps for the
place to open for business.
* * * *
“0.D.5.”: These confounded news-
papers are too ready to publish news
items without giving serious thought to
their possible effect on readers. I was
just about to throw mine down on the
kitchen table the other morning when I
noticed a message from London telling
how Labor Minister Bevin was impressed
by the fact that workers who caught
common colds and were treated by a new
electrical gadget either had the cold
checked or the cure period shortened.
The man who allowed that to get into the
paper wants his brains brushed. How
long does he think my missus would
allow me to keep rum in the house if
she’d read that?
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Allegations of war pro-
fiteering recall the fact that it was under a
military dictatorship that Australia first
met with the profiteer. Governor Phillip
went home on leave in 1792, and Major
Grose, O.C. the N.S.W.
Corps, took charge.
For 17 years the Corps
ruled Australia. Most
of its officers had
joined the regiment
with the notion of
making fortunes —poor
men had gone out to
India and come back
millionaires, so why
shouldn’t there be
similar chances in N. S.
Wales? They acquired
large grants of land
with the Lieutenant-
Governor’s blessing,
and had the pick of
the convicts to develop
them. They took over
the entire administra-
tion from the civil
officials, and as they
were the only people
who had any money
they soon became the
only merchants, and
sold necessary com-
modities at outrageous
prices. The quickest
way of becoming rich
was by importing and
selling large quantities
of spirits, and they
speedily established a
complete monopoly in
this direction. When
the Hawkesbury district
was settled in 1794 they soon discovered
that it was more profitable to turn the
grain from its farms into spirits than to
sell it for food, and the rum industry be-
“Remember, if one of them flatfoots catches us, I'm takin' yez to the
Palley de Dahnce.”
came the curse of the country. Our first
profiteers made records in the game that
have never been beaten anywhere.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Sidelights on the sufferings
of a civilian population in war-time:
All refinements possible have been incor-
porated in this striking example of a modern
talkie house. On summer evenings patrons
can “cool-off” at the interval by wandering be-
tween the flowers, shrubs and sparkling foun-
tain of the spacious roof garden, with its
crazy paving and soft diffused lighting. On
winter nights there is a wide, open fireplace
in the circle foyer, which will burn full-sized
logs as a change from the more usual synthetic
system The auditorium can seat 1800 people,
there are heaters for all seats, a crying-room
with attractive murals where mothers can take
their babies and still enjoy the show in com-
fort, and an improved ventilating system. The
opening picture will be Paramount’s comedy-
thriller “The Ghost-Breakers.”
The locale of this addition to our national
culture is a Melbourne suburb.
* v * *
“C.R.”: A family which lives in one
of the English counties particularly sub-
ject to the Blitzkrieg has a son who is a
pilot officer stationed at an aerodrome
near by. Almost every day he goes aloft
to meet the invaders and sometimes he
is engaged in a fight over the house. When
his job is finished he returns to the aero-
drome, has a wash and goes home to
dinner. It is exactly the same routine
he observed in pre-war days.
* * * *
“Dewey”: As “Tuart” says (B.
9/10/’4O) a slight error in typesetting can
make all the difference. The following
ad. appeared in a Central Queensland
paper: —
FOR SALE.—Double bed, wife
mattress, pillows, etc. Owner has no
further use.—Apply , Separation-street.
It was set out just that way, and it was
indubitably a genuine ad. ; the hilarity
with which the town rocked was due to
the comp, who made “wife” into “wife.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Defence Department
gives fashionable Adelaide two nasty
blows if it takes over for the Air Force
St. Mark’s and Mount Breckan. The
“Stand by with the vaccine, sister! I think I’m breaking through."
latter is 50 miles
away at Victor
Harbor, an
ideal 40 - acre
hillside by the
sea. Built long
ago for the Hay
family, it has
latterly been a
country club,
patronised
mostly by city
people. It can
hold 150 now,
but may have
to take any-
thing up to 500
airmen. The
military value
of St. Mark’s
(as a “p re-
e m b a r kation
leave billet”) is
not so obvious.
It is a crowded
block close to
the Cathedral,
on North Adel-
aide’s most
fashionable ter-
race. It was the
first, and is at
present the
only, residential
college affiliated
with the Uni-
versity, has the historian Grenfell Price
as head, and has annexed the lion’s share
of recent Rhodes scholarships. Inciden-
tally, as the last-century home of John
Downer, it treasures the room in which
the first rough draft of the Common-
wealth Constitution was worked out one
night by Downer, Barton and O’Connor.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Amongst unexpected results
of Hitler’s war has been a rise in the
British birthrate. It began in February,
and increased till July, the latest month
for which figures are as yet available ;
and a record high rate for marriages
accompanied the flood of new arrivals.
The mortality rate amongst infants
was low, and the only hitch in future
population prospects was the usual war-
time preponderance of male babies. It
evidently takes more than Adolf’s bombs
to frighten the British baby or its mother.
# * * *
“Cadey”: If military service does
nothing more than encourage a return
to the hat it will have done a good thing
for Australia. Quite early the thick skull
of the aboriginal was noticed by the
anthropologist and correctly credited to
Binghi’s having gone for ages with
head unprotected from the hot sun. In
order to protect the otherwise scantily-
covered brain Nature had evolved an
extra-thick bone. The African negro is
the same —and for the same reason. And
without question this practice of leaving
the head uncovered has been one of the
main reasons why the blacks of both
continents have lagged so far behind in
material civilisation. For a bone head
means a thick head in more senses than
one.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: Sent down to Mel-
bourne on a rush job, the A.S.C. driver
was going flat out when he spotted a lone
short-skirted figure walking ahead. He
pulled up. “Goin’ to town?” The pedes-
trian nodded, and a perfect Cupid’s bow
parted in a dazzling smile. “Hop in!”
At the next township, the driver glanced
at his watch and asked “How about a
feed? Can’t stop, though. Have to get
a couple of pies an’ eat ’em on the way.”
The passenger smiled coy agreement. The
driver dashed from the shop and dumped
a bag of hot pies in his companion’s lap.
“Mind holdin’ mine while I get a bite?
Can’t slow up.” The passenger obliged,
and the driver began to feel that he was
doing some good for himself. At the
next township he asked, “How about
a drink?” His passenger nodded
shyly, and the A.S.C. gallant dived into
the nearest pub, emerging laden with a
couple of bottles. “Hold ’em while I
open ’em. Can’t slow up.” They passed
the next few townships and began to
approach Melbourne. The driver glanced
at his watch and turned a personality
smile on his fair passenger. “Bad luck
we can’t pull up for half an hour. Reckon
I can drive with one hand for a while.”
“Aw, break it down, Dig.! ” answered the
grinning passenger in a deep baritone,
“I’m nickin’ off from Puckapunyal! ”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: As a war-time measure
the cultivation of opium poppies has been
started again. It was tried in Australia over
70 years ago, and quantities of the sleepy
poison were actually shipped to England.
But the rising cost of labor put culti-
vators out of business, and, although any-
body can grow the stuff under license,
until recently nobody has ventured to
revive it.
IN GREECE.
“Women have been warned by the Greek Govern-
ment that they will be severely punished if they He
about their ages in census papers. Cable.
It’s a thesis laid down by our writers of books
That a woman is only as old as she looks
Or when census inquirers her answers await,
Exactly as old as she chooses to state.
But observe that at Athens they’ve made it
their biz .
To see that she’s scheduled as old —as she is.
These amiable fictions, one gathers, must cease,
Or there’s trouble in store for offenders in
Greece.
The date of a dame’s or a demoiselle’s birth
Concerns but herself in most parts of the earth;
If to make it a bit of a secret she care
It’s reckoned as nobody else’s affair.
And, when asked to record it in black upon
white,
To take a few years off her tally is quite
A likeable license, a venial caprice,
A matter for jesting—excepting in Greece.
Seems strange that such zeal should originate
there,
Such stickling for truth that is naked and bare,
On the accurate length of a feminine span
Unpried upon elsewhere by chivalrous man.
Did Byron, one asks, ever bother a bean
On how many summers his Zoe had seen?
Yet nowadays maids must the number release
Whenever they’re taking a census in Greece.
When Helen, who skipped with her favorite
boy,
Was launching flotillas of ships upon Troy,
What odds did it make and what diff. could it
mean
Were she glamorous thirty or sweet seventeen?
Did Sappho’s maturity matter a curse
In the days when she fashioned such amorous
verse?
Yet now, it would seem, there’s a case for
police
If ladies romance on their ages in Greece.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


GRAVEN#
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
ncrx'Srysss.-jj’”
m
m
m
si
m
m
mm
m
m
m*
2519
10 for 9° 50 for 3'9
20 for 16 100 for 7^
POLITICAL POINTS
The events of last week strengthened
the P.M.’s position. He conducted the
Canberra negotiations shrewdly, and his
published references to them were admir-
able. In fact, in all his speeches he struck
a high note ; but he should not have said
as he did in Sydney that “the Empire, can
win the war only by invading Europe
and carrying the war to Germany.” He
should leave that sort of thing to radio
professors and Sunday papers.
Not for long was Beasley “Jack” to
Curtin or Curtin “Jack” to Beasley. At
the week-end they were pitching into each
other again, as in 1932, and Curtin’s
chance of becoming P.M. had receded to
a thousand to one or worse. It has been
weakened also by the doubt as to whether
Kalgooriie can be held.
The C.P. rumpus was grossly misrep-
resented in unfriendly quarters. Cameron
was not dismissed, as alleged, nor was
he double-crossed by Page. The stand
he took was that, the party having obvi-
ously become a prey to faction, he
wouldn’t again offer to take the empty
title of leader. Having vainly urged him
to change his mind, Page put in his own
name, as he was perfectly entitled to do.
Their relations remain friendly.
At their first post-election meeting, the
Federal Labor members re-elected Curtin
as leader, Forde as his deputy, Makin
as secretary, George Lawson as whip,
and Collings as spokesman in the Senate.
But for deputy-leader in the Senate they
substituted Westralian Senator Cunning-
ham for Victorian Dick Keane, and they
voted Frank Brennan and Ward off the
party executive, to which they added
Chifley, Frost and Dr. Evatt. Somebody
nominated Dr. Evatt for the deputy
leadership. The nomination was with-
drawn, and Forde, like Curtin, had no
opposition. Thus one more newspaper
prophecy went west.
“Victoria is an Issue at this Election”
was the cry of a parish-pump Sydney
paper before its “outstanding candidates”
were routed. Now it has another griev-
ance: “N.S.W. and Victoria, the two
chief industrial States and the States with
the strongest Caucus representation, are
represented among Federal Labor officials
only on the executive” —that is, by Dr.
Evatt, Lazzarini and Chifley. With roughly
half the population of poor old Ma,
Queensland and Westralia between them
have supplied the leader and the deputy-
leader in each House. It is almost enough
to make a parish-pump paper secede.
Though the Electoral Department was
not to blame, it took just over a month
to complete the counting of votes for
the Senate. Ministerial candidates were
beaten in N. S. Wales, but scored in all
the other States, and the seats they won,
added to the four which did not have to
be contested, give the Government an
unchanged majority of four, President
included. Majorities everywhere were
substantial, but the number of informal
votes was appalling. In N. S. Wales it
reached 183,015.
No Westralian newspaper ran “out-
standing candidates” for Canberra, as did
the Sydney morning papers which flopped
so badly ; but two or three urged Senate
voters to “put Johnston last.” Laborites
did, but very few others; the C.P. man
got in easily on Collett’s preferences.
That A.I.F. colonel and Menzies Minister
just failed of a majority on the first count.
F. R. Lee, now campaigning briskly for
Kalgooriie—there are four candidates —
tells The Bulletin that he is not “one
of the people who are trying to get the
control of Great Boulder shifted to
Westralia” (B. 16/10/’4O). He has no
connection with or interest in that com-
pany whatever, nor has he had any busi-
ness ties or official associations with
Claude de Bernales or any of his com-
panies for over two years, though the
pair are old friends.
There have been significant demands in
Britain for a declaration of war aims.
In the last war Asquith and Lloyd George
never left the Empire in any doubt as
to what it was fighting for, but this time
it has had nothing but the guarantees
to Poland, Rumania, Greece and Turkey,
and romantic assurances to the Czecho-
slovaks. Berriedale Keith has asked per-
tinently whether it is “really practicable
to restore the greatness of France, in
the face of revolution, national collapse
and hostility to Britain” ; and heaps of
other related and unanswered questions
have arisen.
With three bills before them, fresh
from the Assembly mangle, Victorian
Leg. Councillors met at 5 p.m., surveyed
the business, heard the bills read the
second time, adjourned at 6.30 for dinner,
resumed at 7.45 and, completely over-
come, decided on a week’s holiday at 8.30.
Il happened on Tuesday of last week,
and there is a feeling that this high speed
might be deleterious. Most Victorians
would gladly support an adjournment for
9.9 years.
Though Cain momentarily showed his
teeth at his partner, Dunstan, in the Vic-
torian Assembly debate on the proposal
to cut unemployed-relief taxation by 15
per cent., he hid them again when chal-
lenged by the Opposition to make a no-
confidence vote of it. So Dunstan won,
and the strange bedfellows settled down
again.
When the war was not two months old
N.S.W. taxpayers were informed in
glozing terms that the State finances were
in such a frightful mess that they would
be required to fork out another
£4,000,000 by June 30. They have now
been told by the guilty and incapable
Administration that the accounts to
June 30 closed with a loss of £2,288,600
(the Auditor-General says it was a lot
more), and that, with taxes maintained
on the same scale (except for a trifle of
unemployed-relief tax remitted to a small
section), there will be another loss this
year of £1,539,000, which is to be begged
or borrowed from the Commonwealth
with as much more as the mendicants
can get. Ordinary expenditure is actually
to go up another £2,000,000. The scan-
dalised “S. M. Herald” calls it “an
evasive” Budget. It is about the mildest
adjective that could have been picked.
“Give us helpful and instructive criti-
cism, and don’t destroy that great insti-
tution,” pleaded Mr. Reid, the N.S.W.
Minister for Agriculture, on behalf of
his State’s “Parliament.” It is because
the State institutions are not great but
pitifully small that so many people want
to destroy them —painlessly, of course—
and bring a people with one flag and one
destiny under one Parliament.
Eight days after the Yugoslav Premier
had warned “everybody” that “we
founded Yugoslavia with blood, and only
with blood can it be taken from us,” the
Yugoslav Foreign Minister was saying
“Political co-operation with Germany has
meant peace instead of war for Yugo-
slavia,” and obediently conducting his
country into the German orbit. None of
these Balkan countries is worth the bones
of a Tommy or a Digger. It is a bitter
thought that scores of thousands of brave
British people like the unemployed ship-
builders of Jarrow could have been estab-
lished in Australia for far less British
money than has been thrown away on
the rotten Rumanian kingdom alone.
Another Isaacs v. Isaacs case, heard
in the County Court at Melbourne, re-
sulted in Judge Foster ruling that the
wife of John Isaacs, once an M.L.A., was
not entitled to the furniture she claimed,
and in his sentencing her to 14 days for
contempt of Court. This was done, not
while the lady was letting herself go, but
in her absence. It was said on her
behalf that she had gone into hospital;
and perhaps it is fundamentally a hospital
case. In delivering judgment, Mr. Foster
made the following remarks, among
many others:
It is surely not improper for me to add
a humble tribute to the greatness of Sir
Isaac Isaacs —to the noble service he has
rendered his country for more years than
I can remember. Nothing the plaintiff
could say has of ever could in any way
tarnish so splendid a record.
Not “improper,” but very unusual, and
“a little excessive, a little Asiatic,” as
someone wrote of Clarendon’s prose
style.
“The Soviet Government, embodied in
the formidable figure of Stalin, has barred
off for ever all Nazi dreams of an advance
to the East.” Churchill said that last
November. Now the formidable figure
is in Bessarabia and Bukovina with the
Nazis’ sanction, and the Nazis are in Old
Rumania with or without another dis-
honorable understanding. Though the
wishful thinkers are at work again, it
is more likely than not that the “Fascist
assassin” and “the scum of the earth”
have put their heads together again.
Sydney “D.T.,” suffering from Russian-
alliance fever once more:
If the British Empire can now stop
making those incredible diplomatic blunders
by which we alienated the goodwill of
these people there is yet a chance, though
it may be a long one, that the Soviet
will help us carry through the mighty task
in which we are engaged.
How about sacking all those diplomatic
blunderers and sending Mr. Packer, Mr.
Stevens, Mr. Norman Cowper, Mr.
Norman B. (“Confucius”) Rydge and
other temporarily disengaged “outstand-
ing candidates” to Moscow to work the
oracle for us? With, of course, Mr.
Theodore as special envoy to Rumania.
Reporting sadly to the U.A.P. Council,
the Sydney U.A.P. executive owned that
its “hope that multiple endorsement
would bring outstanding men into Parlia-
ment” had been wrecked on the rock of
events. With nasty references to the
big money stacked behind certain “out-
standing candidates” by “vested interests”
(£5OOO was mentioned in one case and
£3OOO in another), and to the deadly
effect of the stunt in other electorates,
particularly Watson, the council angrily
condemned “multiple endorsement,” and
grimly accepted the resignation of Mr.
Norman Cowper as treasurer. The only
“outstanding candidate” present was Mr.
Stevens, who left early. Mr. Sydney
Snow, the chairman of the outfit, was
another absentee, and it looks as if his
day’s work is done.
Westralian wheatgrowers bracket 1940
with 1914 as the worst years they have
known. Many of those who were young
fellows 26 years ago hung on till 1915 ;
then, having put in their crops, they made
tracks for the nearest recruiting office.
A party of C.P. members who travelled
700 miles through the wheatbelt recently
and saw harrowing sights met some of
these Old Diggers on the way to recruiting
offices again, their sons having preceded
them.
No crops, no feed, no credit, little
water, many grasshoppers and mountain-
ous debts —such were the conditions
found by C.P. members who visited the
outer parts of the Westralian wheatbelt.
Said Latham, the Opposition-leader: “Had
it not been for the fact that the defence
authorities could take no more men into
camp, there would, I believe, have been
a complete evacuation of farmers from
the areas concerned.” But don’t suppose
that the State Government is not alive
to the tragic position. It is arranging
to put up a fine new building for the
Agricultural Department in Perth.
Premiers of mainland States feel that
something should be done about Mr. Cos-
grove, of Tasmania. The fellow actually
intends to seek a license for a radio
station to broadcast Parliamentary de-
bates and Government announcements.
Having a strong belief in the old adage
“Let sleeping dogs lie” or “lying dogs
sleep” or whatever it is, the mainlanders
rightly fear the effect of this audial
revelation on the taxpayer. If Mr. Cos-
grove goes on with his plan no State poli-
tician but will hold it against him when
the listeners rise and demand their aboli-
tion.
What Australia owes to the Royal
Navy and the merchant navy and its
own R.A.N. and merchantmen can never
be adequately told, but the N.S.W.
Auditor-General has mentioned part of
the debt.
The large export income due to war
requirements of primary products greatly
strengthened the financial structure of
Australia. It assisted the banks in relin-
quishing to some extent restrictions on
credit, and, coupled with investment and
exchange control, facilitated the financing
of war expenditure.
Sea carriage of cargoes, going and
coming, has been tremendously difficult
and dangerous. There have, in fact, been
cruel sacrifices of ships and lives. But
the work goes on and will go on to the
end.
We have been told too much of what
the enemy has gained during the war and
too little of what he has lost. This item
is from the 1940 Statesman s Year-Book :
During the calendar year 1938 there
passed in transit through the Kiel Canal
53,530 merchant vessels aggregating
22,579,000 net tons.
For nearly 13 months nearly the whole
of that tremendous trade has been sacri-
ficed to the god of war, and millions of
Germans must be feeling the effects.
Though a motion was put to revoke
his ticket, John Thomas Lang is still a
member of the Federated Locomen’s
Union, a dignity he achieved by making
unionism compulsory in the railways and
restoring seniority rights to the 1917
strikers. The old chap has never driven
a loco., but there was a time when he
could give pretty good imitations of one
shrieking through a mountain cutting.
Another conference on wheat has been
held, this time in Melbourne. It was
convened by the Dimboola Shire Council,
which is surrounded by the Wimmera
wheat country, and “leaders of the indus-
try” addressed it, as also did Wilson, the
Wimmera M.H.R., a very important per-
son these days. Out of it all came a de-
mand on “the Government” for another
Bd. a bushel on wheat in the No. 2 pool.
“Are we to build up a vast army for
a land offensive against Germany?” asks
Professor Berriedale Keith:
Are we to understand that this Govern-
ment claims without mandate the right to
send millions of men against Germany and
German-controlled territories in what may
well be utterly disastrous enterprises?
Such a claim seems to me to be a nega-
tion of democracy and liberty, and, if per-
sisted in, may involve the destruction of the
freedom of the Empire.
And so it seems to a lot of other people.
But not to the London representative of
a Sydney Sunday paper:—
To get that victory we have only to
create diplomatically a field in which our
fighting forces can operate even with the
odds of two to one against them.
“Two to one against them”! How
generous some newspapermen and radio
professors are with other people’s lives!


HOY!
“But this was never built for passenger traffic; and, anyway, I dunno where I’m going.”


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
EXCESS-PROFITS TAX—
What Will the New Government Do About It?
October Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/1 /’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
PERSONAL ITEMS
It is on record that Archie Galbraith
Cameron asked Geoffrey Street for mili-
tary employment (the reply was that he
was needed in the Ministry), and the
chances are that he will renew the appli-
cation. A Digger for three years, he is
still only 45, and as hard as nails. But
he would be the obvious choice for Aus-
tralian representative on the Imperial
War Cabinet that must come.
Brigadier Cecil Arthur Callaghan, O.C.
Bth Div. Artillery, A.1.F., is a 50-year-old
Sydney-born businessman who had his
BRIGADIER CALLAGHAN.
first taste of war in 1914 as a lieutenant
in the Ist Field Brigade, A.I.F. He came
out of the tussle with a lieut.-colonelcy,
C.M.G., D.S.O. and a French decoration.
He had been four times mentioned in
dispatches. A brother was killed in
action. Brigadier Callaghan’s hobby has
always been soldiering, and his soldiering
has always been linked up with artillery.
There are still chances for backyard
inventors with brains and pluck. Seven
or eight years ago H. E. Powell started
experimenting with producer-gas gadgets
in the Westralian farming township of
Bruce Rock. Now he is head of an Aus-
tralia-wide company which is making
units for tractors, trucks and cars. Fords
and the Commonwealth Government are
on the list of customers.
Canon Wise, whose high-church ser-
vices used to cause a stir at Goodwood,
an Adelaide suburb, but have been taken
for granted lately, has resigned at ex-
actly the same time as Bishop Nutter
Thomas, with whom he used to have
arguments. The new rector of Goodwood
is Arnold Morralee, a northern S.A. Bush
Brother, who came from Devonshire only
five years ago.
William Vicars, son of John of that
ilk, who made Marrickville, Sydney, a
woollen weaving centre, died on Sunday
at 81. He was born in the village of Tilli-
coultry, in Scotland, and his parents
migrated to Queensland when he was
four. John Vicars established himself in
the woollen trade in Sydney in 1871, and
William and his brothers took over the
Marrickville factory when their father
died. William Vicars’s public services in-
cluded chairmanship of the Repatriation
Board in 1919-20, after which he had a
period as chairman of Red Cross. As
a member of Royal Prince Alfred Hos-
pital Board he helped to strengthen the
institution’s finances, and he and his
brother Robert gave Pitt Town Farm to
the Church Social Campaign as a training
centre for returned soldiers.
Reported missing since the evacuation
of the B.E.F. from Flanders, Lieut.
Alistair Young now turns out to be in a
prison camp in Germany. He is a grand-
son of the late Baldwin Spencer, the Vic-
torian anthropologist who died on a
scientific expedition in South America.
An aunt is Mrs. Clive Rowan, who has
three sons serving with the A.I.F.
The “Times” reports the death in Lon-
don of Charles H. May, brother of Phil,
at Harrow, aged 93. Phil, 17 years his
junior, died in 1903, aged 39. The old
man was in a way Phil’s first master. The
pair were sons of a Staffordshire engineer,
and Charles May, a designer of wall-
paper, gave young Phil his first chance
to do color work on his wall designs.
Apart from wallpaper, Charles was no
slouch with pen and pencil. He drew a
good many sketches for London periodi-
cals, and in 1894 did the decorative
initials for Byron Webber’s Fun, Frolic
and Fancy, for which Phil drew the main
illustrations. In temperament he was
much like Phil —cheerful, kindly and a
good mixer.
It has taken 40 years for the first in-
stitute of psycho-analysis to be opened
in Australia. It is in
Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and will deal
with problem adults
as well as problem
children; those un-
able to pay will have
a psycho - analysis
specialist to attend
to their complexes.
Medical men baffled
in the search for
physical causes of a
patient’s sickness will
now be able to send
him on to the psy-
chologists if they
think that might help.
The director is Dr.
Paul Dane and the
secretary an old
Bulletin contributor,
Dr. Reg Ellery. Dr.
Gero is the analyst.
Elder Smith’s West-
ralian g.m., Major
William L a u c h 1 a n
Sanderson, comes
back into active mili-
tary life to command
the 16th Battalion
(Cameron High-
landers), A.M.F.,
vice Lieut.-Colonel
J. E. Lloyd. Early m
1915 Sanderson left
Westralia with the
10 th Light Horse
Regiment, and saw
service on Gallipoli, where he took
part in the famous Light Horse charge
against “The Nek,” and gained his com-
mission. In France he was with the 11th
Field Artillery Brigade, and commanded
the 111th Howitzer Battery, collecting
the M.C. and the Croix de Guerre.
Sanderson was born at Oamaru (M.L.) 50
years ago today.
Bendigo added to its long musical
tradition when Edmond Nelson scored
three bull’s-eyes at the Ballarat South-
street competitions. He won the prizes
for oratorio, art song and bass solo by an
Australian composer. The hat-trick
earns him the Governor-General’s gold
medal.
Forbes Mackay is no more. Edinburgh
produced him, hard study developed him
and travel broadened his mind. Some-
thing of a genius as an electrical engineer,
he looked after Sydney’s lighting for 31
years, first as boss of the city lighting
department and then as g.m. of the ill-
named County Council. Retiring last
year at 67, he hung out his shingle as
consulting engineer, and then took a
censor’s job. He would have been wiser
to take the rest he had so well earned ;
he had to enter St. Vincent’s in June, and,
though he made light of his illness, it was
his last.
The Scottish burr is extremely thick at
Whyalla (S.A.) since B.H.P. imported
shipbuilding experts from Glasgow. But
in one case, that of shipping superinten-
dent Dalziel, it has been softened the
merest trifle by 29 years of placing orders
for ships for B.H.P. and watching their
construction, Whyalla shipyard manager
A. D. R. Kelly was manager of the ship-
yard where “Dee-ell” usually went to
have ships built for Australia.
W. A. Bartlett, managing director of
Dunlop Perdriau, is a Sussex man. First
impressions are that he has little to say
for himself and seems to have all the
time in the world on his hands. But
soon it is evident that he has been saying
a great deal, very clearly, but in about a
tenth of the words everybody else has
been using. Bartlett’s conversation is
symptomatic of his life. Into his first 40
years he packed training in Toronto as an
engineer, service throughout the 1914-18
war with the 15th Canadians and as a cap-
tain in the R.F.C., a period with Westing-
W. A. BARTLETT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
house on Hell Gate Power Station con-
struction, 10 years with Brandes, the radio
manufacturers (for whom, at 28, he built
up an English subsidiary which presently
employed 2000 hands at Sidcup in Kent in
a four-acre factory) and another three
years in private business on his own
account. After that, at 41, he was
snapped up by Dunlops. He is esteemed
by the rank and file of his men as the
nearly perfect employer.
John Neil McGilp, recently appointed
deputy-chairman of the S.A. State Bank,
first saw the light at Port Augusta
59 years ago. Son of a station-owner, he
JOHN NEIL McGILP.
became a station manager, and the ex-
perience he gained made him later a
valuable member of the Pastoral Board,
a trusted chairman of the Land Board
and one of the best presidents the Stock-
owners’ Association of his State has had.
His knowledge of the western pastoral
lands is encyclopaedic. Studies birdlife
in his spare time, and likes a game of
bowls.
Zelman Cowen, 8.A., a 20-year-old
Caulfield lad, is Victorian Rhodes scholar
for 1940. He went from Scots to become
a non-resident of Ormond College in
Melbourne University four years ago. In
1938 he got his B.A. with first-class
honors, won the Dwight scholarship in
history and political science and the
Wyselaskie scholarship in English con-
stitutional history. Something of a musi-
cian, he is also a good athlete—hockey,
swimming, tennis. He intends to finish
his law course if not called upon by the
R.A.N. Reserve for active service before-
hand. At 19, as tutor in political science
in the University Extension Department,
he was one of the world’s youngest
lecturers.
The H. G. Smith Memorial Medal of
the Australian Chemical Institute —
awarded for the most outstanding work
in chemistry during the previous ten
years—goes to Wilby E. Cohen, of the
C.S.I.R. Educated at Perth Modern
School and Perth Uni., Cohen was suc-
cessively with the Westralian Govern-
ment Railways laboratory, Maribyrnong
Munitions Works and the Electrolytic
Zinc Co. before joining the Forest Pro-
ducts Division of the C.S.I.R. In 1936
a science doctorate came his way from
Perth Uni. Several years ago he was
awarded a Commonwealth Fund Fellow-
ship, an American award, and spent two
years in the forest products laboratory
at Wisconsin Uni., U.S.A. Cohen is
the author of a number of pamphlets on
the chemistry of Australian timbers.
John Andrew la Nauze, Adelaide Uni.’s
economics lecturer, has been bemoaning,
per medium of the Australian Council of
Educational Research, the inequality of
opportunity for poor men’s sons to enter
the professions with rich men’s sons. La
Nauze was a Rhodes scholar, going to
Balliol College (Oxford) from Uni. of
W.A. in 1931. Not yet in his thirties,
he has been lecturing at Adelaide for five
years ; has also done duty as director of
tutorial education.


w
SMOKE-OH!
“Our war effort should be uniform.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
That’s what a lot of women seem to
believe.
■i* i* + 4*
“Snake In Fleece As Sheep Being Shorn.”
— “D.T.
A snake in sheep’s clothing, eh? Next
we’ll find a wolf in a grass skirt.
A? ■fr Af
“How can one retain food when the stomach
is out of order?” —Inquirer in weekly paper.
Bolt it down.
4* 4* 4 1 4'
“Well-known London moneylender has
written his autobiography.” —Literary magazine.
This book should seize the reader’s
interest from the beginning.
•I* i S | .
“Soldiers conduit visitors over the house.”
—“D.T.”
Even the atmosphere was electric.
“Well-shod 1922 model tourer, £lO or near
offer; a trial.” — Used-car ad.
Probably.
“Wrestler weds after courtship difficulties.”
— “Sun.”
Headlock, deadlock, wedlock.
4* 4 1 +
“Man found wandering in city park was
under the impression that he was a radio
comedian.” — “D.T.”
The same delusion afflicts many men
seen wandering about radio stations.
Leading from Weakness.
Life’s just a pack of trouble for a
fellow who’s a bit of a card, and he s
always liable to be euchred by an old
trick. For instance, when hearts are
trumps and a woman has called diamonds,
her husband may threaten trouble
with a club. Worse, he may call for a
showdown and then the other joker
may have to put in when the Court takes
a hand. After that he usually thinks it
profitable to play the game.
4 1
“Books as decorations for the new home."
— “S.M.H.” Woman’s Supplement.
Choose them to suit the room. For
example, wishy-washy novels for the
HIS Secret Weapon.
, . , toil tbp
bathroom also books which tell the
naked truth And, of course, mysle y
novels for the kitchen.
* * v *
“Four trumpeting elephants stampede through
busy shopping centre.” “D.T.
A trunk call,
*F *F * *
“jt is wise for a man to burn all love-
letters received prior to his marriage,
~ ° man s mcln '
And not to allude to his flames,
*F *F *F
“Dentists seldom excel as hosts.”
Weekly paper.
In fact, many of their callers go away
feeling quite hurt.
*F *F *F *F
“Music at work peps up staff.”—' "Sun.”
g ut t^e swe etest of all sounds to any
sta f£ j s st jjj the knock-off whistle.
Objection.
Listen to those drunken wretches in
the flat upstairs! Are they never going
to stop? Gosh, it’s enough to drive any-
one crazy!
It’s scandalous to think that any land-
lord should allow a pack of inebriates to
carry on like that at this time! With
sick people in the house, too. They’re
obviously too drunk to go home, so
there’s only one thing to be done —they
should be put under arrest.
There they go again with one of those
stupid maudlin songs! Stamping their
feet, too. Oh, I’ve had enough of this;
I’m going to complain. How can I hope
to recover from my hangover with that
going on?
T. W. N.
Fiction and Friction.
“The days of sweet fairy tales are gone.”
— Woman’s paper.
In childhood fairy tales have worth
Above the treasures of the earth,
Because , when fables are received
By girlish ears, they are believed.
Alas! boy grows to man’s estate
And takes unto himself a mate.
But let a fairy tale (though slim
Or slick) be told to her by him
And it meets recognition grim!
P. O. M. C.
Suspicious Women.
“Petitioner said that her suspicions were
aroused when she learned that an acquaintance
had stopped at the same country hotel as her
husband and had registered there as his wife.”
—Divorce evidence.
Now isn’t that just like a woman,
jumping to conclusions? He might have
been one of those men who are in the
habit of saying “just mention my name
and it will be all right,” and the girl had
taken it the wrong way.
Maria is like that, too ; given to un-
warranted suspicions. When she came
home unexpectedly one day and found
me kissing Nora, a little blonde who was
boarding with us at the time, she flatly
refused to believe that I had promised
her grandmother, whom I had by chance
met that day, to give Nora a kiss for
her, and was only fulfilling my promise
like any honorable man would. Maria
said that grandmothers didn’t kiss like
that, and she didn’t believe Nora had a
grandmother, which is absurd. She must
have had.
When Maria takes my pay envelope,
too, she says “How much did you take
out before you sealed it down again?”
They are a suspicious lot, women.
There ought to be a mission to teach
them that suspecting their husbands is
one of the deadliest sins.
If it was a success a good time could
be had by all.
H.M.
Baby Talk.
“Does ‘cooing’ talk to babies sound absurd?
— Woman’s paper.
No. It’s the contrast which makes it
funny. For instance, when your wife
picks up a bonnet and a pair of bootees
that have 201 b. of roaring infant between
them and endeavors to soothe it some-
thing like this:
“Didums lovey-dovey baby-waby get
frightened of the big mansie-wansie?
(Get out of the road, you! Your mug’s
enough to give any kid convulsions).
There, there! Oosie-woosie, see the
pretty peachy-weachy tree in the garden?
(It’s no good hiding behind that paper.
The lawn needs mowing.) And wouldums
like an itsy-bitsy bottle of yum-yum milk
now? (If you think you’re going to sneak
out for a few rounds with those booze-
artist friends of yours, you’re mistaken.)
This verbal barrage, of course, falls
on the kid like drops of syrup and on
you like gibbers. But, after all, you re
only the father.
ELM.
Thought for Today.
If every banquet were a rope,
And every lunch a chain,
And every patriotic trope
Were made of cordage twain,
How close some social ones would be
United in their loyalty !
CLEM LACK.
Primitive Urge.
Swinging his club idly, he walked
steadily through the undergrowth. His
apparent carelessness was deceptive, for
he was keenly alert, and his eyes missed
nothing as he advanced. Suddenly he
stopped, his probing gaze trying to
analyse the little patch of white to his
right. Gripping his club firmly, he
waited. Nothing moved.
Satisfied it was harmless, he moved
forward again. Once more he stopped
with narrowed eyes, looking carefully
from side to side. Then slowly he began
quartering the ground, watching for signs,
ever and again sending fugitive glances
down the hill. Suddenly he froze, grip-
ping the club till his knuckles showed
white through the tan. The quarry lay
before him, unconscious of his nearness.
Again he sent a quick glance down the
hill, and, sure that he was unobserved,
kicked his ball into a better lie, and got
ready to play it to the pin.
JIGGER.
“As She Is Spoke.”
“According to an English author, the word
‘whoopee’ was introduced into America by
the early English pioneers.”
Strength is lent to this theory by a
perusal of the records of a debate
in the House of Commons in 1765.
It is the source of extensive quota-
tions by Blathersnork Bortz, the famous
philologian, in his widely-read work
Influence of English on the American
Language. The debate, portion of which
follows, preceded the imposition of the
Stamp Act on the American colony.
Lord Grenville: Waal, guys, it’s about
time theseyere goldurned colonials were
put on the spot. Do they take us for
a bunch of come-ons and suckers? We
gotta see that no furrin gazoobs give
these broncho-bustin’ hombres the
woicks, yet-these bozos are shy of spillin'
the dough to save ’emselves gettin’ beat
up. It’s sure the skunk’s foundations!
Charles Townshend: You’ve said it,
buddy! And we won’t stand for no
rambunctiousness from these rawboned
bums —not nohow, sirree! Does my hon.
pal propose doin’ anything in the matter?
Lord Grenville: Betcha! I got the
real hokum goods to wallop ’em with,
and then some! I got a swell bit of
legislation here’ll lay ’em as cold as a
schoolmarm’s kiss. I’ve called it the
Stamp Act.
William Pitt the Elder: It’ll git licked,
kid, for sure.
Lord. Grenville: Wise guy, huh? If
you-all wasn’t so blamed dumb due north
of the neckband you’d be a wake-up that
I’m spillin’ the low-down on the woist
racket thisyere country’s been plagued
with since last fall. Thisyere bill’s a cinch
to set the dimes, cents and dahlars rollin
in and stack the yellowbacks on their
edges in our coin deepo. Keep awake a
bit longer, folks, and I’ll roll you a lugful
that’ll have you reckonin’ this Govern-
ment ain’t such a dadburned set of ornery
coyotes you’ve thought it was. Stretch
your cauliflowers, guys. “Be it enacted
by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, by
and with the consent of”
W.P. the E.: Can the high-hat stutf,
George. You’re enough to make a hot
momma hornswoggle at a guppie. Cut
the gafoozlum and give us the straight
Missouri how you gonna soak ’em. If
you intend slamming a slug on their ball
games, divorces or iced-water there’ll be
a revolootion.
Edmund Burke: I rise to a point of
order, folks. No crumpet-snouted slug
of a Tory can tell the Whigs where they
get off an’ get away with it. The hon.
member drools off his pan like a Hoboken
commuter pitching boloney to a weep-
sister.
W.P. the E.: Sez you, you big stiff!
Scram home to your kennel.
E. 8.: Yep, sez me! And see hyer, you
glupbobbled son of a Gila monster
The Hon. the Speaker: Pipe down on
the tough stuff, dopes, or else.
W.P. the E.: 0.K., feller ; I was only
kidding the yob. Still an’ all, this House
don’t want no dead-pannin’, see? If the
hon. member’s scrooping for a build-up
for himself he won’t be the rattlesnake’s
echo. And our party says hooey to any
phony bills that might mean a yike with
them prairie panhandlers and mesquite
mopers. We’ll jinx it flat when the show-
down comes, so fire that out of your gat
when you pull out of your haywire
dreams.
Lord G.: The hon. member pokes his
schnozzle in pronto when he figures he
can sprag the country’s wheel. He’s
plumb loco if he reckons this side of the
House is goin’ to sit on the grid, all het
up. while he turns on the heat. Nix for
that.
Similarly, Professor Bortz quotes the
origin of so many Americanisms that
have crept into England. Here is portion
of the debate that took place in the Vir-
ginia Assembly after the passing of
the aforementioned Stamp Act.
Patrick Henry: Coom t’ think of it,
chooms, doan’t ’ee think these here
Woodbines are makin’ it a welter an’ all
with their Weedin’ taxes?
A Voice: Ah, bah goom, it is that an’
all!
P.H.: Eh, laads, then wot’s to do abaht
it? The blighters think we can do nowt.
Another Voice: Not arf we can!
Blimey, if we can’t give this Grenville
bloke a kick in the fice I’m a blinkin’
Yarmouth bloater.
P.H.: Oo aye!
Could any evidence be plainer?
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Turoar”: Old Bob was in Barnett’s
store buying a billy. Young Mary Bar-
nett, alone behind the counter, told him
it would be one and six. As she spoke
her mother came into the shop. “Oh,
no,” she said apologetically to Bob,
“Mary’s made a mistake ; that billy’s
two shillings.” “No matter, missus,” said
Bob. “I’ll take it.” But before the article
could be handed over Barnett himself
hurriedly appeared. “Both of y’ is
wrong,” he announced. “The price of
that billy’s halfer-crown.” Bob banged
2s. 6d. on the counter and made a grab
for the billy. “Give us the thing,” he
said, “an’ let’s git before any more uv
youse come in.”
* * * *
“Jack o’ Dreams”: Speaking of camels
on the Coolgardie tracks, they were a
strange exotic sight—and good material,
too, for the Australian writer of the
future. I can see them now, heading out
of Bayley-street. Thirty, fifty: great
gaunt beasts, dry and red with the pre-
vailing dust, tied nose-line to the tail
of the beast ahead, the whole procession
led by a tall, gaunt ’Ghan, beating
melancholy time on a tin dish. This
ancient was a sort of soothsayer, and his
giving the caravan a musical start-off was
supposed to bring good luck. Up the
Leonora track I’ve struck caravans two
hundred strong, the gaunt saturnine
cameliers plodding alongside the track,
as hard and enduring as the splayfooted
beasts themselves. It was strange to see
them “Hooshta” down their oonts and
spread the prayer mat beside the track,
taking care always to face towards Mecca.
But they had their fun, too. The heads
among them were invariably patrons of
athletics. And some of those ’Ghans
could wrestle!
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Something queer
seems to be happening in the fish world
along Australia’s eastern coasts. The
northward migration of sea-mullet was
late in beginning and unusually restricted
in numbers. Offshore line-fishing grounds
in S.Q. have given consistently poor
results for months past, and since mid-
September the Brisbane fishmarket has
several times been destitute of supplies
of deepwater fish of any kind. At
Narooma (N.S.W.) for the first time in
memory the salmon have failed to come
in from the open sea for the annual
shoaling in inlets and estuaries, with the
result that two canning factories have
had to close down, throwing 80 men out
of work and upsetting contracts for 10
million tins. Another unusual feature is
that the humpback whales seem to have
found the traffic lights against them on
the road back to the Antarctic. Dozens
of the great clumsy brutes are still hang-
ing about between Cape Moreton and
Sandy Cape, two months behind usual
schedule time.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Whatever may be the limits
within which ambergris is likely to be
found on Australian beaches (B.
11/9/’4O), it isn’t even worth picking up
nowadays. An A.I.F. man holidaying
on Stradbroke Island outside Moreton
Bay found a lump of what looked very
like the smelly stuff and took it to Bris-
bane for identification. His hopes of
fortune were dashed by the director of
a wholesale scent-distributing firm who
said that, although ambergris formerly
brought long prices for use in perfume-
making, synthetic preparations have since
taken its place entirely. There is now
no market foi the stuff in Australia and
probably none overseas. So my proposed
company for Promoting Pathological Pan-
creases amongst Physeter Whales becomes
another busted financial dream.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat went bag-sewing
on a S.A. Mallee farm at 12s. a hundred
and tucker. He thought the price a bit
low, but the crop was heavy and the days
long, and he was anxious to get a few
quid together for Christmas, so got down
to it. He got a big plate of porridge and
another big plate of fried spuds for break-
fast ; there were more spuds for dinner
and spuds again for tea. By the fourth
day, to use his own expression, Mat was
a “walkin’ spud sepulchure,” and asked
the boss if he knew of any other kind
of tucker. “Aw, get out!” said the boss
cheerfully ; “spuds is all right: they fill
y’, don’t they?” Mat could hardly deny
it, but went back to the crop with a
thoughtful expression. That night the
cocky drew Mat’s attention to several
large stones, chunky mallee roots, odd
old bags and other bulky rubbish, and
demanded, “What’s the big idea of shov-
in’ this muck in the wheat bags? What’s
y’r game?” Mat looked at him. “Aw.
get out!” he said, “stones and roots is
all right; they fill up, don’t they?” Thus
the near-by town found itself with an-
other transient unemployed bag-sewer on
its hands.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: Whenever I see a graduate
of some veterinary college fussing
around preparing his gadgets and
chemicals, I recall Paddy Houlihan,
“There's somethin' in this spring air puts new life inter yer .”
who travelled our outback N.S.W.
district in the days when my chief
occupation was “shooing” predatory
birds off the selection. Paddy’s sur-
gical outfit consisted of a large
“Rodgers” pocket-knife with one round-
ended blade and another like that of a
pruning-knife, a pair of “clams,” a sear-
ing iron and a bagging needle and twine.
His surgical supplies were limited to a
tin of “Stockhollum” tar, a chunk of resin
and a bottle of carbolic oil. The colt was
thrown and neatly trussed, and when the
operation was completed a liberal dress-
ing of tar applied. If the subject hap-
pened to be a bull he was roped and
hauled up to a corner post in an angle
of the yard ; then he was legroped, a trace-
chain passed over the top rail and around
his body and made fast. Anchored in
this way, he was unable to move back-
ward or forward, and the chain prevented
him from throwing himself down. Mor-
tality among Paddy’s patients was remark-
ably low.
* * * *
“Raorut”: “Them ’lectrical fernoni-
mers,” Sid the Sailor declared, “is nasty
things t’ run against. I’m takin’ the
ketch through one uv them South Sea
arkypelicans wunst. There’s a terrible
storm on, lightnin’ an’ tornadoes an’ waves
like the Alps with the d.ts. swampin’ us
truck-’igh all the time. Then, ter make
it worse, the blasted compass kept
twistin’ round like it’s chasin’ its tail, so
we got ter perceed by dead reckonin’, only,
bein’ nilly dead with fright, there ain t
no reckonin’ a-tall. In the end we give
it best, so we picks a ’efty-lookin’ rocky
island, gits under its lee an’ ’eaves the
kedge over. It’s thin we spots the rum-
miest thing uv the lot. There’s a great
streaker lightnin’ whippin’ an’ dancin’ an’
thrashin’ an’ tuggin’ all over the top uv
the rock. We watches it fer arfer-nour,
reckonin’ we’re seein’ things. Thin Yard-
arm Cecil, the mate, twigs wot’s ’appened.
‘ ’Ell,’ ’e says, ‘the flamin’ lightnin’s stuck
ter the rock!’ An’, cripes, so it is!
Talk erbout the wind-up! It pulls the
rock a clean mile ter the east before it
gits loose, an’ us with it. It weren’t till
nex’ mornin’, though, when we tries ter
’aul the kedge in an’ we’ve got ter cut the
cable we finds out the reason. Y’ see,
it’s one uv them magnetical islands.”
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: Spring tides are un-
favorable to pearling, for the vastly
increased rush of water stirs up
clouds of infinitely fine silt,' making
objects on the ocean bed dim and
murky. Which is perhaps one of
Nature’s methods of guarding fool
man, though he doesn’t always accept
the warning; indeed, “springs” have
brought many a diver to his death. Down
on the seabed, perhaps at his maximum
depth on descent at low tide, the diver
is unaware of the increased fathomage
gathering overhead. To withstand the
increasing pressure he signals for more
air and still more. But when he comes
to the surface after hours of such pres-
sure he realises just what he has been
doing, for almost inevitably the “bends”
get him. With the old-time native skin
divers the springs were greeted with joy,
for “Water too much deep ; too much
night-time him down bottom,” usually
meant a holiday and a scamper ashore,
where turtle eggs might be found.
* * * *
“Billy See”: Among the Westralians
of last century the desire to know some-
thing of the interior of their vast colony
amounted to a passion. H. C. Lefroy
was governor of the big Fremantle
Gaol; having accumulated a number
of vacations, he decided to spend
them in exploration. As companions he
selected half a dozen of his charges, the
prime qualification being a lengthy
record as an absconder. On that mid-
winter stroll Lefroy got as far as where
the town of Boulder now stands—no
small feat for the year 1865. Gave his
name to Lake Lefroy, a nomenclature
that puzzled early Tothersiders, who liked
to fancy that they were the first on the
scene. While the Lefroy party was
camped on the vast dry expanse ducks
swooped down on its fire. The birds
proved so miserably poor as not to be
worth eating, which probably accounted
for their desperate need of water. But
fancy the governor of, say, Pentridge
taking half a dozen of his pet irreconcii-
ables for a trip into Centralia!
“Bull-ant Bill”: “The trouble with
lots o’ blokes is that they won t leave
well alone,” said old Joe. “Me brother
’Enery wus like that. One time up north
’e wus spellin’ ’is team a bit ’fore tacklin
the ’Ervey Range an’ a string uv orse
drays an’ lorries come along an camps
near ’im. ’Enery bulls one o the kegs
o’ rum wot’s in ’is loadin’, an they all
gets skitin’ away a treat ’bout wot s best,
’orses or bullicks, at a straightout pull.
After the ’orse blokes ’as dumped a
coupla cases uv whisky over a bucket ter
return the shout, ’Enery pulls out twenty
quid an’ ses ’e’ll back two of ’is bullicks
ter shift a load what no two uv their
’orses can. They takes ’im on, an’ ’e
wins the toss fer first try, an’ ’is two
wheelers, bonzer bullicks they wus, goes
all out an’ shifts the dray a good chain
up the track. Then the ’orse blokes sticks
their lot in an’ they can’t shift it a inch.
They ’eaves an’ they dances an’ the blokes
sings out ter them and lays in the whip,
but they can’t shift it nohow. Another
minute an’ they’d ’ve ’anded ’Enery the
twenty quid. An’ wot does the stoopid
goanna go an’ do —puts ’is two cattle-
dogs on ter the ’orses fer a lark! D’reckly
they gets stuck in ’eelin’ ’em the ’orses
near capsizes the flamin’ dray an’ gallops
orf with it fer ’arf a mile ’fore the
blokes could stop ’em. An’ that’s the
downfall uv ’Enery’s twenty lovely quid.
* sfc * *
“Pagoda”: One cold, bleak evening I,
a tyro at the game, was dish-washing for
gold in a small creek near Captain’s Flat
(N.S.W.). Every now and then I knocked
off to warm my half-frozen hands at a
fire I had made near by. Noticing this,
an old prospector collected a number
of stones, threw them into the fire and,
when they were as red-hot as stones can
get, shovelled them into a shallow pool
near by. From then on I knew how to
wash my pay-dirt in comfort.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Almost a lost craft is
house-shifting. Fifty years ago Victoria
saw it at its zenith ; the days when deep
alluvial was petering out and whole town-
ships moved to more promising localities.
Big, heavy houses were shifted: and a
six-roomer built of stringybark from
the shingles downwards was both heavy
and big. As kids we even saw hotels on
the move—the Miner’s Rest, the Golden
Gully Inn and various others ; eight- and
ten-roomers these. Furniture and fittings
still inside, even the women and kids, and
not forgetting the cat on the doorstep
and the hens in a crate hitched on near
the back door. The trade evolved its
own particular tools, the main item the
jinker. A huge triangular vehicle of 12in.
Oregon, the base carried on 4ft. wheels,
stub axled on to each end. Broad-tyred
and strong these wheels, for they sup-
ported tons. With the house hoisted
high off its stumps by powerful jacks,
the apex of the triangle was dragged
under until it emerged beyond the rear
wall. Here it was picked up by a pair of
6ft. wheels, equipped with a powerful
ratchet windlass. A sturdy shatter pro-
vided runabout power for this part of the
jinker. The house lowered on to the
triangle, it balanced nicely, ready for the
pulhaway, which meant hitching on
up to 20 heavy draughts in front of the
shafter. A great sight, these straining
beasts and the huge house moving over
practically any level country. Arrived at
its new location, perhaps 50 miles dis-
tant, operations were reversed, the house
again jacked up, the jinker withdrawn—
and so the home was lowered on to its
stumps, to start a new lease of life.
THE WAIL OF A WORN-OUT BOOT.
“Jim Grahame could find life in an old boot.”
—Red Page, 19/6/’4O.
Oh, good were the days when I faced the world
Through a panel of polished glass,
And glimpsed the throng as it passed along
From a pillar of carven brass.
Then all a-shine from my heel to toe,
With laces pulled taut and neat,
I have trodden the sands of the ocean’s rim
And the smooth hard stone of the street.
But now I’m curved like a week-old moon
And my toe points up to the sky;
The leather cut from a Queensland hide
Is wrinkled and cracked and dry.
Forlorn I lie on a red sand bed
That the wind has blown from the west;
There is no tongue in my gaping mouth
That is lined with grass like a nest.
My heel is sloped to the outer edge;
It has scraped on many a road
When the wearer walked with a halting step
And his back bent low with the load.
Worn thin are the brazen eyelet rims—
In the winter-time they are green—
While hard and black is an ancient lace
That is twisted and curled between.
There’s a hanging patch where an axe cut deep
Like the drooping lid of an eye,
As a man’s eye droops as he blinks or winks,
Or as women’s do when they cry.
I’ve been soled and heeled, I’ve been sewn and
nailed,
Since the day that I left the last,
But worn and battered I’m cast aside
As a man who has failed is cast.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“The 0.D.”: It was a fairly dry season
when one of the boss’s city relatives sent
up her son for a holiday. What he didn’t
know about station life and the outback
generally provided the mob with mar-
vellous opportunities for legpulling,
especially as the youth was inclined to
put on airs. One night, just as me and
Monty got back to the hut from the back
paddock, the boss sent for us. “Look,
Monty,” he says, “this young coot
reckons sheep can’t be trained.” “Yair,”
says Monty and me, wondering what he’s
cornin’ at. “Yair,” says the boss ; “I’ve
tried to tell him that you an’ Bally have
got a couple of thousand so well trained
that you’ve only got to signal and they’ll
come to you.” The young bloke fixes a
supercilious eye on us while we cogitate.
Then Monty drops his left eyelid at me
and says “Too right, they will.” Well, it
led to bets, and then the boss and the
youth and the rest of us set off in the
moonlight for the back paddock. When
we get there there’s a few sheep about
and they clear out. After a bit more talk
and another bet or two, Monty picks up
a stout stick and softly calling “Come on,
sheep; come on, sheep,” starts hitting a
hollow tree slowly and regularly with the
stick. In a few minutes we’re in the
middle of a mob of hungry sheep. His
nibs pays up and home we goes. He
didn’t know me and Monty had been
scrub-cutting for fodder in that paddock
and that them sheep thought Monty’s
stick was an axe working overtime for
them.
* * * *
“Bathurst Burr”: Here’s something for
the Council to chew over. If you start
up a fox on the side of a hill he’ll trot
off, keeping about the same level, same as
sheep do. Reason for that is fairly plain.
But if some one further along the hill and
higher up fires a shot over the fox, even
though Reynard is well out of range,
it’s ten to one he’ll turn and bolt straight
up the hill. Mate and self shot over 60
foxes last winter, and we got eight of
them through using this stunt. Brought
one from 300 yards below me this way,
and he galloped straight up for the second
barrel. A shotgun wouldn’t touch him
at that range, so it must be the noise that
does the trick. Each time we tried it out
we were on the side of a fairly deep
gorge. Perhaps the opposite hill throws
back the echo and so makes the fox think
the shot comes from that side.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The long goods train
went slowly through our little siding one
day last week. From the guard’s van the
guard gave us a grin and a wave. From
the roof above his head a large and obese
goanna looked calmly down at us, flick-
ered once with its tongue and was carried
into the east.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In spite of the number
of people who claim to have witnessed
huge boulders, concrete slabs, etc., lifted
by the growth of mushrooms underneath,
I contend that the jacklike power of the
fungus is a myth, and submit another
explanation of the phenomenon. Water-
soaked clay always swells and will often
lift surprising weights; what could be
more logical, then, than that the stone
was lifted first and the mushroom grew
up after? Whether the theory is right
or wrong, the fact remains that the fungus
can not lift a weight at all. Finding a
big mushroom just coming through the
“ ’Evven ’elp ’Itler now, Spike.”
ground recently, I placed an ordinary
brick (weight 91b.) on top and awaited
results. I’m still waiting. The mush-
room has just flattened on top and is
withering away.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Should any member of
the Council who happens to be pottering
about in the Carpentaria country in the
vicinity of the Mitchell River hear any-
thing of a tree marked “J.G.” over
“1845,” A. H. Chisholm will be glad to
learn of it. It would be on the bank of
a lagoon near.to the river. The initials
are those of John Gilbert, naturalist to
the 1844 Leichhardt expedition from
Brisbane to Port Essington, killed by
blacks on June 28, 1845, and buried near
the river. William Phillips, another mem-
ber of the party, left a brief diary, now
in the Mitchell Library, which mentions
that Gilbert marked the tree shortly be-
fore his death. During a recent visit to
England “Chis” had the good fortune
to discover a diary of Gilbert’s, hitherto
unknown in Australia, and many unpub-
lished letters from Leichhardt. Amongst
the rivers named during the 1844-45 ex-
pedition were the Gilbert, Burdekin,
Dawson, Suttor, Isaac, Mitchell and
Mackenzie, the first-mentioned after the
unlucky naturalist.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Amongst un-
usual but useful pets (B. 2/10/’4O) I
award the palm to those favored by that
accomplished native lady Be-tln-ut,
principal wife of my old friend Wotta
Woppa, chief of the Da-mnli-ah people.
With infinite patience and kindness she
had tamed a number of the large thin-
skinned frogs which abound in the vast
Bla-nkilie swamps and had trained them
to subsist entirely on a diet of fireflies
and glowworms. During the day they
would repair to a neighboring cave
where such provender was available in
unlimited quantity and fill themselves to
the brim. Feeling thirsty towards sun-
down, they would hop back to the vil-
lage, slake the drought from specially-
placed dishes of ro-tg-ut, a kind of native
beer, and climb up to the rafters to sleep
it off. The glow of the insect cargo
showing through the distended skin of
their variously-tinted stomachs irradiated
the hut with a delicate effulgence un-
attainable by any means of artificial
lighting, and the soporific effect of the
beverage prevented them from disturbing
sleepers by croaking. Instead, they would
hiccup gently in unison, producing a
soothing, sleep-inducing sound like gentle
ripples of stout gliding across a beach of
freshly-opened oysters.
* * * *
“Eureka”: There was a patriotic con-
cert in the Gundyroop hall and Dad
announced that Joe would oblige with a
song. “And,” he went on, “if his singin’
ain’t up to his usual high standard you’ll
have to excuse him. The on’y practice
he gets as a rule is when he’s havin’ a
bath, and with the drought we’ve been
havin’ he might’ve gorn a bit rusty on
it!”
* * * *
“Kanowna”: Reading of wrecked
wagon wheels on the old Coolgardie
tracks (B. 25/9/’4O) recalls the resource-
fulness of teamsters on such occasions.
Black gimlet, the toughest wood in Aus-
tralia, made good spokes. Usually not
much thicker than a man’s wrist, it
needed little trimming other than a wedge
end to fit into the nave, and a dowelled
end to fit the felloe ; and the teamster
would do all that with just his axe.
“Heart, good for six months. Kidneys, shot to pieces. But don t Worry
about your lungs — they'll last YOU out.”
Broken felloes
were more of a
problem. But a
man real handy
with the axe or
the tomahawk
could chop a few
out of solid sal-
mon gum, making
some selection of
limbs with a favor-
able natural curve.
Mostly the wagon
carried some sort
of an auger, which
gave a start for the
necessary holes to
take the spokes,
after which they
could be brought
to any size by
means of a red-
hot iron, usually a
big bolt borrowed
from the wagon
body for the occa-
sion. The wheel
rebuilt, the tyres
would be replaced,
sometimes shrunk
on from a black
heat, but more
often put on loose
and tightened up
with wedges. These
wedges were usu-
ally pennies, the
universal bush-tyre
wedge all over Australia. So the wagon
would roll on again.
* * * *
“Bloodanbone”: I’m growing a big
bed of broad beans. Following gardening
instructions I have gone over the lot,
nipping off the tops in order to check
growth and induce the flowers to set into
beans. But though my plant surgery has
been drastic the beanstalks still persist
in growing; lam prepared to swear that
since the amputation of the tips they
have lifted their height at least another
6in. And such growth decidedly must
have come from lower down the stalk.
# * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Talkin’ of strength,”
said Bert the barman, “old Shandy
McGuinness was on ’is own. We takes a
launch out early one Sund’y, an’ it’s just
breakin’ day when we shuts orf the
engine. Shandy’s first in with ’is line,
an’ ’e’s just settlin’ down when the launch
rides up on a swell, there’s a fearful tug
an’ the ole coot near goes overboard.
’E lets the line run out a bit, then ’auls
’er in dead slow. Just as ’e’s gettin’ the
feel of it, up she rides again, an’ Shandy
near takes another ’eader. The bay starts
roughin’ up a bit, an’ it looks like
Shandy’s got a job on ’is ’ands. Us blokes
gets so int’rested we forgets to ’eave our
own lines over. Be this time the sun’s
well up an’ gettin’ ’ot, but ole Shandy
sticks it out. All of a sudden ’e gets real
narked, braces ’is ’oofs an’ starts to reel
’er in. It’s ’eavy goin’, but when we goes
to ’elp ’im ’e swears somethin’ ’orrible
that it’s ’is catch an’ ’e’s goin’ to land it
if ’e ’as to dive in after it. Well, ’e’s
reelin’ away, an’ I wakes up that the
launch is movin’ agin the tide. Shandy’s
a wake-up too. ‘Start the flamin’ engine! ’
’e yells. ‘l’ll land the swine if I ’ave to
drag it to Williamstown!’ An’ that’s just
what ’e did. We runs alongside a jetty,
an’ Shandy climbs out, still ’angin’ on,
though ’is rod’s ’orizontal an’ the sweat's
runnin’ down inter ’is boots. ’E starts
windin’ in the cutty hunk, but when e
sees wot ’is catch is ’e lets go the rod, an’
that flamin’ rusty ole ’ulk slides back inter
the bay again. Yair ; three years they
been tryin’ to raise the Kakariki, an’
Shandy near ’ad ’er out in a couple of
hours.”
* * * *
“Curser”: Since I’ve degenerated to
the city, where everything goes with a
terrible rushing efficiency, I’ve often won-
dered what some of these suburban train
travellers would have thought had they
been on some of the leisurely outback
branch lines I once knew. In S.A. we
had just left a small town when the train
drew up beside a bush course on which
a race was about to start. We saw it
finish. On another line the mixed train
stopped between two stations, and we
watched the driver get down with a
parcel, climb through a fence and go to
meet a cove coming across a paddock.
In nor’-west Victoria I’ve seen a train
break records in order to gain time so
the crew could stop and watch a foot-
ball match along the line ; and on a N. S.
Wales branch line we pulled up while the
guard took delivery of a couple of turkeys
from a spring-cart whose driver stood
up on the seat and yelled “Is Ned Harri-
son on the train?” Ned wasn’t, upon
which the guard and the spring-cart
driver went into conference. They might
have been there yet, only the engine-
driver got tired of it and started, forcing
the guard to sprint for the van.
NATIONAL AGREEMENT.
There is a difference in the view
That fellows take of many things,
And what looks good to me or you
From others condemnation brings.
But though opinions clash and sway,
And talkers for the honors bid,
We all agree, when warm the day,
That then’s the time to change a quid.
The city chap can never see .
Why bush blokes love the lonely plains.
To him they’re simply drab and dree,
Burnt up by suns or drowned by rains.
He thinks the bushman slightly fey,
His brains half-fried beneath his lid,
But sees the point when bushmen say, „
“Cripes, what a day t’ change a quid!
He doesn’t know these sunburned coves,
Whose words are slow and voices deep,
Regard all folks who live in droves
As having no more sense than sheep.
These silent men from outback ways
From others keep their thoughts welFhid ;
But watch ’em when the townsman says,
“This seems the day to change a quid!”
From Darwin’s heat to Hobart town,
From Sydney side to Marble Bar,
You’ll get the tip to “keep one down”
Where’er the means and measures are.
And when refreshment’s far away,
Still think we as our fathers did,
When strong the sun, I’m game to lay,
We’ll wish that we could change a quid.
And frequently, in other lands,
On grim crusades or pleasure bent,
Australians meet and there shake hands
And, commonly, they’ll all consent
That here’s the time and here’s the place—
Be it New York or old Madrid —
To speak the greeting of our race,
“Cripes, what a day to change a quid! ”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Yesterday’s Will may need revision
In these swift moving times, it is a good plan to read over your Will
now and again. Be sure that it includes provision for an Executor
and iudsm ' ni to deal wi,h any
“Your Executor and Trustee,” a book that explains this Company's
service and charges, will gladly be sent on request. It will be helpful.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. «
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and X'
Administrator, etc. ’
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
Profit. '6 p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
’36 194,702 10} p.c.= 135,700 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. .. 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 .. .. 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,135
This co., which took over the working
assets of Australasian Paper and Pulp
(Melbourne) and Cumberland Board Mills
(Sydney) in 1926, has given a good
account of itself since. Though war
bumped up costs and shut off imports of
long-fibre pulpwoods from Finland and
Scandinavia, it also increased local de-
mand, providing the co. with an oppor-
tunity it was ready and quick to grasp.
The new pulp mill at Maryvale (Vic.),
which began work in October last, is now
operating at capacity, and so are the
large, fast-running machines set up along-
side to turn out 30,000 tons p.a. of high-
grade wrapping papers, container boards,
corrugated papers and other products.
Already additions to the Maryvale pulp
mill are being made, lifting capacity by
9000 tons p.a. Also, a new 6000-ton-p.a.
kraft-pulp plant is expected to start up
in January next. This machine will pulp
long-fibre Australian woods, making the
co. largely independent of imports now
drawn from U.S.A. and Canada. The
50,000-ton-p.a. board machine at Botany,
which started up in 1938, is maintaining
production in excess of original estimates,
and the old mills at Broadford and
Botany, which it was intended to shut
down, have had to be kept running to
cope with increasing demand. Altogether
annual output has been raised from a
recent maximum of 89,000 tons to 110,000
tons, of which approximately 60,000 tons
is board and 50,000 tons various types of
paper.
The year’s gross earnings shot up
£214,234, reaching £730,957. Including
£125,000 (up £75,000) set aside for the
taxgatherer, and £180,669 (up £81,678)
allowed for depreciation, exes. (£477,229)
took £198,531 of the increase—the new
machines are obviously economic pro-
ducers. The profit claimed was thus
£15,703 better at £253,728. But that
omits £20,197 used to rub out a like
amount of intangibles— development ex-
penditure which had been capitalised. In-
cluding the £20,197, the year’s profit (up
£35,900) was £273,925, or sufficient to pay
the pref. div. and show 13.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 8.4, 11.6 and 15.6 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. The dip
in profits during the 1939 and 1938
terms was due to the large amount
of capital not earning anything and the
writing-down of stocks in the former
period. The lift of 0.6 p.c. in the
div. was to enable the holding cos.
to pay 8 p.c. on application and call
money received on new shares issued by
them in July last.
To provide for further expansion, the
operating co. offered the holding cos.
£600,000 of new ord. scrip, of which
£428,891 had come in when the books
closed. Here are balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1938. 1939. 1940
£ r ® f £1,000,000 £(1,000,000 £1,000,000
Urd 1,600,000 1,600,000 *2,028,891
Mortgages. . .. 6,620 20,269
Loans, etc .. ' 33,937 158,331 164,422
Other creditors .. 119,199 185,519 384,621
Freehold and plant 1,708,127 2,323,468 2,928,929
Shares other cos.. . 23,242 23,242 23,242
r ‘ ‘ 99, °> 95() 855,518 943,603
Pnsh l+ btl> ’ ' 368,314 282,419 404,945
•• 302,302 43,701 45,071
ncluding £428,891 application money in advance.
To add £605,461 to the book value of
fixed assets, £88,085 to stocks and
£122,526 to debtors’ balances, the board
went outside for an extra £218,842. The
more or less liquid surplus (£824,307) was
£6861 less than at the previous balance.
As for the current term, the co. antici-
pates no difficulty in respect of pulp sup-
plies, and there is talk of developing an
export market. Certainly the continued
climb in costs and taxation can be ex-
pected to take the buoyancy out of
profits. Still, the 10.1 p.c. div. does not
appear to be in danger at the moment.
The propocal to distribute the operating
co.’s ords. —A.P. and P. owns 77.62 p.c.
and Cumberland 22.38 p.c.—among those
on the holding cos.’ registers is still on
the shelf, owing to legal difficulties con-
nected with taxation ; a definite scheme
is to be put forward in the “near future.”
A.P.M.’s prefs. stand at 255. 9d., to
yield 4.6 p.c. Recent sales of and returns
from the holding cos.’ scrip have been
as follows:
t Cumberland N
t Pref. , f —A.P. & P.-^
Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Ord. Pref. Ord.
Price.. 27/0 27/0 27/3 29/- 32/0 31-
Div., p.c. 8 8 8 8 8 8
Yield, p.c. 5.8 5.8 5.9 5.5 4.9 5.1
Following the last new share issue, Cum-
berland ords. slumped to 225. and A.P.
and P. ords. to 225. 6d., but that was on
a nervous market from which buyers had
temporarily withdrawn.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 84,303 10 p.c. = 50,000 34,303 172,911
1931.. 63,471 8| „ „ 43,750 9,721 182,032
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,701 2i „ „ 12,500 35,261 235,700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 „ „ 37,500 14,665 250,365
1935.. 59,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
1936.. 67,710 14.5 „ „ 43,750 23,960 302,717
1937.. 62,937 20 „ „ 50,000 12,937 315,644
Deprec. reserve disappears, £20,368.. 295,276
1938.. 81,676 224 p.c. = 56,250 25,426 320,702
Deprec. reserve disappears, £11,803.. 308,899
1939.. 76,511 20 p.c. = 60,000 26,511 335,410
1940.. 53,957 20 „ ~ 50,000 3,957 339,367
For over half a century this co. has
been hauling concentrates, mining
requisites, passengers, etc., over its 36-
mile track, which links Broken Hill with
Cockburn, where it links up with the S.
Aus. Government railway. During its
lifetime it has paid a long run of hand-
some divs. and distributed £437,200 of
bonus scrip, raising paid capital to
£500,000, of which half was returned to
those on the register during the two years
to the close of accounts in 1935.
Last term fewer passengers were car-
ried (30,725 as against 32,184 for the pre-
ceding 12 months) and there was a shrink-
age of 86,435 tons in the quantity of
materials hauled:
, —Tonnage Carried—^
Weekly
Total. Average.
1935 .. 569,691 10,955
1936 . . 657,362 12,642
1937 .. 639,022 12,289
1938 . . 742,412 14,277
1939 . . 777,493 14,952
1940 . . 691,058 13,290
The contraction in tonnage was mainly
because fewer concentrates were sent for
treatment to Port Pirie. The war has
dislocated overseas shipping and restricted
the demand for metals, owing to the
occupation by Germany of a large part
of industrial Europe. If it were not for
the contract for sale of metals to the
British Government, Broken Hill and
Silverton, too, would be experiencing a
thin time at the moment. Other factors
affecting last year’s freight earnings were
completion of building programmes by
the big mines at the Barrier and the strike
on the N. S. Wales Government railway
to the Hill.
The shrinkage in gross earnings from
all sources (£161,786) was £14,774.
Elimination of two passenger trains
weekly helped to keep down running
costs, and the new steel wagons reduced
the repairs bill. But after allowing for
the heavier demands of the taxgatherer,
and for unexplained reductions and addi-
tions in reserves, the net result was
£22,554 lighter at £53,957, equal to
approximately 21.6 p.c. on capital, as
against 30.6, 32.6 and 25.1 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The div. was kept
at 20 p.c.
The outlay on new rolling-stock and
on the re-laying of another mile of track
with heavier rails is reflected in the
growth of £15,451 in the book value of
fixed assets:
1934. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £350,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Creditors . . 33,799 59,853 54,888 53,605
Fixed assets.. 483,069 461,976 454,000 469,511
luel and stores 23,316 20,957 20,131 20,532
Sundry debtors 38,934 66,610 63.604 61,837
Cash, etc. . . 89,887 81,011 102,503 91,152
To meet the outlay and reduce the
amount coming to outsiders by £1223
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £11,351.
The year’s contraction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£119,856, including fuel
and stores) was £11,494.
The future of the business depends
upon the life of the big silver-lead mines
at the Barrier, and this is wrapped up
with the price of lead, zinc and silver,
development of fresh ore, and costs.
Appearances are that there will be a
strong reconstruction demand for metals
when the war ends, and recent develop-
ments on Zinc Corp.’s leases and on
New B.H. Consolidated’s ground have
greatly lengthened the life of the Barrier.
Since the beginning of 1940 the price
of the 10s.-paid shares has fluctuated
between 38s. 6d. and 255. 6d. on the
market. Recent sales were at 30s. 6d., at
which figure the return is 6.5 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div. basis, or a shade under 5 p.c.
a 15 P-c. distribution. The net tan-
gible cover is 475. Id. per pound of paid
capital.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
. , Written To Re—
Apni, 4 root. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
19 f?" , 15, 1 45 7 p.c. = 11,594 3290 261 20,809
1931.. 10,642 4„ „ 6,625 3023 994 21,803
Loss.
1933” rw Si? 3056 18,198
1933 '• p Nl] 3002 8,892
1935' •, q’™? , Nil 2727 333 9,225
„ 1 3,504 1 p.c. 6,625 3031 3,848 13,073
1097" I - ” 8 - 281 3365 3,967 17,040
1938 " I*o 70? 7,” ” 9,938 3714 5,251 22,291
1 939 * J0’097 ” 12,422 3752 3,530 25,821
1939.. 19,027 74 „ ~ 12,422 4048 2,557 28,378
ln^ Unexplained redu cti on , £3260 .. .. 25 118
1940.. 13,153 5 p.c. = 8,281 3898 974 26’,092
This co., which is well handled, is
Sydney s biggest vendor of sporting
goods, tobacco, haircuts, etc., and has
strong connections among suburban re-
tailers and sporting bodies.
Last year’s reduced earnings were due
to factors outside the board’s control.
Enlistments in the A.I.F. tended to take
some of the strength out of the demand
for sporting goods, and import restrictions
and National Security Regulations in
respect of firearms and ammunition seri-
ously interfered with turnover in this
section of the business. So, although
there was a good deal of money about,
the co.’s gross earnings (£152,289) were
£2686 lighter than the previous year’s.
Also the upward sweep of taxation and
continued climb of costs generally added
£3038 to exes., making them £143,034,
including depreciation, shown as written
off in the table. The net result was thus
£5724 lighter at £9255, or 5.5 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 9, 9.6, 9.4, 7.3 and 6.3 p.c.
for the five preceding years. And that
leaves out of the reckoning an unex-
plained reduction of £3260 in reserves.
Two and a half points were chipped off
the div., reducing it to 5 p.c., visibly leav-
ing only £974 to put on the shelf.
There was marked improvement in the
financial position, due apparently to sale
of one of the freeholds (down £21,703):
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £166,008 £166,008 £166,008 £166,00S
Mortgage . . 131,211 130,207 129,704 118,064
Other liabilities 115,306 102,981 122,533 100,434
Freeholds .. 212.183 212,915 212,915 191,212
Plant, etc. . . 19,286 19,288 17,686 16,174
Stocks.. .. 99.383 102,433 112,066 105,862
Book debts . . 103,194 105,517 115,901 110,103
Cash, etc. .. 487 543 541 403
The reduction in the freehold item, to-
gether with a contraction of £6204 in
stocks and of £5798 in debtors’ balances,
enabled £11,040 to be clipped off the
mortgage and trade debts to be reduced
by £22,099. When the books closed, out-
side liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids by £2730, an improvement of
£20,999 over the twelvemonth.
Mindful of the keen competition in
most of the co.’s lines and of the con-
tinued rise in costs, especially taxation,
the market doesn’t expect the co. to pay
anything better than 5 p.c. at the moment.
It therefore prices the f.-p. pound shares
at 12s. as against 15s. 4d. a year ago.
At the lower figure the return is 8.3 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The lOs.-paid
contribs. at 4s. 9d. yield 10.5 p.c. on
the same div. basis. The net tangible
backing is 235. 2d. per pound of paid
capital.
Queensland Primary Producers Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 17,889 8 p.c. = 16,496 1,393 27,158
1931.. 18,577 8 „ „ 16,998 1,579 28.737
1932.. 19,649 7 „ „ 15,603 4,046 32.753
1933.. 16,898 6 „ „ 13,864 3,034 35,817
1934.. 21,598 6 „ „ 14,38 1 7,2 1 7 43,034
Staff fund, £1500.. .. .. •• 41,534
1935.. 23,314 5} p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £lOOO 49,082
1936.. 17,819 54 p.c. = 15,3 0 0 2,5 1 9 51,601
Staff fund, £5OO *.. . . . • • • 51,101
1937.. 30,106 6} p.c. = 18,170 11,9 3 6 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO.. .. .. •• 62.037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
1939'.. 24,859 6 „ „ 19,360 1 , 499 70 ,,,
Staff fund, £lOOO . . .. t 4,499
1940. . 32,482 6 p.c. = 19,552 ] q 430 80 6QQ
Staff fund,, £2500 . . .. } IU,4dU
The £32,482 of profit, an advance of
£2376 on the previous (1937) peak, was
a fine showing. It primarily reflects the
bumper season and the enhanced price
at which Britain took the clip ; stock
values were also favorably affected by
Imperial meat contracts.
Since the northern business of John
Bridge was taken over in 1920, progress
has been rapid. The co. now handles
almost a quarter of the Queensland
clip, or a fifth more than any other Bris-
bane broker. It is also the largest cattle
consignee, and third as regards the
number of sheep handled. Compare
these figures:—
Year Wool Sold, Sheep and
June, Rales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
1932.. 122,557 29,757 f 139,669 + £1,741,785
1933.. 118.084 3C,081t 121.559+ 1,801,726
1934.. 82,556 40,567* 91,170* 2,841,731
1935.. 136,2 4 9 3 4,6 29* 123,0 95 * 2,757,074
1930.. 98,278 28,479* 82,881* 2,538,797
1937.. 118,355 35,155* 73,746* 3,775,628
1938.. 109,026 3 4,344* 109,4 92 * 3,170,570
1939.. 122,709 37,361* 83,309 * 2,865,275
1940.. 152,270 2 8,2 49 * 84,3 92 * 3,269,662
t Brisbane and Rockhampton yards. * Brisbane yard.
The only department in which business
failed to expand last season was cattle,
which was affected by disorganisation of
transport through the coal strike and the
unsatisfactory conditions prevailing at the
abattoirs. The value of turnover lifted
£404,387 ; it was still a half-million shy
of the 1937 figure, which, in view of the
improved net, suggests rigid tightening-
up on outgoings meantime.
Though the latest showing, before pass-
ing £2500 to staff funds, represented
9.9 p.c. on capital at work, as against
7.7, 7.2, 10.7 and 6.7 p.c. in the four pre-
ceding terms, div. remained at 6 p.c.,
leaving £10,430 to make profit-earning
easier and help further improve the ser-
vice offered.
Under the articles, the div. is limited
to 7 p.c. until 20 p.c. of commission
charges has been rebated. Actually,
£14,048 was handed back in this way last
year—2s p.c. of. wool and fat-stock com-
missions and 20 p.c. of store stock, prop-
erty and produce charges, the rates for
some years now.
Cash balances have been drawn on
for £42,763 to assist clients to the
extent of a further £39,049: —-
1930. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £211,147 £272,407 £324,204 £330,621
Liabilities* .. 222,593 522,402 501,390 481,068
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 111,937 199,721 201,450 199,401
Plant, etc. .. 11,281 31,328 34,400 40,378
Advances .. 353,389 528,906 644,726 683,775
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 787 101,579 43,365 602
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
How much of these advances is against
produce, etc., and therefore self-liquidat-
ing, is not apparent. With cash, they
covered the debt with a margin of
£203,309 when the books closed, an
improvement of £16,608.
As for the current term, conditions
seasonally have been a lot better than in
southern States, and a heavier clip is in
prospect. Britain will again take it at
13.43 d. a pound, though shipment may
not be so prompt, and meat contracts
also remain substantially unchanged.
For the pound shares the cover is
245. lid.; they are not listed.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Cuttle)
At 11s. 9d. per 9s. share, the ords. of
Maryborough Knitting appear at a
moderate premium in relation to earning
power. The co. represents an effort to
establish rural industry in Victoria. Early
difficulties were encountered, but, follow-
ing reorganisation in 1931 which produced
a change of management and a clean-up
of finances, the co. hasn’t looked back.
In the year to March net earnings were
23 p.c. on the £41,636 share-register,
the rate comparing with 21.7, 29.6, 19.7
and 23.8 p.c. for the four preceding years.
Since the close of accounts £13,880 of
new capital has been issued to take care
of war-time increase in demand, but even
if no benefit to earnings accrues last
year’s profit would suffice to pay 17.3 p.c.
on the higher capital. On the basis


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND •• • \ \
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL
£4,739,012 10
4,300,000 0
4,739,012 10
0
0
0
Directors'.
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
e
LUDOWICI CHROMOL
"ajpowici
CHROMOL
jTm itl
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
E BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leathet
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness to
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers ot Quality Leather Products since 1858.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Spring Parade
If you need to replace your present car—come to the Spring Parade at your
Chevrolet dealers! See the beautiful 1940 Chevrolet—amazing value at
present prices. Now, more than ever, your best buy .. . Chevrolet’s super-
efficient 6-cylinder Overhead Valve Engine (proved 10% more economical
than other types) gives you more miles. And its unequalled performance,
comfort and driving ease give you better miles. See Chevrolet to-day at the
Spring Parade.
CHEVROL
THE WORLD’S
SALES LEADER
COUPES £364
From.
SEDANS
SEDANS £97Q
From . .
Easy Terms avail-
able under confiden-
tial G.M.A. C. Plan.
BUY WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
«i»" f "»» "»" * T
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
gpts
H
:
? 15-
&
1^
HHt
m
H
B: ®S
ffiftg
■
I#®*
HI ■
m
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN S L
C 733.18
of the all-round 1U P-c- , sent
for the past three years, the immediate
yield offering is 8.7 p.c Finances are in
quite good shape, and there is £49,398 of
reserves supporting capital. Ihe mills
are very busy at the moment, and th
post-depression record suggests that e
co. may make the transition from a war-
to a peace-time footing when it occurs
more smoothly than some others in
similar business.
At Golden Plateau, Cracow, Queens-
land’s second gold-producer, the down-
tread of ore values has been arrested.
Though tonnage (79,035) and gold yield
(22,71 loz.) showed little variation for the
year to June 30, output (£226,246) was
worth £14,538 more owing to the better
price for gold. Declared result, however,
is down £12,880 to £115,322 because of
the bigger charge against p. and 1. for
development, etc. (£34,974, up £16,972),
and the allowance of £9916 for depre-
ciation, which covered most of the year s
capital outlay. Working costs were held
to 235. a ton, a rise of 6d. The feature
of the year’s operations is the disappoint-
ing response of the mine to development,
proved and probable ore declining from
222,600 to 175,100 tons, overall grade
much the same —just under sdwt. —but
some of the leeway is expected to be
made up over the next six months.
Crushings since the close of accounts
have been yielding nearly ldwt. a ton
above the reserve ore valuation. The
div. policy has become a bit confused.
Actual declarations were reduced from
3s. to 2s. a share last year, but a first
interim of Is. a share for the current term
arrived three months before the similar
payment last year.
* * * *
“Peta”: In Queensland there is to be
an inspection of areas in which mica
occurs owing to the war-time demand.
Best chances are in the far north, which
reminds me that an old cobber, Paddy
Reid, once of the Upper Mulgrave field
(Cairns), brought in some wonderful
sheets of the stuff some 15 years back
from the Gulf way. I haven’t seen Paddy
since, but if there is much of the stuff
he brought in then it should yield a small
fortune at present prices. One sheet was
nearly a foot across, and transparent
enough to see a large print through when
a thin sheet was peeled off. In size it
was the best I have seen in 40 years’
prospecting.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has de-
clared an interim div. of 20 p.c. on its
4s. shares, payable next month. Alto-
gether, 40 p.c. was paid in 1939-40 and
the year before, and current year’s distri-
bution will probably be the same. London
says that, if to escape excess-profits tax
Great Boulder Proprietary succeeds in
shifting domicile to Perth, Perseverance
will endeavor to do likewise. Persever-
ance, however, is not being hit to any-
thing like the same extent as Great
Boulder.
* * * *
Encouraged by a favorable geological
report, Edna May Amalgamated (W.A.)
has secured reservations over two areas
adjoining its Westonia mine at the west
and east ends for protection while boring
for possible gold-carriers beyond the
present mine boundaries. Co. has also
taken an option over a small prospecting
area adjacent to its present holding on
the west.
In the June quarter gold production of
Tindals (W.A.) was worth £A23,440.
Operating profit is estimated at £AIO,IOB.
Progress is being made with the installa-
tion of additional treatment plant, and
the main shaft has been deepened to
600 ft.
* * * *
Shareholders of Yellowdine Gold
Areas met in Perth on October 10. In
a review of operations chairman A. J.
Monger rejoiced that an apparently ade-
quate water supply for milling purposes
had been located, that production was
proceeding satisfactorily and that the co.'s
activities had now entered upon a normal
course. Shareholders cheered and agreed
to an increase from £3OO to £5OO annually
in the aggregate directors’ remuneration.
Monger added that a year ago ore re-
serves were estimated at 7247 tons. At
August 31, 3426 tons had been milled,
leaving 3821 tons, or only a year’s supply.
Three diamond-drill holes were to be put
down to prospect for further gold-carry-
ing deposits. Payment of a second divi-
dend of 6d. leaves £3564 in hand.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) continues to hope
for the best. On its Maranoa option
assays from ore exposed above and below
the 200 ft. level are said to be attractive.
One consignment of gold-bearing rock
has been sent to Kalgoorlie for treat-
ment, and trucks have been ordered for
another.
* * * *
Mutooroo, N.L., formerly of South
Australia, Westralia and elsewhere, is
negotiating for a 100-acre block on the
Hustler’s line at Bendigo. It will try to
sell 30,000 forfeited shares at 3d. if the
ground is secured and Treasurer
Spender’s consent obtained. Few Austra-
lian gold ventures have prospected more
duds or given shareholders more market
pains and aches.
* * * *
“O.B.”: It is being suggested that the
American extra-lateral rights system of
holding goldmining claims be introduced
in Westralia. Heaven forbid! In nearly
all countries where gold is found a claim
is contained within vertical boundaries
drawn downward, and only ore inside
those boundaries belongs to that claim.
In the United States only the end-
lines of a claim and their projections are
actually boundaries, and a lode out-
cropping in the claim may be followed
down over the side-lines as far and as
deep as it goes. But if this twists or
faults or comes to the surface again
further on, there is sure to be a
lot of litigation. Why Uncle Sam has
not repealed such a law baffles common-
sense.
* * * *
Tanami G.M. Syndicate, which when
known as Tanami (Australia) dropped its
financial bundle at Tanami, showed a
loss of £5299 (up £1477) last year, making
the debit balance £11,031. After re-
treating from Tanami in 1933, the board
raised additional capital and acquired the
Rosterman claims in Kenya, East Africa.
In addition to its large share interest in
Rosterman Gold Mines, Ltd., the co. has
interests in several East and South
African gold-searching concerns.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.M.C.: None of the batch is listed on the
Stock Exchange. Co. A has most prospects,
and interesting profit-rights attach to the class
of scrip you mention; B has yet to show earn-
ings commensurate with the capital employed,
but there is an unofficial market for the scrip
in Sydney around 135.; C and D don’t send
on accounts; E on paper has lost £83,787 or
its paid capital of £139,847, and has mainly
50 000 Mt. Morgan shares and £9BOO in cash
to’represent the balance and cover contingent
guarantees of £28,200; F quickly went into
liquidation after a disastrous trading experience.
.N.M.: Both under a cloud at the moment ,
prefer Norseman C. 8.: Unable to say.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Canada’s War Finances
Since the outbreak of war the cost of
living in Canada has risen by under
4 p.c. This is very much the same as
Australia’s experience. In Canada, food
is up about 5 p.c., fuel 3 p.c. and rents
1.7 p.c. In the Commonwealth food has
risen only 1.9 p.c., rent, clothing and
other items being responsible for most of
the rise in our living costs.
In Canada the number of persons em-
ployed in all occupations during the first
six months of 1940 was a record. The
index stood at 115.2, as against the pre-
vious “high” of 113.3 in 1929. The 1939
average was 107.6. In April, 1939, there
were 473,000 unemployed wage-earners
in Canada. In April this year the figure
had fallen by 106,000. In percentages,
13.5 p.c. of the available labor force was
unemployed in April, 1940, as against
17.8 p.c. a year earlier. In April, 1937
a boom year—the figure was 15.7 p.c. In
1933 Canada had 30 p.c. unemployment.
The higher employment level in the
Dominion has so far caused no shortage
of general labor, but, as on this side of
the Pacific, skilled artisans are scarce. If
activity continues to expand at the
present rate, Canada will soon have maxi-
mum employment. Factories and tech-
nical schools are training apprentices for
specialised trades, and experienced crafts-
men are working long hours. The
demand for tradesmen has been addi-
tionally increased owing to the number
of men absorbed in the army.
The only industries to go back in
Canada this year are those engaged in
construction ; work on roads has been
curtailed. In spite of the world short-
age of paper following the isolation
of Scandinavia there has been no
phenomenal increase in Canadian pulp
output.
Great Britain has contracted to take
all Canadian export supplies of copper,
lead and zinc at fixed prices, as in Aus-
tralia. But internally the price of copper
has risen 10.2 p.c., lead 30.9 p.c. and
zinc 35.9 p.c. That is over the year to
May 31. Within Australia copper had
risen 18 p.c. in that time, lead 13| p.c.
and zinc 11| p.c.
In the opinion of the Royal Bank of
Canada,
On the whole, advances in prices in
Canada to the end of May have been
moderate, and control measures inaugurated
by the Dominion Government have generally
been of good effect. Under war conditions,
advances in prices must be expected. The
cost of imported raw materials is greater
with higher shipping and insurance costs,
as well as the premium on U.S. dollars,
in terms of the Canadian unit. To these
factors must now be added the new 10 p.c.
tax applied on all imports from non-
British countries. Domestic prices also
have to absorb the increased imposts
through excise and other taxes on such
commodities as tea, coffee, tobacco, alco-
holic beverages and, more recently, auto-
mobiles and radios.
Australians, it will be seen, have a
great deal in common with Canada’s
problem. The Dominion is sometimes
said to be more American than British,
but it is closely adhering to the Empire
plan of war finance. There is no “pump-
priming” or other New Deal stuff about
this Canadian semi-official opinion:
The material costs of war are great. It
is estimated that Canada’s direct expenditures
during the present fiscal year will reach $7OO
million, which approximates one-seventh of
our annual national income previous to the
war. Under the present “pay-as-you-go”
policy adopted by the Government, taxation
will of necessity be substantially increased, as
it may be without reaching the degree now
general in the belligerent countries of Europe.
But taxation, at least bearable taxation, is quite
inadequate to meet the cost of the war effort
necessary in the present emergency, and Govern-
ment revenues must be supplemented by bor-
rowings, in the long'run by heavy borrowings.
In existing circumstances these amounts
must be raised by our own people, and not
borrowed largely elsewhere, as in the last war.
War expenditure can be met in several ways,
but if later severe dislocation of our economic
and financial structure is to be avoided the
people of Canada must increase production, at
the same time reducing or at least refraining from
materially increasing domestic consumption in
order that the surplus may be available for
war purposes. Mr. Ilsley stated last September
in his Budget speech: “If we must devote a
great deal of labor to making guns and military
supplies, we shall have to do without whatever
would have been produced in their place in
peace-time.”
These facts are generally understood, but
there seems to be some misunderstanding as to
the source of the funds which the Government
may borrow. Sound finance demands that the
principal source should be savings, and, although
past accumulations provide a good base from
which to start, these must be supplemented and
augmented by decreasing our current expendi-
tures, particularly on non-essential goods, and
withholding from use for consumption pur-
poses the income from increased industrial
operations due to the stimulus of war demand.
This does not necessarily mean that persons
previously unemployed and perhaps on relief,
and others whose standard of living was for-
merly below the subsistence level, are not to
improve their position; but it does mean that
any increases in income which accrue as a result
of the war effort should not be used for
luxuries and pleasures which hitherto could not
be afforded.
The president of the Royal Bank has stated:
‘‘Never before in our history has it been so
important that every one of us should practise
thrift and industry. Capital and other ex-
penditures, public and private, not directly re-
lated to winning the war, nor essential to
keeping our economic machine functioning
efficiently, should be definitely discouraged....
Those who are fortunate enough to remain
at their regular employment in Canada must
not exploit the situation for their own ends.
Moreover, it is absolutely essential that the
phenomenon of all previous wars, namely, a
rapidly increasing price level, should not under
present conditions be permitted.”
One thing is clear from a study of
Canada’s effort: It is getting along all
right without the guidance of “costless-
credit” types of financial wizards.
August banking statistics show the
effect of the final £10,000,000 payment
for the wool clip and the diversion of
funds to the Government. The wool
payment assisted in reducing advances
by £6.3 millions between July and
August, and, in addition, deposits rose
£3.8 millions. Though investments in
Government securities remained un-
changed at £43.6 millions, there was an
addition of £3.1 millions to Treasury
bills. Here is a tabular comparison:
April, July, Aug.,
1940. 1940. 1940.
£ mil. £ mil. £ mil.
Liabilities.
Deposits—
Fixed .. .. 212.0 204.7 205.2
Current * .. 140.7 136.0 139.3
Total 352.7 340.7 344.5
Assets.
Cash .. .. 43.2 36.8 42.1
Gov. securities .. 41.0 43.6 43.6
Treasury bills .. 43.4 3TO 34! 1
Advances, etc. .. 289.3 291.1 284.8
Cash to deps., p.c. 12.25 10.80 12.22
Cash and Treasury
bills to deps.,p.c. 24.55 19.90 22.12
Advances to deps.,
P-c 80.52 85.43 82.66
Going back further than that table, over
the past 12 months deposits have risen
by just on £3O millions, while advances
have fallen £9 millions. Government
paper holdings have risen £36.5 millions,
and cash items have increased £ll
millions.
The fact that a larger proportion of
the national income is being diverted to
the Government to finance our part of
the war doesn’t necessarily mean a con-
traction in the financial assistance avail-
able for essential industries. It means,
in fact, just the opposite. But funds
won’t be available to the same extent
for luxury trades. Our trade balance and
the Government’s avowed intention of
“paying as we go” will have a big in-
fluence on banking figures from now on.
There will be greater taxing, perhaps less
saving, and a big outlay on munitions.
The Government will employ industries
to a greater extent than hitherto.
* * * *
N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association has
been sounding its members on their
preferences between a flat super-tax and
the originally proposed percentage war-
time company tax. Replies from a wide
variety of companies were 83 p.c. in
favor of the former. Canberra might
note, since, as the commercial goose has
to be plucked, it is psychologically and
politically desirable that the plucking be
done with the least squealing, so long as
the desired ends are attained. Any form
of tax must create some anomalies; the
big point in favor of a super-tax is its
simplicity of administration, and that,
in the cynicism of one co. secretary,
would release staff “to attack the enemy
instead of their fellow-citizens.” On pro-
gressive young companies particularly,
the original proposals constitute little
more than a tax on efficiency, and would
probably create even more litigation than
the last excess-profits impost.
* * * *
Sharemarkets remained as chirpy as
crickets all last week. With buying
heavily outnumbering selling orders, the
result was an inevitable forward move-
ment in prices. The rising confidence
of investors is puzzling. Many brokers
themselves consider prices high in ex-
isting circumstances, and but for the anti-
bearing restrictions would probably be
.selling short at the moment to dampen
things down a bit. Overseas, a boilover
is threatened at any of a half-dozen
points ; internally, there is the continued
inroad of mounting costs into earnings,
taxation is as yet an indefinite factor, the
increasing resolve of the Prices Commis-
sioner is apparently that, so long as
reasonable profits are being earned, the
old rates may not be allowed, and stricter
defence-contract control is being insti-
tuted. N.S.W., to boot, has a disastrous
drought on its hands. At present invest-
ment therefore calls for even longer sight
than ordinarily. The extent to which
many trade turnovers have been boosted
by stock-piling against future consump-
tion is but one short-term aspect to
speculate upon.
,** * *
While North B.H. accumulated weight
in last week’s market, Souths kept steady.
The former recently announced its net
result £67,000 higher at £397,400; South
put its £20,500 lower at £329,500,
although revenue was helped by sales
out of past production and prices
all round were somewhat better. In the
absence of full accounts from North,
the opposite movements may be recon-
ciled by the fact that South first
made greater provisions for reserves.
Allowing for these and taking in the
depreciation allocation, South’s actual
surplus appears to have been of the
order of £455,200, up £72,100, subject to
whatever the £99,000 (up £39,000) appro-
priated for taxes may fall short of re-
quirements. Reserves were further in-
creased by £201,369 by writing-up the
B.H. Smelters shareholding. Over the
next 12 months Britain will take some-
thing less than the 166,000 tons of lead
contracted for last year, but the price
will be the same —£AlB 16s. 7d. f.o.b.
Pirie, subject to adjustment at half-yearly
intervals for protection against specified
movements in production costs.
* * * *
The waited-for accounts of Associated
Pulp, the fine-writing and -printing paper
venture in the north of the Speck that
the three main Barrier cos., Electrolytic
Zinc and A.C.1., among others, helped
to set on its way, have put supporters’
tails down a trifle. After striking off
£56,737 for depreciation, etc., the net result
is written at £31,717 —2.6 p.c. on the
£1,205,000 of capital. But it compares
with a loss of £51,823 in 1939, when
nothing was allowed for wear and tear
and £7773 of administrative outgo was
also debited to plant account. “Con-
sideration” to an early div. is to be given,
however, which suggests that profits on
an improved scale are showing up. There
is not now the dumping, coming mostly
from Europe, that involved “substantial
losses” in the early part of last term,
when the result was also affected by pre-
war orders which had to be fulfilled at
increased costs. Not all the protection
the rise in overseas prices might have
provided is accruing to the co., how-
ever, the Prices Commissioner having
fixed its charges at up to 50 p.c. below
the landed cost of British papers, were
they obtainable. Except for resins and
dyes and a small quantity of sulphite
pulp, the co. draws its raw materials —
the chief, eucalyptus pulp, from its own
forests—from within the Commonwealth.
With three shifts a day being worked,
production will be much greater this year,
particularly as the second paper machine
did not start up till halfway through last
term.
* * * *
The new management of Selfridges, the
N.S.W. variety chain, is making a credit-
able fist of its reorganisation, and a
market which sniffs the possibility of an
early div. —it will partly depend on the
state of finances at the end of January
—is now paying 16s. 3d. for the pound
shares. The path has been strewn with
difficulties, perhaps the worst the limited
funds available and the unwillingness of
suppliers in the early stages to do business
other than on a cash basis. But rehabili-
tation of its credit is now enabling the
co. to buy much more keenly, and, despite
difficult trading conditions, turnover and
profit margins continue to head in the
right direction. Profit for the first half
of the current term ran out at £7482 ;
if that for the second half, which covers
the busy Christmas period, is no more
than maintained at the £22,000 recorded
last year, then for the full term net earn-
ings of 10.5 p.c. are indicated. To what
extent the trend of the parent’s figures
may also be representative of the West-
ralian and Maoriland offshoots is not
disclosed.
* * * *
South Aus. bustles companies into pre-
senting their accounts within three
months of the date they are made up
to ; in Victoria and Queensland the more
reasonable period of six months is the
statutory maximum; N.S.W. goes ex-
tremist by allowing local cos. nine
months. Hence some Ma State accounts,
including just-released Consolidated
Press, are beginning to mildew by the
time they get into shareholders’ hands.
The C.P. books were ruled off as long
ago as March 31. A feature of the figures
now presented is the staggering loss of
£56,058 by the new Sunday venture in
its first 4j months’ trading. By capitalis-
ing £lB,OOO of the loss as “establishment
exes.,” the board is able to show a profit
of £25,426 (down £31,590) instead of an
actual surplus for the year of only £7426.
Between balancing dates the debt grew
by £57,400 to £294,200 ; and a first pay-
ment to the ords. of a generous 6| p.c.
(£37,375, of which £10,400 goes to Asso-
ciated News) and purchase of the “Daily
News” (suddenly extinguished after a
month in its new ownership) have swollen
the figure since the close of accounts.
There is some comfort for holders of the
prefs.—the only class publicly held —in the
fact that economies appear to have main-
tained the profitability of the daily “Tele-
graph” and the co.’s flapper journal, de-
spite circulation and advertising losses,
paper and other cost difficulties. Febru-
ary’s price increase should help make daily
revenue more buoyant in the current
term ; but how it will pan out will largely
depend on how soon the Sunday venture
ceases to lose money, said to be “only a
matter of time” now. Its claimed circu-
lation of 190,000 net appears to have been
attained more at the expense of “Truth”
than the “Sunday Sun.”
* * * *
A little-known Commonwealth enact-
ment, assented to on June 4, provides
for the allocation of £150,000 for relief
to goldminers throughout Australia. By
the provisions of this Gold Mining En-
couragement Act, a bona fide prospector
has to be refunded the gold excise on the
first 25 ounces of fine gold he produces
in any year. Also, any producer other
than a prospector who can show that
the cost of producing gold is more than
the net price received (after deducting
gold tax), less 30s. per fine ounce, will
have the difference between the cost of
production and the net price less 30s:
made up to him, with the refund limited
to the amount of the gold tax. The effect
of the Act is that, with gold at, say, £lO
14s. a fine ounce, a company is entitled
to a refund of the gold tax to the extent
by which production costs exceed £8 7s.
an ounce. Production costs cover
mining, treatment and realisation exes.,
development up to £2 per ounce,
and depreciation and administration
exes, “to such extent as is pre-
scribed.” Of the £150,000 appropriated
for the purposes of refunds, £lll,OOO
goes to Westralia, £14,000 each to Vic-
toria and Queensland, £BOOO to N.S.W.,
£2OOO to Tasmania and £lOOO to South
Australia.
* * * *
South Aus. beer consumption went up
from 10.12 to 10.46 gallons per head
during 1939-40, making an improve-
ment in two years of 1.16 gallons. Though
that is considerably less than the rate of
growth recorded in Victoria and N.S.W.,
the figures speak encouragingly for the
earnings of South Aus. Brewing, which
is to the winegrowing State as Swan
Brewery is to the West—almost. The
buyer who picked up the former’s shares
at 345. 6d. in July’s market slump struck
a bargain ; they now sell at 495. to give
one of the lowest yields (4.1 p.c.) in the
brewing group. The rapid growth of
new industry by 8.H.P., 1.C.1. and
others in South Aus. has not yet been
fully evidenced in the beer figures.
* * v *
According to the National City Bank
of New York, Great Britain has had to
dip but little into its war-chest of dollar-
convertible assets, estimated at $5OOO
million at the outbreak of hostilities, be-
cause its unfavorable balance of trade
as a result of war-time imports has been
largely covered by new gold production.
Though the drain on dollars can be ex-
pected to gather momentum from now
on, no strain on the Empire exchange
resources yet appears to be threatening.
Despite the loss of Continental markets,
opening-up of other outlets kept the flow
of British goods about the world for the
first eight months of the current year to
within a level of 2 p.c. or so of the
corresponding period of 1939.
* * * *
Australian Aluminium Pty., Granville
(Sydney), has placed an order in the
U.S.A. for six units of aluminium strip
and sheet rolling mill machinery. Elec-
trolytic Zinc and its associate, Metal
Manufactures, together have a third in-
terest in the co. The original idea was to
turn out aluminium alloy forging billets
and sheets for aircraft and general trade
purposes from imported ingots. Later,
it was intended to establish a smelter to
treat raw bauxite or bauxite concentrates,
the source of aluminium.


ANALYSE THIS INVESTMENT
and you will see the wisdom of prompt application
W hat Is the Propositionl
The Sydney Water Board Loan of £900,000
at 3J% for 14 years.
W hat Is the Securityl
The Loan is guaranteed by the New South
Wales Government and secured upon the
revenues of the Board—which is the largest
water and sewerage undertaking in the
Commonwealth,
How Is Interest Payablel
Interest is payable half yearly free of ex-
change throughout Australia. Principal is
repayable in full in 14 years free of exchange
at all capital cities.
Is the Security Readily Marketable 1
Examination of Stock Exchange quotations
will show remarkably few sellers of public-
body trustee securities of this type. Your
bank or broker will confirm the marketability
of this type of investment.
Is the Loan an Authorised Trustee
Investment 1
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Invest-
ment in New South Wales, Queensland and
Tasmania. It is specially commended to
Private Investors, Trustees of Estates,
Managers of Non-Taxable Funds, Trades
Unions, Parents wishing to provide for
Children’s Education, those desiring to endow
religious and charitable institutions and to
all who seek a gilt-edged investment in the
securities of the largest semi-Governmental
undertaking in Australia.
Was the Board’s Previous Loan
Lully Subscribed ?
The Board’s previous Loan of £1,000,000 was
fully subscribed in one week, and had to
close two weeks before the due date.
W hat Is the Minimum Subscription 1
£5O. And subscriptions are payable by instal-
ments if desired.
How Soon Does Interest Accruel
Interest Accrues immediately from date of
first payments to the Bank.
SEWERACf
Jyb
wev. s-V
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
*
>
r A
v
LOAN OF £900,000
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR
CURRENCY: 14 YEARS
A GILT-EDGED INVESTMENT IN
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST SEMI -
GOVERNMENTAL UNDERTAKING
GUARANTEED
BY THE GOVERNMENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
★ an authorised trustee investment in new
SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND AND TASMANIA
Secured upon the Board's Rating Powers over All
Property in the Sydney Metropolitan Area .
* INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY FREE OF
EXCHANGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
An opportunity to secure a return not likely to be
exceeded by any other investment with equivalent
security for some time to come .
APPLY WITHOUT DELAY
To Any Branch of \
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
or
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD
or through
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
L,oan Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
SOVIET SURVEY.
[ln a series of articles in New York “Times,”
k *ir ~ye > writing from Balkan addresses, has
been telling things the Soviet censorship prevented him
trom telling when he was in Moscow: the N.Y. “Times”
nas had to close its Moscow office, even a corre-
j-s disposed towards Russia as Mr.
uedye finding it impossible to work under Soviet censor-
ship. Mr. Gedye’s liking for Russia—when he knew
less about it, he thought it would fight over Czecho-
slovakia—gives heavy emphasis to his accounts of con-
ditions of existence which hardly suggest a country
capable either of decisively helping Germany with
supplies or of taking a strong active part in a long war
hollowing are condensed extracts from some of the
articles, the views on Soviet policy wholly Mr. Gedye’s.]
Farewell to Moscow
Every newspaper correspondent still in Moscow
knows that his work is entirely valueless. It is even
misleading, for he is able to present only that version
of events which the Soviet authorities desire to be
accepted abroad. Since January 1 it has been impos-
sible for any foreign correspondent (other than the
Germans) to communicate freely with his paper.
Correspondents are allowed to summarise only such
portions of the Moscow statements as it is thought
desirable for the outside world to know. Except for
the Germans, they are prevented from telephoning
abroad. It is no wonder that, other newspaper
representation in Moscow is rapidly decreasing under
the censorship—the London “Times,” among other
papers, is closing its Moscow bureau —that of the
Germans has increased by 250 p.c. since last summer.
Of course, with the news of the closing of the
N-Y. Times” office, the usual horde of eager pur-
chasers, foreign and Russian, which descends like a
swarm of locusts on the home of any departing
stranger was appearing day and night to buy anything
and everything, from worn-out shoes and shirts to
blankets, towels, tins of sardines, shaving soap and ski
boots. The wife of an extremely important ambassador
made a fervent appeal for kitchen pots and pans—
THE SECOND-STOREY BOYS.
—Chicago “Daily News.”
M mme^consis^ed -
coffee tins. Perhaps the most difficult problem was the
fair allotment of twenty cakes of laundry soap. Eagerly
S m p b y^a f S,to„°s S' X w d Z B s "ad 11 "!;
was pathetic to see the drop in the features of those
sold or'g°ven 0 aw a av 0 was already
Furniture alone was a drug in the market. Owing
largely to the terribly cramped accommodation and
overcrowding the Soviet Union does seem able to
satisfy the demand for furniture. For the same reason
a second-hand upright piano commands double the
price among the “Soviet millionaires” that a grand will
fetch-if the latter is saleable at all. §
Hidden by the Censorship
The present Soviet censorship is far more severe
than any of the countries now at war or the Soviet
Union itself ever experienced. As far as real news of
the country is concerned, newspapers and agencies—
as the remaining foreign correspondents still left kick-
mg their heels in Moscow would fervently agree—
might as well have closed down the day it started.
Why did the Soviet Union make such a public
confession of weakness as the imposition of such a
panicky censorship implied? Concern at the heavy
losses and reverses of the Red Army in Finland was
certainly one reason. But as no foreign correspondent
was ever allowed anywhere near the Soviet front (the
howl of indignation in the Soviet and foreign Com-
mumst press when the British refused permits for two
leading British Communist journalists to visit the
Finnish side of the front seemed rather a sour joke
to foreign correspondents unable to leave Moscow),
and as the Soviet papers suppressed all references to
the reverses, leaving us nothing to write about the
Finnish war, it was not the main reason.
I think one powerful motive was knowledge
of the approaching grave economic crisis and food
shortage that broke out a few weeks after the censor-
ship started. Another powerful motive was fear of
Germany, which was making trouble about any news
or comments that did not suit her book. There was
certainly the Soviet desire to suppress all facts com
cerning industrial and agricultural shortcomings and
comments that might impair the picture of an
immensely powerful and prosperous State which it
was desired to present abroad. But the main motive
was a desire to suppress anything likely still further to
decrease the vanishing support of the working masses
and Left intellectuals throughout the world.
The four-month Soviet press campaign against
t f' e Western democracies, who were officially labelled
the “aggressors,” and the one-sided application to them
of the charge of conducting an “imperialist war,” with
the implication that the German “people” had been
assaulted by a handful of Anglo-French imperialistic
plutocrats, had its inevitable reaction among millions
of British and French anti-Fascist workers, fighting
for their very lives against the threat of enslavement
by the Fascist terror of the Nazis supported by that
of Italy. If the Soviets were sailing in the lee of the
enemy armadas to whom they were furnishing sup-
plies, then these workers were not going to turn a
hair whatever guns might be trained on the Soviets.
Hence the urgent necessity for Moscow of preventing
anything emandfcing from Russia that might militate
further against her good name with the workers of
the world.
What was and is today censored in the Soviet
Union? The first big story suppressed was the grave
shortage of food, especially bread, last January. In
the capital we suffered enough from these shortages.
The mass of Soviet citizens suffered far worse, and
even their inexhaustible patience seemed near an end.
In street cars and on the subway one could hear
ominous mutterings: “We know too well what famine
means ; we don’t want all that back again.”
The temper of the masses was not improved by
whispered echoes of the German trumpetings that the
Soviets were supplying them with a million tons of
cereals, nor by the sight that Moscow had seen for
months and now sees again, of the hordes of official
German visitors plundering the food stores and
markets of anything edible for dispatch to their
families in Germany.
Food was short in Moscow throughout most of
last winter. For the few days that the bread supply
stopped the masses were frightened, desperate and
ready to believe the very worst. The whole story,
and °" the
••••■..
Breadline Existence
as tiTl' ' he SU ‘ h a hard
what e h appel P to P the Vague' regl h be h yo P nd‘ C ihek
fr^ ntiars? h To obtai " lhe necessaries of daily life
work. S Bread a thev U have° f fTnnd r iyrp l rH t frC L m
varieties Meat vegetables and fruit !?f ™ abund . a .” t
in season - exoensive butter and !qif£ P ; qua lty
rarely in winter ■ indifferent pastries and sweets afloat
a far higher cost in relation to wages than in tint!
other countries are sometimes avaflahi °
not Otherwise the ISn £ sometimes
utnerwise the food situation is bad.
January andApnl butter mcreased in Sice
cheese by 20 p.?., sausages bacon and ham bl 25 S"’
gas, water and electricity from 50 to 100 p/ AlUre
very scarce. The official aveSge wage—in calculating
which the highest incomes of managers directors and
Stakhanovists S are reckoned in—is 300 roubles
a month. In the stores at present a small chicken cost!
16 roubles, 30 eggs 22 50 roubles black bread
one rouble per kfiogramwhite bread twoSd
three roubles per kilogram ’ beef 12 roubles per kilo
gram and carrots six roubles per kilogram But these
are often unobtainable in the stores gS ffiem
anyway means long waiting in line’ Thev are mom
easily found on hem Sets where the prices are much
higher-in some casTseveraTtime asmuch as ffiose
charged in the State stores
Despite great building activitv the hnmina
tion andZtZafare
virtually unobtainable and it is pafch patch patch all
the time The cost of shoe repairs bv’nt-ivatp cnhhwl
is quite prohibhite ffieState“Shoe Sers’ price
are much lower but thev never hove wu P nces
Hopes of a second hand nair nf hnntc th"'
that some store has a few oranges! a fordgneJTho
might be induced tn cell an Z- *
—these are the questions that agitate the average W & !
citizen, not foreign alliances of questions of fdeolofy
That the Russian snldierc will fight «,h»n ology -
their
advance to massacre by Finns in ambushVdie eariier
stages of the Finnish campaign proved to be as true
today as ever. But that is something different from
the popular enthusiasm needed to sustain a long cam-
paign against a powerful enemv 5
To try to bring the Russian people in on the side
of Nazi Germany would be so unpopular that it would
spell complete disaster unless the campaign proved
very brief. Already the idea that Germany is getting
material assistance from the Soviet Union is unpopu-
lar, mainly from a selfish and, to a lesser extent, from
an ideological standpoint.
Among all the riddles that confronted me on startl-
ing from scratch a year ago with no knowledge of the
Soviet Union, and having the Soviet-German pact sen-
sation breaking within five days of taking over my
new post, only one seemed to admit of an easy solu-
tion. This was the question whether the Soviet-
German agreement involved a military alliance that
would promptly put the Red and Brown armies in the
field together against Britain and France. This was
the expectation of some persons having great experi-
ence of Russia. But for me the daily spectacle of the
privations of the Soviet people was an overwhelming
argument to the contrary.
Some will say in explanation of those privations
“Necessary national defence before personal comfort”
—guns instead of shoes, in fact. As to that there is no
concealing the absence of shoes ; whether the guns are
available in the necessary mass and quality for modern
lightning warfare, it will need more than one of the
imposing Red Square parades to show.
As far as generalisation is possible, the recorded
deficiencies seem to me, apart from the special factor
of the purge, to be due to faults in the Russian charac-
ter rather than to a particular economic system. But if
the cause is open to argument, the effect is indisputable.
It is to create a population that has infinitely less
reason to support a war than those of any of the
States already involved in conflict.
The peoples of Britain and, despite the armistice,
of France must know that the result of failure to
accept the challenge of this war, or its loss, could mean
only economic enslavement to Hitlerism. The peoples
of Germany know that, if they win it, the defeated
nations will become their hewers of wood and drawers
of water, as are the Czechs and Poles today. The Rus-
sian masses have no improvement in their individual
lot to hope for from victory, while their margin of
existence is so narrow that it would disappear long
before defeat was in sight. These factors their rulers
must take into consideration in framing future policy.
Soviet and This War
“Where does Soviet Russia really stand in this
war? ’ Always a riddle to the outside world, the
Soviet Union has since January withdrawn behind an
enigma and placed a sphinx on guard. There is now
absolutely no exchange of views possible between
foreigners and the Soviet authorities, no contact
between the former and Soviet organisations of any
kind, while the population at large, which has feared
the foreigner since the purge, since the outbreak of
war avoids him like a plague-carrier.
It seems to me, knowing something of the real
state of Soviet economy, that Stalin, being under no
illusions about this, must consider that Soviet interests
could best be served by Russia staying right out of the
war—less with the idea of producing world revolution
on the exhaustion of the others than because of the
country s unfitness to face a long campaign against a
major Power. Today the whole country is suffering so
acutely from the long-continued famine in consumers’
goods that it has become imperative to provide the
masses with very big supplies of textiles for clothing
of all kinds and footwear to replace those in use,
which surely cannot be made to last much longer. A
big war would so strain the transport system as to
increase the privations of the masses and might even
affect the always precarious transport of food.
. these considerations must have made Stalin
decide that if possible there should be no participation
in the war. But today, I think, he feels that this may
not be possible. He may hold that the Soviet Union
may have to decide very soon whether to wait until its
turn comes in Hitler’s one-at-a-time plans for the
conquest of the world or to strike for the chance of
survival before it finds itself entirely alone. I think
that he first began to take this possibility seriously at
the moment of the Allied reverses in Scandinavia and
Germany s seizure of territory in that traditionally
neutral area which has turned the Baltic into a Ger-
man lake.
Stalin s September policy did not reckon with a
war that would threaten to leave that dictator who
had always proclaimed his intention to seize Soviet ter-
ritory and destroy the Soviet regime standing flushed


with victory right along two-thirds of Russia’s Euro-
pean land frontier as absolute warlord over a war
machine with a lightning striking power such as the
world had never seen.
A series of ukases has tightened up discipline in
the Red Army, removing from it almost the last traces
of a people’s revolutionary force and seeking to make
of it a military machine on the Prussian model. The
cherished right to debate the character and conduct
of superiors in Red Army Komsomol clubs has been
abolished altogether. Very strict rules concerning
saluting and respect for superiors have been issued
and are being rigidly enforced under heavy penalties.
The old principle of comradely equality between
officers and men off parade has so far disappeared that,
if a Red officer enters a street car or railway compart-
ment in which there is a Red soldier, the latter has to
rise and offer the officer his seat. The use of the
wardroom aboard ship as a political debating club-
room has been stopped. Such imperial titles as
General and Admiral with all the old gradings in these
ranks have been restored.
The screw has been applied to the collective
farmers in the shape of various ukases. There has been
a press campaign pillorying areas which have shown
reluctance in employing newly-trained girl tractor-
drivers —doubtless with the object of teaching these
regions that it is no use waiting for their mobilised
men to return from the colors. Factory workers and
office employees, including the vast army of the bureau-
cracy, have had an extra hour added to each day’s work
and an extra day to the week, all without compensa-
tion. New heavy penalties have been fixed and are
rigidly imposed for arriving even a couple of minutes
after the hour for beginning work, and the worker’s
right to change his place of employment abolished.
The scanty earnings of Soviet workers are being more
heavily taxed despite rising prices.
When the Baltic States were forced to accept
Soviet garrisons last winter, it was a foregone con-
clusion that sooner or later these countries would be
absorbed by Soviet Russia. The final step, however,
has since been taken so precipitately, in disregard of all
promises a few months back that there would be no
interference in the political and economic systems of
these countries, and on such flimsy excuses, that their
occupation by huge Red Army forces and subsequent
annexation must certainly be included among Stalin’s
preparations to face an ultimate attack by Germany.
The demand for the surrender of Bessarabia was suf-
ficiently peremptory to indicate a determination to
secure this territory before any possibility of German
interference.
If Stalin’s policy is, as we have seen it, oppor-
tunist, it has the quality of its defects —flexibility.
But it is also cautious, and caution dictates avoidance
as long as possible of anything that could provoke
the enmity of Germany. But if Sir Stafford Cripps,
who appears to have the necessary willingness to wait
patiently for his opportunity and, as his reception by
Stalin proves, to understand perfectly the realities of
the situation, enjoys the complete support of his Gov-
ernment, it seems as if nothing could long delay the
natural clash of Soviet and German interests in the
Balkans. Russia will never concur in the final reten-
tion by Germany or Hungary of domination over the
Slavs of Czechoslovakia and Ruthenia.
The Rumanians believe that Stalin hoped they
would have fought over Bessarabia, thus ensuring the
destruction by one party or the other of Rumania’s oil
wells and leaving Germany solely dependent on Rus-
sian supplies apart from her own quite inadequate re-
sources. Deprived of Rumanian oil, Germany’s
mechanised monster would lose most of its terrors for
the Soviet State. For its part, the Rumanian Gov-
ernment has seemed eager to invite Germany to do
anything she likes with Rumania if only she will
protect it against Russia. The Soviets cannot pos-
sibly afford to see Bulgaria or the Straits threatened
by Germany, and Soviet influence is hard at work in
both Bulgaria and Yugoslavia to hinder any further
extension of Nazi power.
What line will the Soviets take toward Turkey?
If Britain can persuade them to refrain from out-
rageous demands under pressure such as has been
applied to other countries, and to leave the protection
of the Straits against Germany in Turkish hands,
Turkey may well become the keystone of a new
Anglo-Turkish-Soviet bastion to defend common in-
terests against Axis aggression in the East. But until
a major decision has been taken in the Kremlin,
Russia must be expected to continue lip loyalty to the
Nazi agreement and the maintenance of such war
supplies as Germany can extract.
Japanese Monroe Doctrine.
[From an article by W. R. Castle in “Atlantic Monthly”
{U.S.A.), October issue.]
A Japanese Monroe Doctrine? Why not, if it
really is a Monroe Doctrine and not an excuse for
large-scale annexations? If a Japanese Monroe
Doctrine means something like Asia for the Asiatics,
just as the U.S.A.’s means America for Americans,
it would hurt the world only if it conspired to pre-
vent trade with the Western nations. But this seems
highly unlikely, since Asia needs to trade with the
West even more than the West needs to trade with
Asia. The doctrine should mean that trade will
increase rather than diminish. With greater co-
ordination of effort there should be higher general
prosperity, and therefore an increased demand for
foreign commodities. Japan would not worry about
its own exports to other East Asiatic countries, be-
cause lower standards of labor, as compared to the
West, and greater proximity would ensure its pre-
dominance in the sale of competitive goods. In non-
competitive goods it would not be interested.
It should thus be clear that a Japanese Monroe
Doctrine, so far as it brought about closer co-operation
among Asiatic nations and consequently an improve-
ment in living conditions, would be of value abroad
as well as locally.
Under any interpretation of the Monroe Doctrine
military power should be used only to repel attempts
to seize territory. If Japanese military power can be
used similarly in the Far East, protecting the different
States from outside aggression and therefore helping
to keep the peace, its influence will be beneficent. If,
on the other hand, it becomes an aggressive force
within the region, its influence will be wholly bad.
Neither must it be used to disrupt international trade,
but rather to protect it. It must not threaten the
political integrity of the weaker nations, but instead
act as a guarantee to their sovereignty —a guarantee
never thrust into the foreground and therefore irritat-
ing, but recognised as a force which will prevent
outside influence from interfering with normal internal
development.
“This all sounds very beautiful,” people will
say, “but how about China? After what Japan has
done in China it cannot ever be trusted. Is not all
this talk about the Japanese military as a possible
stabilising influence pure nonsense? And why should
it be Japan, anyhow, that proclaims an Asiatic Monroe
Doctrine?”
The questions cannot be precisely answered be-
cause, except for the last question, they are in the
realm of theory. If there is to be a Monroe Doctrine
for East Asia, the only nation which can effectively
sponsor it is Japan, since Japan is unquestionably the
dominant economic and military Power of the Orient.
But, then, can Japan be trusted?
After all, since Japan emerged from its isolation
less than a century ago, its promises have been at
least as sincere as those of Western nations —and that,
alas, remains true even today, when Japan has been
ripping through treaty provisions whenever its pledged
word, seemed to work to its own disadvantage.
Unfortunately, it is not being cynical to say that
nowhere, any longer, is there much respect for a
pledge. The plain fact is that there has got to be
a spiritual regeneration, not only in Japan and Ger-
many and Italy, but in Great Britain and France
and the United States.
It would seem that self-interest, once the theory
of an Asiatic bloc was established, would induce
Japan to carry on by means of co-operation rather
than through attempted conquest. The China adven-
ture has certainly not been of such a nature as to
induce Japan to go blithely into similar attempts at
conquest. In fact, except for a few fire-eating mili-
tarists, what Japan wants above all else is peace. It
is always acutely conscious of the Russian bear peer-
ing hungrily across a narrow sea, sending its emis-
saries to spread the gospel of Communism. Japan
wants to be free to deal with that bear when the
time comes. Everybody knows there is a campaign
of excited Japanese militarists against Britain, but
this seems to be temporary, the immediate result of
events in Europe. Japan feels its great dependence
on the United States, and above all does not want to
quarrel with that country. If this idea of an Asiatic
Monroe Doctrine sponsored by Japan is accepted by
the rest of the world, the chances of a peaceful Orient
after the Chinese war is settled will be far greater
than if Japan feels itself thwarted in its just as well
as its unjust ambitions.
The stake of the United States in the Orient is
very large—sentimentally, in missions and educational
work ; materially, in trade. American missions are
far more numerous in China than elsewhere ; trade
is greatest with Japan. It is also very important with
the Dutch East Indies and Malaya. Japan buys more
annually from the U.S.; the U.S. buys more from
the Dutch and British colonies than they buy from
it. And it must be remembered that U.S. purchases
are largely of essentials, like tin and rubber, which
are not elsewhere produced in sufficient quantities.
The U.S. could get on without buying from Japan,
but to stop selling to Japan would be disastrous,
especially to the cotton growers of the South. Also,
the U.S. can continue essential purchases from the
Dutch East Indies and Malaya indefinitely only if
it remains on good terms with Japan, the dominant
economic and military Power of the Far East. This
is a simple fact that it is useless to try to hide.
It would seem, then, that the part of wisdom
for the United States would be to welcome this
Japanese Monroe Doctrine, because it has in it seeds
from which may grow crops which will be useful
to the U.S. as well as to the Far Eastern group.
The U.S. has in Tokyo as Ambassador an extra-
ordinarily able man. With appropriate authority
from Washington, Mr. Grew could co-operate with
the Japanese to make the new Monroe Doctrine a
success, useful to Japan and the group of nations
which make up East Asia—in fact, to the world.
For the sake of Japan, the sponsor, as well as for
other nations, the Doctrine must not be permitted
so to develop as to strangle trade by means of
quotas and embargoes. There might in time be an
East Asiatic customs union, but this could grow out
of the Doctrine only as the result of real co-operation ;
it would not permanently hurt the rest of the world.
Also, as the result of working together, there might
gradually develop some unified plan of buying and
selling, a development which will probably be neces-
sary everywhere to meet the totalitarian purchasing
and selling units.
Finally, it is said that Japan is rapidly becoming
a totalitarian State itself. This may be brought about
by the formation of a single political party. Americans
believe such a system dangerous to peace and a cer-
tain menace to steady national progress. But Prince
Konoye, billed to be the head of the new single party,
is one of the most honorable men in Japanese public
life. He is no Hitler or Stalin, with delusions of
grandeur, but a man working unselfishly for the good
of his nation. Prince Konoye is not a man to cling
to power, but rather one with a clear vision who
would be the first to turn the nation back to a Par-
liamentary system. This he undoubtedly would do
if the Japanese Monroe Doctrine helps to bring peace,
prosperity and stability.
Middle East Situation.
[This general survey of the Middle East, with
special reference to the effect on the situation there
of the French collapse, is condensed from a London
“Nineteenth Century” article by Norman Bentwich.]
As soon as Italy entered the war it was certain
that an attack would be made on the most vital and
also the most vulnerable link in the communications
of the British Empire, the Suez Canal. In the last
war the attack was made from the east by the Turkish
Army, led and directed by German officers. Today
the attack is to be made from the west by Italian
armies, directed again by German officers. In 1915-16
the Turkish troops moved to invade Egyptian territory
from Palestine ; this year the Italian troops threaten
to invade Egypt from Libya and to get to the Canal
through Egypt. But now, as then, the whole Middle
East is in ferment, and the enemy’s attack by air, sea
or land may be made from all points of the compass.
It had been expected, before the disaster to the
French nation, that the Allied armies in Palestine
and Syria on the one side, and in North Africa on the
other side, and the Allied fleets in the Mediterranean
would easily be able to contain any attack of the
enemy. The French had gathered an army in Syria
estimated at 200,000 ; and the English army and air
force in Iraq, Palestine and Egypt together number
about 150,000 men. The Fleet, based on Gibraltar,
Alexandria and Malta and on the French North
African harbors, was far stronger than the Italian
Navy. There was every reason to believe that the
Allies would be able to take the offensive and cut off
the Italians in their precariously held African Empire.
The collapse of France and the acceptance of the
armistice terms by the French Administration in Syria
and in North Africa fundamentally changed the posi-
tion, and put a tremendous burden on the British
forces in the Middle East. These were now made to
appear slender in face of the whole army, navy and
air force of Italy, which might be reinforced by land
and air forces of Germany.
Regarding Syria, the actions of the French
Administration became steadily more subservient. In
August it was announced that British subjects would
not be allowed to pass through the country from
Palestine ; and so communication has been made more
difficult with our ally in the north, the Turkish
Republic. Turkey, which, a few months before the
outbreak of war, had strengthened her position by
occupying, and obtaining from the French mandatory
the cession of, the former sanjak of Alexandretta, with
the best natural harbor in the Eastern Mediterranean,
is vitally concerned that Syria should not be under the
domination of Italy or Germany. That domination
would threaten her integrity. She has not moved her
armies, and, no doubt, every possible pressure will be
exercised by the totalitarian allies and by their sleep-
ing Soviet partner in the north, to prevent her from
moving. She has, however, made clear her interest in
an independent Syria ; and if that independence were
menaced more directly, or if French subservience went
a step further so as to let the territory under her man-
date be used as a base against Palestine and Egypt, it
is likely that Turkey would move.
One step has been taken by Great Britain and her
ally Iraq to prevent any possible use of Syria’s oil-
pipeline. The oil from the great field at Kirkuk in
Iraq is carried by two lines to the Mediterranean, the
one ending at Tripoli, the other at Haifa. The stream
has now been turned off from the northern line, and
no supplies can enter Syria.
French policy has given Palestine an added im-
portance as the principal bulwark for the defence of
the Suez Canal and as the centre of our overland com-
munications with India and the East. So far the only
active operations in the country have been Italian air
attacks on Haifa, which have been directed particu-
larly to the big oil refinery there and to the pipe-
line. But it is to be expected that, as the struggle in
the Middle East approaches its crisis in the attacks on
Egypt and the Canal from the west and from the south,
our forces in Palestine will be more and more involved.
They occupy a central position in the Middle Eastern
theatre. On the west are the allied State of Egypt
and the allied State of Iraq. Both these States are,
at present, technically neutral towards both Germany
and Italy—if the word neutrality has any longer a
meaning. British forces occupy the aerodromes and
are encamped at the strategic centres. But they may
be restricted in their movements.
Paradoxically, the war brought internal peace to
a country which had been rent with civil feud for over
four years. Jews and Arabs together stood with
Great Britain. It would be an exaggeration to say
that the two peoples are wholeheartedly engaged in
the common cause, but the Jews altogether, and most
of the Arabs, recognise the overwhelming peril and
evil of Nazi domination.
The potash and bromide from the inexhaustible
reservoir of the Dead Sea have become the principal
supply for the whole British Commonwealth, now that
the potash works of Alsace are lost.
The British forces in Egypt and Palestine, and also
in Iraq and East Africa, form one command. The
forces can be moved readily from one threatened area
to another. A large part of the British troops has
come from Australia and New Zealand. Reinforce-
ments will come steadily, and perhaps rapidly, from
the overseas Dominions.
Today it is a more urgent need than ever before
for England to defend the Canal and the overland
communications to the East from Egypt and from
Palestine. The bulletins from the Middle East con-
tain the almost daily refrain on Palestine “nothing to
report.” But it is no longer true that “from Africa
there is nothing new” ; nor is it likely to be true much
longer of the coasts of Philistia and Phoenicia.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Beaulivre, whose amazing collapse in
the Epsom and subsequent failure in the
Metropolitan are still inexplicable, staged
a recovery to beat another Maorilander,
Gladynev, by a head in the Caulfield Cup,
run at Flemington on Saturday. Although
his price firmed from twelves to tens, his
success was not a bad result for course
bookmakers, but double bookmakers will
have to do a lot of financing to reduce
their liabilities. Beaulivre was laid
heavily in doubles with every fancied
Melbourne Cup candidate, particularly
with Beau Vite, now a firmer favorite
than ever for the second leg.
•»••••
Some disgruntled punters attempted to
start a demonstration when Beaulivre
returned to the enclosure, but they were
talking through their pockets. Trainer
George Price himself cannot explain the
horse’s Epsom form, and the fact remains
that Beaulivre would not have contested
the Caulfield Cup had he drawn wide at
the barrier. No. 1 post position assured
him a start, and also won him the race.
Jumping away smartly, he missed the
scrimmaging that occurred in the short
run from the start to the first turn, and,
steadied by Dewhurst after turning the
corner, left the rails only twice subse-
quently. Beaulivre looked like winning
easily with a furlong to go, but Dew-
hurst had to ride desperately to with-
stand Gladynev’s challenge.
Beaulivre, the first horse owned by
E. C. Harnett, gave Price and Dewhurst
their first Caulfield Cup win. Price
describes him as the best-winded horse
he has ever trained, and, considering the
number of champions and near-
champions that have passed through
Price’s stables, that’s high praise. It
was a lucky ride for Dewhurst, who, a
few days before the race, was without a
mount. Price approached him on
Wednesday, but it was not until Friday
afternoon that the engagement for Beau-
livre was confirmed. Dewhurst’s previous
best win was an Oakleigh Plate on
Aurie’s Star, whom he piloted to success
again in the Windsor Handicap on Satur-
day.
Beaulivre is still in the Melbourne Cup,
but at the time of writing it had not been
decided whether he would be asked to
attempt the double. His original Mel-
bourne Cup weight was 8.13, but the
handicapper has penalised him 71b.
V.A.T.C. handicapper Clem Hill had
the last laugh on critics who contended
that, at the weights, Gladynev was a
racecourse certainty, but only a head
saved him from further criticism. Accord-
ing to apprentice rider N. Selwood Glady-
nev was rather unlucky to lose, too. Sel-
wood stated that Gladynev received
several squeezes during the race, a par-
ticularly severe one rounding the home
turn, and that he was forced to cover a
lot of extra ground owing to his having
drawn No. 14 at the barrier. Gladynev
finished gamely enough, but, if his pull
in weight had been as great as gener-
ally believed, he should have been
able to overcome those difficulties. His
form, however, was the best he has
shown in Australia, and further improve-
ment should ensure his winning a minor
race in Melbourne.
Both Selwood and A. Breasley, latter
of whom rode Historian into third place,
are of opinion that No. 1 barrier posi-
tion was the deciding factor in Beau-
livre’s success. Historian started from
17, and, although he experienced a fairly
good run most of the way, Breasley had
to let him drop back early in order to
over towards the rails. A momentary
check in the straight did not help matters,
but Historian finished strongly less than
a length and a half behind the winner,
and was doing better than the first and
second horses on the post. “Had he
drawn a good barrier position, probably
he would have won,” declared Breasley
after the race. Historian’s performance
was attractive from a Melbourne Cup
viewpoint, and, although he has 21b.
more to carry in that race, he has natu-
rally firmed in the betting.
Hard-luck stories can be told for more
horses than Gladynev and Historian.
Gladynev’s stablemate High Caste had
a perfect run until well in the straight,
but Bartle had to switch him round to
avoid being pocketed, and a check at
such a critical stage was not calculated
to help a horse burdened with 9.2. In the
circumstances, High Caste was far from
disgraced in finishing fourth. Reading,
backed to 6 to 1 from his overnight price
of 11 to 1, led from the six furlongs to
the bend, but was # beaten at the turn
and finished a long way back. There was
ample excuse for him, however. El
Golea, Katanga and Royal Comet all
used their heels at the barrier, and Read-
ing stopped two kicks. One from
Katanga caught him on the near hind
leg, below the hock, and the resultant cut
penetrated to the bone. El Golea, who
covered a great deal of extra ground, and
tired after making a dash on the outside
rounding the turn, was another casualty.
In the early scramble for positions he
was galloped on and stripped above the
hock on the off hind leg.
Biggest disappointment of the Cup
was True Flight. It took a tremendous
amount of money to force his price from
sixes down to favoritism at 9 to 2, but he
never really flattered his backers. He
finished seventeenth after being about
sixth at the half-mile, rider J. Purtell
stating that he showed little dash at any
stage. Mac Rob, one of the last three
at the mile, did well to run fifth, and the
Adelaide gelding Brazen King, a 66-to-l
chance, showed up well in sixth posi-
tion. Apostrophe, another from S.A.,
ran on nicely in eighth position, after
being forced to race wide, and may be
better suited by the longer distance of
the Melbourne Cup. Maikai was never
within striking distance of the leaders,
but rider Darby Munro expressed the
opinion that he may be better suited in
a race like the Melbourne Cup.
Aurie’s Star was determined to win
the Windsor Handicap. Starting from
No. 1 position, he caught the lower strand
of the barrier in his mouth as it rose,
carried it with him for several yards, the
while holding it down to the detriment of
horses on the outside of him. Gold
Salute was the principal sufferer, and was
last by himself after the field had gone a
furlong. Pulled to the outside less than
three furlongs from home, he began a
long-sustained run which took him into
second place, a length and a half behind
Aurie’s Star at the finish. It was a
remarkable performance, and there is no
doubt that Gold Salute would have won
with an even break at the start. That,
however, was little consolation to the big
bettors from Sydney who follow Jamie-
son’s stable. Four of their bets were
£l2OO to £BOO, £llOO to £BOO, £lOOO to
£BOO and £9OO to £6OO.
Stewards found that Gold Salute’s loss
of ground at the start was accidental.
Rider E. Bartle informed them that his
mount was frightened and would not
jump away when Aurie’s Star caught a
strand of the barrier in his mouth, and
starter Rupert Greene substantiated his
evidence.
Most sensational sequel to the start of
the Windsor Handicap was a complaint
by owner W. R. Kemball concerning the
fact that Hilton did not leave the barrier
with the rest of the field. Hilton took no
part in the actual race, following the field
at a distance of about two furlongs.
Stewards investigated the complaint, but
after taking evidence were satisfied that
Hilton was facing the barrier when it was
released, and had every chance to jump
away with the others. Mornement stated
subsequently that Hilton was very toey
and stubborn, and was facing the barrier,
even though slightly behind the other
runners, when it rose. He added that
Hilton refused to jump away, and his
refusal was no fault of the starter. Kem-
ball, who races perhaps the largest string
of horses in Melbourne, had announced
through a firm of auctioneers earlier in
the week that he intended to retire from
racing. His 22 horses in training are to
be auctioned on November 8.
Big punters from Sydney were pro-
nounced in their criticism of bookmakers
who refused to bet on the Mona Nurse'ry.
The race was considered a foregone con-
clusion for the Sydney filly Whisper Low,
trained by J. T. Jamieson, and she started
at 5 to 2 on after touching 3 to 1 on.
Only four rails bookmakers bet on the
race, the rest preferring to operate on
the Caulfield Cup, and big punters, who
were willing to take any price, found it
practically impossible to get “set.” They
had a genuine grievance. Some of those
who refused to bet about a “green”
filly, having her second race, have never
declined to stand up and take odds about
Ajax.
Whisper Low duly won, but only after
a desperate struggle with Coochbehar.
Not more than a head separated them
over the last two furlongs, and, if any-
thing, Coochbehar was slightly in front
a furlong from home. She is by Law
Maker-North Star, and should be worth
the 230 guineas she cost as a yearling,
while Air Song (Marconigram-La Chan-
teuse), who finished third, should not
be an expensive proposition at 250
guineas.
Trainer Frank Godby deserved his win
with Harith in the Gwyn Nursery for
colts and geldings. Three members of
his team had been placed in previous
juvenile races this season. Harith, a 240-
guinea colt by Harinero from Real
Mirth, raced by Maikai’s owner, W. J.
Winterbottom, started second favorite
to Law Student, and, leading most of the
way, won from Portfolio (Chatham-Nuit)
and Pyramus (El Cacique-Pyramul).
Portfolio struck trouble more than once
during the race, while Law Student
jumped the second crossing and lost
ground. Harith’s time for the five fur-
longs, 591, was only a quarter of a
second outside the Flemington record,
and probably he will continue to im-
prove. From a Maribyrnong Plate view-
point, however, High Title, winner of the
Debutant Stakes, appears outstanding
among Melbourne’s youngsters.
Session, owned in Sydney by Percy
Miller and temporarily trained in Mel-
bourne by Jack Holt, recorded an attrac-
tive win in the Burwood Handicap. At-
tractive inasmuch as she drew No. 19
at the barrier —a big disadvantage at the
mile start —and, after making most of the
pace, battled on to win by half a head
from Cephren, with Dark Felt third.
Session, who in Sydney is trained by
Peter Riddle, is by Marconigram from
Manumit, Miller paying 1400 guineas for
the dam in April last year. Session
started at 7 to 1 after longer prices had
been laid, but Adelaide filly Plana was
always favorite. Backed from 6 to 1
down to threes, Plana was squeezed out
at the start, in trouble for the first two
furlongs, and weakened after making a
dash on the outside at the top of the
straight.
• • • . • •
Session’s principal missions this spring
are the Wakeful Stakes and Oaks, and
she should run well in both. Whether she
will improve to the extent of reversing
positions with Tranquil Star, who de-
feated her in the Edward Manifold Stakes
and then ran such a good race against
High Caste, Ajax and Maikai in the
Caulfield Stakes, is another matter. An-
other Oaks candidate to create a good
impression on Saturday was the Sydney
filly Trueness, winner in the autumn of
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. True-
ness did not do quite as well as ex-
pected after her arrival in Melbourne,
but she came from last to run eighth to
Session, to whom she conceded 41b., and
seemingly is returning to her best form.
Backers were wide of the mark in the
Wyuna Steeplechase, won by Parentena.
Latter, starting at 25 to 1 and paying tote
odds of approximately 109 to 1, took
charge halfway down the straight and
won from Whernside and Seymour.
Whernside, hanging out, had to be
checked over the last furlong, and prob-
ably would have won had he kept a
straight course. Parentena, a Parenthesis
gelding trained by Steve Murphy, is
young as ’chasers go—four years old —
and should improve.
* * * *
City Tattersall’s meeting was favored
by fine weather, something it has not
always experienced, and a large attend-
ance gave the club a well-deserved profit-
able meeting.
The most exciting race of the after-
noon was City Tattersall’s Handicap, in
which, after being one of the whippers-in
along the back, Seven Fifty finished so
strongly that he scored by a head from
Bourbon, who led into the straight. Fear-
less was almost level with the latter, and
but for being checked a couple of times
might have won. As it was, a win for
him seemed probable half a furlong
from home, but right at the post he was
scarcely doing as well as Seven Fifty.
Old Rowley and Peerless were nearest
the placed horses, and this time the latter
may repay her trip to Sydney. She is
much better treated in the New Zealand
Cup than she was in any of the principal
Sydney or Melbourne handicaps, but last
week her owner told me she was not
going home for that race. Little excuse
was possible for the failure of the
favorite, Binnia Hero, who moved a trifle
short in his preliminary, and the race was
practically over before Cooranga could
raise anything approaching a decent
gallop. Sedunum looked as well as could
be wished, but he is up where a win for
him is going to be difficult.
Vergure, the popular pick for the Fly-
ing Handicap, displayed all the pace ex-
pected, but though he led just after enter-
ing the straight, and was still in charge
commencing the final furlong, he could
not stall off Forward. After the latter
took charge Caesar looked like running
him down, but then he started to shift,
and Forward left him again at the end.
Flying Knight galloped without any
dash in the early part, and was doing so
badly at the three furlongs that it seemed
as if he would be one of the last home.
Then he ran on so well that he finished
a close fourth. His lack of early dash
suggested his couple of hard races at the
A.J.C. meeting had temporarily knocked
him out. Denis, after being up with
Vergure and Martheus at the turn, could
not come on, and it now looks as if the
handicappers could safely treat him more
leniently.
Cradle Song won the Two-year-old
Stakes in very easy fashion. From the
top of the straight it was not a question
of whether she would win, but by what
margin. She eventually beat It’s Funny
by four lengths, with Condignity three-
quarters of a length further back. The
last-mentioned two are by Constant Son,
and, as the winner is by Double Remove,
all the place-getters were from the Kia-
Ora Stud.
Dick Whittington, who was hopelessly
left at the start, was fourth, but a long
way back. It was contended he would
have won if he had jumped away, but
that is doubtful in view of Cradle Song’s
decisive victory. King Herod ran much
below his Breeders’ Plate form, and little
favorable could be said for anything out-
side the first four.
Dewar, soundly backed and well
beaten at his two previous runs, ac-
counted for the Novice Handicap. Start-
ing from the outside, and last after going
a furlong, he put in a good finishing run
to beat Royal Head, who looked a sure
winner when he settled Marlong shortly
after commencing the last furlong. Royal
Head, like Dewar, was slow in finding his
legs, and was second-last along the back.
Spun Wool was a fair fourth, but though
backed, never looked better than a place
chance. He met Dewar only 61b. worse
than when he lost the latter in a
Maiden Welter at Rcsebery the previous
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
St. Albans Handicap: Dapper,
1 ; Whisper Low, 2 ; Coochbehar, 3.
Broadmeadows Steeplechase:
Whernside, 1 ; Dornford, 2;
Lavein, 3.
W. S. Cox Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Beaulivre, 3.
Moonee Valley Gold Cup:
Katanga, 1; Gladynev, 2; His-
torian, 3.
Dundonald Handicap: Dream-
some, 1 ; Aurie’s Star, 2; Pure
Gold, 3.
Phoenix Handicap: Waxwings,
1; Furtrader, 2 ; Bankshaw, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Warwick Trial Handicap: Mar-
long, 1 ; Dewar, 2 ; Mainray, 3.
Greystanes Juvenile Handicap:
Dick Whittington, 1; Milanja, 2;
It’s Funny, 3.
Macquarie Grove Handicap:
Valve, 1; Overbold, 2; Chatoona, 3.
Varroville Handicap: Fly, 1 ;
Forward, 2 ; Jazbeau, 3,
Homebush Handicap: Peerless,
1 ; Fearless, 2; Bourbon, 3.
Welter Handicap: June, 1;
Edifice, 2 ; Grey Derby, 3.


VICTORIA RACING CLUB, FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY
CUP DAY
OAKS DAY
C. B. FISHER PLATE
2nd NOVEMBER
sth NOVEMBER
7th NOVEMBER
9th NOVEMBER
£7500 Added to Melbourne Cup and Gold Cup of £2OO.
£5OOO Added to The Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Wednesday, which was further proof of
the difficulty of following form even
when everything is in order. And yet
many racegoers are always anxious for
the stewards to “do something” when a
horse runs better or worse one day than
another.
Half a dozen runners were well backed
for the Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap, but Don Byrne, showing further
improvement, went to the front halfway
down the straight, and then stalled off
Valve, who will be all the better for
more racing. Recent racing over longer
distances has evidently dulled His Lord-
ship’s speed. Last for three furlongs he
then started to make up leeway, but,
though he eventually finished third, it
was only in the last few strides he headed
Kestrel and Brazen Boy. Overjoyed
was never a winning possibility, and
Guinness, after being in a handy posi-
tion turning for home, again showed
himself a poor stayer.
Bobby, who ran second in an Epsom
two years ago, has taken a new lease of
life, and, never looking brighter, was too
good at the finish for his Club Welter
opponents. Fly was favorite, but the
way Aladdin hung on to her for the first
five furlongs settled her chance, and,
though the two were well clear of their
followers at the half-mile, they were two
of the last three at the winning-post.
Red Thespian’s chance appeared a win-
ning one when he led shortly after enter-
ing the straight, but though Metallic fin-
ished gamely he had no chance of over-
haulin'* Bobby, and narrowly beat Leeds
and First Chance, who dead-heated for
third, slightly ahead of June, who from
the half-mile to the straight entrance was
never further back than fourth. Neither
Pen Name nor Climax ever got in it, but
Irak did sufficiently well to give him a
chance in something at a mid-week or
provincial meeting.
* * * *
If handicapper Hill was pleased when
Gladynev just failed to overhaul Beau-
livre at the finish of the Caulfield Cup
it was excusable. He was aware long
before the Cup was run that he had
erred in giving the minimum weight to
Gladynev, who, on his third with 7.11
to Old Bill (8.0) and Beau Vite (8.7) in
the Wellington Cup, \\ mile, appeared
to be thrown in. Always one of the
first four or five in the betting, it was
probably due to a rather general belief
that he had not struck his Maoriland
form that he did not start favorite. In a
backward position until within less than
half a mile of home, his light weight
nearly enabled him to win.
Naturally he will now have some back-
ing for the Melbourne Cup, but in that
he is weighted up to his best with 8.4.
As I have mentioned on previous occa-
sions, Gladynev, though sturdy, is a
small horse, and it is improbable he
will, with his increased weight, be able
to unwind the finishing run in the Mel-
bourne Cup that took him so far for-
ward at the end of Saturday’s race. The
Moonee Valley Gold Cup gives him a
much better chance of a win. In that
he has a comfortable weight in 7.8, and
the mile and five furlongs should suit
him. He should again beat Historian,
whom he will meet only 61b. worse.
In the Melbourne Cup it will be dif-
ferent, as in that Historian is giving
him only 21b. against the 251 b. that sepa-
rated them last week. It appears as if
very few of those which finished behind
Historian in the Caulfield Cup will beat
him in the longer race. Maikai may pos-
sibly be one of the exceptions. He will
be meeting Historian 61b. better, and has
shown he can get two miles. Still, I
think 9.4 will trouble him, and as
Wilson did not show form of real account
it looks as if, apart from Beau Vite,
backers will have to turn to the three-
year-old division to find something to
down Historian.
Dashing Cavalier finished strongly to
win the Randwick Plate in good time,
but he scarcely did well enough in the
Metropolitan with 8.3 to make me think
he will be suited by a bustling two miles
handicap, in which he has 8.6. Besides,
he will be meeting Beau Vite on the same
terms as in the Metropolitan.
Reverting to Caulfield Cup form, I
doubted High Caste’s ability to see out
a truly-run mile and a half in a first-class
handicap at Flemington, but with luck in
running against him in the straight he
made a good showing, and may add to
his winning account before returning to
Sydney. Reading received a severe kick
while at the post, but, despite that, led
the field after going a mile. Towards
the finish his injury affected him, and he
stopped to nothing.
It would have been necessary for
Katanga to improve on anything he had
previously shown in order to succeed
in the Cup. He was never a danger,
and as he again has 8.7 it does not seem
as if there will be much hope for him
in the Melbourne Cup if he runs. True
Flight would scarcely seem as good as
two or three weeks ago.
There is time yet for developments,
but everything that has happened up to
the present tends to betting on the Mel-
bourne Cup taking a limited range, with
Beau Vite an outstanding favorite. If
something wins the Victoria Derby in
the style of a stayer it will make a differ-
ence, but unless Beau Vite should cut up
badly in the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes
his position at the head of the Melbourne
Cup market is unlikely to be challenged.
* * * *
After Beaulivre’s failure in the Epsom
and Metropolitan his owner was reported
to be in doubt as to whether he would
run him in the Caulfield Cup, but as the
horse showed no ill-effects from his
racing at Randwick it was decided he
should be one of the field. In prize-
money alone he returned, with interest,
the £2500 his owner lost on him in the
Epsom. Some time ago his owner backed
him for the two Cups double, and no
doubt Beaulivre will now be given the
opportunity of seeing whether he can
equal Rivette’s feat of last year. I doubt
it. For his trainer’s sake I was glad
Beaulivre did so well in the Caulfield
Cup. Price is not an optimist, but he
did think that, with ordinary luck, Beau-
livre would win the Epsom, and it was
a knockout blow for him when Beaulivre
stopped in the straight in that race after
looking a winner, and then cut up badly
in the Metropolitan. Beaulivre certainly
did not look “off color” at Randwick,
and a veterinary overhaul did not throw
any light on the cause of his disappoint-
ing form. Beau Vite and Beaulivre are
giving Beau Pere a great advertisement,
and it is to be hoped his Australian-bred
stock reach the same standard as those
he sired in New Zealand. There is no
reason why they should not, as he will
lack nothing in opportunity with high-
class mares.
* * * *
It is always possible for a champion
in anything to remain too long on the
scene, and now the question arises
whether Ajax is going to be another in-
stance. Despite his recent wins some
keen Melbourne followers of racing held
that he was scarcely as good as last
season, and, though that idea was scouted
by Ajax’s connections, those who sub-
scribed to it now have the better of the
argument. Defeat by High Caste was
nothing new in Ajax’s career, but the fact
of Maikai and Tranquil Star being so
close to him at the end of nine furlongs
did not uphold the contention that he
was quite up to his earlier standard. At
the same time he ran well enough for
it to be difficult for anyone to suggest
that deterioration was pronounced.
If Ajax should fail in the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes and the Linlithgow
it might be inadvisable for his owners
to continue racing him. His great record
might be further besmirched, and that is
something to be avoided. Peter Pan was
kept going, not so much with a view to the
possible monetary return as in the hope
he might conclude his career with a win.
He failed, his last five starts resulting
in defeat, and that took the glamor off
his previous deeds, and may, to some
extent, have lessened his stud value.
* * * *
Rivette won last year’s Melbourne Cup
at 5 to 1, but Beau Vite is already well
inside that figure. Nearest him is His-
torian, and then Maikai and Beaulivre.
They are followed by Apostrophe, Glady-
nev, Pantler and Lucrative, with liberal
odds on offer against the remainder.
Lucrative is the Victoria Derby favorite,
succeeded by Pandect. Tidal Wave, Sun
Valley and Scientist are next, and then
Positron and The Adjutant.
* * * *
During the week Old Rowley will be
added to the Sydney horses in Melbourne.
Consequent on his indifferent form last
Saturday Billposter is not to go south.
* * * *
Fillies have a good record in the Mari-
byrnong Plate. Four of the last ten were
won by them, and success of another is
probable this year. In the Gimcrack
Stakes All Love ran away from Whisper
Low and Cradle Song in record time,
and, while at Randwick on Saturday the
last-named made her opponents look
cheap, Whisper Low scored a win at
Flemington. She, however, beat Cooch-
behar by only a head. If the latter had
won it would have been a shock for those
bookmakers who declined to bet on the
race because they “did not wish to give
money away.” As there is no rule com-
pelling a bookmaker to bet, he can please
himself, but, as a rule, it generally pays
him best to be a bookmaker. There are
times when it really does look like throw-
ing money away to bet on some races,
but sufficient “good things” are beaten in
a year to suggest the risk is worth taking.
* * * *
Occasionally the actual ownership of
horses is difficult to ascertain. At a
recent mid-week meeting I heard a rather
talkative individual remark “My mare
will win.” She did, too, but she did not
figure in his ownership, nor, on looking
over the official list, could I find any
record that she was leased to the man who
raced her. The A.J.C. would have to do
a lot of probing to discover the real
ownership of many horses, and it is not
unusual to hear the remark that “So-and-
so is backing his horse today” even
though “So-and-so” does not appear as
either the owner or lessor. In the old
pony days when association with that
class of sport meant disqualification
under A.J.C. rules, it was surprising the
number of mares that drifted back to the
studs at which they were bred, and whose
owners were supposed to be “pure lily-
whites” in respect of the observance of
A.J.C. rules.
H* * *
Horses bred in Maoriland are certain
to wind up with a good score in Australia
this season. In the way of important
handicaps they already have the Epsom,
Metropolitan and Caulfield Cup to their
credit and various w.f.a. races, with the
certainty of adding to the number. They
will be strongly represented in the W. S.
Cox Plate at Moonee Valley on Saturday,
and unless Ajax strips quite at his best
a clean sweep at the V.R.C. meeting is
probable. After they run in the Mel-
bourne Cup perhaps neither Beau Vite
nor Beaulivre —if the latter fulfils that
engagement —will start in the Linlithgow
Stakes, but High Caste will be a tough
opponent for Ajax even though one of
the latter’s owners believes that an easy
time after the Melbourne Stakes was, in
a measure, responsible for his defeat in
the Caulfield Stakes.
H: * * *
Marabou was the last minor-place
getter in the Caulfield Cup to win the
Melbourne Cup. He was third with 8.0
in the Caulfield race and won at Flem-
ington with 31b. less. Historian, reckoned
unlucky by many of his backers not to
have won the Caulfield Cup with . 8.4,
has an additional 21b. in the Melbourne
Cup.
* * * *
Beaulivre’s win in the Caulfield Cup
was not accepted with good grace by
some Melbourne racegoers, who wanted
to know what he was doing in the Epsom.
They might have added the Metropolitan
while they were about it. He was as
disappointing in one as the other, and
it was difficult to find fault with the way
he was handled in either. Nor could he
have looked better, and he com-
pletely puzzled Price. It was reported
that Beaulivre’s failures had weaned his
owner from betting, but according to
statements in some of the papers he did
not allow him to run unbacked on Satur-
day. Which was not surprising consider-
ing the way the horse worked after his
arrival in Melbourne.
* * * *
Gladynev reads like winning the
Moonee Valley Cup, but it will be far
from an easy race for him. Dashing
Cavalier may be a troublesome opponent,
as should Gilltown if as good as
when he won with only 31b. less
last year. Lanarus and John Dory
can be included among the possibilities,
and l’Aiglon must be given a chance.
A year ago l’Aiglon was second with
8.11, against 8.8 on this occasion, and as
he recently ran well in a race he may be
back to something like his old form. The
last race he won was the Waverley Handi-
cap, a year ago, with 9.0. I expect
Gladynev or l’Aiglon to win, with Dash-
ing Cavalier best of the remainder.
* * * *
The fastest last mile ever run in a Mel-
bourne Cup was 1.38| when Nightmarch
won in 1929. The first mile was run in
1.48!, which made the time for the full
distance 3.26!. Last year the first mile
took 1.45!, and the last mile 1.41!. The
final half-mile was run in 50, which was
2sec. slower than in Nightmarch’s year.
T. R. George did not come to Aus-
tralia with Beau Vite, because he had a
large team in training in Maoriland, a
number of two-year-olds being included.
Payroll, one of these, dead-heated Nuna
for the Welcome Stakes at the Auckland
R.C. meeting last week. Payroll is by
Croupier. A couple of classics recently
run in Maoriland were the Dunedin
Guineas and the Great Northern
Guineas. The former was won by Don’t
Forget, a gelding by Myosotis. and the
other by Sir Cameron (Posterity-
Mirabelle II), whose defeat of Beau Leon
was probably a surprise.
* * * *
Long-distance w.f.a. races do not
appeal to American owners. At Saratoga
(New York State) the only acceptors for
the Saratoga Cup, 1| mile on weight-for-
age terms, were the stable-companions
Isolater and a three-year-old named
Fenelon. There was no tote betting on
the race, in which Isolater had no trouble
in finishing ahead of Fenelon in 3.2 on a
muddy track. For some unexplained
reason Fenelon did not get anything in
the way of second money, the whole
stake (a little over £AI4OO going to
Isolater. It made no difference, the two
horses being in the same ownership.
* * * *
Beau Vite will have the honor of carry-
ing topweight in the Melbourne Cup,
and, though success with 9.7 will not be
exactly easy, four horses similarly placed
have won in the last 20 years. In that
period topweights have fared as under:
1920 Poitrel, 10.0 First
1921 Eurythmic, 10.5 .. .. Unplaced
1922 Speciality, 9.5 Unplaced
1923 David, 9.10 Unplaced
1924 Wynette, 8.11 Unplaced
1925 Stand By, 9.5 Unplaced
1926 Spearfelt, 9.3 First
Pantheon, 9.3 .. .. .. Third
1927 Pilliewinkie, 9.7 .. .. Unplaced
1928 Winalot, 9.4 Unplaced
1929 High Syce, 9.11 .. .. Unplaced
1930 Phar Lap, 9.12 .. .. First
1931 — Phar Lap, 10.10 .. .. Unplaced
1932 Denis Boy, 9.2 .. .. Unplaced
1933 — G. Carrington, 9.4, dead-heat for Third
Rogilla, 9.4 Unplaced
1934 — Peter Pan, 9.10 .. .. First
1935 Peter Pan, 10.6 .. .. Unplaced
1936 Silver Ring, 9.4 .. .. Unplaced
1937 Allunga, 9.1 Fourth
1938 The Trump, 9.4 .. .. Unplaced
1939 Mosaic, 9.0 Unplaced
Catalogue, 9.0.. .. .. Unplaced
* * * *
It does not take much racing to give
some horses ‘‘that tired feeling.” Bestop
is not of the number. Last season he
had 21 runs, the previous year something
the same, and he has been raced con-
sistently since the commencement of this
season. So far from being knocked out
by his efforts he never shaped better than
when he won last week’s Rosebery Handi-
cap. The race was run at a sound pace
throughout, but he managed to outstay
Constant in 1.38!, which equalled the
track record for a mile.
* * * *
If breeding always assured galloping
ability some of the runners for the
Maiden Welter Handicap at Victoria
Park should have been out of that class
long ago. For instance, five-year-old
Dame Pauline is by Pantheon from Par-
fait Amour, a sister to Amounis ; Dionne
is by Defoe from Doe, whose brother
Royal Game was very successful in
Maoriland ; Merrimba is a half-brother
to Talkie and Fakenham ; Two Bids is
a half-brother to Ardon’s Pride and other
Queensland winners; Aurify is by
Medieval Knight from that smart mare
Kilkenny Lass ; Stoical is by Waikare,
and on the maternal side is related to
Lough Neagh ; Goal is by imported Lo
Zingaro from imported Goa ; Merry Jest
is by Melfort from Manfred’s sister
Valotte ; and Hammond is by Chatham
from Haughmond, a useful Limond mare.
Some others are equally deserving of
mention on the score of breeding, which
further emphasises the luck, or otherwise,
attaching to yearling buying.
* * * *
The other day a gentleman associated
with Australia’s principal totalisator
pointed out that last year’s machine turn-
over for the whole of this country
was approximately £4,520,000, against
£36,000,000 in America. However, with
the exception of New York, racecourse
betting everywhere in America was re-
stricted to the totalisator. This year New
York has had the totalisator, bookmakers


ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
ll NEW
CHAMPIONS
STili,
NOIdWVHD
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
GREATER POWER
Worn-out spark plugs are the
thief of power. Install new
Champions and see the dif-
\ ference in speed, acceleration
and power. They soon pay for
Mi themselves, too, in the fuel
they save.
Mg/ n Empire Product —made in Windsor, Can.
not only being barred but not even
allowed on some courses as spectators.
While Australia’s tote turnover sounds
small, it must not be forgotten that book-
makers bet on every course, and it is not
too much to say that in the aggregate
their turnover is six times as great as
that of the machine. So far as Sydney
courses are concerned, betting was never
heavier, and the reported transactions of
five or six men alone on a race will be
greater than the total amount put through
the tote on the same race at a suburban
meeting.
Chatting about betting developments, a
prominent bookmaker recently remarked,
“When I commenced at Randwick
twenty-three years ago there were only
about half a dozen men who made £lOOO
books on the course. Now many bet up
to that amount.” A little while back I
was looking over the books of a man who
was prominent 30 years ago, and was
struck by the fact that even on the prin-
cipal handicaps he had rarely laid the
odds to over £5O in one wager. Now
comparatively small men think nothing of
making bets of that size.
* * * *
In the way of long-priced winners of
the Melbourne Cup the best sequence
the books ever had was from 1892 to
1895. In the first-mentioned year Glen-
loth, who had disappointed in the Caul-
field Cup, won at 50 to 1. The following
year Tarcoola also did the Ring a great
turn. He started at 40 to 1, and then came
Patron and Auraria at 33 to 1. In 1896
backers had their turn, Newhaven start-
ing favorite at 4 to 1, and winning all
the way. Trafalgar and Phar Lap each
started favorite for three Melbourne
Cups, but, while the best the former could
do was to run second at 9 to 2 in 1910,
Phar Lap won at 11 to 8 on in 1930.
There were 15 runners, and he carried
9.12 —151 b. over weight-for-age.
* * * *
Cheery Jack has been backed for the
Melbourne Cup, and, if he should suc-
ceed, he will not be the first hurdler to
do so. Sheet Anchor was unplaced in
the 1885 Grand National Hurdles, for
which, with 10.11, he started a 5-to-4
favorite. Four months later he won the
Melbourne Cup with 7.11 in 3.29, which
up to then was record time for the race.
The Yeoman, the only three-year-old to
win the Grand National Hurdles, ran
third in the Melbourne Cup with 7.8.
Cheery Jack’s owner has a high opinion
of him, but it is expecting a great deal
of the David gelding to win the Mel-
bourne Cup, even with 7.2.
* * * *
There are flattering reports concerning
Genetout’s foals at St. Aubins Stud. His
bloodlines tend to his success as a sire,
and he will not lack opportunities. There
are about a hundred mares at St. Aubins,
and half of these are imported.
* * * *
Owing to the abandonment of racing
in England and uncertainty as to when
it will be resumed, the services of many
English jockeys are available for India.
The Maharaja of Kolhapur, however, is
an Indian owner who prefers Australian
jockeys. He has made overtures to more
than one to ride for him at the big meet-
ings towards the end of this year and
the beginning of next. R. Parsons is the
latest. He was requested to name his
own terms and leave Australia after the
Melbourne Cup meeting.
* * * »
The result of the Queensland Guineas
further demonstrated that Brisbane
horses are hard to beat on their own
ground. Fearless Fox ran well at his last
start at Randwick, but, though he shared
favoritism with Bold Step and Rex Buzz,
a fair third was the best he could do.
Bold Step, who is owned and trained by
W. A. Tucker, won comfortably. Bred
by T. Jennings and sold for 650gns. as
a yearling, Bold Step is by Spearfelt
from E’en Step, and therefore brother
to Soft Step. Bold Step is engaged in
the A.J.C. St. Leger, and if he continues
to do well his owner may be tempted to
bring him down for that race, especially
if racing at Flemington should prove
there is not any outstanding stayer
among the Sydney and Melbourne three-
year-olds.
**■•»*
The two highest-priced colts sold at the
Randwick yearling sales were Beau Son
(Beau Pere-Banita) and Beau Port (Beau-
Pere-Grey Port), who respectively made
3500gns. and 2200gns. Neither has yet
raced, Beau Son for the reason that he
scarcely came through his preparation as
well as his trainer could have wished,
and Beau Port because it was believed
very early racing would not be to his
advantage, notwithstanding that he
shaped well in his work. He is a well-
grown, loose-looking grey, and is jointly
owned by W. C. and H. M. Douglass.
* * * *
It will take the English thoroughbred
industry many years to recover from the
setback given it by the war. The buyer
of 11 of the Aga Khan’s yearlings at an
average of 400gns. was reckoned to have
secured a great bargain, but it now
appears as if the breeder was fortunate
in selling at that price. It was cabled that
at Newmarket last week 38 yearlings by
prominent sires averaged sgns. High-
class brood mares could now be pur-
chased at a comparatively low figure, and
many would be more desirable than some
of the stallions which have reached Aus-
tralia of recent years. Unfortunately
shipping difficulties prevent our breeders
from availing themselves of the position.
* * * *
At the Saratoga (New York State) sales
in August 696 yearlings were disposed
of for $1,227,375, an average of about
$1763 a head, against the previous year’s
average of $2lOO for 643. Still, as this
season’s average was about £AS3O,
breeders had no cause for dissatisfaction.
Mrs. Ethel V. Mars was the principal
buyer, giving $78,400 for 14 youngsters.
In the last six years Mrs. Mars has
bought 102 yearlings at Saratoga for
$598,400. Australian breeders would
appreciate a Mrs. Mars at our sales.
Twelve yearlings each brought $lO,OOO
or over at Saratoga, the highest price paid
being $lB,OOO for a colt by imported
Sickle (Phalaris-Selene) from Friendly
Gal, a Sir Gallahad 111 mare.
Stallions represented at the sale
totalled 139, and seven yearlings by
imported Blenheim averaged $6814. At
that he headed the list, next to him
coming two other imported stallions,
Pharamond II and Sir Gallahad 111, while
Bull Dog, another importation, was fifth.
Evidently American buyers retain a liking
for imported blood, notwithstanding that
American writers are always holding forth
on the superiority of American-bred stal-
lions and mares.
* * * *
An interesting article on betting sys-
tems appeared recently in a Sydney paper.
Its writer thought he had evolved one
that was infallible, but though it was a
success over quite a long period it had
the usual ending. Despite systems, the
bookmaker will always be with us, unless
he is completely superseded by the tote
on racecourses. In England some of the
books advertise their willingness to ac-
commodate system bettors, and there are
few systems that have not been tried in
that country. In an American sporting
journal I saw an advertisement of “Forty
systems for a dollar,” and no doubt the
originator of each thought his was the
one that would break the books. Yet
each had got down to an average selling
price of about a penny-halfpenny, and
perhaps that was about their true value.
* * * *
There are so many valuable races in
America that some occasionally attract
poor fields. At the Washington Park
(Chicago) meeting on Sept. 2, there were
only six runners for the Washington Park
Handicap, 1} mile, notwithstanding first
money was $24,800 (about £A7400),
second $4OOO, third $2OOO and fourth
$lOOO. The winner was a
mare named Plumage, who started at
7 to 1.
* * * *
It is stated by “The Blood-Horse” that
there are only four weight-for-age stakes
for three-year-olds and upwards in
America. One of these, the Whitney
Stakes, mile, was run at Saratoga on
Aug. 27. There were three starters, and
a great finish saw Challedon beat English-
bred Isolator a half-head. Each carried
9st., and the mile and a quarter was run
in 2.3 1-5. The first quarter-mile was run
in 24 1-5 and the last in 25, which was
unusually fast for the concluding portion
of a mile and a quarter in America, and
was not expected to be beaten in any
race of that distance during the remainder
of the season. As a rule middle-distance
races in America are run at a terrific
pace for the first six furlongs, and then
slow down in marked fashion.
* * * *
A story indicative of the mystery sur-
rounding the fate of hundreds of
thoroughbreds in the German-occupied
sections of France is told by L. V. Man-
ning in the “Daily Sketch” (London).
Corporal Willcocks, he says, told him
the story. During the British Expedition-
ary Force’s evacuation from France Will-
cocks was driving an ambulance near
Rouen when he was hailed by an Irish
stud groom leading three horses, one of
which had a “game leg.” “That’s Epin-
ard,” said the Irishman. “They want me
to shoot him, but I’d rather shoot myself.”
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hall v. Miller
The meeting of Joe Hall and Mickey
Miller at Leichhardt last week ended in a
sort of draw, Joe winning the Ist, 2nd,
3rd, 4th, sth, 6th, 7th and Bth rounds,
and Mickey losing the same number. By
then Mickey’s phiz was like rumpa da
steak when Tony has been belting it with
da bot, and his corner was hinting loudly
to the ref. that its chap had had enough.
On making a closer inspection of the
damaged fa9ade, the ref. thought so, too,
and Joe had it on a technical k.o.
An ignorant cove who couldn’t read
might have given Joe a weight advantage
of over a stone, but the boards swinging
aloft made it: Joe, 9.81 i Mickey, 9.2 —
probably the heaviest 611 b. on record. In
his usual carnation-pink of condition,
Joe looked as strong as an ox. His
advantage in reach was even more pro-
nounced, giving Mickey the job of a bum-
boat trying to land a boarding party on
the Hood. Mickey essayed this by lead-
ing vigorously with his chin, and doing
so ate such helpings of Joe’s left that the
taste of it must have got monotonous.
Joe varied the hand-out with heavy help-
ings of right, served efficiently to the jaw
or direct to the digestion, but, right or
left, Mickey ate it all up table d’hote.
Joe demonstrated once more that he’s
as magnificent a fighter when the spirits
move him as he isn’t when they don’t. If
only the present generation of ghosts
weren’t such a lot of loafers Joe would
be a great scrapper.
Billy Rainsbury, a Victorian fedder,
engaged Jem Mace in a supporting 10-
rounder, and was lucky to survive five
seconds of it. Billy may have been ner-
vous, confusing this Jem Mace with the
other one, and so was specially receptive
to the right Jem planted on his chin as
soon as they came together. It sent Billy
backwards across the ring with a sur-
prised look, but he survived it, and, box-
ing very nicely, looked like beating Jem,
when Jem, in the fifth, saved him the
trouble by turning it in, having fractured
a vital organ, to wit his left thumb.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
To win the Chicago amateur cham-
pionship I had some of the hardest
matches I have ever played. The four
18-hole tussles, followed by the 36-hole
final—it ended on the 34th —were a
good deal stiffer than any 72-hole
stroke-play championship. Among the
32 qualifiers for the event were prac-
tically all the country’s leading amateurs,
including John Barnum, the Mexi-
can champion. I had a narrow shave
in the first round to win at the 20th
hole after being dormie two down.
In the final I met Walter Burkemo, a
22-year-old ex-caddie who last year won
the Florida amateur title. Just over sft.
and weighing 155 pounds, he is one of
the best swingers among the amateurs,
and, what is more important, a deadly
putter. In the 34 holes of the final he
had eleven one-putt greens, while his
short game generally was of very high
standard, comparable with that of the best
professionals.
The Riverside Club, where the cham-
pionship was played, is one of the two
oldest clubs in the Mid-West, dating back
to 1895. Thickly wooded, with a tiny
river running through the course, it was
a good test of play. The course, inci-
dentally, had some of the narrowest
fairways I have ever seen, overhanging
branches from the huge oaks and elms
stretching many feet into the fairway on
each side.
The trophy was a silver cup standing
over 2ft. in height, to which a wristlet
watch was added. Burkemo also was
awarded a watch, while the semi-finalists
got mementoes of the championship. I
have been surprised at the magnificence
of the trophies given to amateur
winners in the United States, for at every
open event there are from four to ten
amateur prizes,
• • •
Some associations still allow stymies,
During the Western amateur champion-
ship the Western Golf Association abol-
ished stymies of all kinds; yet during
the Chicago event every type of
stymie was allowed, except when the
balls were within six inches of each
other or one ball was within six inches
of the hole. This latter regulation does
not allow one player missing a short
putt to finish on the lip of the hole and
close it to his opponent.
..... •
I have always been against stymies,
Making a player whose ball is within six
inches of the hole lift or hole out is much
fairer than the Australian rule under
which a stymie must be played as long
as the balls are more than six inches apart,
*
° ne of the most amazing shots I have
ever seen in competitive golf was played
during the Chicago qualifying round.
My partner Wehrle, the defending cham-
pion, bunkered at the 11th hole fully
thirty yards from the hole on the down-
slope of the trap, exploded the ball out,
landing on the full between the flagstick
and the side of the hole, to become
firmly wedged there, giving him a birdie
three. Had he missed he would have
gone out of bounds behind the green,
.....
During the thousands of shots I have
seen played by the American profes-
sionals from bunkers I have yet to see
one chip the ball out cleanly. Even
though some of the bunkers are very
shallow the ball is always exploded with
a g OOC j amount of sand. This way ol
recovering from the sand is used because
• t “ctnn” nr “hif-**” ran
n most cas , es ™°[ e „ stO P or can
be P ut on the ball from a sandy Le.
_*. ’ ’. . ' . , ’ . .
„ During an exhibition game with Chick
Evans, the 1916 American open and
amateur champion, at the Nordic Hills
Club in Chicago, I played one of my best
rounds-a 66 which equalled the course
record established by Evans in 19-5. The
? ours ®> which is one of the older ones,
, well J aid ° ut and has the nine
bol f s throu § h a thick whlle the
back mbe are on undulating country,
Although not well known, the course is
one of the best I have seen of its type.
• i
This year a late summer after one of
the longest winters on record was fol-
lowed by indifferent weather, varying
from cold, windy days to temperatures
web over tbe 100- Greens have suffered
most; “brown-patch” has severely
attacked most of the courses, and the
fairways have lost a great deal of their
condition,


I
1
9
♦
If
m
u
&
%
X
Si
n
ii
m
f
ft
STv^
*
assra
7SI
n
i?Sr.
rv
Kfi
$
e*s
r<
RC
I
|<Wf
o
V^*'V
vs^
Lend to Defend . . . Buy War Savings Certificates


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
kiess. [Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day,
A WOMANS
LETTER
Sydney behaved like the ideal aunt on
the day her small English guests arrived.
It was one of the silkiest blue days, and
the small lads and lassies from Scotland,
from London, and from corners of Eng-
land that were green and pleasant places
before the intellect of man invented Molo-
tov bread-baskets and such entertainments
responded with smiles as warm as the
day’s sunshine. There wasn’t a woman
who saw the little visitors’ arrival but
shed a tear or two, so small many of them
were to be so far from their mothers.
There was a band to greet the youngsters,
and the sort of lunch children love await-
ing them and a trip to the Zoo. By now
most of them are settled in their Aus-
tralian homes, while up at North Head
Commandant Da Silva Waugh and a
group of devoted V.As. are looking after
the comfort of a group still waiting for
final arrangements to be made for them.
A story of romance and adventure
mixed by a poet’s hand with a poet for
swashbuckling hero is an evergreen. “The
Vagabond King,” based on Justin Mc-
Carthy’s If / Were King, held the Sydney
audience of 1940 as intent as it had held
that of 1928. Long before the musical
play came to the stage, Australia, as
Harald Bowden told listeners in a broad-
cast last Saturday, before the show
opened, had seen Cuyler Hastings as
Francois Villon in the straight drama.
There must have been something magical
about Cuyler’s acting. A woman in her
seventies confided last week that she has
never known a theatre so electric as when
Cuyler walked on to the stage in that, to
her, unforgettable season. The Royal
was crowded on Saturday for the revival,
and Friml’s music was as stirring, as
haunting as Sydney found it 12 years
ago.
On a pleasant morning last week Mrs.
Geoffrey Hdghes (and, of course, her
clever airman husband has been given his
bit of war work) read over to The
Bulletin the lines of a letter she was
sending out for the Women’s Auxiliary
in the name of the R.A.A.F. Central
Comforts Fund. Here’s what the letter
says: “The first ‘take off’ will be a party
on Melbourne Cup day, the sth Novem-
ber. It is desired that everyone who is
working for the R.A.A.F. shall hold a
large or a small party in their home on
that day.” All tickets will be issued
through the fund’s office in Bridge-street.
From December 2 to December 6 this
State will give its best moments to work-
ing and thinking for the Red Cross.
Lady Wakehurst called a meeting at the
Australia last week, and here it was
announced that the object of the Decem-
ber drive was a mere £50,000. The three
hundred or so present seemed nothing
daunted, and plunged willingly into the
plot against the public pocket. The Day
itself is December 6, and an army of
1500 button-sellers will be loosed on the
city. Mrs. George Parkes is O.C. of
this section. There are to be more than
100,000 lucky packets traded by Mrs.
C. P. Johnson and Mrs. J. L. Ruthven.
The military authorities have been asked
to arrange a parade, and altogether the
committee is determined not to spare
itself or anyone else. If you want to
give or to help, ring 8W5152.
Captain Robert Loder, cousin of and
formerly A.D.C. to Lord Wakehurst, is
now a prisoner of war in Germany.
Rumor is that he is immured in some
old German castle. Lady Wakehurst said
at last week’s Red Cross meeting that,
so far, Government House had no direct
information concerning his present
address, but would send a Christmas
hamper hoping it would reach their
kinsman.
The R.A.S. had a night-out last week,
and friends and admirers made the Edu-
cation Gallery ring with applause when
F. A. L. Butler, in a few lightning strokes,
tossed before the gaze his “Wine
[afterwards made into Whine] for
Hitler.” This was a bottle whose issue
was crackling and snarling and looking
like the meltings of several high ex-
plosives. The wine was named “Invasion
Port.” There was a programme of music
arranged by Carrie Lanceley, with Carrie
herself singing “One Fine Day,” and later
with Eileen Boyd singing the words Will
Shakspeare wrote about springtime being
the only pretty ringtime. That was
before armies waited grimly for the
lengthening days and the greater chance
to hurl thousands of others to perdition.
The Gallery’s B. J. Waterhouse and
Will Ashton were there. Will, as winner
of the Wynne Prize, had quite a recep-
tion. John Banks and his wife were at
the party. His “Fisher-folk of Holland”
is one of the joys of the show. All Aus-
tralia breathes from Erik Langker’s land-
scape. He was there with his wife and
his sister. In Nevill Smith’s party (and
his cottage at Tumut is a bit of early-
day romance) was Mrs. Arthur Scrivener,
down from the mountaintops for the
R.A.S. and for a party in her honor at
Prince’s. Artist B. E. Minns’s little widow
was there with Mrs. Darling. Mary
Edwards, Dr. Mary Booth, Dame Mary
Gilmore and Frank Dalby Davison were
among the hundreds. Happiest present
was Mrs. R. Slade, whose husband had
just bought her Sherman’s “Wattle.”
An elderly lady of this Letter’s
acquaintance came to town recently for a
wedding in the family. At the reception
her neighbor turned to her saying “You
live in Bowral, do you not?” “Non-
sense!” said the lady with an air that
would have become a belle of Bath in
Beau Brummel’s day. “We are county.
We live in Moss Vale—we send our
laundry to Bowral.”
This Letter first met Australian writer
Helen Simpson when the world was very
young and everybody was busy forgetting
the 1914-18 turmoil. Helen was then
visiting Australia, and the S.U.D.S. in
a night of one-act plays put on one of
hers and one of this writer’s. Now Helen
Simpson lies dead, her death hastened
by her heroic work among the sick and
wounded on the night the Germans
bombed the children’s hospital in Great
Ormond-street, London. Her husband,
Dr. Denis Browne, is the superintendent
of this institution, and Helen, in spite
of being a sick woman, had moved, when
the bombs began to rain over London,
from her home in the West End to a
flat on the seventh floor of the hospital.
Sydney last saw this clever writer when
she came to Australia on a lecture tour
for the A.B.C. Among others, the P.E.N.
Club entertained her, and she laughingly
explained the correct manner of taking
snuff—and snuff helped her on that fatal
night to ward off hysteria. It and
sneezing, she said, could not go hand in
hand.
This is Mrs. J. Jackson, whose paint-
ings are known to all Sydney art lovers.
She signs her work Dora Toovey, which
was her maiden name. Her picture “How
Does Your Garden Grow?” was among
the much gazed upon during the R.A.S.
party last week. It attracted the gaze
and the fancy of the trustees of the
National Gallery, and henceforward will
rank among N. S. Wales’s art treasures.
Photograph by Freeman.
The journey out to the Lady Gowrie
model pre-school at Erskineville isn’t so
far as it sounds. Last Wednesday kin-
dergarten upholders made the trip, and
were there in time to hear Lady Wake-
hurst declare the centre open. From the
Governor-General’s wife came a telegram
of congratulation, felicitating the presi-
dent, the committee, the architect,
builders and staff. And, indeed, all agreed
that the building is as cheerful, charmful
and health-giving as loving thought and
skill can make it. Knight Sam Cohen,
who is president of the Kindergarten
Union, spoke with feeling as he described
it “a dream come true.”
With the establishing of one such
centre in each State, the Ministry for
Health has taken the first step to clear
a path for equal chances for Australia’s
beginning citizens. Here are light and
cheerfulness and grace and time and the
means for play. Riches can buy no more.
Forty children now enjoy this pre-school’s
delights—and there is room for an-
other 60.
Federal Minister for Health Thorby
and Mrs. T. a’Beckett were notables
of the afternoon. Mrs. a’Beckett
came from Melbourne for the open-
ing. She is president of the Aus-
tralian Association for Pre-schools De-
velopment. Dr. Cumpston, Director-
General of Health, was there ; also John
Stephen Mansfield (representing the archi-
tects), who had brought a gold key for
Lady Wakehurst. Tea in the Community
Hall rounded off the day.
The most spicy dressing of the day was
worn by the ham at the Alexander Gor-
don lady’s flower shop last Friday. The
ham displayed its boneless beauty, set
about with cloves beneath a transparent
film. Flowers culled from the fairest
gardens, made bright lanes to stroll
among. From Bowral had come great
baskets of beauty—Mrs. Jimmy Burns
had been busy on the tablelands. From
Canberra came tulips; from the Lloyd
Jones home at Moss Vale came dewy
freshness picked at four in the morning ;
and in their Woollahra gardens Mrs.
Charley Lloyd Jones had got busy with
her snippers at half-past five. An amateur
gardener who grows carnations for his
pet hobby robbed his plots of 400 blooms
for the cause —the Musical Association’s
Ambulance Fund. Before midday over
£4O was in the hat, by evensong another
£2O, and the expenses of the concert (for
the same cause) at the Conservatorium
tonight are wiped out.
Among her other activities Mrs. Rex
Bennett now and again does a bit of
concert-managing. She managed Norma
Cox’s recital at the Conservatorium.
Now she is busy with a musicale in aid
of the Scots College war fund. This is
expected to crowd out the College
Assembly Hall on October 30. It will
start at half-past two, and the president
and members of the women’s committee
of the College Parents and Friends’
Association are the hostesses. The sec-
retary is Mrs. J. Bernays, of Rose Bay.
whose new song, “The Open Door,” will
be sung by Thelma Graeme. Other artists
are Walter Kingsley, Olga Krasnik, Norma
Cox and Brunton Gibb. Mrs. Bennett
is one of Sydney’s constant concert-
goers. She is on the committee for the
Sydney symphony orchestral concerts,
and is a secretary for the Penguin Club —
a recently-formed club for the purpose
of training women in public speaking.
May Moore photograph.
The Ist Villa Maria Boy Scouts have
done a tidy job in painting, renovating
and gradually getting their headquarters
at Newport ready for its first visitors. The
house, a pleasant old home, formerly
named Yasmar, standing in about three
acres of ground, was a gift to them. The
company decided to make it a holiday
home for Scout sons of soldiers, or
Scouts who for the time being were out
of the holiday-making class. The house
is now named Villa Maria, and it was
duly opened last Sunday.
The hitherto unbeatable Edna Kingston
(now Mrs. Lajos Steiner) failed to live
up to her record in this year’s N.S.W.
women’s chess championship, which she
had previously held for six years without
losing a game. The main upsetting in-
fluence was 18-year-old Lerida Karmal-
sky, now completing her second year in
medicine after being dux of Sydney Girls’
High School at 16. Born in Russia, from
which her parents were forced into exile
by the Red uprising, she was first in
France, where her mother (a qualified
medico) was superintendent of a Mar-
seilles laboratory, but has been 10 years
in Australia and regards herself as Aus-
tralian. Only in June last did she decide
to take up chess competitively ; the minor
University team of which she was the
star fell to pieces, but Lerida improved
so much that she was pressed to try for
championship honors. And now she is
putting away her chessmen until after
she has got her full medical qualifications.
This story comes direct from the R.A.S.
A few weeks ago two artists went out
sketching seascapes, close to Sydney. The
younger of the two was just getting
warmed to his subject when he felt a
large presence beside him. “Excuse me,
sir,” said a tall sergeant of infantry,
apologetic but firm, “you’ll have to stop
that and come with me.” To the artist s
“why and what?” the reply was the same
stolid “You must come with me.” So
the artist went. The sergeant took him to
the lieutenant, the lieutenant took him to
the captain. The captain took him to
the colonel —and the colonel gave him
tea, for the colonel knew the artist’s
uncles, cousins and aunts, and moreover
various people in authority had hastened
to give the “all clear” for the painter.
There’s a p.s. to the story. The older
artist, hearing of the incident, said envi-
ously “Why didn’t they pick on me?
These things mean nothing to you ; but
I like meeting people! ”
An SOS comes from the Women’s
All Services Canteen, at Central Railway
Station, for milk. The W.A.S.C. feeds
thousands of soldier lads weekly. Un-
like many other places of refreshment
for the boy in uniform, this canteen
keeps open all of the 24 hours. Its
workers are drawn from every sort of
womanly job shop, office, profession
and home duties. One woman cycles
over from Bexley to take her turn Sun-
day nights till six o’clock the next morn-
ing. Lots of the 6-a.m.-ers report lifts
from kindly milkmen. Up at the
W.A.S.C. there are women washing up
who have a staff to do it in their own
homes, and others who do it in both
places and do it with a smile.
Some months ago a letter came from
London in a special envelope stamped
with the Royal Philatelic Society’s notice
of its centenary exhibition in aid of
the Red Cross. Dr. Mary Booth, of the
Memorial College of Household Science,
saw mention of it and was taken with
the idea that fitted in with one she had
had earlier in the year, to have the Penny
Post the big item of the college’s yearly
commemoration. However, a conver-
sazione on October 30, when there will
be tableaux and exhibits and an illustrated
lantern lecture on the subject, is now Dr.
Mary’s objective. This should prove of
great interest to Sydney philatelists.
Seven hundred were expected to the
Sundown Frolic at the Trocadero last
Friday. There were already some hun-
dreds there at half-past seven. This was
something like a party, and quite the
bargain in fun of the week. It started
at six and went on till eleven, with drinks,
dinner and dance making a blithesome
trio. The Anzac Buffet shares the booty
with Furlough House, so of course Mrs.
Sam Jones was an important. Her after-
noon frock was of black lace. The mili-
tary turned up in fine fettle. Major-
General Richardson, who commands the
Ist Cavalry Division, was the guest of
honor in a group to which Mrs. Clement
Chapman, whose doctor husband is a
colonel in the A.A.M.C., acted as hostess.
Chief ornament of the table was a sword
in red, white and blue flowers. Mrs.
Chapman’s frock was in two tones of
cyclamen, and she wore a topknot of pale
cyclamen flowers.
Lieut.-General Miles, O.C. Eastern
Command, and his wife and Commander
Calder were among the pointed-out; so
was Colonel “Monty” Brown. In the
party with Colonel Chapman and his wife
were the Colonel Ridleys, the Major
Bridgman couple, and Colonel and Mrs.
W. H. Hilless. Knight Tom Gordon and
his lady brought a party ; so did Captain
Patrick and Mrs. Patrick. Mrs. L. A.
Robb and her president of the R.S. and
S.I. League were there. The Sam Walder
lady was president of the committee, the
treasurer Mrs. Wolfenson, deputy-chair-
man F. J Stephenson.
Is there any other city in the world
where a lovebird is an authorised col-
lector for the Red Cross? Sydney has
attached Billy Peach, the blue budgerigar
that has achieved fame by his bright
patter, to its Red Cross activities. He
has been enrolled by Miss Rosa Piper
as a V.A. Billy says piously, “God bless
the A.I.F. and bring them safely home.”
“Three cheers for the red, white and
blue!” and so on.


Persona! and it* _>• Friends.
EDWARD CHARLES PRESSEY, a son of
THOMAS and MARGARET PRESSEY, will
hear of something to his advantage if he com-
municates with MESSRS. J. WELDON
POWER & BENNETT, Solicitors, Horsham,
Victoria. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts is requested to communicate with the
said firm.
In the Estate of THOMAS MILLER, late of
Botanic Street, Hackney, South Australia,
deceased
WILL ANY’ PERSON having information of
the present whereabouts or decease of ALEX-
ANDER ARTHUR MILLER, last heard of in
Sydney in or about the year 1935 or 1936,
kindly communicate with the undersigned, the
executor of the will of the abovenamed de-
Ce ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR
COMPANY, LIMITED,
“Elder House,” 37-39 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
No. 26 of 1940.
BETWEEN IDA MURIEL HIGGINS Plain-
tiff and
REGINALD CLARENCE ROY HIGGINS De-
fendant.
TO REGINALD CLARENCE ROY HIGGINS
formerly of Blackall in the State of Queens-
land Shearer but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action No. 26 <?f
1940 has been commenced against you the said
REGINALD CLARENCE ROY HIGGINS as
Defendant in the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Rockhampton by petition filed therein and
writ of summons issued thereout on the Six
teenth day of August 1940 by IDA MURIEL
HIGGINS of Blackall in the State of Queens-
land Married Woman claiming a dissolution
of her marriage with you the said REGINALD
CLARENCE ROY HIGGINS on the grounds
of desertion without cause continuously for five
years and upwards and it has been ordered
that service of the said writ of summons and
of the said petition on you by filing and stick-
ing up on the notice-board in the Registry of
this Honorable Court a copy of the said writ
of summons and an office copy of such peti-
tion and the affidavit verifying the same and
by posting to FRED A. NEWNHAM of sth
Floor Bull’s Buildings 28 Martin Place Sydney
by prepaid registered post a copy of a con-
current writ of summons for service in the
State of New South Wales and an office copy
of the said petition and the affidavit verifying
the same and by advertising this notice once in
the Sydney “Bulletin” a newspaper published
at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
shall be good and sufficient service on you of
the said writ of summons and of the said peti-
tion If you desire to defend the said action
you must within Thirty days from the date of
the last act done in compliance with the said
order enter an appearance at the said Registry
and in default thereof the said IDA MURIEL
HIGGINS may by leave of the Court or a
Judge proceed therein and judgment may be
given against you in your absence.
DATED the Fourth day of October 1940.
(1.5.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
C. P. STUMM, Solicitor, 19 William Street,
Rockhampton.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1363 of 1940.
BETWEEN THOMAS JAMES DAVIDSON
Petitioner and
RUBY MAY BURDETT DAVIDSON Re-
spondent.
TO RUBY MAY BURDETT DAVIDSON late
of Enngonia New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
JAMES DAVIDSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
habitual drunkenness and neglect of domestic
duties for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Eleventh
day of January 1941 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of October
1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CHARLES WM. ROBINSON, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
An immense crowd came to the Caul-
field Cup at Flemington. The weather was
good and the dressing not so good, a
motley mixture of all seasons and last
year’s oddments. Attractive as anybody
were Mrs. Dudley Brunton in a grey suit,
Beth Campbell outfitted in black and
Marie Ney in navy blue with white
pipings and an o.s. saucer hat. Mrs.
Ron Nott’s figured frock went in for
reversed patterns on each side. Sol-
diers, sailors and airmen were everywhere
“doing their sugar” and wishing, when
they had time to, that they could take off
their coats. The R.A.A.F.’s still in
winter blues, for the date for the change-
over to lightweight kit has again been
postponed till some time in November.
We now have a Navy House —an insti-
tution on the old Western Market site at
the corner of Collins and William streets
that’s going to be a heap of use to the
lads of the senior service. Straight inside
the door is the canteen, light and airy
and adjoining the servery and kitchen.
The pantries are in the basement and
have special sections for groceries and
perishables. Upstairs there’s a lounge
furnished with extra specially long
chesterfields, a writing-room containing
the wherewithal for letting the folks at
home know how things are with the boys
in blue, a sports-room set up for table-
tennis and a dormitory with 10 beds.
Notable acquisitions of the sports-room
are the wide settees around the wall —
emergency beds. The clothes fit under-
neath in lockers.
The color scheme throughout the insti-
tution is mainly white and light navy
blue, and the women helpers, too, are in
navy uniforms, of a skittish design that’s
going to be hard for them to wear with-
out a blush, for the overalls have sailor
collars, three stripes and all, that don’t
sit happily beneath faces over school-
girl age.
Present at the opening ceremony were
chairman of the R.A.N. patriotic
committee D. York Syme, Admiral and
Lady Colvin, Commodore and Mrs.
M. W. S. Boucher, Commander and Mrs.
H. L. Quick and Arthur Coles, M.P.,
who theoretically had ceased to be Lord
Mayor a few hours previously. Those
present put a blind eye to time and tech-
nicalities, and he performed the opening
ceremony as his last official mayoral
duty.
Out to a large windswept garage in the
wilds of North Melbourne went much
gold braid, uniforms of importance and
trailing evening gowns. Although the
temporary foyer produced neither car-
peted floors nor hat-check corners (Air
Marshal Williams balanced his coat
in a tightly folded ball on top of a filing
cabinet and hung his cap upon a stalwart
nail in the wall), it contained other attrac-
tions much sought after in the interval.
Beyond was the Shell theatrette, where
films were shown, part of the programme
for a successful little function for the
R.A.A.F. Locker Fund. The films were
“Through the Centre” (a travel tour of
Australia) and picked pieces of war
gazettes. Plimsoll-mark was easily
reached in the theatre, so that school
benches were brought in for the overflow.
The scheme originated down at Laver-
ton when Mrs. Frank Lukis suggested
to Bruce Leahey, who was visiting the
station, that it would be grand if the
Shell Co. would do something for the
Locker Fund. The idea landed upon
fertile ground. The co. did things well,
and afterwards produced supper. Thirst-
quenchers were procurable in an area
marked “Danger,” and soda syphons
buzzed on an impromptu counter labelled
“Hydraulic Brakes.” There was also a
lucky wheel with a good spruiker in Les
Falkiner, who owns a larynx that’s com-
patible with his stature.
But the wheel didn’t have things all its
own way once the lucky barrel got going
with Norman Fairless as one of its
“urgers.” Others present included
General and Mrs. V. A. H. Sturdee, Les
Gordge and Frank Penny (complete with
better-halves), R. V. Brearley, Group-
Captain and Mrs. Wilkes, Captain Ernest
Jones, confrere from Vac. Oil Captain
Fred Haig, whose wife was in black and
white floral decoration aloft, Wing-
Commander C. S. Brown and Squadron-
Leader Montie Phillips (who not so long
ago was Judge Phillips, of New Guinea).
Representing youth and beauty of tender
years was Pam Wrigley, in pastel-blue
taffeta.
The most momentous event of the week
was the arrival of the first shipload
of evacuated children from Britain.
Charabancs of youngsters went to the
Zoo and the aquarium, and the Victorian
contingent was welcomed down at the
United Services Cafe for a party lunch.
Thereabouts interest was intense; a crowd
gathered round the entrance to the cafe
and across the footpath outside the Block.
Relatives of the new young Victorians
picked up their charges after the sort of
party meal that makes young eyes sparkle
and young cheeks red with excitement.
Down in the ship that mforning there were
some hands that clutched brothers and
sisters nervously, and some scared voices
that piped “Is it far to walk to Carlton ;
can I walk there if nobody comes to get
me?” Some woebegone little souls peered
over the rails wondering what aunt and
uncle would be like ; some lonely young
hearts were beating nervously at the
thought of living in a “stranger” house.
For thus the children talked of the fami-
lies who are not relatives or friends of
their parents, but have applied to take
evacuees. In Victoria’s case the “stran-
gers” did not receive their children right
away. The Children’s Welfare Depart-
ment planned a few days for adjustments,
when the boys stayed at the Travellers’
Aid Hostel and the girls out at Royal
Park.
There’s nothing like balloons and
lemonade, to say nothing of ice-cream
smothered in chocolate, for wiping away
nervousness. The kids had a grand time
at the party, and afterwards were ready
for anything and anybody. The only
tears were in the eyes of the cafe helpers,
who felt their emotions might run away
with them at any moment.
The children were a prepossessing lot
from a variety of homes, but all from
State-aided schools. It is safe to say that
if they had all been available for adop-
tion and the general public had been on
tap to take them there wouldn’t have been
one left over and unwanted. Probably
the hit of the ship was Samson, who had
a way with him, although aged only four.
An upstanding young lad in long ’uns was
Gordon Thomson, who was met by his
grandmother and who wore upon his
lapel the insignia of the Durhams, in
which he was a cadet. Colonel Harold
Wilkinson was interested, for he recog-
nised the badge of his father’s old regi-
ment.
Inset Mrs. Tom Patterson, who wears
her hair long and hanging down or up
and Edwardian as the spirit moves her,
achieving beauty either way. She is one
of the ticket secretaries for the Carry
On Club Ball to be held at the Palais
on Derby Eve. Dickinson-Monteith
photograph.
The big attraction about the Women
Painters' show was Marie Ney, for the
fact that she was to make the opening
speech packed the Athenaeum gallery
as it’s seldom been packed before.
But when it came to looking at
the pictures it was the portrait
of Jean Campbell that worked
the crowd into a rabid discussion.
Adverse comments and criticisms were as
drops of water upon Donald Duck’s back
to the painter, Lina Bryant, and the
sitter, who is one of our authors.
Later there was a genera! drift down
town to Mrs. Bryant’s studio for a noggin
or two in honor of the portrait. Those
who liked it said so ; those who didn’t
were tactfully mild in their remarks, and
all was well with both schools of thought.
Among those who called in were Mrs.
Geoff Cohen, in a lightweight frock of
butterscotch and green, and Joan McCay,
in tailored suit and hat of two minds,
black from some angles, green from others.
John Eldershaw, Jock Frater and the
Doha Ribusches arrived, and Mrs. Bert
Hallenstein was there looking like a little
pixy. Marea Lucas came, with her
broken ankle almost recovered.
Dead after a long illness John Parry,
graduate in both architecture and medi-
cine, aged 34. He was also musical and
could play for hours by ear, and was one
of the most gifted and popular students
to pass through our university. John had
red hair and that elusive quality called
charm ; he also possessed the twin vir-
tues that would make this old world a
better place to live in—tolerance and a
sense of humor.
Herewith Mrs. Keith Colquhoun, who
is always pleased at the proximity of a
racing season; hence the smile in the
Dickinson-Monteath portrait. She and
Dr. Colquhoun welcomed a round hun-
dred of friends to a Caulfield Cup week
party at the Australia, where cocktails
were a preliminary to dancing and a
buffet supper. As a result, there is a
Father Christmas knapsack full of cigar-
ettes for the lads in khaki down at Gee-
long ; guests were asked to bring along
cigarettes, and they did so in generous
quantities.
Sceptics who have felt that high hopes
of Australian ballet are just wishful
thinking should change their minds after
a look at Jennie Brenan’s ballet pro-
gramme last week for two nights and an
afternoon at the King’s. The programme
was well planned to run smoothly with-
out any ragged hotchpotch of oddments
that so often fill up amateur bills. The
children were charming, and they danced
varied roles with remarkable skill. Some
are technicians, others comedians, and all
look as if they love their duties. Among
the stars in the making were Roy Currie,
Patricia Keating, Joan Cadzow, Ann
Donald with Charles Boyd, a reliable
male lead, and young Martin Rubinstein,
a promising junior. In addition Joan
Burnett, Margaret Berry and Charles
Boyd presented their original chore-
ography.
During the interval thanks were forth-
coming from the stage on behalf of the
four benefiting institutions, Blarney and
Air Force Houses and the Queen Vic.
and St. Vincent’s Hospitals, from re-
spectively Mrs. T. C. I. Paterson, Mrs.
J. V. Fairbairn, the Brookes lady and
Mrs. Len Buxton. The shortest speech
was Mrs. Paterson’s. She, incidentally,
is a busy person these days. If Blarney
House is one of her pets, so is Navy
House. She’s doing her turn there on
early morning shifts as cook and general
factotum for the sailor boys.
A wedding that will be remembered in
social history was that of Peggy Tronson
and Lieut. John Davis. The bride, all
smiles, big blue eyes and fair hair sweep-
ing her shoulders (dewy youth only can
wear it so), wore a tulle veil and a bouf-
fant gown of hand-woven satin. Search
of the pattern of the fabric revealed
Cupids among the flowers and scrolls.
Three ’maids, Pat Grey, Helen Lane and
Fay Stoddart, were demure but pic-
turesque in their mist-blue chiffon frocks
and scarves frilled around the edge with
cobweb lace.
At the reception the magnificence of
the flowers was for a moment like a hand
raised for silence. Nobody could talk
while doing such a lot of looking. Within
the front gate of 3 Whernside-avenue
was another avenue of flowering rhodo-
dendrons. Within doors was one of
Auntie Mary Boccard’s wedding-morn-
ing gifts, a gardenia tree growing in a
pot of golden sand, the whole fashioned
by a florist of imagination. Masses of
flowers climbed up the tent poles of
the marquee (lined with pale pink
and softly lighted to the eyes), and
upon the wedding table with its back-
ground of mirror white lilac and lily-of-
the-valley were no rarer than white roses.
As profuse as the flowers was the French
champagne, still flowing at 2 a.m., for,
Peg’s parents thought, what better honor
to the last reserves of the' fine old wines
of France than a marriage of youth and
beauty and high courage?
Among khaki-clad guests at the wed-
ding were groomsman Ken Payne, Bonnie
Muir, of ringside fame, and popular
twins on their final leave Keith and
Trevor Neuendorf, who combined with
their parents to give wedding presents of
twin reading-lamps. Among the presents
displayed with skill of showmanship in
one of the reception-rooms was a white
satin envelope embroidered “With love
from Mother and Dad” containing a
cheque, and a case of cutlery from “Dad
and Bet,” John’s father and stepmother.
Guests’ coiffures were varied, for the
ceremony in Melbourne Grammar
chapel took place while the sun was still
above the horizon.
Peggy’s mother and aunts and Mrs.
J. L. Davis wore hats mostly of frivolous
persuasion. Bride of a few weeks Mrs.
Simon Fraser, Jun., wore orchids in her
hair ; Diana Forster Woods gerberas in
hers. Mrs. Geoff Nicol wrapped herself
in geranium taffeta and attached lily-of-
the-valley high over one ear. The Leggo
girls, Betty and Joan, chose turbans of
green and blue respectively. Betty Spring
wore just a bow of ribbon, and Mrs.
Bonnie Muir commandeered a full
blooming spray of rhododendrons.


THE SERVICE MAN
Italians See Things.
“Nobby II”: “To other nations the
Mediterranean is just another strait; to
us it is life itself.”—Mussolini. Then
since the outbreak of war Italy has not
been mistress of her life. Her commer-
cial vessels have been tied up under the
shelter of the guns of half a dozen ports.
Two British fleets have conducted regular
sweeps of the Mediterranean, with diver-
sions to harass the Dodecanese, blast
Bardia and other Libyan ports and shell
Italian communications with Sidi Barrani,
Graziani’s advanced headquarters.
The latest Italian naval adventure ran
its normal course. As usual, the first
“news” came from Rome. Three Italian
torpedo-boats, with a 1400-ton “flotilla
leader,” on the night of October 11 dis-
covered British warships in the channel
between Sicily and Malta. The flotilla
leader advanced to within a quarter of a
mile of a British cruiser, probably of the
Neptune class, and fired three torpedoes.
Then, her captain still sending wireless
messages to his base, she sank, and two
torpedo-boats sank, but the greater part
of the Italian crews were saved. And
while “other British units” scuttled for
cover, the Italians saw the cruiser sink.
Reflection suggested that it must have
been very dark indeed if any force as
described could have approached the
British squadron without being seen, and
that a 1400-don destroyer—the flotilla
leader was thus converted in a second
version of the yarn—which could get
within 440 yards of the 6in. guns of a
very efficient cruiser without being blown
from the water must have been under
miraculous protection.
However, the tale was soon disposed
of by a methodical Admiralty spokesman.
The largest British battle fleet so far
assembled in the Mediterranean, consist-
ing of battleships, aircraft-carriers,
cruisers and destroyers, at 2.30 a.m. on
Saturday had, he said, been carrying out
one of the regular 3000-mile patrols
in the vain hope of meeting Mussolini’s
Grand Fleet. As is the custom, a screen
of medium-heavy cruisers and destroyers
was thrown out. H.M.S. Ajax, 7000 tons,
which distinguished herself in the Graf
Spee battle, ran into + hree Italian de-
stroyers. Captain F. D. B. McCarthy
immediately closed action, and in short
order two 679-ton destroyers of the Airone
class, 1938 vintage, were on their way
to the bottom before their superior speed
could take them out of range. Ajax
meandered on looking for further prey.
A heavy cruiser and four destroyers ap-
pearing, she let go her 6in. guns and
crippled a destroyer before the rest of
the Italians fled in the darkness.
York, a sister-ship to Exeter, Ajax’s
companion off Montevideo, then came
up with her six Bin. guns, and she and
Ajax continued the hunt without finding
any prey. At dawn, however, the Naval
Air Arm discovered an Italian destroyer
towing the Ajax’s last victim, which
turned out to be the 39-knot, 1620-ton
Artigliere, one of Orlando’s 1938 de-
stroyers. York immediately relieved the
tower of her responsibilities, and the
latter —quite rightly—left Artigliere to
her fate. The cruisers, before sinking
her, stood by for half an hour to allow
the crew to abandon her. York then
dropped rafts, and, although her signals
gave away the British position, advised
shoregoing Italians where they could find
their crews.
Ajax was only slightly damaged,
although all the Italian ships engaged re-
turned her fire. After a few hours in
port she was ready to put to sea again.
H.M.A.S. Sydney sent her a characteristic
signal: “Well done; bonzer!”
Australian ships took part in operations
accessory to Ajax’s fight. H.M.A.S. Vam-
pire, one of our ancient “V” class de-
stroyers, stood by and dropped depth
charges on lurking submarines while
Ajax was at work, and in the morn-
ing FI.M.A.S. Sydney assisted in the
chase of the destroyer which had been
dragging the remains of the Artigliere
home. Unfortunately, 32 knots has little
chance of catching 39 knots.
The Italians claimed that after the naval
action their Air Force had got to work
on the British battle fleet, destroyed 12
aircraft and damaged an aircraft-carrier
and a heavy cruiser. The Admiralty an-
nounced soberly that no ship had been
damaged, that four Italian aircraft had
been shot down for certain, and prob-
ably two more, and that all British air-
craft had returned safe.
The battle off Sicily was followed by
a R.N.A.S. surprise attack on a port in
the Dodecanese, in which barracks, han-
gars and workshops were set on fire.
And the submarines have had their
days. One bombarded the port of Savona,
near Genoa, sank a 5000-ton armed mer-
chant ship escorted by E-boats, and rol-
licked into Vado Roads to sink a 3000-
tonner. Another submarine destroyed an
enemy supply ship off Naples, and a third
bagged a smaller ship off Benghazi.
And, by way of celebration, some spare
R.N. forces co-operated with the R.A.F.
in making the night of October 12-13
eventful for Graziani in Sidi Barrani.
A delighted British Navy which used
to have little diversion at sea under war-
time conditions sighed with relief when
it discovered that neither Italian nor Ger-
man inventiveness was among the casual-
ties in the Sicilian Channel battle.
As the boys went homeward they listened
happily to Berlin Radio resinking the Ajax,
which it had already sunk during the
Graf Spee battle, and Rome Radio blos-
soming out in fresh valor with an account
of a stirring engagement in which an
Italian submarine of the Toti class “out-
manoeuvred and destroyed” a British sub-
marine of the Parthian class —slightly
larger. Although “both vessels used their
[4in.] guns at very close range,” the Italian
vessel suffered “no casualties and no sig-
nificant damage.”
Italians in Africa show signs of waking
up. In Western Egypt reconnaissances were
made with armored lorries supported by
aircraft—from Sidi Barrani along the coast
and 20 miles south and west of the coastal
line. These movements are purely feelers,
but they betoken the approach of greater
activities. Especially as the arrival at
Mersa Matruh of four fresh divisions of
Empire troops, in part from India, is
announced by the enemy.
Pictures of London.
“Ek Dum”: Gaps in the cabled stories
of the bombing of London have been
filled by movies and photographs which
have reached Australia. They show the
thing in its stark horror.
It is bad enough to see the Thames-side
terrace of the Houses of Parliament
desolate and broken, its lamp standards
twisted, its fixtures blackened and awry ;
to look at the beautiful curve of Regent-
street charred and riven, Oxford Circus
a crater, Peter Robinson’s with all its
windows blown out. The shocking
tangle of shredded debris which repre-
sents the blasted interior of Buckingham
Palace is horrible, and the walls of the
Middle Temple Library hanging to-
gether round gaping wounds give one
the same sensation as that of coming
upon an old friend who has suffered
ghastly injuries in an accident. But
these things are far from the worst.
A sodden, gutted, unfamiliar bit of
street comes into view. The windows
are hollow and empty, their frames
blackened. Debris is piled in the street.
Weary firemen plod the battered pave-
ment. Vehicles, turned over, lie about
twisted and torn as if they were paper.
There is no traffic. The street is just a
ruined desolation. And suddenly you
recognise that it is Oxford-street; not
De Quincey’s “stonyhearted stepmother,”
but the street you knew—gay with flags,
red buses and gleaming cars, with the
stop-me-and-buy-one boys on their
bicycles weaving miraculously between
the humming pavements.
You know with a shiver, only by
reading the charred name, that in front
of you are the remains of the great store
of John Lewis; that if there are
bodies in that burnt-out ruin they are
those of demure little shopgirls and
humble serving clerks; and that for
those who were not inside this disaster
has meant loss of employment, hunger,
perhaps complete ruin, in hundreds of
homes in which Germany existed a few
months ago only as a vague something,
less important than the probable result
of next Saturday’s football.
And here is a glimpse of St. Thomas’s
Hospital, whose seven blocks stand oppo-
site the Houses of Parliament on the
Lambeth side of the Thames. London
hospitals at any time are pitiful places.
St. Thomas’s is a hospital of the poor.
And here a bomb has fallen straight as
an arrow into one of its great blocks, and
that block has become a gutted heap of
remains of splintered beams and powdered
blocks of brick and stone from which the
twisted frames of beds protrude like
badly broken bones from a body.
Then there are the little tenement streets
of the East End —empty, hollow-eyed,
burnt-out walls, the rubble of the paving
tossed in heaps round the craters where
the children used to play a confined game
of cricket on the long summer evenings.
You see red-eyed women trying to smile
as they contemplate the ashes of what
were their homes and their few poor
sticks of possessions.
It is no wonder that the cry goes up
for reprisals, and it says much for the
sense of proportion of the British Gov-
ernment that it has shown no desire to
make the women and children of Ger-
many suffer what the women and children
of London are passing through.
These earlier pictures do not, of course,
show the worst. That has happened
since they were posted from England.
The enemy’s technique of fiendishness is
steadily improving. He uses every day
more and more machines and more and
more bombs with less and less risk to
the barbarians employed. They have
turned from the mass attack with heavy
bombers, which were a comparatively
easy prey for Spitfires and Hurricanes,
to the fast fighter-bomber. They have dif-
fused their attacks so that each machine
operates almost alone, and it is impos-
sible to catch the marauders in bunches
as they used to be caught. As many as
100 English districts have been attacked
on a single night, 1000 tons of bombs
dropped on London alone in a day ; and
with the new diffusion the attacks last
longer, the destruction of civilian prop-
erty is greater, the loss of German
machines smaller.
The attrition is being carried on in a
sort of vengeful exultation, of which the
announcement of the results of the
deadliest raid of the week by the German
Official News Agency was symptomatic:
The faces of the crews were radiant, as
everyone had had a grand experience.
Neither fighters, balloons nor anti-aircraft
fire could prevent the disaster. It was a
night of horror. The Luftwaffe gives no
quarter. Examples such as annihilated War-
saw, destroyed Rotterdam and the devasta-
tion of Dunkirk are often pointed out.
How long will it be before London meets
the same fate? The impression of the
fire over London last night is indescrib-
able. Supply systems will be paralysed for
a long time to come.
And Rome Radio, whose owners would
shudder at the thought of one stone of
historic Rome being tumbled over by
bombs, cries:
After destroying 60 per cent, of London’s
industrial works and practically the whole
of the docks, the German air force is
giving attention to Government buildings
and the offices of newspapers and agencies.
The new tactics are part of the further
disintegration of London life.
Still another German report claims that
a whole strip of the capital from Hyde
Park to the Thames and down the river
to the docks has been set blazing. That,
of course, must be a gross exaggeration,
but there is truth embedded in the false-
hood. Let any Sydneian think of a strip
from Pitt-street to Woolloomooloo, from
Botany Bay to the heights of North
Sydney, seeded with flaming buildings,
fallen spires, gutted streets, innocent dead
and wrecked hospitals and schools, and
he would have a mild idea of the wanton
catastrophe which has fallen on the
world’s greatest and noblest city.
There is another side to the picture.
This is that the German method can
scarcely be voluntarily selected. Britain
is being attacked through its civil popu-
lation only for one of two reasons —
either because the Germans completely
misconceive the nature of the British
people and the value of London in its
war effort, or because they are unable to
follow out to success the first method
they attempted—the blasting of naval
ships and convoys and of ports and arma-
ment works. It is comforting to know
that the R.A.F. does not seem to be
bound by the same limitations —Kiel,
Wilhelmshaven, Essen, Mannheim, Cux-
haven, Leuna and a hundred more mili-
tary centres are open to it every night
and often every day, and it does not
trouble itself with civil populations.
On the other hand, the Royal Navy and
the British Army are almost intact. De-
struction of civilian property and
suburban transport systems will not and
cannot win the war for the Germans.
And it is not likely to cow the popu-
lation or drive it into panic, unless the
Germans can achieve a bloodier result
than so far has been achieved.
Horrible it may be to hear of the kill-
ings, blit the monthly toll would be
meagre in any half-hour of a great mili-
tary engagement.
In the densely crowded Midlands,
where there are 3,000,000 to 4,000,000
people, and almost every family has a
share in the production of the necessi-
ties of warfare, 55 raids have killed only
170 and wounded 560.
During September, in ceaseless raiding
which reached every part of the United
Kingdom, only 6954 persons were killed
and 10,615 seriously wounded. But the
awfulness is not in the actual number of
casualties but in the thought which must
be in the mind of every Englishman —that
his wife or his child may be the next.
To homekeeping Britons wars used to
be remote things fought out in distant
lands. But this sort of atrocity must bring
home to the veriest babe a proper concep-
tion of the senseless barbarity of the whole
business. And the result might conceiv-
ably be to make this war the one for
which civilisation has yearned for cen-
turies—the war to end wars.
On the Rumanian Front.
“EkD.”: The position is that the Ger-
mans have in their clutches the whole
of Rumania south and west of the River
Pruth, which runs into the Black Sea.
East of the Pruth Russia holds Bessa-
rabia. It is the same sort of situation
that developed jn north-western Europe,
where the Vistula divided the despoilers
of Poland east and west, and the blood-
less Russian conquests in the small Baltic
States were divided off from East Prussia
by the Dvina.
To move south from Rumania the
Germans would need either to invade
Bulgaria or have its co-operation, since
Bulgarian territory must be crossed.
There is another method of approach,
though not an easy one by reason of
the nature of the terrain a direct
Italian attack on Greece from Albania,
sweeping on across Macedonia, along
the coast to Dedeagatch and the environs
of Turkish Adrianople. The Greek
frontier guards actually live in the
suburbs of Adrianople.
From a military point of view, the
attack through Bulgaria would be easier.
The country is suitable for mechanical
warfare right down through the Thes-
salonian triangle, which is all that re-
mains to the Turks of their once-vast
European territories.
The area of approach and attack has
an ancient look. The River Maritza, a
meandering stream lined with dreamy-
looking poplar trees, runs out of Bul-
garia at Adrianople into an undulating
country which has an air of complete
unreality about it. Some of the main
roads are so old that they have been
worn into great gutters. In the 1913
Balkan War the inscriptions were chipped
off every milestone. But lack of roads and
milestones presents little inconvenience.
The green, treeless sward is crisscrossed
everywhere with tracks. There are few
villages, and towns such as Kirk Killisse
and Lule Burgas stand clustered round
their mosques surrounded by scattered
debris, as if everything but the hard core
had been scored away from their edges
by the flood of war.
From the north permeates the smell
of roses from the valleys where they
make the attar.
The great overgrown village of Chorlu
is the beginning of the reborn reality. It
is always full of Turkish soldiery in their
grey-green uniforms. Here is the head-
quarters of Turkey’s most western army
corps on the fringes of the Chataldja
lines. It is the point at which civil
traffic, in times of peace, is diverted
southward to the Marmora, which, look-
ing like a sheet of blue-grey steel, is
fringed with a road which still has Roman
paving. The road runs straight across
many a bridge which has survived for
more than a thousand years, across creeks
lined with stunted valonia oak.
In the Chataldja triangle there are no
obstacles to military advance which have
not been placed there by man, but it is
a great place for concentrated defence.
And when that defence has been broken
down, before Asia Minor can be attacked
there are still the Bosphorus to be crossed
and Gallipoli and the Dardanelles to
be conquered a monumental task
against soldiers of the quality of the
Turk, well armed.
The Turk is a grand fighter. He
belongs to one of the few surviving races
which love fighting.
Istanbul, in Europe, could be taken
and the northern shores of Marmora
invested. This, however, would be but
the first stage of a drive to the Middle
East.
The mileages covered in the course of
the conquest would be small, but further
advance across the water on to the
heights of Beikoz and Kadi Keui over


O.S.K. LINE
OSAKA SYOSEN KAISYA
BUSINESS MEN AND TOURISTS
should travel by
NEW, FAST MOTOR VESSELS
to
JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA and AFRICA
Also Special Round the World Trip
European Cuisine and Accommodation
For Particulars, Fares, etc., apply
BIRT AND COMPANY (PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
8W1421.
£>•>
ft
b>i,
to). *
T. JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
sting
Waive
a
5
acre
per
i u e\ cost
:
1
' \ '
$8801:
f
Pulling a 14 foot header ,
this "Caterpillar" Diesel RD4
harvests 30 acres of wheat
per 10 hour day and at a
fuel cost of sd. per acre,
in hilly country.
e
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s lJridtre Hoad,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
the Bosphorus and from Gallipoli to
the Plains of Troy over the Dardanelles
would be a daunting task, especially with
the British Navy in charge of the seas,
and Turkish bases inland to Eski Shehr
and nearer available for British aircraft.
Even if the way were militarily clear,
the watcher on the heights of Pera, on
the European side of the Bosphorus, can
see the snow-clad humps of Olympus
and the mountains of Bilijek ahead as
a modest reminder of the travails of
invasion. And Aleppo, the beginning of
the real Middle East, the great junction
from which all roads run —to Mosul,
down the Euphrates to Bagdad, to
Damascus, Haifa and Suez —is still 900
miles away behind the Taurus and the
Amanus.
But, if Russia is prepared to take an
active part in the game, there might be
a different story. Were the Russkis to
strike from the vantage point of their
Caspian provinces, while Germany
attacked Thrace, that attack would re-
solve itself into one of the great encircling
movements so dear to German generals.
Much less than 200 miles would bring
Russian bombers to the great Mosul oil-
fields and give them access to the
Bagdad-Istanbul railway.
Once Russian troops had passed the
Caspian mountains they could sweep with
comparative ease through Iran right
across to the Indian border, which is
10 days’ motor journey away, mostly
over high, open plateaus. The Alvand
Ranges are a serious natural obstacle to
approach to the southern oilfields and
Bagdad, but not so serious as the Taurus
would be to the Germans. And, on the
east of Asia Minor, there is a whole
length of border country which might be
crossed from Russian soil with consider-
ably less difficulty than the Bosphorus,
and a whole length of Black Sea coast
which would be open to naval assault
and harrying.
It is not impossible that this is the basis
of German plans for the coercion of
Britain into acceptance of peace. The bulk
of British naval oil used in the Mediter-
ranean pours through Suez or through
the pipeline to Haifa from the Iraqian
and Bahrein fields and Iran. British
Dominions and colonies east of Suez
normally depend much on these fields —
in peace-time Australia drew 21 p.c. of
her oil from them. Iran’s yield, mostly
from Mosul, is over 10,000,000 metric
tons a year; Iraq produces 4,500,000
tons; Bahrein Island, another million
tons. And with the gradually-failing
Rumanian fields (6,000,000-odd tons) in
Germans hands, control of these would
give the Germans and Russians between
them a total local oil supply of
12,975,000,000 gallons per annum,
roughly 20 p.c. of the world’s production,
and leave Britain without any oil from
her own territories or protectorates save
about 3,000,000 gallons p.a. from Borneo,
Burma and Trinidad. That stake would
be worth while.
Furthermore, while a Mediterranean
outlet would be of vast advantage to
Germany, Russia would value Asia
Minor. From its inception the Soviet
Union has done its utmost to bolshevise
that region. When the writer passed
through there a few years ago almost
every village across the Anatolian Plateau
had a Russian storekeeper or other trader
who devoted much of his time to propa-
ganda. And conquest of Turkey would
give Russia, as that of south Europe
would give Germany, direct access to
the Mediterranean and place it in a
position of great advantage in the
domination of the Suez, the Aegean and
Indian Ocean regions.
Contemporaneous action by Spain or
by Germany in Spain, if it succeeded in
breaking the British hold on Gibraltar,
would possibly make a junction of Italian
and German fleets feasible. And that
move, when the new German and Italian
35,000-ton battleships in course of con-
struction are completed, might mean a
very serious threat to Britain’s control
of the seas.
But there is a vast amount to be accom-
plished before that move becomes prac-
tical politics.
Open for Traffic Again.
“Fong Tsz”: The Burma Road is back
in the headlines, having been reopened
for traffic to Chungking on October 17,
after having been closed for three
months. During most of those three
months it would have been impassable
anyway.
The road was not constructed by
Britain to help the Chinese in their
struggle. It was planned 30 years ago,
the original idea being a railway to con-
nect Mandalay with the Yunnan province
of China. As the railway pushed out
a road filled the gap to the border. The
terminus of the line is now 70 miles from
Chinese territory at Lashio.
At the border the road joins a Chinese
highway which skates round about a
million hairpin bends of the Yunnan hills
to Kweiyang, where it joins the road
from Haiphong to Chungking, Chiang
Kai-shek’s new capital. Haiphong is the
port of Hanoi, and until Nov. 24, 1939,
the Haiphong-Chungking road was the
main supply route to Chinese head-
quarters. Then the Japanese cut it (and
also the route to Hong Kong) by captur-
ing Nanning, a few miles across the
French-Indo Chinese border in China
proper, and they have since consolidated
the position by policing Haiphong and
making it impossible for goods to be sent
by an alternative route along the rail and
road to Kunming on the Burma Road.
The Burma route is the only one from
the sea now open to the Chinese. To
Kweiyang from Lashio is somewhere
round 1000 miles; to Chungking about
1300 miles, so only about one-twentieth
of the distance is in Burma. The Japa-
nese have already begun bombing con-
voys around Kunming, hundreds of miles
from the Burmese border.
Apart from Mediterranean and Chan-
nel activities —there reinforced by a heavy
bombardment of French Channel ports
from the English coast —the R.N. has
been active in the North Sea. The Ger-
mans admitted the sinking of a small
naval auxiliary vessel off Tromso (Nor-
way), and the Admiralty announced the
loss of four armed trawlers and a naval
drifter.
After a naval engagement off the west
of England, the Germans claimed that
destroyers, steaming north off the Bristol
Channel, torpedoed a “large” cruiser.
German bombers arriving, the British
squadron was alleged to have retired
hastily. The yarn scarcely needed con-
tradiction, but the Admiralty story effec-
tively did it. British light forces sighted
four German vessels west of Brest in bad
visibility. During the afternoon the air
cleared and a cruiser engaged the enemy
“at extreme range,” chased him back
towards Brest in the failing light. No
damage was done to any British ship.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: Vice-Admiral John
Cronyn Tovey takes over the Home Fleet
command from Admiral Charles Morton
Forbes. It has been asserted that
he is “scarcely known outside the
Navy and has had no big ship experi-
ence.” Actually, for nearly three years
(1932-34) he commanded H.M.S. Rodney,
sister-ship to the Grand Fleet’s flagship
and one of the only two 16in.-gun ships
in Europe. Australians who were in
S’Africa will remember his brother G. S.
Tovey, who served there with the R.A.
and later joined his nautical brother as
a D.S.O. winner in the last war.
* * * *
Latest naval casualty list issued by the
Admiralty includes 34 officers and 103
ratings killed, eight officers and 103 rat-
ings missing and 13 officers and 280 rat-
ings wounded. Able Seamen W. J.
Hurren and Hugh Sweeney and Petty-
Officer Hugh Jones, of the R.A.N., are
missing, presumed killed.
The Air War Day by Day«
October 14-15: London and Midland
towns suffer comparatively light German
raids. Announced that in 55 raids on the
Midlands 170 persons were killed and
560 wounded —180 seriously. Germans
claim to have caused huge fires along
Thames in area between Hyde Park and
East India Docks, and Rome Radio says
Germans have destroyed in the Blitz-
krieg 60 per cent, of all London’s indus-
trial plants and all the docks. German
machine losses, six ; British, four.
Berlin raided for 75 minutes ; arma-
ment centres, including Stettin, Magde-
burg and Weisburg, also attacked. Ham-
burg, Emden and Den -Helder docks
bombed, as well as several aerodromes
on Channel coast; German casualties,
six machines ; British, four.
R.A.F. attacks Tobruk, Benghazi and
Bardia (Libya).
October 15-16: Mass attack on
London —largest to date —with 1000
machines. One thousand tons of bombs
dropped. German High Command says
results “indescribable”; supply systems
“paralysed for a long time.” Numerous
raids in other parts of Britain. German
machines shot down, 18 ; British, 15;
Germans declare 38 British destroyed
against seven German.
Half-hour raid alarm in Berlin;
other parts of Germany, mainly in the
Ruhr, and Channel coast attacked.
Numerous raids on both sides through-
out North African war sector.
October 16-7: Lighter attacks on
Britain, including London, Merseyside
and a Midland town, as well as Wales
and Scotland. Several houses, some in-
dustrial plants and other objectives
damaged, and a few casualties. Leaflets
dropped in place of bombs over parts
of eastern counties. Germans claim to
have mined several parts of British coast.
German naval bases, including Kiel,
Hamburg, Bremen and Cuxhaven,
bombed, together with oil plants as far
afield as Leuna, near Leipzig, 20 rail-
way centres and Channel ports. At Kiel
dockyards and shipbuilding works works
badly hit.
Admiralty admits Italian bombing of
H.M.S. Liverpool while returning to base
after operations in Mediterranean. War-
ship reaches port; casualties not heavy.
R.A.F. (Cairo) announces further bomb-
ing of Benghazi, Bardia, Capuzzo, Derna,
Tobruk (Libya); also Massawa and
Diredawa. One British ’plane drives off
three Italian bombers over Red Sea,
seriously damaging one.
October 17-18: German attacks spread
over many parts of England, particularly
London, Merseyside and Liverpool;
showers of incendiary bombs dropped
there and explosive bombs fall in
environs of Canterbury Cathedral. Ger-
mans claim to have destroyed railway
junction at Deptford and important objec-
tives near Victoria Docks, London ; also
17 British planes, against loss of seven
Germans. Announced by Air Ministry
that 6954 persons were killed and 10,615
seriously injured by raids on Britain in
September.
Further widespread raids by R.A.F. on
Germany, particularly on ports and the
Ruhr.
S.A.A.F. raids Barentu (Eritrea) and
destroys three Italian ’planes; six other
aircraft damaged. R.A.F. night raids on
Diredawa and Gura (Abyssinia); also
Benghazi and the Dodecanese. Numerous
other raids on both days over whole
north African areas held by Italians.
Oct. 18-19: Seventh week of Blitzkreig
opens over Britain. After 20 hours’ en-
tombment, 178 Londoners dug out alive
from one block of County Council flats.
Week’s ’plane casualties announced as 32
Germans and 32 British.
Hamburg, Kiel and several other cities,
shipyards, railway junctions and oil plants
attacked by R.A.F.
During week ended dawn on October
18, raids on Germany numbered 58, in-
cluding attacks on Templehof, Berlin gas-
works, Lehrter and other railway stations
in Berlin, numerous oilworks, Kiel (four
rails), Krupps (twice), Brest and other
important military objectives.
Italians claim to have bombed British
oilfields at Bahrein, mechanised troops in
E. Africa and a convoy in E. Mediter-
ranean, hitting a 10,000-ton cruiser.
Generalised British raids over North
Africa.
October 19-20: German raids over
Britain increase in intensity. London,
Midlands and Merseyside visited and
numerous persons killed, houses wrecked
and a large block in a London hospital
damaged. Germans claim to have
destroyed Fulham and Greenwich gas-
works, and cut a railway line near Water-
loo station.
Bad weather affects raiding of Germany
by R.A.F., but marshalling yards in Ger-
many and Holland and several other
objectives bombarded.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Vagabond King’*
In the years long gone there was a
night at the old Her Majesty’s in Syd-
ney—where nowadays anything from
fishing rods to winter underwear may
be had for two and sixpence—when that
villainous poet Fran?ois Villon sang his
stirring songs to thieves and cutthroats
in Parisian taverns and told in verse
what he would do if he were king. And
Louis XI, weak, tyrannical, superstitious,
and ruled by his dreams, haunted the
taverns in disguise to discover the gossip
of himself and his Court, and took the
vagabond at his word. Villon became the
Count de Montcorbier, Grand Marshal
of France, king for 24 hours, at the end
of which time he should hang.
The audience thrilled with Villon’s
ruffians to the promises and fire of their
leader, and stirred to the pageantry.
That night the Burgundians were massed
outside the city. Villon had to organise
the defence ; the army was insufficient
and traitorous. He went into the streets
and called to his followers:
Sons of shame and sorrow
Will you cheer tomorrow
For the throne of Burgundy?
Sons of France around us
Break the chains that bound us
And to hell with Burgundy!
Onward, onward, swords against
the foe
They poured on to the darkened stage,
a rabble carrying flaming torches, armed
with knives and pitchforks and batons
of wood, men, women and children,
screaming curses, singing their warsong
at the top of their voices, hundreds of
them apparently in the dark. There were
the roar and flash of medieval cannon ;
smoke drifted out across the auditorium,
till all was seen through a mist; the tang
of gunpowder was in the nostrils. The
audience’s collective blood raced and
froze and raced again.
That was years ago, and now at Syd-
ney Royal Villon is saving France again.
There’s all the color and romance of
costuming and John Howard is the vaga-
bond, his voice a trifle light in those wild
songs, but splendid in speech. Leslie Victor
is excellent as the king ; and Leonora
Laye, as Katherine de Vaucelles, adds a
neat picture of the proud aristocrat to her
portrait of the village waitress in “The
Student Prince.” Lorna Forbes merits
attention for her handling of the part
of Margot, the tavern-keeper, and a new-
comer, Cath Esler, makes a vivid per-
sonality of Huguette. Charles Zoli is an
ever-humorous Guy Tabarie, but Ronald
Beck’s Oliver differs only in costume
from his Lutz in the previous piece.
Rudolf Friml’s music is as tuneful and
his vagabond songs as soul-stirring as
ever. The riots in the tavern still make
the blood race. The Burgundians send a
demand for surrender with a fanfare of
trumpets, but in that third act the stage
is now well lit, the torches of the multi-
tude are superfluous, the multitude itself
looks a meagre, sorry band in full light,
and there’s no more the sound of guns,
the haze of smoke or the smell of gun-
powder.
* * * *
Conductor Schneevoigt’s swan song to
Melbourne last week included a sym-
phony by a young Swedish composer,
Lars Erik Larsson ; Saint-Saens’s Con-
certo in G Minor, with the professor’s
wife at the piano; the “Romeo and
Juliet” suite of Prokofieff; the “Meister-
singer” overture ; and an appeal to the
public in the Town Hall assembled to
be kind to A.8.C., which was having so
much money taken from it by the Gov-
ernment that good music was in danger
in a country which he was leaving with
the deepest regrets and the very pleas-
antest associations.
The audience did its best to visualise
the Commission begging for a crust in
the gutter, and no doubt members of
the A.B.C. hierarchy present tried to
look is if their dress suits had been hired
for the evening. Nevertheless, the Fin-
nish conductor’s unsophisticated plea
touched the heart of the audience more
than the Saint-Saens concerto. As a final
farewell gesture “Finlandia’s” triumphant
Marjorie Gordon and husband Gerald Kirby regard lady’s maid Lloyd Lamble
with mixed feelings in the cheerful farce, “Room for Two,” at Sydney Minerva.
surges brought the evening to a con-
clusion.
* * * *
Sydney Tiv. celebrates an anniversary
by giving a bunch of its foundation artists
a fling. The old ’uns—one quartet with
a combined age of 250 years—shake the
rust out with surprising vim. By way of
contrast there is also a collection of
infant talent, and some rather promising
stuff among it, too. Old and new, plus
the usual excellent Tiv. bill—Bob Parrish
in fine voice, Mo in great humor and an
English juggling lass and a couple of
inebriate acrobats who have to be seen
to be believed.
ARTBURSTS.
A New Sydney Gallery
Latest addition to Sydney’s dealers’
galleries is the Notanda, in Rowe-
street, which kicks off with an
exhibition of Modern British Art —64
original works and a host of prints and
reproductions. Frontispiece of the cata-
logue is a reproduction of a masterpiece
by Ben Nicholson, who has hacked four
circles and 17 straight lines in a piece
of linoleum, entitled the result “Mugs,”
and relies on selling the prints at five
guineas each.
Then there is Henry Moore, who,
“working in the vital rhythms of natural
form, is the most interesting sculptor in
England today.” To the Philistine eye
his “Head Studies” looks like a drawing
of a collection of Etruscan pottery almost
completely overwhelmed by lava, but the
initiates can see 16 guineas’ worth of art
in the affair.
Intriguing also is the “Landscape with
Rocky Fields” of Graham Sutherland.
This depicts what look like two pink
oysters propped up instead of pillows on
a yellow bedspread. Fifteen guineas.
The 30-or-so painters represented
mostly devote very unremarkable tech-
nical gifts to the limning of irrationalities
and imbecilities.
* * * *
Nancy Kilgour’s Paintings
Nancy Kilgour, whose show is at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, tempers a
broad and rather flat impressionistic style
in oils with a conscientious eye for color
and form, strikingly exemplified in
“Wheat Stooks, Kent.” But she is too
often attracted to complicated and diver-
sified outlooks, and the results are rest-
less. Where irrelevances and distractions
are avoided, as in “Summer, Regent’s
Park,” “Boats at a Jetty” and “Blue
Water” the eye and mind of the beholder
are both satisfied.
* * * *
It has taken a long time for
“moderns” of the feminine persuasion to
capture the walls of the Melbourne
Athenaeum from the cohorts of the con-
ventional. But this time they have done
it, and it is impossible to see any essen-
tial difference in degree of distortion or
paucity of imagination between their
work and that of the masculine “modern.”
The artistic hats the two sexes are now
wearing are as like one another and the
art magazines of Europe as peas out of
a pod. Lina Bryant has a portrait of
Jean Campbell, and Isabelle Tweddle has
another of an unnamed lady. “A Soldier,”
by A. M. Plante, has a whimsical char-
acter about it which suggests she had
somebody before her. Rollo Thomson’s
old woman with a pot looks considered,
and so does the girl in a garden by Ruth
Sutherland. Ola Cohn’s polar bear in
stone looks stony, not furry.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Tom Brown’s Schooldays”
Cedric Hardwicke, who can generally
be relied upon for a stretch of good act-
ing—not the inspired or spontaneous
kind, but formal, studied and polished
histrionics as detailed and as complete
as a scientific report —has a role nicely
suited to his talents as Dr. Thomas
Arnold, headmaster of Rugby, in this
current Sydney Mayfair offering. It was
said of the good doctor that what he
lacked in tact and scholastic ability he
made up with moral and spiritual stand-
ards —“to be just, honest and truthful
he ever held to be the first aim of his
being.” Hardwicke manages to infuse
something of that spirit into his acting,
and turns in a substantial and satisfying
portrayal.
The schoolboys —Freddie Bartholo-
mew, Jimmy Lydon and Billy Halop,
the main ones —are depicted vigorously
and enthusiastically, though a little
restraint might have served to make them
more credible. There is some occasional
picturesque scenery scattered through the
film.
“New Moon”
What matter if Nelson Eddy acts like
a bag of chaff? What matter if Jeanette
doesn’t do much better? Anybody who
worries a jot about such trifles should
be grabbed by the seat of his strides
and turfed out of Sydney St. James while
Nelson Eddy-Jeanette MacDonald addicts
lean back in their pews in rapturous
admiration of Jeanette’s tonsils while she
carols “Lover, Come Back to Me,” or of
the way Nelson’s chest heaves when he
bellows manfully for some men who are
stout-hearted men, etc.
Yes, what matter anything so long as
these two warblers can throw ditties at
each other? And if there’s a measure of
comedy and a spot of derring-do to go
with the usual picturesque trappings of
musicomedy—well, so much the better
and be damned to the heretics.
* * * *
“Forty Little Mothers”
Eddie Cantor seems to have passed
from youth to old age in the interval of
two films. Since his last appearance, he
has so mellowed that it is difficult to
recognise him as the same character. The
steady stream of satirical wisecracks, pre-
viously his stock-in-trade, has given way
to a curious flow of quiet, considered
philosophy. There aren’t two typical
Cantor wisecracks in the whole film —
just reams of kindly ruminating. Eddie’s
previous show was about the most merci-
less skit on Yank politics to hit the
screen. The current film, at Sydney
State, doesn’t rise above humdrum
second-rate entertainment.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
More battle cries:
H.E.F.:
There once was a bug called Adolf the Hit,
His mission in life was to bite, so he bit.
E.W.R.:
The bombs that Goring sent 1
On wild destruction bent.
He has no sentiment,
Opening up our Parliament.
R.P.C.:
Oh shame that we should perisft,
Or scathing title earn:
Indolent child of Britain,
Oh shame! ’Tis time to turn.
. ...H.M.8.: Jumping Jerusalem!... .F.H.8.:
We don’t reprint... .L. 8.: Forced... .0.G.P.:
A grin in it, but it’s miles too long.. . .G.E.:
Don’t know where you could place pome de-
scribing Sydney Bridge as “a beautiful rain-
bow, both big and yet shy”... .T.L.S.: Con-
ventional lamentations... .K.C.: One ringing,
foaming, jubilant, triumphant line:
Thank God for beer, for its fresh invigorating
qualities.
. ...G.H.W.: Put that in his “foul-smelling
pipe” and burn it... .H.L.K.: Not so bad till
you got up to “life’s conflict grim”... .A.E.Y.:
For a woman’s paper 0n1y... .L.C.R.: How
true. But how trite... .P.H.: The feeling’s all
right; the expression commonplace... .G.S.S.:
About turn for the sergeant... .J.G.R. (Eng-
land): That’s a long journey for a wee bit like
“Little Jessie Mackee, sweet little Jessie
Mackee, dear little Jessie Mackee, wha’s to
marry me” M.L.T.: “Attack” successfully
beaten off G.8.T.: Even the fact that
it hasn’t “been published in any corner
of this earth” didn’t tempt u 5.... .G. 8.5.:
Don’t blame you for not- wanting it back.
....N.T.K.: Some merit in characterisation,
but it falls down at the finish... .8.F.:
Nearly; come again 8.F.C.: “You’d be
amazed if you knew the number of freak
coincidences like this that happen every day.”
And you’d be still more amazed if you knew
the number of people who write about them.
C.B.C.: “The Favorite” was last in this
week’s field 8.R.A.: If you must write,
for goodness’ sake do it legibly and on one
side of the paper 0n1y... .F.D.S.: Not for us.
....S.L.M.: Even Hollywood considers that
plot a little too hackneyed... .H.R.W.: The
professor and his infernal machine are trying
to blow their way out of the w.p.b N.C.P.:
It’s loaded down with unnecessary descriptive
matter... .P.W.H.: Cut it and try Smoke-oh.
V.D.C.: They’re called stockmen, not
cowboys... .8.F.5.: The yarn wasn’t as good
as the covering letter.... D.K.R.: Humor
doesn’t seem to be your line; try a light
sketch... .W.L.W.: Grandfather heard that
yarn at school... .C.L.G.: Away with your
Yankee gangsters and their language....
C.C.A.: The office watchdog wouldn’t let “The
Intruder” pass the doormat.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.T.: Gentleman on stilts waving two
apparently broken arms rejected with violence.
T.R.: Pictorial representation of yet an-
other plumber sending boy back for tools
caused another depression in the office
W.G.8.: If you are under 10 years of age
by all means persevere... .M.E.P.: That gag
was fresh in the long, long ago... .G.S.C.:
One might be used as a suggestion May C.:
The wheels on a sulky occasionally have more
than four spokes and a hub bigger than a
serviette ring... .Herbert: Imagination is essen-
tial in black-and-white work, but it shouldn t
run riot T.D.M.: The elder Pitt used to
laugh uproariously at that jest J.W.: Time
your gags better —if we published football jokes
when the temperature is 104 in the shade the
editor’s life wouldn’t be safe... .P.W.: Your
remark that “these sketches have been highly
praised by my friends” leaves our withers
unwrung. Suggest you get a joke back on your
friends by tying lighted hungers to their coat-
tails.


w
ON ALL FRONTS
• • •
n
§
y
sfi
£
//'
S2SJ-
ALL MEN OF SELF-RESPECT USE
GILLETTE
The Army knows well that smartness and self-respect
go hand in hand—and one of the first steps to both is
to be well and truly shaved. And since the most econ-
omical way of shaving is by the Gillette system, it has
been made the “official issue” to the armies of Britain,
Canada and Australia. Which is all right by the troops,
too, because Gillette is the most comfortable shave.
• GILLETTE SETS 2/6 to 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES 5 for 1/6
a v^ te
°* C i£AN
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Lid”: A. M. Blain is back for a third
term as member for the N.T., having
beaten three opponents —pastoralist Col-
son, journalist Craig and ex-union secre-
tary MacDonald. Craig (A.L.P.) had the
backing of Darwin’s “Northern Standard”
and led on Darwin voting, but Blain
(Ind.) was a comfortable winner in Alice
Springs, Parap and Batchelor. Blain has
promised to work for “adequate crush-
ing facilities in all mining centres, a hous-
ing scheme for Darwin [something of the
kind is now under way], a railway from
Daly Waters to Queensland, cheaper rail-
way rates for stock, favorable amend-
ments to the Territory Mining Act, better
civic amenities for Darwin, and to resign
if he fails to get a full vote in the Federal
House.” He is also to attend the war.
* * * *
“Dip”: The States have no monopoly
of freak electors. One in the N.T. voted
for three of the four candidates and set
against the fourth name “an insulting
expression.” Another wrote on his ballot-
paper: “Why waste time on government
by men? Jehovah God’s government
will come despite men’s effort to prevent
it.” But the worst case “voted” No. 1
for Hitler.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Along the border country
there is a water famine, which has ex-
tended to Brisbane. So the water and
sewerage authorities, following the Syd-
ney board, are urging householders to
cut down the morning wash behind the
ears. Further out, there is a doctor
drought, for which the war is blamed.
Many country districts are without
medicoes at all, but the University has 21
students ready to take their final exami-
nations this year, and they will find their
way to practice by a short cut. Forgan
Smith has introduced a bill which sus-
pends, for the duration of the war, the
section of the Medical Act compelling a
year’s practice of medicine, surgery and
obstetrics in a hospital as a condition
precedent to private practice.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Cape York is one of the last
bits of wild Australia left. It is full of
game, fish, scenery, blacks, mosquitoes
and minerals. Its isolated townships have
the highest rate of natural increase in
the Commonwealth. But it needs roads.
Apart from its defensive value, a road
through to Cape York should open up a
lot of its resources and also provide
isolated Thursday Island, which now
depends on infrequent boats, with direct
access to the big towns or North Queens-
land.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Lud Mayor Chandler
is lamenting the absence of funds where-
with to clean up Brisbane’s million-pound
Town Hall, now in a deplorable state of
grubbiness within and without. The Lady
Mayoress is having the curtains repaired
in the gilded reception-rooms, and the
cleaning staff continues to scrub acres of
floors of nights at a cost of £4774 p.a.,
reduced from the £5913 of the last Jones
year. But the names and ribald inscrip-
tions scrawled on walls and pillars by a
vandalistic public still remain, diversified
by greasy handmarks, boot-smudged skirt-
ings and stained wallpapers. The drab-
ness of the paper in the Lud Mayor’s own
office has fairly got the occupant down,
and he accuses it of producing the wrong
vibrations. One seems to recollect some
similar charge by conductor Beecham
against the concert hall, but a wrongly
vibrating Lud Mayor is sufficiently seri-
ous to warrant a public subscription to
enable his Worship to get into tune with
his surroundings.
* * * *
“23-4”: There seems little justification
for the Queensland bill to protect
teachers. It provides for a penalty not
exceeding £lO against any person who
“wilfully disturbs any school or who
upbraids, insults or abuses any teacher,
pupil-teacher 'or probationer in the
presence or hearing of the pupils—
whether in school or not.” Teachers
themselves are generally capable of
handling the irate parent, and are seldom
foolish enough to allow specimens past
the school door. Where there are forcible
entry and assault the teacher has the
remedy of civil action. When this was
pointed out, Minister Bruce remarked
“But he still remains thrashed.” True,
but he would still remain so under the
bill, which looks very much as though it
were designed to prevent parents making
complaints.
* * * *
“Balander”: The dear old granny who
decries newfangled ideas in maternal and
infant welfare —“I had fourteen an’ eight
of ’em lived, an’ we had nothing like that
in my day”—should be silent in the face
of figures showing Queensland’s infant
mortality rate for the second quarter of
1940 as the lowest yet recorded —31 per
1000 live births. There were fewer deaths
from ante-natal causes and from prema-
ture birth. All this must be credited to
the baby clinics, which in their reduction
of mortality from diarrhoea alone have
more than proved their worth.
* * * *
“Norther”: Lionel James Price be-
comes Brisbane’s chief city engineer at
£l5OO a year. A big factor in his appoint-
ment was his success as chief engineer under
the Greater Newcastle (N.S.W.) adminis-
tration. A son of the Price who was
once Maryborough’s chief engineer, LJ.
got his M.E. degree at Sydney University,
is a member of several engineering and
municipal institutes, the Y.M.C.A. and a
Rotarian. He did a bit of engineering
in France in 1914-18, for which he got
an M.C., and after that served the N.S.W.
Water Conservation and Irrigation Com-
mission, 8.H.P., Merriwa shire and three
Sydney municipalities before going to
Newcastle.
* * * *
“Philp”: The wet season is due up
North, and it looks as though Darwin
will have one of the most uncomfortable
wets of its existence. Office workers and
the like are comparatively well off—most
of them have a decent roof over their
heads, and most of them are used to the
drenching rain, high temperature and high
humidity—but there are hundreds living
on the beaches, under houses and in
roadside camps who will feel the wet with
a vengeance. Canberra has decided to
start work on a housing scheme for Dar-
win, but, judging by past Government
performances in the N.T., the scheme
won’t be anywhere near completed until
long after the wet is over.
* * =K *
“Fi. fa.”: The first deed under the
Torrens-title system in Queensland, intro-
duced by the Real Property Act of 1861,
was issued on January 14, 1862, to James
Williams, of Grey-street, South Brisbane,
in respect of 36 perches of land in Ernest-
street, South Brisbane. On October 7,
1940, the land passed into the possession
of a manufacturing firm and will be used
to extend its factory. Recorded in the
Titles Office as No. 1, Vol. I, Folio 1,
the title has been held by only four
persons since its original issue nearly 79
years ago.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Landing a black kingfish of
78lb. on No. 12 thread, G. Lambert broke
his own Queensland record of 701 b. last
week. The fish was taken at a time when
sharks were thick, one of the party losing
a fine marlin to the brutes.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’COKN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
t General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
VVith offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Lank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
St. George’s
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perti
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
Hie service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The selection and rejection is reserved.
‘ Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
W ants.
Exp., reliable dental mechanic seeks position,
preferably in Brisbane.—Bsll.
Advertising man, expert poster and showcard
writer, with Sydney and Brisbane exp., in-
eligible for military service, wants employment
anywhere.—Bs23.
Electrical-erection engineer with inter-State
exp. in supervising electrical installations is
open to engagement. —8493.
To buy old songs “I’ve Only Been There a
Week” and Spry and Austin’s “Song Advertise-
ments.” —8423.
To buy Graily Hewlett’s Lettering and
Frazer’s Golden Bough. —Bso9.
To buy books Europe in Europa and Sur-
geon Extraordinary. —B47B.
To exchange Auckland “Weekly News”
(M.L.) for “North Queensland Register.”—
8468.
Information Sought.
Is it correct for the Union Jack to be flown
at half-mast while the Empire is at war?
—mi.
The rules for hoisting flags on Government
buildings are the same in war-time as in peace-
time: that is to say, flags are flown only on
certain specified dates and then at full mast,
except on certain occasions of mourning, when
they are flown at half-mast.
* * * *
(1) 1 enlisted in the A.I.F. and passed my
preliminary medical examination. I wish, if
possible, to join up with the Intelligence
Department. What is the general scope of the
work in this department? (2) What qualifica-
tions, if any, are required of enlistees in this
department ? (3) Should I inform the military
authorities now of my desire to enter this
section or wait until I am called up before
making my request? —B2Bo.
Make application to Intelligence Section,
Eastern Command Headquarters, Victoria
Barracks, Paddington, Sydney.
* * * *
What is the statutory authority under which
ministers of religion are not liable for military
service ? —7927.
Part IV of the Defence Act, para. 61, sub-
para. (d).
* * * *
(1) What is the correct relationship of
children whose grandparents on their mothers’
side are brothers? (2) Could they by law
marry? (3) With this relationship, would the
children suffer any disabilities? (4) Is it desir-
able that such relations should not marry ?
(5) Are there any known records of children
suffering from such a union? —8298.
(1) Second cousins. (2) Yes. (3) Nobody
can say. A study of the laws of heredity
shows that the marriage of blood relations
tends to perpetuate all qualities, good or bad,
which exist in the family stock. (4) No reason
why they should not marry if the family history
is satisfactory. (5) Thousands; but physically
and mentally deficient children resulting from
the union of unrelated persons are just as
numerous.
* * * *
Would a medical practitioner registered in
N.S.W. and Q’land, a graduate of Uni. of
Sydney, be allowed to practise in (1) any part
of the U.S.A., (2) in Canada, (3) in any British
West Indies possession without having to pass
an educational examination or/and course of
instruction at a medical school? —7975.
(1) and (2) In order to practise medicine in
any part of the U.S.A. or Canada, the intend-
ing practitioner must first pass a qualifying
examination in the countries concerned. (3)
In the West Indies, as in other Crown colonies
in the Empire, the intending practitioner is
allowed to follow his profession if registered by
the General Medical Council of Great Britain.
* * * *
What procedure would have to be taken to
recover maintenance overdue for an illegiti-
mate child residing in N. S. Wales? The father
lives in M.L. —8349.
The information you supply is insufficient.
You do not say where the person in whose
favor the order was made resides, nor where
it was made. It is clearly a case in which you
would require legal assistance.
« ■ v * *
When were tollgates in Sydney abolished?
Where did the last tollgates stand? —8196.
There are still tollgates on the Harbor
Bridge for one location. Outside these, the
last tollbar in the metropolitan district was at
the point where the Randwick municipality and
the municipality of Sydney now meet near
Moore Park, where the boundary post now
stands at the corner of a small triangular
garden. This tollbar was across the road to
Randwick, and an Act to abolish its use was
passed on June 11, 1894.
* * * *
The water supply of Sydney comes from
reservoir and eventually through pipes to
serve the city. Does this water at any time
go through any chemical treatment —is there
any filtering machinery installed or does it just
get caught in catchment area, run into reservoir
and then into necessary outlet without any
treatment ? —8286.
Water delivered to Sydney from the main
Nepean catchment area is passed through wire
screens, mesh 625 to the square inch, but
otherwise receives no artificial treatment. Water
from the Warragamba scheme is sterilised by
chlorination before being passed into supply,
and similarly screened.
* * * *
Can you tell me about the predictions made
many years ago by Clement Wragge as to
future droughts in Australia ? I am told
Wragge predicted that 1940 would prove to be
a year of record drought. —B279.
Can find no evidence that Wragge’s seasonal
predictions extended beyond 1930. A forecast
up to that year published in the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald” of 26/4/ ’l5 includes the follow-
ing: “After 1920 the rainfall will begin to
steadily fall off and the worst of the next great
under-average period will be in 1923 and 1924,
and Australians will be justified in calling it a
drought. In 1925 matters will again begin to
improve, and good seasons will prevail from
1926 to 1930 inclusive. Throughout the moon
and planetary perturbations will exercise a
modifying influence. The period from the end
of 1930 to 1935 has not yet been calculated.”
Clement Wragge died in 1922. As his forecasts
were based on an 11-year cycle, 1940, according
to that cycle and the foregoing forecasts based
thereon, should have been a good year.
* * * *
I have read an article about the dis-
coveries of an English scientist named Morley
Martin. Can you give me any idea of his
scientific standing and the name of any book by
him in which these discoveries are described ?
It is said that he burned the head of a mullet
in a furnace at 900 deg. C. and after treating
the cinders isolated large numbers of infinitely
small but perfect and living mullet. This seems
fantastic. —8263.
Nothing is known about Morley Martin in
scientific circles in Australia, and he is not in
the English Who’s Who. The yarn you re-
count is fantastic. Ask the editor of the
publication where he got his information from.
* * * *
(1) What is “agar”? (2) What foods con-
tain vitamin B ? —8378.
(1) Agar is a gluelike substance prepared
from certain kinds of Asiatic (chiefly Japanese)
seaweed. It is used for various purposes in
medicine, and in combination with other sub-
stances ( e.g. glycerin, peptone) for the making
of culture-media for bacteriological work. (2)
Vitamin B 1 is present in wheat germ, whole-
meal cereals, pulses and nuts, yeast, egg-yolk,
liver, heart and kidney. Vitamin B 2 is found
in lean meat, liver and yeast extract.
* * * *
Where can I get a book dealing with the
sharpening of drills and picks? —B337.
No book on the subject is known. Picks
and rock drills are usually sharpened on an
emery grinder in the same way as any other
large edged tools.
* * * *
(1) Best method of breeding “gentles” as a
bait for fish ? (2) How to feed and keep them
until large enough for use? —B334.
(1) “Gentles” are created by blowflies
depositing their eggs in decomposing meat. (2)
There is no special method of preserving them.
The longer the meat is kept in the open air,
preferably in hot weather, the more they would
breed. Keeping them in damp pollard would
have a tendency to prolong their existence.
* * * *
Are cakes, puddings, biscuits, dried and
crystallised fruits, tea, sugar, sweets and tinned
cheese sent to friends in England as Christmas
presents dutiable ? —8282.
Recent advice received from London indi-
cates that individuals in Great Britain may still
receive, by parcels post, gifts containing rationed
and non-rationed foodstuffs, provided they are
bona fide unsolicited gifts and clearly marked
as gifts. According to the latest British
Customs tariff, the duties payable on the goods
referred to are: Cakes and biscuits, free; pud-
dings. free; dried and crystallised fruits, free;
tea (Empire-grown) 6d. per lb., (foreign) Bd.
per lb.; sugar, approx. 2d. per lb.; confec-
tionery made from sugar and containing no
other ingredients, except flavoring, approx. 2d.
per lb.; confectionery (other), free; tinned
cheese, free. It would be advisable for the
sender to attach a certificate to the parcel
indicating that the contents are not mer-
chandise of sale, and that the dutiable articles
therein are the growth or produce of
(Empire country of origin). .It is presumed
that all the goods, with the exception of tea,
will be of Australian origin.
* * * *
List of the denominations of coins issued
in Great Britain? —8418.
Gold coins are £1 and 10s., not now in general
circulation. Silver coins are 2s. 6d., 25., Is., 6d.
and 3d. Bronze coins are Id., |d. and |d.
Silver crowns and double florins have been dis-
continued, likewise £5 and £2 gold coins and
4d., 2d. and Id. silver coins.
* * * *
(1) Are Andrew Crane’s “The Constitution
of Man,” “Science and Religion,” and “Moral
Philosophy,” first published about 1867, still
printed? (2) Can they be obtained in Aus-
tralia ? —8338.
(1) No. (2) No, unless a second-hand dealer
could supply.
* * * *
My black cocker spaniel is losing the hair
from his tail, back and buttocks. He
scratches a lot, and flakes of skin like dandruff
come off. The skin underneath seems dark and
roughened. Condition has been in evidence
for about three months. The dog is never out
of the yard or in contact with other dogs.
Treatment, cost, and where procurable? —B3s3.
The trouble is eczema due to worms and/or
improper feeding. Treat for worms. Apply
a mixture of spirit of tar 20z., sulphur 20z.,
rape oil one pint. Repeat in four or five days.
Internal treatment is imperative. Give reduced
iron 18 grains, sulphate magnesia Mix.
Divide into 12 powders—one to be given with
food twice a day. The diet should be restricted
to raw beef; no slops, sweets, puddings, milk,
etc. Report progress in two or three weeks.
* * * *
(1) What sort of mills are used in the ex-
traction of coconut oil from copra? (2) What
are the advantages of coconut oil for manufac-
turing soap ? —8257.
(1) Native mills may consist of merely a
mortar and pestle and a bullock team, with at
times an engine displacing the bullocks, while
in a few places, particularly in the Philippines,
modern hydraulic press mills are operated. In
the cruder types, the pestle, operated against
the mortar, presses out the oil, which accumu-
lates in the centre, while the residue is forced
against the sides of the mortar. This yields
an extract of oil equal to 50 p.c. of the weight
of the copra treated. The modern hydraulic
press used in American and European countries
has great capacity and efficiency, but its cost
makes it unpopular for small mills. The Rose-
downs expeller, requiring no expensive hydraulic
equipment, is, however, widely used in small
mills. Oil recovered by this means is in the
vicinity of 60 p.c. of the weight of copra. (2)
Coconut oil used for soap manufacture does
not require bleaching before use. It produces
a hard soap with a fair degree of solubility in
water, and is of particular value in the manu-
facture of marine soap as it lathers in salt
water. The amount of glycerine obtained in
making soap from coconut oil is greater than
can be obtained from any other oil available.
* * * *
What is the correct way to conduct a meet-
ing, and what are the duties of the president,
secretary and treasurer? Also, what are the
rules concerning• proposals and amendments
and the manner in which these are respectively
put forward? —8341.
It would take too much space here to supply
the information you ask for. Buy How to
Conduct Meetings, by John P. Monro, pub-
lished by John Pollard, Winfield Building, 495
Collins-street, Melbourne C.l, price Is.
* * * *
What makes of milking machine are on the
market in M.L. ? —8027.
L.K.G., Ridd, Gane, G.V.8., McL. Wallace,
McCormick-Deering, Haywood-Warren, John-
son-Heart, Natural and Success.
* * * *
Is there any danger in varicocele ( spermatic ) ?
Any treatment for it? —B3ss.
No danger whatever, but many patients
worry unduly over the condition and become
neurotic. Simple treatment (the suspensory
bandage, cold bathing, avoidance of all ex-
cesses) suffices for the majority of cases. If
free to choose, a surgeon will operate but
seldom; sometimes, owing to excessive pain
or to “service requirements,” operation is un-
avoidable and the results are good.
* * * *
What can be done to cure a child whose
knees knock and who walks pigeon-toed ?
Child is quite healthy. Would special exercises
help ? —8402.
The usual treatment depends upon the degree
of the deformity, and also upon the absence
of any serious underlying cause, such as rickets
or infantile paralysis. If the knock-knee is of
slight extent, the condition may be cured by
wedging up the inner borders of the shoes;
in more severe deformities, splints, worn day
and night, and extending from the upper part
of the thigh to a point well below the knee, are
employed; they should be unhinged; in still
more severe cases, an operation upon the
bones (Macewen’s osteotomy) is often required.
The whole problem is one for an experienced
medical man, who can decide which method
is most suitable.
* * * *
(1) Which parts of the wheat-grain are the
most nutritious ? (2) What are the component
parts of the grain ? (3) Could wheat soaked
in water, without cooking, be eaten benefi-
cially? (4) Which has the greater food value,
corn or wheat? —B332.
(1) and (2) The grain consists of (a) the
germ, or embryo, which is simply the young
plant; ( b ) the kernel, or endosperm, consist-
ing of two large masses for the use of the
embryo, and (c) the bran, an outer envelope
composed of cellulose impregnated with
mineral matter and forming a protective cover-
ing for the grain. As to nutritive value, the
germ is rich in protein and fat, the endosperm
contains abundant starch, and the bran a pre-
ponderance of minerals and cellulose. (3)
Could be done provided the water were drunk
as well, but it seems faddy while good whole-
meal bread is available. (4) It has been said
that, when both wheat and maize are selling at
approximately the same price, one gets the
same amount of digestible matter for a given
sum in both. In wheat, however, one gets
more protein, and in maize more
carbohydrate. The fuel value in each case is
almost the same, but maize is lacking in
certain vitamin values.
* * * *
What are the Federal and State (N.S.W.)
duties on an estate of £2200 to £2300 which
the testator leaves to his widow? —8383.
Federal, about 255. in -all; State, at the rate
of £3 2-3 per cent., assuming in each case
that all goes to the widow.
* * * *
(1) How old was Les Darcy when he died in
America? (2) What was his age when he began
boxing ? (3) How many fights did Darcy have ?
(4) Who defeated him? (5) Who was his last
opponent ? —8465.
(1) Twenty-one years and seven months. (2)
Not quite 15. (3) Forty-four main events,
of which he won 40. (4) Bob Whitelaw, Fritz
Holland (twice) and Jeff Smith. (5) George Chip
(whom he knocked out in nine rounds) at Syd-
ney Stadium on September 30, 1916.
Brief Answers.
A.D.McF.: That brand of caustic soda should
be satisfactory. No need to boil the soap it
you follow the directions on the tin. Fault
may be in the fat; the sample forwarded seems
to contain an overmeasure of caustic....
P.C.W.: “Allies” of course includes Britain.
Britain has not made peace... .T.A.M.: Write
R. J. Fitzgerald, secretary Abolition of State
Parliaments League, 2nd floor, Ocean House, 34
Martjn-place, Sydney... .M.C.: “An Airman to
His Mother” was published on the “Uncabled
Additions” page of The Bulletin of August 7,
1940....G.H.: It is not possible to run a
standard Buick engine on fuel-oil in place of
petrol... .J. 8.: There are no plans available
in the N.S.W. Agricultural Department ot
wire-netting traps. The pamphlet (posted) con-
cerning rabbit-destruction provides information
suitable for the destruction of hares. The steel-
spring traps or pit traps are commonly used in
some districts. These tiaps are placed along
the boundary fence or near any holes in the
fences. The use of poison baits, as mentioned
in the pamphlet, is also suitable for the destruc-
tion of these animals... .E.F.M.: Populations
of Australian capital cities at December 31,
1939, were: Sydney, 1,302,890; Melbourne,
I, Brisbane, 326,000; Adelaide,
322,990; Perth, 224,800; Hobart, 65,450.
Population of Australia at March 31, 1940,
was 7,014,915 F.J.: You do not indicate the
hall concerned. The committee or secretary
should communicate with the Australasian Per-
forming Rights Assoc., 66 King-street, Sydney.
. ...H.C.H.: A Remington Dry Shaver suit-
able for use from a six-volt dry battery can be
got from Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney,
for £7 7s M.McD.: Tantalum carbide and
hafnium carbide are not manufactured in Aus-
tralia R. 8.: The Q. Electoral Office cannot
supply the information you require. Its records
do not indicate party affiliations of candidates.
H.H.: He is looking at a photograph of
his own 50n....8.A.H.: Write to Re-Nu, Ltd.,
opp. Richmond station, Melbourne ... .E.W.:
Make application to the various shipping cos.
in Sydney J.K.McK.: Cannot trace manu-
facturer of the F. R. McMaster Steam Unit.
. ...L.V.8.: Violinist John Warren has joined
the A.I.F R.F.W.: South Australian agents
for Billabong semi-rotary pumps are McPher-
son’s, Ltd., Adelaide... .P.C.P.: Write to any
of the following: Mrs. J. Bennett, 4 Rawson-
place, Miss C. E. Byrne, 52 Carrington-street,
or L. G. Douson, 105 Pitt-street, all of Sydney.
S.F.J.: (1) Consult a patent attorney in
order to protect your rights. (2) No bonus.
. ...K.C.: Very unlikely that the Board of
Health has refused to allow the formula to be
tested, since part of its duty is to subject to
analysis all sorts of medical preparations. In
any case, there is no drug which is a cure for
tuberculosis A.H.P.: This raises very com-
plicated questions, and would be better con-
sidered by a lawyer... .S.E.P.A Justice of
the Peace witnessing a signature is not required
to read the document... .P.S.W.: David Low’s
address is 3 Rodborough-road, London, N.W.11.
. ...E.E.W.: Wireless transmission of electric
current for lighting is not yet practicable
J. The manufacture of explosives, save
under license, is illegal in S.A R.F.E.: Such
information could be obtained only from the
municipal authorities in each case, and the cities
you mention have other matters to busy them-
selves about at present J.H.: Organdie and
organza should always be ironed damp; neither
wet nor dry H.E.W.: Odds against drawing
one card to the middle of a routine flush in poker
are 47 to 1. See reply to 8311, October 9
Crib: It is a run of four in each case. A
fourth ace would score another run of four.
. ...A.N.: No instruction books for 1933
Dodge cars available in Sydney, but they are
on order, and Harden and Johnston, Ltd., 247
Darlinghurst-road, Sydney, may be able to
supply later. As to gas-producer plants, get in
touch with the C.5.1.R., Canberra, which can
supply bulletins on the subject Ajax: No
provision is made under the N.S.W. Child Wel-
fare Act, 1939, for the adoption of children
by persons living outside the State. Communi-
cate with the Director of the State Children’s
Department, Brisbane... .J.8.M.: So far
as can be ascertained in Sydney the Milnes
belong to the Clan Gordon... .J.P.N.: Know
of no preparation on the market which could
be used by an amateur for reblueing gun
barrels. Barrels reblued by gunsmiths are put
through a special acid process N.M.:
Wrestler Brother Jonathan’s name is Jonathan
D. Heaton W.P.L.: Try J. Gadson, Ltd.,
Melbourne (Sydney agents, Gollin and Co.,
Clarence-street), or Hesse Blind Roller Co., 428
George-street, Sydney W.S.: Write to or call
at the office of the American Consulate-General,
Sydney M.S.: The speech was delivered on
January 4; most of the daily newspapers of
January 5 should have reports of it W.A.:
(1) There are eight American pints to the Ameri-
can gallon. (2) A tank of 22 American pints
capacity would hold approximately 18.31896
English pints X.Y.Z.: Both pilot and
observer are equally important. The pilot has
a set job to do, and so has the observer; if
either were to fail in his duties the ’plane would
not operate efficiently... .W.H.A.: The esti-
mated population of Australia at December,
1938, was 3,504,369 males and 3,425,322
females R.V.A.: Turn the paper inside out,
use a wrapper slightly longer than the paper
itself, and then tuck the ends in. v .8.5.: Many
miniature copies of the first issue of The
Bulletin were issued cn the paper’s 50th
anniversary. Their monetary value is slight
B.McL.: Any good history book or the Ency-
clopedia Britannica should give the informa-
tion A.W.A.: Try the Encyclopedia Britan-
nica E.A.A.: It’s a long job; get in touch
with the Genealogical Society, Sydney
E. Pitt the younger was a younger
son, so he did not inherit the title.


WHILE FEED IS DRY . . .
Help your stock to make the most of it
by feeding a Tri-cal-os Bone Flour and
salt mixture —all the minerals necessary
to enable the animals to make good use
of the poor coarse fodders and main-
tain condition. Tri-cal-os contains a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime, and is the best source
of phosphorus and calcium for all stock
feeding.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Syd-
ney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
i J
'NI W/i
i
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
e
Heals, soothes
the Wound.
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb-rearing Problems.
“Bungaree”: Most lamb losses arise
from nutritional causes.
The job of staving off losses must be
tackled even before the lamb is dropped.
Where feed is dry, ewes should receive
more than a mere existence ration.
Lopped scrub will keep dry sheep alive,
but for two months before she is due
to lamb every ewe needs more and high-
quality feed. Not only the ewe but the
lamb she is carrying must be fed, and the
diet should be protein- and calcium-rich
to build up the lamb in bone and muscle
and to prevent the ewe having to draw
too heavily on her own reserves. As
lambing draws closer the ewe should be
provided with the wherewithal to make
milk.
Entero-toxaemia, or pulpy kidney, is re-
sponsible for more lamb losses than any
other disease. Here again prevention is
the only solution.
In some districts losses occur at the
age of two to three weeks, elsewhere
from two months onwards. Inoculation
at an early age is impracticable, so the
ewe should be inoculated before she
lambs. One dose of alum-precipitated
e.-t. vaccine about 10 days before lamb-
ing may be enough, but two inoculations
with a month between them are recom-
mended. This will protect the young lamb
till he is old enough to mark, when he
may be given 5 c.c. of vaccine.
Arthritis also affects young lambs..
Joints swell and are found full of pus.
This is due to the entrance of a germ—
in the very young lambs through the
navel cord, but most of the trouble is
picked up at marking. The former is
hard to control, but the latter can be
dodged by marking in a clean corner of
the paddock in a temporary yard.
Then there are worm parasites. Keep
young sheep well fed, move them on
to fresh feed at frequent intervals, par-
ticularly where stocking is heavy. Drench
as a preventive that means when the
lambs look well. Black scour worms are
the lamb’s chief downfall, and once they
get a good hold all the drenching in the
world won’t save them. Use bluestone
and nicotine or bluestone and trichlor-
ethylene, but be careful not to overdose.
Wool in U.S.A.
“Ghanam”: There is great enthusiasm
for the storage in U.S.A. of 250,000,0001 b.
of Australian wool, more than a quarter
of the estimated clip.
Dr. Clunies Ross, formerly chairman
of the International Wool Secretariat,
says that “it will be a tremendous asset
to have that wool stored in a position
in which it can be made available to the
great consuming centres, whether in the
United States or in Britain.”
The possibilities of substitute fibres being
used in U.S.A. for military uniforms will
be eliminated The fact that the wool
will be lifted by American ships and stored
within 10 days’ sail of Britain will be a
great help to the British shipping position.
Uncle Sam has never recently shown
any disposition to demand that large
quantities of our wool should be
made available to his great consuming
centres. In fact, he has carefully main-
tained a steady tariff against the import
of Australian wool, preferring to sup-
port the local farmer at a much higher
price. His clip this year is a record —
1,500,000 bales, including pulled wools.
Possibly he is looking for orders for
uniforms from British countries.
It is sound, of course, to establish
credits with primary products in U.S.A.,
but it is sounder to establish exchange
of goods. Australians would have liked
it better if, instead of making a heavy
storage in U.S.A., the Australian wool
manufacturing industry had been ex-
panded to make army cloths for other
parts of the British Commonwealth which
have no raw wool supplies.
And even if machinery were not to be
had to dp this, and ready availability of
raw wool to Britain was the essence of
the contract, why was the wool not stored
in Canada, a British Dominion? The
reserve would have been just as
“strategic” there as across the border line.
“ Needn't look any more , Ma — Dad's found it."
Buffalo Fly.
“H.8.D.” (a North Queensland vet.):
Despite the fancy prices for beef, cattle-
men in the Queensland Gulf country
have had a torrid time this year because
of buffalo fly.
Since 1929 control of the fly has been
attempted by means of quarantine areas,
restricting movement and spraying cattle
at the time of trucking. Despite all this,
the pest has increased or decreased
according to the season. Its rapid spread
started about 12 months ago with general
falls of rain in June, followed by early
storms in October and November. On
top of this, the “wet” was a good one
and the winter very mild. All these con-
ditions are conducive to the spread of
fly, and for the first time it ventured
north of Normanton.
The big fear is that the fly may reach
the east coast to play havoc with the
dairying industry. A spray was erected
at Kajabbi (N.Q.), 540 miles from the
coast, and cattle within the quarantine
area are required to walk through it
before entering the trucks and journey-
ing east or south. This has served its
purpose, or at least we think it has. But
given another favorable season there’ll be
no holding the pest.
Coastal Scrub Country.
“Bogaduck”: There are two classes of
scrub country in southern Australia. The
inland areas have a very low rainfall, and
practically everything is edible. Nearer
the coast the rainfall is 20in. or more, but
only a few grasses are edible, and then
only after a burn. This latter class of
country can keep stock alive in a bad
time if managed properly; if not, then
it provides sheep only with a place in
which to die.
Here’s an example of what can be done
with the latter class of scrub. A friend
of mine found 6000 acres of scrub which
hadn’t been burned for 10 years at least,
but on which there was a flat of about
200 acres which had been ringbarked
three years previously. It carried a fair
growth of coarse speargrass and Scotch
thistles. He paid £lOO for the right to
put 1000 sheep on the property until the
drought broke. A reliable man went with
the stock to see that they watered once
every day, had mineral licks and were
kept moving around the scrub.
Left to their own devices, the sheep
would have eaten out all that patch of
grass to begin with, and then would have
had nothing but scrub. They were
allowed on it only once a week, and it
thus lasted for months, giving the indis-
pensable change of diet. The sheep went
off that place four months later looking
pretty thin, but they managed to travel
the 120 miles home on the hoof.
About 900 went on to scrub where
big patches had been burned. They had
no licks, went to water when they liked
and kept wandering around and picking
about on the burnt country. About once
a month the owner came to look at them.
When rain came he mustered fewer than
400, almost too weak to walk. That’s
the difference between having scrub coun-
try act as a lifesaver to a flock or as a
place where you lose more than half of
them.
Sheep will keep alive in scrub for a
long time if they get a bit of grass now
and then. Turn about on scrub and grass
on alternate weeks can make the feed go
twice as far. To put already weak sheep
into straight-out scrub and expect them
to live through is asking too much.
Money in Hay.
“B. Cubbin”: It looks as though wheat-
growers whose crops are still fit for hay
might find it more profitable to put the
binder in. Wheat as grain isn’t likely to
touch 4s. a bushel this year, and a 20-
bushel crop at that price would return
£4 an acre ; quotes for wheaten hay in
Sydney range from £3 to £6 a ton ac-
cording to quality, and it’s a poor crop
that won’t yield a couple of tons of hay
to the acre.
Drought has made a big hole in fodder
reserves everywhere, and the demand for
hay and chaff is likely to be heavy. N. S.
Wales alone cuts about 750,000 tons of
oaten and wheaten hay in a normal year.
This year the cut will be well under that,
and in all States fodder is scarce and
prices mounting.
Cutting for hay is less costly than
stripping, bagging and carting grain to
silos. All in all, the binder looks like
being a much better machine than the
header for those crops fit for it.
Beating Bracken.
“The Dasher”: At Toora in Gippsland
the C.S.I.R. has shown what can be
done with bracken country when it is
tackled seriously.
Three years ago farmers picked out
14 acres of land covered with bracken
4ft. high and an undergrowth of ragwort
and invited the Council to have a crack
at it. It was reckoned to be worth £1
an acre.
The bracken was cut and burnt, and in
July a mixture of 201 b. of perennial rye,
101 b. of Akaroa cocksfoot and 21b. of
white clover was sown on the ashes.
There was an allowance of 901 b. super,
per acre. Any regrowth of bracken was
cut as soon as it showed up. This thinned
out the new fronds, which got a final
basting from No. 8 fencing wire. Rag-
wort regrowth was treated with chemical
poisons. In a year the former bracken
patch was carrying a heavy pasture and
the bracken was stoushed.
Since then the pasture has persisted.
In one year 14 bullocks and 100 sheep
were fattened on the 14 acres. At an-
other period the hay estimate was 25cwt.
an acre. In January of this year the
patch brought £lO an acre at auction.
Of course, the smallness of the area
was a help. Keeping down bracken re-
growth on large areas by hand is beyond


AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD
DELIVERIES OF WHEAT FROM 1940-41 HARVEST
Opening Dates at Country Stations.
It is notified for the information of Wheatgrowers that the State Superin-
tendent of the Board will announce dates on which Country Stations will be
opened to receive wheat of the 1940-41 Harvest. In no case, however, will wheat
be received before November 15, 1940. This decision also applies to wheat that
growers wish to deliver to Mills.
To assist the Board in controlling weevil infestation, Wheatgrowers are urged:
(i) not to harvest grain until it is ripe;
(ii) to ensure that all harvesting machinery has been thoroughly cleaned
before commencing operations;
(iii) to take special precautions to protect from weevil any wheat which
has to be temporarily held on the farm;
(iv) if second-hand bags are used to deliver to silos —to ensure that
the bags are thoroughly sterilised or treated to rid them of weevil
and their eggs
Growers are reminded that wheat will only be received in bags by Licensed
Receivers and Millers, provided such bags are new Australian Standard Cornsacks.
C. J. PERRETT, Secretary.
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and tba
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty, Ltd., King St., Sydney
SEE
r 2*
D CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
one man. All the same, the experiment
shows what can be done.
s—
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: It doesn’t pay to feed
the sow and litter from the same trough
—the sow gets most, and the suckers are
likely to be injured. Make an enclosure
in the pen to provide a “creep.” Leave
enough space under the bottom rail for
the suckers to get to a small trough inside,
Start creep-feeding when the suckers are
about three weeks old. The youngsters
will grow better, the sow will remain in
good condition and weaning troubles will
be avoided.
“Goulburn”: Give the reaper and
binder a complete overhaul a couple of
weeks before it is to be used, so that any
weak or broken parts can be replaced in
time. See that the cutting knife is sharp,
the canvases are strong, and the knotting
gear is working properly. Application of
an oilstone will make the string knife
cut better. A mixture of kerosene and
oil will loosen any stiffness and make the
parts work better. Follow up with pure
oil. Packers are subject to a lot of wear,
and need plenty of attention. Store the
canvases in a dry place when you finish
with the machine for the year.
“Gandak”: To deal with codlin-
moth spray with 2\\b. of lead arsenate
powder plus igal. of white oil in lOOgals.
of water before the calyx blossoms close.
A good cover spray is made up of
1 l-3gals. of white spraying oil (for added
effect add one pint of nicotine sulphate)
to the same quantity of water. For red
and brown scale and woolly aphis use
the same cover spray ; for black spot and
for other fungus diseases, Bordeaux and
white-oil mixture. If a lime sulphur
spray is first used, do not apply the white-
oil mixture for at least three weeks. Never
spare the spray —use 2|gals. to 6gals. per
tree according to the size.
“Manurere”: “P. China” (B. 18/9/’4O)
knows how to handle pigs up to a point,
but wire-netting won’t do to keep Dennis
in a spring dray. Many a M.L. farmer
has had his pigs rejected or graded
seconds on account of bruising caused
by pressure of the nets on their backs.
“Bundalinga”: Maoriland farmers have
had good result with silage from pea
vines. Green vines are stacked, yielding
a sweet, brown silage of even texture ;
stalks and pods lose their toughness.
“Valerin”: Drought is driving rabbits
into areas where recent showers have
started a green shoot. A netted fence
will help check them provided gates fit
truly, floodgates are closed and all holes
patched. An occasional ride through the
paddocks isn’t good enough; comb it
thoroughly with a pack of hounds.
“Canbelego”: Three years ago, in a
good season, paspalum-clover pastures on
Berry (N.S.W.) Training Farm were mown
to keep the pastures short enough to
permit growth of rye grass. The surplus
growth was conserved as silage, which is
now being fed to 200 head of stock. Farm
practice is to keep pastures mown during
heavy growth, the shorter herbage being
leafy and succulent. Paspalum in the
topdressed swards provides good feed in
autumn, followed by rye grass in winter,
supplemented by hay and silage, all made
from the pastures.
“C. Dale”: On 300 acres, mostly
alluvial flat, near Molong (N.S.W.) R. P.
Phillpott runs about 400 breeding ewes
and turns off a nice lot of fat lambs
each year. His sheep feed on Wimmera
rye and sub. clover, topdressed annually
with 801 b. of super, an acre, and there is
20 acres of grazing oats for them to top
off on. The cross is merino-Corriedale,
the idea being to get wool if the lamb
market falls off.
Outback Occupations.
No. XL.
GRASSHOPPERS.
Word passes round that they’re pretty
thick along the back road to Tipdray
Creek, which is about eight miles west of
your place, so you get in touch with the
local P.P. Board and they send you out
tins of poison with instructions how to
mix it with bran, a summary of the penal-
ties that may follow failure to deal with
the pests and a copy of the Noxious
Weeds Act.
What this last has to do with it you
aren’t sure, but you put the copy in a
handy place and shove the tins of poison
on top of the big tool-box in the shed.
A few days later one of the boys
reports that he saw some young hoppers
along the back fence, so you go up to have
a look. They’re there, all right, dribbling
through the fence in hundreds. They’re
not quite half an inch long and the color
of trapdoor spiders. It’s fascinating to
watch how they select the old furrows
to travel down and pass in lines along
the drill-tracks among the standing wheat.
You mark off a yard and count the
number that pass it in one minute by
the watch.
Then you get a pencil and work out
how many are passing every hour and
multiply that by the number of chains
of the fence, multiplying again by 22.
By this time you’ve used up all the paper
in your pockets and you hurry back
to the house, calling for bran and poison.
A couple of hours later you and the
boys are scattering the poison-bait along
the fence. The oncoming hoppers fall
on it with faint howls of joy, gobble and
die in their tracks, to be instantly covered
by myriads more, hop-hop-hopping along
without end.
Feverishly the three of you scatter bait
until it’s all gone. The death-roll is
enormous, but the reinforcements come
hopping along as though nothing had
happened.
You try fire and smoke. It checks them
where you are, but you know they’re
pouring on to the place everywhere else.
The missus, stoutly defending her lettuce
patch with the kitchen broom and a bat-
talion of chooks, sends a dispatch for
help. When you get there she is slightly
hysterical, swishing weakly with the
broom. A leghorn, full as a tick, gives
you a bleary look and makes a heavy
attempt to force down another hopper.
There isn’t room for it in her craw. Re-
signedly she lies down. Hoppers travel
across her back.
There is no longer a lettuce patch.
You lead the missus inside and get her
a drink. Just as she raises the glass two
hoppers fall into it and she jumps up and
runs into the kitchen, slamming the door
and laughing madly.
The ’phone rings. It is Jordan. “You
got any?” he asks. “A few,” you answer
guardedly ; “why, did y’ want some?”
“You’re a doer, Jack,” he says. “Listen,
they say old Monteith is eaten out and
has lost his hand.”
“His hand! How”
“I mean his man, you know, that chap
he got up from Sydney.”
“Oh, what happened to him?”
You hear Jordan chuckle. “The
hoppers ate him. He was pretty green,
y’ know. Better look out f’r y’rself, Jack.”
You hear him hooting at the other end
and sadly hang up the receiver.
The boys come in and sit down, drink-
ing copiously. Sane again, the missus
appears and makes tea.
Outside the warm air is full of a click-
ing. There is a constant shimmer in the
sun.
“Huh,” says young Tom, “the fliers
are here now.”
You go outside. The ground is alive.
So is the air. You peer through the
clouds of wings and are somewhat sur-
prised to see that the wheat is still there.
You make for the crop. Large and well-
fed grasshoppers come through the air
like bullets and clout you enthusiastically
on the head, back and sides. Occasion-
ally an overfull one hits you too hard
and bursts.
They’re moving through the wheat, but
it must be too tough or something, for
they’re not doing it much harm. Every-
thing else that is green on the place has
vanished. You hear the mailcar’s well-
known roar above the clicking and reach
the gate just as it pulls up.
The mailman hails you. “Hey, where’d
all these flamin’ things come from? Look
at me windscreen!”
“Dunno,” you fling back at him,
“somebody must have left their gate open
an’ they got out.”
“You cockies’d laugh in Hades,” he
grunts, throws you a letter and roars off
into the shimmering cloud.
You make for the house, opening the
letter.
Dear Sir,
In accordance with its policy of keep-
ing farmers well-informed of developments
in matters affecting agriculture, I have now
to inform you that advice has been re-
ceived that weather conditions may con-
duce to a reappearance of grasshoppers
this season. You are accordingly urged to
be on the alert and take all necessary
steps
Something like a scream comes from
your breaking heart and three large grass-
hoppers bounce, one after the other, from
your left ear. Somehow, you plod on.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
First place this week for a South Australian who has made his own backyard
shelter and, in the pride of invention, advises all fellow-citizens to do likewise. An
Old Digger testifies that the dugout would be effective, except in the case of a
direct hit.
Backyard' Shelter
My neighbors tell me that the con-
struction of my domestic dugout is a
waste of time because invasion is geo-
graphically impossible, etc. It appears
that any old excuse will do for putting off
the evil day of digging. Meanwhile,
A.R.P. policy decrees that, if and when
anything unpleasant does happen, the
able-bodied city and suburban dwellers
of both sexes must stay put. And Aus-
tralia expects that every man that day
shall do his own digging-in as far as
possible.
But why wait for an overworked Gov-
ernment to supply plans and specifica-
tions for what is the simplest and most
primitive precaution against bodily harm
from air raids, requiring neither blue-
prints nor fine adjustment gauges? Here
is my recipe. Take a backyard. Select
the tenderest spot, free from gas and
sewer pipes. Carve a neat trench about
6ft. deep, 3ft. wide and 12ft. long. Roof
it over with old timber and iron, plus
the mountain you have produced with
so much travail. Leave an opening
at one end for entry by ramp or ladder.
Garnish with kerosene- or beer-cases and
pour olive oil on your blisters.
If you are a gardener you may convert
the unsightly mound into an ornamental
rockery. Interior decoration can be
added to taste, turning the wrinkled front
and sides of war into a streamlined
refuge from the heat in days of peace.
Australians are well supplied with back-
yards, backbone and muscle. If they find
themselves, some wild and stormy night,
half-clad, encumbered with a mob of
howling kids, searching in a blackout
for a crowded communal bomb shelter,
most of them will have themselves to
blame for not realising that there is a
war on. — Better ’Ole (S.A.).
Comforts Funds
“G.M.A.” (B. 2/10 / ’4O) thinks sopie
of the cash being spent on comforts for
soldiers should be spent on munitions
and equipment. This sort of muddled
thinking is remarkably widespread. Some
country municipalities are organising
win-the-war rallies, miles of pennies, card
parties, dances and goodness knows what
with the object of raising enough cash to
present the Government with an aero-
plane or two. Meanwhile, Red Cross
societies and Comforts Fund committees
are being starved out.
Defence of the country is the first duty
of any Government, and paying up to
meet the cost of adequate defence is the
duty of everyone. If our present taxes
are insufficient, they should be increased
in amount and number to provide enough
and a bit over for luck. Voluntary con-
tributions should go to the funds which
are doing their best to make the lot of
the fighting man less monotonous and
irksome.
The wonderful work of the Red Cross
is known throughout the world, but even
the Diggers themselves have never fully
realised what was done for them in the
last war by Comforts Funds. Most re-
member the parcels which cheered them
at Christmas-time, but many are unaware
that their extra rations, such as condensed
milk and cocoa, were provided by volun-
tary contributions and not by the army.
Many of us, too, will never forget the
cups (jam-tins) of hot cocoa and biscuits
which were handed out at the Comforts
Fund advanced posts, not far from the
front line, as we returned from the
trenches. — West Riding (Vic.).
Same Old Fairy Tales
The same old stories, some from the
Great War years, make the rounds. There
is the yarn of the soldier abroad who
bought a pair of socks, to find inside
a note from the woman who had donated
them to the Red Cross Society.
Again comes the story of the mother
who baked a cake, placed a ten-shilling
note under , the icing, and sent it to her
soldier son, only to see it for sale on a
stall run by some patriotic organisation.
Then, somebody knows somebody who
knows of a woman volunteer worker who
has dozens of pairs of khaki socks at
her home, obviously purloined from their
rightful source.
If a person knows of irregularities
he should report to the rightful authori-
ties and have the matter remedied. But
any tale that cannot be investigated sug-
gests a fifth-columnist’s idea of antagonis-
ing possible subscribers against societies
whose aim is to help the soldier. —
Arev (Vic.).
British Achievements
Having read an admission by a British
M.P. that Germany had well and truly
beaten England in the matter of propa-
ganda, I immediately thought it about
time Britain blew her bags a bit more.
That Egypt today is master of her
destiny after 26 centuries of being merely
a province of successive empires is Eng-
land’s doing, and the study of how she
did it is inspiring reading.
That Britain will eventually hand over
to India her independence is undoubted,
though the job of teaching India’s assort-
ment of races and doctrines to get along
without flying at one another’s throats
is an immeasurably more complicated
task than what Lord Cromer had to
handle in Egypt.
Meanwhile India’s population has
increased by 30,000,000 since 1931,
and thanks to Britain’s engineers and
her “capitalists,” one doesn’t hear
any more of famine and pestilence.
Every year more Indians are filling
administrative, engineering and
medical positions, and when the day
arrives for Indians to take over the
reins of government the occasion
will probably arouse very little
hullabaloo and be taken purely as
a matter of course.
Britain has only to talk facts and
she can leave the word propaganda
for little Dr. Goebbels to juggle
with.—P. H. H. (N.S.W.).
Official Verbosity
A recently issued “Notice to Con-
sumers” under the Liquid Fuel Regula-
tions is a Grade A specimen of official
verbosity. In 500-odd words, the hapless
motorist is told what could comfortably
be said in 100 words. The “Please read
carefully” injunction at the top is cer-
tainly necessary.
Searching for the meat of the thing,
you wade through a welter of words to
arrive, with some relief, at the final par.,
and then be staggered by the 51-word sen-
tence :
The Commonwealth Government has
announced that circumstances arising out of
the war in which this nation is engaged
have necessitated action being taken to
ration supplies of motor spirit and Diesel-
oil fuel, and that economy in the use of
these fuels is essential to the successful
prosecution of the war.
Dazed, you tackle the whole master-
piece again, finally concluding that the
document intends to say:
(1) Here is your license under the
Liquid Fuel Regulations operating from
October 1.
(2) Apply for ration tickets on Form
COB 21 at any post office outside the city
area, presenting your car registration cer-
tificate.
(3) Apply on days other than Thursdays
and Saturdays.
(4) Unused ration tickets may be accumu-
lated, but remain valid only until March
31, 1941. Ration tickets are not trans-
ferable.
(5) Petrol economy is vital to our war
effort; use it carefully.
And they need 500 words to say that!
—F. L. F. (Vic.).
War Marriages
A few marriages may be the result of
uniform glamor and the thought of what
a good time could be had on the extra
£2 2s. a week (B. 18/9/’4O), but to put
them all in that category would be a
cruel reflection on our girls. I am a
strong advocate of the “marry-now”
argument, and the possibility of the death
or crippling of the boy only strengthens
my argument.
Every normal girl’s ambition is to
marry and have a family, and if she
does not marry before her boy goes away
she may never realise that ambition. But
if she does marry she has a few weeks —
or days —of happiness and perhaps the
prospect of motherhood, which, instead
of being a bleak outlook, would
give her the blessing of a child to
help her in her anxiety. And if
her husband should die she would
have more than a memory to sus-
tain and inspire her through the
years, which would otherwise be
drab and hopeless.
I did not marry before my hus-
band went to the last war, and I
realise that many years of my life
have been wasted. Strong and
healthy when he went away, my
man came back broken and
maimed, and spent several years in
hospital. After his discharge several
more years were spent in trying to
reach a position to marry. But a
“ Don't be nervous, son — We're quite safe here. Nothin can fall on us.”
legacy and not his painful efforts at last
made marriage possible. By then, how-
ever, children were out of the question,
and now we both feel that we have
missed the best that life has to give.—
Too Late (Vic.).
A Twopenny Piece
Before the 1914-18 affair all sorts of
things could be had for a penny, but
now we have to shell out twopence for the
same services. So what about a new
coin—a twopenny piece? So many every-
day services are rendered for twopence —
telephone calls, newspapers, tram and bus
rides, postage stamps and so on —that
such a coin would be a good deal more
useful than the miserable little three-
pences that we are constantly changing.
—Enoch (N.S.W.).
The Queensland Way
I had a taste of the treatment meted
out to patients in public wards of Sydney
maternity hospitals (B. 11/9/’4O), so I
could appreciate the difference when I
was a patient in Brisbane’s modern
maternity hospital.
From the day I started attending the
ante-natal clinic until I was confined in
the hospital I received the finest atten-
tion and courtesy from doctors and
nurses. At no time were students in
evidence. At the confinement I had the
attention of the resident doctor in an
air-conditioned room in which I was the
only patient.
No questions are asked about one’s
financial position. If the patient can
afford to allot the bonus to the hospital
it is expected, but patients in straitened
circumstances may have this claim
waived.
What is being done in Queensland
could easily be done in N.S.W. —S. B.
(Q-).
Cost of Children
“D.J.G.” quotes an individual case of
financial stress and the physical strain
of childbirth in an effort to justify birth
control (B. 2/10/’4O). It’s a poor justi-
fication. If the financial part comes into
it —where are the big families of the rich
people?
And the physical terrors of childbirth?
Modern science has done a lot to ease the
pain of today’s mother-to-be, whereas
years ago the mother would go through
sometimes eight confinements attended
only by a midwife and attain a ripe and
healthy old age into the bargain. More-
over, I doubt if the longevity of mothers
has been extended by the introduction of
birth control. Certainly nervous dis-
orders have increased.
It’s not the question of birth control,
wise or otherwise, but of married life,
natural or unnatural. When, as in France
and ancient Rome, the trend is to reduce
marriage to the level of free expression
of love with no responsibilities, we are in
for it.—A. P. (N.S.W.).
Sydney Slums
Well, I’ve seen the Harbor, the Bridge,
Vaucluse House and the Zoo ; I have
been entertained in some beautiful homes
at Rose Bay, Point Piper and Balmoral;
I have travelled by ferry to Manly, and
have seen the beauties of Katoomba and
Leura. I have been taken to all those
places that every visitor ta Sydney sees,
and I have experienced the casual Sydney
hospitality.
I felt, however, that my visit would
be incomplete until I had seen somethfng
of the manner in which the little people
lived. So I made my way to the crowded
areas, narrow lanes of sordid houses
where so many thousands of Sydney's
poor eke out an existence. To many
people these districts, which form an in-
tegral part of the life of Sydney, are en-
tirely unknown. They have never seen
streets in which children are forced to play
their games because there are no back-
yards and no convenient open spaces to
which they can go. And yet within a
radius of two miles of the Central Rail-
way Station can be found slums as foul
as any in London.
Politicians are fond of talking about
“vast open* spaces” and “unparalleled
potentialities.” When will they come
down to earth and sweep away such dis-
graces as Sydney’s slums? — Enoch
(W.A.).
The Unemployed
Can any Other Fellow enlighten me as
to why there are still thirty-odd thousand
registered unemployed in this State at a
time when we are engaged in a struggle
for our very existence? Surely there is
defence work of some kind on which
these unfortunate people could be em-
ployed instead of being compelled to sub-
sist on the meagre scale of food relief


provided, with an occasional week on
relief work to keep them clothed.
In my home town there are many relief
workers who dare not accept casual work
during idle periods, because to do so
would disqualify them both from the dole
and relief work. Unless the rest home in
Macquarie-street does something for the
unemployed, many of the inmates will
find themselves looking for jobs after
the next election.— Pierrot (N.S.W.).
“No Traditional Culture”
When “V.J.” (B. 10/9/’4O) in eager
desire to welcome to our shores all
Europe’s unwanteds declares that “pos-
sibly no country in the world... .has as
little traditional culture as our own,”
surely he does not intend us to look upon
that as being a disability. Certainly we
have no thousand-year record of
struggles and bloodshed. We are not
cramped and stultified by the unhealthy
conservatism of centuries linked to the
barbarities of the past. We have no proud
and ancient culture which demands the
“upper classes” shall be looked on as
pure sterling because of their natal silver
spoons, which sanctions acre upon acre
of slums, which fosters the belief that a
laborer’s wage should be far below
standards of decency and comfort, which
breeds Rosa Luxemburgs and Staviskys
as an old and dirty house breeds rats, or
which hinders the recognition of living
genius.
That is Europe’s culture, for social con-
ditions mould culture just as surely as
they are moulded by it. And if un-
wanted aliens or any others import that
culture holus-bolus (instead of leaving
us to assimilate whatever parts of it are
good) then it is good night to the Aus-
tralian outlook on life and to all true
Australian culture.
We have a culture of our own— no
matter how blind “V.J.” and his kind
may be to it —a vigorous and growing
culture in which some have seen hope
for all the world, and in which a few of
us have seen hope of the greatness of
Australia’s destiny. It is a culture of
manliness, of self-reliance, of initiative, of
toleration, of cheerfulness, of hardihood,
of physical excellence, of artistic achieve-
ment.
At that last, let the refugeeophiles
scream. And let Australia’s sons and
daughters—Henry Lawson, Grafton Eliot
Smith, Gilbert Murray, Elioth Gruner,
Miles Franklin, Joseph Furphy, Chris
Brennan, W. J. Turner, Percy Grainger,
Melba, Marjorie Lawrence, Eleanor
Dark, Xavier Herbert, the Lindsays,
Robert Helpman, Rayner Hoff, Hugh
McCrae and hundreds of others —make
silent and sufficient answer.
Australia, despite those of her own
citizens who so love to belittle everything
pertaining to her, has a culture—indeed,
1 would claim that per population per
square mile of settled areas it is the most
vigorous culture in the world.
Subtle forces are attempting to destroy
our Australian culture and our Austra-
lian outlook on life. Imported films, im-
ported professors, imported radio an-
nouncers, all help in this job of blinding
us to the greatness we have already
achieved. An influx of aliens full of alien
cultural ideas will perhaps achieve the
final swamping of that culture —aided by
the native-born Fifth Column that hates
all things Australian. And the world,
including the countries that are mentally
and emotionally impoverished by the
burden of their traditional cultures, will
be the poorer for its loss. — Australl
(S.A.).
Maorilanders
Unlike most other lands settled by
Europeans, the natives in Maoriland are
treated as full equals with the whites. At
present the numerical superiority of the
pakeha is so great that racial competition
is not seriously considered by the man
in the street, but relative population in-
creases provide food for serious thought.
In 1926 the race proportions were 21
to 1 ; in 1936, 18 to 1. In the 10 years
1926-36 the pakeha population increased
roughly 10 p.c., while the Maori in-
crease was about 30 p.c. At this rate
the time when the Maori will outnumber
the pakeha is definitely calculable. What
will be the result? No nation can con-
tinue long when two distinct races are
striving for dominance, so an absorption
of the Maori population seems the only
way out —a race of Maorilanders incor-
porating the blood of both.
There is no racial prejudice in those
districts where Maoris are numerous. In
the north, for instance, local officials fre-
quently are of mixed blood, but in the
almost exclusively pakeha districts there is
a prejudice based on an indefinite color-
line idea due to a lack of personal know-
ledge of the Maori and his value. There
is no other country where the mingling
of blood produces such fine specimens
of humanity, both physical and intellec-
tual. One needs only to mention Sir
James Carroll and Dr. Buck to show
the type that mixed blood can produce.
—R. H. (M.L.).
Beecham and Wells
Because a man has made a success of
his own particular calling, does that give
him a license to criticise spheres of which
he knows nothing? Apparently Sir
Thomas Beecham and H. G. Wells con-
sider it does. The former presumes to
attack—among other things—Australia’s
war effort; while the latter bolted to
America and there broadcast that the
British soldiers were led by “Haw-haws”
and “Yessirs.”
Bill Smith, the best wharf-lumper and
exponent of bail-hook technique in Wool-
loomooloo, would probably class them as
a pair of old cows. And why shouldn’t
he, too, be an authority? He has made
a success of his chosen calling, which is
the only claim to distinction that the
other two critics can claim.—B. A. Ker
(N.S.W.).
Portrait of a Lady
“Iconoclast” (B. 9 /10/’4O) on modern
art complains that he viewed a “Portrait
of a Lady” who had only one eye and
no nose. But was that very much more
monstrous than the painted, bedizened
“Now, remember, Shylvia—don't shay any-
thing about them bein' full when We found
'em."
dolls who perambulate through the streets
disguised as “glamor girls”?
I am engaged at present on a little
canvas entitled Per Ardua Ad Aspidistra.
This is a very modern bit of goods, done
under the influence of the Post-Metho
School of the Pre-Plonkite Movement.
The canvas shows a socialite doing her bit.
The subject has no face ; its place is taken
by a lemon, swimming in vinegar, in a
strong surf of scarlet paint. On her
“head” there is an onion, and out of her
ears, which have flapped forward, belch
clouds of cigarette smoke. Around her
neck is draped an astrological chart, and
let into her middle-piece is a portable
cocktail cabinet.
Further down, on the right-hand side,
she wears half the kilt of the Botany Bay
Highlanderesses, and on the other side
she wears the battle dress of the Bellevue
Hill Land Girls. In place of hands and
arms she has cocktail-shakers. Her eyes
are on a mirror, her teeth are in a frank-
furt, her heart is in her purse, and her
brains are in her powder-puff. Three cigar-
ettes are sticking out of the back of her
neck. And this diyne creature is being
waited on by a dumb waiter bearing a
silver platter with a motor tyre around
the edge. In the centre of the platter is
a miniature perambulator in which there
are a petrol ration ticket, a copy of
“Form at a Glance” and a quart of beer.
I hope to take the Royal Australian
Academy by storm. Gerald Dillon
(N.S.W.).
Picture Magazines
They are sweeping Australia. You
don’t have to be able to read to appre-
ciate them. You just look. You don’t
even have to think. Just gaze at the pic-
tures and you will experience all manner
of emotions without the slightest effort.
I have before me a copy of one of
these magazines and, among other things,
it features photographs on the following
topics: Bombs for Babies—This Is Nazi
Policy ; Ripley’s Crazy “Believe-It-or-Not
Party”; Hollywood Now Centre of
World Fashion ; “Bobby” Carling —Idol
of S.A. Women Racegoers; Old, Old
Publicity Stunt by Glamor Girl Landis ;
When Beauty Becomes a Commercial
Asset. And, of course, it is a very dull
issue which does not contain photographs
of bathing beauties, dancers or women
in various stages of undress.
There are also horror photographs to
be had by the page —thrills without the
actual awful experience of seeing the
thing happen. Out of all this glamor and
horror comes stupor. If these pictures
are to dominate and fascinate the Aus-
tralian mind what is to become of Aus-
tralian literature? What is to become
of any literature when people prefer to
look at pictures rather than read good
books? — Nagoh (S.A.).
Australian Flowers
Native flowers are seldom seen in
Australian gardens, though many of them
are worth growing for their beauty alone.
There is also an opportunity of develop-
ing an export trade in the seeds. The
most beautiful species are difficult to
grow compared with the imported flowers
which take pride of place in our gardens.
The main thing is to avoid disturbance
of the roots, and the gardener soon de-
velops the correct technique.
Clianthus, better known as Sturt’s
Desert Pea, is seen occasionally in gar-
dens, but it is a flower which could be
grown much more extensively and one
that amply repays any time and trouble
devoted to its culture. Waratahs have
been “domesticated,” but there are scores
of other Australian flowers that could be
tried in Australian gardens.
There should be an opportunity for
someone to learn as much as he possibly
could about native flowers suitable for
garden use, and then to sell seeds and
his knowledge to a country such as
America, where Australian blooms would
be hailed as “rare novelties” if the right
circles were approached. — Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
Electoral Reform
Our political system is suffering from
some very serious maladies which in un-
favorable circumstances might prove
fatal. I regard the following reforms as
essential:
1. Enactments to make pre-selection illegal.
2. Liberalisation of candidates’ expenditure
to allow for maximum of £250 for Federal
elections and £lOO for State, but rigid enforce-
ment through heavy punishments for breaches
and evasions, and auditing of accounts by elec-
toral office.
3. No party to be permitted to spend more
than £5O in national publicity in press or radio
for each candidate in the field.
4. The use of patriotic symbols, flags, etc.,
prohibited under penalty.
5. State electorates to be abolished, each
Federal electorate to return five State members
on proportional representation.
6. A sane system of counting the Senate
votes to prevent one-half of the people electing
three Senators and the other half none. This
would be another job for proportional repre-
sentation.
7. The initiative, referendum and recall.
8. Abolition of the £25 deposit, nominations
to be accepted only if signed by 100 voters
agreeing to work for the candidature of the
nominee.
9. Voluntary instead of compulsory voting
to eliminate frivolous and nitwit votes.
10. Broadcasting of fake statements by
“Mrs. Smith, a typical housewife,” and so on,
to be strictly prohibited.
—G. M. (N.S.W.).
Women
“F.T.C.” attacks the democratic prin-
ciple at the root (B. 9/10/’4O). The ordi-
nary man is no Leonardo da Vinci, but
he is not denied a vote because of that.
He has as strong a tendency to turn first
to the sporting pages of his daily news-
paper as a woman has to turn to the
social notes ; but that does not convict
the human male en masse. We human
beings are a mixed lot, and neither sex
is in any position to start throwing stones
at the other.
To touch on a more controversial point,
it has long been my belief that women
strike nearer an average than men. Cer-
tainly statistics show that there are rela-
tively fewer feeble-minded women, as
there are fewer outstanding personalities
in purely creative work (their talent for
interpretative work is beyond question).
In common fairness it must be remem-
bered that a huge amount of feminine
time and energy must always be ex-
pended in the bearing and rearing of
children. In literature, one of the call-
ings still possible to the conscientious
mother who does not wish to leave the
care of her children in the hands of
others, women have made a pretty good
showing.
Tests taken at school ages do not show
any advantage in intelligence to lie with
the boy. I suggest that the prepon-
derance of male successes in later life is
partly due to the fact that women lack,
or have been taught artificially to deny,
the egocentric con-
centration of the
genius who must
reject everyone and
everything that
gets in the way of
his ideas. And
this concentration,
though it gives us
the flowers of life
without which we
would be as ants,
does not always
leave enough
energy for the
duties of ordinary
citizenship.
Women, as
voters and citi-
zens;, have still a
long way to go
before they learn
to produce the per-
fe c t community,
but looking at this
crazy world all
anyone can say is
that they have no
monopoly of fat-
headedness. The
sooner we, as men
and women, stop
quarrelling over
questions of sex
equality that can
neither be proved
nor disproved and settle down to making
a better job of things as human beings
together, the sooner we’ll have a world
worth living in.—G. W. (N.S.W.).
Store Fodder
We should store not' only wheat but
all fodder crops.
Farmers could secure their hay by cover-
ing it from rain and stock. Silage can be
stored more economically and will keep
for years. The Government should arrange
to advance to the settler amounts from
time to time to pay store bills, rents, etc.,
on security. It would be a safe invest-
ment and would help settlers and farmers
to get a fair price for their crops. This
scheme could be worked through the in-
spectors of the Department of Agricul-
ture in each district.
Dairy-farmers should be encouraged
to make silage, which is the best of all
fodders in drought-time. In times of
plenty lucerne and all herbage and succu-
lent grasses are ideal, but anything grown
by irrigation is not suitable for milking
cows ; silage is far ahead. The writer
has proved this, having had from five to
600 cows milking on one estate. Drought-
time did not reduce the cheques, and I
never had to buy fodder during twelve
years. Reinforced-concrete silos were
used, of 200 tons capacity. All corn was
chaffed for silage.— Diviner (N.S.W.).
Australian Axes
The war has made Australians use
more and more of their own timbers, but
for the primary work of felling the trees
Australia is still dependent upon other
countries for tools, particularly the axe.
Out of all this war enterprise and indus-
trial endeavor surely we should be able
to make our own axes and keep within
the Commonwealth some of the £70,000-
odd which is paid out every year to
foreign makers for axes, choppers and the
like. — Bill Ding (W.A.).


w
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
dtmorse's
INMAN
ROOT
PlfcfcS
They Make You
Feel Brighter
m
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more libera'
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes I 1/6), post
free. '
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”\
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
'"Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra). ' *
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,’ by
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
0*
&
Brian
&
0°
, 0 e
,>s e V
w s * .* .•* a S V C 5 :
011O 11
#
Svel
46 \,o
■^' S .••


M t
.1
P' Vm*
LMI
wmm
mm
S\«B®ST.X
A ‘ ,, " < :fi!
? \ Mr?
’ •
=
i,P
•3*52
eg
!: i 1
V. •-■
■
_"V#
SIM!”
' fL *
msm
hi■'
1 •«
r /
m
S-.
a V./
mil!
mi
mwd’W<
'^ V
IJ JIJ j j j I! I
• ,'JV'u: • i >.
i; •. siiis;';* j si
illllliljiijii
iil!i!iili;ii!
mm !!••::
amrMmi
«
<!i;i
liv'ji.l '•
iiiiiiii
'MI
r
I liiii
I 111!
>5l!
m
R! iillWii
ft
pi
Hi!!!!!!!
0
w»mw-
flM
111
|!lj !
iiiihi i
in:
:::;
Hi
M
4#
■ .
m
gpniiiiiiiin
l?fi| | i j jin || ||
iijiiiiiiiiijiji
u
Oif.
spill®';:®
;»{••• • j ; j *1 • ' ■ i !! I
jiiji 5:
! it•! ••!! 1 • ■ j j• j! 11 Ji j
1
r. <
11)1*1* •• !!!!•!••
mii
liliiilii *!l
ISiiiSl SlllpSI!
Ill!! ijjliiiiliil
!!!!;;! liiiiiiii
jijliJßJi
lillillli^
i:: ii !!!!■! • j j • 1 ■ :
i ii ii j 1!!! i!! ii11 i ji iii
’Hiiiiiii; ill!Ililiilii
f-f
■I
w
JjOTTjggg
305
O
—Castle OE UNSWEETENED 'GIN-vuM
from Malt and Grain, and higblyrerti-
fled at W & A Gilbcy's Distillery. Hu
the delicate flavor of the Juniper berry.
kitatt-.NET: 1 PINT 6 OZS.
PRODUCE OF AUSTRALIA
BTggjr
Yim'SSss.
CntleOE
ohT
2® =
=g ~
A\uu'.mu\ n.
GiLBEY'S is always well in the running
when the hoofs pound at Flemington.
Moving quickly to the inside, it settles
down nicely and romps along ahead of the
field to the final whoopee of celebration.
Straight and short, Gilbey's steadies the
nerves and restores energy. Long and
cool, it soothes thirsty throats, dry with
"ridin* 'em home." In cheery cocktail
form it brightens the party that wets your
winnings.
For a safe bet at any time, go straight out
for Gilbey's.
DON’T SAY GIN... SAY
r//£ cm os cmfmr/o/vs
