

THE
m
... i
■■ ■
V •
r*. ■ •
’-i
OMRIJONWEALTH
NATIONALJJfiRARY
For your
E ASSURANCE
m *
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded 1886
Assets exceed £30,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £39,000,000
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,Vol. 61. —No. 3148.
Wednesday, June 12, 1940.
Could It Happen Here?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, of
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
COCO THE CLOWN.
Whatever anyone else was doing in
1914—preparing for a war, selling
groceries or totting up figures in a ledger
—Lazerenko the clown was nightly
making people laugh by jumping over
three elephants. And when you come
across that oddment early in Nicolai
Poliakoff’s autobiography Coco the Clown
(Dent), you are plunged at once into
the fascinating, fantastic world of the
circus. Continuing the story of Lazer-
enko, who befriended him when a boy,
Coco traps a superb short story in a
paragraph, offering a strangely tragic
explanation of the motives that can
prompt a man to jump over elephants,
and showing, incidentally, how tightly-
packed are the anecdotes in this extra-
ordinary life story:
Once [says Lazerenko] I had a son like
you, Nicolai. My wife and I thought the
world of him. He caught the fever and
died. My wife used to be a famous trapeze
artiste, and in those days we used to do a
turn together. One day while she was prac-
tising on the trapeze she fell. We took her
to the hospital, but she died next day.
I thought I could not go on living without
my wife and son. But it is life. I de-
cided that I would be a clown instead of
a trapeze artiste, and here I am.
Coco, one of the most celebrated of
the clowns of England’s Olympia Circus,
has had the sort of life that would be
incredible in any other country but
Russia. He is like a character from
Dostoevski, and the almost childlike
simplicity of the style in which the auto-
biography is written, the direct statement
of comedy and pathos, suits the subject
matter admirably. He laughs and he
weeps, and he is no more ashamed of
weeping than of laughing. Terrible
events occur in his outward life, but they
cannot affect his inner determination to
be a good clown.
Coco was literally born in a theatre.
His father was a property man and his
mother, who assisted with the costumes,
was working at the theatre when her
delivery occurred. At five years of age,
while his father was away at the Russo-
Japanese War, Coco fed the starving
family with money that he earned singing
and tumbling in a night-club. One day
he saw an organ-grinder who employed a
boy acrobat and decided to ask for a job.
He followed them all day, too nervous to
speak to them, and spent the night sitting
on the wall of a cemetery near their
hovel. Next day he got his job. A
fortnight later—he was then nine years
old—he stowed away under a seat in a
railway train, travelled 300 miles, made
friends with a stable boy and pushed his
way under the wing of Lazerenko, who
was kind to him because he had lost his
own son.
Sometimes returning to his family, but
always running off again to a circus,
Coco spent years wandering over Russia.
He was apprenticed to one circus and
found that before he could be a clown
he must learn the whole bag of tricks —
first be an acrobat, then a trapeze
artiste, then a tumbler ; “in fact you must
be able to do everything and then you
can think about being a clown.” In this
section of his book there are stories of
the beatings he endured; of the time
he was chased by a bear; of the villain-
ous goat he fed every morning on cigar-
ette ends (they made the goat sneeze,
but it never lost its passion for tobacco);
of the stormy night when, while the
audience enjoyed the circus unawares,
all hands were out in the rain hanging
desperately to the ropes to stop the tent
blowing away; of the time when, asking
for a job, he rashly said that he had his
make-up kit, and was forced to decorate
his features with house paint that would
not wash off.
When he was still a child he made his
way to Moscow and, having no papers
and no money, was arrested and thrown
into prison without trial. Never given a
chance to complain to anyone in
authority, half-starved, kicked and
bullied, daily growing more ragged and
more verminous, he was taken on a night-
mare journey from prison to prison for
12 weeks. He thought he was bound for
Siberia. A chief of police freed him
in Feodosia, and he scrubbed himself
clean in the Black Sea. He had orders
from the police to make his way back
to Riga, where his family were, and he
slowly worked his passage by a week or
a fortnight at each circus
he came across. The Great
War broke out and—at 14!
—he managed to enlist. At
15 he was in hospital in
Riga, wounded in action. He saw the
beginnings of the Revolution, bora out
of starvation and misery:
But this was a Petrograd I did not know.
The city was starving. Everywhere the
workers were on strike. Hoardings carried
posters warning them to stop their strike
on pain of 25 years in Siberia —or the firing
squad. There were muttering crowds, grey,
pinched .faces and wailing children. People,
literally starving to death, huddled into the
angles of the walls, trying to keep off the
deadly cold. The streets were thick with
snow and ice. And everywhere armed
policemen moved the miserable people on.
Coco cared little for politics. Per-
suaded by his brother, he joined Keren-
sky’s army to fight the Reds and, when
captured, learnt what it was to be beaten
with rifles until he was half-dead.
Through the good offices of an old friend
he escaped the firing squad, but only on
condition that he joined the Red Army.
Then he was taken prisoner by the
Whites, but was released after a while
because the prison commandant knew
nothing about his case and couldn’t find
any records. With another clown, an
Italian, he joined the Red Army again,
thinking to be given work as an enter-
tainer. But both clowns were sent to
fight in Siberia. Invalided home, he
found that the Reds had shot his brother
before his mother’s eyes, so he “felt for
the first time that senseless hatred that
burnt at the core of this revolution,” and
he would have nothing more to do with
the Reds. He thought his fighting days
were over, took to circus work once
more, and married. Russia was still
starving, and his wedding feast consisted
of a pound of bread and one salt herring.
Without warning he was pressed into the
Latvian army and spent two more years
fighting the Bolsheviks. An amazing
career!
As soon as the fighting was over, he
went back to clowning, and he describes
with much humor and tenderness his first
attempt at forming a circus of his own.
All went well until, during a clowning
act in which he fooled with a samovar
of boiling water, the handle of the samo-
var broke and he was scalded. While
he was in hospital his creditors took his
equipment and his staff deserted him
because, as he says, “a fire-eater cannot
live on fire alone.” Happier times fol-
lowed. He won fame in Berlin and in
England. He tells of his difficulties try-
ing to clown in England when he knew
nothing of the language—of his difficul-
ties in a restaurant, too, where; unable
to say anything but “fish and chips,” he
lived on that dish for a week.
The last third of the book is pure
circus, enchanting reading. He tells of
the clown who swallowed his whistle ;
of a tragedy with bears ; of a dangerous
tiger which escaped and which was petted
by guileless patrons who thought that,
since it was free, it must be tame. There
is an interesting chapter on the hierarchy
of clowning: the white clowns, who are
the real clowns, wearing the traditional
costume; the augustes (his own class),
who are the foils for the white clowns
and who, if acting on their own, must
still always be ridiculous, suffering absurd
accidents, dressed in absurd costumes;
and the carpet clowns, who have to be
funny throughout the performance, keep-
ing the audience laughing when nothing
else is happening. Wirths, who have all
three varieties, are apparently sticklers
for the high tradition of the circus.
Two more of Coco’s chapters call
especially for mention, one on Zaro Aga,
the Turk who was reputed to be 158
years old (he was exactly like a mis-
chievous child), and one on the Wal-
lendas, a breath-taking drama of tragedy
on the high wire averted by miraculous
presence of mind. Coco finishes his
narrative with the statement that, owing
to the present war, he is on the dole. If
his talents as a clown don’t set him on
his feet again, his venture into literature
should do the trick, for the publishers
don’t exaggerate at all when they describe
the book as “one of the classics of the
circus.”
Diggers and Germans.
Though in the bulk it is necessarily of
specialised appeal its most interested
readers sure to be doctors, especially
those engaged in Australia’s effort in the
present war, and these certain to find
its infonnation absorbing —as good
stories and as striking comment on the
Diggers in the last war can be found
embedded in Col. A. G. Butler’s The
Australian Army Medical Services in the
War of 1914-1918 as in any other volume
of the Official War History.
At the end of August, 1916, when
“the weather changed” apd “dust was
replaced by mud, from which many of
the wounded had to be dug out,” Col.
Butler records that “a handkerchief or
scrap of white cloth, constantly and
quite illegally, though innocently—used
by Australian stretcher-bearers in the
absence of Red Cross flags” was “largely
respected by the Germans.” Reminiscent
of the 1914 Christmas fraternising,
bearers of both sides in front of the 13th
Battalion divided no-man’s-land between
them, each side handing over the other’s
wounded.
In these dreadful conditions, indeed, with
the troops on each side living in full view
of each other, an almost friendly sprit
arose between them, although both sides
kept a sharp lookout for its abuse. Often
one side informed the other of the posi-
tion of wounded men in no-man’s-land and
so made their rescue possible.
There was another instance of this
for Col. Butler’s record at Bullecourt
in April, 1917, when “in the 4th Brigade
wounded were tended with admirable
devotion by two captured German medi-
cal orderlies, who at a later stage con-
tinued their humane endeavors after
their own rescue by the German counter-
attack.” In this attack the 4th and 12th
Brigades were cut off from supplies and
reinforcements, and the alternatives pre-
sented —to the “walking” wounded, as
to the uninjured—were either to be cap-
tured or to face the recrossing of the
old no-man’s-land (including the wire
belt) under continuous aimed rifle and
machine-gun fire.
The majority attempted to escape
but a very large number were killed on
the wire or were wounded and lay about
until captured or, as the Australian Official
Historian properly states, “were put to
death by a merciful enemy.”
Subsequently it was noticed that, “in
spite of our artillery and machine-gun
fire, German medical orderlies were
attending the wounded in the shell-holes
in no-man’s-land and on the wire.”
The firing was therefore stopped, and,
after display of a white flag, for some
two hours our regimental bearers and 50
infantry were permitted to assist in col-
lecting wounded. Most of those who were
picked by the Germans off the wire were
carried by them to their own trenches, but
in some instances they placed badly-
wounded men on its outer edge to be picked
up by our bearers. By 6 p.m, snow was
falling; the Germans shouted “Finish
hospital,” and both sides withdrew.
By the end of 1917 feeling between
Diggers and Germans had changed—
naturally enough in that sort of war-
fare. When bearers of the Ist Division
then attempted under Red Cross flag to
search for the wounded who were left
in front of the line they were at once
shot down. Col. Butler closes this part
of his record with the grim note:
Instances of this occurred at this time
on both sides commonly through suspicion
of treachery, or as the result of the spread-
ing of atrocity stories as “propaganda”—
the malignant influence of which was con-
stantly felt by the medical services during
the war. There is no record of any
member of the Ist Australian Division
having been made a prisoner of war during
this week, although some 50 were “missing”
at Celtic Wood.
Along with such revealing vignettes as
these that may be dug out of it, Col.
Butler’s contribution to the Official War
History (published by Angus and Robert-
son for the Australian War Memorial,
Canberra) is war on its grimmest side,
dealt with in great detail, with profes-
sional detachment, without heroics —in
that manner, from the Medical Corps
point of view, recording the story of the
Diggers in France from 1916 to the end.
Implicit in it is as striking a tribute as
has ever been paid to the Digger quality.
Sinclair Lewis Novel.
If it were not for Sinclair Lewis’s name
on the title page few readers would get
past the first 50 pages of Bethel Merriday
(Cape; Angus and Robertson) They
deal with the romantic stage aspirations
of a good little girl in an American pro-
vincial town. Is Mr. Lewis, who fell far
in the interval between Main Street and
Prodigal Parents, really going to pull the
one about the obscure but virtuous little
understudy who gets her chance to amaze
Broadway when the star falls ill?
No, he isn’t. At about page 60 the
track turns sharp right and lands in one
of the Summer Theatre colonies, of which
it seems some hundreds dot the American
semi-rural scene.
The groups appear to be something
of a twentieth century folk movement;
people who are without hope of the com-
mercial stage and are weary of the glossi-
ness of the films, who prefer taking part
to looking on, professionals and aspiring
amateurs. They forgather in any place
that has a disused hall or abandoned
livery stable.
The group dealt with in Bethel Merri-
day plays in a large old wooden church
at a Cape Cod holiday resort. If you
are a beginner you pay a couple of
hundred dollars for the summer term and
that entitles you to appear in a limited
number of the season’s productions. If
you won’t—or can’t—act, you can come
and take part in the billsticking, scene-
shifting and prop-borrowing, and then
go back to Arkansas or Georgia and
“spread the gospel of the theatre.”
There is a certain amount of “artiness,”
which Lewis exposes in the gentlest pos-
sible way. A studied carelessness of
apparel is the fashion at rehearsals, a
carelessness that rises by competition to
the fantastic. “Walter Rolf was given to
overalls, sneakers and a lumberman’s
green-and-yellow flannel shirt; Tudor
Blackwall to mauve or maroon lounging
pyjamas.” But whatever they wore, every
man carried his brown-covered part in his
back pocket. The girls were given to
shorts and the flaunting of bare brown
legs, “but they were very nice legs and
so numerous that they became as modest
as noses.”
The producer, at the beginning of the
seven-day rehearsal, will spend 10 minutes
earnestly deliberating whether a player
had better sit with her ankles crossed or
uncrossed, but toward the last, if a player
asks for a simple direction, he clasps his
head in his hands and moans, “Hasn’t
anybody told you the news? We put
the show on day-after-tomorrow! ” Props
are got by levying on local business
people in return for whatever trade the
“group” brings to town. Bethel is
deputed to borrow a cash register from a
restaurant proprietor who inquires
whether he will be expected to leave the
money in it, and makes a melancholy
reference to four ham sandwiches that
were borrowed the year before and not
returned.
As Lewis pleasantly puts it, “In every-
thing was the spirit of children’s play
—not the rule-ridden, time-killing play
of adults that is a preparation for death,
but the busy and credulous play of
children that is a preparation for life.”
The leading character, Bethel Merriday,
never lives to see her name outlined in
neon lighting, but she fulfils herself as
a woman and as an actress becomes one
of that army of sincere and dependable
players without which there could be no
stage. The measure of Bethel’s success
is in some sense the measure of the book
—it isn’t a world-beater, but it is com-
fortable, kindly and satisfying. Neces-
sarily, a proportion of the minor char-
acters are recognisable as types, but they
are delightfully touched off. “It is
doubtful if Iris ever thought of having
a good time; in her spun-glass quietness
she cared for nothing more vulgar than
being admired.”
Lewis has mellowed since Babbitt and
Elmer Gantry. . Prodigal Parents read
like a bit of unsuccessful prospecting
after another vein. Bethel Merriday
reads as if he has found it.
Testament of Friendship: Vera Brit-
tain (Macmillan). Biography of Winifred
Holtby. There’s an anecdote about
telepathy, an account of the bombard-
ment of Scarborough in the last war, oc-
casional oddments of interest, but the
Georgian literary “life” has been done
to death.
Men of Cobb and Co. This brochure
bit of historical curiosa is published by
Cobb and Co.’s Old Drivers’ Association,
Melbourne, compiled for those old hands
by vice-president and auditor E. J. Ais-
bett. It puts on record the beginnings
of the association in 1925, when the
veterans were guests at the first Inter-
national Motor Show at the Exhibition
Buildings. A few of 'them were then still
under 60, many were in the 70’s, the com-
bined ages of five totalled 437 years, the
oldest 93. One claimed on behalf of his
father a coaching record of having trans-
ported 211 people 90 miles from Wagga
to Albury in one day. Perhaps few
nowadays realise the size of those
coaches: there is a mention of Edward
Devine (“Cabbage Tree Ned”) setting
out on one trip with a 12-horse coach
which had on board 90 passengers,
including the first English cricket team
to come to Australia. The first Cobb and
Co.’s coach went on the roads on Janu-
ary 30, 1854, running from Melbourne
to Bendigo.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Anthony Horderns’ word is their bond.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
HALF YEARLY CENUINE
A
m
m
V
Trousers Reduced!
Practical Economy
for Men...
BUY NOW!
55'- to 135 -Wool OVERCOATS
At Right :
A splendid assortment of warm, winter Overcoats offering at
big and genuine reductions for the thrifty man. There's a choice
of single or double breasted styles . . . all this season s, too.
Tailored of all wool Coatings in
Grey, Fawn and Blue tonings.
It will assist greatly if you send
chest and waist measurements
taken over waistcoat. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Prices
12't NAVY DRILL OVERALLS
At Left:
The£e comfortable Overalls will keep you neat and tidy at work.
They're in popular Bib and Brace Style and are made of strong
navy heavy weight Australian Drill. Double sewn. Made in
our own workrooms and finished
with a deep hem at the bottom.
An exclusive feature. Sizes 30
to 48 inch waists. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 12/6.
SALE PRICE 10/6
496
106
m
m
¥
I
§§§ll 8
37/6 Sports Trousers
Here’s a bargain. Best quality all wool
Worsted Sports Trousers . . . mostly in
Sports Grey tonings, also a few in Blue-
Grey. Made in • our own work rooms
. . . and there is only a
limited quantity at this
saving. 32 to 44 in. waists.
Anthony Horderns’ Re-
gular Price 37/6. SALE
PRICE 22/6
226
:
W&
9/6 Work Trousers
Made of Australian Cotton Tweeds, these
Work Trousers have been rendered un-
shrinkable by the latest “sanforized”
process. Neat dark patterns. Cut and
made in our own work-
rooms. Sizes, 30 to 46
inch waists. Anthony
Horderns’ Regular Price,
9/6. SALE PRICE 8/9
B^9
'Phone M 2401, Day or Night
FOR TOWN OR COUNTRY WEAR
22'6 JODHPURS
Strong Riding Twists in service-
able shades of Fawn or Olive.
Scientifically cut, they fit the leg
perfectly, and allow ample free-
dom for saddle wear. Finished
with extra strong cross and hip
pockets, and belt loops. Sizes
range from 30 to 44 inch waists.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price,
pair 22/6. SALE PRICE 21 /-.
21'
We’ll send you a copy of our copiously
illustrated Sale Catalogue if you send us
your name and address. In it you will
find bargains from every department at
prices that mean real savings for you.
Write to-day. A copy will be sent by
return, and post free.
• Men’s Wear, Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W., and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
gkd
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


NIGHT OCCUPATION
By DAVID GOODHART.
THERE are seven of us cooped up together in the
overcrowded van. We sit huddled, facing one
another in the darkness, surrounded by kitbags,
ammunition boxes, instruments. My legs are
cramped and my left foot has gone to sleep. It is no
use moving, for it only upsets the others and makes
them swear at one another in whispers. We are not
allowed to talk. I suffer, while the tractor lumbers
through the night, in silence.
It is impossible to see anything inside the van.
The tractor-driver in front can only see the tractor in
front of him, twenty yards ahead. There are no lights
in the mile-long column, feeling its way along back
tracks through invisible creeks and gullies. Behind
us, our gun and limber are swallowed up. I am aware
of my companions only by their breathing and by a
sense of touch. Warm bodies, jolting against me, keep
out the cold a little. Gunner Green is asleep and
snoring, sitting upright. In the army you learn to
sleep anywhere. I would never have believed it.
There are strict orders against smoking. A
cigarette-end dancing in the outer darkness is the only
sign of the tractor following. It is a sergeant. If we
gunners were caught smoking we should be put under
arrest. We do not care really. There is injustice in
the army just the same as everywhere else. So?
Somewhere in front of us, in this “battle,” the
infantry holds the line —Gum Gully, Snake Ridge. A
battalion of Scotties training with us —“glamor-girls”
we call them ; and they call us “chocolate soldiers” —
has been badly knocked about but reinforced. Their
C. 0., Colonel Thruster, has asked our C.O. for artil-
lery support. That is why, although I know nothing
of such major tactical assumptions, I am sitting in
this tractor, rumbling through the night in a phantom
column moving under cover of darkness into an
advanced position. I am cramped and cold and
hungry, and I wait, with what philosophical calm I
can muster, the moment, seemingly imminent, when
we shall all go hurtling over a precipice, or at best
become bogged in a ditch and be “bombed” by
“enemy” aircraft in broad daylight.
One becomes oddly detached, I find, in this new
life of mine. It is a matter of little or no moment to
me whether Colonel Thruster wins his confounded
battle or not. It is a matter of supreme importance
that Johnny the Killer should get his tractor through,
with me in it. He’s been “Killer” ever since the last
little episode in night-driving when he took us over
a thirty-foot embankment under the impression it
was still road.
J SUPPOSE I’m a cogitating sort of bloke and like to
* ruminate. But one thing has struck me for-
cibly since I joined the army. And that is that war
becomes a personal thing, once you’re in it, not a
vast vague campaign like .you read about in the news-
papers. You judge it by the standards of your own
personal discomforts or creature comforts. Last time
we did a night occupation the B Echelon Transport
overturned in a ditch with all the cooks’ stores on
board, and we got no breakfast. That was a far
greater disaster than if Colonel Thruster had lost his
mock battle.
You cease to think in the army. Others, you
know, are supposed to think for you, and, though you
may be perfectly convinced that they have nothing
to think with, it doesn’t matter. You cease to think- —
except of food and warmth and sleep and, occasionally,
of hot baths, and sometimes beer.
Gunner Twig, beside me, has just whispered that
he proposes to light a cigarette. I hold a blanket up,
shielding the flame that spurts like a flare over an
enemy aerodrome. Gunners Blunt and Nolan join
us. And Gunner Blunt —suitably nicknamed “Sharpie”
—who’d play Charon penny-poker in his dinghy cross-
ing the Styx, sighs and remarks for the umpteenth
time that if there were a moon we could deal a hand
or two. He carries his fist over his pack of cards in
much the same way as a cavalier carried his hand on
his sword-hilt.
Outside in the night tractors and guns, ammuni-
tion wagons, staff trucks creep, stop and creep for-
ward again with complaining engines. Somewhere at
the head of the column the battery leader strains his
eyes, shielding a torch, to read a map. It is an army
survey map, gridded, with the co-ordinates of his bat-
tery position blue-pencilled in on the celluloid trans-
parent map-covering. We trust his judgment. We
crouch beneath our blanket with cupped cigarettes,
smoking surreptitiously. We trust in our battery
leader, and in Providence, and we trust in “Killer.”
\\ 7E halt. We unravel stiff limbs and dismount and
* “ examine equipment and carry out the order whis-
pered down the line: “Prepare for action!” Incon-
gruously I find myself grinning at all this stealth,
thinking of the story of the infantry battalion who
had a pet band that followed them everywhere. They
were to do a night occupation. The need for absolute
silence was impressed on all ranks. To whispered
words of command the troops lined up. In whispers
n.c.os. reported to their subs., subs, reported “ready
to move” to orderly officer. The adjutant whispered
to the C.O. and the C.O. whispered back: “Quick —
march!” As the column moved off in the dark the
faithful band struck up fortissimo: “Turn —tum-te-
tum —bang—boom! ”
Again I experience that sense of unreality. I
have not seen active service, but I find the feeling
comforting. Perhaps, after all, even the biggest wars
are little ones if your mates are close about you. I
should hate to be lonely in a war.
Perhaps I am just a cog in a machine. Well, I
have a place to fill. I am Number Five. It says in
the gun-drill book: “Examination of Equipment—
Five examines and tests the pressure of the tyres.” A
humble task ; nevertheless, I am an expert tyre-tester.
We have no horses now, of course. And with pneu-
matic tyres the romantic rumble of the guns is heard
no more.
We are moving again, creeping furtively through
scrub. The blue battery picket light burns dim as a
camouflaged star, indicating our gun-position. We are
guided in on foot by the occasional flash of a torch
muffled under a khaki handkerchief. Our apparatus
illuminating dial-sights rather surprisingly works . . .
The tractors steal away . . . We Settle down . . .
“I Was a German raider and I had to scuttle meself .”
Twenty-three hundred hours . . . The Gun Posi-
tion Officer lays out the guns —director method —by a
pin-prick of torchlight—on their zero-line. In G
truck, shrouded by blankets, two computers crouch
against a lantern, working out a meteor telegram from
headquarters and a correction of the moment. Over
telephones with reels of wire in dark ditches signallers
are repeating monotonously, patiently: “Hippo Bat-
tery calling Hippo O Pip . . . Hippo Battery call-
ing Hippo O Pip” . . . And at long last: “Communi-
cation established, sir.”
Oh —one —three —oh hours . . . Down around the
guns there is still furtive movement. We are digging
in for greater range. We must get six five hundred.
I swing a pick in the cold night air and the sweat rofls
off me into a trench for the trail already three feet
deep . . . We’re in solid rock but we dig . . . dig . . .
Six five hundred . . . We seem to have been digging
all night when at last we can get it on our range
drum.
“Stand —easy! ”
“Position of stand easy—five yards in rear of
guns.”
I grab my blankets and collapse in an exhausted
heap, weary in every bone of my aching body.
CT OMEWHERE in front of our position old Colonel
Thruster prepares to decorate the heavens with his*
Very lights. At each gun only a single sentry is
awake standing to, muffled in his greatcoat, waiting.
Our G.P.O. finishes his gun programmes and stirs up
the Number Ones. Fortunately I am not wanted.
Sleepy sergeants collect their skeleton crews to re-lay
the guns.
Oh —three —oh —oh hours . . . Call for defensive
fire! White over green . . . Our skeleton crews spring
to their posts, and almost simultaneously the guns
shatter the silence as the battery opens fire. Flames
spurt forth. The blasts are ear-splitting. Shell-cases
rattle across the trail as the recoils run out. Number
Ones shout; and, in short, the night is full of noise.
I’m afraid I don’t know much about it. I wouldn’t
have believed it possible before I joined the army. But
it only goes to show that what I said at the begin-
ning is right about war being a personal sort of
affair and you get detached from it. I’m afraid I don’t
know much about the actual shoot. I believe old
Colonel Thruster was tickled pink. But I just didn’t
wake up, that’s all. I wasn’t on duty and it wasn’t my
pigeon.
DOINGS
By LES ROBINSON.
THERE are people who seem to think you should
change your occupation (if any) once, at least,
in every five years, and several of them—my
resistance to theories likely to prove inconvenient
being, I suppose, enfeebled at the time —had managed
to convince me that I should not be furthering my
own interests unless I did as advised. Remembering,
therefore, that a five-yearly period had expired at
7.54 the previous evening, I rose much earlier than
usual and, after hurried ablutions, followed by a
breakfast hastily devoured, began, with no enthusiasm
whatsoever, to trudge to town.
“Do something! Be up and doing! You
should be doing something! You must do some-
thing!” they were always exclaiming.
“Why?” I would murmur wonderingly. “Weren’t
there far too many doers in the world already?
Wouldn’t it be much better for everybody if buzz-
nackers like Stalin, Hitler and Mussolini, for instance,
were easygoing and lethargic instead of being aggres-
sive and ceaseless? People who do next to nothing,
or refrain from doing anything at all, are rarely, if
ever, such a confounded nuisance as those who, at all
times and whether their activities may be regarded
as excusable or not, are indefatigable.”
But the voice of conscience, echoing the words of
my advisers, kept on goading me. Miles, signposts,
hoardings, telegraph poles, electric-light standards
innumerable, and possibly about an hour and a
half went by. If perspiration were as inflammable as
petrol or benzine I would undoubtedly by this time
have been striving to cope with spontaneous com-
•bustion.
And then I caught sight, through the shimmer
of that parched, overheated and frizzling landscape,
of what appeared to be a shady tree, in a paddock
alongside the road. The temptation was irresistible.
Removing boots, hat, collar and coat, I was soon at
rest, with my back against the tree-trunk, in the shade.
But I should be doing something! I tried hard
to keep on bearing it in mind, to ponder upon it,
instead of thinking about glaciers, glissades, icebergs,
blizzards, snowdrifts, ice-cream, iced drinks and slices
of watermelon fresh from a refrigeration chamber.
In order to aid me in determining what was to be
my next vocation, I had bought the morning'paper,
and, without further delay, although, according to the
thermometer I had also brought with me, the tempera-
ture was llOdeg. and steadily ascending, I swatted
several flies, killed a centipede that was travelling in my
direction, mopped the sweat from my brow and began
to peruse the Positions Vacant column.
“Bandsmen, Brass-finishers, Boot-clickers, Ballast-
getters, Balladists, Barrowmen, Bifurcators, Bundlers,
(Continued on next page)


Buskers, Boners, Boundary-riders, Boilermakers, Black-
smiths, Bisectors, Bushwhackers, Butter-hardeners.”
There were unlimited possibilities, but only, it was
emphasised repeatedly, for “the right kind of man”
A rabbit that was hurrying towards the shade
saw me sitting in it and fainted. The centipede and
the flies I had slain probably came to the conclusion,
whilst expiring, that I was not “the right kind of
man.” What was “the right kind of man”? What was
I to do?
Opening my immense suitcase I took from it a
large sample bottle of “Freezeezi” —a chemical com-
pound (my own formula) for producing intense cold
—and the spray-pump I had purchased for demonstra-
tion purposes in heat-stricken areas with the hope,
I might as well state quite frankly, of becoming
exceedingly wealthy. I was not long, I can assure
you, in soaking the grass all round me nor in saturat-
ing the tree as well. There were some scraps of old
sacking scattered about the paddock. Wetting several
thoroughly with “Freezeezi” I hung them in the
branches.
The temperature began to alter immediately.
Colder, colder, down towards freezing-point, ever
more bitterly cold did the atmosphere in my immedi-
ate vicinity become. I shivered, sneezed, was glad I
had brought my overcoat. The grass for yards around
turned white with a bluish tinge. My teeth began to
chatter ; my feet and hands grew numb. A hard
frost was setting in. Icicles were soon observable
hanging from the branches of the tree, and presently
from the dangling pieces of sacking snow began to
fall. Several migratory birds on their way to the
Arctic regions thought they had reached them and
alighted.
I went to sleep.
A
LETTER FROM
COLLEEN
By FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
OLD McShane’s selection was in the middle of
the Big Scrub, twelve hundred acres of belar
and brigalow forty feet high and as thick as
the hair on a heeler’s back, fair in the middle
of ten thousand acres of the same class of country.
“He’ll have a fine place some day —if ever he gets the
land cleared.” That’s what people said of him, prac-
tical people who had selected in open forest country,
or, at most, had selections that were part forest and
part scrub.
You reached Mac’s selection by a foot track the
old boy had hacked for himself; seven miles and
never a house once our bit of a township was left
behind. I never saw his place, but a lot of talk went
around from those who had come on his camp when
looking for strayed cattle ; and from what I knew
of scrub land I could imagine it well enough. He had
felled and burned off four or five acres, and there, in
that rich absorbent soil, sheltered from drying winds
by the walls of scrub, he had raised prize crops
of pumpkins, sweet potatoes, corn, sorghum and
cotton. I gathered that his plot was as neat as a
Chinese garden and twice as lush ; this in the middle
of a dryish summer. People accepted his achievement
as a bolster to their own hopes. “It just shows you
what the land will do,” they stud.
Most likely Mac would be able to make some
sort of a living for himself, what with growing his
own vegetables, keeping some fowls and a pig, potting
a scrub turkey now and again, and perhaps doing a
little wallaby-scalping in the season ; but of the vision
that must have taken him into the heart of the Big
Scrub, a vision of twelve hundred acres felled and
sown to grass, there seemed small likelihood of ful-
filment ; it would have taken twenty years of a
strong young life, and at that a man would need his
feet planted in open country while he tackled the
scrub.
I’d seen Mac plenty times in at the railway on
Saturday afternoons, but I’d never spoken to him till
he came to my place for water. He looked like a
scarecrow coming through the bush ; a gangling figure,
moving with the rusty agility of active old age, his
flannel and dungarees faded and patched, the dun-
garees bagged at the knees. Two seven-pound syrup-
tins dangled from a big brown hand at the end of a
skinny brown arm.
The weather was dry and the little gilgai on
which he had been depending for water had failed;
could he take what he needed from my tank until rain
“Say ‘ Ah ,’ damn you!”
fell? It wasn’t much to ask: my tank was brimful,
two thousand cubic yards ; with his two empty syrup-
tins, his gaunt physique, his comical get-up, his years,
his gentle diffidence, he made me feel ashamedly rich.
The reason he hadn’t brought larger vessels —
kerosene-tins, for instance —was that he wouldn’t be
able to carry them the four miles across-bush to his
camp. While the dry spell lasted he came every
second day, eking out the water for cooking and
washing, a syrup-tin to each twenty-four hours. If
he saw me about he would detour in my direction
to exchange civilities and perhaps have a short yarn
before going to the tank to dip his water. Some-
times he would bring a scrub turkey that he had
shot, pleased, I could see, to have hit on a way to
return a kindness for a kindness.
He had been to America and back to Ireland
before coming to Australia, and since then had wan-
dered over a good deal of the Commonwealth. He
had followed a number of occupations, all laborious:
farmhand, navvy, millhand, miner. He had tried
wheat-farming in West Australia, but with insufficient
capital. He had tried gold-prospecting in North
Queensland, but had only made tucker, although—
he seemed disinterestedly pleased to report —fellows
lower down the creek had struck it rich ; an event,
I dare say, that served to confirm his belief in the
pot of gold at rainbow’s end. I understood how he
came to follow a vision into the middle of the Big
Scrub.
“You never married, Mac?”
Yes, he had married, but his wife had died years
ago while their only girl was still an infant. She
had been brought up by friends. Colleen was her
name. It was not a right name, Mac told me, but —
with a smile —his wife thought it pretty along with
McShane. She was married now and living in Mel-
bourne. “She writes to me every week,” Mac said.
He said it half to himself, as if he felt that it wasn’t
relevant to our talk, but a nice thought to have in his
mind.
I didn’t think of her again till the Saturday
afternoon when Mac, who had tramped in for no
other purpose, failed to receive from the station-
master the expected letter.
'T' HE up-train from Wilgatown had arrived, dis-
* charged mail and passengers, and the engine was
fussing about, pushing trucks up to the shed and
carriages over on to the shunting tracks. There were
thirty or forty of us settlers grouped around the open
door of the station office when Grimwade, the station-
master, was calling names as he delved in the mailbag
and brought letters and packages to light.
He was a mean customer, this Grimwade. When
business brought any of the scrub aristocracy to the
station he was more than a model of willingness and
eagerness to oblige. “You’ve an hour until the train
goes, Mrs. Brigalow Downs. If you’ll come across
to the house Mrs. Grimwade will give you a cup of
tea.” “Would you care to have lunch before starting
for home, Mr. Hereford Bullock?” At the same time,
I’ve seen a settler’s wife sitting in the broiling sun in
a cart outside the goods-shed for half an hour waiting
for Grimwade to make his leisurely appearance. You’d
think it would be easy to catch him out over some-
thing like that; plenty of us were just waiting a
chance ; but he could always produce the regulations,
and the regulations, it appeared, could always be in-
terpreted to the inconvenience of the public
When Grimwade was calling the mail you’d think
he had written the letters himself and was now regret-
ting his good nature. He reached the bottom of the
bag. Everyone had withdrawn from about the door
except young Harry Marchant, who was squatting
near the doorstep, his back to the wall, myself, who
was waiting for Grimwade to go with me to the goods-
shed, and Old Mac, who was looking in the door of
the office like a dog who has seen dinner disappear
without being flung so much as a crust. He was still in
hope.
“Nothing for you, Mr. McShane,” said Grim-
wade crisply and, it seemed, not without relish.
“No letter,” said old Mac brightly, evidently play-
ing the part of a man who really wasn’t expecting a
letter, but just happened along, in case there should
be one, and turned away briskly. I wouldn’t have
thought a man could have been taken aback so hard,
or been so self-conscious about a disappointment that
only one or two had noticed. He was like a child
that has been publicly slapped, but is determined not
to cry. He went off with a false jauntiness, streaking
straight for home, as if something especially pleasur-
able awaited him there.
When Grimwade was ready he came from the
office, glanced down at the top of young Marchant’s
head, locked the door with a brisk click and started
with me for the goods-shed, ostentatiously jingling
the keys from the ring. No doubt he was being rightly
obedient to the regulations in locking the door, but he
needn’t have been so pointed about it. The Mar-
chants were reckoned a bad lot. They weren’t settlers,
but lived in a big straggling camp on the reserve, a
couple of hundred yards from the edge of the town-
ship, the parents, the two sons, two daughters and a
couple of ghildren. They lived by scalping —in season
and out —thievery, sly grog and a rare spasm of hard
work when all else failed. They owned no cattle
and bought no meat, yet always had a full beef cask
and a plentiful pot. Young Harry flaunted a horse
with a faked brand right under the noses of the
police, knowing he had been a shade too clever for
them, and he had fought Douggie Duncan, one of the
biggest men on the settlement, with bare fists, for
half an hour, an old grudge and a purse of five
pounds, in the railway trucking yards, on a Sunday
morning.
When I returned from the goods-shed with Grim-
wade to sign off for my netting he was still squatting
with his back to the office wall, staring moodily across
the plain. He was in his friend-of-no-man mood, a
mood in which he was contrarily impelled to seek the
company —or at least the presence —of others.
As soon as Grimwade opened the door of the
office I noticed an envelope lying face downward on
the floor. While he was reaching for the paper I
had to sign I picked it up and, having turned it over,
read the name on it aloud, “Mr. Michael McShane.”
It must have fallen unnoticed from the bag. I handed
it to Grimwade. He glanced at it, expressed no regret
in the matter, but shot it into the box where the left-
over mail was kept and grunted, “He can get it next
week.”
There was a sound of young Marchant rising to
his feet. He stood in the doorway. “Give it here,”
he said. “I’ll go after him ; poor old coot! ”
It was Grimwade’s chance to be official and mean
all round. He glanced from the letter to the young
man, and then at me. I am not very good in a situa-
tion that rises suddenly, but I must have met his
glance with an unfriendly look. He handed the letter
to Harry and turned again to the business of the
docket I had to sign. A minute later Harry was
mounted and clattering off on the track to McShane’s.
I saw the last of him through the timber as I climbed
into the buckboard to drive home. He would over-
take Old Mac something less than halfway along the
track to his camp.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
j4jclt r inelloumeMunclJmuq/iiei
WATER BIRDS IN KENSINGTON GARDENS.
London’s parks would lose much of
their attraction were it not for. the
water birds, for whose accommoda-
tion provision has been made. These
feathered creatures may be arranged
under two heads for the present pur-
pose—tame and semi-tame. At no
place may they be studied under
more favorable conditions than at
that beautiful sheet of water known
as the Round Pond in Kensington
Gardens, depicted in the illustration.
The gardens are in immediate con-
nection with Hyde Park, to which
they form an excellent adjunct of
quite a distinct character. Intended
only for pedestrians, they are con-
spicuous for presenting one immense
and almost continuous mass of
shade, beneath which one may en-
joy a most luxurious summer ramble,
but slightly varying in its principal
features. The Round Pond, drawing
its supply from the Serpentine, is
the one big space in this arboreal
retreat, and its attractiveness from its
bird life is strong with children, and
even children of a larger growth.
Swans and ducks, the tame represen-
tatives of the feathered tribe, enjoy
here an ideal existence, whilst the
gulls, semi-tame and always on the
look out for morsels of food the
public so liberally bestows on the
swans and ducks, belie their poetic
designation, “the wild sea-mew.”
The Round Pond should be visited
by all who go to London. The foun-
dation of the gardens was laid by
William 111, in whose reign they
occupied 26 acres. Queen Anne
enlarged them to 56 acres, and had
them laid out by her gardener, H.
Wise, who was to become a celebrity
in landscape gardening.


BACK FROM THE MOUTH OF HELL.
“Thanks, mates.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months. £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides, and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. Urated Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
COULD IT HAPPEN HERE?
Reading reports of or listening to broadcasts of the
British Prime Minister’s speech on the Battle of
Flanders, people were thrilled and, at one point,
startled. Thrilled by his description of the heroic and
supremely efficient measures by means of which
upwards of 335,000 British and French soldiers were
saved after the Government had abandoned hope of
saving all but a small number and authorised a
general to prepare the public for “the bitterest news
of the war” ; and startled by sentences which seemed
to suggest that the Government admitted and was
prepared for the possibility of a successful invasion
of Britain. That interpretation was placed on them
by an American Senator, the Chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, who visualised the emigration
of the Royal Family, Ministers, Parliament, Admiralty
and War Office to Canada, and referred complacently
to the accession of strength which it would bring to
North America.
“We shall defend our island at whatever cost,”
said Mr. Churchill. “We shall fight on landing
grounds, on hills and in fields and streets. We shall
never surrender.” Then, laying down his notes, he
proceeded:—
Even if —which I do not for a moment believe —this
island, or a large part of it, is subjugated and starving,
our Empire beyond the seas, armed and guarded by the
British Fleet, will carry on the struggle until, in God’s
good time, the New World, with all its power and might,
sets forth for the liberation and rescue of the Old.
Was this meant, in part, as a warning to the
people of the Dominions and the colonies, or was the
speaker carried away by the emotion of the moment
and by a memory of Canning’s “I called into existence
a New World to redress the balance of the Old”? He
said in another passage that there had “never been
a period when an absolute guarantee against invasion
could be given ; there is always a chance, and it is
that chance which has excited and befooled the imagi-
nation of Continental tyrants.” If involvement in a
European war such as has been possible for at least
five years carried with it the risk of the Dominions
having to take the war in their own countries and then
proceed to the rescue of Britain, they should have been
told of this long ago so that they might organise to the
limit. They were told instead by a swarm of self-
constituted authorities that collective security would
guard them against all dangers and that war, for them,
would be merely a matter of helping the Mother
Country to rescue oppressed peoples and establish a
new order somehow.
So many astonishing things have happened in a
few weeks of this war that no development may be
dismissed as impossible. The Governments of these
Dominions will have to proceed as if they might be
attacked. It doesn’t seem likely, nor can full faith
a pd credit be given to the Prime Minister when he lets
his imagination soar or expresses beliefs which corre-
spond with his wishes.
In November Mr. Churchill said: “The Soviet
Government, embodied in the formidable figure of
Stalin, has barred off for ever all Nazi dreams of an
advance to the East, and is disputing German control
of the Baltic. Not three months later he discovered
that “Finland’s service to mankind has exposed for
all the world to see the military incapacity of the Red
Army and Air Force.” In April he said: “We are
suffering from nothing in our blockade policy so much
as the denial of the Norwegian coast and that cursed
corridor, now closed for ever... .We shall take all we
want of this Norwegian coast now with an enormous
increase in the facility and in the efficiency of our
blockade... .All German ships in the Skagerrak and
the Kattegat will be sunk.” A man so enthusiastic
may be subject to fits of depression as well as opti-
mism. All the same, he has been entrusted with
powers such as were exercised by the two Pitts, and
the information at his disposal is greater than any
other man possesses ; so none of his utterances may
be rejected as mere rhetoric.
No doubt the bitter-end part of the speech was
intended mainly for French consumption. Another
great attack was about to be launched in France ; the
British share in the defence would perforce be small,
and it was necessary to give the French an assurance
that Britain would never desert them. In this war, as
in the last, the cry has been heard across the Channel
redoubled no doubt since the French armies suffered
so severely on the Meuse, in Flanders and in Artois —
that Britain was not pulling its weight in the land
campaigns. Mr. Churchill certainly knows France and
the French. His words may well have had a consider-
able effect in that quarter; anyway, the French, under
their new leader, are resisting the drive towards Paris
most gallantly, and making the invader pay dearly for
every gain of ground.
And as the spring recedes every hour of effective
resistance is important. Hitherto, except for a Channel
fog which an old A.I.F. general has described as an
answer to prayer, the weather has favored the in-
vaders ; if it turned against them, giving their armored
divisions the problem of mud, such as the Diggers
remember only too well, and their bombers that of
“bad visibility,” their schedule would suffer seriously.
The value of time must be always in their thoughts.
In the preparation of their war machine the
German nation was under a continual strain. The
strain has been increased by the Nazis’ methods of
warfare, by the loss of their overseas trade, by the
effects of the fearful winter, now showing up in poor
crops, and even by their swift conquests, for in the
countries to which they have brought butchery and
desolation the people have, in the interests of the con-
querors, to be held down, housed and fed. They can’t
be taken out and shot en masse, nor can they be left to
become the prey of epidemics which would spread to
the German garrisons and to Germany itself. And
they, too, have been deprived of imports of foodstuffs,
fertilisers—very necessary to Denmark —textiles, metals,
fuels, everything. After a month’s occupation in the
last war, Belgium was threatened with famine, and the
enemy had to sanction the admission of huge imports
—in the first place from Britain, and all along by per-
mission of the Royal Navy—and the setting up of a
foreign (chiefly American) Relief Commission as a
guarantee against theft on his part. Now in a worse
season and a bitterer war he has to provide not only
for Belgium and northern France, but also the Nether-
lands, Poland and Norway, if Norway has indeed
given up the fight. From Denmark he can get as
much as he chooses to take ; but last time he got as
much as he could pay for, and then essential supplies
of fertilisers were unimpeded.
In short, swift victory on the Continent is neces-
sary to the enemy. He is not morally or materially
prepared for a long war. Neither is Italy, which has
had a bad harvest and is dependent on imports for
every war requisite.
It is significant that the enemy has been reduced
to lying about his losses. On the night of June 4he
claimed to have taken 1,200,000 prisoners, “British,
French, Belgian and Dutch.” In the absence of
French figures this cannot be disputed, but even
though the total includes all the Dutch and Belgians
who surrendered and all the wounded who fell into
his hands it is most probably an exaggeration. The
accompanying statement' that “the losses of the Ger-
man army since the invasion of the Low Countries
have been 10,252 officers and men killed, 8463 missing
and 42,523 wounded” is obviously a lie, as is also
the assertion that “we have lost 432 ’planes.” After
the Polish campaign, which was virtually over in a
fortnight, though there were a few more days of mop-
ping up, Hitler himself announced the casualties at
10,572 killed, 30,222 wounded and 3400 missing. Not
even Germans can believe that more soldiers were
killed in a fortnight’s promenade through Poland than
in five days of furious strife with the Dutch army
and air force, 18 days with the Belgian army and air
force, and 25 days with three French armies, the
British Expeditionary Force and the British and French
air forces, and with the British Navy when the invaders
came within range—as they did in Holland, Belgium
and Northern France —of naval guns.
Not only with unshaken fortitude but with an
immediate increase of energy the people of the British
Commonwealth learned from Mr. Churchill that
although more than 335,000 British and French sol-
diers were saved by miracles of resourcefulness and
pluck, the Battle of Flanders was “a colossal military
disaster.” The German people, who were assured by
their rulers on May 25 that in the battle aimed at the
annihilation” of the British Expeditionary Force “the
bulk” of it had been “encircled,” and on May 29 that
it had been “completely dissolved” and that sur-
vivors were trying to swim to “battleships,” cannot be
trusted, even in victorious hours, to react favorably
to unpalatable truths. They must be flattered and
deceived.
Diggers as Stayers.
In popular tradition the first crop of Diggers stand as
magnificent spectacular fighters. There is no doubt
they were: lan Hamilton, Masefield, Ludendorff and
dozens of others —apart from the historical records of
their battles —long since testified to that. With an-
other war on hand, which, to be won, may have to
be long and bitter, and with another crop of Diggers
who have the advantage of being fortified by the fight-
ing tradition of the first lot, a less-appreciated quality
of the old Digger character is worth recalling.
The first crop of Diggers were no one-round
fighters. They had stamina —the ability to come again
and again, battle after battle, through the years of
the war of attrition on the Western Front, as else-
where. It has never been properly grasped that, as a
fighting force, they were among the best-disciplined
of all troops engaged, as they were among the most
efficient. Haig said to the Duke of Connaught: “When
the Australians are ordered to attack they always do
so.” They had already been going through it for over
three years when the American commander and his-
torian Maj.-Gen. John F. O’Ryan encountered them
in France and put on record that “if by discipline we
mean experienced and skilled teamwork in battle, then
it must be said that the Australian troops were highly
disciplined.” Their fighting spirit
had become refined by an experienced battle technique
supported by staff work of the highest order. They
were probably the most effective troops employed in the
war on either side.
What the Diggers had already been through when
that exceptionally high tribute was paid to them is
strongly implicit in the latest volume of the Official
War History —ironically, still being written. Col. A. G.
Butler adds the story of the Diggers in France from
the Army Medical Corps point of view. Their strength
of endurance, their steady practical fighting efficiency,
their ability to keep on doggedly, going into action
again and again, when body and spirit were worn to
the point of exhaustion and numerical strength was
whittled down by casualties to a couple of hundred
per battalion, when —with recruiting dwindled away to
a thousand or so a month —battalions with splendid
fighting records had to be wound up and their rem-
nants added to others to keep up a semblance of fight-
ing strength—these now once again greatly important
aspects of the Digger performance have not had the
notice they deserved.
The truth —which may now have to be demon-
strated again—is that the Diggers could not only fight
in Homeric fashion ; they could stick it out. They
were fighting as well in the last stages of the four
years’ war as they fought on Gallipoli, only more effi-
ciently. As a sidelight on their practical efficiency:
“No troops in the British Army surpassed the Austra-
lians in the making and maintenance of trenches.”
When the first Diggers reached France in 1916
the fight for Verdun had already been in progress for
three months and had cost the French 190,000 casual-
ties. To help relieve the pressure on the French, the
Diggers were called upon, only three weeks after
arrival from Egypt, to undertake an action that cost
their Fifth Division some 50 p.c. of casualties. That
was Fromelles—tragically like Gallipoli in being a
military failure. The casualties were so heavy and were
suffered in such a brief time that “it soon became evi-
dent that a serious medical tragedy was impending on
the military one.” This was in the almost impossible
difficulty in coping with the appalling number of
wounded. A grim aspect of the tragedy was that the
attack was
wholly futile and unnecessary, made by inexperienced
troops against unduly distant positions with insufficient
preparation, particularly by the artillery, which itself was
insufficient.
The fearful proportion of men killed in that action to
the number wounded—worse than one to one and a
half; a terribly high rate —was “due to men being
shot to death as they lay wounded in no-man’s-land,
or dying there through lack of assistance.”
We worked all that afternoon, that night and all
next day without ceasing. We could not show a light,
and when we came to a wounded man we would ask
him where he was hit and feel for his wound with
hands covered with dried blood and mud. There was
no time and no water to wash hands.
A terrible baptism. Worse was to come, time and
time again, to test the Diggers’ quality of endurance.
At Pozieres trenches “were chocked with wounded,
many of whom would be wounded afresh or killed out-
right while being attended to” ; and “many wounded
were brought in who were out days before being
rescued.” The Diggers who came out of Pozieres came
as men from the Valley of the Shadow of Death;
those who “dragged themselves step by step through
the mud from Flers seemed to reach a further degree
of reaction, being almost past caring.” A very large
number “went sick,” not suffering from any disease,
but merely tired and exhausted.
To mention only major testings of the Digger
quality of endurance, and only one or two out of
dozens of these in the long wearing and wearying pro-
cess of war by attrition in which courage and stamina
of men were bared and tried out to the last ounce and
beyond, there were hells like Mouquet Farm —another
grim “failure” —the Somme winter (1916-17); Bulle-
court, where losses were the heaviest ever sustained by
any Australian formation in a single action:
In the 4th Brigade casualties averaged four-fifths of
each battalion engaged—2339 out of 3000; in the 12th
they were 950 out of less than 2000.
The long wasting bogged-hell of the Passchendaele
fighting in 1917 ; so on to the 1918 Battle of Amiens,
when, from the first break-through on August 8 until
October 6, the Australian Corps was engaged in almost
continuous fighting.
Significant for this present time that after all that
the Diggers, as far as depleted ranks allowed, were
fighting as splendidly as they had ever fought. Many
of them had by then become embittered with war and
the long, well-nigh indescribable strain to which their
powers of endurance had been subjected. Yet they
went into it over and over, with that sticking charac-
teristic of the British breed which, given the chance,
will win now in the long run. Many of them were by
then several-times-wounded men: with the heavy
drain of casualties and the paucity of reinforcements,
it became a special function of the Medical Corps to
do this patching-up. Today many of them —though
the wearing of age debars the bulk of what are left —
are bluffing the clock back and enlisting again, and
thousands more would if they could.
A theme of reunion speeches among these veteran
Diggers on this year’s Anzac Day was that the
Diggers now in the Near East and getting ready in
Australia and Maoriland should be not only as good
as the first lot but better, because of the example and
tradition backing them up. The Digger quality of
endurance, glanced at here, has never been as well
imprinted on that tradition as it has deserved. The
spectacular appeals exclusively to the imagination, but
this other quality was at least as great as that of the
more picturesque fierce fighting quality of the Digger
in action. With this present war turning out as long
and bitter as victory will require, that dogged quality
to see it through—as great in fighting at the end as
in the first engagement—will be called forth again.
Reliance on it is safe enough—it is in the breed.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Government by Newspaper.
“The big newspapers of Australia this week finally
showed they would no longer tolerate the helpless-
ness of the Information Department under Sir Henry
Gullett. They demanded he be sacked and welcomed
suggestions that Sir Keith Murdoch, managing director
of the Melbourne ‘Herald’ and its chain, should be
appointed director of the department.”
The foregoing example of journalistic effrontery
appeared in one of the Theodore group of papers,
and there followed nearly a page of abuse and blah.
Not only Mr. Gullett’s head was “demanded”: “the
names of Stewart and Fairbairn” were “on the list”
as “incapables,” and those of Cameron and Thorby
as “unity wreckers” notorious for “their tedious un-
ceasing habit of baiting Reds.” But not that of
“Attorney-General Billy Hughes,” who during the
week had “explicitly warned returned soldiers’ organi-
sations against activities in which they proposed to
fight people whom they think are members of
the Fifth Column” and had “broadcast an appeal to
Communists to help defend Australia,” to which “Com-
munist president L. Sharkey” had replied declaring
that “Communists would fight for Australia.”
A day before this fustian was published a Com-
munist bookseller engaged in an anti-recruiting and
stop-the-war campaign was sent to gaol in Perth, hav-
ing been found in possession of military information
apparently collected for Moscow. Two days after it was
published a Government printing-office employee at
Canberra was sent to gaol at Queanbeyan for having
tried to communicate a secret regulation to “Com-
munist president L. Sharkey.”
But Mr. Cameron is the Theodore group’s special
aversion. He objected to the appointment of the great
Theodore as “Co-ordinator of Works,” so away with
“the bigoted heresy hunter” —“already the majority
of Premiers have made it clear that so far as they are
concerned Cameron can go jump in the lake.” “Living
quietly in Fiji, doing a full-time job on the goldfields,”
but always ready to place his “experience, undoubted
ability, immense drive” and so on at the nation’s ser-
vice, Theodore had been assailed by, and the Govern-
ment subjected to, the “fuming threats” of the rustic
from South Australia, a mere returned soldier, who, it
might be inferred, would be honored if permitted to
lace up Mr. Theodore’s boots. “Antipathy” to the pig-
headed Cameron “continued to grow.” He would “try
to impose ruthless censorship,” he was “prepared to
split the Government,” he would “wreck Australia if
he ever got control.”
All this from an office in which Mr. Cameron was
recently hailed as “the man of action,” whose “great
energy, application and vitality” bade fair to “dyna-
mise” the Government’s plans.
The Theodore stunt failed, and such of “the big
newspapers of Australia” as took part in it found
it expedient to turn to other subjects. Not one of them
could plead ignorance of the circumstances which led
to Mr. Theodore’s retirement from the Scullin Ministry
and to the resignations of Mr. Lyons and Mr. Fenton
when he was reappointed, but not one of them
mentioned the circumstances. With honorable excep-
tions, such as the Melbourne “Age,” “the big news-
papers of Australia” have a grave responsibility for
the tragically ill-prepared condition in which Aus-
tralia drifted into the war. For years they had fed
the Australian public with grossly false impressions
of “collective security,” of the strength and atti-
tude of Russia and the United States, and of the
moral and material forces existing in other countries,
presumed friends and potential foes. In Sydney at
least some of them were for hurling Australia, with
a few thousand militiamen, two or three cruisers and
a few-score second- and third-line aeroplanes, into
every foreign war that broke out, the Paraguay-
Bolivia business alone excepted.
Of all forms of government that might be
adopted by a people free to choose government by
newspaper is the worst. If “the big newspapers of
Australia” are allowed to direct its war effort, God
help Australia!
Whose Frankenstein Is It?
In its continual yowling for Mr. Menzies to do some-
thing overnight, as it were, the daily press exposes
its own staggering ignorance of the country and the
kind of governmental system it employs.
The plain truth is that Australia is baffled by its
own creation. A Hercules might well quail before the
labor of putting the country on what the press calls
a “war footing.” Nothing short of a Government
accustomed to the powers now exercised so vigorously
by the Governments of Britain and Maoriland could
do it. The whole chaos of interlocking and overlap-
ping departments, together with a multitude of Acts,
rules, regulations and laws, will have to be swept aside,
six of the seven Parliaments suspended or abolished,
the deadly routine of officialdom wiped out, millions
of miles of red-tape hacked away.
How can Mr. Fairbairn build 1000 aeroplanes in
a month if he has to call for tenders, wait for them
to be opened and checked by the creeping depart-
mental method, accept one or several and then seek
the approval of the Parliament for so doing? How
can Mr. Stewart establish a munition factory in a
week if he has first to wait on a departmental report
as to the suitability of the site, then haggle with the
owner over the price, call tenders for the building and
equipment and so forth, and then go to Parliament for
approval? And how can Mr. Menzies get action if
he has to hold “monthly conferences with the State
Premiers,” as he proposes to do? If he sacked Fair-
bairn, Cameron, Stewart and Thorby, as is demanded
by the flapper press, whom will he put in their places
that can any more force decisions quickly through
the maze of regulations and whatnot with which
Cabinet Ministers are surrounded?
Admittedly the Government which Mr. Menzies
leads has lost time, but so would any other Austra-
lian Government have lost time. Bureaucratic Method
rules, and until the nation is willing to see the whole
thing forcibly scrapped it must battle along as best
it can, hoping that the good luck that has stuck to it
for 150 years will continue to do so. That, or give the
War Cabinet outright and unquestionable power to
conscript everything, from man-power to oyster-farm-
ing, for the duration of the war.
Another "Idealist" in Trouble.
Canberra itself furnished a sequel to the Perth case of
the Communist bookseller who was caught in posses-
sion of a notebook containing precise and detailed
military information about tanks, artillery, fortifica-
tions, location of guards at vital spots, troop move-
ments, and so on —together with circulars attacking
the cause of the Allies and a letter to one of Stalin s
offsiders in Moscow.
The Communist in the second case was a new
arrival at Canberra. With charming courtesy he was
given a job in the Government Printing Office as
assistant proofreader. Getting access somehow to the
proofs of National Security regulations, he tried to
pass on the details of one of these —“an urgent job”
—to Comrade Sharkey, Australian member of the
Comintern World Executive, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Communist party and editor of the now-
defunct “Tribune.” The regulation was the one clos-
ing down Communist papers and prohibiting the issue
of leaflet dodgers and pamphlets. In an intercepted
letter the fellow wrote:
The above, although not correct word for word,
is substantially as I saw the declaration, and you will
realise the scope of it. In effect, it can close up the
“Anvil” and confiscate all the literature. It can cause all
the executive party members to be arrested, and anyone
who is caught with party literature on him or in his
house. They can grab our press 1 was attached to
the Petersham branch before I came here last October.
He signed himself “yours fraternally and with revolu-
tionary greetings.”
The now-familiar Church of England clergyman
was on hand to assure the Bench that the ruffian had
“high ideals.” As in the Perth case the idealist was
let off with a farcical sentence —six months. In France
he would have faced a firing squad.
And now perhaps the Government will set about
rooting out all “comrades” from the public service. It
has the excuse that the Maoriland Government —
always ahead of it since September 3 —has set it the
example.
Labor and the States.
The Federal Labor leader has called a special confer-
ence of the party. It is to be held in Melbourne on
June 18 to discuss
the world situation and the state of war in relation to
the defence of Australia and general questions associated
therewith, including the necessary outline of post-war
construction.
The chief U.A.P. paper in N.S.W. hopes there
will be a decision to join a national Government and,
with its own party eye undimmed by the national
danger, claims that such a decision would force the
Westralian, Tasmanian and Queensland State Labor
Governments to follow the lead and fuse with their
Oppositions. It doesn’t, however, suggest that Mr.
Mair and Mr. McKell should unite in N.S.W.
This is one more manifestation of the State-cnm-
Big-City mind. Fusion Governments in the States
would neither alter the uselessness of State Parliaments
nor reduce their hampering effect on the war effort
of the nation.
Unification was once a prominent plank in the
Federal A.L.P. platform, and it is surprising that little
has been heard of it in recent times. If there is one
man in the community who suffers more than others
from multiplicity of Parliaments, it is the working man.
Men on the same jobs work under differing, and
sometimes conflicting, awards. Far too much of their
wages is taken from them every week in unwarranted
State “unemployed-relief” taxes which neither relieve
unemployment nor reduce it. They pay more for
their food and clothing than they should because
producers, manufacturers and retailers of the goods
have to pay two, and sometimes more, lots of taxes.
Time after time workers in one State have lost their
jobs because some other State has used a marketing
or transport or some other board-conceived law to
stop their product crossing the border. A list of the
penalties workers pay for six superfluous Parliaments
would never reach an end.
Mr. Curtin’s conference may decide to unite with
the Menzies Government, though it seems unlikely in
the light of recent utterances. Whether it does or not,
it will make a tremendous impression if it resurrects
Unification. An enormous and increasing number of
Australians are waiting impatiently for a chance to
express their opinion of State Parliaments.
Conference First.
Personnel of the Machine Tools Committee, to control
machine tools, investigate national requirements and make
recommendations about acquisition, comprises representatives
of the Aircraft Production Commission, the Controller-
General of Munitions Supply, the Customs Department and
the N.S.W. and S.A. State Governments. — Fact.
Amid the paraphernalia of his office the Allied
Generalissimo stood watching the changing fortunes
of the great battle as his staff marked its ebb and flow
on the huge scale maps spread before him. Messages,
poured in by wireless and dispatch rider, were quickly
read, summed up and the replies sent forth. Swift
changes were made, sudden alterations of plan as the
need developed. There was growing evidence that the
enemy’s resistance in the northern sector was weak-
ening.
Coldly and calculatingly the Generalissimo watched
this development. There came a sudden batch of
messages. He grasped their import and his eyes
gleamed.
“The Australians, they are in reserve. Where?”
“Ten miles south, sir, here,” a finger jabbed at
the map.
“Send this message at once:
To Commander, A.I.F. Striking Force. You will
at once move to the attack on the northern sector,
9A34. Resistance there is weak. Use full power of your
splendid troops. Your chance, Australia; good luck and
break through!
In half an hour came the reply:
Impossible move to attack as ordered. Commander,
A.I.F.
When the Generalissimo recovered he ordered a
check of the message and reply. Back it came. There
could be no doubt.
“Sacre nom du— Colonel, a fast car at once! ”
Ten minutes later the Generalissimo confronted
the A.I.F. leader. He stormed, he raved, he cursed.
The Australian obviously sympathised, but was help-
less, as shown by the dispatch he had received from
Australia:
Cabinet urges refrain from action likely to lead to
heavy expenditure munitions and equipment. Cannot
guarantee replacements for several months as representa-
tives of N.S.W. and S.A. Governments unable agree as to
ratio of yin. bolts and leather washers for regimental
mangles to be manufactured by each. Matter now
adjourned while representatives consult respective Gov-
ernments with view to holding conference all interested
parties not later than three months hence. Must settle
dispute and thus establish precedent for future manufac-
ture guns, ammunition, etc. Menzies, Canberra.
“Sir,” said the Generalissimo, weeping, “you are
a truly great people.”
Third Term for Roosevelt?
It looks as if the second Roosevelt can get a nomi-
nation for a third term if he wants it. The struggle
in Europe has improved his prospects, and if he
accepts what most of the Democrats evidently desire
the party managers will be able to revive slogans of
proved service in Presidential election campaigns:
“Don’t swap horses while crossing a stream,” and
“He kept us out of the war.” On the other hand, they
will have to overcome a traditional prejudice in a
republic where tradition is strong.
On the records of the House of Representatives
there stands a resolution declaring that any attempt
to depart from the precedent established by Washing-
ton would be “unwise, unpatriotic and fraught with
peril to our free institutions.” That was passed, by
a vote of 233 to 18, in a predominantly Republican
House in 1876, when the Republican Grant was near-
ing the end of his second term. There had been much
talk of renominating him, but the cry was raised that
free-born Americans wouldn’t have “dynasties,” “dic-
tatorship” or “Caesarism” ; and the resolution made
a Grant nomination impossible. Another Republican,
Hayes, succeeded him after a disputed election which
at one stage looked as if it might bring about another
civil war.
Hayes having served a term, Grant was renomi-
nated at the Republican Convention in 1880. He
led on the first ballot with 304 votes, not one being
given to Garfield, but failed of the necessary majority,
as did Blaine and Sherman, thought to be his prin-
cipal opponents. On the second ballot Garfield re-
ceived one vote, but as the voting proceeded it became
clear that he was the only man with a chance of
getting the required majority, and there was a stam-
pede in his favor, though even on the thirty-fourth
ballot his score was a mere seventeen. In the end
he got 399 votes and the nomination. Bryan was
even a greater outsider in 1896 until he swept the
Democratic conventionists off their feet with his
“Cross of gold” speech. So at these conventions any-
thing may happen.
The first Roosevelt was elected Vice-President
in 1900, and, succeeding McKinley when the Presi-
dent was assassinated, served three and a half years,
being re-elected in 1904. On election night he said
“That three and a half years constitutes my first
term. The wise custom which limits the President
to two terms regards the substance and not the form,
and under no circumstances will I be a candidate
for or accept another nomination.” In 1908 his in-
fluence was sufficient to secure Taft’s nomination and
election, but 1912 found him after the nomination
again. Alleging hanky-panky tricks at the convention,
he and his supporters withdrew, and he ran for Presi-
dent in the interests of a breakaway party called the
Progressives. At the election he beat Taft with an
electoral vote of 88 and a popular vote of 4,136,020,
but Wilson got in with an electoral vote of 435 and
a popular vote of 6,286,214. As Taft’s popular vote
was 3,483,922 Wilson was in a decided majority in
the constituencies. The second Roosevelt has had
overwhelming majorities.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“ Soldier, is this one of the new anti-aircraft guns ?”
“T.”: An American expression which
is singularly out of place in this country,
though imitators of the American lingo
are doing their best to introduce it, is
“go jump in the lake.” One of the Theo-
dore group of papers had the face to
suggest that it was what the Premiers
would tell Cameron to do as a result of
his vetoing their appointment of its boss—
if he did veto it. 1 suppose the injunction,
though stupid, has a certain application
in a country where lakes and bum actors
abound, but this is certainly not the case
in Australia. In the State I know best
you could travel 1000 miles without see-
ing a real lake. Any Stunt Press writer
striking alleged lake country who gave
“go jump in the lake” a personal
application would fall heavily on rock-
hard salt. However, no harm would be
done if he landed on his head.
* * * *
“Ouch”: The hospital must be name-
less, but from it went a grateful
patient who rewarded two of the
nurses with a ticket in a “certain con-
sultation.” When the ticket won a hand-
some prize the all-seeing flapper press
played up the story. What it didn’t
know was that the hospital board met
and solemnly debated whether or not it
would permit thfc prize-winners to collect,
it being a rule that nurses are not per-
mitted to receive presents from patients.
However, it was decided to take no
action, probably on the ground that
“luck’s a fortune” irrespective of all
rules.
* * * *
“Bo”: A feature of flapper-papers’
idol-worship (B. 5/6/’4O) is that when the
feet of clay eventually poke through the
silken socks of guff their pets are gently
and unobtrusively dropped. The period
between soft-soap and disillusionment is
usually long enough to admit of the
public forgetting ; but occasionally a bit
of bad timing raises a guffaw from long-
suffering readers. Leopold’s defection
provided an instance. Before the ink
was dry on a Sydney “Sun” splash head-
line on how the king was gallantly “re-
maining at the front,” with a great deal
more blah about his being hailed as “his
country’s hero,” cables announced that
he had quitted. So the “Sun” had to
come out with an attack on its ex-white-
haired boy: “Every Other Inch a King.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Skad” isn’t quite correct
when he writes that the word “Tother-
sider” was applied by Westralians a good
many years ago to “people living in the
eastern States” (B. 5/6/’4O). It was used
far more often in the early days of the
goldfields to denote newcomers from the
other side of the continent, whose hustling
methods were alleged to be (and indeed
often were) distasteful to the easier-going
natives of the land, headed by John For-
rest. Its acceptation in that sense was so
general that among Coolgardie news-
papers published in “the roaring days”
was a weekly called the “Tothersider.”
It was a bright enough sheet, too, but
it didn’t last beyond a year or two.
* * * #
“Cauboy”: One of the most striking
things done by the Russian ballet was
“Scheherazade,” and one of its most
striking features was the resemblance
of Lubov Tchernicheva in her role of
Zobeide to the figure in a well-known
etching by Norman Lindsay. Not
only did she look like the Australian
artist’s subject, but she dressed in almost
the same fashion and had a penchant
for falling into the same pose. As
the lady is new to this country and
the etching was done long before she
came here there could be no question of
collusion on the part of the artist. But
many of the Russian ballet’s choreo-
graphers have obviously got their inspira-
tion from pictures—though most of them
are by old masters. This might be a case
of going to an Australian master.
“C. 8.”: Ballet certainly gripped Mel-
bourne. The best seats at His Majesty’s
cost 14s. 4d., and there were plenty of
people prepared to pay that price several
nights a week. One of the most curious
things about the attendance was the
number of cripples ; possibly they gained
a vicarious enjoyment by identify-
ing themselves with the unfettered
movements of the splendid specimens of
physical womanhood and manhood in
the company. Popular criticism of the
ballet ranged from frank distaste to
long-winded approval couched in the
jargon of balletomania. Unique was the
judgment of a showman with a lifetime
of experience of every variety of theatri-
cal entertainment who was there every
night. “1 like it,” he told me, “because
nobody squawks at you, nobody tries to
make you laugh, the girls are gems and
the music is lovely.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The man who raised his arm
and shouted “Heil!” at a meeting of the
A.L.P. at Lithgow (N.S.W.) said he was
merely being ironical. A man who
walked through a street recruiting meet-
ing in Melbourne giving the Nazi salute
in a very pronounced and provocative
manner looked as if he was inviting
trouble. But he was only making for
the public hospital to have the splints
on a broken arm attended to.
* * * *
“D.E.”: It was mentioned in cabled
accounts of the most spirit-stirring
evacuation in all military history that at
one British port returning warriors were
comforted with “thousands of jellied eels.”
Good old jellied eel! It is a dish un-
known in Australia, though in coastal
Australia eels can be caught almost any-
where ; but Shakspeare mentions it, and
it must have been as familiar to the
soldiers of Henry the Fifth and the
Black Prince as it is to the Cockneys who
fight for George the Sixth. As a stranger
from these parts, I was introduced to it
nearly thirty years ago in a dingy old
Whitechapel boxing hall known as
“Wonderland,” the outside of which was
plastered with posters, half in English
and half in Yiddish. About the ringside
seats and to the remotest parts of the
gallery flitted boys bearing trays on which
were small dishes of “jelly” (“a trey and
a tanner”) and blocks of ice-cream. From
what I saw it was “de rigger” in Wonder-
land to spoon up a mouthful of “jelly”
and bite off a chaser of ice-cream. I
didn’t try the combination.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Melbourne divers will have
one of the most difficult jobs on record
to occupy them for the next few weeks,
They have to disassemble, under water, the
100-ton excavator, one of the largest in
Australia, which was imported by a
Dutch firm to dig out enormous quan-
tities of mud on the Appleton Dock site,
The dredge, which takes three-ton bites
at its provender, dug so fast and so well
that the other day it suddenly slid for-
ward and vanished, gurgling, into 35ft.
of water. The man on the gears only
just bailed out in time to prevent him-
self going down with the monster.
* * * *
“Sing 9”: I hope Mr. Spender isn’t
estimating the income from the increased
petrol tax on last year’s petrol consump-
tion figures, because it won’t work out
that way. More than half of Australia’s
565,000 private cars are run by the not-
too-well-off, whose reaction to an increase
of Id. a gallon on petrol, apart from
other increases, within six months is
sure to be a big reduction in mileage.
In my street alone three men who
formerly drove to work now go by bus,
and if their cars come out at the week-
end they run 50 miles below what they
did formerly. Even before the latest tax-
increase owners of light cars had reduced
their petrol consumption by as much as
four gallons a week.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The Kidnappers’ Union of
the U.S.A. has failed to earn the million
dollars offered to anyone who could
produce Hitler alive and uninjured for
trial by the League of Nations. Except
for the last condition it was a reasonable
proposal. The moment Britain had
Napoleon safely incarcerated on Elba
the French thirst for glory sank to
nothing. His return re-galvanised the
nation, but when he was once more
marooned on St. Helena the French
nation gave up dreams of world conquest
and never regained them. If an expert
kidnapper in an aeroplane got a grapnel
into the Fiihrer’s pants, lifted him out
of a Nazi demonstration on the Pots-
dammerplatz and took him to some re-
mote South Sea island, only another
Hitler could maintain Germany’s belief
in the theory Hitler believes in. Goring
and Himmler could not. They are
ambitious men, and without their master
probably would start fighting each other.
Napoleon left a number of able lieuten-
ants behind him, but without Napoleon
they ceased to shine.
* * * *
“K.S.” (London): Leeds, England,
where Phil May was born in 1864, com-
memorated the birthday of its famous son
this year with a dinner and a show of
the artist’s drawings. David Low sent a
friendly message. I am old enough to
have met May at the beginning of the
’eighties when he was a sort of handy-
man at the Leeds Grand Theatre. He
sometimes walked on or played smail
parts; and he made drawings of the
players. One of Jenny Hill, known as the
“Vital Spark,” hung for years at the
entrance to the theatre; it is now in the
collection in the Leeds Art Gallery.
* * * *
“Long and Cold”: The idiocy of the
N.S.W. Liquor Act got a further airing
in the State Full Court when a spinster,
an adult, was prohibited from holding the
license of a hotel willed to her by her
mother. The licensing inspector who
brought the action said he sought “to
clarify the chaotic state of the existing
law.” A provision in the Act allows that
if a licensee dies within two months of
the expiry of the license a renewal can be
granted to deceased’s personal represen-
tative or to such one of several as the
licensing magistrate may think fit. It was
argued that an adult spinster daughter
who was an executrix might thus obtain
a renewal for a year, but Jordan, C.J.,
ruled that an Act which expressly forbade
spinsters from holding a liquor license
also barred them from inheriting one,
although a grant by way of renewal could
in very exceptional cases be authorised.
Pondering this in my favorite pub my
eye fell on the large lady behind the
cash register and I sought the fingers of
her left hand. She was taking no
chances ; there were rings on all four
fingers!
“Skiter”: Among the things Sydney
journalists found themselves required to
do in their new club —it opened last
week—was to provide stabling and ac-
commodation for four horses under the
Inkeepers Act. The club is four floors
up from the street, and the committee has
agreed that if anyone cares to bring four
horses up in the lift the steeds will be
accommodated in the lounge.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The abrupt surrender of
King Leopold of Belgium recalls the queer
fates which have befallen most of those
who, like himself, were present at the
opening of the tomb of Tutankhamen in
1923. Leopold’s reckless driving killed
his wife in a motor accident. Carter,
the archaeologist who opened the tomb,
and Lord Carnarvon, who financed the
work, both died within a few years in
tragic circumstances. So did Dr. Frank
Madden, the Australian surgeon who
had a distinguished career in Egypt —he
examined the royal mummy for signs of
disease. The director of antiquities who
arranged the display of the tomb's
treasures was killed in an accident. The
foreman of the excavation gang was
mysteriously shot dead, and most of the
gang were killed soon after by the caving-
in of a shaft. Egyptian tradition
ascribes it all to a special curse laid on
the tomb by the high priest of the day.
WINTER.
(After a glance at Shakspeare.)
I like the winter, not the sort of season
That Shakspeare limned in English cot and
hall,
When even milk, fresh from the cow, would
freeze on
The pail, and icicles bedeck the wall.
Far as I know, there isn’t any reason
For revelling in things like that at all.
But here, along the coast or in the hinter-
Land, let me frankly own 1 like the winter.
Though Boreas may howl a trifle louder,
I see no sparrows brooding in the snows.
Nip in the air, like chutney in your chowder,
Provides a stimulus to healthy glows;
And, if it’s red, a timely dab of powder,
Will quickly recondition Marion’s nose.
With coals to blaze and logs to flame and
splinter,
Its hard to beat the inglenook in winter.
Here, whatsoever weather’s in the offing,
A worthy cleric may lay down the law,
Comfort the penitent and chide the scoffing
And touch the Pharisee upon the raw,
Without the danger of a storm of coughing
Arising from the pews to drown his saw.
Farewell to mellow autumn, woodland-tinter!
On schedule time, as ever, comes the winter.
Then pack away your surfing Spooners, sister,
The time has obviously gone for these.
Though milk-ohs find the chilly dawn a
“twister,”
Better assuredly a few degrees
Of frost than noonday suns to scorch and
blister.
So, sitting by the fire in slippered ease,
The notion comes to me to send the printer
A jingling stave or two in praise of winter.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Spokeshave”: The Chinese vegetable
John who used to cultivate the Yarra
valley flats from the outskirts of the city
to Templestowe is being rendered a back
number by modern irrigation, fertilisation
and electrification at the soldiers’ farms
at Werribee and other places. Uncon-
scious of the change and of everything
else, however, John still plods in behind
his old horse to the city markets, taking
all night to do the eight miles from
Heidelberg and half the next day to make
the return journey. Through the early
watches his nag’s hoofs ring on the hard
city streets. John sleeps soundly all the
way, the old horse being so familiar with
the route that he needs no direction. He
has adjusted himself to modern civilisa-
tion better than his master, and stops
at the red light and moves on with the
blue at intersections —a practical demon-
stration of Pavlov’s discoveries with re-
gard to conditioned reflexes. Occasionally
a small boy in Fitzroy remembers the
joke his father used to play and turns
the old nag’s head round, and John
wakes up to find himself back with his
load at Heidelberg.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Prisoners at Pentridge (Vic.)
hear the war news broadcast in the exer-
cise yard at 1.50 p.m. daily. As a con-
sequence youths of 21 and under in the
restraint gang have been learning squad
drill from one another in the playtimes.
The other day 60 of them asked gover-
nor Grieg for permission to drill so that
they could join up when they get their
freedom. The governor agreed, and has
appointed a warder who was a sergeant
in the last war to put them through their
paces.
*** • *
“Captain Pintle”: The ship’s apprentice
after whom is named McLeod s Point,
just eastward from Curdie’s River on the
s.-e. coast of Victoria, is now a retired
merchant skipper living at Cardiff.
McLeod had adventures enough to fill a
sea-thriller novel. At 1.30 a.m. on an
August gravy-eye watch in 1892 the
barque Newfield crashed on the near-by
cliffs and he hung on to a wave-swept
rock for seven hours till rescued. As
master of the steamer Glendale he was
wrecked off Heligoland, and his crew
refused to take to the boats unless he
gave up his intention of sticking by her
to save owners from possible salvage
claims. By next morning she had disap-
peared. Commanding a transport during
the 1914-18 war he tricked a pursuing
sub. by reversing his sidelights. Another
of his transport commands sank eight
minutes after being torpedoed, but with-
out loss of life, owing to his precautions
and prompt action. He was awarded
the Royal Humane Society’s silver medal
for diving overboard and saving his chief
officer on a winter night in the Bristol
Channel. And those are only a few
random samples of his experiences.
**. * *
“Craiser”: Reprisals, is it? A can-
vasser in Melbourne, found guilty of
larceny and sentenced to six months’ im-
prisonment, appealed to the State Full
Court. The appeal was dismissed. “I
was going to send my son and daughter
to the war, but I won’t now,” shouted
the prisoner as he was led away.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Recent references to the
musical Bradley family, of Melbourne,
reminds me of a Westralian example.
The father, a Government clerk, had 11
children, all girls. His wife, a musician,
trained them to play each a different in-
strument. They lived at South Perth on
the banks of the Swan and owned a large
Canadian canoe. On still moonlight
nights the domestic orchestra crowded
aboard and drifted down the river, mak-
ing music which was a delight to myself
and other suburbanites who regarded
more than two children as an insupport-
able burden. They never made public
appearances, as far as I know, but liked
music for its own sake.
“ ’Course I'll be faithful to y . Oo's that speakin'?"
“Col. B’s’t’r”: Touching the admission
of women to the French air force, two
young women lawyers gave an Adelaide
recruiting office a tough job in attempting
to convince them that they were not
eligible for enlistment as R.A.A.F. pilots
or observers. And why should physically
fit women of military age be barred?
Many highly competent women fliers have
qualified in Australia, and some of them
have achieved fame by remarkable feats
of skill, courage and endurance. Women
think faster than men and are quicker
to size up an opponent’s line of action
and commence a counter-attack - they
have thousands of years of inherited
experience in that direction. Also, they
are not hampered by any silly notions
of fair play and such antiquated non-
sense, completely out of date in modern
warfare.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The nudity disease has
spread to Melbourne. Contrary to un-
informed public opinion, the Tivoli in
Bourke-street is much more chaste in
these matters than the legitimate theatre,
but it is at the Tiv. that Australia ; is- 4
shortly to see its first “strip tease” act. A
marionette will do the stripping.
* * * *
“Koynoor”: The German invasion of
Holland and Belgium has disorganised,
amongst other things, the diamond indus-
try and its little army of traders, cutters,
polishers and splitters. Sydney can boast
of only one diamond cutter, who is now
teaching his two sons the craft he re-
fused an offer of £750 to take on an out-
side apprentice. It’s a highly-specialised
trade with secrets which are handed down
from father to son. Joseph Ascher, who
cut the Cullinan diamond (the largest
fragment of it is in the King’s Imperial
State Crown) in Amsterdam in 1908, had
to be watched, while doing the job, by
a doctor and two nurses. Ascher had a
weak heart, and a false blow, in addition
to ruining the diamond, might have killed
him. However, he split the diamond
cleanly, though he had to spend the en-
suing three months in a nursing home
with a nervous breakdown.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A Prophetic Spider lives
behind the map of Europe which hangs
on the wall over my desk. She appeared
a week before the German assault on
Norway, and each evening after the
lamps were lit sat on King Haakon s
threatened land. With the outbreak of
hostilities she changed her brooding-post
to Denmark. When the Nazi columns
broke into Hamlet’s native kingdom she
moved to the Netherlands, and thence
to Flanders. We feared she might next
move on to Paris, but for more than a
week she has now occupied for her even-
ing watch a place on the wall above the
top left-hand corner of the map, just
where the Faroes and Iceland would
show did it Extend so far. I’m thinking
of cabling the Admiralty to look out for
developments around the coasts of those
chilly Danish possessions.
* ' • * * *
“C.Q.”: Being a general seems to be
an exceptionally healthy occupation. An
English general named Blood, who had
been in every major campaign for the
last three-quarters of a century, died the
other day at over 90. Weygand is 73
and Petain is 84. But art has plenty of
examples of longevity. Titian was 96
when he died of plague, and he painted
his masterpiece at 90. Coming to
Australia, Longstaff is 78 and still takes
commissions for painting portraits. Stree-
ton is 73 and doesn’t look it. And the
other day a painter died in a Melbourne
suburb whose period of artistic activity
occurred so long ago that not a single
contemporary artist had ever heard of
him.
* * * *
“Lid”: A camera craze seems to be
sweeping this country as thoroughly as
did the yo-yo plague a few years ago. On
week-ends and holidays there’s something
amiss if half the people at large in town
or country aren’t swinging leather camera
cases or dodging about behind trees, cars
or people to “snap” something. I get
vaguely annoyed when I see one of these
enthusiasts squinting at scenery or a
flapper leg-show and then winding up
his camera, as smug as an elected poli-
tician, so I was distinctly elated when
mbther-in-law issued her opinion on
the matter. She had recently left for a
holiday in Tasmania, and a photographic
family had pressed upon her sufficient
cameras and films to photograph the
entire Speck, together with detailed in-
structions. I was privileged to witness
their reactions when they received a letter
from her. Enclosed were several com-
mercial snapshots of Tasmanian scenery
—fhe bob a dozen sort —and the follow-
ing Comment: “I can buy these for much
less than it would cost me to take them,
and they’re much better than I could take,
anyway.”
* * * *
“K. Ley” : The suburb’s tame drunk
was observed staggering round in widen-
ing circles on a spare allotment. Inquiry
brought from him the blurred reply that
somewhere there he had lost a pound-
note and had adopted the circling method
as the best means of locating it. By
the time he had nearly reached the outer
limits of the area, one of the growing
number of small boys pounced on the
lost frogskin and restored it to the drunk.
He gave the boy a shilling, tried to
embrace him and fell over. After soggily
trying to make up his mind whether to
sleep or continue in a state of wakeful-
ness, he suddenly clutched at a pocket,
turned it inside out, surveyed the lining
intently and remarked, “ ’Struth, gone
an’ lorsh me borrel a beer.” Getting to
his feet he began staggering round again,
this time narrowing the circle, inform-
ing those still there that, “Harrid when
I shtarted, so all I gota do is forrer me
circles barrer shtartin’ poin’.” At that
stage I left.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The mayoralty of Adel-
aide is in a Gilbertian tangle. Lavington
Bonython resigned as alderman to stand
for mayor, a position which he has often
held before. Then, finding that “others
wanted it,” he asked to withdraw the
resignation ; but the councillors insisted
on accepting it, most of them wishing
him to stand as originally intended. One
councillor, however, offered to produce a
returned soldier who will oppose Bony-
thon. Barrett, the present mayor, will
not; neither he nor Bonython wishes to
fight for the office. The position at
present is that there is no nomination at
all. The electing is in the hands of the
whole body of ratepayers.
“He signalled ‘Splice the mainbrace ' instead of 'echelon.'"
VICTIMS OF CALUMNY.
How few can say they’ve known no bitter
moments, A ..
Shocks to their self-esteem and honest pride,
When to their ears are borne malicious com-
ments
They deem unjustified!
When you are conscious of your own exertions
To keep your hands of all chicanery free,
Tis hard to hear vociferous aspersions
Upon your honesty.
Some take it with a look of sheer and candid
Bewilderment, sufficient to convey
They never dreamed such slanders could be
bandied
About such men as they.
Others whom one has known achieve a fleeting
Expression that the sort of frown defines
A bishop well might wear, accused of cheating
At cards or salting, mines.
Others, again, account it best to handle
Spoken disparagement with careless chan,
Or to dismiss the sharpest shafts of scandal
With a contemptuous laugh.
And quite a few, when noisy falsehood-starters
Display man’s inhumanity to man, >;
Assume the pose of sadly injured martyrs
As closely as they can.
And if my catalogue of these grimaces
And attitudes you feel disposed to doubt,
Transfer your observation to the races
And watch the trainer’s and the owner’s faces
Respond to the disgruntled populace’s
Loud roar of “Rub them out!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


miM..
CRAVENA
nmi mtiet-itofie,,
alwMfssmo^pedt!
10 for 9d 20 for 1 7 6
o
m
WM
m
m
A
El 867
PREVENT
ATS
POLITICAL POINTS
At the end of 1938, when announcing
that his Government had arranged to
admit 15,000 refugees from Central
Europe, Minister McEwen promised “a
careful, close and constant scrutiny” of
the new arrivals. The immigration was
to have been spread over three years,
but, seeing that 6717 are officially re-
corded to have reached Australia in 1939,
it is clear that more than half have arrived
already. Now a public grown sceptical
would be glad to learn from McEwen or
any other person who can speak with
authority—or thinks he can—that the
promise of a “careful, close and con-
stant scrutiny” has been kept.
Australian customs and excise revenue
for May exceeded by £527,300 collections
for the previous May, the total being
£4,646,300. The figures for eleven months
were £49,679,100—£5,784,600 more than
for eleven months of 1938-39 and
£7,867,600 more than the Budget estimate
for the period. Most of the thanks should
go to the men of the Royal Navy and the
mercantile marine.
From Sydney “Telegraph”:
Roosevelt’s various recent messages to
Congress have revealed America’s startling
unpreparedness—a small air force, an in-
adequate navy, an army hardly bigger than
our own militia.
In October, 1937, when air force, navy
and army were still more “inadequate,” an
Australian paper insisted that “We must
make it clear that we stand behind
America in taking positive action against
Japan.” “Positive action” was alleged
to have been decided upon by the same
Roosevelt, and it was defined as
“paralysing Japan’s army and navy by
cutting off her vital oil supply” and
“paralysing Japan’s economy by closing
the world market to her goods.” The
paper was Sydney “Telegraph.”
After all, it is just as well for Aus-
tralia that Britain agreed to buy the wool
clip for the duration of the war and
twelve months afterwards. The invasion
of the Low Countries and France means
that there will be no resales to the Nether-
lands and Belgium for an indefinite
period, nor will much Australian wool
go to France. In 1938-39 French pur-
chases of Australian wool (greasy,
scoured and washed) were valued at
£7,566,400; Belgian at £4,720,500.
“Having spent £12,000,000 in four
years on huge constructional works,”
Sydney Water Board wants to build the
battleship dock. Mair’s Government
supports the idea. It would. Nobody
thought to mention that part of the
£12,000,000 was spent on a super-
palatial office building in Sydney, or that,
for all the “huge constructional works,”
Sydney seems rarely free from the danger
of water shortage. And wasn’t there a
pressure tunnel in which a vast pile of
loan money was engulfed? In board
jargon, “the amount expended on
the remedial measures approximated
£854,405.”
Replying to the demand of the country
municipalities for “an active decentrali-
sation policy,” Dunstan declared that
“for the past five .years my Government
has been attempting to put that policy
into operation.” He did not dwell on
the results, but Victorian Year-Books
tell part of the story. Four months be-
fore the Dunstan Government arrived
there were 1,000,000 people in Greater
Melbourne and 837,490 in “Remainder of
State.” After nearly three years of Dun-
stan Greater Melbourne had 1,024,000
people and Remainder of State 835,487.
Parkhill was beaten for the U.A.P.
Senate nomination by Captain Patrick,
the shipowner, but there may be still a
chance for him if Patrick can be forced
out of the field by an unreasoning agita-
tion. His Labor enemies have dug up
the fact that he entertained Von Luckner
when that queer bird was in Sydney,
and candid friends are making the most
of it. Patrick admits the impeachment
without apologising for it, saying that he
merely extended hospitality as one sea-
faring man to another in time of peace.
If he had the slightest suspicion that his
guest was a spy he would have run him
into the Harbor. People with no interest
in politics who saw as much of Luckner
“The people of Berlin had been constantly assured by Goring that their aerial defences
were impregnable.”
“Ven dis is ofer, Hermann, I vant a few vords mit you!”
as Patrick did formed the opinion that
his main interest was beer.
The House of Representatives debates
a bill:
May 15 .. .. 8 p.m.-10.30 p.m.
„ 16 .. .. 4.20 p.m.-6.15 p.m.
„ 16 .. ..8 p.m.-11.15 p.m.
„ 17 .. .. 12.25 p.m.-12.45 p.m.
„ 17 .. .. 2.15 p.m.-4 p.m.
» 21 .. .. 3.30 p.m.-6.15 p.m.
„ 21 8 p.m.-9.25 p.m.
The measure was the Electoral Bill, 1939,
and the principal clause aimed at “alter-
ing the form of the Senate ballot paper
and providing that the names of can-
didates in their respective groups shall
be printed horizontally instead of ver-
tically.” In the same session the House
passed a bundle of war measures in a
couple of hours. Party is so much more
engrossing than country.
Among the persons to whom foreigners
look for leadership there are merciless
megalomanics, traitors and safety-first
experts ; but there is also one true gentle-
man. When the news reached India that
the Low Countries and northern France
had been bloodily overwhelmed by bar-
barians, he wrote these lines in his paper:
We do not seek our independence out
of the ruin of Britain. If Britain will not
now declare India a free country, with the
right to determine her own status and
Constitution, we should wait until the heat
of battle subsides and the future is more
clear.
History will turn from the Hitlers,
Stalins and Mussolinis and proclaim that
the greatest leader of the age, with a
record unstained by its follies and bar-
barities, was the smallest and humblest—
Gandhi.
Mad with rage because its boss
Theodore didn’t get the big Common-
wealth job offered to him by irrespon-
sibles, Sydney “D.T.” asserted that
Lyons wanted to give the gentleman as
big a one or bigger. Evidence, if any,
was withheld, and, considering that
Lyons resigned from the Scullin Cabinet
because Theo. had been reappointed to
it, evidence is plainly required. The com-
panion statement that Theo. was willing
to become a member of “a composite
national Government” is credible enough.
The difficulty would have been to get
him a seat. He was licked in 1925 in the
only Commonwealth electorate for which
he stood in Queensland, and did not
enter Commonwealth politics until Bill
Mahony had backed the winner of the
1926 Melbourne Cup with bookmakers
whose names Bill couldn’t remember. In
1931 Theo. was out, horribly beaten by
the still undefeated Rosevear ; and he has
been out ever since.
Several jumps ahead of the Australian
Governments (“We are Seven”) through-
out the war, Maoriland’s Labor Govern-
ment has put through an Emergency
Regulations Amendment Act “requiring
persons to place themselves, their ser-
vices and their property at the disposal
of the State” till September 31, 1941. It
amounts to conscription of manhood,
womanhood and wealth in Maoriland,
the Cook Islands and Samoa, and the
measure is retroactive. Lee, the ex-
pelled Left-wing leader (he calls him-
self “Democratic Labor” now), proposed
“a referendum before men may be con-
scripted for service overseas,” but
couldn’t get a seconder. An emergency
conference of the Labor organisation, at
which over 500 delegates were present,
backed up the Government with a 9-to-l
majority. It shows how a country with
one Parliament and one Government can
get action even when quarter of a cen-
tury of Labor opposition to conscription
has to be overcome.
Evidently flattered by newspaper sug-
gestions that he should become a mem-
ber of a national Government, Lang has
announced the terms on which his group
would come in:
(1) A strong policy with regard to Fifth
Column activities; (2) large-scale production
of the needs of mechanical warfare; and
(3) Australia’s army should be kept in
Australia.
No mention of that abominable thing
Conscription, and if the old boy were
pressed hard enough he might even drop
No. 3.
From the Sydney “Daily News,” whose
publication of what Menzies pronounced
“a scandalous and treasonable article”
cost it County Council advertising:
There is leadership at hand —leadership
capable of unifying the nation and direct-
ing the people efficiently and courageously,
without “fire-eating” and vacillation....
It is the leadership of the Labor move-
ment. Labor alone can save the situation,
because Labor alone has a policy, the will
to carry it out, and the united forces to
accomplish the task.
All very heartening, no doubt, but the
trouble is to know whose policy and
which Labor movement should be given
the chance.
“S. M. Herald” advises the Allies to
be stern with the remaining neutrals and
insist on their declaring what they in-
tend to do if attacked. For example,
Greece must be asked
whether she proposes to call for the
fulfilment of the British guarantee of sup-
port, and, that being so, at what stage ot
the peril the Greek Government intends
to invoke that guarantee.
It recalls a yam related by Keith
Murdoch when he was a brisk young
reporter. Visiting Sweden in 1917, when
Berlin demanded certain concessions, he
asked a member of the Swedish Govern-
ment what the answer would be. “Ze
answer is written,” the Swedish Minister
said, shrugging his shoulders. “Ze
Germans —dey have written it demselves.”
Premier Dunstan announced at a Win-
the-War rally in Melbourne Town Hail
that “red-tape should be tossed into the
wastepaper basket.” He may have
been acting under instructions; import
restrictions have cut off the supply of the
colored material to State departments.
Public servants report, however, that they
have found the white variety just as effec-
tive.
Two hundred and twenty British war-
ships and 620 “other vessels” helped to
save the army that went to Flanders. In
839 cases no names were mentioned, but
somebody discovered that “the redoubt-
able Captain ‘Potato’ Jones” was in the
840th ship, and “S. M. Herald” had a
fit of hero-worship. It recalled that “this
veteran blockade-runner had no counten-
ance or protection from the Navy in
the bad days when appeasement and non-
intervention ruled British councils,”
though it was sure he had “the Navy’s
sympathy.” Considering that intervention
to protect blockade-runners would have
meant having to cope with swarms of
submarines operating from Spanish ports,
the sympathy may be questioned. As for
“the bad days when appeasement and
non-intervention ruled,” who wouldn’t
swap these days for those days?


NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
“It would not be correct for country gentlemen to carry their guns on their walks and take flying or running shots.”—London'Times on the ethics of parashooting.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. Harrison, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 lor particulars
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE FALL IN SHARE
PRICES.
THE OUTLOOK ANALYSED.
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED .
Published by Tile Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability cf Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
'BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
(SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
t EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australians keep bobbing up in this
war in unexpected places. Hector Annear,
a Toorak (Vic.) man among the B.E.F.
troops, was evacuated from Flanders,
where he helped man a gun. It was his
second experience of evacuation by sea,
the first being from Gallipoli. Annear
was farming in the Victorian Mallee
before going to live in Melbourne, was
in England when war broke out, pushed
his age back 10 years and joined the
B.E.F. Also safe out of Flanders is
Harold Evans, a Caulfield man who was
on the London staff of the National Bank
when war came. Like Annear, he is a
B.E.F. gunner.
Flying-Officer R. L. Glyde, of Nedlands
(W.A.), who has been awarded a D.F.C.
for good work with the R.A.F. in France,
was twice turned down by the R.A.A.F.
Selected for training at Point Cook five
years ago, he went to Victoria from
W.A. but failed to pass the medical test
owing to a slight spinal curvature. Back
in Perth he went the rounds of medical
men until one suggested certain exercises.
He kept a check on progress by means of
X-ray photographs until he reckoned the
R.A.A.F. would have him. Again dis-
appointed, he took a freighter for Eng-
land, told the R.A.F. the truth of the
matter and was in training within a week.
Interned in Holland after a forced land-
ing, he and others escaped one night
and got to England, there to be inter-
viewed by Lord Gort, who murmured
“These Australians,” and sent them back
to their unit.
George Graham Virtue—Graham to
his friends —managing director of Moffat-
Virtue, Ltd., the big Sydney agricultural
machinery firm which supplies men on
the land with windmills, shearing plants,
milking machines and suchlike things,
G.G. VIRTUE.
is Glasgow-born. He arrived in Sydney
as a toddler about half a century ago and
was educated at Newington. Starting
with Moffat-Virtue as a bookkeeper, he
was soon a departmental manager. In
1913 he went to U.S.A., and there was a
junior district manager of E. C. Fuller
and Co., Chicago. In 1914-18 he served
with the 30th Batl., A.1.F., fought in the
Somme area, was wounded outside
Bapaume in March, 1917, and was in-
valided home a year later. On his return
he was made a director of Moffat-Virtue,
and has since climbed to his present posi-
tion. An enthusiastic golfer, tennis
player and motorist, he resides at Killara.
Max Meldrum, who is holding a retro-
spective exhibition of his works at Tye’s
new Velasquez Gallery
in Melbourne, was born
in Edinburgh in 1875,
and came to Victoria
with his parents 14
years later. In 1900 he
won the Travelling
Scholarship of the Vic.
National Gallery. After
a short spell in Julien’s
academy in Paris, he
set out to discover the
secret of Velasquez’s
uncompromising
realism. He returned
to set up a school above
the old Palace Theatre
in Melbourne, and
shortly afterwards there
was a rush from the
National Gallery school
of pupils to join him.
On a second visit to
France he painted some
of his finest landscapes,
exhibited at all the lead-
ing French and British
exhibitions, married a
French wife, made a
lecture tour of the
U.S.A. and returned to
Melbourne to paint,
teach and lecture. At
the Law Courts, Mel-
bourne, and at Parlia-
ment House, Canberra,
are some of his finest
portraits. He was a foundation member
of the Aust. Academy of Art, but resigned
a year later. He is a trustee of the Vic.
National Gallery, and won the Archi-
bald Prize last year.
At 15 an “ore pickey” at the old Brod-
ribb’s shaft, Broken Hill, W. H. D.
Stewart, accountant of the Proprietary
mine, has completed 50 years’ service for
B.H.P. He is still busy figuring up the
“Prop.’s” closing operations. Stewart
went to the Barrier from Moonta mines.
After a term at minding the pitmen’s
clothes the lad got on to the office staff
and had a rapid rise. One of his early
innovations was to turn the old “million-
aire” calculating machine to greater ad-
vantage by converting a division sum
into a multiplication sum the latter
being the machine’s forte. This started a
new era in cost calculations at the Big
Mine. In a Labor stronghold Stewart
has managed to be an Independent aider-
man for nine years. His retirement will
come when closing accounts for the
worked-out mine have been struck off
—probably some time after September.
Admiral Abrial, the French officer in
charge of the operations at Dunkirk and
the last to leave the doomed city, is re-
membered for a lively incident in Mel-
bourne when his command, the cruiser
Tourville, was tied up at Port Melbourne
and was thrown open to visitors on a
Sunday. The admiring multitude stormed
the decks in such quantity that she was
in danger of turning turtle, and orders
were given to close the gangway. Late-
comers stormed the barricades, and an
officer ordered the ship’s hose to be
turned on them. A lot of people got wet,
but there were no international compli-
cations.
Ray Cilento, Knight Bachelor, Queens-
land’s Director-General of Health, has
packed as much experience and excite-
ment into his 47 years as any medico in
Australia. Hailing from Jamestown
(S.A.), he had a successful career at Ade-
laide and London Universities ; for some
time was director of the Tropical Medi-
cine Institute at Townsville, was then
Health Director of the Mandated Terri-
tory for four years, and later head of
the Commonwealth Tropical Hygiene
Department. He visited Fiji and Papua
for the League of Nations, made a health
survey of the Singapore air route and
took his present job in 1934. He en-
listed in the A.I.F. in 1915. He is one
DR. RAPHAEL CILENTO.
(Modelled by Frith.)
of the world’s authorities on malaria and
filaria, the mosquito-borne disease which
exists in a mild form in northern Aus
tralia and which is the mother of ele-
phantiasis in the Islands. A cheerful
soul, widely read, he has a small library
of medical books and pamphlets to his
credit.
In the retreat to Dunkirk was a Tas-
manian, Lieut.-Col. Leonard Lade, who
at one time was a Speck medico. Join-
ing the A.M.C., he was attached to the
Anzac Corps in Palestine as a major.
After the war he took to the footlights,
but gave up the stage to return to private
practice. When the war gong sounded
again he went with a British field ambu-
lance to France. For two weeks his unit
fought its way to the coast, doctoring the
wounded, and was one of the last to be
evacuated! from Dunkirk.
Mrs. Aineas Gunn, who is one of the
women who don’t mind disclosing their
age, passed her 70th milestone in Mel-
bourne the other day. Australia’s most-
read authoress was born opposite St.
Jude’s Church, Carlton (Vic.), and has
lived through three German wars —the
Franco-Prussian, the 1914-18 affair and
the present one. Now she is devoting
the energy she used to give to writing
to her philanthropic work for the very
broken amongst the Diggers. She is a
well-known figure at Repat., where she
champions the cause of those Diggers
who can’t state their own case. Her two
Australian classics, Little Black Princess.
and We of the Never Never, have sold
well over the 200,000 mark. Incidentally,
her maternal ancestors settled in Mel-
bourne in 1841 and gave their name to
one of the queer little lanes off Flinders-
lane, hard by the old Bulletin office —
Lush-lane.
Wing-Commander E. G. Knox-Knight,
the Victorian just appointed to command
No. 10 Squadron, R.A.A.F., is a son of
Lieut.-Col. Knox-Knight, killed in France
in 1914-18. The wing-commander was
educated at Brighton Grammar School,
joined the R.A.A.F. in 1926 and was a
pilot-officer six months later. Later he
qualified as seaplane pilot and instructor,
commanded No. 101 Fleet Co-operation
Flight for three years and got his step
to wing-commander about a year ago.
He commanded the training depot at
Laverton and later No. 1 Engineering
School at Flemington, leaving there for
active service with the R.A.F. Coastal
Command, where his new appointment
papers found him.
Hundreds of past pupils of Warrnam-
bool (Vic.) High School turned up to
farewell Colonel Langley, third head-
master since the school was commenced.
He passes on after sixteen and a half
years at the school to be headmaster at
Bendigo. He earned his rank in the
last war, when he saw service as a com-
manding officer with the Camel Corps
in Egypt and Palestine and was later
in the trenches of France. He earned the
D.S.O. also, in addition to the Serbian
Order of the White Eagle.
“Alnwick”: The 28-year-old Duke of
Northumberland, killed in action, visited
Australia in 1932. Further back the
Percy family is linked with Australia
through the second Northumberland
Duke, who fought at Bunker Hill, and
whose A.D.C. (in the American war) was
Captain George Johnson. That Johnson
was killed at Bunker Hill, but his
son came to Australia with Governor
Phillip and became the ancestor of the
Johnsons of Annandale. He was the
man who arrested Governor Bligh, and
he was Colonel of the N.S.W. Corp:*.
Through Colonel Johnson the second
Duke maintained close touch with the
first settlement at Port Jackson. The
Duke (whose portrait hangs in the Mit-
chell Library) was the first wearer, in
England, of garments made of Australian
wool.
The translation of Col. Burston to the
Second A.I.F. has necessitated the
anoointment of a successor as Deputy-
Director of Medical Services, 4th Military
District. Col. Frank Howard Beare, the
new appointee, is an Adelaide medico,
and a graduate of Adelaide University.
COL. F.H. BEARE.
He was born in Mauritius (where his
father produced sugar for Australian
breweries) 45 years ago. Beare served
with the Fifth Field Ambulance in the
1914-18 war, and from 1933 to 1938 he
was C.O. 32nd Field Ambulance (Militia).
He finds recreation in tennis and fishing.


R.H.F. Uses Exide Batteries
THE planes of the Royal Air Force, which are playing
such a vital part in defending the Empire, are being
fitted, more widely than ever before, with Exide
Batteries.
When you are buying a new battery for your car or
radio set bear this in mind. If the R.A.F. can place
such reliance on Exide Batteries under the most
strenuous conditions, you can depend on Exide to
give the same faithful service in your car.
There’s an Exide Battery for every make of car,
motor-cycle, radio and house-lighting plant.
txiSe
STILL KEEP
FROM
BATTERIES
GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE
DEALERS
STOPPED
OBTAINABLE
THROUGHOUT
AOSTR A l I A


ABORIGINALITIES
It's developed a nasty squeak, sir.”
“Old-timer”: Bargo went out in his
pram-boat one Saturday to hunt for wild-
duck eggs. When nightfall came and
there was no sign of him a search-party
was organised. Snow and Ted, circling
the billabongs on foot, found Bargo’s
pram pulled ashore and on the ground
near by was Bargo, semi-conscious. They
couldn’t get any sense out of him, so
prodded him here and there till it became
evident that his right leg was injured
between knee and thigh. Ted, who knew
a bit about first aid, got Snow to help
him pull Bargo’s trousers off. He then
made a closer examination of the leg,
and concluded that it wasn’t broken.
He bandaged it with Snow’s neck scarf
and bits of an old coat found in the
pram, and then they tried to get Bargo’s
pants back. But this wasn’t easy, so they
did the best they could, with the result
that Bargo had to go into the pram for
the row home with his pants on back to
front. There somebody telephoned for
the doctor while Bargo, covered with a
blanket, lay on a bunk and stood it as
best he could. He was white but game
when the doc. bustled in with a cheery
Now then, old man, what have you
been doing to yourself?” Bargo threw
the blanket back, and, morosely eyeing
the seat of his pants where the front
ought to have been, said “Blanked if I
know, but be the looks of it I’ve turned
meself back t’ front. But what’s got me
beat is which is facing right, me upper
works or me lower?”
* * * *
‘ Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
prospecting a northern S.A. town when
he spotted a sign, “Man Wanted,” out-
side a small brick-and-tile works. In he
WCnt ' 1 / '^ es,, boss enthusiasti-
cally, “we need a man about your stamp.
Mind, we work hard here. Everything
runs to time. I’ve geared the whole
place up.” He swept an arm at the
claypit, and Mat saw three fellows toiling
like beavers loading an endless chain of
small trucks travelling on a small elec-
tric railway. “You see,” continued the
boss, “the raw material goes in there,
passes swiftly and efficiently through a
—er —sort of digestive process here and
emerges at the other end as the finished
article.” “H’m,” said Mat; “what’s the
screw?” “Ten bob a day Here,
where are you going?” “Away,” said
Mat; “you don’t want a man —what you
want is a sausage-machine.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: You have to live in close
association with dogs and cats to appre-
ciate their intelligence. Once shared a
hut on the Boileau (Vic.) with Tom (cat)
and Jack (dog). Sometimes I went to
the big town west and sometimes to the
small town east. Every night, whichever
way I came, Tom or Jack would meet
me at the west gate while the other
watched the east. If it was Jack, he’d
give a couple of quick barks and the
cat would trot in. If Tom, he’d rub
against my legs, then go off into the night
to collect Jack. One night, for a joke,
I slipped down a side road and came
up behind the hut, grinning in anticipa-
tion of what they’d do when they dis-
covered I was home, I lit the lamp, went
to the door and whistled. Nothing hap-
pened. though I kept on whistling.
Finally I had to go and get Jack. Tom
refused to come and Jack wouldn’t bark,
so I had to get Tom, too. After that I
confined my jokes to less intelligent ani-
mals that walked upright on two legs.
* * * *
“J.C.”: A note from Canberra has it
that members of the golf club there,
concerned about the depredations of
crows which swoop on the balls, have
taken to letting off Chinese crackers when
a raid is threatened. Unless the Canberra
crows are a special variety it shouldn’t
take more than a couple of days for
them to wake up to the trick. Kelly is
one of the cleverest of birds, and, though
a new stunt may scare him off for a
time, he’ll soon be back.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: A familiar sight outback is
Willie Wagtail’s antics before a slowly-
moving mob of sheep or cattle, when the
little flycatcher tumbles and somersaults
as he snaps up the disturbed flies ; but
swallows at the same game were new
to me. Cool weather had kept flies close-
to the ground for days, and every morn-
ing I was met at the paddock gate by
twenty or more swallows fluttering back
and forth either in front of or behind
me according to wind direction till I
regained the road. The dainty brown-
faced birds approached within three feet,
and I was sorry when a return of warm
conditions took them to their normal
haunts.
* * * *
“Cloviski MacOdoacer” (T.N.G.):
There is at least one part of the world
where The Bulletin is a prophet with-
out honor, and that is New Guinea.
True, the unaccountable white man goes
for it in a big way, but he is a mere
five thousand against a million. Brown
Brother, though he can’t read and there-
fore might be expected to be at least
neutral, regards it as a snare and a
delusion, and on the arrival of the last
ship-mail my major-domo took me
severely to task about it. “Master, ’long
whatname you all time kisim this red-
feller noospaper? Em e no good true.”
For a newspaper interests Brown Brother
only in proportion to its merits as
smoking-paper ; he wraps a piece of it
round a measure of his vile fowlyard
twist and produces a dashing-looking
cigarette about two feet long—and appar-
ently The Bulletin has a nasty taste.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The Allies can bless at least
one American pest—the Colorado beetle,
which is again seriously damaging Ger-
many’s potato crops. Last year it ravaged
Hunland’s agriculture, and in spite of
vigorous measures the beetle continues
to spread eastward from the frontier
provinces. Strength to the insect’s
proboscis!
* * * *
“Edjudina”: I suppose a person always
thinks of a thing by the term under which
it was first brought to his notice. Hence
“Bogan Boy’s” “jump-up” is my “break-
away” (B. 8/ 5/ ’4O). “Breakaways” they
were to the old-timers who back in the
90’s tutored me in the ways of the Golden
West. It is when one climbs that they
may be called “jump-ups”; when one
ascends the King Leopold Ranges out
from Fitzroy Crossing it is by just such
a series of gigantic terraces. There both
whites a.nd niggers use the term favored
by “B.B.” But the real puzzle is that
of their formation. I have come on
such breaks gouging high plateaux in
the Darling Ranges (W.A.) just as though
prehistoric men had there worked an
immense quarry. And I have come on
similar formations far in the interior,
precipitously breaking the contour of
what had seemed an interminably level
plain. Linked with this puzzle is the
immense blanket of laterite, iron-
impregnated gravel or marl, which
covers W.A. practically from Ravens-
thorpe on the south coast to Cape Lon-
donderry on the north.
* * * *
“Dusty Bob”: Tommy Roe, the abo.,
got a job as musterer at shearing time.
Shearing lasted six weeks. When Tommy
came along for his money the boss,
having him on, said “Let’s see; your
wages for six weeks at ten shillings a
week comes to three pounds.” “Yes,
boss, that’s right,” said Tommy. “Against
that, Tommy, there is one pound for the
pair of boots you got.” “Yes, boss.”
“Then there is the two pairs of boots
you didn’t get that’s another two
pounds, so we’re quits,” said the boss.
“That’s right, boss,” said Tommy, “but
you’ve forgotten the four weeks I
should’ve been workin’ for you before I
started, so that’s two quid you still owe
me, then!”
* * * *
“Jeidisee”: Spotted bower-birds which
housekept near the sheepyards led Lass,
the station cattle slut, a merry dance.
Reproduction by these accomplished
mockers of the yowls and protests of
Lass’s latest litter was so finished that it
deceived one of the most astute sheep-
dogs on the Bogan. Round and round
the belars she would dash, trying to climb
the tree as she wondered how the blazes
her pups got up there; then the leg-
pullers would, as if in pity for the frenzy
they had created, slide off into imitations
of the hen-yard, sawbench, horse bells
and such metallic sounds as took their
fancy. Human noises though, such as
laughter and crying babes, seem to leave
them cold.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: I’ve worked cattle in
big herds for the best part of 30 years,
yet the worst kick I ever got was from
a dead heifer. She had been killed for
beef, and we were skinning her after
bleeding and pithing. I’d opened her up,
and was on the hind leg. I had the hoof
gripped between my knees while I took
a sliver off the hock to run up the back
of the hamstring. When my knife
pricked a certain sinew the cow gave
a heave, slung that hind leg out with
a jerk and took me fair under the chin.
They told me I turned a complete somer-
sault before I hit the ground with a thud.
I still carry the scar under my chin.
* * sH *
“A. Clincher”: In the annals of the
town in which I was born—Smythesdale
(Vic.) —there is a case where horseshoes
were reversed (B. 17/4/’4O) successfully
—for a time. In 1867 one Burke, man-
ager of the Bank of Australasia in the
town, was waylaid and shot by two men
named Searle and Ballan when return-
ing from Break o’ Day with gold. A
young woman saw two men riding past
and happened to notice the horse-tracks ;
but the shoe prints pointed in the oppo-
site direction to which the riders went.
The police shrewdly followed the tracks
both ways, and a wayside farriei who
had done the job coughed up sufficient
evidence to condemn them. They were
fitted with hempen ties in Ballarat gaol.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: As a token of affection
Jimboon, otherwise Jimmy Fryingpan,
presented me with a picture gallery, all
on the surface of a baobab nut —eleven
inches long by four through its widest
bulge. Hardly a square inch of that
surface but is bent to the service of
art. The leading piece is a croc., just a
trifle crudely drawn but vibrant with life.
Stealthily he stalks right down one side
of the nut, tail curled halfway round
to the opposite side. Unperturbed by
the saurian a large greenback turtle
waddles along, the curve of the nut ad-
mirably simulating the curve of the
greeny’s shell. Further around, emus,
large and small, and another bird that
might be a cassowary, though that species
is held to be non-existent in the Kim-
berleys. Snakes, from the python to
the death adder, fill odd corners. Like-
wise circles and circles-within-circles,
totem symbols of mystic significance. But
nowhere has the artist drawn a kangaioo
or a human. For the ’roo is Jimmy’s
totem, and to create its effigy even in
outline would be sacrilege, setting one-
self above the Deity, as it were. For
the same reason Jimmy dared not draw
a man, since such an effigy might take
on spirit life with unpleasant results to
his creator. Jimmy is really an engraver,
his stylus a few inches of sharpened
fencing-wire. In earlier times he would
have used a scrap of shell or even quartz.
But Jimmy is progressive and moves with
the times. A true modernist, he scorns
the plain line, obtaining his effects with a
delicate zigzag, itself artistic.
THE RECRUIT.
If I must go and leave these ways I know—
These dusks and dawns, and color in the trees,
And the slow yarns, and wood-smoke hanging
low,
And growing stars, and cattle at their ease
And all the dear, small things of which I’m
part—
I do not go for any prideful cause
That Europe might defend.
But only that the sun-swept Austral land
Might still lie warm within the Austral hand;
And that young boys, who speak the tongue
I know,
Might laugh in years ahead where sunsets
glow;
While softly, softly in the leaves of kurrajongs,
the mghtwind croons its tiny summer songs.
If I must know the agony of nerve
When knowledge comes of what might be mv
lot, J
Think not it’s outworn shibboleths I serve,
Or some false creed by foreign feuds begot—
I cannot feel their hatreds or their pride
Nor can I think the bitter thoughts they know,
When Europe goes to war—
But only that the golden sands might feel
The strong press of the surf boat’s driving keel,
And careless men might tramp the mountain
roads
? ever thought or fear of foreign goads •
And deeply, deeply in the noons of Riverine,
lhe headers drone across the harvest scene,
If I must go and reap what death has sown,
Not caring what the grave or whose the earth
That holds the clay Australia made her own,
Then make it known my end was not for worth
Of any plan of conquest, or of gold,
Or vengeance, or the crazy martial dreams
That Europe fights to keep.
But only that this southland still might know
The rights of freeborn men to come and go
And work, or loaf, from Cottesloe to Ayr
Across “the great, brown country” that they
share;
While strongly, strongly in the nation’s pioneers,
Breathes the high destiny of coming years.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Nagheer”: When Bill got into town
with his cheque the first thing he did
was to buy a fine new pair of bluchers
to replace the battered remnants which
no longer afforded comfortable shelter
to his generously-constructed feet. He
was not the man to waste good money
on unnecessary cityfied articles like
socks, and, anyhow, the cheque was none
too big for a thirst acquired during weary
weeks of fencing. After slaking a few
days of it at Mrs. O’Rourke’s bar he
weaved a tortuous course to the pub
yard and fell blissfully asleep beside the
laneway to the converted stable which
the landlady was wont to describe as
the noo garagy. A swagman, fresh from
heartless refusal of a handout at the
kitchen door, viewed the snoring figure
with joy, deftly removed the new boots,
and slid round the corner. As Bill slept
on, a. motorist turned into the laneway,
stopped with a screech of brakes, and
yelled: “Take y’r blanky feet off the
track —might’ve run over them.” Bill
woke, looked up at the driver and down
to the bare bunioned extremities. “Ain’t
mine, mishter,” he explained. “Minesh
got bootsh on ’em —noo bootsh.” And,
yawning wearily, he resumed his siesta.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: It is six miles of rough
bush tramping to the lily lagoon and
back, but the lotus birds make it well
worth while. Handsome folk in their
black, brown and white garb, with a
brilliant wattle-comb which changes from
scarlet to yellow, apparently at will, they
run lightly over the floating leaves on
the most extraordinary feet in the whole
bird world. About the body-size of a
native thrush, they sport tootsies longer
than themselves. Those feet are un-
webbed, but the bird is a strong swimmer
both on top and below water, and will
stay under for an hour or more until
danger passes, poking the tip of the long
bill just above the surface amongst the
leaves to breathe. When a young family
has to be taken care of Dad and Mum
will pick up a chick under a wing—some-
times one under each—and bolt for safety
across the lilies. If really alarmed they
will dive in, chick and all—the infants
“I said roll out the barrow, stoopid."
“It’s not so good on the other side, sir."
“ Cripes, what have you done to it?”
seem to inherit a capacity for submarine
tactics directly they get out of the egg.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Bandy Jack had
always regarded himself as a roughrider
of class, and when a buckjumping show
visited our eastern N.S.W. town Bandy
promised us some real riding. “When I
hit the saddle,” he said, “the only thing
that gets me off is starvation!” But
Bhindihi, the prad he picked on, was as
hard to sit on as its namesake. Five
seconds after he entered the ring Bandy
made a forced landing through the ropes.
“What did you get off for, Bandy?”
yelled a cobber as the fallen idol limped
to his seat. Bandy grinned wryly. “The
exercise made me hungry,” he drawled.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: I should like to give
“Gravelsnatcher” (B. 15/5/’4O) a little
ocular proof of iron-sickness in jarrah
as compared with other timbers. The
little Baltic-pine house in which I
dwell stood for 12 years on the
W.A. goldfields. Then in the mining
depression following the Big Stoush
it was pulled down, to be re-erected just
outside Perth —same boards, same nails.
To-day, after an additional 20 years,
those boards and nails are still as good
as ever. Been painted, of course. Thirty-
two years of service, and not out. But
all around my block jarrah pickets are
falling from the fence after barely 15
years of service, nail and nail-hole eaten
right away. As for jarrah resisting the
white-ant —don’t make me laugh! The
termite certainly will eat other timbers
in preference to jarrah, but when no
other is available it will go through
jarrah as avidly as a flapper demolishing
ice-cream. Without going a hundred
feet from where I am writing this I could
show a score of jarrah pickets absolutely
riddled. King’s Park, Perth, is mostly
fenced with squared jarrah post and
single toprail. For years such fence tim-
ber to replace white-ant meals has run
the board into at least double figures.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The 14-mile stretch of
country between Landsborough and
Nambour on Queensland’s North Coast
railway seems to exercise a deplorable
effect on elephantine behavior. The latest
example was provided by one which
broke loose from a departing circus at
the Landsborough station, smashed up
fences, demolished several outhouses and
capsized a tank. Finally it broke into a
butcher’s shop and was captured by the
circus hands while devouring sausage
meat. A year or two ago a publican
at Woombye, 11 miles further north,
found an elephant wrecking his garden
fence. When he tried to drive it off
it chased him into the house and made
a hearty meal in his vegetable garden.
At Nambour, the next station, another
blocked the line by pushing a truck across
it, strolled down the main street and
raided a vegetable cart. When a fox-
terrier came to the rescue it fled, bring-
ing down a shop verandah as it turned
a corner, and fetched up in Petrie Creek.
There it trumpeted in terror till its small
assailant, by then strongly reinforced by
most of the town’s other dogs, was
driven off by its attendant.
* * * *
“Naturala”: It’s odd that many lowly
forms of life which can have had no
actual experience of such things have
a keen apprehension of sharpness and
points in man’s tools and
snares. Take a snail, surely
one of the least acute of
living creatures, and place
it on the open blade of a
cutthroat razor. The mol-
lusc will crawl everywhere
except over or along the
edge. Again, few fish will
bite at a bait showing the
point of the hook. Some-
how they know that that
point is sharp and lying in
wait for them. But deep-sea
fish, such as snapper, will;
the struggle for life is too
keen there for any easily-
got food to be passed by.
Still, even then the snapper
knows the point is sharp.
Cunningly he comes at the
bait sideways, thinking to
get it away without encoun-
tering the hook. Of the
many snapper that I have
caught every one was
hooked through the side of
the jaw, just as he took the
hook sideways in his mouth,
saving the roof from the
point. It is such hooking
through the tough jaw-plates
that makes possible the
landing of ninety-nine out
of every hundred hooked
snapper.
“Murlonga”: At rare intervals parts
of Queensland will be invaded by kanga-
roo mice. I’ve seen them on the western
border fence; I’ve caught ’em near tide-
mark on the eastern coast. Their visit
is usually brief, and the man who knows
whence they come or to where they go
has inside information denied me. They’re
the make and shape of an ordinary
mouse, same color, perhaps a little longer
and sturdier in the hind legs, with a mar-
supial pouch, a tiny tuft on the end of
the tail, and the little devils hop just like
any old-man wallaroo of the hills.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: I’ve come across pigs,
cats, dogs, cattle, horses and camels
leading wild, free lives in various parts
of the Australian outback, but I’ve never
seen or heard of goats taking to the bush
for keeps. There is no obvious reason
why they shouldn’t. They are the best
drought-resisters of all our imported
animals; they thrive where the others
would starve, they have no known dis-
eases, and in steep mountain country no
dog or dingo would have an earthly
chance of catching them. In Persia,
whence came the forebears of our ordi-
nary billy and nanny, their ancestral
stock is still as wild a species as they
were in the days when Saul went to seek
David “on the rocks of the wild goats.”
The domesticated kind so frequently men-
tiorfed in the Old Testament were
Angoras, much less hardy and intelligent
animals. The real reason why William
and Nancy stick to white human associa-
tion is probably sheer commonsense and
the knowledge of when they are well off.
sfc %$
“N. Sylvester”: Although “R. Cuss’s”
flooded gum throwing aerial roots (B.
15/5/’4O) may be unique among
eucalypts, the feat is common among
Australian varieties of fig. An examina-
tion of almost any Moreton Bay will
show a few sprouting, though never have
I seen one actually reach the ground.
The N.T. banyan, a species of fig, grows
to enormous size by such methods. From
the mother trunk, born probably from
a seed dropped by a bird, limbs grow;
from these in turn aerial roots drop, be-
coming in turn supplementary trunks,
again throwing out limbs from which
other aerial roots descend, to repeat the
process again. Not far from the police
station on the Daly River there is just
such an enormous banyan, covering per-
haps a fifth of an acre. Practically im-
penetrable, its shelter is the home of
wallabies, rats and other small game.
Preying on these are numerous snakes.
To whites who don’t mind a few such
reptiles this banyan’s shade makes an
ideal camping place. But not for any-
thing would the blacks pitch their paper-
bark wurlies anywhere near. “Too much
big-pfeller python ; him gobble up picca-
ninny.” White opinion agreed that this
banyan harbored a python. But, if so,
the reptile’s camouflage was perfect;
peering into the twilight of trunk, limb,
leaves and aerial root, it was impossible
to tell which might be merely root and
which might be suspended python. And
nobody was eager to crawl in on all-
fours to make a closer investigation.
SULLIVAN’S QUEST.
Sullivan rode from his camping-ground
As the sun sank low in the west;
But who can say what Sullivan found
Or what was Sullivan’s quest?
Others will go where the fierce winds blow
And try as Sullivan tried,
But only God and the white stars Know
The end of Sullivan’s ride.
The desert waste is a burning waste
And thirst is a bitter goad;
He must ride in darkness and ride in haste
On the track that Sullivan rode,
With never a mate to share his fate
And never a peak to guide,
For only God and the stars looked down.
On Sullivan’s last long ride.
Now Sullivan lies in- the great north-west,
Where they say that the dead sleep sound;
But what was the end of Sullivan’s quest,
And where is the gold he found?
He rode alone to the great unknowp
And followed a phantom guide,
For only God and the stars looked down
On Sullivan’s last long ride.
Oh, some may jest at his fruitless quest
Or murmur his name in grief,
But somewhere out in the great north-west
Lies Sullivan’s golden reef;
And men will track to the great outback
And die, as Sullivan died,
For only God and the stars looked down
On Sullivan’s last long ride.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, •
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
P 9 A I O A UI OS 3q p|nOD
diHsmsnai M3U >i jsa3 n i„
(I
*5
M
r PHE Executor is
* asked to carry out
exacting duties such as preparing an inventory
of assets and liabilities, investigating and paying
claims, adjusting taxes, collecting debts, accept-
ing responsibility for actions which require expert
knowledge. If you are administering an estate
it will pay you to hand the responsibility over
to The Union Trustee Company, a Company
specially authorised by Parliament to do this work.
eu
TRUSTEE
COMPANY-
F AUSTR A L I A LIMITED
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, C.l
2 O’CONNELL STREET .... SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
14-16 DENHAM STREET, TOWNSVILLE
Serving Tcstators since 1885...]
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
< Dividends ■, To .Nominal
Pref. Re— Re-
Feb., Profit.* 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1929. .200,404 56,250 S p.c. = 100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299 107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ „ 25,000 ; 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82 532
1935.. 84,387 87,188 f Nil 79 731
1936.. 97,941 87,188 f 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
1937. .109,416 43,593 44 ~ „ 56,250 9,573 75,057
1938.. 43,593 5 ~ „ 62,500 6,933 81,990
1939. .107,695 43,593 5 „ ~ 62,500 1,602 83,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 5 ~ „ 62,500 4,856 88,443
* After deducting debenture interest. f Two years.
t Subject to goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
The service this big more-than-century-
old organisation offers is second to none.
Still, as the eye sweeps down the columns
in the table, it needs to be remembered
that the business cannot be judged on
the same basis as other retail establish-
ments doing a purely city turnover in
specialised, quick lines. That is because
of the universal nature of the under-
taking, which means that the co. has to
carry slow- as well as quick-moving lines,
and country trade still figures prominently
in turnover.
Last term turnover continued to improve,
especially during the second half, when
better prices for wool, wheat, metals and
dairy produce under British war-time
purchase contracts and Government
spending on defence bumped up bank
deposits and created easy money condi-
tions. Also, employment remained at a
high level, while wage-lifts during the
previous term naturally assisted city sales.
The same wage-lifts, however, contri-
buted to steadily-rising costs, the up-
ward trend of which was accelerated by
increased demands of the taxgatherer,
which have been still further increased
since the close of accounts, and can be
expected to grow louder yet.
After striking off £54,292 (up £2578)
for depreciation, and making whatever
provision was considered necessary for
contingencies, including a substantially
increased allowance for taxation —the
reserve for this purpose (£76,197) in-
creased by £34,502 net —the board figured
net earnings £3255 better at £110,950.
That was 5.5 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of
share capital, of which £750,000 carries
a cumulative 1\ p.c., reduced to 5.8 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act. After handing the prefs. 5.8 p.c.,
enough remained to show 5.3 p.c. on
ord. capital. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.
Doubtful whether the 5 p.c. will ,be
maintained, the market prices the f.-p.
pound ords., covered by 17s. in net
tangibles, at 10s. 4d. as against 15s. 3d.
a year ago. At 10s. 4d. the scrip appears
to be worth attention, the immediate
return being 9.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs., backed by 48s. sd. in net
tangibles, are priced at 19s. 6d., to yield
5.9 p.c.
Seasonal prospects for the current term
promise a good volume of production,
and satisfactory prices are assured under
the British war-time contracts already
mentioned. Expenditure on defence will
continue to increase, and altogether there
promises to be a good deal of money
about. Government borrowing, however,
will eat up some of it, while the lifts
in taxation, direct and indirect, will help
to put a further break on lavish spend-
ing. But the war-time excess-profits and
undistributed-profits taxes will not bite
into the co.’s earnings, though a steady
increase in distribution and other costs
can be expected. So far as can be seen,
which isn’t far these days, appearances
are that 5 p.c. to the ords. should not be
beyond reach at next balance.
Balance sheet discloses a sound finan-
cial position, and movements in the
figures are encouraging:
1937. 1939. 1940.
Ord. capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 7 50,00 0 750,000
Debentures . . 600,000 560,000 540,000
Sundry creditons,
etc 84,633 152,014 288,667
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 1,281,236 1,240,123 1,229,339
Plant, etc. . . 256,951 212,828 181,068
Stocks .. 757,221 801,523 959,693
Hook debts . . 224,469 306,858 351,489
Cash, etc. . . 63,289 49,802 51,616
Outstanding feature last term was
the addition of £158,170 to stocks —this
to guard against an anticipated rise in
prices and difficulties associated with
prompt delivery. To meet the outlay,
add £44,631 to debtors’ balances and
clip £20,000 off the debenture debt, the
amount coming to sundry creditors was
increased by £136,653. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£534,131) was £87,902. On fixed
assets, reported to be in a high state of
efficiency, £48,544 more was written off
than was spent.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves. +
£ £ £ £
1928.. 21,271 7 p.c. = 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7 „ „ 6508 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7 ~ „ 6568 90,515
Surplus.
1933.. 14.031 7 „ „ 6568 7.463 97.978
1934.. 12,469 7 „ „ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935.. 16,057 7 ~ „ 6568 9,489 113,368
1936.. 18,822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125.615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7,248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund, £2OOO .. 146,947
1939.. 27,366 7 pic. = 6662 ) . Bn4
To contingencies, £2500 \ 18»204 160,10 l
1940. 30,077 7 p.c. = 7517)
To contingencies, £2500 } 180,211
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
This co.’s shares are one of the
most popular insurance stocks on the
market. When the books last closed,
paid capital (£120,825) had the support
and assistance of £185,211 of reserves;
so the two combined need turn in only
2| p.c. in order to pay 7 p.c. on capital
itself. Actually last term’s return from
investments alone (£14,498, up £2023) was
equal to 13.5 p.c. on average capital, thus
leaving the whole of the underwriting
surplus (£15,579, up £679), equal to
14.5 p.c. on average capital, and £6981
besides available, to swell reserves and
the returns therefrom. The year’s net
return from all sources was equal to
28 p.c. on average capital, or 10.2 p.c. on
capital and reserves combined.
Because of these and other things, the
market prices the lOs.-paid shares at 255.
as against 21s. 9d. net a year ago. The
return at 255. is 2.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The investor at 255. who looks
for 4 p.c. on his money counts on a
10 p.c. div., which is obviously within
easy reach, despite stinging increases in
taxation and the upward trend of costs.
Still, the market may . have to wait for
its benefits. In the past the cautious
board has pursued a very conservative
policy, which isn’t likely to change while
the outlook is obscured by war condi-
tions.
The underwriting section of the busi-
ness. which spreads all over the Com-
monwealth, north to Asia and the Indies,
and out over the South Sea Islands and
elsewhere, has produced the following
results:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922.. £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0 p.e. 39.7 p.c.
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 ~ 32.3 „
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 „ 39.8 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1933.. 104.137 58,637 40,041 56.3 „ 38.4 „
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1935.. 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 „ 39.7 „
1936.. 145,922 82,382 53,876 56.4 „ 36.9 „
1937.. 170,729 105,358 61,626 61.9 „ 36.2 „
1938.. 206,037 122,537 72,021 59.4 ~ 34.9 „
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 „ 34.4 „
1940.. 251,039 145,280 90,180 57.9 „ 35.9 „
Last term an extra £26,752 of net pre-
miums was gathered at an additional
cost of 1.5 p.c., making the expense
ratio a moderate 35.9 p.c. The loss ratio
was 1 p.c. lighter, being also moderate
at 57.9 p.c. It all suggests a careful
selection of business and a tight hold
upon outgoings.
So rapidly has the business expanded
of recent years that, at the close of
accounts in 1938, net tangibles had fallen
to 117 p.c. of premium income, whereas
150 p.c. is usually looked for. So early
in the last term 199,950 new £1 shares
were issued at par—the issue was in the
nature of a bonus to shareholders, be-
cause of the premium the scrip com-
manded in the market. At the end of
March 10s. each had come in on 1750
of the new issue and 2s. 6d. each on the
balance, leaving £74,325 to come to make
all shares called to 10s. each. That
would make paid capital £195,150
(on which last year’s £30,077 of profit
would equal 15.4 p.c.) and raise net
tangibles to 151 p.c. of last year’s net
premiums. The board, however, has
stated that because of war it has no
immediate intention of asking for the
money.
The next table shows the solid nature
of the financial structure:
1929. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Taid capital . . £93,175 £95,175 £95,175 £120,825
Sundry creditors* 99,072 100,750 124,161 247,274
Public securities. . 121,675 196,938 204,958 221,073
Fixed deposits . . 27,000 16,000 23,500 32,500
Oa«h, etc. . . 13,872 26,237 48,323 57,262
Book debts, etc.. . 49,671 22,235 40,328 54,590
Freeholds '.. 74,041 74,041 74,041 195,401
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Chief movements last year were
the growth of £121,360 in the book value
of freeholds —the co. bought Stanton
House, Pitt-street, Sydney—and the addi-
tion of £123,113 in the amount coming to
outsiders, which includes an unspecified
provision for contingencies. Public
securities (up £16,115) were equal to
39.4 p.c. of the balance-sheet total.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
' Toße- Re-
Uec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929 .. 39,142 8 p.c. = 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 . . 45,445 8 „ „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 .. 48,469 8 „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 .. 30,344 8 „ „ 21,200 9,144 246,420
1933 .. 45,807 10 „ „ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 .. 35,921 10 „ „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 .. 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 .. 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 . . . . 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897.. 185,749
1937 . . 47,185 9 p.c. = 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582.. 201,191
1938 . . 49,812 10 p.c. = 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £ 18,960.. 220,713
1939 .. 53,577 10 p.c. = 49,250 4327 225,040
Since acquisition of the Malayta co.
from the Young family for £95,000 in
scrip in 1936, Fairymead has been
interested in copra as well as sugar. The
sugar interests are up Bundaberg (Q.)
way, the copra plantations in the British
Solomons, which had a ’quake last term.
Returns from each source aren’t sepa-
rated in the published figures, but visibly
copra hasn’t been so remunerative an
investment as sugar, despite the substan-
tial discount at which the Malayta assets
were acquired.
Copra prices hardened following out-
break of war, but there have been diffi-
culties in shipping the stuff, and most of
last term’s spring of £3765 in net earn-
ings came from a larger outturn of
raws, following a bumper cane harvest.
Though the average realisation for 1939
season No. 1 pool sugar is expected to
be 9s. Id. down at £l6 10s. or there-
abouts a ton, excess sugar is expected
to average £9, up £1 13s. 2d., which
means a better all-over return to these
millers.
The £53,577 of profit shown by Fairy-
mead was 10.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 10, 9.5 and 8.5 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. That was after adding
£18,960 (up £6378) net to replacement
reserves, which account for all but
£13,358 of the lay-by shown in the intro-
ductory table. Div. was kept at 10 p.c.
The co. had an impressive depression
record, and three years or so ago the
board considered the outlook sufficiently
happy to distribute £132,500 in a one-
for-two gift issue. The 10 p.c. that has
gone out for two years now is therefore
equal to 15 p.c. on old holdings.
Additions to plant continue in a drive
towards further efficiency and increased
millings:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £265,000 £265,000' £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* . . 28,640 69,034 84,484 154,151
Estates . . 226,908 224,014 330,681 334,682
Factories, etc. 162,111 180,668 ]
Railways, etc. 54,993 55,832 }• 360,124 381,878
Plant, etc. .. 43,355 55,214 J
L'cocks, etc. .. 17,814 7,045 45,648 182,642
Book debts ..] J 73,251 85,066 14,173
Cash, etc. .. j Iy,DUO 16> 7 69 6,468 7)5(Hi
* Including provision for taxation.
Last year’s outlay on fixed assets, in
mainly at cost, totalled £25,755, or £6562
more than the allowance for deprecia-
tion. The outstanding movement, how-
ever, was the increase of £136,994 in
stocks, with which the reduction of
£70,893 in debtors’ balances and the addi-
tion of £69,667 to the debt are related.
It suggests war-time shipping holdups.
A result has been a decline in the more
or less liquid surplus from £52,698 to
£50,230.
Renewal of the sugar agreement with
the Federal Government means a guaran-
teed home price for another five years
from August, 1941, while Britain’s pur-
chase of our surplus production of raws
at a price to the local grower of about
£lO Aust. net compares with the average
return of £8 4s. 3d. a ton for 1938
exports. But with sugar-producing
centres now spread and multiplied
the world over, the question of over-
production looks a long-term problem
for the local industry, whose output con-
tinues to increase as a result of improved
production methods and cane varieties.
The problem, which looks like becoming
acute when this war ends, is one the
solution of which should be decided now,
if only as a step towards alleviating that
general economic dislocation which the
termination of hostilities will inevitably
bring.
At 345. Fairymead’s fully-paid pound
shares give the very satisfactory yield of
5.8 p.c. from 10 p.c. divs. That much
should be within reach in the current
term, unless a substantially heavier con-
tribution to the war effort by way of


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
THE SAVING OF INCOME TAX
(COMMONWEALTH AND ALL STATES)
By ALBERT AGNEW, A.F.I.A.
Being a treatise dealing with the legal avoidance of Income Tax.
The volume is designed primarily to awaken taxpayers to the fact that the Income lax Acts
themselves in many cases offer the means of saving of tax and to the fact that it due legal cl
is had to the incidence of Taxation i-esultant on the form a transaction takes a saving ot Income
Tax will in many cases result. , .. ,
The treatise has been compiled as far as possible free from legal phraseology and should appeal
to taxpayers desirous of protecting their income from the ever—increasing depredations ot
Taxation IjCj^’islation.
A careful study of the work will convince the taxpayer of the necessity of giving due consideration
to the incidence of Taxation in all cases of business or property transactions.
PRICE 10/6 (Post Free).
Obtainable from
TAXATION PUBLICATIONS,
4th FLOOR, WATSON HOUSE,
!) BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt".
• * * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
You Save Every Way with a
1940 CHEVROLET
mg>
wwvOflw*.* • • • v..
r*%
Tests by oil companies, by Automobile Clubs, by Motor Editors of newspapers . . . and thousands of tests
by individual motorists prove definitely that Chevrolet is the economy car of the year. But petrol economy
is not the only consideration when you are choosing your new car. You want big car comfort and luxury
you want a car that will “go anywhere” without fuss or bother you want every modern feature. In
other words, you want Chevrolet! Road-test one of the 4 magnificent new Chevrolets for 1940 there s
absolutely no obligation.
COUPES FROM £364 SEDANS FROM £379 (Easy Terms Available Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan)
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS— HOLDEN^SI^D^C722MB
increased taxation is called for. Includ-
ing replacement reserve, the cover is
visibly 295. Id. in net tangibles.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re— Re-
Mar, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil 1 6407 66,571
Provident Fund, £612 .. )
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil l 331.9 69,890
Provident Fund, £5OB .. )
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 1 71949
Provident Fund, £524 .. J
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 2087 74,036
Provident Fund, £612 . . )
1934.. 20,739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 4578 77.397
1936.. 22,403 5 „ ~12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 „ „ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 „ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,155
1939.. 7610 24 „ „ 7499 HI 88,266
1940.. 20,648 4 _ „ ~ 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
The wool deal with the Imperial Govern-
ment has removed some of the speculative
element from woolbroking. Chief factors
now affecting these cos.’ earnings are
seasons and internal costs. As to the
former, outlook for the current term is
generally satisfactory, but early rains are
needed in many districts if a shortage of
feed is not to develop.
Commonwealth Wool’s connections
spread throughout south-western N.S.W.
and northern Victoria. Besides wool, an
extensive stock business is transacted, the
former chiefly in Sydney, the latter mainly
in Melbourne. Last term seasons were in
the growers’ favor, a record clip was
shorn, and the co. received 28,338 more
bales (141,996 in all) for realisation.
Actually, an extra 10,222 bales were dis-
posed of, the carryover increasing from
8378 to 15,063 bales:
f 1939 —\
Wool v
Bales. Sheep. Cattle.
Sydney .. .. 89,789' 230,369 10,195
Melbourne .. 35,300 378,197 10,077
Total .. .. 125,089 608,566 20,272
, 1940 ,
Sydney .. .. 101,050 224,561 9,673
Melbourne .. 34,261 294,784 17,186
135,311 519,345 26,859
Cattle sales were up 6587, too, but 89,221
fewer sheep were put under the hammer.
Stock prices, however, showed stability
and strength.
The 13.43 d. a pound paid by Britain
for the clip was 3d. above the preceding
year’s average auction price, and gross
earnings (£169,138) spurted £28,739. In-
cluding £720 more for depreciation
(£4115), cost-increases totalled £15,701,
leaving the declared result £13,038
stronger at £20,648. Of that, £2858
(or 10 p.c.) was knocked off wool
commission charges—nothing had been
refunded in the preceding term.
The balance of earnings repre-
sented 5.8 p.c. on share capital, and div.
goes up from 2} p.c. to 4 p.c.
Despite expansion of the business, there
has been little in it for shareholders of
recent years, but commission rebates —a
fraction under 1 p.c. on capital last term
—make the position somewhat better than
it looks, the majority of those on the
register being also consignors.
With all shareholders’ funds, and a lot
more besides, tied up in freeholds, the
board has had to go outside in order
to assist clients:
1924. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. £93,871 £249,116 £299,953 £299,980
Sundry 1 [
creditors, etc. j- 169,790 361,692 202,821 179,290
Overdraft, etc. J [ 238,657 310,441
Provident fund 13,169 39,300 50,374 54,627
Freeholds, etc. 211,635 416,275 476,366 479,023
Stocks .. 2,170 10,994 14,476 31,341
Book debts . . 90,553 ] f 389,092 432,725
Cash and public f- 315,917 -J
securities .. 15,753 J ( 7,736 7,306
To advance £43,633 more and carry
£16,865 heavier stocks, £48,253 net was
added to the debt last term, but the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids
declined from £30,174 to £18,359, leaving
the provident fund (£54,627, up £4253)
out of the reckoning. When the books
closed there was 245. lOd. of outside
money at risk in the business for
every pound of shareholders’ equity. A
large proportion of the advances, how-
ever, appears to be against wool and
produce, etc., and therefore self-
liquidating.
The fully-paid pound shares last sold
at 16s. 9d., to yield 4.7 p.c. on the basis
of current divs. Book value of the net
tangible cover is 265. 3d. Though pros-
pects in N.S.W. are for a lighter clip,
the effect on earnings will be partly
offset by the co.’s heavier carryover.
Austral Amalgamated Tin, Ltd.
This is the co. that amalgamated, as
from December 31, 1938, in exchange for
its own scrip, the interests of the old
Asam Kumbang, Puchong and Ulu Yam
cos., all offshoots of Austral Malay Tin,
by which 18£ p.c. of the capital is held.
The merger was put through on the
following basis:
t New Co. >
Old New ss.
Paid Shares for
Capital.* Holding.t 100 £1 Old.
Asam Ivumbang £lOO,OOO £145,000 580
Puchong . , 180,000 171,000 380
Ulu Yam . . 100,000 70,000 280
£380,000 £386,000
*£l shares. f ss. shares.
Included in the assets taken over were
three bucket-dredges, combined monthly
capacity 575,000 c.y., 1558 acres of dredg-
ing reserves, cash and other more or less
liquids of £129,833, and £19,869 in spares
and stores.
The idea was to effect econo-
mies and minimise the effects of restric-
tion by a grouping of quotas, the new
co.’s assessment being 1499 tons t.o.
annually. Pooled resources also are a
distinct advantage in prospecting and/or
developing new properties. It is con-
ceivable that it might pay better to
work a promising new area that might
present itself and hold one of the exist-
ing properties idle.
For 1938 the three old cos. together
netted £18,622 stg. before providing for
depreciation, etc. First year of the amal-
gamation has produced a surplus of
£58,413, of which £15,259 was written
off, £4Bl was donated to patriotic funds
and £19,300 went out in a 5 p.c. div.
Prospecting expenditure of £3177 was
capitalised. For 1939, however, the free
domestic quota averaged 51.1 p.c., as
against 37.3 p.c. in ’3B, while the three
months’ sterling price for metallic tin
was £34 5s higher at £224 4s. 2d.
Dredging performances in 1939 com-
pare this way:—
Kumbang. Yam. chong.
Treated, c.y. .. 1,671,000 453,000 272,000
t.o. (72 p.e. assay
basis tons .. oio.u /x.o iv.a
Recovery c.y., lb. . . 0.69 0.35 0.58
Recovery p.c. bore si 95 240
In all, 2,396,000 c.y. was turned over at
a working cost of 3.16 d. per c.y. for
655 tons t. 0., a recovery of 0.611 b., or
89 p.c. of bore values. In the preceding
term the old cos. had dug 3,796,000 c.y.
for 7571 tons t. 0., a recovery of 0.441 b.
Too much attention should not be paid
to the high Puchong recovery, owing
to the small yardage dug.
For the first four months of the current
term yields have been 0.511 b., but, thanks
to a better price for the output, mine
profit of £36,310 is shown With the
international quota again back to 100 p.c.,,
prospects of an improved showing for
the full year are promising. Ihe quota
may go even higher unless it produces
a cut in the steadily-mounting tin
price, which had crept above £277 a ton
in London at the week-end.
At Sept. 30, 1938, dredging reserves
amounted to 104,769,000 c.y.—9,556,000,
, to A 7QII-> nt A cam 19 000 000 (0 61b )
grade 0.79 Lb., at Asam, 1 y J/uu,uuu iu.oiu.;
at Ulu Yam, and 60,213,000 (0.371 b.) and
16,000,000 (0.211 b.) at Pungah, so that
at last term’s rate of digging a 42-year
life is indicated. The low grade of the
Puchong block, however, suggests that
earnines will be particularly susceptible
to metal-price movements.
Capacity of the Asam plant is 220,000
c V monthly and of Ulu Yam 140,000
cy while Puchong dredge is being re-
modelled to handle 340,000 c.y. monthly
to a depth of 105 ft. Despite a fat pile
of liquids, the intention is to finance this
work q out of current profits as far as
possible, while maintaining a 10 p.c.
div Later capacity can be increased to
450 000 c.y. monthly and digging depth
to Psft Ulu Yam plant is also to be
reconstructed when opportunity offers.
In the sharemarket, Austral Amal-
gamated’s ss. shares fetch 6s. At
December 31, net liquids, including spares
and stores at £2&14 and buffer-pool
rmsm'sm * C ° S ‘’ am °
£l.l /pi* S*
The Commonwealth £20,000,000 war
loan filled up in 10 days. It was hoped
that a week would suffice but, as it
stands,* the effort bad. *
Reports in Monday morning’s cables
that Britain might review the basis on
which Empire metals were being bought
. * . t .. ,
OWing tO the TISC in production COStS
f a jj ec j baV e any stimulating effect on
the market. The critical war news kept
speculative interest very quiet.
* * * *
Considering the taxation advantages
they confer, and the fact that they pro-
duce a commodity for which there is ever
a ready war- or peace-time demand, gold
shows might have been expected to
present a stronger front in the share-
market of recent weeks. Movements in
some prominent stocks:
- May May May June
Arahura _ .. 32 /-t 33/3* 207- 24/6
BouiderPerseverance 13/7* 13/7 12/8 10/3
” &£• *- £& «/?
cuthbert’s Misima 17/ 6t i7/6t 15/3 15/-
•• •• gfc
G oidcn Plateau .. 9/4 7/8 6/3 6/1
Great, Boulder .. s/i_ 7/10
Lake view .. 25/2 24/9 2.3/3?
a organ ' /; a {(! 2 \',i
New occidental .. 1175 11/6 8/9 8/8
Norseman .. .. 17/9 17/1 11/7 9/1
N Kalg . ur ii .. 22/6* 2279* 21/3 19/4
sons of Gwaiia .. 43/-* 44/- 42/3+ 3979?
y’j I *°g ria Dodging ’ 37/3 36/3 29/- 32/-
Wellington Alluvia is 4/2 4/3 3/3 3/2
‘' s '""' .
Heaviest falls have occurred m the
speculative Melbourne market. Crashes
in Victorian stocks such as Central Nell
Gwynnc ;and Deborah, notwithstanding
that each has a mine apparently every
bit as good as three weeks ago, have
b“n rivalled only by that of Lolorna.
Westrahan stocks at interesting levels
include North Kal., Norseman Gt
the last three has particular difficulties
of its own at the moment. Incidence of
British excess-profit tax which appears
to make no allowance for recent plant
extensions, is something to be taken into
account when considering an investment
man English-domiciled co however. In
the dredging section, which has more
C^ce7 /Xi to
T the
long run There is no certainty, though,


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
SYDNEY
(Incorporated in Victoria.')
2 O’CONNELL STREET -
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney. Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwnys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
„ 0 . N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Waddell’ K nf’ M-L.C. (Chairman) ; J. Bedford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
sir uranam Waddell, K.B.E. ; James Kidd; Colin A. Sinclair; A E Heath CM G
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. ' ’
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
HOW YOUNG
MEN CAN BUY
SECURITY
IN every corner of the
Commonwealth men
are investing in A.M.P.
policies to provide secur-
ity for the future, and
there is no other way so
simple or so satisfactory.
When a man takes out an
A.M.P. policy for £lOOO
he buys immediate secur-
ity for that amount, and
pays for it as the years
roll along. Should any-
thing happen to him, even
the next week, the £ 1 000
is paid to his dependents.
Many men deny them-
selves the comfort and
satisfaction of A.M.P.
membership because they
think that it is beyond
their means. The reverse,
ms
V .
1 , i
■ill
i $
I"
■i' '"'iiii
j j.: .* llj)||jj|j
wA !li l
« IiKI
RfK,
I!
The younger a man is the less it costs him
to buy life-long security.
however, is true. On an average, one family in every two
in the Commonwealth has A.M.P. protection in some measure.
One in every two enjoys the peace of mind that comes with
this security.
Use the coupon to get a simply written book that tells of
the A.M.P. plan to build up security. Use the coupon now.
USE THIS COUPON
To the A.M.P. Society.
Please send me a copy of ‘ Peace of Mind” on the under-
standing that there is no obligation on my part.
Name
Address
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Slr A am w el <F°jj ern ’ B v ßE > Chairman of the Principal Board.
' rT General Manager and Actuary.
a Ghief Inspector and Secretary.
D , „ A - E ; " ebb > Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
1 *****"*******!****
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
IT LI r> i* Head Office:
fvembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The Greatest Tobacco
Value in Australia
GOVERNMENT SAYS “SPEND.” GOV-
ERNMENT SAYS “SAVE.” You can
do both here. YOU’VE SMOKED
SOMETHING WHEN YOU’VE SMOKED
GOOD, PURE TOBACCO.
MANUFACTURED AND BLENDED BY
the MANUFACTURERS direct to you
at practically half the Foreign Im-
ported prices.
BUY AND ENJOY the Empire Tobacco.
Developed by the Commonwealth and
State Governments of Australia with
the latest research and scientific methods
known to our Agricultural Department.
Keep your money in Australia and
help your own country to develop its
marvellous industries at great saving
to yourself.
FOREIGN PRICES SMASHED BY US
With orders over £1 a Briar or Cherry-
wood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
ALL LINES IN PIPE TOBACCO
AND FINE CUT
Per lb.
First Crop, mild .. ~ 6/3
AH British, mild 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium .. .. .. 6/3
Cavendish, strong 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . .. 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild .. .. c/9
Soldier’s Own, mild .. .. 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. g/-
Three Bells, strong . „ ~ .. g/-
Bird’s Eye, medium . . .. .. 8/-
Latakia, pipe only .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, light .. .. .. 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8 6
Cahills, medium .. .. ~ 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. 11/-
Nigeroid, black, pipe only .. g/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only .. 6/-
PLUG TOBACCOS
“Clinker,” mild, 8s .. .. .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium, 8s .. .. 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong, 8s .. .. 7/c
“Three Sailors,” 8s .. .. .. 7/6
“Royal Navy,” nuggets .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 13s 7-0
“Trade” Tobacco, 26s .. .. 6/P
“P.M.,” plug dark, 8s .. .. 6/6
Zig-Zag Papers, 5 packets for 1/-.
Post free in Queensland only. 6d. per
lb. adjoining States, 1/- other States.
Hll LVAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Successors to
Combined Growers’ Tobacco Mfrs. Co.
Ltd.,
11 Commercial Road,
BRISBANE.
that “bottom” generally has yet been
reached.
* * * *
•■Essential Oil” writes re the Plevna
Shale beds ;
Some years ago a syndicate not possessing
much in the way of funds decided to prove
the worth of the Plevna (N.Q.) shale beds
mentioned in B. 22/5/’4O. With the money
available it set out mainly to test the area,
Nine bores were sunk; eight of them were
in shale when tools were withdrawn. One
went to 150 ft. and was still in shale. Another
went as far as 201 ft., when basalt was struck.
I his was probably a floater such as was struck
m some other holes. The syndicate proved
that shale existed over 160 acres, and that the
overburden averaged less than 30ft.
Away from this area an investigating financial
group has commenced a wide shaft, and it has
struck shale at 9ft. Further away again shale
has been struck at sft. These facts were not
known to the Oil Advisory Board when it made
its report.
The weight of evidence is that shale deposits
of great depth exist here over several hundred
acres, and that this can be mined at very low
cost mechanically. Analyses obtained by private
persons show the gross material value to be
not less than 30s. per ton, with very small
sulphur content.
The group now investigating is no doubt
looking at the venture as a prospective divi-
dend-earning one, and the investigations will
necessarily be protracted. Very likely this work
will extend oyer several years before the
pioject is launched. Meanwhile Australia waits
piles PayS throUgh the nose for vital oil sup-
From a national point of view it seems
criminal folly for Governments to neglect such
a deposit.
* * * $
After nearly three years’ digging,
Barry town Gold Dredging, Greymouth
(M.L.), has declared its maiden div.—
6d. per share, calling for £5OOO. For the
year ended March the co. dug 2,055,000
c.y. for a working profit of £56,170, most
of which was earned in the last half of
the term. A reduced surplus of £2909
for May, however, suggests that the plant
may be getting out of the rich patch it
has been in. Now around 215., the
pound ords. were recently up to 265. 4d.,
a figure which appeared hardly justified
by results so far, though the manage-
ment may, of course, be able to add to
the property.
* * * *
Normally market for a co.’s scrip
should be no concern of the manage-
ment, but the skid in Norseman, leading
Dundas (W.A.) producer, appears to call
for official comment. From 17s. 9d. on
May I—after1 —after 20s. in March —the ss.
shares sold at 9s. Id. towards the end of
last week. The co. draws its millfeed
from two sources, the Norseman leases
and the Iron King block. Visibly, bear
points for the market have been (a) cut
in the June quarter div. from Is. to 6d.
a share, partly a result of laying-in re-
serve stores and spares; ( b ) despite in-
creased millings, a working surplus of
£62,160 for the first half of the current
term, compared with £71,490 for the
corresponding half of 1939, whereas there
are now 100,000 more shares to spread
earnings over; (c) development this year
will all be a direct charge against revenue,
instead of share-premium account; ( d )
low values disclosed by recent de-
velopment. But bulls can point to ( a ) in-
creased throughput when the delayed
power-unit arrives from England; ( b )
that a larger proportion of ore is
being mined from the low-grade, and
less-profitable, Iron King section ; (c) ore
reserves at last balance of 312,300 short
tons (5.2dwt.) at Norseman and 430,000
(2.3dwt.) Iron King ; ( d) an official state-
ment that 3dwt. at Norseman and
at Iron King is now generally payable.
There may be other debits and credits
in regard to which shareholders have not
been let in the know, but meantime
around 9s. the scrip mightn’t prove a
bad gamble.
Dissatisfied shareholders, and
there are a number in the West, are
growling about the closure of Lancefield.
Some have let off steam in the papers ;
others talk and curse whenever they get
a chance. Briefly, main cause of the
recent earth movements which brought
about the collapse of workings was the
removal of previously-left supporting
pillars. It has been claimed that the
mine is by no means worked out, and
contains a lode of exceptional length and
width on which comparatively little de-
velopment has been done outside the
main workings and which has possibili-
ties, given good management and active
development, of resuming production on
a fairly large scale. Six diamond-drill
holes put down in the north shoot, how-
ever, struck nothing worth blowing about,
but prospects in the southern section are
to be investigated before the management
throws in the sponge.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) is crowing about pros-
pects, exposure of good average-grade
ore varying from sft. to 15ft. in width,
opening up of substantial tonnages, con-
tinuance of shoots and a substantial in-
crease in reserve ore being mentioned.
Mill capacity is being lifted in excess of
100,000 tons a year, and a further in-
crease is proposed. Proved and probable
ore as at the end of February is put at
424,720 long tons, of which 357,950 was
proved, average grade being s.l2dwt.
Production for the seven months to
March 31, after deducting realisation
charges and Federal gold tax, is valued
at £A 120,693 and estimated working
profit at £49,454.
* * * *
Ownership of Hannan’s Reward-Mt.
Charlotte, a resurrected Kalgoorlie gold-
mine of promise, and the spot where
Paddy Hannan filled his waterbag with
nuggets, has been settled. The warden
decided against Hannan’s Hill Amal-
gamated, N.L., a local co. which claimed
that Barbican Corporation and Mt.
Charlotte, Ltd., two London concerns,
were in wrongful possession, and the
Westralian Supreme Court and High
Court upheld his decision. Now Han-
nan’s Hill Amalgamated has had its appli-
cation for leave to appeal against the
judgment of the High Court refused by
the Privy Council.
* * * *
Big Bell and Mt. Magnet Gold Mines
(W.A.) are claimants for refunds of
Federal gold tax to mining enterprises
operating at a loss or at a profit of not
more than 30s. an ounce of fine gold
recovered. Gross value of ore treated by
Big Bell is under 4dwt., that by Mt.
Magnet averages 2.363dwt., which is
probably the lowest grade treated in
Australia. Big Bell mills nearly 50,000
tons a month, or nearly as much as Mt.
Magnet in a year.
* * * *
Revenue of London-controlled Tindals
Gold Mines (W.A.) for the March
quarter came to £A29,831 ; operating
profit was £7988. Co. states that the
surplus was affected by an unavoidable
increase in working costs and outlay on
repairs and replacements essential after
a mill has been running some time.
Additional thickening and filter units are
about to be installed. These will enable
handling of 7500 tons a month, with an
increase in the throughput of higher-grade
oxidised ore. A. J. Bensusan, a London
mining engineer, is to report on the mine
and review the system of working.
* * * *
Nevoria Gold Mines, Ltd., holder of a
large low-grade proposition near Southern
Cross (W.A.) and which has had a little
London backing, has been notified that
the British Treasury is willing to release
capital for development provided the
co. raises £lOO,OOO outside the U.K.
Eastern States investors are stated to have
promised to find the sum, which would
pay for the treatment plant now designed.
* * * *
Both output and grade of millings are
going up at the Eldorado, on Centralia’s
main goldfield. Throughput in the last
four-weekly period reached the rate of
8500 tons p.a., grade almost 12dwt. It
raises the tally for the current term, which
ends June 30, to 5646 tons for 28400 z.,
worth £27,600. Most of the handy
surplus appears to be going back into
the mine under a long-sighted develop-
ment policy.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.H.R.: Don’t like prophesying—in present
circumstances, anyway... .S.L.J.: Co. showed
a respectable profit for the past half-
year, and reckons defence and other orders will
keep the mills busy for the rest of the term.
Suggest holding for the present H.A.: Stick
to listed stocks J. 8.: (1) No. (2) Shouldn’t
be much to worry about in that lot in the long
run. Certainly wouldn’t care to sell anything
m the present market.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
%
II
111
illll
111
ill
. ■
wm
inn
iiuiu
ini
m
If!
tii
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
-—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“How can I trace my ancestors?” asks corre-
spondent.
He might try getting into a fierce
argument with a bullock-driver.
4* 4 r 4* 4*
“Shave in 23 seconds.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Apparently the barber knew nothing
about racing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If you are in the habit of biting or con-
tinually wetting the lips, try to stop the habit.”
— Women’s mag.
The trouble with some people is that
they bite their lips if they can’t wet them
continually.
“If y' ain't lucky , Blue — it's only a dud!"
“There is nothing rnore exciting than having
your own private lipstick collection.”
—Beauty column.
So long as the wife doesn’t unearth it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Famous songwriter gets most of his in-
spirations whilst riding in taxi-cabs.”
— Article.
That’s where lots of men get fresh
ideas.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a man’s courting he’s always
getting dressed up, and when he’s mar-
ried he’s always getting dressed down.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Icky sticky sax. sucker takes a flop!”
—“Music Maker."
The King’s swinglish.
*s*
“A bird can change its wing area in flight,
which is something man has been unable to do
in a ’plane.— “Digest.”
That’s nothing to crow about. We’d
like to see the bird that can loop the
loop.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The girl who remained dumb until she
found her lover.” — “World’s News.”
At first she was a silent picture ; now
she’s a talkie he’d like to walk out on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Fortunes, wives lost on turn of dice.”.
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Where d’you buy dice like that?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Old Serpent Due for Sydney Win.”
—Sport note.
The wowsers thought he’d won it long
ago.
Wrong Partner.
“What is a man to do if he likes dancing
and his wife doesn’t?” — Correspondent.
I’d regard the situation (and my wife)
with indignation. Then I’d try a wild
flirtation with an old flame as foundation
for a rising conflagration in my spouse’s
breast, you see? I’d ignore her jealous
glancing, and continue with my
prancing; till, to stop this mad romanc-
ing, she’d prefer to do some dancing
than for ever to be chancing being led
a dance —by me.
Elm.
“Rugby League player unwittingly has a wife
foisted upon him.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
The centre aisle was her goal, so she
made clever passes at him, and showed
a half-back in her new evening gown.
At last, with a desperate tackle, she
brought him down.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Expert.
“Clear-out man for large city company, must
be thoroughly experienced.”
— “S. M. Herald" ad.
I beg to apply for this position. I
have cleared out from three wives, the
navy, several boardinghouses and hotels
where my board was overdue, and (on
three occasions) from bail. I have my-
self been cleared out at poker; and the
last time I was employed as cashier I
cleared out the safe. Whatever you’ve
got to clear out you can rely upon me
doing it thoroughly.
Yours unfaithfully,
Nick Offalott.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Furnishing fashions may come and may
go.”— Women’s paper.
According to whether or not you keep
the instalments paid up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The King’s Cross foreigner was glum;
Our language turned him grey.
He’d heard me say the blonde was
“dumb”
Because she talked all day.
E.
4* 4* v 4*
The Obvious Niche.
“Child was born with solid head.”—' "Sun.”
Our eldest boy was like that. As a
child we sent him to kindergarten,
primary and secondary schools, but he
could learn nothing.
With adolescence he became a serious
problem. If sent on a message he had
always to be instructed to return, other-
wise he would remain at the destination
until collected. Other youngsters used
to order the poor fellow to stand on his
head, and then go away. He would
remain in this inverted position until
ordered to change it or until he toppled
over from exhaustion.
However, our patience and care
brought their reward at last. We tried him
at all sorts of things, from lift-driving
to soldiering; always he failed. Then,
one splendid day, I heard a radio speech
and knew the problem was solved. He's
been a member of Parliament for the
last five years.
99er.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When you just can’t do anything right, take
time off for tea.” — Advt.
Henpeck sadly inquires how on earth
he’d be able to drink tea 24 hours a day.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Problem: if a hen laid a cracked egg
would she cackle with a break in her
voice?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Even flowers can defend themselves against
their enemies.” — “D.T.”
By using their pistils?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The warden of Sing Sing prison in U.S.A.
said that out of 2000 prisoners more than 69
per cent, had sold newspapers in their youth.
—Magazine article.
Apparently they didn’t appreciate the
freedom of the press.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He seemed to be surrounded continually by
women sewing clothes.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Hemmed in.
Vision in Green.
“Do women dress to please men or women?”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
Does woman dress to soothe her soul
Or stir the heart of man ?
Has self-expression been her goal
Since Christendom began ?
No, stronger the conviction grows
In me (though truth offends )
She doesn’t seek delight in clothes
But envy in her friends!
P.O.M.C.
Declaration.
Your golden locks will always be
A treasure to my eye ;
Each tress will be so dear to me
Until the day you dye.
PATON.
Garden Note.
“English innkeeper grows daffodils more than
2ft. tall by pouring a drop of ale on the bulbs
now and then.”
Behold the charming daffodil,
Its stem with flower a-top;
How Bung delights to see it swill
The product of the hop!
And while its stalks the taller grow,
Its golden petals cheer
The parson’s summer flower-show
With scents of foaming beer.
ESSER.
It Isn’t Done.
“It would not be correct for country gentle-
men to carry their guns with them on their
walks and take flying shots at enemy para-
chutists.” —London “Times.”
As all of England’s last battles are won
on the playing fields of Eton, it is fitting
that the grand old English public school
tradition should govern deportment in
thk inllv old war
To drink one’s port before the soup
instead of after the nuts; for Sir Luke
McLuke to address the under-footman
as Jim instead of James; for the butler
to barge into the dowager marchioness’s
boudoir while she was still adjusting
her foundations and roar out “The
scran’s ready, Mum!”—such social faux
pas would pale into insignificance beside
the enormity of potting at an enemy
while not correctly attired.
You can visualise the scene in rural
England. The village squire comes down
High-street one morning, nodding
acknowledgments to the “Marnin’,
Squoire,” of each yokel. He stops for a
word with Gaffer Jarge, the oldest inhabi-
tant, who is seated on his favorite bench
under the swinging sign of the Bull and
Duck. Leaving the old thatched inn,
he pursues his perambulation, cane in
hand and hound at heels, along the leafy
lanes.
Chancing to glance upward, he sees
what looks like an animated Christmas
tree coming down attached to a para-
chute. His breeding will here assert
itself and he will register not the faintest
surprise. Suddenly there is heard the
chatter of a sub-machine-gun, also from
aloft, and bullets begin to whip around
the Squire’s feet. He steps back behind
a hawthorn hedge with a muttered “Bai
jove! What an unsportsmanlike cad!”
And, nobly suppressing a wish that he
had the trusty gun with which he picks
off partridges as they come downwind, he
ponders whether the indignity of running
to the village to ring up the nearest
military depot would be compatible with
his squireal position. Eventually he
compromises by adopting a fast walk.
At a special meeting called to consider
the future conduct of members in the
light of the situation which may at any
time arise, the Guild of English Country
Gentlemen has adopted the following
rules for their guidance:
(1) When a member is going for a
stroll he should always take his butler
with him. Then, should a parachutist be
met with, the normal procedure of effect-
ing a stranger’s introduction can be
pursued by getting the butler to request
him to present his card. For this pur-
pose the butler could carry a small silver
salver in his hip pocket.
(2) Should an enemy parachutist point
a gun at a member’s head and demand
to be told the location, say, of the water-
works, ascertain first if he or any close
blood relative has ever been included in
Debrett or Burke’s Peerage.
(3) Refuse to divulge even wrong in-
formation which would send him to the
police station instead of the electricity
sub-station unless he first complies with
the usual amenities of social intercourse
— i.e., puts his questions in courteous
language and expresses gratitude.
(4) Should the parachutist adopt a
minatory attitude, whether physical or
vocal, the member must assume that he
is an impossible bounder, and should
therefore treat him with the silent con-
tempt he undoubtedly deserves. To enter
into an altercation with him is unthink-
able, for the member would thus be in
danger of lowering himself to the other's
standards of conduct.
(5) Dress for the reception of enemy
parachutists may be optional— i.e., morn-
ing coat, striped grey trousers, black
shoes, bowler and lavender gloves, com-
plete with walking stick (unloaded); or
plus fours, shooting jacket, walking
brogues and Homburg hat, with short
cane (this must not be used for any
offensive purpose).
Also the following letter has been sent
by the Guild:
To the Editor of the “Times.”
Sir,
Your timely warning against
unsportsmanlike conduct is much appre-
ciated by my executive. For the guid-
ance of those of our troops, however,
who, in strict conformity with the Hague
Convention (Article I Xu, subsection
XXV), may have to operate against
enemy parachutists the Guild of English
Country Gentlemen would like to point
out that it is against the best traditions
of English sportsmanship to take a “sit-
ting” shot. Therefore we would adjure
them to leave this caddish con-
duct to the enemy, who knows no better.
The strictly correct procedure is for the
troops to withhold their fire until the
parachutists have actually reached ground
and are on the move. This is equivalent
to shooting a bird “on the wing.”
Yours etc.,
Gregory Gargoyle,
Secretary.
BO.


40,000 Users agree...
There is no better way of cooking
$ s
m
Women say .
“Roasts shrink hardly at
all, need no fat, basting
or turning” . . .
“Food cooks better and
looks better, far tastier —
all at such little cost” . . .
“Grills are delicious and
tender, so juicy” ...
“Pastry browns and crisps
astonishingly well and
absolutely evenly” . . .
“It’s wonderful to be
certain everything is going
to turn out perfectly” . . .
“The AGA is the only
thing I have ever bought
which does everything the
makers claim.”
m
m
'■J
r mm ft
3*
■ ;
m
Over 40,000 satisfied users are unani-
mous in their praise of the AG A
Cooker; and no wonder, for, in addi-
tion to perfect cooking, there is an
astounding saving in fuel costs. The
AGA burns continuously day and
night, is always ready for immediate
use, yet cannot burn more than a
fixed amount of fuel. Model “C”
(illustrated) is guaranteed to con-
JkOrkmBkatStimm
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
Write today for
a copy of the
AGA Catalogue
R 6, or call at
I our showrooms
for demon-
stration.
sume not more than £3 worth of coke
in a year (with coke at 30/- per ton),
and requires refuelling only twice in
24 hours. It. excels in every cooking
method, provides every oven and hot
plate temperature required, boils
water at the rate of a pint a minute,
roasts meat without basting, keeps
meals hot indefinitely without spoiling.
In short, an AGA Cooker makes life
infinitely easier, gives more appetising
meals, at the lowest fuel cost in the
world.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer and Preston, Ltd..
Adelaide. Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster
and Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
a
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor—fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge. ■
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, . xylo. handle 15/6
Blade size 2in.
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a' safety razor
3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
*w.J
p tu,
<B*3*
654 GEORGE STREET,
STD NET.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Real Value of Shares
The real value of shares under existing
war conditions depends principally on
what proportion of the national income
is to be consumed by war’s cost, how that
cost is to be borne amongst ourselves,
and how much dislocation to certain in-
dustries is to be caused by the transition
to war-time conditions. In Australia we
are guaranteed prices for many of the
things we export; but if the cost of
things we buy overseas rises, then much
of this benefit may disappear. Up to
date our banking system has benefited
materially by the better export prices.
Also, some industries have grown,. and
will continue to grow, as a result of war-
time protection.
Questions the answers to which would
clear the atmosphere regarding the fair
value of most shares in the present
circumstances include:
(1) How competently or incompetently
is the Federal Government establishing
defence forces, defence equipment and
the means for producing defence equip-
ment?
(2) Does the Government regard Aus-
tralia’s war effort as something that has
to be done to satisfy the electors, or
does it aim to pursue a single-minded
policy of maximum effort, maximum
results, minimum dislocation and mini-
mum cost?
(3) Another aspect of question 2: Is
much of the money raised for defence
being wasted? Admittedly some waste
is inevitable. But there are reports
of merchant ships turned inside-out for
the Navy and then pulled: almost to bits
again, of munitions-making plant the
vaseline on which hasn’t yet been re-
moved, of army equipment bungles, of
the right men in the wrong jobs, etc.
(4) Assuming that the answers to the
first three questions aren’t entirely satis-
factory, what measures are being taken
to remedy the position? This is a very
important question. Early mistakes were
inevitable. But continuance of mistake-
making would be inexcusable. The
appointment of Essington Lewis as
Director-General of Munitions Supply
is an encouraging sign.
(5) The point of the preceding questions
is to find out whether we are making full
use of the money, men and materials at
work and/or available ; apart from the
essential fact that we must make good
use of these assets in order to win the
war, there is the economic question,
which affects share values the same as
values of most other things, as to whether
some of what we have already paid for
won’t have to be paid for again because
of bad planning or bad distribution of
work.
(6) We aim to spend £86,000,000 on
defence this year. Loan money will pro-
vide £50,000,000 of the sum, taxation
the remaining £36,000,000. That much
we are prepared for. Will it be neces-
sary, in the light of latest developments
in Europe, to spend more? • If• so, how
is itito'be raised and. how spent? It
can be raised only by borrowing, taxation
or conscription of capital, and it can be
spent effectively only if there are in-
dustries ready to do the job that is
actually wanted.
(7) If the extra money is wanted, is
raised, is spent, then what effect will the
increased activity in munitions-making
have on other industries not interested
in munitions —the food and liquor, re-
tail, amusement, home-building, clothing,
etc., trades—by way of drawing-off em-
ployees and perhaps reducing the real
spending-power of the people through a
somewhat reduced living standard?
(8) Are we likely to have any measure
of inflation to disguise the rise in the
cost of living that would follow the
turning of a larger part of the nation’s
energies to defence work? Unless, so
to speak, we do defence work in our
spare time, the fact that the results of
this work do nothing toward maintaining
our immediate standard of living means
that the standard of living must fall at
something near the proportion that de-
fence expenditure bears to the national
income. At present we are reputed to
be spending something like 10 p.c. of
the national income on defence, and
though the better-otf are paying for
much of this, the wage-earner, and his
spendings, must be affected to some
extent.
(9) The Treasury, in making its plans
for raising money in accordance with
Defence Department requirements, has
so far done a masterly job. Will the
way other departments are handling their
part of the war effort assist or hinder
a continuance of the Treasury’s policy,
which is one of stable, honest money?
(10) If the wastage of war consumes
an increasing amount of the national in-
come, to what extent will company earn-
ings be taxed further?
(11) If conscription of wealth is in-
troduced, will company dividends be
limited also?
Under conditions like those existing
now, everything arising out of the war
that affects the nation also affects the
sharemarket. But money is affected also.
Nothing in particular has happened to
any class of shares on. ’Change, yet the
whole market is apprehensive, to say
the least. Largely this apprehension, as
reflected in slumping share prices, is
irrational. “Prices” of shares are only
the quotation at which shares will be
exchanged for money, and, since shares
stand or fall with the flag in the present
case, money is in the same boat. Only un-
der peculiar circumstances, such as where
a holder has no more than an equity
in the shares in his name, and that equity
is vanishing in the market, is there any
real reason for selling—unless the holder
has more knowledge of the arrangements
that are being made for the distribution
of the cost of the war than is at present
in the hands of the people generally.
This prompts a return to questions 10
and 11: If further taxation is to be
levied, will companies be subject to an
extra share of the burden? Also, is it
considered by the Treasury that lower
co. divs. would induce more active sup-
port of Consols at the present 3 p.c. (or
thereabouts) borrowing rate?
In connection with the second part of
the query it can be said that people can’t
buy existing shares without first of all
finding a seller, and when the seller gets
his money he is in the same position as
was the buyer before he bought—he is
in a position to invest in Consols if he
feels so inclined. The only time that
Stock Exchanges draw much money from
the funds available for new investment
is when a boom is on. Nothing re-
sembling a boom is in sight at present.
It should not be necessary to have any
fears that taxation or conscription of
capital will bear disproportionately on
companies or co. shares. Most of our
essential industries, including a large part
of the land industries, are represented by
companies, and these industries must be
kept healthy. They must not be taxed
too heavily as companies, irrespective of
what tax divs. will bear, nor must civil
servants interfere too much with their
conduct.
In general, the real value of shares
in the circumstances prevailing now—
conditions that virtually isolate our in-
vestment markets from those of the rest
of the world—depends principally on how
the burden of war is to be borne amongst
ourselves. That is, the comparative value
of shares in relation to money and other
things. The question is one involving
the inroads of war’s cost into the national
income, taken in conjunction with the
relative proportion of the cost which will
be borne by companies.
It can be said that, up to date, very
little inflation has occurred in money as
a result of our method of allocating de-
fence costs. Therefore a fall in company
and other incomes, after payment of
taxes, is likely to be how the cost will
show up in the immediate future. Some
fall in share prices from the peak reached
early this year was therefore to be ex-
pected. But there was no reason for the
distraught, gutless market that existed last
week.
It is only along these lines of thinking
that the real value of shares can be esti-
mated —or guessed at. Day-to-day hap-
penings on the Western Front affect us
all, but they don’t affect relative share
values until we decide amongst ourselves
who shall be affected. The big point to
be remembered by the nervous is that you
can’t sell shares and get the proceeds out
of the country. The money has to stay
here—with the shares—until the war is
over and exchange restrictions are lifted.
There is little doubt but that during
the past month the Australian Stock
Exchanges have had to take the blow
not only of the fears inevitably produced
by the uncertain state of affairs over-
seas, but also of the not-so-inevitable
“nerves” produced by money-hungry
bears. Bearing the market has been go-
ing on shamelessly,, in spite of the pitiable
fact that every fall in the market pro-
duces forced sales on the part of “carried”
clients, and these sales create further
disorder and distress. A forcible-feeble
sort of anti-bear regulation was brought
into operation by Stock Exchange com-
mittees soon after war broke out; then
there was an ill-advised boom in a great
number of stocks, during which the regu-
lation was probably forgotten. In any
case, even if it is still operative among
members of ’Change, in Sydney there
is evidence that it is repeatedly broken.
The committees of the various Stock
Exchanges should police regulations like
these in times like these. The money
made by bears in their present para-
sitical operations is paltry when taken
into account alongside the worry caused
to real investors and the damage done
to the investment markets as a whole.
Perhaps holders of good shares are silly to
be influenced by bear operations. But one
of the most useful investors in the com-
munity is the person with only a few hun-
dreds or perhaps a thousand who hasn't
a great deal of margin for his (often her)
living requirements. Such people suffer a
lot during trying times like those we are
now going through without having to con-
tend with internal market-smashing—a
thing that affects war-loan-raising as well.
* * * *
It shouldn’t be overlooked by investors
that excess-profits tax aims to collect no
more than £4,250,000 a year in its present
form. That takes in all Australian cos.,
listed or unlisted, so that the general
incidence isn’t going to be severe, unless
rates are bumped up later on. They
may be increased, but even if they are
doubled, shareholders in sound businesses
possessing big reserves should still be
able to look forward to a little butter on
their bread. This paper believed share
prices last January to be exceptionally
and unsafely high in spots. Now it takes
the view that they are much too low in
spots. Rights to Australasian Paper’s
new issue at 3s. and Cumberland rights
at 2s. last week looked ridiculously
cneap—and excess-profits tax is a very
unimportant matter so far as these 8 p.c.
stocks are concerned. On the other hand,
B.H.P. shares at 40s. haven’t really
suffered great depreciation compared
with early-1939 standards. On a pre-
bonus basis they were still worth about
65s. 6d. per old share last week. A
reduced dividend income to old holders
has followed the bonus. B.H.P. is an
excellent stock, but there are many others.
* * * *
Two Sydney cos. have lately shown
reduced profits. Australian Cash Orders’
claimed profit fell from £38,215 to
£32,357, and, though the 15 p.c. div.
was maintained, there was no bonus,
whereas in each of the two preceding
years a special 3 p.c. went out in addition.
Electric Light and Power, which supplies
the Balmain and some other districts,
showed a drop from £73,539 to £65,896
in net profit, and the ord. div. was cut
from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c.


THE
lIMITCfI INSURA NCE
UHI IC U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. O. BE YN OLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
BULLETIN OF COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
'
■
MILLS PTY. LTD., PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
\T
SB
a
wv I
m
&&*»**
NO
THROWING MONEY
INTO THE BUCKET?
TE7HETHER for buckets or for any
*■ other product into which your
customers throw money, it is false
economy to use a low grade steel.
High grade sheets give you u deeper
draw and minimise rejects. They will
speed up production, ensure a flaw-
less job and build your reputation
with the people from whom you make
profits. We would like to go into this
question with you: to discuss your
process and tell you frankly with
adequate proof whether a departure
from your present sheets will increase
your turnover and your net returns.
Naturally —no obligation is entailed
... except the obligation upon this
organisation to prove that its advisory
service is capable of very practical
and valuable co-operation with pro-
gressive manufacturers desiring in-
creased business.
Manufacturers who use or
propose to use Steel Sheets
are invited to submit their
problems to our technicians
for helpful advice.
CRM Enamelling Iron has the techni-
cal qualities and properties to deep
draw and take enamel so that manu-
facturers can cut fabrication costs
and turn out prideful work.
P T Y.
(THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION)
LTD.
KEMBLA
ROAD. PORT KEMBLA
CR4-40
“I’M FEELING AS FIT AS A FIDDLE”
No shamming. Do you feel your best every day of the year? Have
you got that energy and sparkling health of youth? Or do you
sometimes or always feel a little under the weather, bilious, headachy
or down and out?
SUFFERING IS NEEDLESS
Most common ailments are caused by acid and poisons which in turn
come from our modern way of living.
Get rid of that tired, listless feeling. TAKE R.U.R. regularly. It
is really wonderful to make you lit and keep you flit.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE OR HEALTH 1
You are not asked to make an experiment at your own expense. If
you take the full course (7/6 packet) R.U.R. gives you a guarantee
that if your health is not considerably improved YOUR MONEY WILD
HE REFUNDED WITHOUT QUESTION.
R.U.R. contains no poisons or harmful drugs. It is not unpleasant to
take and is just as beneficial for young or old. It combines a liver
stimulant, kidney cleanser, laxative, blood purifier and acid corrective.
Hundreds of Letters From Grateful Users
Hundreds of letters of heartfelt thanks are on R.U.R. files from people
who have been relieved of pain and sickness. Some of these are
contained in a remarkable booklet included in every R.U.R. packet,
“THE CONQUEST OF ILL-HEALTH AND PAIN”.
%
'M
R. U. It. Real Universal Remedy
8.5.40
R.U.R. TWICE A WEEKAND THEN YOU’LL FIND THE HEALTH YOU SEEK
1
tu
Testimonial s
have been re-
ceived for all
complain t s
shown in this
message .
Opportunities?
The decline in share prices continued
late into last week, fostered by bears and
bear stories. The “infiltration” of excess-
profits tax exaggerations and so on had
a telling effect. Occasional rallies in
particular stocks (such as 8.H.P.) didn’t
affect the tone of the market as a whole,
and, compared with the average level for
January, representative industrial stocks
showed a decline of p.c. by June 6.
W. R. Carpenter shares have registered
a fall of over 20 p.c. since January,
B.H.P. scrip about 20 p.c., Woolworths
ords. 35 p.c. (excess-profits tax is.unduly
worrying the market here), Melbourne
“Herald” over 20 p.c., Adelaide Steam
over 20 p.c., Huddart Parker 20 p.c.,
Electrolytic Zinc over 30 p.c., Felt and
Textiles \l\ p.c., G. J. Coles 20 p.c.,
Henry Jones slightly under 20 p.c., North
B.H. 35 p.c., B.H. South 30 p.c., New
B. 42i p.c., and Mt. Lyell 27 p.c.
Barrier stocks are also affected by the
bogey of excess-profits tax, any earnings
in excess of 22 p.c. on “capital employed”
being subject to a tax of 60 p.c. But
unless a different method of arriving at
“capital employed” is to be used in the
case of mining cos. as against industrial
cos., North 8.H., for instance, won’t be
subject to a high rate of war tax. At
last balance day it had, in addition to
£700,000 of share capital, £1,783,783 of
general reserves and £324,610 in appro-
priation account. That raises “capital
employed,” as defined by the bill, to
something like £2,800,000. On that figure
North’s claimed earnings last year were
only a little more than 12 p.c., though
40 p.c. was paid on capital.
The following table shows how a num-
ber of representative stocks have behaved
in the market over the past ten months:
July Jan. April June
31, 31, 30, 6,
1939. 1940. 1940. 1940.
Bank of N.S.W. £28.4 £29 £27.8 £25.5
National (£5) .. £6.1 £6.1 £6.5 £5.5
Carlton Brewery 70/- 68/- 67/9 59/-
C. .. 23/- 22/- 20/9 17/6
Tooth .. .. 52/3 52/3 53/3 44/-
Metropolitan Gas £13.6 £13.5 £12.9
Q’ld Insurance .. 55/6 58/- 54/9 52/-
Assoc. News .. 18/6 16/6 12/11 11/4
Melb. “Herald” 62/6 57/- 44/6
Adelaide Steam .. 32/- 36/- 35/- 28/6
Huddart Parker 52/6 59/9 56/- 48/6
A’asian Paper .. 28/6 34/3 35/6
A. 37/9 38/3 37/6 30/6
Bradford Cotton 38/- 37/6 37/3 32/-
B. Prop. .. 63/3 49/6* 47/- 39/9
Burns Philp .. 50/- 54/- 54/3 49/-
Colonial Sugar .. £45.1 £50.6 £51.6 £45.3
David Jones .. 35/- 33/6 33/9 29/-
Drug Houses .. 22/6 26/6 26/3 22/3
Electro. Zinc .. 49/- 58/9 57/- 41/-
Fairymead Sugar 32/6 37/- 35/- 33/-
Felt and Textiles 30/6 38/9 40/6 32/-
G. J. Coles .. 73/- 74/3 70/- 58/
Henry Jones .. 50/- 56/6 58/- 45/-
Howard Smith .. 19/6 24/3 23/9 18/9
Kandos Cement 31/- 29/9 29/3 24/6
Meggitt .. .. 30/- 29/- 31/6 26/-
Winchcombe,
Carson .. 26/- 28/- 28/- 25/-
Woolworths .. 22/- 22/9 20/6 14/6
W. R. Carpenter 41/3 45/6 43/6 35/6
Yarra Falls .. 36/- 42/- 43/6 39/-
North B.H. .. 46/- 47/6 43/3 30/9
B.H. South .. 26/- 29/9 28/- 20/9
New B.H. .. 15/3 20/- 16/- 11/-
Mt. Lyell .. 25/6 32/- 31/- 22/6
* Ex Bonus.
The falls have been severe in most cases.
Stocks not listed above to suffer badly
also have been Gordon and Gotch ords.,
down from 565. last year to 355., Loloma
Gold (365. to 225. 6d.) and most of the tin
cos. The Zinc Corporation, which has
its head office in London, has fallen from
a highest of 101 s. in 1939 to 525. 6d. The
incidence of British taxation is a worry
here, but rebates should be forthcoming
to Australian shareholders. And the mine
is in this country, so that even if the
share-register at 95 Gresham-street, Lon-
don, is blown sky-high, everything should
sort itself out satisfactorily in time.
Essington Lewis, formerly chief g.m. of
8.H.P., is to be given “the greatest pos-
sible diegree of authority, subject only,
to the policy and approval of the War
Cabinet and to Ministerial direction from
myself,” said the Prime Minister last
week. Only on terms of that kind could
a worker like Essington Lewis hope to
do the job expected of him. If he makes
as good a fist of it as he did for 8.H.P.,
then Australian taxpayers can be assured
of value for their money.
In return for the proposed considera-
tion of 225,861 6i p.c. prefs., 618,737
ords. and 618,737 B ords. payable to
Carreras, Ltd., British Tobacco, through
the 800,000 ss. ords. to be acquired, will
obtain control of a business that in its
last term earned £108,544, of which £6BOO
was paid away in pref. divs. The B shares
have no rights to a return of capital
until the pref. and ord. money has been
refunded in full. Carreras’s chief line
is Craven A’s.
Now that there is no doubt about the
fact that the war is “on” Australians
must realise that they will have to work
harder or else take less pay for what
they do. Owners of money and property
will have to be satisfied with a smaller
return. There is no reason for the situa-
tion to be unduly hard if it is properly
handled, however. In effect, those in the
fighting services have become charges on
those in work and those giving work, and
equipping them, feeding them and
clothing them represent further charges.
By closer co-operation in industry in-
creased efficiency may lead to increased
production per man, and. this may offset
to some extent the drain of war. Only by
such means, or by harder work, can pay
envelopes, dividend cheques, etc., be ex-
pected to maintain their buying power.
* * * *
The Netherlands East Indies having
come into the sterling group, the petrol
problem may not be of so much serious-
ness to Australia. But tanker space will
still be a physical difficulty.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
ITALY AND WAR.
[ltems here condensed are given as sidelights on
Italy’s position, all of them published with Mussolini
threatening to take the plunge into war. The first is
condensed from a Manchester “Guardian” article by
Douglas Woodruff.]
No one can travel in Italy without being struck
with the way different parts of the country are united
in their aversion to participation in the war. It is an
aversion which runs through all classes, but when you
ask why, if the public opinion is so definite, it is also
so ineffective, Italians always tell you sadly that in
some other-part of Italy there is more feeling in favor
of war.
In the north they say that the south holds the
people who think of war as naval triumphs and com-
mand of the Mediterranean. In the south they say
that the strength of the Fascist regime has always been
in the north, that German influence is naturally
stronger there and anti-French feeling more alive.
In the north they think of war as a matter for
armies, in the south as a matter for navies. The sense
of being shut in in the Mediterranean by Britain and
France is more alive at Naples and the other points
upon which the Italian fleet is based. There is much
confidence in the fleet, more than in the army,
because the fleet is a professional service, whereas
everyone is in the army, and men hold commissions
and find automatic promotion after exceedingly slight
military experience.
But the feeling for or against war is very much
a matter of age. Italy is full of men under 40, so
many of whom would have emigrated if the United
States had not closed the gates. Thfey are all in the
country, knowing at second-hand of the opportunities
an earlier generation enjoyed, knowing in their family
budgets the importance of the remittances from the
United States which have now so largely ceased.
The Fascist party appeared to provide an alterna-
tive career at home, but it is one in which titles and
decorations are more abundant than lire. Salaries are
small. To these young Fascists the prospect of war
is the prospect of promotion. But it is true that even
inside the party and its younger ranks apprehension
mingles with the fascination of Nazi methods.
The Duce has succeeded in making them feel that
their livelihoods are not only small but are much too
dependent on what foreigners choose to think about
them. The tablets against sanctions stand in their
white marble in the smallest Italian towns, but more
important than that turning-point was the larger moral
to be deduced from it, that Italy was held in leading-
strings because she was not mistress even of the Medi-
terranean and because Great Britain held both the
ocean gateways of the inland sea.
The Italians, in the opinion of those well placed
to judge, are strikingly deficient in war material for
a long war —and by long is meant more than six
months. But the German argument undoubtedly has
weight—that, for good or ill, Italy has cast in her lot
with Germany, and if Germany is allowed to succumb
Italy will get short shrift from the victors and will
have to settle down to an indefinite life of patronage
and servitude because her leaders were not men
enough to see and seize the wonderful opportunity
which the genius of Hitler created for them.
The Duce is not our friend today, but most of
the people have no hard feelings. The House of
Savoy and the Papacy are highly popular, and there
is good reason for this. They are felt to be forces
making for peace and possible centres of further
reconstruction if the worst should happen. But just
as it is said that “men are made by their enemies,”
so are regimes, and the strength of the Fascist regime
has been the uncritical denunciation of it in the West.
If the Italians have the resources in themselves to
modify or change it, they will not do so at foreign
dictation, but because the forces which can rely on
French and British support feel encouraged to take a
hand against the forces which are nourished and en-
couraged from Germany. For we have had, and we
still have, good friends inside the party as well as the
very many outside.
*****
Italy’s Fighting Strength
(Condensed from a London ‘‘Daily Mail” article by
G. Ward Price.)
Navy good
Army badly equipped
Air Force out of date
A.R.P nil
War Resources lacking
That was the state of Italy’s defences with Musso-
lini threatening to plunge into the most dangerous
gamble undertaken by any European statesman since
Napoleon the Third’s challenge to Prussia in 1870.
Her navy is Italy’s most formidable arm. The
narrow mid-Mediterranean waters —only 300 miles
across —with Italian naval bases on both sides and
the fortified island of Pantellaria in the middle —offer
ideal working conditions for the largest submarine
fleet in Europe —110, some say 125, strong —and for
the flotillas of Mases, or 40-mile-an-hour surface
craft upon which the Italians have specialised.
To the four old battleships and a score of cruisers
that have hitherto formed the main strength of the
Italian Fleet has recently been added the powerful
reinforcement of two new battleships of 35,000 tons,
mounting nine 15in. guns. Two more of these are
launched and completing.
The Italian Navy, therefore, is by no means to
be underrated. The fleet, moreover, is more anti-
Ally in temper than the army. Italian sailors have
had a chip on their shoulder ever since Britain made
a naval demonstration against Italy in the Mediter-
ranean during the Abyssinian campaign.
Mussolini’s generals are known to have told him
emphatically that the Italian Army was not ready for
war. Marshal Caviglia, sent on a special tour of in-
spection, informed the Duce that the army was short
of heavy artillery, A.A. guns, anti-tank guns, boots
and uniforms. By an Italian technician well placed
to know I was told that Italy has only 1800 A.A. guns,
including 450 recently sent to her from Germany,
For war against a Western European Power she would
need 10 000
To’the Duce the present war brought some un-
pleasant revelations about the Italian Air Force. That
it went into the stage of mass production too long ago
for the greater part of its machines to be up to the
most recent standards is obvious, but it would seem
that Mussolini had been misled by his own subordi-
nates as to the numbers of aircraft actually in service.
I was told in Italy that a great production effort is
under and that the output of machines has
reached 600 a month.
Air-raid precautions are practically non-existent;
no shelters ; and the very exposed cities of Northern
Italy have no visible protection in the way of A.A.
batteries or balloon barrages
Rich in man-power as she is, Italy gravely lacks
supplies, and in a long campaign would be inevitably
crushed by a naval blockade. Of copper, a vital war
requirement, she produces none. Her native supply
of coal is 1,500,000 tons a year. With war industries
going at full blast she would need 20,000,000 tons,
and though Germany has undertaken to provide her
with 12,000,000 tons a year by rail it is extremely
doubtful whether the already worn-out German rolling-
stock could keep this up.
The same figures ol consumption and home out-
put apply to iron. Italy s production ol explosives is
said to be a maximum of -00 tons a day, whereas her
“Dailv Mirror.” London.
ADOLF JEKYLL AND FUHRER HYDE!
war needs are estimated at 1000 tons. Of petrol she
has imported large quantities since the war. Substan-
tial reserves of motor-fuel, as of meat and corn, have
been accumulated during the past nine months.
The political picture in Italy is clear: the only
war she can endure is a short one.
* * * * *
A Popular Fallacy Exploded
(Condensed from an article by Harold Nicolson in
London “Spectatorthe fallacy being that Italy was
badly treated by the other Allies at the end of the
last war.)
In accepting the Fourteen Points of President
Wilson Italy by implication, and in spite of the
mumbled reservations made by Signor Orlando to
Colonel House, admitted that the Treaty of London
was no longer applicable. Under no argument can
it be contended that the annexation of the South Tyrol
by Italy, with its population of 231,000 Austrians,
was in accordance with the doctrine of self-determina-
tion. It remains to this day a mystery why President
Wilson agreed to that annexation. He himself, in
after years, ascribed his surrender to “insufficient
study,” but the fact remains that by this flagrant
violation of the Fourteen Points Italy obtained a
strategical frontier far more valuable than any which
France was able to obtain. She had every right to
claim the Trentino as far as Bolsano ; she had no
right, having accepted the Fourteen Points, to acquire
the Brenner Line; and her acquisition of that alien
territory represented a tremendous reward.
It is forgotten also that the major wrangle
between Italy and the Allied and Associated Powers
arose, not over something which had been promised
to Italy by the Treaty of London, but over areas
which, under that Treaty, had been promised, not to
Italy, but to other people. It had expressly been laid
down in the Treaty of London that Fiume should
remain in Croatian territory, and in acquiring Fiume
Italy acquired something more than she had even
asked for in 1915. The same is true of Albania. Under
the Treaty of London, northern Albania was to be
given to the Slavs and southern Albania (with the
strategic command of the Corfu channel) to Greece.
In seeking to exclude Yugoslavia and Greece from
Albania, Italy was herself violating the Treaty of
London, and her success in doing so has since given
her an immense strategic advantage. .
In the matter of the Dodecanese again Italy ob-
tained far more than was her due under the Fourteen
Points. Not only did these islands contain a wholly
Greek population, but under the Vemzelos-Tittom
agreement Italy undertook to hand over 11 ot tne u
islands to Greece. With the fall of Vemzelos this
treaty was blandly repudiated by the Italian Govern-
ment, which has since established in the islands a for-
midable naval base. It is nonsense for Italy to argue
that she obtained nothing in Paris when she acquired
(in violation of the Fourteen Points) the protection ot
her northern frontier, the protection of her eastern
frontier, the exclusion of Yugoslavia and Greece from
Albania, and a “vital space” plus a naval base in
Rhodes and the adjacent Greek islands. Were she
today to be deprived of these assets she would not
regard them as unimportant.
The Italian people have been taught to torget
these great rewards and to believe that they were
promised vast colonial territories which have since
been denied them by France and ourselves. They
were not promised colonial territories ; they were
merely promised frontier rectifications, and these were
given. Article 15 of the Treaty of London promised
them “some equitable compensation” in regard to the
frontiers of their own colonies. The most important
of these adjustments was the transfer to Italian Somali-
land of the Jubaland area of Kenya Colony. That
assuredly was something more than “some equitable
compensation.”
I admit, none the less, that these concessions were
made grudgingly, and that in Paris Mr. Lloyd George
and Monsieur Clemenceau did not treat their Italian
colleagues with the respect due to the representatives
of a Great Power and a recently victorious ally. No-
thing irritates the Italians more than the mixture of
sentimental affection and patronising disregard which
the British are inclined to adopt towards them. They
do not want to be thought picturesque,
they want to be thought terrible ; they do
not want to be liked, they want to be feared.
1 do not believe that the conflict which has
developed between us since 1920 is a con-
flict of interests so much as a conflict of
pride. Our beastly superbia Britcmnorum
is apt to dismiss, as boastful and vulgar,
ambitions other than our own. And the
Italians, who remember the toga-versus-
woad period, are determined to force us to
take them seriously.
Britain Fighting for Survival.
[Ever since the withdrawal from Southern
Norway, which led to the fall of the Cham-
berlain Government and the forming, with
Labor inclusion, of a National Government,
full realisation of the Nazi threat has been
increasingly brought home to the British
people, as the items here condensed demon-
strate. The war is now recognised as one
for survival —even in quarters which, only
recently, were bemusing themselves and
others with preposterously unrealistic “war
aims.” First item is condensed from an
article in the “New Statesman.”]
Destiny has come to this island [Britain]
with the speed of a bomber diving from the
clouds. The British people are fighting
for survival. For the first time in our his-
tory Mr. Churchill made that word the
keynote of his address to the Commons as the
nation’s captain in this struggle. No one was aston-
ished. If there were slow minds that failed to grasp
the meaning of our defeat in Norway, they understood
what faced us when the German armies swept across
the Dutch and Belgian frontiers. Hitler defined his
positive purpose in this war in the remarkable pro-
clamation that heralded this invasion: he is fighting
for “the consolidation of Europe” against the two
Powers which he accuses of opposing this ideal.
The proclamation of this war-aim warns us of the
fate that awaits us if our defences should collapse.
Hitler cannot consolidate Europe under his own sway,
unless he can break our will and shatter the military
and economic power of the French and ourselves.
There can be no compromises or half-measures in
such a war. We have to face the possibility of in-
vasion and of a struggle to retain our national exist-
ence. Defeat would mean not merely the dissolution
of national power; it would mean the utter destruc-
tion of our liberties. A Hitler-consolidated Europe
could not tolerate a free island on its fringes.
What is at stake, then, is something incomparably
more precious than any imperial power. We are fight-
ing to conserve our values and our traditions, our
freedom of thought and our standards of humanity.
Ideas are neither immortal nor indestructible. They
can live only in the institutions that incarnate them.
Freedom must mould the laws as well as the mind of
a society, if it is to survive on this earth.
The will of this nation is that our civilisation shall
survive. We face the fact that the supreme ordeal is
actually upon us. We must hold the enemy this
summer in the field or go under.
* It is a grim undertaking. We do not assume that
we can measure even yet the whole scope of the Ger-
man effort to subjugate Europe in a single campaign.
The probability is that Hitler will exploit his superiority
in man-power and machinery to attack at many points
at once. It is possible that a thrust may be attempted
across Switzerland in conjunction with an Italian
attack, if and when Mussolini decides to act. The
probability is that we shall be at grips with the Italians
from Gibraltar to the Libyan desert.
Napoleon had the same idea —forcibly to occupy
Europe under one rule. He, too, came near success.
He, too, sought to include Britain in his conquest. The


results of French domination would have been infi-
nitely less terrible for the human race than Hitler’s
success would be. Our ancestors faced their peril and
survived.
On two factors our fate now depends—in France
on the strength of the Maginot Line, in England on
our ability this summer to make good our numerical
inferiority in the air.
* * * * *
(Condensed from “Time and Tide.”)
The war will reach its maximum intensity very
soon. Also its maximum spread, for the indications
are that Switzerland will be invaded and that Italy will
enter on the side of Germany. She will probably land
an expeditionary force in Dalmatia. The Yugoslavs
will have to retire before a combined German and
Italian invasion and at least try to save their ill-
equipped army, and occupying Bulgaria (they distrust
her profoundly and rightly) establish contact with the
Turks and hold a front that can, in time, be rein-
forced by the Allies —with Salonika, perhaps, as a
base. The German invasion of Rumania is also
likely, with Russia threatening Bessarabia and the
Danube delta (Russia must be accounted an ally of
the German-Italian coalition throughout).
This war seems certain to be vast, intense and ter-
rible—but not long. Hitler —and Mussolini with him —
really believe that when they have shown their people
an empty victory in a ruined world, they will be
acclaimed as saviours and benefactors. They are
doomed in any case. Besides, they will not be vic-
torious. Hitler had to induce a state of stupor in the
German people by years of propaganda and terror-
ism before they could make the desperate final effort
they are now making. That effort will soon have
achieved its maximum—and will soon have passed it.
The descent will then be rapid. Mussolini has whipped
up his own people against the Allies. Italian public
opinion, so hostile to Germany, is turning against
England. And by taking Yugoslavia first, Mussolini
compels the Allies to attack Italy (if they do not, they
will, in the end, lose the Eastern Mediterranean), so
that in the eyes of the Italian public the Allies will
be the aggressors.
The Allies will suffer—England will, for the first
time in her modern history, know what it is to have
war at home —but if they can parry the main blow
that is about to descend they will have won. But
for a period the French and British people will have
to endure as they have never endured before.
Blum on War and Communists.
[From M. Leon Blum’s speech at the Bournemouth
(Eng.) Labor Conference, after hearing which the confer-
ence rejected a resolution expressing “dismay” at the
anti-Communist measures taken by the French Govern-
ment. The speech had very brief mention in cables.]
Why, asked M. Blum, had we entered the war?
“Everywhere in your country as in ours enemy propa-
ganda has used the same excuses and the same theme.
We are told that the war is a capitalist and imperial-
ist war; no doubt they say that in your country also
and no doubt it is the same men. An imperialist war?
If we win—and we shall win—where shall we add to
our Empire? Where is the piece of land in the world
that we wish to conquer? What people do we want to
crush? What sinister design is ours? Where is the
evidence of our desire for lucre and for conquest?
“We have entered the war to preserve our liberty
and our security. Capitalist war? I do not know
what capitalism will be in the world after our victory,
but I know what will happen to Socialism if Nazism
triumphs. Wherever the mechanised Attila has passed,
every workers’ movement, every workers’ institution
has been destroyed. Our union is now the one obstacle
to Hitler’s victory.
“Let me reply to rumors that have run in your
country, especially among the workers. It appears
that France has ceased to be a democracy. It appears
that she has become a military tyranny. A totalitarian
regime. Comrades, what is a democracy? Is it a poli-
tical State which assures without reserve or control the
unlimited extension of the individual’s will? Is it a
State which assures the liberty of revolt against the
collective will? That is not democracy. It is artarchy,
the exact opposite of democracy. Democracy is the
regime where the popular will is sovereign, where it is
represented by Parliament, which is sovereign in the
land.
“And in a democracy you must have restrictions
and limits that are accepted by all. I read the other
day a protest signed by men I respect and even by
some of my friends. It said we have passed a law
imposing the death penalty for propaganda. It is not
a death penalty for propaganda. It is a death penalty
for treason. The history of Norway, the history of
Holland shows how vital that law is. Yes, we passed
that law, and we passed it freely and voluntarily be-
cause we would not tolerate in our country the treason
which has ruined others.
“The exclusion of the Communist Deputies in
France was not imposed on opinion by the Govern-
ment but was imposed on the Government by opinion
and, above all, by working-class opinion, which would
not tolerate that in a nation at war a body of Deputies
should receive their orders publicly, officially and
openly from a foreign State allied to the nation’s
enemy. What would you do if you had in England
a Nazi party in public and official correspondence
with Berlin?
“In France we do not distinguish between the
propaganda of the Nazis and the Communists. The
Communists pass on Hitler’s orders. Hitler’s aero-
planes scatter Communist pamphlets on our soil.
These Deputies are not the representatives of the people.
They are the representatives of Stalin ; there have been
changes in their policy which could not be accounted
for in any other way. In France we do not pity our
Communists. Everyone in France says that if Stalin
had wished the war might not have broken out.”
A Trap for the Fleet.
(Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
J. M. Spaight .)
Not enough attention has been paid to one aspect
of the Norwegian sideshow, and it is worth con-
sidering.
Why did Hitler go into Norway? The answer
commonly given is that he wanted to safeguard the
iron-ore route from Narvik, to secure bases from
which the Luftwaffe could raid industrial centres in
Britain, to prevent us from establishing in Norway
air bases from which we could raid middle Germany.
None of these reasons carries conviction. Hitler
cannot have credited us with the intention of seizing
Norwegian bases; it would have spoilt our whole
moral attitude to the German aggressions.
No, the attack on Norway was the outcome of a
deeper scheme than that. Hitler, it must be remem-
bered, is a man who broods and plans and thinks far
ahead. He is “sleepless of habit,” and worries unceas-
ingly down into the heart of a question, turning it over
again and again in a mind that cannot rest. He would
see that there was here a chance of splitting the
British front and dividing counsel. One of the demands
would certainly be for a recovery of the initiative
which we had allowed the enemy to snatch from us.
A bold and vigorous course of action in Norway
would be called for in Westminster and Fleet-street
alike.
The German attack on Norway was a trap into
which Hitler expected the British Fleet could be lured.
It is significant that just after the invasion the reports
from Stockholm were accounts of a great naval en-
gagement in the Oslo Fiord, of our warships storming
“Daily Herald," London .
THE DEAD TREE.
Bergen and Trondhjem, of the British Navy dashing
into all the narrow waters where the Germans had
ventured. All this was what the Nazis wanted our
fleet to do, what our fleet was wise enough not to do.
They wanted us to fling our ships against the fortresses
which guarded the towns treacherously seized by the
Germans and whose commanders had for the most
part already been nobbled. Where they failed to
secure the forts the capacity of these to deal effec-
tively with any assault from the sea was at once made
apparent. The fate of the Gneisenau (or was it only
the Bliicher?) and the Karlsruhe showed what our
ships might have suffered if they had fallen into the
trap.
The German disappointment at the British failure
to do what they expected was evident in the grotesque
story of the losses sustained by the fleet as a result
of bombing attacks. A whole line of battle, it seems,
was sent to the bottom by the German aircraft. Such
losses might well have occurred if our warships had
been flung against the forts. It is a wild gamble for
ships to engage 11 in. guns on land.
As it is the British fleet stands between Hitler —as
it stood between a greater man, Napoleon—and world
domination ; and he knows it. He cannot win this war
so long as our fleet is in being. Sea power will grind
Germany into the dust. But his plan was cleverly laid
and might have succeeded.
Germany Never Disarmed.
[A stock attitude in Britain towards Germany for
years past—taken up not only by Left-wingers but by
many other foreign affairs wiseacres, and not confined
to Britain, either —has been that if only Nazidom could
be ended and another Weimar “democratic” Govern-
ment set up all would be well. In a letter to London
Daily Telegraph” (here condensed) Brig.-Gen. J. H.
K.C., who was Deputy Adjt.-Gen. in Berlin,
1919-23, asserts that the so-called German “democratic”
Government deliberately broke the Versailles agreement
to disarm and thus kept Germany in a state of pre-
paredness which made Hitler’s military organisation of
Germany possible.]
Mr. Lloyd George accuses the British Govern-
ment of a continuing breach of faith towards Germany
T tbe matter disarmament. He has asserted that
the “democratic” Governments of pre-Hitlerite Ger-
many scrupulously carried out the disarmament terms
ol the Treaty of Versailles, that they “completely”
disarmed and were given a clearance “certificate” to
that effect by “the ambassadors,” and that successive
British Governments thereupon “broke their pledges”
to Germany to disarm in turn.
From these premises Mr. Lloyd George arrives
at the monstrous conclusion that the “war guilt” of
the present catastrophe lies at the doors of our own
statesmen. The only British statesman he exculpated
was himself.
A more wanton and futile statement it is difficult
to imagine. It has not even the merit of being true.
The truth is on record in official British docu-
ments, published and unpublished. No such clearance
certificate as he mentions was ever given by the
Council of Ambassadors. The “democratic” Govern-
ment of Germany did not disarm. Having under-
taken to disarm within six months, that Government
and its “democratic” Minister of Defence, Herr
Gessler, supported Gen. von Seeckt so wholeheartedly
in obstructive tactics that the Allied Control Com-
mission was kept in Berlin for seven years.
The commission was only withdrawn, as the price
exacted by the German Government for the Pact of
Locarno, on the strength of pledges by the latter that
it would make good its defaults in disarmament.
Those pledges were never kept. Within two years of
our withdrawal the Army Estimates of the “demo-
cratic” German Government went up by leaps and
bounds to an unprecedented figure.
If any one English statesman is to be held re-
sponsible for German rearmament it is Mr. Lloyd
George. His “Coalition” Government in 1921-22 re-
peatedly assured the House of Commons, for reasons
best known to Mr. Lloyd George, that the disarma-
ment of Germany was “complete” and, in particular,
that the strength of the German army was reduced to
the Treaty strength of 100,000 effectives. At the very
time these statements were being made in the House,
the senior British officer in Berlin in charge of Ger-
man effectives was reporting the exact opposite, and
a little later he estimated the
number of men trained with
the colors in Germany dur-
ing the years 1920-23 at
500,000.
There can be no harm
in saying, at this distance
of time, that that estimate
was, in October, 1924, ac-
cepted by the War Office as
correct. Nearly three years
after the fall of the Coali-
tion Government Mr. Bald-
win’s Government, in a
Note to Germany in 1925,
declared that the defaults of
the “democratic” Govern-
ment of Germany were so
“numerous” and so grave as
to constitute “a serious
menace to the peace of
Europe.” When, in 1935,
the Hitler Government
threw off the mask and re-
stored conscription, the
Ger m a n “Nazi” press
blithely admitted the trick
played on our own and the
French Governments by its
predecessors in title, and
boasted of the success of
the imposture.
The “Neue Illustrierte
Zeitung” of Sept. 12, 1935,
. saluted with a glowing
eulogy that Scharnhorst of the Treaty of Versailles,
Gen. von Seeckt for having so successfully obstructed
the attempts of the Allied Control Commission to
disarm Germany during the years 1920-26 that he
t , hereb y prepared the way” ( vorbereitet ) for
Hitler s rapid restoration of the military might of
Germany in all its menace.
Is Uncle Sam Waking Up?
[The conclusion reached by the American correspon-
dent writer of this London “New Statesman” article
is that Americans are becoming more and more alive to
their own danger and cannot stand out. He gives some
reasons, but his admission that that conclusion is guess-
work should not be overlooked.]
From the first early enthusiasm —when Ameri-
cans expected a revolution in Germany by Christmas
the spirits of millions in the U.S.A. have sunk to
somewhere near zero. Hitler may not prove “unbeat-
able,” as the Nazi propaganda blast asserts, but Wall-
street and Washington visualise the war spreading
until the whole world that matters is involved, with
peace the signal for a period of economic and finan-
cial chaos as highly geared war industries are de-
mobilised, and the peoples grope their way uncertainly
back to normalcy. Worse, the idea slowly takes root
that the United States lives on the same planet as the
Gestapo and those gentle and tolerant statesmen Herr
Hitler and Dr. Goebbels.
The Dutch West Indies, lying within the vital
Panama Canal defence zone, being left in need of pro-
tection, press messages that Germans had tried to
tamper with coastal lights in Patagonia in order to
wreck Allied shipping rounding the Horn, and reports
of renewed Nazi interest in lightly fortified Brazil
served to strengthen the conviction that the inter-
national typhoon might yet veer towards the shores of
the Americas. A prediction by a famous Harvard pro-
fessor that a German blitzkrieg against South America
might be expected “within six months of the war
ending in Europe” added to the uneasiness of many
Americans, and brought a large section of the public


to earth with a bump clearly heard in the White
House.
Westbrook Pegler, of the Scripps-Howard chain
of newspapers, wrote in the New York “World-
Telegram”:—
There is no excuse for pretending to think, so as to
evade a terrible decision, that the Nazis exclude the
United States from their plan to conquer or dominate
the peoples of the world and use them as robots to
produce the means of supporting the Chosen People
on the higher level to which they are told their race
entitles them. The Americans are frankly regarded as
mongrels and vermin. They offend the sight and finer
sensibilities of the Chosen People. To say that a hundred
million patriots will spring to arms to defeat them is to
beg the question, because Hitler will not attack with
arms until he has first disrupted and corrupted the victim.
Clearly the war is likely to spread. Clearly the
Atlantic sea-frontier of the Americas is safe today
only because the British Navy holds the seas, and
Germany’s long-range bombers are busy in Europe.
Clearly, if anything happened to the Allies —as the ter-
mites of the Nazi propaganda machine constantly
predict is about to occur —the United States might well
find itself on the spot. Equally clearly, while isola-
tionism as a frame of mind still flourishes, isolation as
a geographical fact is already on the skids. Ameri-
cans, whose thought-processes are apt to be as color-
ful as their journalism, have begun reading the war
news with greater attention.
All of which helped to deepen a certain pessi-
mistic streak already noticeable in the American press,
which, if not quite accepting the favorite thesis of the
pro-Nazis that Hitler would prove “unbeatable,” had
reached the point where it openly feared either a stale-
mate or, worse, a gang-up of all the totalitarians —
Germany, Italy, Russia and Japan —which would
confront the United States with the dread “either-or”
of jumping in up to the neck or standing aside while
the British Empire faced its greatest peril unaided.
It leaked out that the United States railways, in
conjunction with the Army authorities, have completed
plans whereby large bodies of troops can be concen-
trated in New York City and shipped from that port
“in the event of an American expeditionary force
being sent abroad.” (“Military experts”—perhaps re-
membering the panic created by Orson Welles’s famous
radio broadcast on the invasion of Martians —“an-
nounced there is no cause for alarm,” stated the New
York “Times.”) The U.S. Navy hurriedly scrapped a
demand already tabled in Congress for a 10 per cent,
increase in America’s sea-power, and substituted a
demand for a new construction programme designed
to add 400,000 tons to the Navy, representing a 25 per
cent, increase. Cost, £300,000,000 this year.
Americans, visibly troubled, stuck to their thesis
that North America —geographically remote from
Sylt or not —is impregnable, and that the United
States should stay out. Even, in the views of some,
out of South America. “The time to fight is when
the first enemy soldier crosses our frontier—until then
our job as Americans is to keep liberty alive in one
corner of this planet” sums up the opinion of almost
every American Left-winger.
Those responsible for the safety and well-being
of the United States wish they could let it go at that.
Only a handful of industrialists and another handful of
Chauvinists want to “come in.” But all alike have an
uncomfortable feeling of “a world on skates, without
brakes.” The policies of Italy, Russia and Japan—not
the policies of Roosevelt —will determine whether the
struggle can be localised in north-western Europe and
decided there, or whether the war will become world-
wide. America fears that if, at any stage, Hitler
appears at all likely to win, there will be a mad rush
of predatory nations to “get in first,” and to stake
their claims to a share in the redistribution of the
good spots of the earth.
What will the U.S. do if this happens? Your
guess is as good as mine ; I only throw out the sug-
gestion that war-fever is an infectious disease, and it
is hard to believe this country would stand on the
sidelines and watch the “Ersatz Napoleon” win. The
United States is already half-in. She has a bigger
stake in an Allied victory than any other neutral.
Not a cash stake, as last time, but something more
fundamental. The security of that Atlantic frontier.
Were the Allies to be beaten, this country would have
to arm to the teeth overnight—and stay that way. Many
feel that intervention to secure an Allied victory
would prove the lesser of two evils.
*****
(G. Ward Price, in London “Daily Mail"—a further
example of prevailing, remarkably widespread, optimism
in Britain regarding U.S.A. intervention.)
Even before the attack on the Low Countries
began, Colonel Frank Knox, proprietor of the Chicago
“Daily News,” a newspaper which had consistently
opposed American intervention, wrote: “It is against
our vital interests to have Germany emerge from this
war with complete domination both of land and sea
in the Eastern Hemisphere.”
America is now very nearly ready to come to the
aid of the European democracies. “Immediate de-
claration of war against Germany is quite probably
America’s best course,” declares the New York
“Herald-Tribune.” Signs of approaching interven-
tion accumulate. “Successful resistance by the
Allies is vital to the interests of the United States,”
said Walter Lippmann. “But we cannot intervene by
force of arms. If we wished to intervene we could
not. We have nothing to intervene with.”
But though the United States, like ourselves, long
neglected military preparations, it would have an
immediate and far-reaching effect upon the fortunes
of this war if America did take up the challenge of
Hitlerism. The blow to German morale might be
decisive. The parallel with last time would be of
deadly omen to the enemy. Then, as now, the war
began with swift and sweeping German victories.
Now, as then, Germany would be doomed from the
moment the vast resources of the United States were
arrayed against her. Nor would it be long before
direct American help might become available.
President Roosevelt has declared himself against
the dispatch of an American army overseas, but that
would not debar him from sending the Fleet and Air
Force, which could come much more rapidly into
action. Even though the greater part of the American
Navy might be needed in the Pacific, there would still
be squadrons to spare for the purpose of preserving
peace in the Mediterranean
We do not yet know how much Mr. Roosevelt’s
unpublished message to Mussolini may have done
already to delay Italy’s threatened entry into the war.
It was in Italy that, on a recent tour of neutral States,
I heard the opinion expressed with the greatest em-
phasis and confidence that America would ultimately
join in the war. One of the most authoritative public
men in the country, whose name is known throughout
the world, told me: “America will yet fight beside
Britain in this war, first for sentimental reasons,
secondly because Britain buys in normal times
£120,000,000 of American goods per year, and thirdly
because America now has threequarters of the world’s
gold, which is useless if she does not lend it, and
Britain is the only country she will trust with com-
mercial loans.”
Britain and France are fighting desperately to
defend the vital interests —even the existence —of every
democratic nation in the world, including the United
States. In that struggle we may be sure that America
will not stand idly by to see us defeated and destroyed.
Hard Times in Eire.
(Condensed from a New York "Times” article by
Hugh Smith.)
There is no side of industrial or agricultural life
in Eire that has not been hit by the war. In Britain
and North Ireland the enormous daily expenditure for
"‘Marianne," Paris.
“No, darling, we won’t let it trouble us!”
war industries to some degree helps the populace face
the rising tide of living costs, but Eire has none of
these compensations. The heavy additional cost of
coast defence to preserve neutrality has to be borne
without any commensurate expansion in national
income.
During the Great War the Irish farming com-
munity enjoyed unprecedented prosperity as the result
of record high prices. Today the price of everything
the Irish farmer has to sell in the British market is
rigorously regulated by the British Ministry of Food
at price levels that sometimes barely afford the farmers
an economic return for their labor. Since the price
of maize, meal and other feeding stuffs for cattle, pigs
and poultry has soared and continues to soar to sky-
high figures, revision of the British scale of prices for
Eire produce is a constant subject of negotiations
between Eamon de Valera’s Government and Britain.
One immediate effect of the war situation all over
Ireland is a big increase in tillage. In North Ireland
farmers are “ploughing for victory,” Lord Craigavon’s
Government paying them £2 for every acre of new land
ploughed up. Eire farmers are putting more land
under grain and root crops in conformity with a Gov-
ernment order which makes it obligatory upon every
farmer holding over 10 acres to till at least one-eighth
of his arable land, but the cash inducement given to
the northern farmers is missing.
When the war started many believed the bulk of
Eire’s new industries would have to shut down because
of a shortage of raw materials, but these pessimistic
anticipations have not been realised. Raw materials
are, thanks to British co-operation, coming in remark-
ably well, although prices in some instances are wholly
uneconomic.
One major industry—motor-car assembling—has
been badly hit, since petrol rationing, coupled with
the high cost of fuel taxation, has made motoring a
luxury. Few new cars are being sold.
One industry alone stands to gain. It is “tourism.”
Already Eire hotelkeepers in Cork, Kerry, Conne-
mara, Donegal along the coast are preparing for a big
influx of British and Northern Ireland visitors for
summer vacations in a territory where there is no
blackout and no food rationing. Many English, Scot-
tish and northern folk who normally spend their vaca-
tions on the Continent will come to Eire instead.
A disturbing feature of war-time reactions in
Eire has been a wave of industrial unrest and strikes
as a result of soaring living costs. Dublin has been
living through a series of these upheavals, including
the recent three weeks’ municipal strike which left the
city virtually without fire-fighting, public health and
cleansing services.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment from
various acknowledged sources .)
The “Daily Worker” publishes an account of
Communist reaction to the occupation of Oslo. When
the Nazis arrived the Communists there published a
manifesto explaining that the invasion was the result
of the Anglo-French striving to extend the imperialist
war and of England’s violation of neutrality. The
“Daily Worker,” which appears to regard their activi-
ties with enthusiastic approval, heads its account
“Communists Stand Fast in Norway.” May we
assume that the Communists here would also “stand
fast” after the same fashion if Germany invaded
London? — “Time and Tide.”
$ * * *
United States exports of aircraft for the first
quarter of 1940 amounted to about £16,700,000, an
increase of 225 per cent, for the first quarter of last
year. France was the largest purchaser with a total
of £8,183,000, Australia was second, £1,936,000, the
United Kingdom third with £1,900,000, and Canada
fourth with £1,100,000. The six other countries with
large purchases were Finland, Sweden, Turkey, Nor-
way, China and the Dutch East Indies. These 10
countries, out of a total of 70 purchasers, took 94 per
cent, of the total sales of aircraft products.—
“Aeroplane.”
* * * * *
The Secretary of State for War, in answer to a
question asking whether he was aware that soldiers
serving in Palestine who spent their leave in Jerusalem
were very disappointed to find that they were excluded
from hotels and cafes of repute because those were
reserved for officers or sergeants, and that disreputable
drinking shops were the only places left for them to
seek recreation except for the Young Men’s Christian
Association and the cinemas, and would he have
those undesirable restrictions removed, said that he
was not aware of any such restrictions, but he was
having inquiries made. — “Great Britain and the East.”
* * * * *
An All-Empire Parliament, with a Cabinet includ-
ing statesmen from the Dominions, is long overdue.
Let us invite the statesmen of Canada, Australia, South
Africa, New Zealand and India to take their seats at
Westminster, and so make the British Parliament truly
representative of the British Commonwealth. We shall
need their wisdom and counsel not only in this fight
but more than ever in the solution of the many prob-
lems that will have to be faced in the post-war days
ahead. — John G. Bridges'; “Times’ letter.
* * * * *
The Home Secretary has asked the police to find
out the organisers of the “listening parties” being
formed in Britain to encourage attention to subversive
propaganda put out nightly by the “New British
Broadcasting Station,” which operates from Germany.
We can tell him. They are Communists. — London
“Daily Sketch.”
*****
Two employees at the Royal Gunpowder Factory,
Essex, were each sentenced to a month’s imprison-
ment for taking live matches into the factory. Both
pleaded “guilty” and asked if they could be fined
instead. The chairman said the Bench had repeatedly
warned previous defendants that imprisonment would
follow for this class of offence and the men would
have to go to prison.— “Times.”
* * * * *
During the period from September, 1914, to April,
1915, “Hansard” filled 6330 columns ; in the same
months of 1939-40, 15,287 columns. — E. H. Keeling,
M.P.; “Times” letter.
*****
Statistics of aliens in Britain show the total
number over 16 years of age as 132,303. Until last
year the numerical list of aliens resident in Britain
had always been headed by Russians, but they were
relegated to second place, Germans being more
numerous. The relative figures were: Germans,
42,379 ; Russians, 30,079. — London Commissioner of
Police Sir Philip Game; annual report.
* * * * *
A possibility of coming face to face with his
father or brother in a bayonet fight is the prospect
which faces 27-year-old Henry F. Keppler, of Wal-
worth. He was born of German parents in Belfast,
and so is a British subject, liable to be called up
under the conscription law. But his people are all in
Germany. He unsuccessfully appealed to the South-
eastern Tribunal for exemption. London “Daily
Herald.”
*****
The view of the aeronautical world has been re-
flected in “Aeroplane.” Why on earth, the editor, Mr.
Colston Shepherd, asked in effect, aren’t we hitting at
Germany’s air strength at its source and bombing
Dessau, Bremen, Rostock and Oranienburg, where
dozens of new aeroplanes are being produced every
week to be used against us? The greatest figure in
British military aviation, Lord Trenchard, has lent his
powerful advocacy to the same cause. “Why,” he
asked in the House of Lords, “did we wait? What
prevented us at once attacking the assembled trans-
ports, the growing and practising troop formations?
Make no mistake about it,” he said, “when it suits
Germany’s book she will hit open towns and all, merci-
lessly and thoroughly. Why should we await her con-
venience before striking at German military might in
Germany ? ” — London ‘ ‘Spectator.”


SPORTING
NOTIOINS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
“A better meeting than last” was
secretary G. T. Rowe’s comment con-
cerning Saturday’s fixture at Randwick.
There was an attendance of 17,500, and
a tote turnover of slightly more than
£25,000. The books were appreciative.
They started with two 20-to-l winners
and one at 8 to 1, and then, though two
favorites were successful, wound up with
a 12-to-l chance and another at 10 to 1.
The final result must have been specially
gratifying, and I doubt whether it was
possible to raise the old growl of “No
money about.”
Vergure, though unplaced, finished
so well in Winnipeg’s race at Canterbury
that his success in the George’s River
Handicap did not surprise either books
or backers. He opened favorite, and
backers were content to take a very short
price. Of the remainder Jazbeau was
most fancied. The latter commenced
smartly, but was quickly joined by Ver-
gure and Blue Baron. Near the half-mile
Blue Baron dropped back to third, two
lengths behind Vergure and Jazbeau.
These two were together until a furlong
from home, and then Vergure went on
to win easily from Blue Baron, who
narrowly beat Table Talk.
Vergure is little more than a pony in
height, but there is no doubt as to his
galloping ability. I used to regard him
as a trifle overrated, but his win of
Saturday did not uphold that idea, and
he may continue to improve, seeing that,
though four to our time last August, he
v/as foaled to English time, and may
really be only about four months over
that age. When Vergure was raced by A.
Frauenfelder early in the season that
owner expressed himself highly concern-
ing his possibilities, but he must have
changed his opinion, as Vergure has re-
cently been raced on lease by M. Laid-
law. Blue Baron’s form was good enough
to make him worth following at mid-
week or suburban meetings. There were
11 runners, but, apart from the four
mentioned, nothing counted in the issue.
An inquiry into Vergure’s alleged im-
provement as compared with Canterbury
resulted in the stewards finding that all
was in order.
Buzalong outclassed his opponents in
the Homestead Handicap, and is very
close to his best form of the past.
Herarde and Bonny Loch were the early
leaders, and they were still at the head of
affairs entering the straight, where Sid-
cup, Hilarious and Buzalong were their
nearest followers. When the opportunity
presented itself, Buzalong had no trouble
in getting to the front, and scored de-
cisively from Anpapejo, who will be all
the better for the racing he is getting.
He and Buzalong should be in great
trim for the Doomben Cup if they go to
Brisbane.
Hilarious was a close third, followed
by Fountain, who ran fairly though with-
out ever looking more than a possible
place-getter. Bonny Loch is not a stayer,
and, though on past form it was reckoned
the mile and a quarter would suit Oscu-
lum, he dropped back last before reach-
ing the five furlongs, and that was the
end of his chance. Tinker Bell made a
poor showing. She galloped without any
freedom in the early part, and was
always a long way back. Buzzal also
failed badly. Buzalong was ridden by
F. Lewis, who is among the apprentices
showing form.
An outsider in Saratoga gave the books
a good send-off in the Hurdle Race. It
was not until the last five furlongs he got
reasonably near the leading division, but
he was a close third into the straight,
headed Belvoir and Generous Gesture
at the last hurdle, and won comfortably.
Belvoir again showed himself a poor
stayer, and Duke Caledon completely
settled his chance when he made a bad
jump near the six furlongs. A protest
against the winner was dismissed. Trek-
ster, King Otho and Sir Julian shaped
fairly, and any of the trio may pick up
a race. Saratoga, who adds to David’s
numerous jumping winners, is out of that
good mare Fluency, whose wins included
a Villiers Stakes and Tattersall’s Cup.
Of late J. King has not been in the
limelight, and it was a pleasant change
of luck for him when David Copperfield
won the colts and geldings’ division of
the Nursery Handicap. Martheus and
David Copperfield led at the half-mile,
with Royal Exchange their nearest fol-
lower. Martheus weakened commencing
the final furlong, and though Royal Ex-
change momentarily looked like over-
hauling David Copperfield the task was
too much for him. At the winning-post
David Copperfield was doing the better.
The winner, who is by Hall Mark from
Micawberite (Moabite-Won by Waiting),
was a 700gns. yearling. Among the un-
placed lot the Marconigram colt Angus
shaped promisingly. His dam, Revere, is
by Heroic from Real One, a sister to
Amounis. He is a much-owned young-
ster, being raced in partnership by
C. H. K. Miller, R. W. McFadyen and
F. Packer. D. Lewis trains him.
*••••*
Many Ways won the fillies’ division of
the Nursery Handicap in good style. She
waited on the pacemakers, Meneen and
Wedding Belle, until well in the straight,
and after disposing of them was equal
to stalling off Constant Chatter, third
place going to Foxora. Stylish, who com-
menced smartly and then dropped out
after going a couple of furlongs, ran on
again in the straight to finish a good
fourth. A little while ago it seemed as
if Wedding Belle might stay fairly, but
she has failed in that respect at her last
couple of starts. Meneen is fast, but at
present cannot quite get six furlongs.
Many Ways, who is by Spearhead from
Lady Jane (Grosvenor-Humility), has
won three races for Messrs. W. H. Ken-
nerson and J. V. Hoey, who have her on
lease until September of next year.
In winning the Trial Handicap, Mab-
son displayed excellent form. Lavengro
tried to lead all the way, and rounding
the bend he was attended by Shipley,
Willie Green, Clouston, Mabson and Dis-
cipline. At the leger Mabson moved up
and quickly put the result beyond doubt.
Discipline finished gamely in second
place, but could not trouble Mabson,
who will win in better company. He is by
Constant Son from Ascham. Fisk’s third,
after getting away indifferently, puts him
in line for a win, and All Dark also did
well. Peekmond struck trouble at the
six furlongs, getting on to the heels of
another runner, and, joining the rear
division at that stage, finished last. Willie
Green and Clouston were prominent
throughout.
Enatic was backed for the Welter
Handicap as if he could not lose, but,
though he flattered his backers almost to
the winning-post, Good Morning, who led
a furlong from the winning-post, was a
shade too good, beating him a head.
Thunderclap, who was second-last after
passing the half-mile, and then had to
make his run on the outside in the
straight, was a similar distance further
off, and was an unlucky loser. Speardale
led most of the way ; and, though his big
weight stopped him at the end, he ran
fourth. A winning turn for him is close
at hand. Despite the assistance of Munro
The Kite scarcely did as well as in his
previous races, and may temporarily have
had enough racing.
* * * *
Form at Moonee Valley on Saturday
appeared unimportant from a Grand
National viewpoint. Harley and Rhym-
ster, respective winners of the Kalkallo
Hurdle and Ardconnell Steeplechase, are
engaged in the big Flemington races, but,
far from impressing, each was lucky.
Hai 'ey won one of the most remark-
able hurdle races seen in Melbourne for
some time. Easing in the betting from
5 to 1 to eights, he seemed safely held
by Our Boy when the latter led him
round the bend by about three lengths.
Then North Cape, who had pestered the
leaders from the time he lost his
jockey at the first jump, veered
away from the rails in the straight
and took Our Boy to the extreme
outside of the track at the finish.
Ground lost by Our Boy was consider-
ably more than the length by which he
was beaten, but it should not be long
before he compensates for the defeat.
He was having his first race over jumps
since he won a hurdle at Mentone in
September, and, being only five years
old, seems certain to improve. Whether
he will be seasoned enough to win the
G.N. Hurdle with 9.11, or only lib. less
than he carried on Saturday, is another
matter.
Harley was a proved jumper in Sydney
before being bought recently by trainer
Steve Murphy for one of his clients, “G.
Capesthorne.” Latter has found him a
payable proposition at £5OO, as Harley
has raced only three times in Melbourne
for two wins, one of which was on the
flat at Ascot. He is young as hurdlers
go, being a four-year-old by Marconi-
gram from Steady Glass, and, even allow-
ing that he was lucky on Saturday, im-
provement is certain. He demonstrated
that Sydney hurdle form is not so poor
as many people imagine, but that is more
than can be said of another ex-Sydneyite
in the field, El Banado. Alec Fullarton
hoped to celebrate his birthday with a
win on El Banado, but he was hard at
work on the gelding a long way from
home and finished a bad fourth.
Steve Murphy landed a double with
Harley and Ellison, and was an unlucky
second with Henry Tudor in the Ard-
connell Steeplechase. Henry Tudor
appeared to have the measure of Rhym-
ster when he led the latter two or three
lengths coming to the second-last fence,
but he hit hard, stumbled on landing,
and jolted rider A. Armsden out of the
saddle. Armsden did well to regain his
seat and pull his mount together again,
but Rhymster had taken the lead mean-
time, and Henry Tudor, who had had
most of the steam knocked out of him,
was beaten five lengths. Between them,
however, Harley and Henry Tudor have
brought “Bluey” Armsden into the lime-
light again. At one time Armsden was
one of the most successful jumping riders
in Melbourne, and with the important
winter races coming along he has re-
turned to form at the right moment.
Recently he was rejected for military
training because of leg injuries sustained
while riding.
Heavy tracks invariably bring a crop
of form reversals, and Moonee Valley
was no exception. State of the going
was best reflected in the fact that Elli-
son’s time in winning the Annadale Han-
dicap, 2.9 f, was 6|sec. outside the course
record for 10 furlongs, but that did not
deter some punters from commenting on
his improvement as compared with his
form at Flemington and Colac in his two
previous races. Backers with longer
memories recalled that he won in heavy
going at Moonee Valley three starts back,
and they profited accordingly.
Backed from 12 to 1 to eights, Ellison
came from last to beat Snow White and
Pantoon in a particularly rough race.
Pantoon, backed from eights to favorit-
ism at 7 to 2, and Denis Girl, second-best
at 4 to 1, had their chances ruined by
interference going out of the straight. A
scramble for positions occurred at that
stage, and Denis Girl almost fell when
she collided with Pantoon, who dropped
back last. Denis Girl hit the front later,
but was beaten a quarter-mile from
home, and finished last, while Pantoon
only plodded on after moving up second
to Snow White near the two furlongs.
Both horses are likely to do better before
they are much older. Stewards subse-
quently suspended F. Morris, apprentice
rider of Zonda, for one month for crowd-
ing the field shortly after the start, and
rounding the first turn.
Ellison, a four-year-old gelding by Con-
stant Son from Farfadet, is owned by Eli
Phillips, and is entered for the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups. He will need to
show to advantage in a much better field
than he beat on .Saturday before he can
be considered a Cup possibility, but,
with rain-affected tracks to be expected
at this time of the year, there is every
probability that he will continue to pay
his way before the better-class horses
return. Snow White and Pantoon are
Caulfield Cup candidates, but their best
chances will lie in something easier. Snow
White failed as a stayer in the Oaks last
spring, and the mile and a quarter was a
bit beyond her on Saturday. She had
won her two previous races over shorter
distances.
J. Purtell’s ride on Ten O’Clock in the
Barkoola Handicap ended what little
chance he had of overtaking Harold
Badger as leading jockey for the current
season. He was adjudged guilty of inter-
ference and suspended for one month.
A. Breasley having been suspended at
Sunbury earlier in the week, Badger’s
only likely dangers have been removed.
Badger held such a good lead, however,
that he was practically assured of win-
ning the jockeys’ premiership for the
second successive year. Metropolitan
figures compiled to Saturday showed him
on top with wins, followed by Pur-
tell 29|y, and Breasley and A. Dewhurst
29 each. Dewhurst looks the logical
runner-up, as nearest him on the list is
E. Preston with 23 wins.
Portico, a Portofino-Margaux colt
bought privately as a yearling for 250
guineas by W. Balloch, upset calculations
by winning the Barkoola Handicap.
Although a winner at the Valley earlier
this year, he has been a fairly expensive
proposition, and his owner was feeling
rather fed-up after the youngster’s recent
defeat by Elated and Star Boarder in a
small race at Woodend. “He kept on
getting beaten on firm tracks, so I de-
cided to give him his chance on heavy
ground,” said Balloch after the race.
Balloch wagered only lightly, but had
the satisfaction of seeing Portico win
clearly from Orcadian and Securities.
In previous races Portico had shown
little fight when bustled in the early
stages, but on this occasion he was allowed
to drop well back in the first furlong.
Result was that he ran on at the finish.
However, he may have been fortunate to
beat Orcadian, who lost several lengths at
the start. Securities ran on again after
striking trouble rounding the turn, but
Goldsmith, favorite at 2 to 1, only added
to his failures. He led round the turn,
but gave in without a fight.
A disappointing second favorite in the
Flemington race won by El Golea a
week earlier, when she had weakened
towards the finish, Cumulus won the
Merriang Handicap with a powerful fin-
ishing run. Suspicious-minded punters
who commented on the fact that,»she was
backed from 10 to 1 down to sixes evi-
dently overlooked that the field was some-
what weaker than at Flemington, that
Cumulus is a difficult mare to train, and
that the heavy going may have made a
difference. Trainer L. McCann has had
endless trouble with Cumulus, who de-
veloped kidney trouble early in her
career and, despite expert veterinary
attention, has never been able to shake it
off completely. The attacks, which come
and go quickly, cause a kind of paralysis;
and electrical treatment has been found
necessary to give relief. Now four years
old, Cumulus has not been able to race
frequently, but she has won several races,
and a complete cure would probably
result in her developing into a first-class
sprinter.
Cumulus is by Brazen from Silver
Cloud, and is raced on lease by McCann
from F. Carr, owner of Chatsbury. On
Saturday she moved up second to Atorna
at the turn, and was much too strong
for the Westralian in the run home. Con-
sidering that she is not a big mare, and
was burdened with 9.1 in heavy going,
FOR RANDWICK.
By “PILOT."
FIRST DAY—JUNE 15.
Hurdle Race: Tweedside, 1 ;
Belvoir, 2; Saratoga, 3.
First Nursery Handicap: Angus,
1 ; David Copperfield, 2 ; Stylish, 3.
June Plate: Caesar, 1 ; Creditor,
2; Denita, 3.
Royal Mile: Gilltown, 1 ; Tuhi-
tarata, 2 ; Billposter or Speardale, 3.
June Novice Handicap: Clouston,
1 ; Mrs. Caudle, 2; Evertrue, 3.
Ellesmere Handicap: Anpapejo,
1 ; Bristol, 2; Gold Pan, 3.
SECOND DAY—JUNE 17.
A.J.C. Hurdle Race: Saratoga, 1 ;
Tweedside, 2 ; Blackie Miller, 3.
Winter Plate: Bristol, 1 ; Foun-
tain, 2 ; Anpapejo, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
At Caulfield.
By “SENTRY.”
Toolambool Hurdle: Bureaucrat,
1 ; Giant Killer, 2.
Minook Two-year-old: Balkan
Chief or Prairie Prince, 1 ; Cephren,
2 ; Procyon, 3.
Richmond Handicap: David
Spear, 1 ; Wind Robe, 2 ; Diaphane.
3.
Wanda Steephechase: Bully
Hayes, 1 ; Inazuma, 2 ; Imitari, 3.
Cambria Welter: Dannevirke, 1 ;
National, 2 ; Lord Walla, 3.
Rosny Plate: El Golea, 1 ; Cumu-
lus, 2 ; Strategy, 3.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George's Hse., St. George’s Tee., PertU
u
v
POULTRY
DINNERS
AT THE
HOTEL
PLAZA
are unique for quality and price,
and nowhere else in this city are
such values obtainable.
Roast Chicken, served with
Bacon and Seasoning 1/9
Boiled Fowl and Parsley Sauce 1/9
Roast Fresh Turkey (not cold
storage), served with Pickled
Pork and Seasoning 1/9
And including Potatoes Baked
Crisp and Garden Green Vege-
tables; also Bread and Butter.
Make the HOTEL PLAZA, Wyn-
yard, your meal rendezvous.
BSgEIAIA
at Wynyard
Magic Circle’s narrow defeat of Celeris
for third money was a good performance.
Form said so little for Burbang’s
chance in the Tulloch Welter Handicap
that he was neglected in the betting at
33 to 1, and returned a tote dividend of
£23 13s. 6d. for ss. when he beat Old
Days and Rendezvous into the minor
places. Two starts earlier he had won
in novice company at Geelong, but at
his next appearance had finished only
sixth in a small race at Woodend. Many
of the get of Burnewang have shown a
liking for soft tracks, however, and Bur-
bang is no exception. In front at the
*nd of a furlong, he was not afterwards
headed. Burbang was ridden by appren-
tice Sam McCormick, a son of the late
Roy McCormick, former trainer of
Saturday’s winner. T. O’Dwyer, Bur-
bang’s present trainer, was formerly
McCormick’s foreman, and recently took
out a license himself. Four wins with
Burbang (two), Exactly and Alibi have
given him a good start. Fort Belvedere,
backed from fours to 5-to-2 favoritism,
was reputed to be a champion mud-
runner. His performance did not uphold
that idea, as he ran unkindly all the way
down the straight and finished a long
way back.
* * * *
In Brisbane on Saturday it was further
demonstrated that it is not too much to
ask two runs of a fit horse in the same
afternoon. St. Aubin won the First
Division Handicap, 6\ fur., 10.9, and,
with two races intervening, the Plate, 1
mile 57 yards, in which he had the
steadier of 10.12. He was second
favorite for each race, and won the
second easier than the first. At Rand-
wick last week Vergure and Buzalong
won their races so easily that, if they had
been engaged, it is certain another run
would not have done either any harm.
St. Aubin is by The Verdcrer.
* * * *
Shipley has done very little racing
this season, but he ran so well for over
six furlongs in the Trial Handicap that
his turn for a win in a similar race may
not be long in coming. Last year he
won a mile Encourage Handicap at Vic-
toria Park, and subsequently ran third
to Grey Derby and Blinky Bill in an
open nine furlongs handicap at Canter-
bury Park. As he has lots of pace he
should not be long in finding his way
out of the Trial Handicap class. Owned
by H. Longworth, he is trained by W.
Henderson.
* * * *
There are some surprise entrants for
the Epsom and Metropolitan, but it is
always unwise to ridicule the chance of
anything. As a rule it takes a proved
good miler to win the Epsom, but on
several occasions the Metropolitan has
gone to horses that it was difficult to con-
sider seriously at the time of nomination.
For that matter it has been the same with
the Melbourne Cup. It seemed the highest
degree of optimism to expect Wotan and
Catalogue to succeed, but they did. The
former had little in the way of form of
any kind to recommend him, and the
latter had not shown anything suggesting
he was likely to get two miles. Even last
year Rivette’s position in the early double
lists showed what was thought of her
chance with 6.13, and yet she won with
7.9, a penalty sending her up to that
weight. On all previous form some of
the horses in this year’s Melbourne Cup
do not appear to possess a 10,000-to-l
chance, though their presence in the race
points to their owners and trainers hav-
ing different ideas. However, no matter
what their connections may think, one
does not, as a rule, expect a Melbourne
Cup winner to come from horses that
have been showing moderate form in
middle-distance handicaps for a couple
of seasons.
* * * *
Although a match between Ajax and
High Caste at the Red Cross meeting at
Randwick was mooted, and would be
an attraction, there is little likelihood of
its taking place. Two of Ajax’s part-
owners are opposed to the idea, and it
is probable the others interested in the
ownership of the chestnut will not favor
it. The Hill Stakes, on Red Cross day,
gives Ajax and High Caste the oppor-
tunity of a run, if it is considered neces-
sary to help them in their preparation
for the A.J.C. spring meeting, though
before then a race for both can be had
in the Chelmsford Stakes at Tattersall’s
meeting. The winner of that incurs 71b.
penalty for the Hill Stakes, but that
should not stand in the way of either
A?ax or High Caste running in the Hill
Stakes, less perhaps in the case of the
former than of the latter.
* * * *
Before the running of the Homestead
Handicap I heard a well-known racing
man say he was going to back Buzalong
because he was the only real horse in
the field. His judgment was correct.
After the race we could all recall that
Buzalong had 9.3—0n1y 31b. less than
on Saturday—when he beat Respirator
(8.1) in the Bond Cup. Unfortunately it
was then too late. Buzalong’s starting
price was the surprising part, as many
bettors were waiting for him. However,
the market did not give them any en-
couragement. After Buzalong's win there
was the usual report in such cases of the
“millions” won from the starting-price
bookmakers. If so, something must have
gone wrong with the “intelligence depart-
ment” to permit of Buzalong going out
at 12 to 1.
* * * *
It is always difficult to bring horses
back from longer distances to sprints
with much chance of success. In the
George’s River Handicap at Randwick
Gill town was another instance. At his
previous start he won brilliantly at a
mile and a quarter at Rosehill, but in
last week’s race he was unable to go the
pace set in the early part, and finished
seventh in a field of 11. However,
backers will probably overlook his failure
when he next runs in a middle-distance
handicap in average company.
* * * *
No fault can be found with the A.J.C.’s
proposal to increase the number of
members from 1600 to 1700. Many
desirable people have been on the wait-
ing list a long time, and an additional
100 would not cause congestion in the
official stand. There can scarcely be
any other objection, and, except at big
meetings, there is always plenty of room
to spare on the top storey of the official
stand for those who wish to see the
racing from an advantageous position.
* * * *
An article in a contemporary shows
that E. McMenamin has been the only
leading Sydney jockey worth following
at a fixed stake this season. W. Cook
and D. Munro have been costly to their
supporters. It is the same in every
country. Gordon Richards has headed
the winning jockeys in England for
several years, but he has been a loser for
those who have followed him. This is
not surprising, as a double-figure win
for him is unusual, and most of his
mounts are at such short prices that a
couple of wins in an afternoon may mean
a loss, the return being less than the
money dropped on his losers. Still, most
owners wisely reckon it better to put up
a good jockey than an indifferent one
for the possibility of an extra point, and,
as a rule, the rider of a good horse has
to be decidedly poor to induce the books
to stretch their prices to any extent. After
a horse has been beaten I have more
than once heard an owner disgustedly
remark: “I could have got So-and-so
[naming some jockey], and I don’t sup-
pose there would have been much differ-
ence in my horse’s price. They kept him
on the safe side throughout. He would
have won with a good rider. Anyhow,
it has cured me. The best available for
me in future.”
* * * *
Rimveil is mentioned as a Derby candi-
date, and, as he improved with racing
in the autumn, he may continue develop-
ing. On actual form he will have to do
so to reach the standard of Flying Knight
or John. When Flying Knight beat Rim-
veil at Randwick in April he was giving
him 301 b., and, though Rimveil beat John
at Canterbury in April, he was in receipt
of 121 b. Among the Sydney colts Flying
Knight must enter into Derby calcula-
tions. It can be counted against him
that he ran nowhere in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, but in the Champagne
Stakes he was third with 9.3 to John
(8.10) and Lucrative (9.3). It is a matter
of opinion whether he will stay, hut
similar uncertainty attaches to some of
the other Derby candidates that have
shown good two-year-old form. At the
close of last season High Caste and
Reading stood out from the other colts
as A.J.C. Derby possibilities, but nothing
so definite can be written of probable
competitors in the coming season.
* * * *
There are some trainers who overload
jockeys with instructions. Others wisely
refrain. They may give a hint as to
some peculiarity of a horse, but, recog-
nising they are unaware how a race is
likely to be run, leave it to the intelli-
gence of any experienced rider to suit
himself to the occasion. It is a wise
jockey, however, who sticks to orders.
If he departs from them and wins, all
is well; but if he does and loses, he is
likely to hear the result would have been
different if he had done as told.
* * * *
Imported Burham Ali (Umidwar-
Teresina), who is being trained at Rand-
wick by B. Payten, ran in only one race
last year. That was in a five furlongs
two-year-old Maiden Plate at New-
market. Quoted at 20 to 1 in a field of
30, he did not finish among the first 10.
When sold at auction two months later
he made 610gns. On breeding alone he
should be worth that.
* * * *
Owner J. M. C. Forsayth told me on
Monday that Cheery Jack was not to
run in any hurdle race prior to the
Grand National, “and,” he added, “I
have not yet got a farthing on him for
that.” Cheery Jack has shown improve-
ment on the flat, and he will be a runner
for the Birthday Handicap at Flemington.
* * * *
If Ajax had been nominated for the
Melbourne Cup it is reasonable to
assume he would again have received
top weight. Last year he was allotted
9.9. With the chestnut out of the way
the honor of heading the list will fall
to Mosaic, and as he won the Sydney Cup
with 9.1 he is likely to receive a weight
that will make success difficult for him.
His weight-for-age in November is 9.5,
and he is bound to receive more than that
in view of the fact that he carried a
pound in excess of w.f.a. in the Sydney
Cup. In the last 50 years Melbourne
Cup winners that carried more than 9.5
were Carbine 10.5, Poitrel 10.0, Phar
Lap 9.12 and Peter Pan 9.10. Maikai’s
third in the Sydney Cup with 9.6 is
bound to put him a long way up, and
his good form must have bearing on
Rivette’s weight, seeing she beat him at
a difference of only 21b. in her favor in
the last Melbourne Cup. Few, if any, of
the three-year-olds will get over weight-
for-age, and, with all the older horses
well looked after, one of the younger
division may come to light. They have
not furnished a place-getter since Hall
Mark won with 7.8 in 1933.
* * * *
The old Illumination gelding All Irish
made a good bid for Auckland’s two big
jumping races —Great Northern Hurdles
and Great Northern Steeplechase. He
ran second with 9.13 to Streamline in
the former, and had an easy win in the
latter. At the Waikato meeting last
month he was successful in the Waikato
Steeplechase, of £5OO. Brazen Bold, win-
ner of the King George Handicap, one
of the principal flat races at the National
meeting, is by Brazen from Ridicule
(Absurd-Cheloma), and, bred in N.S.W.
by H. S. Thompson and P. C. Basche,
was sold as a yearling for 130gns. He is
a half-brother to Publicity.
* * * *
During the current season absolute
favorites for ante-post betting races at
Randwick have fared badly, the only one
successful being Feminist. On the day it
was run Delmestor was one of the popu-
lar picks for the Carrington Stakes, but
she was a long way from being an abso-
lute favorite, four others being with her
at the head of the quotations. Winners
and favorites for this season are as
follows:
Epsom Handicap: Geebung, 12 to 1;
Adios, 3 to 1, unplaced.
Metropolitan: Feminist, 2 to 1.
Villiers Stakes: Rodborough, 8 to 1;
Korimako, 7 to 2, unplaced.
Summer Cup: Bringa, 12 to 1; Mala-
gigi, 2 to 1, unplaced.
Carrington Stakes: Delmestor (first),
Caesar, Grey Derby, Petruchio and Anne,
5 to 1 each.
Tattersall’s Club Cup: Binnia Hero, 6
to 1; Malagigi, 3 to 1, second.
Challenge Stakes: High Caste, 9 to 2;
Waireka, 5 to 4, unplaced.
Anniversary Handicap: Gold Spark, 8
to 1; Mildura, 6to 4, second.
Doncaster Handicap: Mildura, 7 to 1,
first: High Caste, 3 to 1, unplaced.
Sydney Cup: Mosaic, 10 to 1; Yours
Truly, 3 to 1, unplaced.
Despite the defeats of favorites several
of the winners were at prices that did not
benefit the books.
* * * *
Lilock, who, with a filly foal, cost J.
Wren 700gns. last year, died recently at
the Okawa Stud in Maoriland. Lilock
was the dam of Cape Lilock, North Cape,
Royal Quex and Wilson, the last-named
costing Wren 1050gns. At last season’s
sales in Wellington Wren also gave
1400gns. for Wilson’s yearling brother.
Wilson has not done as well this season
as anticipated, but there may still be hope
for him as a stayer.
* * * *
Maoriland heavyweight jockeys get a
respite from wasting in the winter. From
the beginning of June until the end of
August the minimum weight in handicaps,
other than the principal flat race on
each day of a meeting, is not less than
Bst. In Sydney such jockeys as Munro,
McMenamin and McCarten would appre-
ciate a similar rule. One trouble, how-
ever, would be to get off the accumu-
lated weight in time for spring racing.
* * * *
Prominent Maoriland jockey L. J.
Ellis has had again to give up riding
owing to eye trouble, and will not resume
for several weeks. Ellis may have
seriously to consider retiring altogether
as a jockey.
* * * *
Two-year-old racing did not have a
bad effect upon America’s champion race-
horse, Seabiscuit. He ran 35 times at
that age, and it was at his thirteenth
start he won his first race. He finished
the season with five wins. At three years
he ran in 23 races for nine wins ; at four,
in 15 for 11 wins ; at five, in 11 for six
wins ; at six, in one for a second ; and
at seven, in four for two wins. In six
seasons he started 89 times for 33 wins,
15 seconds, 13 thirds, and 28 times un-
placed, for a return of 437,730 dollars.
Calculating at $4 to £1 Australian that
would represent £A109,432 10s.
* * * *
Gallahadion, who defeated Bimelech in
the Kentucky Derby, ran second to that
colt in the Derby Trial, 1 mile, at Church-
hill Downs, less than a fortnight prior
to the more important race Near the
end Gallahadion made a run at Bimelech,
but could not get on terms, eventually
being defeated two lengths in 1.38, the
first six furlongs being cut out in 1.11 3-5.
Bimelech was at 10 to 1 on in a field of
eight. The additional distance in the
Derby evidently told greatly in Galla-
hadion’s favor.
* * * *
Winnipeg’s owner and trainer must be
hopeful he will shine as a stayer as well
as a sprinter. Distances of the important
spring handicaps range from one mile
to two, and he is in each. Well, it
does not cost much to take a horse
out of any of the big races, so it is just
as well to put him in the lot. If Winni-
peg should win he will add to the num-
ber of lucky turf purchases. Bought for
825gns. as a yearling, he was passed in
at 50gns. at two years before he raced,
and then after winning three handicaps
was sold for £250.
* * * *
Asnazu, trained by F. Dalton for W. A.
Freeman, who has him on lease until
April, 1942, has been useful this season,
his win at Ascot last week being his
fourth. Their total value is £705, and
three seconds and a third made a further
contribution of fully £l5O towards pay-
ing expenses. He is by Trigo’s brother
Harinero from Nazetha, sister to that
smart sprinter Pistolaire (Pistol-Marie
Hall). Nazetha has been prolific of foals
and winners, one being Caramba, a
Breeders’ Plate winner. Foaled in 1915,
Nazetha was three years old when she
went to the stud, and 21 when she threw
Asnazu.
* * * *
B. Payten will commence the coming
season with a strong team of handicap
horses, and it will be surprising if,
among them, Seven Fifty, Katanga,
Climax, Burham Ali, John Peel, Caesar,
Guinness, Feminist, Royal Sceptre,
Anpapejo and Own Folk do not give him
some nice wins. Among his younger
horses he has Derby and Cup candidates
in John, Rylstone, Evergreen and
Patrician. On form John appears his
best Derby candidate, but it is possible
Rylstone will develop into a stayer. In
that hope his present owner gave a high
price for him. Payten has trained some
good two-year-old winners, and sooner


//CHAMPIONS
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
Even the best spark plugs
wear out. Replace them with
new Champions at least once
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and bad.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
SAVE MONEY
W ITS
I THRIFTY
m TO INSTALL
" NEW
CHAMPIONS /
m
J II
\\
or later he is sure to score in a Derby.
Any optimism on Payten’s part as to the
outcome of the spring meetings is war-
ranted. After she raced in Brisbane
recently Feminist’s owner was of opinion
that it would be wiser to send her to the
stud during the coming season than have
her trained again, but he has evidently
come to the conclusion that she is worth
another trial.
* $ * *
Stallions are rarely responsible for
champions when they reach 25 years, but
it was at that age Black Toney sired
Bimelech, who until his recent defeat
in the Kentucky Derby was rated the best
three-year-old in America. He definitely
proved himself the best two-year-old.
Bimelech was the last colt by Black
Toney.
* * * *
South Africa believes in protection in
respect of racing. No imported geldings
or galloways are now allowed to race
there, and, no matter what their age or
form, all imported stallions and mares
go into the first division. Nearly all
two-year-old races are confined to horses
bred in South Africa.
* * * *
According to an American who
recently visited Buenos Ayres the
Palermo and San Isidro tracks outdo
anything in North America. The appoint-
ments at San Isidro, which is 15 miles
from Buenos Ayres, are described as the
last word in luxury. The building at
San Isidro devoted to trainers and jockeys
has every convenience, and provides a
complete hospital of six beds (two to a
room), with a fully-equipped operating-
room. In the vicinity of the course the
Jockey Club provides an excellent school,
housing 600 pupils, solely for the children
of trainers, jockeys, grooms and other
employees. There are also grounds for
polo, cricket, football, golf and tennis
adjacent to the course. Near the Palermo
course is an infirmary for the treatment
of ailing horses. It is stated that at
Palermo and San Isidro there were 2000
horses in training in February, the former
being a dirt and the latter a turf track.
Pesumably each course also has training
tracks.
* * * *
Derby winners at the stud in England
this season were: Blue Peter, 400gns. ;
Hyperion, 400gns. ; Sansovino, £l4B ;
Felstead, 300gns.; Midday Sun, £l9B ;
Papyrus, £4B ; Coronach, £75 ; Trigo,
£9B ; Windsor Lad, £9B ; Spion Kop, £24
10s.; April the Fifth, £4B; Bahram,
500gns. ; Mahmoud, 300gns. ; and Bois
Roussel, 300gns. One reason for Spion
Kop’s low fee is that he is 23 years old.
French Derby winners located in England
were Mieuxce and Hotweed at 300gns.
and £24 19s. respectively. Irish Derby
winner Baytown commanded only
18gns. ; and Phideas, another winner of
that race, £24 19s. Owing to the effect
the war was likely to have upon breed-
ing operations, the fees of many stallions
were lowered in England this year. For
the coming season Derby winners (A.J.C.
or Victoria) serving in New South Wales
are at following fees: Hall Mark, lOOgns.;
Hua, lOOgns. ; Peter Pan, lOOgns.; Talk-
ing, lOOgns. ; Rampion, 20gns. Among
the St. Leger winners Veilmond is avail-
able at 50gns., Sylvandale at 40gns. and
Limarch at 30gns.
* * * *
Visitors from Ireland to Liverpool to
see the Grand National had to carry a
passport or an identity certificate, ob-
tained in Dublin. Special arrangements
were made by the authorities to facili-
tate their departure after the race.
Ireland’s hope was the favorite, Royal
Danieli, but he fell two fences from
home, and some of his supporters were
probably only too pleased to see the last
of Aintree for another year.
* * * *
The German Derby was set down for
the 26th of this month, but it would be
safe to bet it will be one of this year’s
big races that will be abandoned. It
must be galling to Germans that Eng-
land can carry on racing as well as a
war.
* * * *
M. Beary, who is approaching the
veteran stage among jockeys in England,
rode in great form during the first fort-
night of the current season. During that
period he was on 11 winners, leading
Gordon Richards by two. Several Aus-
tralian jockeys did well when they rode
in England, and it is probable Mc-
Menamin, Cook and Munro would hold
their own against that country’s best.
Munro’s finishing strength would surprise
the English critics. Australia has had
more stylish riders than Munro but very
few that shone to the same extent in
getting all that was possible out of a
horse nearing the winning-post.
* * * *
This year comparatively few horses
racing at the A.J.C. spring meeting are
likely to be runners at Caulfield on the
opening day of the V.A.T.C. meeting.
Randwick finishes on April 12, and Caul-
field commences on that date. Last year
there was a week between the finish of
one and the commencement of the other.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
Throughout the country there are new
faces appearing in American golf.
Youngsters are coming to the fore at
nearly every tournament and giving the
recognised players a run for the rich
prize-money.
Compared with Australians, the
Americans start their boys and girls
handling clubs at an early age. I have
never seen so many young golfers play-
ing as there are in the tournaments over
here. Ardent students of the game, they
play their round, then rapidly depart to
the practice fairway to iron out what
errors they realise they’ve been making.
The number of youngsters I have
played with think and live golf, and put
what success they have attained down to
copying the methods of the best players.
This, although an excellent method to
improve one’s play, can in many ways
spoil some golfers. A player can get a
great amount of knowledge by watching
someone better than himself in action,
but if he copies the other and tries to
alter his own particular style and take
on a new swing, then he is often in for
a lot of trouble. It is acknowledged
here by many of the older players that
there is too much copying done by the
younger golfers of styles totally unsuited
to their build and make-up. This is very
evident to me also. They nearly all swing
one of two different ways —so alike that
one would imagine they were all taught
by the same tutor.
Golf is a game that has been reduced
by modern players to just how few strokes
one can get around the course in, and
this is best done by finding oneself a
style that can be relied upon to send the
ball soundly and truly. A natural style
is by far the best asset any golfer can
possess, and for young and promising
golfers to throw this away in endeavoring
to acquire a style belonging to some else
is usually folly. Gene Sarazen told me
that many young golfers here ruin their
careers by copying other players’ styles
instead of concentrating upon improving
and building up what they have.
Most of the boys that I have partnered
are round 18 and 19 years of age, and
almost universally use a very upright
swing, nearly standing erect from the
ball. Purely swingers, they rely upon
clubhead speed to give them distance,
and concentrate upon accuracy rather
than length. They don’t appear at all
comfortable in their play, as their actions,
not being natural, give them a stiff and
awkward air that is not present among
ordinary players with their own styles.
Well-trapped courses here force players
to be accurate, and with this thought in
mind the average youngster begins his
golf by adopting a style he has seen suc-
cessfully used, and works upon it dili-
gently. Some attain success by 90 p.c.,
though good players never advance be-
yond a one or two handicap. Promising
amateurs soon become professionals in
search of fame and fortune.
The most likely to become topnotch
money-winners are Chandler Harper and
Jimmy McHale; both tall boys with
ample power, they have impressed the
critics with their ability to score and
swing. Competing in this year’s winter
circuit of rich tournaments, they have
done fairly well for themselves, but treat
the tour purely in an educational light,
as the experience is intended to build
them up into front-line players. Harper
and McHale have attractive styles of
their own. Partnering Harper in a recent
event, when he led the field with a fine
70 on a windy and rainy day, I was
treated to an exhibition of “super” iron
play.
• •••••
Swinging the ball to the flag with
a decided draw on it, Harper is a master
of the iron. clubs. McHale, a 6ft. 3in.
loose-limbed New Yorker, is just the
opposite, as he fades the ball in with a
tiny swing from left to right. An im-
pressive wood player, McHale gets his
results from sheer golf, as he is very
steady, excelling at no particular depart-
ment of the game. Both these piayers
have won enough prize-money to pay
their expenses this season, and are ex-
pected next year to be among the larger
winners.
Clayton Heafner has done remarkably
well. A big 2401 b. Carolina woodman
who was once a chocolate-maker, he gave
up that calling to become a professional.
Like many of our own professionals who
have graduated from the caddie ranks,
there are some fine players among the
American bag-carriers. Caddie tourna-
ments have unearthed fine talent around
New York and similar large cities, where
the caddie events are being won by sub-
par golf.
The future of American golf is assured
by the number of young players coming
on each year. From their numbers come
one or two really outstanding golfers,
contrasting with Australia, where we have
a lack of new faces among the better
class of player. One of the best sources
of young players is the American uni-
versities, where they employ well-known
professionals as coaches. The Inter-
Collegiate Championship is virtually the
U.S.A. Amateur Championship, so strong
is the field competing. Regular matches
are played between the university teams,
creating great interest, while statistics
prove that 45 per cent, of the students
attending the average university are
players themselves.
Public courses are another avenue from
which young players advance. A National
Public Course Championship is held
annually by the U.S.A. Golf Association
to encourage boys not eligible for the
Amateur Championship, through not
having a registered club, and from this
event alone have come many good
players.
He He * *
Gene Sarazen and Lawson Little tied
with 287 for the U.S. Open; Little
won the play-off. Jim Ferrier, having
been leading amateur with 73 and
74 at the end of the second round, got
into a lot of trouble, his third round
costing him 78. A 75 in the fourth left
him tying for second amateur with 300.
Ferrier finished 29th on the list of 60.
He lost touch so badly in his third round
that he actually tipped his ball in a prac-
tice swing. At that, he was beaten for
the amateur medal by only three strokes.
Americans give him a great chance of
winning the U.S. amateur championship
in September, if he stays for it.
Footbrawl
All sorts of rumors trickle through
Melbourne concerning the war and foot-
ball. One horrified writer suggests that
those who advocate complete cessation
of the competitions for the duration “do
not realise the seriousness of the action
they are contemplating.” The League
may carry on ; the Association is to fix
its attitude at a special meeting of dele-
gates ; the amateur body has decided to
suspend its premiership as from June 22.
Meanwhile enlistments from all clubs
continue. A suburban club volunteered
in a body, and the Chelsea club had to
withdraw because 14 of its 18 players
had enlisted.
Sharing the lead with Melbourne
Richmond got a shock on the home
ground from Sowth. In previous matches
Sowth came late ; against Richmond it
jumped out in front and held the lead
until near the end. Then the Tigers re-
covered and hurled everything they had
into the battle, winning 13-16 to 12-13.
Nearly a fourth of the 50,000 who
watched the six League games was at
St. Kilda. There Collingwood’s re-
nowned system and judicious handling of
a greasy ball proved too much for the
locals, who managed 10-12 to ’Wood’s
13-14.
Essendon travelled to Geelong, but
somebody forgot the shooting boots, and,
though the ’Dons won, only 10 of their
32 scoring shots were goals. It was a
see-saw affair, affected by wind, and was
decided in the last quarter. Geelong,
after leading to three-quarter time, could
muster only 9-13.
Fast and clever, with plenty of high-
marking and long-kicking, was Carlton v.
Footscray at Footscray. There were
stages when the game got out of hand,
weight was used plentifully, and starting
the final term the Blues had a 16-point
lead. That last term will be remem-
bered for some time. The Scraggers
played desperately, and two quick goals
spurred them on. Carlton fought back
as desperately, but could score only
twice, and ’Scray ran out winners 12-18
to 12-8.
The wet ground and greasy ball at
Fitzroy, where Hawthorn was enter-
tained, made the home side look as
though it had forgotten to wash its fingers
after sucking at a local brand of toffee.
However, as the rosegrowers seemed
anxious to consult each other on the effect
of the rain on their gardens, Fitzroy
wiped its fingers, rubbed its boot,
grabbed the ball and slammed it through
to win 17-11 to 12-14.
Melbourne, from its lofty perch on the
premiership ladder, regarded the efforts
of a North Melbourne side to beat it
for a moment, saw there was nothing to
worry about, and settled down to a little
shooting practice. Its aim was nothing to
write home about, 12-34. While Mel-
bourne was thus amusing itself, the home
side, thinking of its captain, who has
enlisted, put up the remarkable tally of 8-1.
* * * *
There were surprises all round in
Saturday’s Sydney Rugby Union games.
North gave East a lacing; Manly
trounced Drummoyne; St. George
leathered West, and Parramatta con-
quered Gordon, conqueror of Randwick.
’Wick’s defeat of ’Varsity, 32-11 —the
Green backline functioned smoothly
again—puts it back alone at the head of
the table. East is next, with St. George,
Drummoyne and Parramatta sharing third
place.
Though North had only three points
(18-15) to spare against East, its for-
wards dominated the play. The same was
true of Manly v. Drummoyne and Parra-
matta v. Gordon ; the Parramatta for-
wards gave as good a display as has
been seen this season. Manly forwards
rattled up four tries to Drummoyne’s two
(22-8), but Manly lost Aub Hodgson
with a broken leg. The A.I.F. will have
to wait for his services—the big forward
had enlisted last week. St. George man-
aged only one try to West’s two, but
full-back Clifford converted it, kicked
another goal from a penalty and snapped
a field goal—l 2-6.


%
5SSSS;
Iflps
p s i
lift
s: ; ': :
...
ip
p:
m
r
Sf '
ft
ft: .
.
• •.ft.
m ■
:E E
*.
V
pft
—I
BjfotO:-. /,5^P
m
.
Wm. :
8
>ft-.,...
m
Tir°xdP?t.
==Jy Jk.
ft
Iff
<y
I
■Act
Qi
r>
m
(h~\ i
V3
a
HI L/
i \r
s*
«oP5 <=
H
o
cor-
gyJvAte
SS.123.FP.
TOOTH’S
Men who do the hard jobs need
the invigorating nourishment of
Tooth’s “Sheaf” Stout. “Sheaf”
restores energy quickly, benefits
body, brain and nerves. And,
what a wonderful flavour! Start
enjoying “Sheaf” Stout to-day. It’s
a grand drink —as good for you
as it tastes. There’s strength and
stamina in “Sheaf!”
IN BOTTLES, HALF BOTTLES & BABY BOTTLES


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O.
Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
1835
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON, LTD.
A British Colonial Office—lncorporated in Hong Kong.
ASSETS EXCEED £5,700,000 STERLING
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
MARINE —F RE —aCCIDcNT
N.S'.W. BRANCH: UNION BUILDING, 8-14 BOND ST R EET SYDNEY
’Phone: 87131 (2 lines). R ‘ CORN WE EL,
1940
Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Stars Look Down”
This film version of A. J. Cronin’s
novel, showing at Sydney State, can be
added to the long list of excellent films
which English studios have been turning
out over the past few years. They are
films which are as finely made and as
individual as those of any country, and
which, frequently, seem to combine the
crisp presentation and masterly technical
qualities of Hollywood productions with
the more artistic acting, directing and
photography of French films.
This present offering is not by any
means the best of English films seen so
far, but it is characteristic of them. It
is acted and directed with the quiet
assurance of ready competence and with
a seeming knowledge and appreciation
of the people, setting and circumstance
with which it deals. The scene is set
mainly in an English coalmining village,
and the players could not have been
more suitably cast. The work of the
photographer, M. Greenbown, is reminis-
cent of the feeling, dramatic photography
in “On the Night of the Fire.” His
photography catches the mood of the
story almost perfectly; underground
scenes are, if anything, more depressing
than they are in real life, and scenes
of a cave-in and the subsequent entomb-
ment and death by starvation of half a
dozen miners are as terrifying and as
horrible as such calamities are.
Story concerns a young fellow from
the mines winning a scholarship to a
university and studying with the aim of
turning whatever ability and authority
he may acquire to improving mining con-
ditions. Cronin works in some propa-
ganda here against the private ownership
of mines, and illustrates his case by repre-
senting the mineowner as an avaricious
capitalist with both eyes on profits and
none on the safety of his miners. A
contract for a certain kind of coal in-
volves mining in a dangerous locality ;
the miners are not told of it and, despite
the young fellow’s passionate pleading,
the union refuses to take action. The
men go down and disaster overtakes them,
and Cronin’s case against private owner-
ship is nicely rounded off.
Whatever the merits of Cronin’s propa-
ganda may be, it does not, happily, in-
terfere with the story, which is based as
much upon human values as upon the
scene and conditions in which the author
has chosen to set his characters. The
young fellow at the university becomes
infatuated with the mistress of a coal-
buyer who wants to drop her as easily
as he picked her up. She marries him
more out of spite and for consolation
than anything, and manages to conceal her
feelings for a time, but breaks out again
when the original man returns and spends
the night with her, mainly to get some
sort of hold over her husband, who is
threatening to spike the coal deal which
involves the safety of the men under-
ground.
Redgrave, as the young idealist, turns
in a splendid performance, though he
looks a bit older than the part suggests.
He is the same kind of actor as Donat
—quiet, thoughtful and impressive, and
able to give strength and conviction to
his acting by careful understatement.
Emlyn Williams, as the young coal-
buyer, is more colorful and vigorous, but
that style is admirably suited to the role
of a shrewd, jumped-up mining youth.
Margaret Lockwood, as the wench, offers
a practically flawless stretch of acting.
Her role is comparable with that of
Scarlett O’Hara in “Gone With the
Wind,” but it is more accurately written
and played just as capably and effectively.
* * * *
“For Freedom”
A few more films in the vein of this
one, showing at Sydney Embassy,, would
not go amiss. It is a mixture of news-
reels, comment and a thread of a story,
all blended together in an attempt to give
a coherent picture of events leading up
to the war and after, until the rescue of
the British prisoners in the Altmark by
the destroyer Cossack.
There is the statement, accurately pre-
sented, that Britain worked and strove
for peace, and that none worked harder
than Chamberlain. By the Munich
Agreement nothing was lost and every-
thing gained, including time to make up
some of the alarming leeway in Britain’s
defence. Germany’s case is presented as
a fair one until Hitler invaded Czecho-
slovakia ; after that there is no explana-
tion or justification for the “marching,
tramping foolery” of Nazism. The view
taken of Russia’s behaviour seems as
sound as any so far advanced.
The fight with the Graf Spee and the
scuttling of that ship are partly recon-
structed and partly made up of newsreels,
and it is an absorbing and convincing
piece of film-making. The same applies
to the capture of the Altmark in a Nor-
“Rotten Weather , isn’t it?”
wegian fiord. Many of the men who
were involved in the actual incidents
appear in some sequences, and, possibly
because they have actually experienced
the events, they re-enact them like born
actors.
% : * *
“Johnny Apollo” is an f.a.q. stretch of
entertainment at Sydney Plaza. Million-
aire (Edward Arnold) is gaoled for em-
bezzlement and playboy son (Tyrone
Power) is horrified to discover that his
pa would do such a thing. In Gahd s
Own, evidently, it is possible to get out
of clink if you have the necessary dahlars
and a crooked lawyer, so, to raise
dahlars, Tyrone turns gangster and
fraternises with chief-crook (Lloyd
Nolan) and goil (Dorothy Lamour)—
dressed this time. Tyrone gets himself
into clink and attempts to escape, but pa
comes in at the wrong moment and stops
a flock of bullets. Penitent son finishes
his term in peace and comes out to find
parent and goil eagerly awaiting him.
* * * *
“Stronger Than Desire,” at Sydney
Lyceum and Capitol, has Walter Pidgeon
and Virginia Bruce doing their best with
the old tale of legal man who finds that
his own wife did the dirty deed. It
turns out that she only thought she did,
but in the meanwhile Walter is nobly
torn between duty and lurv. Support,
“The Man from Montreal,” mixes crooks
and Mounties, gold and goils, Andy
Devine and a happy ending.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Pinafore”
Sullivan’s effervescent music and Gil-
bert’s satire at the expense of the political
head of the Navy proved greatly effective
when “H.M.S. Pinafore” dropped its
hook at Sydney Royal last Saturday. The
strange thesis that Jack Tar is as good as
his master and the First Lord’s insistence
on the substitution of polite requests for
peremptory orders brought a grim line
to the lips of Gregory Stroud, who, as
Cap’n Corcoran, turned in a silk-smooth
performance. Ivan Menzies ruled the
Queen’s Navee and pursued his rocky
April-and-November romance with alter-
nating gaiety and glumness.
A feature of the production was the
strength of the character roles. Richard
Watson declaimed with resonance and
verve on the qualities of the A.B. as “a
Henglishman,” and Bernard Manning’s
Dick Deadeye was a masterly piece of
make-up. Maxwell Oldaker raised a
pleasing, if somewhat light, tenor as
Ralph. Buttercup had a facile and melo-
dious interpreter in Evelyn Gardiner, and
Viola Wilson was charmingly natural as
the skipper’s wilful darter. The chorus
sank its teeth with gusto into the meaty
material allotted it.
* * * *
Yehudi Menuhin brought the same un-
earthly concentration to his farewell pro-
gramme at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
last week as he did to the first one. In
the first part he knitted his massive brow
over the sonata in A major, Op. 13, of
Gabriel Faure and the Partita No. 3 of
Bach, two delicious performances, par-
ticularly the latter, which, having no
pianistic accompaniment, came naked
and unadorned in all its variety and
sensitiveness to the
ears of an immense
avidience, which said,
in effect, that it had
never heard anything
like it. Menuhin was
in the same perfect
form in the one and
only concerto for
violin of Mendels-
sohn, which seemed
little the worse for
having no orchestral
backing. The crowd
laughed with excite-
ment at the technical
brilliance of a piece
by Saint-Saens and
the “Heart Beats” of
Paganini. A string
of encores brought
tumultuous applause
which left the young
man as imperturb-
able as ever.
* *
Mahler’s Fourth
Symphony, the main
item of the A.B.C.’s
orchestral concert at
Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday night
(conductor Antal
Dorati), was a new
musical experience
for Sydney. It has
something of the
precious fragility of
a Dresden china
figurine. Many of its
details are trivial, but the work has co-
hesion and unfolds many beauties. A
part for a soprano voice (the singer was
Zena Moller) was a mildly surprising
feature, introduced very prettily and
cleverly, of the fourth, concluding move-
ment. A “Concerto Grosso” by Corelli,
very neatly done, opened the programme.
In the second half Harold Williams
sang the “Wotan’s Farewell” (Fire Music)
scene from “The Valkyrie,” which is im-
pressive theatrically whatever may be
thought of it as music. An arrangement
of Hungarian folk dances by Weiner,
which concluded the show, was unexcit-
ing. Weiner took some airs overlooked
by Brahms and Liszt, and what they
didn’t take wasn’t worth borrowing.
Antal Dorati was conductor of a con-
cert under A.B.C. auspices at Petersham
(Sydney suburb) Town Hall one night
last week.
Attendance was good and the pro-
gramme included a first performance in
Australia of Weinberger’s Variations and
Fugue on “Under the Spreading Chestnut
Tree.” The air is popular with Boy
Scouts, and Weinberger, a Czech, picked
it up from a talkie record of a Scout
rally in England. As Beethoven proved
by producing no fewer than 39 sparkling
variations on a tripy air by Diabelli, the
original theme doesn’t matter much in
such demonstrations of technical skill
and imagination. Weinberger, after stat-
ing the tune, chloroforms it, reviving it
only for a finale after he has run through
his repertoire of orchestral effects. But
it was well done, and sounded very clever.
Nearer the spirit of true music were a
very sweet rendition of Elgar’s beautiful
“Serenade for Strings,” in which the
fiddles did themselves proud, and a digni-
fied performance of a rich orchestration
of a Strauss waltz. Harold Williams,
the baritone, had orchestral backing in
such rousing ditties as the “Toreador
Song” from “Carmen” and Schumann’s
“Two Grenadiers.”
* s|e * H:
Baritone Peter Dawson is a writer of
songs as well as a singer. Allan’s send for
review his two latest opuses, both 100
p.c. Australian —“Lasseter’s Last Ride”
and “The Bushrangers.” Words in both
cases are by Edward Harrington ; “The
Bushrangers” originally appeared in these
pages. Both are in minor keys, the
“Ride” in A, the “Rangers” in F, and
the compass in both cases is small, not
higher than E flat nor lower than the C
below the stave. The tunes are original
and phrased to the words, and there are
dramatic qualities in both ditties. Any
baritone could sing them and any pianist
of any pretensions could play the accom-
paniments. Dawson promises to broad-
cast both songs at an early date.
Arthur sts.
A fine retrospective exhibition of Max
Meldrum’s pictures opened the new
Velasquez Gallery at Tye’s in Bourke-
street, Melbourne. The lighting having
been installed under the artist’s super-
vision, it was properly lighted. Since
Max Meldrum regards the painter’s
problem as the understanding of the
relationships of color, tone and form
in Nature, he attaches the utmost im-
portance to the conditions under which
the observer sees his pictures, and by
calling him in the proprietors got a
gallery which is as near perfection as
the resources of the Electricity Com-
mission could make it.
The still-life, landscapes and portraits
on show cover pretty well the whole
of the artist’s painting life up to his
recent commissions, including the Archi-
bald Prize winning portrait. There is a
lovely series of landscapes painted in the
village of Pace near Paris, another dates
from his sojourns in that art metropolis,
there are some early Australian land-
scapes, and the latest Olinda series.
These pictures completely contradict
the assumption that singleness of outlook
makes for monotony. When fidelity to
Nature is the aim and the aim is so
successful, the results cannot help but
reflect the variety of Nature.


HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidney's contain 15 foiled
of tiny tubes or filters •which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons In your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting and burning, nagging backi
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, head-i
aches and dizziness. _
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day* and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully!
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubps. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
pr (store,
Personal and Missing Friends.
MOBBS.—WiII BERTIE JAMES, son of James
Mobbs, of Carlingford, deceased, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney?
RE JOSEPH BINNS, late of Nhill, in Vic-
toria. Will JOSEPH ERNEST BINNS, son
of Jonas Binns, deceased, and nephew of above-
named, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with TRUMBLE AND
PALMER, Solicitors, Nhill, Victoria?^
Notice to Claimants.
An Action of Multiplepoinding has been raised
in the Court of Session, Scotland, at the lo '
stance of DAVID BROOM, Baker, Main Street,
Abernethy, Perthshire, Executor Nominate ot
David Clarke, who resided at West Ertd, Aber-
nethy, against, inter alios, CHARLES CLARK.t
and WILLIAM ARMSTRONG CLARKE, both
believed to be in Australia, but whose addresses
are to the Pursuer and Real Raiser unknown
and in which action Lord Patrick has pro-
nounced the following Interlocutor:
“Edinburgh, 14th May, 1940. The Lora
Ordinary, on the unopposed motion ot tn
Pursuer and Real Raiser, appoints the depe -
dence of the action to be advertised onc L
each of the Melbourne ‘Argus’ and Sydn y
‘Bulletin’ newspapers, in order that all parti
not otherwise cited may appear for then ‘
terests by 14th August, 1940. —(Signed) W. •
PATRICK.” ,
Of all which Intimation is hereby given.
JOSEPH DOBBIE, S.S.C.,
42 Melville Street, Edinburgh,
Solicitor for Pursuer and Real Raiser.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Music-lovers, romantics, dancers and
patriotic fervids were all catered for in
Saturday night’s list of amusements. The
Town Hall was crowded for the sym-
phony orchestra concert —Antal Dorati
conducting. Harold Williams was the
night’s singer, and his wife and twin
daughters Venita and Veronica (dressed
to a pin alike) were among the listeners.
Distinguished musicians in the front of
the house were Ignaz Friedman and Mrs.
Friedman, conductor Georg Schneevoigt
and Sigrid Sundgren (Mrs. Schneevoigt).
Peggy Buchanan, only daughter of the
Buchanans of Delamere, Pokataroo, and
Pat Osborne, of the R.A.A.F., were one
of the many couples who drenched Satur-
day afternoon with confetti. ’Groom’s
brother Sam stood by him, and Mrs.
Sam Osborne attended the bride. St.
Mark’s was the scene of the wedding,
the Royal Sydney Golf Club that of the
reception.
From the two souvenir programme
girls in their poke bonnets and their
hooped frocks of organza with red, white
and blue relief, there was a patriotic
stir about the Royal’s presentment of
“H.M.S. Pinafore.” The background
showed Portsmouth Harbor, with
Nelson’s old ship the Victory (or so we
liked to think it) at anchor. All the
compliments to the Navy, and the opera
is stuffed with them, were met with
volleys of applause. When at the end
the French and the British flags were
unfurled, there was a roar of apprecia-
tion. There were five or six recalls for
“He Is an Englishman!” and altogether
everybody felt cheered by being reminded
of the Navy’s hearts of oak. A word
must be said for the heroine and the
sisters, cousins and aunts of Sir Joseph
Porter. In their brand-new bonnets and
frocks, true to period, they looked like
charming Tenniel sketches, animate and
glowing. The Edmund Playfair group,
the Charles Lloyd Jones couple, Mrs.
Toby Browne and daughter Nuala,
Phyllis Du Boise, Mrs. Beveridge of the
C.W A., the F. J. Davys, Joan Tyler and
Mrs. Doris Olding were in the crowded
audience.
Barbara Knox took the helm at the
Bush Book Club’s annual meeting. Beulah
Bolton read letters of thanks for parcels
of books. These came from men and
women of the Outback. A mother wrote
to say that in a parcel of books sent early
this year there had been a copy of /
Was Hitler’s Prisoner. Her son had
read it, and “could not get it out of
his mind.” He felt, the letter went on,
that he must go to fight that cruelty. He
is in camp now.
A gentleman who stated that he was
well over 70 requested that no cowboy
yarns be sent to him. Some women
whose husbands are at the war ask for
lightweight novels; Mary Borden and
Ethel M. Dell are among the writers
named as favorites. The Outback women
need reading matter that will take their
thoughts away, even for a few hours,
from grim realities. “The books are a
real help,” wrote one. Knight Thomas
Bavin was a speaker. The late-afternoon
sunshine came through the windows of
the lecture hall in the Empire Society’s
rooms and touched with fingers of light
the flags against the wall, while the
secretary told of the thousands of books,
magazines and papers sent out during
the year.
There were 859 entries in the dog show
at the R.A.S. grounds last Saturday. This
was to aid the work of the Kindergarten
Union. Each entrant paid 2s. 6d. From
before midday the soldiers in camp on
the grounds were amused by the proces-
sion of Pekes, Chows, Dalmatians,
“blueys,” retrievers, Gordon setters,
Sealyhams and other prize canines being
led by their faithful servant, man, to the
allotted pavilion.
Beginning soldiers in practice route
marches were likely to bung into tiny
boys being photographed with their arms
around the necks of large dogs, Alsatians
or such. A young girl nursed a baby
Peke, sheltering it from the wind in
a downydooking quilt. “His father won
a ribbon at the show, but he caught a
cold and died of pneumonia,” she said,
and cuddled her charge the closer.
One Dalmatian being spruced up,
polished and prettied generally was re-
garded over the back of his stall by
another of the raisin-spotted brethren.
The looker-on had a ribald grin ; “Yah,
glamor boy!” he seemed to say. Two
vets, were kept busy giving the dogs a
clean bill of health. A schoolboy was
bursting with pride over his set-up: a
Gordon setter in a handsome, brand-new
lead. There was even a bloodhound
doing his bit for the babes. When he
took a long, deep sniff, this Letter sud-
denly recalled all her suppressed criminal
instincts, and withdrew to lee’ard. But
it was probably only “cookhouse” caused
the longing. Further down the field,
outside one of the buildings, lines of
soldiers were drawn up, plates and panni-
kins held behind their backs.
Dorothy Helmrich, herewith, is revisit-
ing her native land, and singing (with
the A.8.C.) throughout its length and
breadth. Dorothy had been singing to
soldier audiences in England before com-
ing to Australia, and she says it has
surprised the professional entrepreneurs
to learn the popularity of. the really good
composers with the troops. In fact the
English Tommy almost demands the best
music and its best interpreters.
Pretty and fair Althea Elsa Doreen
Wallace married Sub-lieut. Haydon Ord
Coleridge Farr in Cranbrook School
chapel. His father is Dr. Coleridge Farr,
emeritus professor of physics of Canter-
bury College, Christchurch, M.L. The
wedding ring is an heirloom gift of the
bridegroom’s father, who was at the
wedding. The ring was given to Dr. Farr
by his mother, daughter of Sir Robert
Ord, R.A.
The bride is an old girl of Shirley,
Edgecliff, and graduated from Sydney
University with honors and the Frank
Albert prize for anthropology. Sub-
lieut. Farr is nephew of Mrs. Hey
Sharp, president of the Mothers’
Union for many years, and grandson
of the late Archdeacon Farr, who
founded St. Peter’s College, Adelaide.
Althea’s father, A. E. N. Wallace, was
chess champion of Australia. Her
grandad, Alexander Britton, was Govern-
ment historian of N.S.W. Her mother,
Mrs. Theodosia Wallace, is one of Syd-
ney’s best-known women writers. Dr.
Farr (’groom’s father) is one of the scien-
tific feathers in Maoriland’s cap. He
made a magnetic survey of Fernland, and
founded the Magnetic Observatory in
Christchurch.
Leslie Osborne —his parents are the
H. Osbornes, of Wallaroy-road, Wool-
lahra will be another of the soldier
bridegrooms. He is joining up with the
A.1.F., so he and his affianced, Jessie
McMaster her father was John Mc-
Master, of Weetalabah, Coolah; her
mother is Mrs. Colin Venn —have de-
cided on an early date for their wedding.
Australian homes are preparing a wel-
come for the war orphans from overseas.
It is planned to have 50,000 of these
youngsters adopted by this State alone.
Sunshine, laughing skies, peaceful ways
and good food should help to wipe out
from the childish minds the horrors of
evacuation and bombing that have so
pitilessly and so relentlessly pursued them.
The C.W.A. and other organisations
have promised aid to the evacuation
scheme, and the Boy Scouts’ Association
has made a definite offer to assume re-
sponsibility for 1000 Boy Scouts. But
it is not enough for us to see to the
welfare of their bodies. These chu-
dren, our trust, must have every ad-
vantage that the Australian-born child
with its own parents enjoys. That is to
say, those of them who show intelligence
above the ordinary must be given every
chance to develop their talents in art,
science or letters. Australia must be
made for the army of lonely children
a land not only flowing with milk and
honey, but one where dreams come true.
Chooks, flowers, fruit and jam were
sold at the Australian Golf Club, Ken-
sington, last week. These were sidelines
to the day’s big activity: a four-ball
championship for golfers which got off
to a good start by half-past eight. It
was a nippy morning when the fun
started, but that didn’t prevent crowds
turning up. Money was also raised by
a bridge tournament in the clubhouse.
The Ladies’ Golf Union organised the
affair, and at the end of a perfect day
had over £3OO to hand over to the Anzac
Buffet in Hyde Park.
The Fresh Food and Ice Co. girls and
boys carried on as usual by arranging
their yearly ball in the interests of the
seven metropolitan hospitals and homes
which have always been their bene-
ficiaries. Secretary Gladys Preston was
a little upset, though, because Saturday
night has always been chosen for the
merrymaking. Lots of F.F. and I. Co.
employees have to be on duty very early
every day of the week but Sunday.
Naturally Saturday appeals to them as
the night on which the bedtime story
is put off indfinitely. The dance was in the
Wentworth, but, owing to the run on the
Church Hill hotel, only a week night
could be booked. Gladys, looking like a
water-colorist’s dream in her jade-green
frock and orange coat, confessed to the
attendance being smaller in consequence.
Three cheers for the Red, White and
Blue was the note struck in the decora-
tions. The balcony was outlined in red,
white and blue. Flags were everywhere.
Red roses, violets and white chrysan-
themums were used on many tables. The
Summer Hill centre had decked its
board nobly. At one end was a giant
milk bottle. In the middle was a flower
cushion representing the Union Jack, a
bulldog its guardian. In between there
were standards of red, white and blue.
Official guests included Colonel and Mrs.
Playfair, the A. J. P. Daltons, the Mackay
couple and the J. B. Agnews.
In these days of war alarms there’s
something soothing about the pacific title
of the Mosman Musical Society’s next
production. It is “The Quaker Girl,”
and Wilma Gregory of this picture will
play the name part. When the curtain
goes up at the Orpheum Theatre on
July 10, it will mark the 115th produc-
tion of the society—the largest amateur
theatrical organisation in Australia.
M.M.S. operas have been broadcast by
the A.8.C., and Australian and New
Zealand Theatres, Ltd., has plucked
principals from the society’s ranks.
Those concerned foretell that “The
Quaker Girl” will be as melodic and
alluring as any of her predecessors.
Players responsible for big parts will be
Waveney West, Frank Brooks and Harry
Nott. Sidney Riley photograph.
Tomorrow you will hear Sigrid Sund-
gren play the piano part in the “River”
sonata of Palmgren. Husband Georg
Schneevoigt will conduct the orchestra,
and, of course, his wife will have to
follow his lead, too. If you are one of
those tone-deaf people to whom a
classical composition is simply torture,
you would do well to keep away from
the de luxe Darlinghurst flats which
shelter Sigrid Sundgren and Ignaz Fried-
man Both are busy practising for their
concerts, she on one floor, he on another.
Incidentally, Ignaz Friedman’s wife
is a niece of Tolstoy. However, Mrs.
Friedman had no acquaintance with her
celebrated uncle, but she has warm
memories of Tatiana. The Friedmans’
home is in the Dolomites, and one of
their neighbors is the son of playwright
Ibsen, and his wife is a daughter of
Bjornson the playwright. If there isn t
a literary and debating society around the
neighborhood it will be a strange thing.
Joanna Bruce, of Sydney, a former
student of the Dattilo-Rubbo art school,
has had, this year, one of her pictures
accepted by the Royal Academy. Joanna
has been in London since 1937 teaching
at the Westminster Art School. At
present she is doing camouflage work
somewhere in England.
Girl friends who went to school in
Perth, W.A., with Margery Forster can
commence broidering the doyley and
the supper-cloth, in between knitting.
Margery became engaged last week to
Alan Roberts Barnes, of Mosman.
Margery, who came over from the West
with father and mother three years ago,
has become an efficient and attractive
V.A.D. Alan is now in the R.A.A.F.
He is well known as a first-grade
cricketer and a knocker-up of good
scores. Margery’s elder brother Bill
joined the A.I.F. a few weeks ago.
The Australian Art Society’s show is
lush with portraits and sketches of nice
girls of all ages. This is the fourteenth
birthday show of the A.A.S., and it was
opened last week by Sydney’s Mayor
S. S. Crick. Not so many women artists
sent in entries this year, owing, vice-
president Whitney thinks, to absorption
in war activities. President William
Oates and his wife, the vice-presidential
Whitneys and the secretarial Clif Peir
couple were in the official group. Portrait;
painter Jerrold Nathan came with his
wife ; Mrs. Alan Moore looked on her
husband’s work and found it good.
Attractive girls were Norma Kennedy
and Lesbia Thorpe. Lesbia shows some
very “coming on” canvases, a portrait
study, “April,” among them. There were
some visitors from India, and the presi-
dent of the National Gallery, B. J.
Waterhouse, put in an appearance.
Nuns of every Order in and around
the city took possession of the floor of
the Town Hall last Sunday afternoon.
They were the guests of the Grail Group,
which was repeating for them the concert
given earlier in the week. This had
filled the Town Hall to the uttermost
foothold. About the galleries were the
bright Grail banners. Programmes were
sold by a group of University students,
mortar-board on head and gowns billow-
ing with excitement.
There are 300 girls in the Grail choir,
and part of the time they were all on
the stage. First they wore robes of
Grecian-like cut in tones of violet (pale
and deep). In the second part, for the
more frivolous outbursts about the
“Blue Danube,” “Invitation to the Waltz”
and such, their raiment was as varicolored
as a field of tulips. Among the folk
dances on the programme, prize goes to
that of the Linen Weavers.
These French names are a bit hard on
the young newsboy. Last week through
the gathering winter dusk a small boy’s
voice came shrilly “Some Battle!” he
cried: “Some Battle! ”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 737 of 1940.
BETWEEN VINCENT CLEARY Petitioner
And ANNIE MARY MATILDA CLEARY
Respondent.
TO ANNIE MARY MATILDA CLEARY
late of 80 Allan Street Leichhardt.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VINCENT
CLEARY has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
third day of August One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED , this 31st day of May, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2099 of 1939.
BETWEEN RITA SARAH FAWCETT Peti-
tioner
And RICHARD FAWCETT Respondent.
TO RICHARD FAWCETT late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RITA SARAH
FAWCETT has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifth day
of September 1940 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of June, One thousand
nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. W. B. SHERLOCK, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE ' SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 638 of 1940.
BETWEEN ELLEN ANNIE LAURIE
ORCHARD Petitioner
AND GEORGE PEARSON ORCHARD Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE PEARSON ORCHARD for-
merly of Newcastle in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EILEEN
ANNIE LAURIE ORCHARD has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
has applied for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Third day of September One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Third day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
. S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Newcastle; by his Agents, JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall,
2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 935 of 1939.
BETWEEN HENRY JOSEPH HOWARD Peti-
tioner
And STELLA DOROTHY HOWARD
(formerly Stella Dorothy Percy) Respon-
dent
And SYDNEY BYRNES also known as
Jack Byrnes and Frank Byrnes Co-respon-
dent.
TO the abovenamed SYDNEY BYRNES late
of Glen Innes.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HENRY
JOSEPH HOWARD has commenced a suit
against his wife STELLA DOROTHY
HOWARD in this Court wherein you are named
as co-respondent and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds that his
said wife committed adultery with you on or
about the Twenty-sixth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight at Glen
Innes and that on or about the said date and
at the said place you committed adultery with
his said wife AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-ninth day of August next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fifth day of June, 1940.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. R. WINDEYER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Glen Innes; by his Agents, THOMP-
SON & NOTT, 375 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1939 of 1939.
BETWEEN DORIS VICKERY CARLTON
WILES Petitioner
And WILLIAM JACOB WILES Respon-
dent.
TO WILLIAM JACOB WILES late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DORIS
VICKERY CARLTON WILES has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Fifth day of September 1940 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of June, One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. E. L. STUART, Solicitor for Petitioner,
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle; by his Agent,
E. W. B. SHERLOCK, Solicitor, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 637 of 1940.
BETWEEN GLADYS SOPHIA ROBERTS
Petitioner
And IVOR ROBERTS Respondent.
TO IVOR ROBERTS formerly of Newcastle
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS SOPHIA
ROBERTS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and has applied for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit in the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Fifth day of September One thousand nine
hundred and forty and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, JOHN GOR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chaffer
Dr. and Mrs. Rupert Harvey made a
great success of their party in aid of Air
Force House. It didn’t stop raining from
late afternoon till the next early morn,
but no one stayed at home just for fear
of muddy footpaths and running gutters.
Within the front portal of 6 Whernside-
avenue, Mrs. Harvey’s sister, Phil Jacob-
son, in black with glittering gold bib,
seldom let up on the job of seeing that
no one went thirsty for longer than neces-
sary. Mother, Mrs. M. Jacobson, brought
for the party supper a contribution of
‘Welsh Faggots,” misnamed ; they should
have been “Fodder for Gods.” The base
is sausagey and oniony, but the grand
climax is much more imposing. Dr.
Harvey did his spot of work painting
a pumpkin red, white and blue and an
aeroplane in Air Force colors. Norman
Fairless brought another ’plane under his
arm, a larger bit of decoration whose
landing field was the top of the grand
piano. Mr. Fairless and Herbert Allen
did a span as croupiers and, although
amateurs, did well for the “bank” of
Air Force House.
The Verco-Bonython marriage, which
should normally have been Adelaide’s
biggest wedding in years, became a quiet
ceremony at Christ Church, South Yarra
(with only a dozen people in the church
and the wind trying to make off with
the bride’s five yards of tulle veil), fol-
lowed by a dinner party for 30 intimate
friends and relatives at Menzies. The
’groom, Pilot-Officer Colin Verco, couldn't
get leave from R.A.A.F. duties, and there
was no question of any city but Mel-
bourne for the honeymoon. Bride
Katherine’s gown was made in a day,
for the wedding was originally planned
for later in the year, and she had only
one ’maid, Joan Beauchamp, instead of
three. There was just time to call back
from holidaying in Queensland her future
sister-in-law, Pat Spiers Jackson, who’s
engaged to Warren Bonython. By flying
from Sydney Pat witnessed the ceremony
with a few hours to spare, but she missed
all the fun of being an attendant. The
bride and her parents, the ’groom’s
family and most of the other guests also
took to the clouds to assemble here in
time.
Most gardeners planted their bulbs
weeks ago, but it is not too late for those
who feel like experimenting with Mrs.
Luigi Luiggi’s method of indoor grow-
ing. She coaxes flowers from hyacinths
and freezias in neither soil nor fibre, but
simply in vases or bowls of water. She
places some bulbs singly on top of vases
or arranges several bulbs in a larger
bowl filled with seashells. The roots soon
sprout and start marine wanderings
among the shells. The water should just
touch the bottom of each bulb.
Melbourne has a new art gallery in the
“never-never” (time payment) end of
Bourke-street. Tye and Co. built the
gallery and have given it the elegant name
of Velasquez. The firm had encouraging
co-operation from the architects and the
Electricity Commission, and several artists
were asked to step up and have a look
round during the course of construction.
The gallery is at basement level and the
lighting cost £5OO. This artificial light-
ing suits Max Meldrum perfectly; his
one-man show is the Gallery’s house-
warming. For this special occasion friend
Meldrum had his beard trimmed, bought
himself a new tie and secured the services
of J. D. G. Medley to make the formal
oration from the stairs, a natural dais.
Mr. Medley, who is fast becoming the
city’s pet art show opener, murmured
(with apologies to Helen of Troy) that
posterity may one day gaze at his likeness
in paint and marvel “Was that the dial
that launched a thousand shows?” In
his speech he commended Meldrum’s
work and the gallery’s layout, and
refuted ideas that this is no time for the
painting, hanging or buying of pictures,
for art is part of civilisation and we
haven’t much grit if we are going to
give it up without a struggle.
Among those who paid their respects on
the opening afternoon were Prof, and Mrs.
Agar and Alma Figuerola, whose por-
traits were exhibited, as were those of
Elizabeth and Anne Agar. Other sub-
jects included (for Meldrum’s show
covers a span of years) Phillip Hargrave,
Dr. Forbes Mackenzie and J. G. Bell
(which portrait won the 1939 Archibald
Prize). Professor Barker, of the vener-
able moustache, called in, and several
people took the opportunity of a fare-
well handshake with R. D. Elliott, who
is off to England at the sugges-
tion of Lord Beaverbrook. With him he
carries a gold watch presented to him
five years ago as a souvenir of his being
the first paying Airways passenger from
England to Australia.
To-night’s the 12th and the night for
the big Racing Patriotic Fund’s party
at the Palais, where plenty of good value
is to be had for tickets at 10s. 6d. each.
Herewith a Broothorn photograph of one
of the committee members, Mrs. Charles
Alsop, whose responsibilities will be
among the cigarettes. The Tivoli man-
agement and next week’s Tivoli per-
formers are giving the show a big boost,
for the Tiv. has sold masses of tickets
and the players are contributing some of
their biggest and best moments. Another
attraction is the debut of Will-to-Win,
by Churchill out of a Weygand mare, who
will wear his newest red, white and blue
silk sheet and be ridden around the
Palais by Harold Badger. Will-to-Win
is a black colt (or maybe just a dark
horse —his size is a secret). He was a
present from Jamey Robertson to Iris
Connolly, and his destination hangs by
a thread, the yearling sales Dutch auction
at the party.
The dental fraternity forgot the absorb-
ing interest of other people’s mouths for
the frivolous occasion of the Dental
Association Ball, held at the Palais for
the Red Cross. But they couldn’t get
away from themselves in the matter of
the dip—just as dogs’-home dances have
produced dip after dip of dog soap, so
did the dental do run to toothpaste.
Lloyd George (of Adelaide), who any
moment hopes to be an observer in the
R.A.A.F., had eight dips in a row ; seven
brought up toothpaste and the eighth
varied the monotony by coming out a
butter dish.
Arthur Craven was busy as a bee and
everywhere at once. Down from “Pucka”
came Dr. Blue Steward and dentist Alan
Hurst, who hope to leave with the 7th
Division. Val Blogg forgot his work
among molars and his play among sculp-
ture to try a mild jitterbug with his wife.
Among others who enjoyed themselves
were Beverley Hills, Len Mellor and the
Viv Ebbott couple, she in gardenias and
long green velvet wrap. The Dean of
the Faculty of Dental Science and Mrs.
Arthur Amies did the honors. Others
present officially included Dr. and Mrs.
R. G. Williams and Dr. and Mrs. W. J.
Tuckfield.
A recruiting band played the audience
into the Town Hall for Menuhin’s second
concert. Inside was a bumper house.
There had been a queue a quarter of a
mile long outside the sole ticket window.
Menuhin played in the attire he’s
addicted to with tails, soft shirt and white
cummerbund. The stormy night, which
was no encouragement to street-sweeping
skirts, brought out quantities of furs.
Mrs. Tom Hudson wrapped herself in a
fur coat, as did Mrs. Keith Whitehead,
of Uranna. The Bill Harrisons were
there, Mrs. Bill with her long auburn
locks flowing over the shoulders of her
little fur bolero. Valerie Clarke’s honey-
colored head rose from above a white
corduroy coat. Under her fur wrap Mrs.
Maurice Sloman wore an alliance of
black skirt and white chiffon blouse.
Together were Mrs. Theo Troedel and
Kitty Sleight with news of Miss Sleight’s
sister Mrs. Ethel Barnes, who has gone
to live in Connecticut with daughter
Peggy while Peg’s French husband, Henry
Malval, is away fighting for his country.
Mrs. Barnes, crossing the U.S.A. by air,
struck a trip on which the ’plane buck-
jumped all the way. She said that Peggy,
meeting her at the airport, hardly recog-
nised the woebegone little object with
a pea-green face as her devoted mother.
Within the crowded house which wel-
comed “Switzerland” back to Melbourne
was a whole row of well-known skating
girls, all so young and dewy they looked
like schoolgirls on a mid-term treat.
Among them were Betty Cornwell in
white fur coat, white frock and gardenia
in hair, Marion Gauld (sister Shirley is
in the show), Pat Maloney in pastel-blue
taffeta, Patricia Matthews and Enid
Shawe, who a very few years ago was
an infant on double-edged skates. The
Ross Grey Smiths were first-nighters, His
Majesty’s is like their second home, for
they have become so used to going there
twice a week for the ballet. Beverley
Slaney, all in dregs-of-wine, was escorted
by an attentive lad in khaki.
News is to hand of tall, attractive Lois
Smith, of Geelong, who was last heard of
wearing sequins and rose-petals as a
super, in several extravagant London
musical shows. A month ago she got
herself a berth on an American-bound
ship and is now putting over Australian
propaganda at the Australian pavilion of
the New York Fair.
In Spencer Shier’s portrait is Mrs. A.
D. Garrisson, who is among young
R.A.A.F. wives who recently returned to
Australia. She was Joan Toogood, of
Perth, before her marriage last August
with Flight-Lieut. Garrisson (who comes
from Sydney). Their honeymoon was a
two-and-a-half months’ blackout voyage
to England, for war broke out soon after
they sailed from Fremantle. They were
stationed on the east coast of England,
and while billeted in an old farmhouse
bought bicycles out of necessity, for the
farmhouse possessed not even the most
primitive bathroom. Every evening when
Garry came down from among the clouds
he and Joan would set off on their bikes
in search of showers for hire ; even if it
rained and hailed they enjoyed their
dinner the better for their hard-earned
session of soapsuds. Their present home
is a flat at Gloucester Lodge.


will
Z'i
Kul
Jl
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile; 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
z\m
m
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
BRANDAUERS
m
S 3
GW
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
a BE AND A DEE * CO* Ltd* BIRMINGHAM. ENO
THE SERVICE MAN
The Epic of Flanders.
“Ek Dum”: The final story of the
campaign in Flanders has still to be
written, but the main details, as sum-
marised by Prime Minister Churchill,
show that, although it was “a colossal
military disaster,” the retreat to the coast
and saving of 335,000 or 336,000 officers
and men constituted a glorious feat of
arms.
From the moment the French defences
were broken in the Sedan salient, Mr.
Churchill said, only a rapid retreat to
Amiens on the Somme could have saved
the British and French armies which had
entered Belgium at the request of King
Leopold. But this would have meant
abandoning the Belgian army and king-
dom to their fate. The safety of all
could have been assured only by complete
linkage of the armies in Belgium.
After General Weygand assumed com-
mand. the British and French in Belgium
made an effort to hold the right hand
of the Belgian army, and to give their
own right hand to a French army ad-
vancing across the Somme to meet it.
But German armored units eight or
nine divisions, each with 400 heavy
vehicles—swept like a sharp scythe against
the northern armies, cutting communica-
tions between the B.E.F. and the main
French army. Then followed the ad-
vanced mechanised divisions and lorries,
and behind them “plodded the dull mass
of the German army, always so ready
to be killed tramping down any other
land which has the liberty and comfort
they have never known.”
This armored scythe stroke—a scour-
ing movement—almost reached Dunkirk.
At Boulogne and Calais there was desper-
ate fighting. The 60th Rifles, the Queen
Victoria Rifles, a tank battalion and 1000
Frenchmen 4000 in all defended
Calais to the last. The British com-
mander was given an hour to surrender.
His answer was No. After four days
of fearful fighting 30 unwounded sur-
vivors were brought off. Their comrades
in sacrificing themselves had held up at
least two German armored divisions which
otherwise could have been used against
us on the Belgian front. The time they
gained enabled the Allies to hold Grave-
lines and the coast to Dunkirk, which
was thus kept open.
By this time the Belgian, French and
British armies in the north were almost
surrounded. Their only line of retreat
was through the single port and the
neighboring beaches. Even at that stage,
with the Belgian army intact, the Prime
Minister was a melancholy man.
I feared that I would have to announce
the greatest military disaster in our history.
I thought that 20,000 or 30,000 men might
be re-embarked, but it seemed that the
whole of the French First Army and the
northern troops of the B.E.F. would have
broken up or would have to capitulate....
The great root and core and brain of the
British Army on which we are to build
the great British armies of the later years
of the war seemed about to perish or to be
led to ignominious captivity.
And there was another blow yet
to fall—the capitulation of King Leo-
pold. Had the Belgians not sought a
fatal neutrality they might have been
rescued.
After the invasion, King Leopold
appealed for our aid. Even at the last
moment we came. His brave and efficient
army was on our eastern flank and on
our only line of retreat to the sea.
Suddenly, without prior consultation, with
the least possible notice, without the
advice of his Ministers and on his own
personal act, Leopold surrendered his
army and exposed the left flank of the
B.E.F. A “pitiful episode,” Mr. Churchill
called it.
The B.E.F. rushed to cover its left
flank. It “seemed imnossible that anv
large number of troops could reach the
coast.” The Germans attacked on all
sides very strongly, began to fire on the
beaches, rained bombs on every approach
to escape ; their flying formations were
sometimes 100 machines strong. They
sowed the sea with magnetic mines. Ü-
boats and fast torpedo motor-boats took
toll of the great mass of shipping which
was assembling and much of which was
without any effective defence.
But the Navy was doing its job. With
220 light warships and 620 other vessels,
covered by heavier units out to sea,
it worked at the embarkation under in-
creasing fire. On the open dunes troops
stood waiting their turn in long lines,
exposed to the bombers but guarded
by the R.A.F., though R.A.F. machines
were seldom seen. Trip after trip was
made by all manner of craft; dozens
of trips by many. Hospital ships, a special
target for the enemy, took off thousands
of wounded.
Meanwhile the R.A.F. made devastat-
ing attacks on the German sky forces,
bringing down enemy machines in whole
squadrons. These fights were unseen by
most of the land army because it was
the R.A.F.’s business to form a screen,
and the R.A.F. ’planes were over the
horizon.
And, in the end, most of the B.E.F.
got off. “In the long series of fierce
battles” their losses were “more than
30,000 killed, wounded and missing.” But
upwards of 335,000 British and French
were carried to England after an intense
struggle, five days long, during which
the Germans hurled the might of dozens
of divisions against the ever-constricting
pocket against the coast in which the
retiring forces were hemmed in. Sacri-
fices of material, of course, were enor-
mous —1000 guns and all the transport
and army vehicles. “The best of all we
had went with the 8.E.F.,” and the loss
will delay the expansion of British mili-
tary strength. But machines, though im-
portant, are not all-important. Machines
can be built and rebuilt. It is the man
behind the machine that will win the
war.
The French Admiral Abrial was the
last man to leave Dunkirk. French army
casualties have not been published, but
the French Navy which co-operated
gallantly with the British —admitted the
loss of seven destroyers. We lost six
destroyers, a fleet minesweeper, a gun-
boat, five paddle minesweepers, eight
trawlers, three drifters, two armed
boarding-vessels, a tug and one or two
other small ships—so versatile was
the fleet that did the job. “The most
extensive and difficult combined opera-
tion in naval history” is the Admiral’s
just verdict on it, and the job was rounded
off at Zeebrugge, the most dangerous
port for the Germans to hold intact on
the Belgian coast. With heavy air escort
the R.N. rolled in, destroyed the canal
sea gates and the lock-working gates and
blocked the approach channels with con-
crete-filled block ships. Other ports in
enemy hands were rendered virtually
useless.
Out of defeat and a glorious feat of
lifesaving the most wonderful in all
history—one great fact emerges. So soon
as war reaches the sea, the Royal Navy
is the dominant factor, as always. The
air arm has proved deadly on land.
Against the concentrated might of large
warships, adequately seconded by fast
small craft, it has failed.
The New Battle for Paris.
“Ek D.”: The last of the Allied forces
left Dunkirk at 7 a.m. on June 5. Three
hours before, repeating their daybreak
tactics as played in Belgium and Hol-
land, the Germans launched a new and
savage attack. They first chose points
where the Somme line formed two salients,
the north-western one pushing into the
German formation at Peronne, the other
joining it and forming a sharper angle,
pushing the opposite way into French
territory towards Paris, with two large
towns —Laon and Soissons —on its eastern
side. These salients were the interior end
joints of a defence line 110 miles long
reaching to the sea.
There were attacks, but not on a great
scale, in the Montmedy-Stenay section at
the end of the Maginot Line. The assaults
on the central salients were made with
a screen of 1000 bombers. These were
followed by five roaming divisions of
tanks, numbering about 2000 vehicles in
all, which delivered sudden hammer
blows at points of likely weakness. French
defences had been reorganised on a group
basis, a system of which the German
so-called Siegfried Line is the prime
example. Gaps were covered by mobile
units of anti-tank guns, and full pre-
cautions were taken to avoid the mistakes
which earlier allowed the Germans to
secure local petrol supplies.
Supporting the German tank divisions
were 40 divisions of mechanised troops
and infantry.
During next day the battle developed
along Schlieffen-plan lines, the main pres-
sure being transferred to the line of
greatest leverage close to Abbeville, near
the Somme mouth. The Channel end of
the battle moved forward across the
Somme for 15 miles, bringing the ad-
vanced German forces to the River
Bresle, 18 miles from Dieppe, the
terminus of the Channel service from
Newhaven, about 70 miles from Le
Havre and 50 miles from the nearest
point of the Seine at Rouen. French
and some British troops were holding the
lines here.
The Germans, admitting a “stubborn”
defence, claimed to have pierced the
Weygand line along the whole front.
The French replied on the morning of
June 7 that the position overnight had
not been modified and that the enemy
losses, which were said to include 400
tanks, had more than compensated for
withdrawals.
The fight was more intense than the
Meuse battle, and former mechanised
concentrations were dwarfed ; but after
bearing the first brunt of the German
rush, which outflanked and overwhelmed
many units, the strong points of Allied
defence pinned down the invaders for a
time and smothered their advance with
fire from light artillery and machine-guns
on the ground and cannon-armed ’planes
in the air.
On June 9 General Weygand an-
nounced :
The offensive has been unleashed on the
whole front from Montmedy to the sea.
Tomorrow it will stretch as far as Swit-
zerland. The order is still for each man to
fight on without thought of retreat, looking
straight ahead. The enemy has suffered
considerable losses. He will soon reach
the end of his effort. We have now
reached the last phase. Hold fast! France
demands of you not only your courage, but
all the resolution, initiative and fighting
spirit of which you are capable.
Even before that the increasing pres-
sure was evident. The German method
was something like that employed in
chopping off a limb. The bole of the tree
is the Maginot Line ; the limb, the Allied
lines running from Montmedy across
France to the Aisne and along the
Somme to Abbeville, near the Channel at
the Somme estuary. First the German
armies put pressure on the far end of the
“limb” near Abbeville, at the same time
trying to get a grip on it further up. The
limb began to bend. When the French
and British lines moved back from Abbe-
ville to the River Bresle, compensating
retirements had to be made further inland
to avoid dangerous joints.
So soon as backward momentum was
established, the German army threw its
whole weight against the French line to
the German border at the best points of
purchase, and began to chop at the
Montmedy-Stenay Gap.
Should they succeed in breaking
through there, and moving down the east
bank of the Meuse —here a river of diffi-
cult gorges running between hills—and at
the same time were to break through on
the Swiss border at the Basle enclave
and into the country of the old Belfort
Gap, which used to play so great a part
in French strategy, they might isolate
the Magipot Line; and with it there
would go into German possession the
great triangle of Alsace-Lorraine, be-
tween the Rhine and the Verdun-Toul-
Epinal-Belfort line of fortresses.
The German forces are the greatest
ever employed in any battle in history.
They are estimated to number between
1,800,000 to 2,000,000 men, with a spear-
head of thousands of bombing machines,
4000 tanks, and shock troops who drive
into battle shoulder to shoulder, like a
swarm of grasshoppers invading a wheat-
field, regardless of casualties, aiming by
the use of sheer numbers to have bodies
of survivors still marching brutishly for-
ward when the French and British oppos-
ing them have become exhausted with
killing the advance guards.
Machine-guns of every type, field
artillery, heavy guns, overhead ’planes
pour a withering fire into them. The front
lines dissolve, the phalanxes in the rear
come steadily on, only making ground
because heated guns and sickened and
weary Anglo-French cannot kill them and
smash the rolling tanks quickly enough.
The main centres of attack on the
western section of the line from Saturday
onwards were at two points, each of them
aimed at great crossroad junctions and
places of vantage for the “fan tactics
by which mechanised troops and men
are spread out over the countryside.
One was on a 20-mile front east of
Soissons, aiming for Reims and then
probably Chalons-sur-Marne, 25 miles
further on —the battleground on which
Attila and his Huns were routed. The
other point is from below Amiens to the
sea. In this sector the Allies had lost
the Somme lines.
The brunt of the pressure was between
Aumale and Noyon —about 50 miles as
the crow flies —and was bearing down
towards the Seine and the road junctions
at Beauvais, Clermont, and Compiegne,
which lies at the junction of the Oise and
the Aisne.
These big road junctions are the key
points to Paris and to the isolation of
the main part of fighting France from
the Channel ports not already in German
hands. The Germans on Sunday, June 9,
were within 50 miles of Paris.
In the last war they got much nearer —
in 1914 and 1918. This time they are
not making the same mistake as Von
Kluck, who curled in the end of his
advancing line to Chantilly, 20 miles from
the capital, and, so to speak, stuck his
head out of cover for Gallieni’s hastily-
vehicled Sixth Army to clout.
On that critical Sunday the head of
the Channel end of the German drive
reached the Seine near Rouen, over 60
miles from the starting point on the
Somme, and less than 40 miles from Le
Havre as the crow flies. The coastal
movement had become an encircling one,
threatening both Paris and the remaining
Channel ports. The French lines of
defence were lengthened by about 40
miles, and from the Swiss border to the
outer Seine had become roughly semi-
circular, with Paris—very roughly—in
the centre of the circle. The Seine winds
like the letter “M” in the Rouen region,
and is there a difficult river to cross ;
but, because of its looping, it also forms
a difficult line to hold, with an enemy
in possession of bridgeheads on the north.
The Allies know the price of German
success. The enemy is making a desperate
throw which will make or break the war
for him. The French are offering a
resistance which may mean the difference
between swift * victory and dreary years
of fighting which might even have to be
carried on overseas.
Their effort is in consonance with the
knowledge. Every resource is being
thrown into the battle, and the last ounce
of fighting power is being called out of
the defenders by Hitler’s announcement
of his real objectives— not victory merely
for the safety and reasonable expansion
of Germany, but the “annihilation” of
France and Britain.
Norway Capitulates.
“X.N.”: In the midst of the battle for
Paris came a communique from the
German High Command telling of a
naval fight in the North Sea, in which
the two 27,000-ton battleships Scharn-
horst and Gneisenau co-operated, and in
which the Glorious, one of the seven
aircraft carriers with which Britain began
the war, and a British destroyer were
sunk. Another group of German ships
claimed the sinking of the troopship
Orama, another oil tanker and a modern
destroyer. True to its policy, the Admir-
alty let the Germans tell their story first.
These operations were linked with
events in Norway. In that country there
was a lull after the British had taken
the main lines at Narvik, and on Monday
it was reported that the Norwegian High
Command had capitulated and that the
British and French troops were beginning
to embark from Narvik. Mr. Churchill
had stated on Tuesday that British
casualties in Norway numbered 2000.
At no time since the invasion was there
much of a Norwegian army, but at least
one division was intact in the north.
The new development is of little conse-
quence in the general scheme of opera-
tions. The Allied troops are needed
nearer home. But it will now be impos-
sible for the Allies to get Swedish iron ore.


...the highest quality
and most economical
petrol you can buy
Shell —the largest marketers of Motor Spirit in this country
—have brought their whole organisation to bear on pro-
ducing one unbeatable petrol . This scientific concentration
on one grade has resulted in a crystal clear petrol of perfectly
balanced performance which combines in full measure every
quality desirable in a motor spirit.
YOU CAN BE SURE OF SHELL
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd.
(Incorporated in Great Britain)
So2b
THE FLYING COLUMN
Depending on Ourselves.
“Aileron”: The P.M. announces that
Britain will be unable to supply all of the
1000 Fairey Battles and Avro Ansons
which had been promised for the Empire
Training Scheme, though some are here
and others are coming.
The Short Sunderlands which were to
act as coastal patrol boats have long
since been put into service around Britain,
and 49 Lockheed bombers will not be
delivered. But other arrangements have
been made.
Short Sunderlands are to be replaced
by the American Consolidated PBYs,
military versions of the Guba which was
used by P. G. Taylor and his crew for
the Indian Ocean survey. The machine
is a heavy duty reconnaissance bomber,
range 4000 miles, capable of carrying
two 20001b. torpedoes or eight 5001b.
bombs, and heavily armed. The seven
which the Commonwealth is to buy could
shift a full battalion 100 miles in an hour.
Beyond this, and in addition to the
Bristol Beauforts already on the way, a
new-type two-engined light reconnais-
sance bomber is being ordered from the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. If
it is successful, full orders will be placed.
Commonwealth Aircraft also is to
have an order for 200 trainers of its
own design, subject to successful tests.
And more Tiger Moth trainers will be
obtained from the De Havilland works
at Mascot (N.S.W.).
These orders, added to the ones already
placed for trainers, are only a beginning,
though the additional programme is to
cost £2,032,000.
The Cabinet has at last been forced to
recognise that Australia in emergency is
dependent on her own resources to pro-
duce machines for home defence. It is
promised that “the aircraft industry will
be developed very greatly.”
The machinery for the job will have
to be imported from U.S.A. The machine
types will be Uncle Sam’s. It is a pity
somebody did not see ahead a few years
ago.
In that case, we might even now be
making British fighters and bombers of
the types which are showing themselves
superior to every other machine in the
war.
For the Empire Training Scheme, re-
cruits are pouring in—the Woolloomoo-
loo (N.S.W.) recruiting depot received
3400 applications in a week.
There are plenty of machines for train-
ing to cover the next three months, and
the arrangement for sending away the
first crews to Canada in August or Sep-
tember will be carried out. After that,
there “may have to be improvisation.”
Meanwhile, steps are to be taken to
bring the R.A.A.F. up to 19 service
squadrons by the addition of five more
service squadrons. First-line air strength
will approach 300 machines when that
is done.
In soldiers’ stories of the Great Evacua-
tion there was uniform praise for the
Navy, but here and there an undercurrent
of criticism of the R.A.F. could be de-
tected. Churchill gave a reasonable ex-
planation. “The soldiers,” he said, “did
not see the R.A.F. at work. They saw
only the bombers that escaped its pro-
tective attacks and, therefore, they
underrated the R.A.F.’s achievements.”
Actually, he proceeded, “there was a
great trial of strength between the British
and German Air Forces, and the Ger-
mans were worsted,” quality of manhood
prevailing over superiority in numbers.
Photographs were taken of Dunkirk
beaches crowded with soldiers, quite
without cover, and it has been revealed
that 250,000 men were embarked from
one pier. That such scenes were wit-
nessed and were recorded is proof that
the R.A.F. did a great job.
* * * *
In this war, as in the last, London
“Times” has devoted a special column
to enemy statements, official and un-
official, and it is impossible to believe
that the Thunderer was dreaming when
it translated a German Air Ministry
admission that 2237 German aircraft
were lost between September 1 and May
17. Nobody has thought to cable its
remarks on the enemy’s account of suc-
cesses and losses between May 10 and
June, but they must have blistered the
paper. “We shot down 1841 ’planes, 1142
in combat, and destroyed at least 1600
’planes on the ground; we lost 432
’planes.” That, in brief, is how the
stupendous work of fiction reads. Goring,
who runs the German air force, must
be trying to rival Raeder, who has sunk
the Royal Navy two or three times over.
* * * *
The R.A.F.’s latest casualty list—the
33rd—contains the names of 248 officers
and men, 150 of whom are missing. By
the irony of fate, the 22-year-old Maori-
lander “Cobber” Kain, who had 40 Ger-
man machines to his credit and seemed
invincible in battle, has lost his life in
an accident. His name will live with
those of Stan Dallas, the Australian, and
Mannock, the great Irish ace, who were
killed when their names had become
legendary early in the last war.
* * * *
One barbarity the enemy has not so
far committed, though no survivor of
his horrible bombing raids would put
it past him. Hitherto there has been
no occasion for the use of gas-masks.
This was the subject of Sir Nevile Hen-
derson’s last official communication to
the German Government:
I presented a note, inquiring whether
the German Government would observe
the provisions of the Geneva Protocol of
1925, prohibiting the use in war of asphyx-
iating, poisonous or other gases and of
bacteriological methods of warfare. The
German Government later replied to this
through the Swiss Minister in London
giving the required assurance, on the under-
standing that his Majesty’s Government
would summarily observe the provisions of
the Protocol.
The British Ambassador wrote on the
day war broke out, so the reply was to
be delivered while it was in progress.
The Air War Day by Day.
June 3: About 250 German machines
bomb Paris from 32,000 feet. A thou-
sand bombs dropped over an area nine
miles long after midday; 254 killed, 652
wounded.
June 4: R.A.F. attacks German troops
moving towards Dunkirk ; also Belgian
and north German refineries, oil tanks,
marshalling yards.
June 5: Heavy R.A.F. bombers cover
a 150-mile front in n.-w. Germany in
third successive night attack from
Emmerich to Frankfort. Oil tanks at
Dormund, Dusseldorf, Wesel and Ghent
fired. Three German machines and one
Swiss ’plane brought down over Swiss
Jura. French ’planes bomb Munich and
Ulm; also Friederichshafen on Lake
Constance, the old Zeppelin headquarters.
Biggest aniline works in Germany set
ablaze at Ludwigshafen. Germans make
night assault on Le Havre and Cher-
bourg and attack Somme front with 1000
’planes. Germans admit 100 raids by
R.A.F. on western Germany.
June 6: German ’planes drop bombs
in Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, Norfolk and
along the Thames. No damage save a
house fired in Lincolnshire; one air-
man killed and six minor casualties.
R.A.F. raids Germany for fifth successive
night. Kiel, Heligoland, marshalling
yards in the Ruhr, and Hamburg oil
depots attacked.
June 7: Germans raid central France
with 200 machines. Le Havre and Cher-
bourg again bombed. French naval
’planes bomb factories in Berlin suburbs.
Heavy British bombers carry out
operations over 100 square miles of
German territory.
June 7-8: Spasmodic raids over many
counties in England; North Midlands,
Yorkshire, Kent, Essex, Cambridgeshire,
Norfolk, Suffolk, Northumberland,
Durham, Hertfordshire, Lincoln and
Northampton attacked by light squad-
rons. Little damage ; two deaths from
shock ; one raider down—two dead.
Plan seems to be rather to demoralise
than to damage, and to interrupt the work
of munition factories, besides threatening
aerial headquarters at such centres as
Cranwell, in Lincolnshire.
June 4-10: Bombing in new battle in-
tense on both sides. In 10 minutes R.A.F.
drops 800 bombs on an encampment
round Airaines, between the Somme and
the Bresle. The French drop more
than 100 tons of bombs per day on Ger-
man tanks. Milling dogfights with up
to 60 machines engaged take place all
along the line.
“Nakh”: Probably for the first time
in history a military camp has been de-
signed in war-time along lines that sound
like the description of a modern garden
suburb. This is the new A.I.F. camp
along the shores of Port Phillip. Roads
take the form of crescents, and care has
been taken to preserve trees by altering
the position of the huts and adminis-
trative buildings. Add to which, the
place has its natural drainage down the
slopes to the ocean, electric light is sup-
plied by the State Electricity Commission,
and the kitchens leave army cooks speech-
less with admiration, having modern
ranges and hot-water service. There is
the foreshore on one side and bush
scenery on the other, and the huts have
none of the deadly monotony of the
average military cantonment.
H= * *
In the darkest hour of the Battle of
Flanders a “military observer” an-
nounced that the British losses would
be no greater than the losses in the first
Battle of the Somme. If prisoners were
included in the total given by Churchill
on June 4 (“our losses in the long series
of fierce battles have exceeded 30,000
killed, wounded and missing”), they were
a great deal less. According to Lloyd
George, Britain had 400,000 casualties in
that Somme campaign, “and the number
of young officers killed was appalling.”
Naturally the French have not published
their casualties in this war; but, heavy
as they must be, it is by no means certain
that a month’s fighting has cost them
more than the fighting in the correspond-
ing period of August-September, 1914.
In the August Battle of the Frontiers
alone “more than 300,000 Frenchmen
were killed, wounded or made prisoners.”
The quotation is taken from Churchill’s
book The World Crisis. He mentions
that the French infantry marched to
battle in “blue breeches and red coats” ;
that the “artillery officers were in black
and gold,” and that “their cavalry gloried
in ludicrous armor.” It was the Third
Army that suffered, and the battle was
a massacre, though this the public was
not told until long after the war.


I
tujf
tu
\
IN Newcastle will be found the most modern office building of its
type in Australia—NESCA House, the official home of the city's
electricity supply. It is not surprising, therefore, that more Masonite
is used in its construction and equipment than ever before in
Australian office design. Wall linings and ceilings are all of
Masonite —so are the counter tops, displays and demonstration rooms.
The choice of these non-splintering, non-warping manufactured
boards (steel strong, smooth, easily-worked yet extremely durable)
reflects the keen discrimination of architects and builders who regard
beauty, longevity and economy as major considerations. We'll be
glad to send samples of these "Wonder Boards of 1000 Uses
[Cane-ite Structural Insulating Board is now being produced in Australia.]
For Modernising Homes, for Furniture, for Shelves and Cup-
boards . . . Wall Lining . . . Floors . . . Boards . . . Caravans
. . . Store Displays . . . Concrete Forming, Etc.
rHMvfro
iff imn
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD • TEMPRTILE • QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth ma?-4o
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Aliens in the North
“Mungana Bill”: The 1933 census-
takers found 5,726,000 native-born
Aussies, 842,000 Australians of British
origin born outside the Commonwealth,
and 60,000 foreigners. The two frontier
States had—and still have—the greatest
proportion of aliens.
Queensland’s foreign-born population
of European descent was over 13,000 ;
Westralia’s 9000. In each State Italians
led ; W.A. had 3000 and Queensland 4500.
In W.A. there were 320 Germans; in
Queensland about 900. Census figures
have increased, especially since refugee
immigration began. They do not include
Australian-born persons of either stock.
Queensland has whole districts popu-
lated by Italians of the first Australian
generation, and many of the second
generation are already at school. And
whole districts, especially the Rosewood
and the Logan, are almost wholly Ger-
man. But German settlement there, as in
S. Australia, is the best part of a century
old. The Rosewood and Logan Ger-
mans are loyal; in the last war they sent
men into the A.I.F. in droves.
In the Italian districts settlement is
mainly post-war. The older people are
first and foremost Italians. In many
towns the shop signs are in Italian. Farm
after farm in the richest sugar lands is
Italian. Italian is spoken in preference
to English. A large proportion of the
population consists of Lombards, good
farmers, frugal and quiet; but there is a
political minority with strong Fascist
leanings.
The position is steadily changing with
the growing up of young Giuseppe and
Maria. They, especially among the blond
Italians, look on Australia as their
native land, though often they were born
overseas. Italo-Australian names are
appearing in the enlistment rolls of the
A.I.F.
In effect, while there is a troublesome
section among the older people which
would have to be handled firmly and
quickly in case of war with Italy, the
"Hey, son! Get y’r dirty fingers out of it!"
generality of these people wants only a
fa * xhe recentiv-arrived immigrant
quiet life, ine recently arrivea immig at
is another matter; obviously he would
have to be treated as a doubtful quantity.
Waiting for Nails
This comes from a Miners’ Associa-
tion man at Tennant Creek:
The Government granted us a new battery
in September, and the Minister for the In-
terior said he would expedite the erection. He
called for tenders in January. A tender was
not accepted until some time in February. On
April 15 a start was made with excavating the
foundations. An engineer was placed in charge.
He is still in charge.
When the foundations were finished, only two
wages men could be employed, because there
was no material to keep more going.
Four or five pounds of nails were wanted to
make concrete moulds. The local stores are
full of nails, but the engineer must not buy
them locally; he must requisition to have them
sent from Canberra or somewhere. So the
wages men were put off, the job shut down
and the engineer is employed in drawing his
salary until nails arrive. Meanwhile thousands
of tons of ore are piling up.
Perhaps the idea is that production of
gold should be discouraged because it
is too dear.
“X.T.”: Darwin gets more like a
rabbit warren every day. It has reached
such a stage of congestion that it was
found impossible to find accommodation
for a jury in a murder trial nearer than
the Quarantine Station, which is 14
miles out of town. An R.A.A.F. truck
had to be used as a bus.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: The farce of native
trials for murder had another advertise-
ment in Darwin. The accused was one
Jackala, and the hearing had been set
back from April because of lack of jury
facilities. The Binghis involved are wild-
fellas from Arnhem Land who have as
little English as they normally have cov-
ering. The tale was that one black
brother became annoyed with another
during a meeting on the King River. He
heaved a spear to fall short of his man,
who picked it up to signify that he was
ready for a peace talk, but other blacks
threw spears and a man was killed. It
took the jury half an hour to find Jac-
kala not guilty, and a crowd of savages
left for Arnhem Land shaking their
heads over the queer ceremonies of the
white man. The Judge remarked on the
fact that the law as it runs in wildest
Arnhem Land is the same as that which
governs civilised Darwin. It can take
no cognisance of native ideas of self-de-
fence or provocation, even though the
blacks of the region of the “crime”
would not know a statute from a flour
bag.
jjc jjc * *
“Q.C.R.”: Clyde Fenton’s parting shot
before he left his job as Flying Doctor
in the Territory to go into military ser-
vice was a warning that station aero-
dromes are being built on too niggardly
a scale. Some are only 450 yards long.
Even police-station ’dromes are too small.
It might be a good idea for the R.A.A.F.
or Civil Aviation to make plans and
specifications and the services of an aero-
drome engineer available to districts pre-
pared to lay down approved grounds.
* .j. «|j * *
“Balander”: Back in 1937, when the
Apple Tree Creek flood hit his pub and
swept it away, Jim Cronin first got his
wife to safety, then went back and
rescued another woman who was clinging,
exhausted, to the branches of a tree.
The effort caused heart-strain from which
he never recovered, and he died in Bris-
bane a few days ago.
* * * *
“Snipe”: Western Queensland is
making a call for cash, and there seems
to be no lack of it. A race meeting at
North Comongin brought in £l5O, St.
George got £2265 in two days, a Quilpie
grazier dubbed in £lOO and wants nine
others to equal it, at Charleville £550
and 50 bales of wool were given—all for
patriotic funds and only a small part of
the swelling sum from the outback now
pouring into the State’s war finance con-
tribution.
* * * *
“Ipsbane”: The Somerset dam on the
Stanley River should be serving Brisbane
and Ipswich late in 1943. The State Gov-
ernment and the two councils will be up
for nearly £2,000,000 when the thing is
completed, but it should put an end to
flood fears and allow ratepayers to use
hoses and drink freely for another. 40
years, drought or no drought. There’s
talk, too, of making the dam a tourist
resort, with country club and everythin’.
A new Brisbane-Some rset road will re-
place the old one, which will be partly
submerged, and a hydro-electric' scheme
is a dream of the future. • ;
* * * * . > c-
“Zedo”: Wonder if there is another
belligerent country which feels that 'it
can continue to hold agricultural shows.
A few on the Australian programme
have been cancelled, but Brisbane’s
(August 12 to 17) is to be carried through.
And it is to be one of the biggest on
record. .
* * *
“Bungeye”: Lieut.-Colonel D. Dun-
worth, formerly in command of the 15th
Battalion and organising secretary of
Queensland’s Real Estate Institute, is now
deputy-director of recruiting for the State.
Dunworth got away early with the old
A.1.F., soon won a commission, was
wounded at Bullecourt and returned wnh
an M.C.
* * * *
“Norther”: A modern comedy of
errors had its setting in Townsville court
recently. A Queensland woman with'two
children charged her husband, then be-
lieved to be in Darwin, with having
failed to support his family. The deserted
wife met a chap who told her that he
had talked with her errant spouse -in
the Territory capital, and on the strength
of this she issued the summons. Defend-
ant did not appear, but sent a statement
from Darwin denying that he was the
man and adding that he had a wife and
child in a southern city. He sent three
photographs of himself. The plaintiff
swore that one of them was of her hus-
band, and a witness who knew her hus-
band testified that he had seen the man
in Darwin and that the photographs
were the spitting image of him. The
trooper who had served the summons
assured the Court that he was satisfied
the right man had been served ; his hands
were just like the paws of the sough'-for
husband, he had the same abdominal
scar, and he, too, was a painter. The
P.M. adjourned the case. At the
re-hearing the defendant proved his
innocence.


MACMILLANS
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the books arc
published in London. Prices outside the British
Isles must be fixed by the importing bookseller.
(OVERSEAS LIBRARY)
Hugh Walpole
ROMAN FOUNTAIN
“He has written here what passed
through a richly stored mind during
a stirring three weeks in Rome, at
the time of the Papal Ceremonies.
It is a glowing tapestry, compounded
of reflections on life, art and politics
and nostalgic memories of other visits
to the city.” “Yorkshire Post.”
Pearl S. Buck
OTHER GODS
“A famous American novelist taps
the hammer of her shrewd irony
against the hollow armor of a tin god.
A racy story invigorated by an un-
compromising intelligence.”
“Daily Herald.”
A. G. Macdonell
THE CREW OF THE
ANACONDA
The first great spy thriller of 1940.
“Mr. Macdonell, with red blood in
his veins, admirably out-Buchans
Wallace in a yarn as witty as it is
full of verve and adroitness.”
Frank Swinnerton (“Observer”).
To be obtained from all
booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Position Vacant.
ACTIVE MAN to handle deliveries and collect
orders suburban retail business. Reliable.
Reply “Progressive,” c/o Gordon and
Sydney.
FOR COMFORT AND DURABILITY
No. 163.
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
E
m
£lO/19/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
Fir s t - class
materials used
throughout.
N.S.W. freight on
saddles Paid for Cash
with Order. Our Catalogue
is Free! Send for one.
HISTORY OF AUSTRALIAN MONEY
LANDING THE KING’S COINAGE
In the early years of the Colony of New South Wales, a
coin bearing the King’s head was rarely seen. Spanish dollars
were most commonly used, and were legal tender for many
years. But they were unsatisfactory as a medium of exchange
because their fluctuating value was upsetting to trade.
In 1822, Governor Brisbane attempted to make the dollar
the unit of account and to retain it as the standard coin.
But the Bank of New South Wales, seeing the advantages
of the more stable British currency, strongly opposed this
measure. Ultimately the British authorities despatched
£30,000 worth of English half-crowns and sixpences, which
were landed in Sydney from the "Catherine Stewart Forbes"
on December 18th, 1825. This foreshadowed the end of
the dollar period, as further shipments of English coin
gradually displaced the Spanish dollar from circulation.
Thus the Bank of New South Wales helped the King’s
coinage to come into its own. In every phase of
national development, the Bank has consistently supported
a sound monetary system as a secure basis for the
expansion of Australian agriculture, industry and commerce..
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
560 H
WIM
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor not to members of the staff personally.
C.K.P.: “There was still hurt bewilderment
in his mind.” In ours, t 00... .L.L.W.:
“Father’s Big Game” hunted home... .P.D.M.:
That’s Abbott’s paddock... .J.T.: ’Enry’s luck
failed him S.R.: “Mallee Love Song” coo-
ing gently in depths of w.p.b M.L.: We
first read that story before we were old enough
to appreciate it... .M.T.: Sent “The Death
Way” back along its own trail... .W.H.C.:
“Devils” consigned to the depths... .8.F.C.:
The chief clerk was quietly interred... .M.M.:
“Home Brew” rather weak... .A.W.R.: “Re-
jected” was J.C.McK.: Pan pipes a wheezy
ditty J.L.M.: “I have practically inexhaus-
tible ideas for poems, short stories, novels.”
We’re enlarging the w.p.b L.W.: Soldier
verses shouldn’t have flat feet... .M.R.: Terry
needs tightening... .5.8. H.: Bury it darkly
at dead of night W.C.8.: There’s nothing
compelling in either of them... .A.S.: This
paper is insufficiently improper for Mr. Brown’s
adventures S.C.: Platitudes... .E.S.: Your
d.ts. are not convincing... .W.J.W.: The
thirteenth line is extraordinarily unlucky....
M.S.H.: Gave “Hitch-Hiking” a lift
J.G.: The step’s still there... .H.M.W.:
What on earth is Allah doing in the Austra-
lian bush? 8.J.L.: Sorry; can’t tell you.
L.P.R.: Too thin... .H.G.S.: Nicely
done, but not for us P.S.C.: “Sands of the
Desert” ran cold about 20 years ag0....
L.R.S.: Not up, but a big improvement on
your last effort... .N.R.8.: “Big Game Hunter”
returning with an empty bag... .H.R.C.: “Fly
On, Wild Ducks” flies back... .8.R.D.: Nothing
there, but wouldn’t mind seeing some more....
C.N.D.: “Close” wasn’t... .S.C.: First half
an exaggeration, second half not bad
J.U.R.: Our oldest contributor can’t remember
when that plot was first used... .H.F.H.: Old
men who say “I built my nest in yon mountain
fastness” are helped gently on their way....
C.F.N.: “Fledgling” left the nest too 500 n....
P.R.8.: Whatever made you think that the
police force works like that? .... J.R.A.: “The
Fateful Letter” needs a stamp to bring it home
again G.S.W.: There’s a paragraph in it.
C.G.R.: Have seen worse, but many better,
too K.L.R.: We’ve been kicking that
swaggie off our doorstep for 20 years....
H.M.R.: “She Was Poor But She Was
Honest,” but she couldn’t get in here....
G.S.D.: You’d better meet a prospector be-
fore you try to write about one again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.W.P.: The gag appears to have escaped
during the journey to Sydney... .0.J.: You’re
one of the army of dull plodders... .C.G.: It
failed to find an anchorage... .S.H.S.: St.
George-and-the-dragon cartoon is slightly shop-
worn C.C.: Difficult to distinguish the axe-
men from the trees... .A.H.8.: We weren’t
cheered by your picture of the interior of a
whale... .H.R.: You seem to have been dig-
ging into Bulletin files between 1914 and
1918... .G.M.: Layout is well balanced, but
linework is too hesitant... .P.J.C.: Angular
lady and her spotty escort both went out
together... .FJ.: Actor who got in on the nod
by claiming to be Shakspeare is an old friend.
....L.S.: We want them in black and white,
not in color A.8.M.: One of the oldest
fisherman gags in captivity H.EJ.: Twelve
arrived and 12 went back F.R.: You made
a sorry mess of poor old grandpapa... .S.G.:
Not captivated by the barmaid with the cork-
screw legs N. 8.: Wash drawing is a dismal
and streaky effort... .S.D.W.: We notice that
the sergeant is still polishing off the rum as
in past scraps... .J.T. i Pleasingly decorative,
but there’s no laugh... .S.E.: Almost tempted
to print your masterpiece as a warning to nag-
ging wives.
A MIXED GRILL.
“C.Q.”: Addressing an Empire Day
meeting in Melbourne, Maltby, M.L.A.,
said there were more Communists in the
University of Melbourne than in indus-
trial suburbs or trade-unions. If Maltby
is right and the University of Melbourne
is a menace to our freedom we might
just as well give up the fight and haul
the flag down. The University has always
produced Communists, but where are
they now? They are all perfectly re-
spectable citizens.
Asked how they came to suggest
Theodore, King of Fiji, as Co-ordinator
of Works, Mair (N.S.W.) took refuge in
the confidential nature of the proceedings,
Dunstan (Vic.) thought Theo. would
“push things along,” Cosgrove (Tas.)
declared it “our plain duty to sink
every vestige of personal prejudice.”
But Foghorn Smith (Q.) seemed
to want to get out from under: “It
should be noted that Mr. Theodore never
asked for the appointment, nor did the
proposal come from me.”
* * * *
Right in the midst of the “Keep Your
Mouth Shut” campaign, Noel Paton,
director of the Paton Advertising Ser-
vice, Melbourne, went to bed and had
an idea for a song based on the old
nursery rhyme “Can you keep a
secret? I don’t suppose you can.”
Within a week the Southern Command
adopted “Can We Keep a Secret?” as a
theme song for the anti-whispering cam-
paign. Commercial radio stations
plugged the number, and it is being pub-
lished by Allan’s. It is an official army
march now.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Prices for pictures painted by
artists with established reputations hold
much better in Australia than in Eng-
land. A Landseer which originally cost
its owner £3OOO was called in at Christie’s
recently, not a single bid being forth-
coming ; and the slump in Orpens
threatens to become as great as the slump
in Landseers. On the other hand, at a
recent auction in Melbourne there was
spirited bidding for Australian paintings.
Two of the late W. B. Mclnnes’s por-
traits fetched 105 guineas and a third
115 guineas. A Heysen landscape went
for 60, a Heysen oil for 100, and a
Norman Lindsay water-color for 70 ; and
water-colors by the little-known Sturgess,
of Williamstown, fetched each over 40
guineas. Top price, 150 guineas, was
scored by a Streeton —a panel picture of
Sydney Harbor.
“Dil”: A staff writer in an English
literary weekly has been discussing the
meaning of certain lines of verse which
appeared originally in The Bulletin
signed “L. 5.,” and were reprinted in a
sort of anthology entitled Treasure Trove.
The lines run:
I have lived and I have loved;
I have waked and I have slept;
I have sung and I have danced;
I have smiled and I have wept;
I have won and wasted treasure;
I have had my fill of pleasure;
And love —it was the best of them;
And sleep—worth all the rest of them.
Some years ago E. V. Lucas quoted
these lines and interpreted them to mean
that sleep was the next-best thing to love.
It is now questioned whether Lucas was
right; the London literary commentator
says that he always supposed that “L.S.”
meant that sleep was the best. “L.S.”
may give a ruling.
ifc :[c
“R. Volt”: Fifteen years ago 1 was
present at the first television transmission
in Australia. An emissary of the Scotch-
man Baird rigged up his screen in a
room of a Melbourne hotel and a local
singer warbled on the rooftop. The per-
formance caused more amusement than
awe, as the head of the lady frequently
disappeared and her voice came from
the middle of her brisket. “It will never
be anything but a plaything,” remarked
one of the cognoscenti. Now the U.S.A.
reports an aeroplane equipped with a
television eye and capable by remote
control of being sent anywhere while
its observations are transmitted to the
ground in a continuous panorama.
According to its sponsors, generals in
future wars will be able to sit in their
headquarters and see all the mistakes the
enemy is making, as well as the mistakes
they are making themselves, like so many
gods above the battle.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D_. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Ovar £20.000.000 spent yearly on advertising in_«us- (
Opportunities lor interesting
Aus-*j
branches for trained men and women. A b>9 p !"
any business career. (You need not be able to
draw)j Successful students from, 16 to over 50 t*
•. _t L: I i: <inn executives. Ou’*l
...elude many leading advertising executives. ®“*\
standinq success in public examinations. Complete,
interesting/ practical, training. (Evening classes; of
, individual postal tuition). Classesstart Feb.. June.
1 Oct. Students join any time. .
.Clip this advertisement for big 56-page book, free to those
SCHOOLVr APPLIED AD
36 Ctrosvenor St., Sydney ——■ jEBtatf>Uabed
.-«ggsg
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, own machine, will correct and
type manuscripts. Experienced, reasonable.
7265.
Lady, Sydney, seeks position as receptionist
or organiser. Good personality, exp. journal-
ism and publicity. —7279.
University student, Sydney, awaiting call up
under Empire Air Scheme, requires temporary
position; experienced sheep and all station
operations. —7281.
Scotch boy (17) would like to correspond
with Australian boys and girls, 16 to 18. (Reply
to George Russell, 8 Scott-place, Fauldhouse,
West Lothian, Scotland.)
To correspond with writers able to criticise
and discuss pars., stories, etc., for a fee. —7264.
To get in touch with organisers of Red Cross
local societies, war-relief committees, comfort
funds, school committees, sports clubs, etc.,
who are interested in raising funds for patriotic
purposes. (Write direct to W. Grey, secretary,
the Australian Society of Magicians, 392
Coventry-street, South Melbourne, Vic.)
To buy The Red Pagan, by A. G. Stephens.
—7278.
To buy 1 Take This City, by Glyn Roberts.
—7186. •
To buy Australian Short Stories, edited by
Nettie Palmer. —7310.
Copy each of the cloth-bound illustrated
editions of On Our Selection, Sandy's Selection
and Dad in Politics, by Steele Rudd ; must be
in good condition. Will exchange for Austra-
lian authors, new condition, to equal value. —
7255.
Information Sought.
How many life-peers are there in England ?
When was the title created? What titles do
their wives and children take? —7298.
This class, once not infrequent, is now re-
stricted to a very small number of law-lords,
at present eight. The first recent creation
occurred in 1856 in the case of Lord Wensley-
dale, when the peers came to the decision that
a life temporal peer was not entitled to a seat
in the House of Lords. An Act was accord-
ingly passed giving power to the sovereign to
elevate two Judges of Appeal into life-barons
of Parliament, and in 1876 the number was
enlarged so that it now admits all the Lords
of Appeal in Ordinary, whether active or re-
tired. The wives of these peers take the title
of “.Lady” with all the precedence of baron-
esses ; and the children of life-peers now rank
next after those of hereditary barons and take
the courtesy-title “Honorable.”
* * * *
How many members are there in the
Northern Ireland and Eire Parliaments ? Has
Northern Ireland representatives in the British
House of Commons ? —7164.
The Northern Irish Parliament consists of a
House of Commons of 52 elected members and
a Senate of two ex-officio Senators and 24
Senators elected by members of the House of
Commons on the proportional representation
system. Northern Ireland continues under the
Act of 1920 to return 13 members to the Com-
mons at Westminster. Eire has a House of
Representatives (Dail Eireann) and a Senate
(Seanad Eireann). Dail Eireann is composed
of 138 members. Seanad Eireann is composed
of 60 members, of whom. 11 are nominated by
the Prime Minister of Eire and 49 elected.
* * * *
I wish to cut timber for fencing purposes on
a Crown lease in N.S.W. I understand it is
necessary to obtain a general timber license to do
this. Where is this license obtainable, and
what is the amount of royalty usually demanded
by the authorities ? —7040.
Such sale can be effected only under , a special
license issued by the Forestry Commission of
N.S.W. The special license, in case of sale
from Crown leaseholds, provides for the pay-
ment of two-thirds of the assessed royalty to
the commission and one-third to the lessee.
Royalty is fixed by the commission and is not
a flat rate, but varies with species, accessi-
bility of timber, location of market, etc. An
application for a special license should be
lodged with the nearest forest officer, together
with particulars of size, quantity of timber
required and location of the area on which it
is desired to operate. The nearest forestry
office to you is located at Qiieanbeyan.
*l* * *
(1) Brief biography of W. Vincent Wallace,
composer of “Maritana.” (2) Any books deal-
ing with his life and works?— 7lo6.
(1) William Vincent Wallace was born at
Waterford, Ireland, on July .1,, 1814 died at
the Chateau of Bayen, France, on October 12,
1865, but his remains were taken to England
and interred in Kensal Green cemetery, London.
His father, a bandmaster, gave him his first
instruction, and at an early age he could play
most military instruments, besides the violin.
At the age of 15 he became Director of the
Philharmonic Society of Dublin. In 1835 he
set forth on a professional tour through Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, New Zealand, the East Indies,
South America, Mexico and the United States,
meeting with success as composer and violinist.
It is often said that Wallace composed “Mari-
tana” in a house in Rowe-street, Sydney. Not
exactly. This wonderful lot of ballads accumu-
lated in his mind during his travels. Wallace
filled several notebooks with the musical ideas
and phrases that occurred to him, and on
these notebooks he drew when he was handed
Fitzball’s libretto, founded on Mark Lemon’s
drama of “Don Caesar De Bazan,” in London
in 1845. First produced at Drury-lane Theatre
on November 15, 1845, “Maritana” proved
a hit. Sydney first saw it at the old Vic-
toria Theatre, Pitt-street, on April 19, 1849,
with Nellie Stewart’s mother, Mrs. Guerin, in
the title role. Other well-known operas of
Wallace are “Lurline (1860), “The Amber
Witch” (1861), “Matilda of Hungary” (1847)
and “The Desert Flower” (1863). Wallace’s
sister, Madame Wallace-Bushelle, settled in
Sydney and became a leading soprano on the
stage, sang at mass every Sunday in St. Mary’s
Cathedral, and lived to a ripe old age. Wal-
lace gave a concert in Sydney under the pat-
ronage of Governor Bourke, which was a great
success. The characteristic payment of the
Governor was 100 sheep. (2) Stories of the
Operas, by Gladys Davidson; The Opera, by
R. Streatfield; and Standard Operas, by
George P. Upton.
* * * *
(1) I am a resident of Maoriland. Is it cor-
rect that any income I have outside Australia
does not affect the liability for, or rate of, tax
on any income received in Australia ? (2) Is it
correct that at present there would be no tax
payable in N.S.W. if my total income received
from N.S.W. did not exceed £5O in any one
year? (3) Is it correct that there would be no
tax payable to the Commonwealth if my total
income received from Australia did not exceed
£250 in any one year ? (4) In the case of a
co. trading in more than one State, what
method is used by the taxation authorities to
determine from what State dividends are re-
ceived —according to the State where the co. is
registered, or the State register in which the
shareholder is listed? —7056.
(1) Yes. (2) A statutory deduction of £5O is
allowable for N.S.W. State income tax purposes
in the case of a non-resident, but unemploy-
ment relief and social services taxes are pay-
able on all income derived in N.S.W. by a
non-resident except exempt income. In the
case of dividends or interest the tax is de-
ducted at the source by the co. or interest-
payer. (3) Yes. (4) Covered by Section 52
(1) ( b ) and (2) of the Income Tax' (Man-
agement) Act, 1936: “(1) The assessable in-
come of a shareholder in a company (whether
the company is a resident or a non-resident)
shall, subject to this subdivision —( b ) if he is
a non-resident —include dividends paid to him
by the company out of profits derived by it
from sources in this State. (2) Where a com-
pany derives income from sources in this
State, and from sources out of this State, a
dividend shall be deemed to be paid out of
profits derived by the company from sources
in this State to the extent of so much of the
dividend as bears to the whole dividend the
same proportion as the profits derived by the
company from sources in this State bear to the
total profits of the company.”
* * * *
(1) In N.S.W., is an executor obliged to be
present at the reading of a will if he is one
of two executors ? (2) If not, is it advisable for
him to be present to watch his interests if he
is a beneficiary as well as a co-executor? (3)
If being present causes him inconvenience in
the shape of a journey of several hundred miles
and absence of some days from his business,
can he appoint a solicitor in his stead as his
representative and to watch his interests? (4)
Can he appoint another relative, resident closer
than himself to the relative who dies, to be
present in his stead, as his representative and
to watch his interests? —7222.
(1) and (2) No, the will speaks for itself.
(3) and (4) His presence is not necessary. Put
briefly, the duties of an executor are to see
that the deceased is suitably buried or cre-
mated (as the case' may be), to protect his
property and gather in particulars of his estate,
to probate the will, to insert in the press the
statutory notice to creditors to send in their
accounts or claims to realise the property and
collect any outstanding money, pay any debts
and legacies, and deal with the residue as the
will directs. One executor may carry out these
duties, but where two are appointed they
should, where possible, act in conjunction.
.;*, , * * *
Are bloodwoods easily distinguishable from
other timbers? What color is the timber, and ,
what are the principal species of bloodwood? —
7300.
Bloodwoods are easy to identify; they possess
a very open, coarse grain much impregnated
with kino in veins known as gum-veins. They
vary in color from deep red . ( E. corymbosa)
through lighter red ( E. intermedia) and pale.
(E. calophylla) to almost white (E. eximd); all
are durable in the ground, tough, hard and
heavy. The principal species, besides those
mentioned, are carbeen ( E. tesselaris), E.
trachyphloia, E. terminalis and E. Albergiana.
*** ; *
Details of the Translators’ Guild? —7287.
It is an organisation formed to raise the
general standard of translations, and to form
a point of contact between translators and
publishers, editors and theatrical managements.
It often happens that a publisher must be satis-
fied with a makeshift rendering of a book,
through lack of contact with an efficient lin-
guist and writer of English. The Translators’
Guild tries to overcome this difficulty by en-
rolling as members only those who can satisfy
their advisory committee of their linguistic and
literary ability. The committee is represen-
tative of both publishers and translators. The
secretary of the guild is Cyrus Brooks, 188
Piccadilly, London, W.l.
* * * *
(1) What planets are visible to the naked
eye ? (2) How do they compare with Sirius in
apparent brightness? (3) At what time of the
year are they visible and in what constella-
tions ? (4) What are the names of the brightest
stars ? —7169.
(1) Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn
and Uranus. (2) Venus, Mars and Jupiter
become brighter than Sirius, the others always
being fainter, Uranus being only just visible
to the naked eye. (3) It is not possible to give
a rule stating their visibility at a certain time
of each year, since they are in different posi-
tions in different years. (4) The 20 brightest
stars are Sirius, Canopus, Proxima Centauri,
Betelgeuse, Vega, Capella, Arcturus, Rigel,
Procyon, Achernar Beta, Centaurus, Affair,
Alpha Acrux, Aldebaran, Pollux, Antares, Spica,
Fomalhaut, Deneb and Regulus.
* * * *
Winners of the Pulitzer Prize for Novels
since 1918? —7294.
1918, Ernest Poole’s His Family; 1919, Booth
Tarkington’s The Magnificent Ambersons;
1920, no award; 1921, Edith Wharton’s The
Age of Innocence; 1922, Booth Tarkington’s
Alice Adams; 1923, Willa Cather’s One of
Ours; 1924, Margaret Wilson’s The Able Mc-
Laughlins; 1925, Edna Ferber’s So Big; 1926,
Sinclair Lewis’s Arrowsmith; 1927, Louis Brom-
field’s Early Autumn; 1928, Thornton Wilder’s
The Bridge of San Luis Rey; 1929, Julia M.
Pcterkin’s Scarlet Sister Mary; 1930, Oliver La
Farge’s Laughing Boy; 1931, Margaret Ayer
Barnes’s Years of Grace; 1932, Pearl Buck’s
The Good Earth; 1933, T. S. Stribling’s The
Store; 1934, Caroline Miller’s Lamb in His
Bosom!; 1935, Josephine Winslow Johnson’s
Now in November; 1936, H. L- Davis’s Honey
in the Horn; 1937, Margaret Mitchell’s Gone
with the Wind; 1938, John Phillips Marquand’s
The Late George Apley; 1939, Marjorie Kinnan
Rawlings’s The Yearling.
*.* * *
In what order are the four most venomous
snakes in Australia placed?— 7o66.
It is generally accepted that the , most
venomous snake in Australia is the death adder.
The tiger snake, brown snake and black snakes
follow in order of deadliness.
* * 4= *
Are there any special advantages in appoint-
ing the Public Trustee to look after the estate
and affairs of a lunatic or weak-minded person
unfit to transact business ? —7250.
When duly appointed as committee, manager,
guardian or receiver, as the case may be, all the
resources, of the office are available to safe-
guard the, interests of. the person in question
and transact his business to the advantages of
the persons dependent on-him.. It enables pay-
ment to'be made and effective discharges to be
given for money due to, or held for, such
persons.
*** : *
Some details concerning Jean Honore
Fragonard ? —7200.
Born'at Grasse, .Provence, in 1732, he won
the Prix de Rome art prize at-the age of 20,
then went to Italy, where he was much in-
fluenced by the work of, the Venetian painter
Tiepolo. He illustrated St. Non’s Voyage de
Naples et de Sicile. In 1765 he returned to
France, and executed “Callirrhoe,” commissioned
by Louis XV for reproduction in tapestry. He
produced several, decorative paintings and many
landscapes, and also worked in pastel and water-
color and engraved. He is best known for
pictures of contemporary life, notable for their
humanity, free.. drawing and charming color.
Many aire in the Louvre, including “Bacchante,”
“Asleep,” “Nymphs at the Bath,” “Music
Lesson,” “The Guitar Player,” “Cupid and a
Girl,” “The Happy Mother” and “The Cradle.”
* * * *
Are there leper hospitals in Australia, and
how many lepers are in each ? How many
people die of leprosy annually? —72sl.
Isolation ‘ hospitals for the care and treat-
ment of lepers have been established in N.S.W.
(Little Bay), Q’land (Peel Island, near Brisbane),
W-.A. .(Derby), and Northern Territory (Channel
Island, near Darwin). At the end of 1938 there
were 11 cases in residence at Little Bay, 74
at Peel Island, 114 at Derby and 121 at Channel
Island. There were also five cases isolated in the
south of W.A. and one case in Vic., which were
European cases infected elsewhere. During the
year 1938 12 cases of leprosy were notified
in Australia, of which five were in Q’land and
seven in the Northern Territory. There were
10 deaths from leprosy registered during 1938
and 14 in 1937.
* * * *
(1) What is the usual way of applying for
employment. as a cadet reporter .on a metro-
politan newspaper ? (2) Qualifications ? (3)
Would it be possible to enter into cadetship at
19? (4) Does the number of persons desirous
of being accepted as cadet reporters exceed the
demand? (5) Is it necessary to know typing
and shorthand before being' accepted? —7lB7.
(1) Written application followed by a personal
call on the news-editor. (2) Knowledge of
current events,, ability to. write and a nose for
news. (3) This is the average age of commenc-
ing, a cadetship of.four years.. (4) Yes. Since
the outbreak of war opportunities for cadets
have decreased owing to reduction of staffs.
(5) No. But .a knowledge of typing and short-
hand improves one’s chances of engagement.
* * * *
Is it possible to weld tortoiseshell, and how ;
is it done? From what variety of turtle does
the shell come? —7104.
Tortoiseshell comes principally from the
genuine loggerhead turtle ( Chelonia imbricata,
L), which is found in all tropical seas, but
especially in the Malay Archipelago and Indian
Ocean. Japanese workers in tortoiseshell weld
pieces together by first sharpening the edges to
a point, heating them and laying them one
upon the other and clamping together with hot
tongs.
Brief Answers.
WN V • Write Consul for the Netherlands,
Sydney. .V.J.C.t Write R.A.A.F. Recruiting
Depot, Sydney... .H.V.F.: The number of per-
manent and temporary employees of the va FJ£« S
Governments in Australia at June 30, iV3o,
amounted to 281,006 males and 47,159 females,
or a total of 328,165 persons. Salaries totalled
about £80,000,000. The number of farms in Aus-
tralia growing more than 20 acres of wheat is
approximately 54,000. The number _ of sheep
flocks of more than 100 sheep is 80,000, and
the number of dairy farms is about 50,000....
S E.F.: Royal Society of St. George, C wealth
Bank Building, Martin-place; Royal Empire
Society, 17 Bligh-street; British Empire Union
in Australia, 19 Bridge-street; the Overseas
League, 28 Martin-place; the Victoria League
of NSW, 19 Bligh-street; Womens Loyalty
League of N.S.W., Endeavour House, Mac-
quarie-place —all- Sydney... .E. 8.: John Philip
Bourke died at Boulder (W.A.) on January 13,
1914. A. G. Stephens edited and Tyrrell s, Ltd.,
Sydney, published the best of his verse under
the title of Off the Bluebush in 1915... -A.8.T.:
The Armageddon speech was delivered by W.
Marks, M.H.R., on November 3, 1921, and
will be found on page 12,407, volume XCVII,
of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Debates.
A loose number containing the speech is no
longer available, but it is possible that the
School of Arts, Townsville, may still have a
copy on its shelves... .R.H.D.: The most effi-
cient chemical to use would be arsenic pen-
toxide. It is preferable to bruise the crown,
and one of the most efficient methods .seen is
to puncture the crown with an ordinary
butcher’s steel, and then swab the bruised por-
tion with arsenic pentoxide. Mixtures of sodium
chloride, sodium chlorate and kerosene have
not shown encouraging results with work of this
nature C.N.: (1) Literature, together with
plans and specifications, can be obtained from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, varying in price
from Is. to 17s. 6d. Steel chassis specially
constructed for caravan trailers can be pur-
chased from Henderson, 6 Hunt-street, Sydney.
(2) It is not wise to be too optimistic. It
appears a simple job, but is not so, and often
the home-constructed caravan has proved ex-
pensive and a source of danger on the road
owing to lack of balance... .P.E.K.: Such a
scheme would be impracticable as the maximum
theoretical lift is only 34ft. as against the 40ft.
proposed... .J.M.M.: The full procedure of
preparing amateur motion-picture film, with
complete formulae of baths and solutions neces-
sary, can be obtained from many standard
reference books on general photographic prac-
tice. See the British Journal Photographic
Almanac for 1940, where full details of the
process are given on page 286. It is available
from all photographic warehouses at 3s. 3d.
per copy H. 1.: (1) According to the Tariff
Board Report for 1939, a car of that make would
cost £163 (Australian currency) in the U.S.A.
and £349 (Australian currency) in Australia (ex-
cluding sales tax). (2) In the U.S.A. at Janu-
ary 1, 1939, there were approximately 25
million motor-cars. As the population at this
date was about 130 milions, there were 10
motor-cars to every 52 persons of all ages
and both sexes. In Australia at June 30, 1939,
there were just over four motor-cars per 52
persons C.H.: To remove the moth stains
from paint work, use soap and clean warm
water F.A.R.: From the description fur-
nished it is probable that the mineral is an
ironstained carbonaceous clay which would be
of little value. Most valuable minerals are
of rather high specific gravity, and the lack
of weight mentioned suggests that the deposit
is of no great importance. It is impossible,
however, to identify the mineral definitely with-
out inspecting a sample of it... .M.T.: For the
year 1937-38 imports of coconut oil totalled
270 gallons, valued at £43, and in 1938-39
135 gallons valued at £l6. British preferen-
tial tariff is 6d. per gal.; general tariff 9d. per
gal. Imports of palm oil are not recorded
separately, but are grouped for statistical pur-
poses under a - heading which includes all kinds
of oils not- enumerated elsewhere*... .A.H.M.:
Thomas Musgrave was Archbishop of York
from 1847 to 1860, and Charles Thomas Long-
ley from 1860 to 1862... .S.H.: It is probably
the case as regards a small number of them.
G.J.B.: Information required cannot be
published in war-time H.M.S.: Latvia is a
Baltic republic ,on the eastern and southern
shore of the Gulf of Riga, and once formed
part of the Russian Empire. It has an area
of about 25,000 square miles and a population
of about 2,000,000. Its flag is of red, white
and red horizohtal bars... .C.C.W.: Write
District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Bris-
bane P.P.: Cannot trace incident in any of
the standard reference books W. 8.: Vitamin
E is essential for reproduction and is known
as the antisterility vitamin. It occurs in a
great many foods in small quantities, but the
germ of the wheat grain is especially rich.
Vegetable oils, green lettuce and a number of
other vegetables contain considerable quantities
of vitamin E. It is not easily destroyed by
heat T.M.: According to figures published
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S.A.
Dept, of Justice, there were 7438 murders in
the United States in 1938... .H.E.: Anthony
Eden was born on June 12, 1897... .R.M.:
London evening newspapers are the “Evening
News,” “Evening Standard” and “Star”....
W.H.M.: Whaling statistics required are as fol-
lows: Antarctic—46,o39 whales caught and
565,600 metric tons of whale oil produced;
West Australia—9l7 whales and 7200 tons oil;
Japan, Kamchatka, etc. —2235 whales and 7100
tons oil; North Pacific —483 whales and 3900
tons oil; coast of Chili and Peru —902 whales
and .3600 tons oil; coast of Africa —3044 whales
and 23,600 tons oil; Atlantic and Arctic—lo 44
whales and' 4500 tons 0i1... .W.H.S.: Apply
to the Deputy Director of Medical Services at
the Military Barracks, Brisbane 0.H.C.:
There is no award covering such em-
ployment. Wages and duties are a matter of
negotiation between the parties.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
U.
' ■ JJS^I
l*:-;
'Sft
- "
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The War and Wool.
“Ghanam”: The invasion of Belgium
and France has put a new face on the
wool situation. All the French northern
mill towns Roubaix, Tourcoing, and
many more—are in German hands, with
unfortunately large quantities of Aus-
tralian wool.
Everything considered, and particularly
in view of the late start of the season,
shipping has been expeditious. The Eng-
lish position is strong. The policy of the
British Government in restricting the issue
of wool for civilian purposes has resulted
in the accumulation of large stocks which
should be sufficient for any immediate
emergency provided always that mills
and stores are not bombed out of exist-
ence. It is fortunate that the great Ger-
man drive came near the end of the
season.
Next season, however, presents a differ-
ent problem. Ships will be at a discount.
The British Commonwealth and perhaps
the United States will be called on to
handle virtually all the woollen manu-
facture for the Allies. Deliveries of Eng-
lish wool will be beset with new difficul-
ties. The eastern ports, particularly Lon-
don, are now in the naval and military
defensive zone. The western ports will
be packed with ships bringing food and
munitions from Australia and America.
If war breaks out in the Mediterranean
it will be an extra drain on the mer-
cantile marine, which will be charged with
the carriage of supplies, armament and
troops.
Wool stored in Canada would be safer
than in England; also machine power
would be conserved and uniform and
blanket supplies assured by overseas
manufacture. Australia may find it neces-
sary to do something about the manu-
facturing position. It is an appalling
position that the greatest wool-producing
country in the world might find itself
with a manufactured wool shortage be-
cause it has always implemented a policy
of shipping its raw material at a heavy
freight 12,000 miles from the point of
production, shipping large quantities of
manufactured product back 12,000 miles,
and paying half a dozen intermediate
profits before the finished article goes
into consumption.
Under war conditions it would not
be possible to produce woollen-mill
machinery on a large scale in the Com-
monwealth, even if other difficulties than
man-power did not stand in the way ;.
but a close investigation should be made
as to whether machinery cannot be had
from other industrial countries the
United States and Japan in particular.
With adequate mill facilities here Aus-
tralia would have an infinitely greater
command over the world wool market
than she has at present.
Buying Rams.
“Bungaree”: The quickest and surest
way to improve any flock is through the
rams, though of course there must be
quality in the ewes. Culling for specific
ewe weaknesses and choice of rams to
overcome others are essential. The ram
buyer must understand the needs of his
flock.
Weaknesses may be constitutional —
small frames, dipped backs, legginess or
general lack of robustness. Or the flock
may be getting too wrinkly, or may be
too plain and lacking development in
front. Fleeces may lack length or den-
sity, or the sheep may be too lightly
covered on belly and points. Faces may
be carrying too much wool or backs may
be thin and short. Wool generally may
be becoming too straight and lacking in
character, or perhaps rough in patches,
or with evidence of kemp. Perhaps the
country tends to fine up the wool, which
has to be remedied by introducing
stronger-woolled rams.
Improvement through lambs will have
to be done slowly and carefully. There
should be a fresh job every season. The
hardest task will be to improve without
introducing further faults.
Don’t try to bring about drastic results
straightway. Where improvements in
“Wave brung 'er 200 mue to exchange an no one ain't goin' ter stop
us, see!”
constitution and covering are being aimed
at, don’t expect to do both together.
Correct faults in size and constitution
first, working on to the wool gradually.
Ewes should be drafted off into groups
for joining with rams that are strong in
those characteristics which the ewes lack.
When you find a stud whose rams nick
well and give satisfactory results, stick
to it. Buy rams out of the paddock
provided you are aware of the extent
of their sale preparation. The special-
sale ram may have had extensive hand-
feeding, with the result that he will not
shape nearly so well when turned out to
fend for himself.
Carefully examine the teeth and jaws
of handfed rams. An undershot or over-
shot jaw will settle any ram that has to
graze for himself, particularly if feed is
short or scarce. A good strong horn,
well-shaped, corrugated and honey-
colored, should be sought. Light or weak
horns or those curling close into the
side of the head should be avoided.
Finally, remember that the only cheap
ram is the one that suits your purpose,
even if he costs you more than you
intended to pay.
Sheep Export.
“A.A.D.”: Japan last year continued
the largest buyer of Australian sheep,
taking from N.S.W. 6961 Corriedales,
valued at £18,833, and also, for Korea,
3575 studs, value £10,699, and 957 flock
ewes at £2397. Maoriland took from
various States 8884 studs, value £7942,
including merinos (by special permit),
Corriedales and British breeds. Ship-
ments to South Africa totalled 651 studs,
value £5506, and to British East Africa
33 at £450, comprising British breeds
and Corriedales, almost entirely from
South Australia. Westralia also supplied
64 at £414.
A considerable trade, of which few are
aware, was the shipment of 58,597 killers
from Fremantle direct to British Malaya.
In the previous year 56,356 were similarly
exported. These consignments were
made up of old ewes and wethers, worth
about 12s. 6d. a head f.o.b. and intended
mainly as rations for coolie labor.
Wheat and War.
“B. Cubbin”: Australian wheatgrowers
observed something significant in the
omission from the appeal of the British
Minister for Agriculture, R. S. Hudson,
of any reference to wheat. He urged
British farmers to grow more meat and
milk —as much of it as they could —and
even urged a reduction of pig- and fowl-
farming to provide more fodder for cattle
and sheep. Nothing definite is known
of British wheat stocks, but it can be
assumed that they are enormous, and
the recent agreement to buy 50,000,000
bushels of Canadian may mean that the
wheat will be stored in Canada until
needed.
In Europe the terrible winter seriously
affected the crops, a position aggravated
by bad weather and lack of labor at
sowing time. For the spring wheat sow-
ing European countries have found it
necessary to withdraw men from military
service. Britain has had to stop men
going from the land to manufacturing
industries, though her winter wheat crop
appears to be in a satisfactory condition
and it looks as though the drive for an
additional 2,000,000 acres under cultiva-
tion will be a success.
The U.S.A. anticipates a 1940-41
domestic supply of 900,000,000 bushels
and a carryover of between 275 and 300
million. Canada began the season with a
surplus of 472 million Broomhall be-
lieves the 1939 Canadian crop sufficient
to supply the United Kingdom’s needs
for 2\ years—and the Canadian Govern-
ment will allow Winnipeg exchange to
remain open until July 31. A month or
so ago it was stated that the U.K.’s
average absorption of Manitoban types
equalled 2,400,000 bushels weekly.
The Australian Wheat Board an-
nounced last week that it had sold about
114 million bushels at an average of
3s. 8.43 d. a bushel at silo or siding.
Freight and handling charges have to
come out of that, and flour-tax proceeds
have to be added. “Shipping is pro-
ceeding according to plan, about 23 mil-
lion bushels having left,” the board says
further. It will have to go away faster
than that if there is to be any room for
the harvest now only five months away.
The board has taken over control of
cornsacks, and when present contracts
expire no further
sales by agents are to
be permitted, except
on behalf of the
board. An average
price is to be struck
for all sacks, to be
met from the next
crop proceeds.
Australia thus finds
herself with a big
crop on hand, a ship-
ping shortage, a
probable closing of the
Mediterranean route
and North American
competitors who have
more wheat than they
know what to do with.
Her growers have by
this sown most of their
next year’s crop. Like
everything else, the
future of wheat is de-
pendent on what the
next few months
bring. All the same,
work must go on and
the stocks in the
country must be
adequately protected
against loss. They, and
much more, may be
needed by the time
peace returns.
Hints for the Farm,
“M. E. Rino”: If you’re going to
pluck dead wool wait till the sheep is
on the point of bursting. In summer
that might take a couple of days, in
winter a week. If you start too early
the wool wo „, t peel . y when the shc
npe lhe E:ib is easJr " thou 8 h unpleasant.
Start £rom either <™ d - Take a pluck of
woo ‘- 1£ ,he ski " beneath is green and
the time is right. Just roll the
fleece off. It’s best done with bare hands.
Have of disinfectant about. One
WOrd in warnin S : D °n’t shear or mark
lambs near where dead wool is stored;
infection is easy. Bale the stuff send it
away and disinfect the shed or* bin
* S “ ea ° r D f‘
±>od . Granova s hints on early
sub - clover f° r wheat districts (B.
1/5/’4O) are incomplete. Sub. needs
plenty of super., the amount varying with
rainfall. In W.A.’s south-west higher-
rainfall belt 3cwt. has proved economical
while in 18in. areas 90-1201 b gives good 5
results. Remember that s c takes years


THIS SMART MEN'S
OXFORD, BLACK and TAN
• The man who wants a good reliable pair of
shoes at a reasonable price will find this special
Oxford the best buy he has ever made. Good-
looking, built on a comfort-fitting last and from
leather selected to give good honest wear, it is
a value that we will not be able to repeat.
Order at once.
• NOTE: Country customers can
order from Abbeys with every con-
fidence. Established for nearly 100
years, their shoes are mailed to all
parts of the British Empire. Satis-
faction guaranteed.
Abbey Shoes,
316 George Street,
Sydney.
Please forward me 1 pair of your special value
Men’s Oxfords. Black Tan I
enclose remittance for 23/9. (Add postage if
outside N.S.W.) State size Also
enclose tracing of stockinged foot.
Name
(Please write clearly)
Address (in full)
/
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street.
224 Pitt Street.
For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers’ friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES.—For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE.—For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS.—For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites—lt Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from:—
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributors:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All States. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
82952.
Public Notices.
Australian Wheat Board
WHEATGROWERS—PURCHASERS OF
CORNSACKS AND OTHER
COMMODITIES.
The attention of the Board has been drawn to
circulars sent out by Merchants who have this
season acted as Licensed Receivers in addition
to carrying on business of merchants supplying
cornsacks and other requirements of the farmer,
to the effect that farmers may submit orders
for supplies contingent upon the farmer giving
an undertaking to deliver wheat next season
through the agency of the firm in question.
The Australian Wheat Board wish it to be
understood that such implied contract is con-
trary to the policy of the Board and, further,
that, if the practice is not immediately discon-
tinued and wheatgrowers directly advised
accordingly, the Board will seriously consider
refusing to appoint such firms as Licensed Re-
ceivers for the season 1940-41.
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD,
G. A. H. HOLBOROW,
State Superintendent.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Australian Wheat Board
CORNSACKS.
Distributors desiring to act as Agents for the
Australian Wheat Board in distributing Corn-
sacks for the 1940-41 Harvest should apply
immediately to the Secretary, Australian Wheat
Board, Phosphate House, 515 Collins Street,
Melbourne, enclosing a Statutory Declaration
stating the number of new and second-hand
Cornsacks they sold direct to Wheat and
Barley growers in each of the Seasons 1939-40,
1938-39, 1937-38. Only sacks sold direct to
Growers are to be included in the Returns.
Sacks sold for resale must not be shown.
A separate application and Declaration should
be forwarded for each State in which the dis-
tributor has sold Cornsacks. To applicants sup-
plying this information on or before the 15th
of June, 1940, quotas will be granted which
may be amended at the discretion of the Board
for any reason.
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD, •
G. A. H. HOLBOROW,
State Superintendent.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
miiiii
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FLIES OK GERMS.
The Commonwealth Government has been
using them for 12 years and has just
bought 90 more for R.A.A.F., Narromine.
PRICE, £l7/9/6,
including sales tax and crating.
Write Desk D for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
fgj
to come to full carrying capacity under
ordinary conditions. A double top-
dressing the first year may halve the
“waiting period.” Like other pastures,
s.c. likes a spell, and the cost of fencing
for rotational grazing is well repaid.
Make sure that the mid-season variety is
unsuitable before sowing early varieties.
Mid-season was grown at Geraldton
(W.A.) last year on nine inches of rain.
“Goulburn”: Maoriland experiments
show that waste apples return 6d. to Is.
a case fed to pigs—4lb. of apples equals
lib. of barley. Approximately 1000 cases
of apples, half a drum of molasses, one
ton of meatmeal, 36 bushels of barley
and two acres of pasture, at a total cost
of £24, returned 14 1501 b. baconer
carcasses, worth more than £5O.
“Observer”; N.S.W. now claims to be
free from pleuro-pneumonia except for
infection brought by cattle from Queens-
land, on which a vigilant watch is kept.
The veterinary service maintains that
the complement fixation (blood) test has
been a remarkable success, enabling the
detection of “carriers.” The test has also
made it possible in many instances to
eradicate the disease without resorting
to vaccination.
“Yarrunga”; At their annual con-
ference the N. S. Wales P.P. boards,
upon which devolve the work of grass-
hopper control by poison baiting, voted
out a proposal fayoring the retention of
the Noxious Insects Act and later de-
cided to request the Agricultural Depart-
ment to insist upon concerted action by
all boards to deal with ’hopper outbreaks.
Entomologists hold out no hope of suc-
cess for biological control, but conference
again demanded further research work
on natural parasites. The department
is issuing plans for mechanical bait-
spreaders, as investigated by Chief Ento-
mologist T. McCarthy in U.S.A. on be-
half of the Commonwealth Government.
“Poddy”; In N.S.W. and in Q’land,
if a cow develops t.b. within three months
of sale the deal is nullified. But while
the law protects the buyer of t.b. cows, a
couple of other scourges are allowed
immunity. A man can sell a whole herd
infected with contagious abortion and
the fellow at the other end has to put
up with the loss, unless he can prove
fraud or breach of agreement. Con-
tagious mammitis also gets a free bill of
sale. There is no visible means of detect-
ing it in a dry cow. Taken unawares, the
new owner has a big chance of infecting
his whole herd. The extension of t.b.
regulations to other diseases would cer-
tainly help to make healthy herds.
“Husker”: Bad weather seriously re-
duced the N.S.W. maize crop this year,
and even if it gets through without
trouble it will still be at least three
bushels an acre below the 10-year average
of 26.7 bushels. The State should get
about 2,800,000 bushels, mostly from
inner coastal areas.
“Yarrunga”: A black beetle similar to,
but distinct from, the species that has
done much damage underground to wheat
crops killed out large areas of pasture
during the autumn in the N.S.W. central
coastal districts. It also attacked maize
crops by first eating the roots and then
boring into the fallen stalks and cobs.
This new enemy is of South African
origin, and is surmised to have reached
here in maize shipments. The beetles live
in the ground, and entomologists have
not yet suggested means of control.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
One of a cow’s teats has dried off. A hard
lump can be felt in the teat, which has been
bathed and massaged and well rubbed, with no
good result. The cause of the lump and treat-
ment ?— 7089.
Sounds like mammitis. Fibrous tissue often
forms after this disease. If teat canal is closed,
surgery may be needed. Isolate the animal,
foment the quarter with warm packs, 20 minutes
per day; strip milk as often as possible. If
teat canal is constricted, clean with methylated
spirits, and push teat syphon gently in; but
don’t force, send for vet.
* * * *
(1) About eight weeks ago a horse showed
difficulty in moving, though able to stand.
Some said chilled loins, others a jinked back.
It was doctored and rubbed regularly, and in
about a fortnight was able to move round.
The hindquarters seemed all right, but there
was no power in the front legs, and the chest
has sunk in, leaving a V-shaped depression. He
eats well, but has developed a bad cough at
night. Is there any relief? (2) What is a
reliable book on horses? —7146.
(1) Can’t diagnose without seeing the horse.
It would appear that the animal is suffering
from some respiratory trouble—broken wind
or pneumonia. Feed frequently but never give
a big meal before exercise. Don’t work the
horse for a considerable time after recovery.
While suffering from the cough, it should be
in a well-ventilated and clean stable and kept
rugged. Inhalations of a mixture of equal parts
of Friar’s Balsam, eucalyptus oil and spirits
of chloroform placed in hot water should be
given several times a day. (2) Animal Manage-
ment (War Office edition), which is obtainable
from any large bookseller.
Outback Occupations.
No. XXII.
PAINTING THE HOMESTEAD.
“Paint,” you read, “is the great pre-
servative. It protects your home against
the ravages of weather, pests and time.
Good paint, properly applied, puts years
of life into a house and adds to its
appearance enormously. Send now for
our catalogue of prices, indicating your
color choices. We will send you, free,
our home-painter’s handbook, which con-
tains full instructions enabling you to do
the job yourself.”
There is some argument about color.
The wife wants green, but you point out
that green would soon be discolored
by the prevalent duststorms and that
anyhow it doesn’t look too good on a
house. Nevertheless, says the wife, it
should be green.
You favor slate-blue or light brown.
Both, you say, are fine neutral colors
that will not show the dust and will not
attract the heat in summer like a bright
color like green. Moreover, either of
them will tone well with the landscape.
You can’t, you say, have a bright green
house sticking up out of the middle of
acres and acres of yellow wheat or
brown fallow.
The wife wants to know why not.
You say that it just wouldn’t look right,
that’s all, and she remarks that you don’t
seem to mind the bright blue, scarlet and
yellow of the header going through the
wheat. “Which is enough,” she says, “to
make a color-blind bullock team shy and
play up. It isn’t as if I ever ask for
much about this place, and that’s be-
cause I know it’s no use trying to break
down the stubborn attitude of some
people who seem to think that because
the soil is brown and the sky blue every-
thing else ought to be the same. I’ve
toiled nearly twenty years for you, Jack
Fordcubbin, and reared your kids and
nursed them, and you, too, through all
sorts of sickness. You start your work
at sunrise and finish at sundown, but
I don’t work at all —oh, no! only from
an hour before sunrise till hours after-
wards. I suppose you think I’m happy
here ; I suppose you think I never want
any brightness, any romance, any excite-
ment in my life”
You say “Look here, missus, y’ don’t
want to go readin’ them damn’ silly
papers or thinkin’ y’ can have a life like
them movin’-picture wimmen. That’s
all me eye. Y’ got to keep y’r common-
sense” —
“And,” she flashes, “my commonsense
says a green house will be cool in sum-
mer and bright in winter. And what’s
more, Jack Fordcubbin, I’ve toiled nearly
twenty years”
For fifteen of those twenty years you’ve
always known when you were beaten, and
you know it now. “Ri-buck, green it is!”
you yell. “But don’t blame me if the
flamin’ grasshoppers come next year an’
eat the lot.”
Which is the reason why, days later,
you’re found down in the shed, sur-
rounded by cans and pots, steadily
stirring a liquid green mass in a big tin
with one hand and holding “our home-
painter’s handbook” in the other. You
are wearing one black and one green
boot, and one shirtsleeve looks like an
emerald banner. You haven’t had a
smoke for three hours because your
hands are paint-covered and the last
time you tried it the combination of
tobacco and paint almost overcame you.
Over at the house Tom and Dick are
busily scraping down the walls. They
wanted to do the painting while you did
the scraping, but you pointed out that
anybody could scrape, but it needed a
careful hand to apply the paint.
While you stir you think over things,
wishing somebody would come and fill
your pipe for you. An inquisitive rooster
sidles into the shed and eyes the array
of pots thirstily. You lift the stirring
stick with a blob of paint on the end
and flick it at the rooster. The blob
lands on a post beside the bird, which
promptly picks at it, swallows quickly,
gives you an astonished look, falls over
backwards, then gets up and races out
towards the other fowls. .You decide
that life has its bright moments and
rise to scrape the paint blob from the
post. Your foot catches on a loose bit
of wire, which hooks itself in the paint-
pot' handle.
You dive backwards in the effort to
stop the pot tipping, catch it in both
hands, lose your balance and fall. You
manage to hold the pot upright, but
when you stop falling the shock shoots
a wave of paint from the pot into the
air. You save most of it by catching it
with your head, neck and shoulders.
You get most of it off, then place the
pot safely on a box and retire to the
house, calling for sandsoap and kerosene.
After some time you emerge again, with
several sore spots where the wife applied
the nailbrush too freely, and make for
the shed.
You stop to see how the boys are
getting on with their scraping. The
feathered cause of your trouble drifts by.
You “hoosh” at it, at the same time
throwing sticks. Tom’s half-grown stag-
hound, which spends its life waiting for
excuses to murder fowls, promptly streaks
from under the house. The rooster races
towards the shed. Grinning, you watch
the lanky White Leghorn disappear
through the door, followed by the lanky
brindle pup. You wink at Dick as
sounds come from the shed. Tom falls
off his ladder and gasps, and Dick’s eyes
nearly pop out as a lanky Green Leghorn,
hotly pursued by a lanky green pup,
gallops out of the shed.
You run to the shed. The box and
most of the paint tins are lying in a
sea of green. Screams come from the
house and you run back. The rooster
has got into the fowlyard and there are
flying feathers there, and inside the house
your screaming wife and two yelling
sons are trying to capture a green dog
that, blinded and panic-stricken, is trying
to rub the paint off himself on the
upholstery in the living-room.
When the storm has subsided you get
out the car and announce, “I’ll have to
go over to Reedy Flat an’ see how
Dorset’s gettin’ on with the scrub failin’.
You fellers can go ahead with the
paintin’. Be back Sunday.”
Your wife says something, but you
rev. the car up and depart in a cloud
of dust.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Names —-though required as a guarantee of good faith—are not now published
unless it is clear that the writers don’t object.
First place (and double pay) to a HazeJbrook (tf.S.W.) man for some well-
chosen remarks about the press, which asked for them.
Passing the Buck
With a disarming clarity which his-
torians of the future will find it hard to
better Our Glorious Press sums up:
Lord Gort did not have the means of
making an adequate counter-attack. He
cannot be blamed for this, nor can the
army. It was the result of years of finan-
cial starvation of the Service Ministries....
The responsibility for the temporary dis-
aster which has overtaken us is ours col-
lectively... .The Government was not pre-
pared to face the facts, because it knew
that the people were not prepared to accept
the sacrifices involved. Attempts to do so
would have meant the Government’s fall.
Yes, in so far as the Empire is a democ-
racy, the responsibility is ours collec-
tively. But the responsibility rests more
heavily on some than on others, and the
press of the Empire must take a very
large measure of it. The press has
become something more than a mere
recorder of events. Not only can and
does each paper, by every means in its
journalistic power, influence and mould
opinion on public questions in accor-
dance with its particular policy, but most
of them have set themselves up, often
fulsomely, as the guardians of the com-
mon weal. The people may choose the
Government they want, but it is the press
that mainly decides how the people shall
choose.
We cannot remember, during the days
of the mazed Ramsay MacDonald, any
stand by the press as a whole against
the disarmament madness, nor can we
recall any general clamor for rearma-
ment in the complacent Baldwin’s time.
We can easily remember page upon page
of dope from League of Nations vision-
aries, columns of assurances that Russia
and U.S.A. would come to our aid,> and
press campaigns designed to persuade us
to go crusading, unarmed as we were.
The press, as a whole, cannot evade
its share of the responsibility for what
has happened. Passing the buck on to
a nebulous collectivity won’t do at all.
As to the responsibility of the man in
the street, it seems to lie more in his
acceptance of the press as his guide,
philosopher and friend, and as the
guardian of his destiny. —T.E. P.
(N.S.W.).
The Home Front
S.A.’s Independent Ms.P. want their
cocky’s cage called together immediately
instead of on the summoned date, July 11,
“to assist the Commonwealth Government
in its war effort.” It’s a contrast with
N. S. Wales, which heard its State mem-
bers confess that the war left little inter-
est in their superfluous suppurations.
S.A. Attorney-General Jeffries solemnly
commented that, if the Federal Govern-
ment thought it would assist Australia’s
war effort to have Parliament in session
in S.A., the State Government would
comply. R. S. Richards, the Oppo-
sition leader, broadcast that, after months
of trumpeting of its war efforts, the
Menzies Government “had only suc-
ceeded in making two anti-aircraft guns.”
And he gravely said he didn’t think any
political group should seek publicity from
the crisis.
One of the State’s main provincial
centres added to the sum of human hap-
piness by labelling the Menzies Govern-
ment “inert, ineffective and uninspiring,”
as per town council resolution. Well-
meaning Dick Butler joined fellow-
ex-politician Parkhill (B. 22/ 5/ ’4O) in
some further trumpeting about more
vigorous action to win the war; and the
State Cabinet’s bright boy on Constitu-
tional powers pleaded tearfully for the
delegation by the Commonwealth of re-
sponsibility to the State Governments,
“so that they could play a greater part
in Australia’s war effort.”
And so we win the war. — Pigge (S.A.).
Chamberlain
Through some strange perversity of
human nature everyone is down on the
former Prime Minister of England,
seemingly because his policy of appease-
ment is supposed to have landed us m
trouble.
There would not be any British Em-
pire today if, instead of Mr. Chamber-
lain’s policy of appeasement, more com-
bustible hotheads like Anthony Eden
had been allowed to have their way. The
situation overseas is serious enough now.
It is easy to imagine what would have
befallen us if Hitler had delivered his
blow two years ago, before the Allies
had time to rearm.
Chamberlain has been accused of being
a dangerous pacifist. Yet the main argu-
ment of his election policy was for re-
armament. In fact, he was unpopular
in certain quarters as a result of his heavy
Budget demands for this purpose.
No doubt he would have preferred to
see the trouble settled without resort to
war. Who wouldn’t have? But that does
not make him a childish dreamer like his
two immediate predecessors. He may
not be temperamentally suited, like the
belligerent Winston Churchill, to carry
on the war. Yet unquestionably his dip-
lomatic sparring gave the Allies time to
get on something like an equal footing
with the enemy. —J. A. Y. (N.S.W.).
Leopold
As a Belgian-born resident of this
country I would like to protest against
the abuse hurled at Leopold 111. By his
so-called “defection” Leopold placed the
lives of many hundreds of thousands of
British and French soldiers in jeopardy,
but had he continued the struggle the
fate of all Belgium would have been in
the balance.
Leopold as a boy of 14 saw service in
the Great War and witnessed the awful
carnage meted Out to those who opposed
the German march. He saw his country
turned into shambles, industry shattered
and the massacre of women and children.
Within 25 years the same destruction
would have taken place with even worse
results, but Belgium was saved by the
signature of the king. Belgium, it must
be remembered, was not fighting for
the salvation of the Allied cause—all
along she has pursued a policy of strict
neutrality, pledged to no country’s cause
but her own.
It is significant that Leopold’s order
was obeyed by all and assailed by
nobody except those who were not in
the lines —his Ministers. Safe in Paris,
they abused the king for his actions. It
is significant, too, that Leopold did not
desert his country in her hour of need.
When the Queen of Holland ordered
her troops to cease fighting there were
no cries of another Quisling, but when
Leopold, whose army held out longer,
gave the same order he received abuse
from everybody except the Belgian
people. They did not want to see the
1914 affair over again. They knew that
Belgium’s population is only eight mil-
lions and Germany’s 80 millions, and,
no matter what occurs, they will always
remember Leopold as a great and loyal
king.—L. C. (N.S.W.).
A Few Questions
Does 'the Defence Department know
the owners of firearms, the numbers of
rifles, revolvers and shotguns, with
ammunition, carried by wholesalers and
stores throughout Australia? Does it
know the calibre of the various weapons
and the amount of ammunition that
would be available for any particular
type of privately-owned weapons or those
in stores? •
As invasion would cut off petrol sup-
plies, the Defence Department should
know the number of producer-gas units
which it could commandeer, and their
whereabouts, but, more important, it
should know how many horses fit for
active service are in the Commonwealth,
where they are located, and whether their
owners have the saddles to mount
cavalry or the harness to draw guns and
transport.
Have any experiments been made to
convert railway vehicles into armored
trains? With their native ingenuity, Aus-
tralians could convert tractors now used
on public works and farms into effective
tanks, but are they being encouraged to
work out designs and to make experi-
ments?
A census of picks, shovels and similar
implements, with the men to use them,
would facilitate the work of digging
trenches and other engineering jobs if
Australia was invaded. Does the Gov-
ernment know where it can lay its hands
on large quantities of cement, sand,
screenings, timber, barbed-wire, bags (for
sandbags) and timber? Electric fences
owned by stockowners or held by manu-
facturers and agents are worth checking,
as they could make barbed-wire entangle-
ments more effective.
Can mobs of cattle be concentrated in
various centres to feed troops? Are all
the bacon, butter and margarine stored
in the capital cities, or are sufficient stocks
carried in districts where they may be
needed? Could country mills grind
enough wheat to provide flour for popu-
lations evacuated from the coast? Are
there enough woollen mills and clothing
factories (if any) in the country to clothe
the people? Apart from Lithgow and
Maribyrnong, are there any inland
foundries capable of producing artillery
pieces and small arms?
Those are just a few questions —there
are many more —which the people of
Australia could justifiably ask the Federal
Government. — James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Old Iron
In England they’re pulling down iron
park railings, old monuments and other
things in order to get the metal for
munitions.
Anybody who has been round the
farming districts of Australia knows that
there are thousands of tons of old iron
and other metals lying about farms in
the form of disused ploughs, harvesting
machinery, etc., and that round the towns
are more tons hidden in the grass grow-
ing over what were once mining plants,
breweries, flourmills and bedstead fac-
tories.
All this stuff could be collected by
voluntary effort in much the same way
as towns have hospital, wood and egg
days, and the railways could do their
part by carrying the collection freight
free from country centres to where it is
most needed. —W. Nott (N.S.W.).
Farm Produce for Britain
Certain Australian primary products
are being sold under war-time contracts
to Great Britain, but none of our too
numerous Governments has made any
effort to see that the primary industries
are organised towards greater efficiency
in the war effort. This, possibly, is be-
cause we have six Departments of Agri-
culture but no attempt at Federal co-
ordination of effort.
One example is provided by the pig-
raising industry. Long before the invasion
of Denmark great opportunities existed in
Britain for the sale of pig meats produced
in Australia. Beyond talking about it, the
Governments did little else, although the
Meat Board, appointed by the Federal
Government, certainly did issue some
effective publicity and conduct competi-
tions to encourage production of the cor-
rect types of pigs for export. No other
steps were taken to see that the pig popu-
lation was increased or that farmers
were making the most of their oppor-
tunities. As it is, a shortage of breeding
sows exists.
Greater development of the pig indus-
try would help to solve some of the
wheatgrowers’ problems, but very little
of a practical nature is being done to
bring the two together. Even in normal
times there is a good market for pig
meats, but wheat is not always saleable
at a fair profit to the grower. Far better
to sell the wheat in the form of pork, a
fact of which the Governments are
aware.
Extreme measures would be justified
now. The Government-owned pig studs
could be rapidly expanded, and pigs made
available to approved farmers at small
cost. This would help the war effort,
and it would be putting money into the
pockets of Australian farmers. —S. S.
(N.S.W.).
Fillums and Dollars
A dollar-exchange situation that cuts
off my “Post” and other similar first-
class U.S.A. publications is no joke, but
I realise the justice of it. I have not,
however, heard of any restrictions on
films, and there’s certainly no diminution
of the low-grade celluloid trash that
Hollywood has been foisting on this mar-
ket in the guise of “supports” or “associ-
ate features.”
Why not let Mr. O’Reilly, our censor,
do his part by extending his powers, if
necessary, to banning the out-and-out
type? I for one would abide by his
decisions —I’d rather see a middling-good
show twice than a crook one once. —
Front Stalls (N.S.W.).
It All Helps
We’re all playing back-seat driver these
days, so here’s my quota:
Save a huge slice of overseas exchange
by cutting some superfluous fat out of
the cinema industry. Every capital city
runs a galaxy of first-class theatres and
a number of second-raters, with at least
one and generally more halls in every
suburb. The suburban halls, further-
more, feature twice-weekly changes, often
with two leading films to each pro-
gramme. This embarrassment of—er —
riches is sheer waste of our exchange
resources.
Turn over to schoolchildren the valu-
able public service of salvaging domestic
waste paper. The Scouts in our State
did this for one week, but the harvest is
a continuous one and the need in six
months’ time is going to be dire, accord-
ing to the paper trade. Contributions
from individual homes may appear too
trivial for busy adults to attend to, and
house-to-house collection seems a clumsy
expedient. Children, centralised in their
schools, are the ideal mediums for this
collection and sorting of valuable waste.
From the schools the baled and classified
harvest could be readily collected for
pulping.— Keel Row (S.A.).
Thank God for the Navy!
Though successful thus far in land cam-
paigns, the Germans have had a beating
at sea. For the moment, anyway, the
U-boat has ceased to be a major
menace. Though ships suitable for
local purposes must have been gained
by plunder from neutrals, Germany’s
own merchant shipping has been swept
off the sea.
Germany’s capital navy at the outbreak
of the war consisted of two new 26,000-
ton ships with 11 in. guns and three
“pocket battleships” with the same type of
armament. In battle, the Graf Spee proved
that the latter were actually in the cruiser
class, and not a very good cruiser class
at that. Two 35,000-ton German battle-
ships with 15in. guns were building when
war began—one off the stocks. But since
that time Britain has commissioned five
new ships of equal tonnage, and several
cruisers almost equal in fighting power
to the pocket battleships and much
superior in speed. British capital losses
in the war have been the 32,000-ton Royal
Oak and the aircraft-carrier Courageous.
The Germans admitted the loss of two
cruisers in Norway, and lost three. They
had eight in September and six others
were then on the stocks. At the same
time Britain had 21 building and several
others projected, besides 62 at sea.
At the beginning of hostilities, French
and German sea-power was reasonably
equal. Now the French are the stronger.
And each day, with 1,000,000 tons of
naval shipping on the stocks, Britain’s
superiority over all other Powers in
Europe grows. Also, her mercantile
marine is beyond that of any other Power.
So let us thank God for the Navy.—
N. (N.S.W.).
Financial Suspension
A thing that bothers me, as one who
hasn’t any money, is the financial aspect
of this war business. Why must every-
body be compelled to stop and think how
much he is going to get before taking
on war work or enlisting or turning over
their factories to the Government?
I believe some system Could be worked
out whereby the Government could sus-
pend all payments of debts, wages, interest
and so on. In other words, to halt the
financial life of the community at this
point until the war ends, when it could
be resumed where it left off. That is to
say, if I owed £lOO now the debt would
become suspended, though the indebted-
ness wouldn’t. After the war, on a date
to be fixed by Parliament, I would be-
come liable for the £lOO again, but with-
out interest.
The Government could call in all notes
and specie, stop all profit and end chaffer-
ing for the duration. External payments
would have to go on, of course. Within


the country we could use paper tokens, so
that a man could still get his food,
clothing, amusement, beer and other
necessities. These tokens wouldn’t be
any good except in circulation, as they
would simply be symbols for work done.
When the war ended and the present
financial system was reinstituted, the
tokens would go out of existence, and
anybody who hoarded them would find
them worth nothing.
.By some such means the maddening
business of calling tenders for war con-
tracts, the equally maddening rise in
living costs and many other delaying
actions caused by the present system
would be wiped out. In brief, the country
would suspend all present financial rami-
fications, keep them suspended, and
resume them at the same point when
peace came. I know moneygrubbers can
bring forth all sorts of arguments against
such a scheme, particularly as it is merely
outlined roughly here, but when ordinary
men are offering their lives it isn’t the
time to consider moneygrubbers.
Angus McDeener (Vic.).
Financial “Experts”
A little knowledge is a dangerous
thing, and people who advocate that the
Government should finance the war out
of the national credit should heed that
line.
Finance is essential for the successful
prosecution of this war, but to suggest
paying for it with paper money is sheer
nonsense. To dissent from that opinion
is to fly in the face of financial experts
—men who have devoted their lives to
the intricate business of banking. No
responsible layman would question a
specialist’s treatment' of the human body,
but the half-educated “scholar” doesn’t
hesitate to tell the financial specialist
what to do.
The present financial system has been
biiilt up by centuries of experience and
is an efficient and self-balancing instru-
ment. Where it has been departed from
in various countries a multitude of eviis
has promptly arisen. The manufacture
of credits by the Government, as sug-
gested by newspaper correspondents,
would mean a mass of paper money and
all the consequences of inflation as ex-
perienced in Germany in 1923.—E.
Smith (S.A.).
Gambling
I have never known anyone to achieve
happiness by gambling (B. 29/5/’4O).
Nor indeed have I ever known anyone
to achieve anything at all by sitting at
home and sucking peppermints. The
real fact about gambling is that hope is
always stronger than commonsense.
Commonsense calms the blood. Hope
excites it, and the ordinary man seems
to prefer excitement to calm. One of
the most ancient methods of excitement
in any country is dreaming of a for-
tune. Fairy tales, pictures and whatnot
encourage this dream in the young.
Though few people seem to believe
nowadays in the miracles which are
mentioned in the Bible, most of us
believe in the possibility of a miracle
happening to us. The ordinary betting
man is simply a grown-up child who
retains his capacity for dreaming ridicu-
lous dreams. His logic is not that of a
mathematician, but that of an optimist. I
should be in favor of the total abolition
of gambling if I thought that the mass
of human beings would, as a result, lead
more serious lives. But I’m afraid that
would not be the result. We might, how-
ever, try to provide some more idealistic
sort of alternative.— Tote (N.S.W.).
No Sacrifice
Despite the stress and distress which
we are experiencing, choice meat is being
produced in Australia —and fed to half
a million greyhounds. Ground is being
prepared for, and its crops devoted to, the
upkeep of thousands of racehorses whose
only use is to provide something to bet
on. Thousands of gallons of petrol and
large quantities of coal are being used
to carry people to horse and dog races
all over Australia.
We would not feel it a sacrifice if the
stream of food and fuel was diverted
from such “sports” to the war effort.
Such a colossal waste of brains, men,
food, material and effort is almost as
bad as the Fifth Column.— Sam Square
(N.S.W.).
, /
Station 2B Loud
I live in a flat and therefore in a state
of perpetual worry. I have not bought
a radio because I have only to listen in
five directions and I get five different
stations.
The flats above, below and on three
sides have the radio going full blast, often
from 7 a.m. till 11 p.m. If this annoy-
ance took the form of a barking dog I
could tell my troubles to a cop. But
a radio, apparently, is not considered so
serious.
Why aren’t all radio sets made to be
tuned in loudly enough only to be heard
in the same room? This might be sad
for the lady who wants to wash-up in
the kitchen and leave her ears in the
lounge-room, but it would be heaven for
neighbors.
If this can’t be done, neighbors should
be legally provided with axes and permits.
—Eve (N.S.W.).
An Official Newspaper
Although the Federal Government is
reluctant to give figures, the “A.B.C.
Weekly,” judging by the paucity of ad-
vertisements, must be costing the public
a lot of money that could be spent
more profitably. If the Government
wants to keep this weekly going it should
take it out of the hands of the Broad-
casting Commission and convert it into an
official journal giving a compendium of
authentic and official news to counter
some of the imaginative, speculative and
unconfirmed cables which the dailies are
so fond of publishing. It would then
be worth 3d. a week. Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
Park Oratory
Adelaide Botanical Park is a sort of
pocket edition of Sydney Domain, but
owing to present conditions and police
censorship the outpourings are expur-
gated, though still more red than pink.
All the speakers repeat the well-known
arguments, but are careful to disclaim
any connection with Communism or
Nazism. The burden of their discourse
is the luxury and rapacity of the ruling
classes, monetary and political, and the
poverty of the workers. The accusations of
waste, lethargy and salary-grabbing in
high places brought sympathetic nods
even from the white chargers of the
mounted police.
Chewing the cud on the way home I
wondered which would be the best way
of stopping the exercise of “free speech”
and preaching of dangerous doctrines.
One plan would be to intern the orators
and ban the meetings for the duration.
Another would be for the offending
“heads” and “money-barons” to remove
voluntarily some of the silliest and
most shameful blots from our social sys-
tem and so ruin the case for the prosecu-
tion, gubernatorial and Parliamentary
swank being first on the list.—B. Ware
(S.A.).
Political Oratory
When mere personalities are on the
agenda our politicians are pretty smart
with the peashooter, and can make them-
selves perfectly clear when giving each
other beans. It is when questions of
national importance are before the House
that the obscurantist - vocabulary is
trotted out. Shopworn quotations, cliches
and vain repetitions are worked to death
in an effort to keep talking without say-
ing anything that will expose the
appalling lack of scholastic, economic
and legislative ability and training.
The supreme example of phrase-
mongering posing as wisdom is the gag
that “every possible avenue is being
carefully investigated.” It is “uttered”
on every possible occasion by every poli-
tician bushed by a problem or faced with
a question he dare not answer. There are
hundreds of other gags used for the
same purpose. A visit to any of the
Houses when in session or a perusal of
“Hansard” will justify that criticism.
But when the august assemblies have
been told by their boss, during the
greatest crisis in history, to stay in recess
and shut up so that the real work of the
country can be tackled without wordy
interruptions, no other evidence seems
necessary.— Order (S.A.).
Exploitation
Although their wrongs get little or no
publicity compared with those of coal-
miners, railwaymen and wharf-laborers,
who are represented by powerful unions,
office clerks are often despicably ex-
ploited.
There is some sort of clerks’ federa-
tion or union, but its powers are limited.
Passive membership alone is sufficient to
draw the frown of managerial dis-
pleasure, while an appeal to it is tanta-
mount to asking for the sack. Legally,
a firm must not dismiss an employee for
registering a just complaint, but a
“reasonable cause” can always be found
for dispensing with his services.
Pen-pushing is sedentary work. It
exacts toll on hair, eyes, nerves and
physique. A clerk deprived of his job
is of little use for any other type of
work ; he must seek similar occupation
or starve. He must keep up appearances
not required of manual laborers or in-
dustrial technicians. His education stand-
ards must be high, but to make any
progress in his field he must spend his
own time and money in learning pro-
fessional or specialised subjects.
Competition is fierce. Because the
supply of potential office-workers is
practically inexhaustible, persons already
in such employment must submit to
exploitation. They are told quite bluntly
that they are free to resign if they
don’t like the conditions of their em-
ployment.
Party politicians have passed up a
sound election bet in failing to espouse
the cause of office-workers. Nairb
(Vic.).
Australian Literature
“Eddie Torial” (B. 15/5/’4O) and “And
So Say” (B. 22/5/’4O) missed my point.
I said that Australian writers “will write
great verse or prose because there is
something great within them,” and that
opinion is backed up by the whole his-
tory of literature. Few of the great
poets ever had much financial induce-
ment to write; in fact, if anything, there
was a tendency for the quality of their
verse to fall off considerably when they
became paid laureates. Tennyson is the
outstanding English example of the
unhappy results of this policy. Gold-
smith, too, wrote a great novel while he
was starving, instead of earning a living
by hack writing, as any sensible fellow
would have done.
As for “Eddie Torial’s” idea that the
pathway to literary greatness lies in the
writing of sellable rubbish, I can’t find
any confirmation of that in the lives of
the great. Keats did not work through
an apprenticeship of cheap ballad writing
to get to the command of the English
language that enabled him to write “Ode
to a Grecian Urn.” He aimed at writing
great poetry from the beginning. So did
Shelley and Shakspeare and the rest.
Better payment will encourage writers
to write more, but great prose and verse
are produced only by great writers who,
so far, have generally shown more inter-
est in what they were writing than what
they were earning. The possibility of
helping Australians to produce great
literature by financial aid alone is remote.
Whether it’s worth while aiding the pro-
duction of f.a.q. stuff is quite another
question.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Funds from Overseas
I did not say Australians did not
contribute to the Victorian bushfire vic-
tims (B. 29/5/’40); I stated that other
countries did not contribute. Will
“Adsum” tell me how much any foreign
country contributed to the Victorian
bushfire relief? If Australians ceased
worrying about the troubles of other
countries and remembered that charity
begins at home, they would then be able
to contribute far more to local needs.
Our hospitals, charities and other neces-
sary causes are in desperate need of
funds, and while they are in this plight
no funds should be sent overseas, except,
of course, to assist those unfortunate
victims of Hitler. I had not that in mind
when I referred to funds going from
Australia to other countries. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Decree Absolute
One of the best divorce law provisions
in South Australia is that which enables
either party to an action to apply for
the order to be made absolute.
Some divorce suits are prompted
largely by spite, and without this provi-
sion it was found that the spiteful party
—usually a woman —would often refrain
from taking the proceedings to their
due conclusion.
Under the present law either the plain-
tiff or the respondent can ask for the
order to be made absolute. The innova-
tion has been found successful, and States
which have not already copied it should
do so. — Jake (S.A.).
L. s. d. and Me
Newspapers, like film-stars, are on a
reducing bender. As a representative of
the H.F.A. (Hungry Freelances’ Asso-
ciation) I herewith set up a howl for the
continuation of all freelances’ columns
and the application of sharp shears to
social gossip, housekeeping notes, etc.
I’m sure the average reader will gladly
forgo the joy of reading that screamingly
funny remark which Percy Pinkface made
to Giggles Darling at Queen’s last night.
If newspapers have to be snipped here
and there, I hope the freelances don’t get
swept out ahead of all the other rubbish.
—Elm (N.S.W.).
The Maori
Writers in The Bulletin seem to have
the one idea of recounting all the funny
stories of the Maoris. They do not
realise the rich lore based on age-old
tradition that is to be found in the
legends of the Maoris. Those legends
have a poetry and a deepness of thought
that put to shame many of the efforts of
pakeha writers.
Practically alone of all the native races
that have had their land taken from
them, the Maoris have made a success
of civilisation. Their numbers increase,
their standard of living improves, and
their work as farmers, clerks or soldiers
merits comparison with the pakeha.
Men like Elsdon Best and James
Cowan have done their best to bring
home to all the necessity of understand-
ing the Maoris’ problems. Maoris like
Jimmy Carroll have pleaded for it. An
Englishman, Bledisloe, endeavored to
point the' way. But the mass do not
understand, neither do they try. It is
the bounden duty of every M.L. writer
to cease ridiculing the Maori race. —-
Tinopai (M.L.).
Tram Notices
Sorry, “Mullengah” (B. 15/5/’4O), but
had those Sydney tram-schedules been
printed on both sides of their thin cheap
paper “show-through” would have been
so bad that you couldn’t have read them
at all The Bulletin is on a much
superior stock, but even one of its pages
becomes illegible if held against a win-
dow-pane.—Ex-pica (N.S.W.).
Road v. Rail
The story of Germany’s rapid trans-
portation of vast quantities of war
material into Belgium and northern
France within the last few weeks might
eventually * convince “Ex-Loco” (B.
29/ 5/ ’4O) of the efficiency of road trans-
port.
He isn’t on good grounds contending
that if road-trains were feasible America
would be the first to use them. That
country already has one of the most
efficient road and rail systems in the
world and has little need of a third
system. Furthermore, its roads are too
heavily used for road-trains to travel on
them in safety.
North Australia is an entirely different
proposition. Distances between towns
are long and population sparse. The onl v
hope for economical transport is for one
track to serve all purposes. Roads are
cheaper to construct than railways, anil
infrequently-used roads do not readily
crumble and corrugate. On hard ground,
metal surfaces should suffice for the
initial track. Railways are an uncom-
fortable burden on State Treasuries; in
North Australia they already spell bank-
ruptcy. A large road-train has not been
developed, and until then “Ex-Loco” is
on flimsy grounds in condemning them.
The great difficulty is to interest
engineering. The world's best engineer-
ing skill is found in densely-populated
countries, already well provided with
transport facilities, and is not immedi-
ately concerned with large, sparselv-
peopled territories for which road-trains
would seem eminently suitable. — Puff
(N.S.W.).
“Forward the Inventors!”
I agree that if our inventors were
mobilised we might get some worth-while
war devices from them (B. 29/5/’4O).
Thumbing through recent records, I
was amazed to find how many spare-time
inventors we have around. A Darling
Point (Sydney) man has gone so far as to
invent and patent “Improvements in
ladies’ underwear,” a Burwood contractor
has come to light with a new version of a
shovel, and a Stanmore manufacturer
has invented “a means for supplying
water to fern baskets.” A shoe-cleaning
device for use in cars is the brain-child
of an Inverell boring contractor; a Vic-
torian has improved the dustpan to avoid
stooping, a Coogee man has thought out
another vacuum cleaner and an Auckland
(M.L.) land agent has invented a way of
lifting the lid off a kettle without having
the hand scalded. A Pitt-street plumber
has made an entirely new sort of kettle,
a Roslyn Gardens domestic an improved
teapot, a Melbourne saddler a device for
toasting bread, and a Waterloo clerk a
new frying-pan handle.
And they are only a few out of hun-
dreds. — Zee (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
m
SMS
tv
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Lip - Perfect
English
The 54 Common Errors
The method is habit-forming. Each error
is considered separately and the pupil very
soon speaks correctly without hesitation or
self-consciousness. He is shown, too, how to
find the proper pitch of his voice and how
to improve intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post and includes
adequate tests, criticism and comment. Par—
tioulars from E. H. Welford, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
RADIO a*
40% off retail prices where there la no
Century agent.
leisurely tree trial in your own home.
Mr. E. M. S.j of Coolac, had a six-valve
Century on trial. He wrote:—
“We recommend it to all who come along,
and as soon as ever they see it they think
it is the most beautiful Wireless that
they have ever seen or heard —and I may
say that I am a proud owner. ,r
A 16-page art catalogue describes the
latest Century sets. It will be a pleasure
to post one to you. You save £2O if no
Century agent in your District. Write
at once—
Century Radio Manufacturing Co.
11 Dixon Street, Sydney.
4
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennie Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines ard
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jahez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. 'Phone: LM4794.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
1«1 CASTEEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
CHARCOAL GAS
—saves 80% on fuel costs and is therefore
the logical answer to increasing petrol
prices. Our recently improved design for a
simplified and thoroughly efficient Gas
Producer can be made l>y the average
handyman at a most economical cost. The
set of easily understood blue prints and
specifications, which cost £l, show you
how to do the job. No alterations to the
engine are necessary and you can run on
petrol or charcoal gas at will. Send today.
ECONOMY GAS PRODUCER CO.
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ir I i
rrrr
iff i
rrr ' •
i n
■i • i
£
IS
C:
LSDUiii
_3
V
W£r
s
P *IHT
\
fi
v '/
/"j,
9'J.
It
,JM
•• *\ n
TAW
'•/
•Well. What of it?”
To You
for
i/9.
fj
Goods
Sent
C.O.P
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making machine
and Combination Tobacco Box. Usual
Price 6/6 —“Bulletin” readers 3/9.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample
of “Uevysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/-
lh.—worth 10/- lb. —for Cigarette or Pipe.
CA I K C\/V tobacconist,
L LEY I pst, years.
71S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
CHANCE-A-TRY
TUB LATEST AND BEST SULUIEirS CAMS.
Better than
Crown and
Anchor.
fky
Number
i Complete with Board. «fc~ and full directions, paekstf In a>Htat B<
l Handy for the pocket.
Price Seven Shillings and Slapenca.
! The Board, nearly i a yard square, of hard-wearlng,frw» doth, Is
) printed in R«d and Black. It can be folded into a small compass without
damage. The spinning Horse? is made of metal and the spinner hoard is
I clearly marked, so that every person pteying can see the results at s glance.
There ts’absolutely nothing to get out of order. Players m*y appoint n
banker nr take turns aa arranged before play begins. The Board is divided
into fbur asettons:—■Cards--Heart, Spade. Diamond, Ouk Numbers! Onb
to twaivs is two rows. Dice: One te aix. Odds and Eves*,. also Eeagv et
Noir-aisy bo iaetoded b» the gaiba.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO
, . _ m ehmW*
V
7
OILSKINS
for longr, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical.
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Writ© for Fro© Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MILITARY SURPLUS STOCKS
MILITARY BAYONET SHEATH KNIYES, extra
long, 12/6.
TAN OFFICERS’ BOOTS, Leather-lined, superior
quality, only 22/6 per pair. NEW.
ALL-WOOL KHAKI PUTTEES, 8/6 per pair. NEW.
MILITARY POUCHES, 1/- each. BELTS, 4/6.
RIFLES. Genuine B.S.A. Military .32 cal. Rifles,
in brand-new condition; original cost, £7/10/-.
NOW ONLY 36/- complete with Sights, Protector,
Distance Gauge, 600 yards. A Genuine Bargain
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-
new, made of the best English leather; size, 27in.
x 17in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR. ONLY
£2/6/- per pair.
N.S.W. FIREMAN’S LEATHER WELLINGTON
BOOTS, part worn, only 10/6 pair; 2 pairs, 20/-.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
(Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 26 years.)
TILLEY LAMPS
X-.
800 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on li pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 57/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Rtd.,
380 Kent street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
tyti
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4iin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'iin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
* n ITV Manufacturing Saddler,
J. P. TALTY « Cunningham St., Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
New batteries at half usual cost . . .
Buy your batteries direct from the
manufacturers and save approxi-
mately half. All types of wet bat-
teries for cars, trucks, radios, motor
cycles, theatres and house lighting.
“Marshall” batteries carry the full
guarantee of this leading factory.
There is no better 1 battery made.
Write for wholesale catalogue to
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.
42 HARBOUR STREET. SYDNEY.
SBHMD
MP-L 1
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
yti
ANYWHERE
ANYTIME
ti
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
IgaL of pet~ol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-’
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO—BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
ACTS Write To-day for
LIKE THE HAnD FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERE CO.
(Dept. 27K), 35 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ti
SUPER DUAL WAVE
RADIOS ! From £l2/12/-
Every set guaranteed by RELIANCE.
SPECIAJL. FEATURES include Keo-
scopic Station Tuning, Automatic
Volume Control (A.V.C.), Uatest
Triode-type Valves, Low and High
Frequency Tone Control, Ball-
bearing Dial Operation for Smooth,
Accurate Tuning, Magnavox Speaker.
Terms as low as 2/9 weekly.
(Terms allowed metropolitan area only.)
RELIANCE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 86981.
First window on right from George St. (nr. G.P.0.).
WNcmnnß
SKATES
17/6—21/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
1 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
00
Htfdf
tPi 1». Discard the old type
|P steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, E.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, . 428 George St., Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
yi
By Using the.
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAKOCX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Einaseulators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
12/61*40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss. ....
Cut m ou, art » &&£ D ~'’ “f ****


DIESEL OPERATORS
y on
: : :=
tty
.H . ..
ill
'r/o
O&9
II
vtnt.
■ *-•.
«XlU«ini J 1
WHAT THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE HAS DONE FOR
OTHERS IT CAN DO FOR YOU
File No. 41 a—APPOINTED SECOND ENGINEER
ISLAND TRADING BOAT. SALARY
£25 PER MONTH AND KEEP.
Had no previous experience before taking
course; obtained Government Diesel
Engine Driver’s Certificate after 9 months’
training by Diesel Engineering College.
File No. 40a—OBTAINED POSITION AS DIESEL
TRACTOR DRIVER BEFORE COM-
PLETING COURSE, EARNING £7
PER WEEK.
Had no previous training before com-
mencing course.
File No. 37a—SINCE TAKING DIESEL
ENGINEERING COLLEGE COURSE
IS EARNING £6/16/- PER WEEK AS
DIESEL OPERATOR.
Was earning £4/15/- per week before
commencing course and had no know-
ledge of Diesels.
WANTED
BIG SWING TO DIESEL
ENGINES SINCE THE WAR,
OPENS UP STILL MORE
WELL-PAID POSITIONS
For several years now, the number of Diesel engines being installed has been
growing bigger and bigger each month as thousands of truck, bus and tractor
owners, power plants, mines, ships, etc., change to Diesel, the more economical
and more efficient engines. Now the war is making still more power users
Diesel-minded, for Diesel fuel is not only more economical but safer and
easier to transport when shipping space is restricted. The result is that there
are more positions for Diesel operators than there are trained men to fill them.
Why shouldn’t YOU have one of these jobs that bring you six, seven or
eight pounds a week? Don’t go on envying those who have a trade in which
there s always plenty of well-paid work! Become a Diesel operator and you
will always be able to command higher pay yourself.
YOU
CAN QUALIFY AS A
DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR
.SPARE THE AT HOME
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high
educational standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole
subject in your own home, covering both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and
stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared with
the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma awarded you on
completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the coupon below and
full details will be sent you by return.
NEW SIMPLIFIED SYSTEM MAKES LEARNING DIESEL EASY
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you
to wade through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of compli-
cated mathematics. By a simple home-study course, the Diesel
Engineering College teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol,
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE, NO HIGH EDU
CATIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
7 A
'OK Afofy/
►
AND GET THIS FREE BOOKLET.
. m
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation,
so don’t put it off! The best intentions in
the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
practical coaches take you in hand. You are guided step by step
with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and diagrams,
t. very thing is made clear. You 11 be amazed to find how quickly
you become familiar with the workings of the Diesel. Many
students have qualified for positions in as short a period as four
months. The fees are low and payments easy.
RESULTS PROVE OUR
TRAINING THE SURE WAY
TO SUCCESS IN DIESEL
A wonderful luture lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious men who get
m early with the proper training. But you must be properly trained. The success
o lesel Engineering College students at Government examinations tells its own
story o the thoroughness of training at this College. As the Diesel Engineering
o ege maintains branches at Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane students are
assured that they will obtain individual attention wherever they live.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS ...
B. U/fl/m
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
