

f v ' r,v llp I •' p
"The Ship Inn”
■" ' Porlock—Somersetshire
Whilst visiting the
Ship Inn Robert
Southey, an early
nineteenth century
Poet Laureate,
Wm
mm
mm i
S 3
m iss
tv--
m
w.
B
&
' ::
found inspiration
for one of his most
VS*
N.v-
-m
fe
:w>s
harming poems
i
m-:.
m
i
i
T
i
i/niit
m
m
m
m
M
m
Y, ■'/£%%,
r ?
af
» ~ " r ; v "7 7
* *-
“■ j=f-
c -i ~~*s~ v j?
=»_-~ *—
- -
3^
. -"€
r; -
r.
V
i-xm
SKS
' V '«=
Host Holbrook says:
"During the lifetime of
Robert Southey the House
of Holbrook was founded
in the old world village of
Stour port, Worcestershire,
England.
Since that' time my Wor-
cestershire Sauce has be-
come famous the world
over.”
Jhe 1/l/orMs Appetiser!
HOLBROOKS
"sauce
WORCESTERSHIRE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3138.
Wednesday, April 3, 1940.
Labor Looks at Moscow
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
urn
im*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explainin'
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, u<
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN TRADITION.
“Australia Increases Musical Repute,”
says a Melbourne daily in a headline,
referring to the fact that the 17-year-old
pianist and composer Noel Mewton
Wood has made a hit in London. It
should have been put the other way
about—“ Noel Mewton Wood Increases
Australia’s Musical Repute.”
All the daily does is to accept the
Australian tradition, and there is a tradi-
tion of music in Australia, just as there
is a tradition of cricket. But it doesn’t
ask itself how the tradition was created.
If you drew a circle with a radius of 200
miles in Victoria with Ballarat as its
centre you would encompass the birth-
places or the place where they got their
first start of most of Australia’s good
singers and musicians—to mention a
few, Marjorie Lawrence, Austral, Brown-
lee, Percy Grainger, Amy Castles, Harold
Williams, William Murdoch and, of
course, Melba. In the same way, if
you drew a similar circle round Vienna
you would encompass most of the great
composers. Within that circle, every
mother who sees her child taking an in-
terest in the family piano automatically
thinks: “I have brought into the world a
Beethoven, a Bach or a Mozart.” Most
mothers in Victoria who heard a child
of theirs warbling for the sheer pleasure
of warbling would similarly think: “Ah,
a potential Melba!” And if she didn’t,
somebody else would.
One of Australia’s leading pianists,
now making a name for herself in
Europe, was “discovered” by the local
butcher. Calling with the meat he heard
strains of music coming from a cottage
piano, looked in at the window and saw
a little girl in plaits fingering the piano.
“She’s got talent,” he said to the mother.
His chance observation fired the parents,
and they put no obstacles in the way of
their daughter learning music ; in fact,
they made every sacrifice for it.
In the same way, a father who saw his
son hitting a ball about with a faggot
from the woodpile would tend to think
that his son was a potential Bradman.
He would put no obstacles in the way of
his developing into a cricketer. Neither
v/ould schoolmasters. If the lad went to
a public school he would be exempted
from Latin, Greek, English literature and
mathematics and given every opportunity
to get on with his cricket.
But if a few unique individuals like
Melba had not created a musical
tradition in Australia, a parent who saw
his child listening to a bird’s song would
think his offspring was wasting his time
in a reprehensible manner and order
“Get on with your studies.” The boy
would tend to see his activity through
the same eyes as his father and feel
guilty. Unless he had the obsession for
singing of a Melba he would then make
his father’s demand the excuse for, and
call it the cause of, his inability to
become a musician.
A tradition is never created by some
individual saying: “There is no music
in this country; I will make it.” It
never comes about in this way, and no
number of leading articles pointing out
the necessity for great poetry, great
drama, great sculpture or great anything
else in Australia will ever succeed in
producing one Shelley, Shakspeare or
Rodin. But if a Shelley or a Shakspeare
or a Rodin did come along, papers like
this Melbourne daily, with the best in-
tentions in the world, would do their
darnedest to prevent his ever rising.
This is a fact that ought to be written
in the hats of every literary society,
academy of art and newspaper office in
Australia. Sometimes a struggling artist
may meet a sympathetic individual who
believes in his potentialities. But it is
always the individuals who create the
tradition, never society.
F.S.
A Gentleman of Sydney.
It is a great pity that M. Barnard
Eldershaw’s The Life and Times of Cap-
tain John Piper should have been written
for and published by the Australian
Limited Editions Society. This is not a
complaint about the society, for it has
brought out a book that is both good
reading and an exceptionally handsome
piece of craftsmanship ; the authors have
written a valuable history,
and the society has given
permanence to their
efforts. But the story
locked away in the rich
Australian calf binding contains a
drama so humanly interesting as well as
historically significant that it demands
a far wider audience than the society’s
subscribers.
The authors have painted the early
Sydney background with their familiar
dexterity. If they had been working as
novelists this time, or as biographers
instead of simply as recorders, if they
had painted the portraits with the imag-
ination they have given to the back-
ground, they could have made a magni-
ficent story out of the young English
ensign who came out to Sydney to make
his fortune; who —possibly because of
an unfortunate love affair —joined the
isolated, bickering community on Nor-
folk Island and was one of the two
officers given the duty of disarming the
troops when Lieutenant Abbott mutinied
against Governor King ; who —back in
Sydney—took his part in the complicated
quarrels between the N.S.W. Corps and
the Governor, was Macarthur’s second in
his duel with Colonel Paterson and was
arrested for his share in it; who eventu-
ally made a fortune as Naval Officer at
Sydney, entertained lavishly at his man-
sion at Point Piper, lent out money too
easily when he was chairman of directors
of the Bank of N. S. Wales, and, when an
investigation was looming, staged a
most elaborate attempt at suicide.
These were the Naval Officer’s hold-
ings before the crash came:
A town allotment of one acre on
George-street, 190 acres at Point Piper,
475 acres at Vaucluse, 1130 acres in the
region of Woollahra and Rose Bay, 295
acres at Petersham fronting on Parra-
matta-road, 700 acres at Neutral Bay, 80
acres at Botany Bay, six acres (a choice
site) at Parramatta, a town allotment at
Liverpool, Moor’s Farm, Bathurst Farm
at Bringelly, 640 acres at Stoney Creek,
300 acres in Van Diemen’s Land, 2000
acres beyond the Blue Mountains; other
smaller properties.
. No wonder the champagne flowed at
Point Piper; that there were dinner
parties, balls, water parties, picnics. His
golden age, the authors say, lasted 12
years. Then there came an evening when
he invited his closest friends to dinner
and, telling them that he was called away
on business, invited them to carry on
with the party ; he ordered out his barge,
told his crew, who were also his band,
to take their musical instruments, and
sailed outside the Heads ; there, while
the band was playing, he threw himself
overboard. He was rescued, returned
dripping to the party, and set about tear-
ing up the farewell letters he had written.
He was never accused of anything
worse than mismanagement. A tide of
emotional offers of help beat up and
ebbed and he retired to his property at
Bathurst. Drought, lordly living, generos-
ity and fatal lack of business ability
brought a second crash when he was
over 70, and he finished his days on a
500-acre farm beside the Macquarie
River at Westbourne. The family, say
the authors, kept its form, and his son
Henry grew up to be the finest shot in
the neighborhood. To.wake himself up
to go shooting at daybreak Henry in-
vented a fabulous mechanism set off by
the domestic poultry pecking wheat he
had scattered the previous night.
Illuminating Captain Piper’s amazing
career are fascinating bits and pieces of
history, varying from the bald statement
that in a meadow on the Hawkesbury a
mare gave birth to a unicorn to an ac-
count of the suppression of a convict
rising. Of the stuff that brings the period
to life —the original documents are
always the thing—are the letters from
Macarthur and his wife to Piper, and
the letter from Bartholomew Reardon,
manager of Piper’s Tasmanian property:
I expect you have heard of thay loss i
Met with on thay ninth of March last in
thay ded of thay night sum malessis
scoundrells set fire to Two of my Corn
stacks which set fire to Five more and to
my barn which was Consumed to hashes
without saving a single Bushell of weete
out of any of thay stacks or any part of
thay corn, thay fire was one of thay most
Dredfull sites i Ever saw. No person
could get within fifty yeards of it, it was
with a grate difficulty that i saved my
Hows which was one Hundred Yards from
thay fire, and it had not been discovered
before it was long on fire my wife and
two Pore littell girls most likely would
have been Burned in their beds which
would have been thay worst loss of all.
The authors look upon Captain Piper
as a symbolic figure—the “doyen of
those dreamers” who thought that the
Colony was a Lady Bountiful and found,
after the first hectic, spurious prosperity
of the Rum Corps, that it wasn’t. He
died just after gold had been discovered,
when a new age was beginning. “He
was,” they say, “the hero of a romance
that did not exist.* 4 Their book —and
that is why one wishes it were a full-
bodied biography—is rather the romance
of a hero who does not exist. On its own
level, a monograph on “the life and
times” and an essay on the strict theme
of Piper as a symbol, it is a fine achieve-
ment, clear-cut, well written and always
to the point.
Hands Thai Rock the
Typewriter.
After M. Barnard Eldershaw’s new
book come two new novels by Australian
women writers, a history by a New
Zealand woman, and Mr. E. M. Smith’s
A History of New Zealand Fiction
(A. H. Reed, Ltd., Dunedin) with the
statement that obviously holds good on
each side of the Tasman, “Women have
played a large part in the development
of New Zealand fiction, and have left
a very definite mark upon it.”
Neither Mary Mitchell’s Viper’s Pro-
gress (Methuen) nor Helen Simpson’s
Maid No More (Heinemann) contributes
anything to Australian letters in the way
that The Life and Times of Captain
Piper does, though Maid No More may
add something to the reputation of Aus-
tralians in general fiction. Viper’s Pro-
gress is a highly-colored novel about a
French adventuress who takes a good
man from his wife and children, almost
ruins him financially and spiritually, tries
to do the same thing to a fat millionaire,
and is finally reduced to “the status of
an acknowledged demi-mondaine” by an
indomitable male. On its own level of
the highly improbable it is compelling
enough, but you have to be able to be-
lieve in bad fairies before its spell can
work.
Helen Simpson’s novel, also an im-
probable story, is not intended to
relate to actualities except symbolically.
Somewhat resembling her earlier success-
ful venture into mysticism, The Woman
on the Beast, it reads like an ethereal Led
version of the slave-trading chapters of
Anthony Adverse. Two Quakerlike reli-
gious women, having been whipped
through the streets of Oxford after a
complaint by a lordly young Master of
Arts that they had been disturbing the
peace, find themselves on board a ship
with their persecutor, bound for the West
Indies.
Mysticism and swashbuckling adven-
tures, mingled in a strange, quiet har-
mony, make the rest of the story a fasci-
nating piece of reading. The Master of
Arts is handsome and quarrelsome. The
crew are cutthroats. The women, for
all their piety, have their moments of
humorous country realism. Against a
background of thirst and mutiny un-
folds the complex story of the love of
the younger woman for the Master of
Arts, the mounting hostility between the
captain and his passenger, and the deep
jealousy of the older woman. Slaves are
taken on board; the younger woman,
trying to teach them religion and to
escape from her love for Conisby, suc-
ceeds only in teaching them a song about
“jolly good ale.” The slaves, chanting
the ridiculous words, escape from the
hold, murder the older woman for a
blood sacrifice, and accept the younger
as their priestess because she is capable
of “testifying” in trances.
When the ship is wrecked on an island
the mystical essay and the adventure
story work out in the loss of the woman’s
spiritual power because of her love for
Conisby ; then Conisby’s death, and the
woman —a prophetess once more—sail-
ing away with the slaves to drown in a
storm.
After the rather uncanny experience
of reading Maid No More, it’s not quite
so surprising as it might have been to
learn that Helen Simpson isn’t Helen
Simpson at all. At least, the Helen
Simpson who has written The Women
of New Zealand (another of the
M.L. official centennial publications)
isn’t the. Australian novelist but a
New Zealander who has had a bril-
liant academic career. Her book is dis-
appointing: she says that, knowing that
much of the ground would be covered
in other volumes of the series—Maori
women in the Maori book, artists and
writers in a forthcoming literary survey,
and so on —she has tried to avoid dupli-
cation. But that leaves her nothing—
or very little—to write about. It would
have been better to duplicate.
She tells the hardships of the voyage
from England, the difficulties faced by
the pioneer wY>men, hastily touches on
art and letters—making some debatable
statements —and becomes more interest-
ing when she presents statistics of women
in employment to-day—about 15,000 in
the public service for a start. There is
an account of women’s organisations
with the remark, “Women’s associations
in New Zealand tend to start with high
aims and to degenerate into tea parties.”
Since that, more or less, is what has
happened to the novels of Nelle Scanlan,
and since Miss Scanlan is reputed to br:
New Zealand’s best-seller, the note 01
facetious gloom in Mr. E. M. Smiths
History of New Zealand Fiction is under-
standable. He calls attention to one or
two good novels, notably William Sat-
chell’s Greenstone Door and F. O. V.
Acheson’s Plume of the Arawas, but his
final opinion is, “No honest critic, how-
ever enthusiastic, can pretend that the
country has yet produced writings quali-
fying as ‘literature.’ ” Presumably “writ-
ings” means “novels”—and distinctively
New Zealand novels —for (if the works
of Butler and Katherine Mansfield are
not to be counted) the country has pro-
duced histories, biographies and poetry
that certainly “qualify as literature.”
This is a valuable little book, for such
a survey has not been attempted before.
But it is no more than an introduction
to its subject. Less sketchy treatment
would have allowed a fuller appreciation
of the real, if minor, virtues of both early
and recent fiction and a more entertain-
ing account (either sympathetic or satiri-
cal) of the pioneer novels. The lack of
any reference to G. B. Lancaster’s
Promenade is a surprising omission.
G. B. Lancaster —another woman novel-
ist —is not a New Zealander by birth, but
she spent most of her youth there, and
Promenade, though by no means a
“great” book, is easily the best historical
novel yet written of Maoriland.
Tolefree and Ellery Queen.
Surprising how often friends and
acquaintances of famous criminologists
fall victims of homicide. It’s very nearly
a common enough occurrence to call
for legislation debarring all detectives
from the ordinary social contacts. That
the detectives are almost invariably suc-
cessful in bringing the murderers to
justice can scarcely be regarded as com-
pensatory. Three more quite innocent
people have recently gone the same way
—two of them film stars who were en-
joying life in Hollywood and working
on the same film as Ellery Queen, the
other Tolefree’s friend Entwhistle.
R. A. J. Walling tells of Entwhistle’s
tragic end in They Liked Entwhistle
(Hodder and Stoughton ; Moore’s Book-
shop). Entwhistle was a nice chap;
City, with a place down in Sussex,
church, golf and billiards for week-ends.
Somebody bashed him on the back of
the head while four of his friends were
about the house, none of them with an
alibi. Tolefree, arriving about half an
hour later, had to sort everything out''
and break down a vast conspiracy of
silence before he discovered who did it.
He works as well as ever, gathering clues,
fitting them together—motive first, oppor-
tunity and so on until he’s built up
his case. The whole thing hangs to-
gether in pattern. Tolefree’s offsider,
Farrar, makes a more intelligent “Wat-
son” than most of the varied assistants
who clutter up present-day mystery
novels.
Much as the fate of Entwhistle is to
be deplored the tragedy recorded in
Ellery Queen’s Four of Hearts (Goi-
lancz) must cause even greater regret:
the unfortunate couple, Blythe Stuart
and Jack Royle, had been known to a
generation of filmgoers, and they were
bumped off in the ’plane in which they
were leaving for their honeymoon. It
needs innumerable bottles of brandy and
very nearly another double murder be-
fore the wisecracking Queen can point
to the assassin (though he himself has
known the culprit for a long time).
Neatly worked out, but it suffers from
the same handicap as all novels about
Hollywood the people can never be
made to appear real.
The Australian John Wallace, who’s
steadily adding a long list of mystery
stories to his name, hardly attempts to
make the characters in his latest, It’s
Here (Crime Book Co., Melbourne), true
to life at all. It’s set in a “large country
town,” complete with luxury hotels,
slums, suburbs, a brilliant young barris-
ter and a “dear old fool” of a private in-
vestigator. There are murder, romance, a
gaol-break, intrigue, kidnapping, fire and
misunderstanding, all very much involved.


“TRUTH IN ADVER USING'’ has built Anthony Horderns'.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
20 Days Genuine Autumn
A
m
s
I
m
#
*0
mss
m
m
i
f
HI
li
105/-, 115/-, 126/-, SUITINGS
MADE TO MEASURE
Special range reduced for the
Sale. All Wool Worsteds, Fancy
Blues, Greys, Fawns, etc., below
pre-war price. English pre-shrunk
linings and interlinings. Tailored in our own
workrooms. 1940 styles. Patterns on request.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices: 105/-, 115/-,
126/-.' SALE PRICE 89/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street, Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
'Phone M2401 Day and Night.
89' 6
I05'- CAMEL HAIR
Polo OVERCOATS
Rich, lustrous Fawns
with overchecks or self
stripes, rich art. satin
linings. Double-breast-
ed Polo, all-round belt, deep collar —•
a splendid quality top coat. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 1057-
SALE PRICE 89/6
89' t
W- Trench Coats
English made, Fawn
Showerproofed Cotton
Gabardines, check lin-
ings, strap shoulders
and cuffs, all-round belt, Van Dyke
back, full skirt. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 84/-. SALE PRICE 757-
BOX 2712C, G.P.Q., SYDNEY.
75/-
42 .39 6 SPORTS COAT
Secure one at this price. We
cannot repeat it. Browns, Greens,
Cinnamon, London Tan, also
Donegals. Tailored or action
backs, pleated patch pockets. 34 to 46 chests,
in regular long, short, stout and corpulent
fittings. Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices:
35/-, 39/6, 42/-. SALE PRICE 26/9
26'9
m.
m
m
II
1
lilt
ii
Hi
ft
I!
g s...
Hill
s >m
27 6 BOYS' SUITS
All Wool Worsted Suits.
College Greys; good,
solid cloth, dependable
linings. Knickers have
English Silesia linings. Sizes 5 to 13.
© Boys’ Clothing—Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or 1st
Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. & seaports in the Commonwealth.
21 '■


THE LAST NIGHT
“I"ll report that driver. He's running three minutes ahead of schedule."
BY GAVIN S. CASEY.
WE started off that holiday on the wrong foot.
We couldn’t afford it, for one thing ; but I
was on the verge of walking in my sleep, so
we decided we’d have to have it, afford it or not.
That sort of decision leaves you gloomy and savagely
aware that you’ve worked hard for a long time and
ought to be able to afford a spell. It’s my way to
spend pretty freely, too, and when I can’t do it I’m
not exactly good to live with. I’m generally careful
and irritable for a while, and then I burst out, letting
the cash fly and damning the consequences. I’ve
lived with myself long enough now to know my
habits, and that’s one of them that I dislike pretty
thoroughly. I wish I disliked it enough to mend it.
Anyway, we didn’t start off well. Sadie and I
had got used to taking no notice of each other
around the house, but it was a sure thing, I thought,
that our bad habits would show up more among
other people. I wished I could go off on my own,
but she needed a rest as much as I did. Maybe more,
after about three years of looking after me and the
kid, and putting up with my temper, and lacking
the change I got at work. It was all or nothing ;
so we checked over the money we had, and made
plans about how to make the best use of it. Plans
of that kind disgust me, and then I disgust Sadie.
But they had to be made, and that was all there was
to it.
We didn’t have much to say to each other
on the bus, except when Sadie quarrelled with the
driver about paying for the kid. That sort of thing
always irritates me, though I should know it’s only
our common purse she’s trying to look after. I do
know, but not at the time. At the time all I know
is that it’s not my way to squabble about that sort
of thing, and it ought not to be my wife’s. I feel
ashamed and angry.
“You needn’t try to look as if we didn’t belong
to you,” Sadie snapped when the bus-driver had gone
back to his seat with a red face but no fare for
the kid. “You should have put that beast of a man
in his place.”
“Hell!” I said. “You don’t get anywhere by
‘putting people in their places.’ If you hadn’t gone
for him like a mad dog I might have had a word
with him.”
“A word with him!” said Sadie bitterly. “You'd
have had a word with him all right! J3y the time
you’d finished talking to him you’d have been paying
double fare for the lot of us, and we’d have had
to walk home.”
The bus rolled through good country little
farms and gardens, and trees that were the rich,
heavy green that you find only where there’s plenty
of rainfall but the squabble spoiled it for me.
Instead of enjoying it, I felt cheated and angry. I
could feel Sadie’s dislike and exasperation like a
current flowing into my mind, and the kid seemed
to feel the tension, too. He sat pretty quiet, but he
couldn’t keep it up for ever.
“What’s that?” he yelled suddenly, pointing.
“What’s that?”
I hopped in to answer the question and collar
the kid before his mother got him. “It’s a calf,” I
said. “A little calf, Bill.”
“It looks like a cow,” he said, a bit distrustfully.
“It’s a calf,” I said. “A calf’s a baby cow.”
The nipper sat quiet for a quarter of a mile,
thinking it over. Then he said, pretty seriously:
“I’m a baby man, then, Dad. I’m a baby man, aren’t
I?”
I laughed, but Sadie’s face never crinkled. She
sat grim and disapproving, staring ahead. I began
to hate her pretty thoroughly. If we couldn’t have
the kid in common there was nothing we could have,
I thought. I took the youngster on my knee and
ignored her as thoroughly as I could. He was too
worked up about all he saw, too keen on getting his
questions answered quickly, to worry about who
answered them, and he took no notice of her at all.
I felt pleased, and hoped it hurt.
When we arrived I was disappointed in the place,
too. It was one of those sprawling seaside towns
that are not on any railway line. It was covered with
flimsy, shoddy, impermanent holiday homes, and the
place we’d hired was as bare and jerry-built as the
rest of them. From the front verandah I could look
out over the big bay, but the bay, all except the
blue water in it, seemed frowsy too, and the sand
was grey, instead of the dazzling white I’d always
associated with beaches. The town was all hotel and
change-rooms and ice-cream signs, and the very look
of it made my head start to ache in the way it had
been aching lately in the city. But the bay was
preferable to the dirty holiday house, with Sadie
grim and righteously indignant. After we’d eaten
a scratch meal that was mostly bread and jam she
started to put young Bill to bed, and I got a fishing-
line and stamped out. It would do her good, I
thought, to spend the first evening of her holiday
alone in the ugly box with no company but the
sleeping kid.
'T'HE darkness covered up the ugliness of the town,
* and the papers blowing around were just shadows
in the night. The lights were prettier than ice-cream
signs, and the whole show was a lot better. The
breeze off the sea was fresh and cool, and as I.
tramped towards the jetty I felt better. I passed
others, coming and going, and there were lanterns
glowing in boats on the bay. There were purposeful
men with rods and lines, talking a jargon I couidnjt
understand; but my mood had improved, and they
were men, anyway. I rambled out over the water
and stood alongside a chap who was squatting patiently
over a line.
“How’re they biting?” I asked.
“Not so good,” he said. “Should ’a’ got a boat.
They’re gettin’ ’em all out there.” He started pulling
in his line, and swore when he found the hook
bare of bait. I stood behind him, feeling curious
as to why the fish should prefer the boats to the
jetty, which jutted out further than the places where
most of the dinghies lay.
“I don’t know much about this game,” I said.
“Why’s a boat better, anyway?”
I got no answer for a while, as the chap started
rolling up his gear. Then he started to laugh.
“Damned if I know,” he said. “I don’t even know
if it is. The talk was just .swank, and if you know
less than me you’re pretty ignorant. I’m a wheat-
cocky, an’ even the banks have stopped biting up
my way.”
“I’m from the goldfields,” I said. “I’ve been
in the city the last few years, but I’ve spent most
of my life up there, where the fish come in bread-
crumbs.”
I felt warm and friendly. I liked his style, and
when he said he’d spent twelve months on the ’fields
a few years earlier when things had been tough we
started comparing notes, and found the names of a
few men we both knew. We squatted on the jetty,
smoking and letting the fish bite the piles away
from underneath us if they wanted to. After a while
it reached what it was working up to, and we tramped
up through the sand towards the pub, feeling thirsty
and friendly and good. I’d forgotten Sadie altogether,
and, of course, I’d forgotten all the money I didn’t
have to play around with.
It didn’t turn out to be an expensive evening
after all. There was more talk than beer, and what
did trickle down our throats did us a lot of good.
He was pretty good company. He was old enough
to have been at the 1914 war, and he’d had some
of the ’fields and a stretch among the cane in uee *| s "
land, as well as plenty of the wheatbelt. By t e
time I was ready to get off home my mind seeme
to be full of new ideas and friendship.
We hadn’t drunk so much, but it couldn t have
been so little either, because when I got out into the
cool air I started to fee] it. All the miserable humpies
lining the road seemed the same, and I wasn t suie
of ours, but I fluked it first go, and felt pleased
with myself. I felt pleased because of that, but
I’d have been pleased if I’d had to blunder around
for an hour looking for it. My new cobber, Len
Martin, was the sort I liked, and in the fortnight we
both had at the beach I was looking forward to seeing
a lot of him. I blundered into the house, feeling
well above myself, and not thinking about the
reception I might get.
I switched on the light in the only room worth
calling one, and, of course, Sadie and the kid were
in bed. The youngster was sprawled out, fast asleep,
but Sadie was sitting up, with the blankets gathered
around her throat, looking at me in that extra-
venomous way she keeps for special occasions. She
had a case for complaint, and a good one, and I
was feeling so pleased with myself that I might have
felt pretty repentant if she’d given me a chance.
But she didn’t. She never does see when the time
is ripe to let a man’s own good spirits work around
until they make him feel a worm. She always hops
in, bitter and accusing, and drives the pleasure out
of me with hate.
“I could smell your breath from the door,” she
said. “There is no need to tell me where you’ve
been. Why did you worry to take the fishing line
with you?”
“Well, I haven’t brought it back,” I said, sud-
denly discovering that I must have left it down at
the pub. “Just as well, or I might have strangled
you with it.”
That was how things were when I tumbled into
bed, lying so far over on my side of it that I prac-
tically hung out like a verandah. I lay in the dark,
awake, for what seemed like a long time, though
it probably wasn’t, seething with indignation, and
justifying myself for all that had happened, and
feeling determined to see plenty of Len Martin,
whether Sadie liked it or not.
NEXT day I did see Len, and he produced a
wife, three kids and an old car, so we combined
forces. The wife was fat and comfortable, the nippers
were likely sorts, two boys and a girl, and we learned
a thing or two from the Martins about the best way
to handle our one and only. The car used to bulge
a bit at the sides, but there was always room for rugs,
and if any of the kids got tired before we came home
from anywhere they could roll up and go to sleep.
It made things better for Sadie, being able to take
young Bill when we rambled off to some distant bay
or beach, and she seemed to appreciate it at first.
But then she froze up on me, and got tight-lipped
and silent and disapproving whenever Len and I put
in an evening yarning at the pub. Mrs. Martin
talked on and on as a rule, and occasionally got
sympathetic and understanding, but I wanted to kick
Sadie ip the face when I thought of her at all.
In the city I suppose you meet as many of your
sort as you do anywhere else, and now and again
you get a glimpse of their troubles or the things
they’re enthusiastic about that makes you feel warm
towards them. But mostly they disappear into the
crowd again, and afterwards you get only glimpses
of them at long intervals. If you come from the
’fields you miss the leisurely yams in the change-
rooms and the pubs and the interesting things that
bubble out of pretty unexpected places at times. Len
got me back into that atmosphere, with the added
advantages of the cool salt sea to swim in and stretches
of sand on which we could lie and smoke, talking
or not talking just as we felt inclined. It wasn’t
long before I could look out over the bay and see
the islands and the curling coastline without even
noticing the crude buildings that had offended me at
first, and, of course, when I reached that stage the
holiday was doing me good.
The days of fishing and sun-bathing and running
around in Len’s car passed too quickly, and when
the last one came I was concerned about losing touch
with him altogether. We left the women ashore
and went out in a rowboat. From where we dropped
the anchor we could see the women lying with their
hats over their faces and the kiddies running and yell-
ing like young blackfellows. I wished it could go
on for ever. I was feeling well and strong, but l
wasn’t looking forward to the city. We sat in the boat
with our lines trailing, feeling the sun on the backs
of our necks and each thinking his own thoughts. I
hoped that Len would be regretting the end of our
couple of weeks of knocking around together, too.
“Well,” I said. “It’ll soon be over, worse luck!
D’you reckon on coming down to the coast next
year?”
“Not unless I win something,” Len drawled.
“Cockles only have holidays once every five years,
an’ then they can’t afford ’em.”
“If you cared to stay with us in town it might
make it easier on the pocket,” I suggested.
“I’ve been thinking a different way,” Len said.
“If you could put up with the wheatbelt we’d like
to see you and the wife and kid up in our part of
the world.”
It was casual enough, but I knew he meant it,
and in one jump I started thinking a year ahead. 1


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1940.
£.300
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of writers
and Australian literature—" Australian being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing; so also are bona
fide resident's, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £lOO, wjiich
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. With accumulations from years when
no award was made the amount has built up
to £3OO, and an entry of sufficient merit in
the present competition, closing June 6 this
year, can qualify for the £2OO accumulations in
addition to the ordinary award of £lOO.
This 1940 Competition is open to Novels,
Biographies, Autobiographies and all other kinds
of works in prose. Each MS. must be submitted
under a pen-name, with full name and address
in an accompanying sealed envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. Serial rights will be a
matter for arrangement between The Bulletin
and the winner and the writers of any other
entries selected, payment for such rights being
in addition to the Prize. All other rights—
book, stage, radio and the like—will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252 188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
felt pretty pleased, because it’s always good to know
that someone you like likes you, too. We sprawled
about the boat, watching the shadow of the jetty
grow longer and not needing to say anything until
long after the women and kids had gone scrambling
over the sandhills. When we pulled ashore it was
dusk, and I went toward our place, still feeling good.
I WAS full of the news for Sadie, not because I
I thought it would please her as much as it had me,
but because it was one of those things you’ve got to
talk about to someone, whether you think they’ll
understand or not. But the opportunity to tell her
didn’t come for a while. She was busy with the tea,
and then the kid was asleep on his feet and had to
be put to bed. We tucked him away, and when we
went out to sit on the verandah steps I suddenly
wanted to sell the idea to my wife, to convince her
that next year’s holiday would be good, and that Len
was a man who was out of the ordinary. It made
it harder to start, having to be careful. Before l
got going young Bill, inside, woke up with a yell,
and we dashed inside and switched the light on.
He was all right, of course. It must have been
just one of those vague dreams that sometimes startle
kids out of sleep. His eyes weren’t open for more
than fifteen seconds, but while they were he mumbled,
“Can’t we stay here, Dad? I don’t want to go home.
I want to stop with Tom and Joe and Marjorie.”
I saw Sadie’s lips tighten, and I guessed that, for
some reason I couldn’t plumb, she thought it would
be a good thing when we were home again. I resented
that, and my resentment got queerly mixed up with
the things I’d been thinking. When we were back
on the verandah, sitting on the steps watching the
hurricane-lamps twinkling on the bay, I started to
talk.
“Len wants us to go up to his farm next year,”
I said bluntly. “It won’t cost much, and it’ll be
healthy for the kid.”
Sadie said nothing, but I knew she disapproved.
In the dim light I couldn’t see her expression, and I
couldn’t have understood it if I had.
“It’ll only cost the train fare,” I said. “Three
extra mouths to feed aren’t anything on a farm.”
“Yoti’re very careful about money all of a
sudden,” Sadie answered, ready to quarrel.
“All right,” I said, “if that’s how you feel. I’ll
go if it costs all I have, and I don’t give a damn if
you come or not. I like Len Martin, and I’m glad
of a chance to see him again. I thought you liked
Mrs. Martin, too, like anyone else would.”
“She’s all right,” said Sadie, suddenly pretty
passionate and speaking out the venom that was in
her. “It’s your damned Len Martin I hate. If you
expect me to love him because he keeps you away
every minute of the day except when you want to
eat or sleep, you’re a fool. I hate him, and I wish
we were never going to see him again.”
Sadie started to cry, and it softened her and
startled me. She wailed miserably, with her head in
her arms against the rough boards of the verandah
floor, and it was a lonely, discouraged sound, pretty
different from her usual cold superiority. Suddenly
I tumbled that she was jealous of Len Martin, as
jealous as she would have been of another woman,
and I felt kinder and a bit ashamed of myself. I
felt good, too, and for the first time for a long time
I was aware that Sadie and I were a long way from
the end of our interest in each other, even if we did
snarl and hate a good deal of the time. I looked at
her, curled up on the steps sobbing, and felt for a
while as I’d used to feel about her ten years earlier.
I slithered along the step and put my arm around
her shoulders.
“Hell, Sade!” I said. “There’s nothing for you
to feel like that about. It’s just that a man’s got to
have man’s company sometimes, and if I got more oi
it, as a rule, I daresay I wouldn’t have it
so much with Len. I’m sorry if I’ve overdone it.
She sat up, and I tried to think of the proper
words to use, telling her what was in my mind, but
there weren’t any words. I remembered how the kid
had been so wrapped up in Len’s youngsters, too,
and I thought I could realise for a moment how much
my wife had come to feel like the cook and house-
keeper around the place. Her holiday had been as
bad as mine had been good, I could see, and I pulled
her closer to me.
We sat till late, staring out over the bay and at
the haze of light where the big port lay a score of
miles along the coast. We didn’t say much, because
there wasn’t much that could be said. At the start
there was a lump in my throat over the hard deal
Sadie and myself, and everyone else for that matter,
got, but that dissolved, and I felt warm and com-
fortable and less alone than I did even with Len.
For the evening, anyway, neither of us held any spite
or resentment or stored up hatred for wrongs we
thought we’d suffered at each other’s hands.
MY holiday was a good one, and the last night of
it was good for Sadie, even if that was all. The
last night of it was good for me, too. I’ve thought
about it a lot since, and sometimes it brings me up
with a jerk, though often when things go wrong and
she’s wearing her cold, tight-lipped smile I haven’t
got enough sense to remember her crying that night
on the steps.
“Make a good job of me and I'll let you 'ave a go at painting Strawb."
BREAKING OF
THE DROUGHT
BY CLARA HENTY.
ALL day it threatened rain. Great clouds rolled
up and spread across the windless heavens that
hung above us, sullenly grey. The heavily-
timbered ranges stood darkly still. Even the
winging crows —black smudges against the surly sky—
were silent as they sought the shelter of the timber in
the late afternoon.
We wanted rain; we were tired of dragging weak
cattle out of bogs that had once been waterholes.
Bill stared at the clouds. “We’ll get it this time,”
he said.
Liz said “I doubt it!” But, then, Liz was never
an optimist.
THE first drops caught Charlotte as she turned in
at the gate with a bundle of washing on her back
and a bucket of water in one hand. There was good
water to be had in the old shafts among the deserted
mining dumps a couple of gullies away; through the
long dry summers of years we washed there, and car-
ried every drop of drinking water the long half-mile
home in buckets. Charlotte beat the rain to the house,
carrying her bucket carefully because —well, Liz might
be right.
We could hear the strange rushing roar of the
wind, tearing like some long imprisoned thing let loose
at last, screaming and shouting a way through the
gullies. It hurled itself over the flats, stripping leaves
from the trees, twisting limbs and tops from giant
gums and flinging them far. It gathered in the crazy
structure of crooked posts and battens and boughs
which Bill fondly imagined sheltered us and the cows
in the rainy weather, scattering it from stockyard to
boundary rails; gathered up the drums from the end
of the house, and trundled and rolled them and staved
in the garden fence with them, then left them, tangled
and caught and jammed in the netting. We wondered
if the house would stand. One of the stones that
weighted the roof slithered and rolled overhead. It
thudded to the ground ; the frail board door shook;
sparks and ashes swirled in the ten-foot fireplace. But
the worst of the gale had swept onward, and then
came the rain.
It hammered mercilessly on the galvanised roof.
We shouted at each other but heard nothing, saw only
the open, yelling mouths of the rest and the grinning
faces of Bill and Jim.
It found every weak spot in the roof. Nails were
loose in the heat-shrunken rafters, and drops and
streams of water pattered merrily into buckets and pans
that were hastily dumped about on the floor. Outside
draggled hens crouched under bits of gale-strewn
wreckage, and at the first opportunity the dog sneaked
in and camped under the sofa.
Hour after hour the rain kept on. The cows,
water streaming off their bony frames, strung off to
shelter in the nearest timber. Bill and Jim staggered
in with logs for the fire. Liz punched dough in the
breg.d pan and a fresh leak started above her head.
Cold water trickled down her neck, so that she had
to shift and gloomily predicted a heavy batch. Lou
rescued the cockatoo and brought him in with the rest
of us. Charlotte lit the lamp. Somebody moved it, and
cold water from the leaky roof splashed down and
broke the glass.
We turned in early, and as long as we were awake
we could hear the rush of the overflow from the tank
without, the glorious rain-song drumming on the roof
above. Charlotte said “No more water-carting,”
rolled over in bed and was happy. Bill said “This’ll
bring the grass up,” and was heard murmuring
“Lashin’s o’ feed” in his sleep. Liz got out of bed
again, found an old umbrella and slept under that.
At daybreak it was still raining. The creek
was running, the lower flat a lake. We moved the bees
and the pigs and decided against milking the cows.
All day it rained. It swirled across the paddocks
in blinding sheets of greyness, it blotted out hills and
trees, sheds and garden, dwindled to a drizzle, gathered
strength and pelted down again. The creek came down
a banker. Jim sat with his heels on the mantelpiece
and gave us “The Man from Snowy River.” Bill put
his heels up, too, and from time to time murmured
round his pipestem “Lashin’s o feed!
The children made up a game based on the news-
papers that papered the kitchen walls 111 give you
a sentence, and you’ve got to find it. Charlotte and
Lou were happy. Only Liz grumbled. She grumbled
because the rain beat in and put out the fire on the
camp-oven lid. She grumbled because the wood was
wet and the bread was heavy.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jfoyd 'Udm'cfWie mmcwne^Sxmddcaauei)
“YE OLDE CHESHIRE CHEESE” AND DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON
Assuredly a world-famed tavern, first in a literary sense, and secondly in a minor gastronomic connection, is Ye Olde
Cheshire Cheese, flanked by narrow court entrances from Fleet Street, that on the western side called Wine Office
Court, which is to be regarded as the principal, the “Court” and “The Cheese” being bracketed in a postal and directory
sense. Dr. Samuel Johnson made enduring fame for the Tavern. Many visit it with few thoughts of the great scholar,
and even those not always the kindliest. Thus that most brilliant of modern French writers, Paul Morand: “‘One is seized
by the grandeur of London, which permits one to embrace human life in all its varieties.’ This Perrichon philosophy of
Dr. Johnson never amused me, and I shall be no follower of his, except into his favorite Tavern, the Cheshire Cheese,
where Igo to lunch beneath his portrait, next to a pot of long clay pipes. At the entrance in Wine Office Court the goodly
odour of a lark and oyster pudding comes to your nose. But, alas! the old Tavern has become self-conscious about its
antiquity, advertises in Atlantic liners, and the whole world has signed its visitors’ book after tasting its marrow on toast
soaked in a pint of port.” Under the Cheshire Cheese are vaults (bricked), dining-rooms of an earlier date, but now
capacious wine cellars. Whether any of Australia’s beautiful Royal Purple Para Port is amid the collection is a question no
opinion is ventured upon, but, from the large Australian and New Zealand patronage the old place enjoys, it should
certainly be on hand if it is not. Wine Office Court, apart from the Cheshire Cheese, has other interesting associations.
In it Oliver Goldsmith resided and underwent many vicissitudes. On one occasion Dr. Johnson relieved his necessities
after seeing him here by selling for him his MSS. of the Vicar of Wakefield to a bookseller for a sum “Goldy” possibly,
at the moment, regarded as “handsome.”


ALL SET FOR THE SINK-OR-SWIM HANDICAP.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 SB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon cfc Gotch (Aka.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
LABOR LOOKS AT MOSCOW.
N. S. Wales Labor’s Easter Conference gas and
resolutions, or the British Labor attitude towards both
Red Russia and the war —which represents the real
feeling of the general body of Labor supporters
throughout Australia?
There could not be a wider contrast between the
Easter Conference and the British Labor attitudes if
they were held by parties at opposite extremes of the
political hurdy-gurdy. The Easter Conference attitude
was a complete exposition of the Moscow Crawl. In
this view Stalin remains a saint; the war on Finland
was justified ; the war in which Australia is involved
is a result of British imperialism, since even Hitler
becomes stainless through collaboration with the saint
of the Kremlin. That and the sorry rest of it may be
dismissed as emanations of a small Communist-colored
clique, but the taint will stick. Australian Labor will
have to carry it through the next elections. A team of
Ajaxes would perform like spavined mules under that
sort of handicap.
The British Labor attitude has been set forth in
a series of official publications, notably “Finland:
The Criminal Conspiracy of Stalin and Hitler.” This
document sets out “to call a spade a spade” and to
employ “formulas about bribery, deception, black-
mail, aggression and war in their old concrete con-
notations, with modern illustrations.” In contrast to
the fictions, falsehoods and evasions of the N. S. Wales
Easter Conference, it puts the war guilt where it
rightly belongs—that against Finland, with Stalin;
that in which Australia is involved, with Stalin and
Hitler and the pact of their conspiracy by which the
“stage was set for war against Poland.” Molotov,
minor saint of the Easter Conference, summed up on
the result: “One swift blow to Poland, first by the
German Army and then by the Red Army, and nothing
was left.”
Like the Moscow Crawl exponents of the Easter
Conference, British Labor, too, employs the term
“imperialistic” for both wars, but with a different
application. In the British Labor view the “sharing
of the Polish spoils” was “consecrated in the German-
Soviet Treaty of Friendship, fixing the frontier ‘of
their imperial interests in the former territory of
Poland,’ ” “the Imperialist Masters embracing over
the prostrate body of Poland” —a spectacle for ad-
miration and applause, in the Easter Conference view.
Official Labor (British, not N.S.W. brand) “leaves
the reader at liberty to speculate”
whether M. Joseph Stalin devours those whom he
loves, whether he was under the hypnotic spell of
Adolf the Conqueror or Peter the Great, or whether
he was now the victim of new morbid anxieties. His
Gargantuan appetite had not been satisfied by the
conquest of Polish territory “equal to the area of a
large European State.” His smaller Western neighbors
at once became the object of his imperial solicitude.
After the lesser Baltic States, Finland. “Russian
Czardom, ran the argument, was able to use naval
bases on the present territory of Finland. Then why
not Soviet Russia?” The Easter Conference, fer-
vently admiring imperialism when it is Russian, would
echo, Why not? Already, pursuing their policy of
imperialist expansion, Stalin and Hitler had separately
and together “brought within their despotic ‘protec-
tion’ by force or threat of force, regardless of life,
liberty or happiness, 60,500,000 human souls.” Hitler’s
share of these, as listed by British Labor: Western
Poland, 17,250,000 ; Sudetenland, 3,700,000 ; Slovakia,
3,300,000 ; Moravia, 2,321,000 ; Bohemia, 4,473,000 ;
Memelland, 153,000 ; Austria, 6,760,000; total,
37,957,000. Stalin’s share: Eastern Poland, 17,250,000 ;
Estonia, 1,116,000; Latvia, 2,000,000; Lithuania,
2,250,000 ; total, 22,616,000.
“There was worse to come” —Finland, with the
slaughter of that staunch little democracy’s men,
women and children ; condoned, if not applauded, at
the N. S. Wales Labor Conference, ironically at Easter.
“M. Joseph Stalin had become” —in the British, not
the N. S. Wales Labor Conference view—“a fast
worker, as they say in the underworld.... a militarist
and imperialist in the Russian tradition.” Invited to
Moscow by Stalin “to negotiate,” the Finnish Govern-
ment summed up its position—and, in its final state-
ment, that of all small countries, including Australia
and Maoriland: “We threaten none, seek no advan-
tage, and will not adhere to any great Power or group.
Our sole desire is to live at peace with all, and remain
outside conflicts.” British Labor sees “the cloven
hoof of Soviet imperialism” being revealed in the
“negotiations” and what followed. “The Soviet Union
.... .cannot escape the stigma of being imperialist.”
On the “theme of Soviet propaganda—and of
Stalin’s minions in Britain [as at the N. S. Wales
Easter Conference] —that the Finnish ruling classes,
supported by Great Britain, did not want an agree-
ment with the U.S.S.R., but that the broad masses
desired friendly relations with the Soviet Union,”
British Labor comments:
Soviet bombs made no such distinctions. Nor did
the Finns. Attacked, they defended themselves. Victims
of a policy of deception, blackmail, trickery, cynicism
and brutality excelling in cunning and dissimula-
tion the diplomacy of Russian Czardom, Nazi Germany
and Italian Fascism —whose daggers were never con-
cealed in the folds of angels’ wings—they were now
confronted with the brute weight of the Russian Empire.
The new Russian aerodromes and naval bases in Estonia,
which were to protect Estonia from any “great Euro-
pean Power," became bases of operation against Finland.
“For Fatherland! For Stalin! Battery, fire!” was
the battlecry of the Red Army. Never had the Russian
peasant and workman shouldered a rifle in a worse
cause.
In the vituperative Communist fashion the term
“these hangmen” had been applied to Finland’s demo-
cratic leaders. British Labor’s judgment:
The word “hangman” was ill-chosen in a manifesto
from Moscow, where it would sometimes appear that
the executioner’s axe is as busy as the Finnish woods-
man’s chopper. Nobody is hanged in Finland or
executed, whether they be Bolsheviks, old or new,
priests, politicians or diplomats, commissars or generals.
Finland is not rich by worldly standards. But it is
rich in the virtues of good life. It is a cultured
democracy.
The official Labor (British, not N.S.W. Easter
Conference) document, compiled “for those who
understand that the rule of law must be the basis of
any community of nations living in a state of peace”
upholds the view that
the two gangsters had agreed to work different
pitches or, more precisely the occupation of the Baltic
States and Finland was part of the price which M.
Joseph Stalin had exacted from Herr Adolf Hitler for
his betrayal of the peace of the world through the
conclusion of the Soviet-German Pacts. A bargain in
a thieves’ kitchen was followed by the now inevitable
war The real depth of the iniquity of M. Joseph
Stalin is still unknown. His thirty pieces of silver are
already stained with the blood of his own nameless
and countless Russian dead. His blood guilt and com-
plicity with Nazi Germany are enshrined in his message
to Herr von Ribbentrop: “The friendship of the peoples
of Germany and the Soviet Union, cemented by blood,
has every reason to be lasting and firm.” Whose
blood? The blood of Russians and Germans?
British Labor sees Stalin as “the Red Czar....
the executor of the traditional imperialism of Czarist
Russia.” It has a further word as applicable to N. S.
Wales Easter Conference Labor as to Britain’s own
Moscow Crawlers:
Stalin’s Men use the freedom which they enjoy to
defend War and Tyranny, a war of conquest by an
alien and powerful despot against a small outpost of
republican democracy. This vile thing is done for the
first time in the name of the British working-class!
And that is the taint which now clings, not only
to avowed Stalin’s Men in Australia, but to Labor in
Australia. Mr. Curtin, for his part, has reaffirmed
“the declaration that the Federal Labor party made
at the outset of the war: ‘We are with Britain.’ ”
That, he says, “absolutely stands” ; moreover, “We
regard Germany’s allies as the enemies of Britain, and,
therefore, of Australia.” Thus Mr. Curtin repudiates
the Easter Conference; but he will need a pretty
potent deodorant to get rid of its taint.
The War That Didn't Come.
All the Great Dailies are thundering at the Red mob
that passed the “Stop the War” and “Hands off
Russia” resolution at the N.S.W. “Labor” Conference,
and their rage is genuine enough ; but it is not wholly
a matter of outraged patriotism. In some quarters a
distinct note of chagrin can be detected. It proceeds
from a belated realisation of the fact that eminent
editors and erudite leader-writers let the Red mob
have the loan of their legs.
Before Stalin threw off the mask, the Sydney
“Morning Herald” and “Daily Telegraph” treated the
Red mob with peculiar consideration. As a step
towards capturing the party organisation, the Red
mob gained control of the “Daily News” (previously
the “Labor Daily”), and the “Herald” went out of its
way to praise the foreign policy of that paper. The
“Daily News” and the Red mob and Moscow were
devoted to the Democratic Front and to the League
and its covenants. They stood four-square for resist-
ance to aggression wherever aggression raised its head.
They championed the cause of the “Democrats” in
Spain and demanded active British support for the
“Democrats” — i.e., Stalinists. So did the “Herald” ;
and so did the “News-Chronicle” and Mr. Attlee and
the Duchess of Atholl and Mr. Fenner Brockway and
the Dean of Canterbury and members of the Churchill
family and the Liberal “party” ; and they were all
“had.”
A judicious selection from the writings and utter-
ances of these innocents during the civil war would
make a volume worth preserving, especially if it were
rounded off with a chapter devoted to the imperti-
nences of the American novelists Hemingway, Dreiser
and Sinclair and the imbecilities of Madame Tabouis
and her tribe. The chapter could be sauced with news-
paper headlines: Italians Seize the Balearics ; Musso-
lini’s Son Sank British Steamer; Germans Land 16-
inch Guns near Gibraltar; H.M.S. Basilisk Attacked
by Torpedo (“the torpedo may have been a por-
poise”) ; Fascist Powers to Invade Spain during
Coronation Week; Mussolini’s Plot to Sink British
Navy Discovered in Black Box; and so on.
Non-intervention in the internal affairs of Spain
is traditional British policy. From the outset it was
clear to the British Government that the civil war was
a contest between Reds who had gone in for Russian
methods of mass robbery and murder and National-
ists aiming at the preservation of an independent and
Christian Spain, and the fact that each side had
foreign backing (as happened in previous Spanish civil
wars) was no warrant for departing from the attitude
most advantageous to Britain and the British Com-
monwealth, and in the long run to Spain itself. So
the Chamberlain Government steadfastly pursued the
policy of Canning and Castlereagh, and the event has
shown that it was right.
Yet it was attacked with a fury of invective all
along. Its most savage assailants were Reds and
Americans ; but some of its British and Australian
opponents were nearly as wild and unreasoning as
the foreigners. Mud was even thrown at the Royal
Navy. For refusing to protect foreign blockade-
runners in their immensely profitable traffic, ships
of the squadron in Spanish waters became “H.M.S.
Unriskables” even to alleged Britons. “Does the
British Navy exist only to show the white flag in
Spanish ports?” screamed the Manchester “Guardian.”
And “S. M. Herald’s” mildest remark was: “It is an
unusual experience for the British seaman to find that
neither diplomatic influence nor the naval power of
his country can avail to protect him and his ship
against deliberate attack and injury, even in foreign
ports.”
If the interventionists had had their way, the
British Commonwealth would have been incontinently
involved in a war which would have divided it and
which could not have been won. Division would have
been set up in all parts of the Empire, above all in
Canada, now immensely important to the Allies. In
the early part of the Great War the French Canadians
were lukewarm, so much so that Lieutenant Papineau,
a descendant of the rebel of that name, appealed to
them to enlist in greater numbers. During the
present war, the French-Canadian proportion of en-
listments has been higher than that of Canadians of
British descent, and at the election held last week
Quebec gave 62 of its 65 seats in the House of
Commons to supporters of the Government, which
stands for a vigorous war policy, and which has thrown
Canada’s whole weight behind the Empire air-training
scheme. Had Britain sided against Catholic Spain,
Quebec would have been out of the war, and Canada’s
part in it would have been trifling. Moreover, active
British support for the Reds would have antagonised
South America, whose friendship—vividly demon-
strated when the Graf Spee sought refuge at Monte-
video—has been found very useful.
What would have happened in Spain had the
Reds won, without British assistance? Wholesale
slaughter and brigandage, no doubt, followed by an
Italian declaration of war. That might have led to a
general convulsion, and it would assuredly have been
fatal to Negrin and his mob, since France, threatened
on two fronts, could not have protected them. And
Stalin would have twisted on Britain and France just
the same. He was not afraid of them, having no reason
to fear that they would invade his dominions, whereas
he was —and still is—mortally afraid of the Germans.
Secured against France, Germany would have pro-
ceeded with its plans for gobbling up Bohemia,
Moravia and Western Poland, and rather than fight
Germany Stalin would have abandoned the Czechs
and the Red Spaniards, and signed an agreement per-
mitting him to work his will on the Poles and the
Finns. In that case, Spanish ports and air bases
would have been given over to enemy submarines and
bombers, and the Cape and Mediterranean routes
would have become perilous, to say the least.
Since September 3 not one vessel in the service of
the Allies has been attacked from any part of Spain.
Drawn to Britain by common interests, and alienated
from Germany by Hitler’s alliance with the hated
Reds, the Franco Government —though “S. M. Herald”
in April, 1938, pronounced its “undertakings.... as
worthless as though they had been given by a Mahdi’s
dervishes or the Pathans of the Khyber”—has played
the game. It has not set a price on its neutrality, so
valuable to Britain, but, recognising its difficulties, the
British Government conceded favorable terms in the
trade agreement to which both Governments have
become parties, including a loan of £2,000,000 which
may be applied to the purchase of Dominion produce.
That trade agreement, it should be remarked, was dis-
missed in a few lines, published without comment, by
newspapers which two years ago were stridently cer-
tain that, if Britain let Franco win, his Spain would
become a docile instrument of Axis policy and seize
the first opportunity of attacking Gibraltar, bombard-
ing it with the 16-inch guns planted “two miles away”
by the Germans.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"The Ides of March, Remember!"
In March, 1935, Hitler introduced conscription. In
March, 1936, he brought off his Rhineland coup. In
March, 1938, he annexed Austria. In March, 1939,
he tore up his pledges to Mr. Chamberlain and the
world and extinguished the Czech Republic. And in
March, 1918, Ludendorff, afterwards his associate in
a Nazi putsch that fizzled out, won his greatest vic-
tory over the Western Allies, though it led to his
greatest defeat.
When March, 1940, was entered upon, there was
a feeling in Europfe that the month associated with
so many spectacular events might be chosen by Hitler
for the launching of the long-threatened lightning
war; but it came and went without his attempting any
more than he attempted in autumn or winter.
Why does this man withhold the signal for which
all the world waits? Does he shrink from imposing
on his nation the losses that an offensive on the grand
scale must entail? Does he realise that his dictator-
ship might not survive the loss of even one great
battle? Is his army, still superior in numbers, short
of requisites without which an attack on the Maginot
Line would be a useless sacrifice of manhood? Is his
air force short of modern fighter machines? Are
petrol supplies uncertain? Does the Fiihrer fear the
effect of Italy’s return to the policy of sacred egoism?
Has Russia failed him as a source of supplies, as it
will fail him as an ally if the war goes against him?
Was there great disorganisation of transport, not yet
overcome, during the worst winter that any living
European can remember? Or does Hitler consider
that time is on his side, not that of the Allies? Does
he believe that by exploiting their personal and
financial sacrifices, the presence among them of
Communist and pacifist minorities, the unsatisfied,
perhaps insatiable, demand for action and the inter-
minable separation of the breadwinner from millions
of homes, plus the effects of continued bombing, tor-
pedoing and mining, he may tire out their Govern-
ments and extort a peace that will perhaps leave him
free to settle accounts with the Soviet? Who
knows? Hitler, Goring and Goebbels know, no
doubt, but they keep their own counsel.
The one oustanding event of March was a meet-
ing of the Supreme War Council in London. At the
head of the French delegation was the new Premier,
M. Reynaud, the Finnish affair having brought M.
Daladier down. The outcome was a declaration that
Britain and France will “neither negotiate nor con-
clude an armistice or treaty of peace except by mutual
agreement,” nor will they “discuss peace terms before
reaching complete agreement on the conditions neces-
sary to ensure to each of them an effective and lasting
guarantee of their security.” And, peace concluded,
they “undertake to maintain community of action
in all spheres for as long as may be necessary to safe-
guard their security, and, with the assistance of other
nations, to effect a reconstruction which will ensure
the liberties of people, respect for law and the main-
tenance of peace in Europe.” That dissipates what-
ever hopes may have been cherished in Germany of
inducing one partner or the other to sign a separate
peace. On the other hand, there is nothing in the
declaration to prevent both Governments negotiating
with any German Government able and willing to give
guarantees, the first of which would necessarily be a
great measure of disarmament.
Maoriland's Loss.
The death of Michael Joseph Savage, first Labor
Prime Minister of Maoriland, removes from the
Dominion’s political arena an urbane and cheerful
figure. Unlike the leader whose mantle he assumed,
Mr. Savage had no tinge of bitterness in his political
outlook. He was able to work his way to the inner
council of his party without incurring much enmity
—indeed he had a sort of blindness towards personal
hostility which opponents found most disarming. His
unfailing amiability, combined with a talent for
ambiguity when caught between the push-ons and
hold-backs of his team, was the only characteristic on
which cartoonists could peg a gibe.
But Mr. Savage, for all his Pickwickian atmosphere
and mildness in debate, had the essential elements of
leadership. The only symptom of disruption in his
Cabinet during his four and a quarter years of office,
occasioned by the reckless utterances of Mr. Lee,
was dealt with quietly but none the less efficiently.
Mr. Lee had no chance to play the martyr.
During his long residence in Fernland the Aus-
tralian-born P.M. absorbed certain fundamental facts
about the people of the country. As to their loyalty
to the British Commonwealth of Nations, he had no
doubt whatever, and when this latest war broke out
he expressed that loyalty unequivocally. This, his last
important action in office, fittingly crowned a career
the guiding principle of which was an earnest desire
to do right and to do it fairly.
A Bobtail Flush.
There are now four Labor parties in N. S. Wales.
No. 1 is the Red Labor party, which controls
radio station 2KY, the “Daily News” (self-described
as “Official Organ of the Australian Labor Move-
ment”) and the A.L.P. organisation in N. S. Wales.
At the Easter conference of delegates to that organi-
sation it carried a “Stop the War” and a “Hands Off
Russia” resolution.
No. 2 is the Federal Labor party, led by Mr.
Curtin. After taking his time to consider the “Stop
the War” and “Hands Off Russia” resolution, Mr.
Curtin said: “We are with Britain and against Ger-
many, because Germany went to war and set the
world aflame. If any nation lines up with Germany
we are against that nation. In a sentence: We regard
Germany’s allies as the enemies of Great Britain,
and, therefore, of Australia.” Mr. Curtin is against
conscription and against expeditionary forces, but
wouldn’t recall the Sixth Division.
No. 3 is Mr. McKell’s Labor party. Mr. McKell
and his followers attended the Easter conference and
listened to the “Stop the War” and “Hands Off
Russia” speeches without uttering a protest, though
Mr. McKell had a right to speak and did speak—on
minor topics. After Mr. Curtin came out with his
declaration of war policy, Mr. McKell said ditto in
a meek voice.
No. 4 is Mr. Lang’s Labor party, which is against
expeditionary forces and conscription. Mr. Lang did
not attend the Easter conference, though he had a
right to be there and to speak ; but after devoting
several days to profound thought he spoke and wrote
in denunciation of the Red Labor party and Mr.
McKell. Of that gentleman —nominally his leader —
Mr. Lang said:
He didn’t open his mouth or do anything, although
he must have known that if the “Hands Off Russia”
resolution was carried the whole Labor Movement
was threatened with annihilation. Even when he
addressed conference on the following day, he made
no reference to the outrage on Labor which the Com-
munists had committed.
Unfortunately, Mr. Lang’s indignation with both
his present aversions is belated. For years he was in
the closest association with the bosses of the Red
Labor party. One of them, Comrade Garden, was, in
fact, his right-hand man, and was addicted to declar-
ing passionately that “Lang” was “greater than Lenin.”
And eight years ago Mr. Lang was himself proclaim-
ing that “the Revolution is here.”
Lastly there is a Communist party, which, as
well as being a “Stop the War” and “Hands Off
Russia” combination, is against British imperialism,
the British connection, industrial arbitration, the White
Australia policy, the Commonwealth Constitution, the
present social order —in fact, everything that isn’t
blessed by Stalin, Molotov and Dimitrov.
In the noble game of poker this would be called
a bobtail flush.
Dear Milk to Be Dearer.
“P.S.”: It looks as though Sydney will soon be paying
another penny a quart for milk, the excuse being
that drought-stricken suppliers can’t buy feed unless
they get another 4d. a gallon.
For nearly 10 years consumers have been paying
7d. a quart in jugs and Bd. in bottles for ordinary
milk that could previously be got for sd. And under
board control the price was never once reduced in
bountiful seasons.
When an increase is sought there has to be a
public inquiry before the Milk Board can sanction it.
An inquiry was ordered, and the chairman of the
board announced that, as it seemed to him, the only
way an increase could be passed on was by raising
the price to the public. Three days later, adjourning
the inquiry, he mentioned that some consumers’ repre-
sentatives were to be heard, and expressed the hope
that they’d hurry up, as he wanted to send the board’s
determination to the Minister as quickly as possible.
There has been a lot of talk about farmers carting
water for miles and feeding their cows on old boots
and other things. Farmers in general were warned
repeatedly that they never carried adequate fodder
reserves, grew sufficient root crops or improved pas-
tures, and that a dry spell would catch them bending.
It has caught them bending, and they want the public
to pay for it.
On Sunday Sydney was cursing the board. With-
out warning, supplies were cut down and milk-selling
shops and householders were rationed. Mr. Primrose,
the Acting Minister of Health, denied that there had
been rationing, and everybody except milkshops,
vendors, householders and the board agreed with him.
The secretary of the board announced that it had been
“exploring the necessity for obtaining milk from the
outside area.” The manager of a chain of milk bars
asserted that, if the board would allow it, he could
get as much milk as he wanted. And so could Sydney
get as much milk as it wanted —from the North Coast;
but North Coast farmers are kept out of the metro-
politan market.
Housewives trying to budget on increased tea,
vegetable and clothing prices will cut down their
milk purchases where they can. But there will be no
escape for people with small purses and large families.
There never is in these cases, and for people so
situated board control is the cruellest of jokes.
Teachers, Parents and Children.
“Pawang”: The Victorian Department of Education
desires to discourage corporal punishment, and only
headmasters may now inflict it. Some of the teachers
are dissatisfied, and are asking the department for a
precise ruling. Others, if given the privilege of
administering corporal punishment, would not use it.
The department is on their side but, strange as it may
seem, a good many parents are against them. And
herein lies a curious story.
A country schoolmaster of my acquaintance
knows how to engender interest in his charges and
maintain discipline in his classrooms without the use
of the stick. This is the way he goes about it. When
an obstreperous boy makes a nuisance of himself, the
teacher says “Willie, stop that noise!” He immedi-
ately adds “Why shouldn’t you make a noise, Willie,
if you want to?” Willie thinks a bit and says
“Because I’m not allowed to.” “Is that the right
reason Willie’s given?” asks the teacher of the class.
“No, it isn’t,” the roomful thunders. “There you are,
Willie,” says the teacher. “They don’t believe in your
notion that your teacher is a policeman. Can you
think of a better reason?” “No, I can’t,” says Willie.
“Well, if you want to make a noise when fifty others
want to study there’s no reason why you shouldn’t.
You may make a law of it, if you want to. But if you
make a law of it and you interfere with their studies
in the classroom and they then interfere with your
play in the playground, they will only be fulfilling
your law. They are fifty to one, remember. Would
you like them to live by your law?” Willie invariably
decides he wouldn’t.
By using argument instead of the cane my friend
produced such a state of ordered discipline in his
school that the authorities were quite pleased about
him. But some of the parents weren’t.
A parent came along one day and complained
that the discipline in the school was lax. “Why do
you think it is lax?” asked the teacher. “Oh, that’s
the impression we’ve all got outside,” said the parent.
“But can’t you be more definite about it?” said the
teacher. “If you think the discipline is lax, there
must be something that has brought you to that con-
clusion.” “Well,” said the parent, “a thing we all
notice is that the children aren’t afraid of you.”
In the North Pacific.
“Fong Tsz” : It was revealed last week that there had
been a sudden and vast increase in Russian purchases
of American metals, chiefly copper, molybdenum and
tin, and that, becoming curious about this trade, the
Allies had seized two Soviet ships in the North
Pacific. During the same week it was reported from
Shanghai that the Soviet had handed over to Ger-
many control of the Whale Bay district, near Possiet
Bay, just north of the Korean-Siberian frontier.
The territory of the U.S.S.R. narrows down there
to a mere strip of country backed by mountains.
It is only a few miles from Vladivostok on the
one side and from the Korean border on the other.
It is within heavy artillery range of the Japanese rail-
way system which links Korea, via the coast, with
Harbin and the trans-Siberian line. But unless a line
has recently been built, it is not connected by rail
directly through Soviet territory with Vladivostok.
Only a few months ago heroic Red Armies were
fighting millions of “Japanese hangmen” to prevent
them from encroaching on that part of the world. The
Japanese, of course, were “Fascist imperialists” allied
with Germany for the purpose of destroying the
U.S.S.R., the workers’ only fatherland.
The Shanghai report says that technical, police,
naval and administrative personnel at Whale Bay are
now exclusively German ; that large workshops have
been completed, and that a submarine manufactured
in Germany and sent by rail across Siberia in
November is being assembled.
Vladivostok and Whale Bay are inside the Japan
Sea. Ingress and egress to this sea are through
straits commanded by Japanese naval bases.
The northern one is between Sakhalin and Hok-
kaido—Russian on one side and Japanese on the
other, land in sight both ways ; the next is through
Japanese waters between Hokkaido and Nippon.
The third exit is through the two straits between
Korea and Kiushiu, the southernmost part of Japan —
Broughton Strait on one side of the Tsushima Islands,
Krusenstern Strait on the other. The Russians have
reason to remember Tsushima.
The Shanghai story may not be true, but it will
take more than Soviet denials to dispose of it. The
course of events since August has shown that Moscow,
with which so many Australian mugs wanted an
alliance, is ulcerated with hatred of the British Com-
monwealth and is capable of any degree of treachery.
And in view of the performances of its agents in
Australia, it is not out of place to recall the Pan-
Pacific Conference at Vladivostok held a few
years ago. At that meeting, Comrade Losovsky,
then secretary to the Red International, now Molotov’s
assistant, “showed himself very interested in the trade-
union movement of Australia and desired to know the
full extent of the capitalist offensive and the methods
used to combat it.” He “dealt with the possibility of
war in the Pacific,” and “warned the workers of Aus-
tralia to be fully alive to the situation” and to be
“prepared to prevent being plunged into another war
on behalf of capitalism.” Australian Reds are doing
the dirty work assigned to them.
"Already Conquered."
“Mac Hoots”: Much as I approve of Dr. Halliday
Sutherland’s books and of most of his opinions, I
found myself almost bursting my bagpipes when he
announced that “in spite of the beauty of New
Zealand there is something rotten in it.” He went on
to quote the remark of a Japanese captain about a
gang of Wellington watersiders: “A country where
men work like that is already conquered.”
The watersiders have recently been put under
Government control. Everybody knows that this sec-
tion of the commurfity, with one or two others, has
tried to take an unfair advantage of the Labor Adminis-
tration. But Dr. Sutherland is mistaking the Maori-
lander’s independence for weakness, as Maorilanders
and Australians mistake the fatuity of English uppah-
crustahs and the slavishness of flunkeys for weak-
ness.
I should like to take Dr. Sutherland out to Whang-
amomona and let him compare a Maoriland pig-hunt
with the way they stalk the stag in the Highlands or
pop the pheasant in England.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“El V.”: The more I see of Sydney
the more anxious I am to become a
refugee. The block of flats in which 1
live is in a section wherein all the shops
but one were owned and run by Aus-
tralians a year or so ago. The tally to-
day is as follows: The corner tobacco
kiosk is run by a refugee ; a foreigner
has the ham-and-beef next door; then
come a foreign florist, an Australian
newsagent, a Greek ham-and-beef, an
Australian fruiterer, a laundry of un-
known vintage, a foreign fruitstall, an-
other refugee fruit-and-veg. shop and a
foreign magazine-seller, dealing mostly in
Yankee pulp. On Fridays, two sets of
Communists —Trotsky and Stalin —burble
and blare opposite about freedom and
Russia, and on Sunday mornings we have
serenades by two lots of refugee musi-
cians. On Sundays, too, Australian un-
employed huddle before the doors of a
near-by mission for a handout. And,
though the bottle-o is still Aussie, he tells
me he has had offers.
* * * ¥
“P.M.”: I had thought that every pos-
sible aspersL" had been made concern-
ing female ineptitude, but it takes the
N. S. Wales Government to put women
really in their place. The following
figures among the regulations printed on
the Parcel Traffic consignment notes
issued by the Railways Department:
If the parcels be consigned to a station,
platform or siding which is unattended or
in charge of a woman, it is hereby expressly
agreed that the responsibility of the Com-
missioner shall absolutely cease when the
parcels are left at such station, platform or
siding, even when they are carried at the
Commissioner’s Risk Rate.
* ❖ Hr- *
“Hacksaw”: The necessity for A.I.F.
recruits to have a full complement of
teeth, natural or acquired, has brought
to light evidence that casts doubts on
the old theory that human beings depend
entirely on mastication for the welfare
of their digestive apparatus. A Mel-
bourne dentist who has provided many
soldiers with artificial teeth to fulfil
army regulations says that some of
them had no natural ivories. They
had been chewing with their gums for
upwards of a decade, yet they were all
perfectly healthy, physical specimens, and
none of them complained of dyspepsia.
I was brought up in the belief that
unless I gave 40 chews to every mouth-
ful of food I allowed to enter my stomach
I was doomed to a miserable end. This
belief I held until I met a well-
nourished cove who told me that the
correct way to consume food was to bolt
it as dogs do, and cited himself as
convincing evidence of the benefit of the
practice.
* * * $
“C.Q.”: The best-earned wager in
Gippsland history has been won by a
millhand, who bet his pals that he could
carry a nine-gallon of beer on his shoul-
ders from the railway station to the
pub, a distance of a mile, without taking
a rest. A publican was so convinced
that the man couldn’t do it that he offered
the contents of the barrel to the boaster
if he could win his bet. It was won in
14 minutes.
* * * *
“Attar”: In King-street, Sydney, one
can buy a very small bottle containing
a perfume labelled “Attar of Roses” for
about £5. The heedless who pass by
would hardly imagine that there could
be any sort of link between this per-
fume and Anzac Cove ; but it is from
Kasanlik, on the plain of Thrace, that
most of the “Attar of Roses” in the world
comes, and Kasanlik is near the Dar-
danelles. There, in a region 80 miles
long, they grow nothing but roses. The
attar returns the grower about 18s. an
ounce, and is sold in London for £B.
Pure attar can be smelt only in a Kasanlik
store, where you can put your nose over
a copper jar containing about £BOOO
worth of the stuff and get a violent
headache as a result. It is the most
pungent perfume in the world.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A circus doing the subur-
ban rounds in Melbourne was caught in
a grassfire during the bushfire outbreak.
The tigers were drawn out of harm’s way
“I hope there's no more of these to get over."
by the attendants, and a girl acrobat
leaped on to the seat of a burning lorry
loaded with performing dogs and drove
it to safety. A few hysterical monkeys
bit some children, and the circus camel
bolted, but there was nothing in the
nature of a tragedy. Several years ago
an elephant escaped from a circus
menagerie and went into smoke in a posh
Melbourne suburb. Police and circus
proprietors went in pursuit and, follow-
ing up a clue, knocked at the front door
of a house. It was opened by a house-
maid. “Do you happen to have seen
an elephant about?” asked a policeman.
“No, I haven’t,” replied the girl ; “but
there’s a strange beast in the backyard
tearing up the grass with its tail.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: Now that the old methods of
treating prisoners have gone by the board
at Pentridge (Vic.), some remarkable
results have been produced. Recently 23
long-term prisoners sat for a first-aid
examination. Two scored full marks,
nine got over 90 p.c., and only three fell
below the 65 p.c. pass mark. Few Red
Cross units could better this record.
* * * *
“Moera”: Anent “S.U.’s” remarks on
color-blindness (B. 28/2/’4O). I have
just passed medical tests for sea service
in the Navy, and whilst doing so made
the acquaintance of the Isihara color-
blindness test. One is asked to inspect
about 30 pages, each of which looks as
though confetti had been scattered over
it with a liberal hand. Making a back-
ground to the plate, a number about
2in. high, formed of one of the colors
in the confetti, is seen. To those not
color-blind the number is easily discern-
ible. Interposed amongst these plates are
ones that to those not color-blind show no
numbers at all, but to the unfortunates
that are a number is visible. Isihara is a
Japanese of international fame in the field
of ophthalmics—a professor of the Uni-
versity of Japan—and his tests, combined
with the usual colored lights, particularly
red and green in a darkened room, are
the official tests throughout the service.
<tr> ., * c . „ * * . *
?' ■“ st ; : £ f are spec,m , en was un ;
ear hed at a Sydney inquest on a girl
cyclist who was struck by a speeding
motor-car which was being hotly pur-
sued by a police car A young married
woman who had been in the fugitive
car solemnly assured the coroner that
until that day she had never been in a
motor vehicle in her life. That must be
mighty close to unique.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Talking of youthful ambi-
tions, I went along one evening with a
couple of nephews who were due for
prizes at the Sunday-school shivoo. The
prizes were to be presented by the bishop,
a stern, unbending cleric with a repu-
tation for intolerance of human frailties,
His speech was, as usual, a discourse
on the manner of life the lads should
follow, and the youths of the village
wriggled in boredom. “Of course,” said
the bish. in his slow, precise tones, “you
all cherish some youthful and probably
secret ambition. I know I did. All my
boyhood days I dreamed of it, and
though I never mentioned it to anyone
it was one of the delights of my youth
to imagine I had already achieved it.
My great desire was” Here the
bishop paused solemnly, and we all
awaited information of the noble career
he had mapped out for himself even in
boyhood. “I yearned to be a pirate.” It
was the first evidence most of us had that
the bishop was human.
* * * *
“G.S.M.”: Some of the Victorian State
schools are whales for culture, and the
teachers instil into their charges a broad
general knowledge of the classics. A
parent asked her six-year-old daughter
what she had been taught that day.
“Teacher told us,” piped up the infant,
“about a bad man named Promiscuous
who didn’t do what he was told, and
was chained up to a rock, and had his
liver eaten by eagles.”
“Craiser”: A Melbourne writer took
a header down the steep road that leads
to dipsomania. His friends became
alarmed, and induced him to enter a
home where his sort of complaint is
treated. After 18 months he emerged
completely cured and infinitely grateful
to the friends who had stretched out a
helping hand to save him. Some time
later one of his saviors happened to meet
a son of his, and asked him how his
father was progressing. “Just as bad as
ever,” said the son, shaking his head
sadly. “Well,” said the friend, “why
didn’t he go back to the institution? It
did him a lot of good.” “We told him
that,” the son said. “And what did he
say? Did he deny it?” “No, he didn’t.
He said ‘That’s what I’m afraid of.’ ”
“Blackwatch”: Apropos of “A.
Polio’s” par. (B. 20/3/’4O) concerning
common mispronunciation of family
names, the following limerick brings the
matter into high politics:
There was a Prime Minister, Menzies,
Who said, “Do you know what this thenzies?’
Said Earle Page with a gasp,
the* encf ' where the
stenzies.”
The versifier’s pronunciation as “Mingiz’ ’
is undoubtedly correct, and Sir James
Menzi the c y hief o£ g e c i an a genera-
; • almost fanatical in his
insisten 8 ce ’ on it But j understand
Priminister Menzies pronounces his name
as ,
* * * ' „
“Exdig”: The first “returned soldier,
an accident-injured Maorilander, has
passed through Melbourne and Sydney
on his way home. The first returnee
soldier of the 1914 outbreak was a gin.
In Melbourne she cut her hair off and
donned the uniform of a soldier who at
the last moment had lost his desire to go.
In the initial confusion on the transport
her sex was undetected, and she was
carried on to Albany, but as the trans-
ports were putting into King George s
Sound a police launch came out to take
her off. That placed her ahead of a
number of men who were put ashore for
various reasons a couple of hours later,
The same lass gave the Defence people
a lot of worry afterwards; she was per-
petually trying to smuggle on board
transports, and five times succeeded,
once again getting as far as W.A., and
on another occasion to Adelaide. Then
she faded out.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Amongst the gifts showered
upon soldiers on leave was a full-sized
harp, presented to a Digger from Mel-
bourne by his grandfather. This recalls
the well-meant offering of the aunt of a
soldier in the first A.I.F. who was going
to reinforce the Palestine battalions. It
consisted of a packing-case full of Bibles
with an admonition to distribute them
amongst any Turkish prisoners her
nephew brought in at the point of his
bayonet.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Spruikers who talk about the
tyranny and backwardness of Australian
institutions should have a look at a cable
from Uncle Sam which tells how,
“shackled to the ancient whipping-post,”
four whites and four negroes were pub-
licly flogged m an open courtyard during
a snowstorm in Wilmington, the capital
of Delaware, in exactly the same manner
in which the process has operated since
flogging was legalised there in 1771.
Delaware, one of the smallest States
of the Union, lies only a few miles
across Chesapeake Bay from Washington.
Public flogging—of women as well as
men —survived in many States of the
U.S.A. till donkey’s years after it had
been abolished in British communities.
Can anybody imagine the effect on Aus-
tralian public opinion if any attempt
were made to flog whites and blacks to-
gether in an Australian town?
A NEW JOB.
“The Prime Minister will be one of the judges
in the ankle competition at the Canberra Garden
Fair, in aid of war funds.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Prime Ministers, as everybody knows,
Have got to do a devil of a lot,
And of their varied tasks, one may suppose,
Some are congenial and others not.
But what a pleasant change from cares of
State,
From toil that tires and strife that sours and
rankles,
If only for an hour to concentrate
Upon the symmetry of female ankles!
The bowstring kept too taut is apt to snap;
One needs a spell from any constant job;
All work, no play, makes Jack a stupid chap
(And might produce the same effect on Bob).
So who will grudge him studying the joints
Between the legs and feet of a collection
Of hidden houris, and awarding points
To those he deems the nearest to perfection?
Quot homines —you know the tag by heart—
Is true of pastimes as of views, it’s plain,
Though judging limbs would hardly be the part
To be assigned to Neville Chamberlain.
Fishing and nature study are his games,
One doubts he’d ever let his single glass turn
On that artistic piece of ladies’ frames
Which horsy souls would designate the
pastern.
But these are younger lands. We don’t deny
When work is done that anything they please
Is quite legitimate to occupy
The lighter moments of celebrities.
What cheering will there be, what wild acclaim,
When the competitor who’s scored a win
steps
Into the blinding light of well-earned fame
With Robert’s imprimatur on her insteps!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“C.R.”: The “factory ’and” as de-
scribed by Dyson is out of date in Mel-
bourne. My charlady started lamenting
over the cost of living the other day.
Her daughter had come of working age,
and she had to have a perm, and good-
ness knows where the money was to
come from. “Is it absolutely necessary
for her to have her hair dressed a let
Toorak?” was my unsophisticated in-
quiry. “Too right it is,” said Mrs. Char.
“She’s applying for a job in a factory
tomorrow, and she hasn’t got a hope of
getting it if her hair ain’t dressed prop-
erly.” Melbourne factory ’ands must
spend £l2 p.a. on stockings and £8 p.a.
on what the mid-Victorian poets used to
call “woman’s crowning glory,” accord-
ing to my authority.
tjc * * *
“C.Q.”: The late State election cam-
paign in Victoria was a dull affair, but
it had its bright moments. In one country
centre the candidate was introduced
by a politician from the city who was
considered to be sufficiently eminent for
metropolitan pressmen to be sent up to
take down and transmit his inspired words.
The local aspirant, however, turned out
to be imbued with even more sense of
his own importance than the city states-
man, and kept driving his points home
by turning to the press table and saying:
“And I wish the gentlemen of the press
to take particular notice of this,” etc.
After the umpteenth repetition of this
phrase one bored member of the ink
battalion, irritated beyond endurance,
rose from his chair and shouted: “You
mind your business and we’ll mind
ours!” That finished the local Solon.
* * * *
“Lemmeatem”: The average Austra-
lian runs away with the idea that he is
well known in overseas countries, when
the truth is that few foreigners —or even
Britishers in other parts —ever give him
a thought. A Sydney daily conducted a
sort of plebiscite among workers as to
their views on the Sydney A.L.P.’s
“Hands off Russia” policy, and quoted
one as saying, “We wouldn’t like to go
over and hurt the Russians’ feelings, but
they may ask for it.” He needn’t worry
about their feelings if ever he has to
fight Russians, for to 99.9 per cent, of
them Australia, if known at all, is merely
a patch on the map of the world, and the
Sydney A.L.P. is a total stranger.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Whether or not their treat-
ment is different, Australian modernist
painters seem to patronise much the same
subject-matter as their academic prede-
cessors. I have surveyed a large number
of “modernist” exhibitions in Melbourne,
and there are the same old flower-pieces,
bush scenes, nudes and portraits of
affluent citizens. An occasional adven-
turer sometimes pictures a boozed indi-
vidual leaning over a beerpot in the Van
Gogh or Gauguin manner, and by way
of variety limns an old boot or some-
thing of that sort. The Old Masters of
the cult were of sterner stuff. None of
them was what society would regard as
respectable. Van Gogh cut his ear off
and sent it to a lady friend in a parcel,
and Gauguin ran off to the South Sea
Islands. And none of them was con-
cerned about a fashionable reputation or
wanted the privilege of annually exhibit-
ing in a show under the auspices of the
National Gallery. A friend once told
Renoir that the beautiful Duchess of X
“Someone mus' be thinkin' about me, Lefty me ear's burnin' ."
wanted him to paint her portrait. “Oh,”
said Renoir, “tell her not to bother. Any
old bag of bones is good enough for
me.” I would be ready to wager that
there are few Melbourne modernists who
would refuse to paint the wife of a State
Governor, beautiful or otherwise, let
alone a duchess.
*
“Craiser”: Melbourne dailies have
a quaint sense of values. As soon as an
individual becomes a political personage
his opinions on art, international affairs,
morals and ethics become so significant
that his lightest utterances are recorded
in their columns, and his wife automati-
cally becomes a female Solon whose
views on society, art and life in general
are reported even more copiously than her
husband’s. But the moment he dies or
goes out of power what she says or does
loses significance. How many papers
would give a stick of type to the opinions
of Dame Enid Lyons now? A year
or so ago they printed columns of them.
Yet the lady has not become less in-
telligent or less interesting.
;{{ ;Jc
“Pawang”: “The youngster arriving at
a great public school,” says “El V.” (B.
13/3/ ! 40) “is soon inducted into the mys-
teries of fagging... .if he doesn’t like it
he is taught to with a foot or two of
stick.” The objection to flogging, as
G. B. Shaw argued with regard to hang-
ing, is not the effect on the character of
the flogged, out the effect on the char-
acter of the flogger. H. M. Stanley was
unmercifully flogged at school. Shelley
was battered, and both became distin-
guished. But it is yet to be learned that
their persecutors did —Stanley’s, in fact,
went mad. The individual who can be-
lieve that hitting a person will make him
like doing what you want him to do is
barking up the wrong tree. The reason
why a public-school boy thinks that to
flog a fag will make him like fagging is
because his schoolmasters think that flog-
ging him will make him like his lessons.
* * * *
“Goalsneak”: News comes that foot-
ballers are to be rationed in Germany
because of the shortage of leather. If
such a thing should come about here
it may not worry the Rugby players
much, because their game imposes little
or no strain on the ball. But Australian
Rulers and Soccer teams will have to be
careful, especially the big League teams
of Melbourne, which seem to bandy foot-
balls about like a kid at the end of a
successful marble season. When I was
winning premierships for Richscray it
was necessary to have several balls
handy, for a long kick that went over
the fence generally found a crowd of
small boys waiting, and not even the club
optimist ever hoped to see that again-
But even a ban on balls wouldn’t stop
Melbournites. I’ve seen a crowd of them
play a strenuous game at an outback
shearing shed with a flourbag stuffed
with wool, and any of them who happen
to be in the Second A.I.F. when it goes
into action are likely to upset the “heads”
by flying in the air trying to “mark” the
shells passing over. There is a classic
of two old A.I.F. men lost and wounded
on Gallipoli, and who, when found, were
arguing the respective merits of Essen-
don and Carlton.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Affluence and Henry Law-
son were mostly strangers, but one of
the highlights of his life was a cheque
he could not cash. A man from the
country gave it to Lawson as payment
for verse advertising a nerve tonic ; and
it was for a sum far in excess of the
bard’s expectations. Henry gathered a
few pals in a pub, shouted and planted
down his slip of paper. Bung handled
it gingerly and protested that he couldn’t
cash a cheque signed by a man he
didn’t know, but (as his eye noted that
“Somebody knockin' at the door, Joe. Answer it, will you ?”
the drinks had already gone south)
Lawson could owe for them. The glory
of a glimpse of heaven gleamed in
Henry’s eye as they left that pub and
sought another ; he visioned a perpetual
stream of beer, with that cheque as the
source. He was known, and publicans were
glad he had had a windfall; but they
fought shy of that cheque: Henry could
put the drinks on the slate. A joyful
pilgrimage lasted into the third day, and
it seemed that Henry had struck some-
thing that would keep him in beer for
life. But the end came dramatically —
in a Haymarket pub. The drinks having
been ordered, Henry planked down the
now rather frayed cheque. This Bung
had refused it before, but it seemed to
him time to reconsider. “I’m going to
cash the damn’ thing!” he roared
belligerently. Lawson had all the symp-
toms of a broken heart as we bore him
from the scene of the tragedy.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: I know all about
Hitler’s secret weapon. German scientists
have succeeded in producing a gimlet-
pickelhaube, which enables a person to
whose head the apparatus is strapped to
work his way through the earth in auger
fashion with astounding speed and accu-
racy of direction, similar to certain
beetles. At the present moment millions
of Germans aimed to the teeth are boring
their way under the North Sea, scheduled
to emerge simultaneously in various
parts of Britain on May 1. One has
been entrusted with the mission of com-
ing up inside Mr. Chamberlain’s bed-
room, making a blind rush for his um-
brella and, by capturing this talisman,
demoralising the head of the Empire’s
land and sea forces. Now that I have
let the cat out of the bag, of course,
appropriate measures will be taken.
Perhaps people like radio professors,
State politicians and daily-paper military
experts will be used as counter-bores.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: My big cobber re-
garded women with deep suspicion, and
was as sensitive to their approaches as
a horse to the nearness of a camel. Cut-
ting pine posts north of Rainbow (Vic.)
we were discovered by a cocky’s daugh-
ter, who began dropping dainties into
the camp and drifting our way, done up
like a sore toe, on Sunday afternoons.
This went on for some time, and might
never have caused excitement —Mat being
very much on guard —had the Wesleyan
minister not called at that farm, heard
of our presence, and set out with the
girl to pay us a friendly call. Mat saw
them coming and called me. Without
a word he pointed, then hurried down to
the camp, hopped on to his bike and
pedalled south. Next day, alarmed by
his absence, I followed his bike tracks.
He’d crashed into a wire fence hidden
in the scrub, and was a patient at an-
other farm, being coddled by the four
buxom daughters of a German farmer.
We got out of it all right, but he often
told of his awful sense of impending
doom when the four hung over his bed
and chattered in German. “Couldn’t un-
derstand their lingo,” he said, “but the
way their eyes ran over me made me feel
like a fat goose being raffled for Christ-
mas!”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Tourist propaganda always
emphasised the importance of foreign
travel because it broadened the mind
of the provincial Australian and let nim
into the secrets of European culture.
The first sight of the interior of Notre
Dame in Paris would give a thrill to
- • _i. i_: ~
any tourist. On his
second visit he would
feel a slightly less awe-
some feeling. On his
thirtieth visit, if he ever
made it, he would find
himself as completely
blase about it as any
Parisian. It is the same
with young art students
who think that it is
necessary to their edu-
cation to look at all the
galleries of France,
Italy and Holland. They
get no more out of it
than they take to it,
and they usually come
back subscribing to
some weird Paris art
fashion which is already
available in Australia.
I know an Australian
with plenty of money
and too much leisure
who maintained his
illusion that travel
broadens, and spent
a fortune on incessant
trips to Europe. His
stock joke after a while when he was
asked if he had been to Rome, Paris or
Madrid was to say with a yawn: “I don’t
know. My wife always buys the tickets.”
HANDS OFF RUSSIA!
[After reading the report of the N.S.VV. Easter
Labor Conference.]
Let other folk blare their distrust of the Bear,
We'd count it the basest of sins
To hammer a na.il in the coffin ol Stalin,
Whatever he’s done to the Finns.
Ignoring the fume and the luss
Of all his dark deeds who discuss,
Across the wide girth
Of the war-stricken earth
We stretch out our hands to the Russ.
It’s part of our creed that the world is well-
freed
Of kaisers and sultans and czars ;
We’re still sturdy haters of other dictators
Who travel in bullet-proof cars.
We care not a cent or a cuss
What happens to Hitler or Muss.,
But, as friend to a friend,
This Easter we send
Our kindest regards to the Russ.
We can thunder, of course, till our voices are
hoarse , , ,
And knit shocked and scandalised brows
At the open confession of wanton aggression
Pursued by the Japs with the Chows.
But for Stalin to aggrandise thus
His empire means nothing to us,
So our glasses we fill
And with hearty goodwill
We bellow “Here’s Luck” to the Russ.
We can suffer our sons locking horns with
the Huns,
But something we never can stand .
Is the thought of our sojers engaged against
codgers
Who carry the Communist brand.
Hence, though it may nark or nonplus
The heads on the Downing-street bus
Far over the deep,
We warn them to keep
Their hands off our cobber the Russ.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ĵ
CRAVEN A
turn vmm- tftetfke,,
always smooth*fault!
to for 9d 20 for 1'6
a*.
o
m
m
<S~
m
m
PREVENT
HUH
POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. Labor leaders have no intes-
tinal fortitude. Lang, who claims to
have “fought” the Communists for years,
stayed away from the “Hands Off
Russia” conference, though he knew what
was coming, and though, as he said him-
self, sneering at McKell, “there is no-
thing in the rules to preclude any Parlia-
mentary member from participating in
conference debates.” McKell let the
“Hands Off Russia” gang have it their
own way for two days, and when he
spoke he didn’t mention the party-wreck-
ing resolution. Silent also was Heffron,
who “led” the revolt against Lang. Poli-
ticians like these haven’t guts enough to
govern tapeworms.
Prophecy in headlines (“S. M. Herald,”
March 26):
Canada Holding Elections.
Liberals May Lose Seats.
The Lib. majority was to have been
“substantially reduced.” Three days,
elapse ; and comes the dawn.
Liberal Win in Canada.
Biggest Majority in History.
Granny must have been reading the stars
or the teacups.
The P.M.’s discovery that Communism
is a mixture of poison and treason comes
three years too late. Who was the
Attorney-General that withdrew the
Commonwealth Government’s cases
against the Friends of the Soviet and
others of that gang, and agreed to pay
costs? Robert Gordon Menzies. Had
he fought Communists to the limit in
1937 and made it impossible for any
Communist organisation to have a law-
ful existence, or for any Communist to
hold office in a registered trade-union,
Australia would not now be involved in
a peck of industrial trouble, nor would
it be reading in newspapers or hearing
over the air Bolshie and Nazi lies to the
effect that, it is against the war.
A Wang Ching-wei Government has
been set up in Nanking. Washington
has refused to recognise it, and “some
Americans are asking what Britain’s atti-
tude would be in the event of American
action against Japan.” That’s easy.
Nootral.
At the week-end W. J. Smith issued
a statement giving the A.C.I. side of the
negotiations for the car-manufacture
monopoly. Coming so late in the day, it
is unlikely to effect a resurrection of
what is better dead. Incidentally, there
is no mention in it of the affair of the
racehorse that ex-Minister Lawson leased.
On the strength of documents claimed
to have been found in the Polish Foreign
Office, the Nazis are accusing the Ameri-
cans, particularly Ambassadors Bullitt
and Kennedy, of having egged on Britain
to go to war with Germany over Poland.
A statement attributed to Bullitt is that
“the U.S.A. unquestionably would partici-
pate in such a war, but only after the
Allies bestirred themselves.” Bullitt, Ken-
nedy and Washington deny everything.
If anything could be more insolent than
the Moscow foreign policy which the
Reds of the Easter Conference thrust on
N.S.W. Labor, it was the “official ex-
planation” that the Reds were merely
“opposing Australia’s participation in
any aggressive act against any neutral.”
That policy is in keeping with the first
principle of international law and justice,
i.e., that one country shall not attack an-
other. Are not aggressive acts against
neutrals the very basis of international
lawlessness?
Finland was a neutral, and is a member
of the League. It was attacked and dis-
membered, in flat defiance of the League
covenants and of a non-aggression pact,
by the Red push’s Moscow masters.
The Red push, now silent about Ger-
man aggression, pretends to fear Aus-
tralian aggression while glorifying Rus-
sian aggression. This Red rant and cant
and humbug shouldn’t deceive even a
bishop or a university professor.
In September, 1938, the Common-
wealth Government decided that Aus-
tralia needed a battleship dock, though
not a battleship to put in it. Leopold
Savile, member of the Suez Canal Con-
sultative Committee, and chief civil engi-
neer to the Admiralty during the years
when Singapore was being planned, was
brought out, and his report has just
appeared. It favors Sydney as a site.
Australia’s need is still for a capital ship,
as well as a battleship dock. Without a
battle-cruiser it will never be safe from
raids by heavy craft.
“Unessential and not-so-essential im-
ports must give way to vital and essential
“Mr. Lang’s denunciation of the Moscow resolution at the A.L.P. conference has been
warmly praised by 'S.M. Herald,’ Dr. Page, Mr. Cameron and others.”
“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow !”
commodities when it comes to a question
of demand on a very limited amount of
foreign currency,” said Priminister Men-
zies, announcing further import restric-
tions and total prohibitions on a wide
range of goods from non-sterling coun-
tries. Almost simultaneous was the
announcement that a big crowd of alleged
wrestlers and another crate of boxers had
been signed up in America to come to
Australia. Perhaps they get in as “vital
and essential commodities.”
Rumania, which has been guaranteed
against aggression by Britain and plas-
tered with loans and credits, has pub-
lished its trade figures for January.
Exports to Britain were valued at
£872,000 sterling and imports from
Britain at £123,000; exports to Germany
were valued at £920,000 and imports
from Germany at £1,023,000. Evidently
our gallant ally is using British money
to buy heavily from the enemy.
lan Hamilton described the Rumanians
as “rather washed-out descendants” of a
Roman legion. Another theory, formed
after a study of their trade with Britain
and Germany, is that they are one of
the Lost Tribes.
U.A.P. Assemblymen with unsafe seats
are suggesting an indefinite extension of
the life of the alleged Parliament in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, as a win-the-
war measure. It could be done if a
majority in each House were bent on
it; State Constitutions permit such
artifices, Triennial Acts notwithstanding,
though the Commonwealth Constitution
doesn’t. But if extension is proposed and
carried, the alleged Parliament will have
written its own death warrant.
“A Queensland landholder has lent the
Commonwealth Government £lOO, free
of interest, for the duration of the war
and one year afterwards.” That appeared
in Great Dailies, with headlines expres-
sive of astonishment and gratification.
About the same time Nash, the Maori-
land Minister of Finance, mentioned that
he had asked for similar loans and had
received “nearly £200,000 in a few days.”
Maoriland papers are publishing daily
lists a foot long, and, with a million con-
tributed by the Bank of N.Z., £1,230,000
had been received to March 22.
Reeling from an election at which Vic-
toria declared against both, Dunstan and
Argyle said they were against unification.
Argyle is against it because “it would lead
to more bureaucracy.” Dunstan, because
“economy effected by the abolition of
State Parliaments could be brought about
only by the abolition or curtailment of
railways, roads, unemployed-relief and
hospitals”—which is merely silly. On
the other hand, Cain proclaims himself
an enthusiast for unification. Unfortu-
nately, Cain’s enthusiasm for anything
never gets him or his party anywhere.
State Government, City Council, Rail-
ways, Tramways, pedestrians and motor-
ists are all in favor of the proposed sub-
ways under Flinders-street, Melbourne,
to remove the peak-time congestion be-
tween Elizabeth-street, Swanston-street
and the main railway station which gives
the intersection the proud claim to be
the busiest of its kind in the world. The
only snag is that private property will
have to be acquired, and Premier Dun-
stan may boggle at the cost. His Ministry
has been responsible for much waste
already, and mistakes always have to be
paid for.
Saying that he had been “guilty of
conduct and acts inconsistent with his
position as a member of the party,” the
Maoriland Labor conference expelled
Lee, the Left Wing M.L.A. Lee wrote
an attack on his leader when the P.M.
was a doomed man, and, though he had
an excellent Great War record and pub-
lished a retractation, his offence was
judged unpardonable. Perhaps the Reds
in control of N.S.W. Labor will over-
look his Great War record and invite
him to come to Sydney and join the
Stop-the-War and Hands-off-Russia gang.
Wonthaggi (Vic.) is the world’s worst
advertisement for nationalisation of coal-
mines. When the employees conde-
scend to work the Government mine
loses “about £3OOO a week.” When they
go on strike the loss is reduced to £lOOO
a week. The figures are those of Hyland,
the Minister of Transport, and Hyland
confesses that he is fed up. “For my
part,” the embittered man says, “I would
give the mine to the men, and be done
with it.”
Soviet ambassadors are half-spies and
half-seditionaries. The one in Paris had
the impudence to insult France and
Britain in a telegram exulting over the
fate of the Finns, whom his Government
was sworn to protect, saying, among
other things, that “owing to the wisdom
of the Soviet Government and the
bravery of the Red Army, the British and
French warmongers’ plan to extend the
war to northern Europe has again suf-
fered defeat.” Kicking of even Soviet am-
bassadors being barred, the French are
running the ruffian out of their country.
Judging by recent performances,
Roberts, the knowall professor, seems in
danger of being stuck for subjects for
his £l-a-minute A.B.C. talks. The Bul-
letin suggests a return series of 1937
dissertations on (1) “The wonderful work
of the Russian Government” ; (2) “The
position, as it stands, is 1914 over again,
except that now we have the support of
Czechoslovakia,” and (3) “The safety of
the British Empire depends upon the
pacts between Russia and Czechoslovakia
and Russia and France.”
The meek McKell’s brain must reel
when he reads the programme thrust on
him by the Reds and Pinks of the N.S.W.
“Labor” conference. Not only has he
to stop the war and be friends with
Moscow, but he is commanded to
socialise everything when the pear is
ripe. Meanwhile one of his jobs when
“Labor” Premier will be to issue “free
clothing to school and university students,
establish national theatres in schools”
(only Red plays to be performed, no
doubt), “provide free milk in schools,
free travel for all schoolchildren, ‘allow-
ances’ to enable children to study for the
leaving certificates until they are 18, and
increased endowments of 10s. a week for
children up to ten, with an extra shilling
a week up to 18.” He has also to pass
a Right to Work Act, financed by
“taxation on incomes of £750 a year and
more, and on capital and company
profits of 6 p.c. or more.” Even Lang
was a more merciful master than the
Moscow maniacs.
“G. Point”: No doubt Zwar, of
Heidelberg, would have a chance in
Federal Batman (B. 27/3/’40); but Holl-
way, the Ballarat M.L.A., would have
a better chance in the Commonwealth
electorate of “Ballaarat.” At the Assem-
bly election he beat that persistent trier
Jude by two to one. Whereas the Labor
majority in Batman was 15,426 in a poll
of 58,489, Pollard’s majority in Federal
Ballarat was only 598 in a poll of 49,437.
Stanley Walker was then the U.A.P. can-
didate, and Hollway has a stronger fol-
lowing. But at the moment Hollway
has his eye on the succession to Argyle.


MORE UNCABLED ADDITIONS.


WJMOBAKB
SYDNEY
QUALITY CUTLERY
No. 16— Baker’s
Dag-gingr, Bottle
and Footrot Out-
fit. Consists of
Red Tang Shear,
f Pt. Galv. Tin
Bottle, Oil Stone
and Footrot
Knife.
32/6 complete.
Postage, 1/6
extra.
OPEN.
STUD LOCK (BEG.)
PATTERN ALUMINIUM
SHEEP EAR LABELS. These
can be closed with a Flat
Nose Plier and will not pull
open. 15/- per 100. In lots
of 500 or more, 12/6 per 100.
Pliers for Closing Labels, 3/9
each.
BAKER’S RED TANG SHEARS, double
hollow ground, Sheffield made.
Inter-
N.S.W. state
Each. Post. Post.
901— sin. Daggingr Shear .. 6/9 9d. 1/-
902 6in. Lamb Shear 7/3 9d. 1/-
903 — 7Jin. Sheep Shear ... 9/- 1/- 1/6
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.
3 Hunter Street,
Sydney
523—BREAD BOARD AND KNIFE,
coloured Knife Handle and Coloured
Design on 4 Corners. Knife slips into
slot at top of Board. 10/6 complete.
Postage 1/- extra.
PC
493—8A8Y
PINKING
OR SMALL
SCISSORS. Size
sin., 25/-.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Maoriland’s Prime Minister, Michael
Joseph Savage, dead after a period of
failing health that had lasted almost
throughout his Ministerial career, which
commenced four and a quarter years ago,
was born in Benalla (Vic.) on March 7,
1872. His working experience was varied
—among other things he was station-
hand and miner. He early became
a figure in the Labor movement.
He entered the M.L. Parliament in 1919
as member for Auckland West, which
was his constituency till the end. At
the death of Harry Holland in 1933 he
became Leader of the Labor Party, and
the electoral landslide of 1935 placed
him at the head of the Dominion’s first
Labor Government. He never married.
An amiable and seemingly easygoing man,
he held a tight rein on his party, and was
a shrewder politician than many of his
closest associates gave him credit for.
Peter Fraser, who was Savage’s
choice for the succession (he was
Acting-P.M; during “Mick’s” long ill-
ness), has since 1935 been Minister
of Education, Health, Marine and
Police. He was born at Fearn in Ross-
shire, Scotland, 55 years ago, absorbed
Liberal and radical sentiments with his
mother’s milk, and in his early twenties
was secretary of the Liberal Association
of his village and a fervent speaker on
behalf of the Scottish Small Landholders’
movement. He joined the I.L.P. in
Britain in 1908, migrated to M.L.
two years later, got a job as a wharf-
lumper, and in a few years was president
of the Auckland General Laborers’
Union and had a seat on the executive
of the “Red Fed.” The presidency of
the Labor party came to him in due
course. Peter did a term in gaol for anti-
conscription activities during the 1914-18
war. When he entered Parliament in
1918 as member for Wellington Central
he became secretary of the Parliamentary
Labor party. His constituency has re-
mained faithful to him at all elections.
John Gordon McKenzie, who on Mon-
day stepped into the shoes of Ross
Thomas, retired, as Director of Educa-
J.G. McKENZIE.
tion for N. S. Wales, was born in Sydney
in 1888, and learned the three Rs at
Kogarah school. At that school he com-
menced his career as a teacher, which
led him to a mastership at Fort-street,
a headmastership at Cootamundra, and
in 1927 an inspectorship. Recently he
has been Inspector of Secondary Schools.
He went to the 1914-18 war as an in-
structor with the 26th Batt., later
studied at the Sorbonne in Paris, and got
into touch with social and economic
problems at the headquarters of the Co-
operative Movement in Manchester
(Eng.). He likes golf and surfing.
Roley Munro, who finds time between
running his big station, Wee Bolla Bolla,
Moree (N.S.W.), to be one of the most
ROLEY MUNRO.
successful camp draft riders in Australia,
must come somewhere near holding the
record for number of awards in these
events. At Sydney R.A.S. he has judged
drafts and rodeo events since their in-
ception. His herd of Shorthorn cattle is
one of the oldest and purest in Aus-
tralia, and there are merino sheep of
quality also on the run. A cousin of
the well-known Keera Munros, Roley is
a splendid judge of Light Horse mounts,
and his services are frequently sought by
military authorities.
Colin Colahan, the Melbourne artist
and one-time Bulletin cartoonist, who
has been for some time resident in France
and England, has had one of the most
coveted models in London sitting for
him. George Bernard Shaw has com-
missioned a portrait.
An Australian who has achieved dis-
tinction abroad is Prof. H. S. W. Massey,
who occupies the chair of Applied Mathe-
matics at University College, London.
He has just gained the coveted gaud of
a Fellowship of the Royal Society, largely
for his researches into the scattering of
particles in the atomic system. Massey
was one of the cleverest pupils of the
late Prof. Mitchell at Melbourne Uni.,
and then came under the care of Prof.
Laby. Massey went to England, and
has since held important posts at Cam-
bridge, Belfast and London.
“Hamfat”: About the most madden-
ing occupation in the world is controlling
a feminine chorus and ballet. Redge
Carey, just dead, had more opportunity
to be maddened than most men. He was
stage manager for a multitude of Wil-
liamson shows, and did some work for
Fullers. Lacking the histrionic ability
of his father, Geo. P. Carey, who was
first pick for support with such visitors
as Julius Knight, he nevertheless had a
wide knowledge of stagecraft. As a boy
he played parts with the Cuyler Hast-
ings shows (“Sherlock Holmes” and
others). The decay of the stage moved
him to seek other jobs ten years ago.
G. Carson-Cooling becomes head-
master of Brisbane Grammar School —
the fifth in 70 years, but the first Aus-
tralian. Cooling is an old boy of the
school, who left the Uni. to enlist with
the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 war, becoming
a lecturer in science and psychology in
educational classes for soldiers. Return-
ing, he took his degree in science and
became senior chemistry master and then
senipr science and second master at his
old school. He is a sound athlete, and
dabbles more than amateurishly in art.
M. W. McKeon, for 19 years a police
sergeant attached to the Sydney Coro-
ner’s Court, resigned from the force on
March 18, and turned up next day as
a barrister to defend a man charged with
murder. McKeon was ambitious to take
up law when he first joined the force,
and he faced a long period of study.
He studied early and late when off duty,
managed to finance tutors’ and other fees
by strict saving, and obtained printed
lectures in lieu of attending the Univer-
sity. He was admitted to the Bar last
year.
Iwan Wassill Helmsing, who died at
65 in Brisbane in tragic circumstances,
was one of the world’s great scientific
illustrators. After experience as a fruit
inspector in the M.L. Agricultural De-
partment, he took up banana-growing in
the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) soon after
the war. His plantation was ruined by
bunchy-top disease, and he got a job
as illustrator with the Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture. An expert also
in wash, line or color, his stipple tech-
nique was of his own creation and
unique in illustrating work. Many beau-
tiful examples of it in the department’s
museum will perpetuate his memory as
a talented scientific artist.
William Burdett, dead in Adelaide at
68, was famous as a grower of what
would otherwise be wildflowers. Having
a fine fruit-garden in the mountains
behind Adelaide, he devoted the poorer
soil of the hillsides to the shrubs —largely
Westralian in origin—which like that
kind of soil. He exhibited widely, but
would take no money for flowers. His
waratah and protea were famous, and
Kew Gardens (England) recognised his
work by giving his name to a banksia
variety.
The winner of the Sir John Sulman
prize (Sydney) for the best design for
an intended mural decoration this year
was Gert Sellheim, of Melbourne. The
decoration is no longer “intended,” hav-
ing been in position at the Victorian
Tourist Bureau’s queer new edifice in
Collins-street for some time. It com-
prises an overseas liner, a modern car,
an aeroplane and Mr. Clapp’s railway
marvel the Spirit of Progress, stretched
along a huge length of wall in the main
office. It is certainly the most modern
type of decoration any concern in Mel-
bourne has yet ventured on, and has been
the chief object of attention of tourists
for six months past. It was cast into
position by a new photographic process
by Athol Shmith, a local photographer.
In his fiftieth year, R. J. Noble be-
comes N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Agri-
culture, vice G. D. Ross, retired through
ill-health. The new chief is a doctor of
philosophy, M.Sc. and B.Sc. Agr. He
was bom at Glebe (Sydney), and was
one of the first scientific cadets appointed
by the department. He attended Sydney
Uni., and graduated in 1915 with first-
class honors and the University medal.
He then got leave from the department
to go to France and other parts, where
his study of the wild machine-gun plants
won him three stripes in the Fifth Emma
Gee Battalion. After that he was ap-
pointed to Sutton Veney to teach Dig-
gers how to be farmers, and came back
to the N.S.W. department to win the
Ben Fuller travelling scholarship, which
took him to the University of Minnesota
(U.S.A.), where he got his Ph.D. and
M. He became chief biologist for
N. S. Wales in 1927, and since then has
collected several scientific awards. Syd-
ney R.A.S. and the N.S.W. branch or
the Australian Institute of Agricultural
Science have known him as president he
was on the Australian National Research
Council and the State committee of the
C.S. and I.R. He has published a notable
work on wheat diseases.
“K.P.”: Dr. G. A. M. Heydon, who
has broken the Australian gliding record
with a 99-mile flight, mostly between
6000 ft. and 9000 ft., from Narromine
(N.S.W.) to Kicatoo Creek in five hours,
is, at 57, well beyond the usual age for
such daring feats. A Sydney man, he
saw service with the A.1.F., and is now
a lecturer at the School of Tropical Medi-
cine in Sydney Uni., with a distinguished
scientific record in the tropical labora-
tories of the Commonwealth Health De-
partment. He was the first investigator,
after more than 20 years of German and
Australian research, to identify the
species of anopheline mosquito respon-
sible for the spread of malaria in Rabau!
and to devise effective means for its con-
trol and elimination. An experienced
air pilot, he regards sailplanes as safer
than the power type on account of
superior landing powers on small areas
in high winds.
Nobody could mistake Roy Mc-
Caughey for anything but an Australian.
His six-feet-odd towers at sheep and
cattle shows. His father, the late Sam
McCaughey, is best known to the public
as a benefactor who left a large slice of
the money which he made in the early
ROY McCAUGHEY.
days for public uses; but he was known
the world over in the sheep industry as
the importer of the merino strain and
one of the great moulders of the modern
Australian merino. Roy is a breeder to
his fingertips. Coonong is not a Mecca
for sheepmen, but it has become one of
the world’s greatest Shorthorn studs, and
its owner has not stinted money to im-
port the best from Britain—Basildons
and Baptons and the peerless Millhills
Rosicrucian, whose scion won the
supreme British championship. He has
done much to help smaller breeders with
less capital, and is one of the most
popular men in the cattle industry.


SMOKE-OH!
“Meat, man’s favorite food at ordinary alti-
tudes, becomes distasteful to mountain climbers
at heights of over 20,000 feet.”
— “World’s News."
It probably gets too high.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man in U.S.A. has had a suit made
containing 45 pockets.”
A woman would have to go through
a lot with a husband like that.
4* 4* 4« 4*
“Australian Girls to Swim for Titles.”
—Sport heading.
American girls stick to the old-
fashioned way of catching impecunious
ones in Europe.
4* 4 4* 4*
“How can motorists impress on pedestrians
the need for keeping off the roads?”
—Motoring journal.
Hoot, mon!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Doctor says dyspeptics have no sense of
humor.”
They find it hard to swallow even a
joke.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Fed up with marriage after nine days.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
A nine-days’ blunder.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman waits 20 years to marry man who
was in gaol.”
So Cupid’s taken to broad arrows now!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Men of new A.I.F. full of promise,” says
general.
A little blonde we know agrees with
him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Acute Water Lack on Dairy Farms.”
— “Sun.”
So that’s why we’re getting better milk.
Distress.
Her sweet face puckered and the
limpid-blue eyes filled with tears. 1
richly cursed my helplessness, but it was
her battle, hers alone. A spasm of
coughing racked her, and I could only
stand by and wait until the clouds lifted.
Then a squeal as the match reached
her fingers informed me that at last she
had her cigarette alight.
K. D. E.
4* 4' 4* *B*
The worst cats among women are the
ones without fur coats.
Mourning After.
Dawn with its daily blush
May move the artist’s brush
To fill a canvas or a mere vignette,
The poet to release
A lyric masterpiece
Or mould the verses editors regret.
Minstrels and bards may raise
Their melodies to praise
The lambent glow that stirs the world
to life;
But, with each dawn, who knows
How many more compose
A specious tale to tell a waiting wife?
SOL.
Complaint.
Of autumn leaves some poets sing,
Their russet hues and gold;
All I can say about them is
That autumn leaves me cold.
H.M.
Misplaced.
“Many of the personnel of the Coastal
Command don’t see England by daylight for
a week at a time.”
Seeing England by day at this time of
year isn’t as easy as some people imagine.
If you are in the north you have to feel
your way through smoke thicker than
fog; if in the south you crawl through
fog thicker than smoke.
Me and Bill were on leave in England
one winter, and one day we set out to
have a look at the place. Bill wanted
to see Stonehenge. We got out our ord-
nance map and wasted a box of matches
without finding it; then it came on to
rain, and we crawled under what looked
like a bridge abutment. When this moved
off in the darkness we felt around and
found a policeman. He flashed a torch
on us. “We want t’ get t’ Stonehenge,”
said Bill. Then it came on to rain, and
the policeman faded from sight.
We heard a clock strike midday to the
north, and groped our way towards it.
A thing like a railway station loomed up,
and just as we entered the main door
somebody slammed it and the whole
flamin’ station went bounding away with
us shut up inside.
After about an hour it stopped, and
the door opened and Bill said, “Is this
Stonehenge?” “Thievin’, bleedin’ Aus-
sies!” cried a voice, and we ran off,
thankful for the perfect darkness of an
English early afternoon. We finger-
tipped our way along a street for a bit,
then it came on to rain, and Bill said,
“Look up there, that looks like Stone-
henge.” I couldn’t see anything, but
hung on to him. Suddenly we stepped on
nothing and fell into crushed ice. I tasted
it, and the truth dawned. We had set out
to see England by day, and s’elp me if
we hadn’t gone and fallen off the place.
B. DAZZLER.
Droll.
“I Was A Queer Girl.
I Married, And N0w....”
— “Woman” poster.
She was, on her admission, queer.
Then came into her giddy sphere
A bachelor whom she thought dear
Enough to link her lot with his;
And this the lady engineered.
And now — well, my conjecture is
His pitch is well and truly queered!
PERCIVAL.
“ Yairs, lady, I always give thirteen to the dozen when things are so rotten."
Another Industry.
“A Czech refugee who has applied to Aus-
tralia House for permission to migrate to
Australia proposes if successful to extract oil
from grasshoppers. He claims they will yield
commercially valuable oil up to 75 p.c. of their
weight.”
This announcement suggests that the
refugee has met a typical Australian in
London. It is expected that shortly a
flood of Central Europeans will be
clamoring for admittance to the Com-
monwealth, having secured leases of
walking-stick orchards in the Kimberleys,
foundries in the great blancmange-ore
district of Toorak, plantations of self-
adzed railway sleepers and platypus-
feather farms, the sole rights of hunting
the savage paw-paws and mangoes, and
agencies for hand-blown bluebottles, soot-
resisting claypans and the de-alloying of
dollar birds.
It is well known that grasshopper oil
is invaluable for putting around the sides
of dams to prevent the water sticking to
the banks, while, painted around the base
of an ironbark, it will prevent the tree
from dying so long as the roots and
foliage remain healthy. It can also be
used to lubricate the insides of smoke-
stacks, bass-drum pigskins and Plimsoll
“This is just a sideline—two postcard size for eighteenpence!”
lines, and to take the stains out of stained-
glass windows, while as a fuel for
vehicles such as spiders, bath-chairs and
penny-farthing bicycles it has no equal.
Ever since a white man first saw a
savage Myall roasting a death-adder oyer
a fire to get the potent gland oil with
which he soothed the pain in the neck
caused by his lubra’s having left the dilly-
bag containing the crocodile eggs and
bardies back at the last soak —that’s what
made him savage—the extraction of oil
from our native fauna has increased in
importance. Already the Federal Gov-
ernment is encouraging the extraction of
oil from wedge-tailed eagles and crows
by generously nromising that the excise
duty on this high-octane-content fuel will
not exceed, foi a start, more than Bs. a
gallon.
j t wag w h en J W as cockying up at
R , r> end t u at j d jc COV ered the hiah
Hoozer s nena mat i aiscoverea tne mgii
oil content of the grasshopper—the first
white man in Australia to do so. One
late spring morning, when I was on my
way down to the windmill to tie the sails
down with some binder twine—they had
come loose during a violent eclipse of
the sun a plague of hoppers hit the
selection.
I was wearing an old green felt hat at
the time. Before I could even sing out to
the wife for assistance the insects had
eaten the hat down to the sweat-band
and most of my hair and whiskers, for
the reflection from the hat must have
convinced them that the other two items
of the commissariat were also green.
I happened to be smoking my pipe,
and as I viciously slapped at the ’hoppers
on my face my whiskers burst into a
bright blue flame. I was puzzled at this,
as during bushfires my beard had never
before burnt with anything but a reddish-
yellow flame.
Thinking over this peculiarity as the
flames died down, I reached the con-
elusion that the squashed ’hoppers had
exuded an inflammable oil.
I saw a fortune in it. Determined to
become the first grasshopper-oil king, I
called up the Pekinese, Dachshund, French
poodle and the dingo-Alsatian cross which
I had minding the lambs and cows in the
lucerne patch, and ordered them to corral
the ’hoppers into the harness shed. As
the intelligent animals, yelping madly,
drove the half-crazed ’hoppers into the
shed, I got a sack of salt and broadcast
it over the milling insects, which were
busy eating a set of stirrup-irons. I
figured that a fair proportion of the salt
must fall on the tails of some of them.
Selecting the nearest ’hopper, I passed
the helpless insect through the mangle,
with a bucket underneath to catch the
oil. But I must have turned the handle
too fast, for I got the lot in the eye.
However, by putting the insects in from
the back and turning the handle slowly
towards me, I succeeded in getting a tin-
ful —3482 to the kero.-tin.
Analysing the oil, I found it was of
low viscosity with a high cracking point,
eminently suitable for my 1908 two-
cylinder, chain-drive Brush. Filling it
up with the grasshopper oil, I gave it
the works. The old bus made straight
for a field of maize, despite my etforts
to get it back on to the road, and took the
four-rail fence like a bird on the way.
Then a strange thing happened. Mak-
ing towards me from a clump of coola-
bahs came what looked like a black-and-
white cloud, and within a minute several
hundred ibis settled on the car, pecking
furiously at it. Then in their frustrated
anger they started pecking at me, appar-
ently aware that I had dished them out
of a good feed. From then on every
time I took the car out I was attacked
by the birds.
Disheartened, I gave up the manufac-
ture of grasshopper oil, but if that Czech
can get over this difficulty he might make
a good thing out of it. I intend to see
him anyway ; being a refugee, he’s sure
to have several thousand pounds with
him, and I’ll sell him my plant—at a
figure.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Marmalade”: The jackeroo on a dis-
tant Kimberley station met with an acci-
dent. No medical aid being handy, the
manager utilised the pedal transceiver
and got in touch with the flying doctor
at Wyndham. “Draw flesh together with
sticking-plaster,” came the instructions;
“then stitch with needle and thread.”
This was done. “Have carried out in-
structions, but patient resists treatment.”
The radioed advice was definite: “Secure
patient firmly. If necessary use force.”
Ten minutes later the set buzzed again.
“Many thanks for advice. Patient re-
covering rapidly. We are now sewing
up manager’s jaw.”
j{c * H*
“Abergowrie”: The position of Oswald
Pryor’s anvil (B. 6/3/’4O) would fetch
a few curses from a blacksmith if he
had to use it. In every smithy I’ve seen
the horn of the anvil points toward the
fire and is as close to it as possible. This
facilitates the handling of heavy work,
and also prevents undue loss of heat —an
important factor in work such as weld-
ing. The time taken for the transfer of
iron from the fire to the anvil should
occupy no longer than a turn of the heel.
In short, the anvil horn should be almost
touching the hip of the bellows operator.
* * * *
“K.1.N.”: I predict with much con-
fidence and more regret that a big mor-
tality among stock will follow the big
Queensland rains. One of the last big
“wets” that covered the whole State was
about ’O6. At the station I was on then we
lost the whole of a drop of stud lambs,
every foal under a month old, countless
calves, while the destruction wrought
among ’roos and other native fauna was
appalling. I counted 92 dead ’roos under
two whitewood trees out on the plains—
the only trees for miles. Sandflies had
killed those marsupials. Flies were
thicker still in the timber, and many
’roos died there. Wallaroos also went
out in hundreds. The sandflies burrow
into their ears, causing agonising death.
* * * *
“V.P.3767”: “Weary Jack” (B.
20/3/’4O) didn’t use his nut in getting his
truck out of the bakehouse. At Supply
Railhead, Seymour (Vic.), a military
driver edged his heavily-laden vehicle
into the grain store, unloaded, and was
met with the same dilemma —the empty
truck was too high to pass under the
door lintel. With monumental calm he
stepped out of his cabin and deflated
his rear tyres and drove out on the rims
with inches to spare. He broke down,
however, when refused the use of the
’phone to summon a breakdown truck
to repair two horribly punctured tyres.
Pumping 7in. section tyres to a pressure
of 801 b. does something to a man.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The bush abounds with
men who can look at the sun and tell
you the time —“somewhere erbout” ; but
"I'll have a bunch of that."
I knew an old fellow who was as gooii
as a clock. During the six months that
I worked and camped with him I never
knew him to be more than 20 minutes
out, wet or shine; generally, five to ten
minutes was nearer the margin. The
old chap’s accuracy puzzled me, and
waking up one night it occurred to me
to put his gift to the supreme test. Un-
fortunately the old bloke didn’t seem to
see the scientific aspect. For ten minutes
he burned my ears with scathing com-
ment on vermilion idiots who wake up
crimson honest men with damfool ques-
tions, etc. “But it was only an experi-
ment ! ” I protested. “Experiment be
damned!” he exploded. “Wakin’ a man
up at two o’clock in the mornin’ ”
I glanced at my watch —seven minutes
past.
* * * *
“Mei”: I don’t know about using a
’roo as a postman (B. 21/2/’4O), but I
have used a horse for that purpose. Short
of feed for him, I tied a note to his
forelock and turned him out. He had
to go 20 miles and swim a creek to avoid
the gates on the usual road of 10 miles,
but he appeared at the stockyard a few
hours after his release. The note was
duly received, and the horse brought out
to me again at the end of the week as
requested.
H= * * *
“A.H.H.”: I thought the announcer
who conducts a countryman’s session
over a Queensland station a dinkum
bushwhacker until he tried hurdling one
of our native timbers —to wit, belar. He
shied at the start, cantered up for a
second go but propped when he got as
far as “be—.” Taking his third try at
a gallop he fouled the second rail with
a hurried and mumbled “beela,” with
accent on the “bee.” Was sitting on the
verandah at the time, and you mightn’t
believe it, but every “b’lar” within ear-
shot started to wilt and shed its leaves,
and if I hadn’t raced in and turned the
wireless off we wouldn’t have had a
green stick left in the paddock. Pity the
wireless set wasn’t over in the Six Mile
—it would have saved us ringbarking.
* * * *
“Cap. P.R.”: In my Sydney suburb
the most unexpected Easter visitor was
a quail, found running through the
hydrangeas at sunset one evening. An
attempt to capture it failed, the bird
taking to its wings and getting away like
a shot. At su.nset the following evening
the quail was back, this time being found
in the front doorway and captured by
the hat method. After due deliberation
the pleadings of the only Gould League
member in the family carried the day
and the visitor was taken to the nearest
bird sanctuary and released.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: One of the oddest land-
scape features of the Centre and the
western plateau is the breakaway ; it is
exactly what its name expresses—a break
in the country. But what a curious
break! One may be travelling a dead
flat plain when, precipitously, the ground
drops, perhaps only 20ft., perhaps 100 ft.
Invariably the wall of the break is of
rock, most often granite, heavily weath-
ered. At the foot even in the driest
desert there will be at least a modicum
of fertility, the faint dew condensed by
the rock-wall serving to keep some trace
of vegetable life from utterly perishing,
A promising place to dig for water, and
a likely spot to get a ’roo, the marsupials
loving the breakaway for its shade. Most
often the break takes the form of a
crescent, the tips dwindling away to the
plain far out. The same happens to the
break itself. Starting from the foot of
the cliff one finds another plain. Across
this miles away, any distance, and the
break occurs again. So it goes on and
on until one realises that there must be
tens of thousands of breakaways on this
continent. Some wanderers hold that the
breakaway is really an ancient bay of a
once vast inland sea: that the mterven-
mg plains which seem like some gigantic
flight of stairs, are really all on the one
level, the dry bed of the long-vanished
waters * &
'* * * *
“Bufo”: Why is it that no really good
songster amongst wild birds is hatched
from an all-white egg and none has white
plumage? White eggs are much more
common than white birds. Australia’s
only all-white birds are the white aber-
rant form of the grey goshawk, spoon-
bills, egrets and a few other water birds,
The so-called white cockatoo has plenty
of yellow on its crest, underwings and
part of the tail. Most of our best bird
vocalists run to dandyism in dress: neat
black and white for magpies and
butcher birds, olive green for the bell-
miner, and the brilliant scarlet and black
costume in which the crimson honey-
eater, whom bush folk know as the
bloodbird, pours forth his gallant swell-
ing music. Only a few combine good
voices with sober attire. Elsewhere most
good singers choose demure shades of
brown, and bright attire goes with harsh
voices.
“The 0.D.”: When old Mac brought
the big Clydesdale stallion home the
family promptly dubbed the horse Mick,
his real name being too long for daily
use about the place. Mac’s Mallee farm
was protected by typical mallee fences
and gates, and these the big horse pro-
ceeded to demolish with ease and a cer-
tain quiet humor. He’d lean against a
gate or sit on a fence, and then there’d
be no gate or fence. Mac and his sons
began to spend most of their lives col-
lecting Mick from other farms and re-
pairing the damage. Then Mac got dis-
gusted. “Blast him,” he said, “it’d be
better t’ leave all the blanky gates open
an’ confine ourselves t’ bringin’ him
home.” This was done, whereupon an-
other point in horse psychology was
learned, for Mick, with every gate on
the place open, was then satisfied to hang
about the yard, occasionally stamping on
an inquisitive chook or moodily batter-
ing a box to relieve the boredom of a
life freed of restriction.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: That N.S.W. Beak
who socked a defendant to leg on the
ground of cruelly keeping his horse
without a drink because it mopped up
12 gallons (B. 13/3/ ’4O) didn’t serve his
time in the W.A. wheatbelt. During
harvesting one summer I contrived to
keep my six-horse team down to about
that quantity for the midday drink. At
night immediately they were unharnessed
they would make for the 90-gallon
trough, and by the time I got there
they’d have polished it off and be wait-
ing for more. Then for ten minutes
they’d keep the tap running at full pres-
sure—about another 90 gallons—before
they started to move back to their feed,
Don’t know how much they scoffed dur-
ing the night, but my estimate of 45
gallons each per day wasn’t far short of
the mark. But that was in a climate
where a man working really hard could
account for anything up to five gallons
of water and a gallon of tea per day.
* * * *
« G Roper ”. Should “W. Ibis” (B.
6/3/ ’ 40) happen along to south -west
WA he wjn m find there lendid
.• , , , •. f, ■
' mber f d tb f , men to d ? ss “• Ind“d-
the we stern State seems to be reverting
to the axe, quite a number of recently-
built bridges having for their main
bearers logs straight from the bush, the
tops only being levelled with the axe.
These bridges, notably that across the
Swan at Fremantle, replace others, built
largely of sawn timber, long grown de-
crepit with age. But perhaps the neatest
bit of late axe-work is the second fishing
stage recently inserted into the old
bridge at Mandurah. Here everything—
planks, seats, stairway, railings and posts
—are straight from the axe. And are
they square and smooth? One marvels
at the accuracy of eye and hand that
turns out a 12ft. 4 by 4 as neatly as,
and a lot more splinter-free than, one
from a saw-bench. Hewn timber long
outlasts sawn, since it mostly follows the
grain, sealing the pores of the wood
down as the axe passes. The saw does
the reverse, goes straight through, often
leaving end grain so that it absorbs water
like a sponge.
SEASONAL CHANGE.
F’r weeks he’s just been hanging round, at
home an’ at the pub,
In sneakers, pants an’ undershirt that’s seldom
seen a tub;
A fag butt hangin’ from his lips an’ in his eyes
a look
Would make y’ think he’s schemin’ schemes,
an’ most of ’em dead crook.
A bloke, you’d say, who don’t believe in
workin’ f’r a crust,
The kind o’ cove y’ shy from; yair, a cove y’
wouldn’t trust;
But now he’s walkin’ straight an’ square, his
feet firm on the ground—
It works a mighty change in Bill when shearin’
comes around.
The autumn’s here an’, Queensland way, they’re
musterin’ on the runs,
An’ Billy boy is thinkin’ of them early
western suns.
Fair dink., y’ wouldn’t know him now, his
eyes are bright an’ keen.
They see beyond suburban streets t’ some
remembered scene.
He’s dreamin’ of the busy sheds, the barkin’
of the dogs,
The creamin’ fleeces on the board, the glowin’
cookhouse logs.
There as a man with men he’ll toil an’ earn
an honest pound—
It works a mighty change in Bill when shearin’
comes around.
He’s tidyin’ up these last few days an’ talkin’
good t’ hear;
He gets his combs an’ cutters out, goes over
all his gear:
He listens t’ the wireless f’r the Queensland
rain reports,
An’ talks of grass an’ fleece-weights an’ the
shed-hands’ Sundee sports.
“We start,” he says, “at Wilga Downs an’
then go Quilpie way;
We got a run of seven sheds’ll take us down
t’ Hay.”
He tells us yarns o’ shearers’ huts—y’d think
he never frowned—
It works a mighty change in Bill when shearin’
comes around.
His clobber all attended to, the missus packs
his port,
An’ smiles an’ thinks that, after all, old Bill’s
a decent sort.
Sometimes he has a drink or two an’ swears
he’ll screw her neck,
But never has an’ never will, an’ always sends
his cheque,
As shed be shed the run cuts out, t’ keep the
fam’ly fast
An’ put by some f’r lazy days when shearin’
season’s past.
An’, though he’s sometimes snaky in his
idleness, she’s found
It works a mighty change in Bill when shearin’
comes around.
He’s on the north-west mail t’night, a cheerful
sort o’ coot,
He wears a collar and a tie above a “navy
soot.”
He talks of war an’ wool an’ rain; he’s
knocked about a bit;
An’ seems t’ see the best o’ things—he’s
feelin’ fightin’ fit,
His muscles hunger now f’r toil, he’s happy
as a pup;
Next week he’ll suffer aches an’ pains until
he hardens up.
An’ of the loafer round the pub there’s neither
sight nor sound —
It works a mighty change in Bill when shearin’
comes around.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Dungeness”: In outback pubs nowa-
days one seldom comes across the home-
made Notices to Guests which once pro-
vided both humor and food for thought.
Paddy Regan at Nolan’s Gap specialised
for drovers, and informed patrons by a
notice in the bar that “Dogs is not
Alowed in Bedrooms. Chain thim in
the Yard and the Man will see theys well
looked arfter.” In each bedroom was
another: “Take yere Close orf before
gettin inter Bed. It Dirties the Sheets.”
Mrs. Casey at Jumpup Crossing saved
her help from undesirables with “Dont
be Afraid to ask the Maids to Go Out
with You. Theyll Turn You Down
Quite Politely.” She also ensured decent
observance of the Sabbath with “Swear-
ing on Sundays Strictly Prohibited.”
The Moloney hostess of the Dingo Flat
hostelry achieved fame for a hundred
miles around through the cryptic com-
mand in red capitals which graced the
bar shelves: “No Swearing Prohibited in
This Bar.”
¥ * $ *
“Dominic”: Mother Nature is a pecu-
liar dame. For instance, the W.A. coast
north and south from Fremantle has this
season suffered a severe dearth of fish,
for which the past excessively wet winter
is largely blamed. But more probably
there was a crop failure under sea in the
millions of acres of weed necessary for
the sustaining of fish life. On such weed
in normal seasons live countless billions
of almost microscopic creatures, which in
turn make food for other billions slightly
larger, and so up the scale until the
mullet, the whiting and the herring are
reached. These again are the prey of
the snapper, the kingfish and other big
fellows. Thus a failure at the bottom of
the ladder means failure all the way up:
fish scarce everywhere. On land around
the same locality the Dame this summer
has sent a plague of tiny red ants,
myriads everywhere. Where these multi-
tudes came from is a mystery, for their
“The mate says he'll have his Waffles without cream!"
presence was never previously trouble-
some. Yet cursed as they are today they
may be blessed tomorrow. Meat-eaters
all, they are gathering up every particle
of animal substance. And they will like-
wise gather and destroy millions of eggs
of all sorts of garden and orchard pests.
So the Mother takes from us with the
right hand and gives with the left.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Madam X is a small
buxom lady living in our garden who
uses her remarkable skill in applied
mechanics to provide her with ample
nightly meals. During the day she sleeps
them off in a comfortable little bedroom
which she has built with leaves stuck
together with personally-manufactured
silk. Each evening she climbs a branch
and pays out long silken lines which
make themselves fast on trees or ground.
These guy-ropes in place—they may be
10ft. long or more—
she connects them
with perfectly-spaced
radials. Changing to
a finer, stickier silk she
weaves a spiral hub,'
the filaments becom-
ing closer as they
near the centre.
After testing the job
with a few smart
tugs, Madam rests
from her labors on
one of the radials.
When a small moth
blunders into the
snare, and signals its
capture by the vibra-
tion set up by its
efforts to escape, she
darts down, wraps it
in a silken strait-
jacket by swift move-
ments of her legs,
sinks her fangs into
it and begins her
first course. To-
wards morning, full-
fed and contented,
Madam pulls the
web to pieces, rolls
each piece neatly up
and drops it on the grass; then she goes
back to her cool leafy flat for another
day of well-earned sleep. Naturalists
call her an orb-web spider. The female
child of this household, who understands
Madam X’s ways of life completely,
calls her The Perfect Female. What is
the world coming to? Madam X eats
several husbands each year, and the child
knows it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Locking and irrigation
schemes along the Murray have changed
many of the creeks that ran out of the
river at one point and back in again
somewhere else. Box Creek, which used
to carry a foot or two of water every
summer, is mostly dry now, and many
people travelling the Barham-Piangil road
wonder as they skirt a big, roughly rec-
tangular hole how it got there. Years
ago I used to work that road with as
fine a team of hair-and-hides as you’d
find. There were 14 of ’em, mostly
Hereford-Durham crosses, and they
pulled some remarkable loads in their
time. Just after the T 7 flood we were
making down the river with a big load
of stores and machinery for the saw-
mills, and at Box Creek came on a 12-
horse team bogged to the king-pin. l
took my bullocks out, crossed the cree'
further up, then came down and hooked
on to the horse wagon. ‘The pulls too
long/’ said old Dash-me-rags, who drove
the nags. “You wait,” I said. I stood
my bulls up and then poured over them
a vocabulary famed from Tallangatta to
Murray Bridge. It was a terrific strain,
but that wagon and those horses came
out. So did the bed of the creek, which
accounts for the big hole and explains
the travellers’ wonder.
“Better luck next time, sir.”
“Cloviski MacOdoacer”: New Guinea
has endowed our language with some
gems that would dazzle a Cardus, and the
most recent one in writer’s experience is
worthy of the tradition set by its long
line of forerunners. In countries less
colorful than N.G. business correspon-
dence does not enjoy any great reputation
for brightness; but when your “Kong
Kong” trader tries his hand at it he
touches no line of it that he does not
adorn. This particular jewel turned up
at Wewak, in the far north-west of the
Territory, where the Administration had
commissioned a local trader to supply a
new wind-sock for the aerodrome. In
due course his Majesty’s paying officer
was presented with a bill for
“1 Bag of Constant Wind, 10s. 6d.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Royal Shows these
times are niggardly affairs, with their
samples retailed at a shilling per bag.
Time was when samples were given away.
Once through the magic gates the kid of
those days became a sample millionaire
without flashing a coin.
The prince of benefactors
was the bloke demonstrat-
ing cooking stoves, then
the last word in modern-
ism With half a dozen in
full fire he showed to what
culinary perfection beef,
mutton and pork could be
brought. A joint done, it
was carved, titbits served
to the crowd on the end
of a fork ; and not many
were declined. But better
was to follow. With the
joint whittled down a bit
it would be handed to the
nearest kid. “Here, sonny,
take this home to your
mother.” I have one
splendid memory of three
of us starting on a slightly
diminished leg of mutton,
doing the carving with a
penknife, also a sample.
After that we went along
to a Lady Bountiful who
served us gratis with cups
of tea, flavored with con-
densed milk, then a thing
new. Further along were
free biscuits —to prove the
excellence of factory
butter, also something
new. And there were free
bags of lollies. What
wasn’t there free? Arrived
home we found Mum had
also been to the show and had collected
a free sample of castor-oil.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The scientific explanation
of the coldest European winter within
living memory is an extensive and long-
continuing low-pressure area centring
around the Azores and drawing cold air
down from the Pole. The usual winter
low system is near the Arctic Circle and
attracts warm air northward. Why this
unusually situated 1939-40 low area
should have developed or when any
similar condition is likely to recur are
totally unsolved problems. After more
than two centuries of continued observa-
tion of European weather and 80-odd
years of systematic meteorological re-
search, no theory yet advanced affords
any reasonable prospect of establishing
weather forecasting from year to year
on an even approximately accurate basis,
In the last 50 years periods of extreme
cold have followed an apparent 11-year
cycle. So have sunspots. The catch is
that the two conditions have never co-
incided.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A Sydney daily of dig-
ndy ] ias gj ven prominence on its maga-
z j ne page tQ an art ; c } e d esc rit>ing how in
France fish ar£ tethered No need to g 0
favored
as tar away as that. At a y
inla " d s P ot wher u e * IS f ll to
catch more coa than can be used at once
this is a common way of keeping the
surplus fresh, fat and accessible. I was
introduced to the practice by a mature
bushman aged ten. We were exploring
a sma u cre ek a few miles from where it
3p j ds j nto Murray when, jerking his
bead towards a dark, reedy pool, he mut-
“ Q Ot a five-pounder in there.”
t < when? „ j asked « Now ”he said, and
groping beneath a gum root for a hidden
* J h | d it. The speckled captive
swam up with the line in quite a docile
manner, and its young owner took the
opportunity to shorten the string several
j ncbes as tke sec ti o n running across the
jaw tuming back to the gill was
wearing thin. “You have to watch ’em
fof that „ he remarked . i t appeared to
be quite a casual matter to this lad, as
indeed it was ; for he was the nephew
f w Archie who while agree ing dis-
mally that “the cod were done,” could
alwa V s supply any amount to the pubs
J* f «£“ a " d do ™ the ™
the da T ,he seaso ” °P ened ■
* * * *
“Raorut”: Said Sid the Sailor: “I wus
skipperin’ a ketch between Melbin an’
’Obart, an’ one day we’re beatin’ in to-
W ards the Rip when a storm springs up
the sou’-west. Before we c’n move
a fi nger a fi our top gear’s gorn, an’ we’re
be j n ’ fii o wn right on ter the rock eround
L j ptrap Wot w i t h the current an’ the
wind Stun- tergither, the anchors ain’t
a , ope uv ,* ldin , j c . n see we 'll be
in the surf in erbout five minutes, an’
ernot h er five the sharks’ll be pipin’
a » ’ands ter supper. list when I’m goin*
tgr yed QUt it , s ev ’ ry man f or ’i mS elf, I
feels the ketch give a jerk, an’l’m’anged
if we don’t stop driftin’. A’uge octerpus
grabbed , Q f d uv us . Ya i r , there’s five
uv ’ U ge feelers wrapped round the
gtem St ° ong orl r jght, > e ’olds us there
f er tW o days till the gale blows itself out
an’ we’re ridin’ free an’ easy agin O]
course, the brute s only after a meal,
as soon as the pressure uv the wind an
current in e comes ter git us so
we gotter do lm in. All the same, I wish
we adn t ad ter do it.
THE FAVORITE.
At Porcupine Flat, we admit,
A change is as rare as the rain:
Perhaps a new ensilage pit
Or the old man laid up with a sprain.
But boredom is instantly slain
And the family all give a cheer
When is heard the triumphant refrain:
“Hey, Mum! The new catalogue’s here!”
Fresh patterns of something to knit;
Gents’ suits (they’re both fancy and plain:
Self-measured, they’re certain to fit);
There is something that all may obtain,
From windmills to rings for the swain,
In the volume that comes once a year.
That’s why we’ve got this on the brain:
“Hey, Mum! The new catalogue’s here!”
We don’t like the ’hoppers a bit;
The fence that is broken’s a bane;
To leg we get properly hit
When the dam dries away to a stain.
Yes, worries fair drive us insane
(Dad’s really peculiar, we fear)
When young Jimmy roars out in this strain:
“Hey, Mum! The new catalogue’s here!”
Refreshing as bubbling champagne,
And almost as good as a beer,
Are the tidings yelled out once again:
“Hey, Mum! The new catalogue’s here!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


FOJ?
La§t Year’s Will
may not meet to-day’s
uncertain conditions
JNEVITABLE fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions ex-
pressed in a Will. It is, ,I *—fore, desirable that
you consult your Solicitor and have your Will
revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of
appointing The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment
gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a Company with more
than 61 years’ practical experience in the adminis-
tration of Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon appli-
cation.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
I Bligh St., Sydney 401 Collins St., Melbourne
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided
Profits, £961,115.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. 0. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray. John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: ,T. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref., Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. 2J p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300,274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
1} p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
24 p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3| p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 15,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
1939.. 149,505 15,000 100,000 34,505 447,427
Howard Smith, Ltd., is one of Aus-
tralia’s biggest holding cos., with per-
haps the most assorted interest of any
bar purely investment concerns. For the
year to Dec. 31 last it claimed, in its
own accounts, a net profit of £149,505,
equal to 6.7 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 6.3 p.c. in the preceding term.
For the third successive year 5 p.c. was
paid.
Those figures, however, tell only part
of the story. In accordance with the
company laws consolidated accounts of
the co. and subsidiaries have been pub-
lished for the first time, and, though these
also may not tell a complete story, it is
fuller than of yore. For instance, the
consolidated accounts disclose that
Howard Smith’s equity in the earnings of
its subsidiaries, plus its own earnings,
was £181,160 for the year, or £31,655
greater than shown in the holding co.’s
accounts, and representing 8.3 p.c. on the
ord. capital of H.S. No comparisons
with previous years are possible.
Here is a list of some of the subsidiaries
and other investments as they were not
so long ago:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships. £1,850,002 £1,849,990
Caledonian Collicrips 1 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
Caledonian ColLieiies.. } 1,023,599 ord. 869,542 ord.
Invincible Colliery . . 104,000 65,791
B.H.P 11,396,936 217,509*
Australian Sugar . . 207,915 155,704
Southern Port Cem f 210,004 pref. 96,809 pief.
Southern Fort. cem.. . ( 639,885 ord. 248,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
* Cash and bonus issues made since.
There are two excellent investments
among the foregoing—B.H.P. and Aus-
tralian Sugar. Whether the co. has taken
up all the additional scrip that B.H.P;
has offered of late isn’t known, but as the
co. isn’t stuck for a few shillings in
ready cash it most likely has. Australian
Steamships, backbone of the whole enter-
prise, is somewhat heavily capitalised, but
it turns in the lion’s share of the in-
come. It seems to have done a little
better last term. Also, the coal trade
picked up ; N. S. Wales production (up
17 p.c. on 1938) was the best since 1925,
and the price was a bit better, though at
around an average of 12s. a ton it com-
pared with 17s. 6d. a ton in 1927. In-
vincible, the co.’s western N. S. Wales
colliery, paid a 3j p.c. div., the first for
nine years, and since the close of accounts
Caledonian has wiped 3 p.c. off its pref.
arrears —first distribution since 1928. The
whole coal industry throughout the Com-
monwealth is now closed down as a
result of a strike.
Southern Portland Cement has become
a more useful contributor to earnings.
About £21,000 came in from this quarter
last term, and the cement business is still
holding up fairly well. The ord. shares
have an unofficial market around par,
and at somewhat lower figures have been
sought after by those conversant with the
cement trade.
Howard Smith itself earns agency and
management fees from its shipping and
coal interests. The Cycle (5450 tons),
newest cargo vessel —it replaces the
Saros —came into the trade 12 months
ago, and has proved “most satisfactory
and economical.” Inter-State cargo traffic
is very busy just now.
Here is a table showing Howard
Smith’s balance-sheet figures for the past
two years, with the addition of the con-
solidated figures for 1939: —
Con-
r-I—Howard 1 —Howard Smith N solidated,
1938. 1939. 1939.
Pref. capital .. £250.000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Deposits . . . . 10,502 14,003 42,355
Other liabilities . . 738,743 779,265 187,306
Outside capital 450,451
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 180,932 189,463 468,320
Shares other cos.. . 3,088,164 2,984,286 1,026,319
Plant . . . . 19,837 20,130 *2,062,926
Stocks, etc. . . 24,578 36,871 140,672
Debtors . . . . 97,522 112,357 168,746
Public securities
and cash, etc.. . 64,885 240,435 469,496
* Includes steamers, collieries, etc.
Analysis shows that the written-down
value of assets in the subsidiary cos. is
£548,579 higher than the valuation of
subsidiaries’ shares in H.S. accounts, and
that the net tangible backing behind
each H.S. ord. share according to sub-
sidiary co. valuations is 335., against
245. 6d. as per the holding co.’s own
accounts. More important than these
calculations, however, is the earning
power on ord. capital (8.3 p.c.) disclosed
last term, and the fact that the liquid
position is particularly sound.
Shipping should continue profitable
this term ; sugar, too. B.H.P. may be
affected to some extent by the coal strike,
which may in turn affect cement; but the
stoppage can’t be allowed to go on for
ever. At 225. 3d. Howard Smith ords.,
yielding 4.5 p.c., should be worth buying
for putting away.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
t —‘ —Divs. Nominal
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 31,625 1500 23,514 ) „ HQ . on
Written off intangibles, £2717 \ ’ ’" J
19 w'' 64 ’ 43 . 6 , 6 ?,° 1 ° i 30,995 121,233
Written off intangibles, £3899 )
Written off goodwill, £59,387 .. .. 61,846
6 p.c.
1938.. 75,212 6000 28,273 40,939 102,785
74 p.c.
1939.. 74,557 6000 35,341 33,216 130,001
* Subject to goodwill (£164,387 to commence, now
£105,000).
Most interesting recent developments
have occurred since the close of ac-
counts: viz. (1) offer to and quick
acceptance by the Australian public of
English interests’ 75 p.c. ord.-holding
(355,072 shares) at 245. 6d. apiece, ex
div. —previous technical associations are
not to be affected—and (2) this holding
co.’s offer to buy out shareholders in
Westinghouse, Rosebery, Ltd. (paid capi-
tal £205,500, of which £30,500 is prefer-
ence), on the basis of three f.-p.
E.M.A.I.L. ords. for every five Westing-
house ords. and four f.-p. ords. for each
of the latter’s prefs., or alternatively a
cash payment of 20s. for each pref. The
offer is conditional on acceptance by
holders of 140,000 Westinghouse ords.
That would give the co. three sub-
sidiaries, the others being Electricity
Meter Manufacturing Co. and New Sys-
tem Telephones Pty., two Sydney cos.,
formed in 1911 and 1920 respectively,
whose interests Electricity Meter and
Allied Industries was launched to fuse in
1934. The public came in a couple of
years later, when 100,000 6 p.c. prefs.
and 75,344 new ords. were offered and
snapped. Paid capital of this holding
co. thus lifted to £571,218 in 100,000
prefs. and 471,218 ords.
Paid capital £294,344, the Meter co.
turns out electric meters, refrigerators,
Philco radio, electric motors, petrol
pumps, telephone equipment, etc. The
Telephone co. (paid capital £100,500)
sells or hires on long term the inter-
communication telephones made by its old
London principals, and distributes much
of the output of the Meter co., as well as
the products of Siemens and Halske,
London.
Despite interruption to imports and
other difficulties, war is not expected to
have adverse effects:
Increased business in some of the estab-
lished lines now being produced and the
development of new lines should offset any
reduction in trade of other items. The
co. has also recently constructed one of
the largest annexes in Australia for the
manufacture of munitions.
With its efficient, modern plant, the co.
should be well equipped to extend further
its manufacturing activities as oppor-
tunity offers, while the management is
hopeful of developing export markets.
In these reckonings, figures for both
holding and operating cos. have been
amalgamated. Last term trade was better
than anticipated, and, assisted by £103,150
of surplus earnings retained over the
last three years, net earnings for the
whole group were down only £655 altei
providing for outside shareholders, lhat
was entirely due to the heavier tax reser-
vation —£42,370, as against £32,372. At
£74,557, the net result was sufficient tor
the parent to foot its pref. bill and then
show 14.5 p.c. on its ord. capital, as
against 14.6, 12.4 and 6.4 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. With an eye to the
future requirements of the business, ord.
div. was raised from 6 p.c. to p.c.
only, leaving £33,216 to strengthen
finances, and increasing aggregate re-
serves (subject to £105,000 of goodwill)
to £136,001.
Amalgamated balance-sheet figures,
after elimination of inter-company
entries, show added strength:
1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital* . . . . £394,944 £571,218 £571,218
Paid capital, etc.f .. 5,144 11,684 12,98 <
Sundry creditors§ .. 143,220 113,201 144./.,G
Loans, etc.J • • • • 83,000
Freeholds, plant, etc. . . 154,000 ofi’SfM
Stocks .. .. .. 200,527 246,089 231,364
Debtors’ balances, etc. 195,009 224,868
Cash and deposits . . 77,599 110.509
* Owned by holding co. t Not owned by holding
co. or its subsidiaries. § Including' tax provision, etc.
t From overseas shareholders.
Reflecting the business’s expanding rami-
fications, last year’s fixed-asset additions
exceeded the amount written off by
£12,140. Outstanding accounts recorded
an upward movement of £43,299, and cash
was bolstered by £32,910. In the process
the debt lifted £31,535, and stocks were
lightened by £14,725 ; action to increase
most-needed imports was taken when
hostilities threatened, the management
reports, however. When the books closed
more or less liquids showed a surplus
over the debt £29,949 higher at £465,304.
If the Westinghouse deal comes off,
paid capital will lift to £698,858, on
which the pref. div. and 1\ p.c. to the
ords. would call for £50,914, or £23,643
less profit than was claimed last year.
Though it may not be immediately re-
productive, the acquisition should be a
good move in the long run. The West-
inghouse co. made a loss of £28,567 in
the year to June 30, but reported a small
profit for the next six months. Most of
its troubles to date have arisen through
technical difficulties, which it is antici-
pated can be satisfactorily met by the
proposed association. The co. holds the
Australian manufacturing rights for a
number of the products of the American
Westinghouse Electric and Manufactur-
ing Co., as well as enjoying the technical
assistance of that big organisation.
At 265. 6d. the at present down-at-mouth
market prices the holding co.’s ords. to
yield 5.7 p.c. from 7| p.c. divs. ; the
prefs. at 245. show 5 p.c. Net tangible
backing is visibly 21s. 4d. ords. and
£6 os. sd. prefs.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 39.590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added intangibles, £59 .. .. 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added intangibles, £9O . . . . 47,486
1931. .10,429 10 p.c. Nil 8,005 2,424 49,910
Added intangibles, £8 . . . . 49,902
1932. .14,830 14.4 p.c. Nil 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added intangibles, £64 . . . . 52,638
1933. .24,578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. 21,250 3,328 55,966
1934.. 32.331 7f „ 7| „ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29,824 7J ~ 7f „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Intangibles disappear, £196 .. .. 79,567
Insurance policies surrendered,
£2OOB 77,559
Written off, £2900 74,659
1936.-20,931 7J p.c. 7f p.c. 22,822 72,768
Added intangibles, £3O .. .. 72,738
1937.. 31.857 7J p.c. 7J p.c. 24,412 7,445 80,183
Added intangibles, £39 . . .. 80,144
1938.-29,476 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,800 4,676 84,820
Added intangibles, £69 . . . . 84,751
1939.. 32.407 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,800 7,607 92,358
Pref. div. subject to 22J p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
If trade generally were brisker last term,
which is doubtful, Lustre derived no
benefit, gross earnings (£145,271) advanc-
ing only £852. It was more economical
management, assisted by a better show-
ing in Maoriland, that enabled the
£2931 extra profit to be shown, and that
despite a “substantially greater” tax pro-
vision.
At £32,407 the net result, which covers
four months’ war trading, would have


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £25 of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by * spread of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy post free on applica-
tion to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Telephone: 85294.
Incorporated in England
by Royal Charter
in 1835.
<3
Pti
VS.YS
/835
The liability of the
Members is
Limited.
THE BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank) . . . . 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the bank) . . 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . . 4,500,000
£13,475,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 16th OCTOBER, 1939.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, 28th MARCH, 1940.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 16th October last, with
the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills
current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making a transfer
to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision for all bad and
doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year amounted to £292,023/11/11.
To this has to be added £227,879/9/7 brought forward from the previous year’s account,
making a total of £519,903/1/6. From this, £130,921/17/6 was paid as an Interim Dividend
on 6th October last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £151,875 to
pay a Final Dividend of 4/6 per Share, less Income Tax at 5/- in the £, making, in all,
£282,796/17/6, equal to 8/- per Share less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution
at the rate of 8 per cent., less Tax.
There will remain £237,106/4/- to be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable, in London, Australia and New Zealand, on 29th March.
The Directors have to record with much regret the death, on Ist October last, of their
valued colleague, Mr. Kenneth Goschen.
Mr. David John Robarts has been appointed to a seat on the Board. His name will be
submitted for the approval of the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance
with the provisions of the Deed of Settlement.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: F. V. C. Livingstone-Learmonth, D. 5.0.,
D. J. Robarts and Edmund Godward, who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-election.
J. F. G. GILLIAT, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 18th March, 1940.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 11, 1938, TO OCTOBER 16, 1939
Balance brought forward from October, 1938 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £227,879 9 7
Profit for the year to October 16, 1939, after deducting Rebate
(£14,691/9/-) on Bills current at Balance date, and after making
a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which
account provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made.. £1,600,463 15 11
Less:
I.—Charges of Management—Australia and New
Zealand —
Salaries and allowances at 248 Branches and
Agencies .. .. .. ■ • • • £587,390 11 7
General Expenses .. ■ • • • • • 141,831 18 2
London—
Salaries and allowances . . • • ■ • 23,303 0 3
General Expenses, including Directors’
remuneration
ll.—Rates and Taxes—
Australia, New Zealand and London
From which deduct —
Dividend paid October 6, 1939'
Dividend payable March 29, 1940
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet
30,682 16
£783,208 6
425,221 17
1.208,430 4 0
292,023 11 11
£519,903 1 6
130,921 17
151,875 0
- 282,796 17 6
.£237,106 4 0
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 16, 1939.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit,
and other Liabilities, includ-
ing provision for contin-
gencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
£2,732 0 0
24,785,902 16 11
16.135,624 13 1
5,711,815 15 5
222,814 17 8
£46.858,890 3 1
Capital:—
900,000 Shares
of £ 5 each,
fully-paid .. i
(There is
under the
Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of
the Bank) ..
Currency Re-
serve (used
in the busi-
ness of the
Bank)
Dividend pay-
able March
29, 1940 ..
Profit and Loss
Account
Balance
:,500,000 0 0
2,475,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
151,875 0 0
237,106 4 0
1,363,981 4 0
£56,222,871 7 1
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances
British Government Securities..
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities and other
Investments
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in transit
Advances on Securities and other
Assets
Liability of Customers for
Acceptances as per contra ..
Bank Premises and Sites in
Australia, New Zealand, and
London, at Cost, less amounts
written off
Note. —The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates of
exchange, and the net difference
which would have arisen had
they been converted at the rates
ruling at the date of the
Balance-sheet is covered by
Currency Reserves.
£4,679,312
2,113,057
9,436,222
2,466,733
36,534,456
222,814
770,274
11 9
1 4
17 6
1 4
6 7
17 S
10 11
£56,222,871 7 1
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance-sheet with the books of the Bank in London, and
with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia and New Zealand. We
have verified the Cash Balances, Bills of Exchange, Investments and Securities held in London.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and, in our opinion,
the above Balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by the books in London and the Returns from the Branches.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & Co., Auditors.
London, 13th March, 1940.
permitted an all-round 10 p.c div., with
£1407 to spare. Actually, both prefs.
and ords. were again handed 8 p.c., and
£7607 was worked back into the busi-
ness It is sound policy, and there are
confidence and good news for share-
holders in the statement “If present
favorable trading is maintained, which
your directors have no reason to doubt,
larger dividends will receive serious con-
sideration.”
Lustre hosiery, lingerie and other art.-
silk products for girls of all ages, and
Grenadier woollen socks for men, turned
out from up-to-date and efficient plant
recently installed at Boundary-street, Syd-
ney, earn the profits. Branches at Mel-
bourne and Brisbane handle inter-State
distribution, and there is a manufactur-
ing subsidiary at Wellington (M.L.),
where import control is now a help. The
co. has never failed to show a profit, and
though 1930-32 were dry years for ord.-
holders they have had an average 7.4 p.c.
on their equity since. Owing to a sur-
feit of plant capacity, price-cutting has
long been the bugbear of the industry,
particularly in the full-fashioned hosiery
section, but appearances are that those
in the trade are now taking a more sen-
sible view of things.
Realising that only by increased
mechanical and other efficiency could it
keep among the leaders, the management
set about building a new mill and thor-
oughly reorganising its plant about four
years back. Since, £89,077 has been
written off the working assets from earn-
ings, all of which, with more besides, has
gone back into new equipment:
1934. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Ord. capital.. £166,667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital.. 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages .. 31,928 31,928 31,928
Overdraft .. 27,483 45,718 72,740 84,803
Creditors .. 40,163 26,324 37,016 42,897
Freeholds .. 45,626* 120,148 122,381 122,391
Plant.. .. 142,732 158,990' 164,725 149,969
Stocks . . 127,689 133,572 159,158 197,485
Debtors .. 97,770 85,463 108,275 108,150
Cash, etc. .. 2,722 481 509 532
Investments .. 10,777 10,452 12,303
* Less mortgage.
Last year’s depreciation allowance was
£24,674, on which basis plant, etc., would
be wiped off the books in six years. Fore-
sight of the directors is evident in the
advance of £38,327 in raw material and
other stocksr—in value the highest yet —
to carry which £17,944 was tacked on
the debt. Still, when the books closed
the more or less liquid surplus (£146,539)
registered an improvement of £20,281 on
the figure 12 months before.
Course of taxation and imported rayon
costs will play prominent parts in future
profit-earning. Recent history suggests
confidence in the management’s ability
to grapple with problems within its
control. So far it has been neces-
sary to make only minor increases in
selling prices, indicating that the new
plant is doing a good job.
At 225. Id., the pound prefs., visibly
covered by £4 16s. 7d. in net tangibles,
are yielding a satisfactory 7.2 p.c.; mini-
mum div. is 7f p.c., beyond which they
participate with the ords. to 10 p.c. The
ords. fetch 215., to yield an immediate
7.6 p.c.; they could have been picked up
at 18s. earlier in the year. Backing is
28s. Id. on book values.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
—Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£/ £, £ £> £>
1930.. 10,746 720 3 p.c. = 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£ll,OOO 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 25 p.c. =4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,383 3,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 „ „ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10,873
1939.. 17,039 720 5* „ ~10,231 6,088 16,961
1940.. 13,492 720 5i „ ~10,232 2,540 19,501
* Includes directors’ interest (5 p.c.).
There was more money about last year,
thanks to a high level of employment,
bigger wool clip, fat cheques for cattle,
sugar and dairy produce and a larger
volume of secondary production, and
retailers’ turnovers benefited. Also, the
revival of Finneys and the appearance of
Woolworths, Coles and Penny’s have
brought a lot of trade back to the
George-street end of the city; but this
has also meant increased competition for
McD. and E., and prices have had to
be pared in order to maintain the
struggle. Last term the co.’s gross earn-
ings (£107,200) moved up only £3329.
But it cost an extra £6876 —£93,708
in all, including an unchanged tax
provision of £5500 —to handle the
larger business. So the net result
was £3547 lighter at £13,492, which
was enough to pay the small pref. div.
(£720) and show 7.4 p.c. on the £172,027
of ord. capital, compared with 9.4, 7.9,
6.4, 5, 5.7 and 1.8 p.c. back to 1934.
The div. was kept at 5| p.c., and the
£2540 that remained lifted the lay-by to
£19,501 in excess of goodwill (£11,000),
which is not treated as an asset herein.
The £19,501 is none too stout a prop
for capital in these doubtful times.
What the future holds for the co. it is
difficult to say. Appearances are that
the business is in better shape than at
any time since the present co. took over
the then 19-year-old undertaking of Mc-
Donnell and East in 1920. There was
trouble with stocks early in the piece ;
then, following reconstruction of the
premises, largely on borrowed funds,
drought interfered with turnover, and the
ords. averaged only 4.5 p.c. for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930.
For the next three years they were shown
an empty basket, owing to slump, and
for the seven years since then the average
has been 4.5 p.c. Meanwhile, the man-
agement has made a much closer study
of family budgets and shaped its buying
policy accordingly. The immediate out-
look favors maintenance of turnover, but
costs, especially taxation, will continue
to gobble more.
The market prices the pound ords.,
covered by 225. 3d. in net tangibles, at
15s. as against 13s. 9d. a year or so ago.
The return at 15s. is 7.3 p.c. on a 5£ p.c.
div. basis. The well-protected prefs. sel-
dom come on to the market.
In order to guard against possible
shortage and a continued rise in prices,
the management had built up stocks at
the close of accounts, and it went out-
side for the money:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 49,500 47,250 46,500 45,750
Overdraft .. 41,259 47,901 46,464 73,268
Sundry creditoi’s 14,964 17,903 20,085 21,894
Land, buildings, _
plant, etc... 128,091 127,539 127,599 127,621
Stocks.. .. 90,398 107,682 116,667 141,134
Book debts .. 64,994 60,680 56,930 59,428
Cash, etc. .. 14,629 20,923 23,388 25,940
Stocks were up £24,467, and £26,804 was
added to the overdraft. Still, provided
stocks have been well bought, it should
prove to be a sound move. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£85,590) was £1654. The cash
holding amounts to £240, the etcetera
being endowment assurances, plus
bonuses, amounting to £25,450 and shares
in other cos. £250.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
Latest accounts were circulated within
2i months or so of the books closing.
It is a lead other overseas-domiciled tin-
dredgers, who hang up release of their
figures until the next term is anything
up to half or three-quarter way through,
might follow.
With an assessment of 1395 tons t.o.
annually, Larut has been tin-winning in
the famed Taiping Valley (F.M.S.) for
14 years, being an amalgamation of the
old Larut, Tupai, Kota and Settlement
Dredge cos. To reduce the book value
of property initial capital of £600,000
was chopped in two a year or more back


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwp.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.YV. DIRECTORS:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Chairman); J. Beresford Grant (Vice-Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. ; James Ividd; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .I
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Owen E. Friend.
Robert J. A. Massie. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
/ LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
%%t
i
PI
77je/i Choose
GOODWELD
SPIRAL WELDED PIPE
•
FOR
SLUICING,
DREDGING,
AIR DUCTS,
WATER
SURREY.
•
Suitable for
Water, Oil, Gas,
Air and Steam.
Also types for
industrial and
a g r i c u Itural
use.
If you need pipe for a short
run or a line of several
miles, Goodweld Spiral Steel
Welded Pipe will show you
direct savings.
Goodweld pipe is low in first
cost. Freight and haulage
charges are smaller, for
Goodweld is light in weight
—an advantage that also
helps speed up. handling and
laying and makes installing
easy even in close quarters.
Finally, Goodweld strength
and resistance to corrosion
means longer pipe life.
Industry is finding profitable use for Goodwelc
pipe ... in mines, in steel works, in oil
refineries; for piping water, gas, air, oil or
steam.
We’ll be pleased to give you full particulars
of the Four Types available covering light
and heavy duty service* together with details
of protective coatings and linings. Send us
your specification or brief outline of working
conditions
M.GOODWIN PTY.LTD
RAILWAY PARADE
LIDCOM B E , N.S.W
PHONE UX 7 4(3 (* LINES)
AND AT PORT KEMBLA
by jettisoning 10s. per share- Though
giving earnings a healthier look rela-
tively to capital account, owing to the
subdivision of the scrip into ss. counters
at the same time there are now twice as
many shares to spread profits over.
First year of the amalgamation pro-
duced a surplus of £ 107,000-odd ; but
that was before output control, and
profits on a declining scale culminated
in the cessation of both dredging and
dividends with the advent of restriction
in 1930. The div. flow recommenced
with the resumption of operations in 1933,
since when shareholders have fared this
way:—•
.^-Dividends—^
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Share. Amt.
19'34.. £38,640 £18,790 £19,850 -/3 £7,500
1935.. 75,317 42,965 32,352 -/6 15,000
, Qor I 118,793 82,326 36,467 -/9 22,500
1 " ' ' | To bucket-band reserve, £5lOO.
qqv J 190,217 96,203 94,014 2/- 60,000
‘ ' (To bucket-band reserve, £4900.
Capital written off, £300,000 (= 10/- per £1
share), and 10/- shares subdivided into 5/- counters.
1938.. 67,249 58,233 9,016 —/Of 15,000
1939.. 117,778 81,967 35,811 —/4 A 22,500
* Including depreciation, etc.: £1934, £4393; 1935,
£10.688; 1936, £21,219; 1937, £21.400 ; 1938,
£10,000; 1939, £20,000. (Old £1 shares.
Conditions remained difficult last term,
although the free domestic export quota
was lifted from 37.3 to 51.1 p.c. of
assessments. Still, the management was
able to buy export rights over a further
95 tons, and ore sales appear to have
amounted to 808 (up 235) tons, which
brought in on the average nearly £3O a
ton more. In the result, net earnings,
after provision of £lO,OOO more for de-
preciation and depletion and adding
£3764 net to renewals account, sprang
£26,795 to £35,811 stg., reaching 7fd.
per share. Divs. of 1\ p.c. on reduced
capital absorbed £22,500, leaving £13,311
to augment liquid resources.
Capacity of the co.’s five dredges is in
excess of 8,000,000 c.y. p.a. ; but three
are somewhat old and comparatively
small diggers. Last term only Nos. 2, 4
and 5 worked:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Cubic yards dredged 5,755,000 4,321,000 2,950,000
Tin oxide, tons . . 1,347.7 819.2 639.2
Assay value, p.c. . . 74.5 74.6 75.0
Recovery c.y., pound 0.52 0.42 0.48
Costs iper c.y., pence 2.78 3.23 3.15
Net t.o. real’n, ton £146/11/4 £ll5/8/1 £145/0/6
Av. Singapore price
metallic tin ' .. £242/6/7 £lBl/19/4 £229/5/8
The encouraging feature there is the re-
duction in unit working costs, despite
the large drop in dredge turnover and
the tendency of outgo generally to rise,
In two months of the current term pro-
duction has been 191 tons t.o. from
1,084,000 c.y., or just under 0.41 b. per c.y.
—something poorer than last term 3
experience.
Measured dredging reserves were last
stated (Dec., ’37) at 44,532,000 c.y. of
0.481 b. wash, all easy working. But there
have been substantial additions to the
area held since 347 acres last term
alone. Then there is the co. s third
share (Rawang Tin Fields and Angio-
Oriental are the other interested parties)
in a Bang Toe project estimated
to contain 55,000,000 c.y. of 0.571 b. dirt,
but negotiations here with the Siamese
Government over surface rights are prov-
ing difficult to conclude. Meantime,
Rawang is financing the proposition at
5 P-C -. interest on moneys advanced re-
payable when the property is floated.
what the immediate future holds for
tin is difficult to say, but early lmprove-
ment on the current 80 p.c. international
quota isn’t likely. The cut to that figure
from 120 p.c.—the effective rate since
for the second quarter of
1940 would seem to suggest that the im-
provement in the statistical position of
the metal, notwithstanding increased out-
P ut > IS , more apparent than real That
depends on whether recent purchases of
the commodity have been all going into
actual consumption or as seems prob-
able, largely to replenish traders stocks,
many consumers having been content to
P u . rsue a hand-to-mouth policy while the
P £ ' c A e was more or less stabilised around
£2ao stg - a t°?-
After touching 9s. 4d. in Sept., 1939,
Laruts ss. shares now sell at Bs. as
against pa.r a year ago. At Dec. 31 more
° r IeSS h quids amounted to £122,262,
hil there was £ 99 5 8 in the way of debt.
R a h written-down
» £ £323 ’ 026 > ™ of
Placer Development has extended its
i nterests to the Tennant field, Centralia,
where its prospecting subsidiary, Clutha
Development, is reported to have exer-
cised a J opti ’ n over P the J oker fc ine , near
the rich Rising Sun. Little work has so
far been done on the Joker, recorded
production to the end of December being
102yOZ. gold from 212 tons.
“Bullion”: The clamor over the
Federal gold tax continues in the West.
Among the arguments against the im-
post heard above the din are (1) that it
seems incongruous after years of encour-
agement and even purposeful indulgence
by the State Government that the Com-
monwealth should impose a special tax
to extract from Westralia’s gold industry
approximately £1,000,000 a year, or only
slightly less than the total amount re-
ceived by the State from the Common-
wealth in the past two years by way of
disabilities grant; (2) that, although the
tax may not mean that less gold will be
won, it must mean that gold which might
have been won with the 16s. 3d. an ounce
going to the industry instead of to the
Commonwealth will stay in the ground,
possibly for ever; (3) that Westralia is
deriving none of the great and permanent
benefits that some of the other States
are enjoying through the establishment
of new industries related to defence, but
it will pay its share of general taxation
as well as four-fifths of this special tax
on gold—the only commodity tax that
has yet been levied in Australia. In
conclusion it is asked, What justification
exists for this differential treatment —un-
favorable to gold and especially the gold-
mining industry of Westralia?
* * * *
Commonwealth Government has told
the Westralian Government that the
latter’s request for an advance of
£250,000 for expenditure on goldmining
plant cannot be considered at present.
In backing the request, Minister for
Mines Panton said that, if such
assistance was given, the treatment
of an additional 40,000 tons a
month could be effected. There were, he
said, a number of mining cos. in the
West unable to obtain further funds for
plant and/or development.
* * * *
Cox’s Find Extended has moved again.
This is one of a number of small gold-
mining cos. formed in Adelaide in
recent years to look for gold. It first
tried its luck at Cox’s Find, near Laver-
ton, in the West, but, failing there, it
went to N. S. Wales. About 18 months
ago it took an option on the London
mine, near Parkes, and later sold this
for cash and shares. Now it has gone to
Yalgogrin North, where a narrow reef
ranging from soz. to over 15oz. is
said to have been exposed.
* * * *
Big Bell (W.A.) closed down because
of a strike of fitters and enginedrivers
following the alleged victimisation of a
fitter. The man put off was the last man
on, and so, in accordance with custom,
the first to go. He claims, however, that
the boss had him set, and fired him in
consequence. The State Arbitration Act
in its penal clauses makes full provision
for such cases, and if the sacked one’s
contention is correct the employer runs
the risk of being heavily fined for a
breach of the Act. Instead, however, of
seeking redress by constitutional means,
direct action has been employed.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Two reasons for uncertainty
concerning the future value of the United
States gold hoard —now roughly two-
thirds of the world’s stock —are given in
the February issue of the New York
“Engineering and Mining Journal.” One
is that foreign countries, after abandon-
ing the use of gold as money, may cease
to accept it as a medium of international
exchange. “There are,” says the “Jour-
nal,” “serious difficulties in the way of
such a development, but they are not
insuperable. Steps have already been
taken in this direction. There are, for
example, the various bilateral clearing
arrangements under which importers of
specified goods make payment in their
own currencies into special accounts.
The resulting balances in these accounts
are then set off against each other at a
rate of exchange agreed upon in advance.
Much broader in scope and hence more
important is the arrangement recently
concluded by France and England where-
by the use of gold between the countries
is entirely eliminated for the duration
of the war and six months thereafter.
Settlement of any net balance due by
one of these countries to the other will
be effected in the currency of the debtor,
not in gold. Though this is only a
rational extension of the World War
practice of inter-allied Government loans,
it is none the less an important move
towards development of a new system of
international settlement.” The second
reason given for uncertainty concerning
the future value of the Yankee hoard is
that even if gold does pass out of use
as international currency there is the
great question whether the United States
will be able to cash its holdings. The
“Journal” continues:
For the past half-dozen years foreign
countries have been either unable or un-
willing to give up goods or capital assets
for gold. On the contrary, they have
liquidated some of their gold reserves, and
there is every reason to believe that, owing
to their need for foreign goods, they will
continue to do so through the war and
post-war reconstruction periods. It is diffi-
cult, in fact, to foresee conditions which
will tend to a reversal of the present one-
way gold movement. Eventual recogni-
tion of this fact and its implications is
bound to have a profound effect on the
attitude towards gold in the United States
and on the future position of the gold
industry.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
(1) Is it correct to say that the banking
institutions of Australia are permitted by law
to issue credit amounting to nine times their
deposit ? If not, what is the position ? (2)
How did the banks manage to lend to the
farmers alone in Australia £500,000,000 if there
is only about £58,000,000 in actual cash avail-
able ? (3) What is the amount of gold held
by all the banks in the world? —6561.
(1) Banks are permitted to lend money as
they in their discretion think fit. What they
lend mostly comes back to them in deposits,
on a portion of which they pay interest and
re-lend. This process is limited to the extent
of sound and remunerative securities available
to lend on, banks being careful to avoid loans
on doubtful businesses, properties, etc., since
every loan they make may result in a bad debt,
which would have to be made good out of the
banks’ own capital or reserves. Every £lOO
of credit “issued” or “created” beyond the
banks’ own funds is represented also by a
liability against the bank. Thus, though a
bank may “create” credit a number of times
greater in amount than its own capital, it
does so only by increasing its liabilities (and
possibility of loss) by a similar amount. (2)
Though there is less than £60,000,000 in notes
issued in this country, advances made by the
trading banks total about £300,000,000. Most
of that figure is bank credit; the banks owe
it to thousands of different people, who may
owe it to thousands of other different people,
who owe it to the bank. It is all represented
by properties, etc., with margins for security.
In “creating” credit, banks really handle other
people’s credit for them, charging a margin
of interest for expenses, risks and profit. (3)
The world’s monetary gold stocks total about
750,000,000 fine ounces.


REAR MORE AND BETTER LAMRS!
Feed “Meggitt's”!
When EWES are fed “Meggitt’s”
the results are:—
• EASIER LAMBING
MORE LAMBS REARED
• AMPLE MILK FOR LAMBS
(“Meggitt’s” is the Perfect Supplement
for Milk Production on Dry Feed!)
Dry pastures alone are not sufficient for lambing ewes;
being deficient in protein, they do not provide the nutrients
necessary for milk production. Moreover, their high fibre
content frequently causes mortality at lambing time as a
result of digestive upsets.
Meggitt’s Pure Linseed Sheep Nuts, which contain 30%
digestible protein and which also have a valuable laxative
and conditioning effect, due to their medicinal oil content,
provide the perfect supplement for dry feed. By their use,
protein deficiencies are corrected and digestive troubles
prevented. Ewes fed “Meggitt’s” provide an ample flow of
milk to rear strong, healthy lambs; if feeding is commenced
before the lambing period they have an easier lambing and
mortality is reduced to an absolute minimum.
On dry pastures lambing ewes require approximately 4oz.
of “MeggittV’ per day to ensure the most satisfactory
results. If hay or chaff is being fed, 2oz. rising to 4oz.
per day is required, the quantity depending on the quality
and quantity of the roughage.
The cost of feeding along these lines is small and is more
than amply repaid by the reduced mortality, higher lambing
percentages and better, healthier condition of both ewes and
lambs which result.
MEGGIIT’S
LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
Meggitt, Ltd., Head Office: 67 York Street, Sydney.
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney .... Works: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide
J
X*
31
IS
!S\
Vm
im,
i M
Sts’
Mta GlTf 4
w*S?
*°sf ,r T l*s/
" **AUKW
Supplies are obtainable through your local
general store, produce . merchant, stock and
station agent, or direct.


BUY...
£M6^
■
16/- will buy a £1
certificate, repayable in
seven years, £4 will buy
a £5 certificate and £8
one for £lO.
WAR. SAVINGS
CEM
While your money
grows for your ultimate
benefit, it will be used
to keep Australia safe
for you and yours.
Certificates may be pur-
chased from any Bank,
or Money Order Post
Office.
Percy C. Spender,
Treasurer.
ENSURE THE FUTURE SECURITY OF YOUR FAMILY AND YOUR COUNTRY.
' w.
\p
■
■:^n.
. . .. . • ■ .
m
•ir
Business,Rollery,Etc.
N.Z. Forest Products
Among the best of the Maoriland
forestry ventures, the trees of N. Z.
Forest Products are naturally a good deal
closer to maturity than when they were
first planted. Some of the Pinus insignis
plantations are now 15 years old. Origi-
nally bonds were sold by N.Z. Perpetual
Forests on the basis of £25 (cash) an
acre, and though N.Z.P.F. bonds have
since been converted into shares in N.Z.
Forest Products, dealings in the shares
are commonly carried out on the basis
of so much per bond.
How much those who became bond-
holders in N.Z.P.F. in the old days and
shareholders in N.Z. Forest Products in
more recent times are likely to get out
of their investment in the long run is a
point on which The Bulletin has never
cared to prophesy. Early in the piece
the bond-selling business as a whole
brought discredit to itself by the rash
promises made by salesmen; some-
times the promises were rash as to total
return expected, sometimes as to the time
the yield would take to come in, often as
to both. The Bulletin devoted a great
deal of space over a period of almost 15
years to warning the public against the
pitfalls likely to be encountered in in-
vesting in forestry bonds. One of the
things to which exception was taken was
the fact that bonds were issued in the
first place instead of shares, and that the
bond method of finance seemed to be
unnecessarily costly to the bondholder.
So far as N.Z.P.F. is concerned, it
acted very decently to its bondholders in
the final conversion into shares. As Thf
Bulletin remarked at the time, “if any
bondholder is displeased with recent de-
velopments, it is probably because he
misunderstood his position from the be-
ginning.” In the review of N.Z. Forest
Products in B. 6/ 3 / ’4O it was shown that,
in addition to the forests and other assets
handed over to the Products co. by
N.Z.P.F., there was £883,496 in cash and
investments available. Barring accidents,
this should be considerably more than
necessary to look after the forests until
maturity. Last term (18 months) all
ordinary expenditure exceeded income by
only £23,428. A topographical survey
involved another £13,832. If average net
outgo over the next five years ran to
£30,000 a year, there should still be over
£700,000 in cash and investments avail-
able to finance marketing and to cover
maintenance ■of an annually-reducing
area of immature trees.
Marketing, of course, will bring the
testing period of the investment. Paid
capital will soon be only a little short
of £5,000,000. There are 172,307 acres
of pine-trees, which may take longer to
sell profitably than they have taken to
grow. That is a matter, however, on
which there are all shades of opinion.
As a forestry proposition, N.Z. Forest
Product shares are among the best of
their kind. The co. appears to be well
“How did that get in there ?”
conducted, and it has substantial cash
reserves —equal to about 3s. 9d. net per
£1 of capital allotted and to be allotted.
For these reasons shareholders should
be careful about the importunities of
plausible talkers endeavoring to exchange
shares in other little-known concerns for
scrip in Forest Products. Forest Pro-
ducts shares are saleable ; the other scrip
may not be. And, in any case, share-
hawkers are not out to give something
good in return for something bad.
It would be in the interest of Forest Pro-
ducts shareholders if the co.’s directors
gave the matter of promiscuous traffick-
ing in the scrip more attention and made
some endeavor to establish a reliable
market. Owing to the fact that they do
not indicate whether any well-known and
adequate channel for the buying and sell-
ing of the shares exists, there seems little
doubt that some sellers have accepted
too low a price, while in the past some
buyers have paid too high a one. The
advice given in the latest report on the
matter of “parting with shares” is a ser-
vice that might well be extended. There
are over 75,000 shareholders, 40,000 of
them being in the Commonwealth.
B.H.P. shares as a long-term invest-
ment have almost always been good buy-
ing, though this page’s anticipations about
recent sharemarket overoptimism have
been borne out by the recession in the
stock —little more evident in B.H.P.’s case
than in the instance of A.C.1., however.
Last week B.H.P. was around 455.-
465. At this figure the scrip has started
to attract the attention of some potential
buyers who missed getting in at the favor-
able opportunities which were offering
last year. It is a certainty that if the
coal strike causes much further decline
in B.H.P. shares there will be a good
deal of buying by long-headed investors
prepared to wait for the removal of any
temporary difficulty from the landscape.
He * * *
Bank of N. S. Wales shares have re-
ceded to £26 16s. again, after having
recovered to £29 10s. this year. In 1939
they sold as low as £24 14s. —below the
lowest quote recorded during the depres-
sion. At last week’s price the £2O shares
yield 4.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis,
against 5 p.c. from Commercial of Syd-
ney scrip, which is making distributions
at the rate of p.c. p.a.
But at £lB Bs. for the £l2
10s. shares, Commercial of
Sydney scrip is now at a
higher premium, propor-
tionately, than ’Wales stock.
When both institutions were
paying 6 p.c. p.a. ’Wales
shares were invariably
bought to give a lower yield
—in other words, they were
more favored in the market
than C.B.S. shares, and
then commanded a higher
proportionate premium.
Why is it that the Com-
mercial of Sydney pays 1\
p.c. divs. when the ’Wales
pays only 6 p.c.? Both are
in the same kind of busi-
ness, and both banks of
recent years have distri-
buted amongst their share-
holders most of the profits
disclosed. Before the de-
pression the ’Wales was
the higher div.-payer, with
12| p.c. distributions against
the Commercial’s 10 p.c. It
raises the query as to
whether the ’Wales has been
any harder hit by the depression and the
ensuing years of changing national finan-
cial outlook or whether the ’Wales is
using portion of its profits inside the busi-
ness to push forward vigorously but, so
far as the accounts are concerned, unob-
trusively. It is a question on which there
might be endless debate, but it seems
not at all unlikely that the ’Wales is
looking to the future rather than worry-
ing about the past. Visibly the C.B.S.
has 38s. 6d. of net tangible backing behind
every £1 of its capital, against 345. 6d.
in the case of the ’Wales. At first glance
that would seem to have something to
do with the present higher earning-power
of the C.B.S.’s capital, and so it may.
But it is always possible that two separate
institutions have separate ways of com-
puting values, and it is very hard to say
whether the net tangible assets shown by
the accounts of all the Australian trading
banks would assay within 10 p.c. or 20
p.c. of each other. All that can be
guessed at is that both the ’Wales and
the C.B.S. should rate pretty high.


Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queenslaid Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth. .
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
BRITISH
A
AIRWAYS
BRITISH reliability
BRITISH efficiency
BRITISH courtesy
these are the watchwords
which have earned just praise
for the names of IMPERIAL AIRWAYS and BRITISH AIRWAYS
The activities of these two Companies
are henceforth to be united
under the British Overseas Airways Corporation
Their traditions remain
as the guiding principles
by which the new Corporation will strive
proudly and industriously
to give still greater strength to the bonds that link Britain
to her Empire and to friendly nations overseas
to maintain the position of British Civil Aviation
throughout the World
and above all
to give the public at all times the service which it requires
TO-DAY THERE ARE REGULAR BRITISH AIR SERVICES
BETWEEN GREAT BRITAIN AND
FRANCE
ITALY
GREECE
NORWAY
SWEDEN
UGANDA
KENYA
TANGANYIKA
PORTUGUESE
EGYPT
ANGLO-EGYPTIAN
SUDAN
NIGERIA
GOLD COAST
FRENCH EQUATORIAL
AFRICA
PALESTINE
IRAQ
INDIA
BURMA
INDO-CHINA
HONG KONG
THAILAND
MALAYA
NETHERLANDS
MALTA
TUNIS
EAST AFRICA
UNION OF SOUTH
EAST INDIES
AUSTRALIA
Issued by the British Overseas Airways Corporation
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Contents of a handbill that has
found its way into The Bulletin office:
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies, Ltd.
An Australian Company’s Practical Search for
Oil.
Senator Arthur and others will reply to
Mr. Vincent’s attack in the
Sydney Town Hall
on
Wednesday, 3rd April, 1940, at 8 p.m.
The Public are' invited to attend this meeting,
as some startling facts will be disclosed.
Yes, the date mentioned in the dodger is
April 3 (today), not April 1.
* * * *
It is informative to study relative
movements in wholesale prices in Aus-
tralia since the outbreak of war. The
following table of index figures covering
principal commodities is based on the
Commonwealth Statistician’s figures, and
if gives movements between Aug., 1938,
and Aug., 1939 (the year immediately
preceding the outbreak of war), and in-
creases since:
•
Index of Wholesale Prices.
(Base: 1928-29=1000).
Aug., Aug., Nov., Jan.,
1938. 1939. 1939. 1940.
Metals and coal ... 802 816 829 829
Oils, fats, etc 944 944 1,039 1,096
Textiles 648 659 855 844
Chemicals 831 835 835 945
Rubber and hides .. 772 838 1,126 1,181
Building materials .. 1,023 1,013 1,134 1,139
Foodstuffs and
tobacco 1,027 894 923 916
Goods principally
imported 1,107 1,078 1,202 1,242
Goods principally
home-produced .. 809 821 848 848
All groups 949 883 933 943
As will be seen from the later lines of the
table, imported goods have risen most
in price—freights, insurance, etc., as well
as the cost of the goods themselves,
have gone up—the movement between
Aug., ’39, and Jan., ’4O, being 15.2 p.c.,
compared with 3.3 p.c. in the case of
Australian-produced goods. A study of
the table will show that rubber and hides
have risen most, followed by textiles
(especially cotton), oils, chemicals and
building materials. Metals and coal have
risen least, while the lift in foodstuffs
and tobacco has also been moderate.
* % sfc H*
Sterling last week fell to 3.45 dollars
(unofficial) in New York ; and, in rela-
tion to gold, that is the lowest figure
sterling has ever been. In 1920 the
pound dropped to 3.20 dollars, but that
was when the dollar was a dollar — be-
fore Roosevelt devalued it (in terms of
gold) in 1934 by 41 per cent. The reason
for this slump in sterling in the open
market is because the British authorities
are demanding that British merchants
exporting to the U.S.A. insist on pay-
ment in dollars in New York, such
dollars to be transferred to the official
fund. Since American importers are
debarred from paying Britain in its own
coin, except in that currency obtained at
the official rate of 4.03 dollars to the
pound, “unofficial” sterling money has
become “hot.” It is hard to find an
adequate channel for transferring it to
England except at a loss so long as the
present war precautions are in force.
Hence the anxiety of speculative New
York holders of sterling to get rid of it.
* * * *
The Australian note issue still stands
in the vicinity of £52,000,000, war having
had little or no effect on it so far. Since
1933 the issue outside of the Common-
wealth Bank has shown a tendency to
expand slightly but steadily.
* * * *
“Pioneer”: The report of the Royal
Commission on Banking is a happy hunt-
ing-ground for credit-expansionists. Sec-
tion 504 has attracted attention recently,
because it says: “....the Common-
wealth Bank.... can even make money
available to Governments or to others
free of any charge.” You or I can make
£lOOO of our own money available to a
sundowner. There is no law to stop us,
nor is one necessary, as the lender would
not expect to see either capital or interest
again. If, however, the £lOOO were not
our very own, but had been entrusted
to us by other people, the position is
different:
He that lends what isn’t hisn
Must get it back or go to prison.
It would seem that some credit-expansion-
ists are not really interested in the tech-
nique of lending money which is in a
bank’s possession. What thrills them is
lending cash which has not yet come in.
And if there is no due date when the
expected cash must be paid in, so mucn
the more elastic can their schemes be
made. But one wonders if the prospec-
tive depositor shares the thrill.
* * * *
C. Jessop, chairman of Melbourne and
Metropolitan Board of Works, writes:
With reference to your paragraph in B.
20/3/’4O concerning the borrowings of semi-
Government bodies, wherein the loan opera-
tions of all these bodies were grouped, it is
only fair to this board to point out that the
substantial portion of its loan operations
covered maturing liabilities, as set out in the
following table:
Date. Redemption. New Funds. Total.
£ £ £
1/1 /’39 650,000 650,000
1/4/’39 282,900 167,100 450,000
1/7/’39 58,000 58,000
1/1 / ’4O 500,000 150,000 650,000
1/4/’4O 825,000 275,000 1,100,000
£2,257,900 £650,100 £2,908,000
The board’s loan liability has increased by
£1,706,340 over the past nine years, but it is
now providing nearly 35,000 additional homes
with water and sewerage facilities, and the
increased revenue is sufficient to meet the
additional annual charges incurred.
* * * *
Scrip in some retail stores has fallen
as much as manufacturing issues during
the setback of the past few weeks. This
notwithstanding that retail issues have
been lifeless almost from the outbreak
of war, whereas a number of manufac-
turing stocks were the subject of a burst
of intense speculation. In Sydney
Farmer and Co. ords. have fallen from
a “high” of 275. 9d. this year to 245. 3d.,
ex div. David Jones ords., which were
as high as 355. 6d. in 1939 and up to
325. in 1940, were on offer last week at
3 Is. 3d. —this stock has been steadier than
most so far during 1940, but it can be
bought now to give a yield of £6 7s, per
cent, on the basis of the present div.
Anthony Hordern ords., which have been
as high as 14s. 6d. in 1940, were down to
12s. lOd. again last week, offering £7 14s.
per cent, on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Wool-
worth ords. haven’t escaped the general
marking-down. They sold at 235. early
in 1940 ; last week they were available
at 20s. 9d. The Sydney index of retail-
store share prices averaged 96.82 for
January ; last week it was down to 87.74.
Actually the fall has been heavier than
among industrial stocks.
The Melbourne-registered chain-store
organisation of G. J. Coles and Co. hasn’t
been unaffected by the general downward
pull of the market. The co.’s ords.- lifted
swiftly to 765. 3d. in the early part of
1940; last week they had come back to
695. Myer ords., which were over 325.
for a spell, are now back to 295. 3d ,
returning 6.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Retailer stocks show some of the
highest returns on the list—provided divi-
dends are maintained. The reason for
their slackness apparently lies in anti-
cipated reduction in public spending fol-
lowing the dispatch of troops overseas,
the general buttoning-up of pockets that
uncertain times produce, and the in-
creased cost of importing, as well as the
difficulty of importing some lines at all.
At the meeting of Woolworth’s last week
the chairman mentioned that the supply
of overseas goods had been “curtailed
considerably,” and certain lines were un-
procurable. But 81 p.c. of the co.’s turn-
over was Australian-made, Mr. Scott-
Waine added, and the rest came mostly
from sterling countries.
* * * sje
Shares in McDowells have been the
steadiest of Sydney retail stocks over the
past two years, and at the time of going
to press this page is of the belief that,
when disclosed, the profit for the year
to Feb. 28 and the final div. payable
this month will be entirely satisfactory
to those who bought the scrip last week
at 425. Highest price over the past 15
months has been 455. 6d.
* * * *
. „ , . , _ •
Castlemaine Perkins shares are again
selling cheapiy. At 20s. 3d. last week
they gave a yield of 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.2 p.c. if the 10 p.c. dis-
tribution is maintained. An interim at
the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. was paid on March
20; and a final distribution will not be
due until September. The query about
maintenance of the 2 p.c. bonus, which
usually goes out with the final div., arises
from the fact that capital has recently
been increased by a one-for-five share
issue at par. Last year’s earnings, as
disclosed, would not be sufficient to main-
lain a 10 p.c. div. on old and new capital.
But that doesn’t settle the question. For
some years capital expansion has been
going on, and except in the 1938 term,
when a trike disturbed earnings, pub.
lished earnings in relation to capital have
kept remarkably steady in the vicinity of
11 p ' c ’ . . .
_*, ! ', . ' . ‘ " .
Castlemaine Perkins is a progressive
brewery in a State that is going ahead.
Its shares are always worth watching
by Queenslanders and others, for the pur-
pose of purchase when available at a
depressed figure, as happens every now
and then.
Sydney hotel scrip isn’t in the bright-
est of humors. Usher’s, which recently
made some alterations to the premises
that disturbed business for a while, but
later brought increased turnover, has
slipped down to 18s. sellers, after sales at
that figure. An interim div. of 2} p.c.
declared last week compares with an
interim of 5 p.c. and final of 2 p.c. in
the preceding year. Australia Hotel
Cq ? whjch recently dedared an interim
at tbe s t eac jy rate c f 7p C p a> bas a
marke t for its scrip at par, compared
w ith a highest price of 245. 6d. and a
lowest of 19s. 6d. over the past 15
months. Hotel Sydney, near Central
railway station, may be bought into at
9s. 6d., the lowest price for a long time ;
the div. has been reduced from 6 p.c.
to 4\ p.c., with the distribution barely
covered by earnings last year. Hotel
Metropole, near Circular Quay has held
° a P nce shove -ss. lately, though in
.. .’h there were sales as high as 325. 6d.
This co dropped its div from the 10
h- P mmg the 1937 and 1938
, r e ™ s „ ,o „ 9 ' pc ’ ln , 1939 ’ and £or ,he c “ r '
rent Per od an interim of 6 p.c. p.a has
f“ e T J
Kf d 1 fiT ' « h “h « duc ? d
£°' d ’ "/kefto? Is
10s. shares at 11s. During the 1930-34
depression Usher’s and the Metropole
b ad tb e b est d j v . experience of all the
big Sydney hotels. Usher’s scrip may
be worth attention at the present de-
pressed figure provided the holder is
prepared to wait, and provided he knows
something about the pub, or about pubs
in general.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM AND THE WAR.
[There has been little enough restraint in American
comment on Britain, both before the war and since,
so perhaps one or two of the examples of comment in
the same vein here condensed from British sources can
be regarded as repayment in kind. In any case they
have interest as illustrating how caustic comment has
become in Britain, where many are evidently fed up
with the one-way traffic in this sort of thing.]
0 Comment by Hannen Swaffer.)
The proudest people in the world —130,000,000 of
them —so afraid of being involved that no American
ship is allowed to come north of Gibraltar, no, nor
permitted to enter even Queenstown, a neutral port.
Now, in Sweden, Americans are ordered home.
“Run, Babbitt, Run,” may soon become the
national anthem of a people who are leaving their
war to Hollywood.
* * !fc * *
(From a “Daily Herald” article by Richard Greville.)
President Roosevelt can hardly open his mouth on
international affairs without pronouncing a condemna-
tion of Nazi methods which in forthrightness rivals
those of our own statesmen. So what? So America’s
public men, having assented with one accord on the
necessity of our winning, go on with equal fervor to
declare: “No getting into this nasty mess for us!”
For weeks American speakers and editors had
been eloquent on the wrongs of the Finns and their
desperate need for aid in their fight for independence.
President Roosevelt put before Congress a timid pro-
posal for a loan to Finland, which was specifically
not to be used for buying arms. And immediately a
tearing hullabaloo started among the 500-odd Senators
and Representatives: “No, this will never do. It
would imperil our precious neutrality! ” Really, come
off it, Uncle Sam!
We do not doubt of our winning our war for
you, in the end. But we do not doubt either that
United States intervention on our side would halve
the sacrifices and the length of the ordeal before us.
For that matter, effective United States intervention
in August might have stopped the war from ever
starting.
Mustn’t any intelligent American, if he’s honest
with himself, realise that America is in this struggle
with us up to the neck —only she isn’t paying her
share? There was a gibe about us in the United
States in 1938, when hardly a paper in the land wasn’t
laying into Mr. Chamberlain for his failure to stand
up to aggression before Munich. It taunted Britain,
this gibe, with her perpetual hopefulness of American
backing in her troubles. Today, with Americans
cheering us on in a battle they admit to be theirs, too,
I think that crack might be turned round. For is
not the States really saying today: “America Expects
Every Briton to Do His Duty”?
# & %
(From London “Daily Mirror.”)
It is considered very wrong to say one word of
criticism about American policy. It is widely held
that America, if not “always right,” must be invari-
ably humored and cajoled. This is no great compli-
ment to America. No candid American would mind
being told that what we expect of America is not that
she should come in, but that she should not make
things more difficult for the democracies on this side
by impeding our blockade, and that she should not
come in by diplomatic interferences ; or half come
in and half stay out.
Already our statesmen invite American collabora-
tion in any peace settlement. If America consents
to help then, it is to be hoped that her help will be
given with the consent of the whole of the American
people ; that it will be unanimously offered ; and that,
once given, it will not be suddenly withdrawn—the
Old World being again left with an American baby to
hold ; an infant subsequently declared illegitimate by
Republican isolationists in the land of dollars and
dreams.
* * M *
(From London “National Review.”)
Those masters of misinformation, the New York
correspondents of British journals, have for many
years misled this country as to the attitude of Ameri-
cans to England. They are now silent about “Ameri-
can friendship” for us, but the press of the U.S.A. is
leaving no doubt in the minds of its readers as to
what is the feeling in that country. The U.S.A., par-
ticularly the political portion, is very much in the
grip of anti-British influences nourished on historical
hatred of Britain, which has always been religiously
kept alive in the schools. We are told that Mr. Roose-
velt and other prominent Americans are not unfriendly
to the Allies. Perhaps that is so, but their country
is, and before an election they are not likely to make
any profession of unpopular opinions.
What we forget is that Americans have a perfect
right to choose their own policy. It is not for us to
sit in judgment. They must be presumed to know
their own business best, and we have enough to do to
attend to our own, but we should realise the fact that,
after Germany, the United States is probably the
country that most dislikes England. Any politician
there “on the make” is aware that at any moment he
can become a popular hero by appealing to this preju-
dice. We have to admit that we are largely respon-
sible for these unsatisfactory Anglo-American rela-
tions. We made the same blunders with America that
we did with Germany. We slobbered over both coun-
tries and paid them blackmail. We see the results.
We should change this policy, and, above all, beware
of sending to Washington “missionaries” who, like
Lord Lothian, believe they can convert the Americans.
The people of the U.S.A. do not want to be con-
verted.
* * * * *
[Lately cables reverted to an old theme —United
States interest in Britain’s treatment of India. In his
London “Spectator” notes Harold Nicolson recalls a
lecture tour he made in America during which he “was
constantly being faced by this Indian bogey.” He
then tells the following story.]
For some 30 lectures I bore this question with
bright charity, answering with polite and incisive
liberalism. Yet I recall that on one evening at Dayton,
Ohio, my patience failed. A woman rose from the
audience, and in a voice palpitating with uplift asked
the inevitable question about India. “Mr. Nicolson,”
she said, “when you return to Europe cannot you do
something to ease the fate of the poor Indians?”
“Which Indians?” I rejoined, unpardonably, “yours
or ours? You must realise that the two problems are
distinct. For whereas we educated and multiplied our
Indians you practically exterminated yours. It would
be very difficult for us at this date to adopt the solu-
tion which has proved so successful in your country
and to confine the aborigines of India to reserves.” It
is only fair to the citizens of Dayton to add that they
appreciated this rejoinder and gave me a resounding
cheer.
*****
(.From an article in London “Aeroplane.”)
Much publicity, perhaps too much, is given to
the aeroplanes which the Allies are said to be ordering
from America and too little to the countless numbers
which the Allies are making for themselves. Every
week there is another report as to the number ordered
from America ; the latest is said to be 12,000, or a
“tripling” of the present orders. We are grateful to
America for opening her markets to us, especially in
view of her known fear of being drawn into our
squabbles, but we are, after all, paying for all we get.
And we have managed with our own aeroplanes to
establish such superiority as there is in the air.
Admittedly the Curtiss fighters have done very
well in France, but so have France’s own
Moranes. France’s news is even more censored than
"Daily Mirror,” London.
A LAMB THAT WANTED TO LIE DOWN WITH A LION.
Great Britain’s, but we do know that most of the
flights, raids and engagements with the enemy have
been accomplished by Bristol Blenheims, Vickers-
Armstrongs, Wellingtons, Armstrong Whitworth Whit-
leys, Hawker Hurricanes, Supermarine Spitfires and
Short Sunderlands, while the numerous other British
types have gone on, day after day, escorting convoys,
patrolling the seas, etc.
We have two American types in service, the
Lockheed Hudson and the North American Harvard,
and have ordered more. The Lockheeds have done
well and have given good service on long reconnais-
sances over the North Sea. Nevertheless, there have
been several occasions when Lockheeds have figured
unfavorably in the news.
We do not wish to decry American machines, nor
do we wish to endure this continual boasting. Prob-
ably Americans do not realise the effect of their boast-
ing and shouting on the British people, even on those
who know something of the mixture of America’s
population, and of the country from personal experi-
ence and friendship. They have not been asked to
join in this war, so why should they protest so much?
By their shouting they received much credit
prematurely for the help they were to give to Finland.
Later reports from America said that little help could
be expected and that, after all, it was our business
more than America’s. We stood to lose more than
they, so let us give the assistance. Perhaps this was a
little too blatant even for Americans. The “Washing-
ton Post” was moved to remark that the Finnish Gov-
ernment could expect little more from the U.S.A. than
“well-bred and perfunctory applause.”
The most hearty and vulgar applause is evidently
reserved for their noble selves. Without American
help, the Allies would be in a sad state. America
might remember that without the war which the Allies
had the courage to undertake, she would have had
less business and no field for the exercise of her
imagination.
*****
[Following are comments from American sources
—the first from a London “Daily Telegraph” article
by Cecil Roberts, in the U.S.A.]
One old lion roared from his sick bed —the 80-
year-old Virginian, Senator Carter Glass.
“Never in my 80-odd years of life,” he said, “have
I. known or heard of a more humiliating spectacle
than that presented by the legislative body of a great,
rich and powerful nation spending months in devising
expedients to contravene immemorial requirements or
international law through the positive fear of a Cen-
tral European assassin. The U.S.A. went into e
World War to vindicate its rights on the high seas,
and now to relinquish these rights through tear or
Hitlerism is to dishonor our dead. The proposition
is utterly destitute of courage and moral sense. A
nation without spirit or an elevated soul is as bad as
a derelict on the seas. This country should not
content simply to eat and go to the movies. that
would be a sorry contribution to modern civilisation.
* * * * *
(Raymond Gram Swing, in a New York “Nation
article quoted by London “Time and Tide. )
Pacifists will be ready to rush in with a blessing
for any arrangement which stops actual warfare,
whether it is peace or not. That is *the condition to
which most of the professional pacifists in the U.S.A.
have degenerated. Many of our pacifists blessed
Munich only because it was not a declaration of mili-
tary war. They will bless a super-Munich if it brings
the military war to an end this winter, even if it
gives Germany a five-year truce to reorganise the
Soviet Union so that the two nations become so
strong that they can later impose their will on most of
the world. That would suit many American pacifists,
who are not at all apostles of peace but kindly
persons horrified by actual warfare.
If the choice is not to be for a peace in which
the United States bears its full responsibility, the con-
sequences of that choice must also be frankly faced.
In that case we are not for peace and we shall not
have it. That is, we must prepare for war.... Few
Americans know that, if a true peace is not established,
we shall have to become a Western Hemisphere im-
perialism, founded on military and
naval power. They do not appre-
ciate that the isolationists are not
pacifists but simply anti-foreign,
and that the pacifists are not peace-
lovers but simply war-haters.
* * *
[Finally, a letter written by a
French soldier in the Maginot Line
and published in Manchester
“Guardian.”]
The tone adopted in some
newspapers and the language used
by many public speakers in the
Allied countries since the outbreak
of the war give the impression that
we should calculate every one of
our steps in view of what the
United States is going to think
about them, lest we should let
Americans suspect that “we are not
sincerely defending the ilberties of
Europe.”
I personally fail to understand
how the United States can be in-
terested in the liberties of Europe.
I may be mistaken, but if any such
interest exists in theory it certainly
has been displayed with discretion
in practice. The repeal of the arms
embargo affords no proof to the
contrary, since the capital argument
brought forward quite plainly by
its supporters, including the President, was that it was
meant to keep the United States more safely out of
the war.
Well, we certainly cannot blame Americans for
that, especially after considering our pre-1939 record,
but is it very surprising that most of us should feel
about them now what they, not without some reason,
felt about us then? Why make any pretence to the
contrary?
We have given the United States much ground in
the recent past to fancy us as awaiting anxiously
every move of her opinion in our favor, watching
hopefully for every sign of sympathy with our cause.
However, I am afraid that we over here are no longer
interested in what the United States thinks or does not
think, and the sooner Americans realise this the better.
We ask nothing from them except to be able to con-
tinue to buy their goods, which are of such excellent
quality—“cash and carry,” of course. They have warned
us and the whole world that this war is no business of
theirs and that it is our concern alone ; we seem to
know it by now and had better stick to the idea. And
if in the meantime we continue to pay them a cour-
tesy exclusive of either resentment or humility they
will probably keep in mind the Arab proverb “To a
very rich dog you say ‘Mr. Dog.’ ”
This does not prevent most of us from thinking
President Roosevelt a nice man who means well, nor
does it blind us with ingratitude to the active sympathy
of many American citizens, but we know now that
these do not represent the mass of the nation. In 1917
America came over to help us defend freedom and
justice among nations, inspired by an ideal that was no
less wise because it was generous ; that was Woodrow
Wilson’s America, one, we believe, that is dead for
ever, buried by the Hiram Johnsons and the Nyes,
and the memory of which we shall ever cherish. But
now that Americans have been made to believe that
it was all a ghastly mistake, that they were cheated
into the last war by propaganda and sordid business
interests, and that all talk of freedom and justice was
just “bunk,” clearly they will believe anything Dr.
Goebbels may tell them about us, and we had better
leave him to explain how the present war was engi-
neered, like the last one, by British capitalists and
armament manufacturers, how Mr. Churchill decided
to sink the Athenia in order to draw the United States
into the war, and so on —without wasting any time in


□
£S
u
n
THE WINE
TRADITION- ESP* 1847
answering him by our “propaganda,” which they have
made it clear they are not going to believe.
The United States’s help may well be needed, and
no one would dream of scorning it. Had it been
assured in time this war could easily have been
averted. But now we shall not have it to win the war ;
and we will not have it after the war is won. If the
United States thinks it proper to escape the sacrifices
of war-making, she cannot pretend to enjoy the
responsibilities of peace-making.
Then, once we have won the war —at heavy human
costs —I hope we shall first present the United States
with a lump sum of a value of three billion gold marks
(accepted by Germany at Lausanne in 1932 as a final
settlement of reparations to the Allies) as a final
settlement of our 1914-18 war debts to her. And,
having endured the war alone, we will go and make
the peace alone —not, I hope, at Washington, but at
Prague.
I notice that Mr. W. H. Seed, of Chicago [whose
letter in Manchester “Guardian” appeared in
“Uncabled Additions,” 20/3/’4o], mentions the prob-
lem of war debts as the sorest point of all, and asks
“how the United States can expect to participate in
the peace if she refuses to bear her full share of the
burdens and sacrifices of war.” Mr. Seed will see
from what I have written that he has given vent to an
impression which is shared by quite a number of my
fellow-ex-civilians. However, I hope he will under-
stand why we cannot agree with him as to the desira-
bility of “Allied propaganda.” I should be surprised
if I were alone to believe, after the last 20 years,
that we shall be wasting our time if we do anything
but let Americans remain isolationist if they want to.
The War on the Air.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by J. C. Furnas.)
Out in lowa a loyal American of German extrac-
tion is burning up. The reason is that the short-wave
end of his radio —or, still worse, a friend’s radio —
often brings in a wheedling voice from Germany,
addressing him as “dear Harry,” reminding him
unctuously of what pals they used to be out there
where the tall corn grows, and then proceeding to fill
him full of comradely German propaganda.
The speaker calls himself Fred Kaltenbach —the
name of an lowa German-American whom Harry
once actually did know. He says he is broadcasting
instead of writing, because the British intercept Ger-
mans’ foreign mail. Some pumpkins in the Berlin
market recently reminded him of pumpkin pie back
in good old lowa. How are all the folks and how
is our old schoolteacher? He calls the teacher by
name. German housewives don’t make pumpkin pie,
Harry, but they get swell eating out of pumpkins other
ways. Don’t fall for any British propaganda, Harry.
It’s all “the bunko,” cooked up by that liar Winston
Churchill, First Lord of the Sea Bottom, ha-ha-ha. In
spite of war, German papas and mammas still take
the kiddies to the zoo on Sundays to see the funny
monkeys—Germans and Americans are just alike in
their fondness for animals. This war has nothing to
do with America, Harry. You have no reason to pull
chestnuts out of the fire for the same nations that
made such suckers of you last time. Wasn’t there
something about an unpaid war debt?
Since there isn’t a solitary thing Harry can do
to shut his pal up, he just goes right on burning—a
grotesque casualty in the war of radio waves. That
war goes on without recess, 24 hours a day. The
mouthpieces of propaganda never have a furlough.
Up till now, the English have not prohibited
listening to enemy broadcasts, apparently trusting in
’Arry’s and ’Arriett’s deep native distrust of everything
foreign. A good many Englishmen get a great deal
of amusement out of a frightfully Oxford-accented
Nazi propagandist who daily tells England what to
think. Their pet name for him is Lord Haw-Haw of
Zeesen —Zeesen being the name of the station he uses.
It has been reported, denied and reported again that
Lord Haw-Haw is “the Officer in the Tower,” Baillie-
Stewart, a subaltern of proud lineage who was con-
victed of selling military secrets and imprisoned in the
Tower of London. After serving his time, Baillie-
Stewart left England, and his whereabouts has been
a mystery. Others insist that Lord Haw-Haw is an
expatriate member of Mosley’s English Black Shirts.
Whoever he is, the English consider him a good
joke. They recently decided a Soviet mouthpiece was
a fit companion for him in his peculiar peerage. This
is Lord Booboo, also an Oxford-accented propagand-
ist. Booboo specialises on Communist-angled news
from Moscow. Apparently, the hope is that English
Communists will rally around Booboo’s bellowings.
The upstage, why-bother-to-tell-lies pose about
British radio makes the Germans pretty wild. Those
dirty British, they say, occasionally hand out un-
favorable news as if it didn’t matter, so the world will
be deceived into believing all the rest of their criminal
nonsense. British broadcasting is further characterised
by dignity, suavity, homely little touches and some-
thing Anglophobes call smugness. “Her Majesty the
Queen has ordered that her flower garden be ploughed
up and that flax be planted instead.” A Church of
England bishop is put on the air to scold the Ger-
mans about Nazi concentration camps, evidently in
the hope that a real live bishop will impress the
Gestapo where massed world opinion has never yet
made a dent.
When pumping German-language stuff into Ger-
many the British can and do pour it on. Carefully
selected and juxtaposed bits from phonograph records
of Hitler’s speeches are broadcast into the Reich in an
utterly successful effort to make the little man a liar
out of his own inimitable mouth. “His words are
not worth the paper they are written on,” says the
announcer, following up, “or the air into which they
are shouted.” Twitting the Germans on that prohibi-
tion of listening to foreign radio: “Your leaders tell
you it would be bad for
your nerves to listen. But it
is not your nerves they are
afraid of; it is your
thoughts. And your
memory ... You get a full
ration of lies, but only a
half ration of bread.”
Opening with “Ich
Hatt’ Einen Kameraden,”
the old German army song
of mourning for the fallen,
a British officer broadcasts
the theory that Hitler had
General von Fritsch mur-
dered. A Scotch professor
turns on the heat about the
Nazi-Soviet pact: “When
I was last in Berlin, people
said the Adolf Hitler Platz
would be renamed Musso-
lini Platz. Or will it get a
new name? Stalin Platz?”
Another speaker sym-
pathises with Germany
about Hitler’s removing all
Germans from the Baltic countries —what a shame to
ruin the 600-year achievements of the heroic old
Teutonic Knights! “Was it merely to get badly-
needed foreign money? Or was it an order from
Stalin?” Plenty of shock value there. Almost as much
as in the French radio sound-off to Germany about
Von Ribbentrop’s bad guessing when he insisted that
England, and France would not fight: “Ribbentrop,
we must warn you. The spectre of Rohm is behind
your back. Adolf the Beloved is practising target-
shooting.”
Yet, in contrast with Germany, the Allies are
watery. They can afford to be, say objective observers,
because their cause is already pretty well sold to the
neutral world. The Nazis, on the other hand, must be
in there working all the time if they are to get any-
where at all. They certainly pull no punches ; snarl-
ing, sneering, cheering, bragging or cajoling—whatever
the Nazi mind thinks the occasion calls for. Churchill
is always “the old liar” ; or “the man of whom Mr.
Chamberlain said: ‘What, you want me to take that
fool into my Cabinet?’”; or “the true heir of his
mother, who was an American” ; or merely Mr. W.C.
Hore-Belisha is never mentioned without being called
a Jew five or six times. Chamberlain is said, over
and over, to have a safe stuffed with the shares of
British armament companies. The British propaganda
Ministry is usually quoted as “The British Ministry of
Misinformation.” Whereas “the world’s greatest liar”
for Goebbels or “that champagne salesman” for Von
Ribbentrop is about tops at the British Broadcasting
Corporation.
Spearhead of the German attack is a shrewd
abusive genius named Fritsche, whose “press reviews”
go out on short wave to the whole German-speaking
world in a strictly “Aryan German” which uses as few
Latin roots as possible. Even rabid anti-Nazis admit
that his style of invective constitutes a fine show.
The “When did you stop beating your wife?”
technique is one of Fritsche’s pets. “What about your
critical food shortage?” “Where is the Ark Royal?”
and so forth. He tells the English that England is
fighting two wars —one, lackadaisically, against the
Germans ; one, with great energy, against the British
taxpayer. He often uses that “England will fight to
the last Frenchman” crack, cannily attributing it to
Mussolini.
Grinningly he remarks that Alfred Duff Cooper,
the British war hawk, now lecturing in the United
States, told a girls’ school in Georgia that the Ver-
sailles Treaty was just and humane. Glad to see, he
says, that Alfred had to go all that way to get some-
body to believe him —and just wait till the little girls
try to tell papa as much. Americans know better than
that. He laughs himself sick over the chivalrous
British submarine captain who refrained from tor-
pedoing the Bremen when she steamed right across
his sights. To which the British retort, of course, that,
naturally, no German could understand that kind of
decency.
“Eastern Front” Army.
[The new Anzacs, of course, now form part of the
combined Allied Army in the Near East and Middle
East, the strategic importance and striking value of
which are examined in this condensed Manchester
“Guardian” article.]
More and more is being heard, though there is
more rumor than information, about the Army of
the East. Partly it is French, stationed in Syria, under
“Daily Herald,” London.
“WHEN FATHER SAYS TURN, WE ALL TURN!”
General Weygand ; party it is British, under General
Wavell, in Palestine and Egypt.
Because the future is unknown and because “any-
thing may happen,” this stretch of country from Syria
through Palestine to Egypt is again, as it has been
before in history, a base, a stronghold, of immeasur-
abie i m p or t a nce, however events may go. The past
six months have been invaluable, if the right things
h „ ildinp lin the Allied Armv ; n
bav ® been °°" e ’ 1 * bu " ding U P the Allied Army in
the East and all that such an army needs.
Germany, in a general European war has the
feat advantage of interior lines. In 1914-18 she hrew
her strength from side to side ; she not only held up
)he Wes * m Fron , for four years but struck power .
jully in Austria, Russia, Rumania, Serbia, Italy. From
centra j f or g e s he launched a multitude of missiles,
jf should now extend the war in Scandinavia,
Holland, the Balkans or, through Russia, in the East,
will have the like advantage,
To this we oppose sea-power. Through sea-power
we not on iy sa p Germany’s effort and nourish our
own j )Ut we can transfer the military strength of the
Allies to any point on the circumference of the con-
however an( j wherever it may spread. The Army
Q f t jj e j?ast, like our existence, depends on sea-control,
H U t this, if it is kept, gives us in the East that same
a dvantage of interior lines that Germany holds on
t^e Continent
From Pa j esti t 0 take the central area ot our
b this arm Ioo ’ ks out towards ev arter . it
js a ’ country / hat has been the marchi ' g ? ground G f
armies from earliest history. From this point Africa,
nor th and south, can be protected (and to help us at
this moment a good motor road has just been com-
pleted between Jerusalem and Cairo). If Germany,
who also will suffer from a deadlock in the West,
should extend the war to Rumania or otherwise in-
volve the Balkans, it will be possible for the Allies to
move forces up through the ALgean to the scene. If
Turkey agrees, they can enter the Black Sea. They
can transport troops by the Red Sea round the
Arabian Peninsula to the Persian Gulf and India,
By land or sea Irak and the frontiers of Turkey and
Persia can be reached. Here we are better off than
in the last war.
There is another reason why the Allies should
have an army in the East and why it should be strong.
We have done little in recent years to inspire the other
Powers, especially those that are not “Great.” The


Scandinavian countries would be stiffer towards Ger-
many and Russia were not these strong and brutal
Powers so close at hand and we, with all our sea
power, far away. It is necessary not only to be for-
midable, but to look formidable —and to fulfil the
look. In the south-east of Europe there are countries,
Turkey and Rumania, which are uneasy about Russia ;
ever since Turkey refused to come to terms at Mos-
cow Russia has eyed her with disfavor. In the Balkans
Germany applies every artifice of political and eco-
nomic pressure, while behind diplomacy and propa-
ganda is always the shadow of the great military
machine, which, especially if there is inactivity in the
West, can strike suddenly in this or that direction.
From every point of view it is essential that the south-
east of Europe and near Asia should know that the
Allies have a large and expanding power that could,
if the need arose, not only be moved to their aid but
moved quickly.
Russian Help for Germany.
(From a London “Economist” article.)
The arguments employed to dismiss the help
Russia can give Germany tend to be short-term argu-
ments. Russia has no great export surplus now;
Russia’s transport system is disorganised now; the
output in a number of Russia’s key industries is de-
clining now. These objections may be removed in a
period of years.
Suppose the kind of collaboration between Ger-
many and Russia which has been growing up during
the last few months is continued and extended. Ger-
many is already exploiting Soviet Galician oil with
a view to increasing its output. The next step may
very well be the extension of German administration
to the oilfields of South Russia. It is possible that
German technicians may give very different results if
two or three years are left them to carry on with the
work.
The same factors hold good for transport. It is
none too good now, but Major Todt is in Moscow,
German engineers have arrived at several Black Sea
ports, and the extension of the strategic railway to
the Persian frontier is said to be under German super-
vision. We do not know whether Stalin will permit a
great extension of this “peaceful penetration,” but,
seeing how far the process has gone already, it would
be folly to bank on his turning the Germans out.
We have therefore, on our long-term view, to en-
visage a situation in which, whether or not most of
the outlets to the West and South have been closed
by our blockade, Germany will be gradually perfect-
ing and strengthening a large-scale supply system
beyond her eastern frontiers. Even if Russia were
not giving direct military aid, she would still be Ger-
many’s most important ally. And we should face a
position in which, in spite of our vast effort to secure
superiority of striking power, Germany, drawing on
her Russian reserves, would be in a position to main-
tain her defences. For two or three years time may be
on our side in the West. But if we have not by then
reached a position from which we can strike with
the assurance of victory, time will retreat into neu-
trality. The long-term argument for waiting depends
for its validity entirely on an estimate of the unre-
solved problem of Russia.
Women Workers of France.
(Condensed from an article by the Manchester
“Guardihn” Paris correspondent.)
Women in France do not wear uniforms in war-
time [as in Britain], but they are more directly affected
by the war than the women of any other country.
Five million men are in the army, and the work in
the rear has largely to be done by women.
This is particularly true of agriculture, for as in
the last war so also today it is rural France which pro-
vides the highest proportion of soldiers. Although
agriculture is the largest single occupation in France,
there is not one branch of agriculture which figures
among the “reserved occupations,” “Agricultural leave”
is given to soldiers on a large scale, but only at cer-
tain periods of the year, and during the greater part
of the year the whole vast agricultural machine of
France is entrusted to the hands of women, old men
and young boys.
The French peasant woman has always been a
hard worker ; now she works twice as hard, and long
as her working day always was it is longer still. The
simple jobs, such as taking out the cows to graze, are
now often done by the old grandmother who had
retired from active work. But however hard the
peasant women work it is all a serious problem, and
the Government is making every effort to maintain
agricultural production at a high level. In the last war
wheat production declined by over a half between
1913 and 1917, and this must be avoided now. If the
war lasts long rationing, however distasteful to the
French, may become inevitable for all agricultural
produce.
In the last war France employed 400,000 women
in her war industries, and it is expected that the figure
will be much higher this time. Aeroplane works
already employ a very high proportion of women,
some as many as 80 per cent, of the staff.
Women were employed on a large scale in France
in all the luxury industries, such as dressmaking,
leatherwork, jewellery and other fancy goods. With
the civilian consumption of luxury goods greatly
reduced in France, and in fact discouraged by the
Government, and in the absence of tourists in war,
none of these trades can work anything like full time.
After closing down at the beginning of the war the
Paris dressmaking firms later reopened ; but the truth
is that the great dressmaking firms in Paris are how
employing only one-fifth of their peace-time staff. The
Minister of Labor is establishing military workshops
for 10,000 dressmakers who will be employed making
military uniforms. Soldiers and officers may soon be
able to boast of being “dressed” by Worth, or Patou,
or Molyneux.
In almost every walk of life French women are
taking over men’s work. In schools women teachers
have taken over the work of mobilised men teachers
and are working correspondingly longer hours. A
large number of Paris post-office vans are now driven
by women.
The problem of soldiers’ wives is a difficult one,
and often a sad if not tragic one. A French private,
unless he is in the “battle zone,” where he receives 10
francs a day, is scarcely paid at all. The soldier’s
wife with two children receives from the State 21
francs a day in Paris (about 2s. 6d.) and 16 francs 50
cents in the country (about 25.). Although she lives
rent free, it is not much to feed a family on. She
may, however, take work and does not forfeit her
allowances unless her income is above a certain figure.
In Paris one comes across some sad cases —par-
ticularly those of women whose husbands have been
mobilised, whose children have been evacuated (while
their upkeep absorbs most of the military allowance),
and who thus find themselves in a position little better
than that of any unemployed person. Eventually work
is found for them, but it often takes time and a great
deal of adaptation to new conditions —and with their
husbands and children away such women are apt to
get depressed. But generally speaking the women of
France are facing this war with courage and forti-
tude as an inevitable ordeal, though there is, natur-
ally, some grumbling, as there always is in France.
A Word for the Generals.
(Written by one of them, Field-Marshal Sir A. A.
Montgomery-Massingherd, in London “Daily Tele-
graph.”)
Among some old papers dealing with the last
war I came across a leading article in the “Morning
“U.D.,” Utrecht, Holland.
SITTING IT OUT.
Peace: “I’m afraid I’ll get the cold shoulder this Leap Year."
Post” of Nov. 19, 1918, in which the following pas-
sages occur: —
During a visit to British Headquarters today that
great soldier and gentleman Marshal Foch paid our
Army a compliment ... he declared that “it was, above
all, the hammer blows of the British Armies that were
the decisive factors in the great and final defeat of the
enemy.”
After a well-merited tribute to the British soldier,
the “Post” leader continues:
Nor is the nation’s gratitude due only to the rank
and file. It must be given also, as Marshal Foch’s
compliment was also given, to the generals who have
led them. From time to time we have had criticism
enough of our generals; but seldom a tribute such as
they have so abundantly deserved. Who shall measure
what the nation owes to the Commander-in-Chief, Sir
Douglas Haig, who has borne during four long years
with such unshaken confidence and with such equal
mind burdens and anxieties wellnigh not to be borne,
and who has never failed to rise to every emergency
and to every opportunity?
And under him have served commanders who have
proved themselves great soldiers. In them we have
henceforward a body of Military Counsellors such as
the British people have not been able to count on for
a century past; and it would be perverse and foolish
as well as ungrateful if in the days of peace the place
of these distinguished soldiers were not honorable.”
The italics are mine! That was written 21 years
ago! Ever since, Mr. Lloyd George has done his best
to belittle Lord Haig’s share in winning the war and
to throw discredit on British generalship, while Cap-
tain Liddell Hart and others have joined in the chorus
of criticism and vituperation for many years past.
Their motives I do not know, except that one of them,
with whom I remonstrated some years ago, replied,
“Well, one must live and that is the only sort of stuff
the British public will read!”
So much propaganda, much of it malicious, going
on for so long and to which soldiers could not reply,
cannot fail to have shaken civilian faith in British
generalship.
Germans Back Hitler.
[Australia, too, is familiar with the writings of exiled
former German politicians, whose say-so W. G. J.
Knop, in this extract from an article in London
“Sunday Express,” suggests should be treated with great
suspicion.]
As this war drags on it is natural that we should
be asking ourselves: “Is there any chance that the
anti-Nazi opposition in Germany will overthrow the
Hitler regime, put in its place a Government accept-
able to the Allies and thus assure peace in the near
future?”
The popular belief that there is an organised anti-
Hitler movement in Germany is a dangerous miscon-
ception. It has arisen largely because the old leaders
of pre-Nazi Germany who fled abroad after Hitlers
advent to power had —with one or two exceptions—
every personal interest in convincing the world that
they still represented powerful political forces inside
Germany.
Public opinion in many countries fell for the
publicity stunts of the exiled pre-Nazi politicians
because it failed to recognise the essential difference
existing between dissatisfaction with and organised
opposition to the Nazi regime. Dissatisfaction there
is plenty. But organised opposition has been made
progressively more difficult until it no longer exists.
England’s Exodus Reviewed.
(From a “Contemporary Review” article by Janet Leeper.)
Prosperous cities have before now gone down
under the impact of war, or have suffered convul-
sions of nature, but it has been left to the citizens of
the twentieth century to witness the mass depopula-
tion of their towns in view of possible air raids, hun-
dreds of miles from the battle front. Those who saw
it in England in 1939 will never forget it, for it was a
sight to make the angels weep: man fleeing from
the shadow of his own making, his new-found mastery
of the air and his enormously increased power of
hurting his fellow-men.
As war became imminent, the cities seemed
to be in the grip of a centrifugal force pushing the
people out into the rural districts. Little children
bravely marched off to unknown destina-
tions far from their mothers’ care ; aged,
blind or sick persons were taken by coach
or ambulance to hastily commandeered
country mansions ; hospitals, asylums and
prisons were closed at a few hours’ notice,
to stand sandbagged and empty for official
uses; Government departments and insti-
tutions occupied hotels in ‘ safe areas,
while whole schools were invited into the
country seats of the landed aristocracy.
The lead given by the Government
was followed by the public, and soon
nearly everyone was sheltering strangers
or living precariously in someone else s
house, waiting for what might happen.
And then came the long anti-climax of
five months without air raids.
Nowhere were the effects of this grand
exodus, which cut across every section of
the community, so deeply felt as in Lon-
don, so that in the first week of September
it looked as though the Black Death had
swept through the city. Every second house
stood empty, shop assistants idly gossiped
in shops without customers, and not a child
stirred in the forsaken courtyards of the
slums. A visit to a turbulent street usually
teeming with young life in one of the
poorer quarters was like going to a stricken
area: silence everywhere, no play, no
games, no laughter. It was Hamelin town after the
Piper had passed.
In those first weeks of war, hardly anyone paid
any rent and many families disappeared completely
into the blue. The desire to keep the home together,
however, soon reasserted itself.
As every week has passed, a few more mothers
and children have returned, until by the beginning of
February 43 per cent, of the children who had gone
in September had come back. The women want to
share with their men the difficulties and dangers
which may lie ahead. They have acted instinctively
in coming home. When a man goes to the war he is
immolated, a nimbus of knight-errantry surrounds
him, and should he return he will find his hearth is
kept warm for him. But when a woman is evacuated
there is no nimbus for her ; she is just dumped in a
“safe” area, and her home goes to pieces as like as
not. It is a new kind of tragedy, very hard to bear,
and we should not ask working women to bear it if
they are ready to stay with their men, come raid,
come fine, in the cities.
To separate the young children from their mothers
—unless of course they can be sent to relations in the
country —can only be really satisfactory when it is
done under the aegis of a nursery school, so that the
mother has complete confidence in the arrangements,
and the‘children have proper supervision and com-
panionship. The older children, on the other hand,
flourish in their new surroundings. It is the birth-
right of a healthy boy or girl to run about in the open,
to climb trees or to swim in the sea. It was a won-
derful sight to see the slum children making for the
sea in those warm September days when the evacua-
tion began. Reports come from all over the country
that the children have put on weight and are much
improved physically as a result of their time in the
country.
There is one more aspect of the evacuation which
should not be lost sight of. When the castles of
Scotland, the manor houses of England and the little
country cottages of the West Country opened their
doors to the children, a thrill of horror ran down the
spine of the “comfortable classes” in Britain at the
poverty, dirt, squalor and inadequate food and cloth-
ing which the slum children had got accustomed to.
Was it not time that such a shock should be adminis-
tered and that a better environment should be pro-
vided for the citizens of the future?


CITY TATTERSALL’S CLUB.
GOLD CUP MEETING, 1940.
RANDWICR
SATURDAY, 13th APRIL
FIRST RACE 1.30.
City Tattersall’s Gold Cup, of £lOOO and a Gold Cup valued at £lOO.
1 Mile 3 Furlongs.
A service of buses will run from King’s Cross and Bondi Junction to
the Racecourse.
ALL RACES WILL BE DESCRIBED IN RUNNING THROUGH AMPLIFIERS
Admission Tickets for the Saddling Paddock only may be purchased
from Messrs. Nicholson and Co., Callaghan House, George Street
(opposite Old Building), Sydney.
Official Stand Tickets will be sold on the Racecourse only.
5/- TOTALISATOR WILL OPERATE IN ALL ENCLOSURES.
198-200 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
PAT. O’LEARY.
Secretary.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINSESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The weather was perfect for the four
days of the Randwick meeting—“too per-
fect” was the opinion of country visitors,
of whom there were fewer than usual.
The other States were strongly repre-
sented. Notwithstanding the attendance
for the four days totalled considerably
less than last autumn, money must have
been plentiful. The tote turnover dropped,
but only from £192,523 to £190,503. The
track, considering the disadvantages of
the recent dry spell, was in particularly
good order, though not favorable to
record-breaking.
Weight-for-age racing was not lacking
in interest, with little between Maikai
and Mosaic for the honors over a dis-
tance. In the Autumn Stakes, with a
slight advantage in condition, Maikai
narrowly defeated Mosaic, but in the
A.J.C. Plate on Saturday the latter re-
versed positions. After Mosaic won the
Sydney Cup I repeatedly heard Maikai
referred to as an unlucky loser, but in
the A.J.C. Plate Mosaic, meeting Maikai
41b. worse than in the Cup, was again
his master. Munro had something to
do with it. Maikai did not have the
best of luck in the Cup, and in the A.J.C.
Plate, after dropping back to fourth at
the turn, was hampered in trying to get
through between Old Rowley and Royal
Chief commencing the last furlong. When
he got clear he reduced the gap separat-
ing him from Mosaic, but he never
looked like catching him, and was not
doing better than the latter when the
winning post was reached.
Mosaic was last for a long way, but
Munro moved him up so smartly after
passing the five furlongs that he was
with Reading at the turn, and led imme-
diately after entering the straight. Then
Royal Chief started a run that raised the
hopes of his backers, but though half-
way down the straight he looked certain
to get second he weakened. Although
Old Rowley missed a place, he ran sur-
prisingly well, but unfortunately for his
owner there are no more long-distance
races in Sydney for some time.
Maikai’s easy win in the Cumberland
Plate on Wednesday disposed of Read-
ing’s pretensions to be considered a
genuine stayer. The older horse had him
in trouble three furlongs from home,
and then Reading tired in such marked
fashion that Royal Chief beat him several
lengths for second. Their relative form
was the same in the A.J.C. Plate, No
fault could be found with Reading’s
appearance either on Wednesday or
Saturday. He did the pacemaking in the
A.J.C. Plate. In the early part he pulled
hard, but before the straight was reached
it was evident he was not going to have
any say in the decision of the race.
It is unwise to condemn any horse
because of a couple of failures, but, with
big racing for the season concluded, it
would now seem as if Reading, as a
dual Derby and St. Leger winner, was
fortunate in striking some mediocre
stayers. It is certain now that a mile and
a half is a little beyond High Caste, and
though Dashing Cavalier is useful he is
a long way from first-class. Reading did
not meet Beaulivre, who, however, is
probably always likely to shine more as
a sprinter than a stayer, and next spring
may see the Maorilander Beau Vite the
best of the four-year-olds racing over a
distance in Sydney and Melbourne.
After Billposter ran fairly in the Don-
caster Handicap, and then won the
Coogee Handicap, it was thought he was
likely to prove a valuable addition to the
three-year-old ranks, but he was dis-
credited by his failure to get a place in
the Final Handicap, in which he met the
winner, St. Constant, on a little better
than w.f.a. terms. On that running Bill-
poster is unlikely to rise above handicap
form, nor is another three-year-old in
High Rank, who was backed for the
Final Handicap as if he could not lose,
but finished indifferently after being one
of the leaders opposite the leger. Katanga
ran well at two of his three starts, and
is entitled to be rated next to the best of
our three-year-olds.
Bel Oiseau, Opportunist, Royal Routine
and Dollar are three of the lower divi-
sion of three-year-olds sure to win in the
near future, but for first-class stayers of
that age this season has been disappoint-
ing in Sydney and Melbourne. Last year
Mosaic won the Sydney Cup with weight-
for-age, but on the form he displayed in
his recent races it is doubtful whether
Reading would have been equal to doing
so even on those terms. Of course, there
is the possibility of improvement, but
next spring Reading is more likely to
command attention for the Metropolitan
or Caulfield Cup than for the Melbourne
Cup. Anyhow, even if he is not quite as
good a stayer as supposed early in the
season, he has been a great money-earner
for his joint owners. It would be safe
to bet that, at 400gns. or more, none of
the yearlings sold at Randwick last week
will prove such a bargain.
Royal Chief, as a w.f.a. contender,
may be scarcely as good as when racing
in Sydney in the spring of 1938, and it
would not surprise me if he does not
again visit Australia. He more than paid
expenses by totalling £l5OO for two
seconds and a third at the recent meet-
ing, but it will probably be difficult for
him to win w.f.a. races next spring, and
there was sufficient merit in his second
with 9.5 in the Sydney Cup to prevent
anything in the way of lenient treatment
in handicaps. Royal Chief’s Australian
earnings total £9212.
Ajax came through his engagements
as well as his joint owners could wish.
It was with an amazing burst of speed
he ran past Trimmer nearly a furlong
from home in the C. W. Cropper Plate,
though, after being eased slightly on
getting to the front, he was pushed along
at the end to beat the late-coming Gold
Rod, to whom he was conceding 211 b.,
against 101 b. when the latter was second
to him in the corresponding race last
year. Ajax looked better on Saturday
than when he won the All-Aged Plate
earlier in the week, and, as he is appar-
ently quite sound, there is likely to be
more money in it for his joint owners if
he is raced for another season than if
he were offered at auction for stud pur-
poses during the next few weeks. It is
certain he would not realise his true
value, and another season’s racing will
not sap his vitality. His winnings now
total £38,025.
With two wins Own Folk shone among
the handicap division, and his success
with 8.10 in the Dangar Handicap upheld
the belief that he should have played
a more prominent part in the Sydney
Cup. In that he dropped out a long
way in the first mile, and, though he is
one of those horses that must be allowed
time to find their legs, his two subsequent
races proved he could stand a little more
early bustling than previously supposed.
He adds to The Buzzard’s many useful
stayers, and, with distance races in view,
it seems safer to buy that horse’s stock
than that of most sires. Mrs. C. H.
Hicks owns Katanga as well as Own
Folk, so she had a profitable meeting ;
and, as John won the Champagne Stakes
for Mrs. P. H. Osborne, B. Payten should
be on the best of terms with the ladies
for whom he trains.
Maorilanders Yours Truly and Round
Up fell short of expectations. The former
had a clear run in the Sydney Cup and
Dangar Handicap, and in each was want-
ing at the finish. Yours Truly won the
New Zealand Cup, but in that race he
had only 7.1, and his failures at Rand-
wick suggest that he is one of those
horses that stay well only under a light
weight. He has commenced a long spell
at Riverstone. Round Up’s trainer has
all along contended that he has received
too much weight, and though he ran
one good race in Melbourne his efforts
since point to his being somewhat over-
rated.
Geebung was one of the failures of
the A.J.C. meeting. He was tried at a
mile, two miles, and a mile and a quarter,
but did not get a place. The Cup dis-
tance was beyond him, and, though
nicely placed in the early part of the
Final Handicap, and one of the leaders
a furlong from home, his weight anchored
him at the finish. He has reached a
mark from which it will trouble him to
add to his winning account.
Neither Gold Spark nor Feminist ran
again after the Sydney Cup, lameness
disposing of the former. She may get
a long spell, and has earned it. Her
stable-companion Baveon was out-
classed in the Doncaster, but finished
brilliantly to win the Woollahra Handi-
cap, in which the favorite, Mitsui, cut
up badly. After the way he won the
first division of the Vaucluse Handicap
Mitsui’s chance appeared particularly
bright, and, even allowing the luck of the
race did not favor him on Saturday, it
must have been a shock for his owner
when he failed to do better.
St. Constant was not good enough
for w.f.a. class at a mile and a half in
the Autumn Stakes, and was out of his
distance in the Sydney Cup. There was
a different tale to tell in the Final Handi-
cap. Backed from 20 to 1 down to
8 to 1, he won in good style after being
ahead of only a couple of other runners
starting the back stretch. In the spring
of 1938 St. Constant also won the Final
Handicap, giving Sedunum, who was
second, 41b. Curiosity must be a mare
of moods, as though she came from a
long way back to win the Bronte Handi-
cap on Wednesday she was one of the
last home in the Final Handicap.
Sidcup was a close third, and it was
an unlucky meeting for F. W. Hughes,
horses in which he is interested scoring
two seconds and three thirds. Men who
put a lot of money i.nto horseracing
deserve a fitting return, but unfortunately
they do not always get it. Bel Oiseau
finished strongly in beating Sidcup for
second, and, as he has only 6.9 in the
Canterbury Cup, a winning turn for him
in that race is something more than a
possibility. Temporarily Early Bird
seems to have lost form. She had the
same weight as St. Constant, but, if any-
thing near herself, should not have
finished last. Fairly prominent at the
leger she stopped to nothing.
W. J. Smith was prepared to give
5000gns. for Beaulivre with a view to
racing him in America, but the colt’s
owner had no wish to sell. The price
mentioned would not have been an ex-
travagant one for Beaulivre, as though
few w.f.a. races are run in America
there are many valuable handicaps from
seven furlongs to a mile and a quarter,
the latter distance not being exceeded in
the richest races. At one time it
was unusual for horses to be weighted
above 9st in America, and even now
anything over 9.6 is exceptional. When
Seabiscuit won the recent Santa Anita
Handicap he was topweight with 9.4.
Lucrative and John, the respective
winners of the Sires’ Produce Stakes and
Champagne Stakes, came out best of the
iwo-year-olds at Randwick. Lucrative’s
101 b. penalty contributed to his defeat
by John in the Champagne Stakes, but
the latter won in the manner of a stayer.
Flying Knight did much better in the
Champagne Stakes than in the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, finishing ahead of Rox-
ford, to whom he was giving 71b. The
latter won the Fernhill Handicap with
8.8 on the concluding day, so his form
reflected favorably on that of Flying
Knight. Earlier in his career Roxford
displayed pace, but did not seem a stay-
ing possibility. Now he can get a mile,
which is more than can be said for most
of the youngsters. At the same time I
think it may have been lucky for Rox-
ford’s backers that Duke Cullen behaved
a trifle erratically about half a furlong
from home on Saturday, and that
Chatoona struck a little trouble.
• ••••»
Tidal Wave was disappointing. His
defeat of John, in conjunction with the
fact that he looked all the better for his
race, pointed to him as the probable
winner of the Fernhill Handicap. He
finished fourth without ever being dan-
gerous, and on that run it is impossible
to prophesy that he will be one of next
season’s topnotchers. Patrician also
failed, and though Panchio has plenty of
pace he is seemingly an indifferent stayer.
Chatoona will improve, and a six-fur-
longs win for Haridelle before the close
of the season is on the cards.
Turning to some that did not run on
Saturday, Dark Elegance is not as good
as earlier in the season, and there seems
little likelihood of Ensign staying. It is
the same with Happy Bay, and though
Session easily won the Easter Plate she
was outclassed by the colts in the Cham-
pagne Stakes. The fact of being a slow
beginner told against Pandect in that
race, but he could not have won even
if he had got a better run after entering
the straight. However, he came home
strongly, and he is one of next season’s
staying possibilities.
The only thing regrettable about the
All-Aged Plate was that the field did not
include Amiable, who beat Ajax at Flem-
ington, and made an Australian record.
Without wishing to discredit Amiable’s
performance, it is difficult for me to be-
lieve that she is superior to Ajax at a
mile. In the opinion of many good
judges, Ajax did not look quite as well
on Wednesday as on some previous occa-
sions, but in the race he demonstrated
there was nothing amiss with him. Taken
to the front when the field settled down,
Badger did not evince any desire to make
a runaway race of it. Ajax was never
much more than two lengths ahead of
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Opening Handicap: Bel Oiseau,
1 ; Miss Heroic, 2 ; Good Morning,
3.
Quality Handicap: Rimveil, 1 ;
Duke Cullen, 2 ; Tidal Wave, 3.
Frederick Clissold Handicap:
Adios or Gold Rod, 1 ; Trimmer, 2 ;
Penthides, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Cable
Boy, 1 ; The Kite, 2 ; Highborn, 3.
Progressive Handicap: Avant
Tout, 1 ; Royal Routine, 2 ; Grand
Hotel, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Plutus, 1 ;
Mischief, 2 ; Sidcup, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
By “SENTRY.”
Ardoch Hurdle Race: Exmoor,
1 ; Dignitas, 2 ; Giant Killer, 3.
Calliope Handicap: Goldsmith,
1 ; Clarify, 2 ; Black Legend, 3.
Yannathan Trial Handicap:
Melas, 1 ; Kingswear, 2 ; Swetten-
ham, 3.
Alister Clark Stakes: El Golea,
1 ; Amiable, 2 ; Pure Gold, 3.
Anniversary Handicap: Crojick,
1 ; Rose Princess, 2; Ronwin, 3.
Macedon Welter: Brave Mark,
1 ; Diogenes, 2 ; Comic March, 3.


Beaulivre, who was his nearest follower
for the first three furlongs.
Just after turning into the straight
High Caste and Beaulivre reduced Ajax’s
lead, and a close finish between the three
appeared certain. About a furlong from
home Beaulivre, in attempting to get
through on the rails, collided with High
Caste, but it did not seem to me that
the trouble was serious enough to affect
the chance of either to any extent. Right
at the finish Ajax was doing better than
his followers, and, though I have seen it
stated he won easily, Badger did not
let up on him until he was safely past
the winning-post, a length ahead of High
Caste, with Beaulivre a head further
away.
The time, 1.381, was on the slow side
by comparison with Ajax’s 1.351 in 1938
and 1.351 last year. His Flemington
best is 1.351. At Caulfield his 1.37 for
the Guineas is the record for that race,
and up to a mile he has proved himself
a remarkable horse. He is also excep-
tionally good up to a mile and a half,
but he has not been afforded the oppor-
tunity of showing whether he stays be-
yond that distance. Three successive
wins in the Futurity Stakes, All-Aged
Plate and C. W. Cropper Plate prove
him a great sprinter.
* * * *
R. Bailey is recognised as one of Mel-
bourne’s best sprint riders, but his judg-
ment of pace was a big factor in the all-
the-way win of Prince Sion over the
mile and a half of the Moonee Ponds
Handicap at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Prince Sion, usually a sluggish gal-
loper, was forced into the role of pace-
maker, and Bailey wisely did not attempt
to pull him about when he found that
the horse was going generously and that
other riders were making no attempt to
deprive him of the lead. Result was that
Prince Sion without ever being seri-
ously challenged, ran home an easy
winner from Rose Princess and Digni-
tary.
Bailey’s alertness was a welcome
change from the colorless tactics of most
Melbourne jockeys, and nobody appre-
ciated it more than Prince Sion’s owner,
Arthur Newman. Latter, knowing that
Prince Sion had gone well in previous
races for E. Preston and N. Percival,
attempted to engage one of those riders
for him on Saturday. Both, however,
had prior engagements —Preston for
Lanarus and Percival for Dignitary —and
it was only on Friday night that Bailey
got the mount.
Alan Cooper has spent a fortune in
his pursuit of a really good horse, but
Prince Sion was one useful galloper he
allowed to pass out of his ownership. An
aged stallion by Sion-Lady Waratah,
Prince Sion was bred by Cooper, in
whose colors he began racing, but later
he was raced by A. W. Oliver, and was
a maiden three-years-old when bought by
Newman. He has won numerous races
for Newman, last year’s Adelaide Birth-
day Cup and Saturday’s £725 (inclusive
of £25 trophy) being his best. Most
entires sour of racing before reaching
Prince Sion’s age, but nothing seems to
worry Prince Sion, who is as docile as
an old gelding. His good temperament,
plus sound make-up, is reflected in the
fact that he has stood up to a terrific
amount of hard work and racing. His
race on Saturday was his 110th!
• « • • • •
Punters are being forced to the conclu-
sion that Alarm is a false alarm, but the
colt has Shown such good promise on
occasions that they are afraid to let him
run against them. Result is that he has
been favorite in five of his last seven
races, and it would be interesting to
know just how much money has been
lost on him by the public and followers
of the powerful Lou Robertson stable.
After his poor display in the Moonee
Ponds Handicap, however, punters will
not be anxious to rush him again.
It was hoped that the Maoriland rider
H. Wiggins, who was licensed by the
V.R.C. only the previous day, would in-
duce him to do his best, but Alarm, after
making a short-lived run near the five
furlongs, put no heart into his work sub-
sequently, and finished only sixth. At
that he did better than Mac Rob and
Morvren, who had finished first and
third respectively, and a long way ahead
of Alarm, in the Williamstown Easter
Cup five days earlier. Again illustrating
the difficulties that confront form fol-
lowers these days, neither Mac Rob nor
Morvren was ever a possibility over a
similar distance on Saturday.
Students of form received another set-
back when Crowsaint won the Wood-
lands Trial Handicap. Ten days earlier
at Ascot he had been well backed for
the race won by Inspector
Scott, but weakened over the last couple
of furlongs and finished only ninth. That
form said little for his chance over a
mile at the Valley, and the fact of his
easing from 7 to 1 to tens indicated that
the stable did not anticipate the im-
provement. Norman Creighton, how-
ever, is riding right at the top of his
form, and “made” Crowsaint do his best.
He did not give the aged Crowdennis
gelding a chance to shirk after hitting
the front near the two furlongs, and
Crowsaint won easily from Lalmoni and
Lady Sykes. Lalmoni, the “form” horse
of the field, eased from 9 to 4 to fours,
and started at 7 to 2. Well away, she
quickly dropped back last, and, although
making a fast forward move at the turn,
never looked like running down the
winner.
Stablemates Bankshaw and National,
both owned by W. R Kemball and
trained by H. Hilton, and both by
Wotan’s sire, Siegfried, had the finish
of The Knoll Handicap to themselves.
They were backed in the right order, too,
Bankshaw starting at 6 to 1 and National
at tens. Bankshaw’s latest racing had
been over middle-distances, but, while
they had been just beyond him, he has
a powerful run at the end of a mile.
Thus he was able to outstay National
after moving up second to the latter
entering the straight. Bankshaw is no-
thing if not consistent, his last six races
having yielded two wins, two seconds and
a third, and on Saturday he completed
"COO-EE-E-E!”
a double for rider Ossie Phillips. Latter
won the previous race on David Innis.
“He’s in the firm,” remarked trainer
“Bill” Burke after David Innis had won
the Sherwood Highweight Handicap. By
this Burke meant that David Innis, like
the Grand National Steeplechase winner
Giant Killer and other horses, is raced on
lease by him from O. R. Falkiner. David
Innis entered Burke’s stables only about
six months ago, and, adopting his usual
practice with horses that might be
destined for jumping races, Burke gave
him a course of hurdle schooling before
racing him for the first time in January
this year. David Innis jumps well, and
the early training will stand to him later,
but meantime he seems likely to make
something of a name for himself on the
flat. He has started only four times for
two wins and two seconds, though actu-
ally he has been first past the post on
three occasions. Backed from tens down
to sevens on Saturday, he was unable to
go the early pace, but moved up smartly
on the bend and outstayed Diogenes
after odds had been laid on the latter
when he received an inside run entering
the straight and shot away to a clear
lead.
Backers of the favorite, Mei-Ling,
would have sold out cheap early in the
Hollymount Handicap. Mei-Ling was
among the tail-enders after the field had
gone a couple of furlongs, and was still
badly placed coming to the turn, but
she finished gamely to win from Nut
Brown, a 33-to-l chance, and Damocles.
Mei-Ling’s win compensated for her
somewhat unlucky defeat at Caulfield at
her previous start, and more will be heard
of her. Trained by B. W. Seymour for
J. B. Bellair, who paid 200 guineas for
her as a yearling, Mei-Ling is bred to
gallop. She is by Manitoba from Black
Duchess, latter of whom was a good
stayer in her time, running second to
Maple in the 1928 Caulfield Cup, in
addition to winning many races. At the
same time, Mei-Ling would have had
more difficulty in beating Damocles had
the latter not run very wide at the turn.
Damocles was doing better than any-
thing else right at the finish.
Weather conditions on Saturday were
not suitable for steeplechasing. Nor for
any other form of racing for that matter,
as a combination of humidity, wind and
dust was responsible for almost a 50 per
cent, drop in attendance and tote invest-
ments at the Valley. But the club should
have received a better response than four
runners for the £4OO Rothwell Steeple-
chase, even allowing that it might be a
bit early for likely Grand National can-
didates to appear. The race, however,
did not lack interest, as both Nimshi and
Bhoy flattered their backers at various
stages before Dornford, who had eased
from 6 to 4 to 3 to 1, hit the front after
the second-last fence. It was no race
subsequently, Dornford winning at his
ease from Bhoy and Nimshi.
Of the unplaced runners at Moonee
Valley, Ronwin and Strategy may repay
following in the near future. Ronwin,
having her second race since a spell, was
a fast-finishing fourth to Bankshaw in
The Knoll Handicap, and evidently is
back to the form that enabled her to win
the Woodend Cup and another middle-
distance race at Moonee Valley, in addi-
tion to running second to Plymouth Hoe
in the Ballarat Cup towards the end of
last year. Strategy, winner of juvenile
races at Moonee Valley and Flemington
lasi season, finished only a moderate
sixth to David Innis in the Sherwood
Highweight, but he was running on at
the end and will be all the better for the
race, which was his second since he
resumed work.
* * * *
The yearling sales at Randwick were a
much greater success than generally anti-
cipated, and Reg Inglis’s voice held to
get through nearly 500 youngsters. As
was to be expected many were with-
drawn from the original 609 catalogued,
and others were passed in. Progeny of
the new Kia-Ora sire Piccadilly were in
demand, the highest-priced of his pro-
geny being the colt out of Kowulka,
who was knocked down to J. Carey at
950 guineas. He was bought on behalf
of “Mr. Constable,” who was associated
with the late E. L. Baillieu in the owner-
ship of Karuma when that horse was
successfully trained by Carey. It is to
be hoped the colt proves another
Karuma.
Several of the Brueghel yearlings sold
well, as did some by another new sire
in J. R. Smith, though I thought, as a
whole, the latter’s stock would have been
in greater demand. Melfort’s represen-
tatives should have sold better, as they
included some really nice colts and fillies;
and it was surprising that the demand
for Marconigram yearlings was not
stronger. There is always the chance
of a stayer by that sire. Youngsters by
Spearfelt and The Buzzard were produc-
tive of keen competition, but Beau Pere
beat the lot.
Prices pleasantly surprised several
breeders, and if anyone had wished to
bet that nine youngsters would make
lOOOgns. or more he would have had
no difficulty in being accommodated.
Beau Pere not only topped the list for
an individual sale, but made the great
average of a little over 1039gns. for 14.
The highlights of the sales were:
Br. c., by Beau Pere-Banita; A. E.
Cooper, 3500gns.
Gr. c., by Beau Pere-Grey Port; G.
Price, 2200gns.
Ch. c., by Medieval Knight-Helensbrook;
Hunter Bowman, 1300gns.
B. c., by Hall Mark-Euglena; J. Holt,
1400gns. „ .
Br. c., by Spearfelt-Sere Vale; G. Price,
1300gns.
Ch. c., by The Buzzard-Even Keel; E. P.
Walker, 1200gns.
B. c., by Harinero-Truest; J. P. King,
lOOOgns.
B. c., by Spearfelt-Treasure; S. E. Chat-
terton, lOOOgns.
B. f., by Beau Vite-Nuriti; H. Plant,
lOOOgns.
Some of the trainers whose names are
given as buyers were, of course, acting
for clients.
Unfortunately, some breeders had the
unpleasant experience of receiving con-
siderably less for their yearlings than
it cost to put them in the ring. That is
always likely to happen, just as the
despised stallion of one year may be
rushed by the “best judges” a year later
because of a good win or two by its
progeny.
* * * *
Trueness shaped fairly in the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, but in the Easter
Plate ran as if completely knocked out.
She was laboring after going two fur-
longs, and though some of her backers
thought she would then warm up she
merely plugged along to the end. This
run, in conjunction with her Ascot Vale
Stakes failure, tends to the idea that it
does not take much to tire her. It would
certainly seem that two races in quick
succession are more than she can man-
age. Next season it may be different,
as there is nothing in the breeding of
her sire (Harinero) or dam (Truest) to
suggest softness in their progeny. Hari-
nero is by Blandford and Truest by
Treclare.
* * * *
Judges are not infallible, but it sur-
prised me that any question should have
been raised as to whether Mag Mort had
beaten Jack Mac in the Autumn Hurdle
Race. When you view finishes from the
same position in the official stand at all
meetings at Randwick, and are not finan-
cially interested in a result, you very
rarely disagree with the judge’s decisions.
There is less reason now to do so than
at any previous time. The judge sees
finishes from the top of the box, with the
additional assistance of a wire running
across to the top of the winning-post to
guide him. “Half a neck,” was my com-
ment immediately Mag Mort and Jack
Mac passed under the wire. “A neck”
was the rejoinder of a friend sitting next
to me, and his opinion coincided with
that of the judge. The horses finished
wide apart, and naturally spectators who
were a little past the winning-post favored
Jack Mac, who was on the inside.
* * * *
D. Munro is a fine rider —I have not
seen a more vigorous finisher —but if, as
reported, F. Godby (Maikai’s trainer)
credits him with being 101 b. better at
Randwick than any other jockey, he is
indulging in excessive praise. That would
be excusable just after Maikai’s Cumber-
land Plate win, but I doubt whether
Munro would claim that he is so far
ahead of the best of his confreres. If
that idea were correct it would mean a
101 b. pull in the weights for anything
ridden by Munro at Randwick, and,
though I have great admiration for his
ability, it would be difficult to convince
me or anyone closely associated with
racing that he is so far ahead of, say,
McMenamin, Cook and one or two
others.
* * * *
John’s win in the Champagne Stakes
was the surprise of the afternoon at
Randwick on Wednesday. Excuses were
made for Lucrative, but while he did not
get a clear run, being pocketed near the
rails, that did not lessen the merit of
John’s win. Last at the half-mile, still
badly placed at the turn, he flew along at
the end to win by two lengths. B.
Payten has always held a good opinion
of John, but if, a month ago, anyone had
suggested he would be his star performer
at Randwick it is improbable he would
have been in agreement with that idea.
Now John will enter into calculations for
next year’s Derby. By John Buchan
(1926) from Mince Pie (1929) breeding is
not against him so far as getting a mile
and a half is concerned.
* * * *
The announcement that Gold Salute
was to be gelded came as a surprise.
Costing £lO,OO0 —that is the price gener-
ally accepted—it was naturally thought
his owner would keep him entire. How-
ever, A. E. Cooper came to the con-
clusion that, as a gelding, he was likely
to give a much greater return as a race-
horse than he might at the stud, his


\
X>eluUauA.
FRENCH COOKING
is the supreme art of
KITCHEN SCIENCE.
The
HOTEL PLAZA
(At Wynyard)
desirous of obtaining the best men
for the proper conduct of its Con-
tinental Cafe, has .secured the ser-
vices of Monsieur Conney, Host,
Monsieur Albert, Maitre d’Hotel,
Monsieur Chattenay, Chef de
Cuisine, each expert in his own
particular branch.
The French Cafe .is situated in
the Snuggery Lounge, and Patrons
will find the service and surround-
ings all that could be desired.
Charges very moderate.
HOTEL PLAZA
The Most Popular House in Australia,
WYNYARD.
ENGINEERING
ĵ
YOUNG MAN—EARN REAL MONEY!!
IF YOU have a Mechanical or Electrical turn of mind, one of these four
Courses MUST mean a EOT to YOU.
No. 1 Motor Car Engineering
No. 2 Electrical Engineering
No. 3 Diesel Engineering
No. 4 Engine Driving
(Working Outfit Free)
A GIFT PRICE FOR A MONTH!
These Correspondence Courses are being offered at a really gift price for
one month.
WRITE NOW to our Engineering Director. He will show YOU the way.
The Job
and the Pay !
£6 to £8
PER WEEK
SECURE YOUR FUTUREj
Many students have written, thanking us for
what we have done for them. Here are a
few extracts from letters:—
1. “X must thank you for helping me. Since
getting my Diesel Certificate my wages
have been over £8 per week.”
2. “It was your Diploma that placed me in
a good position as a Motor Mechanic. It
was my best day’s work when I under-
took your Course.”
3. “I am pleased with the Course and recom-
mend it to anyone wishing to learn Engine
Driving.”
4. “I thank you for putting me where I am
to-dav. I am receiving £6/6/- ner week.”
5. “I thank you for your help in getting me my
position of Cadet Flight Engineer in the
R.A.A.F. If 1 hadn’t taken your motor course
I couldn’t have passed the trade test.”
GET
THU
FREE
BOOK
IT TELLS YOU HOW
YOU CAN LEARN
Ml ABOUT MOTORS
IN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME...
mmk
IS THE
POWER
i OF TO-DAY
Post This Coupon for FREE BOOK |
The Chief Engineer, (E-B-440
Australian Technical Schools,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson St., Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your
FREE BOOK, advice, particulars, and special
offer about your course.
No dealing with ••••
Name
Occupation
Address
breeding not being likely to prove
specially attractive to owners of mares.
It is to be hoped Gold Salute’s future
deeds come up to expectations, as his
owner has shown himself one of the
pluckiest buyers Australia has known,
and his return has not been in keeping
with his expenditure.
* * * *
In addition to the Beau Pere-Banita
colt, bought by A. E. Cooper for 3500
guineas last week, J. T. Jamieson has the
following yearlings in his stable:
Br. f., by Beau Pere-Aissa.
Br. f., by Beau Pere-Germain.
Ch. c., by Tippler-Figure.
Br. c., by El Cacique-Native Bee.
Ch. c., by Portofino.
The following, . at present in New
Zealand, will later join the team:
Br. c., by Foxbridge-Speed Mint.
Br. c., by Tiderace.
Ch. f., by Lo Zingaro-Podokes.
# * * *
There were, as usual at any big meet-
ing, some reversals of form at Randwick,
but the stewards did not note anything
that warranted action on their part. Of
course a few dissatisfied backers raised
their voices, but if stewards gave serious
heed to every demonstration at the vari-
ous courses there would quickly be
marked depletion in the ranks of owners,
trainers and horses. Admittedly it is
galling to a backer when, after punting
on a horse, it goes out of favor, runs
nowhere and later wins when it comes in
from a comparatively long price to a
short one.
* * * *
When Jack Chaucer won Ireland’s
big jumping race, the Red Cross Handi-
cap Steeplechase, at Leopardstown, only
three of the 22 starters were possibilities
a mile from home. The remainder were
hopelessly out of it, and Jack Chaucer
ran the four miles 250 yards in 9.35 2-5
on a very heavy track. First money was
£2620, second £5OB, and third £332. The
ride was a lucky one for J. Brogan.
Originally engaged for West Park that
horse met with an accident, and was
unable to run, while Parkinson, who was
to have ridden Jack Chaucer, was unable
to do so owing to sudden illness. C.
Brabazon, who trained Jack Chaucer,
also won the principal hurdle race with
On Straight the same afternoon. He
beat Miss D. Paget’s Solford, but that
owner had two other wins later in the
day. Reverting to Jack Chaucer, his
owner said he never went faster than a
canter until he was six years old. Tren-
ton figures in his pedigree on the
maternal side.
* H= * *
Mosaic’s owner has an idea that his
horse should not be penalised for the
Canterbury Handicap because the con-
ditions say: “Maximum handicap weight
9st.” Elsewhere it is provided that any
winner after the declaration of weights
can be rehandicapped up to 101 b. extra.
The inclusion of the word “handicap”
probably disposes of the claim made
by Mosaic’s owner. If the conditions
had merely read “maximum weight” it
might have been different. In many
minor handicaps it is provided that the
“lowest handicap weight” is, say, Bst., but
that does not stand in the way of an
allowance being claimed for a horse on
that mark. Therefore a penalty for a
horse allotted the maximum “handicap”
weight w'ould appear to be in order.
* * * *
It has been freely rumored that J.
Pike contemplated giving up training and
resuming as a jockey. In reply to my
query the other morning as to whether
there was anything in the report Pike
replied: “Nothing whatever. I haven’t
the slightest intention of riding again.
It is the same old thing ; many people
seem to know your business better than
yourself.” Pike has not been in luck
recently with his team, but, as he is
painstaking, his turn will come.
•* * * *
Visitors to the A.J.C. meeting in-
cluded J. Scobie —looking well, too. He
does not make hard work of training
nowadays, keeping a few horses in his
stable to maintain his interest in the
game. He has only four in training.
Two he races in partnership with J.
Netter, and the others are owned re-
spectively by his old patron, E. E. D.
Clarke, and V. V. Moggs.
* * * *
W. C. Douglas, whose winners of a
few years ago included Claro (Epsom),
was the buyer of the Beau Pere-Grey
Port yearling at 2200gns. at last week’s
Randwick sales. He is to be trained by
G. Price, as are Spear Chief’s brother
(1300gns.), The Buzzard-Lady Mallaig
colt (750gns.) and the Constant Son-
Smart Bird colt (500gns.). The last-
mentioned three are owned by E. R.
Williams, who raced Jocular.
* * * *
Windsor Lad, who made an unexpected
recovery from a brain operation, is
again being used at the stud in England
this year. He is limited to 25 approved
mares at a fee of £l9B. If a mare is
barren the fee will be returned, but mares
booked without any contingency are
accepted at £9B. Windsor Lad is now
owned by the Sun Insurance Co. and a
group of Lloyd’s underwriters. In 1938
Windsor Lad had 26 living foals, and his
five yearlings sold at auction last year
averaged 1030gns. Two years after win-
ning the Derby, Windsor Lad com-
menced stud duty at a fee of 400gns.
* * ifc *
There are exceptions to every rule, and,
while the Sydney Cup has always been
a hard race for anything with over 9st.
to win, last week’s Cup was the first in
which the three places were filled by
horses carrying over 9st. This suggests
that either Mosaic, Maikai and Royal
Chief are stayers above the average of
most previous years, or that their
opponents were decidedly mediocre.
* * * *
E. Britt had a highly successful time
in India during the recent season. Two
or three wins a day were quite usual
with him, and he had the satisfaction
of winning India’s richest race, the
Eclipse Stakes of India, at Bombay.
The total value of the race was a little
over £5600. Britt scored on Steel Helmet,
who shared second favoritism with
Phakos at 3 to 1, the favorite being
Dominic at 5 to 4. Steel Helmet won
on the post from Spadassin, and the
time, 2.3 1-5, was a mile and a quarter
record for Bombay. The winner, who
is by Shell Transport from Hat Box, and
raced in England as Tin Hat, is owned
by the Maharajah of Kashmir, who won
the previous year with One I Love. Britt
won two other races during the after-
noon.
* * * *
As Gordon Richards has accepted five
retainers for the current season, the war
will not affect his income to any extent.
The Beckhampton stable, as usual, has
first call on his services, then in order
coming Lord Astor, Lord Portal, F.
Templeman and Martin Hartigan, the
last-named being the trainer with whom
he served his apprenticeship.
* * * *
The war affected racing to the extent
of there being 1150 fewer runners for
flat races in Great Britain in 1939 than
in 1938, the respective totals being 3993
and 5143. The abandonment of fixtures
in September meant a loss to owners
of nearly £190,000 in prize-money. The
distribution for flat-racing in England
in 1938 was £731,826 10s., and last year
£560,094. There will be a greater de-
crease this year, the abandoned meetings
including Ascot on June 18, 19, 20 and
21. Flat-racing in England was to have
commenced on Easter Monday, and, as
the Jockey Club’s recently published
schedule allowed for 53 programmes be-
tween then and June 1, owners and
trainers are faring better than was
anticipated early in the year. Some of
the clubs have lost a day or two, and
there is also uncertainty as to where
some meetings will be held.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Old Tod!
Tod Morgan has fought some great
battles since he first swarmed into action
in these parts, but he was never more
devastating than against the Filipino,
Fighting Carlos, in an extraordinary en-
gagement last week at Sydney Stadium.
It was extraordinary both because Tod,
as they flippantly put it, is “past his
prime,” and because of his amazing
superiority on the night. Tod is 38 ; he’s
been fighting for 20 years. Since he left
Gahd’s Own Country to inhabit Aus-
tralia he’s been fighting all over the
country, from Sydney to Perth —light-
weights when he could get ’em, but not
despising welters or even middleweights ;
defying the best in the land and Anno
Domini together.
Yet he got into the ring last week look-
ing as fresh as a sapling. He may have
fined down and tightened up a bit, but
Australia would do that to him, any-
how. As far as his fighting went, he was
the same old Tod. He turned the scale
at 9.8 i to Carlos’s 9.6, and looked tall
and rangy beside the blocky little brown
chap. He at once proceeded to give the
little chap the boxing lesson of his life.
Only the armor-plated toughness pecu-
liar to Filipinos, and the gameness that
goes with it, kept the little fellow on his
feet. Tod fought the full 12 rounds at
top speed, and won the lot. He was the
attacker throughout, walking straight in
without taking damage, fighting superbly
for the body in close. Or else he meas-
ured his man off with his long straight
left, using it like a rule, and placing right
crosses on Carlos’s jaw that sent the Fili-
pino staggering back, looking like a
brown punching-bag. It was not hitting
that you ordinarily see in a ring at all,
but the sort you read about. The straight
left, left hook, left rip to the body and
the right cross could have all been
used for illustrating a textbook. They
had a classic look about them, beauti-
fully clean and faultless.
It was astonishing to see even a Fili-
pino stand up to it. Carlos came out
of his corner for the first round looking
as if he had some sense of what was
ahead of him. Though Filipinos are
mostly as inscrutable as their next-door
neighbors, he looked nervous and some-
how weak about the legs. Almost every
round he took enough of Tod’s classic-
clean punches to have stopped an ox. He
would take, say, as many as five heavy
rights to the jaw out in mid-ring in almost
as many seconds; every one of them
would send his head back, look like
knocking it out into the bleachers ; and
he would still be there, taking it. Some-
thing like that happened to him in every
round after the first. Yet it was not till
the ninth that he hit the canvas, a right
that should have outed him sending him
temporarily down.
In the eleventh the handful of a crowd
showed some displeasure with Tod for
fighting more strongly than the circum-
stances seemed to warrant. All very well
for the crowd! Tod took the hint, and
let the little chap recover, but Tod must
have seen a fight or two lost that way
in his day. If anyone deserved censure
it was Joe Wallis, who should have
stopped it in the tenth at the latest. The
trouble was that, for all he’d taken, the
Filipino didn’t show a mark. Moreover,
he was still hitting almost as vimfully,
though as vainly, as ever. Amazingly,
there was still fight in him right to the
end. That came midway in the twelfth,
when the game and tough little fellow
sagged down under an onslaught in Tod’s
corner, and Mr. Wallis crowned Tod
without applying the count.
Tod had expended enough energy in
hitting to have weakened a giant. He
finished as fit as a colt.
* * * *
A 10-to-l-on favorite for his meeting
with John J. Paycheck, Joe Louis bat-
tered that poor contender for the title
into submission inside two rounds. A
right to the chin finished the massacre,
lifting Paycheck off his feet and plant-
ing him flat on his back, the ref. calling
it a technical k.o. after counting “four.”
Paycheck was also down three times in
the first round, evidently scared stiff.
* * * =f«
Cullud middleweight import Archie
Moore rendered Jack McNamee hors de
combat in four rounds at West Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night.
Moore had a somewhat disturbing ex-
perience in Sydney. He was billed to
meet, Richards and none but Richards
for his first scrap in these parts, and
arrived in time to see the Australian
champion trounce Fred Henneberry with
perhaps the best-developed right upper-
cut since Jack Johnson’s. After that
Moore caught the ’flu, and it was given
out that maybe it would be a good idea
if he had a shot at somebody else before
tackling Ron. He made a good showing
against McNamee crumpling the Vic-
tonan ™ th sho*rt body punches.*
Wonders wiU never cease . witneS s
Dave Lefton (9.81) v. A 1 Kimber (9.8 f)
t Leic hhardt on Thursday night.
Dave was the attacker all the time
from the fifth round onwards and wasn’t
Joafing befofe fighting hi& way past
A1 > s great ac j V antage in reach, and em-
pioying a f a i r a mount of ringcraft in
g sq He have appeared to be
lent from APs right) but after
Qne */ two fajrl d dnes that he
d eafl in the piece h e either
bk ££ ed them with his shoulder or slipped
thgm oyer . & /fl Jack Carroll> or else
he tQok them Qn his loye Qr knocked
them asjde Certainly he didn’t stop a
h that inconven i ence d him.
* Not so A 1 Dave droppe d him for
“ e i gb t” with a clinking right in the sixth,
A j j ooke d a g oner, but he recovers re-
markably, and it’s in his favor that


Vf ' :
■
*4
m
tassßuaansassiSUstZ
p r eM nt *
Kf EXT time you order re-
loads for your flashlight ask
for the new Eveready METAL
TOP Torch Refills! Not only
neater in appearance but
more efficient in operation,
they reach you in perfect
factory fresh condition, their
power content carefully
sealed in by metal to ensure
a beam of maximum brilliance
and a longer period of ser-
viceable life. No other torch
or flashlight battery in Aus-
tralia has this feature, so
insist on genuine Eveready
METAL TOP Torch Refills!
Obtainable everywhere.
F'EVEREADY (AUSTRALIA)
PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
?9U-r.»T'
m
®n
<
co
fPj
o
Ijlj
fill
>
w
"T^
<
CO
whenever he recovered he fought on. In
the eighth he had plenty of opportunity
to display this propensity. He was down
not once but six times, to body rips. The
bell saved him. The crowd cried out
to Mick Lacey to have mercy and stop
it. In the twelfth A 1 was down four
more times. Total 11—one short of one
a round. At least twice he fell without
being hit. Whether from weakness or
not, that alone was a certain fight-loser
when we went to school. More by coin-
cidence than anything else —for his
canvas-tasting occurred near the end of
the round and would have continued —
A 1 happened to be on his feet at the
moment the final bell sounded.
So what?
So the decision to Al on points!
There was no question about another
of the Leichhardt scraps with an Al
involved. This was Al Walker (11.3) v.
Jack Marshall (11.6); an eight-rounder.
Al won it well —the first time present
scribe has seen him win an engagement
on points. Early Al was a right-hand
k.o. trader. He’s learned to use his. left,
and fought very nicely with it.
A prelim, boy new to present onlooker,
one Mickey Riley (8.101), might be a
find. Anyway, he disposed of Wally
Patience (8.12) in very tradesmanlike
style.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The stance and address to the ball can
make or mar a shot. The way one’s feet
are placed in relation to the position of
the ball has much to do with the direc-
tion in which it will fly, as well as
governing to a large extent the height of
its trajectory. This first position in the
swing is a matter of considerable im-
portance, for, if it is incorrect, no matter
how well the player may swing his club,
the ball cannot find its objective.
On the stance depends the correct
movements that closely follow. In the
eyes of the good player the ability of
a strange golfer can be judged to
a great extent by the manner in which
he approaches the ball (taking up his
stance). Usually the more inexperienced
he is the less comfortable he appears.
Instead of relaxing and feeling at home
just prior to beginning the backswing, he
is stiff and awkward. In the stance
of every good golfer relaxation
plays a major part. Timing, con-
trol and balance cannot be acquired by
a player with a rigid and vice-like grip
of the club. Tautness automatically locks
the forearms and prevents any smooth-
ness from coming into the shot.
Golfers generally are prone to copy
the other fellow, a habit that often gets
them into difficulty, for a player does
nothing but add to his troubles when he
makes an effort to look like someone else
as he stands over the ball. The chances
are that he will be all tied up, for the
effort needed to hold the position is
bound to produce a strain that binds him
physically and mentally.
Some of the greatest golfers in the
world are natural players, learning the
game in their early youth and becoming
accustomed to hitting the ball freely and
without restraint. Watching these fellows
one point always stands out: How re-
laxed they are when they approach the
ball to take up their stance! Compared
with other players they almost seem part
of the club itself; in fact, they appear
lost without a club in their hands.
The essentials of a correct stance are
a fairly erect posture, arms hanging from
the shoulders, neither extended uncom-
fortably nor cramped against the sides
of the body, weight about evenly divided
between the feet, both legs slightly bent
at knees and the left foot a little open,
pointing a couple of degrees toward the
hole, with the right foot square on to the
line. A stance that is too wide stops the
body-turning movement in either direc-
tion, as the turn can be made with less
effort if the feet are only moderately
apart.
The left toe turned slightly toward the
hole really means that the stance is not
quite a closed one, but it is helpful (with
the right foot square on to the line of
flight) in aiding the player to curb his
backward swing, as the right hip is a
trifle more locked than if the right foot
is open. On the other hand, the placing
of the left foot helps the follow-through
when a full, free turn is needed.
Though I have used the closed stance
myself, with the left toe just eased slightly
outward —a style used most extensively
abroad —the open stance, with both feet
pointing outwards, is used in Australia by
most golfers. This comes from not con-
centrating upon the correct stance, as
one naturally stands more open-footed
than with the feet parallel. The United
States professionals largely use a more
closed than open stance. The feet should
always have a firm grip of the turf, as
feet are the foundation of one’s swing.
In the past when I have had occasion
to change my stance, the alteration from
the old routine was awkward for a while,
but by gradually working the feet into
the required position I was able to over-
come any effects from suddenly chang-
ing them. Too many players make the
mistake of not lining themselves up ac-
curately toward the hole. Their stance is
correct, yet the ball misses the green.
This error is committed by even the best
of players. In championships I have
seen the error.
The location of the ball in respect to
the feet usually offers some latitude. For
an ordinary full shot with the wooden
clubs I play the ball at a point opposite
the left heel, where I can get a fair shot
at it without having the feeling of reach-
ing for it. With the irons I gradually
bring the ball back toward the middle of
the feet as the loft of the club increases,
till it is midway between the feet for a
No. 7 or No. 8 iron. Many vary the
position of the ball to suit their play, but
in no circumstances should the ball be
played further back than midway between
the feet. If the ball is played too
far back there is a tendency to keep one’s
weight too much on the right foot on
the dbwnswing, spoiling the follow-
through on to and past the ball.
•. a m « si a
The handicap man can learn a lot
about improving his stance. Better golf
lies ahead if these seemingly unimpor-
tant points are taken enough care of.
While the stance should make it easy for
the correct movements of the swing to
follow, it is well to remember that the
best way to do this is to keep the body
relaxed. No swing, however “grooved,”
can be made if it is first necessary to
overcome any tension or tautness.
* * * *
The Waialae course at Honolulu is the
best-kept course I have played on.
Measuring 6500 yards in length and
parred at 72, it receives the closest of
attention from the huge staff. An excel-
lent test of golf, the beach and the pic-
turesque hills behind the course make it
a player’s paradise.
Like all American courses the greens
are well watered, then cut and rolled,
giving them a keen surface but
enabling the ball to be pitched right up
to the flag with hardly any run. The
fairways are kept fairly long, a drive
rarely running more than a few yards.
During my round I noticed not one foot-
mark in any of the bunkers; as soon as
a player came off the trap his marks
were raked over. Lies through the fair-
way were excellent, enabling a driver to
be used if necessary.
* * * *
The Australian Golf Union has de-
cided to suspend the Australian open
and amateur championships “until the
international situation improves.” What
possible effect a handful of golfers in
search of championships could have
on the country’s war effort is beyond
contemplation, unless the A.G.U. fears
sabotage in the bunkers or is trying to
conserve the nation’s iron reserves. When
the Germans are stymied the Open and
Amateur will be held separately, one
after the other, and the amateurs will
play match over 18 holes and a final
over 36, thus tuning in with Britain.
The national pro. championship is to
be abolished, and the prize-money will
go to increase the prizes for pros, in the
Open.
N.S.W. Council intends to go ahead
with its State championship on April 27,
and the N.S.W.P.G.A. will probably hold
its championship on a date to be fixed.
Queensland will stage its championships
in May, and the prize-money (£300) will
probably inspire southern pros, to visit
the land of the banana.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT."
( Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Though there is still another round
to be played, St. George is sure of the
Sydney grade premiership. Returning
from Townsville by flying-boat, O’Reilly
played a real skipper’s knock for St.
George v. Waverley on the Hurstville
oval, and his 41 plus Morris’s 85 and
Lindwall’s 49 n.o. helped St. George to
victory by 27 runs. Mudge plays for
Waverley; he got 3 for 49 and made 61
n.o. in a second innings that could
decide nothing.
• • • • • •
O’Reilly’s spanking 41 against Waver-
ley was his biggest innings for the season.
Like Bill, Morris, whose 85 was a very
fine effort, is also left-hand. Slow right-
hand leg-break bowling is meat for the
average left-hand batsman, so skipper
McGilvray went against the book in put-
ting on Guest, off whom Morris at once
hit 6,4, 4,4, 1.
St. George’s success is very popular.
It is the Saints’ first taste of the honors,
and will be a hearty stimulant to many
youngsters of ability in the district.
Board of Control treasurer Frank Cush
is St. George’s secretary. Frank had a
notion that if O’Reilly took on the cap-
taincy the young team might pull the
premiership off, and it did. Big crowds
at home matches are St. George features.
Cohen, N.S.W.’s new opening batsman,
made the sole century on Saturday in a
battle for runs against Petersham. Con-
fidence, breezy running between wickets
and stamina in excessive heat brought
him to 104, and Paddington won. Cohen
has made 738 for his club and 309 in
Sheffield Shield matches —out of the box
for an opening batsman who is also
opening bowler.
* * * *
Sievers (87 n. 0.) gave Fitzroy (4 for
182) an excellent start in the district
final v. Melbourne. The weather was
really too boisterous for cricket; but
a week’s adjournment would have had
the whole football world up in arms.
Nagel took 2 for 54, bringing his total
for the season to 81 wickets. O’Reilly
has bagged 79.
* * * *
South Brisbane gained the premiership
of its city by defeating University: 51
and 5 for 80; 41 and 89. For South
Alec Fisher took 7 for 22 and 6 for 25.
He bowls fast medium, and is a useful
bat. * * # *
Don Bradman ’ s team, Kensington,
outrieht points (12) against Pros-
needed outoght (12)
toss Bradman sent Prospect in to bat.
L got 289 for eight wi ckets ' ST'' utr jght
65), and with only one y m j ra cle.
points to Kensington wo* *
with C h ar lie Godfrey (at close on 80)
almost the j ast G f the stalwarts who
the Giffen brothers, the
brothers and Ree dman to put S.A.
Qn the cricket map about 1890 , and so
into the she ffi e i d shield competition
when it started- H e was a free-hitting
bat, and went near to Test-mate*stand-
ard when on a damaged w
a century against Vernons English team
in 1887. Godfrey was one of the earliest
members of the present Stock S
of Adelaide When it was io g
the Broken Hill boom. H y
is a Perth doctor.
„ Am ped „. only inches sepa rated the
place-getters in the Stawell Gift. The
winner u "™ o Pl r O an ed the°r3o A yfrd;
tan, A. J. Reid, who .ran 13V y a
m 12 346 5 t o 4 was
L T. Smith, fav rte „ , Vc a \
second. Reid first ran at a Py ( • •
meet m 1938, where he ’won a 220, did
some runnmg a White= City and was
G i enelg Sheffield and equalled
four yards inside even time a former
Stawell Gift winner in M. Bishop now
town clerk of Port Pine (S.A.), took him
up and concentrated on getting him out
of the holes. Reid is 23.


ĵ
u
AT THE.
‘iriwciii.il
j
New Variety Revue,
“ORIENTAL NIGHTS.”
Ann Suter, Great North China Troupe,
and Other New Stars.
LAST WEEK.
“SPICE OF LIFE” Variety Kevue,
EEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
FIVE CEEVEKES, GEOKGE WALLACE
SUNDRY
SHOWS.
AT THE TALKIES.
French Mystery Film
From being a sympathetic satire on
schoolboys who read penny-dreadfuls,
“The Disappearances from Saint Agil”
at Sydney Savoy descends itself to penny-
dreadful level. It’s significant that the
classrooms, the dormitory and the science
lab., where the three bad boys of the
school hold their secret-society meetings
with a skeleton and plot to run away to
America, are all photographed with the
meticulous realism characteristic of the
Savoy’s Continental offerings, but the
ruined mill where the boys round up
a gang of counterfeiters looks as flimsy
a bit of cardboard as any fake set out
of Hollywood.
The incredibility of the conclusion
spoils it as a thriller, but it remains a
masterpiece of comedy and charac-
terisation, reminiscent of Laughton’s
“Jamaica Inn,” where Laughton’s superb
acting made it possible to enjoy the
crudest of melodrama. Michel Simon,
the drunken schoolmaster of “The Dis-
appearances,” very much resembles
Laughton at times, and he’s all the better
for being less theatrical in speech and
gesture.
All the masters —the grim one, the
one who is always being disappointed
in human nature, the fatuous one who
thinks he is dreaming when the whole
dormitory escapes under his nose —are.
so well done that “Mr. Chips” and
“Housemaster,” as far as minor charac-
ters are concerned, come a bad second
and a worse third. The boys, too, are
entirely credible little monsters. Serge
Grave (the boy of “The Cheat”) can’t
be any chicken, but, cleverly costumed
in clothes a size too big for him, he
looks exactly like the overgrown ring-
leader to be found in any gang of boys.
The others, who are really youngsters,
are actors so accomplished that in one
scene they’re able to stage a farce on
a play acted by schoolboys.
* * * *
“Gulliver’s Travels”
Max Fleischer’s venture into the full-
length humorous color cartoon is exactly
that —an hour or so of the amusing ad-
ventures of the Lilliputians, comic little
caricatures reminiscent of a cross between
Popeye and one of Disney’s dwarfs. The
nature of the film permits little of the
lovely fantasy which constantly lifted
“Snow White” above a comic cartoon ;
it approaches that quality on a couple
of occasions—when the Town Crier is
patrolling the forest on the outskirts of
the village, and particularly in the de-
piction of the industry and ingenuity of
the Lilliputians in capturing Gulliver,
binding him down and hauling him on
a —to them—massive dray to their vil-
lage.
A prince and princess in the piece
suffer from the same faults as did Snow
White—in being made as near human
and as like Hollywood screen idols as
possible, they become empty of expres-
sion and wooden in movement. Why
can’t such characters be presented in the
same boisterous caricature as the rest of
the “cast”?
There is, of course, nothing of Swift’s
satire left in the film, though the idea
of a giant among dwarfs, superior enough
to them in size and intellect to make a
disinterested survey of their troubles and
consider them in the correct perspective,
suggests wonderful possibilities. Thought-
ful cartoons on the same line would
provide the screen with a most pungent
medium for comment on contemporary
history.
* * * *
“His Girl Friday”
One thing, and one alone, is certain
about this comedy at Sydney State, and
that’s the speed of it. The pace of it all
has been accelerated until the prevailing
impression is that of a film containing
a record amount of comedy incident
through which the thread of a narrative
occasionally flickers to view.
Story concerns an ex-presswoman who
has forsaken her typewriter for the
security of matrimony with a bucolic in-
surance salesman. Her ex-husband, also
her late editor, wants her back both as
wife and as reporter, and resorts to every-
thing short of murder to get her. No
other recommendation is necessary except
that Cary Grant is the ed., Rosalind Rus-
sell his ex-missus and Ralph Bellamy the
bucolic one.
There’s one excellent bit at the begin-
ning of the film when Grant and Russell
introduce themselves and the narrative by
a little retrospection. The pair are sitting
on a desk and there’s no action of any
kind, but with a few lines of pure reci-
tation they make a stretch of capital
comedy and give the film a healthy kick-
off to the hilarious proceedings that
follow.
* * * *
“Drums Along the Mohawk”
John Ford has directed some of the
best action films that have come out of
Hollywood. His modus operandi is to
create the maximum of suspense in a film
by holding back the action until the last
possible moment, and then to let go every-
Michel Simon ( bibulous ) and Eric von Stroheim ( sinister ) in "The Disappear-
ances from Saint Agil,” French thriller at Sydney Savoy.
thing in a vigorous, all-in climax. “The
Informer” and, more particularly, “Hurri-
cane” were fine examples of the effective-
ness of this practice.
In his latest film, showing at Sydney
Mayfair, Mr. Ford has a different nut to
crack. There are vigorous action scenes
at several stages in the film, and each of
them is given more force by the restraint
that precedes it. The result, the film being
practically devoid of any strong, pro-
gressive narrative, is a broad, almost
sprawling scene, enlivened on several
occasions when it works up to fierce
action.
The content of the film responds re-
markably well to such treatment. It
deals with a small pioneering community
in the Mohawk Valley during the
American Revolution when the English
sooled the Indians on to the American
settlers. Henry Fonda and Claudette
Colbert are the two settlers on whom
the film centres; both acquit themselves
well, Miss Colbert again proving that
Hollywood has few better actresses.
Film is in technicolor and arrestingly
beautiful at times, particularly in some
of the tranquil scenes of farm life around
the settlement.
* * * *
“Proud Valley”
The story of a Welsh mining com-
munity brought face to face with star-
vation when the coal mine on which
the village depends for its existence
is closed down. Paul Robeson, as a
negro sailor turned miner, adds strength
to the film, both with his singing and
acting.
Showing at Sydney Embassy, the film
has some underground scenes of a fire,
of a cave-in and of work which are
arresting in their realism, though in one
part, when Robeson and a few of his
mates are singing underground, some-
one forgot to include the echo.
Loose directing deprives the story of
its full dramatic force, while more selec-
tive and searching photography of
characters and scenery would have
stamped the film with stronger indi-
viduality.
* * * *
“Sons of the Sea,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is a Dufaycolor depiction of what might
go on behind the scenes in a British
naval training college. If there’s any
truth in it —which seems most unlikely—
present commentator would be inclined
to pin his faith on the Swiss Navy.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Lot’s Wife”
The Gregan McMahon Players put on
rather a dead sort of thing in “Lot’s
Wife” at Melbourne King’s on Saturday.
John Lot, a middle-aged man with a
second wife who is younger than one of
her stepdaughters, and whose family is
at sixes and sevens, gets inside infor-
mation that the town of Modos in Asia
Minor is threatened with a volcanic erup-
tion and escapes with his two daughters.
His wife, inadvertently left behind, thinks
her husband is dead, and marries her
lover. After a sojourn of a year on top
of a mountain, Lot returns to find his
memorial being unveiled. His wife turns
up with her husband, there is a trite
scene in which Lot decides to give her
up in the vague hope that he may find a
third wife as young and beautiful as she
is, and the curtain descends on a travesty
of human nature.
The Bible story is far more living and
more modern than this modern comedy
by Peter Blackmore. It is also far more
outspoken.
Mr. McMahon had all the fat of the
show as a caricature of the Scriptural
patriarch who goes in for physical-fit-
ness exercises. Lynette Dickinson as his
wife might have been a five times better
actress without giving meaning to a part
that had no meaning. Grace Crotty
(Lot’s elder daughter) was more fortu-
nate. As an embittered woman who
regards herself as having been trapped
by maternity, she was at least a cari-
cature of something recognisably human.
But a caricature is, and must necessarily
be, one-sided.
* * * *
The jolly “Aladdin” panto., having a
successful run at Adelaide Royal, has
about the lightest-weight pair of leads
ever seen, Cath Esler and Dot Rankin.
But the most interesting feature is that
the producer, Alan Chapman, is steadily
pushing the Adelaide amateurs he has
trained for years into the professional
ranks; notable here are Joy Parsons, the
principal dancer, and Rex Dawe, already
of wide fame on the air in “Yes, What?”
and here a hard-working and smartly-
dressed Dame.
* * * *
Programme of Schneevoigt’s third
orchestral concert at Sydney Town Hall
was rich and varied. One of Bach’s
Brandenburg “concertos,” Haydnish in
its gaiety, was followed by Beethoven’s
Second Symphony, a work with which
most of the instrumentalists are familiar.
A graceful and vigorous reading was
given. Great success of the evening was
Rachmaninoff’s “Variations on a Theme
of Paganini,” with Eric Landerer, a
recent arrival from Middle Europe, as
soloist. Mr. Landerer proved himself
technically well-equipped, save for a
tendency to pedal-blurring, and the num-
ber, made familiar through the agency
of the ballet, went well. The concert
wound up with some glutinous magnilo-
quence from “Parsifal,” and the “Huldi-
gungsmarsch,” in Wagner’s most deter-
mined suet-dumpling vein.
Artbursts.
The third annual exhibition of the
Australian Academy of Art, at the
Education Department’s galleries, Syd-
ney, reveals the hanging committee as
overflowing with kindliness and charity.
The Academy’s best-known members
are represented by works that neither add
to nor detract from their laurels —Long-
staff, the late W. B. Mclnnes, Norman
Carter, James Quinn and William Rowell
show excellent portraits; Hans Heysen,
the late Elioth Gruner, James R. Jack-
son, Ernest Buckmaster, Sep Power and
Will Ashton show instantly identifiable
examples of their well-known styles. In
water-color Harold B. Herbert, Kenneth
Macqueen, Lionel Lindsay and S. Ure
Smith demonstrate their usual com-
petence.
The most original thing in the show
is William Dobell’s “Red Lady,” a
fantastic and pot at all beautiful com-
position. Examples of the “modern”
style by Arnold Shore and essays in
esoteric expressionism by Grace Cossing-
ton Smith, Roi de Maistre and M. B.
Paxton demonstrate the Academy’s
beautiful tolerance.
Best work in the show outside that of
the old stalwarts comes from South Aus-
tralia. Max Ragless’s “Melrose” and
Marjorie Gwynne’s “Hidden House”
are examples of sincere, powerful paint-
ing.
iii * * *
A mixed show at the Jamieson Gal-
lery, Sydney, is bright and interesting.
Howard Ashton and Will Ashton,
Norman Lindsay and Raymond Lindsay,
Syd Long, John Banks, Erik Langker and
James R. Jackson are worthily repre-
sented. Douglas Pratt’s essays in oils
are dull and heavy. Unk White’s oil
technique is coming on, but he can’t yet
paint flesh. Jim Phillips combines the
real and the fantastic in a highly in-
dividual manner, and Alan D. Baker’s
“Japonica” and Margaret Coen’s “Flower
Piece” are charming.
* * * *
Anthony Hordern and Sons make an
interesting art show of fabrics (needle-
work hand-tapestry) by the firm of
Arthur H. Lee and Sons, of Birkenhead,
England. These have two claims to kind
consideration by Australians: firstly,
their beauty of design and coloring, per-
fectly suited to all furnishing needs;
secondly, the fact that in practically all
of them wool is the staple material,
though it is cunningly processed to
resemble silk, canvas, cotton, velvet and
a dozen other textures. These splendid
tapestries are the work of great decora-
tive designers carried out by superb
craftsmen and craftswomen. They illus-
trate the tendency, increasing in the pot-
tery and textile trades of England in
recent years, to bring the arts and crafts
back into ancient industries. These Lee
fabrics are inspirational to the right type
of mind —they indicate exactly the fur-
nishing and accessories into which they
should fit.
* * * *
The season’s first show at Adelaide
Society of Arts gallery is unusual, being
by three Westralian women who are ven-
turing eastward. Margaret Johnson has
a real talent for portrait-painting, with
the pastel and pencil studies specially
good. So she would be well advised to
leave landscape to her colleagues. F. V.
Hall makes a specialty of it. Muriel
Southern, now an Adelaide resident,
completes the trio by handling mainly
buildings or flowers, from cathedrals to
a Sturt pea. It is a pleasant show, more
satisfying than some which are more
pretentious.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
.. -
P.S
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A poignant and imperishable memory
is the march of the men of the A.I.F.
through the city last week. It seems only
a week or two since Sydney cheered
and wept over the first khaki-clad army
as it swung gallantly along Elizabeth-
street, up the rise of St. James-road, into
Macquarie-street and down into Martin-
place, past the Cenotaph. Now that army
is in Palestine. Over 5000 men were in
last week’s parade, and in spite of the
almost intolerable heat their marching
was a miracle of perfection. At the
Town Hall Lord Wakehurst took the
salute. General Blarney and Priminister
Menzies were among the official ob-
servers, and 400,000 citizens like you and
me lined the way of the march, pride and
sorrow in the heart.
Priminister Menzies made the speech
and Mrs. Menzies took the flowers at
Saturday’s opening of the 1940 Austra-
lian Academy of Art. Margaret Preston,
in black, handed over the posy with a
charm all her own. Heavens, how the
sun blazed down on the Education Gal-
lery! It might have been a red-hot jazz
factory. No two women shared a cata-
logue. Everyone had her own and used
it as a fan. Decided that R.G. was prob-
ably the handsomest P.M. the Common-
wealth has had. He looks as though in
some former life he might have been
one of the Roman Governors of Britain.
Veteran Julian Ashton, more like a deli-
cate pencil-sketch than ever, was with
his wife.
Daphne Mayo and Vida Lahey brought
Queensland into the picture. Jimmy
MacDonald and John Longstaff were up
from Melbourne. Old friends were rush-
ing Jimmy with invitations, but to no
avail. Melbourne has swallowed him
again. The ‘Bill” Buckles were a centre
of animation. Her doll’s sailor was of
two-toned straw, and for company had
her cream linen dress with its fitting
green jacket. Another sailor that a Lenci
doll might envy was worn by Ruby
Adams. Hers was black, and was worn
above black sheers and a string of pearls.
Three pretty young things doing the
walls were Joan Prior, Pat McGirr and
Bobbie Speck. Mrs. Browne, from South
Africa, enjoyed the show. Mrs. Barry-
more (Freda Sternberg who was), Mrs.
M. Irvine, Howard Hinton, Syd Ure
Smith, Prof. Waterhouse, the Souter
sisters, J. R. McGregor, Mrs. Morton,
Mrs. Westbrook, Adelaide Perry, Mrs.
Vernon Coles, Jessica Lee, Nora Hey-
sen, Mrs. J. Gunn, Mrs. Neville Dangar
and Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar were
among the many who discussed the un-
finished Gruner.
Neither the Union Club nor the Aus-
tralian has done any convivial mixing of
the sexes within its doors since the war
gong boomed. Therefore the N.S.W.
Club’s binge last Saturday took on added
lustre. This Letter was sitting on the
sideline watching the world go by over
the rim of her glass when the friendly
C. V. Potts couple came along, and after
that the party became real. Mr. and
Mrs. Potts, with their attractive daughter,
had been having quite a day. A lunch
at the Australia had celebrated a wed-
ding anniversary and C.V.’s fiftieth year
with B.H.P. He must have started with
them when little more than a prattling
babe.
Miss Potts and friend Jean Roberts were
entirely surrounded by the R.N. One
captain among them was tall, slight and
sensitive-looking. He suggested a nicely-
bound book of verse. If running up and
down the rigging, dressing the yardarms
or whatever domestic duties midshipmen
have to do result in that sort of figure
then it’s time there was a woman’s branch
of the Navy. Around the room were
other officers, their faces almost a com-
plete blackout with beards. The Girl in
the Flat Opposite says it’s part of the
censorship.
Then there was Mr. Martin —no, two
Mr. Martins. There were two of them
before as well as after the White Ladies.
One was W.H., one E.C. One is down
from Singapore, the other lives in Syd-
ney. They are not relations. Their grand
fathers were in business together in Eng-
land. They went to the same schools,
were in the same classes, in 1914-18
joined up in the same war. Twenty years
after they click in Sydney. The man
from the East, being cross-examined, said
that Singapore had more charm than
Sydney. But everybody knew that was
just a touch of homesickness.
There were roses and frangipanni and
other horticulture in season from the
doorstep onwards. Australia’s flag and
the Union Jack greeted you in the en-
trance hall, and a Union Jack —red and
white carnations and blue flowers —was
the much-admired flower composition of
the afternoon.
Knight Samuel Cohen and his wife
were surrounded all the afternoon. He,
who is president of the Kindergarten
Union, was looking pleased over the
Lady Gowrie Centre, to be commenced
next Saturday. The Cohen lady’s black
ensemble, with its touches of white
(smart is too slick, elegant too stiff a
word for it), looked like Schiaparelli in
an inspired moment. The Bridgmans, of
the Adelaide S.S. Co., were there. ' So
were Admiral Crace, General and Mrs.
Cannan, the Roy Hendys, the Sam
Walders, the Norman Nocks, the J. O.
Meekses with son Harry (in khaki) and
his wife, and the Chamberlains. Mr. and
Mrs. T. S. Douglas received.
Herewith Lyra Taylor, newly-
appointed general secretary to the
Y.W.C.A. Lyra, who is M.A., LL.B.,
is a Maorilander, and is a graduate in
law of Enzed University. She is also
a graduate in social economics of the
Johns Hopkins University of Baltimore,
U.S.A. In Baltimore, which is in Mary-
land, all nice and southern, she worked
for four years with that city’s Family
Welfare Association. Then came 10
years of work in Canada. Miss Taylor’s
first job there was with the Montreal
Family Welfare Association as super-
visor of its training district for students
in social work. Later she was associate
general secretary of the Montreal
Y.W.C.A., and is a member of the
faculty of the city’s School of Social
Work. Norton Trevaire photograph.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite is proud
over the fact that she had eight sherry
tickets during Easter Week. She says
that liquor is dear and spending low (the
income-tax man has his axe poised) and
the cocktail bar is moaning. Therefore
Easter’s been a sherry binge even at some
of the most stylish addresses. The G.H.
party for Morna Mackenzie and her
affianced, Phil Ashton, did not come
under this cellar-careful heading. It was
very well done, indeed. At Wednesday s
race meeting at Rand wick those who
had been invited still talked of it. Mrs.
Cavaye, of Bellevue Hill, was another
hostess who made a dent on the week.
The George Mains gave a great tea-
drinking on Wednesday at the races.
Mrs. Sidney Ayres was again present,
wearing with her black sheers some
luscious pearls. Mrs. Reg Fagan was
among the day’s well-turned-out, blue
her choice. Ella O’Shea, from Bris-
bane, smart in a beige marocain en-
semble and a chiffon blouse, the fineness
of its tucking being eye-shattering, told of
a positive whirl of parties. She and brother
Pat gave a lunch ; then Pat gave a dinner,
racing men his guests. One of the most
alluring blue coats was worn by Mrs.
W. Parsons over her white frock ; her
white hat had its upswept brim lined with
the blue. Mrs. Pierre Remond’s white
frock was patterned in deep blue, and
her white hat was upturned.
The McKelvey lady’s black felt hat
was shady of brim, and wore a black
satin bow. One of the blithe in black
was Mrs. Hector Clayton; another of
the black-clad was Mrs. Faithfull, of
Wagga. Small was her black velvet hat,
suave her pearls. Green and rust feathers
edged the black hat worn by Mrs. Mollie
Mackay.
Really, in spite of the hot day, the
Sydney girl turned out crisp and smil-
ing. “Women in black,” said a clever
Frenchman, “are either dowdy or danger-
ous.” Well, in the black-clad sisterhood
of the stands, slick skirt or swing skirt,
there was nothing dowdy. The only
approach to Ajax defying the lightning
(not the Ajax who defied High Caste in
the All-Aged Plate) was the young thing
who, with her flowered sheers, carried a
black seal muff, and wore a snug little
toque of same. As everybody else on
the horizon was gasping like a landed
fish she deserved the palm for endurance.
Mayoress Crick’s black taffetas crescen-
doed in a hat whose brim was white,
whose crown was black. Two large white
roses over the forehead and a snood
of coarse net made Patricia Curtis s
looked-at-twice hat.
If any military hospital overseas is
administered in excelsis it will be the
second Australian Military Hospital.
Vera Thomas, whom Freeman’s camera
has caught, goes with the troops from
these shores to assist in its adminis-
tration. Besides having been official sec-
retary to representatives of different
Governments in the State’s Legislative
Council (she was appointed by the
Storey Government in 1921), she was
sent to London on the staff of the N.S.W.
Agent-General in 1931. Until she re-
ceived her sailing orders and got into
her smart-as-paint uniform, she was
associated with Attorney-General Man-
ning in connection with his Governmental
work in the Upper House. Vera, who is
a V.A.D., has been for some years
assistant secretary of the N.S.W.
Women’s Cricket Association.
Hundreds in Sydney alone know the
happy work the Victoria League does
in peace-time. It has helped visitors from
overseas to intimate glimpses of the real
England, and its portals in Cromwell-
road lead the lonely ones from the
Dominions to hospitality and easy friend-
liness. The hospitality continues even in
war-time, and members of the A.1.F., our
military nurses and students are going to
find the V.L. carrying on business in the
old-established way. The V.L. has also
a club for servicemen from overseas in
London. To help on the work Lady
Wakehurst, president of the State branch
of the League, is calling a meeting for
next Monday at the Australia. Busi-
ness : The election of a committee for a
musical at-home to be held in Govern-
ment House.
One of the week’s pretty brides was
Edna Wilson. She became the wife of
Captain George Thomas in the chapel
of The King’s School. Then, as both
bride and ’groom are North Shore liners,
everybody had to rush back to Killara
to eat, drink and be merry at the Killara
Golf Club.
Eric Landerer was the pianist at last
week’s celebrity concert. He played the
solo part with the orchestra in Rach-
maninoff’s “Rhapsody on a Theme of
Paganini.” You will remember that it
was to play this work that he was
brought to Sydney by the De Basil ballet
company. Many concert-goers made the
doorway just in time; others, a flicker
later, waited in the corridor for the end-
ing of the National Anthem. Then it
was a case of “Heaven save us all as
the human whirlwind swept up the aisle.
Bach, Beethoven, Rachmaninoff, Wagner
shared the musician-size programme.
Frocking was varied apd colorful.
Pianist Eunice Gardiner was one of the
gazed upon. Eunice, among other Lon-
don experiences, played the piano part
for Mary Maguire in one of that Aus-
tralian star’s films.
Red, red were the roses on Mrs.
Malcolm Mackellar’s black laces. Mrs.
Tod, who came with her mother, the
Bavin lady, was in magnolia satin. Artist
John Banks was there with his wife.
The Anderson lady’s pale chiffons
lingered beside Mrs. David Maughan’s
vellum laces. Mrs. Bertie Kelly listened
attentively; likeable was the snug
sapphire blue velvet jacket, buttoned
from the throat, that topped Mrs. Pao’s
black moire skirt. Blue and pink
brocades made Mrs. Crawford Robert-
son look more than ever “straight from
Versailles.” White and silver and a short
boxy flowered taffeta coat clothed the
brightness of Mrs. Walter Burfitt, junior.
The racing E. J. Watts gave the prize
afternoon party of the racing season. It
was a late-afiernoon affair, and over
200 guests made for the Royal Sydney
Golf Club at the close of a blistering
day. Drinks were reported superfine
everything had a champagne foundation.
Suspect Mr. Watt felt he’d just have to
celebrate his turf successes (thousands
in prize-money) in golden liquids.
To celebrate her birthday, the friends
of Mrs. L. E. Goodisson gave her a sur-
prise party in Sydney. The organisers
were Ruby Rich, Mrs. Keith Miller, Mar-
jorie Wells and Beatrice Morrow. Miss
Morrow was responsible for the two-tier
birthday cake, which she made and deco-
rated herself. Presentations were made
to Mrs. Goodisson of a day and an even-
ing bag and a huge sheaf of dark red roses.
Joan Tyler has been somewhat absent
from the Easter merry-go-round. She’s
been busy helping Morna Mackenzie
with her social secretary duties to Lady
Wakehurst. With her marriage around
the corner Morna’s pretty occupied
these days.
While Finnish conductor Georg
Schneevoigt was leading the celebrity
orchestral concert in the Town Hall
Prince’s was gay with well-dressed people
eating and dancing (it was a dinner-
dance) that the lot of the Finns might
be less stark and arid. This was one of
the week’s brightest parties. Truth to
tell, though, it wasn’t one of the maddest,
merriest Easters the city has known. The
reason for this was khaki-clad. And
although Sydney is not downhearted
about the war, it has both sense and
sensibility. Well, to get back to this
dance. Everybody wore luscious clothes.
Posies were sold for the cause, and at
midnight there was an auction of a cricket
bat, some prints and some antiques.
Dr. R. H. Bettington (whose wife was
president of the dance) and Jimmy
Bancks were the auctioneers, and had as
good a time as they gave. Kathleen
Clayton and Pam Darling shared the sec-
retarial duties. Kathleen’s spreading
frock was of moth-grey tulles. Pamela
gleamed blue and silver. Vena Fuller
and Eve Playfair were busy with the
treasury. Eve’s frock mingled deep and
pale lilac. Finely pleated were Vena’s
chiffons. Bright-faced Betty Maxwell
sold gardenias. The Ernest Watts and
the Dick Allens were together. Bouffant
and of fine black laces was Mrs. Ernest
Watt’s frock. From Melbourne came
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade.
His Majesty’s Senior Trade Commis-
sioner in Australia, Sir Robert Dalton,
could not get along to open the exhibi-
tion of Lee fabrics. These are set about
Anthony Horderns’ art gallery, and at
the opening nobody was more enthusi-
astic over these tapestries and needle-
work than Margaret Preston, unless
it was the visitor who said she
was going to have a suite covered in
some of the hand-worked crewel designs.
Everybody gazed on the picture of the
needlework carpet, made for our Queen
Elizabeth, which depicts London prior to
the Great Fire. There are several pieces
of the actual materials used in the up-
holstery of the Queen Mary. Who
wouldn’t sleep content under the bed-
spread of pale-gold worked with large
woollen flowers in delicate shades?
There’s a Queen Anne look about the
length of pale-gold that has its coach
and outrider, sedan chairs and flowers
woven in pastel-hued wools. Many of
the fabrics are reproductions of designs
of the sixteenth, seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries, and a note tells you
which is suitable for mahogany, which
for satinwood and so on.
This Letter cannot tell a lie. It was
not at the Red Cross garden party, given
in the grounds of Government House.
At 2s. hundreds took the chance of study-
ing the vice-regal residence at close quar-
ters. There were three bands and the
Sydney Uni. Regiment Pipe Band. You
could buy sweets, fancy oddments and
drink tea for the cause. Mrs. Cecil Hor-
dern was the clever organiser.


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
iThis 013 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
_ It is surprising how quickly many
relievo nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters Which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
tised successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2121 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY HELEN McALISTER
Petitioner
And DONALD WILLIAM McALISTER
Respondent.
TO DONALD WILLIAM McALISTER of
Beaudesert in the State of Queensland
Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Mary Helen
McAlister has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion by you for three years and upwards
without just cause o*r excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-first day of May next and in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner wll
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
OAKES & OAKES, Solicitors for Petitioner,
Lismore; by their Agents, D. R. HALL &
CO., Solicitors, 77 King Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Another Flag Day has come and
gone, and a second big financial and pic-
torial success. Keep the public enter-
tained and it will spend its money freely.
For the actual worthiness of the charity
concerned it will also give, but not nearly
so cheerfully as on the days when the
carnival spirit is abroad to send up the
temperature of the spending fever.
There was plenty of entertainment on
Red Cross Flag Day. Hundreds of stall-
holders and badge-sellers thronged the
streets; even donkeys, collecting for the
Mulgrave Shire’s stall, were squeezed into
the picture. A fireman went aloft over
the heads of the crowd like Jack-and-
the-Beanstalk, tapping the windows of
upstairs offices for coins in his fire-
bucket. Walking down Collins-street
was like taking one’s life (or pockets-
content) in one’s hand. Hundreds of
people who think twice before spending
a bob, and who don’t like champagne
anyway, bought chance after chance on
the champagne wheel. Other games that
are ticklers for the gambling instinct
that Youth and Old Age share alike were
met every few yards along the streets.
Loudspeakers added to the din, so that
the thunder of the trams became the
merest whisper. After the procession the
R.A.A.F. lads joined in the fun, spruik-
ing for spinning jennies and mounting
butter-boxes as auctioneers. One of
them sold all the flowering begonias on
the flower and fern stall at the Town
Hall, run by the City Councillors’ wives.
There Marjorie Wooton was still un-
wilted late in the day in her fresh white
linen frock and gay red hankie tied
around her dark hair.
The artists’ lucky-envelope drive was
the bull’s-eye of the day. Every envelope
was sold, and early in the morning a
queue lined up at the Town Hall wait-
ing for the doors to be opened for collec-
tions. The organisation of the colossal
event was excellent, and very few delays
occurred in the distribution of the prizes,
none of which was a blank.
After the experience of the previous
Flag Day for the Comforts Fund, when
the barriers were put in the gutters, with
chaotic results for the procession, organi-
sation was much better. With the bar-
riers nearer to the tramlines there was
room for everybody. After the R.A.A.F.
technicians, marching in their blue uni-
forms, came the nurses of the Second
A.1.F., led by popular Matron Sage, and
the masseuses, led by Helen Todd. Next
came the Red Cross personnel emer-
gency service. The Women’s Cavalry
Corps, led by Lorna Embling (a group
which show signs of plenty of equestrian
drill), was followed by other units of the
Women’s Legion in khaki uniforms,
some marching, others riding in mechan-
ised transports. The V.A.Ds. were a
large body of women whose ages must
have varied considerably. Their pale-
blue uniforms and white veils made a
colorful display. In the oppressive heat
the ambulances were kept busy reviving
people who fainted in the crowd.
When the week-end came along the
Flag Day organisers knew how lucky
they had been. By only a few hours they
had missed the heat-wave of Saturday
and the persistent rain that fell on Sun-
day. On Saturday the bushfires were a
menace to country people, while nearer
the city the scorching gale took toll of
the tempers and complexions of those
who ventured out in it after midday.
Gardens were ruined and sporting fix-
tures interfered with. The brave and
hardy punters who ventured out to
Moonee Valley could hardly see the
finish of the races for the red dust that
swirled over the course. The same wind
blew golfers off their feet and clubs
almost out of their hands at the gym-
khana for the Royal Melbourne Hospital
out at Metropolitan. Those invited by
the lads of the 2nd Cavalry Division to
the gymkhana at their camp on the Gee-
long racecourse had a strenuous time
keeping their cars on the road. At the
gymkhana the men rode flat out, the
thrill of two-bob bets and the honor and
glory of their horses worth all the prize-
money in the world. In the city those
who could stayed at home behind closed
doors and gingerly opened up a chink at
5 p.m. or so to a premature dusk and
an imminence of red rain.
April 10 will be the wedding day of
Isabel Crosbie and Dr. Colin McKechnie.
Isabel, whose photograph comes from
Dickinson - Monteath is the only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Crosbie,
of Monaro-road, Kooyong, and her
fiance is the eldest son of the late Len
McKechnie, of St. Arnaud, and Mrs.
McKechnie, who now lives in Glen Iris.
The marriage is the culmination of a
twelve months’ engagement and an even
longer friendship, for while Colin was
completing his medical course Isabel was
also at the University becoming ac-
quainted with the intricacies of com-
merce. After the wedding, for which the
bride will wear a gold lame gown and a
mist of veil, the newly-married couple
will leave for Burma, where Dr. Mc-
Kechnie has a.n 18 months’ medical
appointment.
Mosquitoes “overseas” are likely to
be done out of some of their tasty meals
owing to the forethought of the Prahran
Patriotic Society, which has presented 160
pairs of leg-protectors to the A.A.M.C.’s
nurses and masseuses. Wishing to do
something practical for the feminine
element of the A.I.F. the society had
a word in the ears of Dr. R. H. Fether-
ston and Matron-in-Chief Grace Wilson,
both of whom know all the insect tricks
of the last war; they remember those
mosquitoes who bit at dusk, others who
were hungry after dark and, worst of
all, the silent stealthy workers who carry
malaria. Gaiters for the girls were the
result of the discussion, but they were
easier to talk about than to make. Mrs.
Maurice Sloman and her workers ex-
perimented with numbers of patterns and
evolutions before they were satisfied.
Miss Wilson advised stout material to
cover territory from above the knee to
a close fit around the shoe and a gar-
ment that can be pulled on quickly.
The gaiters were presented over after-
noon tea in the Prahran Town Hall,
where the host was the Mayor, Maurice
Sloman, who had the support of his own
sex in the persons of Cr. A. H. Wood-
full, Cr. H. David, S. R. Selleck and
J. Romanis. Mrs. Sloman, like her
husband, showed that she is a speaker
of no mean ability. Matron Sage replied
on behalf of the nurses and masseuses,
looking fit for the job ahead of them
in their new uniforms and quite unwilted
after their strenuous morning’s work in
sultry weather. They had had a couple
of hours’ drill (the real thing from a
sergeant-major) in the A.M.C. drill hall
as a first rehearsal for their march on
Flag Day.
A gamble on the weather went the
right way for the organisers of the
bridge party and fun fair for the Red
Cross at Mrs. Ted Tronson’s home in
Whernside-avenue. A sultry, windless
night drew the crowd to the oak-
fringed lawn and the marquee where
wheels spun and darts flew and thirsts
could be assuaged. Dr. Rupert Harvey
was the cause of the frost on the glasses,
having worked all the afternoon packing
bottles in tubs filled with half a ton or
so of crushed ice. For part of the even-
ing Bob Hamilton ceased to be a vision-
ary architect and helped run a cham-
pagne wheel with moral support from
U. J. Nicholas.
Noel Paton got his “dead” Athenaeum
Theatre butts mixed up with drink
tickets, which he bought by the handful
and stuffed into every pocket—none of
his friends went thirsty for very long.
Geoff Hillis was spruiker for a spinning
jenny. Andrew Thwaites, in white
dinner coat, red tie and carnation, took
Maxine Portus dancing to swing music
on the verandah. The budgerigars in
their glamorous new cage on wheels
that looks like a two-tiered white wedding
cake, had been moved to make room
for the slope from verandah to garden
level of lawn and pond of goldfish
snooping among pink water-lilies.
The floodlit garden was everybody’s
for the evening. Bridge players drifted
thereabouts after finishing with their
deeper concentration in lounges within
doors. One of the chancy games which
intrigued everybody was the solution to
the words “Hen twitters E. G.” The
two winners, who should really he given
jobs at the Department of Information’s
sleuthhound desk, didn’t have to go
further for their solution than Wether-
ingset, the name of Mrs. Tronson’s
house
Among .hose who came early and
a white ensemble with bolero; Air Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. Goble, Mrs. Goble
Qr .
wearing a lovely gown of cream slipper
satin ; the Ken Lukes ; Dr. Sam Aitchison
and his wife, a beauteous vision in white
satin. Betty West sold sweets in an
ornamental gown made from an Oriental
shawl. Pat Grey’s mist-blue and candy-
pink frock had all the waistline fullness
of a dirndl Manv business firms assisted
“he par.ywhhd y o„a«ons
. , ~ . .
A couple with nany interests m com-
mon are Dr. Joyce Bell and Dr. John
Frew, who recently announced their en-
gagement. Dr. Bell, who is the only
(laughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Bell,
°f Towers-road, Toorak, is an old girl
of St. Catherine s. She graduated two
years ago, and has been at Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital until recently. Her
fiance, who is superintendent at Royal
Melbourne, is the elder son of Captain
J. D. Frew, of Sydney, and of Mrs.
Frew, of Coppin Grove, Hawthorn. Dr.
Bell’s photograph from Spencer Shier.
Very far removed from the rumbles
of war is a visit to the Ballet, where
the fine art of dancing is a common
denominator of all nations. Just as fat-
removed from 1940 with khaki every-
where and women jumping into uniform,
or at least into slacks, were the costumes
of the two maids of honor in “Pavanne.”
Their swaying hooped hips reached right
across the stage like tea-cosies with
ballerinas inside them. Thus, according
to the old paintings, the Infantas of old
Spain lived and loved through other
wars and times of conquest. On the
same programme was another ballet new
to Melbourne, “Francesca da Rimini,”
a work of substance in music, color and
movement. The week also introduced
Nemchinova and Tchernicheva to
audiences.
On the first night of the programme
Toumanova was in the stalls with a
couple of male escorts. Gone was the
neat knot of black hair on the nape of
her neck, to be replaced by a frizzy cloud
around her shoulders. The same audi-
ence included Dr. and Mrs. J. F.
Chambers and their two schoolboy sons,
Mrs. Chambers in midnight blue with
threads of sequins for shoulder-straps.
The George Caros were there, she in an
alliance of silver foxes and orchid lame ;
also the Oswald Benjamins, Mrs.
Benjamin in a flowing cape of black
velvet with an armory of sequins upon
the shoulders. Mrs. Bryan Page and
Mrs*. Rod Morell were together in the
stalls, Mrs. Page’s frock of “black-
muscatel” clasped with a brooch like a
golden asp. Her companion, also a
champion for the moment of the in-
formal evening gown, chose hers in
jockey spots, white upon navy-blue.
Rosemary Wright might have stepped
out of some old painting in her high-
waisted Empire gown of deep cream
satin. Madame R. Dulieu, who was
with her husband in the circle, wore an
ensemble which she recently brought
with her from abroad, an adaptation of
a siren suit glamorised. With black
slacks of heavy moire she wore a tunic
jacket, white in the front, black at the
back, and she got away with it. Two
medical Ballet enthusiasts present were
Dr. John Gray and Dr. W. McC. Rus-
sell. Dr. Russell’s son Donald has just
achieved another militia pip.
Fair weather’s a happy omen for the
bride who walks to her own wedding.
Wearing a gown of ivory slipper satin
and a veil of lace Elizabeth Schofield
walked to hers through the vicarage
garden to All Saints’, East St. Kilda.
There Canon Schofield crowned his
Easter achievements of marrying couple
after couple by officiating at the cere-
mony wherein his eldest daughter became
Mrs. John Relph. The bride’s sisters,
Margaret and Rosemary, and Marie
Chapman attended in frocks of plum-
bago blue and tulle hats with snood
attachments. Afterwards Canon and
Mrs. Schofield welcomed guests to
Grosvenor. The newly-married couple
will live on the Riversdale Golf Club
Estate in a home which is a gift to them
from the ’groom’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
A. W. Relph. As John is a golfer of
calibre Elizabeth will no doubt start to
reduce her handicap, strokes at a time,
when she starts to play in earnest.
Appropriate for the hottest night of
Melbourne’s record March was “Lot’s
Wife,” excellent entertainment for any
season. While the audience fanned itself
(though the King’s was a lot cooler than
the streets outside) the players could mop
their brows as often as they liked —the
script said so —and they could wear shorts
and cool raiment, for the scene of the
comedy is an imaginary town in Asia
Minor in August. The only temperature
difficulty was Gregan McMahon’s sojourn
in a sleeping-bag. Mrs. George Dickin-
son was in the audience wearing a silver
lame gown and little bolero, feeling, no
doubt, proud of the success of daughter
Lynette as Mrs. Lot, but by no means a
pillar of salt or of any other inanimate
matter; and her clothes were such as to
provoke envy in any girlish breast.
Madame Dulieu, who went pyjama’d
to the Ballet earlier in the week, wore
a figured creation with chinks of white
chiffon alternating in the knife-pleated
skirt. She was with her husband, the
Godfrey Ellises (Mrs. Ellis in shrimp-pink
and a twinkly star in a suave coiffure),
Dudley Ward and Maura Kieran. Maura
wore a fluffy black frock with a cannibal
king’s ransom in gold coins around her
neck. In a box were the Baron and
Baroness von Gans, she blonde and beau-
tiful and clad in the simplicity of black
gown and spray of frangipanni.
Mr. Lewis, chief inspector of Fisheries
and Game Department, announces that
the large mortality among the penguins
at Phillip Island was not brought to his
notice until it was too late to check it—
which is regrettable. For months the
penguins have been dying. Every morn-
ing there are more dead birds on the
beach at Summerland and dead chickens
in the burrows.


•®HK
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
&t M.
Bit
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of "RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sidney.
THE SERVICE MAN
Two Commanders.
“Ek D.”: Lieutenant-General Lavarack
and Major-General Mackay, who take
command of the 6th and 7th Divisions
respectively, are strongly contrasting
types. Both began their soldiering with
school cadet corps, but Lavarack is a
professional staff man and Mackay, like
Blarney, was a teacher.
Old Brisbane Grammar School boys
remember Lavarack as one of the half-
dozen youngsters who went for com-
missions in the R.A.A. early in the
century. He was tall and lean, with a
perpetual grin and a habit of growing
out of his clothes. In 1902 Lavarack
won an extension scholarship next to
G. F. Davidson, who took a diploma
in military engineering at Cambridge
and was a pioneer of military wireless
at that university.
Lavarack had his commission before
Duntroon, and in 1917 was with the
Ist Division in France. There he served
for a time as G.5.0.l while Blarney
was ill—Blarney succeeded John Dill,
now one of Britain’s senior generals in
the field. Afterwards he was transferred
to the new 4th Division as chief-of-staff
to Sinclair-Maclagan.
That was just in time for the German
break-through on the Albert-Bray road.
It was there that Lavarack helped to make
war history when he and his divisional
commander found Congreve, the British
Corps Commander, with Monash and
the present Governor-General of Aus-
tralia, in a dark chateau near Corbie,
and heard the news of the disaster and
of the need for support.
And it was to Lavarack, on his way
to Baizeux Chateau, that the commander
of a British siege brigade said: “You
Australians think you can do anything,
but you haven’t a chance of holding
this.” Lavarack’s reply was: “Well,
what about staying to support us?” And
the siege train commander stayed, to
see his words disproved at Dernancourt.
Lavarack came back from the war
with the D. 5.0., the C.M.G. and several
mentions in dispatches. He became
successively Director of Military Art at
Duntroon, Director of Military Training
at H.Q., and, after a term at the Imperial
Defence College, Director of Military
Operations and Intelligence and Com-
mandant of Duntroon —a job which his
old schoolfellow “Ike” Plant now holds.
Later he became Inspector-General, and
was given a district command at the
outbreak of war.
He lives for his job. He is quiet in
manner and gets on well with men;
but his bent is for planning. There are
few modern battles and battlegrounds
which he does not know like the palm
of his hand.
Mackay is one part brain, one part
muscle and two parts fight. His specialty
is handling men; he is a thoroughly
practical psychologist. He hails from
Grafton (N.S.W.), Earle Page’s town.
A son of the kirk, Mackay was edu-
cated at Newington and Sydney Univer-
sity, and launched out as a demonstrator
in physics in 1904, a job which he still
held when war broke out.
He went away as captain and adjutant
to the 4th Battalion, and he first came
to notice on Gallipoli, where he was
distinguished even among such col-
leagues as Glasgow, Leane, Elliott and
Rosenthal. The A.I.F. nearly lost him
in the advanced Traverse Trench at Lone
Pine when he was attacked by three
Turks and his rifle refused to go off.
He kept them at bay with the bayonet.
During the subsequent days Mackay be-
came a familiar figure, standing on a
fire step almost recklessly exposed but
as cool as a cucumber, until he was
severely wounded by a bomb. Even then
he refused to leave, and spent a whole
night half-dazed, successfully directing
the staving-off of a hand-to-hand attack.
A year later Mackay stood in the
most shelled corner of Pozieres battle-
field, surrounded by dead and shattered
tree-trunks, when a panting messenger
rushed up with an “urgent and con-
fidential” message:
A number of cases have lately occurred
of men failing to salute the army com-
mander when passing in his car This
practice must cease.
He regards the story as the highlight
of his war-time reminiscences. By that
time he was a colonel. His operations
that year—all front-line stuff —brought
him a D.S.O. and bar.
A little over a year later he was in
command of the Ist Infantry Brigade,
after having had temporary command
of the 3rd Brigade at Second Bullecourt.
He came home after a year at Emmanuel
College, Cambridge, to be a lecturer in
physics at Sydney University, then
student adviser, then headmaster of
Cranbrook School. In 1937, pow a
major-general, he assumed command of
the 2nd Division, A.M.F.
Second A.I.F. Parade.
“Buck P.”: The parade of 5000 men
and 200 vehicles through Sydney took
place on one of the hottest March days
on record. By midday, when the troops
were swinging through Martin-place,
sweat was running from onlookers
packed dozens deep along the route.
What it must have been for the march-
ing men can well be imagined. All
traffic was stopped in the city, and win-
dow ledges, verandahs, stationary lorries
and other high points blossomed with
onlookers. There was some attempt at
gala here and there, a few flags and
some streamers, and way up George-
street what looked like leaflets floated
down.
The men made a great show, marching
six abreast in splendid order. There was
a heat haze over everything, and the
khaki ranks faded into it with a strange
effect of farewell. A fleeting close-up
view of troops on a military lorry showed
them to be mostly young, their brown
faces vital in the heat.
The Sydney crowd watched in that
queer silence of theirs. Not like Mel-
bourne or Adelaide, where such a sight
would produce waves of cheering and
frequent breaks of the police cordon. A
hundred yards back from the route,
standing on a motor lorry, you could
hear the sound of the marching feet but
little else —an occasional handclap, a
faint shout, some whistling. Tiny flags
waggled in the crowd, but the silence
created a queer impression.
About King-street the troops were
steadily bombarded with fruit, cigar-
ettes, etc., from the footpath and vantage
points on verandahs. There was more
noise up there. A Digger broke from
the crowd and handed up bottled beer
to the passing lorries. Whether he had
been sent in advance as a strong post or
was a voluntary-aid detachment will
never be known, but there seemed no
end to his supply of ammunition. At
one stage he appeared to have words
with a couple of police, and some hoots
came down the hot west wind. The
Digger disappeared. Further along a
civilian handed up bottles. The Digger
reappeared, and for the first time there
were cheers. Each time he ducked out
with a bottle there were cheers.
On the lorry a voice said, “Say, some
of ’em must have lawst their bayonets!”
A little wisp of a man with a twisted
leg turned round and said, “American,
ain’t y’?”
“I’ll say,” was the fervent answer.
“Well, you better look out,” said the
wisp aggressively; “you ain’t got nothin’
t’ crow about.”
The American did not reply. The wisp
watched the last truckload of khaki fade
into the heat-wave —watched with a last
long look as though he would fix the
sight in his memory for ever.
'‘Nobby II”: Britain’s Ark Royal,
which the Germans declared had been
sunk by bombers several months ago,
has turned up in an English port after a
long cruise during which her ’planes sur-
veyed 5,000,000 square miles of ocean.
Her trip was not without adventures. A
Heinkel dropped a 10001 b. bomb within
a few feet of her and a U-boat was sunk
by destroyers after having fired two tor-
pedoes at her. She is the very last thing
in the world’s naval aircraft carriers —
finished only in 1938. She cost
£3,300,000, carries 70 machines and 16
4.5 in. guns, is 800 ft. long and has a
speed of just on 31 knots. Nobody ex-
cept the Admiralty and her builders
know what her protection is.
* * * *
“M.R.7”: If the Mauretania and the
Queen Mary are coming to Australia to
carry troops, they will certainly break
some records. Queen Mary has done
the run from Ambrose Light to Bishop
Rock-2938 miles—at an average of 31
miles an hour. She is rated at 73,000
tons —three times the tonnage of the
biggest liners in the Australian trade.
The Mauretania is only half her tonnage,
but is not much behind her in speed.
* * * *
H.M.A.S. Perth —formerly H.M.S.
Amphion—has arrived in Sydney. A
“modified Leander,” she belongs to the
same breed as the Ajax and the Achilles
—7040 tons, with eight six-inch and four
four-inch guns. She was commissioned
with an Australian crew in July last year,
and was on her way to Australia when
the outbreak of war caused a change of
plans.
* * * *
“Veekay”: Efforts by the W.I. A.,
mouthpiece of Australian radio amateurs,
to secure permission to conduct experi-
ments on ultra-high frequencies have
been unsuccessful. Maoriland radio
amateurs have been less unfortunate.
Like all other British Empire amateurs
they were closed down at the outbreak
of war. With full official sanction some
were put back on the air on the occasion
of the 100th anniversary of the Treaty
of Waitangi. There was no land-line
available for the national broadcasters,
so amateur radiomen were allowed to fill
the breach, and an excellent job was
done.
Around the Army.
XXI.
THE BAND.
They blow and bang, they blast and blare,
Disturbing the surrounding air,
Attempting some new waltz or march to
master.
At practice half a bar they try,
Then stop, because they’re held up by
The trombone-pusher or euphonium-
blaster.
When stoush is on they cannot play,
But park their instruments away
And grab a gun to give the Fritzes
curry.
But others in the unit claim
If play is any guide to aim
No Jerry opposite need ever worry.
When there is talk of forming a band
among a unit in camp the sergeant is
liable to be bowled over in the rush to
join. “A wonderfully musical people,
these Aussies,” would be the comment
of a visitor who might happen to witness
it. Of course, there are those who would
say that the prospective bandsmen wanted
merely to get out of drill, long marches,
fatigue duty and the like. But they would
be wrong—the recruits themselves would
vouch for it.
Time was when the big drum used to
be the great attraction. Now only about
90 in every 100 who wish to join the
band want to wield the big sticks. The
choice usually falls on a small man, who,
if not totally obscured by the drum—
when the band is on the move he has to
march from memory—can be recognised
by his slanting walk. Bass drummers are
picked only from those who have convex
stomachs, into which the drum will fit
snugly. Nobody with hay fever can
qualify for this instrument, as if he
sneezed he would be in danger of getting
knocked out when the drum, pushed out
by his agitated torso, rebounded on to it.
There is one instrumentalist who can
easily be picked, even when he’s not
blowing it, by his sour 100k —the trom-
bone player. Several times a day he will
be accosted by a couple of non-bands-
men.
“Eh, Dig., we want you to settle an
argument. Splinter here reckons a trom-
bone’s a reed instrument, and I say it’s
one o’ them gadgets you blow and work
with your fingers on a lot o’ stops. How
is it played?”
The demonstration will be given
left hand held to mouth, right hand
shooting to the full length of the arm
and back like a piston. Then, as soon as
the seekers after information are out of
sight of the demonstrator, there will be
heard: —
“There y’are, Splinter, I told you
he’d fall for it. Hand over your coupla
bob.”
A true martyr to band music is the
soprano cornetist. Acutely aware that
while practising to get the highest notes
he is sure to “crack” a lot, he —a sensi-
tive artist —never does it just behind the
Q.M.’s store ; after all, there’s no sense
in risking a knock-back when he goes for
his next issue of socks. So he borrows a
bike and pedals over the hills and far
away, where he can blow his front teeth
out if he wants to and annoy the native
fauna with impunity.
So that it may better withstand the
tactics of supporters of rival bands dur-
ing competitions, part of the band’s train-
ing consists of playing for long spells
with eyes fixed on the conductor
while he sucks a juicy lemon. Anyone
who pours out more than half a pint of
saliva when it’s finished goes back to
form threes and do a bit of spud-barber-
ing.
Only very tall men are allowed to
play the trombone. Anyone between,
say, sft. 6in. and 6ft. would play havoc
with his fellow-bandsmen while they
were weaving their intricate patterns dur-
ing band-marching, while small men
would be liable to poke it through the
big drum.
The band undoubtedly does its best
work as a stimulant to marching infantry.
The battalion, with full packs and rifles
up, leaves after breakfast for a 25-mile
route march. Blithely the men swing out of
camp, with the band playing a sparkling
thing like “Colonel Bogey” or “Second
Battalion” to lilt the feet along. “Good-
oh!” think the troops. “This’ll make
marching dead easy.” A quarter of a mile
along the road the band drops out and
returns to camp.
Late that afternoon as the troops, dog
weary, are sighted trudging away up the
road, the band will cursefully assemble,
and go to play them into camp for the
last 200 yards. Any sarcastic references
later by the infantry to the value of
those good offices will fetch a first-class
“bite” from any bandsman.
“Cripes! A man lumps a flamin’ big
double-bass along an’ blows ’is guts out
fer you mob an’ that’s all the blanky
thanks ’e gets. We’ve ’ad to practise
‘Rollin’ out the Barrel’ nearly all day
while youse blokes’ve just been havin’ an
easy time somewhere. Y’ don’t know
when you’re well off!”
Incidentally, when the unit goes into
action and the band is disbanded, the
double-bass player is drafted to a
mechanised unit. In parts where there is
no free-air mechanical service available,
his services are invaluable when the
balloon tyres of tractors have to be
blown up.
S.W.K.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INVESTMENT ASPECTS OF THE WAR
HOW IS AUSTRALIA FARING?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
April Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
IS Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
THE FLYING COLUMN
"Cobber" Kain.
“D.8.K.”: The new war in the air
has not yet reached the 1918 tempo, but
it has already produced an ace. He is
a son of Maoriland, aged 21: Flying-
Officer Edgar J. Kain, of Wellington,
serving in France with the R.A.F. and
known to it as “Cobber.”
Kain’s bag of enemy ’planes shows
five definite “kills” and a possible sixth.
In two actions his Hurricane burst into
flames, and he descended by parachute.
One experience of the kind would be
enough for the average man, but two
have not shaken Kain’s nerve. War
correspondents and R.A.F. men regard
him as the best flier in France.
The youngster’s first victory was on
November 8, the victim being a high-
flying Dornier bomber. A week after
that he got a second, nailed at 24,000 ft.
On that occasion he was standing watch
below when enemy ’planes were re-
ported. Taking off, he located the giant
’plane, got underneath and pumped
hundreds of bullets into it. The tail sur-
faces were completely perforated; the
rear machine-gun was shot away (it fell
several miles from the crash); 16 bullet
holes were found in the propeller of the
starboard engine, and the motor was
disabled—so deadly was the Maori-
lander’s shooting. The ’plane was the
latest type of Dornier bomber, with fuel-
injection Diesel motors. Enough of it
remained to provide most valuable in-
formation.
On March 26 Kain was leading
three Hurricanes on patrol when they
ran into nine Messerschmitt 109’s. Five
were destroyed ; another and a Dornier
bomber were driven down. Kain got
two Me 109’s himself, but in the fight
his own machine became a burning
wreck, and he had to leave by parachute.
Though wounded by shrapnel, and burnt
about the face, he managed to drop in
no-man’s-land, whence a French infan-
try captain brought him in. He was
straightway awarded the D.F.C.
Unlike armchair critics, the man who
comes up against them has a respect for
Messerschmitt fighters. It was thought
that the cannon mounted in the propeller-
hub was not such an effective weapon as
multiple machine-guns. “Cobber” Kain’s
experiences show that the cannon can
inflict great damage with a single shell.
“His face, brick-red from burning oil,
his eyebrows singed, bandages on a leg
and a hand, and his hair stained and
streaked with oil,” “Cobber” reported for
duty. Doctor’s orders were “no more
flying for a week.”
Value of Flying-boats.
“Don”: One of Britain’s finest aero-
nautical achievements has been the
development of the Empire flying-boats.
Much has been made of the Clippers,
and there is no denying their efficiency
or the skill of their personnel; but the
Clippers followed the Empire-type flying-
boats in conception and general design.
The original Empire flying-boats are
still on the job. Also on the job—very
much so —are their valuable military
relatives, the four-engined Short Sunder-
lands. War conditions have shown that
Short Sunderlands can do jobs which no
other type could do. They have the
range and accommodation needed for
long flights over the sea, out of sight of
land and for extended search work. They
can go right out into the Atlantic to
pick up a convoy, and this they have
been doing, adverse weather notwith-
standing, day by day.
The military type of flying-boat does not
differ fundamentally from the civil type ,
hull, wings and empennage are the same.
The difference is the military fittings and
equipment are superposed and the hull
rearranged. There are two decks, the
upper containing the control-rooms. On
the lower deck are the living quarters,
with a wardroom and crew’s quarters.
From here access is also obtained to the
gun positions, of which there are four.
Stripped of furnishings and divisions, the
"He must have spotted a U-boat .”
hull interior gives a much more accurate
impression of size.
Germany has also developed the flying-
boat, but she has nothing so advanced
as the British machines.
“E.D.”: The real drive for recruits for
the new R.A.A.F. will begin on April 17.
The delay has been caused by the deter-
mination of the Air Ministry not to
repeat the faults of earlier recruiting, and
to ensure that all depots are organised
and able to cope with any rush. Appli-
cations are, of course, coming in. It is
hoped to have a preliminary actual intake
of 600 recruits per month into the force,
increasing the number to 1000 per month
by the end of the year. Actual enlist-
ment, as distinct from signing up new
men, is governed by the ability of the
training camps and schools to absorb
them. The Minister hopes that the first
pilots, observers and gunners will be on
active service before the end of the year.
Last m.onth 1100 Maorilanders who had
been medically examined and accepted
for air training were awaiting their post-
ing to units. Air-crew applicants await-
ing interview totalled 2600. The figures
show a well-sustained rate of enlistment.
It will soon be possible to provide full
training in the Dominion for 900 men
p a., leaving 2200 p.a. to complete train-
ing in Canada. With the system in full
operation more than 3000 air-force
trainees can be dealt with in M.L. at
any given time.
: * * * *
“Aileron”: The flying-boat Awarua,
sister-ship to the Aotearoa, and designed
for the trans-Tasman air service, has
arrived, but in advance of the establish-
ment of the service, which was originally
expected in October last. The two ships
are four-engined jobs, with ranges of
2100 miles in calm air, and capable of
carrying 2\ tons in payload and crew, in
addition to fuel for 1330 miles. The full
length of the run from London to Auck-
land will be 14,477 miles—the longest
air route in the world. A commission
of three has yet to be appointed to repre-
sent the Australian, Maoriland and
British Governments in the formation of
the company, which will consist of Im-
perial Airways, Qantas Empire and
Union Airways. Until there is agreement
between the companies and the Govern-
ments the company cannot be formed.
Papers on which the agreement is to be
based are to be flown from England, but
the arrangements about the opening date
of the service are still vague; it will
certainly not be before the last week in
April. The same vagueness prevails as
to when there will be a linking-up with
the American coast through Pan-Pacific
Airways.
* * * *
“Don”: Use of models —not the toy
variety, but small, man-carrying editions
of proposed large-sized aeroplanes —
and wind tunnel work have been respon-
sible for much of the recent progress
made in aviation. A recent example of
model tests was the 40|-ton, six-engined
French transatlantic flying-boat known
as the Potez 160. The scaled-down ver-
sion took the air in the summer of 1938.
It was geometrically similar in the lift-
ing surfaces and also in the six three-
bladed airscrews. Relationship between
weights of model and the large version
was arranged in proportion, and centres
of gravity were directly related.
“Ailo”: The rear gunners of heavy
British bombers, notably Vickers Welling-
tons, have scored signal successes against
attacking Nazi fighters. R.A.F. superiority
in this phase of air armament is due
apparently to the efficiency of power-
driven gun turrets. Present trend of
development is along the lines of armor-
plating pilot and gunner positions in some
types of fighters. If it is true that rear
guns in R.A.F. ’planes are to be fired
by remote control, with the gunner amid-
ships, the change will be welcomed by
the lads who handle the Brownings and
Lewises. The idea should be worth
adoption for single-seat fighters.
The Air War Day by Day.
March 23: R.A.F. ’plane fails to return
from a reconnaissance flight over north-
west Germany. German report is that
A.A. guns shot down a Vickers Wel-
lington ; pilot killed, member of crew
parachuted to safety, two others
rescued from burning wreckage.
March 25: Widespread R.A.F. recon-
naissance over Germany indicated by
prolonged silence of broadcasting
stations. Flight later admitted by
Germany.
March 27: Seven R.A.F. fighters, en-
gaged in combat with 31 German
’planes, destroyed five and crippled
two. One British machine shot down
in flames, but the pilot, Flying-Officer
Kain, parachuted into no-man’s-land
and was rescued unharmed by French
troops.
March 28: R.A.F. Blenheim bomber
shot down by Dutch Fokker fighters
near Rotterdam. Member of crew
killed when parachuting and one in-
jured ; three survivors interned. Nazi
’plane disposed of off north-east coast
of Scotland. Another, seen at great
height near Shetland Islands, evaded
R.A.F. pursuers. German claim to
have shot down a Blenheim over Heli-
goland Bight on March 27 confirmed.
March 29: Messerschmitt 109 and Mes-
serschmitt 10 destroyed by British
’planes over France.


MASONITE N E W S
Many troops in Australia's new army will not only sleep in
Masonite huts, but will mess from tabletops of i-inch Tempered
Presdwood. These well-designed, collapsible and transportable
mess-tables —topped with tough, steel-strong, smooth. Tempered
Presdwood —afford another example of Masonite's versatility.
The four Australian-made Masonite boards can help YOU, in
countless ways. For building week-enders, garages, furniture,
toys for "tiling" kitchens, bathrooms and modernisation work
generally "These Wonder Boards of 1,000 uses" provide the
inexpensive, durable and easy-to-erect answer.
Ask for details of CANE-ITE. the modern Structural Insulation Board
ifMH
11
TEMPERED
TEMPRTILE
HIT
PRESDWOOD • PRESDWOOD
• <?U ARTRBOARD DE LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth MASB-9
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Darwin Editor Resigns
“X.T.”: The upheaval in the Labor
organisation at Darwin is reflected in
the “Northern Standard,” the Territory s
only newspaper. The name of L. 1.
Craig, the new union secretary, appears
over almost every article, from motor
accidents to politics. One paragraph
which he signs tells the world that the
“Standard” is in difficulties.
Oldsters will laugh at that. In a sense,
the “Standard” has always been in dif-
ficulties. Its greatest difficulty now is
that the editor, Donald McKinnon, has
resigned.
The “Standard” was started by volun-
tary union effort in opposition to a
journal which had the contract for
printing the “Government Gazette.”
McKinnon was manager, editor, com-
positor, printer, publisher, accountant,
debt collector, linotyper, printer’s devil,
typist and office boy. As time went on
he was able to hire a 13-year-old office
boy and paper deliverer, and trained him
as a comp. Then he acquired a boy-
reporter and some office help. Volun-
teers built extensions to the building.
The going was never easy ; at times
the editor’s salary was as much as £BOO
in arrear. But the rival Conservative rag
was bought out for £lOOO on terms, and
the time came when debts were paid
and there was even a bank balance, but
this was achieved only through stirring
years of contest.
Sometimes the plant was under armed
picket while union factions fought each
other. For years the large Chinese com-
munity boycotted the paper. There were
plenty of writs. In one bout the editor
was fined £2OO for criminal libel and
sent to gaol till the fine was paid. A
High Court decision released him after
three months.
In these days the paper is full of ad-
vertising, but without Donald McKinnon
it won’t be the same.
“Q.C.R.”: While the South remains
parched, it continues to rain in North
and Central Queensland. Rockhampton,
on the Fitzroy, has been the centre of 14
square miles of water. At Easter you
would have had to dive six feet to land
on the racecourse, and the North Rock-
hampton cricket ground looked like Trent
Bridge during a drowned Test match.
Suburban residents have been coming to
business in boats. Old inhabitants are
still waiting for the day when a. real
old-man flood arrives. Then the city of
sin and sweat will probably realise an
old-age ambition, and find itself carried
down the river and dumped on the coast
to become a real seaport.
“Dungeness”: Notwithstanding exten-
sive flood rains and one heavy blow,
this N.Q. cyclone season has been a
relatively mild one so far. Wind is the
really destructive factor in such dis-
turbances, and its effects depend on
where the centre crosses the coast. The
greatest loss of life in northern cyclone
history occurred when the pearling fleets,
at anchor in Bathurst Bay, were totally
destroyed on March 5, 1899 ; 350 persons
were lost, mostly colored. On March 24,
1911, the steamer Yongala disappeared
in a cyclone between Mackay and Bowen,
taking with her 134 passengers and crew.
Except for two hatchcovers and a bale
of hay no trace of her has ever since
been found. Eight days previously Port
Douglas had been razed to the ground.
But 1918 was the record year for damage
to property. On January 20 Mackay
was badly smashed up and also flooded ;
a steamer was driven through the bridge
across the Pioneer River, and 20 lives
were lost. On March 10 Innisfail and
Babinda were almost totally wrecked, 16
lives lost, and immense damage done to
property over an area extending more
than 60 miles north and westerly to
Cairns and Atherton.
“O. Pint”: The Johnstone River (Q.)
rose suddenly and cut off 14 draught-
horses on a flat. They tried to swim
the flood, and when one went down
the others crowded together in confusion.
Two lads, Rowe and Turnbull, paddled
out to them in a tin canoe likely to
capsize at any moment in the choppy
water. Fearing this, the youths left the
canoe and swam to the horses, urging
them towards high ground. One horse
got caught in barbed wire and drowned ;
the rest scrambled ashore. The rescuers
“ Let's call it of, Joe —can't open me tool-bag."
were on the river for 90 minutes. Any-
one with experience of animals in floods
knows that it takes a pretty high form
of courage and endurance to perform a
feat like that, yet there are people will
tell you the modern Australian youth
is not a patch on his forebears.
* * * *
“Maroochy”: People with farms in the
fastness of the Blackall Range, 40 miles or
so north of Brisbane, had a week of thrills.
“A mysterious black-bearded, hooded
man, carrying a sheath-knife and a gun,”
arrived from nowhere in particular, and
hunting for him in tropical scrub was no
joke. The invader harmed nobody,
though he once or twice demanded meals
at farms, but the district went in terror
of him. He crossed 100 miles of rough
country inside a week. Eventually he
was picked up from the smoke of his fire
on Yabba Mountain, near Conondale.
When the police approached him he
pointed his loaded gun towards them
and ran to the side of a tree. The police
handled him tactfully and grabbed the
gun. He is now in Goodna mental
hospital.
* * * *
“Gain”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is to “investigate the possibility of
producing a considerable part of Aus-
tralia’s tea requirements” in the Man-
dated Territory “to eliminate the neces-
sity of rationing supplies and buying
from Java on a non-sterling basis.” Tea
grown experimentally there produced a
high-grade leaf. With native labor avail-
able, the industry should not be difficult
to establish. As here stated, the country
is much like that in the uplands of Cey-
lon, which island has 559,237 acres under
tea.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Exit at Gympie,
aged six, Queensland’s Social Credit
party. Although at times noisy and in-
trusive, it never was a strong child. Its
maximum membership during its brier
life was never over 5000, and although it
contested State and Federal seats it was
never returned —in fact, it sometimes lost
its deposit. Its last words were a faint
whisper that the war should be financed
out of “national credit,” and a dying wish
that its ghost might appear in opposition
to any candidate, irrespective of party,
who didn’t support the views that it had
held whilst alive.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Queensland University is
30 years old this month. The first senate
was appointed on April 14, 1910, and on
that date by law the University was
“deemed to be constituted.” It began
with three faculties, arts, science and
engineering, with a professor for each
(J. L. Michie, of the arts faculty, is the
survivor) and 83 students. It now has
over 1600 students, nine faculties, 21
professors and 103 others on the teach-
ing staff, and this year 210 new students
were enrolled. Quarters are still the old
Government House, with some annexes,
but the million-pound buildings at St.
Lucia are in course of construction. In-
cidentally, it is curious to notice the bents
D f students. Arts and science account
£ or ba if y ear ’ s new hands, engineer-
ing j or commerce for nine and medi-
cine for 54. But in the most swiftly de-
ve j o pj n g agricultural State in the Com-
monweahh only three students are going
oaricultural science
m ±or agricultural science.
*„ r f
Dr. L. S. Bagster, Professor of
Chemistry at Queensland University and
Dean of the Faculty of Science, who has
died suddenly at 54, was one of the
Empire’s leading authorities on industrial
chemistry. A South Australian, he took
first . c i ass fi na i honors in science at
Adelaide University and was appointed
Government Research scholar at Mel-
. . T 1011 u a
bourne University In 1911 he wa
selected by the Queensland Umversi >
Senate to undertake two years research
into industrial chemistry abroad, and on
his return in 1913 was named lecturer in
chemistry. After the death of Prof. Steele
j n 193 j he was appointed to the chair.
research chemist of unusual ability and
eX p er i e nce, he did valuable work on the
chemical side 0 f important Australian
j ndustr j es
*’* * *
Herbert A. Jones, dead at Mary-
borough ( q 3 ' age d 78, played a notable
s z,? a rtrp
he started work as a junwr clerk with
Walker’s engineering works. Gome
into business for himself as an accour.
tant and auditor, he eventually became
chairman of directors of Walkers,
of the Maryborough Gas Co. and oi
Wilson Hart and Co. Other activity
included 50 years as secretary of the
Town -d Suburban Buflding Socie y
17 as secretary of the Wide Bay anu
Burnett Pastoral and Agricultural
Society, and 15 as secretary of the Marj-
borough Grammar School Trustees be-
fore the Government took the job over.


WHOO
PAYS
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE an.
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R* V. PERKINS, General Manager.
BRANDALER3
e»
sm
&
o''
T*'*
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDABEB A CO, Ltd, BIBIIIXQHAM. EXO
m
mm
THE
'Mcmeroo*
Poley
Saddle
£l2/17/6
(MOUNTED)
Made of
quality kip
leather. The
panel is serge-
lined and
stuffed with
doe hair.
N.S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles Paid
for Cash with Order.
WALTHER fc STEVEHSOM XS:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDKEY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
F.A.C.: Just misses P.C.W.: Pity the end
wasn’t stronger....R.E.: “The Punter” trailing
home AJ.S.: You’d make the linotypes
wee p P.S.: Not a bad ballad, but you don’t
make the race exciting.. . .M.L.: Try else-
where E.M.: Sentimental H.M.S.: They
sound sincere, anyhow... .H.B.: What’s it all
about? R.H.: If it were all as good as
.the conclusion... .LJ.M.: Can’t shout for
“The Fat Barman” E.B.: No show for
those Show poems... .M.F.: No, but call
again G.R.: It might help if we could read
it J.H.: Idea, yes; that “tree-melodee”
rhyme, no J.B.: Say it in prose T.L.S.:
No graveyards, please... .V.R.D.: Only a
glimmer in “Gold” G.L.: Someone else
might like it... JJ.F.: He was pleasant enough
till you bumped him off... .T.E.W.: Too jerky,
for one thing... .G.S.: We don’t accept
second-hand contributions, and that applies
even to verses the radio used and didn’t pay
for G.H.N.: It doesn’t make a yarn
L.G.O’C.: Too long for what’s in it
G. : It certainly is an “Error in Submis-
sion” J.T.: On those theories we’d be
more likely to perish than populate L.C.F.:
“For You, My Dear,” is not for us
H. : Not bad until the finish spoils it....
G. Is that all you can do with a drought,
a cyclone and two murders?... .J.L.T.: “The
Old Prospector” is dryblowing in the w.p.b.
. ...L.R.B.: “Aunt Jane’s Peacock” a be-
draggled bird B.T.M.: One of the English
monthlies might consider it.. . .L.T.: Cut it
down, knock out a few characters and come
again.... L.R.W.: Too slight.... G.R.K.: Lose
it in some out-of-the-way place... .P.R.d.-C.:
There’s an idea there, but you need more
practice H.P.: That con. man is an old
autumn visitor D.P.R.: No handout for
“Deadbeat” D.P.T.: Not in the market for
that kind of essay L.S.: Nor for plays....
H. : “It’s a Gift” declined with thanks
F.K.: Have yet to meet an abo. who talks
like that H.B.R.: Resigned to further con-
tributions “in this bright vein” D.T.S.:
Send “Meditations of an Old Sinner” to a
laundry... .B.T.L.R.: Off our beat C.G.,
L.P.W., M.D.H. and D.C.: Try them else-
where.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.G.: A maze of scratchy lines and a
century-old jest W.P.: We will try to
struggle along without your help... .R.M.K.:
Drawings wrapped in cellophane should have
been wrapped in a shroud A.D.: The
youngster shows promise but needs a few
years at an art school C.T.: Ideas just
passable; treatment wretched 8.F.: Figure
looks as if it had been hacked out of jarrah
with a blunt axe M.T.: “Victory Is Ours”
cartoon suffered a. quick defeat M.J.:
Obviously you have never studied the draw-
ings that we print N.W.: If you’re wanting
us to lose circulation you’re going the right
way about it F.E.: Whatever army that
fellow belongs to it is certainly not the Second
A.I.F S.T.L.: Gags belong to the nursery
and drawings to the scrapheap C.R.8.:
Office rubbish-bin is cluttered with variations
of that ancient wheeze A.A.: You’ve been
gazing at too many American comic strips.
. ...8.W.: Colored sketches, no matter how
well done, are useless for our purposes....
T.T.: More polish required A.S.: Drawing
and certificate of competency that accompanied
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
it have been returned J.8.Y.: Niggling
little drawings and jests that failed to amuse.
J.H.: Linework has a smooth, clean sweep but
the drawing itself is badly balanced F.R.C.:
About as humorous as a stained-glass window.
....A.M.L.: Conversation between the two
grasshoppers fell on deaf ears... .M.H.A.: It
just managed to totter to the editor’s desk and
had to be carried away on a stretcher
8.T.: Drawing in which all the figures had a
heavy list to port was given its pass-out check.
P.M.: All your Digger jokes received wide
circulation during 1914-18.
A MIXED GRILL.
A stone plaque inscribed with the
names of John Monash and his wife,
dated 1897, has been found on a survey
cairn at a height of 6000 ft. near St.
Bernard’s Hospice, Vic. In his younger
days Australia’s future Commander-in-
Chief was a captain in the Victorian
Survey and Intelligence Corps and a keen
climber. It was in the Victorian Alps
probably that he obtained his initial
lessons in topogfaphy, the mastery of
which was to stand him in such good
stead in later years.
% % ❖
Cincinnatus, summoned from the
jplough to high estate, has a little parallel
in the case of Arthur Clarke, the new
pastor of the Baptist Church at Sans
Souci (N.S.W.). He was working at his
job as hodcarrier and general laborer
when he received his “call.”
* * * *
H. E. West is to be the first principal
of the Food Trades School which master-
butcher William Angliss has presented
to Melbourne. West started out as
an agriculturist, and got his degree
at the University of Manitoba. Since
then he has been chemist to the Wheat
Research Institute of M.L. and consul-
tant to food manufacturers in M.L. and
Victoria.
* * * *
“Springbok”: I have a hole to pick in
one item of the “Times” summary of
“Hitler’s Falsehoods” (B. 13 /3 / ’4o)—the
statement that Milner gave the concen-
tration-camp order in the Boer War for
“humanitarian reasons.” Those of us on
the British flying columns who actually
did the distasteful job knew it was a move
by Kitchener to cut off enemy supplies.
So long as the women remained on the
farms our troops were bound to respect
poultry, cattle and sheep. With the
women out of the way we could loot as
we liked and leave nothing to the roving
Boers to eat.
* * *
“Sing 9”: This comes from London.
An architect, after replanning a large
house as a girls’ school, realised that he’d
forgotten to include a small hospital
ward. He redrew the plans and sent
them along. Later, eager to see how the
work was going, he applied to a petrol
controller for fuel for his car, explaining
that he wished to inspect a sick bay. His
request was turned down, the controller
expressing the opinion that if the horse
was sick a qualified vet. should attend it.
Sic * * *
“U. Ralla”: Somebody appears to
have stuck a pin into Uralla, a once-
sleepy village of N.S.W. New England.
Within the last three years it has acquired
an electricity and water supply and a
town improvement scheme that are
making its citizens, about 1600 in all,
do some skiting. “Norther” (B.
28/2/’4O) did the place an injustice with
his tale of a flood through leaky pipes
when the water was turned on —it was
merely the usual leak associated with
mains receiving their first charge of
water, and was quickly stopped.
“Pardon Me”: “El V.” (B. 13/3/’4O)
says the only modern glory of the Bedfords
was Lord John Russell. But the present
Duke of Bedford’s father has a claim to
kindly memory. When the first main
line out of London was being built in
1837 the duke was compensated for the
use of some of his land to the tune of
£150,000. He refunded this sum to the
railway co. because he found that, in-
stead of the value of his property being
injured, it had been improved by the
coming of the railway.
“OxmeacT: I think O. Henry (B.
28/2/’4O) owed a little to Bret Harte.
Consider this, from “Tennessee’s Part-
ner” :
At Sandy Bar in 1854 most men were
christened anew. Sometimes their appella-
tions were derived from some distinctive-
ness of dress, as in the case of “Dungaree
Jack,” or from some peculiarity of habit,
as shown in “Saleratus Bill” Perhaps
this may have been the beginning of a
rude heraldry, but I am constrained to
think it was because a man’s name in that
day rested solely upon his unsupported
statement. “Call yourself Clifford, do you?”
said Boston, addressing a timid newcomer
with infinite scorn, “hell is full of such
Cliffords! ” He then introduced the unfor-
tunate man, whose name really happened
to be Clifford, as “Jay-bird Charley.”
And then this, from “Christmas by In-
junction” in Hearts of the West:
The name of the father of Yellowhammer
[“Cherokee”] was given him by the gold-
hunters in accordance with their popular
system of nomenclature. A man’s name
was his personal property. For conveni-
ence in calling him up to the bar and in
designating him among other blue-shirted
bipeds, a temporary appellation, title or
epithet was conferred upon him....A few
vaingloriously and shamelessly uncovered
their proper and indisputable names. This
was held to be unduly arrogant and did not
win popularity. One man who said his
name was Chesterton L. C. Belmont, and
proved it by letters, was given till sun-
down to leave the town. Such names as
“Shorty,” “Bow-Legs,” “Lazy Bill,”
“Thirsty Rogers,” “Limping Riley” and
“California Ed” were in favor.
There is no suggestion of conscious
plagiarism here, but it is difficult to think
that O. Henry could have written thus
without some lingering memory of Bret
Harte in his mind.
“P.T.0.”: O. Henry, eh? His yarn
“The Cactus” opens with: “The most
notable thing about time is that it is
so purely relative.” That must have
suggested the Einstein theory to Einstein.
The Last of the Lags
By J.H.M. ABBOTT .
SOMEWHERE about 80,000 con-
victs were shipped to this confine c
and Tasmania in the first half-
century of British settlement.
Although transportation to Westraiia aid
not cease until 1868 the system applied
to that side of the continent was a very
different affair from what had obtained
on the eastern coasts, and its cessation
on the Sydney side may be regarded as
the real finish of lagdom in Australia.
After 1840 convicts had been sent
only to Tasmania, where they arrived at
the rate of 3000 a year —an overwhelm-
ing flood of felonry in such a small
community. The Colonial Secretary,
Lord Stanley, had hoped to lessen this
injustice to the island colony by estab-
lishing a new penal settlement at Port
Curtis, to the northward of the Moreton
Bay district, but the idea came to
nothing, and when W. E. Gladstone suc-
ceeded him in office he produced another
plan. This was to revive transportation
to N.S.W. —all East Australia in those
days—under three new conditions. For
every prisoner sent out a free man was
to come too ; for every male convict a
woman was to be transported ; and there
was to be no more horrible herding in
gangs the worst evil of the old
“System.”
A committee of the Legislative Coun-
cil agreed to Gladstone’s idea, but the
people of N.S.W. angrily refused to have
anything to do with it. They declined
to countenance any sort of transpor-
tation at all, threatening rebellion and
secession from the Empire rather than
submit to it. When a little later Earl
Grey persisted in a proposal to proclaim
N.S.W. a place to which convicts might
be transported Sydney and Melbourne
fairly blazed with unrestrained wrath
and were bitterly and uncompromisingly
hostile to the bare suggestion. Resolu-
tion after resolution was carried in the
Council protesting, and when the ship
Hashemy, carrying 200 ticket-of-leave
men, arrived in Port Jackson a great
public meeting was held at Sydney Cove,
at which more than one speaker—
amongst them young Mr. Henry Parkes
—were cheered to the echo for hinting at
“revolution.” When the Randolph, con-
veying similar passengers, anchored in
Hobson’s Bay, Melbourne also flared up.
In neither capital would the citizens
allow the convicts to be landed, so —
with more wisdom than he usually dis-
played—Sir Charles Fitzroy, the Gover-
nor-General, sent both ships on to
Moreton Bay, where pioneering was still
fairly primitive and any form of labor
welcome.
For a long time Grey would not
listen to the protests of the Australians,
and hoped that the Legislative Council
might change its mind. But there was
no chance of this —the thing was too
vital. A strong anti-transportation league
organised a continual stream of protests
to the Council, and in 1850 the latter
sent to England a defiant refusal to allow
convicts of any sort to enter the country.
Grey submitted with an ill grace, but
his successor in office gave an unqualified
assurance that transportation to Eastern
Australia would never be renewed. So
“the System,” as far as the mainland was
concerned, finally expired. In Tasmania,
however, the penal settlement at Port
Arthur carried on until the ’seventies.
Norfolk Island had been abolished as a
convict depot in 1853.
Years afterwards transportation to
W.A. came to an end also. The ship-
ments of convicts had been reduced to
about 300 per annum, and the Colonial
Office was opposed to sending any at
all, whilst the eastern colonies grumbled
at the influx to their ports of time-
expired prisoners. However, convicts
continued to be sent out from Britain
on a small scale until 1868, when the
last of her lags set foot on Australian
shores.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, a ] s ° re Pl’® se . n , a
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tm
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking
S 3
«7o.er £20.000.000 spent w o,kin manr
•ealia. A big Je'P
branches lor trained me -j no f be ebl# ™
| any business career. (Yo« ~ „ ver w year*,
stanomq y r . ■ (Evening
Yiigsz&jsss*** aasMs ~art Feb " H
•l» interested * d X'« li *2ralE»
THE SCHOOL Or AfP^J 1
36 Orosvenor St., W*®**
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
Tire service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy “Live Stock Annuals” before 1905,
and Parts 1, 11, 12 and 13 of the “Economic
Record,” published in Melbourne. —6612.
To exchange Instantaneous Personal Mag-
netism for any books by Australian authors
to equal value.—6616.
Information Sought.
Biographical particulars concerning “Rolf
Boldrewood” ? —6398.
Thomas Alexander Browne (“Rolf Boldre-
wood”) was born in London on August 6,
1826, brought to Australia by his parents in
1830, and educated at the Sydney College under
W. T. Cape. At the age of 17 he entered on
station life in western Victoria, and from 1854
to 1856 was the owner of Squattlesea Mere in
the Port Fairy district; he then purchased
stations on the Murray (1858) and Murrum-
bidgee (1864), but lost heavily in the droughts
of 1866 and 1869, and abandoned squatting
in 1870 to become a few years later police
magistrate and goldfields warden at Gulgong
(N.S.W.). In 1887 he was transferred to
Albury, and retired from the public service in
1895. From 1870 onwards, using the nom de
plume “Rolf Boldrewood,” he wrote stories
of squatting life, but his first success as a
novelist —and the one by which he is still most
widely known —was Robbery Under Arms,
published in 1888. He died in Melbourne on
March 11, 1915.
* * * *
How many people die of pneumonia in
N.S.W. annually? Do more people die in
Sydney of pneumonia than in the country ?
Is it more fatal to males than females and at
what ages is it most dangerous ? —6922.
Pneumonia, including broncho-pneumonia,
was the cause of 1900 deaths during 1938, the
equivalent rate per 10,000 living being 6.98,
which was 14 per cent, above the average for
the preceding quinquennium. Of the total,
1133 were males and 767 females. The male
and female rates per 10,000 living were 8.25
and 5.69 respectively. The deaths in the metro-
politan area numbered 958 and those in the
remainder of the State 942, the rates being
7.47 and 6.54 per 10,000 living respectively.
An analysis of the deaths according to age
shows that pneumonia is most destructive in
its, attacks on children under five years of age
and adults who have passed the age of 55.
The rate of mortality from pneumonia is lowest
among children between 10 and 14 years of
age, then it increases with advancing age.
* * * *
Some details concerning Major C. R. Attlee,
leader of the British Labor party? —6928.
Born in 1883, he was educated at Haileybury
and University College, Oxford, and was called
to the Bar in 1905. He turned to socialism,
and was for a long time connected with Toyn-
bee Hall. In 1913 he became lecturer at the
London School of Economics. Served in the
Great War and reached the rank of major.
In 1919 he became the first Labor mayor of
Stepney, and Labor M.P. for Limehouse in
1922. Was a member of the India Commis-
sion, 1927-30, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lan-
caster, 1930-31, Postmaster-General in 1931.
Deputy-leader of the Labor party since 1931,
he succeeded Lansbury in the leadership in
1935. In December, 1937, he paid a visit to
the republican section of Spain. Attlee is
leader of the Opposition in Parliament. Com-
ing from the ranks of the cultural members
of Labor, he stands politically in the middle
of the party.
* * * *
What is the position regarding an old-age
pensioner who enters an old men’s home ?
Does he still continue to receive his pension?
—6925.
If a pensioner is an inmate of a public
benevolent asylum, or remains in a public
hospital for over 28 days, he receives an allow-
ance of 6s. per week instead of a full pension.
If the pensioner had applied for a pension
before entering the institution, the Federal
Government also pays to the institution an
allowance up to 14s. per week for his main-
tenance, but such allowance is not made in
respect of a pensioner who was an inmate
when he applied for a pension.
* * * *
Does the attraction of the moon cause any
movement of the earth’s crust, similar to its
action on the waters of the seas ? —6930.
Yes. The pull of the moon causes a rise
and fall of about 12in. in the earth’s crust
at about the latitude of Melbourne. The pull
of the sun also causes a movement, estimated
at about 4in. at the saine latitude. When
moon and sun are in conjunction (i.e., pulling
in the same direction) a distortion of up to
17in. is experienced.
# * # ¥
What is the betting tax on wagers in Vic-
toria ? —6931.
The Vic. Stamps (Betting Tax) Act, 1932,
requires a bookmaker to charge to or collect
from the backer and a backer to pay to a
bookmaker at the time of making any cash
bet in which the amount wagered is equal to
or in excess of £5, betting tax in accordance
with the following scale: Of amounts wagered
of £5 and under £lO, Is.; £lO and under £25,
25.; £25 and under £SO, 35.; £SO and under
£IOO, 45.; £IOO .and under £250, 55.; £250 and
over, 10s. A bet for a win and a place shall
be deemed to be one amount. Any bookmaker
failing to charge or collect such tax and any
backer who refuses or fails to pay the same
to the bookmaker when the bet is made is
liable to a penalty of not more than £lO.
Where, however, cash is not paid at the time
the bet is made, the abovementioned tax shall
be collected by the bookmaker and paid by
the bookmaker at the time of settlement of
the wager.
* * * *
What is the position regarding Federal taxa-
tion of annuities ? —6940.
Under the Federal Act, an annuity under a
will or a deed is taxable as income from
whichever source of income the annuity is
paid. If the annuity is paid out of the profits
of a business, then it is taxable as income from
personal exertion; if paid out of proceeds of
investments, rents, interest, dividends, etc., then
it is taxable as income from property.. If
paid out of a mixed fund,' partly income from
personal exertion and partly income from prop-
erty, then it is treated as being paid rateably
out of the income from each source and is
taxable accordingly. If paid exclusively from
corpus, it is taxable as income from property.
In the case of an annuity which has been pur-
chased, only that portion of the annuity which
represents interest is taxable, the portion repre-
senting return of capital being exempt.
* * * *
Who controls ambulance services in N.S.W.?
Is there a. proprietary body, and what is done
with the profits from' contributions and charges
after working expenses have been paid? —6s3B.
The N.S.W. Ambulance Transport Service
is administered by a board, appointed under
the Ambulance Transport Service Act No. 5
of 1919 as amended by Act No. 74 of 1924.
The board is a corporate body, and the Minister
for Health is the official head of the depart-
ment under which the board operates. The
Government has three representatives on the
board, including .. the chairman. No member
of the board receives fees or allowances of
any kind. Under Section 3 of the Act the
following provision is included therein, “Mem-
bers of such board shall not be paid but shall
give their services gratuitously.” All property
acquired on behalf of any ambulance district
in N. S. Wales is vested in the board and is
held exclusively on behalf of the districts which
have acquired such property for ambulance
purposes. Neither the board nor any district
committee operating under the control of the
board conducts the ambulance service for profit.
*** . *
Duties of a Judge of the N.S.W. District
Court and who may be appointed to the office?
—6934.
Any barrister of five years’ standing or
attorney of seven years’ - standing, may be
appointed as Judge of the District Court to
exercise the jurisdiction of the Court in districts
allotted by.the Governor. Such persons hold
office during ability and good; behavior up to
the age of 70. ..They may be removed from
office by the. Governor for inability or mis-
behavior, subject first to appeal to the Gov-
ernor-in-Council. A-Judge may not engage in
the practice of- the legal profession. A Judge
of any District Court is also a chairman of
every Court of Quarter Sessions in the State.
* * * V
What, exactly, is “grand opera”, and what
is the distinction as compared with other forms
of opera? —6sss.
The term is a French one, and, to quote
Grove’s Dictionary, “denotes a lyric drama in
which spoken dialogue is excluded and the
business is carried, on in melody or recitative
throughout.” But that definition is too broad,
for it would include certain of the comic
operas. In modern parlance “grand opera”
is applied to any of the great serious operas.
Hs * , =i< *
A short account of Van der Velden, who
settled in MaorHand and became a figure in
the art world there ? —6547..
Petrus Van der Velden, born Rotterdam,
183.6, was a lithographer who took up painting
and with others, 'including Israels and the
brothers Maris, endeavored to revive the old
Dutch style of painting. He migrated to M.L.
in 1890, settled in Christchurch, and painted
many magnificent landscapes. He was eminent
as a teacher, numbering Robert Procter,' Cecil
and Elizabeth Kelly, L. H. Booth, C. Bickerton,
Raymond Mclntyre and S. L. Thompson among
his pupils. His heavy, somewhat gloomy style
was well suited to the wild mountain country
he best loved to paint, but .his traditions proved
fetters to most of his pupils, who developed
better when they got away from them.
# * * *
What is the Imperial Policy Group? —6s4l.
It is a group of well-informed Englishmen
who maintain specially-trained investigators in
all the principal countries of ;Europe. They
produce a monthly summary of important
phases of the international situation, to which
the subscription is 245. a year. Their address
is 13 Old Queen-street, London, S.W.I.
* * * *
(1) Are the appeals launched in Melbourne
by Lord Mayor Coles, Lady Gowrie and Lady
Dugan all for the same fund? (2) Has the
Red Cross Society a residue from 1914-18 col-
lections on fixed deposit? (3,) Does the Red
Cross issue an annual balance sheet? If so,
could country branches be supplied with
copies? (4) Are funds used exclusively for
soldiers on active service ? (5) Is the Comforts
Fund run entirely by voluntary effort? —6543.
(1) Yes. Lord Mayor Coles controls Vic-
torian collections; Lady Gowrie is president
for Australia; Lady Dugan is president of the
Vic. branch. (2) Yes. It is invested in Gov-
ernment securities and is used to assist some
700 soldiers in institutions in Vic. Under the
constitution, funds collected during the 1914-18
war to assist sick and injured cannot be used
in this war. (3) Yes. Country branches are
supplied with copies. (4) They are used for
soldiers who become sick or who are injured
or wounded on active service abroad and in
Australia. Some 3000 to 4000 soldiers have
been helped already. But as the Red Cross is
a permanent institution, under the Geneva con-
vention it is obliged to use its funds in the
case of a national calamity in peace-time, such
as a flood or a bushfire. (5) Yes. It is accom-
modated at the Town Hall, Melbourne, and
none of the funds collected for the comfort
of the troops is used to pay staff, but some of
them are paid by outside contributions or are
City Council staff who have been partially
delegated to the executive.
* * * *
(1) Would copper or zinc plates amalgamated
with mercury collect gold from river-bed sand ?
(2) How are the plates amalgamated with
mercury? (3) Will mercury evaporate off the
plates? (4) Is it necessary to keep plates under
water to save the mercury on them ? —6412.
(1) Zinc plates are not used for recovery of
gold by amalgamation. Clean copper plates
which have been treated with mercury would
recover any coarse free gold in sand, although
a more suitable method of recovery may be
by sluicing or puddling. (2) • The copper plate
should be soft and pure and weighing not less
than 31b. per square foot. Scour the copper
with fine sand and soap to remove traces of
grease, etc. Equal parts of fine sand and sal
ammoniac with a small quantity of mercury
are next , applied by means of a stiff brush to
the cleaned copper plate. Rub the mercury in
until the plate is covered and bright in color.
(3) and (4) No.
* * * *
A Sydney newspaper recently reprinted from
a London journal an account of Oscar Straus,
composer of “The Chocolate Soldier’’ and
other operettas, taking up residence in Pans,
finding Berlin unpalatable, and claiming that
he is a direct descendant of the Johann Strauss
of waltz fame. Any truth in this?— 6sso.
There may be some family connection; prob-
ably all Viennese Strausses or Strauses could
prove a connection if they could go back far
enough. But in the case of Oscar Straus the
claim is anew one, not mentioned in any bio-
graphical notes that can be traced. The fact
that he spells his name with one “s” is against
the contention that he’s in the direct line of
descent.
* * * *
I understand there is to be a transit of
Mercury this year. (1) On what date? (2)
How often do such transits occur? (3) Why
do astronomers attach such importance to
them ? —6542.
(1) November 11, central position 11 a.m.
(2) There were 13 in the last century and
there will be 13 in this. They occur at irregular
intervals, most usually three, seven, 10 or 13
years, and always early in May or November.
• (3) Among other matters it affords a means of
finely checking the planet’s motion, which
puzzles astronomers by being slightly in excess
(43 seconds of a degree per century) of what
it should be according to Newton’s law of
gravitation. Recent observations (1924 and
1927) have accorded, so it is claimed, with
Einstein’s refinements on the Newtonian
hypothesis.
* * * *
In the event of a wife leaving her husband,
through incompatibility, what legal procedure
is necessary .to .commit him .to the payment of
■ an allowance if ' he refuses one voluntarily ?
If the wife takes the child or children with
her, can the husband force their return on the
ground of desertion? What is the period of
desertion required for a divorce in N.S.W.?
—6525.
If the wife deserts her husband without
reasonable excuse, and mere “incompatibility”
does not constitute a reasonable excuse, she
is not entitled to demand an allowance from
him. Desertion without reasonable excuse
during three years and upwards is ground for
a divorce in N.S.W. provided the person seek-
ing the divorce had at the time of its insti-
tution been domiciled ;there for at least three
years and had not resorted to that State for
the purpose of obtaining a divorce.' As to the
children, much would depend on age and
whether a mother’s care was needed.
* * * *
What are the weekly award rates of pay and
hours of work on cattle and sheep stations
in Queensland ? —6564.
(1) General station hands, boundary riders,
gardeners, rabbit poisoners, musterers, lamb-
markers, tank-sinkers, well-borers’ laborers, pick
and . shovel men, fencers,' stockmen and sheep
drovers, and all other employees who are
classed as general station hands, on sheep
stations, £2,155. in southern division, £3 in
northern division; on cattle stations, £2 18s.
in southern division, £3 3s. in northern divi-
sion. (2) The ordinary working hours for
tank-sinkers,, well-borers’ laborers, pick and
shovel men, rabbit and prickly-pear and burr
poisoners, burr and prickly-pear cutters, scrub-
fallers, ringbarkers and fencers must not exceed
44 hours in any one week or eight hours on any
day from Monday to Friday inclusive, and
four hours on Saturday. The ordinary work-
ing hours for employees who are required to
work among stock have not been fixed under
the award.
* * * *
How many contests did the late Young
Stribling have when he was in Australia, and
what were the results? —6532.
Seven. He stopped Ambrose Palmer in 10
rounds, Tony Gora in six, and George Thomp-
son in six. Jack Renault was knocked out by
Stribling in five rounds, and Frankie Wine and
Johnny Freeman were outpointed by him in
15 rounds each. A second contest with Free-
man was called “no fight” in the eighth round.
Brief Answers.
K.H.P.: (1) 1200 fowls would be considered
sufficient to provide a reasonable living for a
man and a small family. The question of the
number of ducks should not be considered at
the commencement. Ducks are not very profit-
able in S.A. (2) 1200 birds is about the
maximum number a man, with a little assistance
from his family, could look after. (3) It is not
considered that the poultry industry is over-
done in Australia. (4) Ducks can be hatched
in an incubator, but they would have to be
hatched separately from hen eggs, as they
require a little different treatment during incu-
bation than hen eggs do. (5) There are several
methods of stocking; the one usually followed
by those commencing is the purchase of
chickens at one day old, and the rearing of
them from that stage. (6) Laurie’s Poultry
Manual, obtainable from R. M. Osborne, Ltd.,
Currie-street, Adelaide... .F.M.H.: Write to
leading paper manufacturers in Sydney
H.K.L.: (1) Yes. (2) Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Defence, Melbourne.. ..B.B.: See
article in the Red Page of The Bulletin
for March 24, 1937... .R.L.: The article was
entitled “Are We Just Colonials'!” and was
printed in The Bulletin of June 28, 1939
J.M.: (1) Yes. This year’s competition closes
on June 6 next. (2) 1935, Kylie Tennant’s
Tiburon; 1936, Stella Miles Franklin’s All
That Swagger; 1937 and 1938, no award; 1939,
Stella Miles Franklin and Kate Baker’s Who
Was Joseph Furphy ? (3) No. (4) Write Chief
Librarian, Perth Public .Library, Perth H.T.:
Get in touch with , either Cockatoo Docks and
Engineering Cos. or Mort’s Dock and Engineer-
ing Cos. —both Sydney 8.C.A.: The average
annual rainfall at Armidale (NiS.W.) taken
over 73 years is 3.119 points D.C.: Johnson
and Ketchel fought only once —at Colma, Cal.,
on October 16, 1909, when Ketchel was
knocked out in the twelfth round. Ketchel was
killed by an assassin’s bullet on a Missouri
ranch in 1909, but Johnson is still alive in
New York J.L.S.: No, droughts occurred
long before wireless... .L.R.: Baker’s Young
Man with a Horn (Bs. 6d.)... .F.E.R.: Cannot
say. Only the artist could have told and he
is dead 8.A.: Write Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Dept., Sydney M.R.: (1) Mort-
gage-lending is a form of investment calling
for keen discrimination. (2) In the event of
inflation all holders of fixed money claims, such
as mortgages, stand to lose, owing to the
decreasing purchasing power of money
L.J.W.: (1) Yes; they are British subjects. (2)
Not in a position to supply the information
requested G.K.: See Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook (35.), obtainable lead-
ing booksellers J.G.C.: Information sup-
plied too vague to enable search being made.
A.M.H.: International Correspondence
Schools, 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney../.
G.M.W.: Somewhere about 1912 a landowner
in Coraki district (the name was possibly
Yaeger) contemplated running round about 800
to 1000 cows in the care of share-farmers and
milking them all at one central milking depot.
For this purpose he proposed building a huge
milking shed and the necessary equipment.
However, the dream never materialised—for
various reasons that would be obvious to a
practical dairyman —although it is believed he
did get a herd of up to about 500 going, but
found it more satisfactory to have them milked
on the various share-farms... .L. 8.: A person
marrying a second time whose wife or husband
has been continuously absent from such person
for seven years then last past, and has not
been known by such person to be living at
any time within that period, cannot be con-
victed of bigamy. In the case of such a person
the presumption is in favor of innocence, and
it is incumbent upon the. prosecution to show
that the prisoner knew that the wife or hus-
band was living. That is a clear statement ot
the law, and if your case conforms to it you
are at liberty to marry again W.F.M.D.:
It is not “mere bluff.” The firm of solicitors
acting on behalf of the executors under the
will is required to get in all debts due to the
estate .and may take legal proceedings to do so.
. ...A.8.C.: The phenomenon mentioned is
due to the formation of a rainbow by the light
of the moon in a way similar to the formation
by the sun in the daytime. The faintness of
the bands makes it difficult to distinguish the
different colors. The phenomenon, although
not frequent, has often been observed....
J B.: No record of any such tests having been
made ...8.5.: Most sprays are ineffective, the
only useful measure being frequent sweeping
down and clearing of walls, removal of small
collections of dry timber, etc. It is particu-
larly important in dry areas to clean out
thoroughly the interspaces below privy seats.
“Flytox” may be used, heavily sprayed directly
on to the spider or its nest, but its effect is
temporary. It does not affect paint... •
CW P * (1) Country Championships (Junior),
under 18 years on the date of competition.
(2) N.S.W. Junior Records: 100yds., D. B.
Dunn, 9.65ec.; 440yds., R. D. Angus, 51.85ec.,
880yds., S. H. Suhan, 2min. lsec ; one mile.
T. P. Gleeson, 4min. 37sec D.D..
Cross Society is not sending any
or trained nurses overseas the Red Cross unit
being composed entirely of men to date. Know
of no short course of training as a nurse i
stead of the regulation four years, and under
stand from the military authorities that only
fully-trained nurses who have completed four
years’ course of training are being sent abroad
by them. Suggest that you wnte to the
Women’s Voluntary National Register, Cos
monwealth Savings Bank Building, ‘
place, Sydney, and ask to be registered o
active war work.. ..J.M.L.: How JP are
Twenty Boats, 4s. 6d„ might help. There
no Australian publications of this c Ahs-
J.T.: Although there have been several A
tralian books published on horse-breeding, ,
are now out of print and ver y scarce. At
present Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
in their second-hand department a py
Breaking and Riding, by James Fdlis,
W.E.R.: Write to Australian Cement Man
facturers Assoc., 2 Camngton-street, Sydney.
Pamphlets Nos. 6 and 8, puhhshed by tha
assoc., should assist you with your problem


HTS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
V
mzk
:>•»
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Show Fleeces.
“J.R.D.”: Within the past few weeks
the later N.S.W. shearing districts have
held their annual shows, and at most
the display of fleeces has been creditable.
One or two country shows stage a
competitive wool section that exceeds
anything the central body in Sydney has
been able to attain. For many years
the R.A.S. has temporised with the idea
of a wool exhibit, though the last two
shows have given some evidence that the
idea is maturing. The R.A.S. should co-
operate with the country shows to have
the winning fleeces sent on to the Royal
or the Annual Sheep Show for a cham-
pionship of champion fleeces. It would
encourage many graziers to pick their
best fleeces at shearing time.
The value of such a scheme would not
lie merely in handing the red, white and
blue ribbon to a superfine fleece, but in
bringing together a collection of fleeces
representative of the best that every
corner of the State could grow.
Country competitions would need to
be standardised. There are at present
classes for both skirted and unskirted
fleeces. Some districts produce fine free
wools; others bold, burry types. Fleeces
may be judged on a price-per-pound
basis, on a commercial basis (total value
of fleece, belly and skirtings) or on a
scale of points. Some show committees
use all three systems, but the results are
apt to be bewildering ; a fleece may not
win a place in one section, but may beat
all the fleeces it previously competed with
when judged under a different method.
Organisation would be necessary to
arrange a system giving full value for
evenness in length of staple and eve
quality throughout a fleece. Prize-
winners could easily maintain a perma-
nent wool exhibit.
Wool Control in England.
“Ghanam”: Events in England show
how far the fears of the Commonwealth
Central Committee regarding methods of
wool control were justified.
The “Statist,” a leading financial jour-
nal, says that the policy of the control
authorities appears to be to favor the
export of manufactured woollens rather
than crude or semi-crude wool. It is
stimulating the sales of piece goods and
hosiery, but exporters of yarns are re-
ceiving little encouragement. And York-
shire papers are carrying on a campaign
for increased export connections. The
Manchester ‘ Guardian” points out that
“it is no secret that wool from sources
other than the Empire is consistently
higher-priced than wool produced within
the Empire.”
Foreigners can buy woollens manu-
factured in England more cheaply than
they can manufacture from raw wool,
and it seems that Australia could get a
higher price for raw wool sold to coun-
tries outside the Empire on an open
market. The U.S.A. is feeling the pinch.
The clip this year approximates to
1,450,000 bales Australian. To this have
been added so far 100,000 bales bought
from S’Africa at prices above Australian,
plus 125,000 bales allocated from the
Australian clip.
Drought Feeding.
“Ovis”: Silage is a basic drought feed
for sheep, but used alone it can’t hold
the woollies in condition. It is better
in combination with hay or with maize—
l|lb. silage and 4oz. maize, or lib. hay
and l|lb. silage.
Begin to feed while the animals are
still in strong condition. The change-
over to artificial feeding should be
gradual. Anything over lib. silage per
day is likely to cause digestive trouble
with sheep previously wholly grazed. If
a single ration is necessary, oaten or
wheaten hay does best—lib. to ljfb. per
day will keep a sheep going. Success
depends on the sheep getting the whole
of the feed. Feeding hay in the open
can be a wasteful business if there is any
wind, and where the job is not too big
animals should be trough-fed.
Hay bought at drought prices is not
economical; it should be bought when
prices are low and stored.
Grain-feeding is less wasteful, but
roughage is needed. Maize is best for
“Gel Dais oula the Way, I Wanter wean the c-a-l-f .”
the purpose. It is easily stored, and
crushing is not necessary for healthy adult
sheep, which have no trouble in dealing
with it. Some believe in soaking, but
when this is done animals are inclined
to pick up more than a fair ration of
dirt. Wheat is largely used, but is not
so good a ration for young sheep. Wheat
soaked in mplasses and water is popular
in some districts.
Meals —grain and meat —with molasses
are a sound emergency ration when
others are not available. Molasses, apart
from its feed value, is a healthy laxative
if not given in large quantities. A little
with drinking water every day helps.
U.S.A.’s Wheat Troubles.
“B. Cubbin”: Unless the position has
changed materially in the past few weeks,
the United States appears hardly likely
to add to the world wheat surplus this
season. In mid-January there was a
doubt whether the crop would satisfy
home-consumption needs and provide the
carryover necessary to maintain the
granary plan, under which wheat is with-
held from market under Government
loans to growers. On the great plains
the autumn and early winter were drier
than ever before. This is a critical
period for American winter wheat, as it
is then that the seedbed should receive
its moisture foundation. As late as mid-
December it was reported that there was
not enough moisture to ensure germi-
nation of more than half the wheat sown.
Weevil has been worse than for years.
In Kansas 1754 out of 6500-odd bins
were infested ; on some farms weevil was
so bad as to render the wheat useless for
market.
Under the U.S. crop-insurance plan
the farmer pays his premiums in wheat
and is paid in wheat should his crop
fail. He must sow the acreage insured,
whether conditions are right or not. If
the country’s crop turns out badly, the
insurance corporation will have to buy
wheat to pay the indemnities. Under
normal conditions it was expected that
premiums and indemnities would about
balance, and that the corporation would
build up a surplus to provide for lean
crop years. It has had no chance to
do that, and if it must buy in a season
of short crops the chances of U.S.A.
wheat affecting world prices become
pretty slim.
A Jubilee.
“Tryana”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department has just celebrated its fiftieth
birthday. It was founded in 1890, with
Sydney Smith as first Minister for Agri-
culture and H. C. L. Anderson as
Director.
The colony then was still very young
agriculturally. Depleted soil fertility, in-
tense competition in world’s markets,
high costs of production and other
present-day problems had not been met.
The average fleece weight was just over
silb., droughts meant entire crop failure,
wheat yields on even the best soils rarely
exceeded 20 bushels to the acre, pasture
improvement was unheard of, and dairy
herds averaged only 360 gallons of milk
per cow annually.
Today the department can point to
wheat yields of over 40 bushels per acre
in areas where wheat would not grow
in 1890. The 400,000-odd acres under
wheat in 1890 have grown to well over
4,000,000. The average fleece weight
today is over 81b., and the wool is of
better quality.
There are over 3,000,000 acres of sown
pastures in N.S.W., of which close on
1,000,000 are manured. The area under
fruit has risen from 33,000 acres 50 years
ago to close on 80,000 today, and the
State’s dairy herd is four times larger.
Milk production has risen from
119,000,000 gallons in 1890 to 328,000,000
gallons today; butter output has in-
creased by 112,000,0001 b., and the cheese
yield has been doubled. In this develop-
ment of primary production the depart-
ment has played a leading role.
Dealing with Potato Moth.
“Murphy”: Potatoes in N. S. Wales
suffer seriously from injury both to plant
and tuber caused by potato moth. Young
plants are a favorite prey.
The moth is small and grey, with a
wing expanse of about The rear
wings are narrower and smaller than
those in front. The egg-to-larva period
is about 27 days, and both egg and larva
are well camouflaged. The larvae are
bred on the underside of the leaves,
where the eggs are laid, and burrow into
the main stem via the leaves and offshoot
stems. The larvae are whitish, half an
inch in length, with a dark brown head
and sometimes with spots on the body.
Tubers are attacked if they are exposed
or allowed to lie in the ground after
harvesting. Eggs are laid in the eye of
the potato and in any cracks. Tubers are
generally safe when planted sin. to 7in.
below the surface and hilled at seven
or eight weeks. On the coast, where
quick germination is called for in early
crops, this technique is not possible, but
the rows should be hilled when the tubers
begin to form and kept well cultivated.
Healthy plants and seed help control the
pest considerably.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: To have all-the-year-
round pastures in coastal districts, sow
an area of rye grass and/or phalaris
tuberosa with clovers to supplement
paspalum-white clover. Topdress pas-
palum with super, to extend the grow-
ing season, stimulate white clover and
increase palatability. Turn over sod-
bound paspalum with a mouldboard
plough and topdress with lime and
super. No pasture succeeds without
super., and it is worth waiting the neces-
sary three years before paspalum-white


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions.
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers* friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES. —For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP.—For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, and
marking, etc.
PIGS. —For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS.—For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses, cracked
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites —It Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from: —
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributers:
Houses in All States.
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
When writing mention “The Bulletin. 1
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 1100 Sold —Shell Co., 66 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
ĵ
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Plus 5% increased cost of production.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write Desk B for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
j
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
AH that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations » 15
Sheep bought »> 20
Wire netting • • • • • • 99 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Do your feet
Hurt?
So many people to-day suffer
from tired and aching feet
because their Shoes are badly
shaped or fitted.
If your feet hurt, try Abbey
Orthopaedic Shoes. They re
natural shaped, and their true-
to-nature fit will give you life-
long comfort.
1. —Six different fittings to every
size.
2. True-to-nature shape.
3. —Special support in Arch.
4. —Moulded “snug-fit” backs.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY
ORTHOPAEDIC SHOES
316 George St. 224 Pitt St.
53 Castlereagh St.
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: Abbey Boots, Sydney■
clover grassland shows the maximum
response to the treatment.
“Jayem”: Sow Italian rye and red
clover for winter feed in good rainfall
areas. The mixture gives two years of
good grazing, increases soil fertility for
following crops and is less trouble than
oats or other cereals as it does not have
to be cut. Shallow summer cultivation
keeps the seedbed free of weeds and con-
serves moisture, but cease cultivation by
the end of February so that the surface
will acquire a natural firmness. Early in
March sow 12 of M.L. certified leafy
biennial Italian rye grass and 31b. of
European red clover per acre. On well-
prepared seedbeds where there is ample
subsoil moisture, don’t wait for rain, as
early feed is the aim. Sow through the
fertiliser distributor of a drill, or, mixed
with fertiliser, by hand. Cover the seed
with a netting harrow or an ordinary
harrow with the tines reversed. Red
clover likes a very firm seedbed, so roll-
ing may be necessary after sowing. On
fertile soils use lewt. to 2cwt. of super,
per acre ; on less fertile soils, 2cwt. of
super, and of super at sowing,
Apply at the same rate in the second
year. Start grazing for short periods of
20 minutes daily, gradually increasing as
the plants become strongly established.
Don’t let the rye grass smother the
clover. Have at least four paddocks
two to four acres each—to provide fresh
grazing. For hay, close some paddocks
early in September and cut in December,
t „, , ,
B.C. : At Sydney Show the whea
exhibits were more than in 1939, and
the best of the grain came from the
north-west of N.S.W., where the short
fallow system is the general rule and
few growers use super., the soil appar-
ently containing enough of the elements
which it is intended to supply. Both
Pusas did well in competition, and
Cailloux showed out well among the new
wheats. So did Febweb I, which won
the Commonwealth championship class
and a first in the medium strong novice
class. Pusa IV won in the strong class
and Pusa 111 in the novice strong. Ben-
cubbin, Ford and Nabawa showed up
well in their classes, but the Dundee
samples were not so good as usual. A
sample of Gular was the best medium
strong wheat and Bencubbin the best
soft wheat.
“Mookau”: Stud cattle prices at the
Sydney R.A.S. were generally better than
last year, but those who hoped for a
substantial rise were disappointed. Mrs.
Biddlecombe’s Golf Hill Cavalcade, re-
serve champion Hereford, was knocked
down for 725 guineas. Other Golf i
sires brought over 200 guineas and Percy
Reynolds s Hobartvil e Royal Chief went
for 160 guineas, Valiant Chief tor 2UU
guineas. J. H. White, of Timor, got 250
guineas for Timor Manner. Peel
Pageant topoed the Shorthorn market
at 350 guineas, and D. R. McCaughey
sold Coonong Javelin for 250 guineas.
The Aberdeen sales were disappointing ;
H. G. Munro’s Abingdon Elex brought
top price (175 guineas) from A. W.
Scott, of Young.
“Poddy”: “Beefo” (B. 13/3/’4O) wants
to know why cattlemen still firebrand
the most valuable part of the hide,
usually on the rump. The chief reason
is so that the brand may be noted
quickly. On big stations among large
herds, stockmen work mainly on the
earmark ; but the brand is also neces-
sary. Another reason is that cattle are
branded almost invariably on the most
accessible part—a saving of time when
working, and time still means money.
And what inducement is there for
growers to alter their practice? Cattle
buyers base prices solely on the value
of the beet carried. I never heard ot
a penny an animal extra being pad
because it was branded in a Posfli p
vllSf of e the a Wde fetbuje« set a
lead and the cattlemen will quickly
respond. _
Outback Occupations.
No. XII.
BREAKING IN A HORSE.
The chestnut filly is just over two
years old. She has a wide blaze on her
face and a slightly wall near eye, which
gives her an untrustworthy look on that
side. The boys complain that it’s about
time she did something for her keep, and
suggest she be broken in. You shrewdly
suspect that the young imps are looking
for a bit of excitement, and become con-
vinced of it when they persuade you to
decide on a Sunday morning for the
preliminary work, and you come out on
that morning to find the yard full of
horses and half the youth of the country-
side gathered on your farm.
In the yard the horses are nervous.
They keep milling round; there is some
biting, and the chestnut filly slaps her
heels on to old King’s rump, hard. King,
usually staid, resents this, and takes the
filly by the scruff of the neck. All the
horses buck and kick. You realise that
the old horses know this isn’t a working-
day, and suspect they’ve been yarded for
something out of the ordinary. They
know, too, that the audience of young
humans portends something. As you
enter the yard old friends of plough and
header snort and regard you with dis-
trust, you catch a glimpse of the filly’s
wall-eye and feel a queer foreboding.
The fact that you carry a long pole
with a fork at one end, through which
runs a looped rope, doesn’t soothe the
nags any, and, as you circle warily, try-
ing to get the loop near the filly’s head,
they begin to charge round that yard as
though they were in a chariot race. With
a bitter rage you observe that even old
Molly, the fat mare that stands unmoved
while stubble burns and empty iron tanks
bowl past her in high winds, seems to
think you are a monster from mytho-
logy, and is flying round the yard, too.
By a lucky turn you get the loop over
the filly’s head, and the rope tightens on
her neck. She stops, trembling, that wall-
eye looking at you evilly. “Get the
others out!” you scream at the boys,
and half the audience falls off the fence
and rushes to open the gate. The free
horses pour through that gate like a
cavalry charge; everything is blurred in
a cloud of dust. Your arms are sud-
denly jerked from their sockets as the
filly realises that she is the prisoner and
plunges across the yard. You are dragged
after her, trying to utter soothing words
and trying to shorten the rope. She
rises at the fence, and the other half of
the audience falls off it as her chest
knocks the upper two rails away and
she gets half-over. There is a wild flurry
of flying hooves and hurrying figures;
you bounce about on the end of the
rope like a jam-tin on a tyke’s tail, and
then you’re dragged across the broken
rails as the filly gets to her feet on the
other side and sets out at full gallop for the
Queensland border. You hear something
crack, and cry out “My leg’s broken,”
then pick yourself up and walk with dig-
nity through the averted eyes of your own
and the visiting young to the house.
About an hour later, the noises of
the youngsters having died down, you
go out. Young Tom is holding the filly
and stroking her. Another lad has King
and another has Molly. As you watch
they quickly yoke Molly and King to a
couple of heavy logs, then Tom quietly
backs the filly in between them.
You walk firmly to the scene, look the
horses over and say, “Well, good work,
Tommy.” Then you pick up the reins
and speak to Molly and King. They
move. The filly trembles, then plunges
forward. One of the logs scrapes your
foot. As you leap aside you pull on
Molly’s rein and she obeys. The fiiiy
shakes her head violently, tries to rear,
but is held down by Tom’s gear, and
stops. You speak to Molly and King,
and they move again. The filly sits
down. The pull on the winkers allows
you to see that wall-eye and the wall-
eye to see you. She gives a sort oi
bellow, and tries to stand on her head,
then whips round and stands facing you,
pulling hard at the harness and shaking
her head rapidly. The winkers fall off, and
she gets a leg over Molly’s trace-chain.
Molly lashes out, King snorts and goes
away sideways like a crab, and the filly
squeals and tries to play leapfrog with
both of them. In the end you have a
tableau that would baffle any puzzle
expert.and no skin on one hand.
You say to Tom, “Here, hold them
while I get something for this,” and make
for the house, where you dab iodine on
the wound and curse fretfully at the sting.
You are just about ready to go out again
when the telephone rings.
It is Bill. He’s prepared to buy the
filly unbroken if your price is reasonable.
From the telephone you can see Tom
driving three horses abreast across the
paddock. They are pulling a couple of
heavy logs. Steadily they go, turning
this way and that, a bit jerky, but going
along nicely. The middle one is a chest-
nut filly. You can’t see the wall-eye.
“Well, Bill,” you tell the ’phone, “if
you want that filly I reckon she’s worth
more than you think. Eh? No. But
I broke her in. Aw, she wasn’t much
trouble, an’ you know how I am with
horses. Yair, Bill, she’ll work all right.
What’s that? Wild? Aw, I dunno. She
might’ve been, but I soon took that out
of her. Righto, y’ can come an’ have a
look at her nex’ Sunday.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4gd. per line; all others at
2!d. per line.
For a pithy indictment of the “fashionable” war worker, a Coogee (N.S.W.)
writer gets double pay.
Patriotic “Work”
If anything amuses me more than a
Disney rib-tickler it’s reading how the
ultra-socialites “work like Trojans” in
their anxiety to supplement war funds.
Of course, if dancing in aid of the Finns,
selling theatre programmes in aid of the
Poles, or “spotting” at posh parties in
aid of the Diggers is hard work, then
the parlormaids of Potts Point get their
pay by false pretences. Being photo-
graphed twice weekly for the flapper
press must be too, too utterly tiring, too.
It has been said that entertainments
organised by our young lovelies have
been responsible for the lion’s share of
patriotic funds collected to date. Prob-
ably that is true, but would these
“workers” be so enthusiastic but for the
social capital gained from their “toil”?
It is no secret that since the war began
city missions, kindergartens in industrial
suburbs, local hospital charities and the
like have experienced a serious lack of
financial support and wholesale desertion
of erstwhile helpers. Why? Simply be-
cause these days it’s romantic to be
patriotic and fashionable to be tagged a
war-worker. In other words, the people
who can afford to be rational have de-
veloped a pronounced war-aiding com-
plex at the expense of the needy at home.
Admittedly, the troops appreciate com-
forts and distressed nations need help,
but surely less limelighting and more
sincerity on the part of voluntary
workers would lend greater justice to
their cause. Charity is a splendid senti-
ment, but perspective is a fine thing too,
and our otherwise-idle and wealthy
young women certainly seem to have
mislaid theirs. —P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
“P. O. M. C.” lives in Carrington-road,
Coogee, Sydney.
Taking It Seriously
The Prime Minister and others have
recently chided us for not taking the
war seriously. Well, can anyone tell me
what I ought to do? An ex-regular officer
of the Imperial Army, .1 am told that
I am too old for war service. I am 42,
and consequently am also too old for
non-war service, as everything stops at
40 in commercial life.
I spend a lot of my time reading the
newspapers, but find it impossible to take
the news seriously. For instance, the
other day I read in the evening paper
that when the Finnish peace delegates
went to the Kremlin they were given one
glass of beer each when it was all over,
and then Stalin came in and slapped
them on the back. Next day I read
in the morning paper that when the
Finnish delegates went to the Kremlin
they never saw Stalin at all, and there
was no mention of beer. Now when one
is let down like that by the press, how
can one take the war seriously?
Then, again, I have to wade through
all sorts of matter, like Miss Hoggen-
bloom’s engagement to Percy Mither-
stone and Mrs. Blahblah’s cocktail party
for Arg Noggensteimer, before I can get
anywhere near the war news, and then
when I do get to it I probably find an
announcement to the effect that when
Hitler heard that England was to be
allowed three ounces of meat weekly
instead of two he fell on the floor and
began tearing the pattern out of the
carpet with his teeth. Whenever I go
to town I always endeavor to enter into
polite conversation with any who look
as if they might be taking the war seri-
ously, but all I can get out of them is
that we don’t know enough about it.
Meantime I see racing, drinking,
dancing and all that sort of thing going
on as usual. I see politicians still junket-
ing about as usual. I hear of boards,
commissions and jobs for ex-politicians.
So what am I to do? I could look more
serious, but apart from that I don’t know
how I could take the war more seriously.
—S.O.S. (N.S.W.).
Method's of War
The Stunt Press and the pacifists are
mainly to blame for the lack of horror
with which the world has witnessed the
brutal methods of warfare resorted to by
the Germans and the Russians in Europe
(B. 13/3/’4O).
In the 1920’s and the early 1930’5,
when the international atmosphere was
tranquil, newspapers had difficulty in
finding a sufficient quota of sensations.
Hence recourse was had by many of the
less sober organs to the publication of
bloodcurdling accounts of how the next
war would be fought. It was taken for
granted that whatever country found it
to its advantage to do so would use the
submarine as unscrupulously as Germany
employed it in the Great War, and that
the aeroplane would be directed as much
against residential quarters of cities as
against legitimate military objectives.
Predictions were even made that belli-
gerent Powers would not scruple to use
deadly disease germs. There was talk
of the discovery of a death-ray, and of
new poison gases so potent that a few
drops sprayed from a single ’plane could
destroy the population of a large town.
Pacifists during those years carried out
intensive propaganda on the same lines,
hoping thus to scare the peoples of the
world into abhorrence of war. Scientists
of international reputation lent the pres-
tige of their names to this propaganda.
As a result, the average citizen came
to look on such methods of warfare, not
as too devilish for any civilised Govern-
ment to contemplate, but as certain to
be employed by one side, if not by both,
in any future conflict. Hence, when he
finds Russia and Germany availing them-
selves of some of them, he cannot feel
the indignation that Germany’s ruthless-
ness in the Great War roused in a gen-
eration bred in the chivalrous military
tradition of the nineteenth century. —
D. A. (N.S.W.).
No War Interest
Has any other fellow considered the
possibility of issuing war loans free of
interest? In the first place, we are en-
gaged in a life-and-death struggle, call-
ing for every ounce of energy and power.
Quite apart from the moral question of
whether it is right or not to make money
out of the war, no interest would mean
the release of huge sums for its conduct,
and its successful conclusion would be
sufficient return on any loan at this time.
Secondly, interest-free war loans are
the logical result of the nation-wide cry
for no war profits, such as were made
during the last war. The public, in de-
manding—and rightly, too —the pre-
vention of profiteering, should be con-
sistent enough to forgo its war profits
as well.
Thirdly, if, like insurance companies,
trading banks and A.8.C., which in the
first loan took up sums ranging from
£lO,OOO to £1,000,000, we can afford to
lend large amounts, then we can afford
to do without the interest. If we can
afford only small amounts, the interest
would be so negligible as not to be worth
bothering about.
Finally, it would be a practical way
of demonstrating our patriotism. In-
terest-free war loans would mean sooner
or later some relief from taxation. Aus-
tralia is still paying interest on 1914-18.
By going without interest now we would
save our successors something from this
wreck. — Kingsman (Vic.).
Peace Through Culture
In 1859, Henri Dunant, horrified by
the suffering he witnessed at the battle
of Solferino, in Italy, started the Inter-
national Red Cross movement, which has
saved many thousands of lives and pre-
vented an infinity of pain.
Since 1915, Nicholas Roerich, an
archaeologist, has been striving to estab-
lish a similar movement, this time ap-
plied to inanimate objeets of cultural
value such as cathedrals, museums, art
galleries and other treasures of art. His
suggestion is that such innocent and beau-
tiful works of man’s hand should be
protected by mutual consent of the belli-
gerents under a peace banner showing
three red dots within a red circle on a
white ground.
Already the idea has been endorsed by
almost every political, religious and in-
tellectual world leader, from the Pope
to the Mikado. The ideal may in time
become a fact, and if so Roerich will
deserve a very large statue to his memory.
The human family seems fated to have
its quarrels. Old habits are hard to
break. Even in the best regulated fami-
lies there are occasional upsets, but
smashing all the best china and the most
valuable heirlooms is simply not done.
The Red Cross did not stop war, but it
brought succor to the wounded. The
new banner will not stop vandalism alto-
gether, but it may save for future genera-
tions some of the treasures that belong,
not to any nation or time, but to the
world and all posterity as the outward
and visible symbols of intellectual cul-
ture. — Gorilla (S.A.).
Good Old U.S.A.
Our friends across the water have
been coming into the war ever since it
started. In fact, before it started they
were doing their level best to get the
war going on a world-wide scale —a big
line-up of democracies against dictator-
ships—and they won’t be really happy
until they’re defending the British Em-
pire. They’re coming in fast, right now.
At least, so I am being assured almost
daily by fellow-Australians who think
I’m potty for disagreeing.
If my fellow-Australians are correct
in their judgment of U.S.A., then it’s
quite right for Americans to supply
Germany, Russia and Japan with war
supplies and raw materials in liberal
quantities. It’s just their way of helping
us, and the statements by American
politicians and press —so unusually
unanimous on this point—that America
is going to keep right out of the war
well, that’s just pulling wool over the
eyes of the dictators. Any fool can
see through that, except me of
course, the dictators.
Another thing I haven’t been able
to grasp is that the Americans really
know us and like us —we Australians are
like brothers to them. So far practically
no American tourists except a couple of
millionaire shiploads have been here,
and Americans who know Australians
through trade amount to not more than
a few thousand; but the whole 130
millions feel they know Australians real
well —well enough to come over and fight
for us if necessary—because they saw
our exhibit at the New York World’s
Fair and we won the Davis Cup last
year. Of course they don’t ever read
about us in the newspapers or in their
schoolbooks, but it’s reassuring to think
they look on us as brothers.
Other bonds that bind us close enough
to fight for one another are the bonds
of language, talkies, religion, democracy,
anti-Nazism, liberty, Anglo-Saxon blood,
and so on. The more I hear the more
I realise how dumb I must be not to
know and trust America to defend the
Empire for us. Maybe I’m so thick in
the skull that it’s quite impossible to
expect me to take it all in until the
Great Defender of Democracy is actually
fighting right beside the Empire.—■
D.J.G. (Vic.).
Refugees
The Minister for the Interior, Senator
Foil, in an interview with a Sydney news-
paper said, “Permits (for entrance) were
cancelled at the outbreak of war, ex-
cept in a few special cases.”
On the very day upon which Senator
Foil gave his interview the Sydney press
reported: “An Italian liner which has
arrived brought nearly 400 passengers,
mostly aliens, to Australian ports. The
nationalities represented include Ger-
mans, Austrians, refugee Jews, Italians,
Czechs, Poles, Hungarians, Greeks, Swiss,
Dutch, Danes, Rumanians, Yugoslavs
and Maltese.” And Senator Foil said
that “the circumstances would need to
be exceptional before a landing permit
was issued to a person from an enemy
country.”
Senator Foil added that migration to
Australia was practically at a standstill.
It will be an unhappy day for Australia
when the Department of the Interior
really gets going with its migration
policy.—No Folly (N.S.W.).
Badge-sellers
Friday in Adelaide is badge-selling
day. I take pride in the fact that, through
long experience, I have become rather
expert in the art of not buying a badge.
I can now walk down the street on a
Friday without experiencing the horrible
feeling that I am about to be sixpence
poorer.
This happy state of affairs, however,
is not to last long. One Friday a woman
came barging down the passage and into
my office without even knocking at the
door, and before I knew what was hap-
pening a badge adorned my lapel and
the lady’s collecting tin was sixpence
richer.
That lady was nothing if not deter-
mined. She whirled into the manager’s
office and, as he was on the ’phone,
waited for 10 minutes until he was dis-
engaged. She strode confidently into our
salesman’s room when he was just trying
to pull off a big deal. And after going
into every office in our big building she
departed among chuckles from those who
had escaped and groans from mugs like
me.
Badge-sellers should not be allowed in
offices. They interfere with business
matters and take sixpences from young
men and women who find it hard enough
to pay their board and live on what is
left without providing income for the
Dogs’ Home. —Je Dis (S.A.).
Versailles
So the Treaty of Versailles freed four-
fifths of the minorities of Europe (B.
6/3/’4O).
As a result of that treaty Germans
(more than two millions of them), the
Slovaks, most of the Ruthenes, and some
Hungarians and Poles passed under the
yoke of the Czechs. A large number of
Hungarians, the Szeklers, some Germans
and the Bessarabian Russians were in-
corporated in Rumania, which already
had a Bulgarian minority. The Croats
and the Montenegrins—the latter previ-
ously an independent people—came un-
der the control of the enlarged Serbia,
which is now known as Yugoslavia.
That country also gained a large Hun-
garian minority and smaller German,
Italian and Bulgarian minorities. There
were many Germans and Croats in the
territories acquired by Italy. The Poles
secured ascendancy over German,
Lithuanian, Ruthenian and Ukrainian
Russian minorities, the whole amounting
to several millions of people. Lyle
(N.S.W.).
Coal Strike
It says much for our democratic toler-
ance when a section of the working com-
munity is allowed to flout openly a
Court decision and, egged on by the
agents of a Power which treacherously
allied itself to the common enemy, to
start a strike which may have serious
repercussions.
The law is on the side of the colliery
owners, and insistence on less work for
more pay when the nation is undergoing
the strain of war and needs the co-opera-
tion of all its people is a cause that is
not likely to evoke sympathy or support
from patriotic Australians. Noham
(N.S.W.).
The Micawber-like attitude of Mr.
Menzies in declining to interfere in the
coal strike will surely merit the con-
demnation of all sane thinking Aus-
tralians. Linked as it is with the steel
and transport industries, coal is a vital
factor in the smooth functioning of our
war effort. A prolonged strike might
well mean the complete collapse of that
effort, which would be a major disaster
for the Empire. During the Corio cam-
paign Mr. Menzies reiterated ad nauseam
that Hitler would be closely watching
the results of that election, and would
derive unbounded satisfaction from a
Government defeat. Does he think a
small matter such as a nation-wide
strike will escape the propaganda dis-
pensary of Adolf?
As captain of the ship of State it is Mr.
Menzies’s duty to try to effect a settle-
ment. Every day means further con-
fusion, and renders a solution more
difficult. The strike is not of Menzies’s
making, and any honest attempt to end
it can only react to his credit. Mean-
while, it is little use asserting that the
laws of arbitration must be observed.
If the spirit of arbitration had ruled
there would be no war today, and the
League of Nations would be pre-eminent.
Crux of the trouble is that the legal
mind cannot always appreciate the prac-
ticalities and the technicalities of an in-
dustry when making an award. Theirs
is a world of theory, inanimate, and
nothing more than a glorified chess board.
Direct negotiations between the parties,
under the chairmanship of an indepen-
dent authority, mutually agreed upon,
and an acknowledged expert in the
mining sphere, would appear to hold the
best chances of a successful settlement.
—Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Don’t Work for Nothing
One of the reasons why there are so
many confidence men and smart Alecs
is because there are very many more men
with the same opinions as “Twice Shy”
and his advisers (B. 6/3/’4O). By accept-
ing a dud cheque for a spot of work
and letting the drawer get away with it,
“Twice Shy” makes himself as culpable


as his employer, for the latter is going
to carry on his merry game so long as
there are mugs to let him.
There is no question of taking action
for drawing a worthless cheque—that is
a police matter, and the detective was
failing in his duty when he advised
“Twice Shy” to grin and bear it—it is
simply a question of payment for work
and labor done. A cheque is not pay-
ment until it is cleared, so that all “Twice
Shy” had to do was have a chat with the
local police and buy the necessaiy stamp
for a summons. The whole thing would
take only a few minutes, and if the clever
guy did let it get as far as the court
“Twice Shy” would get his judgment,
and in default distress.
Years ago I worked for the High
Panjandrum of the district and received
a cheque in payment. Only after this
cheque was dishonored did kind friends
tell me that others had suffered in the
same way and none of them had done
anything about it as it wasn’t worth it.
I thought otherwise, saw the local John,
bought a ss. stamp and looked forward
to a day’s holiday at the court. There
was a great sensation when the H.P.
received the summons and I was severely
criticised by the local social climbers.
But I got my money, plus ss. for the
stamp, without going to court. For long
after employees had only to mention
summons to get their money on the nail.
—Jesmond (Vic.).
The Regulation Strike
Now that so many N. S. Wales trans-
port workers have adopted the policy
of carrying out departmental regulations
to the letter, with consequent delay and
irritation to the Government and the
public, they should, to be consistent, give
precise attention to the rules which for-
bid smoking on duty, drinking in uni-
form, using departmental material for
private purposes, occupying seats while
passengers stand, wearing uniforms when
not on duty, and playing cards or other-
wise wasting departmental time.
Having seen to those, they might then
proceed to enforce the following: No
smoking in non-smoking compartments,
feet not to be placed on seats, no spitting
in compartments, children in smokers to
be charged full fare, nothing to be
thrown out windows, and courtesy always
to be shown to the public. E. J. B.
(N.S.W.).
Centralisation Evils
An officer of the N.S.W. Education De-
partment, sent on a tour which covered
altogether 22,000 miles, noticed a great
deal more than decayed schools during
his peregrinations. Only one town out-
side Sydney has free baths, and only
one boasts an art gallery and a free public
library. The Encyclopaedia Britannica is
accessible to inquiring citizens in only
one town beyond the metropolis.
And attached to every country town
are slums which make the worst in Syd-
ney seem like desirable residential areas.
They are made worse in most cases by
the complete absence of any sort of
sanitary system or piped water. There
is no outcry about these slums and there
is no talk about spending money for re-
housing schemes.
This observer’s summary of conditions
as he saw them is a powerful criticism
of the results of a centralisation policy
that is going on unchecked. The situa-
tion deserves consideration and a careful
inquiry into remedies. It would be im-
possible to scatter amenities possible in
the city over the whole State, but the
growth of only a few towns into full
modernity would bring the amenities a
little closer to country people.
Every industry today is in some way
protected or subsidised. It would be
simple, as a matter of policy, to extend
the advantages to them as a reward for
activity in some country centre, withdraw-
ing from them the encouragement to
assist in the bloat of a big city. The
growth of the larger country centres
would be followed by cultural advance
and ability to install amenities now only
available in the city.—H. M. (N.S.W.).
Secondary Industries
There is a tendency amongst farmers
to belittle the importance of secondary
industries. This, despite the fact that the
man on the land benefits greatly from
any expansion of second industry. It
is not so long ago that most of our
potted meats, preserved fruits, vegetables,
oiscuits, spaghetti, tinned fish and similar
edibles were imported. Now, Australian
cereals, sugar and eggs are used to pro-
duce biscuits, and the tins in which they
are packed are made in this country.
Surplus fruit and vegetables are preserved
and sold in glass jars of Australian
origin.
We are still lax in making full use
of the shoals of fish in the oceans which
wash Australian coasts, but some atten-
tion is being given to preserving and
canning our finny wealth. Australian
sauces, beans, golden corn, soups, pickles,
pineapples and fruit salads, packed in
Australian containers bearing labels de-
signed and printed by Australian work-
people, have found their home market.
And there is such a market for aspara-
gus grown in Bathurst (N.S.W.) district
that rapid expansion in the area devoted
to its cultivation can meet only portion
of the demand. Sweet-corn production
promises to become an important in-
dustry in some districts with the advent
of Australian canning. Australian malt
and wine vinegars are past the novelty
stage.
Much has been done, but there are
plenty of opportunities whereby primary
production can be greatly helped by
secondary industries, which provide a
market for farm-grown crops and buyers
for the finished articles, as everyone
employed in a factory is a consumer. —
Sam Square (N.S.W.).
The Kimberleys
Speaking of fertile land (B. 13/3 /’4O)
brings to mind the north-western corner
of our continent, the Kimberley country
(W.A.). Men who have travelled over
this vast territory have reported that
there are great tracts of fertile land be-
tween the ranges and mighty rivers.
The main problem confronting the
settler in these parts is transportation. In
the first place the rugged King Leopold,
Sir John, Pentecost and Bastion ranges
have to be crossed. But they have been
crossed, and by drovers with mobs of
cattle, who also got them across the
rivers and through to Wyndham.
Governments have spent thousands on
so-called “scenic roads” in mountain
country. I know of one such road, ex-
tending for 4} miles, which took two
years to build and is said to have cost
£34,000. If money can be spent on
such roads as this, surely some could
be spared to lay a stock route which
would be of definite benefit to settlers
battling in the Kimberleys. The trail has
been blazed by such men as the Mc-
Donalds, Duracks and Buchanans, and
their spirit and courage still abound in
lots of young Australians today. Give
them a fighting chance, and they’ll make
the best of it. — Wanderer (N.S.W.).
“The Tourist Menace”
To what lengths will this insidious
tourist menace be allowed to expand?
On every hand the farmer is being sac-
rificed that these travelling people may
have every comfort. While anything
suffices for the producer, the country is
everywhere being opened up for the
pleasure of his more fortunate brother,
who is catered for with expensive roads
and luxurious accommodation. In most
country towns the old family hotel (meals
at all hours) has been ousted by
pretentious establishments for tourists.
Workmen, drovers, etc., are discouraged
because the worker is not considered an
attraction.
In many towns drovers are now un-
able to obtain a meal when they arrive
a few minutes late. Nor are they per-
mitted to boil the kettle themselves in
these former havens of refuge, as the
city chefs' feelings must be considered.
As the cattle must be driven early and
late to avoid the heat, they generally
leave on another long dusty stretch
minus breakfast, which cannot be pro-
cured before the fashionable late hour.
“We must encourage tourists ; they are
an asset to the country.” Judging by the
treatment each receives, the farmer then
must be a liability.— E. Carol (Vic.).
Opera in English
Further to “Opera in English” (B.
13/3 / ’4O), Richard Crooks, the American
tenor, insists on singing in English to
English-speaking audiences. The greatest
difficulty, he says, is to secure good trans-
lations of foreign operas and songs. We
have Government-subsidised films, so
why not divert some of the money
allotted thereto to encourage the com-
petent translation of foreign operas and
songs?— Signor Verdi (W.A.).
Railways or Roads
Apart from a small 15-tonner, built
for negotiating unmade tracks in Cen-
tralia, a real road-train has yet to be
built. Until engineering science has failed
to build one of 60 tons capacity or over,
and operate it on a competitive basis
with railways, the extension of railroads
in our undeveloped regions should not
be considered.
Road transport hasn’t a chance.
Strangulation Acts prevent it from com-
peting with railways, while, ironically,
the only roads suitable for heavyweight
traffic run parallel to railways. Before
condemning road-trains we should build
one and give it a suitable road to run
on. If Bourke and Darwin were con-
nected by a road up to the standard of
the Hume Highway who would want to
swap it for a Bourke-to-Birdum rail-
way which would be used about once a
fortnight?
Engineers recently constructed a vehicle
to convey 43-ton condensers from Ryl-
stone (N.S.W.) over 20 miles of mountain
road, built to carry only 10 tons and
having sharp bends, to the shale oil
works at Glen Davis. If our many Gov-
ernments were prepared to use some of
the money wasted in railway deficits to
encourage engineers to invent a heavy-
weight-carrying road-train the transport
problem for Central and North Australia
would soon be solved.— -Puff (N.S.W.).
State Parliaments
Every time one of the more enlightened
politicians of N. S. Wales or Victoria
raises a voice to join the crescendo of
resentment against unnecessary State
Parliaments there is a shrill screech of
fear from one of our “little Australians”
in this State. They are always members,
ex-members or aspiring members of the
State Parliament. Even the Labor party,
which has unification as a plank of its
platform, is frightened to say much about
it here for fear of losing the support
of people who have been stampeded into
believing that Sydney and Melbourne
alone would flourish if the only Parlia-
ment House were at Canberra.
Although S.A. is already drawing from
the Commonwealth far more in hard
cash and services than it pays into the
pool, the State-righters find it a con-
venient political catch-cry and excuse for
their own failings to say that the small
States are already suffering severely
under Federal control. They go on to
say that the small States would be still
worse off under unification.
That’s the parrot-call in the Liberal
and Country League (U.A.P.) here. The
Labor party talks about a scheme for
dividing Australia into 32 provinces,
which would each have a provincial
governing body exercising powers con-
ferred on it by the unified and single
Commonwealth Parliament. I’m not just
sure how that squares up with The
Bulletin’s idea of what’s what; but I’m
sure that The Bulletin wouldn’t allow
us to fall for anything that promised
even the possibility of developing into
32 Parliaments instead of seven.
If there were a necessary form of
glorified shire councils as regional gov-
erning bodies I imagine that the areas
at present really hardly done by would
have far better championing of their
rights than they get from the largely
city-bound and centralised State Parlia-
ments and Governments.
And even if S.A.’s legislators do get
less pay, at £4OO, than any other State,
and even if they do include fewer
academic “duds” —only one degreed man
apart from five lawyers that doesn’t
justify the State’s cost of Parliamentary
government per head of population
being twice as great as in N. S. Wales
and Victoria (2s. lid. against Is. 6d.).
—Two Eyes (S.A.).
Something Is Being Done
I’d like to query that statement of
“Pawang’s” (B. 13/3/’4O) that the
authorities are taking no interest in re-
gard to the contracting and treatment
of v.d.
I am a compulsory trainee. Shortly
after entering camp we were treated to
a lecture from the M.O. on the whys and
wherefores of v.d. Prophylactic outfits
are on issue and the camp dressing
station is open for examination and
treatment.
I doubt if there is much more
“Pawang” would want the authorities to
do. The men concerned know all about
it, and that’s all that really matters. —
A. P. (N.S.W.).
Another View
“J.D.” (B. 21/2/ ’4O) covers only part
of the story of “State Housing in M.L.”
He probably does not know that these
State houses, which are undoubtedly well
built and up to date, are only “economic”
from the tenants’ point of view. What
hurts the ordinary citizen who has had
enough courage and enterprise to build
or buy his own house is that he has to
pay for his own, while the tenant of a
State house gets his at a rental which
does not cover all costs —and the man
burdened with his own payments has also
to pay his share of this deficiency.
The levelling, filling and preparing of
sections for building, also the laying out
of grounds, fencing, concrete paths, etc.,
are not charged against the cost of these
houses; nor are the costs of architects,
inspectors, rent collecting, etc., taken
into consideration. A fresh army of
Government servants has sprung up in
connection with this huge enterprise, the
cost of which is again divided up in such
a way that no one knows how much, if
any, of the upkeep of the dwellings is
charged to Housing.
Maoriland will soon have the greatest
army of Government servants of any
country outside Russia. That £10,000,000
has been spent and a further £10,000,000
is being spent on housing has also had
a very serious effect on finances gener-
ally, causing a tightening up of money
in all directions.
The Government, notwithstanding its
enormously increased revenue derived
from heavy taxation, finds that it cannot
-—or, at any rate, it will not —pay its hous-
ing contractors promptly. In the result
many of these are having the utmost
difficulty in meeting their commitments.
The ideal of houses for workers at
rentals they can afford to pay has been
entirely lost sight of, for, while 90 p.c.
of the workers are still waiting for the
promised cheap homes, our first-grade
comrades heads of Government de-
partments, union bosses, heads and man-
agers of businesses—are all being accom-
modated at rentals which do not cover
their actual cost by from ss. to 15s. per
week.—H. A. (M.L.).
Poetry
“Charles C.” (B. 13/3/ ’4O) claims that
poetry is not dying out, but he condemns
it to an existence in the printed word.
May it not be claimed that today poetry
is not merely surviving, but extending
its scope to fields where it once flourished
and produced some of the world’s great-
est poetry—in drama?
The revival of poetry in drama is the
most outstanding phenomenon in the
contemporary theatre. This is surely
proved by the success of plays written
in blank verse —in America, Maxwell
Anderson’s “Winterset,” “Elizabeth the
Queen” and “High Tor,” and Auden and
lsherwood’s “Ascent of F. 6” ; in England,
T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral.”
Catherine Duncan’s play “The Sword
Sung,” produced in Melbourne last year,
also shows the greater depth that verse
is capable of giving a play.
Verse is a far more pliable medium
than prose and allows the actor a greater
range of feeling and expression. What,
for example, would Hamlet’s soliloquies
be in prose? As Shakspeare used prose
for contrast, so modern playwrights are
increasingly using verse, which often
rises to poetry of a high quality. It is
only by seeing these plays acted that one
becomes aware of the full pregnancy
of the verse.
Admittedly poetry is ruined by elo-
cutionist affectations, from which broad-
casters are not always free; but surely
this comes from lack of knowledge, which
repeated contact with verse can remedy.
Gerard Manley Hopkins told Bridges
that he wrote his verse to be read aloud,
that by doing so the “sprung” verse
could be most easily appreciated.—
E. P. R. (Vic.).
A Precedent?
Two young fellows were charged at
quarter sessions with breaking into a
store. They were sentenced to 12 and 18
months’ respectively, but the Judge said
he would recommend the release of both
prisoners on license if employment could
be found for them. On the same day,
in another case, housebreaking, the Judge
also recommended the release of a
prisoner on license if employment could
be found.
Admittedly this is a good thing. There
is the possibility that the altruistic in-
stincts of public-minded citizens will be
aroused, employment provided, and three
more brands snatched from the burning.
But there is another side to the story.
There are many young fellows today
desperately in need of employment. It
is an easy matter to break into a house,
and what does it matter if you get caught?
More people than have ever been in-
terested in you before will start trying
to find you a job. It’s easier to break
into a house than tramp the streets look-
ing for work. That is one aspect of the
case. The other is the more than remote
possibility that the young housebreaker
will not be caught until “easy money”
has made reclamation impossible in
any circumstances. Eddie Torial
(N.S.W.).


Mainly
v:
--SsS-
H ll
. i* '
. . M
1 j f a a 1
L'r' 'Ji
Sf. SS
r i a"
iiit
It
£=>
I IS
A
“Well ’ave to get those cows back in the union!”
Mail-Order
ROLEX OYSTER
PROVED
& TESTED.
ĵ
For ARMY,
NAVY ;
AIF
FORCE
all
occupa-
tions,
Water-
proof,
PRICE,
ill.
Tudor
Oystt'i
'VIT.T, GIVE SEKVICK FOR LIFE. £7/10
DIAMOND
S' WATCH
SPECIALISTS
ĵ
It 2 MARKET ST
SYDNEY,
OPP. DAVIDJONES
RUPTURE
j
NO PADS—NC^SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L, Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
ACTS
LIKE THE HfMD
BABKERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27JS), 35 BITT »T., SIDNEY.
The DUNLEAVY DIAGRAM
A framework
to simplify
and improve
boxing, with
directions. Acts
as a self-
instructor.
JACK
DUMEEAVY,
Box 17!) IK,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Write
for
FREE
BOOK
! Write
for
FREE
ROOK
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTLEREAOH STREET. SYDNEY
sMioouHsni/y
“PERFECTION”
100% pure culture
spawn.
Made in Australia
and is developed
under skilled super-
vision. Enough to
grow 401 b., 4/6 post
free.
But first send 2d.
postage for
- •
giving full instructions as to preparation of
compost, method of growing, etc.
J. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
ĵ
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4-Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4 jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
3UILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J. P. TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
j
ĵ
j
COTS,
3 J&bez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
Why Shave with a Piece
of Hoop Iron?
Trying to shave with a blunt razor has taught
more men to swear than trying to lift a ball
off the ground with a No. 1 iron!
Let an Experienced Barber Help You.
I will personally select a new Puma Razor
(10/6) or a Bengali (12/6), guarantee that
it is in absolutely perfect shaving condition,
and will keep it in that condition for two
year free of charge.
The goods will be sent post free and C.0.D.,
or you may send money with order to
V. CLINGAN, Hairdresser,
793 Pacific Highway, Gordon, Sydney.
A Specially-treated Barber’s Strop, ready for
use, 6/6.
Golfers!
JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and
Amateur Champion,
has written a book,
“GOLF SHOTS,”
with over 100 photographs, which
will be published by “The Bulletin”
about the middle of April, 1940.
Book your order now, 3/- per copy.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
GOODS SENT
C.O.D.
ĵ
j
ĵ
This COLOURING
CLAY PIPE, Hon-
est value at 3/'b.
F o r “Bulletin”
Readers at 1/9,
Three Pipes for
4/D.
In 5 different figure-
heads —“Rabbie Burns,”
“Lord Kitchener,” “Sir
Walter Scot t,’’
“Thistle” and “Shake-
speare.”
Send G<l. stamps for liberal sample of
“I<ev,y sown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- per lb.
Worth 10/- per lb.; for cigarette or pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 00 leaves packet, 2/4 doz
j
JEst. 39 Yrs.
713 George St.. Sydney.
ĵ
j
Harness and Boot
Repairs made easy.
Lock stitch, chain
stitch, double thread
stitch in leather, rub-
ber or canvas. Full
directions enable any-
one to do good work,
better and stronger
than most saddlers;
failure is impossible.
Price only 1/6 for fine Stitcher, 2/6 for
Two Stitchers for light and heavy work.
UNION MFG. & AGENCY CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
oa mm
ANYWHE Rfc
ANYTIME
MP-tl
HOME POWER UNITS
I, IRIGGS 1 STRATTON
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £39/15/-
Write for comprehen-
sive Bulletin No. ~.9.
up lion PtM.ua:
c
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
■
STOP!
Your worst f<
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with
BIG
tlectric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
md will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEBR, E.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
Mini T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
ĵ
j
ĵ
57/6
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
llim wide, Sin.
deep, 6in. high—
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
SlORfounltaptwe
j
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/ 38
says:—
“I order your appliances for mv
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appit -
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), Si Pitt Street, Sydney.
WJNCHESTBR
SKATES
15/ — 20/-
WITH STEEL ROLLS
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
LAMBS SAVED
ĵ
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord-
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. jS t o risk of Infection—Jio losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daronx Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
3/41*40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss .....
Cut this out and send with vpttr "Wants” to the Service Department. "The Bulletin ’’
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


Become an
—QuicKly!
ARTIST
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE
BOOK Offer to Young Talent!
EPOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-
and-white artist, is offering absolutely FREE a copy of
his new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all readers of
“The Bulletin” who have inclination to draw.
Let Brodie Mack
Teach You at Home
'JP'HIS Book will amaze you with its possi-
bilities and the vast field it opens up to
you. At last you will be able to learn all
branches of the black-and-white art under
the supervision of Brodie Mack. This amaz-
ing short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home. If you have an inclination
for drawing, then why compete with the
crowd in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for this
fascinating accomplishment. Thousands of
pounds are paid every year for drawings,
fashion illustrations, advertising, catalogues, pam-
phlets, books, comic strips, cartoons, etc. Many
have developed this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, embracing magnificent
opportunities to those people possessed of the enter-
prise to lift themselves out of the bundy-punching
ruck of mediocrity and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop, Or office routine; in addition to its
lucrative achievements, it will lift you from compara-
tive obscurity to a position of importance in the public
of the community. ,
TEAR COUPON—POST NOW !
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Dept. 43, Wayne House, Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, Please send me FREE a copy of your
famous book, ‘‘How To Be An Artist.” I enclose
a stamp to defray postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
3/4/’4O.
■?X'
/
M
m
*
if/i
in
// h f:>
/j if<
j®S
■
VV.A-
-m
m
s v.
m
m
r
T
gg
\*v:
:
355&
THIS
FOR
/
YOU
»
;
SKS
wx*"
••••
11 ,:
“How To Be An Artist” Is FREE !
Sever before has a book of this nature been offered free; that is why you should
send lor your copy now. This brand-new book shows you how to draw—develop
your talent—how to cartoon, the secret of illustrating, and how money can be made
even while learning. Fill in your coupon and get it into the post now—at once,
before you forget.
THE BRODIE MACK CORRESPONDENCE ART SCHOOL,
Dept. 43, Wayne House, Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
YOU CAH GET STRONG#^
Complete Home Gym.in one Outfit.
NOW
2/6
DEPOSIT
20/-,
ONLY
or
GUARANTEE
MONEY BACK M
IF NOT b !
SATISFIED
iiimnnu-jf
w )
©
ss
'r‘- '
ov-
: V-
F»w
MH
HEBE’S an opportunity for you to develop big
muscles and obtain great strength by taking
advantage of this astounding bargain! Now only
20/-, or 2/6 deposit, for this famous £3 value.
Complete Home Gymnasium. _ Watch your
muscles grow! Surprise your friends! Every-
thing GUARANTEED. The big chest ex-
pander alone is worth more than you pay for
the entire outfit.
HERE'S WHAT YOU GET
I.—Complete set of Wall Apparatus
attachment.
2. —Two high-tension Grip Apparatus builds strong
wrists and forearms.
3. —Book on Jiu-Jitsu.
4.——Foot Stirrups: for legs, thighs,
stomach.
s.—Complete Muscle Building Course.
6.—Complete Boxing Course.
7. —Rowing Machine Attachment.
8.—3 - Strand
Pro gres-
sive Chest
Expander.
Money Back
Guarantee
ET us send you this whole
1 wonderful Muscle Building
Outfit, Courses, etc., to try at our
risk for only 20/—. If you’re not
satisfied within 10 days just re-
turn the outfit and your money
will he refunded. We will send
it C. 0.1). if you like. Just f>ay
the postman a few pence extra
for postage, or pay by instalments
of 2/6 per week until 25/- is paid
in full.
LIMITED OFFER—RUSH COUPON !
GYM. SUPPLIES SALES DEPT. 24,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
I enclose 20/-, or 2/6 as first payment for your
complete Muscle Building Outfit and Courses, and in
accordance with your GUARANTEE if 1 am not satisfied
you will refund my money in full.
Name
Address.
3/4 -'4O.
Do You Make These
MISTAKES in ENGLISH ?
You can now read this remarkable New
Book, the book that has enabled 23,000
people to correct their mistakes in English
—SENT FREE to all readers of “The
Bulletin” interested.
MANY person? say, “Dirt you hear
from him to-day?” They should
say, “Have you heard from him to-
day?” Some get the “ei” and “ie”
mixed up in such words as receive and
believe. Still others say ‘‘between
you and 1" instead of “between you
and me.” It is absolutely astonishing
how frequently the simplest of words
are mispronounced and spelt incor-
rectly. Most persons use only common
words —colourless, flat, and ordinary.
Their .speech is lifeless, monotonous,
and grating. No man can hope to
achieve success, to speak with confi-
dent fluency when there looms con-
stantly before his mind the prospect
of possible criticism of the words and
constructions he‘ employs ; yet many
are slovenly. in their expression who,
with a few minutes a day study,
would be able to entirely eliminate
the glaring errors they now so
wantonly commit.
FREE !
Mil
.
The Alexander School of
Public Speaking.
Desk 1.,
24 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
How to develop your
Powers of Conversation.
'"T’O-DAY you need con-
versational ability. It
takes two to make a con-
versation, and a conversa-
tion will always ensue if only
one of those two under-
stands the art of conversing,
for his listener, no matter
how silent he is inclined to
A
be, will be skilfully drawn into the conversation by
the Suggestions, questions and mind-openers of his
conversational companion. Develop these powers and
become a fluent conversationalist.
j
The Book
that will
Show you how to Speak and
Write Masterly English.
IF you will lilt in the coupon below at once you
A will receive a remarkable new book, entitled "Ho"
to Become a Powerful, Convincing Speaker." This
book will show you how to overcome the mistakes
in English that hold you back in life. It will
show you how to make a tost to determine whethei
you are one of the 8 men out of 10 who possess
the “unknown knack” of powerful speech. Send
for this astonishing book now. It will be a revela
tion to you—use coupon.
CUP COUPON POST NOW!
The ALEXANDER SCHOOL of PUBLIC
SPEAKING.
Desk Jj, 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,- — Please, send me FREE, without obligation,
a copy of your Famous Book, “How to Be a Powerful
Speaker” ( incorporating “Mistakes Made In English'),
I enclose stamp to defray postage.
FAME I
ADDRESS ....' ' .....s ;
. .... 3/4/40. *
