

pF
. -'
m
■ I
&•££
<:
mfi
>.
*Z*2
>v
ii
.../
in
fMmD
i / .;
MlfF-
'• -
=s $
H
■
1111
§«v
■ ,
mm
M
iij
is
-V •
.
-
mMMmm
..
< ' y '
mXmgm
KPI
v
a
saara
V
i—
-377®^Bj
K
:I
mrnsm
mm'mm
■! : .:..V.-:i.-,.:.'
HI
isSspip!;::: gg|||||||i||||g
?
1 .!'-■■
. .;
mdm
r" k!
"■;4:
p*
#k
gy
MS**
MONEY IS
THE FOURTH
FIGHTING-
SERVICE
Australia needs your money; needs it badly; needs it NOW.
At any Bank, Money Order Post Office, or Stockbroker’s
Office you can now PROVE the extent of your patriotism.
Invest in the Loan and help to keep Australia free. Interest
will be 21 per cent, for 5 years term, or 3£ per cent, for
10-16 years. Subscriptions may be paid by instalments.
Enemy domination of ocean trade-routes would mean
the complete isolation of Australia. On freedom of the
seas your personal freedom depends. But ships cost
money . . . and the man who withholds his money from
the new Commonwealth Loan is assisting to torpedo the
ship of State.
If we lose, we go under. There is only one way to win.
Every asset this country possesses must be pledged; every
industry, every branch of science, every public utility
must be developed and harnessed to the supreme effort.
*AOJUt*-f
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3173.
Wednesday, December 4, 1940.
Why Hitler Paused
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ml!
sJJJm
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
'advertised in the Sydney. Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
GRAHAME BOOK SERVICE.
i j . New York
book importers subscription managers
Let us quote you the_ LOWEST A
CORRECT rate for any Periodical or doo
published. Information gladly supplied.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
Prudential Building, Martin Place.
The Red Page
BLUNDERING STATESMEN.
A pugnacious gentleman is Sir John
Pollock, Bart.; a polemical pug. with a
punch in both hands ; right in his ele-
ment in The Everlasting Bonfire (Chap-
man and Hall), which he finds crowded
with blundering statesmen and upstart
“authorities” of many nations, in the
historical perspective denuded of false
romantic and other misleading coverings,
and fairly asking for the punch he is
obligingly agreeable to let loose.
Sir John among the peace-makers at
Versailles: “The vanity, pigheadedness
and ignorance” of the then American
President... .“It may be an interesting
speculation” whether a line of Mr. Lloyd
George’s policy “was conscious with him,
or the unconscious flower blooming from
vicious Limehouse roots, or merely the
pusillanimous havering of a second-rate
mind”... .The “last chance of safety” in
the long run—more generous treatment
of Austria, instead of leaving it “nailed
like a living corpse at the gate of South-
eastern Europe”—“was lost through the
folly of President Benes’s outburst” ; his
“ill-timed prejudice sealed the fate of his
country and was one of the immediate
causes” that eventually “plunged Europe
once more into war.”
Sir John at the signing of the Kellogg
Pact:
Not being fools, some professional dip-
lomats must have laughed in their sleeves
at the sight of the .tears coursing down
poor Mr. Frank B. Kellogg’s cheeks as
he appended the first signature with a gold
fountain pen so monumental as to be
barely capable of writing, and at that
of the more crocodile drops squeezed from
the eyes of Aristide Briand, who followed.
Doubtless they salved their consciences
by the thought that they were obeying direc-
tions from above. But they can hardly be
absolved from blame for sharing in that
portentous farce. Men of clear conscience
and strong judgment would have eluded if
they could not stop the pitiful business.
For the sole outcome has been that nations,
since that day, have made war without de-
claring it.
Sir John lashing out among some of
those toying with the edges of the bon-
fire : “This licensed jester” , (unnamed,
but evidently Mr. Shaw)', who “was for
calling a halt and discussing with the
Germans what we were fighting about:
the while Poland was still fighting with
its back to the wall.” Of another, also
unnamed, but as evidently Mr. Wells:
“That philosopher, seller, best seller
indeed, of political and social nostrums
for thirty years, and by lack of historical
perspective or mere ordinary sense even
less fitted to be our instructor.” There
are many more of them, including Pro-
fessor Gilbert Murray, high priest of the
school which induced in the public “the
belief that Germany had regained a spot-
less virginity, that Soviet Russia was a
democratic paradise” ; also “the ineffable
Mr. Attlee,” horrorstruck at the present
war, but not horrorstruck at war when it
was in Spain and he went there and
inspected the battalion named after him.
Sir John’s attacking thesis is that it may
be possible to get away with political
crimes, but political blunders bring cer-
tain retribution ; that blunder after blun-
der has been made by British and other
statesmen ever since the last war, and
that Nemesis is now here. He puts these
past blundering twenty years into his-
torical perspective, and his findings on
their major events are not only different
from those currently presented to the
public throughout, but in most cases
are the very opposite. ■ In some instances
—such as the blundering, from Versailles
to Sanctions, which ended the long friend-
ship of Britain and Italy—there are prob-
ably today a thousand who will agree
with Sir John to every one who would
have subscribed to his views at the time.
The general treatment of Italy, from
Versailles onward, Sir John lumps col-
lectively as “a blunder of the first magni-
tude, and we have paid for it, as blunders
must always be paid for, in proportion.”
As “one of the worst diplomatic blunders
ever made by Great
Britain,” he names “the
abandonment in 1922 of
the Anglo - Japanese alli-
ance to curry favor with
the United States.” He examines the his-
tory of these and other examples of
fateful blundering in close detail; con-
tends, on legalistic grounds, that both
China and Abyssinia were ineligible for
League of Nations membership ; declares
that, when the Manchurian question came
before the Council of the League in 1931,
“To those present it was obvious from the
first that the cards were stacked against
Japan.” \
Among major blunders by Britain and
France Sir John lists their failure to make
a stand against Germany over the Saar
and over Austria. “The case of Czecho-
slovakia, on the other hand, was emphati-
cally one for not fighting, either in Sep-
tember, 1938, or in March, 1939.”
Mr. Chamberlain and M. Daladier judged
the matter rightly. A weak moral cause,
an impracticable geographical position, de-
fence of the victim weakened through its
being surrounded on three sides by enemies
who could with ease turn its only serious
fortified lines: these put belligerence out of
court.
It may strike some readers as curious
that so penetrating and realistic a writer
should pay practically no attention to
what has surely been a most important
factor influencing the blunderers and
blundering he pillories—that is, the
general shrinking of the public mind
from the thought of war, and thus from
all realistic concrete acts, during all this
period. Rightly, no doubt, he pillories the
successive Baldwin and MacDonald Gov-
ernments, but it might also be within the
province of a crushing historian to en-
quire whether the then general state of
the public mind —itself formulated by
newspapers, radio, polemical books—
would have tolerated the acts of policy
which history may now discern to have
been right.
Culture in Maoriland.
M. H. Holcroft’s The Deepening
Stream, which won the centennial essay
prize, is a search for “the soul of New
Zealand.” The search leads the writer
into some unexpected places: into the
Westland rain forests; into the lairs of
Bloomsbury Leftists; into Maoriland’s
innumerable motor-cars.
Holcroft suggests that the pioneers’
struggle with the bush, partly repeating
the struggle of primitive man against his
environment, has probably embedded
itself in the racial memory, and is re-
flected now in Maoriland’s confident
materialism, and may, in the future, be
reflected in some deeper spiritual adven-
ture. He would like to carry his pan-
theism further (and in places he does ;
he hints at the possible influence of the
mountains on the national character, at
the underlying fear of earthquake tend-
ing to instil a sense of impermanence, at
the effect of varying topography and
natural rhythms in establishing distinct
human “types” in different provinces) but,
afraid of being thought “fantastic,” he
retreats rather too quickly to the safer
phenomena of motor statistics, slumps
and the Left Book Club.
His theory about the New Zealander’s
passion for motoring is a good one.
Analysing the statistics —with the gambit
that no man with an income of less than
£5OO a year can really afford to run a
car —he finds that there ought to be
29,454 car-owners; but in 1937 (exclud-
ing taxis, trucks, motor-cycles, service
cars) there were actually 171,514 owners.
All these low-income owners, slaves of
the time-payment system, he submits,
must be conditioned to favor optimistic
finance, unorthodox methods —any policy
that promises easy money. So that, with
its “naive sense of mission” and its tradi-
tion of paternalism by anti-Labor as well
as Labor Governments, Maoriland seems
to him to be committed to the road of
experiment.
Turning to education, Holcroft sub-
mits that civilisation springs from the
soil, and he wants a less stereotyped and
academic curriculum. Here, as in his
chapters on art and letters, he could with
advantage be more specific.
In poetry he condemns alike the groupy
intellectuals who, imitating the Marxism
of the young English Leftists, are out of
touch with the actualities of New Zealand
society, and the hosts of minor scribblers
devoted to birds, bees and the pohutu-
kawa. His survey here—perhaps inten-
tionally—is sketchy ; his quotations poor.
The essay as a whole is so good—sane
and profound—that it’s a great pity Hol-
croft didn’t expand it for publication in
book form. He is reduced to arbitrary
statements in many cases, and, without
his illustrations and justifications it’s not
possible to accept some of them, nor
worth while quarrelling with them. He
makes no mention of religion, nor of sex,
nor of the surely significant fact that
Maorilanders drink even more beer
per capita than Australians.
The essay has been finely produced by
the Caxton Press, Christchurch, all of
whose recent productions have been most
creditable pieces of bookmaking.
Still More from Melbourne.
The brook of verse that has come from
Melbourne’s haunts of coot and fern this
year, with here and there a lusty trout
and here and there a grayling, is—
apparently—going to go on for ever.
Most conspicuous in the stream have
been the lusty trout of the Bread and
Cheese Club ; there has also been Pro-
fessor Moll’s Cut from Mulga from the
Melbourne University Press; and now
W. Allder Morrison’s The Moon Turned
Round from the Hawthorn Press.
Hugh McCrae, introducing The Moon
Turned Round, finds that it leaves him
“breathless.” Not many readers will find
it as lethal as all that, for the verses about
fauns, fairies, statues in the public gar-
dens and improper goings-on in the uni-
verse are artificial. Morrison (some of the
poems have appeared in The Bulletin)
has a genuine talent, however, coming
out clearly, and sometimes strongly, in
his more pessimistic moments.
Considering “This Body,” he wonders
whether on Judgment Day it will stand
secure,
Or stand like Cain, convicted
Of having failed Thy trust,
Before the silent Abel
Of this accusing dust?
He notes of “Happiness,” the bird
high-flying and elusive:
But see! A tiny feather now is falling.
But watch! A shiny feather now is falling
Lighter than drifting leaf upon the muted air:
And where it rests that spot of earth is blessed,
And whom it touches he is shrived from care—
Ay, maybe for a moment stays unmindful
That the bird is gone elsewhere.
And, after saying “My wife is like a
wine that’s still,” he finds the gods step-
ping in to set their realism against the
dreamer and his dream:
Till now he walks in alien fields
To find chance spring on plain or hill
Whose water to his soul but yields
An earthy potion, sharp and chill.
A Hitler Comedy.
If Peter Fleming had kept The Flying
Visit (Cape ; Moore’s Bookshop) in the
realm of satirical fantasy, it might have
been the joke of the war. It tells how
the Fdhrer, flying over England at night,
parachuted from his crashing ’plane and
found himself alone on hostile territory.
Searching for some sympathetic soul
who will conduct him to Mr. Chamber-
lain, he meets Mrs. Trumball, who
doesn’t like visitors, particularly uni-
formed visitors. Mrs. Trumball shoos
the indignant Fiihrer from the premises
and, after dismally wandering about the
countryside, Hitler tries to shoot him-
self. Failing (because his entourage had
had too much sense to allow him to carry
live cartridges), Hitler concludes that he
might have better luck if he can find a
mob to talk to, and in a village hall he
finds an audience all assembled: —
“English men and women!” he yelled.
“It is I, Adolf Hitler, who stand before
you! I am not your enemy! You are not
my enemies! We are not each other’s
enemies! ”
Hitler was dumbfounded by the spon-
taneous warmth of his reception. They
cheered. They shouted. They screamed
with joy. They stamped on the floor.
He saw many who, with brimming eyes,
gave the Nazi salute. Almost everybody
shouted “Heil Hitler!”
He had, it turned out, stumbled upon
a fancy-dress ball, and the company was
applauding his amazingly lifelike imita-
tion of himself. A large Nordic blonde
threw her arms around him, exclaimed
“Sweetie-pie, you’re wonderful! ” and
kissed him.
All of which is excellently handled and
genuinely funny. The end, when the
Government decides that, because his
double is carrying on in Germany, Hitler
is useless as a captive and will have to
be dumped back in the Reich, is both
neat and plausible. What lowers the
tone of the story and reduces its effect as
comedy is a great deal of the ordinary
Leftist jeering at Hitler because he was
once a house-painter, and because he
was only a corporal in the last war. You
can’t reduce the evil genius of the age
to absurdity by that sort of cheap snob-
bishness, nor by tripping him up in a
puddle from time to time, as Fleming
likes to do.
Heil Hunger: Dr. Martin Gumpert
(Allen and Unwin). An attempt to prove
that one of the achievements often
written to the credit of Hitler and his
Nazi offsiders —the improving of the
general health of the German people—is a
fallacy. Dr. Gumpert declares that what
has really been going on is that the death-
rate has increased, the birthrate fallen,
fecundity declined, and most undesirable
nuisances, from flat feet to criminality,
greatly increased. One or two items in
that brief list of findings must make a
layman prick his ears, and they might
sprout points on reading that Dr. Gum-
pert lists in his indictment a “decline of
military power.” Dr. Gumpert’s statis-
tical adventurings have had a lot of pub-
licity ; they figured, with their air of the
last word, in an issue of “Reader’s
Digest.” Anyone interested will find the
Gumpert opus severely roasted by Dr.
W. A. Brend in the September “Nine-
teenth Century.” Dr. Brend:
Dr. Gumpert’s statistics certainly prove
something about Dr. Gumpert....
New Penguins: The Commonsense of
War and Peace, by H. G. Wells ; Why
Freedom Matters, by Norman Angell;
New Ways of War, by Tom Wintring-
ham ; God in a World at War, by John
Hadham ; The Psychology of Fear and
Courage, by, Edward Glover ; The Case
for Family Allowances, by Eleanor F.
Rathbone, M.P.; Science in War, by 25
scientists; l Found No Peace, by Webb
Miller (foreign correspondent’s experi-
ences) ; The English Miss, by R. H. Mot-
tram (fiction); Vol. I The Penguin
Hansard (from Chamberlain to Churchill;
digest of the House of Commons official
report of Parliamentary debates); Frag-
ments from My Diary, by Maxim Gorki;
Hydroponics (growing vegetables, etc.,
without soil), by C. Isabel Hilyer ; The
Real Cost of the War, by J. Keith Horse-
field ; Where Do We Go from Here ? by
Harold J. Laski (Britain must lead in a
European revolution if Hitler is to be
destroyed); The Penguin Political Atlas,
compiled and drawn by S. C. Johnson.
A Mother Fights Hitler : Imgard Litten
(Allen and Unwin); Nazis and Germans :
Harold Picton (Allen and Unwin). Per-
sonal records —the first a tragic account
by a mother of her vain efforts to save
the life of her lawyer son, who
had stirred the hatred of the Nazis
and the personal hatred of Hitler by
striving to sustain the traditions of law in
German courts in the days of terror
when the Nazis were rising to power.
Both books contribute to the picture of
Hitler the Fiend ; both —as well as Is
Germany a Hopeless Case ? by Rudolf
Olden (Allen and Unwin) —either directly
or indirectly argue that Hitler’s Nazis
are some sort of a race apart from the
good Germans.
I’ve Killed Men : Jack Ganzhorn (Hale
Ltd.). Autobiography of a Wild West
identity, quick enough on the draw to
survive and leave along his trail some
40-odd losers in gun-fights. There’s not
much to Jack as a literary cove, but he
turns in a lively record of action.
Red Devil: Major George Bruce
(Angus and Robertson). North-West
Frontier fiction ; a good muscular yarn.
Back of Beyond: Harold Noice (Har-
rap). Travel and lively adventure in
South American jungle lands; breezily
related, and entertaining all the way.
Peter and Cos.: Mary Grant Bruce
(Ward Lock). The author goes on doing
these exciting adventure yarns for boys
as well as ever.
Bride of Kalahari: F. Horace Rose
(Duckworth). Outdoor action yarn of
exciting adventure in Africa.
Freedom’s Battle: J. Alvarez Del
Vayo (Heinemann). Writing in Mexico,
the former Foreign Minister of the
Spanish Republic sets down his version
of Spain’s Civil War. As partisan as
history is written.
Kings and Queens: Eleanor and Her-
bert Farjeon, illustrated by Rosalind
Thornycroft (Dent). Since this was first
put out in 1932 Britain has had two kings
to add to the wittily-presented pageant.
There is only a general reference
(naturally) to the present King, but in both
the verse and the colored drawing
Edward VIII is handled as thoroughly
and neatly as all the rest. In fact he
inspires the two best pages in the book.
Mr. Bunting: Robert Greenwood
(Dent). Might be the Little Man of
Strube’s cartoons come to life to show
in a cheerful 300 pages that life doesn t
end at 60.
Ten Great Mountains: R. L. G. Irving
(Dent). Mountaineering in many parts
of the world, including Maoriland, re-
lated with enough infectious enthusiasm
to make a deep-sea diver give up his way
of life and head aloft. Illustrated with
fine photographs.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE’'
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
ft* 7^"<
■'ku-
V 5.
; Ji:
vs.. 7?^°-
sn
A
r~
f*
«*r.
W
• i
c~\
w
M !
fJS'SftSflSf
•V ir-
-o>'
a?
»?,“■
!*‘
c
51N1—Swiss Embroidered Handkerchiefs, in Opal Cloth. A—Dainty pastel shades, embroidered
corners. B—White with pastel embroidery. C—All White, embroidered corners. Also sev e
other designs. Price, box ol six .....’ '
51N2 —Box of Six Handkerchiefs, White
Opal Cloth with embroidered comers.
Price, box of six 3/6,
GIFT BOXES OF SIX REAL IRISH LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS!
z
/>
51N3—Pure Linen Hand-
kerchiefs, embroidered 1
in pastel shades, also j
all White. Price, box ‘
of six . = 5/11 1
51N4—Serviceable Irish
Linen Handkerchiefs.
Narrow hems, embroid-
ered. corners in all
White, also pastel em-
broidery. Box of 6, 7/6
51N5 Linen Handker-
chiefs, finished 2 rows
of spokestitching and \
embroidery. Price, box *
of six 7/11
I
ftp
5 1 N 6 Embroidered
• Linen Handkerchiefs
\ with narrow hems.
| Good Christmas gift!
• Price, box of six 9/11
I
51N7 —A pleasant gift!
| Good Quality Linen
Handkerchiefs, dainty
! embroidered corners.
: 11 in. square. Price, box
> of six 11/6
±*
A
51N8 A dainty gift!
Linen Handkerchiefs
with embroidered corn-
ers, finished Val. lace.
Price, box of six . 12/6
fcfSSls
'I
\"~
h
i
■*«=»
51N9—Irish Linen Hand-
kerchiefs, finished with
spokestitching and em-
broidery. Price, box of
six 12/6
f \ V
•». ■ tW- « V : v/ # .*9?' .... • *
:f
ut/HW \\\
;\5?
•• • -r
:V.
/* ■ *
!./-•• vlsfr i*'*'
51N10 —A practical gift!
Pure Linen Handker-
chiefs with dainty em-
broidered corners. Box
of six 13/11
\
51 Nil—Good Quality f
Irish Linen Handker-
chiefs with embroider- '•
ed corners as illustra- f
tion. Box of six . 12/11 |
• ?;
s.'*— -
/m / #%*/
rtv-r.'. 1 ?"' :
£ :
51N12—6 Dainty Sheer
Linen Handkerchiefs, 5
all made by hand. At- ■
tractively boxed. Price, 5
box of six .. .... i5/ii i
f
; 51 Nl3 Sheer Linen
v Handkerchiefs, dainty
\ embroidered corners,
finished Val. lace. Box
jj of six 18/6
SOT;
t*i:Km 1
w ■ i./»;
51N14 Entirely made |
by hand. Sheer Linen ;
Handkerchiefs, dainty 1
embroidered corners, ”
finished lace edge. Six ; ;
in gift box 16/11 ,
51N15—Heavy Quality
Irish Linen Handker-
chiefs, hand scalloped
edges and embroidered
corners. Box of 6, 21/-
<■?
m
J.
\ 51N16 Attractive gift
‘ box containing 6 Sheer
: Linen Handkerchiefs in
f pastel shades, 'all hand
| made. Price, box, 21/-
51N17 —For that special
gift! Good Quality
Irish Linen Handker-
chiefs, pretty embroid-
ered corners. Box of
22/6
six
■I
★ BOYS AND GIRLS
Sail to Santa’s Castle aboard the
"Bounty” and receive a surprise
"All aboard the 'Bounty'/' calls her Captain. The
ship's bell rings . . . the anchor is weighed . . .
and the "Bounty" sails out to sea on her journey
to Santa Claus' Magic Castle. Santa Claus is
waiting with a SPECIAL SURPRISE GIFT for
every boy and girl. Santa is at his Magic Castle
in Santaland every day at these times: Monday
till Thursday. 9.30 a.m. till 1 p.m., and 2 p.m. till
5.15 p.m.; Friday, 9.30 a.m. till 1 p.m., 2 p.m. till
6 p.m., 7 p.m. till 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 9.30 till noon.
X
Vy/r/J
A WONDER PANTOMIME
FOR THE CHILDREN
The Toymaker makes the most beautiful toys, which come to
the most spectacular children's Christmas Entertainment yet,
dems'. ADMISSION FREE. Twice daily, 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.
6 p.m. Fine Art Gallery—Fourth Floor.
life and dance in
at Anthony Hor-
Fridays also at


SALVAGING SAL
"Two bob I head 'em, spooks!"
By S. H. COURTIER.
THESE poet fellows who write about the For-
saken Merman and the Little Mermaid ought to
be publicly scragged for dangerously misleading
people. Because of them, I got the idea that
mermaids were all that was kind, good and lovely. I
kept on thinking so till I met Sal. Lovely, yes; but
kind and good
I met Sal in the Indian Ocean. I happened to
be there as captain of the s.s. Sea Cow. Taking a
breather on the taffrail at eight bells of the second dog-
watch, I was gazing at the moon and thinking of the
old rubbity at Port Melbourne when I was caught
unawares by a sudden heave of the ship and took a
lovely toss into the mighty deep.
I came up, gave a heave or two to myself and,
soaked to the skin, bellowed “Man overboard!” Un-
fortunately nobody heard me, and I sadly watched
the lights of the Sea Cow vanish into the night. In
the circumstances, there was only one thing to do —
keep in the trade route, where I’d be sure to run across
some ship or the other; so I settled down to a fast
crawl.
Had not a pea-soup fog come down or had I
beep carrying my sparse binnacle, I wouldn’t have got
off the course. As it was, I might have been swimming
yet only that, late next day, I came upon an un-
charted tropic isle, an exquisite, palm-crowned
jewel in the azure main. I struggled through the surf,
sank down under a palm-tree and into kindly oblivion.
I opened my eyes to the warmth of the sun and
a most delectable surprise. Hanging just above me
was a tenderly solicitous beautiful face, clothed with
long golden hair. Somewhat abashed, I sat up to
make an astounding discovery. Down to the Equator,
my companion was all Venus; south of the Line, she
was completely fish!
Before I could say a word she pressed me back
with gentle care and held a seashell to my lips. I
twigged the idea and swallowed. Imagine my delight
when I found I was drinking rum. Yes, the real
Mackay, pure Jamaica o.p.
Such was my introduction to Sal. I was entranced.
I gazed into her blue eyes and believed what I saw
there. Sal couldn’t speak English, of course, and I
didn’t know Mermanese, but it was clear she wanted
to nurse me back to health and strength after my ter-
rific exertions in the ocean. And this she set out to do
with tasty meals of crays, oysters and coconuts,
backed up by frequent applications of rum. I dis-
covered later that Sal was in the habit of poking
around wrecks in order to pick up any trifles going,
so that she always had a jar or two of the best on hand.
I saw no reason to object to the treatment.
Besides, I was in the throes of a wonderful inspira-
tion. Sal, I told myself, was salvage. She was capital.
If I had her in Melbourne, what a pile of coin I could
make by putting her on show at a zack a head! The
one and only mermaid in captivity!
The only catch was the matter of transport. So
far as I could judge, ships were in the regular habit of
not calling at the island. However, with such a
glorious opportunity to gain real wealth in my hands,
I knew I could trust my ingenuity to find a way home.
I recuperated happily with Sal’s aid and dreamed
of the fortune I would make. The days were hours
of golden sunlight, while the nights were scented by
breezes from Ceylon’s spicy isle. I couldn’t make
out why Sal insisted on retiring at night to a sea-
cavern, though she did say that too much fresh air
was bad for her tonsils. But she was always on hand
to get breakfast in the morning.
And all the time I had no idea of the dreadful
fate being planned for me!
The first month or so passed very quickly. Being
an intelligent creature, Sal soon picked up a know-
ledge of English and we had some interesting conver-
sations. She told me a lot about her former husband,
who had been caught by a shark fooling about its lair.
“Such a handsome fellow,” Sal said. “When I
spotted you on the beach, Captain Sinker, I could
have sworn you was him only for the legs. You’re
really a wonderful man.” And her beautiful eyes
melted all over me.
To hear this was splendid. I could see I’d have
no trouble to persuade her to accompany me. I was
plainly her heart’s desire.
I had a lot of fun swimming in the lagoon with
Sal. Of course, with that tail of hers, she made me
take her backwash, while under water I simply wasn’t
in it, but her technique suggested grand ideas for
displaying her. I’d put her in a big glass tank and
offer a fiver to anyone who could dive in and kiss her.
I could see the boys lining up in thousands for a go.
I was in the highest spirits, for I had solved the
problem of getting a passage back to Melbourne. As
a result of my medical treatment, there was quite a
pile of empty rum jars accumulating on the beach. I
sent a couple of them voyaging with a message to
whom it might concern:
Sailor, master’s certificate, marooned on
island, tropic, Indian Ocean, desires passage for
self and companion to Melbourne. Highest
rates paid.
THE first sign of any rift in the lute appeared when
Sal tackled me on the question of smoking.
“Sinker,” she said snortily, “I don’t like you smoking
seaweed. I don’t know why you have to do it.”
“It’s all there is to smoke,” I replied. “That’s
why.”
“A filthy habit,” she snapped. “You ought to
knock it off. My first never smoked. In fact, no mer-
man ever smokes.”
You’d have thought a man would have taken a
tumble. But no. I just stopped smoking simply
because 1 didn’t want to displease Sal. However, the
incident did make me see that the sooner we got
away the better, so that night I sent off another mes-
sage, making it somewhat more urgent than the first:
Sailor, owner of pretty mermaid, ship-
wrecked on island, Indian Ocean, offers large
premium for safe passage of self and cargo to
Melbourne. The matter is important.
That, I thought, must bring a ship over the
horizon any tick of the clock. Thus I wasn’t unduly
concerned when Sal suddenly shut down on the rum.
I was hunting round for a swig one morning and Sal
told me rum was off.
“What, all gone?” I asked.
“No,” Sal scowled. “I’ve hidden it. My first
never touched it. You never saw a merman ston-
kered.”
Well, I took it. I didn’t bother to look for the
rum, knowing that Sal had probably dumped it in
fifty fathoms of water. The thought of the wealth in
Sal salved my feelings and I said nothing. All the
same, 1 determined to show her a thing or two about
rum when the ship came in. Which reminded me
that the ship was taking its time. Consequently I sent
another message off :
Sailor, owner of magnificent mermaid,
wants passage to Melbourne. Mermaid included
in tare. Offers 12j p.c. commission on takings
as reward. Grand opportunity for right man.
Will take first genuine offer.
That ought to fetch them, I assured myself, and
settled down to more happy days in the sun. How-
ever, I did begin to rumble something was up when
Sal got nasty on the matter of work.
“You lazy loafer, Sinker,” she roared. “You sit
down all day and do nothing while I slave my tail
off for you. Now I’m going to sit down for a change
and comb my hair while you comb the rocks for the
supper cray. Get to it.”
It was a jolt, but I obeyed. After all, my future
life of ease and luxury was worth a bit of effort. And
I further consoled myself with the thought I d be
seeing a ship coming in at any moment. I promised
myself that when it did Sal would quickly learn who
was boss.
DAY passed after day and there was a queer ignor-
ing of my messages. I couldn’t make it out.
Anyway, I slung another jar into the sea. My grow-
ing concern was reflected in its message:
Sailor, owner of lovely but restive mermaid
with marvellous prospects in vaudeville circuit,
offers quarter-share to shipmaster for immediate
passage to Melbourne.
By now, I was working harder than ever I did
on the Sea Cow while Sal loafed under the palms or
frisked on the waves with a comb and a glass in her
hand. Determined not to risk losing her, I stood it
without a murrnur. Still, it was time to buck when I
woke up one morning to find Sal trying to put a pair
of trousers on me. Rather, it was a pair with only one
leg, and that leg terminated in a large fin. It was, I
perceived, the lower end of a shark’s skin. It was
also the beginning of the end for me, had I but
known.
“What’s the game?” I roared.
“You put this on, Sinker,” Sal ordered, wrestling
with my legs.
“Like fun,” I said, with a forearm jolt to her chin.
She spun on her hands and kayoed me with as nifty
a swipe to my jaw with her tail as you’d see any-
where. I was down and out. When I came round,
feeling like a pig halfway down a python, the shark-
skin was firmly in position. I reached for my clasp-
knife, but Sal flattened me again and slung the knife
into the sea. Then she sat on my chest.
“Listen, Sinker,” she said. “You’re not a bad
feller, but you’re not a patch on a merman. Not a
scale on his tail. You don’t even look like one. But
you will when I’ve finished with you. Now get ready
for the first lesson.”
A man couldn’t take that lying down, yet that’s
what I had to do. With my footwork retarded by the
new trousering, I was easy prey to Sal’s tail. Ten
minutes later, lying panting on the sand with two
black eyes and a front tooth missing, I decided it was
time for some fifth-column activity. I looked down at
my tail and said admiringly: “Cripes, I believe you’re
right, Sal. I do look mu.ch better with a fin. It was
just the suddenness of the thing that made me object.
“That’s the good boy,” Sal said. Then she eyed
me suspiciously, her tail twitching. “But no games,
Sinker. If you’re thinking of getting away from me,
don’t try it. You can’t. I’d follow you all over the
world to get you back. Now for that lesson.”
Under Sal’s watchful eyes, I swivelled on my tail
and dotted and went one over to the nearest palm-
tree, swarmed up it and swung on to a branch. There,
for two solid, heart-breaking hours, I practised kick-
ing my tail from side to side in order to develop a
good action for swimming.
I told Sal it was the happiest two hours I’d ever
known, but I felt like a filleted porpoise when it was
over. That night, when Sal wa£ asleep, I crept down
to the beach and heaved my second-last rum jar into
the sea. It carried a desperate appeal for succor:
Sailor, possessor of remarkable but frac-
tious mermaid with chance of fortune on stage,
screen or radio, offers half-share in creature to
any sea-captain for passage at once to Mel-
bourne. Snap.
I watched the jar floating out and sent a prayer
with it. I was practically giving away a fortune and
it wrung my heart, but it had to be.
FOR a week, while I ceaselessly watched for smoke
or sail, the tail-kicking exercises continued. Then
Sal said it was time to try my tail out in the water.
It wasn’t quite so bad. I found I scudded along at a
fair speed, but it didn’t compensate for my agony.
However, I kept that to myself and told Sal how
delighted I was with my progress.
“Yair, not bad, Sinker,” she agreed. “You're
now ready for the next lesson. Underwater work.”
“What!” I gasped.
“You’re pretty fair on the surface,” Sal explained.
“But, below,* you’re a washout. So I’m going to teach
you to stay down.”
It was worse than anything before. Sal forced
me to dive into four or five fathoms and remain down
as long as I could. And when, with bursting lungs, I


came up for a breath, she belted me under again with
her tail.
At the end of a week, I could stay down for
eight minutes at a time. Sal admitted it wasn’t bad
for a start, but declared she wouldn’t be satisfied tiff
I could stay down as long as she could.
“But what on earth for?” I wanted to know.
She looked at me with a fond smile. “Sinker, if
you don’t understand yet it’s time you did. Finding
you is the most wonderful thing in my life. You’re
money, Sinker, that’s what you are. When you can
live under water permanently, I’m going to put you on
show. The only human being in captivity in Mer-
land! Think of it! Thousands of mermen and mer-
maids will want to see you. They shall, too, but
they’ll have to pay for it. Crays, oysters, combs,
glasses—and all the girls forking out a pearl to kiss
you. We’ll be millionaires, Sinker.”
“Marvellous,” I said with a ghastly smile.
I flip-flopped away on my tail in the profoundest
dejection. It was the end of my dreams. Giving away
a fortune? I’d be glad to escape with nothing but my
bare skin. That evening, I set the last jar adrift with
a final, despairing cry for help:
Sailor, held in captivity by frightful though
beautiful mermaid, desires rescue. Immediate'
response urged or he will sink never to rise
again. Come at once to tropic isle, Indian
Ocean.
I was, however, lost to hope. I saw no way of
escaping from Sal, even if a ship did come. Sal
couldn’t so easily let a fortune slip through her
fingers.
Then a faint gleam pierced the gloom. I remem-
bered that Sal had said she would follow me to the
ends of the earth if I tried to get away. Now I knew
the awful reason why, but that declaration of hers
was my one and only chance. 1 did not delay. After
Sal had retired to her sea cavern, I took a large shell
and wrote on it: “Can’t stand it any longer. Sick
of the sight of you. Am off to Madagascar even if
I have to swim all the way. Good-bye.”
I placed the shell where Sal was sure to see it in
the morning, then I scooped a hole out from under a
palm-tree, crawled in and puffed the sand over me.
Thank heaven, it worked. In the morning, Sal
arose from the waves and spied the shell. Her rage
was terrible to see. She read the message, smashed
the shell to atoms, then she plunged into the sea. The
last I saw of her she was heading a point off SSE. at
a good fifteen knots.
THAT very day a ship came in. I danced for joy.
At first the captain was very sore when I could
produce no mermaid —he’d picked up my second-
last message —but my miserable condition touched
his heart and he gave me a passage back to
Melbourne.
And now you’ll excuse me. I’ve got to catch the
first train to Alice Springs. Before I woke up to Sal,
I was fool enough to give her my Melbourne address.
But I reckon a thousand miles of sand and desert
will stop her.
THE FIRST PACIFIC RAIDER
By WILL LAWSON.
<‘“T“HE position then,
I gentlemen, is that if
I you insist upon this
extraordinary action
in refusing my ship belligerent rights as a Con-
federate cruiser to refit in Port Phillip, I shall haul
down my flag and proceed with my officers by mail
steamer to England ; and there I shall lay the matter
before the supreme authorities.”
The speaker was an officer in the uniform of the
navy of the Confederate States of America. One of
the men he addressed was John Garner, Crown Soli-
citor of the State of Victoria. The other was William
Blanchard, Consul in Australia for the Union Gov-
ernment.
“But Captain Waddell,” Garner replied, “we are
not yet refusing you the right to refit. That is already
being carried out, though whether we are right in per-,
mitting it is a moot question. What we are protest-
ing against is your action in recruiting Australians
for your crew ; that is a breach of the Foreign Enlist-
ment Act.”
Blanchard sprang to his feet. “I insist again,” he
said hotly, “that the Shenandoah is not entitled to
belligerent rights of any kind. That ship has never
been in a port of the so-called Confederate States of
America. She sailed from England as the Sea King
with coal for Bombay and changed her name and
character at sea, using the coal for her own auxiliary
engines. Pretending to be a Confederate cruiser, she
is no more than a privateer, indeed, if she be not a
pirate. Would you give shelter to a pirate, Mr.
Garner?”
The Crown Solicitor shook his head.
“No, Mr. Blanchard,” he said, and turning to the
angry officer: “I shall take this matter up again with
Sir James McCulloch, the Premier, who will consult
his Excellency Sir Charles Darling. Tomorrow we
shall advise you of our decision. Good afternoon,
gentlemen. Perhaps I shall see you both at the ball
tonight.”
“Indeed, you will not, sir,” the Consul snorted,
for he was angry at the warm welcome given in Mel-
bourne to the raider Shenandoah.
UNDOUBTEDLY Australians sympathised with the
South. Today there is no doubt whatever that the
Shenandoah should have been interned when she
sailed into Port Phillip on January 25, 1865, and was
given salutes by forts and warships as a warship of
the Confederate States. This sympathy was no doubt
intensified by the unpopularity of the Down East
Yankee whalers whose ships sailed the Southern
Pacific to the number of over 600, refitting in Tas-
manian, New Zealand and Australian ports or at
Honolulu. Hobart Town whalers and those from
Sydney and Port Phillip were greatly outnumbered
by the Yankee ships.
The officers of the Shenandoah had been enter-
tained at balls, soirees, picnics and dinners, while the
men had been well looked after. Against this attitude
the Consul for the Union had protested in vain, tiff
now, with the recruiting of men for her crew being
permitted, he seemed to have ground on which he
would win his case.
As he had said, the Shenandoah had never been
in a port of the Confederate States. She was built in
Glasgow in 1863 and named the Sea King, being an
auxiliary trader. She cleared from Liverpool on
October 8, 1864, with a cargo of coal for Bombay.
At Madeira she met the British barque Laurel, which
transhipped into her holds a further large supply of
coal; then the Sea King proceeded to Funchal Roads,
where, at Porto Santo, she took in some guns and
armed her crew with revolvers and cutlasses. Shortly
afterwards, the Laurel reappeared carrying the officers
and men of the Confederate cruiser Alabama, who
had survived the action with the Federal warship
Kearsage when the Alabama was sunk. In
all there were eight officers and 140 men.
They had been rescued from the sinking
Alabama by the British yacht Deer Hound
and transhipped into the Laurel —all by pre-
arranged plans in which the Sea King was
the big factor.
Lieutenant Waddell took over the command of
the Sea King. That name was painted out and
Shenandoah substituted, and the ship sailed for the
Pacific to raid and harry American shipping.
On her way she captured nine whaleships, all
from New England ports, sinking most of them and
sending the others to Charleston under the care of prize
crews, their own crews being divided, some into the
Shenandoah, some left in the ships sent back. Flying
the Stars and Stripes, she approached within easy range
of her victims ; then the Stars and Bars, the Con-
federate colors, were run up and shots fired across the
bows of the surprised ships, whose crews could do no
more than surrender.
News travelled slowly in those days, but some-
how the alarm spread among the Yankee whalers, and
ships scurried into British or French ports in droves.
With her auxiliary steam power the Shenandoah could
spring surprises on sailing-ships, especially in calm
weather, but this very steam power was what caused
all the trouble in Victoria. Being short of coal Cap-
tain Waddell put into Port Phillip, claiming the right
to refit within a specified period. This right was not
disputed.
The ship was docked where Williamstown now
stands, and 300 tons of coal was permitted to be taken
in by her. But the matter of signing on men to
augment her already large crew was a different matter.
Yet, in the main, the officials favored the Shenandoah.
When the matter was brought up in Parliament by
Graham Berry, James McCulloch, George Higin-
botham and Peter Lalor, of Eureka Stockade fame,
all spoke heatedly against interning and confiscating
the ship.
On the other hand, to let her go seemed like loos-
ing a wolf on a countryside filled with sheep. There
were no Yankee men-o’-war nearer than Gaffe, in
Ceylon, where the cruiser Iroquois was lying, hoping
to intercept the Shenandoah sooner or later. In port
at Melbourne at the time were the Yankee traders
Mustang, Jeannie W. Paine, Chapin, Charles Cooper,
Harrison and others. Outside the Heads several Yankee
ships, with valuable cargoes, had got word of the
Shenandoah’s presence and
were making all haste
away. Most of the whalers
were either in port or
skedaddling away south into the sub-Antarctic seas.
Those in British ports were safe, and in the southern
seas she might not follow them.
The Shenandoah was due to sail on February 19,
1865. On the 18th, Mr. Blanchard, still fighting against
the ship being allowed to sail, made a last appeal to
the Crown Solicitor, who at last relented —being no
doubt by this time convinced of the accuracy of Mr.
Blanchard’s arguments. He promised to see to the
matter of issuing a warrant for the arrest of the
Shenandoah and her detention till the end of the Civil
War after he had finished his dinner. But after
dinner the Shenandoah was outside Port Phillip Heads
and steaming northwards.
For weeks no news came of her. She seemed to
have vanished. Then a small barque, the Queen Bee,
reported that she had sighted smoke from a steamer
not far from Cape Leeuwin, so it was presumed
she was making for South Africa and the whaling
ports at Capetown and Durban. But first the Shenan-
doah went to Behring Sea, and there among icebergs
she found ten whaleships in one fleet.
The Shenandoah sank eight of the ten, sending
two to Charleston with the crews. Then she con-
tinued on her career of destruction, her commander
unconsciously piling up a huge bill for damages against
his erstwhile hosts in Melbourne.
The American Consul there had not been idle.
He continued his efforts, piling up more and more
damning evidence of a grave breach of international
law on the part of the Victorian Government. The
Court of International Appeal ruled that the Shenan-
doah was not a Confederate ship, merely a privateer,
but without letters of marque—virtually a pirate.
The penalty imposed upon the Government of
Victoria was that it must indemnify the owners of
all ships sunk by the Shenandoah after sailing from
Port Phillip. The bill totalled £1,250,000! For his
indiscretion in not referring the matter to Whitehall
and meanwhile holding the Shenandoah —coupled with
other indiscretions for which the Premier primarily
was to blame —Governor Darling was recalled. He
should have called Captain Waddell’s bluff when he
threatened to haul down his flag and leave his ship on
the slip.
“ It's an ill wind ”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
%>it IVrne of tote mellcwneddaruUmqud
LONDON’S LEGENDARY BIRTH.
UPPER—LONDON IN OAESAR'S TIME.
LOWER—LONDON IN HENRY IV’s TIME.
From records of various descriptions it is possible to form some broad or general idea of what London looked like, say, in the time of the
Roman occupation, that is 2000 years ago, and in the time the first of the House of Lancaster ascended the British Throne some four or
five hundred years past. What London will look like in the future none may venture an opinion. Happenings associated with 1940 may
bring in their train changes so vast as to revolutionise any existing ideas of urban architectural and municipal policy. That a
greater London will appear is, humanly speaking, certain. It will have noble foundations upon which to build. How many of us realise
that London is as old as English history itself. It is so old that its beginnings are lost in the periods before written records were made.
The first London of which definite proof can be adduced is the Roman London, but there is strong probability that for maybe centuries
before the arrival of Julius Cassar, 55 years before the birth of Christ, a settlement of traders was established on the banks of the Thames.
Ancient writers told wonderful stories concerning the founding of great cities, some of which were believed to have been established by
the gods themselves. So with London, one legend of which has it that the goddess Diana inspired Brutus, a descendant of /Eneas of Troy,
to go to England and there found the City of London. From this fable may be deduced that Londoners long centuries gone by believed
their city was second to none in the glory of its earliest history. The stories accepted by our far-distant ancestors as to London’s origin
help to a truer understanding of the importance of London right through English history. It was only of great cities stories of this order
were told. To Tacitus we are indebted for the first written record of London, a.d. 61, when the historian related the sacking of Roman
London by the British Queen Boadicea. The illustrations are from photographs of models in that storehouse of antiquarian lore, the
London Museum, Lancaster House, St. James’s.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61—No. 3173.
Wednesday, December 4, 1940.
“A—D—O-L-F!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westkalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buddings ( opp . G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
A HIT.-MUSS. MYSTERY.
The one thing certain about the Italian attack on
Greece is that the Italians have been worsted in battle
and hurled back into Albania, with no great loss of
men but with substantial loss of equipment and ter-
rific loss of prestige. They have been reduced to
organising a winter campaign in a wild country with
the worst communications and the most savage moun-
taineers 'in Europe, Albanians being immemorially
addicted to emptying the contents of their well-oiled
guns into the bodies of foreign soldiers in retreat or
struggling to go forward. This much is obvious, but
almost every other feature of Mussolini’s “little” war
is mysterious.
Was Hiller privy to it? He must have been ; his
junior partner would never have entered upon it with-
out some prior arrangement. Yet the prior arrange-
ment could not have provided for immediate German
co-operation, for in the fifth week of Mussolini’s
humiliation Hitler was still a passive, and perhaps
complacent, spectator. It has even been reported
from Athens that the ladies of the German Legation
staff were knitting socks for Greek soldiers, and that
the Greek flag was flown from the German Legation
building after the capture of Koritza.
Did the Axis chiefs count on a swift Greek sur-
render to a show of force? No doubt Mussolini did,
otherwise he would have launched his campaign earlier
and made far greater preparations ; but that it entered
into Hitler’s calculations is more than doubtful. On
the contrary, the confident spirit which the Greeks
have shown all along and the steadiness with which
they completed their mobilisation point to their having
received an assurance from the right quarter that if
they confined their efforts to the defence of their coun-
try they would have only Italians to fight. They
would scarcely have exhibited the same confidence and
ardor if they had known or had good reason to fear
that German dive-bombers would be at them from
the beginning.
In the exuberance of victory General Metaxas
announced that the Greeks were fighting, not only for
themselves, but for other small nations. This drew a
warning from the official “Diplomatische Korrespon-
denz,” which said that such declarations were “extra-
ordinarily daring and dangerous—General Metaxas
thereby confesses himself a tool of British policy,
which aims at extending the war.” Strange, but con-
sistent with the theory that the Greeks received a
qualified tip from the German stable, Germany’s
present attitude being that it is against the extension
of the war.
On the face of it, Mussolini’s luckless adventure
is in conflict with Hitler’s present policy or pose. Did
Hitler sanction it hoping that Britain, led by the enthu-
siastic Mr. Churchill, would rush large forces to
Greece, and thus give him the opportunity of bring-
ing about another and worse Narvik at a much more
unfavorable time for his enemy? This must have been
suspected in London ; anyway, the temptation to send
another British army to the Continent was resisted, the
job of helping Greece being assigned to the Royal
Navy and the Royal Air Force. It has been carried
out splendidly by both services, and in particular the
bombing of the three battleships in Taranto harbor has
had great material and moral effects. It might be
thought that this would be resented by Hitler for its
effect on Axis prestige. But German prestige has not
suffered, and that is all that need matter to Hitler.
Except for brief periods of courtship, there has
been no love lost between Germans and Italians since
they made their parade of renouncing their traditional
enmity. And, for all their mutual protestations of de-
votion, Hitler can have no illusions about Mussolini’s
motives for joining him last June or about the value
of an alliance of expediency which has failed to break
the Mediterranean blockade. Being the man he is, he
probably derives a grim pleasure from the mauling
of a selfish and greedy partner whose claims are out
of all proportion to his actual services—even when
Britons do the mauling. He may even think that it
will assist his peace offensive.
When the Prussians, stopped at Valmy, retreated
from France in 1792, Charles James Fox wrote
that “the defeat of great armies of invaders always
gives me great satisfaction in reading history” ; and it
is with a full issue of this feeling that English-speaking
people have witnessed the discomfiture of Fascist
Italy. Its blow at Greece was an act of villainy for
which it has had to pay dearly, though the punishment
does not yet fit the crime. In evil days for free men
living on a militarised Continent, two small nations at
the extremities of Europe have renewed the faith of
the Little Peoples in their ultimate destiny by standing
up heroically to rapacious bullies ; and each in the
hour of peril found a general of genius—Mannerheim,
the Finn, and Papagos, the Greek. After suffering
losses exceeding the entire male population of Finland
the Mighty Red Army found it expedient to sign a
peace which, while it stripped the Finns of portion of
their territory, left them with the freedom of which
they could not be deprived: a self-reliant and self-
governing nation still. And whatever may be in store
for Mussolini and his mob, Greece will remain Greece.
The heads of our fighting services may be trusted
to exploit the rousing successes gained over
Fascist Italy by pressing it continuously, and to the
full extent possible, at its weakest points. They don’t
need the insolent advice of Sunday newspaper writers,
Australian as well as British, which is thrust on them
in such large quantities and with such fathomless
ignorance of the forces available and the political
factors involved. The bombing of Rome, demanded
by these worthies in violent language, would serve no
military purpose and would alienate millions of people
who are now friendly, and, in many cases, active in
our cause. Merely to propose this senseless savagery
is harmful to that cause, and so is the repeated roar
from the same quarter —sometimes added to by a
8.8. C. gentleman—that the Italians are a race of
cowards. In point of fact, they haven’t fought badly
in Africa, or even in the Mediterranean, and to assert
the contrary is to be unjust to our own stout fellows.
Mr. Lloyd George has had far better opportuni-
ties of judging the mettle of the Italian as a fighting
man than Mr. John Gordon or Mr. Frederick Ehren-
fried Baume, J.P. Referring to the 1915-17 mountain
war against the Austrians, he wrote that “no one but
brave men, and supremely brave men, could have
stormed those gigantic fastnesses.” He added, how-
ever, that the Italian soldier is “sensitive and imagina-
tive,” and apt to go to pieces with “the sudden shat-
tering of high hopes”; and, after Caporetto, “the
same men who had stormed the steep heights of
Monte Cristallo and driven the Austrians out of the
rock-hewn trenches of the Carso” were found “hun-
dreds of miles from the lines without their rifles.”
In the last war, as Mr. Lloyd George has testi-
fied, Italy had a “potent peace party led by its wiliest
and most formidable statesman, the veteran Giolitti.”
Moreover, “the higher priesthood of the Catholic
Church was never friendly to the war.” There is
every reason to believe that the latter statement is true
of the present war ; and, though no peace party has
asserted itself, Englishmen who know Italy—and there
has always been a large English colony there—have
all along been convinced that the present war is un-
popular, except with the Blackshirt minority. Cer-
tainly the invaders of Greece did not fight like men
whose hearts were in the struggle, and Mussolini him-
self has acknowledged, for the first time for many
years, that a dissatisfied section exists. All these
conditions give great scope for British propaganda ;
but the job will need to be done by men like Ward
Price and the editor of the “Tablet,” and may call for
the drastic suppression of the impertinences of
Sunday-newspaper editors and 8.8. C. gentlemen. So
far in this war, the British propaganda department has
not covered itself with glory, though in the last war,
especially in Northcliffe’s time, it made a distinct con-
tribution to the final victory.
Meanwhile, the British people are suffering cruelly
on land and sqa, and they are not getting nearly the
measure of American support that has been promised so
often. The Americans were told last week by the secre-
tary of the British Trades Union Congress that “the
bombing is affecting British output”—he spoke without
first-hand knowledge of the destruction wrought at Bir-
mingham, Bristol and Southampton—and that “Britain
needs ’planes and more ’planes: our needs are exten-
sive and urgent.” Evidently moved by this appeal, the
U.S. Secretary of War attacked commercial airline
companies on the score of “seeking to expand their
activities with ’planes from factories already lagging
with vital defence orders,” mentioning that, to place in
service U.S. Army bombers “grounded for lack of
engines,” his Government had been “obliged to borrow
engines ordered by the British in their dire need”—
this while “equivalent engines are going into commer-
cial ’planes.” He mentioned a concrete case:
In the spring of last year Douglas Aircraft received
an order for 86 dive bombers. Not one has been
delivered, though Douglas Aircraft has been making
commercial ’planes at the rate of 12 a month.
During the same week the British Ambassador warned
the White House and Congress that Britain is coming
to the end of its capacity to finance the cash-and-carry
policy, by virtue of which every American weapon and
every bale of goods sold to Britain is paid for before
delivery at factory or port and borne in British bottoms
—which means, among other things, that thousands
of British seamen, but not one American seaman,
employed as such, have died dreadful deaths. The
reply of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was
that consideration of legislation permitting financial aid
to Britain would be postponed “until next year.”
This is a heroic period of British history, but not,
so far, of American history.
Defenders of Democracy.
If returned soldiers at their recent Canberra confer-
ence made some of the statements ascribed to one or
two of them, they expressed themselves even more
badly than soldiers proverbially do. That would apply
particularly to Mr. L. A. Robb, the N. S. Wales State
president, whose denials that he advocated a Menzies
dictatorship and more work for less pay failed to
smooth down the teacup storm raised by reports of his
speech. In consequence, Mr. Mair, the Sydney Pre-
mier, instructed the Public Service Board to inquire
into Mr. Robb’s outburst, Mr. Robb being a public
servant —official secretary to the State Governor.
This could possibly lead to Mr. Robb losing his
job, which would be tough on one who has given
more positive proof of his patriotism than some of his
critics have ever done. It would be tough for other
reasons as well. However badly they may have ex-
pressed it, there is little doubt that what Mr. Robb
and several others at the conference were trying to
say would be applauded to the echo by all patriotic
Australians. Simply, what they were trying to say was
that Australia is not yet taking this war seriously
enough. They know from first-hand experience what
war is, and they are only too well aware of what may
happen to their country if this war spreads. They are
authorities on this subject, whereas most of their
critics are mere noisy ignoramuses. Being from per-
sonal experience more alive to all the details of war’s
hideous actualities than any Australian without their
experience can possibly be, their feelings are naturally
more strongly affected by complacency, ignorance and
apathy. From the force of their feelings they may
happen to express themselves badly, but Australia
might profit a lot more in the long run by taking to
heart the spirit rather than the bogey-letter of what
Mr. Robb and other Diggers at the Canberra confer-
ence were really trying to get off their chests.
Throughout its 20 years’ existence —at Federal
and State conferences year after year, and at hundreds
of meetings of its sub-branches all over Australia —the
Diggers’ League has been a standing advocate of pre-
paredness and defence. Its record in that advocacy
has been incomparably better than that of any other
institution in the country. It has all that time been
an example to politicians and an inspiration to Aus-
tralia. Neither the politicians nor Australia benefited
by its repeated warnings or its pleas.
Australia not only acquiesced in the suspension of
compulsory training, the whittling down of the defence
vote to a bare three millions, the sacking of key men
from the handful of remaining forces and the general
disruption of the whole defence establishment: that
having been accomplished by a Labor Government,
Australia put into power, and kept in power, as nega-
tive a Government as it has ever known. Like the
Governments under which Britain’s defences and
foreign policy went to the pack together, Australia’s
succession of negative Governments exactly repre-
sented and suited the times. What Australia then was
credulous enough to believe it could get was the
mirage guerdon of something for nothing. Compared
with what it would have cost to establish and main-
tain the defences advocated by the Diggers’ League
reliance on the so-called League of Nations was dirt
cheap, What the country is now called upon to stump
up is the precise measure of the difference.
If all that, plus the evidence of their own eyes
looking at the current Australian scene, were not
enough to have, perhaps, overheated these Diggers,
the recent statements on Australia’s war effort by the
Prime Minister and others might well have provoked
them, or anyone else who has the interests of this
democracy truly at heart. In view of its defence
history alone over the past dozen years there can be
no question that it has been a blundering democracy;
and, it may be said, democracy, either here or any-
where else, is in a sorry state if its continuance is ever
seriously threatened by honest patriotic feelings clumsily
expressed. Nobody has any real belief that Mr. Robb
and the other Diggers who spoke in similar strain are
subversive elements seeking to upset the Australian
Parliamentary system. They probably believe —who
doesn’t? —that democracy almost everywhere, under
various pernicious influences, had become somewhat
flabby till this war came along and forced it to set
about recovering its backbone. Considering the state
it was in when the war broke, the recovery has been
remarkable. If this is not yet sufficient, what is called
for is not, of course, dictatorship, but simply states-
manship.
There can be little doubt in reasonable minds that
that is what the Diggers at Canberra were asking for.
While, for all th*se years past, they were advocating
such then unpopular measures as compulsory national
training and greater defence expenditure, they had to
stand as helpless witnesses to what negative and
destructive statesmanship was doing to the country for
which, unlike most of their critics, they had fought in
the last war. They have been, and still are, the true
defenders of this democracy. They realise too clearly
for their peace of mind that if this democracy is to
survive it will need to change from apathy to the total
effort total war requires. So far that effort is being
made in one form only—in £ s. d. It is as yet nothing
like total effort in spirit. Some aspects of it have
been described by the Prime Minister as “a gift to
the enemy” ; if this is to go on, he said, “there might
well be an end of a free Australia.”
Nobody' has felt the truth of that more fully than
Diggers who fought in the last war. It is what they
have been trying to make clear to Australia, not merely
since this war made positive statesmanship safe and
expedient, but over the long term of years during
which it was both safe and expedient for politicians
to bid for votes with no defence programme and with
definite assurances that national service would never
again be enforced. No wonder some Diggers now get
hot under the collar and overstate themselves. The
alternative to total effort envisaged by Mr. Menzies is
the fear obsessing them. If that alternative came to
pass it would be a sorry consolation for anybody that
there were once humorless and wordy defenders of
democracy at hand to pounce with demagogic ferocity
on clumsily expressed patriotism. These people don
know the Digger very well. If Diggers wanted dic-
tatorship, they would not be talking about it, they
would be doing something.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Taxes and a Challenge.
In the 1939-40 year £16,430,000 was collected in Com-
monwealth income tax, and it wasn’t quite enough to
pay old-age and invalid pensions, which reached
£16,459,200 —it is a bill which is always rising. This
year, if the Government stays the course and the new
Treasurer’s estimates are realised, individuals alone
will pay £33,000,000, a large proportion of which will
be collected at the source from salaries and wages.
What companies will pay has not been expressly
stated, but for a beginning they are to meet a doubled
tax (2s. in the £ instead of Is.) on undistributed profits.
The calculation is that Commonwealth and States —
and, in the case of concerns with London offices, the
British Government —will take £32,000,000 out of a
total taxable income of £93,000,000. The Treasurer’s
idea is that, in the special circumstances, 6s. Bd. in
the £ on companies is a fair thing.
One of his difficulties is that all the States impose
income taxes, most of them two income taxes, and
that their rates differ, and are in most cases very high
on large incomes. So high in Mr. Fadden’s State
especially that he had had to stop at 10s. in the £ on
taxable income in excess of £l5OO, for, with a progres-
sive increase above that figure, the combined taxes
would exceed 20s. in the £. Another difficulty is that
individuals who among them receive 70 p.c.
(£517,000,000) of the national income have hitherto
enjoyed the benefit of the statutory exemption
Of £250, together with deductions for dependants, State
taxes, life-assurance payments and the like, with
the result that incomes below £4OO contributed “only
about £lOO,OOO p.a.” By means of reduction of the
statutory exemption to £l5O and an increase of rates,
it is proposed to take £5,000,000 from incomes under
£4OO, £8,000,000 from “middle incomes” (£4OO-£1000),
which contributed £1,300,000 last year, and £20,000,000
from incomes over £lOO0 —£6,200,000 last year.
As always, middle-class taxpayers will suffer most,
and it is they in the main who support institutions
which relieve Governments of expenditure, such as the
Great Public Schools ; but they have no friends in
Parliament, and no voice has been raised on their
behalf there. All the professed sympathy is for those
who have hitherto been exempt from tax.
Mr. Curtin has challenged the Government on the
reduction of the statutory exemption to £l5O. He
thinks there should be no reduction at all. Told
that a family man with two dependent children would
still pay nothing unless his net income exceeded £3OO
p.a., he refused to be pacified. Though he should
know that Maoriland Labor takes 2s. in the £ from all
pay envelopes for national and social security and
starts its income tax (the lowest rate is 2s. 10|d. in the
£) at £2OO he objects to even a single man on £250
p.a. contributing something out of his earnings to
the cost of the war. Single men earning that amount
can be seen by the thousand at the horse-races, “the
dogs,” the wrestling, the speedways and so forth, and
to exempt those who are not doing any war work
would seem like rewarding them for saving their skins.
But Mr. Curtin will not be satisfied with income
tax concessions for the majority of electors at the
expense of the minority—he suggests that their tax-
rates should be increased, with no stated limit. He
also demands heavier burdens on big companies and
lighter burdens on small companies (here he might
make out a case if he chose to be specific), together
with more pay for soldiers and their dependants ; in-
creased old-age and invalid pensions; another pay-
ment to wheatgrowers out of the No. 2 pool, now
carrying an overdraft of over £16,000,000 ; and, above
all, a “liberal” financial policy. Not, of course, in-
flation (we never mention it!), but a manipulation
of “the resources and function of the Commonwealth
Bank to the limit of safety.”
This programme was submitted as a Budget
amendment, and Mr. Menzies has accepted it as a
challenge. In the present state of the House, the Swan
seat being vacant, the Government may be defeated,
but it should accept defeat rather than swallow the
Curtin programme or submit to dictation—that is the
Parliamentary term —from Mr. Wilson, of Wimmera.
This doesn’t mean that the P.M. should ask the Gov-
ernor for a dissolution. Australia will deal very severely
with any party that forces another war-time election
on it. If the Government is defeated, Mr. Curtin’s
party should be allowed to take office. As Mr.
Cameron says, it would go to pieces in a few months
and most of the fragments would then be in a mood
to submit to anything, even a national Government.
"Charge Dismissed."
“C.H.S.”: Mr. Neville Cardus, an Englishman with
a reputation for discovering the tremolo of a cricket
stroke or the straight bat of a music conductor, began
a search for the average Australian, and confessed
to his inability to find the person.
Others sought to assist Mr. Cardus. Mostly their
investigations revealed nothing other than a desire to
show that they, too, could be heavily humorous.
A Moree (N.S.W.) man thought he was on a cer-
tainty when he captured a drover and dissected him.
But the drover, a downy bird, confounded his dis-
coverer by launching forth with a typical Cardusian
thesis, leavened with a stray reference to ewes and
wethers to prove that he was a dinkum drover.
Up to this stage the average Australian had
proved as elusive as the man who rode the white bull
through Wagga. Then arose Dr. Clunies Ross, who
found the average Australian (1) congratulating
himself on having had a record crowd at the Mel-
bourne Cup, (2) resisting petrol-rationing and control
of civilian spending, (3) overinterested in political fac-
tion fights, industrial disputes and strikes, and (4) fail-
ing therefore to realise that his country is in danger.
A lot seems to be expected of the poor old average
Australian. Because there is war on the other side of
the world he mustn’t have his Melbourne Cup, he
must drop his interest in politics, he must go and sit
in a corner and have a good old fit of gloom. This,
despite the fact that he has volunteered in his thou-
sands to fight, is facing with equanimity the certainty
of being slugged by taxing authorities on a scale
hitherto undreamt of and is hanging on to his stock
and land in the face of a record drought.
As for the charge that he resists petrol-rationing
and control of civilian spending, that brings us to the
mistake made by these searchers for the average Aus-
tralian. It wasn’t he that resisted petrol-rationing or
control of civilian spending ; it was a parcel of city
chaps—editors, ragshop magnates, petrol “patriots”
and the like.
Nor was it the average Australian who splurged
black type all over the place about a Cup favorite.
Indeed, he could have been heard muttering about the
way the papers “went mad over the flamin’ Cup.” If
he went to Flemington it was because he had a day
off and nowhere else to go ; if he merely listened in to
the race there was nothing in that which could give
the enemy cause for congratulation. As for the indus-
trial disputes, though someone is to blame it isn’t the
average Australian.
This isn’t to say that the average Australian is a
person above reproach. Far from it. But he surely
never deserved to be judged on the rubbish published
in Big City newspapers.
A Paradise for Politicians.
When six of the seven Government Houses, Govern-
ments and Parliaments are abolished, together with
a multitude of departments, Queensland State poli-
ticians will have contributed to the magnificent result.
It was they who demonstrated to Australia that it
could do without Legislative Councils, and of late
years they have—unwittingly—been demonstrating that
it could get along without Legislative Assemblies.
Queensland has 62 State members, 10 of whom
are Ministers. It is their pleasant habit to meet for
the transaction of public business in the second or
third week of August and to disperse in the second or
third week of November. The proceedings invari-
ably close with a few hospitable remarks from the
Speaker, who gets the same salary (£1150) as a Cabinet
Minister:
I invite honorable members, the “Hansard” staff and
the press representatives to meet me in the dining-
room in a few minutes in order to say “Here’s luck! ”
That dining-room is generally the subject of a para-
graph in the Auditor-General’s annual report. In
1938-39 turnover amounted to £1666 (meals, £982 ;
drinks and tobacco, £684), and there was a loss of
£1143, “barely covered by a grant of £lO6l from Con-
solidated Revenue.” The amount owed by “sundry
debtors” was £69 3s. 2d.
Sittings begin at 10.30 a.m., and, with an interval
of an hour or so for lunch, they generally end at
4.30 p.m. or thereabouts. There are 40 or so per
annum. Ordinary members get £650 p.a., so for their
actual Parliamentary duties they are paid over £2OO a
month. In addition they receive £5O p.a. for postage
and telegrams, railway passes over all the Government
lines in Australia and Maoriland, and other conces-
sions, including the use of a very good library—much
more modern than the Public Library of Queensland,
for which they voted a whole £3125 during the late
session—£232s for salaries and £BOO for “books,
periodicals and incidentals.”
These items appeared in the last Estimates:
Railway passes to Members and ex-Members and
their Relatives, £9680.
Life passes over Australian railways to ex-Ministers,
£2700.
Railway concessions to Public Servants on leave,
£6OOO.
Travelling allowance to Members, £1777.
Private Secretary to Leader of Opposition, £495.
Clerk-typiste to do. do., £228.
Why the Leader of the Opposition should be so
distinguished when he leads only a handful of
members has never been explained. Some time ago he
was heard to complain that “when there are only one
Minister and half a dozen members it does not
inspire the speaker to the higher flights of oratorical
effort.” He was replying to a writer who com-
plained that the Parliamentary debates had become
“inexpressibly tedious,” being characterised by “a
monotony of speech and intellect,” which “probably
accounts for the poor attendance of members and of
the general public.” The unhappy Leader of the Oppo-
sition attributed the “apathy” to day sittings.
Anyway, why should Queenslanders have to pay
these members so much for doing so little? What do
they gain by keeping the gentlemen hanging round
Parliament House or their constituencies for nine
months in the year? Surely they would be better
served by regional councils composed of members
paid so much a sitting, familiar with the matters with
which they would have to deal and free from the
pressure of organised interests like that of the State
Government employees, whose political influence in
Queensland is increasing ominously.
Ventura Tenario and Others.
It says little for the discernment of the Australians,
male and female, who pay to see so-called wrestling
bouts that they should have had their legs pulled for
so many years by the parties to these exhibitions and
the people who employ them, and it says less for the
vigilance of the Commonwealth authorities that they
should have allowed imports of alleged wrestlers and
bruisers to go on in war-time.
In the numerous party of outsize mountebanks
who descended on Australia this war year there were
two so-called Red Indians, complete with colored
blankets, feathers and war-whoops. One, billed as
Chief Little Wolf, was having a return season. In one
of his acts, evidently badly rehearsed, he fell or was
pushed out of a Sydney ring and flattened out a radio
announcer. The radio announcer commenced a
Supreme Court action claiming damages, and a writ
of ca re was served on Ventura Tenario, it being
alleged that Ventura Tenario —complete with blanket,
feathers and war-whoops—was about to return to the
land of his fathers, whoever his fathers may have been.
Australians had heard of Comanches, Pawnees, Piutes,
Sioux, Apaches, Mohicans and Mulligans, but never
of a tribe of Ventura Tenarios.
The “wrestlers,” Red Indians and all, are white or
swarthy, but the bruisers are nearly all dark meat.
One was a principal in a Hobart fake, his opponent
being presented as a Maoriland champion when he
was really a novice from Melbourne. The police took
proceedings, and it came out that the villains of the
piece were the coon and his American manager.
The name of the concern which brought these
ruffians out has been associated with a proposal, the
last word in effrontery, that the black faker should be
allowed to come back to Australia, not to stand his
trial but to engage in another series of scraps. The
same concern, which seems to be able to get anything
it likes into one of the Sydney dailies, was recently
reported to be backing an appeal for the readmission
of another black pug, who, when last in Australia —
he is now in Maoriland —overstayed his leave. The
plea in this case was that, if he wasn’t permitted to
return to the Commonwealth, four or five wallopers
would be unable to get fights. This when there are
heaps of vacancies for physically fit young men will-
ing to have a crack at Hitler and Mussolini.
The Commonwealth Government should clap an
instant and complete embargo on imports of pugilists
and wrestlers. It shouldn’t allow it to be said that
syndicates which trade in these unnecessary goods are
exempt from its pleas for the curtailment of expendi-
ture and the conservation of dollar exchange, as well
as from the immigration-restriction, contract-labor and
workers’-compensation laws.
The Wyangala Dam.
“K.L.,” his protest:
I cannot help criticising Bulletin references to the
Wyangala dam.
Statements that the waters of this dam are being allowed
to stagnate are unfounded. At Jemalong, below Forbes, a
scheme has just about been completed which will water over
100,000 acres of very suitable irrigation country. There are,
I believe, about 300-400 miles of irrigation channels, and the
first stream of water to run through the channels has already
reached a property which is at present the terminus of the
scheme on the western end. If the waters of the dam
prove equal to the demand made on them, big things can be
expected of this scheme.
Wyangala cost £1,215,000 and was completed
nearly six years ago. It was to provide water for
1,357,000 acres, make the subsidiary Hillston-Roto
railway, which cost £650,000, an oytlet for a big closer-
settlement area, supply hydro-electric power and trans-
form the Lachlan valley into a populous district.
It was built under a migration agreement with
Britain, in which the sum of £34,000,000 was involved.
Under this N.S.W. got the money for Wyangala and
was to settle one assisted immigrant in the State for
every £75 within 10 years of 1925.
The Jemalong scheme, by which water is diverted
from Jemalong weir into the Lake Cowal country, is
a mere stock and domestic supply, restricted to irri-
gating pasture lands and filling tanks. Beneficial as it
may be to those immediately concerned, it doesn’t put
more men on the land, doesn’t open up the Lachlan
valley, does nothing for the Hillston-Roto railway.
All it does is provide water to help existing holders
weather dry times and, perhaps, slightly increase their
carrying capacity.
This falls far short of what Wyangala was in-
tended to do. From Cowra to Condobolin nothing
has been done to develop the valley by use of the
dam and there isn’t a vestige of one of those 18,000
settlers.
When Wyangala was started, they had big visions
from Cowra out to Hillston—visions of sheep and
lucerne, pigs and dairy farms and thriving centres.
Today any mention of Wyangala out there is greeted
with a bitter snort. Yet the dam could revitalise the
central west of the State.
Martin's Mistake.
As “0.T.” sees it:
Mr. Martin, the N.S.W. Minister for Local Government,
is a poor judge of country people. Had he been a better
he would have thought twice about forcing the postponement
of local-government elections for a year; he would also have
thought twice about publicly stating that the aldermen of
Yass Council had “made perfect fools of themselves.”
Just to show Mr. Martin what they thought of his post-
ponement idea and to assert their own ratepayers’ rights, all
but one of the aldermen resigned in order to force an
election. Told of this, Mr. Martin said he had no comment
to make.
But when he learned that, owing to the resignation, nobody
has authority to sign cheques to pay employees of the council,
the Minister thought he had something. “They have made
perfect fools of themselves,” he said. It is far more likely
that they have made a fool of Mr. Martin.
A note in the U.A.P. press hints that the Government
is “unlikely to intervene,” presumably about the matter of
paying the employees, and adds that in such a case the
employees will not be paid before December 24. Mr. Martin
admits that he can overcome that difficulty by appointing an
administrator, but says the step is “undesirable.” Is it
undesirable because he thinks he has the councillors in a
cleft stick and wants to keep them there?
He was “not certain” whether he had power to authorise
the signing of cheques by proclamation. A Minister —and
a lawyer at that—should know what powers he has.
If I’m any judge of country people, the whole thing
will react violently against Mr. Martin and the Government
he represents. No fair-minded person in Yass is likely to
condemn the aldermen ; rather the contrary. As for the pay-
ment of wages, even if the council employees can’t get their
money for some time, every store, bank, pub and s.p. man
in the place will be only too happy to give them credit up
to the limit.
All Yass will regard this thing as an attack on itself by
the Minister for Local Government. There are plenty of
people there and in other parts of the South who have
long prayed for the day when they might have their local
affairs brought under the control of a regional council and
their national affairs administered from Canberra. They do
a lot of quiet thinking in places like Yass.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.-Tower”: The man, woman or boy
who told me this swears it is gbspel.
There was a certain man who loved his
garden. But he was also a patriot, and
one in a position whereof it was expected
of him that he should set an example.
So when the water restrictions were an-
nounced in Sydney he duly restricted. In
order to save his garden, he saved all
used water from baths, laundry, shaving-
mug and so forth. Ohe morning he pro-
ceeded with a bucket to empty the bath-
water on to his dahlias or snapdragons
or something, whereat an individual of
few words approached and said, “Hey,
you’re watering outside resiricted hours.”
“But,” said the patriot, “this is water I
saved.” The official looked at him with
disdain. “After hours,” he said laconi-
cally ; “you’re pinched.” And so it was,
and now the patriot sneaks out at
midnight and waters and waters and
blanky well waters.
* * * *
“Tuart”: A startling increase in cases
of “lewdness” was mentioned by Ray-
mond Leane, the S.A. Police Commis-
sioner, in his annual report. In 1938-39
there were 91, in 1939-40 180, though it
is reckoned that 126 were cleared up by
the arrest of “26 offenders.” In most
instances “the offenders committed acts
in the presence of schoolgirls after mak-
ing certain that no male persons were in
the vicinity.” Leane is a wise old Digger,
and Playford should ask him, as one
Digger to another, whether he thinks the
vogue of sexy papers has something to
do with the outbreak of “lewdness.” The
State is flooded with such publications,
though they are not of local origin ; and
in journalistic as well as monetary
matters the bad tends to drive out the
good.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: It is rather surprising to
read, on the authority of the statistician
who reports to Maoriland’s Presbyterian
General Assembly, that there are more
than 40,000,000 Presbyterians in the
world— not far short of the population
of Britain. The U.S.A. has always been
a stronghold of the denomination, and
it is making steady strides in Australia,
helped no doubt by the humanitarian
policy of the church —the best example is
the Flying Doctor service—which appeals
so strongly to the Australian tempera-
ment. Maoriland, for its part, has nearly
400,000 Presbyterians, of whom 84,231
are listed as regular worshippers and
55,371 as communicant members; and
during the year under notice gifts to
church funds amounted to £317,853 —
which disposes of the impression that the
staple of the collection-plate is the three-
penny-bit. In Otago and Southland Pres-
byterians number more than half the
population. The same cannot be said of
any corresponding part of the Common-
wealth, but there may be Victorian dis-
tricts in which Presbyterians are in the
majority. At the last (1933) census of
religions, there were 713,229 Presbyterians
m Australia, 274,699 being found in Vic-
toria ; and the increase of Victorian Pres-
byterians since 1921 (19,627) was, in pro-
portion, much greater than that of any
other denomination.
♦ * $ £
“H.H.”: Tell “Bobbin” (B. 27/11/’4O)
that it is not the Moreton Bay
fig’s leaf-shedding but its sinful roots
that have caused its exile. It was
once N. S. Wales’s favorite shade
tree, and Sydneyites were proud of the
fine avenue that ran the whole length
of Hyde Park. The avenue had to go
to make the underground railway tunnels
safe. Tendrils of the M.B. fig roots work
into the minutest crevices, and with their
growth can burst the stoutest structures.
The collapse of a drain in College-street
in front of the Australian Museum was
traced to the growth of roots from a fig
in Hyde Park.
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: There’s no doubt it is
amazing how some punters pick ’em. A
bookie’s stand at Rosehill being occupied
only by a gent, sitting on it, instead of
by its bellowing owner, I sat down, too,
to lick my wounds. From the occupant,
very beerily: “I shay, mate, wha’sh gonna
win thish?” “Crikey, don’t ask me, old
chap,” I said ; “I haven’t the foggiest.”
He turned over some pages of his
crumpled racebook. “Now here’sh one,”
he said, “tha’sh been runnin’ all the
fourths about the place down ’n Mel-
Bern a two-fisted bloke I Want t ’ be a two-gun private!”
bourne. It oughter have a chansh.” His
thumb pinned down Dannevirke, who
certainly wasn’t a starter in my book. I
took a screw at his. He was trying to
pick his horse from an old book for the
Harold Park dogs.
* * * *
“Q.C.”: It’s an ill wind that nobody can
turn to advantage. The news was cabled
to Melbourne that a well-known Aus-
tralian artist, his wife and child had been
killed by. a Nazi bomb in London. The
next day a large landscape by the painter
appeared in a picture-dealer’s window
with the information appended to it.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: War circumstances in
Albania raised a shadow from the past (it
is 40 years since I looked at Byron) to
haunt me, and I worked the remembered
line on Alexander Oysteropoulis as he
served my fish and chips—“ The fiery
Greek, his red, pursuing spear.” He came
back promptly with
Still to the memory of her glories past
Shall pilgrims, pensive but unwearied, throng;
Still shall the voyager with the lonian blast
Hail the bright land of battle and of song.
Stunned equally by this literary riposte
and Oysteropoulis’s very creditable pro-
nunciation of the words, I was further
amazed when the fish-server broke from
serving the hunger of another customer
to breathe over me
Da Isle of Greece, da Isle of Greece,
Where burneeng Sappho loved and sang.
Oysteropoulis continued to fire slabs of
Byron at me during his service to cus-
tomers ; and, a quiet time coming, he told
me that at school in Corinth (he was 15
when he came to Australia) he won as
a prize a Greek translation of Byron
with the English on opposite pages. Such
prizes, he said, are common in Greek
schools, where every child is taught some-
thing about Byron and knows something
about his poetry.
* * * *
“S.V.”: Strange deaths? A workman
loading scrap iron at Port Melbourne on
the first real day of Victoria’s summer
stopped work and took a swig from a
beer-bottle. Then he started to eat his
lunch. A few seconds later he collapsed
and died before he could be got to hos-
pital. The beer-bottle contained sump oil.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, is offering studies in adaptation
to a changed environment since Mr.
Bell’s double-decker buses took the place
of the ancient trams dragged by cable.
A section of Melbourne’s population is
intensely irritated by anything new, and
the first thing that happened was that
several of the handsome-looking jugger-
nauts had to be withdrawn owing to pas-
sengers slashing the upholstery with pen-
knives. As the double-deckers draw up
to the kerb an old menace to pedestrians
has been removed, but a new one has
arisen. The centre of the roadway be-
tween the tramlines has hitherto been a
sort of sanctuary for jaywalking old
ladies. The motor traffic now has the
right-of-way from pavement to pavement,
but habits are hard to break, and it is a
common sight to see an elderly person
skipping for her life out of a safety zone
in front of a stream of transport. An-
other unpredictable thing is the effect of
the silence of the city after ordinary
traffic has ceased after midnight. The
burr of the cables used always to be
present, and a chronic insomniac of my
acquaintance who lives in Lonsdale-
street and who used to say that he could
not sleep because of the noises of the
city now complains that he cannot sleep
because the dead silence makes the ex-
panding and contracting of the furniture
of his bedroom sound like gun ex-
plosions!
y *' * * *
“Jesmond”: I agree with “Avon” (B.
23/10/’4O) that the C 2 class of early re-
cruiting days contained good stuff. It
would be interesting to know the per-
centage of men in the first A.I.F. who
had previously been rejected. Accepted
on my fourth attempt in 1917, I was
drafted to a company of reinstoushments,
over 60 per cent, of whom had been
previously rejected as unfit, and they did
quite as well as the supermen whom they
replaced. I got my issue early in 1918 in
the back, guts and chest, and for nearly
four years was a star exhibit to medicoes
all over the place. They all admitted
that I must have a constitution like a
bull, after previously trying to convince
me I was unfit for cannon-fodder.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: In paying Australians in
local currency, instead of the sterling rate,
thus depriving them of the exchange, the
Government of India is only repeating
ancient history. The battle over the ex-
changes between home authorities ignor-
ant of the subject and employees in Asia
is as old as the East India Company. When
I went to Singapore as a young man
European clerks were paid on the basis
of a 2s. 4d. dollar, though the dollar
was locally worth two bob. This meant
that we were taxed to the extent of about
3s. 6d. in every pound of our earnings,
Everybody was in debt to his tailor, his
boarding-house lady and even his native
servants. London and Australian boards
and departments heard the rumblings of
discontent and put it down to tropical
liver. Matters came to a head when the
cable staff at Singapore, the clearing-
house between Europe and Asia, sent an
ultimatum that at midnight on a certain
date every instrument would stop work-
ing. A last-minute message arrived,
granting the concession and back pay
which in some cases stretched back a
decade. Yet the phenomenon of ex-
change could be explained to any
intelligent person in five minutes’ conver-
sation.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Modern surgery has almost
ceased to be a wonder, so used have
people become to surgeons removing all
sorts of things from all sorts of locations
in the human frame. All the same, the
Northcote (Vic.) boy who somehow got
a long tack embedded in one lung will
have something to talk about for the rest
of his days as he shows the scar of a
foot-long incision on his chest. Through
this surgeons raised his lung, then cut
into the lung to the tack, withdrew it,
replaced the lung and stitched up the
chest. The lad is now doing well,
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A motorist was tootling
along a suburban street in Melbourne
when his car struck a stationary petrol
wagon. The impact threw the car into
the path of an approaching motor-truck,
which hit it amidships, throwing it in
front of a tram. The tram biffed it in
the bonnet and slewed it round in a
reverse direction. After the various units
were sorted out the driver of the car was
found with his feet in his vehicle and his
head under the running-board of the
tramcar. He escaped with a cut fingei.
* * m
“F.S.”: It is just possible that one of
these days a priceless work of art may
be deliberately destroyed by the authori-
ties of the National Gallery of Victoria.
It might come about in this way. Hun-
dreds of people submit pictures, antiques,
real or alleged, books and other objects
to the trustees, believing them to be valu-
able works of art. The gallery experts pass
opinion on them, and frequently tell the
owners that they are of no value what-
ever.. The owners often accept the gal-
lery’s valuation so confidingly that they
don’t even take the trouble to call and
recover their possessions. Consequently
there is a vault stuffed with almost as
many unclaimed articles as stock the
lost property office at Flinders-street. The
Crown Solicitor has informed the trustees
that they have power to destroy such
works, and a recent report states that
action has already been taken in some
cases. The competency of the gallery’s
experts is unquestioned, but art history
is full of instances that underline the falli-
bility of contemporary judgments. For
150 years after his death Rembrandt was
completely forgotten, and the works of
mediocre Dutch painters of his period
were preferred to pictures for which
plenty of galleries would now gladly pay
tens of thousands. Van Gogh never
sold a picture in his lifetime; now he is
at the height of the fashion.
IN HOLLYWOOD.
“John Barrymore's fourth wife has obtained a
divorce from him for the second time. To each
of his preceding wives John stayed married for
about seven years.” —Hollywood item.
These stars, who in their filmland parts
Enrapture countless female hearts,
Require in their domestic lives
A periodic change in wives.
Being tied to one for all the while
Would queer their pitch and cramp their style,
And mar their means of livelihood
Presumably in Hollywood.
It’s more than likely, you’ll agree,
That conjugal monotony
Might tend to freeze their noble rage
And tender passions on the stage
And jolt, to more or less extent,
The true artistic temperament,
As such a thing is understood
In Hollywood, in Hollywood.
Beneath those Californian skies
They’ve come to look with lenient eyes
On dashing guys and melting blondes
Who get their hymeneal bonds,
Once they begin to irk and chafe,
Snapped off —to leave them free and safe
For new attachments, an they should
Be so inclined, in Hollywood.
If bluff King Hal, who lived, you know.
Four spacious centuries ago,
Had destined been to run his race
In what we call these years of grace,
I wonder if he wouldn’t have been
A huge success upon the screen.
In one respect I’ll say he could,
Reincarnated, still make good
In Hollywood, in Hollywood.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“That’s our position, Prendergast—now you go up an lure ’em out!”
“D.E.”: When the “Times” was pub-
lishing its “Parnellism and Crime”
articles, it reproduced as Parnell’s a letter
“excusing” the murder of Burke in
Phoenix Park, Dublin. The letter was
really the work of Pigott, the forger, and
at the proceedings of the Parnell Commis-
sion .Sir Charles Russell (afterwards Russell
of Killowen, Lord Chief Justice) bowled
Pigott out by, among other things, get-
ting him to write the word “hesitancy” in
the witness-box—he spelt it “hesitency,”
as was his practice when forging letters.
A memory of this must have been in
N. S. Wales Justice Street’s mind when
he asked a nurse suing an old grazier for
breach of promise to write down words
which formed part of letters alleged to
have been addressed to her by the defen-
dant. This dictation test was amplified
by his counsel, and presently the Court
was seen pondering on the words “untill,”
“entend,” “buisness” and “marrage.” “A
curious coincidence,” his Honor ob-
served ; “they are spelt just like that in
the letters.” Verdict for the defendant
and papers forwarded to the Attorney-
General.
* * * *
"Strict Veg.”: In Los Angeles, where
anything can happen, the National Safety
Council lately conducted a test to find
out the effects of alcohol on the driving
of 12 brewery employees and one police-
man (the cop had recently returned from
a 10,000-mile tour lecturing on the evils
of drunken driving). To the amazement
of the professors, while the brewery em-
ployees’ driving got steadily worse the
more sozzled they became, the policeman’s
manipulation of the controls got better
and better. The John Hop concluded (so
the N.S.C. report states) by proving that
after six drinks his ability to stay on a
highway was 76 p.c., whereas the normal
average for sober persons is 65 p.c. The
experts remain profoundly puzzled, but
there is nothing puzzling about it. The
policeman, knowing he was tight, concen-
trated his wits on safe driving, and had
enough mental command to get through.
It’s the chap who doesn’t realise he is
blithered who drives recklessly.
X X * *
“Flagonist”: The new tariff has
achieved at least one sound and satis-
factory result —for the first time on
record soft drinks have been brought
within the scope of excise taxation. The
new duty of Is. per pound on carbonic
acid gas represents about on a large
bottle of aerated waters. Compared with
the increase from 2s. to 2s. 9d. per gallon
on beer, and the extra 12s. per proof
gallon on spirits of Australian origin, it
seems a poor and humble effort, but none
the less it is a beginning at the reasonable
and necessary job of making the tee-
totaller pay something on the fizzy bever-
ages which he has hitherto guzzled so
gaily without a thought of his country’s
revenue needs. If only for the sake of the
good example which they would be set-
ting to weaker brethren, teetotallers
should welcome an opportunity to help
in keeping Australia’s war chest filled to
at least the same extent as the contri-
butions made by us beer-sinking patriots.
It is sincerely to be hoped that Mr.
Fadden will give it to them at the first
revision.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: What must be one of
the nicest thirsts on record was revealed
in Brisbane Police Court recently. A
cellarman at a city hotel was charged
with having stolen 214 bottles of beer,
38 bottles and 17 flasks of whisky, eight
bottles of rum, five bottles and seven
flasks of gin, a bottle of brandy, three
bottles of hock and one bottle of sherry.
The evidence showed that he had con-
sumed the whole 294 items in less than
five months, all by himself, placing the
empties in positions that deceived the
proprietress during inspections of cellar
stocks. The performance was put up in
winter, too.
X * X *
“Caramba”: The struggling mass of
bargain-hunters who flocked into Coles’s
new Adelaide store on the opening day
little suspected (or cared, for that matter)
that the site on which this fine building
stands was sold 103 years ago for £7 14s.
to Robert Thomas, S.A.’s first printer
and journalist. Born in 1782, Thomas
spent twenty years in Fleet-street before
coming to S.A. to print the second issue
of the “Register.” The first number
appeared in London on June 18, 1836, six
months before the first colonists, headed
by Governor Hindmarsh, arrived. Heckled
by its early-day rivals, the “Register”
survived them all until February 20, 1931,
when it was absorbed by the 73-year-old
“Advertiser,” Adelaide’s only morning
paper these days.
# * * »
“Ettiwanda”: I note that the S.A. De-
partment of Agriculture has suddenly dis-
covered that the succulent asparagus
grows wild along the irrigation channels
near Renmark. It was doing that at Mil-
dura (Vic.) as far back as 1915, when we
kids used to gather and sell it in Is.
bundles as “sparrowgrass.” The S.A.
Department is to make tests to see if the
irrigation settlers can produce sticks as
palatable as those which come tinned
from California and cost Australia about
£40,000 a year. But why the tests? Out
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) the Edgells have
been growing and tinning an asparagus
that can give the Californian stuff ten on
and a beating, and they’ve been doing it
for years. What can be done at Bathurst
can be done elsewhere.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: An A.B.C. “guest con-
ductor,” a bit of a martinet, was
directing a rehearsal of a sym-
phony in Melbourne. One of the
instrumentalists had a very small part
in the proceedings, and when his atten-
tion wasn’t needed he did what he had
done a thousand times before under the
regular conductors —he solaced his bore-
dom by working out a crossword puzzle.
Suddenly the imported man caught him
at it. He flung down his baton and
roared: “And vot might you be doing?”
Can t swim? Don't worry—jist 'old y'r 'ead above Water an keep y'r
eyes skinned for sharks."
‘'Working out a crossword puzzle,” said
the surprised musician. “Go home, go
home! ” shrieked the conductor. “Go
home and neffer come back.” “But my
next part doesn’t come on for twenty
minutes,” expostulated the aggrieved
musician. “If you’re not interested in
the music you’re no good to me,” said
the conductor. Beecham (B. 20/11 / ’4O)
didn’t have to complain of that lack of
interest.
. > *• , * * *
“S.T.S.”: Mention of such names as
“O. Y. Love” (B. 6/11/ ’4O) recalls a
Bulletin joke much esteemed in the
long ago, when land-agents were in dis-
favor in Sydney. A Lindsay drawing
showed one of them asking for sympathy
over his business name-plate, which read
simply “A. Swindell.” “Well, put your
name in full,” said his friend. “Can’t,”
said the victim, “it’s Adam.” But, coming
back to strict fact, parents do have an
uncanny sense of humor—or none. You
would think that anyone bearing such a
name as Halfpenny or Gabriel would be
a bit careful when christening the child.
But no ; 1 have known two unfortunates
condemned by their nearest and dearest
to sign themselves as Angel Gabriel and
Glorious Halfpenny.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” remembers an attempt to
uplift the Speck:
A hundred years ago it looked as if Tas-
mania was to become the intellectual centre
of Australia. Benevolent John Franklin had
succeeded the iron-souled Colonel Arthur as
ruler of the province, and although he had an
essentially convict colony to look after he en-
tertained high hopes of what might be done
amongst the free settlers, whom he described
as unusually intelligent and as living “in ease
and opulence.” To encourage the spread of
religion and education was his principal aspira-
tion, and he sought everywhere for clergymen
and schoolmasters. He enlisted the sympathies
of Arnold of Rugby, who sent out a young
Cambridge scholar, J. P. Gell, to found a
school which might be hoped to develop into
an Australian university. For a few years the
island was the scientific hub of the South Seas.
Botanists and geologists like Hooker and
Strzelecki investigated its resources, and the Royal
Society of Tasmania published reams of re-
ports on scientific matters of all description.
But nothing Franklin could do was able to
put in the background the colony’s penal
character, and when, in the last year of his
term as Governor, N.S.W. was given the right
to elect most of the members of its Legislative
Council, the same privilege was denied to
V.D.L. on account of its convictism. Not for
another 10 years was the second-oldest Aus-
tralian province allowed anything of the sort.
The first use it made of it was to abolish
transportation and change its name.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: On the hurricane deck of
our suburban bus the drunk slept. The
conductor fought his way up the rocking
gangway, approached the sleeper and
gave the hunting-call of his tribe. The
sleeper stirred not, except to roll with the
bus as it swayed round a corner. The
conductor, a time-saving young man,
went on and collected the other dues,
then returned and, bending over the
drunk, shouted. The drunk stirred ever
so slightly. The conductor shouted
louder. The drunk stirred a little more.
Then the conductor put forth a hand
and shook him firmly. Whereupon the
drunk arose and began to stagger towards
the back of the vehicle, muttering “All
ri’, all ri’, but why can’t y’ put the milk-
can out y’rself ’stead o’ disturbin’ me?”
.** * *
“Colbun”: World War II should dis-
pose finally of the old idea that man-made
noises can cause heavy rains. The terrific
bombardments in Flanders in May, cul-
minating in the Dunkirk evacuation, the
air bombing over France during the Ger-
man drive to the coast in June and the
continual explosive uproar over Britain and
much of Western
Europe in July
were all accom-
panied by un-
usually bright and
sunny weather.
Never before in
history has there
been anything like
the same volume of
sustained noise and
concussion, yet the
summer and
autumn seasons
were finer and
drier than usual. In
Europe during the
Middle Ages there
was a belief that
rain could be
brought on by
ringing church
bells. Probably it
had drifted through
from China, where
for many centuries
before then gongs
and crackers were
used for the same purpose. Thirty-odd
years ago Clement Wragge tried the same
idea in Australia with his Stiger Vortex
mortars, but without success.
A PROBLEM.
I know —at least I’ve frequently been told —
The buttons on our sleeves that tailors string
Are quaint survivals from the days of old
When carrying a sword was quite the thing.
I know why corks around the hats are tied
Of hardy blokes outback for gold who hunt,
But, puzzle as I will, I can’t decide
Why parsons wear their collars back to front.
I know why sailors’ pants are wide, of course,
Below the knees, though narrow in the beam,
While those whose ruling passion is the horse
Run to the very opposite extreme.
I know why bowyangs help the sons of toil
When there are picks to swing or stones to
crack,
Yet I can never get the dinkum oil
Why clerics don their neckwear front to back.
I’ve heard industrious professors trace
The history and learnedly explain
The implications of the Speaker’s mace,
The wherefore of the portly Mayor’s chain.
Yet I admit to ignorance complete
Of what accounts for this sartorial stunt:
It baffles me and has me fairly beat
Why padres sport their stick-ups back to
front.
I’ve never troubled greatly to surmise
Or speculate on what mysterious flair
Makes painters partial to flowing ties
And violinists bank on flowing hair.
But these are negligible bagatelles
Beside the point whereon my brains I rack.
Does Ripley know —or anybody else—.
Why parsons wear their collars front to back?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 for 9d. 20 for V 6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVE NA
Tlm
m
MAD E SP E CIA LL Y ~, TO P»E VENT
POLITICAL POINTS
It looked last Thursday as if Aus-
tralia might have a new P.M. this week.
Curtin had challenged the Fadden
Budget, Wilson had become a most un-
certain quantity, and the Government
was short of the Swan vote, while the
new Kalgoorlie Labor member was be-
lieved to be on his way to assist Curtin.
Moreover, growls and subdued threats
were heard from one or two Sydney
Yaps, who can’t forgive Menzies for
being a Victorian. Then came a break-
down of the negotiations for the settle-
ment of the Labor faction fight in N. S.
Wales. That may tide the Government
over the dangerous period, for the Beas-
ley group can scarcely take the risk of
another election.
Having won 32 seats out of 74 in the
House and three of the 19 Senate seats
contested, Curtin thinks his policy should
prevail. He will be the sorriest man in
Australia if he has to make a show of
introducing it.
From the moment he reappeared at
Canberra, Cameron showed that he
hadn’t lost his punch. Wilson, to whom
he once referred as a “cleanskin,” pro-
voked Menzies into a sharp rejoinder.
“Be careful with him,” said Bob’s late
deputy—“he’s a one-man jury.” It made
even Wilson’s associates on the Labor
benches grin.
Having failed to interest Chiang Kai-
shek in an Axis peace, the Japanese have
signed a treaty with Wang Ching-wei,
described as head of “the National Gov-
ernment of the Republic of China,” at
Nanking, and it is expected that Ger-
many, Italy, Hungary, Slovakia and what
is left of Rumania will recognise Wang.
Washington retaliated with a loan of
50,000,000 dollars to Chiang, and with
a promise of a similar amount for cur-
rency stabilisation. Cash-and-carry
doesn’t apply to Chiang.
One of the State Governments which
protested that they couldn’t possibly
reduce taxation is reducing it since Can-
berra came down with its new taxes.
Fearing reprisals from State taxpayers,
the Sydney Government has taken as
much as a bob a week off its unem-
ployed-relief tax, so-called because most
of the unemployed never see any of it.
With an election coming on, it is ready
to reduce anything except the extra £4
a week which Ministers and members
awarded themselves in October, 1938,
and dated back to July 1.
Since July Maoriland Labor has been
collecting a national-security tax of Is.
in the £, plus a social-security tax of Is.
in the £, from all wages and salaries, and
£4-to-£5-a-week men are liable also to
an income tax commencing at 2s. 10*d.
in the £. It would be interesting to hear
Maoriland Labor on Curtin Labor, which
demands exemption from war tax of
even single non-starters on £250 p.a.
Dreading the effect of war taxation on
ragshop advertising, Sydney “Sun” is
shrieking for some substitute. Whether
it wants Douglas Credit or a fiduciary
issue on Theodore lines isn’t clear: —but,
then, the “Sun” never is clear on any
subject except beach brats and bruisers.
On the principle, no doubt, that a
museum is the proper place for members
of species which have become extinct in
the struggle for self-preservation, the
Tramways Board has bequeathed Mel-
bourne’s first cable tram to the National
Museum. It will be housed in a shed
until room is found for it between the
African elephant and Phar Lap. The
museum people should now reserve space
for the last State politician.
“When it comes to the issue of credit,
there is a safe limit which cannot be
exceeded. If the Government created
more credit than was justified by the
available goods and services or those
which could be produced within a
reasonable time, it would be robbing the
people, particularly the working people.”
A Prime Minister said that. Menzies?
No, Fraser, the leader of Maoriland
Labor. Nash, his Finance Minister, fol-
lowed with a pertinent question: “What
is the use of creating credit to spend
when goods are not available?” If
Curtin has an answer to the conundrum
he should let Australia know it.
Cooper, of Queensland, braying after
the usual August-November session:
There is a greater need than ever before
to safeguard Parliament, for a nation
cannot afford to have its system of govern-
ment belittled. It is everyone’s duty to
have greater faith in Parliament.
But how may a man divide his faith
among seven of the things when he
knows one is sufficient?
Only the Golden Mile vote, reckoning
Boulder as part of the Mile, saved Labor
“The Housewives’ Association is insisting on the Government reducing the alcoholic
content of beer for soldiers.”
“Who’s drinking it, missus—you or me?”
from a licking in Kalgoorlie. In the
Kalgoorlie subdivision itself Lee, with
1987 votes, was only 250 or so behind
Johnson, but the latter was about 850
ahead in Boulder, 800 in Hannans and
350 in Brownhill; and these boxes
decided the issue. Lee led in Gascoyne
and Kimberley (each represented by a
State Labor Minister), Pilbarra, Irwin and
Greenough ; and in Geraldton, which has
returned Labor Premier Willcock for
many years, he had scored 970 when
Johnson had 1254.
Latham, the C.P. man who leads the
State Opposition, did some campaigning
for Lee, and, going on Kalgoorlie figures,
he is sure he could win a State general
election if one could be forced early next
year. But that is not at all likely.
“Although returned with only 15 mem-
bers of the Government party, we have
for three years retained the confidence
of the House.” Thus Playford, the Adel-
aide Premier, reviewing the “work” of
his superfluous Parliament, whose last job
before closing down for an Assembly
election was to approve of “the estimated
deficit, £457,000” —this when the State is
getting whips of war contracts and the
Government an easy million from Can-
berra. The House has 39 members, and
the Government, which commands a
whole 15 votes, was kept in office by In-
dependents. A popular revolt against
licensed betting shops put most of those
Independents in ; but the betting shops
continue to be blots on the landscape.
S.A.’s 29th Parliament closed its third
and last session trailing clouds of self-
glorification. The main theme of dis-
cussion at the Assembly’s second-last sit-
ting was the failure of the Railways Com-
missioner to provide lavatories at all
stations. The final all-nighter was
climaxed by a squabble between Indepen-
dents, one of whom alleged that the other
had stayed at a fashionable Sydney pub
while his farmer constituents were starv-
ing.
The long-drawn-out Woolcott Forbes
conspiracy case got another airing in
Sydney last week, when bench warrants
were issued for the arrest of the big fish
that got away and two alleged associates.
Three other accused were present in
court. Counsel for one, an M.L.A.,
pleaded for an early trial, saying it was
“about two years” since the investigations
were begun, “about eighteen months”
since his client was arrested and “about
four months” since he was committed.
Ordered that the case should come on for
hearing “at the first sittings of the
Central Criminal Court next year.” It
seems a dreadfully long time. The ten-
dency for justice to limp in N. S. Wales
should receive some attention in the
“Parliament” maintained there ; but no
kind of law reform ever interests that
body.
Hopes of Russia spring eternal in the
Sydney “D.T.’s” breast. It has now dis-
covered that “Russia is using all its in-
fluence to prevent an extension of Axis
power in south-eastern Europe.” An-
other theory is that the owner of “the
greatest fighting machine history has ever
known, the Red Army,” is using all his
influence to keep out of trouble with
anyone who can hit back, being ready
meanwhile to grab anything while the
grabbing is good.
An official declaration of war aims is
overdue. Because it has been delayed so
long we have persons like “Sir” Walter
Citrine telling the American Federation
of Labor that “Britain will fight until the
dictatorships are abolished in Europe.”
Metaxas, of Greece, is a dictator, and so
is the friendly and useful Salazar, of Por-
tugal ; but perhaps “Sir” Walter Citrine
doesn’t really want to fight them.
The old Australian prerogative of
“tellin’ the boss off” and going some-
where else for a job has received its
second jolt, this time in Tasmania. The
first was when Maoriland Labor refused
to allow tradesmen liable to its conscrip-
tion law to return to Australia ; for an
agonising week it looked as if their only
way of getting back would be to dis-
guise themselves as Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Now, before workers can leave Tasmania,
permits must be obtained from the Indus-
trial Registrar. According to Premier
Cosgrove, “prospects of getting muni-
tions works at Hobart and Launceston
mean that we shall need every trades-
man.” No howl has yet been heard about
“industrial conscription,” Tasmania hav-
ing a Labor Government.
Mair, the Sydney Premier, objects to
his “ordinary” income tax being col-
lected in weekly instalments along with
his alleged unemployed-relief tax and
Commonwealth tax. Reason for objec-
tion not stated, but it is obviously that
if taxpayers realised how much was being
taken from them by a concern which
does so little for it they would turn nasty.
This consideration has already prompted
Mair and his Government to shave a
trifle off the alleged relief tax.
What L. A. Robb said or didn’t say
has still got a lot of people frothing at
the mouth, most of them persons who
vociferously opposed the banning of
Communist propaganda on the ground
that “free speech” must be preserved.
Their idea of free speech can always be
ascertained at some union meetings,
where the man who opposes “the execu-
tive’s” ideas is apt to stop a punch if
he persists.
How these State politicians love any-
thing likely to switch public attention
from their own shortcomings! Shannon,
M.L.A., wanted to know if the inquiry
into the statements made by L. A. Robb,
State president of the R.5.5.1.L.A., was
to be public or private, and whether press
reporters would be called as witnesses.
Premier Mair had “nothing more to add.”
If he had said “I refuse to be a party
to such a stupid waste of time as an in-
quiry,” electors would have cheered him
from the Queensland border to the
Murray.
A diamond-studded gold pass was
mentioned in the Trautwein bankruptcy
case. When Trautwein was elected to the
“reformed” N.S.W. Leg. Council seven
years ago (Assemblymen and members
of the “unreformed” Council were the
voters, and there was brisk betting at
fancy odds) he was presented with the cus-
tomary gold token entitling him to travel
free over all the Government railways
of the Commonwealth and Maoriland. In
the pride of election and possession he
had a costly diamond set in it. Asked
what had become of this jewel, he said
he had sold it on the day he was sen-
tenced to twelve months for “false repre-
sentation,” the purchaser—alleged to have
paid £3OO for the diamond, a ring and a
pin—being a person who did a long
stretch for “forging and uttering counter-
feit coins,” but had since been “a very
reputable citizen.” There are no gold
passes, much less election of members
by members, in benighted Britain —merely
railway warrants, good only for trans-
port between the electorate and West-
minster while Parliament is sitting.


AESOP WROTE THE FABLE; AND AESOP WAS A GREEK!


m
HOUSEWJFE’S SCISSORS'.'OUT.EIT
JHG
HA
FOUR-PAIR SCISSORS CASE.
Case made of Fine Fancy
Leather. Size about B?in. x Sin.
when folded. Fitted with four
bes t-q ual i t y Sheffield-made
Scissors —1 Tin. Cutting-out, 1
sin. Household, 1 Embroidery,
and 1 Nail, 37/6 complete.
GIFTS THAT PLEASE
fd
W. .Jno. Baker Standard Razor. Black
Handle, Jin. wide Blade. Sharpened
ready for use, 13/6.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
BABY OR SMALL MODEL PINKING
SCISSORS. Size overall, sin., 28/6.
PTY.,
LTD.,
sd
FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT, made
of Fine Leather. Size when folded,
Biin. x 5Mn. x 2-}in. Containing W. Jno.
Baker brand Razor, Shaving Brush,
Shaving Soap and Container, Strop,
Hair Brush, Comb and Mirror, 57/6
complete.
PERSONAL ITEMS
T. H. Bath, of Westralia, was in Sydney
last week seeing about the publication of
a book he has written on the present dis-
contents ; and those who have read it
in manuscript pronounce it a very good
book. Bath was one of the first batch of
Labor Ms.L.A. sent to Perth from the
Golden Mile, and, becoming leader of
the party, he could have been Premier
29 years ago, but he stepped down —quite
unnecessarily—in favor of Scaddan,
though he became Scaddan’s Minister of
Lands. Long retired from politics, he
retains his youthful smile, his ardent faith
in co-operation and his hopes for the
sad old world. He was one of Curtin’s
predecessors as editor of the “Westralian
Worker.”
“K.P.”: In 1825 a leading Sydney
medico publicly prophesied the impossi-
bility of raising a third generation of
native-born white Australians, and spoke
of the need for continual reinforcement
of the adult population by migration from
countries more climatically suitable for
white people. Nine years later Edward
Bennett was born in Ireland. In Novem-
ber, 1940, being then an active and
healthy 106 after enduring the Australian
climate for 89 years, Bennett welcomed
his first fifth-generation descendant at
Briagalong (Vic.) amongst a family of
seven sons, four daughters, 62 grand-
children and 40 great-grandchildren, all
living.
A man who probably knows more
about Nippon than any other Australian
does is Ballarat-born Prof. Peter Russo,
now concluding a holiday in Australia.
Russo has been Professor of Modern
Languages at the Imperial University of
Tokyo for the last seven years. He first
PROF. PETER RUSSO.
saw Japan in 1930, when he went there
on a Morrison Travelling Scholarship
from Melbourne University. In 1935
he came to Australia as adviser to the
Debuchi goodwill mission, and on this
latest visit he brought a friendly mes-
sage from Prince Konoye. Russo is
32, unmarried and plays golf. A course
of post-graduate study in Paris, Rome
and Berlin followed his graduation at
Melbourne Lffiiversity.
Justice H. G. Edwards, whose appoint-
ment as a Judge of the N. S. Wales
Supreme Court was gazetted last week,
has made a habit of doing so well in
temporary appointments that they be-
come permanent. In the last five years
he has been an Acting Judge of the Dis-
JUSTICE H. G. EDWARDS.
trict Court, an acting member of the
Industrial Commission and an Acting
Judge of the Supreme Court, and in each
case a full-rank status has followed very
shortly. The Judge was born in N. S.
Wales in 1886, graduated at Sydney Uni.
and was associate to Justice George Rich
and later to Justice John Harvey at the
outset of his legal career. After that he
devilled for Jerry Boyce for a while, and
then built up a good practice of his own.
He has two sons —the eldest in his last
year of medicine at Sydney Uni., the
other an R.A.A.F. trainee.
Adelaide has news of an old acquaint-
ance in Air Vice-Marshal W. S. Douglas,
just appointed Commander-in-Chief of
the Fighter Command in Britain. Forty
years back he lived in S.A. as a small
boy, when Adelaide Uni. had his father,
Langton Douglas, as Prof, of History.
If there is a job as president or chair-
man going in Goulburn (N.S.W.) some-
one is bound to suggest T. P. Manion for
it. He served three terms as Mayor a
few years ago, and is back in the job
again. He has been chairman of the
Pastures Protection Board and president
of a couple of trotting clubs, and he is
chief A.R.P. warden, deputy coroner and
a leading light in the Chamber of Com-
merce. Son of a southern pioneer, he
owns an extensive tract of grazing coun-
try, where he runs merinos.
A great rider to hounds and a for-
midable boxer in his youth, Harry Dove
Young, formerly chairman of the Onka-
paringa R.C., has retired from the S.A.
Leg. Council at the age of 73. He will
be remembered there for a speech
in which he recited to the House
a lawyer’s bill of costs for advice
given to a party of racegoers at a Great
Eastern meeting who trooped on to a
bridge which collapsed and dropped them
into a stream. Harry has been in Parlia-
ment for 29 years, including terms in
both Houses. He was chairman of a
royal commission on law reform, and
in that capacity had great argument
with Frank Villeneuve Smith, K.C.
John Ernest Hoare, dead in Sydney at
74, was known to farmers all over N. S.
Wales. Born and educated at Bathurst,
he farmed Guyalman, at Geurie, for
many years before entering Government
service. He was C.P. inspector for the
Lands Department in the Dubbo district
prior to becoming valuer for the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank. In 1908 he be-
came a member of the Closer Settlement
Advisory Board for the Western Dis-
trict, and spent much time at Forbes,
eventually being appointed to the Amal-
gamated Closer Settlement Advisory
Board, on which he served
until 1931.
The upheavals in Europe
were the means of provid-
ing the University of Jeru-
salem with a remarkable
professorial staff. Dr. Walter
Fischel, its Prof, of Orien-
tal Languages and History,
has passed through Aus-
tralia on his way to U.S.A.
He is a master of every
language in polyglot Asia ;
his English is precise but
perfect; and he speaks Ger-
man, French and Italian
fluently. His hope is that,
when the world has settled
down after this madness,
Jerusalem will emerge as
the centre of the world’s
learning.
E. A. Coleman, newly-
appointed Chief Inspector of
Westralian schools, gradu-
ated in Arts at Sydney
Uni. in 1906 and joined the
Westralian Education De-
partment the same year.
During the 1914-18 war, Coleman
was a captain in the 28th Battalion
and saw service on Gallipoli and
in France, where he was wounded.
Invalided, he carried on as chief instruc-
tor for officers and n.c.os. until the
Armistice. Coleman has visited Europe
four times and the U.S.A. twice, the last
trip in 1937 on a grant from the Car-
negie Corporation. He lectures at
Perth Uni.
Under the Turnbull Trust Scots Church
periodically sends an invitation to some
theologian known for his gifts of fiery
eloquence to sojourn in Melbourne. The
next is to be an American. He is
Rev. George Stewart, D.D., who has had
a distinguished career as preacher and
author in Roosevelt’s country. In 1919
he was associate pastor of the posh Madi-
son-avenue kirk in New York, the biggest
Presbyterian church in America. He is
American secretary to the World Council
of Churches, and wears the ribbon of a
Chevalier of the French Legion of Honor
for relief work after the 1914-18 war.
Dr. Maloney left a medallion by
Charles Costermans to the Trades Hall,
Melbourne, and a marble head by Harry
Bates, the English sculptor, and other
pieces of sculpture to members of his
family. He expressed a wish that the
Maloney Medical Institute should be
carried on, and urged that charges to
patients should stay at his own maximum
of 3s. 6d., inclusive of medicine. The
Little Doctor’s head will go to the In-
stitute of Anatomy at Canberra.
Ernabella Native Mission’s newly-
appoihted director, James Robert Beattie
Love, was born at Killeter (Ireland) 51
years ago. In 1913-14 he travelled over
the greater part of northern Australia
and reported on the condition of the
abos. ; a year later he graduated at Adel-
aide Uni. During the 1914-18 war he
served with the 18th L.H. Regiment in
Palestine and gained the M.C. Since
1930, Love has been stationed at the
Presbyterian mission of Port George IV,
situated between Broome and Wyndham
in the territory of the Worrora tribe,
into whose language he has translated the
Bible. His life and adventures among
them are recounted in his Stone Age
Bushmen of Today, published in 1936.
Collier Robert Cudmore, who has been
in the limelight in S.A. lately through
his advocacy in the Leg. Council of
whippings for molesters of little girls, has
been an Adelaide solicitor since 1912. He
is a partner of J. Stanley Murray, chair-
man of News, Limited. Cudmore is one
of the chief driving forces in the Liberal
and Country League. In his younger days
he rowed twice in Oxford v. Cambridge
events and won the Olympic Gold Medal
for rowing in 1908. He served in the
R. in France from 1915 to 1918,
being twice severely wounded.
J. H. Traill, who partners W. A. Win-
deyer in the ownership of Tuwinga
merino stud, Bundella (N.S.W.), is the
third generation of his family to be asso-
ciated with the enterprise. Tuwinga had
its foundation in Collaroy stud, Merriwa,
which was established by Dr. R. J. Traill
in 1855. The strain was continued by
the second generation—Traill Bros. —at
Llangollen, Cassilis, and then by Win-
dever and Traill. Tuwinga is managed
by J. H. Traill.
Monty Brearley, the A.B.C. conductor,
was born in John Brownlee’s home town,
Geelong. He served his apprenticeship to
the violin under Alberto Zelman, and
then went to Germany. Caught
in the war net in 1914 he escaped
to' Denmark, returned to Australia, en-
listed and went back to Europe with the
A.1.F., winding up as major. After the
war he resumed his studies in Germany
with Goley Eberhardt, and in 1924 he
began conducting orchestras in London.
Lieut.-Col. George Dorricutt Shaw, just
named Civil Defence Commissioner of
S. in succession to Col. P. G. Brice, is
already Director of A.R.P. for the State.
Col. Shaw, who is 57, was born in Adel-
aide. He’s an analytical chemist by pro-
LIEUT.-COL. G. D. SHAW.
fession, and is senior analyst in the State’s
Department of Chemistry; before that
he was chemist and assistant metallurgist
to the Wallaroo and Moonta Mines. He
fought on Gallipoli as a captain in the
original 10th Battalion, and for a while
was acting C.O. In 1918 he was appointed
to the command of the 12th Battalion.
In more recent years he has commanded
the 43rd (A.M.F.). Takes a part in
municipal politics and is interested in
literature and the drama—he has written
a couple of plays which have been pro-
duced by the Adelaide Repertorians, of
which he is an active member. Also he
plays bowls and golf.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
w
&
&
141
-«
=3E3O=IIEi
HH— lIIM
y
V
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
jManager W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
“Perrine said her last word on the question.”
— “Woman.”
Fiction is stranger than truth.
q. q. q.
Wives who are very sharp are always
liable to keep their husbands on edge.
q. 4. q<
“Police Resent S.P. Duty.” —Sunday paper.
Don’t like S.P.-ionage.
“I'm getting me own back on her, though; I've boiled her woollen singlets !”
“The clock was dotty. Probably the elderly
lady had sent it out of its mind.” — “Woman.”
In other words, it had a tick.
q. q. q. q.
“The average person consumes 1600 pounds
of food a year.”— “World’s News.”
The seasoned boarding-house keeper
just removes the last nought from that
figure and serves accordingly.
q. q. q. q.
A man is often judged by his clothes,
a woman by her friends—but not until
after she has gone.
“When Wendy burst into the lounge room
there was Gerald heading the evening paper.’
•—Extract short story.
Let’s hope for the sake of Gerald’s nut
it wasn’t the Thursday ragshop-ad. edi-
tion.
-h -h *h
“It is the excellent long walk over open
country in the fresh air that is, in my opinion,
the best exercise gained from golf.”
—Radio announcer.
And there are always the elbow-bend-
ing exercises at the 19th.
*i* 4* •i*
“ ‘Hands,’ says a beauty expert, ‘are powdered
as well as the face.’ ”
Nowadays it’s nothing to see a woman
breast the cosmetic bar and boldly ask
for four fingers of Rachel.
t
Men who have too many benders are
liable to finish broke.
TOO Much to Ask.
“Boy, to mind parcels and useful.”
— “S.M.H.” ad.
Deere Sir,
i got no objeckshun to mindin parsels
but i do droar the line at haveing to
mind the useful as well. If hes any think
like the useful wot used to work in my
old mans pubb at Singeltun some other
kid can have the job, becors I cant be
eckspeckted to mind a cove wot gets on
the shirbit like this feller i menshunea,
if you can purswade the usefull to mind
himself like he orter ill be willin to take
it on.
Yours truely,
Willyum Droob.
Per P. S. C.
q. q. q. q.
The man who is not worth his salt can
usually raise a thirst without it.
q. q. q. q.
“Platypus at Melbourne Zoo eats daily 800
earthworms, two dozen yabbies and some hard-
boiled eggs.”
No wonder it has a big bill.
q. q. q. q.
Land of Nod.
“My experience is that the tendency is to
overwork all our visitors.” —Mr Menzies.
Percival Inkspot had written two plays
which were so bad that he was acclaimed
the strongest-nerved man in ti e world.
This resulted in such fame that, when-
ever he wrote another play, the critics
gave him a half-column boost weeks
before they saw it.
Mr. Inkspot at last came to Australia,
having previously agreed to agree to
everything. This wore out his voice, so
he used his head and kept nodding. This
gave him such a nodding acquaintance
with the country that he went back to
the Old Country and wrote a book in
which he advised us how to run the
place.
Eve.
Tragedy.
Ah, love! To think a little time ago
/ laughed and sang! To think that I
was gay,
Without a thought of that impending woe
Which lies so heavy on my heart
today !
How swiftly life has altered! How l
yearn
For those dear times ere sorrow filled
my cup !
Oh, aching spirit! Will they ne’er return,
Those days before the price of beer
went up ?
T. W. NATHAN.
“True Confession.”
Dazzled by Irma’s flashing smile, which
owed its charm to the inbuilt quality of
her Dribbleproof Dentures, Walter ner-
vously grasped her hand in his. For a
while, he sat in silence, admiring her
slender fingers, which, thanks to a regu-
lar massage with Supplo Almond Appli-
cation, gleamed lily-white against the
vivid Jungle Red that tinted her nails.
Growing bolder, he tenderly stroked her
auburn locks and Irma breathed a little
prayer of thanks to the ingenuity of the
inventor of Krinkello Waterproof Waves
for making such a captivating coiffure
possible.
Translating her silence as acquiescence,
Walter slid a timid arm around her waist,
so firm and small in its protective armor
of Coutt’s “Waspwaist” Corsets. Then,
throwing all discretion to the winds, he
printed a passionate kiss on her dewy
rosebud lips. But Irma was not afraid,
for she knew full well that Luscious Lip-
stick never came off.
Later, much later, she turned to her
adoring swain and asked, “What makes
you love me so much, Walter?”
“Gosh, I don’t know,” stammered the
happy lover. “I suppose it’s just because
you’re so sweet and natural.”
MELTON.
The Speedsters.
“Da enemies of Italy”—thus screeched
the ageing Muss. — K
“We crush-a dem like dis-a —poof ! da
world all fear-a us.
Corpo di Bacch’! Weeth black chins up
an’ hair all oiled and curled,
We bash-a da Engalan’, Greece—in
fact-a, we pull on all da world.
Da Blackshirts revel in-a da din and da
crash of war’s alarms;
Da mightiest foe stand not-a da chance
against da Fascist arms !”
But Musso., viewing sadly all his addled
Grecian eggs,
Might add that Fascist arms have no-
thing now on Fascist legs !
K.
The Gallop of Affairs.
[With acknowledgements to American
weeklies, and to English and Australian
weeklies written in the American language.]
Sportsman.
When Popoff, Bulgaria’s Foreign
Minister, refused to go to Berlin and sign
Axis pact at behest of Hitler, world sat
up, gasped. Anglo-Saxon man in street
thought Bulgaria, long loud in praise of
Nazis, in Axis pocket. Nigger in wood-
pile to be looked for, Russia indicated.
Ruling, upper classes, industrialists lean
to Berlin, peasants look to Slav brother
Russians, haven’t forgotten, too, disaster
1914-18, don’t want to back wrong horse
again, see significance Britain’s continued
resistance, Italian Balkan weakness, Tur-
key’s defiance, U.S.A. attitude. Popoff,
tall, bold, robust, size 11 boot, always
carries bone-handled penknife, more than
diplomatic match for Ribbentrop. Keen
shooter of chamois at hunting lodge at
Rila Dagh, entertains Europe’s diplomats
and between shoots picks way warily
through political maze. Speaks Bulgarian
fluently, master of split infinitives, double
negatives.
Oil and Sand.
Iran, once Persia, producer of 80,000
barrels oil yearly, in news following
Hitler’s threatened move through Balkan
Middle East, governed by Shah. Poten-
tate friendly Britain, inveterate smoker,
tactical genius, fond “housie.” Makes
hobby marriage, international intrigue.
Doesn’t want to see Hitler, Stalin, pass
Bosphorus. Banquets on State occasions
cost £20,000, doesn’t worry Shah, fabu-
lous royalties from British oil concession.
Shah works 18 hours day at ormolu-
encrusted desk signing State papers, exe-
cution permits, household cheques, hour
after dinner invariably devoted hookah,
hearing court gossip from Chief Eunuch.
Tricky.
Shrewdest of financiers, T V. Soong,
scion of famous family, now in U.S.A.
alleged negotiating further credits. Be-
hind bland smile is brain of amazing
Oriental cunning. Soong, Westernised,
never eats rice, fish. Favors boiled beef,
Yorkshire pudding with raw carrots,
peche Melba, heavy-bodied wines. Said
to have openly backed Wang Ching-wei
against brother-in-law Chiang Kai-shek
before joining Chungking Ministry, but
keen observer saw in it clever move em-
barrass Japanese when backing puppet.
Wouldn’t surprise if gigantic deal in silver
outcome, resulting in huge flow muni-
tions, ’planes, tanks, China, keep Japan
bogged mainland, release American ships
Atlantic patrols, help Britain where most
wanted.
Guzzler.
Count Teleki, Hungarian Premier who
sent fellow-Count Csaky to Vienna to
sign Nazi pact, sardonic, melancholic,
alcoholic. Any Saturday night at fashion-
able Hotel Bristol on Esplanade, Buda-
pest, Teleki, accompanied occasionally
by wife but mostly by handsome, Juno-
esque, red-headed favorite, can be seen
lifting walrus moustache, tossing off nog-
gins of American rye whisky. Said to be
ready stab Hitler in back at first signs
German defeat, wears collars like bank-
manager, learned his diplomacy handling
complaints capital’s biggest department
store.
Soddu Stutters.
General Arturo Piccolomini Soddu,
C.-in-C. Italian armies retreating from
Greece, has temperament of cheese-taster
and physique of first-class mandolin
player. Said to have highest-powered car
Italian army, stern disciplinarian, always
reads Ovid while battle in progress, would
play golf, if ever had heard of it, has
passion for boiled lollies, stutters badly.
Joke in Italian military circles that his
orders twice length that of any other
general, parts hair in centre, takes four
litres olive oil every night before retiring,
was backbone of Young Fascists. Is
spoken of as next Duce, but receding
chin and inability to clown grave handi-
cap.
Slobberer.
When Senor Serrano Suner goes on
weekly jaunt to Berlin to see what orders
friend Hitler has to give Falangists,
Franco’s brother-in-law always takes with
him long retinue, clad in military uni-
forms, ox-blood shirts, yellow socks and
boots. Rumored will depose Franco
soon to allow passage German army to
take Gibraltar, suffers from insomnia and
hives in season.
Nazi Envoy.
Heinrich von Stahmer, Hitler’s new
Ambassador to Tokyo, replaces Major-
General Engen Ott. Rumored Ott be-
came persona non grata with Takahashi,
had air of Aryan superiority Japanese
found irritating, difficult to see if
Stahmer any better. Stahmer, stocky,
heel-clicker, efficient, glib, suave, nego-
tiated Japan-Nazi pact, will try to in-
veigle Japan embark southward thrust
embarrass U.S.A. Said to have hair cut
with tinsnips, wears 18in. collars, bullet-
proof vest, elastic-side boots.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “I’m sittin’ in Ryan’s pub one
afternoon ’avin’ a quiet drink,” related
Dan, “when a long-whiskered ole coot
carryin’ a swag comes in an’ asks fer a
pot. ’E takes a gulp at it an’ stands
lookin’ round the bar a minute or so
mumblin’ to ’imself ; then ’e ses t’ Ryan
‘Yer new ’ere!’ Ryan grins an’ ses ‘Yes.
On’y been ’ere twenty year!’ The ole
coot nods. ‘Yes,’ he ses, ‘that’s wot I
wus tellin’ meself: a new face in the ole
place.’ Then ’e goes on: ‘I knoo Joe
Tinker, who ’ad this place before yer;
often useter come in. ’E wus ’ere thirty
year, an’ before ’im ole Ben Blewitt kep’
it. But ’e wus ’ere on’y fifteen when ’e
sold it t’ Joe.’ The ole coot has another
pot, grabs up ’is swag an’ ses ‘Well, I’ll be
goin’. Glad ter ’ave met yer. But sorry in a
way ole Joe ain’t ’ere; ’im an’ me wus
good friends. Hope yer ’ere next time
I’m round these parts. But I don’t ’spect
yer will be. In another ten year or so
y’ll sell out t’ someone else, like the rest of
’em. That’s the worst of a pub like
this, t’ my way o’ thinkin’; it changes
’ands so often a bloke feels quite a stranger
cornin’ inter it! ’ ”
“How”: Interested in “Cou’s” par. on
white-ants (B. 30/10/’4O), especially that
bit about the termites “harboring a
stomachful of half a dozen varieties of
protozoa. These bacteria....” Get back
off that thin ice, “C.”! Protozoa belong
to the animal kingdom ; bacteria to the
vegetable. “Germs” would seem a safer
word.
* * * *
“0.T.”: The shifting waters of
the Menindie (N.S.W.) lakes are a well-
known local phenomenon, but Billy the
Cook, who spent most of his time partly
drunk on schnapps, didn’t know anything
about them when, with a couple of
bottles of his downfall, he camped on
the eastern shore of Cawndilla a few feet
from the water. Next morning Billy
was astounded to discover that there was
no water within a mile of him. “By
cripes!” he marvelled, “this country dries
off quick.” However, there was still
schnapps, so William didn’t worry, ex-
cept that occasionally he cast a puzzled
glance at where the water had been.
Some time that night the wind changed
again, and when Billy woke to the second
day the waters of the lake lapped gently
at the foot of his bunk. He got up,
blearily surveyed the passive flood,
thought hard, then rolled his swag.
“Yair,” he told a boundary-rider later
that day, “I’m headin’ f’r Menindie.
Reckon I’m gettin’ the jo-joes again, what
with droughts an’ floods every second
day, an’ I always like t’ be near a town
when I’m gettin’ that way.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: For a long time I dis-
believed the theory of evolution, but the
evidence of the wire-netting fence and the
frilled lizards outback has almost con-
vinced me. Twenty-five years ago, when
the first rabbit-proofs went up in western
N.S.W., there was great mortality among
the frill-necks, which could get their
heads through the mesh but not their
shoulders ; then, when they tried to with-
draw, their frills anchored them. You
could ride a mile or so along a new net-
ting line and the dead lizards would
average one to the panel. Today it’s
uncommon to find one so caught. Has
lizardry evolved so that all the tribe know
the danger?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A prolific plant found grow-
ing on the Glenelg (S.A.) beach is the
latest fancy as a check for sand-erosion.
It certainly has taken possession there,
down nearly to high-water mark. Urr-
brae experts identify it as “sea rocket”
(. Maritima ), deeply rooted. The sand
covers the plant at first, but it continues
growing, and eventually overcomes the
sand. Habitat coastal, though there are
records of occurrence inland, probably
mostly on sandy salt areas.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: “When I want to clean
out a rabbit warren,” said old Joe, “I
grabs me gun and gets me old dorg to
round up a bucketful o’ bobby-tailed
lizards. I shoves a lump of clay on the
lizard’s back, sticks in it a stump of candle
just like those Cousin Jack miners have
on their hats, puts the lizard in the mouth
of a burrow, lights the candle and lets
him crawl in. In a few seconds you
hears a rumpus, for when those rabbits
sees a light crawling along the burrow
they goes mad with fright. Out they pops,
and that’s when I gets busy with the
gun. Of course, it don’t hurt the old
bobby-tails—the lump of clay protects
’em when the candle burns down —and
there’s never no shortage of lizards
around here. An’ I’ll hunt out more
rabbits with my lizards and candles in
half an hour than you’ll shift in a day
with a bag of your polecats.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Of all the miscellaneous
assortment of wogs that bountiful Nature
inflicts on her sons, the “itchy grub” is
the most insidious. A harmless-looking
hairy caterpillar, about two inches long,
it leaves an invisible irritant behind that
lingers long after it has gone. I brushed
one of the pests off the branch my coat
was hung on. That was at lunchtime.
Wearing the coat home after “knock-off”
my neck began to itch and the familiar
little lumps appeared—evidently the grub
had crawled across the collar. After a
couple of hours the irritation wore off ;
but next morning when I donned the
garment again the irritant was as potent
as ever. Incidentally, a meat-ant will
not attack the grub. Watched one crawl
over an antbed. Ant after ant rushed ex-
pectantly towards the wriggler, only to
turn away when within touching distance.
* * * *
“Yo Yo”: Was having a cold one in
a Queensland country pub when two old
farmers walked in discussing a cow that
one of them was apparently anxious to
secure. “Well, what will you take for
her?” the buyer asked. “Six quid,” re-
plied the other. “I’ll give you five,” said
the buyer. “No ; seven quid I want,”
said the owner. “But you just said you
wanted six.” “That’s right, but you’ve
gone down a pound, so there’s no reason
why I shouldn’t go up one.” All argu-
ment failed to move the owner, and the
cow eventually changed hands at seven
pounds.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: “The Stone Woman of
Wingen” (B. 13/11/ ’4O) is one of many
peculiarities that mark those lofty
tumbled ranges that tower over the
Hunter Valley. There is the Burning
Mountain (Mount Wingen), which has
been alight for about 2500 years. There
is nothing volcanic about it; it is simply
the result of the long-continued com-
bustion of deep-lying seams of the Greta
coal measures. And there is also the
spring of cold fresh water that gushes
from the flat summit of the Square
Mountain, alongside Mount Murulla at
the head of the valley. It emerges from
almost the very top of the range (4100
feet) and never varies in its flow during
the driest or the wettest seasons. About
10 miles east of it, close to where the
Page and Isis rivers join their waters, the
Lagoon Mountain has a miniature lake
on its summit that never dries up. And
over on the top of mighty Woollooma
(5000 feet), overlooking the historic Bell-
trees station, there is a grove of tall
stringybarks said to be unique on the
mainland. Mount Murulla, a little higher
than the Square Mountain beside it, and
with a deep gap between the two, makes
a peculiar moaning noise when a change
of weather is about. And up in those
ranges there is—or used to be when I was
a boy—a legendary Hairy Man who is a
sort of cross between the Devil and the
Bunyip. I have never seen him, but he’s
there all right. Every little boy in Wingen
knows that.
* * * *
“Naturala”: It is questionable to what
extent fish are susceptible to pain. The
piscatorial lips, of course, have the sense
of touch and taste, yet it is common for
a fish, having broken away with a hook
embedded in its cartilages, to come back
for more. Occasionally I have hooked
fish with two and even three hooks still
in their jaws. Body injuries, too, seem to
cause little concern. 1 have hooked Aus-
tralian salmon, six- to ten-pound fish,
which have had lumps torn right out, the
result of a near capture by a shark or
porpoise, yet these fellows were in seem-
ing good health and quite willing to take
a bait. Much the same with mullet.
To watch a school of tailer attacking
mullet is to witness a butchery. The
tailer makes only one bite with its needle-
sharp teeth and takes the piece clean
out. Yet the mullet dash briskly away,
and may be netted days later, still swim-
ming and feeding. Crustaceans are much
the same ; they lose claws and legs with-
out concern —and promptly start re-
growth.
* * * *
“Wooramel”: With his eagle in the
crow-trap (B. 30/10/’4O) “Turon River”
may be right about the futility of such as a
decoy. But he might have done better
with a dead bird. Roaming around the
Murchison sheep plains, W.A., we often
came across a dead wedgetail with its
crop torn out —work of others of the
species, eager for the food on which the
deceased had recently dined. That this
was generally poisoned mutton didn’t
deter the second diner, who, when the
strychnine got in its good work, fell out
of the sky, perhaps to have its crop
raided in turn. Professional stiffeners
build on this proclivity of the eagle ; it
saves a lot of poison, and brings in quite
a few heads if the trapper keeps his eyes
around for the carcasses,
» * * *
“Padflogger”: Tell “Yangardook” (B.
6/11/ ’4O) that my damper recipe was de-
signed for tracks where even a thimble-
ful of water was not to be wasted. Not
carrying scales and measures we didn’t
mix the salt with the water, since a sur-
plus of salted water meant waste, while
plain water not used went into the tea
billy. As for his craving for cream of
tartar and soda, baking-powder and self-
raising flour, my old man and I didn’t
carry a perambulating grocer’s shop.
And the reason why we got the fire going
at least two hours beforehand was —well,
any housewife will tell “Y.” that she
needs the oven really hot before putting
in the scones: the old-time baker fired his
open-hearth oven at least two hours
before he put in the doughs ; and he
turned out a better loaf than anything
that nowadays emerges from half-heated
“patent” ovens. Evening camp was
damper time ; and if the cook was on
with a stew, or even boiling beef, the
fire would be going two hours before
decks were clear for the baking of the
morrow’s dampers. Finally, if “Y.”
studies dietetics he will learn that crust
is easily digested—and my half-inch-thick
dampers were nice and crusty.
“She's not in this cabin , sir.”
THE WARRUMBUNGLE MARE.
On the Warrumbungle foothills, where begins
the Castlereagh,
The red mare ran unhaltered, a wild and hand-
some stray.
She roamed the hidden gullies, on the crests
was often seen,
And raced the mail for practice on the road to
Baradine.
She had a touch of racing blood, a trim and
taking head,
And the bushmen, all true horsemen, often
wondered how she’d bred.
From dark and lonely hillsides, in gullies white
with frost,
They’d hear her long-drawn whinny, see her
bold head proudly tossed.
And out from Coonabarabran, on Sundays in
the spring,
The lads would ride, well-mounted, in a far-
flung, moving ring.
But never horse could wheel her in the gallops
through the hills;
She raced them down the flying slopes and
leapt the gully rills.
And, spent at last, they’d watch her, while
their mounts shook, blown and blind,
As she’d run a distant skyline, a creature of
the wind.
And slowly back to town they’d go to tell that
once again
The Warrumbungle outlaw mare had beat them
straight and plain.
And none there was who claimed her, though
some had seen a brand
That showed she once had fallen under some-
one’s owning hand.
So she roamed the Warrumbungles, unhaltered,
proud of eye;
Dimly seen in mountain rainstorms or sharp
against the sky.
She knew the secret canyons, knew the tumbled
mountain stones,
Heard the wild duck in the gloaming, saw the
dingoes cleaning bones.
Sure of foot and strong of muscle, like a
panther in her zest,
So she climbed the eastern ridges or she
galloped down the west.-
One night—the sun was going down —in Coona-
barabran
A stranger sat and heard their talk, a sun-
burned, wiry man.
They told of headlong gallops through the
bottoms, through the pines,
Of the chestnut mare that beat them, and the
beauty of her lines.
He said no word, that wiry one, until their
tales were told,
Then arose and, eyes a-shining, in a voice both
low and bold,
He said, “I’ve never yet been beat, I’ll take
this outlaw’s dare;
If you’ll show me where* t’ find her,.l’ll ride
this chestnut mare! ”
They pointed to the glowing peaks, all sharp
against the sun,
And told him that the far-flung range was all
the outlaw’s run.
They watched him breast the first long slope,
they saw the shadows long,
And trimmed their lamps and wondered at the
echoes of his song.
Next day the horsemen, wide and far, the
broken uplands rode,
And all that week they searched for him, as is
the bushman’s code.
But, though they scaled the frowning peaks
and plumbed the deepest glades,
The Warrumbungles held him in their blue and
purple shades.
No more in Coonabarabran they saddle up to
go
To ride the sounding ridges or to search the
gullies low.
The wild red mare from that day on she never
more was seen;
No more was seen the wiry man, from Hall’s
to Baradine.
But out by Tooraweenah, when the night is
wild with storm
And lightning limns the Youlbong Gate, they
say you’ll see the form
Of the wild red Warrumbungle mare, her
nostrils flaring wide,
On her back a rider shouting in the glory of
his ride.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Yes, sah, the man-eating tiger died this morning."
“J.M.K.”: Irish Mac, the river cow
cocky, had bought a mob of store
wethers in the hope of an early break
in the season. But never a cloud showed
up in his usually good district in s.-e.
S.A.; Mac’s paddock grew barren
and his sheep so much poorer that the
saleyards saw them once again. The only
buyer interested, a dealer from a more
favored district, was in some doubt about
the sheep being able to travel the. dis-
tance. It was then that Mac’s voice
boomed over the yards. “Walk, is it?” he
said. “Why, I’ve known them sheep to
walk seven miles before breakfast and
then not get it! ”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It’s Mat’s yarn: “I’m
toilin’ f’r a wheat cocky out on the
Eudunda line in South Oss. He’s got
a big fair-haired girl about me own age
an she seems t’ like bein’ around where
I am. An’ I ain’t scared o’ matrimoney,
or anythin’ like that, till the day the
black snake turns up in the hay. Yair,
me an’ her old man is stookin’ an’ she
brings us out a bit o’ lunch an’ sits while
we eat it. The old man goes off some-
where an’ I’m chewin’ cake an’ gulpin’
tea when the twist-an’-twirl lets out a
yell an’ jumps clean inter me lap,
tnrowin her arms round me neck. I
looks, an’ about half a chain way, with
ms head up, is the Joe. There ain’t
a stick handy, so I peels off one o’ me
bluchers an’ dongs Joe with that. That
poor girl’s too frightened to go home
after that, so I puts me boot on an’ sort
o’ escorts her t’ the house, she hangin’
on t’ me arm. Well, f’r the next few
days she fusses round me a treat, but
still I don’t wake up. The next Sunday
I’m layin’-off up in the hayloft an’ I
sees this girl come out the back door
an’ nearly step on another snake. I
thought she’d faint, but she just grabs a
long-handled shovel leanin’ against the
door and makes mincemeat of his nibs
without turnin’ a hair. Yair, I’m on the
train t’ Gawler next day.”
* * * *
“T.-C.”: On my acres there are three
ridges invested by brown snakes and four
by blacks, and though often enough I
have seen each sort with a bulge I have
never had the luck to see one with its
jaws dislocated. Anyway, is such a
thing possible with the venomous brand?
I have always taken it that it was held
by muscular control. Certainly the lower
jaw has nothing to do with striking. In
point of fact, the lower jaw has often to
be dropped out of the way for a strike.
It is Joe’s weak spot. Despite those
experienced bushmen who have been
outback almost as far as their tram ter-
minus and who will, with a flick of the
tongue or fountain pen, snap Joe’s head
off, that feat is impossible. Easier to
shift the horns of a bull by the same
process. When Joe is back-pedalled it
is the bottom jaw that flies off. And he
dies immediately. Nary a quiver. It is
my private conviction that the go. flails
that bottom jaw when he wins the bout,
too.
* * # *
“K.Mc.”: Touching on coins used as
tyre wedges (B. 20/11 / ’4O). I once heard
an ex-thief boast of having wedged his
loot, in the form of legal tender, between
the hubs and boxes of sulky wheels while
he served time. Before his release a
drover of similar kidney added the
vehicle to his plant. The purloiner, traced
later by the original thief, produced a
feasible-looking receipt, refused to hand
over and threatened to call in the
coppers. The gaolbird, anxious to avoid
further parley with the Law, withdrew.
But while the drover slept he took off a
wheel, carried it a mile away and ex-
tracted the cash. Next morning the
exchange of a tenner settled the argu-
ment.
* * * *
“James W.”: Nominate the Shirra-
warra as the weirdest of all conceptions
of the embodiment of evil. That cove
was the Clarence River blacks’ version
of the bunyip. A flesh-eating monster
with a preference for human meat, he
had a human torso and arms, eagle’s
feet for hands, kangaroo’s legs, a tail
like the far end of a carpet snake, and
a goanna’s head. He could appear any-
where at will, but, by way of showing
contempt for all opposition, scorned to
use that power if anyone was rash enough
to attack him. Anyway, attack was use-
less, for no grip could hold him, and he
could catch any conceivable missile and
hurl it back at the thrower with unerr-
ing accuracy and deadly force. Even
when a white resident of the Ramornie
area who had tripped over his gun and
taken the full charge of shot in his chest
gasped out the facts of his accident as
he died, not an abo. believed him. No —
he’d been foolish enough to fire at Shirra-
warra, and, of course, had got the shot
back faster than the gun had thrown it.
“Clinton Cape”: Gulls and
other sea-fowl soon become wary
of a bait with a line attached to
it. Trolling for trailer and other
bait-snatchers I have hundreds of
times had the trailing bait and
hook picked up by gulls and
shags, but never once have I
made a capture. Nevertheless I
have seen natives in South West-
ralia catching gulls with a baited
hook, usually two birds at a time.
The means were two gut-tied
hooks, baited with a whole fish,
tiny, and attached to a small float.
Ever-hungry, the gulls swoop on
this, and have it down their gul-
lets before they realise there’s a
catch in it. Cruel? Well, it
would be if the fisherman-hunter
wasn’t close at hand. If the
trapped gulls remain on the water
he simply sends his gin out to
collect them. If they fly, and
they can do that only in short
spurts, he fetches them down with
a throwing stick. Poultry, of
course; anything with feathers
on fits Binghi in times of stress.
“E.A.C.8.”: “Wippegong’s” timber
(B. 13/11/ ’4O) is not a mulga, but an
acacia. Its local name is “waddy wood,”
botanical name Acacia puece. It grows
about 12 miles north of Birdsville, in
Western Queensland, near the S.A. bor-
der. Only a small clump, it is regarded
as the only one known except one be-
lieved to exist on the border of W.A. and
North Aus., west of Alice Springs. The
timber when dry is extremely hard. The
rafters of the homestead at Clifton Hills
were cut from the clump near Birds-
ville, and are so hard that nails can’t be
driven into them. I collected a few seeds
some years ago and raised a few plants.
One I have here (Buckland Park, S.A.)
is making no growth.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: When the usual spring
plague of cutworms put in an appearance
in our S.A. district, every gardener was
busy waging war on the pests. Carrot-
tops vanished in a night, fine young
tomato plants had their stems eaten
through at ground level, and what they
did to the flowers was little short of a
calamity. One of the very few who didn’t
suffer was old Dan, my neighbor. I
learnt why when I saw the netting hurdles
around the carrot patch and the lusty
two-months-old chickens inside them.
“There’s a bit of a knack about using
chickens to clear up insect pests,” the old
boy iniormed me. “Don’t put them in
when they’re hungry. Give them all the
wheat and greenfeed they need, then let
them go at it. They’re then feeling like
a change of tucker, you see —something
tasty in the meat line, so to speak—and
in about half an hour if there’s a cut-
worm left inside the hurdles it’s because
it’s buried itself about a foot deep. The
chickens don’t eat anything else, unless
you leave them in too long, and their
scratching isn’t severe enough to dig up
plants, as hens would ; all they do is to
keep the top inch or two of soil nicely
cultivated.”
* * * *
“C.H.H.”: Every year for a few weeks
old Tuck spent his holiday on one of
the islands off the central Q. coast. He
was a large, bearded man with an over-
developed sense of humor and a deep
dislike for the holiday tripper who in-
vaded noisily what he viewed as his own
domains. One sunny day he saw from a
hillock a motor-boat discharging its pas-
sengers on to the beach. A quarter of
an hour later through the scrub that
bordered the sand burst an apparition—
Crusoe in a loincloth, panting and glar-
ing. The trippers recoiled. “Seen any-
one?” grunted old T. ambiguously. “Er
—no,” said one flapper, 1 nervous, but re-
lieved to find it spoke English. “Wh-who
are you looking for?” Old T.’s big
teeth glittered maliciously. “A gin I’ve
been running down!” And, eyes staring
fiercely, he galloped off again into the
scrub. In half an hour old Tuck had
the island to himself again.
* * ♦ *
“Merrangbaur”: “A little learnin’,”
said Bert the Barman, “near lands us in
the soup one night. We’re late startin’
for ’ome after a good day, an’ inside
arf an hour it’s as black as Musso.’s
chin. ‘Nothin’ to worry about,’ skites
Shandy McGuinness. ‘I been studyin’ this
’ere navvygatin’. I’m thinkin’ of goin’
for me ticket.’ Now, it’s no use arguin’
when Shandy gets one of ’is eddication
fits, so I lays orf in the cabin an’ opens
up the last few bottles. After a while
I sticks me ’ead out to ask ’im where
we are. ‘We’re right,’ ’e ses; ‘I knows
me way blindfolded.’ ‘Then wot are y’
starin’ ahead for so ’ard?’ ‘l’m takin’
me bearin’s,’ ses Shandy, dignified-like.
After another hour I sticks me ’ead out
to ’ave a look an’ I reckons we’re just
about lost. Shandy gets narked. ‘l’m
navvygatin’ this ’ere craft,’ ’e ses. ‘You
get busy with the bailer. She’s roughin'
up a bit.’ ’E’s right there. I never seen
the Bay so rough, an’ I reckons we must
be driftin’ near the Rip. ‘Rip be blowed! ’
snorts Shandy. ‘There’s St. Kilda due
north. ’Ad me eye on ’er orl the time.
See orl them neo signs on Luna Park?’ I
takes one look at them colored lights,
shoves Shandy orf the wheel an’ whips
’er round to ’ead fer ’ome. It takes us
an hour to get out of Bass Strait.” Bert
brooded while he wiped a glass. “That
damn’ old knowall,” he growled, “was
steerin’ be them there a-roarin’ ’orse-
trailers! ”
“And no stayin' up more than half an hour — we ALL want a go!"
THE FLAME DANCER.
Roaring of flames like the rushing of waters —
The Flame Dancer’s bounding through valleys
and ranges,
A madman who whispers and woos while he
slaughters;
Who flings his bright gems on the bushland’s
shy daughters—
Jewels enchaining, whose light ever changes,
Amethysts, rubies and stars in bright spangles,
Anklets and armlets and necklets and bangles.
Laughing and dancing he sets their hearts burn-
ing,
Mutes decked for death with the asps in their
bosoms—
Messmate and stringybark, villainy learning.
Down the creek raging he follows no turning,
Swooping on wattle and apple-gum blossoms,
Trailing his cloak with the flames at its edges
Over cool river-grass, over green sedges.
Brave are his banners like pennons of lancers
Riding in squadrons; yet heroes in battle
Never could ride with this demon of dancers,
Shouting his challenge which no echo answers;
Bringing black fear to the bush beasts and
cattle,
Sending them bellowing, crying and racing,
And ever the Dancer his victims outpacing.
Over the treetops, an acrobat leaping,
Over wide chasms in a heart’s sudden throb-
bing,
Up the cliff-faces like giant winds sweeping;
Tryst with his night-comrade Fear ever keeping.
Everything living of life he is robbing,
Terror and doom in his ardent advances —
Like a flag flying the Flame Dancer dances.
Nothing can match him in all his red glory,
None but must hark to the tale he delivers :
Many the victims and bitter the story
Told by the whispering kurrajongs hoary—
Men who were caught in their camps by the
rivers,
When in the night came this demon of dancers,
Roaring his challenge and brooking no answers.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


m
Ws
MR
PROTECTION
all the days of her life
THE good husband is ready with a wrap when his wife needs it;
ready with his strong arm when she calls for it; but in no way
does he better demonstrate his enduring love and affection than
when he joins the A.M.P. Society and builds up an assurance fund
that will be an enduring protection to her all the days of her life.
When Reginald Pascall Young married in 1931 he took out an
A.M.P. policy for £lOOO. That called for an outlay of only £2O/15/10
a year, equal to 8/- a week. Later he added a second policy for £5 00.
He died from pneumonia recently and, although his two policies had
been only eight and six years in force, his wife received a cheque for
£1756. That is the sort of protection that all men should provide.
If you feel that you want to arrange some more protection for
your wife, ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send a representative
to talk things over with you. If you prefer, ask that a booklet, “Peace
of Mind,” be sent to you. Write now while it is in mind.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir S'amuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Mining Notice.
THE PIONEER MlNE—also known as
NEWMAN GOLD MINING SYNDICATE.
FOR SALE by Public Auction at the Mart,
No. 175 East Street, Rockhampton, Queens-
land, on Tuesday, the 10th day of December,
1940, at 12 noon. MESSRS. J. J. HIGGINS
& Co. and R. FOULKES & Co., Auctioneers
in conjunction, have been favored with in-
structions from the PUBLIC CURATOR OF
QUEENSLAND, Receiver and Manager in the
above matter, to submit to Public Auction the
Whole of the Assets, in one lot, situated at
Hunter’s Gully, Parish of Morinish, comprising:
Goldmining Leases Nos. 120, 121, 172, 173
and 174, Rockhampton District, area 300 acres
1 rood 2 perches (more or less), together with
Machine Area 74, Rockhampton District, area
5 acres (more or less), all of which adjoin.
The Plant and Machinery briefly include 500 ft.
steel rails, winding gear machine, 110-h.p.
Crossley Diesel engine, 2 Lister Diesel engines,
2 Krupps ball mills and orecrusher, 2 rollers,
elevator, 1 dry blower, belting, pulleys, shaft-
ing, sundry tools, sheds, air plant, tanks,
Dodge truck, I.R. pump, piping, etc., pumping
engine and pump, saw bench and saws, small
jawcrusher, jack, hammers, drills, etc.
Note: Inventories of Working Plant and
machinery available from the joint auctioneers.
Terms and conditions at Sale.
J. J. HIGGINS & CO.\
R. FOULKES & CO. /
Auctioneers in
Conjunction.
ARE YOU CETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
AUSTRALIAN
UIU
CAnPEROOWN
J3pU///j
j3 -nu
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRiDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ SL £
19'30. . G8G,392 llj p.c. =G32,317 54,075 889,08 G
1931.. 480,829 8 „„ 449,648 f
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO j 24 > 181 yi ' s>-'O7 5 >-' 07
1932.. 467,474 8 p.c. =449,048 „„
Employees’ Fund, £9OOO ) o,°3(> 922, uyi
1933.. 482,204 84 p.c. =477,751 ) oioran
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ( 9 ,o
1934.. 507,119 94 p.c. =533,957 ) 9R Ifi9 0277ns
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ( 28,102 947,708
1935. . 628,099 124 p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936.. 090,028 10 „ „ 689,017 1 , nfi m , Q7Q 8i o
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO j luo,ull 9/j,»«
1937.. 774,095 104 p.c. =049,179 125,510 1,105,359
1938.. 841,839 ll| ~,,711,005 130,834 1,230,193
1939. 855,709 12 741 919 1 1,344,983
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO 5
1940.. 870,299 12 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,303
* Includes special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
With more money about, a high level of
employment and Navy, Army and Air
Force depots and camps full of men for
service both abroad and at home, there
has, of course, been no falling-off in the
call for beer —the belated removal of the
official taboo on “wet” canteens in A.I.F.
camps notwithstanding.
Consider these figures:
t —Expenditure Consumption,
Year Per Head Gallons Per Head
Ended Total, Popu- ,— : >,
Dec. 31, £’ooo. lation. Beer. Spirits. Wine.
1932.. 10,380 £4 0 0 0.99 .24 .49
1933.. 10,500 4 0 9 7.27 .24 .57
1934.. 11,490 4 7 7 8:22 .27 .59
1935.. 12,530 4 14 9 8.98 .29 .01
1936.. 13,320 4 19 10 9.83 .29 .62
1937.. 14,520 5 7 9 10.72 .31 .02
1938.. 15,870 5 16 8 12.59 .31 .60
1939.. 16,620 0 011 12.87 .32 .60
In 1939 (calendar year) expenditure on
beer, spirits and wine combined increased
by £750,000, or 4s. 3d. per head of popula-
tion. It was the highest per capita outlay
since the boom years 1927-29, when the
average was about £7 2s. per head, and
there has been steady increase in this class
of expenditure since the close of 1939.
Between them Tooths and Tooheys
divide all but a fraction of the trade
in N. S. Wales, Tooths talcing the giant’s
share. Moreover, there is no price-
cutting, competition taking the form of
buying up hotel freeholds. After allow-
ing an extra £13,749 for depreciation
(£130,093) and providing for bad and
doubtful debts and other contingencies,
Tooths’ gross earnings shot up £208,313
last term:
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Seipt., Earnings. Excise, etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £052,360 £307,560 50.3 £284,794
1920.. 070,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1925.. 802,934 495,284 67.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,400 50.9 686,392
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,099
1930.. 1,505,003 808,975 53.7 690,028
1937.. 1,642,057 867.962 52.8 774,695
1938.. 1,819,421 977,582 53.7 841,839
1939.. 2,043,271 1,187,502 58.1 855,709
1940.. 2,251,584 1,381,285 01.3 870,299
The larger trading, rise in costs and
growth in taxation added £193,723 to out-
goings, leaving the declared net result
£14,590 better at a wink over 14 p.c. on
capital, compared with 13.8, 13.6, 12.5,
11.8, 11.1, 10 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1933.
Div. was maintained at 12 p.c., making
the average over the last decade 10.2 p.c.
During the 20 years before that £2,150,097
of bonus scrip had been scattered.
The board reports that all assets have
been maintained in a high state of effi-
ciency. The net growth in the book
value of fixed assets was £161,813:
Assets:— 1925. 1939. 1949.
Breweries, etc.. . £2,426,241 £6,544,460 £0,706,279
Book debts .. 1,172,258 1,158,665 1,173,511
Stock . . . . ■ 409,451 370,230 378,251
Liquid . . . . 182,522 1,060,927 1,239,296
£4,190,472 £9,134,288 £9.497,337
Sundry creditors. . 424,740 1,152,441 1,389,238
Net assets .. £3,705,732 £7,981,847 £8,108,099
Paid capital . . £3,100,493 £0,182,657 £6,182,057
The fine pile of liquids (up £178,369)
is made up of Government securities,
deposits and bank balances. The addi-
tion to the outside debt was £236,797,
and the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,401,820) was £35.561 less than at the
previous balance, owing to expenditure
on hotels and breweries.
As for the current term, the Govern-
ment promises to spend a lot of money
with one hand and take back most of it
with the other. The thumping increases
in income tax can be expected to curb
expenditure on beer; the doubling of
the undistributed-profits tax, making it
2s. in the £, will bite further into earnings,
and so will the continued climb in costs
generally. Excise on beer has been
bumped up 9d., making the new rate 2s.
9d. per gallon. But the increase, or most
of it, has been passed on ; a pint, a 12oz.
mug or an Boz. glass of ale now costs
the buyer an extra penny, while l|d. has
been added to the price of bottled ale.
The market, which doesn’t consider
that the 12 p.c. div. is likely to be inter-
fered with, prices the pound shares at
535. 3d., as against 51s. 6d. before the
new tax proposals were announced. Since
the beginning of 1940 the price of the
scrip has fluctuated between 435. and
545. The return at 535. 3d. is 4.4 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. div. basis. Book value of
the cover is 245. 9d.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Towards
Net He— Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 23,024 1!3 p.c. = 22,425 599 108,961
Written off investments, £5OOO . . 103,901
1931.. 10,180 10 p.c. = 14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39,084 15 ~ „ 22,G00 17,084 122,275
1933.. '32,490 15 „ ~ 27,000 5,490 127,771
1934.. 40,153 15 ~ .. 27.000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £lB,OOO . . 128,924
1935.. 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48,209 15 ~ „ 30,000 18,209 160,018
Reserves disappear, £lOOO . . . . 105,018
1937.. 52.980 lSJp.c. = 37.908 15,012 180,030
Assets revalued, £75,000 . . . . 255,630
Reserves capitalised, £29,214 . . 220,416
1938.. 54,701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,000
1939.. 50,136 15 ~ ~ 35,222 20,914 266,974
1940.. 59,527 15 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
The co. is well equipped, financially and
otherwise, to take advantage of whatever
opportunities offer. The Great War of
1914-18 enabled the co. to become firmly
established as a good Australian manu-
facturer of cardboard boxes, cartons and
corrugated-fibre containers, etc. Recent
experience in the U.S.A. and in Britain
before the outbreak of war suggests that
there is still room for further expansion
of the industry here.
Much of the co.’s success —over half
its capital is bonus scrip—has been due
to the fact that plant, the chief earning
asset, has been kept abreast of every
modern development, thus placing the co.
in a strong competitive position, and to
the enterprise and energy of the control
in producing and demonstrating the use-
fulness of new lines. Also, substantial
allowances have been made for deprecia-
tion, enabling much equipment to be paid
for out of earnings, and then from the
same source severely written down. The
allowance last term was £23,636 (up
£3227), equal to over 93 p.c. of the book
value of plant, etc., at the end of Sept.,
or 14.5 p.c. on the book value of free-
holds and plant combined. At that rate
the two items as they stand now would
be entirely written out of the accounts
in about seven years.
Last term there was a stronger demand
for the co.’s products, and local board
mills provided most of the raw materials
required. Despite the lift in taxation and
costs, net earnings were figured £3391
better at 25.2 p.c. on capital, as against
23.9 p.c. and 23.4 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. The div. was kept at 15 p.c.,
and that rate looks like being more than
earned at next balance, too, despite the
further steep climb in taxation.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
IQIQ iQQfi IQ3Q 1940
Paid capital.. £40,000 £149,500 £235,913 £235,913
Creditors . . 51,982 17,531 53,648* 82,045*
Freeholds .. 31,324 42,046 153,639' 136.830
Plant, etc .. 21,230 33,606 25.532 25,205
Stocks . . 42.416 26,434 33,575 43,087
Book debts, cash
and investm’ts 19,778 185,119 352,635 412,796
* Including provision for taxation.
More than half the co.’s funds is repre-
sented by well-selected shareholdings,
worth more than their book value, and by
well-let Sydney freeholds, bought when
property prices -were low. The return
from these investments, which make a
handsome contribution to the pool, fur-
ther improved last term. The amount
coming to sundry creditors (up £28,397)
includes an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The more or less liquid surplus
(£373,838) was £41,276 stronger than at
the close of accounts in 1939.
The market expresses its opinion of
the co.’s possibilities and of those in con-
trol by pricing the pound shaves at. 85s. —
86s. 6d. before the new taxation was an-
nounced last week. The return at 85s. is
3.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the backing is 445. Bd. in net tangibles.
Beau Monde, Ltd. (Melb.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
J 935 .. 24,024 25 p.c. = 19,130 4,894 68,797
1936 .. 30,034 25 ~ „ 22,956 7,378 76,175
1937 .. 30,610 25 „ „ 25,507 5,103 81,278
Special tax assessment, £2099 . • 79,180
1938 . . 28,209 20 p.c. = 25.500 2,709 81,889
Unexplained addition, £1560 . . 83,449
1939 . . 12,810 10 p.c. = 12,750 60 83,509
Unexplained addition, £354 . . 83,863
1940 .. 15,406 10 p.c. = 12,750 2,716 86,579
A very satisfactory showing, all things
considered. Having set up at Moreland
(Vic.) as Progress Products Pty. in 1929,
the co. changed its name-plate to the
present title in the following year, and
the public was invited in in 1935, when
the scrip was listed. Meanwhile, con-
nections were established in all States,
turnover bounded along, and some at-
tractive returns were won up till the
time the books closed in 1938. Then
the cost of raw silk shot up about 50 p.c.,
and at the same time a price war de-
veloped in the trade, as usually happens
when aggregate plant capacity of an in-
dustry runs too far ahead of demand for
its products. So, although the co. sold
its printing and box-making plant with-
out financial loss, and capital had the sup-
port and assistance of over £BO,OOO of
genuine reserves, profits for the 1939
term were less than half those for the
preceding year.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, suitable raw materials be-
came difficult to obtain, and costs, in-
cluding taxation, continued to climb. Still,
there was more money about, and the co.
obtained its fair share of increased trade.
After allowing a liberal £10,479 (up £447)
for depreciation, gross earnings (£50,348)
were figured £5623 better than the previ-
ous year’s. Exes. (£34,882) took £2967
of the increase, leaving the net result (up
£2656) at 12.1 p.c. on capital, compared
with 10, 27, 30, 32.7 and 31.3 p.c. back
to 1935. That takes no account of an
(.Continued on next page.)


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
■ESTABLISHED 1834-
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Robert J. A. Massie. Owen E. Friend. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS-.
The Bank of England, Bank, Ltd., Barclay s Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout':
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
VICTORIA STATE ACCIDENT INSURANCE OFFICE
REVENUE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1940.
Claims £148,762 1 9
Add Provision for Unadjusted Claims .. 88,841 0 0
£237,603 1
Less Provision for Unadjusted Claims, 1939 .. .. 78,246 0
Net Revenue carried down ..
9
0
-£159,357 1 9
. 54,372 11 11
£213,729 13 8
Premiums .. •• •• ..£253,498 411
Less Special Discounts .. .. 32,136 11 6
Less Re-insurances and Rebates
Add Provision for Unearned Premiums, 1939
Less Provision for Unearned Premiums, 1940
£221,361 13
7,171 8
5
8
-£214,190 4 9
104,686 4 9
£318,876 9 6
105,146 15 10
£213,729 13 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1940.
Administration Expenses, Act 3806
Agents’ Expenses and Commission
Expenses of Management (including Salaries)
Net Profit
£2OO 0 0
9,842 13 2
10,521 19 1
38,301 10 0
£58,866 2 3
Net Revenue brought down
Interest on Investments and Funds at Treasury
.. £54,372 11 11
.. 4,493 10 4
£58,866 2 3
APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1940.
30/6/’4O To General Reserve Fund
„ Bonus Reserve Fund
„ “Transfer to Consolidated Revenue, Act 3936” account
.. £15,000 0 0
.. 18,301 10 0
5,000 0 0
£38,301 10 0
30/6/’4O By Profit and Loss Account £38,301 10 0
£38,301 10 0
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
Unearned Premiums
Outstanding Claims
Sundry Creditors ..
General Reserve Fund
Plus Appropriated, 1939-40
Bonus Reserve Fund
Plus Appropriated, 1939-40
Bonus Distribution Fund, 1938 (Amounts unclaimed)
£105,146 15 10
88,841 0 0
2,570 19 6
£121,560 0 0
15,000 0 0
136,560 0 0
£22,478 10 6
18,301 10 0
40,780 0 6
1,208 10 11
£375.107 6 9
ASSETS.
£375,107 6 9
In accordance with the provisions of Section 36 of the Workers’ Compensation Act 1928, the accounts have been audited for the period ended 30th June, 1940. In my opinion the
Balance Sheet and statements present a true and correct view of the accounts of the State Accident Insurance Office.
(Signed) E. A. PEVERILL, Auditor-General. 24/10/’4O. (Signed) W. H. HOLMES, Insurance Commissioner. 6th September, 1940.
unexplained addition of £354 to reserves.
The div. remained at 10 p.c.
As for the current term, there still
promises to be plenty of money about,
largely as a result of defence expendi-
ture. But the Government will gather
up most of it again in loans and taxes.
Net earnings will be governed partly by
the aggressiveness of competition within
the trade itself.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the board’s
action in guarding against difficulty in
obtaining raw materials:
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid oapital.. £64,286 £127,764 £127,764 £127,764
Overdraft .. 20,020 21,322
Creditors .. 12,868 25,208 11,502 17,103
Freeholds .. 49,322 59,908 59,414 59,632
Plant, etc. .. 135,863 84,323 57,652 49,558
Stocks .. 59,810 112,286 83,478 113,708
Debtors .. 14,059 23,766 22,402 32,153
Cash, etc. .. 4,468 3,772 14,238 8,821
To finance a growth of £30,230 in stocks
(mainly raw materials ; stocks of manu-
factured goods decreased) and of £9751
in debtors’ balances (the co. took over its
own distribution in Victoria, N. S. Wales
and S. Aus.), the board went to its
bankers for £21,322 and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£5601. On plant £8094 more was written
off than was spent. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£116,257) was £7641.
At 6s. 3d. (7s. 2d. a year ago and 9s. 12
months before that), the f.-p. ss. shares
return 8.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
backing is Bs. sd. in net tangibles.
Profit of Lake View and Star, Aus-
tralia’s biggest gold-producer, last year
was £592,159 —a record. Dividends, four
sixpenny, took £280,000, special develop-
ment £40,552, plant depreciation £45,960,
reserve for taxation £220,000 and
directors’ extra remuneration £lO,OOO,
leaving £19,950 to carry forward. The
figures are in sterling. On a conservative
basis the co.’s group of Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile mines are a full six years
ahead of the mill. Some important deep-
level developments were made during the
year; most impressive was the inter-
section at the 2650 ft. level of the Lake
View block of a 61ft.-wide lode assay-
ing an ounce a ton.
* * * *
Having paid several quarterly six-
penny dividends in succession, Hill 50
(W.A.) has declared another payable De-
cember 18. Monthly yield from the co.’s
Mt. Magnet mine is now worth about
£BOOO, and there is talk of higher returns
by-and-bye. At the annual meeting
in Sept, the manager reported, among
other things, that the shoot was big and
of 6.4dwt. value at the 300 ft. level.
* * * *
Freney Oil market has been stimulated
by the official statement that T. S. Wilson,
company director and secretary of Adel-
aide, has bought 10,000 of the reserve
shares at 6s. (par value) each and taken
an option over the balance (37,779) at
the same figure. Simultaneously comes a
report from the field superintendent that
the bore has reached a depth of 3200 ft.,
and that white sandstone containing large
quantities of carbonaceous material has
been passed through. A later report
from the field states that “gas much
stronger than previously” has been en-
countered in the bore at 3212 ft., where
the strata are composed of fine sand-
stone and compact shale. The old shares
have been taken to 6s. Bd. from 3s. lOd.
in September.
* * * *
Kelsey Creek Gold Mine, near Proser-
pine (N.Q.), now one of the chief
producers of the Northern State, is
carrying on active development work
both in the northern workings around
the “Buck” tunnel and in the deeper
ground in. No. 4 level. High-grade ore
is now being obtained from the tunnel
workings near No. 2 shaft, and values
almost as good as anything so far ob-
tained have been located in No. 4, which
is roughly 300 ft. below the adit of the
main shaft. A new tunnel is being driven
to connect with the bottom level, and this
is going to reduce mining costs consider-
ably. Production this year has averaged
around 6oz. fine gold per ton, a grade
not approached by any regular producer
in the State.
* * * *
News of the tin discovery at Mt. Helen,
near Ingham (N.Q.), reported last year is
difficult to get, but at least one party
has stuck it out and is opening up a
promising chlorite lode about 3ft. wide.
Some 50 tons at grass is estimated to
carry 8 p.c. tin, though the concentrates
out of quartzite country are not likely
to be as high as out of the granite. How-
ever, it’s rich enough to leave a margin
with ruling prices. Formations around
the lode show low tin values, but the
lode itself is not quite flat or big enough
to make it an opencut venture. It has
been proved by shaft to a depth of 30ft.
* * * *
From Reddie Bros., Sardine Tin,
Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.):
Re your par. (B. 13/11/’4O) about our
tenacity; we are only beginners in the tin
game compared with some we know and know
of. We didn’t erect our own battery, but
leased an existing (idle) one —it was easier on
the pocket, but the cause of headaches now
and then.


''P’&h huZ^
° antes nam ._ c °nta /„« „_ L£ S FREE.
r otion
f 'cket
*v ? •- ,e
c °^o,„ s *° Use »>s 0 p U? spee dier ge L * ith °dded
eocu , 5 raore «o * P*om sciener- * e / . ea
°” < ' w « co *'• J "»w "
»/ 44Jrr? «**, t ' °
7 “*- 7 * 0/4; the °“>ndard m
***%?
m
s
i
I
HOLIDAY
RATIONING
ARRANGEMENTS
You can draw two months'
ration tickets (December
and January! on and from
26th November, but tickets
will no*- be issued at Post
Offices from 1 6th December
to 14th January, inclusive...
Take your holiday ration
tickets to the C.O.R pump
and gain the benefits of
Australia's only petrol-
j;benxoi blend.
2KE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LIMITED
C193.16P8
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager,
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Value for Money Wanted
Australians who are not in the fighting
services will now have to bend their
backs to pay for the war until the last
battle is won. It is a war of a very costly
kind; amongst various methods of indirect
attack, each side is trying to overawe the
other with the weight of its firepower,
which means colossal outlay on ’planes,
ships, guns and other equipment. Then
each side is making direct aerial and
naval attacks on sources of manufacture
and supply, which again adds greatly to
the monetary cost, if not so much to
the cost in soldiers’ lives. We don’t
know when the showdown will eventually
come when forces of men may be
thrown at each other. Preparation for
such a moment is more costly now than
the actual fighting was in the Great War.
War is a wasteful thing, a muddling,
blundering thing. The lay spectator who
pays taxes is helpless so far as criticising
detail in the conduct of a war is con-
cerned. Information that must be kept
from the enemy is also kept from him.
In sporting language, he is. “dazzled with
science.” But he is not deprived of his
wits altogether. In a general way he can
gauge how his political and military
representatives are serving him. If they
are not doing the job as well as they
should the remedy will eventually come
to his hand.
Taxpayers’ wits will be sharpened
additionally by the disclosure last week
of the new income-tax rates, still to
be ratified by Parliament. They rep-
resent an appreciably reduced living
standard for many people, especially
those earning over £8 a week. But this
reduction in living standards was inevit-
able. The part of the production of a
country that is wasted in fighting a war
must before long be noticed by every
citizen. It is costing 20 p.c. of the
national income to conduct this war —
that is, a 20 p.c. war tax on the nation
exists where no such tax existed two
years ago. We went into this war of
our own free will. We entrusted our
Government with the conduct of it. We
must pay for it.
Actually, the rather staggering taxation
rates presented last week represent the
most courageous act so far to the credit
of the Menzies Government. It would
have been momentarily easier to have
disguised the grimness of the picture by
subterfuge —by “credit expansion,” by
offering 4 p.c., 5 p.c., 6 p.c., etc., for
loans instead of a steady 3 p.c. But that
would have led swiftly to chaos and dis-
aster. As it is, by paying the stiff bill
that is presented for war’s cost without
humbug we are facing realities, standing
with our feet on solid earth.
On the financial side a capable job has
been done. Treasurer Fadden was justi-
fied in presenting his measure “with re-
gret but without apology.” But it is up
to Canberra now to see that we get value
for our money. Real sacrifice is being
made, and real results will be demanded.
Stiff-necked officialdom must become a
thing of the past in all the services.
That irresponsible attitude of Taxation
Departments—“We don’t care whether the
tax obstructs industry ; we merely collect
the tax” —will have to go, since depart-
ments have so much to say in the draft-
ing of tax laws to begin with. In a total
war reality has precedence over red-tape.
We must remember that waste is a
very real national burden. That is why
great care has to be exercised in the
spending of the war fund, which is being
raised at such a cost. Much money can
be thrown away in paying needlessly high
salaries to job-filling civil servants. Much
money is wasted in the mismanagement
of the Commonwealth by seven Govern-
ments. The fact that this country has
for generations survived the attacks made
on it by waste doesn’t mean that it can
survive multiplication of the attacks. Aus-
tralia is now in the position of a family
that is beset by something from outside,
and the occasion calls for reduction of
all previous extravagances and the closest
examination of all expenditure necessary
to meet the new contingency.
Outside the activities of the services
themselves, but within the scope of Gov-
ernment control, are those trades and
industries in which excessive profits
may be made at the expense of the people
generally. Prices and profits will become
of more interest than ever.
It is a good thing that the Common-
wealth Bank is closely associated with the
war effort. It is in a position to impose
checks on the traditionally wasteful
business methods of Parliament. Also,
ihere is a Department of Munitions with
capable men in charge. But there is no
excuse for complacency; the necessity
for more economies, more efficiency and
more production will not disappear so
long as the Empire has to carry on the
fight. Which raises the question: Why
a Department of Information costing
just on £200,000 a year? How many other
such sinks for taxpayers’ money exist?
Support for the war effort is being freely
given, but kicks will be given just as
freely if the people find that their spirit
and temper are not fully appreciated by
officialdom. Many members of the Can-
berra Parliament, such as Mr. Curtin and
Mr. McCall, don’t really understand the
Budget, which has been prepared under
expert advice. Perhaps such politicians
can’t grasp the fact that the majority of
Australians are prepared to make big
sacrifices to see that an essential job is
done. But this spirit of sacrifice will not
tolerate a job badly done.
The Budget has been scrutinised from
many angles since it was presented on
Nov. 21. Its full scope and incidence
are not yet realised, especially as re-
gards the ultimate effects of new or in-
creased taxes. In trying to sum up the
direction of the expenditure and the
source of income some taxpayers have
found figures that seem to overlap. This
table should give a clear picture:
In Hand, Taxa- Borrow-
-1/7/’4O tion ing Total
(£mil.). (£mil.). (£mil.). (£mil.).
War expenditure—
In Australia .. 28.0 65.0 50.0 143.0
Overseas .. 43.0 43.0
Civil expenditure 84.8 5.8 90.6
Totals ..£28.0 £149.8 £98.8 £276.6
The borrowings shown are Common-
wealth only, and don’t include money to
be raised on behalf of the States
(£20,000,000 of the current loan is for
defence —Commonwealth —purposes and
£8,000,000 is for “works,” mostly State).
Thus it can be gathered that £186,000,000
is proposed to be spent on defence this
year (£26 10s. a head) —£143,000,000 in
Australia (£2O 10s. a head) and £43,000,000
(£6 a head) overseas. The total defence
outlay is to be found, as to £28,000,000,
by cash in hand on 1/7/’4O; as to
£65,000,000, by taxation; as to £93,000,000,
by borrowing, including £43,000,000 to
be borrowed and spent overseas. The
fact that the Treasury had £28,000,000 in
hand at the beginning of the financial
year shows that to start with it was diffi-
cult to spend defence money because the
machinery of defence production had not
been fully set up. Wisdom was shown
in not dissipating this money just for the
sake of political spending. Notwithstand-
ing the complacent wisdom of retail-
trade economists, money spent unneces-
sarily is money wasted. It is not enough
merely to put money into circulation.
Jfc * * *
In 1939-40 total Commonwealth taxa-
tion was £90,010,663. For 1940-41 it is
expected to be £150,100,000 —an increase
of £60,000,000. In 1939-40 the States
raised £54,386,671 in taxes. There is a
clear call for reduction in this figure.
States will find it impossible to squander
all the money they are accustomed to in
any case ; defence work is drawing off
such a quantity of men and materials that
some classes of State “works” will be a
physical impossibility. So, unless wanton
spending of money is part of State Gov-
ernments’ activities, their surpluses should
be embarrassing this year.
The effect of increased taxation rates
will spread to certain types of business
after hitting the individual. It is a curi-
ous position. The industries of the nation
will probably be working at the highest
pressure yet, but there will be some new
avenues through which production will
go into consumption. Soldiers’ clothes
will come direct from factories to the
Army—retailers will be cut out. An
extra portion of each person’s income
will be diverted to the Commonwealth for
spending on defence, and there will be
more activity in defence industries and
less in some peace-time occupations—the
wireless, motor and furniture trades, for
example. The dispatch of men overseas
may affect brewery outputs and theatre
receipts. There will be fewer sporting
goods sold. Newspapers are mostly
losing revenue as a result of the war.
They may sell more papers, but adver-
tising is everywhere affected because of
importing difficulties, doubtful continuity
of supply of some goods, centralisation
of manufacture of many products, war-
time monopolies in other cases as a result
of restricted imports, and the general
transfer of much spending-money to one
buyer—the Defence Department.
* * * *
During the last war the trading banks
made available special facilities to their
clients who took up war loans. The
banks advanced 90 p.c. of the money pro-
vided the client undertook to repay the
loan in 12 monthly instalments. Interest
charged by the banks was the same as
received on the loan. This method of
taking up loans would be of value if
adopted in this war. It encourages the
payment for loans out of savings rather
than out of capital, and that is some-
thing wanted particularly. The arrange-
ment with the Treasury by which the
present loan may be taken up on terms
provides for payment in full over four
months.
* * * *
There is a movement in train to have
maximum wage rates fixed as well as
minimum in order to prevent competition
for skilled workers’ services raising pro-
duction costs. Such a demand exists
for certain types of skilled labor that
very attractive wages are sometimes paid
in order to obtain or retain craftsmen.
The Defence Department has had to con-
tend with this kind of competition. By
the emergency powers granted to it last
lune the Federal Government has legal
power to decide where a man shall work
and at what pay. Britain and Australia
are both reluctant to use this power.
* * * *
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd., showed a net
profit of £287,070 last year before pro-
viding for taxation. After providing
£lBB,OOO for Maoriland taxes the result
shrank to £99,070. In the preceding term
taxes called for £168,500 and the balance
available for shareholders was £116,866.
An additional £26,500 was later taken
for taxation unprovided for. The latest
figures especially represent terrific
taxation. Still, a 14 p.c. ord. div. was
paid for 1939-40 —compared with 16 p.c.
in the preceding year.
* * * *
Amalgamated Textiles proposes to
write down its capital from 13s. 4d. a
share to 10s. lOd. —a cut of 2s. 6d. a
share. If the reduction is approved, a
div. is proposed to be declared next
March. During the trading year to Sept.
30 the co. earned £31,569, after allowing
£1258 for taxation. In the preceding 10
months a profit of £6367 was shown, and in
the term before that there was a horrible
loss. The co. has had an unhappy career.
One reason for its present profits is
the war-time demand for textiles. An-
other good year seems to be in sight, and
the scrip has risen to Bs. sd. From a
long-term viewpoint, woollen cos. of this
type are speculative. In ordinary cir-
cumstances there are too many woollen
mills in Australia.


V,
LUDOWICI CHROMOL
Tudowici
CHROMOL
J. I M IT I
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
FIRE BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leather
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness to
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
BUY YOURSELF
4. GOOD peri
Public Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
TRADE MARK “CELLOPHANE.”
NOTICE is hereby given that British Cello-
phane Limited, of Bath Road, Bridgwater,
Somerset, England, Manufacturer, is the regis-
tered owner in the Commonwealth of Australia
of the following trade-mark:
“CELLOPHANE”
which is registered under No. 40461 in Class
50 (3) in respect of Cellulose sheets made from
pulp and all products and articles manufac-
tured from the said sheets.
The application of the word “Cellophane”
to goods of the abovementioned class means
that such goods are the goods of British
Cellophane Limited.
S — a^te e ’
2e°S the best of
Sem
Whether you want a Fountain Pen for
yourself or as a gift, you cannot do
better than a Leverless Swan Pen —
the most up-to-date pen you can buy,
with its six unique advantages over
all other pens, including the world’s
quickest and simplest method of fill-
ing. There are also Swan Side Lever
Pens and Blackbirds, the latter also
being made by the Swan Pen People.
PRICES TO SUIT EVERYONE:
Swan Leverless, from .... 247-
Side Lever Pens, from .... 16/6
Blackbird Pens .... 11/- & 12/6
All in Black or Colours.
Also in Pen and Pencil Gift Sets.
i;Sb-
*
\Z-S.
THE %*■
lev^ ess
r.Tj
fycw am (kpend on a
vutMtPeu
SWAN INK" FILLS THE NATION’S PENS
On Sale Everywhere
Write for illustrated Price Lists to s
MABIE, TODD & 00. (AUST.) PTY., LTD.
255 a George Street, Sydney, or
364 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
The co. which was formed to take over
bondholders’ interests in N.Z. Perpetual
Forests is at last in a position to give
bondholders details of how they will fare
in the distribution of £1 shares. Previ-
ously each holder of a bond was given
a £3O share with rights varying accord-
ing to date of planting. Now all are
being handed scrip with common de-
nominations, though different plantings
will be allotted different amounts of scrip.
To begin with, every holder of a £3O
share will receive 24 £1 ords. and six
£1 5 p.c. non-cum. prefs. In addition,
the former holder of a 1924 bond or
£3O share (whose trees were planted in
1925) will receive 11 extra ord. shares in
compensation for his more mature trees ;
the 1925 issue will get 10 extra ords. ;
and so on, reducing by one share each
year, until the 1934 class gets one extra
share and the 1935 class (1936 planting)
no extra shares. Holders of 1924 bonds
will thus get 35 ords. and six 5 p.c.
prefs.; the holders of 1935 bonds will
receive 24 ords. and six prefs.
The rearrangement of capital is being
carried out by order of the Bondholders’
Incorporation Commission, a Maoriland
body, and so far as the eye can see it is
reasonable as regards the rights of bond-
holders among themselves. That is the
only point at issue in the capital adjust-
ment. Former bondholders, as a whole,
are forfeiting or receiving nothing. The
separation from N.Z. Perpetual Forests,
which involved fundamental issues, took
place four years ago.
After a week-end of thought devoted
to the effects of new taxes outlined in a
general way in the Budget the sharemar-
ket plucked up spirit and showed renewed
confidence. On Nov. 8 the Sydney index
of industrial shares stood at a post-Blitz-
“high” of 134.02 ; Budget fears and un-
certainties caused a drop to 129.54 on
Nov. 23. By Tuesday of last week there
was recovery to 130.49. No real excess-
profits tax was announced in the Budget,
and the total extra taxation from com-
panies was estimated at £5,800,000 for
this year. This is not a high figure, and
it shows an avoidance of an essential
problem. We should have a real excess-
profits tax because of the redistribution
of work and incomes resulting from this
war. Price-control alone is not enough,
owing to the volume of production under
influence of war’s stimulus creating very
big aggregate profits in some industries
even though a standard margin of surplus
is set down by the Prices Commissioner.
Taxation of divs. in the hands of share-
holders will be heavier, and rebates of
divs. will be abolished ; surprisingly, cut-
ting out of this former concession is esti-
mated to bring in only an extra
£1,700,000. As to the effect of the “high-
profits tax” to be imposed on companies
in lieu of an excess-profits tax, Treasurer
Fadden has stated that small cos. will
be protected and that the big ones won't
be the ones that get away, or words to
that effect. He protests that there is a
big difference between profits as pub-
lished by public cos. and the figures sup-
plied to the taxation authorities, and
says that 56 large Australian cos. which
for 1938-39 publicly stated that they had
earned £10,700,000 actually showed
assessable incomes of £14,700,000 to the
taxation people. (Apparently taxation
has been allowed for in each figure and
forms no part of the difference.) “In
addition,” said Mr. Fadden, “35 cos. with
capitals ranging from £200,000 to many
millions will contribute more than a
quarter of the estimated yield.” Over
67 p.c. of the tax would come from
“central office cos.” with interests in more
than one State. A board of referees will
listen to disputes.
* ■ * * *
Though a political crisis was threat-
ened last week over the new taxation pro-
posals—Mr. Curtin wanted lower in-
comes left untouched and the higher ones
“soaked” more, besides the usual “judi-
cious” credit expansion—the sharemarket
appeared both relieved and pleased im-
mediately the details were announced on
Nov. 27. (This was after the presentation
of the Budget itself.) Anticipation in
this case had been worse than realisation ;
following terms of general Budget pro-
visions the Sydney industrial-share index
had risen to 130.49 on Tuesday, Nov. 26,
but on Wednesday it stepped up to 131.06
and on Thursday to 131.35. On Friday
Broken Hill Prop, scrip was selling at
465. 3d., against 445. 6d. a few days
earlier. At this figure it was returning
£3 ss. per cent., which is the same yield
as the present long-term loan offering.
The market seemingly is prepared to pay
solidly for prospects here. Though bene-
fits may be a longish time coming, the
future of the co. is particularly promis-
ing, It is likely to be a post-war ban-
quet, however.
* * * *
Tableland Tin (Mt. Garnet, N.Q.) has
been slow to “come good” ; though the
ground is good, the plant is slow in root-
ing it out in any quantity. Shareholders
are patiently waiting for a turn for the
better, and at the annual meeting they
were heartened by what the directors had
to say. There have been endless troubles,
mainly because the small dredge that
came with the property has been recon-
ditioned and adapted as difficulties arise ;
its original design was not powerful
enough to deal with the heavy ground,
and there have been a number of break-
downs and stoppages. Notwithstanding
these difficulties, No. 1 dredge earned
£12,802 net last year, after providing
£1602 for depreciation and £lOOO for
directors’ fees. It dug 726,000 c.y. for
228.7 tons of tin concentrate (11.30 z. a
yard), sold for £44,309. The concentrate
assayed 74 p.c. metallic tin, and the aver-
age realisable value was 14.6 d. a yard.
Costs, apart from depreciation and direc-
tors’ fees, were 9.5 d. a yard. Toward
the close of the term the small dredge
had to cut through a bar of hard material
separating it from the main tin-bearing
area, and payable production was not
reached again until September. In
November it dug over a ton of tin per
day-—highly satisfactory, and in keeping
with former estimates.
No. 2 dredge, which should deal effec-
tively with the property once it gets going,
is hoped to start “by the beginning of
1942.” Steel for the pontoon and super-
structure is coming to hand slowly, Evans
Deakin, the Brisbane concern that is to
build ships, being the contractor. The
war has hindered this job. Tableland
had £17,770 in cash at June 30, it owed
£8235, and it has been guaranteed a bank
advance of £75,000 by the Queensland
Government. Estimated cost of the com-
pleted No. 2 dredge has risen from
£140,000 to £171,000 over the past 12
months. Whether any portion of the cost
of the new dredge is included in the
£131,508 at which mining plant appeared
in the June 30 accounts the report doesn’t
say. Water supply then figured at
£40,823 ; vehicles and tractors at £4582 ;
the property at £20,000; stores, etc., at
£12,869 ; furniture, debtors, etc., at £3324,
and intangibles at £7622. There was
£10,028 in outstanding calls at balance
day and £5708 in forfeited shares. Paid
capital was £230,264. Originally 240,000
£1 ords. and 120,000 shilling deferreds
were issued.
* * * *
It appears that, in spite of the cutting-
out of rebates on divs. to individual tax-
payers, full allowance for taxes paid by
an operating co. will be made to holding
cos.
* * * *
British Tobacco’s div. for its latest
year’s trading is unchanged at 10 p.c.
p.a. This includes distributions on the
share consideration issued to Carreras,
Ltd., for the Craven “A” business.
* * * *
Normanby Tin (N.Q.), which had a
long spell of sharemarket quiescence, has
equipped itself with a new plant, and
sluicing was scheduled to recommence on
Nov. 18. Market support for the Is. lld.-
paids has risen from 3d. earlier this year
to par last week.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHY HITLER PAUSED.
(Condensed from a "Saturday Evening Post” article by
Demaree Bess.)
For two months, from the middle of June until
the middle of August, the German campaign against
the British Isles came to a virtual standstill. Those
were the two best fighting months of the year for a
war in which bombing ’planes are the principal
weapon. They might prove to be a decisive period
in so desperate a struggle. Why, then, did Germany
fail to utilise them for a Blitzkrieg against England?
Military experts have offered a dozen technical
explanations for this German lull. But those of us
who were watching the progress of events in German-
occupied France could see that technical explana-
tions were not sufficient. The Nazi supreme com-
mand had two other reasons for sacrificing those
eight valuable weeks. In the first place, they made
a bad guess about England. In the second place,
Germany was operating a wild-animal circus on the
Continent, and, as every trainer knows, it is easier
to capture the beasts than to tame them and make
them go through their hoops.
Last June, soon after France appealed for an
armistice, a German newsreel was exhibited which
showed Adolf Hitler receiving the French appeal
while surrounded by a group of his generals at the
Iront. The Nazi dictator executed a little dance step,
and cried exultantly “It is finished!” There is con-
siderable evidence that Hitler believed at that moment
that the French collapse meant the end of his war in
the West. Certainly that was the common feeling
among officers and men in the German army in
France, Paris became the centre of elaborate pre-
parations for a great victory parade, which apparently
was scheduled for the French national holiday on
July fourteenth. Everybody in Paris heard about
this anticipated parade. Military bands practised
and German ’planes rehearsed formations in the Paris
skies. Hotels in all parts of the city were comman-
deered, and their managers were informed that 50,000
visitors were coming from Germany.
There was no victory parade. Military bands
and stunting ’planes became comparatively rare, and
there was no more talk of visitors from Germany.
Some of the hotels which had been commandeered
were returned to their owners. The German troops
in Paris gradually were reduced to a routine garrison.
What had happened? We were told that Ger-
many had offered peace terms to England, and after
some delay they had been rejected. A German staff
officer outlined for me what he said Germans had
offered. He declared Germany insisted upon absolute
dominion on the Continent, and that Britain should
no longer have any voice in European affairs. Out-
side of Europe, he said, Germany asked only for the
return of Germany’s former African colonies, with
the addition of territory which would give Germany
a belt across the centre of Africa.
The Germans apparently considered those terms
reasonable, and showed astonishment when they were
rejected. Once again they had failed to gauge
correctly what England would do. Their calculations
about every other people usually have been justified,
but Englishmen always have baffled Germans. They
did not expect England to come into the war in 1914.
They did not expect England to declare war again
when Poland was invaded in 1939. And they did
not expect England to ignore peace offers last
summer.
Almost a month passed after the French armistice
before Germans finally became convinced that the
British Empire was determined to fight on. Then they
were compelled to settle down grimly to a double
ordeal. They had to prosecute their campaign against
the British Isles, and they had to consolidate their
gains on the European continent. To neglect either
of these tasks might prove fatal.
For it is hardly an exaggeration to say that Ger-
many now was engaged in a dozen separate wars.
In each of the occupied countries —especially in
France—the Germans were confronted with compli-
cated domestic conflicts which had become, in fact,
camouflaged civil wars. The Germans realised that
they must not only prevent these internal conflicts
from breaking out into open fighting, they must
also make certain that the factions favorable to
Germany should everywhere hold the upper hand.
This was a difficult business. The Germans had to
devote a disproportionate amount of their energy
to it during those precious months of June, July
and August.
In addition to France, Holland, Belgium and
other occupied countries, the Balkan countries, too,
demanded the incessant attention of Germany’s best
brains. And Russia could not be altogether ignored.
Germans began to appreciate fully for the first time
what it means to create and control a huge empire.
In mid-August, the Germans finally launched
their air Blitzkrieg against the British Isles. But those
of us who were watching from behind the German
lines could see that even then the British campaign
was only one phase in a vastly greater conflict. The
continent of Europe was still Germany’s principal
battleground. The Nazi chieftains had correctly cal-
culated upon the temporary passivity of the masses
in all occupied countries. But they knew passive
discontent was an explosive element, which might
turn at any time and in any place into open hostility.
To keep these multitudes quiet, they had to be closely
watched, and must somehow be provided with food
and jobs and some degree of personal security.
It was a Herculean task which Germans had
undertaken. They had within their grasp the gigantic
empire which they had erected at such fantastic speed
and with such painstaking forethought. But they
knew, and Englishmen also knew, that in these cir-
cumstances Germany was in no position, even if she
had wished, to divert all her attention and resources
into one great knockout blow against the British Isles.
That is why, in October, Germany had not launched
the blow, and the world wondered whether Hitler
would, for the first time, take a desperate gamble,
instead of playing it safe, as he had done so success-
fully for so long.
*****
Hitler’s Sullen Subjects
[This general review of the state of public feeling
towards Germany in the conquered countries is con-
densed from an article by Rend Kraus in the New
York “Herald Tribune” supplement. There is little
enough evidence in acts to support the writer, but,
though wishful thinking may still be an influence, the
reports of many close observers of the European scene
largely agree with his conclusions.]
In the nations that the Nazis have now occupied,
or now dominate. Hitler has added 130,000,000 sullen
subjects to the millions he must control.
The eastern frontier of the Reich is Poland. After
a year’s experience the German rulers consider the
Polish problem insoluble. Dr. Frank, Hitler’s viceroy
at Cracow, has tried more than once to establish a
Polish puppet Government. He offered the Polish crown
by grace of Hitler to Prince Radziwill, who in pre-
war times always used his strong influence for appease-
ment with Germany. The offer was flatly declined.
1 he attempt to create a Polish crown council of turn-
coats and traitors was also a failure.
Since the collapse of the French, Belgian and
Dutch armies, the world has somewhat revised its
opinion of the Polish army ; and now Polish patriots
by the hundred thousand are trying desperately
to win back national independence. Since the
German invasion of Poland the occupation
authorities have not let a single foreign diplomat
or correspondent into the country. This alone is a
confession of the true situation. Even so, a few
Polish refugees still manage to cross the frontier. The
reports of these eyewitnesses give a gripping picture of
a people that still refuses to be throttled by its chains.
According to reliable information there are half
a million German troops in Poland to “pacify” the
country. There is more blood than water flowing in
the Vistula, people say of this pacification.
Czechoslovakia, as Dr. Sranek, her exiled Prime
Minister in London, recently stated, is policed by
250,000 German soldiers. Obviously this armed force
is strong enough to prevent open hostilities. Kladno
and Tabor, two old centres of the Czech revolution, are
dead cities today. Their population has been carted
off, some housed in concentration camps, some “dis-
appeared.”
The Czechs are not to be downed even in slavery.
Overt attempts at resistance to German rule, such as
were common immediately after the annexation, have
apparently ceased ; but no one can compete with them
in sabotaging the German system. Czech industry is
one of the most important workshops in the German
arsenal. Strikes are impossible, but all the factories
employing Czech labor are united in passive resistance.
The fact that the management of the Skoda works
was changed six times during the first year of the war
tells its own story.
The Czech protectorate today is not an outlying
bastion but part of the heart of Greater Germany.
Among seven million people in that country, equally
important for geographic, strategical and economic
reasons, Hitler has few adherents.
Has he any followers in the more recently con-
quered Norway? What has become of the Fifth
Columns that so willingly opened all doors to him? It
is not generally known that in Norway it was not
only such arch-reactionaries as Quisling and other
officers, but also the Communists, in strange brother-
hood, who admitted the German criminals to the
country. By way of thanks the army of occupation
did not disturb the Communists. Egede Nissen, the
boss of the Norwegian Communist party, repeatedly
appeared in public with Hitler’s “Gauleiter” Joseph
Terboven. The head of the Red-party organ
“Arbeideren,” Henry W. Kristiansen, publicly called
on Grand Admiral Erich Raeder. Not even Hitler’s
own newspapers attacked the English conduct of the
war so shamelessly as the Communist mouthpiece in
Oslo.
Overnight all this has changed. “Arbeideren” has
ceased publication. Kristiansen, Nissen and the other
Communist leaders have been arrested. In Norway at
least the Nazi-Communist brotherhood has crashed.
The German army of occupation is having great
difficulty with the espionage that runs all through
Norway. Three Norwegians were recently arrested in
Bergen for transmitting to Britain valuable military
information. The German Military Court in Oslo
condemned them to death. The executions were car-
ried out on the spot. The death penalty had not
existed in Norway, and its introduction was more pro-
vocative than intimidating, judging by the evidence of
continued espionage.
The Norwegians have awakened from their rigor
mortis. Perhaps the awakening was hastened by the
hunger that came with early autumn, for Norway has
always lived on imports. Perhaps the taxes the Ger-
mans collect are a crushing burden. For the first four
months of German occupation the Nazis presented a
bill for 360,000,000 crowns, an order that has led to a
mass outburst of protest.
Defiantly today the Norwegians wear the royal
badge in their buttonholes, and resisted as long as
they could Hitler’s efforts to install the arch-traitor
Major Quisling as head of a vassal Government. The
refusal of the Storthing, Norway’s Parliament, by a
vote of 149 to 1, to have any dealings with Quisling
was a unique example of a subject people’s defiance.
Nevertheless Hitler forced his own way. Now London
is informed that the army of occupation is feverishly
fortifying Norway. They know where the first revolu-
tion is likely to start.
Holland, however, might beat Norway to revolu-
tion. The Dutch are a phlegmatic nation, but under
the pressure of German terrorism their old pride is
reawakening.
Holland is passing through the darkest hour in her
history, but the Dutch are walking with heads held
high. German sympathies—quite pronounced before
the invasion, particularly in important business circles
—have vanished.
The only real success among Hitler’s vaunted
triumphs is, of course, the conquest of France ; it
came within a hair of winning the entire war and thus
deciding the fate of the century. The enormous ad-
vantages that the subjugation of France represents to
the German conduct of the war cannot be estimated
even yet. No French Government can have any func-
tion but that of a willing agent of the German High
Command. But the 44 million Frenchmen? How
they will act is one of the fateful questions of this
war. Exaggerated optimism is unjustified. A thou-
sand years of civilisation have been washed away by
a torrent of muck without parallel. Nevertheless each
one of the 44 million Frenchmen knows that not only
his personal freedom but his chance of survival de-
pends on the victory of Great Britain. Revolution will
break out as a matter of sheer self-preservation—if
and when the hour strikes.
Whether the hour will strike is something that will
be decided not in the subjugated provinces of Greater
Germany but on the world-wide Anglo-German
battlefront. But if the first victory is vouchsafed to
English arms, more will have been accomplished than
a single strategic success. For the oppressed peoples
are waiting for the day when Hitler’s house of cards
will collapse. This is one aspect of the war that we
must not lose sight of even during these blackest days.
*****
“Mind-conditioning” the French
[The writer of the article “Hitler’s Sullen Subjects”
either overlooks or disregards the effect that German
propaganda may be having, or may have in time, in the
subjected countries, where it has the field to itself
without opposition. That it is hard at work in France,
and not without success, is indicated in this (con-
densed) New York “Times” article by the writer several
of whose revealing articles written in France have
already appeared in “Uncabled Additions.”]
That the French are rationed on food is known.
What is more important, they are rationed on news.
The short supply of food is beginning to show in
bleached-out features. The meagre supply of infor-
mation is beginning to show in bleached-out ideas
upon every matter that made the nation we once knew
as France.
The purpose of the thought-conditioners, as they
edit the radio, the press and the periodical literature
of France, is to kill the faith of the French in them-
selves, in their leaders, in their mode of life, in what-
ever has been particularly their own. They want to
sow the seeds of defeatism and despair ; to camou-
flage the forces that are at work to dismember and
emasculate France.
Here are subdivisions which even the inexpert
can identify:
(1) Return to the land. She has a rich soil, waiting
markets and the best climate in Europe, therefore let
France specialise in agriculture. Youthful city dwellers
are exhorted to colonise their homeland, no need to
cross the sea in quest of adventure. Revive the pioneer
spirit. This is, of course, a superb idea, to which
every Frenchman says amen. Departmental govern-
ments (instigated by their German directors) are pre-
pared to put untilled lands at the disposal of working
families.
But why does Germany push a back-to-the-land
movement in France? Because Germany has the in-
tention of making France a predominantly agricul-
tural province in the ensemble of Teuton territories
which shall succeed the war. The fabrication of metals,
especially of war tools, will be emphatically discoun-
tenanced. Therefore, every French factory hand that
can be planted upon the soil is so much to the good
for Germany.
(2) “Trust the Good German Soldier.” This is
the title of a life-size colored lithograph which has
been pasted all over France and is symptomatic of
the effort which Germany is making to break down
suspicion between the two peoples. A benevolent
German soldier, in uniform but minus his iron hat,
holds in his arms a smiling child, who munches a slice
of bread and butter. When this poster first appeared
in late August it was promptly defaced and torn down.
Grammar school girls, enraged at the idea, were the
commonest vandals. But second and third copies were
affixed by the patient thought-conditioners, together
with hand-size announcements that interference with
German advertising is sabotage, punishable by death.
The posters are now unmolested.
In one French department a hundred thousand
German refugees from the cities of Hamburg and
Bremen, bombed by the English, have been settled. The
presence of these decent, hard-working, quiet-speak-
ing hausfrauen, scrubbing their tow-headed offspring,
grateful for any favor, makes a good impression.
Countless French mothers and children have come
home exclaiming, “Why, they are just like us, after
all.”
A young woman interpreter has been lodged with
my family for three months. Inch by inch she has
made herself a member of the household. She has in-
vited my girls to spend the Christmas holidays with
her family in Germany, as she is in a position to obtain
passes and transportation, and they are crazy to go.
The foregoing are stray details to indicate the de-
liberate campaign of rapprochement which Germany’s
idea-conditioners are carrying forward. During these


few months it is fair to say that the ordinary people
of one nation have been introduced to the ordinary
people of the other nation. There is a very old
and very high wall of separation to be demolished,
but some stones are being loosened. And the thought-
conditioners are painstaking and unhurried. No one
ever believed that this would be a case of love at first
sight.
(3) Behind the scenes all the wheels of editorship,
authorship and photography are grinding overtime to
make the French dissatisfied with themselves,, with
their leaders, with their recent experience of democ-
racy. There is no’ shortage of material upon this sub-
ject, all of it from the pens of high-minded and objec-
tive French authors. There is plenty in the Parlia-
mentary system, which divided 660 Deputies into 57
parties, among whom party prestige took precedence
over national safety ; in the electoral system, the intri-
cacies of which none could unravel, and which con-
sistently defeated the will of the majority ; in the dis-
persal of responsibility under which malfeasance could
never be pinned upon the guilty, however revolting
the scandal, to serve as the text for bitter and reaction-
ary writing. The Germans encourage articles which
discredit democracy as a decadent form of govern-
ment, which insist upon the need, in our realistic age,
for a hard-hitting central authority.
In a France which looks back wistfully upon a
thousand years of power under the royal house of
Capet, it is not hard to sell the idea of a one-man
leadership. In the Action Fran<?ais France has, even
today, a royalist party which is far from
negligible.
The idea-conditioner notes with delight the
swing of the French pendulum toward the his-
toric form of one-man government. And, as
France has no candidate for the post, it may do
no irreparable violence to French sensibilities to
accept a leader who is nominated and imposed
from without.
(4) “Doesn’t France Want a Friend?” Upon
this question of fundamental diplomacy the
thought-conditioners ring a medley of changes.
Not a day passes but that the isolation of their
nation is recalled to the French. They cannot
stand alone, particularly in their actual plight,
with self-confidence expiring, leadership van-
ished, and fleet, army and Treasury gold gone.
But where can a friend be found? The pseudo-
friendship of Britain has been unmasked.
America tags along with England, in the Anglo-
Saxon liaison.
The inquiry is obvious. Why not be friends
with Germany? They are next-door neighbors ;
the two countries complement one another eco-
nomically. In co-operation will be strength. Let
Germany deal with the heavy industries, hard-
ware, iron ships, cannon, tanks and suchlike. Let
France raise the wheat, for which her soil is
admirable, and furnish the luxuries and elegan-
cies for export, for which her incomparable good
taste equips her. Some form of a federated
Europe is inevitable. Let a Franco-German asso-
ciation be the base of it. The good sense of
such an arrangement is irrefutable.
When a thought-conditioner in Paris finishes an
editorial in this tenor, and syndicates it through the
French provincial dailies, he knows that he is earning
his salary. He purrs like a cat. A cat with an eye
on the canary cage.
Heavy Demands on the Navy.
(Condensed from an article by the naval correspondent
of Manchester “Guardian.")
Basically the feeling that “the Navy is all right”
is justified, but it must not be allowed to develop into
a mood of complacency about the sea affair. Cer-
tainly the Navy itself has no illusions about the posi-
tion and is facing the second year of war with a grim
clenching of the teeth. The immediate prospect for
men and ships alike is a long period of intensely hard
work, harder even than the burden of the first winter’s
campaign.
It is no secret that our destroyer strength at the
present time is half what it was in the closing stages
of the last war, and even then, as Lord Jellicoe subse-
quently disclosed, there was a grave shortage of units
needed to provide adequate escort for all the convoys
and troop movements that had to be protected on sea
passage. Moreover, there were available at the time
French, Italian, Japanese and United States warships.
Today the Royal Navy and its sister services in the
Dominions have all the work to do, with the addi-
tional burden of a full-scale campaign in the Medi-
terranean.
This must be borne in mind continually. It is an
essential element of the situation and must remain so,
despite the utmost endeavors of the shipbuilding yards
to deliver the large number of vessels ordered by the
Admiralty last autumn. It can be said that we are
beginning to benefit by those endeavors, that addi-
tions to the U-boat-hunting flotillas and to the escort
strength for convoys are coming forward, if not in a
flood, at least in helpful numbers. But as fast as the
new ships are added to the active fleet new problems
in their disposition and use are posed by the enemy’s
constantly changing tactics.
The position at sea may be reviewed under three
heads—the protection of seaborne trade everywhere,
the counter-measures to the invasion threat, and the
support of the army in the Middle East. The
merchant-shipping position has steadily worsened.
Continuance of enemy pressure at the recent rate must
take our annual loss beyond 3,000,000 tons, apart from
losses among Allied and neutral shipping in our ser-
vice.
The number of U-boats available at the present
time may be slightly larger than the initial strength
of the flotillas last autumn, but the German ship-
building yards have not produced the hordes of boats
that were publicly threatened by Berlin. It is probable
that the output averages about eight or nine new
boats a month. What the Navy endeavors to do is to
keep the rate of destruction balanced against the rate
of output. The Germans have called on the Rome
Admiralty for reinforcements of submarines for work
in the Atlantic —a clear indication that their own
numbers are insufficient to maintain the pressure
against our convoys.
Here it is important to point out that there has
never been any claim by us that convoy provides abso-
lute immunity from attack. The more daring and
skilful of the enemy commanders can and do carry
out successful attacks every now and again. But for-
tunately the blunderers and the half-hearted com-
manders are in the majority. There were only 20 sub-
marine “aces” among the 450 or so commanding
officers of U-boats in the last war, and the “next best”
(as listed by their senior officer, Commodore Michel-
sen, in his history of the U-boat war) totalled no more
than 25. The main benefit of convoy is that it com-
pels the attacker to come within reach of the escort
vessels and so expose himself to counter-attack instead
of having a defenceless target. And the half-hearted
U-boat commander has small stomach for that sort
of adventure.
Counter-measures to the invasion threat have
absorbed a great deal of naval energy. There is no
truth in the stories of hundreds of German bodies
being washed up on the shores of this, that and the
other county. But that there has been a certain
amount of thrust and counter-thrust is evident from
the text of recent bulletins, particularly those about
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
“HAIL, PROUD CAESAR!”
the work of British submarines in attacking enemy
transports and supply ships.
Support of the army in the Middle East by the
Navy has been constant, though not always as spec-
tacular as the “sweeps” made by Sir Andrew Cunning-
ham’s squadrons. One at least of these was officially
described as providing protection for a convoy of re-
inforcements for the army in Egypt.
We occasionally talk of the Italian difficulty in
reprovisioning their bases in North Africa and the
Dodecanese Islands, but it should not be forgotten
that we, too, have our problems in places like Cyprus,
Malta and Haifa, none of which is in self-supporting
areas. The Italian problem, indeed, is rather more
simple than ours, since any naval thrust in strength
against their main convoy route must be launched
from a base 900 miles away.
The Italian convoys have a sea passage from the
southern ports to Tripoli of about 40 hours at eight
knots. If their air reconnaissance from the Dodecan-
ese Islands reports the British fleet in harbor at Alex-
andria the Italians know that there can be no attack
in force against the convoy route in less than 56 hours
with our fleet making a speed of advance of 16 knots.
That is to say, they have the best part of a day to spare
in moving their supply ships from Taranto to Tripoli.
Close blockade of the North African ports is no
more possible than it is of the Bight of Heligoland
under the conditions of present-day war and warships.
The Italian Air Force by its mere existence has neutral-
ised Malta as a naval base, and so made possible a
certain amount of hurried Italian traffic to and from
Libya. This is one more of the strokes of ill-fortune
inflicted on our Navy by the defection of France, one
more instance of the complete remoulding of our
strategic plans forced on a Naval Staff whose task was
already sufficiently complicated when the Western
Mediterranean was still controlled by an ally’s fleet.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
German bombing has not destroyed London.
But there are not words to describe the guts of these
people under fire or the calm matter-of-factness with
which they carry on. There is no sign of shell shock
or indecision in any class. What you cannot realise
unless you’ve been here is the constant, unremitting,
uninterrupted pressure of danger to every man, woman
and child in a city under siege from the air, or the
fantastic courage which people find somewhere in
themselves to meet it. This is not baloney. It is some-
thing to make one proud to be a member of the human
race to know that there are people who can resist and
are resisting what is evil and repulsive to them as a
matter of course. — Ralph Ingersoll, editor of New
York “PM,” in a dispatch sent to his paper from
London.
*****
Pilots of a Coastal Command squadron who
patrol the North Sea sometimes receive permission to
seek out and bomb military targets after completing
their primary task of reconnaissance. Warships, supply
ships and aerodromes are the favorite marks, and it is
rare for an aircraft with a roving commission to return
without having “had a crack” at some cog in the
enemy’s war machine. Such extended trips are known
in the squadron as “private Blitzes," and are so popu-
lar that pilots and crews sacrifice a day off for a
chance of a good “Blitz.” Their commander has many
more applications than he can submit for approval.
The other night two aircraft went off on one of these
“trouble-hunting” trips after they had completed their
reconnaissances. The board in the operations room
showing their expected time of return bore the added
inscription: “But may be up to two hours late owing
to private hostilities.” — London “Times.”
*****
“Lady Reading, widow of one of England’s great-
est statesmen, is the most extraordinary woman in
England today —or man. Two years ago she started,
with a handful of others, the Women’s Voluntary
Service. Today it has 800,000 members, drawn from
every class, high and low, working in perfect har-
mony. It is one of the great triumphs of democracy.
These women go everywhere, do everything. They
feed as many as 200,000 destitute people in com-
munal kitchens every day. They look after
evacuees of every type. While air raids are still
in progress, they rush without a second’s hesi-
tation or fear to the centre of the worst bombed
section, none more zealously than Lady Read-
ing herself. During the bombing of Birmingham
she hopped into her car, a steel helmet clamped
on her head, and raced for that besieged spot,
rallying her units in every town and village on
the way.”— David K. E. Bruce, an American
Red Cross representative in Britain, in an inter-
view.
*****
Any undergraduate who can satisfy a tri-
bunal that he is a conscientious objector (in most
localities not so difficult a task as it should be),
and “wishes to teach,” is allowed to continue his
university course, proceed to a teaching post,
and thus acquire seniority and other advantages
over his more patriotic contemporaries. There
is a further danger in this practice. One of the
most tragic consequences of the last war was
that, since the first years of it were fought vith-
out conscription, most of the young men who
should have been leaders of their generation
fell. Those who, for conscientious or other
reasons, evaded the posts of danger survived out
of all due proportion, to set the standards of
the post-war generation. Hence many of the
intellectual and moral disorders of the last 20
years. By overstocking the teaching profes-
sion with those who are too conscientious to
fight we are running a real danger of repro-
ducing in the rising generation an intellectual bias
from which we have suffered too much already.—
Lord Elton; London “Times” letter.
* * * * *
A stream of refugees has flowed through Portugal.
They have come by sea and land, from every country
of Europe invaded or threatened by the German
scourge. At first this human river piled up at the
frontier, forming a sort of dam, with hundreds of
people at a time in cars, in trains, on bicycles or on
foot. It was not to be supposed that the Portuguese
Government could absorb or maintain this uninvited
invasion. All that anyone could reasonably expect
was that arrangements would be made by which
refugees would be allowed to stay until such a time as
they were able to disperse themselves over the New
' World or make their way to England. In this humani-
tarian work the Portuguese Government has emerged,
in these days of spreading callousness, with a shining
record. Political circumspection might have dictated a
less sympathetic attitude. While many of the refugees
were just ordinary people, helpless pawns in the bitter
game of European war, others were men whose return
Germany would have eagerly accepted—industrialists,
bankers, politicians and public men, whose presence
in their native countries might have facilitated the
German task. There were, too, German emigres who
have escaped to help actively in the struggle against
the Axis Powers. If German or Italian pressure was
brought to bear on the Portuguese Government, there
is every sign that it was energetically and successfully
rebuffed. The official attitude of the Government was
the only one to be expected, for it was the expression
of the fundamental kindliness of the Portuguese people.
—London “Times” Lisbon correspondent.
* * * * *
The Americas, traditional asylum for the perse-
cuted, have begun putting up bars against immigra-
tion of Jews, based specifically on religion and race.
Bolivia bars Jews without qualification. Paraguay and
Ecuador have special Jewish restrictions that consti-
tute virtual prohibitions. In the last few months
nearly all other South American countries have raised
new barriers against immigration of both Jewish and
Christian refugees. A survey of Latin-American con-
sulates disclosed that generally the objection to Jews
was that even when some applied as farmers they
often became shopkeepers, competing too successfully
with established enterprises. In one country a scandal
in which it was charged that Jewish immigrants had
bribed consuls and even influenced a former Foreign
Minister was said by some sources to have caused
the anti-Jewish regulations. The recent developments
offer a sharp contrast to the promise of the Lima con-
ference, which resolved, in December, 1938, that the
American nations would “endeavor to receive inter-
American or European immigration,” and that there
should be “no discrimination based on nationality,
creed or race.” — New York “World-Telegram.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
Pilot is on holidays, and for the next week or two
his columns will be conducted by an understudy.
One of the most controversial protests
for months was upheld after Coylton had
beaten The Stork half a head in the
Appeal Hurdle Race at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. Betting on the protest in-
dicated that the stewards would take the
race from Coylton, but, while inter-
ference did occur, many keen judges were
of opinion that neither Coylton nor his
rider was to blame.
Coylton and The Stork started equal
favorites at twos, and had the race be-
tween them from the half-mile. When
seemingly assured of success Coylton
shied a few yards from the post, faltered
momentarily and veered out. Apparently
he shied at the clerks of the course, wear-
ing red coats and waiting on their horses
to lead the place-getters back to scale.
They were stationed on the opposite side
of the course proper a few yards past
the winning-post at the entrance to the
lane leading to the saddling enclosure.
Backers of Coylton are of opinion that
this quite feasible explanation should
have weighed heavily with the stewards
in a matter which decided the destina-
tion of so much public money.
Stewards, however, have to deal with
facts, not theories, sound as they may
be. There would have been no ground
for a protest had Coylton kept a straight
course, and there is little doubt that he
would have won ; but the fact remains
that The Stork was hampered. Stewards
judge every case on its merits, and inter-
ference does not have to be intentional
for them to alter a judge’s placings.
McKee, rider of The Stork, alleged that
Hynes interfered with his mount while
using the whip on Coylton, but Hynes
declared that he had put the whip away
before the trouble occurred.
The Stork’s win followed a success at
Ascot three days earlier. Besanko has
trained the ex-Sydney gelding ever since
his arrival in Melbourne ; but The Stork
was not of much account on the flat, and
Besanko was glad to hear several months
ago that he had been sold. He was
amazed to learn that the new owner, D.
Reid, a friend, wished him to continue
as trainer. Reid, who won the G.N.
Steeple with Riawena in 1935, had picked
The Stork as a likely jumper, and results
have proved his judgment. The Stork
has beaten only weak fields, but he is a
four-year-old and seems sure to improve.
He will have a short let-up as a result
of slight injuries sustained in Saturday’s
race, but is booked to resume racing at
Flemington on Boxing Day.
Former Sydney gallopers were in win-
ning vein on Saturday. Cushla Machree
and Pannade, in addition to The Stork,
were successful. Cushla Machree had
been beaten narrowly by Orcadian at
Ascot three days earlier, but on this occa-
sion she met Orcadian lib. worse and
beat him into third place in the Benefit
Handicap, run over a similar distance.
Cushla Machree had been ridden in front
at Ascot, but whether by accident or
design she was ridden behind on Satur-
day, and the changed tactics suited her.
A lucky inside run assisted her from the
half-mile to the turn, and, taken round
the two leaders, Aspire and Ten o’clock,
at the top of the straight, she finished
strongly to win from Aspire. Ten to 1
was bet against Cushla Machree, who
firmed to sevens.
Cushla Machree has done particularly
well since she was taken over by trainer
O. R. Cox about five months ago. Satur-
day’s win was her best, her others having
been recorded at country and provincial
meetings, but further improvement is
probable. Formerly she was difficult to
train because of her highly-strung tem-
perament and her habit of throwing
riders on the track. All that was changed,
however, after a buckjump rider mastered
her at Wagga (N.S.W.), and now she is
quite tractable. A five-year-old by
Heroic from Rythona, she is a sister to
Hope and Fair Diana.
Moonray, one of the English horses
sent to Australia by the Duke of Kent
and now owned by Mrs, L. R. Buxton,
raced in the Benefit Handicap for the
first time since he finished second to
Historian in the Malakoff Stakes at Flem-
ington in August. Above himself in con-
dition and cut out at the start, he had
nothing to do with the finish of a race
that was too short anyhow. The outing
should do a lot for Moonray, and it
will take a good one to beat him if he
recovers his best English form. Orcadian
may have finished closer than third had
he not been disappointed in going for an
opening in the straight, and Orteli, who
failed to begin smartly on this occasion,
ran on well in fourth position after
being forced wide at the turn. Dream-
some and Magic Circle, first and second
favorites respectively, disappointed.
Great expectations once centred
in Pannade, who was raced in Syd-
ney by Percy Miller, and it is not too
late for those expectations to be ful-
filled. Melbourne bookmaker Eddie
O’Brien bought him for 750 guineas
several months ago, and, although Pan-
nade’s first few races in Victoria did not
indicate that his new owner had made
a particularly good bargain, latest results
have been quite satisfactory. Pannade’s
win cm Saturday was his third in succes-
sion, the others having been gained at
provincial meetings.
Pannade was always favorite, his price
firming from 3 to 1 to 9 to 4, and,
although he appeared to be awkwardly
placed on the rails coming to the turn,
had the dash to take an opening when
Keelie veered out. Pannade was actually
first into the straight, and won decisively
from Royal Jubilee and Rendezvous.
Royal Jubilee had to go round several
horses, but he had no chance with the
winner; ditto Rendezvous, who was a
good way out of his ground most of the
trip. Pannade won too well for excuses
to be possible for beaten runners, and it
should not be long before he scores in
better company. His win on Saturday
completed a double for trainer Steve
Murphy and the stable jockey V. Hart-
ney. They had been associated with
Faugh-a-Ballagh’s success earlier.
Doubts whether Burrabil possessed
sufficient stamina to win the Fund Han-
dicap were not shared by his trainer,
W. O’Dwyer. Latter pointed out that
although his horse finished only sixth
in the Werribee Cup, also run at 10
furlongs, he would have been much
closer but for a knock in running. That
knowledge enabled stable followers to
obtain a good price for their money on
Saturday, as three horses were backed
ahead of Burrabil, who started at 8 to
1. Burrabil’s prospects did not appear
bright when he was only fifth coming
to the turn, but he responded gamely
when Creighton applied pressure in the
straight, and won a “camera” finish by
inches from Ngapuna, Sun Belle and
Fearless. The four horses passed the
post practically in a line.
Burrabil’s success followed his mile
win at Flemington a week earlier, and
perhaps he will complete a hat-trick this
week. He is engaged in the £5OO Ballarat
Cup, to be run tomorrow (Thursday), and
in the Epsom Cup, to be run at Mentone
on Saturday. At the time of writing
it had not been decided definitely
whether he would contest the Ballarat
race. He is up another 41b., having
already been penalised 51b. to 9.0, or lib.
more than he carried on Saturday.
O’Dwyer won the Ballarat Cup with
Plymouth Hoe last year. Burrabil he
describes as one of the most honest
horses he has ever had in his stable.
Sun Belle, always a hot favorite for
the Fund Handicap, attempted to lead
throughout, but, although she battled on
gamely after being joined by Ngapuna
at the turn, was not quite good enough.
Ngapuna hung on much better than
generally anticipated, but Gladstone dis-
appointed again, and the Woodend Cup
winner Counsel l also performed below
expectations.
Sydney-owned Fearless should pay ex-
penses before his return home. A failure
in the Williamstown Cup, he was left in
Melbourne to be trained temporarily by
Steve Murphy. There was fair support
for him at 7 and 8 to 1 for the Fund
Handicap, and with more luck he would
have done better than a very close fourth.
He had to be checked more than once
between the half-mile and the turn, and,
disappointed in going for an inside run,
had to be taken round the leaders. Fear-
less finished well enough to indicate
bright prospects in the Epsom Cup if it
be decided to run him in that race next
Saturday.
Form pointed to Gitano being the
better of Steve Murphy’s pair in the
Juvenile Handicap, but, while that colt
eased from 5 to 1 to eights, Faugh-a-
Ballagh firmed from as much as 15 to 1
down to eights. Gitano was never dan-
gerous, but Faugh-a-Ballagh hit the front
soon after the start and won nicely from
Night Express and the odds-on favorite,
Pierre. Last-named looked dangerous
when he moved up second on the turn,
but weakened. Faugh-a-Ballagh repre-
sents the first winner for his sire, Brian,
a Heroic horse who galloped brilliantly,
but disappointed in his races. Murphy,
who trained Brian, always had faith in
him, however, and mated him with
several of his own mares. One of these
was Slinger, a winner over jumps, and
Faugh-a-Ballagh is the result. Faugh-a-
Ballagh is raced in partnership by Jack
Heeney and Murphy—Heeney also raced
Brian.
J. McPherson, a businessman who
trains horses for a hobby, almost gave
bookmakers a complete “skinner” with
Sir Rona in the Relief Trial Handicap.
Half a “skinner” suited them, however,
when Sir Rona, starting at 50 to 1, dead-
heated with the 7-to-l-chance Foreigner.
This pair settled down to a see-saw
struggle in the straight, but the luck of
the race had been with Sir Rona, who
was always one of the leaders and missed
all interference. Several horses had their
chances prejudiced in a fairly rough race.
One was the favorite, David Spear, who
finished fourth, about a length behind
the third horse, Skylass. In the circum-
stances, he did fairly well under his
steadier of 9.0, but seemingly his fourth
in the Caulfield Cup last year gave him
a boost to which he was not quite en-
titled. He has not won a race meantime,
but, now that the better-class horses are
out spelling, might get his opportunity
with a light weight in an open distance
handicap.
* * * *
Conditions for racing could hardly be
more pleasant than they were at the
Hawkesbury Club’s Wednesday meeting at
Rosehill. The showers up to then having
improved all Sydney tracks, the going was
tiptop ; the form credentials of the major-
ity of winners were sound enough to
enable punters to put a trifle aside for
the Income Tax Handicap, and if the
weights for that hadn’t come out on the
same afternoon, even losing might have
been a pleasure in the circumstances.
Form was particularly sound with the
two-year-olds, as it usually is; backing
it alone would be a better “system” than
most that have given turf mathematicians
headaches. On performance, Parsing, a
raky bay colt by Denis Boy-Sweet Har-
mony, deserved his win in the division for
colts and geldings, having filled places
at his previous three starts at this track,
Canterbury and Moorefield. He had only
a head the better of Fort Leon (Melfort-
Kalyanni), another consistent colt, with
the best-performed of the rest, Marconi-
graph, third. Marconigraph did not run
quite as good a race as he had done at
Randwick, but he again showed pace. He
looks the sort that might furnish into a
good three-year-old.
Peter Pan’s second-year progeny is an
assorted lot, in color, ranging from his
own chestnut to black, and in conforma-
tion. His representative in that event was
W. Kelso’s Panurge, a solidly-built black
colt from Grallina. Having his second
race, he improved on his showing at his
earlier outing, coming strongly from well
back in the 4|-furlong scamper to finish
a creditable fifth. Pantrieste, by the dual
Melbourne Cup winner from Lady
Trieste, carrying the F. W. Hughes colors
in the fillies’ division, is a brown and
rather skimpy. She was never in the
hunt, nor, in novice company, was
Pretty Blue, one of Peter’s first-year get,
who takes after her sire in color.
With an exception or two, the 17 fillies
saddled up were about as weak-looking
a lot as ever figured in a punter’s night-
mare. Turned out by C. A. Russell as
dandy as a good horse ought to be turned
out, the Double Remove-Golden Lullaby
filly Cradle Song overshadowed them as
much in the paddock as she did in the
race. The books asked 3 to 1 on her,
and on looks they were being extrava-
gant. Carrying half a stone more than
the rest, she made light of it, leading all
the way and winning with ease by at
least five lengths. Her time was a shade
slower than Parsing’s, but she couid
easily have improved on it. Though no
match for the winner, La Junta (Melfort-
Woorambie) beat the rest as easily as
Cradle Song beat her—for what form in
one-horse races may be worth.
Form was sound enough in both divi-
sions of the Novice Handicap, Tom’s
Pick following up his good third at
Randwick by providing McMenamin with
a comfortable all-the-way winning ride
in the first division, and Windjammer
taking the second division just as con-
vincingly, following on his easiest of wins
in maiden company at Newcastle. On
the northern track Windjammer had
won, in the language of an admirer, “with
his head on his chest, looking back at
them.” At Rosehill the big Windbag
gelding had to be taken fairly wide round
a leading bunch at the turn, but then
settled the race in a few strides. He
was piloted by Keith Cook, who does
comparatively little riding these days but
has won on his last three mounts.
Sticking on better than he had been
doing at recent mid-week meetings, Post-
man brought some relief to bookmakers
in the Flying. Any price could be had
about him from tens to 20 to 1 ; he
started at 10 to 1. The grey, Roxford,
who is not living up to promise, drew the
rails, got way well and led to the turn,
but by then had had enough. Melrose,
Yuletide (who should soon win) and
Sir Regal also beat Postman for early
pace, but he came through them strongly
a furlong from home and looked like
winning easily, when old Red Thespian,
overcoming a lot of difficulty, swept
into the picture with a dazzling finish,
failing only by a neck. Red Thespian
has been freshened since running fairly
well at the spring meeting, and this time
up should pay his way at seven furlongs
or a mile.
A weak field turned out for the
Hawkesbury Handicap, the winner being
Mustapha, competently ridden by young
Wilson. He beat Early Hope and
Bronze Flight in a close finish. Mischief,
who looks to have turned sour in his
early old age, refused to gallop and beat
only Silmond, who had been left half a
furlong.
Punters made their worst error of
judgment on the day in the last event,
backing Breezy Boy as if he had already
won. The three-year-old was giving age
to the rest of the field and weight to
most of them, and always looked a loser.
The winner was Dorn, ridden by young
Davis on the excellent precept for appren-
tice races of going straight to the front
and staying there. Still, if Breezy Boy
had had a gallop in him, Thompson
would have got it out of him. Still
eligible to ride in these races, he tops
the successful jockeys’ list. He has beau-
tiful balance, and a riding style already
reminiscent of Jim Pike’s.
FOR EPSOM.
By “SENTRY.”
Cheltenham Hurdle Race: Bonnie
Laddie, 1 ; Duralium, 2; Grand
Time, 3.
Murray Handicap: Spearmain,
1 ; Fort Garry, 2 ; The Trapper, 3.
Epsom Cup: Fearless, 1 ; Alarm,
2 ; Lanarus, 3.
Mordialloc Stakes: Orcadian,
1 ; Con Naru, 2 ; Magic Circle, 3.
Manumbar Handicap: Damocles,
1 ; Counsel, 2 ; Manawatu, 3.
Parkdale Welter: St. Fervent, 1 ;
Royal Jubilee, 2; Our Boy, 3.
FOR RANDWICK TODAY.
Flying Handicap: Red Thespian,
1 ; Geebung, 2 ; Postman, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Yours Truly,
1 ; Bristol, 2.
Encourage Handicap: Kestrel,
1 ; Tyrannus, 2.
Farm Welter: Tusculum, 1 ;
Knight Folly, 2.


f’“T
r
cuxvt** is 'OoJXZe~r
* * * * * « • v^gtv
S Cv ° 1 < 1 1
A ND that’s a gift that marks you out at once
-L A. as “a woman who understands.” . . . He’ll
bless you every morning through the year for the
quick, efficient shave that Gillette gives him. For
nothing puts a man in the right mood for each
day so surely as a comfortable Gillette shave
before the day’s work begins.
No. 47 Set. Comprising the new
Gillette one-piece razor (Popular
Model) —no loose parts,
no separate pieces to
assemble and three
Blue Gillette Blades in
highly polished nickel-
plated case with
specially embossed lid.
Price .... 12/6
+ Other Gillette Sets
from 2/6 to 45/-.
m
J
sdf
sdf
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
A fair proportion of those present at
the Rosehill meeting on Saturday could
have sheltered under the magnificent
English oak at the back of the official
stand, and for the first race or two
shelter had to be found somewhere. The
rain which drenched the city in the morn-
ing was reported to have missed the
course, but at midday it fell in torrents.
A gale, blowing them home up the
straight, called for jockeys who had
served an apprenticeship in the 18-
footers, but when the rain later eased it
served to improve the track, which had
looked like becoming a morass.
Consequently, the form displayed
might have been more trustworthy for
winter than for summer racing. Some
owners who had horses oh the course
took one look at the going and scratched
them; even so, most events had good
fields, and, though only a few starters in
each were able to show out against the
conditions, there were one or two strik-
ing performances.
One of these was in the opening hurdle
event. Twelve of the 15 acceptors ran,
but it was exclusively a two-horse race.
It was made interesting by the splendid
hurdling of the winner, the six-year-old
Silverado-Herminia gelding Tartanus. A
Randwick winner at a mile on the flat
last year, Tartanus was having his first
run over the brush, and in conditions to
test the most experienced hurdler. On the
strength of a good trial earlier in the
week, he was backed from tens to 7 to 1 ;
a supporter who crossed into the leger
to back him got as much as 20 to 1.
Jumping fast and a foot or so higher
than was necessary, Tartanus raced up
alongside the early leader, Heracles, with
five furlongs to go, and the pair of them
raced away from the field, taking the
jumps together to the turn, where Tar-
tanus came away to take the last fence
well and win easily by three lengths. In
view of the conditions it might be wisest
to write off form for the whole day as
liable to be misleading, but on the face
of it Tartanus’s display looked a particu-
larly good one. He carried 9.6. Wind-
jammer showed some versatility, after his
flat successes, by chasing the leaders most
of the way and just holding Guardsman
off to take third money. But they and
the rest were always so far behind the
winner and Heracles that it was like
watching two races.
After the hurdlers had been twice
along it the straight looked as if some-
one had been at it with a hoe, despite
which the Two-year-old Stakes produced
another striking performance. A good
horse merits a good name, and, as a
general rule, has one —a double truism
that may have been operating at the
naming of Kingsdale, a small but shapely
brown colt by Andrea-Rippendale. He
should be a handsome animal if he grows
out; his sister, La Vallee, races as a 14.2
pony. Kingsdale had gone only moder-
ately in a -two-year-old trial, and was
having his first run in a race, but he was
backed to favoritism at 2 to 1. He made
an exhibition gallop of it, going to the
front almost at once, and, notwithstand-
ing the messy look of the turn, sticking
close in to the rails, and racing right
away in the straight to win by an acreage
officially called six lengths.
Sponsor, a brown colt by Tippler-Zeus,
beat the Christopher Robin-Maggie Rau
chestnut filly Vivien Leigh almost as
easily in the places, Sponsor in particular
galloping on strongly. Marcovelian, a
bay colt by Marconigram-Velia, showed
a lot of pace, but was very wide out all
the way, and should not have been cut
out of third money.
J. Thompson gave three excellent exhi-
bitions of horsemanship, one of the neat-
est on Veiled Witch, 6 to 4 favorite for
the Encourage Handicap. By the time
they had battled against the gale along
the back stretch and had turned into the
long straight with the wind behind them,
the early duel between King’s Park and
the small chestnut colt Rodrigo had
ended in favor of the latter, who came
away making the turn, and was still well
clear inside the last furlong. Veiled
Witch had got away well just in behind
the two leaders, but went niggardly into
the wind, as well as slipping about, and
was. headed off by Patrician. In the
straight Thompson brought her out near
the middle of the track and set sail after
the leader. Determined riding and a
game response bridged the gap, Veiled
Witch snatching victory on the post by
half a head. King’s Park was five lengths
away.
The track was in no state for good
time or for topweights when it came
to the Clyde Handicap, run over seven
turlongs. Pen, carrying 7.6 with the 31b.
allowance for L. Fell, led clearly till
approaching the turn, where Duncan
brought Valve (7.4) along, and momen-
tarily looked like having a runaway win.
Pen, however, came again under pres-
sure ; but Valve’s three-quartetf-length
win was probably more comfortable than
it looked. A little shifty in the betting,
though always favorite, going out at
3 to 1 after 6 to 4 had been called,
Brazen Boy went awkwardly along the
back stretch, and, though within half a
length of Pen at the finish, never looked
a danger. The Brazen-Good and Gay
gelding is a long-legged animal, and the
conditions, though they seemed to call
for stilts, were all against him. His run
could profitably be forgotten. Though
a fair mudlark in his day, Speardale, who
is beginning to look his age, ran a poor
race.
The conditions gave the stamp of ex-
ceptional merit to the performance of
Dewar in the November Handicap, over
a mile and a quarter. This has been
the four-year-old bay horse’s pet dis-
tance in his sequence of wins since being
secured by F. Christey and given to E.
Hush to train. The way he has won,
both at Randwick on November 23 and
in the conditions at Rosehill, points
strongly to his winning over longer jour-
neys and in better company. The Rose-
hill test was particularly exacting. He
was called upon to carry 131 b. more than
his Randwick weight, and carry it on a
heavy track, for a large part of the way
in the teeth of a wind which was now
at its maximum strength. It takes an
uncommonly good horse to manage all
that as Dewar managed it.
As usual, last early, Dewar had begun
to move up under Thompson’s sensible
guidance with over four furlongs to go.
It was sensible because, though it had
to be done round the field and head into
the wind, young Wilson, in front on
Blinky Bill, was there trying to save his
mount for a later effort. Blinky Bill is
possibly no longer the good little fellow
he used to be, but he would still be up
to mid-week company. Thompson’s
move had him comfortably accounted
for well before the turn was made, and
from there on it was Dewar by almost
any margin his rider preferred. He
finished four lengths in front of Bronze
Flight, who ran a serviceable race, with
Tuckerbox, who was backed, three
lengths further away.
No doubt because of his sharp rise in
weight and the state of the going, books
rashly laid 2to 1 against Dewar. Now
a winner over the distance at his last
three starts (twice at Rosehill), Dewar has
not been out of a place in six starts since
he won a Victoria Park Encourage Han-
dicap on October 30. An inclination to
dwell at the barrier might easily come
against him in a bigger field, particu-
larly one beginning from the awkward
start of the mile-and-a-quarter journey
at Randwick. However, he seems to be
improving in this respect, and a horse
who can sustain a run as long as he can
must have something on most opposition
in any circumstances.
.Thompson’s other good display of
horsemanship was on Triton, a brown
three-year-old gelding by Pantheon-
Cabaret Girl, in the Maiden Highweight.
The winner, The Cuan (Parkwood-Sun
Myth), was the form horse of the 14
starters left after heavy course scratch-
ings had taken out seven of the accep-
tors. Ridden by W. Cook, The Cuan
led all the way, but Thompson got
within a head of outriding that expert
horseman in a stirring finish. The second
division was won rather comfortably by
Micky Rooney, a three-year--old brown
gelding by Brazen-Maggie Alwyne, who
raced in the midst of a fairly close bunch
to the leger and there came right away.
Micky Rooney started at sevens, ending
in favor of the books what had been a
somewhat hollow day for those mostly
careful gentlemen, and a wild day for
everybody.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the “demonstrations”
the evidently unpopular practice had
recently provoked at Randwick and else-
where, starting horses twice in the one
afternoon proved popular—and profit-
able —at the provincial Richmond meet-
ing last week. Clare Joy, a four-year-
old Grand Joy-Princess Clare gelding,
won the Windsor Handicap at tens, and,
saddled up again,' won the Nepean Han-
dicap at sixes. The performance was
emulated by Bruce Wood, a four-year-
old black horse by the former champion
pony Mr. Bruce-Marie Wood. Bruce
Wood won the Flying Handicap at 5 to 4
and later came out and won the Rich-
mond Handicap at 6 to 4. Still, it’s a
long way back to the day when Gilder,
saddled up for four events in one after-
noon at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.). won
the lot. ■
* * * *
Very sudden was the death of George
Williams, the A.J.C.’s Chief Steward —
at 67. Racing people didn’t know he was
ill till it was noticed that he wasn’t in his
accustomed place at Rosehill; then the
word went round that he had gone into
hospital that morning. Sunday brought
the news that he had passed away. By
calling a butcher, Williams was a steward
at Newcastle before he succeeded F. W.
Coombes on the A.J.C. staff, becoming
chairman two years ago. An excellent
judge of racing, he tempered justice with
mercy, and was always ready to explain
to reporters why he had done this and
hadn’t done that. In him the A.J.C. and
the sport have lost a very good servant.
* * * *
Shortage of stablehands is becoming
a problem for Melbourne trainers with
large teams. A typical case is presented
by Bill Burke. “Two of my former
boys are abroad with the A.1.F., four
others left me to work in munitions fac-
tories, and last week another threw in his
job to become a milk-carter,” he declares.
Steve Murphy is also finding it difficult to
get boys.
* * * *
El Golea, shot in mistake for Beau
Vite prior to the Melbourne Cup, may
race again after all. Jack Fryer says the
horse is doing particularly well at Mono-
meith (Vic.), and he personally thinks
El Golea may stand a preparation for
autumn racing. The bullets, which are
embedded in bone, have not affected El
Golea’s action, and it is hoped that fluid
will eventually circulate around the
affected parts. If El Golea does recover
sufficiently to win another race he will be
assured of one of the greatest receptions
ever given a winner on any Australian
. track.
* * * *
Are Sydney jockeys so superior to Mel-
bourne jockeys as spring results would
■ suggest? The question is still a topic of
keen discussion, but, by majority vote,
the palm goes to the Sydney boys. With
a reservation that there are good horse-
men in Melbourne, several reasons are
advanced to account for the general lack
of good riders. One trainer points out
that, until the V.R.C. agreed some time
ago that trainers were entitled to a per-
centage of their apprentices’ earnings,
there was no real incentive for a trainer
to educate a boy, or to push him for all
he was worth. The incentive is there
now, but the same trainer considers that
the stewards are too hard on lads who
are fighting their way to the top. In-
stances could be quoted of youngsters who
gave every promise of going far in their
profession, but had their confidence
shaken by a term of suspension, and
took a long time to regain it. Disciplinary
action must be taken against apprentices
at times, but there are occasions when a


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
HE
■III I]
Sole Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
m
sd
heart-to-heart talk might have a better
effect. Not a few keen racing men agree
with E. C. Harnett, owner of Beaulivre,
that in Victoria more riders are stood
down for trying than for not trying.
* * * *
One of the most interesting foals of
the season is Wynette’s black filly by
Charles Fox. Though she was thrown
when Wynette was 22, Harry Torr ex-
pects her to be the best of the family.
Torr, who won the Caulfield Cup,
Adelaide Cup and other races with
Wynette, will race her Charles Fox filly
and her chestnut yearling colt by the
same sire. Only five members of
Wynette’s family have raced, and all have
been winners ; among them were Segati,
who was second to Rogilla in a Caul-
field Cup, and Mandara, still winning
races in India. Wynette’s looks belie
her age, and seemingly her stud life is
far from finished. It is not too late for
her latest foal to be a good performer.
Otford, who foaled Manfred when she
was seven, threw the brilliant Chatsbury
14 years later.
* * * *
Actor, the French horse imported to
Australia at a very high cost by Sol Green,
and now at the latter’s Underbank Stud,
Bacchus Marsh, may in no long time
quieten critics who deplore the lack of
genuine stayers in Australia. The oldest
of his get, yearlings, are a splendid col-
lection, and it would be difficult to find
a better-grown or more impressive type
than the colt out of Bon Cretien. A
mare got in England by Apple Sammy,
Bon Cretien was a smart galloper herself,
winning races in Melbourne and Sydney.
In addition to her yearling colt she has a
perfectly-moulded colt foal by Lo Zin-
garo. Actor was one of the best-staying
three-year-olds in France, and the late
V.R.C. handicapper, J. H. Davis, awarded
him top weight, 9.6, for the Melbourne
Cup of 1938. He ran second to Clair-
voyant in the French Derby, and Clair-
voyant subsequently beat Donatello II —
later sold for £47,000 —in the Grand
Prix de Paris. Randwick trainer J. T.
Jamieson raced Actor only once, but
was credited with having stated that the
French horse was the best he had ever
trained.
* * * *
The Federal tax increases are sure to
mean a drop in the holdings of book-
makers since there will be less money
for punting. But the totalisator may not
be affected to the same extent as ringmen.
According to a leading Melbourne
operator, even now there is not nearly so
much money for betting as in past years.
Many men who formerly made bets of
£lO with him have cut them down, and
others do not venture now above 10s. or
£l. “But I don’t get those 10-bobs and
pounds,” this bookmaker explains—“the
tote does.” Budgeting of income may
now force more backers to the tote, as
a punter does escape publicity when he
places his money away from the books.
* * * *
Several Melbourne trainers are of
opinion that there should be a change in
the present method of dividing races.
They contend that “tops and bottoms”
adopted by some Sydney clubs would be
more satisfactory than “odds and evens,”
and the matter may be taken to the V.R.C.
There are times when only two or three
horses appear to have chances in a
divided race, and betting is restricted ac-
cordingly. Still “tops and bottoms” could
mean inflated entries and deflated prize-
money for division winners, as many
Sydney owners and trainers have found
to their cost. There is not much in the
way of stake-money for the owner of a
winner when a race is cut into three or
more divisions, and perhaps the men who
are advocating a change of existing con-
ditions would be the first to growl when
they received their cheques.
At a cost of slightly over £lOOO the
V.R.C. is erecting false running rails to
extend from the mile barrier to the turn
out of the straight at Flemington. Races
down the straight-six track will also be
decided outside a false rail for the next
few meetings. Flemington’s course proper
has stood up remarkably well to the
great amount of racing on it this season,
but, except for Eclipse Stakes day, the
weather has been favorable. A wet race-
day can damage the turf considerably,
and, with so many extra meetings being
held at headquarters because of military
occupation of other courses, every pre-
caution must be taken to ensure that the
running ground will be in the best pos-
sible order for the more important fix-
tures. The false rails will be used at all
meetings between now and the opening
of the V.A.T.C. autumn meeting, and by
keeping runners out several feet from the
permanent rails will preserve the inside
going. Distances in all races round the
turn will be slightly longer than is cus-
tomary, but all runners will be affected
alike.
* * * *
Good race mares do not always pro-
duce gallopers of their own standard,
but looks will deceive if Gay Blonde’s
filly foal by Lo Zingaro does not turn up
trumps. Gay Blonde was a topnotch per-
former in Maoriland before being bought
for Australia, and she revealed her class
in this country by winning the Craven
Plate and the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes.
Her foal is a fine type of chestnut, and,
if nearly as good as Gay Blonde, will
be worth owning.
* * * *
Horse-racing is a big thing in Japan
these days. A Japanese paper says it
had its real beginning there in 1888 with
the Nippon Race Club, run mostly by
Yokohama Englishmen. All the major
tracks are now under Government super-
vision, with the Japanese Racing Asso-
ciation, supervised by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Industry, to control acti-
vities. The association controls 11 race-
courses throughout Japan. Originally the
law restricted tote betting to win only,
with the limitation of one ticket to any
buyer, and no dividend at a greater rate
than 10 to 1. Almost needless to say,
the issue of only one ticket was circum-
vented.
The deduction from pools is very
heavy, the Government getting 11.5 per
cent., and there is a further 6.5 per cent,
for the maintenance of the Japan Racing
Association. Since 1931 place-betting on
the tote has been permitted. A local
writer says racing in Japan has come a
long way since the first importation of
30 thoroughbreds from Australia be-
tween 1900 and 1905. Today there are
2600 Government registered horses quali-
fied to compete in major races. Attend-
ances at the principal meetings average
over 30,000 daily, and it is claimed that
the Fuchu, Hanshin and Kyoto tracks
are among the finest in the world.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Patrick Wins Again
Nothing could be more conclusive than
the double-handed hiding Vic Patrick
gave Frank Farrington (9.7) at
Leichhardt last Thursday night. In
mercy ref. Pearson stopped it in the
fifth, by when Farrington was literally
battered to a standstill. Actually, he was
in that state a round earlier, but this was
one case in a thousand where letting a
beaten scrapper take a bit more might
have been justified.
For one thing, Farrington had such a
following ia the house, judging by its
noise, that it was probably wise policy to
let them see their man in defeat without
any question. Though hopelessly out-
classed, and reduced to standing crouched
in a smother most of the time, taking
heavy short jolts from Patrick’s hamlike
hands to both sides of the head, ribs,
brisket, silverside or wherever Patrick
could break through, Farrington was still
quite strong enough to come out of his
smother every now and then and go ber-
serk.
Another reason could be advanced for
letting it go on the extra bit. Whereas
Patrick, a singularly cool customer, is
a scrupulously clean scrapper, it says
enough of Farrington’s methods in the
scrap that, though it went only five
rounds, he was warned once for holding
and hitting, once for using his head,
and three times for low punches, and
there were at least two more of the last-
named lapses for which he wasn’t warned.
It might be a comment on what the
bear game has done for supposed sport-
ing feelings that a large part of the
crowd evidently found those methods
right to its taste, howling down, not
Farrington, but the ref. for not giving
him a fair go!
The truth of the matter was that the
ref. was excessively patient. The crude
stuff was made to look all the worse by
the fact that, from very early in the
piece, it was evident that Patrick was in
no danger of defeat except from such
a line of attack. Taking nothing off
the score for holding and hitting in the
first, Farrington had the better of that
round. He is game enough, and, despite
Patrick’s formidable record, went straight
in to rough it with him. He did better
work early by using what looked like
quite a good recipe for downing a south-
paw—a hooked rigtit to get him off his
stance, and then a left hook to the jaw.
This, plus resort to roughhouse, very
soon had Patrick’s clean and curiously
thoughtful-looking dial a ruddy ruin, with
the Farrington cohorts bawling as if the
fight was over.
The small cuts were readily fixed up
in the interval, and Patrick, who has
the sense to keep himself in spanking
condition, came out for the second round
looking fresher than when he started.
Standing, as he does, right up to the
job, only slightly side-on, with his right
forward, but both hands held well for
short hitting, he now commenced to take
some of the fire out of Farrington with
short, two-handed, wearing jolts. Con-
sidering the very short range at which he
hits, there must be amazing power in
these punches, to judge by how quickly
they wear an opponent out. He won the
round comfortably, Farrington going
back to his corner looking as well
knocked about as Patrick had done after
the first.
Still boxing with complete self-posses-
sion, and, when Farrington rushed him,
standing and jolting the short ones home,
Patrick gave his best showing to date in
the third round. However far he may be
heading, he proved himself then a fine
natural fighter, displaying an intelligence
with it that made Farrington’s blundering
effort look as crude as it was rough.
By the fourth round he had Farrington
driven to standing against the ropes in
a smother, taking whatever could be
handed to him. Patrick has won a fair
number of his victories by knockout, but
neither now nor when Farrington was
even more driven to smothering in the
fifth did he attempt a measured k.o.
punch. He stood close to the crouched
smotherer and pounded him with jolts.
At the end of the fourth Farrington
had had plenty, but neither his corner
nor the crowd was yet convinced, so out
he went again. His head must have
been dizzy from the jolts, and it was
now subjected to more and more of them,
till Mr. Pearson, satisfied that everybody
by now ought to have been convinced,
called it a night.
In the ten-round prelim. George
Smedley (8.10) gave the Newcastle lad
Tommy Chapman some weight and a
beating. George is a very smart boxer,
and was much too fast. Tommy’s a
game codger, but, as is not uncommon
with really tough chaps, he has come to
rely on his toughness in lieu of defence.
There is only one end to that road, and
Tommy would show sense in giving it
best and following up some harmless
occupation like horsebreaking.
For gameness, of which there was
plenty about, none performed better than
the early prelim, lad Jack Crowley. At
the finish of his bantam encounter with
Tarzan Davis he was so weak from ex-
pended effort and some weighty ones he’d
stopped that it took all the effort he
could muster to get himself upright from
a leaning position against the ropes. He
just managed to get his equilibrium in
time to be crowned the winner.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
and touring the United States .)
In the southern States several of the
leading courses have Bermuda, or couch,
grass on their greens. The soil and humid
summers prevent softer grasses being
grown.
Putting on Bermuda greens is by no
means as easy as on bent grass. The
strong grain or nap combined with their
slowness calls for a hit rather than a
stroke. Fortunately I had an aluminium
putter; a blade putter seems to start
the ball jumping rather than rolling.
One redeeming feature of these greens
is their holding qualities ; the ball can
be pitched right up to the hole. Brassy
shots rarely run more than Bft. or 10ft.
after landing on the green, while the
shorter irons pull the ball up in a quarter
of this distance. Short chip- and pitch-
shots to these greens can be struck very
firmly indeed. Naturally, under these
conditions, the shot to the green is the
high ball; it is safer and more accurate
when compared with the pitch-and-run.
On Bermuda greens you have to
punch the ball toward the hole when
putting. By constant topdressing to pro-
duce a surface of young shoots the turf
becomes fairly spongy and is easily torn
up around the hole by players’ spiked
shoes—so much, in fact, that the holes
are frequently changed during a 36-hole
event to ensure that later players have
as fair a go as earlier players.
I have little doubt, after watching the
leading American amateurs at the Hard-
scrabble course, that Bermuda greens
add at least one to two strokes per round
to scores. Another point of interest at
Hardscrabble was the use of furrowed
bunkers; this raking of the sand in the
traps is a feature of many of the lead-
ing American courses. Introduced some
years ago in an attempt to combat the
effective use of the sandiron, a special
rake has been built to put furrows in
the sand. Although they have an un-
nerving appearance with the ball nestling
between the furrows, they are no harder
to recover from than ordinary bunkers.
Most balls which are exploded from the
sand have the club entering the sand two
to three inches behind, depending upon
the distance the ball need travel; so the
player has only to hit into the sand in
the furrow behind his ball to blast it on
to the green.
In a way, furrowed bunkers are a re-
minder to the longer-handicapped
players where to hit into the sand to
get their ball on the green. Their ap-
pearance, however, often serves to
frighten the average player, who, on
seeing his ball nearly level with the tops
of the furrows, gets worried about ex-
cavating it. Raking does affect the
player who is in the habit of occasionally
chipping the ball cleanly off the top of
the sand; this shot is almost impos-
sible in furrowed bunkers. Furrows
make explosion shots necessary.
Miscellaneous
That athletes are splendidly represented
in the fighting forces was shown at Mel-
bourne C.G. on Saturday, when 10,000
people saw teams of runners and jumpers
compete for the championship of the ser-
vices. Thanks largely to Ted Best, the
Victorian amateur, who was first in the
220 (in 22.85ec.) and second in the 100;
to T. Gleeson, the N.S.W. amateur (first
in the 880, lmin. 56.75ec.), and to R. H.
MacDonald (second in the 880 and first
in the mile, 4min. 32.85ec.), the Army
won with 104 points, but the Air Force
was only a point behind. Among its men
were Sprague and McCann, both Stawell
Gift winners—Sprague took the 100 in
9.95ec., and was second to Best in the
220 —and Dick Crossley, the captain,
who won the Modified Marathon (12
miles, lhr. 15min. 45sec.) by 300 yards,
and could have won by a mile or so if
he hadn’t run back now and then to
urge his team-mates on. One of them was
Hubert Opperman, the cyclist, who led
for a time till his leg went. For Air
Force also McCann won the 440
(49.95ec.) and Jack Park the 120 and 440
hurdles (15.4 sec. and 56.1 sec.). The Navy
(70 points) scored in the broad jump
with G. B. Trum, 20ft. lOin.
Bradman and Fleetwood-Smith had a
comic race, F.-Smith falling. Others
present were Frank Beaurepaire, the
Lord Mayor, and “Slip” Carr, now a
captain, who received the shield from
Frank’s hands as captain of the Army
team.
* * * *
Dead in Adelaide, at 73, Rudolph
Ewers, one of five brothers who took a
fancy to the then unknown game of base-
ball over 40 years back, and taught S.A.
to like it. (It is, indeed, one of the few
games in which the State has rather more
than held its own.) His favorite memory
was of an Australian team which had the
pluck to tour, long ago and prematurely,
in the U.S.A.


♦V
b
IN
§B^
t
F
i .vi
(l.i'il l
l \'*% ' .!.»
\
*
TBMIEYS
Fid
/<- ,
tv.
<2-
s?c
fife
wr
N
j
W
-r,
&
1
r^B?
HERD 7
MAKE \
YOUR MONEY
FIGHT!
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
k CERTIFICATES
KEEP The
'FLAG'
flvimg


ANGLEWOOD, BOWRAL
Boarding School for Boys.
Preparatory and Secondary.
•I Situated in the most beautiful country in N.S.W. Invigorating, healthy
climate. A school free from the distractions of town life.
CJ Modern accommodation; extensive grounds.
Curriculum includes woodwork, singing, gardening, riding, cadets.
•I Concessions to sons of Service Men and Evacuees.
Prospectus from Box 12, P. 0., Bowral.
T. O. KNOX, 8.A., M.R.S.T., Headmaster.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relier
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“May it be the destiny of H.M.A.S.
Arunta to add one more glorious page
to the splendid history of the Royal
Navy, and may God bless her captain,
officers and men,” said her Excellency
Lady Gowrie at the launching of the
first destroyer to be built in Australia.
Hundreds of people had gone to Cocka-
too to see the ceremony, but just as Lady
Gowrie was to make her speech a cloud
burst, and the noise of the spots of rain
striking the umbrellas made it impos-
sible for those outside the official
group to hear a word. Eventually the
red, white and blue ribbon was cut,
and the bottle of champagne broke over
the bow of the ship. But she did not
slide into the water ; the rain and the
cold had hardened the tallow, and there
she stuck on the slipway. But no one
had a hard word to say, for the rains had
come and all was well. Despite the
rain the choirboys of St. John’s,
Balmain, sang steadily on, their white
surplices soaked through ; the naval rat-
ings stood at attention, and men stood
bareheaded, the rain running down into
their collars as the Bishop of Willochra
blessed the ship.
At the luncheon that followed Gover-
nor-General Gowrie paid a tribute to
the workmen and the co-operation that
had been given by the trade-unions, with-
out whose help the building of such a
ship would not have been possible. In
the State Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst’s party were daughter Henrietta,
son Christopher and Peter Lubbock.
The guests were received by chairman
and Mrs. Davis and managing direc-
tor Norman Frazer and Mrs. Frazer.
The Minister for the Army was one of
the speakers, and Mrs. Spender was one
of the guests who carried away an arm-
ful of flowers. In addition to her bou-
quet, Lady Gowrie was presented with
a gold brooch with “Arunta” in
diamonds across the front.
The concert given by the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra for Britain’s civilian war
victims was not as crowded as the organ-
isers could have wished. But no doubt the
donations that were handed in to Lady
Gowrie and Lady Wakehurst after the
performance would add greatly to the
takings, as very few could resist the
appeal to Give! Give! Give! which was
printed on the envelope which accom-
panied every programme sold. Bernard
Heinze conducted, and Marie Burke and
Peter Dawson raised their voices in song.
During the interval there was some com-
ment by the audience on Aaron Copland’s
“El Salon Mexico,” provoked by the
conductor’s comments as to how it had
been received at the Internationa! Musical
Festival held in England in 1937. A few
said they didn’t like it, but the majority
were of two minds, and were as usual
waiting for someone of authority to settle
the matter for them. About the piece the
composer himself says: “The Salon
Mexico is the Roseland Ballroom of
Mexico City, one of the famous hot spots
of that tourist centre”; and adds: “Where
else in the world could you find a sign
on a dance-hall which says ‘Please don’t
throw lighted butts on the floor so the
ladies won’t burn their feet’?”
The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie and the State Governor and Lady
Wakehurst came, and with them a big
party. Lady Gowrie’s flowered pink-and-
black chiffons were worn with a black
tulle cape ; Lady Wakehurst’s cape was
of sky-blue marabout, her frock white
and silver lame. Mrs. Jimmy Dickson
sat with this group, as did the Mayor
and Mayoress. The Hon. Henrietta Loder
wore blue organdie. The waist-length
cape and the long full skirt were inlet
with wide bands of white embroidery.
Alexander Gordon’s lady, who was presi-
dent of the committee, wore black laces,
and after she had thanked everyone for
the help they had given read a poem
written by Neville Cardus called “The
Ballad of Coventry,” which he wrote
after hearing a broadcast appeal for the
bomb victims. Mrs. Charles Moses, Mrs.
T. W. Bearup and Mrs. W. G. James
made an attractive trio. Mrs. E. H.
Salenger and Mrs. H. J. Brady sat to-
gether. Mrs. Walter Swinson, her sister,
Miss Bessie Griffiths, and her mother, Mrs.
Griffiths, were three appreciative listeners,
as were Mrs. Leon Lyons, Mrs. Rex
Bennett, Miss K. -Egan and Mrs. Ernest
Lashmar.
Peter Pan’s camera has caught
Mrs. Hilles (her husband is Colonel
Hilles) in serious mood. Actually she
has a merry eye and a pleasing tongue.
All of which are no drawbacks in her
position of liaison officer between the
National Emergency Services Headquar-
ters and the N.E.S. ambulance personnel
(she is a member of the Ambulance
Drivers’ Committee). But these aren’t
her only qualifications for the job.
Twelve months before the war Mrs.
Hilles took her A.R.P. and Home Nurs-
ing, passing all exams, with flying colors.
Then, feeling an urge to get on with the
job, she qualified as an ambulance
driver, and with 599 others learned all
about the management of cars, trucks
and buses. She doesn’t know from day
to day what she will be called upon to
do, but with those other 599 she just
stands by ready to do anything if the
call comes. If anyone wishes to join the
N.E.S., and has not done so before
December 14, she will have an oppor-
tunity at the N.E.S. display at Alison
Park, Randwick, on that date, when Mrs.
Hilles will be in charge of the recruit-
ing.
Men and women, old and young, were
in the crowds that lined up to see Noel
Coward arrive at the Minerva for the
Australian stage premiere of his play
“Design for Living.” When he reached
the theatre with his dinner hosts, the
Charles Lloyd Jones couple (Sue Gullett,
of Melbourne, and Phyllis Hughes were
in this party), the car was rushed, but
with the help of two policemen Mr.
Coward was piloted through the door of
the theatre, only to find himself in the
midst of another crowd. Eventually the
Mayor and Mayoress got near enough
to murmur their piece of welcome, but
the din was so great it is doubtful if the
welcomed one heard a word. The theatre
was packed to the ceiling with one of the
most enthusiastic audiences that Sydney
has seen. And when the play ended near
midnight Mr. Coward had only words of
praise for each one who had taken part
and for the production and acting as a
whole.
Flowers were everywhere ; girls sold
them, women wore them. On the stair-
way was a rising sun of red, white and
blue flowers. The urn of gladioli, del-
phinium and white snapdragon which
stood at the left side of the stage would
have gratified the eye of artist Margaret
Preston. It was a night when women
wore their most beautiful frocks.
Glimpsed Marie Burke, Mrs. Herbert
Douglass, Mrs. Claude Healey, Noreen
Dangar and the Frank Alberts in the
moving groups. Noteworthy were Mrs.
C. L. Jones’s frock of white and silver
lame, Mrs. Roy Buckland’s black laces,
Pamela Osborne’s convolvulus-blue frock
with its gold belt, Margaret Salenger’s
larkspur-blue satin crinoline frock, Sue
Gullett’s grey chiffons and Mrs. Ernest
Watt’s gold taffeta coat worn with a black
skirt.
The only grumbling heard at the
Theatre Royal on Saturday came before
the show opened from people who had
to be turned away on account of lack of
room. It’s a pity Levante couldn’t have
included the expansion of the theatre in
his “How’s Tricks,” and then everybody
would have been happy. The evening
was an emphatic success. The Magic
Kettle was the most stirring trick as far
as the galleries were concerned. Men
and women stood up to try to see the
lucky ones who got the beer, the wine,
the cherry brandy and the milk, and
someone was heard to murmur “Sorry
we hadn’t our seats downstairs ; could
have done with a spot myself.”
As usual with these types of shows,
the dressing was glittery. Girls with
feather headdresses and in gold and
silver satin costumes sparkling with
sequins moved about the stage against
a background of vividly-hued curtains.
Many of the costumes came from the
wardrobe of one of Jessie Matthews’s
films, so you can imagine the glitter-
someness of them. Levante himself
changed his costume four times. He
wore tails, first in the orthodox black,
then in a maroon shade, and the third
time in white. For the last trick, shoot-
ing a girl through a sheet of steel (which
might be adopted as a gentle sport for
the Navy in peace-time), he wore an
admiral’s uniform, and was surrounded
by officers. This had for its background
the deck of a battleship, with a very
realistic-looking gun.
Here is Mrs. Alexis Albert, another of
Sydney’s well-knowns whose time is
spent in war-time activities. Her hus-
band being a lieut.-commander, it is
only natural that the Navy Comforts
Fund is nearest to her heart. But at the
moment she, along with the other mem-
bers of the Red Cross Society, is concen-
trating on making Red Cross Day,
December 6, the biggest success the
society has ever launched. Photograph
from John Lee studio.
There was a guard of honor of Boy
Scouts and red-caped nurses for Lady
Wakehurst when she arrived at Retford
Hall to open the bazaar in aid of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. Crowds
of the hospital’s friends went out despite
the weather ; more still dropped in for
cocktails between five and seven, and
many who couldn’t come sent cheques.
Altogether the day’s takings will be
greater than the organisers hoped for
when the rain started in the morning
and the red-and-white-striped stalls on
the lawns had to be abandoned, and
other stalls arranged on the verandahs.
But the restricted area didn’t interfere
with trade —much. When finished at one
stall the buyer simply turned a semi-
or complete circle and continued with a
minimum of energy to go on spending
money.
The flower depot was at the entrance
to the ballroom, and so many, so varied
and so beautiful were the blooms that
it might have been a display at a flower
festival. Added attractions were the girl
helpers, who each wore a lei of her
favorite flowers. Knight Henry Braddon
(he’s president of the hospital) had one
dip—and when he saw his prize, Career
for the Bride, he thought it time to stop.
The book he hastily thrust into the hand
of the first nurse he met. There was
a band, and there were Shetland ponies
that rode on the see-saw or danced, and,
when the onlookers applauded, made
their bow.
At the lunch arranged by the Aus-
tralian Women’s Relief Fund for Poland
were knight Francis Anderson and his
lady and knight Alfred Davidson, Dr. A.
Redler, Lachlan Beaton, Oswald Cheeke,
Esley Zeitlyn, of the London Polish Relief
Fund, Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Thomas, Mrs.
Toby Browne and, of course, the Consul-
Geperal for Poland and Mrs. de
Noskowski.
Professor lan Clunies Ross was the
speaker. No one could help being car-
ried away by his earnest admiration for
this “courageous people,” for that is how
he referred to the Poles, who are in such
dire need of relief. He drew in graphic
words a picture of what the Poles were
doing for Britain (and us) in her hour
of need, and told how they never for
one moment lost their faith and convic-
tion that Poland would rise again. He
retold the story that has won the admira-
tion of the world of how a part of the
Polish Army, trapped by the collapse
of France and refused admission into
Switzerland unless they laid down their
arms, refused to do so, wheeled round,
went back into France in perfect order,
used their ammunition on the advancing
Germans and then returned to Switzer-
land to be interned until the end of the
war. But Professor Ross did not tell
the end of this story, which was that
the Commander-in-Chief of the Swiss
Army, in recognition of their courage,
allowed them to keep their swords for
24 hours!
When Noel Coward sails away he will
leave behind him 950 staunch admirers.
These are the lasses who attended the
businessgirls’ luncheon at David Jones's.
This started at half-past twelve, and the
girls got away somewhere about two or
after. They didn’t seem to care a whit
if the whole business structure of Sydney
collapsed in the two hours or nearly
that must have elapsed from when they
left their offices until they returned. How-
ever, bosses rose to the occasion and
closed their eyes to empty chairs at desks
and typewriters. When the singing started
many of the girls left their lunches and
stood by the walls the better to see Mr.
Coward. He played and sang for 25
minutes. He sang the songs that had
proved so popular here.
Lots of laughter greeted his story of
how he came to write “The Marvellous
Party,” and more laughter and applause
followed his singing of this absurdity.
When he thought he had finished some-
body asked for “The Stately Homes of
England,” so Mr. Coward hopped back
on to the stage and sang it. After that,
when by rights everyone should have left,
they just stayed on, and with one accord
moved up to the table to ask for the
visitor’s autograph. The first book signed
was one of his plays which one girl had
tactfully brought along. Miss Rolleston,
president of the younger set of the Red
Cross, for whose benefit the luncheon was
arranged, at last asked the girls to desist.
They did, but still crowded around to
shake hands or have a word with the
guest. One girl took a gardenia out of
her frock and gave it to him, asking him
to wear it instead of the carnation he had
in his lapel. He promised to do so to
the Minerva in the evening—and he did.
Cold-shouldering uniforms and service
caps, however jaunty, this Letter drifted
in a happy trance in a paradise of hats
one afternoon last week. Now that the
jacaranda is in bloom it is good to forget
for a moment the grimness of war. Hats
have never been more insouciant, never
less related to things either of earth or
heaven. One funny little affair was a
scoop of stiffened white pique, entirely
covered with small pique bows, each
bow caught with a pique button. The
only thing about that hat that wasn’t
amusing was the price. Then there was
the cocktail-party trifle that looked as
though three of those old-fashioned lace
doyleys had gone to its make-up. Two
little flat doyleys made the front. These
were backed by an upstanding curlicue
of the lace straw.


Personal and Missing Friend.
WOULD REID WILFRED HENDERSON,
last heard of in Sydney, please communicate
with his mother, MRS. WM. FIENDERSON,
of Wardsville, Ontario, Canada, now 1163 Hall
Avenue, Windsor, Ontario, Canada?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO HARRY MACGUIRE formerly of Laun-
ceston but last heard of at Hobart in the
State of Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been tiled
in this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the peti-
tion of ELIZABETH AMELIA MACGUIRE
of No. 74 Balfour Street Launceston in the
State of Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto. And take further notice that
for the purpose aforesaid an appearance must,
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart on or
before the 20th day of January 1941.
(1.5.) H. R. DOBBIE,
Deputy-Registrar.
THOMAS C. SIMPSON, 38 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart, Agent for LOUIS E. PAGE, Wesley
Chambers, 34 Paterson Street, Launceston,
Tasmania, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1495 of 1940.
BETWEEN GRACE MAUDE (ALSO MAUD)
ALEXANDRA RUSSELL Petitioner and
GEORGE VICTOR THOMAS RUSSELL
Respondent.
TO GEORGE VICTOR THOMAS RUSSELL
at one time of 149 Reservoir Street Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GRACE
MAUDE (also MAUD) ALEXANDRA
RUSSELL has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three (3) years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that .you are
required to enter an appearance to . the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-second day of January One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one and in
the event of your not 'doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. C. RICKARD & D. S. DIND, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 67 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1809 of 1940.
BETWEEN GLADYS RUBY MARY SMITH
Petitioner and
HERBERT HAROLD SMITH Respondent.
TO HERBERT HAROLD SMITH of Sydney
Telephone Mechanic.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
RUBY MARY SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-first day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of Novem-
er, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
WARRINGTON CONNOLLY, Solicitor for
re Petitioner, 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2042 of 1940.
BETWEEN IRENE IVY CLARICE McFAD-
ZEAN Petitioner and
GEORGE VAMBRA BROWN McFADZEAN
Respondent.
TO GEORGE VAMBRA BROWN McFAD-
ZEAN of Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IRENE IVY
CLARICE McFADZEAN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds that you have without just cause
or excuse wilfully deserted the Petitioner and
without any such cause or excuse left her con-
tinuously so deserted during three years and
upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Twenty-first day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
forty-one and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Novem-
ber, One thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Saturday’s weather gladdened the
hearts of the many women who had
worked hard for the success of bazaars to
be held on that day. A really tremen-
dous amount of toil must have been
done in organising the fete staged by
university women in the grounds of Mrs.
W. J. Wearne’s home, Bromley, Irving-
road, Toorak, on Friday and Saturday.
Friday started off very well when Mr.
Wearne handed Mrs. Medley, as presi-
dent of the fete committee, a cheque for
£lOO. But on Saturday the money really
began to roll in. There were a special
children’s corner with slides and swings
and a sandpit lent by Tom the Toyman,
marionettes to be watched and stories to
be listened to—in short, a child’s paradise
in a glorious garden shaded with trees
and brilliant with flowers. Mrs. Mildred
brought along her twin girls and their
young brother to enjoy the fun.
Marquees and gaily-striped beach um-
brellas added to the spectacle. Notable,
too, were the royal-blue overalls of the
flower-stall girls and the red kerchiefs
on their heads. Helping there were Mrs.
Lindsay Biggins, Mrs. Guy Pleasance,
Mrs. Maurice Nicholas, Mrs. Bill Gluth,
Mrs. Des Shaw, Mrs. Bill Catanach and
Mrs. Alan Stuart, all slim enough to look
attractive in long slacks. Mrs. G. Vasey
was helped out by students in running
sideshows, and kindergarten teachers
gave expert service in the children’s de-
partment. Mrs. J. C. V. Behan made a
unique contribution in pottery baked in
a kiln in her own home, the Wardens’
Lodge at Trinity College.
Since the outbreak of war university
women have been doing a fine job, intel-
ligently and consistently. Their special
task lately has been the care of child
victims of the war, and dozens of women
can be found every week at Union House
sorting and preparing garments to be
sent overseas. About 500 garments are
handled every week, and two bales of
clothing go away each month to make
the lot of homeless English children
easier. These will be needed more than
ever during the rigors of an English
winter, and the women are only too
anxious to double their work. Garments
can be sent to Union House, University,
Carlton, N. 3. The wife of Vice-
Chancellor J. D. G. Medley is president.
An unusual entertainment was offered
last week by the Standard Players under
the direction of Eileen O’Keefe, a univer-
sity woman. St. Peter’s Hall was
filled with what was presumably Mel-
bourne’s intelligentsia, helped out by rows
of schoolgirls sent along to absorb cul-
ture in the form of Sophocles’s “Electra.”
Unlike some of the Greek plays dating
back to 400 or 500 b.c. this fortunately
didn’t go on for days. Declamation is
rather hard to take in large doses.
In spite of the war Melbourne is going
ahead with plans for bigger and better
hospitals. None serves a more vital need
than the Women’s Hospital, where the
builders are so busy that they couldn’t
stop long enough to allow Lady Dugan
to lay the foundation-stone of the new
midwifery block in peace. Representa-
tives from all sections of the community
were present to see the ceremony and
hear the president of the hospital com-
mittee (Mrs. K. Kumm) speak, through
the din, of achievements and difficulties.
Mrs. Kumm has the gift of making even
financial matters sound exciting, on
this occasion perhaps because she dwelt
on the goodness of the Government in
making the hospital a grant of £20,000
and a loan of an equal amount, and just
mentioned the matter of 4 per cent, in-
terest in passing.
There is a further loan from the bank
of £20,000, which makes all sorts of
building plans possible. Mrs. Kumm
said she was not worried unduly about
that 4 per cent.; she just rested safe in
the arms of the Government. The
Premier was not present to hear of this
touching trust, but no doubt Mrs. Dun-
stan would convey those sentiments to
him.
Mrs. Kumm spoke of the good work
being done, especially in the ante-natal
clinics. This service was started with
one clinic weekly ; now there are five,
with 100 patients being treated daily.
The Women’s Hospital is one of the
largest of its kind in the world, and is
ihe largest training hospital in Australia.
There is a fine medical staff, with a
woman superintendent, Dr. Ellison
Mackie, doing a good job while her pre-
decessor does his bit in the Medical
Corps in Palestine.
Lady Dugan had not previously laid
a foundation-stone in Australia, and she
obviously enjoyed the job. Not satisfied
with her first effort at smoothing the
cement, she held out her silver trowel
and asked for a little more, then pains-
takingly finished it off to her satisfaction.
Only after using a level was she satis-
fied to declare the stone “well and truly
laid.” By her frequent visits to the hos-
pital and her unflagging interest she has
shown that patroness to her means more
than a name.
The lady surrounded by Arctic fox is
Marea Lucas, fourth of the six daughters
of the Consul for Greece, A J. J. Lucas,
and Mrs. Lucas, of Yamala, Frankston.
The vagaries of Melbourne’s weather
make life somewhat easier for this ener-
getic lass. One of the most difficult
things she has to do is tear herself away
from home when the sun shines. One
of the loveliest homes in the State,
Yamala originally belonged to John
Madden, then Lieut.-Governor, and has
ten acres of garden sloping in terraced
lawns down to the beach.
Some years ago the house was com-
pletely remodelled, and the Lucas family
took up permanent residence instead of
using it as a summer home. Ever since,
Mr. Lucas, who has retired from busi-
ness, has been spending most of his
waking hours in dreaming garden dreams
and making them come true. Marea,
however, manages to spend quite a lot of
time in the city, either attending lectures
for the W.A.T.C. or A.R.P., doing a post-
graduate course in massage, making plans
for the Zooie Ball or thinking up ways
and means of raising money for the
Greek Red Cross Women’s Auxiliary, of
which she is secretary. Her photograph
is by Athol Shmith.
One of the minor worries facing the
Red Cross is the difficulty of keeping up
a supply of vegetables for Stonning-
ton and Kurneh convalescent homes.
At the beginning of October the society
opened a depot in Melbourne to receive
gifts, and, in spite of drought and the
prices of vegetables to the housewife, the
response has been encouraging. Several
women have been sending parcels from
their homes in the country, and country
branches have collected eggs to the
number of 100 dozen in two months.
The society sends an appeal to all
those with a vegetable garden, whether
in the city or the country, to send a gift
of vegetables, however small. It is sug-
gested that garden enthusiasts might plant
a special section of garden for the Red
Cross. Parcels will be carried free of
charge on the railways, and should be
addressed to the Red Cross Vegetable
Depot, 522 Little Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, with sender’s name and address
enclosed.
A group of women in Melbourne has
taken upon itself the job of caring for
nurses attached to the A.I.F. They are
members of the “Work to Win” commit-
tee, originally organised by C. E. White
for the purpose of distributing loyal
propaganda among office and factory
workers. Ted White, as his friends know
him, has tried several times to enlist, but
has been turned down by the medicoes.
So he got together 70 fellow-businessmen
and decided to organise a propaganda
campaign. Soon the Work-to-Win cam-
paign received official recognition, and
now the committee works under direc-
tion of the Southern Command and is
registered with the Patriotic Funds Coun-
cil of Victoria. Stickers and posters are
distributed in factories and workshops
and good work is done in notifying the
authorities of Fifth Column activities.
When the ladies’ committee was formed
they decided to run functions to raise
funds to be divided between war nurses’
comforts and propaganda. Recently
these women —Mrs. A. Cook (president),
Mrs. Hugh Marsland (secretary), Mrs.
R. A. Plowman, Mrs. W. Packard and
Mrs. C. W. Allen —with the assistance of
a number of voluntary helpers, made up
72 parcels to be sent as Christmas gifts
to nurses overseas. This was no mean
feat considering the special packing and
the final canvas covering necessary for
overseas travel. There’s nothing like sew-
ing stiff canvas to take the skin off the
fingertips. In process of making are hand-
knitted jumpers and skull caps for wear-
ing under tin hats. These, with unbreak-
able cup, saucer and plate, two knives,
two forks and two spoons in a canvas
holdall, an electric torch and refills and
a sleeping-bag, will be given to each nurse
as she leaves for active service abroad.
The Government allowance for nurses’
equipment is £lO, which these women at
least realise is insufficient.
The first big function held to raise
funds was a cocktail party and manne-
quin parade made possible by the co-
operation of several Melbourne firms.
Notable among the garments of all types
displayed was a wedding-gown lent by a
Melbourne woman whose grandmother
wore it on her wedding day in Dundee,
Scotland, about 100 years ago. This
lovely thing of palest moss-green brocade
with touches of lavender and lavender-
lined sleeves was displayed to perfection
by the young daughter of artist Betty
Paterson, Barbara Newman. Barbara
also wore numerous modern models, and
finally paraded the frock and hat which
were Dutch-auctioned.
Thoroughly enjoying the parade of
feminine adornments were the guests of
honor, looking trim and serviceable in
their neat grey uniforms. They included
Janet Sinclair Wood (matron-in-chief
A.A.N.S.), Miss A. P. Field (principal
matron, Southern Command), Miss
Dowsley (Army H.Q.) and a group of
young nurses from Pucka, all interested
in the fripperies they won’t wear again
for a long time.
The headquarters of the W.-to-W.
campaign are on the sth Floor, Howey
Court. Helpers and interested people will
be welcomed with open arms.
A Melbourne girl’s romance, which
began in London in 1937, has just cul-
minated in an engagement. The lady in
question, pictured here by Andre Evin-
son (Melbourne), is Nesta Lind, daughter
of the late W. A. T. Lind, M.D., and
Mrs. MacVean, of Walpole-street, Kew.
It was while on a trip abroad with her
parents that Nesta first met her fiance,
Carl Sowerby, son of the late Lieut.-
Col. and Mrs. C. E. Sowerby, of Welling-
ton, England. Shortly after Nesta re-
turned to Australia he went to a jute
plantation in Travancore, India. Either
absence made their hearts grow fonder
or both were adepts at love-making by
correspondence, for the courtship must
have progressed by courtesy of his
Majesty’s mails.
When war broke out Carl joined the
Indian Army—Mahratta Light Infantry
—and was later stationed at Nowshera,
only 25 miles from Nesta’s uncle, Major
W. Gamble, who lives at Murree. There
the men met, and Carl was able to put in
a bit of good work with the family.
Nesta meanwhile, like many another
young modern, has been tackling the
domestic problem in a scientific way.
She has completed a homecraft course at
Invergowrie, and is now busily engaged
in learning all about mothercraft at the
Victorian Baby Health Training School.
Hundreds of women and a handful
of men waited expectantly to see Noel
Coward make his first public appearance
at Myer’s, meanwhile listening to the
glorious voice of Strella Wilson, who
waited no less anxiously for a sight of
her old friend. The bear-hug which re-
sulted when they did meet was worth
seeing. Mr. Coward and his songs with
gestures went down very well. The only
sign of nervousness on the part of the
visitor was the hunted look he threw over
his shoulder as he dashed behind a screen
after his final bow. A few ardent women
thrust photographs under his nose to
be autographed, but were politely asked
to send them on later. Quite the most
amusing incident —which Mr. Coward
would have appreciated—occurred when
one of these frustrated females asked
Norm Banks if he would be good enough
to autograph the programme. He did.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
./. Harrison, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter &. O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
THE SERVICE MAN
The War at Sea.
“Nobby II”: Though it is occasionally
lost sight of amid the smoke of bombs
and the machine-gun fire of the Albanian
littoral, the struggle on the seas remains
all-important. It certainly is the one
phase of the war in which the dominance
of the naval power of one side is
thoroughly decisive.
In the Mediterranean, British warships
have complete command. Submarinings
of British and neutral ships there are
next to nothing. The bombardment of
Libyan ports and of Italian communica-
tions in Libya and Western Egypt is car-
ried on by the R.N. at will, since there
is no Italian naval or air force capable of
interfering. On the other hand, Italian
air attacks on the British Fleet in Alex-
andria or other ports are hazardous, long-
distance, hit-or-miss affairs. The affair of
Taranto proved what can be done by the
torpedo-loaded air arm carried to an
enemy’s front door by an irresistible sea
convoy which bottles up the enemy ships
while they are being dealt with.
Judging by the photographs which
have since been taken on reconnaissances,
there was not much of the heavy stuff
in Taranto Harbor left intact. The British
squadron which cruised up and down
outside was unduly optimistic of a fight,
as the bulk of the remaining battle fleet
was presently proved to be elsewhere—
probably, in view of its penchant for land-
locked harbors, in Cagliari, Sardinia.
On November 27, a British squadron
—the battle-cruiser Renown and other
forces—encountered two out of the three
battle-wagons which are not stern down
in Taranto taking a constitutional —
Rome says south of Sardinia.
The Italian battle technique was as
usual. Beholding on the skyline some
British ships, an aircraft-carrier and a
number of cruisers, the Italians left for
home in a cloud of smoke and afterwards
successfully fought the battle out on
paper.
The Italian tale was that the Kent
(10,000 tons) and the Birmingham
(9100 tons) were seriously damaged. It
admitted' that the destroyer Lanciere —a
sister ship to the Artigliere, which was
destroyed by Ajax and York last time
the Italians were encountered —was
so severely hit that she had to be towed
home, and that another shell struck the
Fiume —a 10,000-ton cruiser of the Zara
class Bin.-gun ships which are supposed
to be the Mediterranean answers to Aus-
tralia and Canberra and their kind —
“without exploding.”
As usual, it then appeared to Rome,
the British Fleet bolted headlong but was
overtaken by the Italian air force —whose
general operations have been described
by Air Marshal Philip Joubert, the
R.A.F. spokesman, as “like the efforts of
an unskilled amateur to interfere in a
fight between two professionals.” An
aircraft-carrier, a battleship and a cruiser,
the Italians say, were hit by heavy bombs,
and the battleship was presently observed
at a standstill with a fire raging aboard.
The yarn carried its denial on its own
face. Though the allegedly burning vessel
was only 100 miles off Sardinia and, of
course, immobilised and an easy prey,
the superior Italian Fleet of two new
35,000-tonners with cruisers did not turn
back to finish her off. However, in
fierce air combats, Rome believed that
five aeroplanes from the British aircraft-
carrier were shot down. They always are
—on the Italian Radio.
It needs no long stretch of imagina-
tion to conceive what would happen to an
Italian battleship left alone by its fleeing
comrades within range of a British battle
squadron and part of the Fleet Air Arm
which dived to the surface of Taranto
Harbor under heavy A.A. fire and tor-
pedoed units in full fighting trim under
the noses of naval and coast-defence
guns.
“Enemy cruiser seriously on fire aft.
Enemy destroyer down astern and listing
heavily ; another listing slightly ; a Lit-
torio battleship struck by aerial torpedo ;
cruiser Berwick twice hit, with 16 casual-
ties, but ship ready for service; 30
bombs fall near aircraft-carrier Ark
Royal, which sustained neither damage
nor casualties; two Italian machines and
one British fighter down” —such is the
Admiralty’s precise account of the en-
gagement.
The presence on the Sardinian side of
the remaining heavy units of the Italian
Navy capable of fighting may explain
“We cant possibly go through that — it'll scratch the duco !”
a lot of mysteries in the Greek campaign.
It means that the R.N. and the R.A.F.
must have almost complete command of
the entrance to the Adriatic, the Otranto
Straits. The vital Italian communication
ports are bunched together near the
mouth of the Adriatic, which at its nar-
rowest point is only about 40 miles wide.
They sit roughly along the sides of a
triangle.
Its northern side is formed by a line
100 miles long across the Adriatic from
Bari in Italy to the Albanian port of
Durazzo ; the western side is about 150
miles —Bari-Brindisi-Otranto and across
the strait to Albanian Santi Quaranta.
The third (Albanian side) holds, within
about 70 miles, Durazzo, Valona and
Santi Quaranta. If the R.N. has found
itself free to roam in the centre of this
triangle out of range of the land guns it
must —with the aid of two attendant air
forces —be having a high old time. For
all practical purposes, Mussolini’s armies
in Albania must be cut off and dependent
on their own resources, except for such
help as can be sneaked over by air and
submarine and an occasional supply ship
dodging the R.N. in the dark.
True, the Italians, if their own account
may be believed, are doing some hefty
marine damage themselves. For example,
the submarines Galileo and Ferraris —
products of the Taranto yards —“fired
three torpedoes at three convoyed mer-
chantmen in the Red Sea,” and they
“sank.” The Admiralty said it knew no-
thing about these sinkings.
However, there are still Italian sub-
marines abroad—the Greek destroyer
Aetos sank one on Nov. 30, and Rome
asserted that another Marconi had sunk
a British 10,000-ton cargo vessel in the
Atlantic. Also there are a few de-
stroyers loose ; some —Rome says six
shelled Corfu, but withdrew when
British ’planes appeared.
In other seas German sub. and sur-
face raiders are taking toll. On
November 28 it became known that the
Port Brisbane had been sunk in the Indian
Ocean on Nov. 23, almost contem-
poraneously with the sinking of the Port
Hobart in the West Indies. Another
British freighter, the Maimoa (8011 tons),
mentioned a few days earlier as having
radioed that she was being attacked in
the Indian Ocean, is also apparently
gone; one of her empty lifeboats has
been found.
The raider is believed to be the same
ship which operated in the Tasman and
is supposed to have sunk 67,641 tons of
shipping —about 7000 tons short ot the
Emden’s bag. She is described as a
modern, fast, light-colored motorship,
with squat funnel and goalpost masts,
equipped with torpedo tubes and four
4in. guns. If so, she is much more lightly
armed than was the Wolf during the last
war. The latter, though only 6000 tons,
carried four 22in. torpedo tubes, several
hundred mines, a seaplane and seven 5.9 s
—the major armament of a medium-
heavy naval cruiser.
German surface-raider captains seem
to be a different breed from the U-boat
commanders. Nerger, of the Wolf, Von
Muller of the Emden, and Von Luckner
all earned names as gallant seamen who
did not transgress the tenets of inter-
national law and humanity.
There is no news of the fate of other
ships attacked in the Pacific and Indian
Oceans, though some passengers on M.S.
Tiranna, which left Sydney in May for
Mombasa and disappeared, are reported
to be in German concentration camps. If
they fell in with the attacker of the Port
Brisbane, the chances are that their com-
plements were well treated.
The Port Brisbane was attacked at
night before moonrise. The raider crept
up to within short range, flung her
searchlights on her victim, fired six shots
to wreck the wireless-room and steering-
gear. The crew abandoned ship in three
boats, their single passenger being Miss
Norah McShane, of Nairobi, Kenya. One
boat, commanded by the second mate,
escaped in the darkness with 27 persons
aboard. Those in the other two boats
were taken prisoner.
A German boarding party placed time
bombs in the Port Brisbane and fired a
torpedo into her. She sank, and a little
while afterwards the raider made off at
a great speed.
The crew of the remaining boat, well
supplied with food, were preparing for a
long voyage to Africa when an Austra-
lian warship arrived. The waters round
about were scoured without finding a sign
of the raider, but one of the Maimoa’s
empty boats was picked up.
On November 27 another British
ship was attacked 400 miles from the
Maoriland coast. Her distress signal was
the last heard of her, and a search of the
locality showed nothing but open sea.
There have been other losses round
the Seven Seas, including the 11,000-ton
Patras, which capsized after an explosion
in Haifa Harbor with 1771 illicit Jewish
immigrants on board, who were about to
be deported. Mostly, they swam ashore.
Generally, however, the losses for the
week ended November 17-18 were under
the war-time average of 57,000 tons and
well below the average of the previous
four weeks of 73,000 tons. The British
total was 14 vessels totalling 50,449 tons,
plus three small allied and neutral ships.
The last month’s record of 292,000 tons
in losses was the heaviest during the war.
Minister Gregpwood remarked:
We will find means to defeat this
menace. If we do not, our plight is going
to become very sesious indeed.
While he admitted the loss of valuable
ships and cargoes, he declared that loss
of war material in transit to Britain had
been “quite negligible.”
All round, British and allied losses have
reached the 3,000,000-ton mark, and the
rate which has operated since the Ger-
mans secured control of the French
Channel coast works out at nearly
4,000,000 tons per annum. Admiralty
plans for construction of new ships—
-1,250,000 tons per annum —were said by
a Labor member of the Commons to
have failed of realisation. Even if they
were realised, the new ships would re-
place only a little more than a quarter
of the sinkings.
It all goes to show the urgency of
British Empire shipbuilding programmes.
In Albania and Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: Aided by the R.A.F. and
the Royal Navy, the Greeks continue
to fight with great dash and toughness.
In the south their front is well inside
the Albanian border; at the week-end
they were pushing up the valley of the
Dryne towards Argyrokastron, but here
their progress was arrested by a counter-
thrust with large forces. In the
north they have driven 20 miles into
the rough mountains and taken Pogra-
dek, as a preliminary to a drive on
Elbasan and the northern coastal littoral
and Tiranna, the Albanian capital.
Although Italian destroyers have oper-
ated along the Corfu coast, and the
Italians claim to have held up the Greek
advance along the whole front by the
use of 300 ’planes, the enemy is in a
position much like the macaroni inside
a sandwich. Unless he can summon up
considerably more resistance, it should not
be very long before his foothold ports
of Santi Quaranta, Valona and Durazzo
are threatened. Rain and snow are add-
ing to his difficulties, So, no doubt, is the
Albanian, an exceedingly awkward cus-
tomer, especially when things are going
badly for his masters.
Italian prestige has suffered horribly,
and it won’t be helped anywhere by the
news that most of the casualties inflicted
on the Greeks have had to be inscribed
on the rolls as 604 innocent civilian
dead—74 women and 120 children —and
1074 wounded, includ-
ing 58 babies and 425
women. Neither will
the terrible story of the
beautiful old town of
Corfu, which, left deli-
berately undefended so
that the bombers could
have no excuse, has
been reduced to rubble
and ashes cemented
with the blood of helpless citizens.
On the African front, there has been
another lull in Italian activity, but the
R.A.F. had a busy week in operations
which reached from Eritrea to Tripoli.
The excellent work of the Royal Navy
and the Fleet Air Arm has made things
worse for the Italian army in Libya.
On the other hand, the necessity for
doing something to restore respect for
Italian arms, of the might of which the
world has heard so much, may conceiv-
ably lead to a Graziani movement in that
quarter.
Blitzkrieg and Censorship.
“Aileron”: Though little detailed news
is coming through, it is beyond doubt
that England has settled down to a hard
winter. A winter of raiding in which no
city knows when it will be the next vic-
tim of a long train of German bombers
coming over at minute intervals and drop-
ping loads of death by the light of a
preliminary sprinkling of incendiaries.
London suffered a fierce raid on
Friday. Prior to that it had had the
quietest week for three months. But
almost every night added to the succes-
sion of towns singled out for special
German attention. Each of them is a
big city—port or manufacturing town—
with a characteristic terrain.
After the destruction of a great part of
Coventry, the Air Ministry apparently re-
gretted its openness in stating that city's
name and the extent and nature of the
damage. Since then, Birmingham has
been bombed in the same manner but


3 J
m
-X " ffTC\
YES., they
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CEN ERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R, V. PERKINS, General Manager.
not on the same scale. It was left to the
Germans to announce the name of the
city and to declare the extent of the ruin.
They have since claimed to have brought
hell to Bristol, Southampton, Plymouth
and Southampton again.
This British policy of silence has raised
a loud outcry from American journalists
in London. What a time these gentlemen
would get in Germany if they made a
similar fuss there!
It is easy to think of plenty of good
reasons why the Germans should be al-
lowed to take the initiative in propaganda.
To tell them gratuitously that certain por-
tions of a town have been destroyed is
to make-clear to them also what parts have
not been destroyed. The latter may in-
clude factories or other military objectives
which the raiders, in the fog and smoke
of bursting bombs, have been blissfully
deceived into considering as wrecked.
With an objective like Birmingham, it
would be quite possible for the raiders
to pick the wrong town, and they could
conceivably fly home in the dark under
the impression that they had wrecked
parts of Dudley, Wednesbury or Wolver-
hampton. Further, to name a specific
objective might give a starting point from
which to find some new spot to be
bombed in another raid.
Judging by some of the rubbish which
is being published in the American —and
Australian —press, the censorship, if any-
thing, is too light rather than too heavy.
One gloomy fellow from the Yankee
agencies told his millions of readers the
other day that John Bull had reached
his darkest days since Dunkirk and was
near the end of his financial tether. An-
other declared that the enemy, had he
only known it, had London at his mercy
eight days after he began his air war —a
statement which the Air Ministry charac-
terises as nonsense. The writer —a Mr.
Ingersoll—also said that during the first
six or seven weeks of the German air
campaign the Luftwaffe started 20,000
large fires in London —say 500 fires a
night.
In the face of this sort of thing the
British Government might well form the
conclusion that some American news-
papermen are not fit to be trusted with
information of importance. In any case,
the Germans don’t trust them—people
who have seen Hamburg and other towns
say that large sections of them are un-
recognisable, and air photographs bear out
the stories ; but the German accounts give
no idea of the extent of the damage.
It must be remembered that the present
German device of concentrated raids
by trains instead of mobs of machines
was copied from the R.A.F. and that the
R.A.F., saying little about it, was ham-
mering Germany’s military and marine
objectives long before the Germans
attacked Britain in force. British raiding
has been based on a thorough prelimi-
nary reconnaissance of the whole of Ger-
many.
The R.A.F.’s first raid of the war was
on September 4, 1939, when Wilhelms-
haven was attacked, two v/arships were
hit, one badly, and damage was done to
the Kiel canal at Brunsbuttel. Ever since,
Wilhelmshaven has been plastered at
regular intervals, and the Ruhr has been
scorched and blasted from end to end,
as have industrial towns and cities
down to Bohemia. Hamburg and
Bremen at times have been raging in-
fernos. But the most that the German
High Command usually says about these
expeditions is that a few British
machines tried something but were driven
off by the intensity of A.A. fire and
dropped their bombs on an industrial
suburb, killing a few peaceful civilians.
Similarly, bombs dropped in Italy always
hit farmhouses or hospitals. And in-
variably when a new German objective
is assaulted the Germans refrain from
mentioning its name even on their own
radio.
The first consideration in censorship
should be the safety of Britons. Ameri-
can correspondents have nothing to com-
plain of. As the diplomatic correspon-
dent of the “Times” remarks, they have
been given unrivalled facilities and —as
in times of peace, as anybody who has
done the London rounds knows —doors
have been opened to them at which
British and Dominion journalists have
knocked in vain. A lot of American
writers called Britons cowards for not
going to war for their proteges in Czecho-
slovakia, Spain and China. A singularly
large proportion of them were pro-
Moscow, though some of them have
turned savagely on Moscow since they
realised that the Muscovites pulled their
legs for years. Others who profess to be
P ro 'Hritish are continually harping on
the theme that Britain may be reduced
to setting up “a Vichy Government” and
surrendering the Royal Navy. These
persons are abysmally ignorant of
Britain and the British.
Blitzkrieg from a Front Seat.
A picture of rural England from a
bilingual Englishwoman who lives in a
village in Thomas Hardy’s country. It
was written on September 29, five days
after Goring’s heaviest attack on Britain:
Life is not easy, but it is amazingly worth
while. Actually we suffer much less incon-
venience here than in the last war. Food is
plentiful and varied—no queues—firing is ade-
quate, and somehow there seem to be fewer
irritating restrictions. Blackout is a nuisance,
but is clearly necessary.
This is a small village. I built here for
quiet, but forgot it is only a couple of miles
from the military aerodrome, so that at present
we get plenty of excitement.... I would not
have believed it possible that so many bombs
could be dropped and so little harm done. One
had always pictured an air raid as a short,
continuous horror, like the German effort in
Rotterdam. Even in London it does not seem
like that. Down here we have bright skies
and broken cloud.
We hear the fighters go up. There is usually
10-20 minutes’ waiting. Then a greater
engine noise, and one looks up to see forma-
tions of Germans coming, looking curiously
like a small gaggle of wild geese. If lucky,
one sees the fighters attack.
On Sunday there was more cloud than usual,
and our first warning was a dull thud and
columns of black smoke. The main attack came
five minutes afterwards. Twelve Spitfires dived
straight into at least four times their number;
each got his man, broke the formation, turned
and chased the rest. That day about 40
machines fell in and around our county. I
was thrilled to watch through binoculars.
Then the telephone went —I do ambulance
work under A.R.P. “Miss ? Come when
you feel like it!” I said: “I don’t feel a bit
like it [a good deal of stuff was falling], but
the longer I wait the less I shall, so I’ll come
n0w....”
We have had so much now at night in the
way of wandering Willies and bumbling Bills
that we are beginning even to sleep through the
falling stuff. They unload regularly at night,
but round about here almost always seem to
get fields and heath land. One night 99 fell in
a small area, and so far as we can see not even
a rabbit suffered. What I cannot understand is
why Hitler did not invade early in July....
Now the organisation is so elastic and yet so
full that even German willingness to sacrifice
life freely will scarcely make the game worth
the candle.
I went to Paris and Savoy at Easter—yes,
1940. At the time I felt that the things which
I saw could not mean what later events proved
they did. It is a tragic situation. The ordinary
folk were as certain as ourselves that the war
must be won, and yet on all sides were evi-
dences that official thought was moving in the
terms of 1914-18. On one train of soldiers
mine was the only gas-mask—the poilus were
much interested in it. Men from the vaunted
Maginot Line were full of tales of incompe-
tence.
Villages on the main route from the Rhine
to the Rhone did not even put out their lights
in the streets at night till 11 p.m. Rationing
did not exist. Huge numbers of men were
in the army, but the main idea was to employ
them, not to equip them. Letters between
towns 30 miles apart joined by train and bus
would be censored, but the Consulate-General
did not know which parts were and which were
not in the zone des armees; and so one could
multiply the tale. Yet with it all was a pathetic
dependence on the English, who “are so well
organised,” and a feeling that with us was the
only chance of salvation. So much was done
for one that it was almost embarrassing to be
English.. . .All my contacts have convinced me
that, bewildered and cowed as the French are
at present, when the moment comes for us to
invade a most helpful quantity of sabotage
will go on to make life difficult for the Ger-
mans.
All the fighters have gone up—something is
in the wind. Yesterday, it was an abortive
attack on Portsmouth.
The Arunta Launched.
“Nobby II”: To Cockatoo Dockyard,
Sydney, naval work is no novelty. The
yard docked its first naval vessel —
H.M.S. Iris —in 1857. It put together
H.M.A.S. Warrego, shipped in pieces
from British yards, in 1911, and after-
wards H.M.A.S. Brisbane, Adelaide,
Huon, Swan and Torrens took shape
there. All these jobs, however, were ex-
ceeded in complication by the Tribals
now being built—flotilla leaders of
1900 tons or so. They might be described
as ultra-fast, ultra-light, but heavily-
armed cruisers. Several of the type, in-
cluding Cossack, which rescued the Alt-
mark prisoners, have made great names
already in the present war.
The first Tribal ship, Arunta, named
after the great Centralian tribal group,
was launched on November 30. Appro-
priately, it was St. Andrew’s Day, since
the ship was authorised by a Cameron,
as Minister, built under the management
of a Frazer and launched by Lady
Gowrie of the historic Scottish peerage ;
doubly so as a matter of poetic justice,
since other units of the R.A.N. are just
now engaged in helping to rescue Patras,
on the Greek coast, where both Scot-
land’s patron saints, St. Andrew and St.
Rule, were martyred, from the armies and
air force of Mussolini.
After months of drought, the rain
came down in a steady drizzle which
would have done credit to a launching
day at John Brown’s on the Clyde. Water
poured off the shapely streamlined bows
of the Arunta. It poured off the outsized
Australian naval ratings of the guard,
streaked with what the naval expert of
one of the Very Great Dailies described
as the “whitewash off their caps.”
But what is a little water on firm soil
to men who are accustomed to go out in
tossing oil-burners into trackless spaces
of the ocean where even, sometimes in
rough weather, Nelson himself found his
“soul melting away because of the
trouble,” and men, as the Psalmist so
neatly expressed it, “reel and stagger to
and fro like drunken men; and are at
their wits’ ends.”
All the usual forms were gone through
true to naval tradition.
From under the umbrellas the old
Psalm went up:
They that go down to the sea in ships; and
occupy their business in great waters;
These men see the works of the Lord; and His
wonders in the deep.
There were the old prayers which have
been said over the prow of every naval
vessel which has helped to make the
Seven Seas British for centuries, the old
naval hymn for “those in peril on the
sea,” the bursting bottle of “bubbly” on
its red, white and blue ribbon, the cheers
and but one variation from British cere-
monial —the band played “Advance, Aus-
tralia Fair” in the midst of its traditional
loyal repertoire.
It would have been a poor Australian
—reared in a country founded by the
Navy, governed in its earliest years by
the Navy and always dependent for its
safety and trade on the Navy —who was
not moved by the ceremony and by the
brief and dignified celebration which fol-
lowed it.
Norman Frazer, who superintended the
building of the ship, remarked that the
atmosphere was something to rekindle in
hearts of men the romance and spirit
of adventure which used to rise in the
breasts of an earlier generation as they
thrilled to the naval tales of Captain
Marryat. But there was enough romance
present without Marryat.
What would Bligh, last of the old naval
Governors, whose Australian “Navy”
was the rolling old Porpoise, have
thought of the idea of building at Cocka-
too, in his day dedicated to the snakes
and the blacks, a warship which —though
it will be a comparatively small unit in
the R.A.N.—would have been capable of
singlehandedly giving the whole of
Nelson’s Fleet a hammering? What
would he have thought of an Australian
Navy large enough to justify detaching
from the R.N. for its management a
former Chief of Staff to the Home
Fleet and Commander of the Royal
Naval War College?
Navally, Australia has grown up. Its
men have proved themselves in battle
the world round. The R.A.N. is fast
reaching the stage of experience when it
will be under full Australian command.
It should now be a fixed point of public
policy that the R.A.N. should also be all-
Australian built.
A peculiar incident in the naval
battle of Sardinia was the disappearance
of Jean Chiappe, formerly chief of the
Paris police, who was on his way to
Syria in a Farman air-liner. Vichy Gov-
ernment announces that the ’plane was
lost with all hands during the engagement,
into which it apparently flew. The com-
munique declares that British fighters
went up and machine-gunned Chiappe's
machine, which was unarmed. The
source of this information is not stated,
but can be guessed. Pieces of wreckage
from the ’plane, including an apparently
unused lifeboat, were found.
The Air War Day by Day.
November 25-26: Quietest night over
Britain for three months. Bristol bombed
again—lightly compared with the attack
on Nov. 24. Germans assert town under
cloud of smoke, harbor severely dam-
aged, great stocks of food destroyed and
15 fires raging. Two German bombers
and two fighters brought down.
R.A.F. bombs Kiel, Wilhelmshaven,
docks at Hamburg and seaplane base at
Willemsoord (Holland). Heavy damage
to Hamburg shipbuilding yards and
largest graving dock reported.
Low-flying R.A.F. machines disperse
three Italian columns rushing to Greek
front on Valona-Argyrokastron road.
R.A.F. raid on Durazzo (Albania), hit-
ting 10,000-ton ship and smaller ship,
which burst into flames ; British ’plane
lost. R.A.F.’s thirtieth raid on Assab
(Eritrea) causes serious damage and huge
fires. Italians harassed in Sudan.
November 26-27: Two slight, short
raids over London; raiders driven off
from Rnstni R.A.F. anH Beau-
fort sink 3000- and 5000-ton German
supply snips on Frisians, vjeimans ciann
successful attack. on 30-ship convoy off
Southampton.
Raids on Berlin and Turin; also docks
at Rotterdam, Flushing, Antwerp, Calais,
Boulogne and Lorient.
Italians harassed by British and Greek
air forces in Albania.
Vichy Government protests against
alleged bombing of Marseilles by R.A.F.
on Saturday.
Nov. 27-28: Aircraft-carrier Ark
Royal and Fleet Air Arm ’planes co-
operate in R.N. attack which drove
Italian fleet off Sardinia to port, inflict-
ing serious damage to several ships.
Italians claim to have hit aircraft-carrier,
battleship and large cruiser with heavy-
calibre bombs and to have shot down
seven British ’planes.
Air attack on Britain confined to single
south-west town —Plymouth, Germans
say; 207th raid on the area by 100
machines. Six children and five adults
killed, attack lasting from dusk till
2.30 a.m.
Raids on French invasion ports and
industrial centres round Cologne.
R.A.F. reports destruction of motor
transport in Western Egypt and along
Libyan border by low-flying attacks.
During raid on Narat Island (Eritrea)
British squadron-leader lands beside dis-
abled ’plane and picks up crew. Enemy
fighter destroyed. One British and one
Italian machine reported by R.A.F. as
destroyed over Malta.
R.A.F. hits large ship outside Valona ;
one Italian machine shot down. Large
Italian column near Teppelena suffers
heavy casualties from R.A.F. low-flying
attack.
November 28-29: German raids on
England concentrated on Merseyside.
R.A.F. bombs Dusseldorf, Mannheim
and surrounding towns; also Antwerp
and Le Havre.
Fleet Air Arm raids Porto Laki (Dode-
canese), hitting ship (apparently war
vessel); also Tripoli (Libya), firing supply
ship and quay. More than 26,0001 b. H.E.
and incendiary bombs dropped on Brin-
disi military objectives. Italians claim
attacks on Brindisi and Taranto beaten
off.
Heavy damage to undefended Corfu by
Italians, who claim to have attacked only
“military objectives.” Rome alleges attack
on R.N. squadron off Malta, with five
British fighters shot down, four damaged.
R.A.F. and Greek Air Force shoot
down eight Italian bombers on Albanian
front; one British machine lost. Italians
report serious damage to Greek com-
munications and concentrations by 300
machines.
Nov. 29-30: London bombed from
dusk to midnight, one machine every
two minutes; 400 tons of H.E. and
36,000 incendiary bombs dropped, Ger-
man News Agency claims. Fires started
under control; casualties “fewer than
expected.”
Further R.A.F. raids on Cologne
bridges and communications, Bremen
naval shipyards, French invasion ports
and aerodromes.
R.A.F. and Greek Air Force continue
to strafe retreating Italians.
Nov. 30-Dec. 1: Air Ministry reports
main German activity over England con-
fined to south coast, where Germans re-
port bombing of Southampton. Daylight
raids on both days—on Saturday they
cost Germans five machines against two
British. Germans from crashed bomber
off Kerry coast interned in Eire.
At Southampton churches, a theatre,
public buildings and shops reduced to
smouldering ruins. ’Plane casualties to
Nov. 30: Germany 5131, Italy 365,
Greece 11, British 1700.
Heavy weather holds up raiding over
Germany.


victor
PJVIJVCE
POPULAR
“ROOM ONLY" TARIFFS:
Singles—s/- to 10/- per day
Doubles —8/- to 18/6 per day
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
MELBOURNE’S
MOST POPULAR HOTEL
Next Town Hall,
Little Collins Street,
S. D. HORNE-MANAGER
r V3*3
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Design for Living”
When “Design for Living” opened at
Sydney Minerva one criticism tempered
the chorus of praise: it was thought too
long. The second night, however, showed
that it had been Noel Coward’s presence,
not his writing, that was responsible. Get-
ting away to a prompt start, having short
intervals, and mercifully free from
speeches at the end, the second night’s
performance was compact and brilliant.
Like most Coward plays, this one
sometimes seems to have been written by
Sheridan and sometimes to have been
constructed by Mo. Its leading lady is
supposed to have an “untidy mind,” but
her aberrations lead her into extra-
ordinarily tidy situations. Loving a
struggling artist and a struggling dramatist
(who also love each other, as all three
love their friend the picture-dealer) she
is living with artist Otto when the play
opens ; dramatist Leo comes back from
abroad and she changes partners. When
she is beginning to get unsettled with
Leo Otto returns from a trip round the
world; and this time it is Leo who
finds Otto wearing his slippers.
The bedroom drama of the outraged
lover and the complacent interloper is
repeated almost word for word —and it
is very funny. The lady decides to skip ;
Leo and Otto go round the world to-
gether and come back to find her mar-
ried to the picture-dealer, conventional
and paternal. They laugh him out of
the picture and decide that, since Solo-
mon had a hundred wives and was highly
respected for it, there is no reason why
their lady shouldn’t have two gentlemen
friends.
Maybe, granting the playwright his
premises—the complete moral freedom
of his artists —this is near enough pos-
sible ; maybe it’s just bedroom farce. It
doesn’t matter, because the satire behind
Lloyd Lambic, as artist Otto in “Design
for Living,” at Sydney Minerva.
it—satire on conventional morality,
satire on unconventional morality,
satire on love, satire on cynicism, satire
on jealousy, satire on the pseudo-
sophistication that won’t admit jealousy,
satire on success, on contempt of suc-
cess ; the uproarious satire on the art of
making conversation —is valid in any
case. Likewise the wit.
The three principals—Edwin Styles as
Leo, Lloyd Lamble as Otto and Marjorie
Gordon as the lady—rose to the occa-
sion splendidly. Claude Flemming, who
played the picture-dealer, played com-
petently but without distinction till the
time came when he had to register
righteous indignation, which he did with
admirable gusto. Altogether, a show to
be thankful for.
* * * *
Concert for Bomb Victims
A concert held at Sydney Town Hall
under A.B.C. auspices last week in aid
of the fund to help British bomb victims
had Commonwealth and State vice-
regal patronage, but the crowd wasn’t as
Edwin Styles as playwright Leo.
large as attends the Commission’s “cele-
brity” affairs, nor was the atmosphere
that of a first-class social occasion. How-
ever, musically everything went very well
despite a dearth of imported talent.
Under Bernard Heinze the orchestra
opened up with Rossini’s “Barber” over-
ture and wound up with the Elgar “Pomp
and Circumstance” march that contains
“Land of Hope and Glory.” In between
were a fantasia of Welsh airs, Tschaikow-
sky’s “Nutcracker” suite, Delius’s “Walk
to Paradise Garden” and a new work,
“El Salon Mexico” (Copland). All were
played intelligently, and some of the
Tschaikowsky numbers were done with
unusual slickness.
Marie Burke sang from high opera and
low opera and was at her best in a lan-
guorous Romberg ballad. Peter Dawson,
in better voice than ever, declaimed such
ditties as “Westward Ho!” and “Boots.”
Some verses by Neville Cardus, reprobat-
ing certain recent German doings at
Coventry, were recited.
He * * *
“How’s Tricks?”
What the magician Levante is doing in
this revue at Sydney Royal should baffle
even an Australian taxation commissioner
—rabbits, ducks, pigeons, canaries and
the like, of course, appear and disappear
with the speed and uncanniness of
Friday’s pay-envelope; swords and
bullets pass mysteriously through the
middles of bewchus young ladies ; a girl
is pulled through a small keyhole ; an-
other is shot from a cannon through a
sheet of steel, and so forth. Not the
least confusing of his illusions is one
wherein, in a matter of seconds, he
changes places with his daughter, who is
done up in a bag and locked In a heavy
metal chest. But on Saturday night the
most whole-hearted and unanimous ap-
proval went to the magic kettle from
which the magician poured beer, sherry,
champagne, port and whisky, and then
handed out the drinks to the audience.
* * * *
Myer Free Concert
Sidney Myer free concerts at the
Town Hall, Melbourne, grow steadily
better. The latest comprised the
“Leonore” overture No. 3 ; the introduc-
tion to the third act of “Tristan and
Isolde”; the Fifth Symphony of
Schubert; the Saint-Saens Concerto No.
2 in G minor, with Jean Starling doing
admirably at the piano; and a work
by the contemporary American composer, c
Copland. Appreciation steadily mounted. ]
Prof. Heinze conducted. J
i
ARTBURSTS. j
Australian Portraits
A collection of portraits by Australian
painters at the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, represents all schools. Julian Ashton
heads the orthodox wing with “The Paris
Costume,” painted many’s the year ago.
Donald Friend in “African Self Portrait”
does his best to shock. Helen Stewart in
“Judy” again exhibits her talent for get-
ting a likeness. Frank Medworth’s “Jean
Judd” is a snappy bit of water-color tech-
nique. William Dobell’s queer genius is
seen in three aspects. Roland Wakelin’s
“Clarice Young” is one of those occa-
sions when he forgets to trample on his
instincts as an artist. Lloyd Rees shows
a self-portrait, well-drawn and well-
painted, in his eerie idea of color. Joshua
Smith once again paints his mother ; he
does it better each time. Thea Proctor,
Adelaide Perry, Douglas Watson and
Norman Carter are represented. Arthur
Fleischmann’s sculptured heads dominate
that section.
* * * *
British “Modernist” Paintings
Jacob Epstein, the late Eric Gill,
Duncan Grant, Henry Morre, Paul Nash,
Ben Nicholson and other leading
modernists of England are represented
in the exhibition of British paintings and
prints brought out by Sydney artist Carl
Plate and opened by Marie Ney at
Myer’s, Melbourne, last week. All the
recognised art fashions of the moment
are included. Surrealism is represented
by Roland Penrose with a picture of
severed forearms with feet attached to
them promenading before a distant
range of mountains. Julian Trevelyan,
described as once a surrealist but now
developing towards realism, has a study
of a Midlands industrial area which sug-
gests that he mislaid his brushes and
was driven to use newspaper cuttings.
AT THE TALKIES.
Best film of the week, a ten-minute
Dept, of Information short being
screened at newsreel theatrettes and most
first-release houses, is “London Can Take
It,” the most realistic picture of life in
present-day London yet presented. It
should raise admiration and a bit of
pride in anyone. Authentic scenes and
genuine sound-effects do their bit, but
praise is mainly due to the commentary,
a masterpiece by an American reporter
who has been in London throughout the
war.
* * * *
“City for Conquest”
The ghost of O. Henry lurks in this
main offering at Sydney Regent —a story
of two or three people from a New York
slum who fight their way out of their
environment by whatever weapons life
offers them. James Cagney is the young
larrikin who takes to boxing and fights
Claude Flemming as outraged convention.
his way to the top with disastrous con-
sequences ; Anne Sheridan his girl, who
dances her way to some success; Arthur
Kennedy his brother, who cracks the
musical world, and George Lloyd the
inevitable gangster. All the roles are
played with feeling, Cagney and Lloyd
turning in particularly convincing per-
formances. The story, too, has its
measure of sincerity, even if the closing
episodes are labored and uncertain.
* * * *
“Brigham Young”
This, at Sydney Century, is a chronicle
of the early Mormons’ search for a
promised land, found eventually in Salt
Lake, Utah. It sets out an epic account
of the trek, but resolves itself into a
character-study of Brigham Young, finely
portrayed by Dean Jagger. Jagger is ably
supported by Mary Astor as his chiel
wife, while Tyrone Power and Linda
Darnell add a little unnecessary roman-
tic interest. Climax and highlight of
t he film is the noted incident of the
Mormons’ crops facing destruction by
Marjorie Gordon as the lady of affairs.
insect swarms and being saved by the
miraculous appearance of thousands of
seagulls.
* * * *
“A Date with Destiny”
At Sydney Prince Edward and all
about a doctor addicted to marrying
wealthy women and then murdering them
as soon as possible. Basil Rathbone
figures as the medico, but the role is a
dreadful mess and he makes nothing of
it. Ellen Drew plays the infatuated young
socialite who marries the doctor and
barely escapes his clutches, for which
performance she is hereby appointed the
Great Christmas Ham with all trimmings.
Martin Kosleck, as Rathbone’s offsider,
turns in the one bearable performance
in the film. Supporting item, “A World
in Flames,” is a series of interesting ex-
tracts from newsreels over the last ten
years ; easily the best shots are some of
Musso. immediately after delivering a
speech. If the Italian dictator is really
the same as he appears in these scenes
the Greeks have nothing to worry about.
* * * *
“Untamed,” at Sydney Mayfair, is an
old-timer done out in very rich garb. It’s
about a bewchus city-bred goil married
out of gratitude to a kindly but rough
man of the North American wilderness
and then confronted with true lurv in the
guise of a handsome young medico from
the city. Goil, torn ’twixt love and duty,
decides to do the fair thing all round
by clearing out, but the grim Reaper
removes duty and true lurv. has its way.
Ray Milland, Patricia Morison and Akim
Tamiroff, all in good form, plus attrac-
tive technicolor, make it very bearable
entertainment.
Eastern Australia got drought-breaking
rain over the week-end. It will bring on
good summer feed in grazing and dairy-
ing districts ; it put good water in farm
tanks and waterholes, and it should save
Sydney Water Board further expense in
buying newspaper space, printing stickers
and handbills and making radio appeals
to people to save water. The board is
now “confident that further drastic re-
strictions which were contemplated can
be postponed,” for “the Warragamba
is rising and soon will be supply-
ing- Sydney with half its needs.” The
dams supplying the other half were
taking in water in enormous quantities
at the week-end.


0
/ t/2'
✓ / AT
PfIDUD
S
fsd
fd
Strong Serviceable BOTTLE
and RESEALER in Silverplate.
PRICE
OPENER
2/6
You have the choice of so many
inexpensive Xmas Novelties, the
very originality of which will give
added pleasure to your gift.
mastm_
w
"SERVICE CLOTH BRUSH,”
with manicure pieces, etc., in
zipper top.
PRICE
13/6
Patent BOTTLE
OPENER and RUB-
BER GRIP
STOPPER .
1/6
Jpu i
NOVEL TEA CADDY
SPOON, in best Chrome
finish.
PRICE
1/6
■
"THE REX” POWDER
COMPACT, in the
newest leathers, in a
variety of colours, with
A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
badges.
PRICE
12/-
A Perfect COCKTAIL
SHAKER, in chromium
lOin. high, siin
diameter
• 45/.
sdf
A REAL TORTOISE. This
Hovel Ash Tray has removable
gilt lining, slin. overall. O /
PRICE 0/0
7*in 11/6
sdf
\ Silverplated BEETROOT SERVER.
A very useful gift. A /z:
PRICE 4/0
sd
COMBINATION POWDER
CIGARETTE COMPACT,
bright colours, embroidered
black.
PRICE
21/-
fsd
PRYSTAL POWDER
COMPACT, with floral
Posey decora-
tion
16/6
-
A
<4
THE SAFETY
CARVING FORK,
gives perfect grip and
allows knife to follow
through. In stainless
PRICE . . 14/6
Nickel-plated . . 10/6
fd
THE CROCODILE JAWS
English extra heavy chrome.
PRICE
NUTCRAX.
. 3 /6
Country Readers, please write for Catalogue.
PR OliOS PTV LTD
Ring and Pit! Sts., Sydney
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Darwarb”: With a preliminary snort
that made Darwin more than grab its hat
the “wet” was ushered in with a quick
200 points and a shifting of roofs, tele-
phone and power lines and ships. A
freighter moored to the wharf broke
away, taking half the wharf and a naval
vessel that was tied to the freighter. They
finished up on a mudbank, whence they
were dragged with winches. Another
naval vessel about to berth got her hook
down smartly and rode out the blow in
midstream. Parap lost most of its roofs,
and its girls are glad they had on their
prettiest rags that day. The camps suf-
fered worst, tent-town being flooded and
many of the tents going aloft. Repairs
were effected all round, and the outpost
is now prepared for the worst.
“Norther”: Hail the size of walnuts
fell at Maroochydore the other day, and
immediately afterwards hundreds of pil-
chards and similar small fish in the river
apparently went mad, leaping in all direc-
tions as though fleeing from a school of
barracouta. Whether they thought some-
body was bombarding them or whether
the sudden chilling of the water near the
surface made them jump to keep warm
isn’t clear, but the spectacle was an aston-;
ishing one while it lasted. The hail holed
tanks and roofs and ruined gardens and
chooks in the town.
* * * *
“P. Essington”: The North hath her
exhibitionists, too. The latest climbed
Darwin’s 60ft. water tower, loudly assur-
ing all whom it might concern that he in-
tended to jump from the top. Three-
quarters of the way up he stopped on a
small platform and surveyed the crowd,
by this time close to 300. Sundry narks
in the audience suggested that he was
neither game to go on nor game to come
down; others thought the climb had
sobered him. A couple of hours passed.
Then—it just shows that courage doesn’t
depend on size—a jockey climbed up,
grabbed the performer and held him until
a doctor arrived with a quietening in-
jection. He ended by being lowered
ignominiously on a rope. The result will
probably be a human-proof fence round
the base of the tower, just as Sydney had
to fence off its bridge.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: If Cecil Wallace Kentish,
dead in Brisbane, could have written a
book he would have had marvellous
material from his long experience of
settlement in the Tara district. Kentish
led a party of about 200 Victorian selec-
tors into the area more than 30 years
ago. He saw the onset of prickly pear,
the heart-breaking efforts of the settlers
to beat it and the defeat of many, up to
the days of Cactoblastis, victory and the
turning of Tara country into some of
the State’s most productive farms. In
the book he might have told of the early
attempts to poison the pear with arsenious
pentoxide and “Roberts’s poison,” of how
the pear was too thick for dogs to get
through, of how some German chemists
working on the problem vanished just
before the 1914-18 war broke out, and
how the first gas on the old Western
Front was the same as that used by the
Germans against the pear ; of how he
and his fellows hung grimly on, and of
the coming of the triumphant insects and
the erection of a memorial hall to their
work—probably the only monument to
an insect in the world. It’s a pity our
press and publicists allow men like Kent-
ish to die without getting their stories,
while a successful city magnate who never
went short of a feed is mourned as
though the nation had lost something.
* * * *
“23-4”: If this war does nothing else
it should make Australians realise what
a wasteful crowd they are. In the first
three weeks of a salvage campaign in
Brisbane and suburbs, the collection aver-
aged 50 tons a week, mostly wrapping-
paper, cardboard, rags, iron and
aluminium. Brisbane is small as cities
go, and the fact that it can gather 50
:tons a week of apparent rubbish that has
suddenly assumed a value not hitherto
'realised makes one wonder what Sydney
and Melbourne could do. It takes a lot
of that stuff to make 50 tons.
* * * *
“0.0. P.”: It was reserved for Bris-
bane’s Transport Workers’ Union to raise
the standard of revolt. Objecting
to carting uniformed women about the
city on motor-lorries, the union has
warned employers that the stunt must
cease, being a breach of its award. The
W.A.T.S. (short for Women’s Auxiliary
Transport Service) had been sending its
members out on lorries to learn how to
drive and how the city is laid out. Firms
lent vehicles for week-end “manoeuvres,”
but petrol-rationing stopped that, and the
W.A.T.S. then got permission to ride with
the horny-handed sons of toil on the
daily job. The W.A.T.S. “commandant”
is “going on with it whether there is a
fight or not,” and she hopes “the Gov-
ernment will step in.” So does almost
everybody else, only not in the way she
wants.
* * * *
“Joe Conrad’s A.”: A grim drama of
starvation at sea was brought to light when
somebody found the American cutter
Wing On fast on a reef at Visoqo, a
remote spot on Fiji’s Vanua Levu. On
board were the bodies of a man and a
woman and another woman at the point
of death. The cutter’s log, not kept in
a seamanlike manner, showed that she
had left Seattle for the Marquesas on
August 14, and it seems that she had not
touched land until fetching up on
Visoqo. On Nov. 7 the log recorded one
man’s death and a plea to God for help.
Next it recorded his burial at sea and
the statement that he had been too far
gone “to stand any more of the remaining
can of apricots.” Evidence suggests that
the cutter put out from Seattle with two
married couples aboard, but what hap-
pened after that must await the recovery
of the sole survivor. The idea of setting
out to see the world in a small ship
is becoming quite a fashion, especially
among people who haven’t much of an
idea of what distance, currents, storms
and amateur hands at the tiller can do.
The tragedy of the Wing On may serve
as a warning.
“Balander”: A State of vast holdings
and big distances like Queensland should
be interested in a test with charcoal-gas
fuel held by the Swedish Royal Auto
Club. There was a two-day reliability
trial, that for cars on producer gas being
over total distances of 340 to 476 miles,
according to type of car and under ordi-
nary road conditions with cars actually
in service. The cars were required to do
40 or 50 kilometres an hour with engines
designed for liquid fuel (1.6093 kilos to
the mile). Particularly good results came
from heavy trucks — tons and over. Of
the 127 vehicles of all kinds that started,
87 completed the first day and 77 com-
pleted the test. By the end of this year
Sweden expects to have about 25,000
vehicles running on producer gas, as well
as tractors, small boats and ferries. There
is a moral in this for Queensland, which
has plenty of good charcoal-producing
timber.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused :
F.P.H.:
Imbued with liberal sentiment,
One is inclined to sicken
To see an entire continent
Enslaved and terror-stricken.
D. :
He assumed full control of the land where he dwelt
And made its people adhere to his ruling,
And on those who rebelled made his influence felt
By measures so callous and gruelling.
E.
In the early hours of the morning
V hen Berlin gets an air-raid warning
Hitler, they say, goes helter-skelter
To the safety of his private shelter.-
But I can bet he’s never heard a warning siren ring,
Hor ever saw the R.A.F. on the wing,
Because deep down in his bombproof shelter
He crawled under his bed all in a swelter
IVhen he’d heard Britain had declared war,
And there he will stay evermore.
M.G.: Too Kiplingesque, but maybe they’re
worth polishing... .Gunner J.: Have already
published a couple on that theme... .E.E.A.:
Your rhymes are agonising... .E.W.S.: Those
experiments are doubtless well meant, but the
results are dreadful... .M.M.D.: Thinnish....
L.K.: Try elsewhere... .D.A.0.: Sonnet
would have been close if it hadn’t echoed
Brooke... .R.W.H.: You haven’t quite got it.
• •■•T.L.S.: The split infinitive is a sign that
you’ve taken the whole thing too easily
'' funn y M.H.: If you’re going to
rhyme “war” and “flaw” you don’t deserve
violets on your grave U. 8.: It’s ten to one
you’d never have noticed that “the ’roo and
his mates do chat” if you hadn’t needed a
rhyme for “flat”... .WJ.O’B. (England): One
among dozens D.McL.: Some of it is
really remarkably bad J.McK.: Conventional
lightweights 8.C.D.: It must have been a
dreadful damper that caused “The Swagman’s
Dream” L.G.P.: “I know this is an old
idea, but I’ve started where most other writers
leave off.” It’s where you should have left
off, too A.L.: The pubs where that yarn
was first told are now crumbling to dust....
G.SD.: “The Dope Runner” still
running... .D.G.A.: Not enough meat
J.P.: “The Man in the Street” lacks sub-
stance N.F.S.: When every sentence in a
story finishes with ....! our verdict can only
be M.T.F.: “Fisherman’s Luck”
right out T.8.E.: “My friends say this is
funny enough to make a cat laugh.” Cats
don’t read The Bulletin H.W.P.: Not so
far away... .L.E.T.: Some bumps there....
S.S.S.: You’ll never make a fortune out of
poetry... .M.M.: Learn to rhyme and scan.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.M.8.: Still wide of mark. Give your
figures more animation R.L.: At first we
thought your seal was a whale—or is it a
whale?....R.S.H.: Gag idea too late, art
effort too early V.M.: Anyone with a head
that shape could wear a tripod in comfort....
M.L.N.: Suggested cartoons made even the
Religious Editor shudder A.V.: Market too
restricted... .Jas. O’C.: Fair idea botched.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Pt
•%; 6/;'* ,:>o-; v, - .
'Vv-
fd
ML
George Street, Sydney.
CHEMIST, 319
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Th e right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wanted in New Year by exp. station book-
keeper position in any State. Not eligible for
war service. Refs.—8837.
Dentist, Brisbane, skilled operator, accustomed
sole charge busy practice, desires position.
Refs. —8808.
To buy “Steele Rudd’s” books, particularly
The Poor Parson and original editions. —8817.
To buy Infantry Training and Manual of
Elementary Drill. —8835.
To buy, cheap, good detailed ruler, set square,
compass, dividers, etc. —812.
Information Sought.
(1) Approximate figures concerning striking
power, range and speed of modern bombing
aircraft ? (2) How does striking power com-
pare with that of bombing ’planes which raided
England in the 1914 war? (3) How far will a
modern bomb penetrate and what damage is it
likely to do if the populace are all properly
sheltered ? —8844.
(1) A very large bomber can carry a load of
44001b. more than 1100 miles at a maximum
speed of 300 m.p.h. Smaller bombers can go
as fast as 350 m.p.h. (2) In the 1914-18 war
270 tons of bombs were dropped on London,
causing little damage. The total number of
bombs dropped on England in the 1914-18
war could today be carried by 50 of the large-
type modern bombers in one flight. (3) A
5001b. bomb penetrates 60ft. of solid earth or
15ft. of reinforced concrete. The splinters
from a bomb-hit 50ft. away will break through
a foot of brick. Water mains, telephone and
power cables, gas mains and sewers, mostly
buried but a short distance beneath the street
surface, are crushed, cracked or broken by even
a light bomb.
* * * *
Is it a fact that the whole of Australia’s
expenditure on our fighting forces overseas —
pay, rations and supplies—is borne by Great
Britain ? If so, is the amount added to our
debt or is it a gift? Is the position of the
other Dominions the same? —8658.
So far as Australia is concerned, the whole
cost of our expeditionary forces is borne by the
Commonwealth except in the case of one or two
small technical units asked for by Great Britain,
in respect of which the cost is shared by the
two Governments. As far as is known other
Dominions also bear the cost of their expedi-
tionary forces.
* * * *
What financial allowance is made annually to
King George and the Royal family? —8855.
Figures are: Their Majesties’ privy purse,
£110,000; salaries of household and retired
allowance, £125,000; expenses of household,
£193,000; works, £20,000; Royal bounty, alms,
etc., £13,200; unappropriated, £8000; Duke of
York, £25,000; his Majesty’s younger children,
£26,000; Princess Louise, £6000; Duke of Con-
naught, £25,000 ; Princess Beatrice, £6000; King
Edward VII’s daughters, £18,000. During the
depression period in 1931 the King voluntarily
reduced his allowance by £50,000 p.a. and the
Duke of York by £5000.
* * * *
(1) What route was followed by Howard
Hughes in his flight around the world in 1938 ?
(2) What distance did he cover, and in what
time? (3) Was he alone? (4) Details of James
Mattern’s flight around the world? —8853.
(1) Left New York City on July 10 and flew
via Paris (France), Moscow, Omsk and Yakutsk
(U.S.S.R.), Fairbanks (Alaska), Minneapolis
(U.S.A.), and landed back at New York. (2)
Covered a distance of 14,824 miles in 3 days
19 hours 8 minutes and 10 seconds. (3)
Was accompanied by four technical assistants.
(4) Mattern left the Floyd Bennett Field on June
3, 1933, and flew non-stop to Jomfruland,
near Oslo (Norway), thence to Moscow and
across Siberia to Karbarovsk, where on June
13 he left in bad weather for Nome, but had
to turn back. On June 14 he started again,
getting as far as the Anadyr in north-east
Siberia (750 miles west of Nome), where he was
forced down and smashed his ’plane. He
was injured, but rescued by fur traders. On
July 20 a Russian ’plane took him to Nome,
and thence an American ’plane took him to
Floyd Bennett Field on July 30.
* * * *
(1) Who founded the Oxford Group? (2)
Details of the nature of the group and its
aims? —8848.
(1) Founded by Dr. Frank N. D. Buch-
man. (2) The Oxford Group claims to be
neither an organisation nor a sect, society or de-
nomination, and has no membership list, sub-
scriptions, badge or rules. Includes many
people, members of all the recognised Chris-
tian churches throughout the world and repre-
senting almost every creed, political party,
class and color. The group seeks to solve per-
sonal, national and international problems by
bringing men and women everywhere back to
the basic principles of the Christian faith, en-
hancing all their primary loyalties.
* * * *
A friend writing from New York tells me of
a machine in use there which “speaks” weather
forecasts. Any details? —8860.
Yes, this machine actually is in operation.
Weather forecasts in New York City are fur-
nished through a special voice-recording and
-reproducing machine of the New York Tele-
phone Cos. Four times daily weather reports
are compiled by the N.Y. Weather Bureau
for the territory within 50 miles of the city
and transmitted to the telephone co., which
records the reports on a slender steel tape.
When a suitably clear recording has been
obtained, it is switched to a machine that
“speaks” to anyone calling for the weather. Two
machines are used, with one held in reserve.
The machine takes about 25 seconds to make
its announcement, and after a pause repeats
it. It is estimated that one machine can
answer 30,000 calls a day.
* * * *
Does a kangaroo use his tail to spring off
the ground when he is bounding along at an
average speed? If not, does the tail touch
the ground at all? —8736.
The tail functions as a balancing agent when
moving above medium speed, rather than as an
extra means of springing from the ground.
The tail is observed to thump on the ground
at a leisurely speed but does not do so at
full speed, except perhaps to assist in
making an unexpected turn or in clearing an
obstacle in unusual circumstances.
* * * *
How can I obtain an appointment as a
sworn valuer for my district? I have been
resident 26 years in one town, have been 10
years in the business of auctioneer and agent,
and am a Justice of the Peace for N. S. Wales
and Vic. —Bsßß.
Appointments as sworn valuators under the
Real Property Act, 1900, are not now being
made, nor have any been made for many years.
* * * *
A few details of the works of Rossini, the
Italian composer ? —8854.
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini was one of the
most talented of Italian composers of the
eighteenth century, and devoted himself mainly
to opera. His first opera, “Tancredi,” was
produced at Venice when he was 21. It was
followed after a short interval by “II Bar-
biere di Seviglia,” “La Cenerentola,” “Otello,”
“Mose in Egitto”—this latter an oratorio —
“La Donna del Lago,” “Semiramide” and
“Guillaume Tell.” All these appeared between
1816 and 1820. He also wrote a “Stabat
Mater” in 1842, and a “Petite Messe Solennelle”
in 1864.
* * * *
Brief history of the British Museum ? —BBSO.
The British Museum was opened in London
in 1759, at Montagu House, to house Sir
Hans Sloane’s collection, which the Govern-
ment acquired for £20,000, about one-quarter
of its value. In 1823 the present building in
Great Russell-street was commenced. It was
completed in 1847 from designs by Sir R.
Smirke. The library building was opened in
1857, and its large circular reading-room, 140 ft.
in diameter and 106 ft. high, is probably the
finest in the world. The natural history de-
partment is now separately housed at South
Kensington. The science department (Kensing-
ton) is replete with working models of all kinds
of machinery. The British Museum is sup-
ported by Parliamentary grants, varied in
amount, according to the annual requirement.
A large new wing, including marble exhibition
and print exhibition rooms, was opened in
May, 1914.
* * * #
(1) Why is it that some people are suscep-
tible to seasickness and others not ? (2) I am
shortly undertaking a sea trip. What precautions
do you recommend against sickness ?— 8846.
(1) There is no unanimously accepted explana-
tion. (2) A medical practitioner may pre-
scribe certain drugs, possibly chloretone. Apart
from this, the most useful preventive measures
for people fearing an attack are to pack the
ears with ribbon gauze so tightly that it can
be felt to press upon the drums, to take a
light and easily-digestiblc meal before going
aboard, including in this meal a free allow-
ance of barley-sugar, and, on feeling the
premonitory symptoms, to lie down on the
right side with the legs drawn up to the body.
* * * *
Some hints for preparing poultry birds for
show exhibition ? —8847.
If there is any tendency to scurf or scale
on the shanks get them clear by scrubbing
gently with soapsuds and an old toothbrush
three times a week and anointing with sulphur
and neatsfoot oil or vaseline after wiping dry.
Give the bird powdered charcoal in its food
to clear the system and impart tone, and a fair
.amount of linseed twice a week with its mash.
This will give gloss to the plumage. Let the
dietary be varied and the exercise ample,
making the bird scratch for its food. A little
cooked meat daily, fed out of the hand, will
help to give condition and also render the
bird tame. Cleanse the wattles, comb and face
with a soft, damp cloth, and when dry rub
vinegar over them with a small sponge to give
extra brightness. Wash the bird all over very
carefully the day before sending to the show.
* * * *
What are the correct metronome tempos for
foxtrot, quick step, jazz waltz, ordinary waltz
(such as Strauss’s ‘‘Blue Danube”) and schot-
tische? —8446.
The question was referred to the A.8.C.,
which favors the following: Foxtrot, 32-34;
quick step, 46-48; jazz waltz, 32-34; circular
waltz, 52; schottische, 30.
Do gargoyles play any useful part in archi-
tecture apart from their decorative value ?
8859.
Yes. A gargoyle is a projecting spout for
carrying off water from the roof gutter of a
building. Gargoyles are found only in c>ld
structures, modern water-pipe systems having
taken their place. It was in Gothic architec-
ture that they were turned to decorative account
and made to take all kinds of grotesque forms.
* * * *
Details of an English custom known as ‘‘the
Flitch of Dunmow” ? —8856.
This custom originated in the thirteenth cen-
tury, fell into abeyance in the eighteenth, but
has been revived in recent years. It takes
place at Dunmow, in Essex. A bacon
flitch is awarded annually to any married
couple presenting themselves and bringing proof
that they have lived in perfect agreement for
the first year of their married life.
* * * *
(1) Extent and nature of forest land in Great
Britain? (2) Details of the timber situation in
India ? —8843.
The woodlands of Great Britain comprise
2i million acres, less than 4 p.c. of the total
area. Of these 115,293 acres are national
woodlands and only about 57,000 acres are
under timber crops. (2) There are 99,000 square
miles of forest under Govt, protection in India
and 120,000 sq. miles outside such protection,
besides large private forests. The average net
annual income of the Indian State Forests is
over eight million rupees and, including the
Imperial Service, provincial, protective and ex-
ecutive, they employ over 10,000 foresters. The
Government has already planted over 120,000
acres of forest in India.
* * * *
Any information concerning the gem stone
kunzite ? —8845.
Kunzite is a recently-discovered gem, peach-
pink in color, highly dichroic in quality and
possessing wonderful fluorescence. When ex-
posed to the action of X-rays or radium
bromide the stone becomes phosphorescent and
remains so for some time after removal. Alter
exposure to the X-rays it will, if placed in
the dark, photograph itself upon a piece of
sensitive paper. In respect to this fluores-
cence, kunzite is unique among gem-stones.
It was discovered by Prof. George F. Kunz,
president of the New York Mineralogical Club,
and so far is found only in San Diego, Cali-
fornia.
* * * *
(1) What was the cost per mile of construct-
ing the concrete sections on the Parramatta-
road (Sydney ) ? (2) Concrete sections of
Sydney-Newcastle road? (3) Any other N. S.
Wales highway where concrete sections have
been laid? —8455.
(1) The construction in cement concrete of
the roads referred to has been carried out in
sections at varying periods, and as the costs
vary in accordance with the nature and extent
of excavation and subsidiary works, price of
materials, thickness and width of pavement and
many other factors, the information furnished
here should not be regarded as an absolute
guide in any other project. Subject to these
considerations it may be stated that the con-
crete sections on the Parramatta-road cost
£40,000 per mile (pavement width 56ft.). (2)
£25,000 per mile (pavement width 20ft.). (3)
£28,000 per mile (pavement width 40ft.). These
figures include all necessary earthworks,
drainage, etc., and in the case of the Sydney-
Newcastle road earthworks, etc., represented
over half the total cost. At present cement
concrete pavement construction thick,
excluding all earthworks, drainage, etc., costs
in the Sydney metropolitan area about £7OOO
per mile for a pavement 20ft. wide.
* * * *
Is there a reliable method of reconditioning
slightly-worn files for longer service? I have
heard of methods such as acid baths, and would
be glad of details. —8390.
Worn files may be recut by an acid treat-
ment, and also by sandblast. The File Re-
conditioning Cos., Central House, Little Regent-
street, Sydney, recuts files on a commercial
basis,. Application might be made to that co.
for further information.
* * * *
(1) Do you know of a compound called
diglycol laurate, and can you name some water-
soluble sulphonated hydrocarbons? (2) What
is the chemical make-up of Carbitol ? Is there
any proprietary line manufactured in Australia
similar to this ? —8660.
(1) Diglycol laurate is a compound obtained
by esterifying diethylene glycol with lauric
acid, the latter being derived from coconut or
other vegetable oils. It is used to some extent
as an emulsifying agent. Practically all sul-
phonated hydrocarbons are soluble in water;
e.g., benzene, toluene and naphthalene sul-
phonic acids are all very soluble, and so are
the less common sulphonic acids of the paraffin
series, such as ethane sulphonic acid. (2)
Carbitol is a trade-name for the monoethyl
ether of diethylene glycol. Its chemical for-
mula is C2H5.0.CH2.CH2.0.CH2.CH20H. As
far as can be ascertained Carbitol or related
compounds are not being manufactured in
Australia. Robert Bryce and Cos., 526 Little
Bourke-street, Melbourne, or 73 Wakefield-
street, Adelaide, Australian agents for Carbide
and Carbon Chemical Corporation of New
York, the American manufacturers of glycol
and diglycol derivatives, would probably be
able to supply you with any commercial in-
formation you require.
* * * *
At the instant a kettle of boiling water is
removed from the stove the bottom of the
vessel is quite cold. Immediately the water goes
off the boil the metal becomes hot. Why is
this ?— 8746.
Actually the bottom of the kettle is hotter
at the instant it is removed from the stove
than after the water goes off the boil. Your
observation that the bottom of the kettle is
cold is apparently connected in some way with
the phenomena involved in fire-walking, and
may be due to a thin insulating film of gas
between your hand and the kettle.
(1) Address of agency in Melbourne which
obtains positions for typists and female clerical
workers? (2) Fees charged, and methods of
enrolling? (3) Are such agencies satisfactory ?
—8842.
(1) Stott and Hoare Pty., 171 William-street,
Melbourne. (2) No fees are charged. It is a
voluntary service. Girl should call and submit
her references or qualifications. (3) Yes.
* * * *
What are the duties of a treasurer of a club
or other organisation ? Would he be expected
by the committee to handle all moneys, such
as membership fees, issue receipts and compile
a balance sheet? —8714.
The duties of a treasurer are mainly to receive
all moneys from the hands of the secretary,
to attend to banking of all moneys, to keep
proper books of account, to prepare balance
sheets and financial reports and generally to
assist the secretary. Receiving money from
members and issuing receipts is generally the
work of the secretary.
Brief Answers.
F.S.D.: And Quiet Flows the Don was
written by Mikhail Sholokhov; he also wrote
Virgin Soil Upturned.... T.F.M.: Dr. Guillo-
tine was not the actual inventor of the instru-
ment, nor, as is often stated, did he die by
it... .M.Y.T.: Helium was discovered in 1895
by Sir William Ramsay B.F.P.: (1) A
hydrometer is an instrument used for deter-
mining the specific gravity of fluids; a hy-
grometer is used for measuring the amount of
moisture in the atmosphere. (2) A photo-
micrograph is a photo, taken through a micro-
scope ; a microphotograph is a miniature photo-
graph... .N.G.: If the elasticity of a substance
is taken to mean its capacity to return quickly to
its original shape, there are several substances
more elastic than rubber... .L.R.C.: You could
get sulphuretted hydrogen from the action of
dilute hydrochloric acid on iron, zinc or lead
sulphide J.R.M.: The main wolfram fields
in the N.T. are at Hatches’s Creek and Wau-
chope; mica is obtained chiefly in the Hart's
Range district; the main goldfield at the
moment is Tennant Creek... .K.R.B.: Lady
Jane Grey reigned as Queen of England for
only 10 days, when she was ousted by Queen
Mary. Lady Jane was executed six months
later at the age of 17....J.T.: Hercules was
the son of Jupiter and Alcmena, wife of
Amphitryon. Hercules was sometimes known
as Amphitryoniades... .N.H.R.: Franklin
Roosevelt is the first President of the United
States to receive a third term... . V.D.A.: Write
to W.A. Agricultural Department, Perth....
B.R.A.: The carpet beetle is one of the hardest
pests to eliminate. Write to Houghton and
Byrne, 2 Bridge-street, Sydney, and to the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
Melbourne M.G.: If they can be called
islands, Australia and Greenland would lead
easily; New Guinea would be next with an
area of 330,000 square miles... .G.D.T.: Write
to Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .N.R.W. :
Everest is the world’s highest mountain;
Sahama (Bolivia) the highest volcano... .C.D.:
A cannot compel C to make his fence sheep-
proof. C, if he can show any damage, can
sue A for allowing his sheep to trespass....
Digger 2426: (1) All engagements are extended
for the duration of the war. There is nothing
you can do about it. (2) A false declaration,
if such has been made, can be punished. No
action is contemplated by the navy... .E.D.D.:
Those manuscripts disappeared long ago. Very
much doubt if the original MS. of On Our
Selection is still in existence. .. .K.D.: The
bearers should support the grain stacked to a
height of 15in. above the floor. If the bearers
are suitably supported at the centre of their
span, the grain could be stacked to approxi-
mately twice this height...-M-R-F.: The
latest figures available give the world pro-
duction of rice as 140,000,000 tons. Of that
India and Burma produced 44,000,000 tons
and China 43,000,000 tons M.Y.C.: The
estimated population of England and Wales at
1938 was 41,215,000, of Scotland 4,985,000,
of the Irish Free State 2,937,000, of N. Ire-
land 1,286,000 K.R.W.: F. J. E. Beaure-
paire, Mayor of Melbourne, was born on May
13, 1891, at Albert Park, Melbourne C.S.:
There is no Governor of Western Australia;
knight James Mitchell has been Lieutenant-
Governor since 1933... .D.B.R.: According to
Who’s Who in Australia, Beatrice Grimshaw
was the first white woman to ascend the Sepik
and Fly Rivers in New Guinea... .M.R.D.:
At the end of October, 1940, there were in
force 2499 broadcast listeners’ licenses issued
free to blind persons.. . .G.F.C.: Write to the
Department of the Interior, Canberra... .B.T.:
The lines “Stone bars do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage” are from “To Althea
from Prison,” by Colonel Lovelace... .N.H.D.:
F. E. Old is the Vic. Minister of Water Supply
and Minister in Charge of Electrical Under-
takings M.T.R.: Kalgoorlie is supplied with
water from Mundaring Weir on the Helena
River in the Darling Ranges... .J.N.R.: Bene-
long Point on Sydney Harbor is named after
one of the aborigines whom Governor Phillip
captured with the hope of obtaining from them
information which might be of some use to the
early settlers. With Yemmerrawanme he was
the first abo. to visit England.. . .T.S.T.: The
Commonwealth Year-Book should give all the
information you require.... .B.D.G. : Gold was
discovered at Coolgardie in August, 189_, and
at Kalgoorlie in June, 1893... .B.R.G.: New
Caledonia has an area of 7200 square miles
and a population of 50,000; capital is Noumea.
NRD ■ The Bank of England was
founded'in 1694... .T.G.B.: The nearest planet
to the sun is Mercury; the others, in order, are
Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus
and Neptune.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
se
m
o
m
£
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
„ W* K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
<54-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
„„ SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Young stock is an investment for future production
FEED ZfiuL-Ckl-O*.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to growing stock to balance the mineral ration. Tri-cal-os Bone Flour
gives strong bones and teeth, suppleness and vitality and good all-round
condition. Resistance to disease is strengthened, bone chewing and
bone troubles avoided. The stock can make use of the poor fodders
of a poor season. Tri-cal-os contains a guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid, and 40% lime, and is undoubtedly the best source of
the essential minerals, calcium and phosphorus, for young stock.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from—'
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Rugging.
“Murrawong”: Not only the Trangie
experiment (B. 20/11 / ’4O) but C.S.I.R.
and N. S. Wales Agric. Dept, tests from
Albury to Armidale support the experi-
ence of many graziers who have given
sheep rugs a good tryout —they don’t pay.
In the sandy Darling country, rugged
sheep produced a beautiful clean fleece,
but it had to be heavily skirted to re-
move the unprotected neck, wither, etc.
The margin in return per head between
rugged sheep and controls was not
enough to pay cost of rugs and extra
labor to look after the animals for ad-
justments, etc. The best results were
obtained in n.-west N.S.W. in heavy
trefoil country, but here the necessity of
frequent supervision was the drawback.
The New England experiment, carried
out at Saumarez, Armidale, had a slightly
different object from most of the others.
There was little to be gained from pro-
tecting the wool here as the clip
is free from burr and noted for
its fine quality and high yield.
Commencing off-shears, sheep
were rugged for varying periods
covering the full year and for
the winter months only, to
ascertain what benefit would
result from protection against
the bleak winter. Sheep bred on
New England are smaller than those bred
on the plains, and the climate has been
blamed by many people for stunting the
growth of the animals during their first
two years.
Whatever may be its indirect effect
through pasture growth, the N.E. climate
has been absolved of any direct stunting
of constitution. Old ewes in lamb were
rugged in the hope that the protection
and warmth would assist the growth of
the unborn lamb and the milk supply of
the ewe. Actually, little or no difference
was found in the size or strength of lambs
from rugged and unrugged ewes at birth,
nor was the milk flow visibly augmented.
Weaners rugged throughout the cold
weather did not respond sufficiently to
render the practice worth while. It is
unlikely that rugging will be any more
popular on the tablelands than on the
plains.
New England’s problem of small and
weak-constitutioned sheep is more likely
to be remedied by right feeding. Many
properties there are overstocked in
winter, and few make up the deficiency
by supplementing the ration with a suit-
able protein-high fodder, while continu-
ous grazing of short pasture makes the
control of worm-infestation extremely
difficult.
Still Plenty of Wheat.
“8.C.”: The Federal Government is
expected to announce soon” an advance
of 3d. to 4d. a bushel on 1939-40 wheat,
it represents about £3,000,000 more for
growers and will probably be the last
advance from the No. 2 pool.
In the three weeks to 25 /11 / ’4O the
Australian Wheat Board claimed to
have sold for home and export another
5,600,000 bushels of the 1939-40' crop,
making total sales 154,250,000. The crop
itself totalled 215,000,000, leaving
60,750,000 still in hand. This represents
slightly above normal home consumption
demand for a year, so the crop coming
in now, even though down to about
120,000,000 bushels for the Common-
wealth, will be surplus.
No idea of the price it will bring is
yet available, though the Commonwealth
has guaranteed 3s. lOd. f.o.b. for
140,000,000 bushels of next season’s crop.
Even if the existing 60| million bushel
surplus could be used, the incoming crop
would still more than meet home needs,
so by the time the 1941-42 crop is being
stripped there will be plenty of wheat
here. That is, of course, if things go on
as they are. No man could predict the
events of the coming year with any cer-
tainty.
First official forecast for this N.S.W.
harvest is 28,000,000 bushels, nearly two-
“Ignore ’em— they always show orf t ’ strangers .”
thirds below that of last year and just
under half the average of the past ten
years. Queensland expects 4,500,000
bushels, or about a half-million below the
State’s home needs. South Australia,
with 19,000,000 bushels, is well below
half of last year’s harvest.
“S.T.S.”: The S.A. harvest looks now,
in about the coolest November on record,
a bit less disastrous than in the official
forecast issued during an abnormally hot
October. The “ ’Tiser” now estimates
nearly 20,000,000 bushels, at an average
of eight to the acre. It is the smallest
since 1919-20, and a big drop from
the 41,000,000 and 15 average of last
season. On the other hand it is nothing
like the catastrophe which opened the
other war and which farmers have been
gloomily recalling lately—l£ average and
total yield 3,500,000. Because of
scarcity of feed, much more wheat than
usual has this year been cut for hay ;
and some unfortunates have just turned
their stock into the unpromising crops.
“Diversified” Fanning.
“Ben Cubbin”: A fair example of
what is meant by “diversified” farming
for wheatgrowers is to be found on the
farm of F. A. Hawthorne, near Ard-
lethan, which verges on the N.S.W.
marginal country. Hawthorne, who has
4000 acres, grows wheat and fodder, pigs,
turkeys, hens, merinos and a small dairy
herd for home needs. This year he had
660 acres under wheat that will average
about 15 bushels. Like some others in
the southern wheatbelt, he tried a crop
of Bordan and got away with it.
Pigs invaded the place this year. A
dozen Berkshire pure sows, a Berk, and
a Tam worth boar and some crossbred
sows graze on natural pastures, and there
is about 30 acres of Wimmera rye to
keep them amused until they are turned
into the wheat stubble. A double-cross
of Tamworth on Berkshires is used to
get baconers. Dry sows get about 41b.
of grain a day. The broods get up to
141 b. of wheat and barley according to
litter size, with one part of coconut meal
to 20 of grain, and two per cent, of char-
coal and bone- and meatmeal. Creeps
are used for the piglets, and the pigs get
through a couple of tins of semi-solid
buttermilk a month.
F.A.H.’s merinos return him wool and
lambs, and he conserves fodder to see
them through bad times. They’re heavily
culled every year, the old ewes going to
Border Leicester rams, both lambs and
mothers being sold on the first lambing.
Oats, barley and wheat provide the
stock with grain.
Australorps produce about 30 dozen
eggs a week and a flock of turkeys is
being set for the Christmas demand.
Hawthorne isn’t giving away any
secrets about prices and returns, but he’s
satisfied to keep the mixture going and
allows there is more in selling wheat on
the hoof than in the bag.
Sub. Clover Again.
“Trooper” (from W.A.): There may be
disappointments in planting sub. clover,
as “8.C.” suggests (B. 30/10/’4O). I find,
after years of experiments, that the
only way to get a stand is to plant it
primarily as a clover crop. lam not
denying that one of the most economical
ways of planting is with cereal cover, and
maybe under good conditions in a
favorable locality “B.C.’s” methods might
be right; but, under wheatbelt conditions,
to plant your cereal crop and just mix
in some clover seed and a little extra
super, is no good.
To grow a good cereal crop you need
to have the land worked to a depth of
three to four inches, and the seed planted
two inches below the surface. Best results
from sub. clover are obtained by shallow
working, with the seed just covered with
a fine tilth. Obviously when the two are
planted together one of them is not
getting the correct cultivation. Even
when planted with a small seed attach-
ment on the drill there is a tendency for
the covering harrows to push the seed
too deep into the ground. Besides, seed
near the surface will be well above its
super, supply, which is so vital to the
clover in the early stages of growth.
Except under very favorable conditions
sub. clover needs careful nursing and
ample super, during its first years. How
many farmers can topdress a paddock
and keep stock out of it for practically
half a year, when maybe the next year
or the year after will bring the paddock
under cultivation again under rotational
cropping?
To give s.c. a trial, pick a handy-
sized paddock and work the land to a
shallow fine tilth. Shallow-plant the
clover with super, and your cover crop.
Maybe your cover crop will not give a
bumper yield, but after all it’s the clover
you are trying to establish. The following
year topdress with super., and remember
that the less grazing it has the longer
the runners and the better the seeding.
On no account graze after it starts to
flower until you have made certain it has
all seeded.
Farmyard Manures.
“J. Want”: The Victorian Agricultural
Department points out that a dairy cow
takes over 30cwt. of calcium phosphate
from the soil to produce 10,0001 b. of
milk.
Where the milk is fed back to farm
animals —skim to pigs, for instance—the
bulk of the cal. phosphate can go back
to the land as natural manure. Also,
it can be regulated by feeding ; 2001 b.
of bran or pollard and 61b. of ground
limestone given to the cow would make
good the loss. Where the m ; lk is sold
whole off the farm, about 7001 b. bran
or pollard and 211 b. ground limestone
would be needed to make up the defi-
ciency in soil caused by a 10,0001 b. cow.
Farm manures are little regarded in
Australia. A herd of 20 cows gives off
somewhere about 240 tons of manure
p.a., worth 16s. a ton ; a bacon pig from
birth to 2001 b. weight yields one ton,
worth 14s. European farmers don’t
make the same mistake.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.U.M.”: As there is likely to be a
bit of dead-wool picking to be done this
year, look out for infection. If you have
cuts or sores on your hands, wear gloves
or leave the wool alone —it teems with
spores and dormant bacteria of a putre-
factive nature. Even if your hands are
whole wash them thoroughly in a strong
lysol solution after each period of wool-
picking.
“Gandak”: Thistles and rough grass,
irritating the tender portions of your


You can't
stretch your
Ration Ticket
tm
1
•ja
m
m
&
9'»ss«Sk»
a*
sgs
&■"
&sC.
*£»**' *,&*
V-V 1--
r."
\
'yja&Gm
'- '&&&$&£ sfi&~ ; i
You can got
more miles per gallon with the
80.30
A-.- ”
S!««
m
m
zm
* y : v ■ * £
:■ :
THE SHELL' COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Gteal Britaini
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
JjL^A^Jßos^^^Oj^PtyjJLtdj^JCin^^^Sydney
Jm
A -sb
<* r.rSfn ■
|p
: W -*"H •
EtSr#
HOTEL GRAND
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—AH Meals ala Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: BWIS3I (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
lambs’ mouths, may cause stomatitis.
Watch for symptoms —blood mixed with
the saliva, accompanied by small blisters
and ulcers. Put the affected lambs on
to a softer feed, and wash the ulcers with
carron oil. Rinse out the mouth with
one teaspoonful boracic to a pint of
water. The disease. is not catching, but
usually a large proportion of the animals
in the same paddock will be affected.
“Goulburn”: You don’t lose any of
the tender young leaf if lucerne is baled
instead of stacked. With a press making
a bale, say, 30in. x 18in. x 15in., lucerne
can be baled a few hours after cutting.
Stand bales on end in the paddock and
do not stack them for a couple of days
after baling. That ensures a perfect cure.
“A.F.”: About 300 cubic feet of good
lucerne goes to the ton, a fairly good
guide wh,en attempting to assess the
weight of a stack of it. Measure length,
breadth and height, and multiply one
by the other in feet and you have it.
“Y. Dent”: Maize stalks and husks
have some food value but are short of
protein and fats, and are indigestible.
Chaff them and mix them in with the
ordinary ration, say 101 b. of chaffed
stalks-husks to 151 b. of lucerne hay and
81b. of bran. Dairy cows should do well
on that.
“Canbelego”: Cut pasture for hay or
silage about a week before pollen starts
to fly. If the grass is allowed to ripen
and become too dry all nutriment goes
to the head, and the hay becomes fibrous,
less nutritious and unpalatable. Early
cutting means that nutriment is spread
equally between head, stem and leaf,
~ „ . ...
Graz : My first experience with
toxaemia pregnancy, or twin-lamb disease
(B. 16/10/ 40), was 20 years ago when
drought-stricken ewes six weeks off lamb-
ing were fed on protein-rich nuts. Halt
died. The stronger in-lamb ewes of the
same flock were left in a larger paddock
to fend for themselves on dry tussocks
and bush leaves. Many lambs died, but
losses among ewes were little more than
normal. A too-sudden switch-over from
feed low in nutriment to a highly nutn-
tious concentrate without bulky carbo-
hydrates to balance the ration upset the
stomach, from which toxic-laden juices,
entered the bloodstream. Had the weak
ewes been first fed on a small ration of
nuts—gradually increased—with 31b. of
chaff or lucerne hay per day, they would
have gained in strength.
Outback Occupations.
No. XLVI.
RELIEVING THE TENSION.
Things are pretty desperate. Your
missus has been away a week, the boys
are getting rebellious about eating tinned
salmon day after day, two snakes have
been found in the front room and there
is the drought.
The boys avoid you. They have been
going off at night on mysterious expedi-
tions, and though you strongly suspect
them of visiting the Thompsons—where
there is a girl named Ettie who becomes
very quiet every time your boy Jack is
near — an d receiving gastronomic largesse
you can’t prove it.
“What these fellers need,” you think,
eyeing Tom and Jack as they moon
round the stables, “is a bit o’ work.”
So, with an assumed cheeriness, you
make for the stables, saying “Well, boys,
we’ll have t’ open that silage pit an’ give
the sheep a bit. Get a shovel, Tom.
Jack, you bring the bar an’ I’ll fetch the
broad-axe.”
“Feedin’ blasted sheep,” says Jack.
“Half-starved ourselves,” says Tom.
You ignore them, leading the way up
the paddock to the silage pit. It has
been down five years, that pit. The last
time it was looked at was when you
entered the fodder competition and you
had to dig through five feet of earth and
three feet of rotten straw and then pull
up a handful of reeking stuff.
“Good,” the competition judge had
said. “Excellent stuff.” He had sniffed
it, turned slightly green and walked to
leeward of the breeze.
“Think we better start this end?” you
ask Jack, hoping to melt the austerity of
his youthful indignation by seeking his
advice.
“What odds?” he says bitterly.
Your own temper is none too good.
They seem to forget that you ve been
eating the confounded salmon, too. And
you haven’t been sneaking over to
Thompson’s for supper. You lean on
the shovel, fix Jack with your eyes and
snap, “P’raps you’d be more anxious t
do a bit if Ettie Thompson was watchin’
y\”
Young Tom giggles. A flush grows
under Jack’s tan. He makes an ineffec-
tual lunge at Tom, then grabs the
shovel and starts digging like a mechani-
cal delver.
The earth is dry and powdery. He
throws it in all directions. The shovelful
that lands on your shoulders and falls
down inside your shirt might have been
an accident, though you doubt it. You
step to one side ; another shovelful just
misses you. You dodge again. You can
see Jack looking for you under his hat
as he bends to the digging. You sud-
denly realise that this eldest boy of yours
has been very touchy of late, and you
wonder what’s got hold of him. Is it
love? Is it that he misses his mother?
The'poor tucker? You can’t be sure, but
you decide to take him carefully.
Jack clears away the topsoil and then
stands back, blowing. You begin hacking
away at the rotted straw on top of the
silage and soon open up a fair space. Then
you pick up the broad-axe, swing it aloft
and drive the first blow, shearing off the
heel of your left boot.
Shaken, you climb out of the hole and
sit down. Tom goes off to get the motor-
truck. You pick up the axe and go at
it again. Sweat pours from you. The
stuff is tough, the hole confined and the
smell overpowering. You belt away at
it, finally opening a small shelf and tear-
ing away the first of the silage. The boys
begin to load.
About this time three cows and an old
horse, four Italian bees, 567 houseflies
and two cockroaches arrive. The house-
flies aren’t interested in the silage—they
wish to graze on you. You swipe at
them. One of the bees thinks it was
meant for him, or her, or it, or whatever
gender bees are, and jabs you on the back
of the neck. You straighten up with a
howl, whereupon one of the cows, slaver-
ing, falls into the pit and the old horse
trots round in a circle.
You and the cow have a high old time
amongst the loose silage, till she grinds
your face into it with a hind foot. This
causes you to half-swallow one of the
cockroaches, which had run down your
cheek. Somehow you get to your feet,
standing shakily, eject the cockroach and
roar, “Get this flamin’ cow outa this,
y’ dopes! What are y’ laughin’ at?”
Tom “whooshes” the cow, which
scrambles out. Jack helps you out, trying
to keep a straight face. The cow slavers
and plunges back in again ; the other two
cows follow her. The old horse trots
round, snorting. You reek to high heaven,
so much so that Rusty, the old stag-
hound, takes you for something which
you’re not and wants to eat you. Jack
fends him off.
“Who let them blasted cows in?” you
stutter weakly.
Tom appears, mounted, and drives
them out of the pit and the paddock. The
old horse follows them. The 567 flies
buzz gladly round you. You make for
the house.
That night you and the boys have a
high tea of salmon cakes with pufftaloons
and butter and syrup and gallons of tea.
The boys are merry. They laugh often
and recall how you bit the cockroach.
You’ve suffered, but the smell of the
silage is almost washed away and the
tension seems to have been relieved.
“No doubt y’re a card, Dad,” chokes
Jack for the tenth time. You reckon his
bad temper is euchred, so you force a
grin and down another pufftaloon.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
The pursuit of the tin-hare is the theme of the contribution—it comes from
N.S.W. —placed first this week.
The Dawgs
The Bulletin came pretty close to the
truth when it said “dog-racing comes
pretty close to being a national disgrace
already.” Here are the views of authori-
ties collected in a tin-hare town.
The testimony of a leading doctor —
“No dog-owner is any good to me finan-
cially, for I rarely, if ever, get a penny
from him, though often called on to
attend his wife and family.” Of the ser-
geant of police—“ Fifty per cent, of the
dole recipients keep dogs. God knows
how they do it, but it’s largely why they
are on the dole. Dogs and work don’t
mix.” Of a butcher with a large busi-
ness —“No dog-owner ever gets tick from
me. Caught too often.” The municipal
council—“ Nearly all our debtors who
give trouble and have to be sued either
keep dogs or attend dog meetings. In
one week, of six folk who made excuses
for not paying, five kept dogs.”
If a local referendum could be taken on
the continuance or otherwise of dog-
racing, this alleged sport would receive its
quietus in most country towns. — Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
The Other Bloke’s Money
It all depends on what you consider
to be “the other bloke’s money” (B.
13 /11/ ’4O). Certainly, if a man’s wife
and kids are properly fed, clothed,
amused and educated, then it’s a couple
of his own bob that he puts on each
way. And if, into the bargain, he owes no
one anything it’s his own cash that he
chucks into the bookie’s pocket.
But if he owes the butcher, and in con-
sequence of having had a few bets —and
losing—he isn’t able to pay, then it’s the
butcher’s money he’s blewed to keep the
bookie’s champagne account paid up.
And if his wife hasn’t had a new dress
or been to the pictures for donkey’s years,
then it’s his wife’s cash he’s doing to
buy the bookie’s wife a fur coat.
And if his kids haven’t got everything
kids should have, then every time he
puts a bob on he’s robbing them as surely
as if he were bashing their moneyboxes
open with an axe. — Inkpot (S.A.).
“Glorifying the Gambler”
A. S. Spencer (B. 13/11/ ’4O) misses the
point. The Bulletin condemned the
Great Dailies for giving so much pub-
licity to the doings of the Big Punter,
and was not concerned in the slightest
whether the B.P. lost or won. Nobody
cares tuppence how big the punter bets,
but a lot of people object to his being
held up for admiration and envy. There
are other people whose main ambi-
tion is to become Big Punters, and it
is plain stupidity to encourage them in
that or any other kind of idiocy.—
F. W. B. (Vic.).
The Militia
In a Sydney newspaper there was a
paragraph about a burly A.I.F. man from
the bush who, on the point of picking a
quarrel with a couple of fellows in uni-
form, discovered that they were not, as
he had supposed, militia men, but mem-
bers of the air force. “I thought youse
blokes was militia men,” he is reported
to have said, “but I see youse ain’t got no
fed stripes down y’r pants.”
The paragraph was written in a humor-
ous vein, but it is time we realised that
the reporting of these things in this
manner has a detrimental affect on our
war effort. There are too many of these
cheap sneers being thrown at members of
our home defence forces, and it is, I
believe, due to this fact that recruiting
for these forces has met with such an
unwholesome response.
The man in the street knows well the
phrase “only militia men” and its impli-
cation, and it is this as much as any other
reason that keeps him in the comparative
seclusion of his civilian clothing.
. There are many men who, whilst hav-
mg many reasons for not volunteering for
service overseas, are ready and more than
Ruling to aid the defences of their coun-
ty at. home. But wfyile newspaper
columnists are allowed tip deride their
efforts, and while the phrase “only a
militia man” persists, they will stick to
the seclusion of civilian clothing and
confine their patriotism to buying buttons
on Red Cross days. — Eddie Torial
(N.S.W.).
Air Attack on Australia
No possibility of an air attack against
Australia (B. 20/11/ ’40)? What about
Taranto? Only 25 machines were used
in that raid, and they operated from an
aircraft-carrier.
A modern aircraft-carrier is in itself
an air base, carrying both fighter escort
and bombing ’planes. A couple of them
could stand 300 miles off our eastern
coast and send a force of bombers es-
corted by fighters 100 strong to attack
our coastal towns, cities and strategic
points.
Where is our present defence against
such an attack? Have we modern fighters
or pursuit ’planes capable of dealing with
modern well-armored bombers? Have
we sufficient naval forces to deal with an
aircraft-carrier mounting 6in. or Bin.
guns.—W. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Bomb Shelters or Guns?
The National Emergency Services Com-
mittee of the Sydney City Council is talk-
ing of a £1,000,000 plan to complete air-
raid precautions.
Air-raid shelters and precautions may
serve a useful purpose, but in England
Lord Horder’s principal emphasis has
been on the necessity for dispersal and
evacuation. That principle could be
applied more effectively to Sydney than
to any town in England. If £1,000,000 is
available it would be better spent obviat-
ing the urgent necessity of air-raid shel-
ters by acquiring a more active means of
defence.
Failing holding up the enemy in his
own land and seas, our first line is our
Navy and Air Force. If they by any
misfortune or disaster wefe unable to
prevent our capital cities from being
bombed our position would be of such
extreme jeopardy that it is questionable
if any Government could hold out against
capitulation.—A. C. (N.S.W.).
National Service Training
For the defence of Australia young
men of the 20-25 years age groups have
been called up for military training. In
some camps the little Caesars who are
in charge so far misunderstand the reason
for the call-up that some of the trainees
have to spend practically the whole of
their period of training as orderlies in
the sergeants’ or officers’ mess, rouse-
abouts in the cookhouse, clerks in the
office and jobs of a similar kind.
This is unfair to the men themselves
and to the employers who have to carry
on without them while they are in camp.
These trainees are all passed as fit men,
and should be trained for the defence of
their country with rifle and gun. The
orderlies and clerks should be enlisted
from the ranks of older men or those
who, for other reasons, are unable to
bear arms. — Smilax (Q.).
Appreciation
Being one of those who followed liter-
ally the Government’s exhortation to
“back up the A.I.F. by joining the
militia,” I wrote to the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment informing them that I was in camp
for three months and asking for an exten-
sion of time until I came out for pay-
ment of my telephone account.
They granted the extension all right,
but in words to this effect: “As it is not
the department’s desire to embarrass cus-
tomers who are unable to pay their ac-
counts on the due date, the extension is
granted; but it is suggested that you
show your appreciation of the favor by
paying the account, if possible, before the
due date.”
I suppose they thought I should be able
to pay the 30s. I owed out of the 9s. a
day I get for myself, wife and child.—
W. K: D. (Q.).
Inoculation and Leave
It should be possible for the A.I.F.
authorities to arrange for soldiers to be
vaccinated and inoculated early enough
for them to recover before they go on
leave. Final leave of several men I know
has been spoiled because of inoculation
—one man spent practically the whole of
the period in bed. The men should be
well over their treatment before they
have their last few free days in Australia
with relatives and friends. — Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
Congestion
London is having the lesson of decen-
tralisation brought fiercely home day
after day, but apparently the lesson has
no significance for us. Within 20 years
from now—given no will
probably have more slum features to the
square mile than Paris, London or War-
saw. A Greater Sydney Bill to extend
the metropolitan boundaries a matter of
10 or 15 miles would do more to de-
velop national fitness than all the physical
jerks performed by scantily-clad girls in
Martin-place or the roasting of their skins
to parchment at Bondi.
Dozens of new secondary industries in
addition to those already started will be
developed before the end of the war, and
these factories should be built away from
the city, for more health reasons than
one. Builders, never slow to catch on,
would soon help to solve the problem of
centralisation, and the Transport Depart-
ment, by co-operating in the matter of
fares, could complete the deal. — Worm
(N.S.W.).
A History Lesson
The lesson of unity was learned early
in Britain’s history. One can read Eng-
lish history as a progress towards unity
in a world torn by many factions. R.
Chambers writes in The London Mint:
From 1279 there was only one Mint in
England, and weights and measures were
already uniform. England may be said
to be the first country to achieve political
unity, except for Scotland, even before
the Middle Ages.
England’s subsequent history—her rise
to power, colonial expansion and trade
supremacy—was a direct result of her
early unity. It is the same unity which
sticks to her today. Alternately we see
unity in various countries as these coun-
tries have their turn of power. France
under Charlemagne and Napoleon ex-
pands progressively. Spain, Holland,
Sweden have their turn. It is unity, im-
posed by Bismarck, the Kaiser and now
Hitler, which is the source of German
strength today.
Hitler pays tribute to this when he
declares that the German people are one
nation, and attributes their success to this
fact. In seeking to destroy France poli-
tically as he has overpowered her militarily
what method does he take? He would
divide her into many States and so de-
stroy her political unity.
Against this place the contrast of Italy,
divided for centuries by factional fights.
A. Genovesi, in his Classic History of
Italian Economics, speaks truly when he
states:
The real cause of Italian decadence is
that her own sons dismembered her in so
many and such small sections that she
lost her early name and ancient vigor.
This is the great cause of the ruin of
nations.
In the new world we see the same truth
borne out in North and South America.
The former grows more powerful as her
unity extends, the latter is retarded by
the number of small States into which it
is divided.
And Australia? Surely those who run
may read and realise that the abolition
of State Parliaments is the first step to-
wards national autonomy based on poli-
tical unity.— Prolix (N.S.W.).
“Accent on Sex”
“Accent on Sex” (B. 20/11 / ’4O) is
timely. One of our great Australian
blights is the nudist colonies that are
rapidly springing up in the advertising
sections of our big dailies and periodi-
cals.
Radio authorities ban indecency over
the air, not so much for the sake of
hardened sinners like myself, but for the
protection of the youthful section of the
community. Suggestive pictorial adver-
tisements should be banned for the same
reason.
The art of publicity is to draw atten-
tion at all costs, and naked women in
every stage of strip-tease are no excep-
tion to its wiles. Advertising firms would
no doubt retort that “to the pure all
things are pure.” But no self-respecting
advertising agent would ever dream of
holding a party and letting his wife re-
ceive the guests attired in nothing but a,
respectable wedding ring and a charming
smile.
The creator of the semi-draped Venus
de Milo was an artist striving to portray
the simple beauty of the human form.
But the creators of modern commercial-
ised nakedness are just indecent copy-
cats. — Danbo (Vic.).
Men and Children
The plethora of correspondence would
make it appear that the men and not the
women were having the kids. Women
have scarcely raised their voices above a
whimper.
Why don’t men want children? Is it
that they have lost all sense of paternity,
owing to the emancipation of women, or
that they prefer the doubtful security of
the old-age pension and the police to
the protection that could be afforded them
by a family of useful sons?
But then they’ve never had the
Napoleonic feeling that a couple of young
kids can engender in the old man’s breast,
otherwise they might take a different
view.— Three of the Best (N.S.W.).
Childless Novels
Aren’t the scribes all the world over
largely to blame for the reluctance many
women show where feminine jobs are
concerned? For years now model heroines,
"Don'tcher know those bombs cost thirty quid each?”


instead of being portrayed as good wives
and mothers, have been shown as lovely,
restless, pleasure-craving creatures who
made a success of unnatural, ill-balanced
living. They were too brilliant to waste
their talents in home-making and too
busy with careers, lovers and divorce to
try to help the puzzled world to realise
that happiness is a very simple, homely
business. Children, of course, did not
fit into their scheme of things at all.
The influence of quantities of such
printed matter must have been as strong
as it was wrong.—P. Radwon (Vic.).
“In Great Peril”
I notice that most of the “eminent Aus-
tralians” (B. 20/11 / ’4O) who gave tongue
to “thoughts that are in the minds of
most other Australians” are men who are
on the several-thousand-a-year level of
income. What about these folks making
the first big sacrifice which, apparently,
they so earnestly desire to see others
make? Suppose the Archbishop gave
a slice of his income to help the war
effort and turned his palatial residence
into a home for war workers. Wouldn’t
that have some effect? Or, better still,
what about investing in war loan the
surplus hundred thousand-odd with which
it is proposed to build an unnecessary
cathedral?
Attention might also be drawn to the
fact that a brewery has just made a record
profit of some £870,299 —an increase of
£14,590 on the previous highest record
established last year. What about this
company giving away a large slice of
its profits to help the war effort?
The ordinary Australian is not going
to wake up to the fact that he’s in great
peril until the folk at the top are woken
up first. — Dinkee Doi (N.S.W.).
For Co-operation
A workingman breasts the bar for his
pot at knock-off time. He grumbles at
the size and price of the pot, and rue-
fully notes the fact that the brewery that
caters for his thirst has just made the
best part of a cool million for the year.
But he never gets beyond the grumbling
stage. It never seems to dawn on him
that a co-operative brewery financed by
the workers and selling beer at nearly
half the ruling retail price is possible.
He holds the biggest block of votes in
the country, and yet is governed by men
whose interests are diametrically opposed
to his, since most of them are of the
leisured class who have never known
what it is to rear a family on the basic
wage, and whose lily-white hands are
innocent of calluses.
He lives in a broken-down crib at an
exorbitant rent, and patiently waits for a
better housing scheme to alleviate the
position. In short, it never occurs to the
average Australian worker that, if his
powerful trade-unions were altered and
widened in their scope to make them large
co-operative societies, better housing,
cheaper food and amusements, and more
comprehensive medical facilities would
automatically become available to the
lowliest “wage-plug.”— Melton (Vic.).
The Basic Wage
According to my paper the Employers’
Federation recently declared that a rise
in the basic wage could lead only to in-
flation and subsequent ruin. The Federa-
tion submitted that “the cost of living
has risen only six per cent, since war
was declared.”
There can be only one answer. The
existing basic wage was assessed as the
lowest scale an Australian man, wife
and one child could live on in meagre
comfort, without allowing anything for
those bugbears of the casual or outdoor
worker, slack times or wet weather. If
the cost of living has risen “only” six
per cent., then, by the same token, that
man and family are now living on a
standard six per cent, below a decent
level.—B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Wages Tax
A section of the N.S.W. wages tax
schedule needing revision is that which
applies to casual workers. Those engaged
in seasonal work like shearing and har-
vesting pay the same rate of wages tax
as more fortunate workers permanently
employed at similar rates of pay. A
reduced scale of wages tax should be fixed
for casual workers. — Strath (N.S.W.).
Applause for Uncle
I have borrowed from cash-order con-
cerns and pawnbrokers, and I reserve my
kick in the ribs for the cash-loan busi-
ness. For a fiver from the cash-loan place
I pay a pound interest, if it takes me the
full six months to square up. But by
letting Uncle mind my trinkets for the
same length of time I am stung only
fifteen bob —sixpence in the pound a
month.
This means that to pawn is five bob
cheaper than to borrow outright. Of
course I know Uncle could chortle up
his frayed sleeve and retire with my trin-
kets at the end of the time if I’m unable
to but, provided you know you are
borrowing within your means, and pro-
vided you have the necessary jewellery,
then the pawnshop is a better idea than
the cash-loaneries.
If only pawnshops were fitted out with
lots of mirrors and gilt and smartly-
dressed windows people might quit think-
ing that by skidding into the pledge de-
partment you are skidding into some
obscure kind of disgrace.— Uncle’s Niece
(N.S.W.).
Pensions
Too right, pensions aren’t all right in
all cases (B. 20/11/ ’4O). Take the case
of poor old Hector Dubeedad on the old-
age pension. Suppose Hector could write
and talk a bit and got some freelance
work for newspapers and radio stations.
Wouldn’t the pension folk be down on
him like a ton of bricks to know what he
was earning in excess of his pension
rights?
Then take the case of a Government
pensioner who gets £5OO a year and does
a bit of spruiking at three guineas a night.
Will the Government dock him ? Not
on your life! — Pinchgut (N.S.W.).
Slums
It will take more than “Enoch’s” poli-
ticians to “sweep away such disgraces as
Sydney’s slums” (B. 23 /10/’4O). If legis-
“Don’t look down, Bert—you make me giddy .”
lation could shift them, the job would
have been done long ago.
Take the case of Victoria’s model
township, Yallourn. There, the State
Electricity Commission has planned and
maintained a garden city on the edge of
Gippsland’s Haunted Hills. The entire
place is run by the Commission. Apart
from such necessary evils as school-
teachers, postal officials and bank em-
ployees, only the Commission’s em-
ployees are permitted to live there. The
shops are owned and staffed by the
S.E.C. The houses are owned and rented
out by the S.E.C., which provides all
public services, including hospital bene-
fits, for a modest return. Even the pub
is a Commission enterprise.
The S.E.C. houses (there are none pri-
vately owned) are graded according to the
incomes of the workers. A man on a
fiver a week cannot live in a house meant
for the £B-per-week man, and vice versa.
Commodities and public utilities are the
same price to all, and all must pay for
them. The township represents the near-
est approach to civilised communal life
which Australia is likely to achieve for
many decades to come. Yet Yallourn
has a slum district, a thickly-populated
area abounding in weatherboard shacks
of depressing aspect. The streets are just
dusty roads, poorly drained and over-
grown.
If the men carrying on the work begun
by John Monash cannot keep Yal-
lourn free from the disgrace of a slum
area, what hope is there for the capital
cities? Town-planning won’t remove
slums ; housing schemes galore have been
attempted with little success, and legis-
lation on the matter has been a wash-
out. The only remedy is a steady lessen-
ing of the gulf between the “haves” and
the “have-nots,” a lightening of some of
the burden of Labor at the expense of
Capital. No, Communism is not the
answer. It lies in the sane and just con-
trol of capital and industry, something
Australia has never had. — Nairb (Vic.).
Parliament on the Air
For the last two or three years I have
often listened to the Maoriland Parlia-
ment debates over the air. As well as
being instructive, the debates were good
entertainment —some of the passages of
arms between the honorable members
were highly amusing, to say nothing of
the occasional blunders of speech.
If an Australian station were to broad-
cast the Canberra Parliament it would
soon have a huge listening public tuning
into the debates. —J. Grills (Vic.).
Wasted Water
On a recent trip of more than 1000
miles in N. S. Wales 1 was impressed by
the fact that too little use was being made
of the water in many streams. The coun-
try, for the most part, was drought-
stricken, yet every stream was taking
water away to the sea. It should be both
simple and inexpensive for many of the
farms on the banks of those streams to
use the water for irrigation, but only in
odd cases was it being done.
Generally, the water could be pumped
for irrigation without any dams or weirs,
but those would be helpful if placed at
certain strategic points along the streams.
Some farmers have shown what can be
done with simple methods of irrigation,
and droughts have no fear for them. Even
if the streams cease running they have
been able to grow so much fodder that
large reserves have been stored to tide
them over a long period of drought.
This matter of irrigation should be
pushed. I do not refer to the grandiose
schemes, such as the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area, but to irrigation where a
good stream flows through a property
or sufficiently close for the water to be
used. If the farmer cannot afford to
install a plant it should be the policy of
the Government to finance the installa-
tion on easy terms. Increased production
from irrigation would enable the farmer
to repay advances in a comparatively
short time. Where weirs or dams have
to be constructed the work could be
shared co-operatively by the farmers who
would benefit, or done by the Govern-
ment as part of a scheme for national
progress.
In N. S. Wales, for instance, the Gov-
ernment could spend on farm irrigation
the amount it has offered to spend on a
tunnel for traffic in Sydney—there would
be some return from the irrigation.— Sam
Square (N.S.W.).
Saving Water
A great part of a city’s consumption
of water is poured on to the soil of its
gardens; it is nothing unusual for a
suburban householder to use 50,000 gal-
lons every year on his garden, and if he
has extensive lawns or a grass tennis
court this figure is often exceeded. People
who think that you can’t grow flowers,
shrubs, fruit or vegetables without flood-
ing the soil with water should study the
methods of the bush gardener; they
would then learn that they’ve wasted
two-thirds of the water they used.
A case in point was that of an old
Chinese gardener whom I saw On an
outback station. Old Ah Looey didn’t
put down a hose and let it run until the
soil for. yards around was wet and soggy
enough to bog a snake, nor did he let
the sprinkler run all night. He lifted his
water in buckets from the well, dug a
hole about a foot deep alongside each
tomato bush and pumpkin vine, filled it
with water and put the earth back when
it had soaked away. That amount of
water twice a week, plus a heavy mulch
of grass all over the ground, made his
garden yield an astonishing amount of
produce.
By copying that old chap’s methods,
and with the advantages of a cooler
southern climate and a 16in. winter rain-
fall, I have managed to grow splendid
crops of vegetables year after year, all
through the summer. I dig the ground
deeply, put the manure well down to en-
courage deep-rooting, keep the top soil
stirred and a heavy mulch of straw on it.
This enables me to grow all the potatoes,
onions, carrots, tomatoes, rhubarb, pump-
kins and watermelons my family needs.
Four 4gal. buckets of water per week
keep us supplied with cucumbers and
rock melons. My wife keeps a fine show
of flowers going with 12*gal. water per
week, but —a mighty important point—
neither of us pours it on top of the soil.
We dig a hole with the spade beside each
plant and let it soak down around the,
roots.
Almost anything in the way of litter
does for garden mulch — lawn
clippings, packing straw or even layers ot
old bag or paper. Hoes and hand culti-
vators are cheap enough to buy and easy
to use, and mulching, plus a thorough
aerating of the topsoil after a rain or
watering, will enable the average gardener
to manage with about one-tenth of the
water which he now uses. — Tompion
(S.A.).
Opera for Australia
The real reason why a season of opera
by Australians is not organised (B.
13/11/ ’4O) is that business is still busi-
ness. If entrepreneurs thought money
could be made by promoting an opera
season by Australian artists they would
promote one, but they have had ample
proof that Australian audiences do not
want to see or hear Australian artists.
Marjorie Lawrence was a good
example. She came home with a world-
wide reputation and with as much and as
valuable experience as any of the foreign-
named artists which the A.B.C. imports
and Australians flock to hear. I know
little about music, but even I could recog-
nise that she had a magnificent voice. The
New York Metropolitan Opera House
doesn’t employ duffers.
At Winchelsea, her home town, where
she gave her first Australian concert,
Miss L. got the only packed house of
her tour, and even there the “best people’
of the Western District were missing,
although they think nothing of travel-
ling to Melbourne to hear someone whose
name ends in “cszk” or who has the right
to be addressed as “Sir.”
In Melbourne her houses were not
bad. Music-lovers went along, but the
crowd which appears in the dailies as
having worn ermine capes at last night’s
celebrity concert did not show up, and
there was never any difficulty in getting
last-minute seats. In Sydney her con-
certs were so poorly attended that she
expressed public disappointment, not un-
reasonably.
The same story could be told of nearly
every Australian artist who returns from
abroad after making good. Entrepre-
neurs come to the obvious conclusion,
and I for one don’t blame them. — Silvox
(Vic.).
The Abo.
Until good-meaning people started col-
lecting blacks into missions and similar
camps (B. 6/11/ ’4O) sickness was prac-
tically unknown amongst the tribes. The
healthiest and happiest blacks are the sup-
posedly neglected station workers who
for a few months each year are permitted
to revert to their natural form of life.
They have been nomads for centuries,
and to suppose that 150 years of contact
with Europeans should have changed
their desire for this mode of living is a
grave mistake.
The cruellest suggestion is to attempt
to encourage them to compete against
white men. I’ve seen many dark young-
sters taken into station homes and treated
as members of the family, and when fully
grown they are suffered by the whites and
disliked by their own race. It’s the gins
of these households that have the half-
caste families.
The happiest and healthiest natives are
the Queensland bush boys. They are reared
on an old pioneer axiom, “Never teach
a black boy to wash his hands and face.'
If well-meaning whites could only under-
stand that, the Australian native would
be more content. —A. W. B. (Q.).


Lady Keeble.
(Miss Lillah McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do yottij best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than you
thought it possible
to be.”
ir
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism defi-
nitely cultivates the
imagination, and / do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit by a
Course
I
m-
The Baroness Orezy,
“Pelmanism h a s
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph.”
y : -
m.
mm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured b.y all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak 100
highly of it.”
■:->v
■
SEr
m
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
“ The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more time and labor
than I can reckon.”
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. "We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence m our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to tram the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date
as complementary to the published opinions of prominent people illustrated at
the sides of this announcement: —
Aug. 14th. ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. I was
always under the impression that concentration
was "fixation of thought.— Printer (Vic.).
April 22nd, ’4O.
As a,n example of what Pelmanism has done
th' "following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject,
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today I suceeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oval examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself.— Officer (merchant ship).
March sth, ’4O.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson . 12.
I must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only bencfic
derived, this Course would haye been worth
while.— Clerk (Vic.).
March Bth, ’4O.
I forward my last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a great pleasure
for me, and I have enjoyed the reading and study
immensely. I complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and' know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible. —Lady Bookkeeper ( Q’land ).
Feb. loth, ’4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. I note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device. —Bank Officer ( Vic .).
Feb. Ist, ’4O.
With the help and encouragement of Pelmanism
I realised that I possessed artistic-czm-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelman Course
I found a place in' Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of —The Way to Live! —Manager {Q’land).
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.)> Melbourne
Telephone: MU2355. J-
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled "with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
Pelmanism is approved by the Army
Council in London. 160 Admirals
and Generals and nearly 100,000
other ranks have taken the Pelman
Course.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelinan Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne. .
m
•%
■■■... m
mm
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
u Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them, rightly.’’
wMmm&m
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career.”
c
liord Baden Powell.
“No man —no matter
how educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself.”
m
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
To the Pelinan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
' Name
Address
126
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription‘rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia ' and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS/ by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra)-
ne
1?
&
6*
0^
Cy'
&
20V
of
3®v ~•■•'
v o
o*


s the Radio that gets Results!
Ask the leading Short-wave Experts and Technicians about
“ULTIMATE” Performance and hear their enthusiastic praise!
798 verified Radio stations were received on a standard “Ultimate” Receiver
—a world’s record! Mr. R. N. Shaw uses an “Ultimate” Receiver to compile
the “Wireless Weekly” Short-wave notes! “Ultimate” Receivers hold nine
Champion of Champion Awards in New Zealand! An “Ultimate” Receiver
was used by the Commander R. E. Byrd Expedition to the South Pole! The
official Australian Adviser to the British Broadcasting Commission uses
“Ultimate” Receivers exclusively! Mr. L. J. Keast (Rand’wick, N.S.W.)
compiled the log of more than 400 Short-wave Stations, published in “Wireless
Weekly,” with a standard “Ultimate” 8. “Ultimate” leads everywhere!
ULTIMATE DE LUXE ALL-WAVE CONSOLES
These modern “ULTIMATE” Models, in addition to several important
exclusive improvements, retain all the features that have made
“ULTIMATE” famous. The LIGHT RAY TUNING Device (obtainable
only in “ULTIMATE”) is the last word in quick, easy and accurate logging,
especially on Short-wave Stations. Spinner (Flywheel) Tuning for quicker,
surer and smoother operation; Extended Broadcast Frequency to include
new projected Broadcast Stations; Improved Automatic Volume Control;
Photo Process Dial with Selective Illumination; Ceramic Trimmers; Con-
tinuously Variable Tone Control; Beautifully-figured Woods; Artistic
Modern Cabinets; Highest-grade Materials and Workmanship. Tone,
volume, range, selectivity, performance can be described in one word—
PERFECTION! “ULTIMATE” has only one quality—the HIGHEST!
You carlnot buy a better set!
OBTAINABLE IN 8- and 10-VALVE ALL-WAVE ELECTRIC AND
7-VALVE DUAL WAVE VIBRATOR CONSOLE.
8-VALVE TRIPLE-WAVE MANTEL MODEL
The only Set of its kind obtainable on the Australian market! Gives super-
plus performance with “ULTIMATE” reputation for dependability. Will
outclass anything you've ever heard in the way of reception. Tone is
magnificent, with full, rich, deep, mellow volume. Sensitivity of response
has to be heard to be fully appreciated. Featuring LIGHT RAY TUNING
(exclusive to “ULTIMATE”), with Spinner Control, Photo Process Dial
with Selective Illumination and many important improvements. Special
Sin. Rola Reproducer. Compact and very efficient. Specially suited for
tropical climates and outback conditions. Impregnated against humidity.
Don’t decide on a Radio Set until you’ve investigated “ULTIMATE”—
there is not a better set made!
Also obtainable in 10-valve A.C. Triple Wave and 5- and 7-valve Btsal
Wave Vibrator Models.
Specially designed for Outback Conditions*
VIBRATOR 7-VALVE MANTEL-PORTABLE
(WORLD-WAVE)
Not an ordinary Portable, but a high-quality, artistic, multi-wave
Vibrator Mantel Model with easily-attached lid. Take it anywhere
—picnics, meetings, dances, boating parties, car outings, etc., etc.—
performance tr ill always be superb under ail conditions l
There’s nothing like it for convenience, appearance, durability, depend-
ability and performance. Fully guaranteed by “ULTIMATE” reputation.
The Ideal Dual-Purpose Set for Outback Dwellers, particularly in districts
where reception is difficult. Special Features: LIGHT RAY TUNING
(obtainable only in “ULTIMATE”); High Fidelity Push-pull Output
(unusual in Vibrator Models) ; Special Bin. Rola Reproducer (sealed
against humidity), etc., etc.
Obtainable also in 5-valve World-Wave Battery Vibrator, in 6-valve
World- Wave and in 8- and 10-valve All-Wave Electric.
Mm
M
.
• 4. ;; 1
■a
WM
; v--
*,
PS
w
i^SBSSSSSSSSSSSK
&-
■ ? >
,»• • s s t>r
mm
.: . :••:
ii
m
’■ ; '• •
•• ’• ••■• :• •_•
i:
ii
m
tM
i
■
mp
ill
• I.’
;i H;
i
ivh-- \H
«
(S
-;>
i
. I
hi
HI
III;
?ny
k i
ii
III:
■
■
: •
■ :¥:
“ULTIMATE” Receivers are
ively with the World’s finest
ducer—the ROLAI
fitted
Sound
LOG CHART OF OVERSEAS ENGLISH SESSIONS.
Fill in coupon at side for your free copy.
sd
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD., 267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
FILL IN AND POST NOW.
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me without obligation copy of your
free Log Chart of Overseas English Sessions
Together with particulars of ULTIMATE Radio
Receivers.
NAME
ADDRESS
