

“Roll out
the barrel
... it might be
the Blender’s song
at Kilmarnock ”
I said
Johnnie Walker
'iHh
•Mr
*
,r
m
m
7
§jjm
/>■■' ;//
m
wglißmaSfil&t
mmm
;rtii
.gg;.
V 3 ¥'
%
Wi.. wftrMi
mam
*ippp
MMMM.
I 1 3
When the Blender gets to work at Kilmarnock, Scotland,
he calls for not one barrel but many. Each of these barrels
contains a fine whisky, fully matured, and each whisky
has its own particular distinction of flavour ot chaiactet.
In the Blender’s expert hands, these qualities are com-
bined, yet individual character is preserved, and the result
is Johnnie Walker. So, in Johnnie Walker, you get the
best whiskies Scotland makes each contributing some
thing worth-while to this distinctive blend of subtle
flavour, rare bouquet, strength and ripe age.
/
1
■JOHNNIE
WAfcKER
Born 1820 —
Still Going
Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS
i * x
LTD
LONDON,
Ait; :i
SYDNEY
J.W.100.F.C.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61.—N0. 3139.
Wednesday, April 10, 1940.
Reds Return to Their Vomit
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post us a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B 240
The Red Page
MODERN MAN .
When “Mass Observation” turned out
to be a method of inaccurately pointing
out the obvious, you don’t feel like pay-
ing much attention to quasi-scientific
stunts, but “Visual Education’s” stunt,
the source of Dr. Otto Neurath’s Modern
Man in the Making (Seeker and War-
burg ; Moore’s Bookshop), is worth
while. Dr. Neurath is Director of
the “International Foundation for Visual
Education” at The Hague. The book
is a survey of “the pilgrimage of
man,” treating its vast theme with the
utmost clarity by the letterpress and the'
“isotype” illustrations.
“Isotypes” are a crowning mercy;
they are statistics presented pictorially,
so that, instead of having to look
at great slabs of figures to find
out about the birthrate, suicide figures,
the number of motor vehicles in
Brazil or the relative strengths of the
world’s armies, you are offered colored
diagrams of infants tumbling into the
world, of people pointing revolvers at
their ears, of automobiles and of cannon.
A swift glance at one of the illustrations
—steel ingots and clenched fists —tells you
the steel production of the U.S.A. from
1927 to 1936, the relation between pro-
duction and strikes, and the number of
hours lost through strikes —and the total
is staggering.
Maps, as well as the isotypes, are
dramatically presented. There is a map
to show how the known world was
divided between the Spanish and Portu-
guese by the Pope in 1493 ; a map show-
ing the tiny fringe of the world that
was directly affected by the settlement
after the Napoleonic wars ; a map show-
ing almost the entire globe participating
in the 1919 reconstruction.
In his brief but satisfying world his-
tory, Dr. Neurath traces the progressive
unification and “proletarianising” of
mankind. The industrial revolution and
the improvement of communications were,
of course, the mainsprings of modernity,
but Dr. Neurath remembers also such
items as the transplanting of slaves to
America, “thereby adding millions of
primitives to the masses of proletarians.”
One thing he stresses is that Western
dress, manners and ideas, spreading with
increasing rapidity to all parts of the
earth, have spread not through the influ-
ence of missionaries, not so much be-
cause of ordinary trade and industry, but
because of each nation’s need for the
most up-to-date armaments. Chiang Kai-
shek’s soldiers and the Japanese bear the
white man’s burden of khaki and the
machine-gun.
As he traces this grim unification, Dr.
Neurath offers the most illuminating bits
and pieces of information. It is com-
mon knowledge that as education spreads
the rate of suicides increases. But no
country in the world has ever seen such
a leap in the suicide rate as Soviet Russia
as soon as the spread of education after
the Revolution gave the people the in-
telligence to see that the best thing they
could do with their new-found brains
was to blow them out. One other fasci-
nating item from paradise: “The trend
of modernity is towards longer life and
increasing technical equipment. Some
countries introduce one technical inno-
vation, others another. In the Soviet
Union, for example, telephones were in
general use before bathtubs.” Ponder-
ing the statistics of hours of work in con-
junction with the suicide rate in Sweden;
Dr. Neurath demonstrates that as hours
decrease suicides increase. Discussing
the falling birthrate, Dr. Neurath says
that the lack of wide family contacts is
making modern man a “problem” in the
way that the “only child” is a problem.
Kindergartens, increasing as the birthrate
decreases, supply a new kind of social
contact.
You learn that India, Spain, Italy and
Japan have hardly begun to be plagued
by the radio yet, while Australia is in
almost as sad a state as Germany, hav-
ing proportionately more radios than
France, but not yet quite as crooned-at
as Britain or the U.S.A. There are socio-
logical notes on everything from the con-
temporary mania for astrology to mor-
tality in the slums and the astonishing
“profile of personal incomes in Great
Britain.”
The book has the accidental advantage
of being almost a complete handbook to
the war. It was written
before the outbreak, so that
its estimates of the strength
of possible combinations of
Powers aren’t directly of
use, but each country’s “silhouette
of war economy” is still valid, making
an excellent guide to the effect of
the blockade, There is much emphasis on
iron production, with a diagram showing
the importance of Swedish ore, and in-
dicating the prosperous trade Sweden has
been enjoying as the world rearmed.
From one illustration alone the real
strength of the nations in mechanised
warfare becomes strikingly clear: sym-
bols representing power produced from
coal and petroleum (1936 figures) show
the United States in the lead ; Britain
next and Germany a fairly bad third ;
France is the only other country statis-
tically impressive. Italy, the Soviet and
Japan are shown as equal, with their
combined total not equal to Britain’s.
Spain and Poland are next, followed by
Mexico ; then Rumania with Brazil as
two of the most backward countries in
the world.
"The Idiocy of Idealism."
He was a total abstainer from wine,
meat and tobacco. He lived almost en-
tirely on oranges and was indifferent to
women. He was spoken of as “the man
who sees everything and foresees com-
ing events” ; he was to “rejuvenate our
human kind, reform all abuses.” He
used to retire into the country and medi-
tate new measures for the eradication
of evil. He invented elaborate festivals
to keep the people happy. He foresaw
his death as a martyr to his ideals.
And his name was not Hitler but
Robespierre, the incarnation of the
French Revolution, under whose “saintly”
direction the Terror reached its peak.
This interesting comparison is one of
the things that make Oscar Levy’s The
Idiocy of Idealism (William Hodge, Ltd.)
worth reading. He brings in Cromwell,
of course, as another example of the
militant wowser.
Described by Bernard Shaw on the
dust-jacket as “a well-known and en-
tirely tactless Nietzschean Jew,” Mr.
Levy believes that all the major troubles
of our civilisation can be traced to
Judaism and its undying hunger, born
out of the tribulations in Egypt, for a
“Kingdom of Heaven on earth.” In
all five continents, he says, Jewish values
are triumphant. He finds the origin of
Nazism in the Jewish “chosen people”
principle, the origin of Bolshevism in the
New Testament’s concern for the poor
and ignorant. As a substitute for the
ideals which, he says, have caused so
much' suffering, he wants men to “strive
after the Kingdom of this Earth” —
whatever that means.
Mr. Levy has evaded consideration of
the point that his so-called “Jewish
values” —racialism and the revolutionary
spirit—existed in the world long before
the spread of Christianity. He pays no
attention to the universal psychological
factors—discussed by Freud in Moses and
Monotheism that conditioned the
acceptance of Jewish philosophy. He
demonstrates that the germs of Nazism,
Communism and Democracy can all be
found somewhere in the Bible, but it
would take him from now till dooms-
day to prove that such principles are
“Jewish” and not merely “human.”
Leaving aside his truly “tactless” and
fundamentally unsatisfactory theory,
there remains a quick, clear analysis of
the world’s idealists and men of action
and the harm they have caused: Puritan-
ism leading to Cromwell; Rousseau lead-
ing to Robespierre; Hegel to Hitler;
Marx to Stalin. Shakspeare drew Mr.
Levy’s moral for him ages ago, when he
expressed his preference for fat men that
sleep o’ nights.
Lady info Gas-mask.
English readers, or those of them who
subscribe to the “Times,” in which the
sketches comprising Jan Struther’s Mrs.
Miniver (Chatto and Windus; Moore’s
Bookshop) were first published, are not
likely to be frightened away by its title,
but something less suggestive of another
comic charlady might have been chosen
for an overseas public. There’s a comic
char in one chapter, and a couple of
ever so comic servants in another, but
Mrs. Miniver is middle-class, not at all
comic and not even too “lovable.”
In spirit the book is not unlike Richard
Church’s Calling for a Spade, reviewed
here some time ago. Mr. Church painted
the charms of an English country cot-
tage and the destruction of those charms
when a military aerodrome was estab-
lished near by. Jan Struther portrays
an Englishwoman of perhaps the finest
type the country produces—humorous,
intelligent, immensely capable, happily
married and towards the end of the
book dresses her in a gas-mask and leaves
her entertaining evacuees in her country
cottage. Mr. Church ended on a note
of bewilderment; Mrs. Miniver, taken
on past the first shock of the outbreak
of war, is still cheerful, still humorous,
more competent than, ever,, hoping to be
able to retain when the whr is over the
new zest in life and the keener idealism
it has kindled.
Mawkishly or crudely . handled* this
story could be as sentimental as a Philip
Gibbs novel or as irritating as the cheer-
up rubbish newspaper correspondents
write about the troops. But it is beau-
tifully written (Jan Struther is a poet),
and there is not a false note in the
portrait. It is true as a war book, for
there are thousands of Mrs. Minivers
in England, but it doesn’t depend on
the war for its appeal. On a lighter,
flimsier scale, it has the same peculiarly
English charm as Francis Brett Young’s
Portrait of Clare.
Emotions, deep or shallow, are pre-
sented with rare sensitiveness. In the
first sketch, Mrs. Miniver is coming
home from a holiday, very much relieved
to find everything as she had left it:
Not that she didn’t enjoy the holidays:
but she always felt —and it was, perhaps,
the measure of her peculiar happiness—
a little relieved when they were over.
Her normal life pleased, her so well that
she was half-afraid to step out of its frame
in case one day she should find herself
unable to get back. The spell might break,
the atmosphere be impossible to recapture.
There is a similar analysis of a boy’s
reactions on coming home from school,
the necessity to shed the schoolboy per-
sonality and become the person he is at
home and the awkwardness of the opera-
tion because the home personality, as
he grows older, has to be a little differ-
ent each time.
Mrs. Miniver does the sort of things
that everyone does: enthuses with her
husband over the new car but secretly
regrets the old; goes shopping; feels
ashamedly glad when unwelcome guests
get the ’flu and can’t come to dinner ;
takes a delight in the children’s fire-
works display ; finds something to laugh
at when the family are trying on their
gas-masks: obviously an Everyman (or,
rather, Every woman) novel, but with the
difference in the approach that the author
doesn’t see everyone as an anonymous
nobody, but as an individual somebody.
The picture of war-time England rings
trite: “The structure of our life is
lamentably wrong; but its texture,
oddly enough, is pleasant. There is a
freshness about, a kind of rejuvenation:
and this is largely because almost every-
body you meet is busy learning to do
something.”
E. M. Delafield’s The Provincial Lady
in War-Time (Macmillan), attempting to
do almost the same thing as Mrs. Miniver,
might have its audience, but it’s guaran-
teed to cause as much pain in the male
neck as a meeting of the Housewives’
Association. Here are Aunt Blanche, Aunt
Blanche’s friend Serena and “old 1 Mrs.
Winter-Gammon,- known to those who
suffer under her merry ways as ‘Granny
80-Peep.’ ” The Provincial Lady, in-
defatigably bright, tells of their pranks
in her diary. The sketches, besides
pointing the moral that chatty journalism
is worthless in book form, server the
useful purpose of reminding one that
there are stranger things than the bird
house at the Zoo.
Portrait of a South African .
Something the opponents of “im-
perialism” usually forget when they are
criticising Britain’s history in South
Africa, not very edifying until recent
years, is that the Boers themselves were
“imperialists.” Gustav Baumann, whose
interesting autobiography The Lost
Republic has been published by Faber,
became reconciled to British rule after
the Boer War and shows himself
throughout as a most moderate and
fairminded man, but his condemnation
of British inroads into Boer territory is
never once tempered by recognition that
the Boers in their day had dispossessed
the natives.
Such instances of British cruelty as the
pig-sticking of his brother and another
Boer prisoner of war by a drunken com-
pany of Lancers, the hardships suffered
by prisoners in dilatory and overcrowded
trains, and the insults he himself was
offered by high-handed officers, he is
willing to excuse on the ground that
these things are inevitable in war. But
it simply doesn’t occur to him to blame
the Boers for any of the horrors of the
Kaffir wars. The natives were rebels
and murderers, the memory of their out-
rages is the origin of “the seeming
coercive attitude of white South Africa
to black South Africa,” and when
Baumann as a J.P. had negroes flogged
he was treating them justly and even
with kindliness, because flogging was
something they could understand. You
might say with truth that Boers are in a
different category from negroes, but that
makes the Boer at least as much of an
“imperialist” as the English in Maori-
land, the Yanks in the land of the red-
skin, and Musso. in Abyssinia.
Mr. Baumann —in a very timely state-
ment when anti-British feeling in South
Africa is in the news recognises that
British imperialism is not without its
virtues:
To be fair to the English, as soon as
their conscience pricks them about their
misdeeds they do take notice. They lost
thousands of lives in conquering the two
little republics, and they spent millions in
building >ip the country again; they gave
us a constructive government, and dis-
tributed three million pounds amongst the
sufferers on our side.
In 1914 Mr. Baumann and those he
calls “we old Free Staters” threw in their
lot with Britain; he says that “the cause
for which my boys fought was the only
cause for which they could conscien-
tiously live.”
His reasonable and generous attitude to
Britain, if it can be taken as represen-
tative, makes Mr. Baumann’s book
politically interesting. It is historically
important as a record of the Orange Free
State’s 48 years of independent govern-
ment. When the Boers and the Basuto
were at odds in 1854 the British with-
drew and left them to fight it out. The
neighboring Boer State of the Transvaal,
seeking to extend its territory, threatened
the Free State with armed invasion.
Nothing came of that, and the republic
was left alone till the Basuto were beaten,
when the British took them under the
protection of the Crown. Diamonds were
discovered and John Bull annexed the
diamond fields. Then came the Jameson
Raid in the Transvaal, the outbreak of
war, and the disappearance of the Free
State when the peace was signed in 1902.
As a surveyor, Mr. Baumann took a
peculiarly keen interest in the conflict
of native, Boer and British claims to the
land, and he writes with authority. He
writes with humor, too, and his stories
of Boer land squabbles—the disputes be-
tween neighbors that arise in all outback
communities —are as amusing as they are
illuminating. His quiet personal story
of financial failures and successes is
given excitement by the number of times
he just missed making a fortune out of
gold or diamonds, and the Kaffir and
Boer wars give him plenty of material
for dramatic anecdotes.
Plants of New Zealand: Laing and
Blackwell (Whitcombe and Tombs).
Fourth edition of a book as distinguished
for the vividness with which it is written
as for the completeness of the informa-
tion. New matter has been added to
bring it up to date.
Philip’s School Atlas (Geo B. Philip,
Ltd., Sydney). Covering the world but
specialising in Australia, this has a sup-
plement of illustrations —featuring every-
thing Australian from Van Diemen to
“Flag Stuck in Dead Whale” —that might
even make them creep willingly to school.
An admirable job, with a new map of
Europe showing Poland and Czecho-
slovakia in their 1940 situations.
Exit, a Dictator: E. Phillips Oppen-
heim (Hodder and Stoughton ; Moore’s
Bookshop), Exiled Russian Grand Dukes
and Duchesses plotting very seriously in
England the “rehabilitation” of Russia.
Mysterious drugs and ruthless Bol-
sheviks. Right triumphs. “All the
characters in this book are entirely
imaginary and have no relation to any
living person.”
“Confucius Worse Confused”: The
commentators who are to explain Ezra
Pound’s Cantos (R.P. 27/3/’4O) have
already been at work. It may help the
troubled to know that W. B. Yeats (who
ought to know, because he heard it from
Pound himself) said that they are being
written in the form of a Bach fugue, and
that Ronald Bottrall (who ought to know,
because he has mastered Pound’s tech-
nique and uses it himself) says that it
is nonsense to speak of the Cantos as
a fugue.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —avoiding all that is false.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
20 DAYS GENUINE AUTUMN
A
•v
/tr.
mm
\\
A
.jp
1
&
X:
I
m
am
mm
This is a Sale for EVERYBODY. Those who wish
to satisfy present needs, and those who would
build a reserve for the future at prices that mean
definite savings. To buy now means a saving in
the future. It means, too, that you buy quality
merchandise that will last. Be thrifty . . . and
buy winter requirements at these genuine sale
savings.
35/- Dressing Gown
There is nothing like a warm Dressing
Gown for comfort in the winter months.
Look ahead, and secure one of these
quality gowns at a Sale price. Men's
All Wool Tweed Dressing Gowns in
276
smart overchecks with contrast collar, cuffs and pockets,
silk cord girdle. Choose from shades of grey and marone
or blue. 36 to 44 chest. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
35/-. SALE PRICE 27/6
17^6,19/6 Cardigans
All Wool Fancy Jacquard Cardigans,
V-neck; smart new patterns on grey,
blue, fawn or brown grounds. Sizes
Men's and OS.
126
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices: 17/6, 19/6
SALE PRICE 12/6
11
7/6 Work Shirts
The "Bushman" Work Shirt, made in our own
workrooms from a reliable British fabric; fitted
with collar, pocket attached, double sewn seams.
Blue and heather shades. Sizes 14-j to 19 inch
neck. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 7/6.
SALE PRICE 6/11
6'ii
9/6
Underwear
Natural All Wool Underwear, medium winter
weight, soft make, in Undershirts with short
sleeves, Underpants ankle-length. Sizes 34 to 44
chest or waist. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
9/6. SALE PRICE 6/11
6'n
BBS
2/11 Half Hose
"Hordura" (Regd.) Fancy Cashmere
Half Hose is dependable and will
give entire satisfaction. All wool,
except ornament; in a big variety of
jacquard and check designs. Navy,
26
grey, fawn, and
lar Price 2/11.
brown. Anthony Horderns' Regu-
SALE PRICE 2/6
• Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports of the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY 'PHONE: M 2401: DAY and NIGHT


PAYDAY
“Don’t you worry about your ’ plane—the niggers are sure to be scared stiff.”
By PHIL DORTER.
IT’S been a hell of a shift and I’m glad when I
pull the six-foot steel out of the last hole. I
heave the machine off the arm and stagger and
grunt with it to the other end of the stope. When
I drop it against the wall the handle grazes my shin
and I swear like mad. I’ll be glad to get out of the
mines. No more grafting my inside out a thousand
feet underground ; no more snarling and cursing while
a clattering machine jams on loose quartz and squirts
oil and muck all over me; and no more sweaty,
gritty dungarees and flannels.
I’ve often made up my mind to get out before,
but each time I’ve spent a few quid or lent a few and
then I’m below again trying to raise enough cash to
quit. But I mean it this time.
Back at the face I’ve just bored I get Joe to
help me take the arm off the bar and then pull the
bar down. Joe’s all right—easy to get on with and
works like a bullock—but he’s got no guts. Been
bogging for ten years, and here I am on a machine
after only two years of swinging a shovel. But that’s
the trouble with most of the mining crowd. Good
mob, really, but not enough sense to pull up and
think. If they did they’d realise that they aren’t get-
ting anywhere, that there’s nothing ahead of them
except a pension—if their lungs hold out long enough
for them to spend it.
We lug the bar to the other end of the stope and
squat on our heels for a breather. Joe rolls a smoke
and asks me if I’m still thinking about getting out of
the mines.
“My oath,” I say. “I’ll draw my pay today and
square up round town. That’ll leave me enough
to see me through till next payday, then I’ll be
in the clear with fourteen or fifteen quid to get me
out of the joint.”
Joe’s not very interested. “Sounds all right,” he
grunts.
“ ’Course it’s all right,” I tell him. “If more of
you blokes stopped to think you’d realise it too and
there’d be less bloody miners eatin’ out their lungs
for pot-bellied directors to sit in their armchairs and
rub their hands every time they see the dividends.”
But ten years underground have done something
to Joe. “I dunno,” he says ; “once you wrap your fist
around the handle of a banjo you’ll be swinging one
all your life.”
I’m fed up with hearing Joe say that; he’s just too
damn’ lazy to think for himself a bit. “It’s near
knock-off,” I say. “Better load up and fire.”
We go back to the face, and I load the holes while
Joe rolls sausages of paper and sand to pack in after
the fracteur. When they’re finished he holds the two
lamps while I light a firing-stick and hold it to the
fuses. I watch the hiss of sparks, red through the
yellow powder smoke, to make sure they’re all burning,
then we both clamber down out of the stope and wait
where the crosscut runs into the main drive to count
the shots.
The first thumps a rush of air through the drive
and blows out our lamps; I count the other thirteen
aloud. “That’s the lot,” I say. “C’mon and get some
air.”
Joe strikes a match and lights both lamps, and we
slush off in the mud along the drive to the nlat. Other
lamps are blinking in the darkness and gleaming on
the rails ahead of us, and when we reach the plat most
of the shift are already there. They’re rolling smokes
or filling in their plods by the smoky yellow light, or
talking and laughing above the grunt of the pump in
the pump chamber. They all smell of sweat and their
faces are streaked with grease and mud, but they all
feel pretty good because it’s payday.
A cage flashes past, taking men to a lower level,
and they yell a good-natured curse at us as they go.
We curse back at them, but they’re fifty feet further
down by then. Presently the cage rushes up again,
hauling men from a wet level with their water-
proofs and helmets dripping water and gleaming in the
light. Three or four more trios and then the case
sto ps at the six-hundred and four of the afternoon shift
step out. The timbermen go up first and then Joe and
j push in with the next batch. In a few seconds
we’re blinking in the afternoon sun.
--p jjg dust and gr j t 0 f underground always feel
I worse wben yOLI come to t h e to top . tb e f resb a j r
evaporates the sweat on your clothes and makes you
shiver, and your boots feel twice as heavy. Joe and
j drag our f eet towards the changeroom, and as we
drop our p j ods j n the box at the shift-boss’s office I
tell Joe to look at the forty or more men hanging
around the door of the office.
“There’s mining for you,” I say. “Look at that
Half a hundred of the poor devils. They’re
f half ' Starved l and all wondering if it’s worth while
hanging around any longer on the chance of getting
some f The red-headed bloke s been waiting for a
mon ‘
Joe § runts something about everyone getting a
break, .and we push into the changeroom. There’s
fift y men already changing. Most of them are stripped
naked and red with steam rising from their bodies
a sb° weis - They re shouting and laughing
and flicking one another with towels or pinching one
ano^ l s clothes. It s good in the changeroom—you pull
off yo y r dun S a rees and flannel and wash the under-
ground oft you with plenty of soap and a hot shower ,
then you P ull on a clean P air of P ants and a soft
s jik shirt and foreet about work for sixteen hours
SIIK smn ana ror s el aDOUI worK lor slxleen nours.
“There’s another fifty miners for you,” Joe says
with a grin. “And they don’t seem particularly
miserable.”
That makes me sore. “Yair,” I say. “That’s all
ri ghfi but the y ,]ll all be here again tomorrow getting
rea dy to go underground again, and they won’t be half
so cheeky then.”
Joe laughs. “But they’ll all knock off again,” he
says, and grabs his towel and runs for a shower.
I’m still sore when we get outside and go across
for our pay.
We count it, and Joe says “Mining’ll do me if I
can get this every payday.”
I shove my money into a pocket and grab my bike
from the heap. “It won’t do me,” I tell him. “I’ll
make more than that farming a few acres. And I’ll
t> e my own boss.”
We wheel our bikes over to the track and swing
on to ride to town. As we reach the road Joe slows
down and waits for me to come up with him. There’s
half a dozen cockies stretched out on sugar-bags in
what little shade a clump of mulga offers. Their faces
are red from the sun and wind, and they’re thin from
poor tucker. Joe nods towards them. “Weren’t you
talking about farming?” he asks. “Well, there it is.
Those poor swine have chucked it to try digging for
gold. Look as though they haven’t had a feed for
years.”
But I’ve thought a lot about cockying. “It’s their
own fault,” I say. “They come up north to a blasted
desert to try and grow wheat. They chuck
in a few bagfuls and then wonder why in
hell they don’t make a fortune. If they had
any sense they’d have gone down south
with pigs and fruit and milk and things.
Mixed farming’s the only thing nowadays.”
Joe doesn’t know anything about farm-
ing, so he keeps his mouth shut, and pres-
ently we bowl up the main street. I leave
Joe at the corner because I don’t want to
get caught up with the mob he drinks with.
They’ll be in the pub until eleven o’clock,
and they’ll be drunker than lords and pretty
well broke when they come out. I ride
down to the mess and pay my fortnight’s
board to Ma Smith. “You won’t be get-
ting much more out of me,” I tell her. “I’m
pulling out next payday.”
Ma is as hard as they come, and she doesn’t bat an
eyelid. “There’ll be someone to take your place,” she
says. “There’s plenty of ’em looking for work.”
“They can have it,” I tell her, and collect my
change and go back up town to pay my other bills,
wondering what to do with myself.
Most of the mob make for the pub on payday
and a chap gets pretty lonely if he’s not spending. I
stand in the sun for five minutes telling myself that
I’ll spend too much if I go into the pub. But the day
seems hotter and dustier than usual, and there’s a little
trickle of sweat tickling between my shoulders. There’s
sweat on my face, too, and on my legs, and it’s making
my pants sticky and uncomfortable. I tell myself that
I won’t go into the pub because I’m afraid of getting
drunk, and then I reckon a man’s not much good if he
can’t knock off after a couple of drinks if he wants to.
[ N the P ub th^ re ’ s a bi § cr ° wd hanging ° n 1° tbe bar ’
and re bellied up three deep e in , s oving
and pushing to get drinks. The barmaids faces are
shiny with sweat and they re almost run off their feet,
but they’re laughing and chipping the boys because
there’s plenty of money about. There’s beer slopped
all over the counter and spilling to to the floor to make
mud with the sawdust and cigarette-butts,
I wander round looking for room to get a drink,
and Joe sees me. “Hi, Chap! ”he yells. “Be in on
this.”
Fm going to dodge j oe and his mob and say I’m
i nn Hn<r fnr someone hut Toe has a erin on his face
, • t . , ’ t saueeze j n w ith him
and IS . pleased t 0 See me ’ 80 * i s^ueeze j l “ ™ ltn ™
and h J s I ? ob ‘ I
aVC “w 11 m °! C t f roiind ” ’
' Say e ’ on y , S y *. . . ,
Bu t when there ’ s five of you drlnking 11 s easy
to forget whose shout it is, and when everyone has
money in his pockets it’s easy to shout and make
good fellows of yourselves. So we go on drinking, and
soon we’re all pretty full and friendly and talking like
a women’s meeting. I tell them I’m getting out of the
mines, and that ‘means another round to celebrate,
Then somebody suggests a feed and we all go on up
to the tea-rooms with a couple of bottles.
A grilled steak soaks up some of the beer, and
after a couple more drinks we’re all primed up and
looking for something to do. Ekka says “Let’s have
a party and bring some women in ” But I know what
Ekka’s women are like and say Damn the women-
come and see if theft's anything doing at the heads
and tads scboob
j oe and a couple of his cobbers are married and
don ’ t like fooling about with women if they can get
out of it? so the school it is . We tra ii ou t of the main
street and across the paddock, kicking stones and tins
about and ma king a lot of noise; and we whistle a
coup i e G f g j r i s ahead of us and then swear at them
wben tbe y don ’t take any notice of us.
The smoke in the room at the back of the old
. b i ow holes in
° P , , f Y , Call ° noies . ln
it > and the two big lamps above the table are cutting
’ ° * . ~ wnt „ h
wed & es °f hght down on to the table. We watch
f° r about half an hour, and then, when Pat Mac-
Donald breaks heads four times I take a cross bet
for a quid that he 11 miss. He heads em and I m
a quid down. But I reckon he’s due to tail ’em, and
I bet a quid twice and then ten bob. I lose each time
and I m not game to bet any more , then I curse
myself for a fool when he loses next throw,
I’ve only a quid and some silver left in my
pocket, so I stand out for a while. But I’m pretty
drunk and reckless, and after watching for half an
hour I think I’ll try to make up my losses. A young-
ster whose luck has been dead out gets the box and
pu ts a quid down. I cover it straight away and he
throws tails, so I take the box.
jp s a funny thing about dice. You can tell
another bloke to play cautious, but when you’re
(Continued on next page.)


rattling ’em yourself you can’t resist going after the
big stuff. Even when you’re having a good run you
know that you’re bound to tail ’em in the end ; but
when the money on the table runs into double fig-
ures you can’t resist the idea of doubling it. I throw
six heads in a line, and there’s sixty-four quid in
front of me. I know I should break it up or cover
myself, but the mob are wondering if I’m game to
go on, and I’m drunk enough to want to show them
that I am. So when Sandy Blake picks up the dice
and puts them in the box and passes it on to me I
ask “Any comers?” A prospector puts down thirty
quid and the crowd mutter and shove for five
minutes until there’s over a hundred quids’ worth of
big and small bets on the table.
There’s not a sound in the room. Everyone has
bumped his cigarette and they’re all leaning forward
into the wedge of light and breathing thickly. I’m
sweating on the forehead and my hands are sticky
when I pick up the box. I don’t want to let the
dice go, but at last I spill them out. The three little red
cubes bounce across the green baize as though they’re
never going to turn up. Then one shows heads and
one tails. The other is still rolling, and in the half-
second it takes to stop I lean forward and grip the
edge of the table. It turns up a white T.
WHEN I first get outside the cold air after the
hot, smoky room makes my head spin and my
stomach turn. I lean under a street light for a
minute and count my cash. There’s eight shillings
and sevenpence halfpenny, and I puzzle over the
halfpenny for a minute, but I’m too fuddled to
remember where I got it. Mining’s a hell of a game,
I tell myself, and I’ll get out of it next payday when
I’ve got a few quid in my pocket. Then the cool
breeze flowing from inland clears my head and I see
the joke and feel a bit better. I’ve lost all my pay
and done everything I reckoned I wouldn’t; but I
had over a hundred quid on the table, and nobody’s
done that for months. I laugh to myself and wander
up to the pub to tell the mob about it.
RETURN JOURNEY
By E. DITHMACK.
IT was eight o’clock when Tom answered the con-
ductor’s signal and started the rail-motor off on
the slow thirty-mile journey inland. The night
was as black as pitch, and the single track with
the two white ribbons of rails unwound like an end-
less snake before him. In the small mirror above him
he could see the crowded carriage behind him, the
passengers sitting with quiet, stolid faces as though
undergoing some ordeal.
The sight of them added to Tom’s annoyance.
He felt an unreasonable surge of anger towards them.
Sitting there like a lot of Jobs as though it was his
fault they’d be late getting home. He let out the
clutch and the motor gathered speed, rocking the
two carriages from side to side, filling the cutting
with a rumble like prolonged thunder. Then they were
out again, careering along the level country with the
lights reflected on post-and-rail fences, on pools of
water beside the line.
Peter Rays swayed up the aisle and sat on the
driver’s seat beside him. “You’re running late to-night,
Mac,” he said.
“Yes,” Tom agreed.
“What’s the trouble?”
“Mail train a bit late going out.”
Peter slowly rubbed some tobacco between his
palms and rolled a cigarette. “Have one?” he asked.
“Not just now, thanks.”
A match flared for a second, lighting up Peter’s
leathery face, then was flicked out. He sat back,
crossed his legs with a gesture of content and blew
out a cloud of smoke. Tom stared ahead into the
night. At the rear of the carriage the conductor was
getting some cream cans ready to put off at the first
stop. Blasted cream cans! They were always there,
either coming on or going off, rattling and jangling
at a man’s nerves.
“See young Donel off today?” Peter asked.
“Yes.”
“Bit of a wrench, eh?”
“Yes —I suppose so.” He wasn’t going to tell
Peter Rays how he felt about it. He wasn’t going to
tell, anyone. That was his affair. They’d been at him
ever since the boy’s train had gone out, wanting to
shout him, jolly him, make him forget. Well, that
was something that no one could do.
He slowed the motor down, then stopped, waiting
with taut nerves for the rattle of cans. The gatehouse-
keeper stepped off the platform and peered up at him
through the rim of light cast by her lantern. “See
young Donel off today?” she asked.
“Yes, I saw him off.”
She slapped at the swarming mosquitoes and said
with sincerity, “Hope he comes through all right.”
The starting signal came again, and he waved to
the woman as the motor drew slowly forward.
A pitch-dark night and lightning flickering in
the west. Hot and sultry. No wonder he felt tired.
“What did Donel think of it?” Peter asked.
“Oh, he didn’t mind.” He’d tell no one of that
tense young face looking back at his own, of his
sense of loss as the train pulled out. Memory had
been like a live thing between them —a lamplit room
and a young boy with lessons pushed aside, eager
face cupped in grimy hands and a treble voice saying
“Tell us about Pozieres, dad.”
He’d hidden things then —told only of the glory
of battle, of comrades who had made splendid sacri-
fices, of noble deaths. But with Donel reaching man-
hood and war in the air again there had been other
things to tell —brutal and horrible things.
“Well, dad, you went through with it, and so
can I.”
“If that’s how you feel about it”
“That’s how I feel.”
And Donel, thrusting his hand out of the window
of the troop train, had said, “Look after yourself, dad.
I’ll come back all right.”
The boy’s mother had hovered in the background
and he’d moved aside to let her say good-bye. He
wondered how she was feeling tonight—whether she
reproached herself with those lost years when they
might all have been together.
r T' HEY were passing farmlands now, only odd lights
* here and there shining through the oasis of dark-
ness. Rumble of thunder came intermittently with
more frequent lightning flashes. A few houses were
huddled round the next stopping place, and a wire-
less was blaring at full blast. A few murmurous voices
came from the dusky platform—a youth’s flippant
remark, a girl’s giggle. The stationmaster handed the
staff to Tom and asked genially, “Well, did young
Donel get away all right?”
“Yes—he got away all right.”
“Ah, well, it’s great to be young, isn’t it?”
“Blast him!” Tom thought, savagely starting the
motor again. “Blast them all!” He felt sour and
bitter, ready to quarrel with anyone. Why couldn’t
they leave him alone instead of prying into his feel-
ings—Peter, contentedly smoking; all those stolid
waiting people at the back bumping and swaying with
the carriages ; the gatehouse-keepers?
Peter’s voice was raised above the rattle. He
talked of the war, the weather, the prices of crops.
Mark Fielding’s corn —had Tom noticed it ? He d
never seen corn like it in his life before. And Ronnie
Day’s potatoes —cripes! they were the size of your
two shut fists.
Phyllis would see Donel in Brisbane. Perhaps
they’d get married before he left. Tom could just
fancy her saying “I’ll be true to you, Donel. There 11
never be anyone else.” They all said that. If time
rolled back for twenty-five years he could hear Nettie
saying it —promising to stick to him through thick
and thin. So she had, for a while. She’d married
him when he came home, had borne and mothered
Donel until he was ten years old and then something
in her had seemed to collapse.
You didn’t feel so young once you came back.
That had been the trouble. “You’re such a stodge,
Mac,” she’d complained. “Can’t we get out more?”
He’d felt tired, weary. “You returned men!” Nettie
had flared. “You get all the sympathy. What about
us —the wives? Aren’t we entitled to anything?”
“What do you mean?” he’d asked, puzzled.
“You’ve got your men back. What more do you
want?”
“We’ve got our men back, but we didn’t bargain
for wrecks. Remember, Tom, most of us were kids
when the war started and we had to close down on
all pleasure. It was all work and sacrifice, and now
the war’s over it’s still all sacrifice. It’s not much of
a life with you always tired.”
“I’m sorry, Nett,” he said. “I can’t help it.”
He’d laughed to cover his hurt.
But Nettie had found it no laughing matter. “I’ve
had enough of the war,” she declared. “It began when
I was seventeen and it’s stuck to me ever since. But
I’m getting out of it now. If the war’s going to claim
you for the rest of your life it’s not going to claim
me.”
He and Donel, they’d managed together all right.
They hadn’t gone whining to her to come back, but
his mind still shied away from the memory of that
first loneliness. It hadn’t been in Donel to let him
down, and even now the boy would have stayed if he’d
said the word, but the Mclntyres weren’t built that
way.
PEOPLE were beginning to get out at some of the
sidings now. Mothers with sleepy youngsters ;
men who’d had a day in town. Most of them knew
him. “Night, Mac,” they called as they disappeared
into the darkness. Then he was off again, with the
rain coming down and pressing against the window
screen, obliterating the line. Lights came up out of
the night, approached and disappeared. He felt
drowsy listening to the wheels’ refrain: “Donel
Mclntyre’s gone to the war. Donel Mclntyre’s gone
to the war.”
They were rattling down the slope now like a
galloping horse scenting home. Massed lights came
up from the enfolding darkness —the headlights of cars
sent rays of illumination along the wet ground. Gal-
loping for home! But there’d be no one waiting for
him.
He pressed the horn as the rail-motor rounded
the curve. Everyone began to gather up parcels and
ports. Faces on the platform came out of the murk.
Everywhere were calling “Good night, Mac.
Young Donel get safely away?” “Hope it’s over
before he gets there.” “Good luck, Mac.”
He felt immensely old, disgruntled. His wounded
leg pained him as he walked up the hill in the steady
rain. It’d be rotten going into an empty house, seeing
Don’s things lying about —their breakfast dishes still
on the table.
“It’s the war,” he thought resentfully, “the blasted,
flaming war.”
He turned into the street, lifting his eyes from
custom towards the house. There was a light in the
back part shining warmly against the background of
trees, like the eyes of a friend soft with greeting. He
opened the gate and hurried up the path wondering
who it could be at this hour.
The old woman from next door rose to greet
him as he stood in the doorway, her wrinkled face
and fat body like a barrier between him and the
empty room. “Thought y’ might be a bit lonely
cornin’ home without Don,” she said. “Y’r supper’s
all ready.”
“Thanks,” Tom said, putting his cap on the table.
“Thanks, Mrs. Petersen, but you oughtn’t to have
bothered.”
“It’s no bother,” she assured him. “An’ just pop
in next door for a bite any time y’ don’t feel like
cookin’, or if y’re a bit lonely. Me and Nils —we know
what it is”
He watched her as she went down the stairs, her
heavy feet plonking at each step. The house was no
longer lonely. Out of the emptiness he seemed to feel
the spirit of friendliness pressing towards him —the
old woman ; Peter, and those others on the train. He
wondered wherever he’d got the idea from that it was
a blasted, flaming war!
“Here come a couple of Dee-gars. They’ll make her speak."


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
Jftfyd mellmmcld andJmuqjuei
AN ADMINISTRATIVE AREA.
Politically and socially London possesses no more interesting section to the visitor, no matter from what quarter of the world he or she
may hail, than that comprised in the illustration, from a photograph taken on the roof of the House of Lords. “His Majesty’s Faithful
Commons” abode is not visible, neither is the Tower housing “Big Ben,” a London “celebrity,” though essentially out of the ordinary
run. While overlooking, in part only, the quarters of the Commons, glancing across Westminster Bridge is the headquarters of the London
County Council. This vast building is the home of an organisation in local government not surpassed, if indeed equalled, in the
world in interest and importance. The impressive structure, with its distinct suggestion of Dutch architectural tradition, is calculated on
that point alone to appeal specially to citizens from the South African Union. Few realise the immensity and importance of the work
performed by the London County Council in exercising an almost parental jurisdiction over close upon eight millions of people. The
Council has to face economic and social problems of an intricacy and magnitude never previously presented to any body upon which
had been conferred such wide powers of civic government. Barely fifty years old, “London’s Parliament” has a record of achievement
unique in the history of local administration. From every centre of the civilised globe students of problems allied with life as presented
where vast masses of human beings congregate have found from the work records in the County Council “home” themes for contemplation
and, let it be admitted, admiration. When the world settles down to an era of permanent peace, it may be safely predicted that this vast
establishment, “just across Westminster Bridge,” will become more and more a world centre for those who recognise the growing
import, in all great centres of population, of phases of communal life the reverse of static, and nowhere more strikingly exemplified
than in the world’s, as well as the Empire’s, capital.


The Bulletin
Vol. 61. —No. 3139
April 10, 1940
“WHO ARE YOU SHOVING?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Slate cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ); 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the A.I.F. Abroad:
Half rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WAR CHANGE PREDICTIONS.
After seven months the war that practically every-
body believed would begin with wholesale indis-
criminate slaughter still refused to get going, though
a change was being predicted. Mr. Churchill’s read-
ing of the signs and portents was that “an intensifica-
tion of the struggle is to be expected.” This was “inter-
preted”—official utterances these days call for inter-
preters —as “implying, first, a decisive tightening up
of the blockade, and, second, a British and French
diplomatic counter-offensive in the Balkans.” To this
somewhat tame conclusion —as bearing any re-
semblance to ideas of war —intensifying the war on the
military front also was added by some unnamed
interpreter as, it would seem, an afterthought.
These unnamed interpreters are no doubt identi-
fiable as the same journalists who have brought mis-
interpretation to a fine art during recent years, but,
even without their help, Mr. Churchill might not be
regarded as the most trustworthy of prophets. In
the same speech he described in his trenchant
style how the Mighty Soviet’s onslaught on the
nationally microscopic Finns had “exposed to the
whole world the ravages which Communism makes
upon the fibre of any nation which falls a victim to that
deadly mental and moral disease.” Accurate enough,
both as to fact and as an interpretation of the speech
in which Molotov, about the same time, announced
that Russia did not now want to be involved in any
“big war,” the courageous Kremlin preferring its
victims small, like Finland, or already beaten, like
Poland. In a very much earlier speech—some 20 years
earlier —Mr. Churchill had spoken of the “foul, filthy
butchers from Moscow,” but in the meantime —in fact,
as recently as May last year—he had demanded that
“a full and solid alliance should be made with Russia
without further delay.”
Prophecy coupled with such acrobatic talent might
put even Madame Tabouis out of business, though this
time Mr. Churchill and his interpreters could easily
be right. If the positive and final decision postulated
in official declarations of Allied war aims is to be
concluded, there might well have to be a change.
Britain and France cannot go on for ever expending
£6,000,000 and £4,000,000 a day respectively. Unless
they produce real results by such means they must
be driven to try something else. If the war could be
won that way, without any terrible holocaust of
slaughter, it would be a grand thing. There is no
very convincing evidence that it can be.
A great deal of very dubious evidence is being
paraded by special pleaders for the blockade. To
these people a book of statistics is a ventriloquist’s
dummy; they make it say what they want it to say.
They add up what Germany imported in peace-time,
estimate what the Germans should require in war-
time, subtract the former imports cut off by the
blockade, and produce nil as the sum total. It is very
impressive ; it completely convinces a host of simple
souls ; and certainly it would be wonderful if it were
true and if war were as easy as all that.
Tragically, it is not true. Very largely belief in
it is based, not so much on the torrential flood of
supporting statistics as on the composite fallacy that
this was how the last war was won and that what was
done then can be better done now. As for the part
blockade played in the last war, it was highly im-
portant ; the cultivated belief is that it was decisive.
For some reason —probably natural psychological
antagonism between armchair and action —it has been
the conscious or unconscious purpose of a great many
self-appointed authorities and alleged historians to
detract from and belittle the part played by the fight-
ing forces in that last war. This has been a unique
social phenomenon of the times, a reaction, most
probably, against the well-nigh insupportable horrors
of that last war and against the idea of war in general.
Whatever the explanation of this, the fact has
been a vast conspiracy of detraction, in the course of
which the generals have been represented as imbeciles
and the rank and file as brutes. Muck has been
thrown by the bucketful on all their self-sacrificial
service. This job of besmirching and belittling was
so well done—ex-soldiers themselves joining in the
business for fat royalties—that until the Finns lately
gave a new value to sheer heroism this quality was
never mentioned without sneers. The boosting of
blockade out of its right proportion went on as part
of this curious, though not inexplicable, attempt to
spit on war and all associated with it.
The historical fact is that the war was not won,
and blockade did not show its effects, until the Ger-
mans had been conclusively beaten in the field. It
was not the leaders on the home front but General
Ludendorff who, on October 1, 1918, urgently re-
quested that “the offer of peace be transmitted at once ;
a break-through may occur at any instant.” Nixt
day Ludendorff reported that “the losses in the battle
now in progress are unexpectedly great, especially as
regards officers; this is decisive.” August 8 he
described as “the black day in Germany’s history.”
The German Army, which had stood up to four years
of terrible fighting, plus blockade, was practically on
the run. It was at the instance of German Army head-
quarters that Germany sued for peace.
There is not a scrap of convincing evidence that
a like military effort and achievement can be dis-
pensed with now if a similar result is to be reached.
There is a good deal of evidence —in the line-up of
Germany’s friends and surrounding neutrals —that
without the heavy drain of fighting on the huge scale
of the last war Germany might hang out indefinitely.
Even the most enthusiastic boosters of blockade base
their conclusions on estimates of German require-
ments in war, not in the sort of armed truce that has
so far prevailed. More impartial examiners of the
blockade weapon conclude that, with Germany this
time able to draw on Northern Europe, Russia, Italy
and Central Europe, this weapon alone is worthless.
They insist that the one sort of war Germany can
afford, or has any chance of winning, is exactly the
sort of war now in progress.
Weighing the chances all round, it would seem
that Mr. Churchill, for once, is this time more likely
right than wrong. There must be an intensification of
the war effort if —and this if could be a vital qualifi-
cation —the same result must be achieved as was
achieved last time. However, most of the surprises
caused by the development of this war so far arise
out of experiences of the last war. What is expected
all the time is repetition of what happened then, and
anything to the contrary is surprising. For the bene-
fit of diehard Fireside Fusiliers it is on historical
record that this is Britain’s thirteenth war with a Con-
tinental Power since the Spanish Armada, and that
only two of those wars ended in clear-cut victories.
It is nowhere on historical record that Britain suf-
fered to any mortal extent from the wars that did not
end like the last war and that against Napoleonic
France, and there is no evidence whatever that this
present war will have to follow along the lines of the
last war in any particular. It has been surprising so
far only because it has been different, and it might
well continue to be different. One thing only about
it is at all certain —if the same result that was achieved
last time is to be achieved again, it will not be
achieved without terrible fighting and mutual slaughter.
If, on the other hand, the general war aim of the
Allies —the ending of the perpetual threat of Nazi
brute force —can be otherwise achieved, that itself
will mark a tremendous advance for civilisation.
Reds Return to Their Vomit.
If there is any spectacle more astonishing than the
open preaching and practice of sedition in Australia, it
is the supine attitude of those whose duty it is to pro-
tect the country against internal as well as foreign foes.
Over many years they have talked a lot, but they never
do anything.
Communists prepared for their offensive with
the air of a foreign nation going to war against the
Commonwealth. After Munich they held a conference
in Sydney which vomited a mass of subversive litera-
ture. Munich was styled a betrayal of “democracy”
—they were all “democrats” and collective-security
men then. The arrangement made at Munich “could
involve Australia in a war against the Soviet Union.”
If that happened it would be “the duty of every Com-
munist and the duty of all workers and supporters of
peace to guarantee the victory of the Red Army over
the Imperialists.”
Among “the Imperialists” were the Chamberlain
Government and the Lyons Government:
The policy of Chamberlain and Lyons is to sacri-
fice small nations to the Fascist wolves, to appease
their .appetites. German Fascism wants New Guinea,
and if this is conceded the British Government would
be blackmailed to abandon Australia. Appeasement
increases the Fascist demands We must arouse the
people to oppose handing over New Guinea to Hitler.
As a first step, “Nazi agents must be swept out of
Australia and New Guinea. Everything must be done
to weaken the alliance between Fascism and reaction
in democratic countries! Lyons must go!”
The “everything-must-be-done” programme was
directed in part against Japan, Italy and nationalist
Spain. And everything that could be done by Com-
munists to embroil the Commonwealth with those
countries was done ; and the strikes, boycotts, hate
propaganda and professions of devotion to the League,
democracy and peace which comprised the Communist
effort imposed on an astonishing number of educated
Australians, not a few of whom supported the Spanish
Stalinists with donations. But all in vain. For, as a
disgusted Communist oracle put it,
When democracy and peace could have been saved
•and strengthened in China, Abyssinia, Spain, Austria
and Czechoslovakia, Chamberlain and Lyons backed the
Fascist warmongers.
For several months of 1939 the Communist press
ordered “Chamberlain” to stop intriguing with “the
Fascist warmongers” and enter into the alliance
“demanded by the people of Australia and Britain”:
an alliance with the noble Stalin against “Nazi hang-
men” and “Japanese murderers.” When the noble
Stalin betrayed the democracies, and Molotov signed
the treaty that brought slaughter and desolation to
Poland and Finland, the “Workers’ Weekly” asserted
that it was designed to prevent aggression, and would.
And when, a week later, the Horror came to Poland,
the Communist “party” issued a manifesto:
The savage German Fascists have launched a new
aggression against Poland, and the British Empire and
France are at war with Germany. This war, launched
for the purpose of the conquest of Poland and its
subjection to the Fascist Empire of Hitler, of Krupp
and Thyssen, the German monopoly capitalists, is an
act of stark aggression, without justification of any
kind whatever. Therefore, lovers of justice and liberty
throughout the entire world will support the struggle
of the Polish people for their independence and against
enslavement to a foreign Power.
“What has brought the world to this dreadful pass?”
the manifesto proceeded. “German Fascism. The
Nazi pestilence set itself the task of destroying German
democracy and the German Labor movement. .. .It
launched a wave of terror unprecedented since the
Dark Ages.”
German Fascism set itself the task of realising the
aims of German imperialism, of realising the objectives
of the German capitalists, of the enslavement of small
nations and the domination of the world.
This attitude lasted only till the Red Army
pounced on the part of Poland assigned to it. Then
“Chamberlain and Daladier” started up as the aggres-
sors. “British and French imperialism” became re-
sponsible for the war. Meanwhile, the “Workers’
Weekly,” described as “the central organ of the
Communist party of Australia,” had disappeared,
replaced by the “Tribune,” and the executive of
the “party” had mounted penitent stools. In an
apology published in the “Tribune,” it admitted that
it had mistaken the ideology of the situation or some-
thing and had been corrected from Moscow.
All references to “the Nazi pestilence” and to
“midnight stranglers” and “the drug addict Goring”
forthwith ceased. The stream of Communist objurga-
tion was diverted to the victims of these people and
of their new Moscow friends. The Poles, though
hypocritically championed when defending themselves
against “the Nazi pestilence,” became “militarists” and
“imperialists,” qualified with foul adjectives, when the
Red Army invaded the unhappy country in violation
of a non-aggression pact and of the League covenants.
The Red Army had crossed the frontier to rescue
“oppressed” Byelorussians and Jews —and incidentally
to grab parts of Poland that were never Russian, even
in the time of the Czars. And when the cowardly in-
vasion of Finland followed, also in violation of a
non-aggression pact and of the League covenants, the
Finns at once became everything that was vile —Com-
rade Kuusinen and his gang of traitors excepted. The
Finns were “agents of ffie Franco-British Imperialists,”
and as such had plotted to invade the U.S.S.R.; their
army was composed of “ferocious White Guards” ;
their national hero was “the murderous Manner-
heim” ; and so on.
Red strikes succeeded. One was started by the
A.R.U., whose official journal carries the clenched
fist of the Red United Front as its emblem, and some
of whose bosses had spat venom at the Finns in
print and on the platform. When the strike on the
Ivanhoe-Broken Hill line and the railway regulation
strikes had got going, Mr. Nelson (imp.) and Mr. Orr
(imp.), of the Miners’ Federation, came in with their
coal strike. The power of these worthies dates from
1934, when their election to office was hailed by the
“Workers’ Weekly” (then, of course, “the official
organ of the Communist party of Australia—Austra-
lian section of the Communist International”) as a
“heavy defeat for the A.L.P.”
The “left” wing of the A.L.P. began the battle and
was overwhelmingly defeated by the revolutionaries.
Even before the coal strike was launched, Reds in
some of the metal trades threatened that if something
or other wasn’t done (abandonment of the national
register was one requirement) production of weapons
and munitions would be brought to a standstill. In the
same detestable spirit was the resolution passed at
tne Easter Labor Conference at Sydney in the pres-
ence of a parcel of silent and shivering members of
Parliament; the resolution which styled the war against
“the Nazi pestilence” of early-September as “an
imperialist war,” demanded that it should be stopped,
leaving “the Nazi pestilence” triumphant, demanded
also that Australia should be prevented somehow
from committing “acts of aggression” against “the
Soviet Union.”
And in spite of all this the Attorney-General said
last week, when thousands of men engaged in vital
industries were being laid off every day, and when
the boasts and lies of “Australian” Communists were
being exultantly repeated from Berlin and Moscow
radio stations, that “I am not prepared to ban the
Communist party.” Even while he was saying it the
proceedings against the French Communist Deputies,
which began with their expulsion from the Chamber,
were drawing to a close. Forty-four were arraigned
and all were found guilty. Eight were deprived of
civil rights, and sentenced to terms of imprisonment,
though in these cases sentence was suspended ; 35, nine
of whom have fled the country, were fined 4000
francs, deprived of civil rights for five years and sen-
tenced to imprisonment for the same period; one,
who had signed a “Stop the War” letter, was fined
5000 francs, deprived of civil rights for five years and
will spend the five years in gaol. So the French are
“prepared to ban the Communist party” and go a
great deal further.
Australia has seven Governments, and if there
were any sand in them they could all do something to
scotch this foreign conspiracy. To sit idly by while
“the servile and unscrupulous agent of the ally of
Germany” (Mr. Hughes’s own expression) does in
Australia what the much more formidably entrenched
French Communist party tried to do in the Republic
is about as safe as nursing a black snake.
In Australia, as in all other countries where this
Oriental conspiracy has established itself, Communists


have openly boasted that they belong to a party of
action, ceaselessly working towards the point when
“imperialist war will be turned into civil war” and
city streets will run with blood as “capitalists” are
compelled by “force” to yield up their property. The
Communist plan, as published in white and black,
includes “the seizure of the means of production”
and simultaneously the “overthrow of the political
power of the capitalist class” (including “moderate”
Labor parties) and the inclusion of Australia in “a
federated union of Soviet Republics” along with
“backward countries of the earth, India, Egypt, China,
Idonesia,” all “freed from the domination of
Imperialism” and all “on a status of equality.”
In Paris at the week-end Communists engaged in
national-defence work were arrested under a new
decree which renders “persons found preparing or
disseminating Communist propaganda” liable to the
death penalty. In Sydney members of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation were refusing to load a
flour ship, and were being “justified” by the general
secretary of their union, a blatant and notorious Red.
This outrageous interdict, though withdrawn on
Monday after introduction of the licensing system had
been threatened, may call the bluff of political parties
which appear to regard Communism rather as some-
thing to be explained away or as a weapon by means
of which elections may be won than as a menace to
the very existence of the Australian Commonwealth.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chatfield Out; Churchill Up.
“To bring victory nearer,” Mr. Chamberlain has made
a number of changes in his Ministry. They relate
chiefly to Sir Kingsley Wood, who was Secretary for
Air; Sir Samuel Hoare, who was Lord Privy Seal—
they have been ordered to swap jobs —Lord Chatfield,
who was Minister for Co-ordination of Defence, and
Mr. Winston Churchill, the First Lord of the
Admiralty. Lord Chatfield has been dropped, leaving
the War Cabinet without a trained man of war, and
Mr. Churchill has been appointed chairman of “a
committee of service Ministers, which, after consulta-
tion with chiefs of staffs, will make recommendations
on the general conduct of the war.”
Lord Chatfield was Beatty’s flag-captain and
afterwards Admiral of the Fleet. He is only a year
older than Mr. Churchill, but association with Mr.
Churchill on terms of equality is fatal to admirals.
Like Fisher, Wilson and Bridgman, Lord Chatfield
stood in the way of the restless and reckless politician
who “dines at Blenheim once a week,” so out he goes.
The “retired” admiral had a bad press. Mr.
Churchill has an amazingly good one. When the
news of his promotion arrived, “S. M. Herald” called
him “prescient and fearless,” and went into a rhap-
sody of nouns and adjectives about “his firm hands
and bold imagination,” his “most resonant of voices”
and his mastery of “military affairs” —doubtless an
allusion to Antwerp and Gallipoli. But the “Herald”
and a chorus of British editors protest that his new
role is not important enough.
The committee system does not conduce to swift
decision and action; nor will Mr. Churchill, with the
vast departmental responsibility of the Navy still upon
his shoulders, be as free as he should be to devote
himself to the reconciliation of strategy by sea, land
and air.
In other words, the conduct of the war should be
under the direction of the “brilliant” amateur with
whom Fisher, that seaman of genius, found it impos-
sible to work, because “he changes his opinions as he
changes his shirt,” and who “planned Gallipoli.” It
would be a short-cut to spectacular adventures by
way of gratifying the demand of the Stunt Press for
“action” ; but that way defeats and calamities lie.
British Cabinet alterations may be no concern of
the Dominions, but the Dominion Governments have
the right to be consulted about the conduct of the
war and about peace and post-war policy. Consulta-
tions with High Commissioners are not sufficient.
Relatively to France and Britain, the Dominions are
more important than they were in the last war; for
one thing, their white population is more than half
that of France. In the last war they were represented
by their chief men in the Imperial War Cabinet and
on the Supreme War Council. They are not so repre-
sented this time, and they should be ; and the sooner
the better.
The New Evangelism.
Under Czarism the Russian worker lived in a dim
world of toil and misery, half-starved and dirty, his
only joy an occasional jag on vile liquor. Since 1917
he is perhaps a little cleaner, and knows a little more
about his own history and the outside world, but is
not yet better fed, nor is he free. He has merely
exchanged one set of masters for another. Whereas
his former rulers called him serf, and knouted or shot
him when he kicked over the traces, his present rulers
call him comrade, and shoot him when he kicks over
the traces.
Almost from the beginning of British settlement
in this continent and Tasmania the Australian worker
has lived under conditions which, though perhaps far
from Utopian, were still the best in the world. Before
the country was 100 years old, his hours of work and
rates of pay were regulated by law, his children were
educated free, he could save money, could enjoy him-
self in countless ways, was free to enter and leave
employment as he wished, had ample opportunity to
set up his own business or become a farmer, was
provided with compensation for accidents and occu-
pational diseases, was protected by all sorts of laws
and— most important of all —had his own vote and
his own party, often his own Government. Steadily
his condition has improved, until he is the envy of
workers in other parts of the world. And all this
he has got largely by his own efforts.
It might have been thought that Australian
workers would be eager to go forth to lands like
Russia and endeavor to teach the workers there how
to reach the enviable Australian standards. Instead,
Australian workers are being told to learn from the
Russians!
Gilbert and Sullivan never thought of anything
like that!
The Bear's Tail Droops.
Overborne by numbers and weight of metal though
they were, the Finns seem to have taken all the fight
out of “the greatest fighting machine in history, the
Russian Red Army” (Sydney “D.T.” description).
Molotov, addressing the Supreme Council of the
Workers’ Only Fatherland, gave the Russian losses
in the war as over 207,000 (48,745 dead and 158,863
wounded), which means no doubt that they were
600,000 at least. It took the Greatest Fighting Machine
in History 14 weeks to turn an improvised line held
by a few thousand Finns. And at the end of the 14
weeks Molotov’s mob found it expedient to abandon
“the People’s Government” of Comrade Kuusinen
and sign a peace with “the White Fascist butchers,
a peace which, though it robs Finland of territory,
leaves it with its dauntless army, its national
institutions and its Mannerheim to organise another
war of defence should another criminal attack be made.
Judging by Molotov’s references to other nations,
the Bear’s tail is drooping. “The Soviet Union,” he
said, “has no conflict with Sweden and Norway, and
relations with those countries can be developed on
the basis of friendship.” Though it has a distinct
claim to Bessarabia, it “does not mean to regain this
territory by war.” It has treaties of non-aggression
with Turkey and Iran and is “resolved to fulfil these
obligations.” For the rest, “we stand for neutrality,
and will not participate in the big war.” Though will-
ing to wound Britain and France, the Greatest Fight-
ing Machine in History is obviously afraid to strike
them with anything more lethal than words ; and the
arrangement with Germany is described by the
chastened gentleman as the “Soviet-German trade
pact.”
Having plundered the Poles when plunder was
easy, and having discovered what it means to fight
even a handful of determined men with arms in their
hands, Molotov’s mob is now wholly bent on
securing “peace among the peoples of the world and the
safety of our borders.” There is an obvious connec-
tion between this bolt to a funkhole and the resolu-
tion passed by the “we’s” of the Red “Labor Con-
ference in Sydney —“we declare that the Australian
people have nothing to gain from the continuance of
this war,” and “we are opposed to the efforts of anti-
Labor Governments to change the direction of the
present war by aggressive acts against any other
country with which we are not at war, including the
Soviet Union.” ,
Moscow now fears both parties to the German
war. Protesting that “the plans ascribed to Russia for
military campaigns against India and Egypt” are “fan-
tastic,” Molotov referred with obvious trepidation to
“the formation of an Anglo-French-Colonial army in
the Near East,” adding that “any attempt to use these
troops for purposes hostile to Russia would necessitate
our taking immediate steps against aggression”—that
word of fear to Communism and Left-wing Labor.
Probably the Red mob is worried not only about the
miserable showing of the Red Army, but about the
internal situation of its alleged Republic.
Perhaps Stalin is concerned for the safety of his
own province of Georgia. There is an association of
Georgian nationalists in Western Europe, and in this
quarter it is reported that their country has lately
been placed under iron military government. Georgia
was a nineteenth-century conquest of the Czars and
one of the last of Stalin’s dominions to be reconquered.
In 1919, Lord Curzon, who knew the Caucasus well,
was of opinion that the Georgians could regain their
independence if the Allies took an interest in them,
and wanted a British army to be maintained there.
The Supreme War Council was against him, but he
never ceased to protest that this decision was a blunder.
What Mr. Curtin Forgot.
From a man who should know all about it:
Mr. Curtin tells us that “the Australian Labor party
regards Germany’s allies as enemies of Australia” and that
“no State Labor conference could present a new set of prin-
ciples or declare a new defence policy.” He conveniently
forgets that the N.S.W. State Labor conference actually did
“present a new set of principles” in 1931. _
The Australian Labor party’s financial policy had in that
year been decided by the Federal executive and by the Federal
Labor conference —in August, on the motion of Mr.
Forgan Smith and Mr. Curtin himself. That did not deter
the N.S.W. Labor conference from adopting the repudiation
policy known as the Lang Plan. Nineteen N.S.W. Federal
Labor members who would not support “the new set of
principles” were expelled by the N.S.W. State Labor executive.
Among them were the N.S.W. Ministers in the Scullin Gov-
ernment: the Treasurer, Mr. Theodore; the Minister for
Markets, Mr. Parker Moloney; the Minister for Home Affairs,
Mr. Blakeley; and the Minister for Defence, Mr. Chifley.
Their political ghosts are mute witnesses to the incorrectness
of Mr. Curtin’s attempt to minimise the bad effect of the 1940
N.S.W. State Labor conference’s anti-British and pro-Russian
resolution.
Four N.S.W. Federal Labor members obeyed the State
Labor conference in 1931. One of the four, Mr. Beasley,
under instructions from the N.S.W. Labor executive, moved
the motion which defeated the Scullin Government.
At the ensuing Federal election the N.S.W. State Labor
executive refused to endorse the 19 Labor members who
would not accept “the new set of principles” and ran en-
dorsed candidates against them. It thus defeated or brought
about the defeat of nearly all those who would not obey
it, including five Labor Ministers.
When we recollect that, it is foolish for anyone to say
that the N.S.W. State Labor conference cannot do a similar
thing again, and cannot expel every Federal Labor member
from N.S.W. who refuses to support its new policy.
In January, 1932, the Victorian Labor conference also
rejected the financial policy of the Australian Labor party,
and ordered every Victorian Federal and State Labor member
to oppose it. In the result five Victorian Labor members were
“excluded.” So if the Victorian Stzite Labor conference fol-
lowed the bad example of the N.S.W. State Labor conference,
and ordered the Victorian Federal Labor members to support
“the new set of principles and the new defence policy, they
must obey or be expelled. ,
Any doubts Mr. Curtin may have about that can be
dispelled by asking Senator Don Cameron, Mr. Drakeford,
M H R., Mr. Blackburn, M-H.R., and Mr. Clarey, M.L.C.,
whether Victorian Labor members, Federal and State, must
obey the decisions of the Victorian State Labor conference
on any question, and whether Federal and State Labor
members may be expelled if they refuse to obey State Laboi
conference decisions.
Mr. Curtin has been making a leisurely progress
across the continent to attend a meeting of the
Federal A.L.P. executive in Sydney, issuing very
cautious pronunciamentos by the way. At Melbourne
he said: “The alleged dissent in the Labor movement
regarding Russia is, I venture to say, paralleled by
the Australian Government’s confusion in war policy.”
Previously Mr. McKell’s Labor party rejected a Lang
motion for the repudiation of the “Stop the War”
and “Hands Off Russia” resolution. Both Mr. Curtin
and Mr. McKell have developed a lively sense of the
power of the new N.S.W. Labor bosses.
Australian Shipbuilding.
It is held at Canberra that Customs men are authori-
ties on everything, beginning with books; and in
pursuance of this quaint belief a Customs man was
commissioned to “inquire into and report on the ques-
tion of establishing a shipbuilding industry.” He has
weighed in with a series of obvious conclusions.
If the war is protracted it may be difficult to
ship abroad a large proportion of our products, the
gentleman says, and the bounty sanctioned by Parlia-
ment when it was passing one-a-minute measures is
“useless, because it fails to provide sufficient induce-
ment to build ships, and because the ships provided
for are too small for immediate requirements.”
The bounty is £l2 10s. per ton on ships from
150 to 750 tons, declining to £lO on ships of 1500 tons
—the maximum tonnage for which there is to be any
assistance. Annual payments are limited to £50,000.
The Customs man declares that with a proper marshal-
ling of labor there would be no difficulty in building
overseas vessels expeditiously and at no extravagant
cost on piecework. Ships of 8000 to 10,000 tons are
nominated as the most useful types, and for these
steam-engines could be made—modern British ships
are largely steamers, the Queen Mary among them.
If ships of 10,000 tons are contemplated, Walsh Island
and Cockatoo are available, and, after preliminary
work, Hobson’s Bay also could be utilised.
It is suggested that after ships are built, either
wholly or partly with Commonwealth money, they
should be chartered to existing companies. Repetition
of the Commonwealth Government’s previous disas-
trous attempts to operate shipping lines is not favored.
In regard to the sale and carriage of primary pro-
ducts, the Commonwealth would be patently in a faf
better position if it had its own cargo shipping. Over-
seas marketing arrangements, particularly those for
wheat, are largely governed by the shipping shortage,
which may become more serious.
Australia’s capacity to build ships should never
have been the subject of a report. Twenty-one
steamers round 5000 tons were built here- after the
last war, when this continent was far less developed
mechanically and industrially and had nearly
2,000,000 fewer people.
Sydney Under Drought.
Modern Sydney has had a taste of real drought. On
the last dry day required to make the city’s driest
year in its history a few points fell. Next day there
was about half an inch. Fruit, veges and meat are
dear, there is a demand for a milk-price increase, and
the Water Board eyes falling dam levels and may
cut out garden hoses.
Tempers shortened as the succession of hot, dry
days marched on. There were minor irritations of
eyes, noses and throats. Mental work to many became
a burden, and outdoor manual workers who looked
forward to cool autumn conditions spat chips and
shook salty sweat from burning faces.
Cosmopolitan King’s Cross came out of its little
ovens and panted in pyjamas on balconies and streets.
In congested worker suburbs people sat on the kerb
into the small hours, not saying much, and that little
only to remark on the “blasted ’eat.”
Dahlia-growers wept over their wilted darlings
in the thunderous dusk and saw promising clouds
come up and fade away. Hydrangeas curled up,
and the local cat prowled, morose and forbidding, over
deserts that were once suburban lawns.
Old inlanders hear the complaints of the dryness,
and for the first time in many years don’t grin sar-
donically and tell of the time the trees died along the
Bogan. Big, browned fellows going home from the
Show said it was not so bad out their way and were in
a hurry to get back where there’s grass and water.
Old-timers on the Watson’s Bay waterfront swear that
the sea has receded a foot. Owners of guinea-pigs,
white mice and bantam poultry sought agistment
country. At night the fires flared to the implac-
able sky from the scrub fringe around the city and
dwellers in outer suburbs stumbled about getting their
furniture out “in case.”
Girls went to work in flimsy things and men
in offices shed their coats and vests, and some their
collars, ties and shoes. You might call unannounced
on some bigwig and find him half-naked and
unashamed.
And at night there was a concerted rush to the
bars before six, and toilers raised their foaming glasses
and gave thanks that there was still enough water to
ma J Ce
The half-inch or so of rain barely settled the
dust, though there is a tinge of green here and there
and the heat is gone. But much more is needed to
restore water supplies, gardens and the outer farm
lands from which the city draws its milk, fruit and
vegetables.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Snoop”: Very handsomely dressed,
the two ladies sat in the bus seat ahead
of me. Their conversation was animated
and, though I could not grasp its import,
the tone and enunciation were distinct
enough to mark them as members of the
social stratosphere. Then the bus stopped
and they rose to leave, and from the
regal one in grey there came the con-
cluding remark, “So I deliberately
dropped the hot coffee on her expensive
carpet. The look she gave me was
worth a bloody fortune!”
* * * *
“Colbun”: If drivers were to think
in terms of feet per second instead of
miles per hour there would be a lot
fewer motor accidents. There is no
brain-strain involved in the business-
just add 50 p.c. to the speedo reading
and you’ve got it. For emergency stops
allow a half-second for reaction-time,
and, if brakes are in really good order,
a foot for each m.p.h. So, when the
kid on the scooter dashes out of the
side street while you are doing a modest
20 m.p.h., the old bus will travel 15ft.
before the faithful old bean gets its
orders to the braking-foot, and another
20 at least before she stops. It is seconds
and feet that matter in emergencies, not
hours and miles.
* * *
“Willowee”: Sometimes I begin to
doubt whether we Australians really are
a flaccid, decadent race. Travelling
around Perth (W.A.), I realise that I am
gazing on what must surely be one of
the world’s minor Great Wonders. When
I first struck Groperland, at the end of
last century, Perth lay in an ocean of
sand. Sand everywhere, pepper-dry in
summer, dazzling, stifling, a foot deep in
the loose directly the surface was broken.
In the city, save for a few main streets
thinly macadamised, pedestrians and
horses trudged through rivers of sand.
Vehicles went at a crawl. Wagons bogged
in it. Now one travels everywhere,
through miles of city and suburban
streets, for 100 miles and more in some
directions, over speedway-like roads of
bitumen. What labor, both human and
"Very pleased with you , Jones. Starting on Monday , you are promoted from the back shackle bolt to the
front spring nut."
machine, has been expended to produce
such a result! What supplies of pitch and
tar! Other places and countries have, of
course, made roads, but where has there
been such a conquest of such an un-
promising surface?
“Wester”: Add to 1940’s list of freak
accidents that which befel a Westralian
who was filling his car from a bowser,
misjudged it and saw petrol flood out of
the tank. He jumped to the bowser to
stop it, and was astounded to see the
pool of petrol on the concrete floor burst
into flames. He got out of it with burned
hands and a slightly damaged car.
Cause: As he jumped a cigarette-lighter
fell from his pocket to the floor, the im-
pact opened the lighter, which automati-
cally threw a spark, hence the fire. He
had had a new spring put in the lighter
that day.
* * * #
“D.E.”: The Young Diggers in Pales-
tine have achieved the miracle of getting
on well with both Arabs and Jews. From
the one in whom I am most interested I
learn that the arrival of so many of the
King’s soldiers relieved an industrial
problem. The war straightway blighted
the tourist trade and seriously interfered
with the export of oranges and grape-
fruit, and, though Jewish immigrants
continue to arrive, many of them come
uninvited, and swarm ashore on a “take-
us-or-drown-us” basis. As immediate
assets, these surreptitious immigrants can
be written off. In Tel-Aviv itself, though
a fine city which has deeply impressed
the Young Diggers, the struggle for a
crust is pathetically keen. The place
swarms with coffee-shops, and pedlars
from all the Jewish quarters of Europe
take up positions on the footpath ready
to pounce on passers-by. Another
feature of Tel-Aviv was not so strange
to youthful warriors from Australian
residential subbubs. Though there are
hundreds of blocks of flats, there are no
parks.
* * * *
“F.S.”: An order is out for the dis-
missal pf Earl Russell as Professor of
Philosophy at the College of the City of
New York. Supreme Court Judge Mc-
Geehan, in making the order, denounced
the Board of Education for having
established a “chair of indecency.” Rus-
sell is a mathematician, a philosopher
and a physicist, but he was indicted on
the count of “immoral writings,” also
styled “lecherous” and “libidinous” and
“narrow-minded.” So, even if you are
an eminent philosopher and a belted
earl to boot, it doesn’t follow that you
are entitled to your opinions in New
York City.
* * ijc *
“R. Volt”: Magnetic storms have
lately been the bane of wireless com-
munications, as formerly they were
for the cables. The cables developed
protective devices, which worked ex-
cept when the storms rose to the dimen-
sions of a cosmic tornado. At
such times the Aurora Australis gives
sleepless nights to cable electricians as
far north as Singapore. But there are
always currents wandering through the
globe which have ebb and neap tides,
change their directions, and rise and fall
much like the tides of the oceans. Dif-
ferences of potential exist between the
various continents linked by submarine
cables, and as the wires provide an easy
path the signals have to ride upon their
surging current much like ships on the
ocean. Apropos, a scientist says he has
discovered a “compass,” situated behind
the ear in man, which is existent in all
animals (in the legs of some of them),
and still persists amongst negroes and
aboriginal races. This compass, he
claims, is what enables ants, birds and
some varieties of animals to find their
direction en masse as well as individuals.
The few white people who are still ro
equipped are those who are remarkable
for their direction-finding faculty, like
explorers and the best blind fliers.
* * * *
“T.”: An odd Sydney case was that
of one Frank Edward Walters, “agent,
of New York.” Though . possessed
of a British passport which was
good for all legitimate purposes, Mr.
Walters persuaded himself that he
required an Australian passport as
well, and that he could get one by hand-
ing a fiver to a Commonwealth military
officer. Doubtless, to the vast amuse-
ment of the underworld when the facts
came out, the C.M.F. man he picked was
a son of ex-Judge Curlewis. Mr. Walters
was immediately grabbed, and rapid
police court proceedings (during which
mention was made of a Palestine wife
with whom defendant was “not on good
terms”) ended in his being fined £lOO, in
default 200 days, payment to be made
within 24 hours. Then another entry
was made in a “dossier” which had been
“prepared about him.”
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: After 20 years of effort,
Bondi, where Jews are more plentiful
than in Coogee or Melbourne’s St. Kilda,
is to have a synagogue of its own ; and
it gets it, in a manner, from Goulburn.
There are only four accredited Jews in
that town now, but in 1853, when it was
a coaching and exchange centre, there
were 46 Jews and 45 Jewesses. The
Government made a grant of land for a
synagogue. It was never built; the land
was resumed by the Government in 1891,
and three years later £BOO was lodged
with the Master in Equity for compen-
sation. In 1935 interest had increased
that amount to £2BlB. A motion for
application of the money to establish a
synagogue and Jewish school at North
Bondi was approved, assignees of the
original trustees having come forward.
Bondi has had three congregations, but
each used the minister’s home for a
meeting place. The Eastern Suburbs
synagogue, moved from Dowling-street
to Bondi Junction 15 years ago, has been
unable to meet the needs of the beach-
ward exodus. As on the Sabbath Jews
must (in strict observance) walk to wor-
ship, near-at-hand synagogues are de-
sirable. That is one reason why the
Great Synagogue itself may move out
to Darlinghurst shortly.
• • • • • •
“Ziegwill”: I was talking to a pair
of Jews of my acquaintance about an
impending party, and asked if a connec-
tion of theirs, who, since he arrived with
his refugee parents, has grown into a
Magog of a young man with hamlike
arms and a reputation as an amateur
wrestler, would be present. Solomon
thought he might; but Mrs. S. was em-
phatically anti: “Not if I know it,”
she said, “will that galoof of a man
never darken my doors once more. Dose
hands of his! Vy, effry time he
talks he preaks der ornaments or der
electrig clobes or der tings on der
dables!” As Mrs. Solomon’s little
finger whizzed past my eye, I got
an insight into the damage that
might be done by the paws of young
Magog “effry time he talks.”
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide tailor has run
up against a new feature in his calling—
a pair of Sales Tax Act breaches. It is
an expensive suit, cost £30 —to the tailor.
* * * *
“Nineteen-Hundred”: Par. from a
Great Daily:
One of the early and lucky prospectors
for gold in Western Australia, Mr. Leslie
R. Menzies, died at Santa Monica (Cal.)
recently, aged 69. A native of Baltimore
(U.S.A.), Mr. Menzies came to Australia
as a boy, and in Western Australia dis-
covered the Menzies goldmines, near
Fremantle. Mr. Menzies was a cousin of
the Prime Minister.
“The Menzies goldmines” are only about
460 miles from Fremantle. And I ques-
tion whether the deceased was “a cousin
of the Prime Minister,” though he
may have been a kinsman many
times removed on the score of
descent from the same clan. In a
book written by or ghosted for him in
1937, “the Rt. Hon. Leslie Robert
Menzies, F.R.G.5.,” was said to have
derived from “the romantic days of Scot-
land, where his grandfather, Sir Robert
Menzies, was Chief of a Highland clan,”
and to have had an Irish connection also
—“his maternal grandmother was a de-
scendant of King Brian of Ireland.” He
was dubbed Rt. Hon. it seems by Sir
William Robinson (“Fiddler Bill”), who,
“with Sir John Forrest, Sir George Shen-
ton and other Government officials, gave
a banquet in my honor.” The book is
written in that vein, being full of ex-
travagances, inaccuracies and bad spell-
ing of place-names. Goldfielders of the
period are pictured as gun-toting toughs
who, when Menzies and his mate returned
to the Ninety-mile with specimens from
their find, “lined up across the road with
drawn revolvers” (they had “come with
horses, camels, burros”), and “did not
withdraw till I began firing bullets
through their hats and equipment.” The
truth is that the prospectors of the ’nine-
ties were the most law-abiding lot of
game men that ever planted civilisation
in the wilderness.
TROPHIES.
“A double bed, a bath and a casserole are among
the ‘trophies’ that successful tennis-players have
tried to buy with open orders, with the result that
restrictions have been tightened up.”
When into tennis eminence you’ve broken
And been presented with the wherewithal
To purchase some memento as a token
Of prowess with a racquet and a ball,
Before your paper “good-for” is expended
Take timely warning: it’s beyond excuse
To make your choice of anything intended
For purely and entirely household use.
To buy some ornament that’s quite inutile
Will banish fear of any aftermath,
But bear in mind it’s absolutely futile
To try to make a “trophy” of a bath.
The demarcation line is hard to settle;
A pot wherefrom a pint of beer’s imbibed,
An entree dish, ev’n an electric kettle,
Might pass, if such were suitably inscribed.
There things are obviously on the border;
But, would-be Quists and Bromwiches,
beware
Of seeking to convert an open order
Into some humbler piece of kitchenware!
However void of blame be your intentions,
You’re certain to be landed in a hole
Should you defy all amateur conventions
And blew your winnings on a casserole.
On to the fray, you catgut operators,
Who o’er the courts precipitately dash
To foil opponents and b.ewitch spectators
With wily lob or paralysing smash !
And when the palm of merit they adjudge you
On hardened surfaces or verdant swards,
Rest well assured that nobody will grudge you
Your hard-won honors and well-earned
rewards.
But, Jacks and Toms, and likewise Sues and
Sophies,
Whether you are (or going to be) wed,
Remember, when you go to pick your
“trophies,”
That there’s a veto on a double bed!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ Couldn't find a candle anywhere, cobbers. Will this stick of dynamite do ?”
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Dammit,
aren’t we to be left with any personal
reticences or decencies at all in this
impudently inquisitive age? Open any
of our Great Organs of Public Opinion
and you’ll find someone inquiring in
blatantly displayed type: “Are You
Tired, Fat or Pimply?” I’m not, but
if I were it would be no ruddy business
of his. Turn over the page and one finds
some other bounder wanting to know
whether I’ve anointed myself with
Tintacks this morning. I haven’t, and
I won’t, even if I knew what it meant.
And I do not Get Up At Nights unless
the cat has managed to get locked
in or I’ve forgotten to wind the clock.
My Stomach does not “Talk Back” to
me, and if the thing did I’d know how
to make it behave without the help of
some advertised nostrum. I am not
uneasy lest I may be in the same un-
pleasantly odoriferous or grubby-handed
condition as the lads and lasses in
soap ads. My Kidneys are not Tired
and my Eyes do not Burn unless
with a fervent desire to plant a boot
where it would do most good in stopping
the silly blighters from asking a perfect
stranger to them such impertinent per-
sonal questions.
* * * *
“Leo Aureus”: Maoriland’s “Cobber”
Kain (B. 3/4/’4O) escaped death in
his most recent battle in a way
that made many wonder. Analys-
ing the reports closely, I had come
to the conclusion that the youth owed
his life to a cool head in an emergency,
but I stand corrected, a Sydney paper
having discovered the real reason. I
quote from the bold type:
Pilot-Officer E. J. (“Cobber”) Kain
never flies without greenstone tiki —Maori
good-luck charm.
It doesn’t explain why a Maori charm
should extend its benevolent influence to
a pakeha, but that won’t worry the thou-
sands of good-luck worshippers who will
now make an early-door rush to buy
greenstones from the first sage who
cashes in on the windfall. And I don’t
suppose it will be any deterrent to these
people to be told that the tiki in pre-
pakeha Maoriland was the symbol of
fecundity, worn by married ladies who
desired to mother many bouncing sons.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s centenary
year brings with it the hundredth anni-
versary of the establishment of the Union
Bank of Australia in M.L., celebrated
the other day by a party in Wellington
to which captains of finance and indus-
try were bidden. Following close on the
heels of the first settlers under the aus-
pices of the N.Z. Co. in 1840, the ship
Glenbervie disembarked at Port Nichol-
s*on (now Wellington) John Smith, with
books, safe and other appurtenances of
a bank. Thus the Union, besides being
the first bank, was the first business
established in the colony. Three weeks
after the arrival of its manager the bank
had its doors open. A branch was estab-
lished in Nelson in 1842. A cheque
issued about that time found its way to
the U.S.A. and remained uncashed. Some
80 years later it came into the hands of a
Fernland resident, and on presentation at
the counter it was honored.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The march of 1200 R.A.A.F.
trainees, V.A.Ds. and Women’s Legion-
naires through Melbourne had a pleasing
aftermath. Red Cross raiders invaded
Collins-street, and the blaring of loud-
speakers, broadcast music and the hordes
of damsels in quest of the citizen’s sprat
turned that usually solemn street into
a Mardi Gras for the rest of the day.
The hotels were the principal foci of
excitement, and if all the money spent
on beer had gone into the Red Cross
boxes it would have been a record day.
Traffic became of secondary importance
and Mammon had a holiday. The Mel-
bourne citizen only needs a good excuse
to loosen up in this way, though
ordinarily he pretends to be upset if a
wandering minstrel strums a guitar in
a side street, and calls loudly for the
police.
* * * *
“The Nark”: The astounding intelli-
gence of Canberra officialdom has been
revealed again, this time by the city s
tourist bureau, which has seized on an
idea to provide tourists with a free
souvenir. Some hidden but coruscating
genius has announced that in America and
the Orient your tourist collects beer-mats
with as much enthusiasm as he does
luggage labels ; therefore Canberra hotels
are to be provided free with beer-mats
carrying a blue-and-white design. Before
anyone imagines that the mats are some-
thing used to carry out the drunks, let
it be known that they are designed to
prevent circular stains on bar counters.
Few, if any, Australians have ever seen
them. In one respect there will be no
doubt about their ability to win publicity,
for the tourist, when asked about the
thing, will say with fervor, “Ah, yes,
picked it up in Canberra, capital of
Australia, where beer is dearer than in
any other world capital!” He will then
inspect the design for the umpteenth time
and wonder dimly and perhaps enviously
at the originality of the mind that could
pick the Speaker’s Chair in Parliament
to illustrate an Australian souvenir.
* * * *
“Colonel B’st’r”: That hardy annual
the Australian accent is flowering once
more in the flapper press. This time it
is a distinguished medical visitor who
ascribes the alleged twang to the results
of chronic inflammation of the nasal
passages. Why Australian beezer-linings
should be more liable to become inflamed
than, say, those of the denizens of Lon-
don’s East End or the lovely ladies who
graduate from pickle factories to Hahlly-
wood, he did not explain. Except for
a spot of movic-Yank in the environs of
Sydney and youthful ’Obul’s ’abit uv
syin’ foi for five, Australia has no dis-
tinctive accent. There is a vibrant voice-
quality amongst some of our public
speakers, but it is shared by many non-
Aussies. The most typical example of
it in my experience was the Duke’s post-
abdication broadcast, as I heard it in Lon-
don over a first-rate wireless installation.
There is an announcer on an Australian
broadcasting station who speaks with an
exactly similar voice and intonation, but
whose travels have never extended
further from his native Melbourne than
Adelaide and Brisbane.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “The old nobility was
represented in Australia (B. 27/3/ 40) by
Lord Clancarty, sent on a world’s tour
with a tutor, Charles Robinson, to enable
him to forget his affair with variety giil
Belle Bilton. Robinson became convinced
of the sincerity of the pair, connived
at their correspondence, wrote to the
lordling’s parents expressing his views
and resigning his job, and accompanied
the youngster on the hurry-back to
London to act as best man at the wed-
ding. The rush home was started from
Sydney, where Clancarty and his tutor
stayed for some time. The marriage
turned out well, and was the start of a
flock of peerage-stage alliances.
* * * *
‘•Hoocher”: A Sydney flapper paper
found Lizzie Rudolf, “22-year-old
daughter of the owner of Seven T Bar
ranch, Wyoming,” wandering around its
premises. Miss Lizzie announced that
“Australian cowboys are nice-mannered
but not as colorful as those around Big
Horn,” and complained that she “did
not see one here wearing leather chaps,
a sombrero or a gun.” Anyone caught
wearing such things around Big Horn is
liable to be run in by the police,
a fact fairly well known to all Australians
except flapper-press journalists, but what
intrigues me is where the lass saw those
Australian cowboys. Somebody seems
to be pulling somebody’s leg, but I can t
quite make out which, goldurn it.
“You should be ashamed of yourself. The man next door says his wife ALWAYS helps him with the
washing-up."
ACHILLES LANG.
“Mr. McKell said that, while other Labor members
had loyally accepted himself as leader, Mr. Lang
had sulked in his tent, peeved and disappointed.
He was once “The Big Fellow,” whom few
dared displease;
His wishes were laws and his words were
decrees
To thousands and thousands of staunch
devotees
Who rated his critics as sillies.
He’s been likened admiringly, now and again,
To various notable leaders of men
In history’s page or mythology’s ken,
But never before to Achilles.
He’s been hailed, for his part in democracy’s
scraps,
As a reincarnation of numerous chaps,
M. Brutus (for sure) and Wat Tyler (perhaps);
Now, it seems, a resemblance he carries
To that dauntless and valiant broth of a boy,
Of Grecian stalwarts the pride and the joy,
Slain Hector who dragged round the ramparts
of Troy,
Himself to be potted by Paris.
He’s been boomed to the limit and praised to
the skies
A “Greater than Lenin” in some people’s eyes,
Who now, whensoever a comeback he tries,
Impatiently shouldered aside is.
Yet he still may accumulate titles, it’s clear,
And new ones at that, for it doesn’t appear
In the whole of his hectic and stormy career,
Until he was pushed from the front to the
rear,
He was ever compared to Pelides.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


£
V&.
m
30131
11l
111
9/l«rflZ
i s(|ai A|i(Dnb
x ' | |p| wm ■-.■ 'l' y '?S W<
Af}p BMhHBH |. I
VN3AVH|
HnYM:ABBTC2! ' AHAt W tfflf A : A VAWHW %Ufir| £IVAVII
*3F<3&IJ v|UOvll b#*As£l3K JJf&HSJ vilv|w
ll
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
W. M. Hughes is “not prepared to
declare the Communist party an illegal
organisation,’’ because “we are not at
war with Russia.” Well, France is not
at war with Russia, and France has (1)
declared the Communist party an illegal
organisation ; (2) suppressed all Commu-
nist newspapers and trade-unions, and
taken possession of their property ; (3)
expelled all Communist members, mayors
and councillors, and (4) gaoled 27 Depu-
ties for five years. And when it catches
nine Deputies who have fled the coun-
try it may guillotine them as traitors.
According to Churchill, who can’t help
making clumsy references to neutrals,
when Britain went to war it didn’t know
that it wouldn’t have to fight Italy and
Japan as well as Germany. It is in-
conceivable that the British Government
would have placed the Empire in such a
position if it hadn’t received assurances
from America such as are alleged in the
German White Book.
While American Democratic politicians
and papers were indignantly denying
that their party egged Britain on to
guarantee the Poles and promised “posi-
tive action” by the U.S.A., significant
interruptions came from France and
Canada. The new French Premier and
the Attorney-General of Ontario appealed
to the Americans to do what the enemy
accuses Mr. Roosevelt and Ambassadors
Bullitt and Kennedy of having promised
to do. Uncle can’t get rid of his moral
responsibilities by running away from
them.
Not all miners’ unions are like the
Miners’ Federation, as controlled by
Nelson and Orr, nor all transport unions
like the A.R.U., as run by Moroney and
Ross. The Kalgoorlie-Boutder miners
and the Melbourne trammies have re-
jected by overwhelming majorities “Stop
the War” and “Hands Off Russia” resolu-
tions like the one passed by the Red
Labor mob in Sydney. The miners
belong to the A.W.U., which has a good
healthy Australian contempt for Corns. '
For nine months of the financial year,
customs and excise revenue amounted
to £39,719,800 —up £3,664,500. Nearly
seven months of the period were war
months, and five were almost unprece-
dentedly cold and stormy in the North
Sea, the Channel and the Atlantic, over
which a very large part of the imported
cargoes came. It shows what wonderful
work is being done for the British Com-
monwealth by the Royal Navy, the British
mercantile marine and auxiliary services.
Though thousands of N.S.W. coalminers
and waterside workers went abroad in
1914-18 and were good Diggers, their
unions, as unions, have a bad war history.
Last week Sydney wharf-laborers refused
to load a flour ship on the ground that
they couldn’t get “smoke-oh breaks,”
which, in the case of flour ships, are not
provided for in the Federal award. With
Monday morning cool reflection came,
and they started loading, taking the
“smoke-oh breaks” at their own expense.
They should now get rid of their Red
element, whose bad influence is out of all
proportion to its numbers.
Geelong had the distinction of hous-
ing the annual wrangle of the larger C.P.
organisation, and on the first day there
seemed more Hockingites than Dunstan-
ites on the premises. But the second day
brought a touching scene: Dunstan and
Hocking shook hands, amidst the happy
tears of both factions, and promised to
bury the hatchet which was the cause
of or pretext for the late unwanted elec-
tion. For the information of millions
who never heard of either worthy, Dun-
stan is Premier by the grace of Labor,
and Hocking was the Boss.
In a letter to “S. M. Herald,” the sec-
retary of the Martin-Concord A.L.P.
Council made a neat point at the expense
of the “Hands Off Russia” gang.
If, as some delegates to the Easter con-
ference said, Finland was a menace to
Russia, then we must also agree that
Hitler was right in attacking the Czechs
and Poland, as he claims they were a
menace to Germany.
Actually the “Hands Off Russia” gang
couldn’t find words abusive enough for
the Nazis when they grabbed Czecho-
slovakia (Poland, too, till Moscow issued
other orders), and insisted on France and
the British Empire fighting them imme-
mediately. It declared that the Mighty
Soviet would come in on their side with
big boots on. It still has the face to
assert occasionally that Moscow would
have fought for Czecho, quoting as its
“You can’t do that there here, Dig. Red snakes are privileged in this country.”
“authority” an American correspondent
named Gedye.
Churchill on November 12:'—
The Russian Soviet Government, em-
bodied in the formidable figure of Stalin,
has barred off once and for ever all Nazi
dreams of an advance in the East. The
left paw of the Bear bars Germany from
the Black Sea; the right paw disputes with
her the control of the Baltic.
And on March 30: -
The Soviet Government, in its onslaught
upon the heroic Finns, has exposed to the
whole world the ravages which Commu-
nism makes upon the fibre of any nation
which falls a victim to that deadly mental
and moral disease. This exposure of the
Russian army and the Russian air force
has astonished the world and heartened
all States upon the Russian borders.
In July the old gentleman was demand-
ing an alliance with the gimcrack giant.
Being now satisfied that the gimcrack
giant can’t fight, he doesn’t want to fight
it —“it is no part of our policy to seek
war with Russia.”
Australia could learn something from
Canada about shipbuilding, though the
instruction shouldn’t be required. In 1914
Canada had two steel-shipbuilding plants;
in 1918 it had 17. Meanwhile it built
nearly 1000 vessels—steel and wooden
freighters, submarines, coastal patrol
boats, lighters, drifters and so forth--
and when peace was signed 25,000 men
were employed in the industry. But it is
not on record that Canada appointed a
Customs man to report whether ship-
building was practicable.
“By a proper marshalling of labor,
Australia would have no difficulty in
building the ships necessary, both ex-
peditiously and cheaply,” says Customs-
man Townsend, stating the obvious. Can-
berra seems to be hesitating because it
might be up for heavy subsidies. Yet
had not a racehorse suddenly appeared
it was ready to go to £1,500,000 (besides
sacrificing heaps of revenue) to subsidise
the building of cars, which won’t
float and couldn’t carry much wheat,
butter or meat if they did.
“The Menzies Government is consider-
ing the arrest of Bill Orr, general secre-
tary of the Miners’ Federation.... as a
prelude to an attempt to deport Orr to
Scotland.” Thus “Tribune,” the Com-
munist paper. If the Government were
really taken that way it would grab not
only Orr but Nelson, president of
the Miners’ Federation, and deport
both to Scotland. From Scotland Aus-
tralia used to get union and Labor
leaders like Fisher, Gregor McGregor and
Bob Guthrie. If Garden, Nelson and Orr
are fair samples of the moderns, Scot-
land doesn’t stand where it did.
One of the most significant features of
the Sydney milk mix-up is the fact that
the city’s three leading dailies and prac-
tically everybody else, except two cos.
and the board, made it unmistakably clear
that the Milk Board isn’t wanted. One
thoughtful gent., after condemning the
board roundly, said that the only power
it should have would be to see that dairies
were clean and the milk up to standard.
Both functions are partly, and could be
wholly, perfoimed by the Departments of
Agriculture and Health.
If ever the Premier of a State had an
expression of public opinion N. S. Wales’s
Mair has had it about Sydney’s Milk
Board. Mair mumbled something about
an inquiry before gallivanting off to
Alburv (his electorate) for the races, but
the public is as sick of inquiries as it is
of the Milk Board —and of Premiers like
Mair.
Having agreed to find £52,000 of public
money to aid the production of “Snakes
in Her Socks” and other films, N.S.W.’s
alleged Government seized upon the coal
strike as an excuse for announcing that
it would now be impossible to confine
the deficit to the £1,500,000 budgeted for
or to make the promised reductions in
wages tax. Premier Mair spent the week-
end on the Murray. He ought to have
been on the coalfields buying drinks for
all hands.
A Mr. H. L. Denford (“Ironworkers”)
is a member of the new N.S.W. “Labor”
executive, charged with the duty of stop-
ping “the imperialist war” and seeing
that Australia commits “no aggressive
acts” against “the Soviet Union.” In
November, 1937, Mr. Denford held forth
in this fashion:
A purge is necessary in the State Labor
party. Unionists will have to do it as it
was done in Russia.
Presumably Mr. Denford is now —well,
a moderately happy man.
Synchronously with threats that the
Reds of the A.R.U. would tie up the
N.S.W. Government railways if any
Government did anything to Corns., Mr.
Secretary Orr bobbed up in Brisbahe.
Gladdened by the sight of a reporter,
Mr. Orr said:
T always travel by ’plane. All the mining
officials do. You can get there and back
while the train is making a single journey.
Besides it is cheaper for us —we get a
15 p.c. reduction from the airlines. The
Government railways won’t give us that.
If the Orr fashion spreads and Govern-
ment railwaymen continue to be mugs
for the Reds, they will find their occu-
pations gone.
S.A.’s superfluous Public Works com-
mittee has recommended the spending of
£830,000 (and the rest) on broadening
the line to the State’s “South-east” to
bring it into touch with the inter-State
rail. It is an old and narrow track
branching from Wolseley on the Mel-
bourne line, and running south (near the
Victorian border all the way) to Mount
Gambier. Only four years back the idea
was turned down as too costly. Annual
railway loss? Oh, ye5 —£779,700 in
1937-38, £1,011,800 in 1938-39.
Returned soldiers in the Vic-
torian Lands Department have ex-
pressed concern at the spread of
Communism in the public service
and demand that public servants
should take the oath of alle-
giance. The oath was made obli-
gatory by Queen Elizabeth but has
long since been abolished. J. C.
McDonald, president of the Public
Service Association, says Com-
munists are not numerous in
the service, as most Parlor Pinks and
other flirters with the Reds have been
unable to stand the giddy whirl of
somersaults in Soviet policy. Moreover,
they find that their pose as radicals no
longer cuts any ice.
“E.D.” back from the Sydney Domain
front:
Corns, were looking for trouble. One roared
to the listening soldiers that when they reached
the trenches their lives wouldn’t be “worth
a month’s purchase.” And “What are you
fighting for?” he proceeded. “It is a war to
decide whether one lot of Imperialist capi-
talists or the other lot of Imperialist capi-
talists shall be the slaveowners of oppressed
colonies. That is what the capitalists are
willing to shed your blood for.”
Another blatherskite, asked by an interjector
why he hadn’t enlisted, bellowed that he “had
been fighting longer than you fellows in uni-
form have. It is to the Communist party you
fellows will look to protect your mothers and
sisters while you are away.
The trouble came. Corns.’ skins were saved
by a cordon of police, but their banner urging
Australia to “protect the Soviet Union” was
torn up, the barrow carrying their platform
smashed. By mistake, an A.L.P. banner was
also torn up and burned; but there was some
excuse. It bore the same adjuration as a
Communist banner—to attend an anti-conscrip-
tion rally at the Sydney Town Hall on April 15.
At night soldiers tried to attack the Com-
munist “party” rooms. If the “party” is
not soon outlawed there will be worse scenes.
Then, perhaps, decent young Australians whose
indignation has got the better of them will be
punished for trying to do in lawless ways
what the Government should have done within
the law.


STILL MORE UNCABLED ADDITIONS.


The Kichardson Chain Hotel
.it)
m
II'
■
■■
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INVESTMENT ASPECTS OF THE WAR
HOW IS AUSTRALIA FARING?
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS
April Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published b%’ The Bulletin Newspaper 'Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Richard (better known as “Dick”)
Butler, ex-Premier of S.A., has made it
known that he is not a politician now.
The day he was knighted he talked of
running for Barker. That would have in-
volved a fight with Archie Cameron for
pre-selection by the Liberal and Country
League. But Cameron has since be-
come a member of a combined U.A.P.-
C.P. Ministry, and Butler could hardly
expect much support against him. So
Richard’s gone into business; he is a
director of Adelaide Electric Supply Co.
and of the Cellulose Co. He is also
chairman of a Government committee on
substitute fuels.
Though he looks as if he were good
for another 30 years, Colonel J. E. C.
Lord, the Speck’s Commissioner of
Police, comes under the retiring axe
shortly. Born in 1870 at Brighton (Tas.),
he v/as educated at the Hobart High
School. He got his commissionership in
1906, and served his State with distinction
thereafter. He commanded the 40th
Battalion, A.1.F., in France, got the
C.M.G. and the Croix de Guerre and
was mentioned in dispatches. Supt.
Oakes, of Hobart, is his likeliest suc-
cessor.
John Francis Holloway, who is Gov-
ernment representative on Sydney’s
Metropolitan Meat Industry Council,
and who represents the N.T. on the Aus-
tralian Meat Board, is one of the older
generation of graziers, with headquarters
at Goonoo Goonoo, Tamworth, N.S.W.
Born at Wagga and educated at Gee-
long College, he had experience as a
station manager in Queensland and N. S.
Wales before taking up land himself. He
is now general superintendent of the
Australian Agricultural Co. and of the
Peel River Land and Mineral Co., vice-
president of the N. S. Wales Graziers’
J. F. HOLLOWAY.
Association, and a director of the
Graziers’ Co-op. Sheep-shearing Co. He’s
married and has three daughters.
Charles Kidman is dead in Adelaide
at 82 after a long illness. Like his much-
better-known brother Sidney, he had a
wide range of interests, in turn station-
managing on Boorara (Q.) and elsewhere
in the north, racehorse-owning in West-
ralia and grazing in S.A.’s south-east.
Prime Minister Bob Menzies’s political
career has been marked by a leisurely
technique which is the envy of all his
colleagues. Indeed, his whole life seems
to have been effortless. It was no effort
THE PRIME MINISTER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
for him to take a first-class at the univer-
sity, to achieve success at the Bar, to
become a K.C. at 35, to enter the Vic-
torian Legislative Council at 34 and to
become a Minister almost the moment
he was elected. At 40 he was acting-
Premier of Victoria and the same year
entered the Federal Parliament. It was
obviously easy for him to become Prime
Minister. He is a fine speaker of the
restrained and reasoning type, looks out
on the world from more than six feet
above ground, doesn’t let his job worry
him, takes week-ends off frequently and
carries on his war and his Government
as if it were all in an ordinary day’s
work.
Australia lost a useful writer in
Catherine Stow, of Adelaide ; but her
death would have caused much more
interest 40 years back, when she was
Mrs. Langloh Parker. A daughter of
Henry Field, a pioneer squatter, she got
material at her husband’s station, Ban-
gate, on the Narran River, for a book
setting forth a series of aboriginal legends
that was much talked of when published.
Later she married Percy Stow, son of
an old-time S.A. Judge, and became
prominent in the south in Victoria
League and other social activities.
A suburban library is hardly a likely
stepping-stone to international honors,
but Alfred McMicken, who recently re-
tired from the librarianship of the
Prahran (Vic.) Municipal Library, is
known as a custodian of books all over
Australia and in Great Britain and
America. In 1936 the Carnegie Corpora-
tion invited him to inspect American and
British libraries, and McMicken has sat
on most important conferences on booky
matters for the last decade. The Prahran
municipality, which spends £2OOO annu-
ally on books, regards Prahran as the
city most addicted to culture outside the
mother metropolis, and it helped Mc-
Micken to pioneer children’s libraries in
Australia. He was born in 1872 in Lon-
don, but came to Australia early enough
to be educated at the Albert Park (Vic.)
Grammar School.
Hubert Clifford, the young Melbourne
composer who has just submitted an un-
finished symphony to Sir Thomas
Beecham for performance in Australia,
promises to follow in the footsteps of
Percy Grainger, and possibly go further.
Clifford studied under
Fritz Hart, now conducting
the public orchestra in
Honolulu. After directing
some of his own works at
Melbourne Town Hall he
went to London, still a
youngster, and quickly
landed a job of conducting
the famous Beckenham
County School Orchestia,
the leading juvenile orches-
tra in England. But he has
also been amongst the big
stuff at the London Phil-
harmonic and the 8.8. C.
He has numerous opuses to
his credit.
Digger, doctor, jester, “a
bit of a poet,” Bohemian
and good fellow, Dr. Henry
Leahy, of Temora (N.S.W.),
has passed in his checks at
the age of 53. Leahy, who
got his sharp wit from his
dad, who was Speaker of the
Queensland Parliament dur-
ing the Philp reign, enlisted
in the medical service of the
First A.I.F. straight from
Melbourne Uni. He served
in Palestine, stood up for
the full medical rights of
Diggers, wrote jokes, short
yarns, a verse or so, and was a generous
giver, to Diggers especially.
Cranbrook School, Rose Bay, one of
Sydney’s poshest, whose former head,
Major-General I. G. Mackay, is now in
command of the 6th Divvy, Second
A. is to be bossed by Brian William
Hone, a S.A. Rhodes scholar, at present
on the staff of Marlborough College
(Eng.). A native of Adelaide, the new
head went from P.A. College to Adelaide
Uni., whence he graduated in 1928 in
English and Literature. Selected as
Rhodes scholar in 1929, he went to New
College, Oxford, where he graduated
B. and M.A. A cricket and football
blue at Adelaide, he represented S.A. in
Sheffield Shield cricket. He got blues
in cricket and tennis at Oxford, and
while at Marlborough published Cricket
Practice and Tactics.
One of Australia’s foremost merino
breeders, Theodore Beggs, of Eurambeen,
Beaufort (Vic.), has passed out at 81.
He was born at Geelong, and followed
his father on Eurambeen, which was
worked in partnership by three sons of
Francis Beggs until a dissolution in 1913
gave Theodore sole ownership. Euram-
been’s merinos have a high reputation in
the fine-wool class, and provided the
foundation of many of Victoria’s Western
District studs. Its late owner was elected
to the Victorian Leg. Council in 1910,
and stayed there for 18 years until his
retirement from politics. He was a mem-
ber of the Melbourne, Australian and
Ballarat clubs.
A. C. Barrett will not stand again for
the mayoralty of Adelaide when his three
years’ term runs out at the end of June.
He moved across from Melbourne as a
youth in 1914 to look after the S.A.
barley-buying of Barrett and Burston’s
big malting business, and since his air
service in France he has taken an increas-
ing part in public affairs. Though his
name is Arthur, he has always been
known as “Bob,” to avoid confusion with
his father, A. O. Barrett, the noted art-
collector of Melbourne.
The other day the ashes of Rev. Alfred
Betts were scattered over consecrated
ground in the cemetery of St. Katherine’s,
St. Helena (Vic.), he having been minis-
ter and worshipper there continuously
for half of his 91 years. St. Helena gets
its name from the island of Napoleon’s
exile. Its founder was Captain Beale,
one of Napoleon’s captors. After the
Corsican died Capt. Beale came to Aus-
tralia and set up as a farmer. He built
the church as his private chapel, and a
willow from Napoleon’s grave which he
planted in the graveyard is said to have
been the ancestor of all the willows that
fringe the Yarra. His human descendants
still work the farm and worship in the
chapel.
Arthur Murray Cudmore, recently
elected as chairman of the Medical Board
of S.A., is South Australian-born, having
first seen the light at Paringa, on the
Murray, 70 years ago. He graduated at
Adelaide Uni., and amassed various other
degrees in Britain, his string now record-
ing M. 8., 8.5., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S.,
F.R.C.S. He was appointed consulting
surgeon at Adelaide Hospital in 1904.
He served through the 1914-18 war as
chief surgeon of No. 2 Australian
General Hospital, with rank as lieut.-
col., and has continued this connection
as hon. consulting surgeon of the
A.A.M.C. Reserve of the 4th Military
District since 1920. He has been lecturer
DR. A. M. CUDMORE.
on clinical surgery at Adelaide Uni., and
is now Dean of the Dental Faculty and
a member of the Uni. Council.
“Bohemian”: Most people, on a first
introduction to the late Mick Savage,
wondered how such a mouselike little
man ever became a Priminister. It was
Harry Holland, a good sizer-up of men,
who perceived leadership material in the
little chap from Australia. They met
when Savage was a bottle-washer at Han-
cock’s Brewery in Auckland. “He’s
worth watching,” said Holland; “he isn’t
standardised.” With this stout backing
Savage thrice got the nomination for
Auckland Central. Defeated at two polls
he sailed in on the wave of post-war dis-
satisfaction with the Nats. Savage suc-
ceeded McCombs, another quiet chap, as
deputy-leader of the party, again mainly
through Holland’s influence.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/o
Double Room, from .. “ ,
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water.
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modem a la carte Dining Room.
fi. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
r
•KB
. ; '
ihte
SMOKE-OH!
“There is no reason at all why the grooms-
man should not sing at your wedding.”
—Answer to inquirer in women’s paper.
After all, he isn’t the ’groom.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Fairy tale: Once upon a time a whole
day went by without a sirfgle Strauss
waltz being broadcast.
4* 4 4 4
“Foot comfort for sixpence.” — Advt.
Resting it on a brass rail?
4* 4,4* 4*
“For a moderate fee talkie fans visiting
Hollywood can don the ‘props’ worn by their
favorite artists.” — Film note.
Half-price, of course, is charged on
any of Dorothy Lamour’s costumes.
4* 4 4- 4*
“The true nature-lover can observe a sur-
prising variety of wild-life even in the environs
of a capital city.”— Nature note.
For instance, there are roadhogs,
lounge lizards, snakes-in-the-grass, Stock
Exchange bulls and bears, social lions
and newshounds.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He expressed his praise by giving the star
gaudy jewels—too gaudy for her to care to
wear.” — Women’s paper.
He was loud in his praises.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Footballs are to be rationed in Germany
because of the shortage of leather.” — “D.T.”
This gives the lie to recent statements
that inflation is on the increase in the
Third Reich.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Even an optometrist would be baffled
if asked if he could remove the foreign
body from the “i” in King’s Cross.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sound waves can be used as killers.”
— “World’s News.”
Radio singers sometimes murder a
song in this way.
The Strike.
“Court Reduces Award to Widow.”
Inspired by the example of the coal-
miners, the Widows’ Federation promptly
called a general strike. The first effect
of it was felt by occupants of boarding-
houses, who had to punch their own
hipholes in their beds. Great wastage
occurred when nobody could be found
with the ability to convert last Thurs-
day’s cabbage and spuds into bubble-
and-squeak. There was an epidemic of
dyspepsia cures; chemists, their sales of
magnesia, bromide and pills falling,
appealed to the Government for grants
to tide them over.
Fourteen matrimonial agencies in Syd-
ney alone closed down, and there was
a heavy loss of tramway revenue when
the early morning rush of women
cleaners was cut by nine-tenths.
The country might still have weathered
the storm had not the strikers succeeded
in winning the Amalgamated Grass
Widows’ Union over. When the
A.G.W.U. came out there was a tremen-
dous slump in employment among
divorce lawyers and private detectives,
and distant golf courses were reduced
to desperate straits.
Matters reached a head when a widow
was caught making advances to a middle-
aged bachelor. She was expelled from
the Federation and all bachelors were
declared black. Strikers picketed all
churches and registry offices. Attempts
by non-widows to handle the laundering
and charring in upper-class homes were
countered by the strikers calling out soap
factory workers.
Eventually the Court restored the
award and granted a “preference to
unionists” clause in all matrimonial
agency contracts, and the strikers re-
turned to work.
MB.
“Schiaparelli created a black oilskin lined with
fluffy lamb’s-wool and equipped with huge
pockets —just the thing for a Pans air-raid.”
—Fashion note.
Or a visit to a sly-groggery.
4 4 4 4*
And what about Nabawa Joe? He
saw a picture advertised “Mutiny on the
Bounty,” went, and found that it had
nothing whatever to do with wheat-
growers.
+ +
“pete in the G.P.S. Regatta on the Nepean
on April 20, out pete in the G.P.S. Regatat on
the Nepean on April 20 out for a trial spin
yesterday.” — ‘‘Sun.”
For the love of pete!
"It's climbin' ivy, sir, in mem'ry of the missus I bumped off!"
A man may be untidy in all his habits
and yet have his whisky neat.
** * *
“I have iust purchased an eight-valve dual-
wave radio set. What should it bring in.
asks correspondent.
The neighbors, probably.
4. 4* * 4*
“If we look around we can find color associ-
ated with most things.” Women s papei.
Such as: —
Relatives and black looks.
Rough seas and green passengers.
Wrong room and scarlet face.
Wild night and pink elephants.
Sensation and yellow press.
Moonlight and purple patches.
War news and blue pencil.
Me.
4. 4* 4 *
Funny, but if a girl finds she can fleece
a man she regards him as a proper
Angora.
“The average actor is byj|tme^immord.”
Oh, mummer!
Summing Up.
There’s not a likeness in the world
For your angelic eyes of blue.
Your golden hair, so sweetly curled,
Defies my vain comparing, too.
No simile could e’er I strike
For your complexion rich and clear.
Moreover, there is nothing like
Your brains—for they’re like nothing,
dear!
T. W. NATHAN.
Obvious.
“More substances will dissolve in water than
in any other liquid.”— News item.
Yet, judging from my shadowed past.
It’s manifestly clear
That silver doesn't melt as fast
In water as in beer!
SKEAN DHU.
Easy Victory.
“Woman in war is no new thing.”
He mutters “Yes” to keep the peace.
They wed. But battle isnt oer.
Instead, hostilities increase
He ends a prisoner of war.
ELM.
Definite Evidence.
“Mad as a hatter” is a phrase
Which seems extremely apt these days.
The one who shapes my lady’s fad
In headgear must be very mad!
T. W. N.
Dangerous Heights.
“According to a mountaineer, in certain
parts of the Swiss Alps even the slightest
movement or a whisper may precipitate an
avalanche.” — ‘‘World’s News.”
As well I know!
The last time I was in Switzerland —
where I had gone to secure agencies for
Swiss cheeses possessing Gruybre move-
ments and self-yodelling watches —I de-
cided to do a spot of Alpine climbing.
During my boyhood in Queensland I
had shinned up a few pines—l can still
remember how rough the skins of the
stolen fruit were on my mouth —so I
was not altogether without experience.
1 was stopping at the Hotel Petit
Couchon, in the Valois canton, which
is within striking distance of every notable
Alp over 14,000 ft. One day, while sitting
on a low divan in the lounge waiting
for my bock to be iced —the idiot of a
drink-waiter hadn’t got any in the re-
frigerator the malt re de tour came
hurrying by, not looking where he was
going, and tripped over my stomach.
Foreign-like, he was profuse in his
apologies, and over a drink I told him
of my desire.
“Certainement, m’sieu!” he said. “It
can be arranged. You will scale the
Matterhorn, the Weisshorn, the Strahl-
horn, the Rothhorn, no?”
“I’ll have a go at scaling anything,
from a foghorn to the management,”
I said. “My liver’s been a bit onkus lately,
and I feel like a little exercise. Perhaps
the first two you mentioned will do for
this afternoon. I don’t want to overdo
it on the one day. A bit of a climb will
sharpen up the old ivories for dinner,
eh?”
“Bien, m’sieu. But”—here he glanced
respectfully at my rather comfortable
embonpoint and number tens —“does
m’sieu think he will have the necessaire
—what you call aligity and stanima to
go up and down the Matterhorn?”
“Monseer,” I replied, “in our country
we have an adage that fat men may be
heavy on other people’s feet but they
are light on their own. See to it.”
“C’est bien, m’sieu! I will arrange
for a guide.” But as he turned to go
I stopped him.
“I have heard somewhere,” I said,
“that a guide always goes with a
philosopher and friend. I don’t mind
three coming, but no more, mind. I’m
not made of money.”
After he had gone to get the fellows
I fortified myself against the coming
rigors with another dozen iced bocks ;
then, grabbing my alpenstock and bone-
handled penknife, and holding my ice-
pick at the “ready,” I set off in the wake
of my cicerones.
They proved to be extremely fussy
about anything that might start an ava-
lanche. As we reached one of the minor
glaciers at 6000 ft. one of the guides
turned to me and said: “Unless m’sieu
wishes to imperil all our lives he will
cease sucking his teeth.”
After much lugging at me with ropes
they got me up near the summit.
Apparently the guides weren’t in the best
of condition, for once or twice they had
to stop and have a spell. We had just
got to the 13,000 ft. mark when a terrible
blizzard struck us. The wind shrieked
around us with fearful intensity and the
black sky was filled with flying ice. Flat-
tening ourselves against the glacier—to
do this I had to lie on my back ; 1 can
lie that way as well as any other —we
waited for the fury of the storm to abate.
The head guide said it was the worst
blizzard he’d ever encountered in 72
years of Alpine climbing.
Gradually, like an alderman at a civic
banquet, the wind blew itself out. The
world once again became still and clear,
and the peak of the mighty Matterhorn
just above us stood out in its cold
majesty, the eternal snows cap-
ping it as it gazed inscrutably
down on a world racked with the
restless strife and inanities of
puny man.
As I took a breath and opened
my mouth to voice some such
thoughts, a large hand was
clapped over my throttle. It was
that of the head guide. Kicking
his boot and sock off, he wrote
with his big toe in the snow:
“Even a whisper may mean
the end of us all. Be silent and
walk softly.”
We had only another 12.000 ft.
to descend. Just as we crept
around a bend in the snow I saw
an edelweiss growing out of a
crevice in the ice. Plucking it, I
unthinkingly put the flower up
to my nose, completely forgetting
my hay fever.
Instantly there was a tickling sensa-
tion in my nostrils, and as I put my head
back in that moment of gorgeous rap-
ture, prior to launching a full-blooded
sneeze, the guides rushed frantically
towards me to put their fingers under
my nose. Too late! With a thunderous
trumpet it burst out, and as the rever-
brations of the “atchoo!” echoed around
the glaciers the whole mountain seemed
to shake and rumble. There was a ter-
rific cracking sound, a shattering roar,
and about 50,000 tons slipped into the
infinity.
When I looked up once more only
one guide was left. I raised my eye-
brows and pointed up, but my remain-
ing companion shook his head sadly and
pointed down.
It was regrettable, of course, but I
would have been less than human if I
hadn’t experienced a thrill of pride in
the tremendous potency of my sneeze.
After all, it’s not everyone who can
bring down a fair-sized chunk of Alp
with one.
• I returned to the hotel in rather good
spirits, for by a stroke of luck I had
changed my earlier intention to pay the
guides in advance. Now I would have
to spar out for only one.
But the afternoon’s avalanche was no-
thing to the one that I started that night,
•and by only a whisper, too. It was one
I thought the wife didn’t hear as I passed
the blonde’s table on the way in to
dinner. And the whole thing fell on me,
too.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Balranald Barney, ’Bidgee
whaler, got up one morning and went
down to the river to fill the billy. He
was astonished to find himself walking
through spear-grass to his knees, and
the water-couch was like velvet on the
river bank. More surprises awaited. The
river, muddy the night before, was now
crystal-clear, and the water tasted sweet
-and slightly heady. There were more
birds about than usual, with much sing-
ing, and bees droned among the blos-
soming gums. Barney combed his
whiskers reflectively, and was startled to
find they had become snow-white over-
night. Then he saw his old boat and
jumped. Somebody had painted it blue,
and run a line of gold along the gun’l.
Barney sat down to think it out, and a
man in a long white overcoat came down
the river in a big, silent launch, pulled
into the bank near Barney, and unloaded
a bag of flour, tin of tea, bag of sugar,
salt, baking powder, etc., and a case of
beer. He grinned at Barney, said, “Be
back next month with another lot,” and
pushed off. A big cod stuck its head
out of the water and winked, and Bar-
ney’s dog and a goanna came down from
the camp and went for a swim together.
They splashed each one another and
ducked the cod a couple of times, and
Barney thought, “Blimey, I must be
dead!” And, as the local coroner, then
holding an inquest, could have told him,
he was.
* * * *
“Jambo”: One of my black Orpingtons
laid an egg through the side of its neck
near the crop. We watched the egg
slowly emerging for some hours, and
when it dropped we were able to insert
our fingers in the hole. The fowl has
been carefully watched for a repetition
for some weeks, but has laid in the usual
way.
* _♦ * *
“The Duke”: To the city visitor to
Wattle Creek who had asked him the
location of the main road, “Bottle”
Green had answered that the rut-
“Now, lads, well have the chorus again: ‘ There'll Al-Ways Be an Eng-land !’”
scarred clay road on which he was stand-
ing was the main road. Conversation
turned on a feature of the hamlet’s name
that had puzzled the newcomer. “You
call this place ‘Wattle Creek,’” he said;
“though I have seen some trees which
might be wattles, I’m dashed if I can
see any creek.” “Aw, that’s easy ex-
plained,” drawled “Bottle.” “In the
rainy season this road is the creek!”
* * * *
. “Mat’s Mate”: Gunner’s Tank was
nine miles from the nearest town, and
on a sidetrack. It was a hot Sunday
afternoon, and, clad in our birthday
suits, we forgot the week’s toil and dis-
ported ourselves in the water like school-
boys. There were mudfights and swim-
ming races, spells of sunbaking and more
swimming. Mat, prowling in the fringe
of scrub by the tank, put up a rabbit
and went racing after it a short way,
then turned back just as old Goolan, his
wife and three grown daughters came
driving up. We vanished into that water
like startled seals —all but Mat. Watch-
ing the Goolan outfit, I missed Mat;
I couldn’t sight him in the scrub, and
was just wondering if he’d dived too deep
and struck a snaj when I spotted a white
form running along under Goolan’s
buggy, bent double. Goolan drove past,
eyeing us sternly, his wife ignoring us
and the girls grinning, and from the
water we watched poor old Mat shuf-
fling in the dust under the buggy. The
cavalcade passed, and we got out and
dressed, hilariously wondering about
Mat. When he got back, blown and
red with dust, he told us that he’d dived
under the buggy as the only safe hiding-
place, as he was cut off from the water,
and had to follow it nearly two miles
before a sharp turn gave him his chance,
“I’m dam’ glad,” he said fervently, “that
Goolan didn't have that big kangaroo
dog of his with him.”
* * * *
“Segnalpa”: Add to the unusual in
aborigina! weapons the “man-catcher”
of Torres Strait Th.s was made of a
piece of stout lawyer-cane bent in the
s ape of an outsize in tennis-racquet
frames. Into the top of the handle a
sharp piece of hardwood was fixed, with
the pom projecting about four inches
into the loop of the frame This queer
weapon was used only on a fleeing enemy.
e ioop was thrust over his head, a
quick pufl backwards threw him off his
balance, and a forward thrust completed
the business as the pointed hardwood
T ilt sp,n C 0 Umn he base 0
** # * *
«r» a v „ -t-i. a. • 1
. A. Ker . That novice rattler-
jumper who threw his swag right over
the truck (B. 13/3/’4O) was fortunate
compared with the old battler I found
nursing abrasions and a grievance by the
rails near Bathurst (N.S.W.). I gathered
that he had waited in the crimson dark
till the vermilion train was alongside ;
then he had slung his gory knot into an
open ruddy truck, climbed up after it
and jumped in. It wasn’t until he was
in the lurid air that he noticed the truck
had no sanguinary bottom (evidently it
was being sent back for repairs). He’d
landed on his so-and-so feet, hit his this-
and-that face on an axle as he pitched
forward, was hit in the scarlet back by
the bogie, dragged a few yards and left
lying flat between the illumined rails.
With great presence of mind he d flat-
tened until the train had passed, then
awoke to the fact that his adjectival
swag was caught up somehow in the
axle-eear of tlm truck when T left bim
, f.,, • } r ■ i * tbim
he "as talking of transferring his patron-
age to road vehicles unless the blood-
stained Commissioner showed more con-
sideration to regular clients.
* * * *
n/t/Mm 1 s P ar -
13/3/ 40) dispels an erroneous idea that
the willie wagtail uses a glandular secre-
tion as nesting material; still, such hap-
penings are not unknown. The nests of
the small tropical swifts belonging to the
genus Callocalia are wholly or partly
constructed from a clear gelatinous sub-
stance, the evaporated secretion of the
birds’ salivary glands, which are notable
for their unusual development. That
Chinese delicacy bird-nest soup has as
the base ingredient nests of one of these
swifts (C. fuciphaga )—tiny shell-shaped
structures composed entirely of saliva,
The nests were at one time erroneously
supposed to be composed of partly-
digested seaweed, hence the specific name
fuciphaga, meaning seaweed-eater. The
genus has 13 species, including one or
two occurring in our N.T. They are
not migratory birds,
* * * *
“James W.”: When the recent floods
in N.Q. swept through the canehelds
in the Barron valley, colonies of rats,
■mostly dead, departed downstream. One
valiant old doe struggled to temporary
safety on the Barron Bridge at Stratford.
Four ratlets, all drowned, had unbreak-
able hp-grips on her teats. Apparently
the flood arrived at dinnertime ; but how
and why did they stay put while under
water? # * * *
..Q’Toole”: Literature and droving
don . ( mix we „ M mate had a copy
of (he |atest edition of somet hing or
other showing above the edge of his coat-
ket as he rode he (aj| o£ a mob
of 17 000 wethers we were taking Q ff
the shears at Burrumbil l a (Q.) to
Ambatha | on the p aro when the boss
droyer spotted jt „ Hai ; d j( over> .. he
sa j d _ Mick objected. “Hand over the
ho the „ sa / d the bos and as it was
, 0 mi]es b^ck , , h b ’ Mick handed
over th book mutt^ring about free
countries and bish Napoleons and their
ways. The boss was right, though. A
man COu ld not be expected to see that
no s h e ep strayed if he had his nose in
a b 00 k; and the boss was only interested
j n sheep
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Someone must have
been pulling Paderewski’s leg when he
wrote of the Maori women that they
“become perfectly abominable when they
are married, for they immediately tattoo
their chins horribly —an awful sight.”
Another comment by the long-haired
Pole that reads like the reminiscences of an
1810 rumswiller is:
“The principal sport
of the men is to
show their tongues
to frighten the
enemy. They have
very big tongues,
which hang down
very far. Quite dread-
ful to look at.”
Actually, tattooing is
as extinct among the
Maoris as is the
moa; the modern
flapper would as
soon think of wear-
ing nose-rings as
tattoing her cheeks ;
like her sisters the
world over, her
facial embellish-
ments are governed
by the latest whims
of the Hollywood
stars. Moreover,
Maggie (after mar-
riage) goes in for
slimming if there is
a tendency to show
too much embon-
point. Only very old
Maoris can now be
seen with tattoo
markings, and soon
a tattooed native
will be as rare in
M.L. as a Red In-
dian on the shores
of Manhattan. And
the only time they
poke their tongues out is to an inquisitive
Government doctor.
. Fhght : On foot the brolga is as un-
gainly as a gin in dancing pumps, but
U P in the air he is the epitome of grace,
I’ve seen mobs of up to a hundred of
the dancers, in arrow formation, gliding
on still wings, mastering the air easily
and sending down bugle calls of triumph
t D us earthlings below. And to see that
fellow volplane to earth is a marvel of
flyi n g science. Without moving a feather
® +n , .
or oarin S a tail he glides, dignified in
the extreme, and only losing his elegance
wh at ,£ e , ast m y oment B he Hf * his
uto ’ ♦ u-
. ’ ? . , .P, s . ls s f fs
,he ground whlch 15 comlng
mm «
“Atrax”: Anyone who has been at
• f , ... ,
F|P S ** mfernal vegetable will be
interested to learn that the stinging-tree
(Laportea gigas) is rendering war service
to Australia. Restriction of imports and
increased cost have created a shortage
in balsa wood for model ’planes and in-
sulation. The gympie, or fibrewood as it is
also called, gives a dry-air weight of 101 b.
to 121 b. per cubic foot, comparing very
favorably with balsa. Other lightweight
timbers, including corkwood (Erythrina
vespertilio), flame tree (Brachychiton
acerifolius ) and candlenut {Aleurites
moluccana), are also under trial by the
Queensland Forestry Department for
similar uses.
WANTED—A HEAVEN.
I reckon every kind o’ cove knows ’ow ’e’d
like t’ croak,
An’ ’as ’is dreams of what’s beyond eternity's
dark cloak.
These soldier blokes Val’alla seek, with drinkin’
cups an’ song,
An’ comrades of their battle days, Valkyries
big and strong.
An’ sailors, too, they ’as their dreams of islands
of the blest
Where sirens spread their golden ’air across a
treasure chest.
But what I’d give me socks t’ know, an’ this is
dinky-di,
Is, where do us ol’ hatters go when we lie
down an’ die?
The poets an’ the writer blokes they dream
o’ golden peaks,
A mounting called Parnassus —which is mostly
full o’ Greeks.
An’ priests an’ parsons, plunkin’ ’arps, in
built o’ gold
Will fly about with angels. Strike me fat, I
bet it’s cold!
The politician—spare me days!—’e wants t’ get
’is name
Writ big in burnin’ letters on a golden scroll
o’ fame.
I ain’t a-frettin’ where they go, or what they
glorify,
But where do us ol’ hatters go when we lie
down an’ die?
The Chow that grows the beetroot thinks ’e’ll
be a bird some day—
But if ’e’s turned t’ Christmas goose ’e’ll buck
a bit, I’ll lay.
The ’Ghan that drives them rollin’ oonts, ’e
sees ’is paradise
A sort o’ country full o’ tarts —an’ dogs an’
cats an’ mice!
The niggers an’ the redskins seek a ’appy
’untin’-ground
With tons o’ game an’ fruit about —an’ Joe
Blakes crawlin’ round.
Well, them things ain’t no good t’ me, a man’d
freeze or fry,
But where do us ol’ hatters go when we lie
down an’ die?
Fair dinkum, all these other blokes, from
emperor t’ slave,
’Ave got their ’eavens ready-made an’ waitin’
past the grave.
They’ll strum their ’arps, an’ ’owl their songs,
an’ gaze in ’ouris’ eyes,
Or join th ’erald-angel push an’ romp aroun’
the skies.
But ’arps an’ ’eroes, tarts an’ talk, ain’t ’ardly
in my line;
I reckon ’there’s no place f’r me where all them
’aloes shine;
An’ so I’ll stick right ’ere until some bloke
can prophesy
Just where all us ol’ hatters go when we lie
down an’ die.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: Should the
proposed race between an elephant and
a racehorse eventuate there may be a
surprise for the moke-fanciers if Eileen,
pride of the Wirth stables, can be in-
duced to extend herself. I once sat, with
the Dipty Sahib, in the howdah of a
middle-aged hathi while a newly-shot
python was being loaded on to a pad
elephant in Assam. It slipped off, and
the impact started violent post-mortem
squirms in the 20ft. body at our mount’s
feet. She emitted a squeal like a factory
whistle and broke into a gallop. Luckily
it was open country, and the mahout
stuck to his job nobly, but over a straight
course of some three miles she simply
ran away from two horsemen who took
after us before she got 50 yards start.
They were on good pig-sticking mounts,
too. We took no interest in the race,
being too busy trying to keep attached
to the howdah, and were both violently
sick at the finish. Onlookers said that
we had a lead of over 300 yards when
she began to slow up.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: “Plankton’s” birds, pigs
and tapirs (B. 13/3/ ’4O) aren’t the only
warm-blooded folk who can cross rivers
on foot under water. Joe Hirschberg,
who for many years drove the coach be-
tween Forsayth (N.Q.) and Croydon,
could never acquire the art of swimming
in spite of repeated attempts under good
instructors. So solid was his big frame
that he sank in water like a stone. His
main reason for wanting to emulate
Annette Kellermann was that the coach
route crossed the Gilbert River, and
every wet season meant getting across
somehow to fetch back the galvanised-
iron boat if it happened to have been
left on the wrong side. Joe would ao
the p assage on foot through ten or more
feet of rushing water, getting & fresh
supply of air haJfway by clirnbing up
on a r ock. The horses would swim across
behind the boat, and a spare coach was
kept there through the wet season to meet
such difficulties.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: To the old-time miner
, ... n _ +oll^
talking ground was much like the t
ing bloke at the pub—lots of wind but
not much action. The ground he feared
was the quiet stuff, the “soapy head” in
particular. This was generally an in-
verted V shape hanging in the back
(roof) of stope or drive, probably the
apex of an earth-fold or -wrinkle. Cut
away by workings underneath, it seldom
gave note of its presence until the in-
stant of falling. Then, with a vague sort
of a sigh, it slipped from its nest —and
woe to anybody underneath! To make
such a head even more devilish it was
generally coated with a soapy clay, which
at first acted as an adhesive, but on
drying facilitated the fall. Or, again,
water seeping from overhead might in-
crease the soapiness and lessen the ad-
hesiveness. Was working in the upper
levels of a Boulder mine when such a
head, about two tons of soft oxidised
ore, dropped without warning on my
mate. No bones broken ; the stuff just
flooded over him. But he was never
much good again. Squeezed through
every muscle and nerve, he was blue-
black for weeks, and ended with a sort
of paralysis.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A recent development
in English fisheries is lobster-hatching.
Each fertilised female carries an average
of 10,000 eggs under her tail, where
“I’m s'prised at 'ee, Richard—an' you such a stric' teetotaller , too."
normally they hatch out. They rise to
the surface for a few days and are eaten
in countless numbers by fish and birds.
The survivors then go to the bottom and
burrow. The basic purpose in artificial
hatching is to protect them during the
surface stage. Just before hatching the
“berries” are brushed off on to a hessian
screen in an incubator box, which is
anchored in a tideway. The hatched
youngsters are fed on crushed crab, all
debris being carefully removed. After
about three weeks they begin to fight,
which is the signal for letting them go,
“Gag 'is 'ands, Bert."
as they can then look after themselves.
Results are not yet obvious, as it takes
five or six years for a lobster to grow to
marketable size. It might be a good
idea for our State Fisheries to try it
with our own Drunk’s Friend, who is
becoming scarcer and more expensive
every year.
* * * *
“Naturala”: While it is recognised that
Mother Nature is often unkind to us
humans, who have largely escaped from
her grip she afflicts us with germs,
appendicitis and other nuisances one
might expect her to be tenderer to her
less conscious and less capable children.
But she isn’t. Take the hammerhead
shark. In a sea full of fish she inclines
its appetite towards stingray. At the
same time she malignantly equips the ray
with a sword, poisoned at that. Incited
by hunger, the hammerhead eats the ray,
sword and all. At this point one ex-
pects the Dame to have provided the
eater with some means of ejecting the
sword when the meal has been digested.
But nothing of the kind ; the sword or
sting stays down. Caught by the con-
tracting muscles of the stomach the point
goes through, the whole sting eventually
becoming embedded in the outer flesh.
Dissecting a hammerhead caught off Port
Hedland, W.A., we found not less than
20 such relics of good feeds. Some of
these ivory spikes were nine inches long,
yet the hammerhead had felt well enough
to take interest in the bait we offered.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Old Joe, who has a local
reputation as a teller of tall tales, was
wrathful, and over a pot he unburdened
himself. “Feller wus in here a while
ago,” he said. “Insultin’ cow, he wus.
I’d been tellin’ him a few of my ex-
periences when he ups an’ ses I must
be a descendant of a bloke called Baron
Munchausen. He left with a flea in
his ear. I tole him pretty plain there’d
never been a bloke of that name in our
family, an’ that I’d voted Labor all me
life, an’ hadn’t no time fer toffs with
titles, anyway.” I explained about the
Baron, and Joe’s eyes glittered vengefully.
“The dirty cow,” he exploded. “He wus
worse than I thought. I must’ve said
somethin’ he didn’t like fer him to sug-
gest a thing like that. Why, the blighter
wus almost insinuatin’, be a like
that, that I wus a blanky liar, too!”
* * * *
“Mulgo”: An old drover I know was
run over one night by part of a mob of
travelling sheep. The woollies were
camped on a low hill opposite Whitta-
branah homestead (N.S.W.). About mid-
night they started feeding down the slope,
and he was turning them back when a
dog made a stir at the top. As the mob
rushed down he ran to block them, but
stumbled over a clump of saltbush and
sprawled flat on the ground. “A sheep
hasn’t got big feet,” he said, “and it isn’t
very heavy; but I tell you it ain’t a bed
of roses bein’ run over by a lot of ’em.
Luckily I was face down. All the same,
their little hoofs weren’t quite like
feather-dusters on my neck.” When a
dozen or two had stumbled over him
there came a bit of a break, which
allowed the next couple to see the ob-
struction in front of them. They jumped,
and then, in the way of sheep, those fol-
lowing on the same track, whether they
saw him or not, made a bound at the
same place—“excepting two at the tail
end,” he concluded ; “they jumped too
soon and landed on my back.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The way of a bee
was a mystery to Bill, but he reckoned
you just felled the tree, smoked them
out and collected the honey. He didn’t
make a bad job of it, and considered that
half a dozen stings was fair payment for
a bucketful of comb. Draining the honey
out seemed a slow job, so he sliced the
comb into small pieces and placed them
in a basin where the warmth of the sun
would melt the honey and expedite drain-
ing. That evening when he went to
inspect it he couldn’t see the basin for
bees. Bill is still wondering whether it
was the hive he robbed that robbed him.
* * * *
“Peedamulla”: Frankly lam surprised
to learn from “M. Urray” (B. 6/3/’4O)
that in the winter of 1918 bunny’s over-
coat brought eight bob per pound. My
memory of 1918 is of acres and acres
of sheds stacked to the roof with wool
that couldn’t be got away, although
multitudes on the other side of the globe
were shivering from sheer lack of it. Of
mountain ranges of wheat, of such stale
plenitude that a plague of mice was
bred, a plague that in northern Victoria
invaded every nook and cranny. From
the same mountains of wheat came a
plague of weevils which at times blew
across country to the infinite discomfort
of everybody. And sheep! I saw woollies,
aged ewes it is true, given away. And
in the midst of this glut, due wholly to
lack of ships, rabbitskins took on such
demand that they brought quite altitudi-
nous prices. Directly after the peace the
great fur market at St. Louis, U.5.A..,
resumed international sales and, Russia
being for the time right out of fur pro-
duction, there was a wonderful demand
for “coney,” which is the trade name for
rabbit.
* * * *
“Flicker”: That friendly little fellow
the soldier-bird, also known as the
mickey, meets his death in numbers when
things get dry and natural waters fail,
for it is then that he goes to a receiving
tank. He seems unable to grasp the fact
that his claws can’t get a footing on cor-
rugated iron: he tries to rest there while
he sips from the water below him on the
side of the tank, and when he slips in
he can’t save himself. Time and time
again I’ve left a pine board floating on
the water in the tank, and Mickey usually
clambers on to it. He sits there, a miser-
able figure, looking the avian parallel
to a man recovering from a bender. But
his imagination invariably beats him:
he thinks he’s dry long before he is. He
tries to fly. He flops again in the water.
He climbs on the board, stretches his
feathers and, sure he’s dry, lands into
the drink again, and that settles him.
THE CHAMPION.
“It’s queer,” said old Chattering Charlie, “but
damme if ever I’ve met
A cove with a dorg in the mulga who hasn’t
been willin’ to bet
The dorg is the best little ‘snaker’ that ever
surrounded a Joe.
Though he seldom will offer to prove it, except
by his oath that it’s so.
“Their dorgs have the very same methods;
they all give a lightnin’-like lunge,
One bite and a flick —an’ the wriggler im-
mejately chucks in the sponge.
Death-adders are pie to these wonders; when-
ever they look for a yike
They fasten to somethin’ dead savage, sich
as tigers an’ browns an’ the like.
“Them fellers are liars, I tell yer. Why,
stiffen the dingoes! I got . ;
A fummy who’d knock a mong rotten at tym
a snake in a knot.
His tally was over five hundred in on’y a couple
o’ munce.
An’ —would y’ believe it?—he settled a twenty-
foot rock-python once!
“It isn’t just speed he relies on—that cat mostly
uses his nut.
Why, on’y this week he outwitted a red-bellied
black by me hut.
A corker it was —a nine-footer. I wondered
what Tom was about
When he hopped inter one of me milk-cans
till he’s soaked from his tail to his snout.
“Then he tears to the nettin’ like one thing.
The Joe’s sneakin’ there by the fence.
Tom leaps it, then crouches. The ‘nigger,’
who’s scented the milk, is too dense
To see that that cunnin’ old tomcat is kiddin’
him into a trap.
Y’ see, Tom had jist killed a tiger, an’ ain’t
feelin’ up to a scrap.
“Drove mad with desire for the cow-juice,
that snake puts his head through the wire,
Then —dinkum, if I hadn’t seen it, I’d tell you
to call me a liar! —
Tom leaps back again. ’Course, the reptile, in
tryin’ to follow him back,
Gets meshed up to blazes. He’s hangin’ there
still in the fence by me shack.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £1,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ;
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
A Safeguard Against Poor Administration of Your Estate
in selecting the Executor who is to administer your Estate after you are gone is wisdom.
Many a family has suffered grievously because the dead father’s executor was lazy, or too old
when the responsibility fell on him, or because he was dishonest.
It is good defence against these risks to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It
may be appointed as sole Executor and Trustee, or jointly with a relative or friend.
The Company’s health never fails. It has continuous existence. It cannot abscond. Its
capital and assets are security for its integrity. Ask that a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee”
be posted to you. It will tell you of the risks to be avoided. Ask for it to-day.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £56,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930 83,387 20,489 8 p.c. = 44,500 18,392 20,586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588. . 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,2611 Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,549
1935 75,530 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 121 „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 124,, „ 79,646 904 8,607
1939 103,528 20.851 124 „ „ 79,046 3,031 11,G38
1940 100,564 20,851 124 „ „ 79,646 67 11,705
t 34 p.c. § Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28,
1935.
The position cannot be judged entirely
from the figures in that table, which
relates to the holding co.’s accounts only.
Actually, the \2\ p.c. div. is nothing like
such a precarious matter as the last line
suggests.
It is a very efficient organisation, and
the largest thing of its kind in Aus-
tralasia, the business being well spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, where a factory is operated
by a subsidiary of Metters. The two
operating concerns, Metters and K.F.8.,
turn out stoves (the line on which the
business grew up), baths, gas-heaters
radiators, enamel goods and other
builders’ hardware, etc. Earnings, there-
fore, largely depend upon activity in the
building trade. Slump struck the busi-
ness a hard blow ; but with the turn of
the tide there was a prompt recovery in
earnings, and the management lost no
time in pruning the deadwood out of
the accounts —the holding co. jettisoned
£319,077 (= 7s. 6d. per share) of its ord.
capital, thus putting the business on an
even keel as well as making possible pay-
ment of a better nominal rate of dividend
on the remaining ord. capital (£637,167);
in addition, there is £297,874 of
pref. money, carrying a cumulative 7 p.c.
p.a. After a five years’ dry spell, the
ords. got into the picture again with
10 p.c. in 1936, since when they have
had a steady 12} p.c., with comfortable
margins.
Consider these figures, which show
the combined net earnings, etc., of the
subsidiaries:
To
Dec., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 83,926 83,398 528 235,113
Loss.
1930.. 77,381 6,300 151,432
1931.. 68,466 Nil 82,966
1932.. 17,348 Nil 65,618
Profit.
1933.. 6,470 Nil 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,361 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,428 .. .. .. 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
1935.. 96,189 78,021 18,168 180,181
1936.. 131,677 100,176 31,501 211,682
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 206,682
1937.. 142,269 100,347 41,922 248,604
Assets realisation res., £5023.. 253,627
1938.. 165,559 100,347 65,212 318,839
Unexplained additions, £5879.. 324,718
1939.. 152,847 100,347 52,500 377,218
Sales last year exceeded those of the
term it followed. But, after setting
aside whatever was considered necessary
for contingencies, unrecoveret# increases
in costs of raw materials, wages and
taxation resulted in a contraction of
£12,712 in declared net earnings. The
£152,847 of profit claimed was enough
to pay the holding co.’s pref. div.
(£20,851) and show an attractive 20.7 p.c.
on its ord. capital, compared with 22.7,
19 and 17.4 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The amount paid to the holding
co. in divs. was £100,347, same as for
previous term, and the £52,500 that re-
mained lifted the support and assistance
for the operating co.’s combined capital
(£792,170) to £377,218, which includes
an unexplained addition of £5879 (mostly
surplus on sale of properties no longer
required) to reserves.
Here is the position as the operating
cos.’ balance-sheet figures show it:
1934. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £722,170 £792,170 £792,170 £792,170
Sundry
creditors . . 159,682* 257,253* 208,255* 131,365
Freehold . . 303,128 341,625 321,098 314,176
Plant, etc. . . 288,524 384,693 388,955 400,119
Stocks . . 306,946 412,767 415.409 485,047
Book debts . . 178,864 201.123 238,301 242,875
Shares other cos. 27,350 27,631 24,630 24,630
Cash .. .. 586 753 867 837
* Including tax provision.
To meet expanding business, additions
were made to premises (down £6922) and
plant (up £11,164). The growth of
£69,638 in stocks suggests anticipated
further increase in raw material and
other costs. The inner reserve held
against stocks is considered “sufficient to
meet any likely fluctuations.” The appa-
rent reduction of £76,890 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors was due to
provision for taxation (now £97,991)
being shown separately. Largely because
of this, the apparent growth in the more
or less liquid surplus (£597,394) was
£151,072.
Since the beginning of 1939 the hold-
ing co.’s f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords. have fluc-
tuated between 20s. and 16s. 3d. in the
market, reflecting the continued upward
trend of costs and an easier tendency in
the building trade. At the lower figure
the return is 9.6 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 225. 3d. yield 6.3 p.c.
The net tangible backing is £3 19s. 4d.
prefs. and 17s. 6d. ords.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ-Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 62,242 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931.. 61,784 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.. 46,736 6 „ ~30,000 7,500 ( 17 „„ „„ arr
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 j 1 dd.sbb
1933.- 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 ( „ r or
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 j 6bt>o 37 ,526
1934.. 49,915 61 p.c. =32,500 7,500 ) , Q 1 '' ...
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO ) 4yxo
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 .. 102,4-11
1935.. 52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 ( ,„ r „ Q „
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO j 167,096
193 G.. 56,645 71 p.c.= 37,500 7,500 l rr . r I>7 „
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO 5 173,741
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
1938.. 74,417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205,282
1939.. 92,225 10 „ „ 60,616 20,000 11.609 216,891
1940.. 98,135 10 „ „ 72,137 20,000 5,998 222,889
From the investor’s point of view, the
scrip of this well-entrenched Adelaide
brewing business has much to recommend
it, especially as a holding proposition.
There is no price-cutting in the trade.
Competition takes the form of buying up
hotel freeholds, thus widening and an-
choring turnover, which is further assisted
by rentals, etc. Of recent years the co.
has been steadily purchasing hotel prop-
erties, and at the beginning of August,
1938, it swallowed its most up-and-com-
ing competitor, the Walkerville Co-
operative Brewing Co., thus gaining a
lion’s shade of the trade in the State.
Moreover, the co. has not overstated the
position in the past—some tidy sums
(aggregate £254,133) have been shaken
out of the family stocking since 1924.
The div., Which had remained steady at
10 p.c. for 13 years to the close of ac-
counts in 1931, never dropped below
6 p.c., despite slump, and the £250,000
of bonus scrip scattered in ’24 and ’2B
made 6 p.c. worth 12 p.c. on capital as
it stood before the gifts. As conditions
improved, so did earnings; the div.
reached 10 p.c. again in ’3B, and has
remained steady since. The Walkerville
undertaking was bought for 122,189 f.-p.
pound shares, face value of which was
£149,691 less than the net tangible book
value of assets taken over. The pur-
chasing co.’s shock-absorbers benefited by
this difference, no account being taken
of the surplus in visible reserves.
For the year to the end of July, 1937,
Walkerville netted £16,737, and for the
12 months to the end of February, 1938,
S.A. Brewing’s declared net earnings
were £74,417, together £91,154. S.A.
Brewing’s latest accounts benefited by a
full year’s trading from the Nathan
(Walkerville) Brewery, employment re-
mained at a high level, and there has
been a steady growth of industrial activity
in S. Aus. So, despite a “cool summer,”
the board figured net earnings £5910
better than the previous year’s at 13.5
p.c. on average capital as against 15.2,
14.9, 13.4, 11.3, 10.4, 9.9 and 9.7 p.c.
back to 1933. That was after setting
aside something for the taxgatherer,
whose calls are growing louder, and
making provision for bad debts, depre-
ciation and other contingencies (the co.’s
history suggests that the providing had
been done with a heavy hand in the past),
but leaves out of the reckoning £20,000
openly written off plant. That ieft £5998
to put on the shelf, making the lay-by
visibly £222,889.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1933. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £500,000 £500,000 £718,120 £722,080
Sundry creditors 154,763 126,345 144,357 202,681
Freeholds,
machinery
and plant.. 390,589 584,146 809,030 942,751
Stocks.. . ■ . . 17,683 25,525 34,680 41,557
Book debts? I '.. 38,597 36,805 75,629 83,123
Advances . . 259,528 152,536 163,453 123,787
Cash .. ... 15,892 72,617 90,993 34,237
* Includes shareholding’s.
The item which catches the eye last year
is the growth of £133,721 in fixed assets.
It represents additions and improve-
ments to the two breweries (West End
and Nathan), which ought to be helpful
so far as costs are concerned, and the
acquisition of more hotel properties. To
meet the outlay advances and cash were
reduced by £39,666 and £56,756 respec-
tively, and £58,324 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes an unspecified provision
for taxation. The more or less liquid
surplus (£80,023) was £140,375 less than
at the previous balance, owing to
additions to fixed assets.
At 48s. (495. a year ago) the pound
shares, visibly covered by 265. 2d. in
net tangibles, return 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, Dividends , Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£C ' £
1930 .. 55,568 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 .. 25,911 8 „ 10 ~ 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6,, 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 . . 126,148
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 .. 30,193 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Sharp premiums, £12,556 .. .. 144,358
1936 .. 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 .. 42,265 8 ~ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 „ 12-1 „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 ~ 121,, 37,391 16,397 201,796
The management seems to have a flair
for the medium-priced drapery goods,
etc., in which the co. specialises. Also,
the position of the store, which is in the
busy G.P.O. block, is a big aid to turn-
over, and so are the cash-order and lay-
by sections of the business. Further, a
lot of money has lately been spent re-
modelling the premises, thus providing
better shopping and display facilities,
which count for much these days when
competition takes the form of services
of one kind and another, including care
for the comfort and convenience of cus-
tomers
The outstanding feature of the business
over the last 17 years has been steady
expansion combined with very satisfac-
tory earning power. Paid capital, which
was £88,309 in 1924, is now £302,726,
and for the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1930 shareholders received
an average of 13.5 p.c. For the 10 diffi-
cult years since then the average has been
a shade over 10 p.c., and only once (in
1932, when 7 p.c. was distributed) was
less than 10 p.c. paid.
Despite the unsettling effects of inter-
national conditions, turnover continued
to bound along last term. The spring
in gross earnings (£294,331, a record)
was £33,576. Provision for taxation
(£25,000 = 8.5 p.c. on ord. capital)
gobbled £lO,OOO of the gain, and trading
exes. (£215,543) were up £22,892, leav-
ing the improvement in the declared net
result at £684. However, the £53,788 of
profit claimed was sufficient to pay the
small pref. div. (£800) and show 18.1 p.c.
on the £292,726 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 17.8, 14.1, 11.6, 13.2, 12.1,
10.2, 10.1 and 7.1 p.c. back to 1932. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and a 2\ p.c.
bonus was again added, making Y2\ p.c.
for the year.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging:—
1,935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £252,272 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000 75,000 75,000 75,000
Overdraft . . 30,111 21,206 8,239 54,670
Sundry creditors 18,091 28,500 31,808 37,109
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc. 400,888 383,572 388,193 390,945
Stocks .. 94,488 107,317 112,981 165,154
Book debts . . 14,082 44,178 54.883 81,490
Cash, etc. . . 20,511 4,408 4,977 6,777
Shares in sub-
sidiary . . 90,903 90,903 90,903
The outstanding feature there is the
year’s growth of £52,173 in stocks, and,
judged on the co.’s past experience, it is
reasonable to assume that they have been
well bought, an encouraging feature so
far as the current year’s earnings are
concerned. The increase of £26,607 in
book debts is almost entirely on account
of lay-by. It was chiefly to meet the
outlay in connection with these two items
that £46,431 was added to the overdraft.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids (£253,421, including stocks) ex-
ceeded outside liabilities by £86,642, or
£28,848 more than at the previous
balance.
The pound ords., covered by 335. 9d.
in net tangibles, enjoy a steady market
at around 435. At 435. the return is a
satisfactory 5.8 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div.
basis. The well-protected pound prefs.
(there are 10,000 of them, carrying a
cumulative 8 p.c.) seldom appear on
’Change.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£• £* £,£,£,
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 p.c. = 46,292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 11J „ ~34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 6 ~ ~18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 „ ~15,793 2,424 159,976
1933.. 22,998 8 „ ~ 15,638 7,360 167.336
1934.. 23,886 — „ 19,354 4,532 171,868
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. .. 171,368
1935.. 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,265 f . , QQ .
Staff fund, £5OO .. ~ j 5,199 176,067
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,567
1936.. 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 ) „ „ 7q 17 „
Staff fund, £5OO .. | 3,3/9 179,946
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 199,946
1937.. 35,765 174 p.c.=33,BSC ) , o 7q 9nl o 9;
Staff fund, £5OO .. j 1,3/9 2Ui,320
1938.. 34,306 —16 i 1 9 9 „o 9n , fi no
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. j 2 ’ 283 203 ’ 608
1939.. 29.268 15 p.c. = 29,100 j _ 9nq 97G
Staff fund. £5OO .. ~| 203,2/b
Gordon’s, which now does a large fur-
nishing and furnishing-drapery business,
grew up on cash orders. It was one of
the earliest in the field, where it now
enjoys hand-picked connections, and its
success was responsible for the appear-
ance of many less-fortunate competitors.
The co., already well entrenched, de-
veloped into a moneyspinner during the
loan-scattering 1920’5, when funds from
overseas created a hunger for the things
we hadn’t got and a desire to borrow
to buy them.
For 18 years to the end of 1930 divs.
averaged 12.7 p.c., sweetened with
£222,400 of bonus scrip, making paid
capital £329,667. Then, when the jolt
came, £174,833 of capital (which was
more than shareholders had subscribed)
was returned, thus making possible
maintenance of a relatively high rate of
dividend from reduced earnings. The
div., which had dropped from 15 p.c. in


The
Metropolitan Building,
Cor. Hunter & Bligh Sts.,
Sydney.
:: :
mmmM.
m
m
m
I
■
■
mJLJI
| iMpma,]
i ifihMifUmi 4
fmh Iwfe' {
m
m .
{SS#wOTsfflffi
1
Wmmm
*#
BBS
Payments to
Policyholders
Exceed
£1,636,000.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Incorporated in Queensland in 1895, the Australian Metropolitan is one of the old-
established Life Offices. It has well over 40 years of faithful service to the public
behind it, and has earned a reputation for its liberal and sympathetic treatment
of policyholders.
Income in 1939 was £398,143/18/10
At the end of 1939 the Assets were made up as follows: —
Government and Municipal Securities .... 59.65 per cent.
Loans on Mortgage .... .... .... .... 16.02 „ „
Freehold Properties 12.54 „ „
Loans on Policies .... .... .... —• „ „
Cash and other Assets .... .... .... 5.47 „ „
ASSURANCE FUNDS at 31/12/’39, £1,912,899
DIRECTORS: DR. A. MURRAY WILL (Chairman), W. A. H. ALLWORTH, D. F. STEWART,
COL. A. SPAIN, J. A. HENDERSON.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. A. HENDERSON. ACTUARY: W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
BRANCH OFFlCES— Victoria: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 89-91 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Queensland: THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING, 367-9 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
South Australia: 22 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.


THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZOR
p (u
fit
m
m,
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/0
Blade size Sin.
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor.
3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
NO BAGS—SO WHEAT STORED
IN GALV. IRON BULKHEADS
TO meet a huge harvest and a shortage of wheat bags, the N.S.W.
Government erected these huge vermin-proof wheat bulkheads
at rail sidings where silos were inadequate. Capable of carrying
160,000 bushels, the bulkhead illustrated was built of 1,500 sheets of
Galvanized Iron, a feature being the entire absence of nails, a
special type of clip being used to attach the sheets together. 300
railway sleepers were used as buttresses.
In this and many other ways. Galvanized Iron is proving its adapt-
ability for all types of construction work which, coupled with its
well-known strength, permanence and ease of erection, makes
Galvanized Iron the cheapest and best building material the man
outback can use for all walling, roofing and fencing purposes.
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - FREMANTLE
1*47-1549.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * =H *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
tew; ■ <V '
If not you owe it to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
Write tor a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
1929 to 6 p.c. two years later, rose to
8 p.c. in 1933, followed by 12!, 15, 15, 17!,
16! and 15 p.c. to the close of last
accounts. In addition, a one-for-four
bonus (£37,500 from inner reserves) at
the end of 1935 makes divs. since worth
25 p.c. more than the nominal rate on
capital as it stood before the gift.
Last year employment remained at a
relatively high level, but international
developments, followed by the outbreak
of war with Germany, caused trading
conditions, especially in the furnishing
and furnishing-drapery sections, to be-
come more difficult as the year advanced.
Still, turnover was well maintained, the
contraction of £5038 in net earnings
being due almost entirely to a heavier
tax provision (£9253, up £1772, was actu-
ally paid during the year) and increased
trading exes. The charge for deprecia-
tion of premises and plant (£2328) was
£4433 lighter, and for maintenance and
repairs (£1399) £568 heavier, while £5046
was charged against “a reserve provided
for the purpose” to write down the book
value of shares in other cos. The £29,268
of profit shown was a shade over 15 p.c.
on capital as against 17.7, 18.4, 16.9,
18.6, 15.4 and 11.7 p.c. back to 1933.
The div., which stepped down from 17!
p.c. for ’37 to 16| P*c. for ’3B, was
lowered to 15 p.c., which suggests that
the policy now is to distribute profits
as they are earned. With reserves heaped
£9276 higher than paid capital, the two
combined need turn in only 7.3 p.c. net
in order to show 15 p.c. on capital alone.
Finances are comfortable:
1934. 1937 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £154,834 £193,632 £193,990 £194,000
Sundry creditors 57,491 60,705 60,544 63,105
Overdraft .. 95 7,173 10,513
Property and
plant . . 116,933 118,622 116,510 114,247
Stock ) f 24,856 23,683 36,074
Hire agree-) 90,110]
ments J [ 102,475 114,729 119,372
Book debts . . 40,894 67,058 73,042 74,861
Shares, deben- ]
tures, etc. | | 61,277 53,825 50,935
Mortgages .. !-171,401 ] 8,285 8,120 7,986
Cover nment
securities ..j [ 76,817 76,817 76,817
Cash, etc. .. 656 28,784 14,977 13,882
The outstanding movements last term
were the addition of £12,391 to stocks
and of £10,513 to the overdraft. There
is a suggestion there that the board anti-
cipates a continued increase in costs.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids (£377,664) exceeded outside liabili-
ties (£73,618, including provision for
taxation) by £306,309, or £1660 more than
at the previous balance.
Doubtful as to what the future holds
for this class of business, the market
prices the pound shares at 495. 6d. as
against 525. 6d. a year ago. At the lower
figure the return is 6.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 40s. lid. in net
tangibles.
Cuthbert’s Misima, Ltd.
The co.’s holdings cover 250 acres of
goldmining leases and 2880 acres of
timber country at Umuna, near the ill-
fated G.M. of Papua venture, on Misima
Island. Chairman Frank Hambridge,
responsible for the float (and much of
its success since) in late 1935, took no-
thing for his trouble at the time ; he
was, however, to receive £lO,OOO cash
when profits equal to the capital of the
co. (£150,000) had been won. That stage
haying been reached, he is now exer-
cising an option, subject to shareholders’
approval, to apply the £lO,OOO to taking
up 20,000 new shares at par, so that
the money; is not being lost to the
company.
In Australian currency gold in 1938
averaged £8 18s. an ounce; last term
the figure was £9 13s. 10d., though the
mainland Government took 15s. of it
in the last 3! months of the year.
Assisted by 10 p.c. expansion in through-
put and improved extraction, the man-
agement was thus able to lower mill-
heads from 6.2dwt. gold and 35.7dwt.
silver to s.sdwt. and 36.4dwt. respec-
tively, and show a surplus only £927
lower at £42,775, notwithstanding higher
operating exes.: —-
, —Profit— v—Dividend—,
Dec., Revenue Exes., Net. Share. Share. Amt.
lq36 * f £57,889 £26,794 £31,095 2/0.7 1/6 £22,500
(To special reserve, £2OOO.
,007 j 68,075 34,391 33,684 2/2.8 2/- 30,000
) To special reserve, £2OOO.
iQQo 1 86,518 42,816 43,702 2/10.8 2/- 30,000
ITo special reserve, £3O 00-.
iqc.q . 91;774 48,999 42,775 2/10.5 2/- 30,000
if To special reserve, £3OOO.
* months.
Div. was again kept at 2s. a share;
over the last three years £30,160 of
surplus earnings has been retained for
future development or other purpose the
management may have in mind.
Here is a view of things from the
operating angle—gold yields exclude
some small slag returns:
m , 1937. 1938. 1939.
Treated, tong .. .. 26,119 33,521 36,828
Gold, oz 7,417 9,537 9,297
Recovery, p.e 90.8 92.0 92.4
Silver, oz. . . . . 21,355 20,707 25,158
Recovery, p.c 34.9 35. x 37.3
Recovery, ton .. .. 51/11 51/6 49/31
Operating costs, ton .. 22/11 22/6 23/IIJ
The expansion of Is. s|d. a ton in
working costs reflects increased charges
for stores and labor and heavier
development. The figure of 235. ll!d.
is made up of mining, including 2s. 3d.
a ton for development, 15s. 9.4 d. (up
Is. 6.6 d.), milling 7s. 8.4 d. (down 2d.)
and general charges 5.5 d. (up 0.7 d.).
That leaves out the reckoning manage-
ment exes., etc., of £2643, £750 written
off plant and a bonus to the white staff
of £l5OO.
During the year a new ore-bin at
the entrance of No. 1 haulage tunnel
was completed and a 15ft. grizzly and
stone-breaker erected. All ore from
above No. 1 level in the southern section
is now trucked through the new haulage
tunnel to the bin and carted by lorry
to the mill, which should help to arrest
the upward trend of costs.
Despite the year’s extraction, ore
reserves in the southern section show a
decline of only 4207 tons to 308,143 tons
—194,514 tons proved, the rest probable.
That takes in none of the sulphides and
little of the oxidised stuff below No. 8
level, though driving on No. 9 horizon
has indicated a “considerable tonnage”
of millfeed. It also leaves out of . the
reckoning ore supplies in the northern
section —separated from the southern by
Cooktown Creek—where preliminary
development has cut the lode on No. 2
level. An early ore estimate here in
the upper or oxidised zone was 300,000
tons.
Since August last the mill has been
running at its capacity of 40,000 tons
p.a., while the management is now
getting around £9 16s. an ounce for its
chief product. If 225. a ton profit, last
year’s experience, continues to be shown,
net earnings in the current term should
approximate 2s. 9d. per share, allow-
ing for the cash issue to Mr. Hambridge.
On that basis the investor in the 10s.-
paids at 17s. can see his money alone
back in six years, and that much should
be possible from the oxidised ore already
in sight in the southern section at the
existing price of gold. At Dec. 31 the
co. had surplus liquids of £24,998, or
Is. Bd. for each existing share.
Cavings as a result of heavy rain which
dumped 150,000-200,000 c.y. of drift and
basalt into the mine workings spoilt
results for Briseis, tin-sluicing at Derby
(Tas.), last term ; but there is satisfaction
for the management in that the same
amount of rain fell as flooded the work-
ings, with disastrous results, in 1936.
Though output was down 39 tons, the
concentrates fetched £l9O 12s. a ton, as
against £162 16s. 6d. in ’3B, and net earn-
ings are shown £6907 higher at £40,289:
1937.* 1938. 1939.
Drift, c.y 331,000 772,000 741,000
T. 0., tons .. . . 211 i 544 505-1
Av., c.y 1.431 b. 1.681 b. 1.521 b
Yield, c.y. . . . . —• 29.44 d. 31.19 d.
Costs, c.y. . . . . 18. Old. 16.15 d. 16.02 d.
Profit £9.256 £33,382 £40,289
Divs.—Share .. . . Nil -13 1/-
Amt.t . . . . Nil £8,063 £32,802
* Six months, t Including- Tas. div. tax.
That was before writing off £4754, as
against £5150, for depreciation. Divs.
actually paid during the year amounted
to Is. a share, absorbing, with tax,
£32,802, and the balance of earnings went
mainly to clip £5OOO off the debenture
debt, reducing it to £14,000. A major
development was purchase of the old
Mount Paris co.’s assets. Though there
is no immediate intention to work the
property, the co.’s 300 million-gallon dam
will prove a useful adjunct to Briseis’s
Cascade supply, capacity 1000 million
gallons, and also permit of more continu-
ous treatment of overburden at some-
what lower cost. On the basis of results
to date output may run to 550 tons of
oxide in the current term, granted free-
dom from mishaps, while, allowing, say,
£3O a ton for smelting charges, with tin
at £A3O6 the co. should be getting a few
pounds a ton above last year’s return for
its oxide. At Dec. 31 more or less
liquids covered the debt with a margin
of £7Bl.
* * * *
Hansel Mundy, probably the most
migratory of migratory goldmining cos.,
has moved again, this time to Buldania,
near Norseman (W.A.). The co. has
been hither and thither since 1911, when
it left Bullfinch, ‘where it operated under
the name of the Chaffinch. So far its
luck has been rotten. Its latest venture
is said to have a lode at least 500 ft.
in length and 30in. wide. Co. has suffi-
cient equipment for present require-
ments, but funds are not plentiful.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, operating
a group of mostly resurrected mines at
the south-east end of the Golden Mile,
continues to do well. Estimated revenue,
less gold tax and realisation charges,
for the March quarter was £5tg73,739.
Estimated profit was £5tg35,492. An
additional £stg2373 was earned from the
treatment of ore from the Lake View
South lease. The directors state that
on the basis of a gold price of £AIO 13s.
an ounce the co. receives, after deduc-
tion of the Federal gold tax, only
£A9 16s. 6d. On the other hand, under
the terms of the Westralian wages award
an industry allowance of 2s. a week is
payable to the mineworkers for every
10s. Australian increase in the price of
gold above £5 10s. an ounce. The State
Arbitration Court has held that the
basis of calculation of this industry
allowance is the price of gold before
deduction of the tax. Application is
being made to the Court for an amend-
ment of the award to base the industry
allowance on the net price actually re-
ceived by the producers.
* * * *
Boogardie and Nannine, two centres
on the Murchison goldfield (W.A.), have
always been noted for rich dabs and
patches. Recently two prospectors at
the former place got £7OO from a small
Berdan-pan crushing, and two others at
the latter place extracted £l2OO from
about lcwt. of rock. Murchison also
has Cue, Mt. Magnet, Big Bell and
Meekatharra within its borders. Next
to Kalgoorlie it has been the biggest
gold-producer in the State.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
If the additional employment created by
contracts for military clothing increases the
deposits in the banks of Australia by £lOOO,
can extra advances of £9OOO be made ? —6802.
No. Of the additional £lOOO in the till,
£9OO is lent out and £lOO kept in cash. Simi-
larly, when trade contracts and the public
want some deposits back the banker calls in
£9OO in order to hand out £lOOO. Banking
has to cater for bad times as well as good.
What sort of a system would it be if a bank
had to call in £9OOO of loans in order to
repay £1000?


AMAZING NEW ENGLISH DISCOVERY
DEFINITELY BANISHES EVERY FORM OF
RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS, SYNOVITIS, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA, NEURITIS
BY REMOVING THE CAUSE
Mr. Douglas Curzon offers Free
Instant Relief and Guaranteed
Freedom from Rheumatism to all
who send the form at the foot of
this announcement.
IT will come as a pleasant surprise
to the thousands of people who
are suffering unnecessarily from the
pain, swelling and stiffness usually
associated with Rheumatism that
the true basic cause of this distressing
ailment has been discovered, and an
entirely new, different, harmless
and remarkably effective treatment
formulated by Mr. Douglas Curzon,
an English chemist, which perma-
nently banishes every form of Rheu-
matism by removing the cause.
Mr. Curzon found, as a result of
careful investigation, that, although
there are many forms of Rheuma-
tism, with differing symptoms, the
fundamental cause is the same, and
now that this important discovery
has been made, Rheumatism, Arth-
ritis, Neuritis, Synovitis, Lumbago,
Sciatica and associated ailments will
soon be a thing of the past.
THE TRUTH ABOUT
RHEUMATISM.
Mr. Curzon states that although
uric acid is present in the body it is
not responsible for Rheumatism;
that the real cause is the presence in
the blood of toxins which cause the
stiffening of the muscles and the
hardening and enlargement of the
joints by becoming localised at cer-
tain parts of the body, and there
producing exactly the same sort of
inflammatory thickening of the
tissues as the results from a boil,
ulcer or any similar localised in-
flamed condition.
The pain is generally increased by
exposure to cold, dampness or wet,
because temperature changes cause
a contraction of the blood vessels,
which in turn gives rise to capillary
congestion. This makes the circula-
tion erratic, resulting in coldness of
the hands and feet, numbness and
a prickling sensation. It is the irri-
tating effect of these toxins on the
nerves or set of nerves and their
distribution that is reponsible for the
shifting pains so familiar to rheuma-
tic sufferers.
“URIC ACID HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
PAIN, SWELLING AND STIFFNESS ASSOCIATED
WITH RHEUMATISM” DECLARES DOUGLAS
CURZON.
OFFERS FREE INSTANT RELIEF
AND GUARANTEED FREEDOM FROM RHEUMATISM
TO EVERY READER WHO SENDS FORM BELOW
To remove the cause of Rheuma-
tism, it is necessary to (1) relieve
the pain; (2) eliminate the poisons
from the blood, and (3) to build
up the nervous system.
Mr. Douglas Curzon’s new devel-
opment scientifically combines and
provides these essentials, and by its
speedy, safe and certain action not
only definitely banishes the pain,
swelling and stiffness, but by
ENDING THE RHEUMATIC
TENDENCY assures immunity from
future attacks.
Under the beneficent influence of
this new method swelling subsides,
pain ceases, stiffness disappears, and
Rheumatism, whether in the head,
neck, shoulders, arms, back or legs,
is soon forgotten.
Genuine Free Trial.
Arrangements have been made
with Anglo-Australian Laboratories
of Sydney to make this wonderful
medicinal combination available for
Australian sufferers. Mr. Curzon,
therefore, invites every reader of this
journal who suffers from Rheu-
matism to send the form at the foot
of this announcement and immedi-
ately receive free of charge and
obligation:—
(1) A trial supply of Analgesic Tablets
to give instant relief in every case of
muscular, nerve, or arthritic Rheumatism.
These tablets are guaranteed to be abso-
lutely harmless, yet remarkably efficacious
in relieving Rheumatic pains, wherever
situated.
(2) A trial supply of Rheumatoxin
Eliminant. This scientific combination
tones up the liver, stomach and digestive
organs. By its direct action on the blood
it quickly and safely reduces swelling and
stiffness.
(3) An interesting Health Handbook
entitled “THE ONLY WAY TO END
RHEUMATISM,” with offer to completely
banish your Rheumatism under a genuine
guarantee of speedy, satisfactory results
or the complete method will cost you
nothing.
If you desire to say good-bye to
distressing and heart-weakening
Rheumatism, with interrupted sleep
and constant suffering, you simply
must not allow past disappointment,
discouragement, prejudice, or lack
of faith to stop you from forthwith
taking the first step on the road to
permanent freedom from Rheuma-
tism.
Send the form no w.
TYPICAL REPORTS FROM FORMER SUFFERERS.
•‘Your treatment in my case has accomplished all >you claim for it. I had
Rheumatism in my right elbow with very severe pain. Improvement was
noticed from the first day in taking your remedy, and now the symptoms
have entirely disappeared. The general health is also improved. I will
recommend the treatment to my friends who suffer from this most painful
malady."—R.J.R., Woodville, S.A.
4* + 4*
“1 am completely cured of the Insular Rheumatism in my thigh and legs,
the twisted toes and enlarged joints of my fingers are gradually becoming
normal, since taking your course, and I have not had a recurrence of
nerve storms where my arm was amputated (i am a limbless soldier)
which I had suffered since 1917. Your treatment is a wonderful blessing
to all who suffer from Rheumatism in any form, and I intend to recom-
mend your Treatment wherever possible. Please accept my heartfelt
thanks.” —Robt. C. S., Guildford, N.S.W.
4* •f* d*
“I have now completed your Treatment and am writing to let you know
that I have improved 100%. The results of your treatment have been
amazing. ” —Alf. R. R., Burra, S.A.
•b * * *
“The result of the Treatment is very satisfactory. All aches and pains
have gone and feeling very well. lam sure it is the best treatment yet,
and I have recommended it to several others and wish you every success.
—C.H., Strathfield, Sydney.
“After suffering for ten years from Rheumatoid
Arthritis, not being able to use my hands or even
hold a pen, and the pain in my hip so great that I
couldn’t walk from one room to another, I am
most grateful for your wonder-
ful treatment, which I con-
sider surpasses all I have heard
of and tried, as it not only
relieves but permanently re-
moves the trouble if given a
fair trial.’’—Mrs. A.E.D.,
Albert Park, Melbourne.
•h d*
“I must say how very grate-
ful I am for the great benefit
I have obtained from the
Douglas Curzon Treatment. I
feel a different woman and
for the last five weeks I have
done my own washing and
sewing, a thing I haven’t done
for some years. So you may
know how thankful 1 am.”
—Mrs. A.S., Petersham,
Sydney.
■:
WHERE RHEUMATISM BEGINS
Rheumatic toxins are
first produced in the
deep veins of the legs
and are then carried
by the blood to every
part of the body, re-
sulting in (1) slug-
gish circulation, (2)
congestion, and (3)
pain and swelling.
FREE INSTANT RELIEF
FOR RHEUMATIC SUFFERERS.
Mr. Douglas Curzon,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories*
62 Margaret Street (Box 4242 XX), Sydney.
Please send me the Free Instant Relief supply promised, comprising
Analgesic Tablets and Rheumatoxin Eliminant, together with Health
Handbook, free of charge and obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Please print name and address in Block Letters and
stamps for return postage.)
inclose 2d. in
B. 10/4/’4O


LEND TO DEFEND
THE RIGHT TO BE FREE
Money must be spent to keep this great, sunny land
of ours free from aggression. Battleships . . . aero-
planes . . . guns . . . munitions . . . the costly
paraphernalia of war! Millions of pounds are needed!
Let your savings do a double job! Invest in War
Savings Certificates, and as the cash value grows
steadily against the day of your need, your money
helps to save Australia for future generations. Every
sixteen shillings invested in War Savings Certificates
becomes £1 in seven years. All monies invested in
War Savings Certificates will be used
for war purposes only.
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
War Savings Certificates of the denominations of £l, £5 and £lO
may be purchased for 16/-, £4 and £B, respectively, at any Bank,
Savings Bank or Money Order Post Office.
Certificates are free of Commonwealth and PERCY C. SPENDER,
State Income Tax, and Stamp Duty. Treasurer.
<R
uy
SYD N EY
U
n
MACLURCAN
Managing Director
. 1111
m
Stay at the Wentworth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is famed. The Wentworth is close to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF? Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
Business,Rollery, Etc.
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies
The advertised meeting of Producers’
Oilwell Supplies was held in Sydney Town
Hall on Wednesday, April 3, as
scheduled. There was a large attendance,
and the audience heard from Senator
Arthur’s own lips that the N. S. Wales
Minister for Mines’ attack on the co.
“was quite unwarranted.” (Mr. Vincent,
like The Bulletin, recently expressed
doubts about the investment qualities of
scrip in the Oilwell co.)
The large attendance was asked to
sign a petition, as follows:
To
THE RT. HON. R. G. MENZIES, Prime
Minister.
THE RT. HON. W. M. HUGHES, Attorney-
General.
THE HON. SENA TOR FOUL, Minister for
the Interior.
We, the undersigned shareholders and Aus-
tralian Citizens interested in the operations of
Companies drilling for Oil in Australia under
the supervision of Mr. Max Steinbuchel, ask
you, Honorable Sirs, to extend the permit
which will allow Mr. Max Steinbuchel to stay
in this country as long as the Bores which
are now being drilled and are to be drilled
under his supervision in the search for Oil in
Australia are in operation.
We honestly believe vested interests are
moving heaven and earth to discredit this man’s
proven science as a Geophysicist and are
attempting to stop the several Bores this
American-born citizen and soldier, who fought
with the Allies in the last war, is drilling, and
if they are successful this will cause great finan-
cial loss not only to us as individuals, but to
this nation as a whole.
According to reports, it was signed with
enthusiasm after Senator Arthur had
made the following remarks:
The time has come when the people of
Australia should take the gloves off to
the vested oversea interests. I am defi-
nitely of the opinion that the interests that
are behind the prevention of the finding
of oil in this country are backed up by the
Government. I am certain that Mr. Stein-
buchel is the only man we have ever had
in Australia who is likely to give us flow
oil.
The “Government” that the Senator
referred to as “backing up the vested
interests” is that led by Mr. Menzies,
one of the “honorable sirs” addressed in
the petition. It is the Government which,
according to Senator Arthur, threatens
to bundle Mr. 'Steinbuchel, neck and
crop, out of the country after June 4,
when his “to rist’s permit” expires. Mr.
Steinbuchel, incidentally, has done a
good deal of touring in Australia since
he arrived. He has been at work in
three States, but so far hasn’t struck flow
oil in any one of them.
Senator Foil was also “bitterly
attacked” ; so was Mr. Vincent, of the
N. S. Wales Government. The Bulle-
tin’s criticism was dismissed as “ama-
teurish journalism.” J. C. Mackay, the
co.’s managing director, said the co.
would “continue to operate in spite of
all opposition.”
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies issued
1,250,000 2s. shares to Mr. Steinbuchel
for “certain agencies.” It has also issued
an extravagantly optimistic and particu-
larly irresponsible prospectus. As for
Steinbuchel himself, it was claimed at the
meeting that of the last 47 wells in the
U.S.A. in which he had been interested
41 were gushers. That is an average
“ Don't Worry, Murphy; it's guaranteed shell-proof."
of 87 p.c. gushers. Yet in Australia,
on the co.’s own admission, seven bores
have been put down, and, though not
one has been completed in the sense that
flow oil has been located, two more
boreholes are “planned.”
On the basis of drilling that averaged
87 p.c. successful, no more than two or
three bores at the most would seem
necessary to bring in one gusher, and
one gusher would dispose of the co.’s
financial. worries for ever. Yet, let it
be. repeated, seven bores have been put
down —one more than the total number
of unsuccessful holes Mr. , Steinbuchel
says he was associated with in bringing-in
41 successful ones in the U.S.A.
Ordinary commonsense would say
far better to drill two or three wells
to bedrock than to stab half a dozen or
more uncompleted holes. Or is Mr. Stein-
buchel losing confidence in his sense of
“touch,” or whatever it is that' reveals
oilwells to him? If he is feeling that way,
it is suggested that a powerful restora-
five to his spirits might be to get Senator
Arthur to read the prospectus of Pro-
ducers’ Oilwell Supplies over to him in
his best platform style. Particularly the
little puffs about Steinbuchel's own “brief
record of [American] oil discoveries.”
The recovery in Broken Hill Prop,
shares last week to above 495. was
prompted by rumors that a div. at the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a. would be paid on the
shares next month. Last year the books
closed on May 3 and the distribution was
made on May 31. As pointed out in a
recent issue, a 10 p.c. distribution on
B.H.P.’s new share register would call
for £1,141,000, against £1,431,513 earned
in „ 1938-39 and £760,715 distributed,
Shareholders will be doing well to get
10 p.c.; it is a possibility, though the
coal strike has resulted in the closing-
down of the Newcastle steelworks for the
time being. Australian Iron and Steel
has now cleared off pref. div. arrears and
should soon be handing B.H.P. some-
thing unless profits are to be hoed back
into the steelworks. •
*.* * . *
Alleging that the co.’s affairs had been
mismanaged by Claude Osmonde Barker,
its managing director, James Vaughan, a
member of the cloth, petitioned for the
• r t itoiifiaUn < a /nn'.-o t
winding-up of Litchfields (A/asia), Ltd.,
in Perth. Last week Northmore, C.J.,
made the order asked for. “To allow this
co. to carry on would be a scandal,” said
his Honor, adding that the co. could
carry on “only by continuing to prey
on certificate-holders.” Litchfields held
itself out to be an investment co., and it
sought capital on “selective security cer-
tificates” as well as shares. It was ex-
travagantly managed, and, according to
figures supplied by J. G. Jeffery, of the
Westralian Audit Department, Barker
took too much out of the show in salary,
commission, fees, etc. A Select Corn-
mittee showed up Barker, who in the
meantime had become ex-M.L.A. for
Irwin-Moore, after his flotation had been
going about three years. The Bulletin
first drew attention to the remarkable
venture in 7/4/’37.
* * * *
British Tobacco ords. came down to
94 week then recovered smartly
, 4 7s ' 3d xh ’ were as high as 5 0 s. 9d.
ear|ier , his yea ' and in Feb ruary were
steady at 48s. Reason for recent weakness
was the market’s nervousness about any
manufacturing cos. depending on Amen-
can raw materials—the fear is that
dollars may be rationed at any time. In
Britain already the public has partially
switched from U.S.A. leaf to Macedonian
and Turkish; naturally there are fears
that whatever one British Government
has done another may do. British
Tobacco would seem to be rather better
situated than similar cos. in Britain.
The U.S.A. is our nearest market, and
we have little trade with Greece or
Turkey. Also, tobacco, like beer, is a
thing for politicians to be careful about,
British Tobacco carries huge stocks of
leaf, as a rule, and, though it also has a
huge turnover, its large supplies of leaf
may be particularly helpful at times like
the present. At last week’s price of
475. 3d. the return on the shares is
£4 55. p.c. The lowest price of the scrip
over the past 15 months has been 445.
* * # *
~ t> a wt 1 a
Melbourne Board of Works announced
, .... , .. ~ ... IAAAAA
the full subscription of its £1,100,000
anc * conversion loan (it carried
£3 17s. 6d. per cent.) last week, four days
before the advertised closing date. The
rate of interest was the lowest offered
by a public body for a considerable time,
Oyer the past 15 months the board has
converted £2,257,900 of its indebtedness
and has raised £650,100 of new money.


mmmm
S&y • ;
ai
wmmrn
TAKE IT ■ Try it on your Job!
Step into the driving seat yourself . . . keep your own figures on its operating
costs . . . doing work on your own job and you will find, as thousands of
other pastoralists and agriculturalists have found . . . that “Caterpillar” does
your work at the lowest possible fuel and upkeep cost.
There isn’t a job on the land where dependable, mobile, low-cost power is
essential that “Caterpillar” will not tackle more efficiently.
Ask for a demonstration on your place at any time to suit your convenience.
CATERPILLAR
REG. US. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON
PTY. LTD., Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters,
Sydney.
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY.
LTD., 102 Melbourne Street, Brisbane.
Victoria and Tasmania: WM. ADAMS &
CO. LTD., 521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
West Australia: WIGMORES LIMITED,
613 Wellington Street, Perth.
South Australia: THE S.A. TRACTOR COMPANY,
231 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
810.30.40
Ezra Norton, head of the “Truth
chain of week-end newspapers through-
out Australasia, announces that he is
«oin« to publish an afternoon daily in
Sydney This at a time when some
owners of flapper rags wish they had
more newsprint and fewer newspapers.
Though Sydney badly needs a new after-
noon paper, and many will wish the
“Truth” venture the best of luck it it
delivers news in preference to comic
cuts it could hardly kick off at a less
propitious time. Costs are rising, adver-
tising is hard to get, radio competition
becomes no less aggressive, while the
“news” aspect of the war so far hasn t
indicated any fortunes of the Northcliffe
variety to be waiting round the corner.
In any case, the Sydney sharemarket
read Mr. Norton’s announcement with-
out enthusiasm. Though “Truth” ords.
were quoted nominally higher, there
have been no dealings for some time ;
on the other hand, ords. in Associated
News, owner of the only Sydney after-
noon paper at present, have slumped to
13s. 9d„ after a highest price in 1940
of 17s. 6d. The Sunday “Telegraph,”
new opposition to Associated in the Sun-
day field, has also worried Associated
shareholders for some time; but it
doesn’t seem to have pleased shareholders
in its own co., either ; after a sale at
16s. 9d. this year, Consolidated Press
6f p.c. prefs. are on offer at 15s. 9d.,
with buyers entirely invisible.
* * * *
Following the announcement that
fiction magazines from non-sterling
countries were to be banned in order
to conserve foreign (mostly dollar) ex-
change, Gordon and Gotch ord. shares
slumped to 395. 6d., then recovered to
41s. For some time previously they had
been round 40s. Some statement from
the board might have allayed share-
holders’ fears to an extent; the scrip
has fallen from 575. 6d., after being one
of Australia’s steadiest market stocks
over a period of several years. It is
more than likely, however, that the board
has been in little better position than
shareholders to forecast what restrictions
were to be imposed on imported periodi-
cals, and in any case forecasts in the
circumstances would not have been
diplomatic if the co. has been in con-
sultation with the Government in the
matter. The buyer of the stock at 41s.
acquires an interest in the leading
periodical and newspaper wholesaler in
Australasia ; it is well financed and well
run. The doubtful thing is immediate
profits. That question is at present
almost entirely governed by the duration
of the war, as we are likely to be very
careful about our dollars during the
entire period of hostilities. And it is
mainly American periodicals that will be
affected by the ban. An indication of
what rate of div. shareholders are entitled
to expect may be given when the half-
yearly accounts and interim div. come
along in June.
* * *
Last Wednesday morning this page
suggested that McDowells’ accounts and
div. would be quite satisfactory to
shareholders when details became avail-
able ; on Thursday morning figures were
published, and they were up to expec-
tations of those who had lately picked
up the shares at 425. There was an
immediate rise to 435. 9d. Sales for the
term were a record, and net profit was the
best since the 1929 and 1930 record
showings, when 15 p.c. ord. divs. were
customary. Allowing for the teaspoonful
of profit required to service the pref. capi-
tal, the net result was equal to 18.1 p.c.
on ord. capital, and a bonus of 2} p.c.
made the distribution 12} p.c. for the
year—the same as in the preceding term,
when 2} p.c. was regarded by the market
as not certain to be repeated.
* H= * *
One of the several leading stocks
available at a comparatively low price
last week was Adelaide Steamship. At
325. 6d. the scrip yielded 4.6 p.c. on a
1} p.c. div. basis, or 4.3 p.c. if the rate
falls to 7 p.c. (a reduction was made in
the interim div. that may or may not
be repeated in the final distribution).
Though one craft is out of the co.’s
hands for the present, the co. has four
fine modern cargo vessels in its big fleet,
as well as a 9000-ton passenger vessel.
Adelaide Steam has a fine spread of in-
vestments outside the shipping business,
and it is one of Australia’s attractive
stocks for long-term holding.
* * * *
Kandos Cement 16s. shares were ex-
ceptionally good buying at last week’s
lowest quote of 265., equal to 325. 6d.
per £1 of capital. In Melbourne, making
a remarkable contrast with Kandos scrip,
Australian Cement £1 shares were selling
at 38s. By all reasonable arguments
Kandos scrip should have been slightly
dearer on a pound-for-pound capital
basis; but there the position stood for
a while. Later in the week Kandos scrip
firmed to 285., yielding £7 3s. on a 12}
p.c. div. basis, against £6 13s. 4d. p.c.
from Australian Cement. At last week’s
later price Kandos scrip was still interest-
ing according to current investment
standards. Building activity has fallen
off substantially, but the industry is still
in a cheerful humor.
* * * - *
“P.”: After several preliminary scraps
with knight Herbert Gepp, of Australian
Paper Mfrs., involving a refusal by the
S.A. Government to allow its pine logs
to go outside the State for pulping, Cel-
lulose Australia, Ltd., is going full steam
ahead with its plans to make paper and
allied products near Millicent, in the
s.-e. of S.A. A paper-rolling machine
weighing 1000 tons and 300 ft. long will
leave New York for the co. soon, and the
factory will have a plant of 4000 h.p.
The company has an agreement with the
Government for the purchase of its re-
quirements from the State forests. Experts
from both the A.P.M. and Tasmanian
newsprint mills have been looking at the
areas of private plantation-owners in the
south-east forest zone, but the Cellulose
show seems to have won the day. It was
to have imported machinery from Ger-
many, but the war stopped that, though
rush arrangements were made to enable
J. C. Heerdt, the co.’s German adviser,
to remain in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Tableland Tin, which is making
another shilling call (bringing the ord.
shares to 18s. 6d.-paid), won 23| tons of
tin concentrates from 70,000 c.y. during
March. Average recovery was a little
over fib. to the yard, as against nearly
a pound a yard in February. But on a
slightly higher throughput and lower
costs mining profit for March was £2020,
against £1514 in February and £5BO in
January. Almost continuous work with
the small dredge has been going on at
Return Creek, Mt. Garnet (N.QJ, since
the beginning of the year, and finance
has been arranged for the big dredge
which is now being constructed. The
ord. shares, up to 10?. recently, weakened
following announcement of the call—it
should have been expected-but strength-
ened again following publication of the
March results.
# * * hi
The strong market for John McGrath
shares in Sydney (they rose to 38s. last
week, after having been down to 255. 6d.
late in 1939) is due to anticipations of
greatly increased activity by Australian
Drop Forging Co., a subsidiary.
„ f „ * .* r * ...
Fearing Government interference with
the 6 p.c. div., holders of Sydney gas
scrip have become scared, and the price
of Australian Gas A £6 shares was last
week down to £6 10s. 6d.—approximately
the figure to which it fell at auction
during a war scare in 1939. Highest
price in 1939 was £7 12s. 6d., while as
much as £7 4s. 6d. has been paid in
1940. It is feared in the market that
gas cos. won’t be permitted to charge
extra for their products as a result of
war-time price-fixing regulations, not-
withstanding increased costs of produc-
tion, thus endangering the div. even if
positive legislative reduction doesn’t take
place. In other circumstances gas scrip
would be hardening, because interest
yields on gilt-edged bonds and debentures,
near to which class gas shares are usually
placed, have been falling recently owing
to the Commonwealth’s cheap-money
policy.
‘ 4 ’ ’ ’ , \ _
Threats of a gas-workers strike a
«f ks back dtdn t help to maintain con-
fldence < he share s- A good deal of
airy nonsense anent what the gas cos
sho , uld d » about increasing costs was
s P oken W th ( e “““ secretary; one sug-
f 5 ton was to hand the enterprise over
to the County Council The threatened
sl . rlki: ™ to nothing at the tune
1,1 ‘■nice then a coal stri e as
a'ong wlhidlt thretatensto taffect gas cos
considerably if it continues. One thing
shouldn’t be forgotten by legislators or
th s Pr ' ces Commissioner in the matter
° Bas prices an gas-co. tvs..
c ? se o£ Australian Gas the 860,0000 f
“taM "n ™7e only
capital that shareholders have put into the
undertaking; they have contributed sub-
stantial pr ° mium ' as we n (a ll new scrip
bej offered at auction) so that the 6
div d over both share and
ium capital raised since the passing
of the Gas Act repr esents a good deal
Jess than 6
* * * *
Westralian gold production during the
fi rst quarter of 1940 totalled 296,4520 z.,
compared with 271,1610 z. in the corre-
S ponding period of 1939. Yield so far
during 1940 is valued at over £3,000,000.
* * * *
Last week in Melbourne Holeproof
Hosiery shares sold at 235. They re-
turned 8.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
and represent one of the best hosiery
investments offering. The industry has
its particular problems at the moment,
but Holeproof has been carrying on suc-
cessfully.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WITH WELLES IN GERMANY.
[Mallory Browne, writer of the article here con-
densed from London “Spectator,” is European editor
of the “Christian Science Monitor” and was one of
the three American journalists to accompany Mr.
Sumner Welles to Rome, Berlin, Paris and London.]
In Rome, Welles found Mussolini ready to share
in any peace efforts, though not anxious to take the
initiative. That Italy wants to keep out of war was
apparent during the visit there. One heard anti-war,
and especially anti-German, feelings expressed freely
and most emphatically. Officially, however, the key-
note sounded was pro-Axis ; every effort was made to
emphasise that Italy was not neutral, but “non-
belligerent.”
Would the Duce lead Italy into war on the side
of Germany and against Britain and France? The
impression in Rome is that he is himself still unde-
cided. Mussolini must be very sure before he takes
any drastic action these days. The army, the Vatican,
the royal family, even public opinion, all have to be
reckoned with in Italy today. This new restraining
factor may prove to be a vital element in the de-
velopment of the situation.
From the Berlin visit three main impressions
stand out. First, the German people ardently wish
for peace. The first question I was asked by the first
German to whom I talked after crossing the border
was: “Has Mr. Welles brought us peace?” Again
and again in Germany we were asked this anxious
question—just as we were asked it, for that matter, in
Italy, Switzerland, France and England. But that
does not mean that the people in the Reich are not
determined to win the war, and confident that they
will win it. On the contrary, the Germans have prob-
ably never been as solidly united behind Hitler and
the Nazi regime as they appear to be today in sup-
port of the war. Ordinary people in Germany submit
to privations far beyond anything yet approached in
Britain or France. Bread is abundant and not bad ;
potatoes are plentiful. But the average German family
is lucky if it can have meat once a week, vegetables
occasionally, an egg or two once a month, a meagre
ration of butter and virtually no other fat, almost no
coffee (and what there is poor in quality), and very
little tea. Yet there is no slightest sign of any ten-
dency to revolt at these and many other restrictions.
There is no doubt of the complete success, within
Germany, of Goebbels’s hate-campaign against Eng-
land. The whole force of this propaganda is directed
toward the British and their Empire. France is hardly
ever mentioned, but the hope of driving a wedge
between the Allies seems to have been abandoned.
Viewed from Berlin, in the midst of this her-
metically sealed atmosphere of mesmeric thought, the
effort of Britain and France to shake the German
people’s loyalty to Hitler, and wean them away from
their Nazi regime by dropping tracts and leaflets,
seems pitifully unavailing. Welles and his party were
in Berlin the week-end when the British Government
announced a whole series of particularly successful
R.A.F. flights over Berlin, yet neither I nor any mem-
ber of the mission, nor so far as we could ascertain
any American journalist in Berlin, saw or heard any-
thing of any such flights, nor encountered anyone who
had seen any trace of either the ’planes or the flares
and leaflets stated to have been dropped.
The second major impression from Berlin was
that not merely the German people are confident of
victory; the Nazi chiefs, including Hitler, are
genuinely convinced that they have at least a good
chance of winning the war. There seem to be several
reasons for this belief. One is their confidence in
what the Nazis insist is the overwhelming superiority
of the German air force. Another is the pact with
Soviet Russia. A third reason given in Berlin is that
this time a Greater Germany of 90,000,000 is fighting
only two enemies, Britain and France, whereas in the
last war there were, not just two, but two or three
dozen, Allies. Furthermore, great emphasis is laid
on the fact that Italy and Japan, both on the
Allied side last time, are now “very friendly” to
Germany.
This leads to the third conclusion —that Germany
is above all anxious to keep America out of this war.
Britain and France alone the Nazis are confident they
can defeat —or at least that they can avoid being de-
feated by these Allies. But the entrance of the United
States into the war on the Allied side would be bound
to destroy all hope of a German victory. There was
apparently much talk with Welles of Germany’s desire
for peace, and also of Germany’s readiness to re-estab-
lish a nominally “independent” Poland and a “guaran-
teed” Czechoslovakia, as well as protestations of
Hitler’s willingness to disarm whenever the Allies did.
It was evident, however, that neither the Nazis them-
selves nor Mr. Welles ever entertained the slightest
illusion about such terms being accepted.
Nazi officials talked openly and aggressively of the
“spring offensive,” which they proclaimed would begin
soon in the form of intensified attacks on British ship-
ping both by submarines and bombers. There was
also talk of aeroplane attacks on harbors and ports.
The official thesis was that the war would shortly
begin in earnest in the west, and that there were
“numerous unpleasant surprises” in store for the
Allies.
Outwardly, the feature of his Berlin visit which
affected Mr. Welles most was the blackout. Although
still not quite so complete as London’s, the blackout in
Berlin has been tightened up lately. In addition, the
effect of the German blackout seems to be heightened
and intensified by the feeling of mental darkness, the
sense of being completely shut off from all light from
the outside world.
Paris formed a perfect contrast to this totalitarian
darkness. In the French capital there is, properly
speaking, no blackout, but merely a dimming and
hooding of lights. A more apt symbol of the difference
that strikes one so forcibly when coming from Nazi
Germany back to democratic France and Britain
would be hard to find. Democracy on this side of the
fence may have had to be mise enveilleuse, as the
French say—that is, the lamp of liberty may momen-
tarily be turned down a bit low —but one feels both
here and in Paris that this is plainly but an emergency
measure to help it last through the night of war.
As if to emphasise this contrast, Mr. Welles very
pointedly went to visit the principal Opposition leader
in Paris, the French Socialist chief, Leon Blum. It can
be stated definitely that M. Blum, like Daladier —and
for that matter like the Opposition leaders and the
Government heads in London as well—made it per-
fectly clear to Mr. Sumner Welles that there can be
no compromise between this light of liberty and the
darkness of totalitarian aggression; and that the
Allies are unwaveringly united in their determination
not to lay down arms until a lasting victory— not
merely a patched-up truce —for freedom and peace
has been assured.
ATTENTION! THE ENEMY LISTENS.
Thus the message driven home by this striking German
poster. Compare with the English-style posters on
the opposite page.
Explaining the Welles Trip.
[President Roosevelt’s envoy to Europe returned to
the U.S.A. bearing nothing indentifiable as an olive
branch. Whatever he carried seems to hav.e more
resembled a profound mystery. Mr. Welles conferred
with the King, Mr. Chamberlain, Lord Halifax, Mr.
Stanley, Lord Snell, Sir Alexander Cadogan, Mr. Attlee,
Mr. Greenwood, Sir Archibald Sinclair, Sir John
Simon, Mr. Churchill, Mr. Eden, Mr. Bruce, Mr.
Maxton, Mr. Lloyd George, Count Ciano, Signor
Mussolini, Sir Percy Loraine, M. Frangois-Poncet,
Dr. von Mackensen, M. Dlugoszowski (Polish Ambas-
sador in Rome), Herr von Ribbentrop, Baron von
Weiszaecker, Herr Hitler, Herr Hess, Field-Marshal
Goring, M. Lebrun, M.. Daladier, M. Bonnet, M.
Chautemps, M. Champetier de Ribes, M. Leger,
M. Coulondre, M. Blum, M. de Laboulaye, M.
Jeanneney, M. Herriot. “Nobody has ever before seen
so many of the leading European figures in so short a
time.” Pungent comment on the trip, on American
policy in relation to the war, and on the war situation
generally is made by Dorothy Thompson in the article
here condensed from New York “Herald-Tribune.”]
The explanation of the President’s move in send-
ing Sumner Welles to Europe, together with Cordell
Hull’s statement of “undertakings with the neutrals
with a view to a sound and lasting peace,” is to be
found chiefly in the United States and in the Presi-
dential campaign, and only secondarily in Europe.
The Presidential campaign is extremely dull so
far. The war in Europe has pushed domestic affairs
into the background, and is bound to do so, for the
possibility of any return to normalcy in the United
States depends upon the course and outcome of the
European war, no matter how neutral we may feel
or how we may tout isolationism. The strongest
card that the President has in the campaign is his
foreign policy, and the strongest argument that can
be advanced for a third term, or for a Democratic
candidate of Mr. Roosevelt’s own choice, is the advisa-
bility of continuity in foreign policy.
Mr. Welles reports to the President and the Sec-
retary of State alone ; the President will then be able to
claim superior information against any successors of
Senator Borah who may think they know better.
Mr. Hull’s statement indicates that the visit of
Mr. Welles was not concerned with entangling us in the
war, but rather with preparations for peace. That is
also good campaign material. I do not share the
belief that the President desires a third term. What he
would really welcome, I believe, is peace in 1940, pro-
vided a peace could be made that would hold the
promise of a real renewal and revival of co-operation
and civilisation. Such a peace, made with his col-
laboration, would crown his Administration.
But Mr. Roosevelt knows that no such peace can
be made while Hitler and Stalin can let loose whatever
forces they choose whenever they choose. Hitler’s mania
let loose this war, and Europe can not and will not
make peace with Hitler. Governments might be willing
to do so, but the price they would pay would be popu-
lar revolt at home. Before there is real peace Stalin
must retire to Russia and Germany must have a Gov-
ernment capable of participating in a conference. Ger-
many’s present Government is not. And everybody
knows that —the neutrals as well as the Allies.
Hitler is in a desperate situation. Peace talk is
in the air everywhere, and that peace talk emanates
from Germany and nowhere else. The present Nazi-
Communist war of nerves is being fought around the
slogan of peace. Alsq, Conservatives are warned that
unless there is an armistice right away Hitler will turn
Germany over to the Bolshevists, all civilisation will
collapse and in a great Nibelungen holocaust Hitler
will pull down the whole structure of society.
The Nazi peace overtures only reveal the truth —
that Hitler has brought his country to the verge of
ruin.
A number of apologists for armistice now, among
them some whose personal and financial interests are
directly involved, have been seeing the President and
have pictured Germany as very strong. Through them
and others a curious defeatism is being spread about
in the United States that the Nazi-Bolshevist com-
bination is invincible and that someone like the
President had better step in and pull out the best pos-
sible peace for the rest of Europe.
No information from reliable and disinterested
sources in Europe —and from neutral countries, at that
—indicates anything of the kind. Hitler is certainly
capable of a move of desperation, but Germany hesi-
tates to attack on a large scale because her generals
and her economists know that she runs the serious
risk of being beaten in the first stage of an offensive.
Fritz Thyssen called this “the most criminal war in
history,” because he knows perfectly well how serious
is Germany’s situation. The Russian alliance is more
of a handicap than a help. Russia is in a desperate
state of disorganisation, with shortages of the most
essential supplies. The morale of the people is in-
describably low.
A little commonsense and a little more confidence
in democracy and free government would make Ameri-
cans realise that tyranny, Gestapo rule, military social-
ism and government by a clique of racketeers topped
by a psychopath are not an efficient combination. Ger-
many has an overworked population and an over-
worked plant, a dubious ally and a shortage of the
most essential raw materials —oil, iron, food and
money.
Hitler, therefore, tries to keep this fight on the
terrain of nerves. Hence his peace offensive. Hence
the constant attempt to turn all who oppose him
into “warmongers.” Hence the gentlemen from Ger-
many who say that unless this war is stopped imme-
diately it will mean “the end of capitalism”—a line
of talk that capitalists, who are notoriously timid
souls, rush to accept. But a peace that leaves the
unprincipled crowd in power would be even harder on
capitalism and harder on civilisation, human freedom
and general decency as well.
Mr. Stalin is also carrying on a peace offensive
in the war of nerves, while Hitler’s right bower tries
to blackmail the world with the threat of Russia —
which is no threat to any one except as Hitler makes
it so, because Russia is too weak to be a threat!
The German war of nerves is working in the
United States ; there is a panic among members of
the so-called intelligentsia which is really amazing.
They are desperately fighting to keep us out of the
last war, with their eyes completely closed to the
very different nature of this war, and are pushing for
an armistice and peace, regardless of whether there is
the slightest possibility that such a move at this time
will bring anything except further confusion and chaos,
all because they fear that “if the war continues our
boys will have to fight in France.”
Nobody has asked us to fight in France, and to
save my life I cannot see where we would go to fight.
A neutrality benevolent in the economic field to the
northern neutrals and to the Allies is wholly in the
interests of the United States and will contribute to
the rapid and reasonable conclusion of the war. A
vivid interest in the eventual reorganisation of Europe
is wholly in the interests of the United States and may
turn out to be very much in the interest of Germany,
once that country has been released from its psycho-
pathic gaolers.
The people of the United States should come out
from under the bed and look around. This is a very
interesting and very challenging world.
Uncle Sam as Peacemaker.
[Here condensed from London “Daily Telegraph”
is an article by J. B. Firth —like the article preceding
it, inspired by the Welles mission to Europe.]
Great Empires are at stake in this war, ancient
civilisations, the lives of millions, the hard-won in-
heritances of centuries and principles which would
still be imperishable though their defenders fell. If
there were a blackout of Liberty, Freedom, Justice
all over Europe, Americans would soon regret that
they post-dated their promise of help till the war was
over. But if the Allies prove conquerors by their own
efforts, how will they regard the bustling intervention
of neutrals, great and small, at the Armistice talks?
Americans seem to have forgotten two pages of
their recent records. On June 4, 1910, the House of


Representatives passed unanimously the following
resolution:
Resolved— that a Commission of five members
be appointed by the President of the United States to
consider the expediency of utilising existing international
agencies for the purpose of limiting the armaments of
the nations of the world by international agreement and
of constituting the combined navies of the world an
international force for the preservation of universal
peace.
The resolution went to the Senate and was later
signed by President Taft amid the applause of Repub-
licans and Democrats alike. But where, it will be
asked, were the isolationists? They were in their
places and they voted “Aye.” Lodge, Borah and all
the rest who were destined to break Wilson s heart
10 years later all voted in favor of constituting the
combined navies of the world an international force
for the preservation of universal peace! Staggering,
but true, and as Dr. Murray Butler, who recalled the
episode 18 months ago, observed, “Probably not one
American in a million knows of its existence. Yet
the resolution stands on record, and what a mocking
commentary it is upon the passionate protestations of
today that for good Americans isolationism is almost
a law of nature!
Again, have Americans lost all pride in the
achievement of President Coolidge’s Secretary of State,
Mr. Kellogg, who in August, 1928, induced the nations
of the world to join in a solemn declaration that they
would never make war an instrument of national
policy? They were jubilant and exultant then at the
moral triumph of their country, and the nations re-
joiced with them. But every attempt to give definite
shape to the vague generalities of the two short Articles
of the Kellogg Pact produced effects precisely oppo-
site to those intended.
Kellogg had offered, as it seemed, a co-operative
hand. That was much, but it was not enough, and
“CARELESS TALK COSTS LIVES!”
Of these posters by Fougasse, designed to carry the above message, the “ T imes” said that they "would brighten any hoarding." How they would compare in strength
with the German poster opposite might be thought another matter. Over 2,000,000 free sites were obtained for the Fougasse and other posters in Britain's "nation-
wide anti-gossip campaign."
prominent among those who acknowledged its insuffi-
ciency was Mr. Roosevelt, then the Governor of New
York State. The Pact still left wide onen the notorious
“gap” in the Covenant, which Senator Capper sought
to fill. He desired to “put teeth” into the Pact. Presi-
dent Hoover and Mr. Stimson would not advance an
inch when the League, intent upon linking together
the Covenant and the Pact, urged the need of prompt
consultation and the provision of some working defi-
nition of the aggressor.
From this game of cross-purposes only the Out-
law, War, secured advantage. When the Far Eastern
crisis supervened and the League invited the U.S.
to take part in the Commission of Inquiry, as pre-
scribed by the Covenant, Mr. Stimson refused. When,
in turn, Mr. Stimson propounded the “Hoover doc-
trine” of refusing to recognise any change of status
or accession of territory obtained as the result of
aggression, and invited Great Britain to join the
United States in making firm representations to Japan,
the British Government refused. It believed,
rightly or wrongly, that the United States did not
mean to press such representations to the point of an
ultimatum, and that its own proper place lay with
the League in whatever action was taken from Geneva.
Nothing could have been more unfortunate for
Anglo-American relations —and, therefore, for the
peace of the world. The U.S. and the League were
still precluded from coming together in effective action
by the disastrous result of America’s repudiation of
all Wilson’s pledges in 1919-20 and by the steady
determination of successive Presidents and Con-
gresses not to fetter American freedom of action.
During these critical years the Kellogg Pact was
tacitly allowed to drop into oblivion. Yet as late as
1932 Mr. Stimson boldly said that the Pact had
“revolutionised the whole conception of neutrality.”
Unfortunately it had done nothing of the sort. If it
had, how different would be the attitude of neutrals
today. The Kellogg Pact is not even a memory.
The lamentable absence of agreement on any
form of joint action between the United States and
Great Britain and France has been of inestimable
value and comfort first to one aggressor and then to
another in the last ten years. It is also Germany’s
best solace and encouragement today.
Those who are sincerely bent on the outlawry of
war must brace themselves to will the means, the
prime condition of which is a joint Anglo-French-
American policy of action in dealing with aggressors.
If America will take the lead, by all means let her
take it, and more power to her strong right arm.
if Great Britain and France are left to do the fighting,
then it is they and not the neutrals who will shape the
effective outlines of the Peace. And in the name of
Justice, why not?
Findings on Finland s Fall.
iTfip nttitnrlp of Communists towards the Soviet s
aggression against Finland (180,000,000 to 3,800,000,
approximately the population of Leningrad, which the
Finns allegedly “threatened ), and also
statements and resolutions of the N. S, Wales Labor
Easter Conference, give a freshened interest to the com-
ments on Finland’s capitulation here condensed from
papers received by last week’s air mail.J
(From the Manchester Guardian. )
The Communism of Lenin has turned into the
Imperialism of Peter the Great. Finland was its
natural victim. But she keeps her form of government
and her national rights. Her Government has not
been displaced by the puppet Government to whose
tender care Stalin had meant to commit the people of
Finland.
Stalin made peace with the Ministers he had
designed to overthrow. His success was not to be
followed by “liquidations” or forced migrations ; the
workmen and peasants who have to leave their homes
in the Karelian Isthmus will find their new homes in
Finland and not in Siberia. They will live as free
men among free men, a privilege that is becoming
rapidly more uncommon.
It is pitiful to think of the poor contribution that
the sympathy of the world was able to make to the
life-and-death struggle of a people whose courage
touched its imagination and fired its eloquence.
Nowhere was sympathy more sincere than in the
United States, yet all that sympathy, as the
“Economist” points out, could not overrule those eco-
nomic forces that make such mockery of the higher
purposes of man. “While Congress boggled at the
possibility of an armaments credit to Finland, Ameri-
can exports to Russia increased from just over a mil-
lion dollars’ worth in September, 1939, to just over
eight millions in October and] to 11 millions by
December.” > . . .
Never has sympathy been so ineffective as it is
today. One of the most dangerous illusions is the
illusion that moral condemnation counts as a substan-
tial force and that killing with your mouth is the same
as killing with a machine-gun. Finland had to pay
for the strength of this illusion here, in the United
States, and among her nearest neighbors.
Hitler has had success after success ; Stalin, on
reverting to the Imperialism of the Czars, has taken
half Poland and a good slice of Finland. Those are
the facts on the surface and, on the principle that
nothing succeeds like success, the aggressors have
every reason to believe in aggression.
If these events are interpreted aright, this tragedy
will help the cause of liberty by strengthening the
resolution of its defenders and compelling them to
put the utmost strength into their plans and their
purposes. *
{From a London “Daily Telegraph” article by H. C. Bailey.)
Under the heading “What Price British Promises?
Mr. William Randolph Hears! has published in his
United States newspapers:
Poland, Turkey, Greece and Rumania had ironclad
British guarantees. Finland had a magnanimous British
promise. Now Poland has gone and Finland considers
herself lucky to be alive. It is inevitable that other
nations hitherto allied to the Anglo-French bloc will
reconsider their position in the light of what has gone
before. It is not beyond the realm of imagination that
some of them may decide, as Finland has decided, that
it is far better to play ball with the expanding if ruth-
less dictatorships than to martyr themselves on the altar
of democracy.
Mr. Hearst has taken care to avoid any know-
ledge of the real situation, which is no doubt an ad-
vantage in concealing it from his Finland
was never “allied to the Anglo-French bloc.” We had
not entered into any undertaking to defend her. Our
only obligation was moral, precisely the same as that
which lay upon the United States, to give assistance
to a small free nation unjustly attacked. We have
admitted our obligation and honored it to the utmost
of our power. If anyone in America believes Mr.
Hearst’s accusation that we did not, let him consider
the words of a rather higher authority, Field-Marshal
Mannerheim. The Marshal thanked Britain and
France for arms, ammunition and aeroplanes. Further
help from the Western Powers, he went on, did not
arrive “because Finland’s neighbors, Sweden and
Norway, were looking after their own houses rather
than let it go through.”
What thunders would Mr. Hearst have let loose
if the powerful expeditionary force which had been
waiting on the permission of Norway and Sweden to
cross fheir territory had defied their neutrality and
attempted to fight its way through? Then, indeed,
h e would have enjoyed himself in commending the
“ruthless dictatorships” to the American people and
sneering at foolish nations W hich •‘martyr themselves
%*££ oEmS’s way of thinking 1, is now
Sdtlish U the P ; /
(From London “Daily Telegraph.”)
with the odds of 180,000,000 to 4,000,000 Stalin’s
arm j es went f rom chaotic blunder to blunder for
near j y jqO days, and only won their war because
they had chosen a tiny victim isolated from help. We
may expect t h e Soviet to show over the exploitation
0 £ pj n ] and the same incompetence as in war. Nazism
announced loudly its delight at the terms imposed on
t he Finns. No one has a right to so large a share of
the credit for the triumph of hordes of Bolshevi s
ove r one of the most purely Nordic of races as the
Fuhrer , double-dyed with pledges to shed the last
drop of German, if not his own, blood on the other
s jd e . His egregious policy, there is no denying, did
everything possible to make Scandinavia helpless in
resistance to Soviet greed and leave nothing for Ger-
many. He victoriously slammed in his own face the
doors of the Eastern Baltic and of Lebensraum on its
coast. There never was such a masterpiece of states-
manship. * t *
* * (From the “Times”)
of Finland’s
Ho* ' far the adverse c 2
fime alone will show Finland in any case retains her
time alone
moral independence absolutely and without qualifica-
tion. She remains an outpost of Christian civilisa-
tion ; and the maintenance of her liberties is still as
much an interest of the other Western European
States as throughout the struggle they repeatedly pro-
claimed it to be.
Finland knows, as she always knew, that little
trust can be placed in the word of her predatory
eastern neighbor; and penetration may take more in-
sidious forms than military invasion. She dealt Stalin
some resounding blows in self-defence. She is not
likely to be provoked recklessly to open combat. It
was obvious that Stalin was at least as anxious as the
Helsinki Government to bring the fighting to an end.
But Finland will need also the whole of her moral
strength to resist the advance of Bolshevism.
The Soviet-Nazi Partnership.
[Last week cables reported Sir Stafford Cripps as
stating in the U.S.A. that “there was a definite possi-
bility of the Soviet being divorced from Germany it
the Allies were willing to make trade concessions to
Russia.” He “found that German influence in Moscow
was not very strong.” Sir Stafford, a notorious Soviet
booster, was in Russia for only a matter of days.
Compare with his finding the report by a neutral
journalist resident in Moscow, John Stevens, here con-
densed from the “New Statesman,” 16/3/ 40.]
One impression which has grown on me during
recent weeks is that those who still harbor illusions
about Russia creating an eastern front against the
Germans, and eventually coming into the allied fold,
are in for a bitter jolt. Russia is going in for col-
laboration with Germany in a big way, with an eye
to and beyond the end of the war.
Somewhere about 1937, perhaps earlier, perhaps
later Stalin decided that Socialism could be built in-
dependently in Russia, but that it was excessively ex-
pensive. Productivity of labor was rising so slowly
that it would take generations to catch up to most
advanced countries. The Soviet workers, with an aver-
age monthly wage of 287 roubles, which is the price
of a good pair of shoes or a poor suit, still could not
find nearly enough things to buy. The collective
farmers, with considerable cash incomes, were even
worse off. It was the old “scissors” which had caused
so much trouble during the civil war.
Stalin decided that it was necessary to enlist the
collaboration of some great industrial country. The
obvious choice was Germany. Germany needed every-
thing that Russia had to offer, and could supply almost
everything that Russia needed. Stalin began fishing


for a rapprochement with Nazi Germany. His speech
in March, 1939, was an open invitation. Some time
about April the first actual negotiations were carried
out. The presses of the two countries tapered off their
withering barrages against each other. The negotia-
tions came out into the open in August. The latest step
was the pact of February 11, 1940. The negotiations
are still going on in a spirit of mutual collaboration.
The advent of the war immediately after the pub-
lication of the Soviet-German pact in August was an
unexpected turn of events for both Moscow and
Berlin. They both utilised the situation to improve
their positions in Eastern Europe, and to begin their
economic collaboration on a big scale. Both are now
used to the war, which at the beginning was rather in-
credible to both, and they are in the process of de-
ciding what to do about it.
If our train of thought has been at all accurate
up to this point, it is perfectly clear that Russia will
not form an Eastern front against Germany, and
cannot be reckoned as a potential ally of the democ-
racies.
But now what are Moscow and Berlin going to
decide to do about the war? My impression is that
the defensive variant is receiving the most serious
consideration in Berlin and in Moscow. If Hitler
succeeded in satisfying himself with defensive warfare
for several years, and the Russians agreed to col-
laborate, German organisation would be able to
squeeze a good deal of everything out of the rich
Russian soil. The Soviet Union has something more
than half the known petroleum deposits of the world,
incalculable iron, endless forests and the largest stretch
of good agricultural land in the world. These are
—From Dublln “Opinion.”
“JOURNEY’S END”—IRISH COMMENT ON NAZI SEA MURDER .
just the things Germany needs. If she got them from
Russia, she could keep up the war almost indefinitely.
It would put the Allies in a position where they would
almost have to attack the Siegfried Line. It would be
awkward.
Of course the Russians would have to be pre-
pared to sign an alliance with Germany, and face a
probable state of war with the Allies. They would
have to be prepared to have the Germans run some
Soviet plants, perhaps whole industries. Germans are
already numerous in Moscow. German equipment is
in operation all through Soviet industry from the old
days, and new equipment and spare parts are arriving
now. German barges are being prepared to carry
Baku petroleum through the Dniester-Bug canal to
Danzig. Russian cellulose is on its way to German
chemical and other plants.
In the opinion of many Russians such an arrange-
ment would ensure victory for Germany and Russia,
in the form either of collapse of the British Empire or
its diplomatic capitulation, leaving Eastern Europe,
Czechoslovakia and at least the northern Balkans as
German spheres of influence. In this case, the Russians
think that they could go ahead collaborating with
Germany and realising the prosperity which the effi-
cient exploitation of their natural resources would
bring.
France’s Great War-effort.
From a speech by M. Paul Reynaud, made before
he succeeded M. Daladier as Premier of France:
“A year ago I analysed the degeneration of the
State —a Father Christmas State, I called it, which
weakly allowed its citizens to believe that wealth
came from him not them, so that the people awaited
their cure from laws, decrees and regimentation
instead of trying to cure themselves.
“Today it is no longer a question of the State as
Father Christmas. For, with the war, he has assumed
a quite different appearance. It is a sort of ogre, a
Moloch-State, who has fallen on the wealth of indi-
viduals, whose tentacles have grasped the beasts of
burden, the carts in the farmyards, the hay in the
barns, the skeins of wool and cotton in the factories,
saying: ‘lt is war. This is mine.’
“In our present state of war, the strength of
France lies not in fear of the State, nor in fear of a
party, nor in the fascination of a single man, but in
our own free wills given to the service of the nation.
“There are some who think that, as victory is
assured, they need only wait patiently for the end of
the war. It is not patience that you need ; it is ardor,
It is not a question of enduring war, but of winning it.
“To those who dec ] are that time is working on our
side, I reply: Time is a neutral, a neutral who will
f a u to the strong > It is up t 0 us to annex it.
or _ nn tv,-
frnn J r h " l nemy ’ wh ° se are m issed cm the
. •’ f rnrn m : n order to dis-
arm ’ our wil ° s . ’we are superior in war potential. But
what for 2 o years the democracies lacked to win the
peace was not material things: it was lucidity and
daring”
* * * * *
[ The f o n oW i ng account of France’s war effort is
condensed from a general survey in London “Sunday
Dispatch.”]
The efficiency of the French Army was proved
when France carried out the most amazing mobilisa-
tion the world has ever known. Within five days of
the mobilisation order having been signed, 5,000,000
Frenchmen had joined their units and each unit had
rearhed itc flnnnintpd war nnsition
The P«* of the French Army are ,he men who
“ Maginc
P To ’realise what the Maeinnt
short of £600,0)0,000. To irealise what ithe Maginot
Line has meant it has to be remembered that by the
end of 1914 France had lost 720,000 men. Allied dead
> p F rance after four months of this war did not total
1500.
British experts who went out with the B.E.F. were
astounded at the numbers of heavy guns behind the
Maginot Line, all of them mobile, mounted either on
’
caterpillar carriages or else on the railway. It is safe
to say that the French artillery controls every road foi
30 miles beyond the Maginot Line.
Every French company of 250 men can now fire
more than a quarter of a ton of assorted projectiles
a minute, apart from rifle fire. Each company is
equipped with four 500-yard grenade-throwers, hurl-
ing from 15 to 20 seven-pound bombs a minute ; 12
light machine-guns, and a mortar firing 20 21-pound
bombs a minute. In addition, every man carries at
least one hand grenade. Attached to each battalion
are anti-tank guns and heavier mortars. In an attack
a French battalion can count on at least one support-
ing company of tanks.
The most far-reaching and revolutionary step in
the equipment of the French Army affects the British
Army to an equal degree. It is the decision of the
Allies that new types of arms —guns, tanks and ’planes
—shall be manufactured in both countries, to give
complete interchangeability of ammunition and parts.
Thus in the event of the destruction of a French fac-
tory making a particular type of shell, there will be
no risk of our Ally’s guns running short of ammuni-
tion. They can draw on British supplies.
Germany had a long start in aircraft building ;
but when Britain and France began big-scale produc-
tion in earnest their factories were turning out ’planes
that made a large part of Germany’s earlier produc-
tion obsolete. The most generally accepted figure of
Germany’s strength at the beginning of the war was
5000 front-line machines with a large number of
reserves. That total has now, of course, been ex-
ceeded, but, whereas the German factories have been
working at production peak for more than a year, the
Allied factories, even with their present enormous
output, have still room for a huge expansion. Experts
predict that air parity with Germany will have been
reached by this June. Britain and France combined
may buy from the U.S.A. 6000 to 8000 bombers and
a larger number of fighters, which may total between
£250,000,000 and £425,000,000.
The most revealing battle of the war for the
French Air Force was the dogfight over the Siegfried
Line when a squadron of nine French fighters engaged
a squadron of 29 Messerschmitts, nine of which were
shot down without loss to the French. The secret
lay in the greatly-superior manoeuvrability of the
French ’planes, the tiny single-seater multi-gunned
Moranes, and the fact that aerial combat is still con-
ducted at close range.
The French Air Force is taking its full share and
more of the vital but monotonous work of patrol and
reconnaissance. Over the waters of the Channel and
Atlantic the French seaplanes and flying-boats are as
ceaselessly on U-boat patrol as the R.A.F.
* * * * *
Britons, boasting the greatest navy in the world,
are apt to adopt rather a patronising attitude about the
navies of other nations. The French, however, have
a navy bigger than either the Germans or Italians. It
is the second greatest in Europe.
At the beginning of last year France had seven
battleships, one aircraft-carrier, seven heavy cruisers,
12 light cruisers, 59 destroyers and 78 submarines. To
meet the German building campaign, four new battle-
ships and two aircraft-carriers are among the 120 new
warships in various stages of in the
French yards. And battleships like France’s Dun-
kerque, moreover, can outpace and outgun any Nazi
warship afloat or building.
* * * * m
Behind France is the power of the 3,700,000
square miles of the French Empire, with its wealth of
raw materials, man-power and food.
North African “white” troops from districts with
climates similar to that of Northern France now form
an important part of the French Army. In the first
few weeks of this war the military effectives of Indo-
China, French West Africa and other colonies mobi-
lised 250,000 men —more than during the whole of the
last war.
The Empire is sending not only troops and enor-
mous quantities of produce, but workers also —from
Tonking in Indo-China 70,000 manual workers, and
millions of others are available. Thus every fighting
man in the army will be freed from labor corps.
During the last war the French
colonies alone, as distinct from North
African territories, exported 3,500,000
tons of food to the mother country, but
this figure will be exceeded in the first 12
months of the present war.
One of France’s main determina-
tions, like Britain’s, is to maintain and
increase her normal export trade with
the rest of the world, and this, with the
Mediterranean clear of U-boats and
mines, and her industries working at full
pressure, she is succeeding in doing.
She has concluded new trade pacts with
foreign countries. Spain, for instance, is
supplying her with vital raw materials,
pyrites, mercury, iron, lead and wolfram,
and food. France, in return, is exporting
to Spain all the things which Germany
was to have supplied, but cannot do now
because of the blockade —dyes and
chemicals, electrical equipment, optical
glass, machinery and cars.
* * * *
The war this year is to cost France
£l,42B,ooo,ooo—just on £4,000,000 a day
—to be raised inside France from war
stocks, savings, taxes and lotteries.
Backing up all her direct war-effort
France has become one vast workshop.
Thanks to the Maginot Line her indus-
trial resources are intact. It was a vastly
different tale 25 years ago, when, after five months of
war, France had lost through the German invasion
23 out of 95 blast-furnace works, half of her 120,000
metallurgical workers, 40 per cent, of her coal, 30
p er cen t G f h er co ke 90 per cent of her iron 80 per
cent of her steel and g 0 cent of her industrial
equipment
,'_. , , _
Wlt “ a France at war, French capital and French
labor have joined hands. With grim cheerfulness the
French industrial worker is putting in 60 to 70 hours
a week, with the famous 40-hour week but a faint
memory. And he is giving back 40 per cent, of all
overtime pay to his country. Output goes on cease-
lessly—24 hours a day, 168 hours a week,
This j s reason f or t h e huge increase in pro-
duction The index fi sure of nroduction ha serf nn the
10n ' f JL 1( ? 7q f ,, .
per °i pro ? P , ° ' 929> fe “ t 0 , 5“ ” the fll f
™ ont “ . + tbe r ’ b ~ by No . ven } ber , ll bad risen t 0
is still rising. Outstanding has been the output
°i industry’s lifeblood. Although 22,000 miners
have been called up, the remaining 140,000 produced
4,119,000 tons in November, against 3,875,000 tons for
the same month in 1938. This increased production
has enabled the French railways to run more than
400 extra goods and troop trains a day.
"0 branch of French industry is a more re-
markable effort being made than in plane production,
i n which 300,000 men and women are engaged. For
France the air industry has not been a case of just
enormous expansion, as in Britain, or even reorganisa-
tion of an existing system. It has been a case of start-
ing again from scratch and building a new and national
industry to replace out-of-date, small-scale production.
the end of 1937 France’s output of ’planes had
j, een on j y 33 a mon th At the end of 1938 produc
tion had risen t 73 a month . Last spring it £ as 20 0
mrknt u f .
a m ° nth ’ *° w the ° u tput runs into four figures a
montb anc * they are bombers and fighters second to
none. More than 1000 factories scattered throughout
France are producing aeroplane parts.
There is not a vacant place in the shipyards of
France. As soon as one vessel is launched, another
keel is laid down. Every worker not engaged on the
warship programme is busy building new merchant
tonnage, from tankers to trawlers
’ , . .
y ° P ut France s mumtlons ° u *P ut at 20 tim^ s tae
peak figure of the last war would be to underestimate
ih Overproduction of munitions, if such were pos-
sible, is preferred to risks of shortage when “The
Day” comes.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Racegoers had read a lot concerning
the improvements made at Canterbury
Park, but 1 think most who visited that
course on Saturday were pleasantly sur-
prised. A great deal has been accom-
plished in a comparatively little time.
Canterbury now has a real race track,
with arrangements inside the paddock
and leger improved in marked fashion.
With the straight lengthened to two
furlongs, Canterbury is not now a
course for squibs. Naturally the going
was a trifle loose on Saturday, but that
will right itself in a few weeks when we
get a fair rainfall.
New features included a win-and-place
tote, with really informative odds indi-
cators. The attendance was estimated at
17,000, and the tote turnover was £14,647.
The tote greatly increased the number
of women racegoers in England, and it
has had that effect in Sydney.
Always popular, Canterbury is now
sure to reward further those interested
in it for their enterprise. If attendances
continue up to that of last week the
club will have no difficulty in setting a
high standard of prize-money to those
clubs racing elsewhere than at Randwick.
Bel Oiseau’s two hard runs at Rand-
wick must have temporarily knocked
him out, as, though he started a short-
priced favorite for the Opening Handi-
cap, his chance did not look a winning
one at any part of the last three fur-
longs. Miss Heroic, who was a long way
from the front at one stage, had a great
set-to with Opportunist from the top of
the straight, but the latter, with the
assistance of a strong rider in Coutts,
was a little too good.
Tel Asur was an indifferent third, and,
though he did well towards the finish, is
still a long way from fulfilling the promise
he gave last season. Marengo lost his
chance through meeting with accidental
interference from Mortine, but, as his
trainer has claimed all along, is possibly
a little overrated by the handicappers.
Progress again commenced too slowly to
have a look-in, but Mortine, a Morse
filly, showed pace.
Rimveil’s fourth in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes entitled him to be at a shorter
price than 7 to 1 for the Quality Handi-
cap, but, while John was always at odds-
on, Panchio was generally preferred to
Rimveil. The last-named was slowest to
get going, but John was the whipper-in
along the back. Entering the straight
Rimveil ran up to the pacemakers, Duke
Cullen and Panchio, and, after disposing
of them, lasted long enough to win by a
head from John, who made up a lot of
leeway in the last furlong.
John was not discredited by his defeat.
He did not seem altogether happy on the
new track, and was giving 121 b. to Rim-
veil, whose effort at Randwick proved
him better than previously supposed.
Panchio again ran as if not suited by
anything approaching a distance, but, as
he has lots of pace, is a likely winner at
six furlongs. Rimveil, who is by Veil-
mond from Rima (Backwood-Love
Comedy, by Comedy King), is a first
foal, and as a yearling was sold for
80gns.
Gold Rod closed his racing career
with a brilliant win in the Frederick Clis-
sold Handicap. At the half-mile he was
among the tail-enders, with several
lengths separating him from the leaders,
and there did not seem much hope for
him. In the short straight of the old
Canterbury track he may not have
reached Trimmer, who led along the
back from Brazandt and Penthides. At
the turn it was apparent Trimmer had
the measure of those two, and a win for
him seemed certain.
A furlong from home Gold Rod
appeared on the scene, and confirmed
C. W. Cropper Plate running. He fin-
ished too strongly for Trimmer. Brazandt
came home quite as well as the latter,
and, as he is dropping in the
weights, will add to his winning account
before long. Penthides, though unplaced,
shaped fairly, while Adios made his poor-
est showing for some time, failing to dis-
play any dash. Tarn was outclassed,
and, though never further back than fifth,
Delmestor is not yet in the form that
enabled her to win the Carrington Stakes
with 9.7. Still, she will improve.
Plutus, who is staying better than at
any previous time, accounted for the
Turf Club Handicap, after The Kite had
attempted to win practically all the way.
Plutus, who was second to him along tbe
back, was with him turning for home,
with Santa, Lord Valentine and Round
Up heading the remainder. It was, how-
ever, left to Cable Boy to give the finish
a semblance of interest, but, though just
after starting upon the last furlong it
looked as if he might overhaul Plutus,
the latter was holding him at the win-
ning-post.
The Kite hung on well to get third,
though not far ahead of Highborn, Lord
Valentine and Cherry Bar. The time
was 2.24 U against the record for the old
course of 2.21, but when the track be-
comes “set” it is probable fast times will
be the rule at all distances. Cherry Bar
did not run up to her Randwick form,
and, though Round Up did show a little
dash, his effort upheld the idea that he
is getting a little more weight than he
can carry successfully.
Radical and Royal Routine shared
favoritism for the first division of the
Progressive Stakes, and a long way from
home it was certain one or the other
would win. Royal Routine was the early
leader, but never got far away from Sir
Regal and Radical. Turning for home
Radical was handy to Royal Routine,
and over the last furlong was too good
for him, though there was not much in
it. Bestop, who did not have the luckiest
of runs, was third, and of the remainder
only Mantilla was reasonably close, her
form being good enough to give her a
look-in for something at a mid-week or
provincial meeting.
Backed, and beaten out of a place at
Rosebery the previous Wednesday, Mis-
chief proved his race did him good.
Though not as much fancied as either
Sign On or Sidcup he easily won the
Campsie Handicap from Chicola and
Court Gossip, after Exactor had led into
the straight. Sign On was a close fourth,
but may be getting a little tired. Sidcup
did not threaten danger, being a long
way back for the first five furlongs,
and, though he later made a forward
move, his effort was shortlived. Exactor
was out of his distance, and Bonnie L.
is not improving.
Grancitia won the second division of
the Progressive Stakes in slightly slower
time than Radical recorded in the first,
but the way he finished said a lot for his
prospects of further success. Innisfail,
who ran second, is also worth following.
Avant Tout had every chance, being one
of the leaders at the turn, but did not
finish nearly as well as the first two.
Merton was fourth when the field settled
down, and finished in that position. Cas-
talia was the early leader, but tired a
long way from home ; while Benburb,
who gave a lot of trouble at the starting-
post, and was sent to the outside, did not
give his supporters hope at any part.
Grand Hotel and Hazaden ran fairly,
but York did not show any sign of a
return to his two-year-old form. Gran-
citia, who is raced on lease by R. Cash-
man, is by Grand Joy from Linacitia
(half-sister to Kentle, Brisbane Cup and
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdles winner),
and was a 55gns. yearling.
* * * *
In the greatest of his sensational per-
formances at Mentone, Mac Rob won
the Waverley Handicap at that track on
Saturday. His chance looked anything
but bright when he was last of the six
runners and about 10 lengths behind the
leader entering the straight, but Mac
Rob, perhaps the outstanding exponent in
Melbourne of the “horses-for-courses”
theory, mowed down the opposition in
the final furlong and won going away
from the 25-to-l chance Barametric and
Great Eastern. The Parenthesis colt car-
ried 8.7, representing lib. more than
weight-for-age for a three-year-old, and
although not within cooee of the best of
his age —he was beaten 10 lengths by
Reading and High Caste in the V.R.C. St.
Leger—he is a decidedly useful handi-
capper. Probably he is the best galloper
yet sired by Parenthesis.
Mac Rob’s lessees, R. Mclntyre and
H. Robertson, the latter a cousin of
Mclntyre and a member of the air force,
probably viewed the finish with mixed
feelings of elation and regret. Their
lease expired on Monday. Jack Holt
was prepared to sell the colt at a price,
and he and Mclntyre were to have met
at the Valley to discuss the matter finally.
Holt paid only 170 guineas for Mac
Rob as a yearling, and, as his share of the
prize-money has probably been the usual
third, he has found the colt a profit-
able proposition. To Saturday, Mac
Rob had won seven races and been
placed nine times, his most important
success being the recent W.R.C. Easter
Cup at Flemington, a race worth £7OO
to the winner. Credit for Mac Rob’s
splendid record must go to his trainer,
Harry Gabell, who has kept him in first-
class condition during a long and strenu-
ous campaign. Mac Rob has been in
training without a spell since last August,
his race on Saturday being his twentieth
during that period.
Lady Kooringal was having her 137th
race when she contested the Waverley
Handicap, but, although she was out
about five lengths at one stage of the
trip, she failed to get her customary big
break on the field, and, collapsing alto-
gether when collared before the turn,
finished a bad last. Figures reveal either
her deterioration or Mac Rob’s improve-
ment. This pair met in the J. L. Reilly
Stakes at Mentone on February 3, when
Lady Kooringal led all the way and beat
Mac Rob two lengths in course-record
time for 1| mile. Lady Kooringal met
Mac Rob 201 b. better on Saturday, when
the time was l|sec. slower, but it
would be difficult to gauge by how many
pounds she was beaten.
Lady Kooringal’s tearaway tactics have
caused controversy recently, some people
being of opinion that she disorganises
almost every race in which she starts,
and that action should be taken to pre-
vent a repetition. Such criticism is un-
fair. Good results are not obtained
when any attempt is made to restrain
her. Says trainer Lawry: “The mare
was at a long price when she won her
last race, so those who cheered her were
not cheering through their pockets.”
Backers who laid 2 to 1 on Manrico
had their share of thrills before the
parrot-mouthed and apple-kneed speed-
ster beat Red Morn and Birdplay in
the Autumn Stakes. Even with 10.4,
Manrico was not badly handicapped in
such a field, but he found it difficult to
shake off the 100-to-1 chance Annie
Rooney, who led him early and was
only half a length behind him at the
three furlongs. Badger had to kick him
along at the finish. But, as Jack Holt
pointed out after the race, the time
was there. Manrico cut out the six fur-
longs in 1.12 y, only three-quarters of a
second outside Operatic’s course record.
Still, as Red Morn, who ran him to
three-quarters of a length, was last into
the straight, Manrico’s performance was
not impressive. Badger was associated
with Manrico in the latter’s spring vic-
tories, but, principally owing to a prior
engagement for Ajax, Saturday was the
first time he had ridden him this autumn.
Saturday was not trainer Jack
Besanko’s lucky day. In addition to Red
Morn, he missed out with Inspector
Scott, who was outstayed by Lord Walla
in the Berwick Handicap. Inspector
Scott’s second followed successive wins
at Mentone and Ascot, and Besanko will
have reason to be pleased if that colt’s
yearling sister, just received by him, de-
velops into as useful a galloper. Both
Inspector Scott and the filly are owned
in Sydney by Mrs. George Edwards.
Lord Walla, a member of Claude Good-
fellow’s team, ousted Inspector Scott from
favoritism shortly before the start, and,
responding well when Preston moved on
him at the top of the straight, won de-
cisively. Like the two Cups winner
Rivette, he is by Ronsard, and more will
be heard of him. Muraille, backed from
tens down to sixes, came from last at
the turn to finish third, and a middle-
distance might be to her liking.
Chatasan probably would have won
the Hume Juvenile Handicap in any cir-
cumstances, as he ended up with three
lengths to spare, and equalled the course
record by running the five furlongs in
60 seconds, but a flying start made
things easier for him. He obtained a
break of about three lengths at barrier-
rise, with the result that Dewhurst was
able to give him a breather later, and
then shoot him away again at the top of
the straight to win easily from Aldwyth
and Clarify. A son of Chatham, one of
the best milers Australia has known,
Chatasan cost 300 guineas as a yearling,
and is owned in Adelaide by Mrs. H.
Bickford. Latter’s husband was for many
years starter on metropolitan courses in
that city, and now is a member of the
S.A.J.C. committee. Chatasan came from
Adelaide with good form to his credit,
and on Saturday was having his third
race in Melbourne. He was left here
under the care of P. B. Quinlan when his
S.A. trainer, I. Reid, returned home.
Great expectations centred around
Silver Reign earlier in his career, but,
while he did not fulfil them, he returned
to winning form with a game exhibition
in the Westminster Welter Handicap.
Twice in the last furlong Barham
appeared to have him beaten, but Silver
Reign fought on doggedly and gained a
head verdict, with Captain Drake an-
other head away third. Temple Coyn,
whose many failures in Melbourne have
cost backers a collective fortune since
she arrived from Westralia with good
credentials over 18 months ago, was again
a disappointing favorite, but Ngapuna
might have had a say in the finish had she
not met with interference near the five
furlongs. She was thrown right out of
her stride, and came from a seemingly
hopeless position to finish fourth.
Captain Drake, whose last four starts
have yielded two wins and two thirds, is
one of the most unusual horses racing.
Unusual inasmuch as he was an unplaced
maiden when, trained by Harry Telford,
of Phar Lap fame, he ran in six weight-
for-age races at three years. A promis-
ing fourth to Ajax, Avenger and Ron-
sardian at Caulfield at his first start led
to an ambitious programme being
mapped out for him, but Captain Drake
fell very much below expectations, and
subsequently changed hands. His new
connections decided to start from the
bottom, and Captain Drake was rele-
gated to maiden company at provincial
meetings. Now five years old, this big
gelded son of Drake and Curlecue has
found his proper level and might im-
prove.
While Terka justified his equal favorit-
ism for the Beach Hurdle Race, Erua,
co-favorite, let his backers down badly.
Erua had won his three previous starts
over jumps, but they were more than a
year ago, and evidently he was in need of
race experience. Losing ground at many
jumps, he was beaten a long way from
home. Terka, on the other hand, was
always in a winning position, and won
comfortably from Big Swell and Sachem.
Terka’s trainer, Ron Cameron, will be
remembered as one of the greatest riders
of his time. The Melbourne Cup on The
FOR RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Hurdle Race: Spearbine, 1 ;
Dubonnet, 2 ; Winning Post, 3.
Youthful Stakes: Status, 1 ;
Loyal Lad, 2 ; Black Banter, 3.
Denman Stakes: Anne, 1 ; Merry
Smile, 2 ; Denis, 3.
Trial Handicap: Thunderclap,
1 ; Cryon, 2 ; Mantilla, 3.
City Tattersall’s Cup: Lord Val-
entine, 1 ; Geebung, 2 ; Plutus, 3.
Club Welter: Politesse, 1 ; Oppor-
tunist, 2 ; Tel Asur, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(By “SENTRY.”)
Carlisle Trial Hurdle: Nawab-
zada, 1 ; King Arthur, 2 ; Ring-
ford, 3.
Tankerville Handicap: Tranquil
Star, 1 ; Miss Jemima, 2; Ten
O’clock, 3.
Kilmorley Trial Handicap: High
Falutin, 1 ; Olympus, 2 ; Nadbuck,
3.
Eclipse Handicap: Kanuri, 1 ;
Ngapuna, 2 ; Pamelus, 3.
Belhaven Handicap: Dignitary,
1 ; French Gem, 2 ; Rambler, 3.
Grafton Welter Handicap: Cour-
age, 1 ; Silver Reign, 2 ; Lalmoni,
3.


SAVE MONEY
IT'S I
THRIFTY I
TO INSTALL J
fH NEW H
CHAMPIONS^
SNSNS
(Vl »«*vvwwy»>.u^, l( ,
a >
sssss
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring SMOOTH MOTORING
If your engine is not pulling
smoothly and evenly be sure
to check the spark plugs. Fouled
and worn spark may be
robbing you of the economy
and pleasure of a smooth-
running engine. Install new
Champions for greatest speed
and power, and for the real
economy that only these su-
perior spark plugs can give.
An Empire Product —made in Windsor, Can,
Parisian figured among Cameron’s flat
triumphs.
Terka won again at Moonee Valley on
Monday, but Manrico failed to get a
place in the Alister Clark Stakes, which
was won by his stable-mate Pure Gold,
with Aurie’s Star second and Zonda third.
Rose Princess won the Anniversary
Handicap from Ortelle’s Star and Bank-
shaw, with Mac Rob fourth.
SC * * *
G. P. Nailon is not without high-
priced yearlings in his stable at Rand-
wick. One is the 950gns. Spearfelt—Poy
Patrol colt, and another the 575gns, colt
by Pantheon from Blackbird. Breeding
favors the possibility of the Spearfelt
colt making a stayer. His dam is out of
Poyferre, a sister to Poitrel.
4c s[c * *
It is a pity Alwina did not have
another colt to Pantheon before she died.
So few mares have thrown more than
one high-class horse that it would have
been interesting to see whether Alwina
could be added to the exceptions. Foals
subsequent to Peter Pan were Brazilian
(by Brazen), who did not fulfil expec-
tations, and the Pantheon fillies Tinker
Bell and Phoebe. The last-named won
at Victoria Park last week without
showing form of special account. Tinker
Bell, bought recently by P. Miller, should
be a winning possibility at middle dis-
tances, and, in any case, should be a
good stud proposition. Alwina was
trained as a two-year-old, but, though she
had pace for about three furlongs, was
too squibby to be raced. That did not
stand in the way of her throwing a
great stayer in Peter Pan. Poitrei,
another of Australia’s best distance
horses, was from Poinard, who could not
get beyond six furlongs, and on her
sire’s side was from a family more noted
for sprinters than stayers.
* * * *
In winning the first division of the
Two-year-old Handicap at Rosebery
Status displayed a lot of pace, though
when she ran well against Dark Elegance
at Rosehill early in the season, and sub-
sequently downed Sans Arne in easy
fashion at Victoria Park it was recog-
nised she was a galloper above the aver-
age. In her race last Wednesday she beat
the second horse seven lengths, and, as
her time was a second faster than Peter
Pan’s sister Phoebe put up in the second
division, it is probable she would also
have lost the latter if they had met.
Bred by H. Thompson, she was passed
in at last season’s yearling sales and is
raced on lease by G. Ray and F. Mc-
Fadyen. She is by Hall Mark from
Brown Sugar (Cooltrim-Eulita, by
Charlemagne II), who has thrown other
winners in Muscovada, Andorra, Hwong
Tong and Sweet Canusa. At the recent
yearling sales at Randwick Status’s half-
sister, by Melfort, was sold for 130gns.
* * * *
Hall Mark’s two-year-olds have done
fairly in Sydney this season, and his
son, Marshall Hall, won two races at
the Auckland R.C.’s recent Easter meet-
ing. In six starts Marshall Hall has
only once been out of a place, so there
is no doubt as to his galloping ability.
He is out of the imported mare Legality,
dam of other winners in Bambury and
Whirling. In 1934 Legality was sent
from Maoriland to be mated with
Heroic, but missed, and it was the same
the following year. Her owner, how-
ever, was determined to have the Heroic
strain, so in 1936 Legality was sent to
Hall Mark. Marshall Hall was the satis-
factory result.
* * * *
The question as to Ajax’s future has
not yet been decided, but it will be sur-
prising if he has ended his racing career.
With doubt as to what the war will bring
forth, and increased taxation cutting into
big incomes, it is improbable that, for
stud purposes, Ajax would now realise
his true value. Up to a mile and a
quarter, at least, his prospects of in-
creasing his w.f.a. earnings in the spring
are bright. At a mile Amiable, High
Caste and Manrico may again be his
toughest opponents, while at a mile and
a half Mosaic, Maikai, Beau Vite and
Reading at present read like giving him
most trouble.
* * * *
E. J. Watt’s decision to retire Gold
Rod after his win at Canterbury Park
was probably wise. We have seen many
good horses kept going until their pre-
vious good deeds were somewhat tar-
nished by failure, and Gold Rod’s owner
wished to avoid that. Although he was
not a stayer, Gold Rod won an A.J.C.
St. Leger, and was fourth with 9.0 in a
Metropolitan. His best efforts were at
distances up to a mile, and he gave his
owner a splendid return for the 350gns.
he cost as a yearling. His winnings
total nearly £19,000.
Gold Rod’s wins of importance in-
clude the Breeders’ Plate, A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, Caulfield
Futurity Stakes, Epsom Handicap (9.3)
and Doncaster Handicap (9.2). With the
exception of two races, M. McCarten
rode him in all his wins. His owner will
be able to give him opportunities of
proving himself at the stud, and, as he
is by Chief Ruler from Oreum (daughter
of that great mare Desert Gold), breed-
ing is certainly not against the possibility
of his siring first-class gallopers.
* * * *
In addition to those mentioned in last
week’s issue the following yearlings have
gone into G. Price’s stable: Br. c., by
Piccadilly-Val d’Or, 220gns.; ch. c., by
Excitement-Ardis, 300gns.; ch. c., by
J. R. Smith-Muscovada, 475gn5.; b. c.,
by Lawmaker-Gallantic, 400gns.; and
ch. f., by Peter Pan-Capris, 425gns. As
there are some to come from Maoriland
Price will have at least a dozen youngsters
in his care.
* * * *
A correspondent, who does not agree
with my idea that Beau Vite may prove
the best staying four-year-old racing in
Sydney and Melbourne in the spring,
says I have apparently forgotten that
Reading defeated the Maorilander in
both Derbies, and adds there is no reason
why he should not again do so if they
meet in the longer w.f.a. races. There
is not much use, as a rule, in making
excuses for beaten horses, but, though
Beau Vite was well beaten by Reading
in the Derbies, he ran better than the
latter in the Melbourne Cup when in
receipt of only 31b. Reading did not shine
against the older horses at Randwick,
and, as his appearance did not suggest
there was anything amiss with him, he
has yet, despite his four classic wins, to
prove himself a real stayer. Breeding,
however, is not against Reading in re-
spect of improvement with age. At four
years Marconigram’s sons Marabou and
Contact respectively won a Melbourne
Cup and Sydney Cup.
* * * *
A year naturally makes considerable
difference in the rating ,of many horses.
In the last Melbourne Cup Ajax headed
the weights with 9.9, and if he is nomi-
nated for the coming one he may again
be somewhere about that mark, not-
withstanding he has yet to prove himself
a stayer. Spear Chief and Defaulter, who
respectively had 9.7 and 9.5, have
finished racing, but Mosaic, who ran
nowhere with 9.0 last year, will have
a few extra pounds to carry. Round
Up, Catalogue, Donaster, Buzalong, The
Trump, Beaupartir and Elanage, whose
weights ranged from 9.0 to 8.10, ate
likely to be dropped a little if they are
entered.
Maikai and Rivette will make a big
step up from last year, when the former
was second with 7.11, and the latter won
with 7.9, inclusive of 101 b. penalty.
In the last Cup High Caste had 7.8
and Reading 7.7, but this year the handi-
capper may think it unnecessary to
go higher than 7.6 —weight-for-age —with
any of the three-year-olds, with Lucra-
tive and John heading those of that age.
It is nearly time another three-year-old
did something of account in a Melbourne
Cup. Since Hall Mark won in 1933 the
place-getters have not included even one.
* * * *
If half we read is correct as to horses
being backed for various thousands at
starting price, “off the course” betting
must be nearly back to where it was
prior to the police activities of some time
ago. I am unaware whether the small
bettor finds it as easy to “invest” his shil-
ling or two as in the past, but men who
do business in a big way seemingly have
little difficulty in getting set. In this
matter there are owners and trainers who
are delightfully inconsistent. They growl
about the comparative smallness of prize-
money, and yet assist in maintaining a
business that tends to that end by making
stay-at-home backers of people who
might otherwise contribute to clubs’
revenue in the way of admission fees.
However, in racing most men do what
they think is likely to be of most benefit
to themselves, and give little thought to
the general good. For that matter, it
is the same in most businesses.
* * * *
F. Shean, one of the few jockeys who
have received a substantial retainer in
Australia, has been released from his
engagement by A. E. Cooper. For his
first year Shean received £lOOO, and when
that term expired he was paid £250 by
Cooper for first call on his services.
Shean believes he can do better as a
freelance, though, with few calls upon
him, £250 was a nice foundation for a
year’s income. It would be interesting
to know what D. Munro’s nine wins at
Randwick returned him, though that is.
his and the Taxation Commissioner’s
business. At the usual 5 p.c. on prizes
of £lOO or over it would have been
substantial, but what he actually received
for his week’s work would probably have
been satisfactory to many prominent
lawyers and doctors for a year. Some
Sydney owners do not give their jockeys
less than 10 per cent, for any win at
Randwick or elsewhere.
# * * *
In various seasons I have heard
trainers express gratification when their
patrons have not bought any yearlings.
“Too much bother” has been their com-
ment, but it has sometimes been a case
of “sour grapes.” On the other hand,
there are trainers who express the
opinion, “You must have them in order
to win the best races.” B. Payten is
among those who share that idea, and, in
the way of big things, Trueness and John
have given him satisfaction this season.
The late T. Payten shone with two-year-
olds, and it cannot be said his son is
behindhand in that respect.
B. Payten will again have a big team of
two-year-olds at the commencement of
the coming season, the yearlings now in
his stable being as under:
Blk. c., by Double Remove-Biddy
Menda, 400gns.
Blk. c., by Constant Son-Moonlight,
350gns.
B. c., by Cheveley Lad-Salamander.
B. c., by Spearfelt-Trio Crown, 325gns.
B. c., by Tippler-Magundi, 65gns.
B. c., by Melfort-Gold Mast, 300gns.
B. c., by Melfort-Gloriole.
B. c., by Marconigram-Silver Sequin,
200gns.
B. f., by Melfort-Woorambie.
B. f., by Cheveley Lad-Siren.
B. f., by Solicitor-General-The Oyster.
Br. f., by Piccadilly-Voleuse.
Ch. f., by Brueghel-Aulone, 400gns.
Ch. f., by Melfort-Silver Flower.
* * * *
Ripley, who was barred from Sydney
meetings owing to his eyesight being
affected, was among the competitors at
the C.J.C. (Christchurch) Easter meet-
ing, but was unsuccessful. As he was
rather leniently treated, he will pay his
way in his new home if he returns to
his Sydney form.
* * * *
It is not unusual to hear the query of
“Why should Tattersall’s Club be per-
mitted to race at Randwick? Well, it
has always given good stakes, and dur-
ing its recent financial year £1309 of
what it received from its four days’
racing was distributed among patriotic
funds and charitable institutions. In the
circumstances interference with its
operations at Randwick would be re-
grettable.
* * * *
At the Christchurch Easter meeting
Density made a new seven-furlong record
for Maoriland. In an exciting finish
for the Great Easter Handicap she de-
feated Duncannon by a head in 1.23 1-5,
which is only one-fifth of a second behind
the Australian record, jointly held by
Lough Neagh and Mohican. Density had
7.9 to Duncannon’s 8.0, and the latter,
being slow off the mark, was last soon
after the start. Density is a five-year-old
daughter of Pink Coat and Denise. At
the same meeting Willie Win, though not
greatly fancied, easily won the Great
Autumn Handicap, \\ mile, with 8.7.
Evidently he is back to the form that
enabled him to run second in The
Trump’s Melbourne Cup.
sj: * *
Some Maoriland critics had an idea
that Old Bill would prove a troublesome
opponent for Beau Vite in the Awapuni
Gold Cup at the Manawatu meeting last
week. He had no chance, Beau Vite
beating him easily in the slow time of
2.11 4-5 for the mile and a quarter,
which suggests the track was heavy. Old
Bill is a good middle-distance horse. At
Wellington last month he successfully
carried topweight, 9.0, in the Autumn
Handicap, 1 mile 3fur., and was favorite
in a field of 13. He is by Siegfried.
* * * *
It is unusual for a starter to be
penalised for allowing horses to get away
to a moving start, but at the Riverton
(Maoriland) meeting last month C.
Gieseler had that experience. He let the
field away to a snap start in the Pourakini
Handicap, and was fined £3 by the
stewards. In Maoriland a standing start
is obligatory under the Rules of Racing.
# * * *
Frank Wootton, who headed the win-
ning jockeys’ list in England in 1909-10-
11-12, died suddenly at Kensington (Syd-
ney) on Saturday last. He commenced
his riding career in South Africa, where
his father, the well-known owner-trainer
R. Wootton, raced with marked success.
Frank’s first appearance was in Eng-
land in 1906, and his first win there was
on his father’s horse Reprieve. His best
year was 1911, when he won 187 races.
Although he never rode a Derby
winner, Wootton won the Oaks on
Perola and the St. Leger on Swynford.
He served in the East during the war,
and on returning to England took up
riding under National Hunt Rules. He
shone over hurdles, and in 1921 headed
the winning list. Sporting writers still
quote him as being one of the best hurdle
jockeys seen in England. He returned to
Australia a few years ago, but did not
take active part in racing in any way.
* * * *
There is nothing new in a Sydney
trainer’s successful experiment of feed-
ing a horse on carrots and beer. In a
recent issue of the London “Sporting
Life” it is mentioned that a very success-
ful jumper named Merry John would
not look at oats, and his trainer was
compelled to feed him on black beans
and carrots. To compensate for the
absence of oats in his feed Merry John’s
trainer used to give him a pint of old
ale each day. As oats have gone up to
a tremendous price in the last three
months, it is stated that more carrots
are now being used by English trainers
than at any previous time.
* * *
England’s Grand National Steeplechase
was run at Aintree last week, and the
possibility of a German air-raid was not
overlooked. Air-raid wardens patrolled
the course, and printed cards directed
racegoers what shelter to take in case
of emergency. Fortunately there was no
German interference, and the race was
won by Lord Stalbridge’s seven-year-old
gelding Bogskar (Werwolf-Irish Spring)
from Macmoffat and Gold Arrow,
their respective weights being 10.4, 10.10
and 10.3, and prices 25 to 1, 8 to 1 and
50 to 1.
Two days before the race Miss D.
Paget’s Kilstar was favorite, but on the
course he gave place to last year’s win-
ner, Royal Danieli, who fell at the
second-last fence when leading. A year ago
Kilstar was third, and Macmoffat second.
In the list of acceptors “Stalbridge” was
given as the trainer of the winner, so,
unless it was the owner himself, Bogskar


jDeZLciouA.
The art of Cookery has reached the
pinnacle of perfection in France, and
it is welcome news to the connoisseurs
of this country to know that here in
our very midst at the
HOTEL PLAZA
Wynyard Station,
may be obtained replicas of the cele-
brated dishes made famous by the lead-
ing Chefs de Cuisine of Paris. The
French Cafd at the Plaza features on
this week’s menus the following dishes:
Consomme <les Viveurs, Creme
Argentenil
Filet <le Sole Belle Mennlere
J.angouste Mornay, Wiener
Schnitzel
Hungarian Goulash. Aloyau Roll
Garnie
Diinle Roti, Sauce Perigueux
Risotto Milanese
Mayonnaise <le Volaille Malson,
etc., etc.
English Dishes are also prepared in the
Frence Cafd for those desiring same.
Superb Cooking . . . Dainty Dishes.
FRENCH CAFE
HOTEL PLAZA
The Most Popular House in Australia,
WYNYARD.
TheCouretf-pbuedut/luatoUia-
-1940 CHEVROLET
1, li & 2 TON TRUCKS
M
m
wfm ■■
v<c/rt~
WM
POWERED TO PULL - BUILT TO LAST
Again for 1940 Chevrolet is the outright value leader with a grand new
range of trucks including the lowest-priced 1, IY2 and 2-tonners in
Australia! And Chevrolet Trucks are engineered to give you the most
efficient, most profitable operation. Features prove that Chevrolet is
ahead of all competitors in engineering and design. Look at this list of
features: Famous 6-cyl. Overhead Valve Truck Engine (which never
needs replacing). Engine Torque (pulling power) of 170 ft.-lbs. at only
850 r.p.m. Exclusive 4-way Oiling System. Cast Iron Pistons. 1 ull-
Contact” Hydraulic Brakes. Full-floating Rear Axle (from 30 cwt.
upwards). New Hypoid Axle Gears. Straddle-mounted Pinion. Four-
pinion Differential (from 30 cwt. upwards) and a host of others. No wonder
Chevrolet are Australia’s biggest-seiling Trucks. Come in and see them now!
CHEVROLET TRUCK CHASSIS from - £287
“Maple Leaf” Heavy Duty 3£ and 4-tonners also available Chassis from £370
A full range of 1940 Chevrolet “Pullman” and “Ridemaster” 10-12 cwt. Utilities and
Chevrolet 15 cwt. Commercial Utilities also available.
Easy Terms Available Under Confidential GM.A.C. Plan.
. . . AND A CENUINE
3-TONNER WITH SPECIALLY
REINFORCED FRAME.
For value, this new 1940
Chevrolet stands alone in the
3-ton field. It’s built through-
out to “take it” on the most
punishing work, yet priced
amazingly low and that
means big savings on capital
and interest charges—reduced
overhead costs. What’s more,
you’ll find that a 3-ton Chev-
rolet will save you money on
every mile of haulage because
of its proved economy of
operation and maintenance.
See this great 1940 Chevrolet
3-tonner now. Two wheel-
bases, 133 in. and 158 J in.
CHASSIS FROM £365
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT — BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia qv NKKAL MOTORS ■ HOLDEN’S urn.
CHEVROLET CHAMPIONS OF 1940!
was prepared by someone related to him.
The result must have been gratifying to
most double-layers, as Quartier-Maitre,
winner of the first leg, the Lincolnshire
Handicap, was heavily backed, starting
at 7 to 2. Owned by Mrs. A. Bendir,
he was trained by I. Anthony and ridden
by G. Richards.
*jc H 5
In New York the bookmakers were
hopeful they would be able to carry on,
even though legislation favored the
totalisator. However, it was cabled last
week that Governor Lehman had signed
a bill which completely put them out of
action. Apart from what it will cost
them to install the totalisator, the five
courses in the State of New York are
jointly expending £A375,000 in new
stands and other improvements.
I read in recent American exchanges
that the deduction from investments was
to be 10 per cent., which would be
equally divided between the State and
the racecourses. There will be approxi-
mately 200 days’ racing in New York in
a year, and it was reckoned the turnover
would at least average £A125,000 a day,
which would mean £A1,250,000 annually
for the State, which may also take the
fractions.
In 280 racing days last year approxi-
mately £A 18,951,000 went through the
totalisator in California, but in the way
of highest betting average the small
State of Rhode Island led with £A90,646
for each of 73 days. It is certain New
York will beat that. Last year official
figures showed that the total of
296,835,035 dollars (£A74,208,757 at four
dollars to £AI) was put through by the
16 States using the totalisator.
* * * *
High prices are obtainable in America
for good horses. “Roamer” says that
last season he was deputed to see whether
the crack three-year-old Challedon could
be purchased, and was authorised to start
at 100,000 dollars (£A25,000). W. L,
Brann was not tempted, firmly refusing
to entertain any proposition to sell his
colt. It would therefore seem as if Beau-
livre would have been cheap for America
at the £5OOO W. J. Smith was prepared
to pay for him. His Doncaster second
with 8.7 proved him one of the best
three-year-old milers now racing in Aus-
tralia. It was unfortunate that soreness
shortly after his arrival in Sydney in-
terfered with his preparation, and that
may have had a lot to do with his failure
to run quite as well as expected in his
two races subsequent to the Doncaster.
H; * * *
A little over a fortnight prior to win-
ning the valuable Santa Anita Handicap
Seabiscuit ran in a seven-furlongs handi-
cap. Notwithstanding it was his first start
for a year, he was made an even-money
favorite. He ran fairly, finishing third,
three lengths behind the winner, Heelfly,
who recorded the smart time of 1.23.
The run left a doubt as to whether Sea-
biscuit was likely to return to his earlier
form, but his win in the big race proved
that he was as good as at any previous
time.
* * * *
A bookmaker may hold a very low
opinion of a backer’s integrity, but it
does not always pay to tell his employers
so. This was brought home to a London
bookmaker who wrote as follows to the
employers of an alleged defaulting
backer: “I think it is my duty to inform
you of such a bad egg that you have in
your employ. It is a horrible fraud that
he has played on me.” An action for
slander resulted. Defendant pleaded jus-
tification, but the Judge gave a verdict
of £250 in favor of the plaintiff. The
Judge added that the defendant was for-
tunate that the case was not tried before
a jury. He hardly liked to think what
damages a jury would have awarded in
a case of the kind. Bookmakers must
not think they were entitled to bring
pressure on clients by exposing, or
threatening to expose, them to their em-
ployers. That form of pressure is not
quite unknown in Australia.
* * * *
Cooranga and Chatoona will not race
again until next spring. S. Lamond,
jun., has sent them to Rossmore. Coo-
ranga did not do as well as expected
at the recent autumn meetings, but she
is not too old to win another race or
two.
* * * *
Tamworth J.C. meeting on May 14,
15 and 16 should not lack metropolitan
patronage. The Tamworth Cup carries
£6OO and a gold cup. Mornington Handi-
cap, £250 and a £25 trophy ; and there
will be allowed a full rebate for any
distance up to 300 miles on full boxes,
or proportionate amount of one of two
horses, provided they start twice at the
' meeting.
* * * *
Ascot is going to follow Canterbury’s
example in improving its race track. Per-
haps it would be just as well to get to
work first on the stands, which, in the
opinion of many racegoers, require more
attention than the track. It is good, how-
ever, to know that Canterbury’s enter-
prise is stirring up other Sydney clubs
.* * * *
During the past few weeks reversals
ot jorm at Sydney meetings have been
airly numerous, but the stipendiary
stewards are not so keen now as a little
while back in holding inquiries into
them. Rightly so, in my opinion. No
matter what may be said to the contrary,
it is something of a reflection on an
owner to be asked why his horse ran
better or worse one day than another.
If there are suspicious circumstances,
such as the sudden heavy backing of
horses that have been running badly, in-
quiries are reasonable, but they are
scarcely warranted because of the fact
that a horse’s form is not always the
same. Anyhow, the time to go into any
supposed wrongdoing is when it occurs.
Even the cleverest of stipendiary stewards
cannot see everything, but if they are
doubtful, and then purpose waiting until
their suspicions are confirmed, an owner
or trainer can dodge them by refraining
to run his horse for three weeks or four
weeks.
Furthermore, there are so many things
to account for seeming reversal of form.
It is not unusual to see a horse so placed
on some of the smaller courses that it
cannot get through or be pulled back
in order to go round horses ahead of it.
The rider has simply to sit and suffer,
knowing that he is losing all chance of
a win. Therefore he does not knock it
about when he recognises the position
is hopeless. A week later, with the luck
of running on its side, the same horse
may win, and then we are sure to be
told what a “hot case” it was at its previ-
ous outing.
Some time ago I heard a man strongly
denounce the connections of a horse that
ran poorly in an inferior field and won
in better company a few days later. He
was among those who wished to know
“What are the stewards doing?” Since
then he has become an owner, and has
greatly modified his ideas on reversal of
form. His own horses have shown him
that they are not machines, and that a
good race one day does not assure a
similar one the next.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Advance boosting for the affair of
Johnny Hutchinson (9.8|) v. “Clever
Henry” Burdette (9.101) at West Mel-
bourne Stadium reckoned the booking
“greater than for any other contest this
season.” The crowd had its money’s
worth in that the scrap went the full dis-
tance, Hutchinson taking the verdict on
points. In a previous engagement Bur-
dette, a Filipino, had put Hutchinson
on the canvas. This time, though he put
up a good performance, Hutchinson was
too consistently aggressive for him.
* * * *
At Leichhardt, Sydney, Dave Lefton
(9.7) easily trounced Frank Farrington
(9.6). Farrington’s hard to knock off his
feet, but one to the wind in the third
round did it, and Les Pearson stopped
the fray in the next round to save mas-
sacre. As it was, Farrington thereupon
collapsed and was carried unconscious
to his corner.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(i Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
A player is rarely better than his hands.
He may have a sound swing, but a faulty
grip can spoil his game. Though most
of the power of a stroke starts in the
arms and body, this power is of no use
unless it is transmitted properly through
the hands and wrists.
Powerless hands and wrists produce
many golfing mistakes. Timing and con-
trol are needed in a good shot; both
are absent unless one has correct wrist
action and a sound grip. Most of us
find golf quite hard enough, and anything
that will make it easier should at least
be cultivated. If a player can’t place his
hands correctly on the club there is little
chance of his going far. Actually it
should take hardly any effort to learn a
good grip.
A change in the way one holds the club
is naturally awkward for a while. But
after a couple of rounds the newness
wears off, and a person wonders how he
ever did feel anything but comfortable
with the new grip. The popularity of
the Vardon or overlapping grip is now
world-wide. This grip, which 99 per cent,
of good and indifferent golfers use, is
an accurate and powerful joining of the
two hands together to work as one.
The overlapping of the small finger of
the right hand into the groove between


BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
The man who pays due regard to his appearance usually shaves
with a Blue Gillette blade. Experience has taught him that he gets
a faster, cleaner shave . . . and that the blade lasts longer. The
reason for this happy combination of circumstances is found in
the exclusive Gillette tempering process which gives an almost
incredible hardness to the cutting edges while leaving the centre of
the blade sufficiently flexible to bend to the razor head. This
longer -i/asting. keener blade means real shaving economy. 5 for 1/6.
g YO^ TTE
&
Managing Agents ;
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 504 of 1940.
BETWEEN ATHENA CARMANLEITA
STONES Petitioner
And WALTER HERNE STONES Re-
spondent.
TO WALTER HERNE STONES late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ATHENA
CARMANLEITA STONES has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a divorce on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the first day of August next and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Bth day of April, 1940.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. W. FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 51 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 497 of 1940.
BETWEEN RUBY GRACE SUTHERLAND
Petitioner m „
And CECIL JOHN SUTHERLAND Re-
spondent.
TO CECIL JOHN SUTHERLAND formerly
of Sydney in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RUBY
GRACE SUTHERLAND has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
has applied for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AMD
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the fifth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event or
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petftion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this eighth day of Apnl^^94°.
Registrar.
JOHN CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Assembly Hall, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
GOLFERS! GOLFERS!
“Golf Shots,” a book of instruction written by
Jim Ferrier, Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
will be published by The Bulletin about the middle
of April, 1 940.
The 32-page book will contain over 100 photographs
of the champion in action, and each stroke will be
described in easy-to-follow language. Send your order
now, 3/- per copy and 3d. extra for postage, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
BOX 252188, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
the first and second fingers of the left
hand has a tendency to strengthen and
keep close together both hands. I am
keen on showing three knuckles of the
left hand, which is well over the shaft,
with the club more in the palm of the
hand than the fingers. This gives the
left hand more power, as well as assist-
ing the arm to be kept straight through-
out back- and downswing. The left
arm can be likened to a measuring stick,
for it keeps you just so far from the
ball, provided it doesn’t break at the
elbow; to insure against this the hand
should always be well over the shaft, and
it should also have a reasonably firm
hold of the club.
A few years ago I used to have my
right hand nearly as far under the shaft
as my left hand now is over it. Although
it gave me additional length, the fre-
quent bouts of hooking I had made it
too inconsistent to persevere with ; so in
1934 I decided to alter my grip, and since
then have greatly improved my game as
regards control and direction.
One of the greatest difficulties the
average golfer has is to maintain a posi-
tive grip upon the club without destroy-
ing the suppleness of his wrists and the
usefulness of his hands. An over-tight
grip means dead or locked wrists, and
yet the club must be allowed to be
gripped fairly firmly. A loose grip
usually allows a slackness throughout the
shot, no “punch” being applied nearing
impact with the ball. In my grip I hold
the club fairly evenly with both fingers
and palm; the latter should come
prominently into the picture, as it has a
steadying influence in not allowing the
fingers to take complete control. I have
about the same number of corns on my
fingers as there are on the palms of the
hands, suggesting that there is an even
distribution of pressure on the grip,
......
Sarazen is about the only outstand-
ing player I know who uses the inter-
locking grip. The little finger of the
right hand interlocks with the first finger
of the left hand instead of merely lying
in the groove of the first two fingers as
j n the Vardon or overlapping grip. In
discussing the merits of the two grips,
Sarazen told me that if he had his time
over a g a j n he would without any hesi-
tation use the overlapping grip, as this
was by f ar the sounder of the two.
......
The old-fashioned two-handed grip,
with both hands having no connection at
all, is rarely seen today unless used by
a veteran who still retains the popular
gr jp 0 f yesterday,
•
When addressing the ball preparatory
to starting the backswing one must con-
centrate on gently holding the club and
not gripping it as in a vice. A comfortable
grip, not too firm, does away with any
tension or tautness in the wrists and fore-
arms. When this feeling is obtained the
grip will automatically tighten as the
club is taken back from the ball. The
left hand should feel the pressure mainly
on the last three fingers. This grip gives
me a full cocking of the wrists at the
top of the swing, allowing a firm grip to
be maintained throughout the backswing.
It is disastrous to allow the fingers to
let the club go even for a fraction of a
second, for when they tighten again they
are apt to turn the club-face slightly off
the line it was originally on. As far as
the right hand is concerned, in my swing
it does most of the work, as the left is
merely a guide. By never loosening my
left-hand grip the right does not gain
the “upper hand” and spoil the shot. I
commence my swing with the right hand
taking the club straight back from the
ball. Beware of the old fault of allow-
ing the right hand to pick the club-head
up too quickly from the ball on the
backswing ; it has ruined many a good
golfer and it’s difficult to eliminate.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT."
C Formerly of the “Referee.")
Sydney’s club premiership will close
next Saturday, with St. George cham-
pions and Petersham runners-up. The
victors have shown that in cricket of this
class a great bowler is a bigger power in
a team than an outstanding batsman.
For St. George O’Reilly has taken 87
wickets at an average of a fraction more
than seven runs. He got 13 wickets in a
match twice, and last week his bag was
seven for 29 against Glebe. Two wickets
were down for about 40 before he put
himself on, though his own side had
made only 90!
In eight of the last nine seasons
O’Reilly’s club wickets cost less than ten
runs, the figures being 7,8, 7,9, 9, 12, 6,
9 and 7. It was in 1926-27 that he gradu-
ated from the Moore Park matting juniors
to play with North Sydney. That season
he and Don Bradman were in the N. S.
Wales Second Eleven, and regarded as
colts of promise.
Only one man ever made a century
for N. S. Wales v. Victoria and one for
Victoria v. N. S. Wales. Hampden Love,
the wicketkeeper, did it with 102 for
N.S.W. and 115 for Victoria in 1925,
both on the Melbourne ground. Last
Saturday, Love captained Mosman, and
top-scored with 38 out of 98 against
Petersham, 28 years after his start for
Balmain. The only two Digger cricketers
still in the first-grade for their clubs are
wicketkeepers, Love and Oldfield. Love
played a few matches in England with
the A.I.F. team.
M. B. Cohen, a real success as open-
ing batsmen in his first season for N. S.
Wales, will head the first-grade aggre-
gates when shutters are put up. Had
Stan McCabe not gone on the N.Q. tour
he must have had this honor; his 708
includes three centuries. With an
innings to come this week, Cohen has
made 738 for Paddington, with 50 or
more eight times, including two hun-
dreds. Victor Trumper’s name still
stands at head of Paddington aggregates
with 1021 in 1897-98 (he was 20 then),
averaging 204.20. Trumper made a cen-
tury in every match save two, and in
those he topped 80 and was run out.
M. A. Noble, then a colleague of
Trumper, averaged 273 for Paddington
in 1898-99, but had only six innings, four
of them not out. His bag of wickets was
49 at 8.51.
* * * *
The Melbourne final moved slowly
on Saturday. Sievers was looking safe
for his century when l.b.w. finished him
at 93 out of Fitzroy’s 231. Morris,
with 5 for 69, took bowling honors, with
L. Nagel (4 for 81) always steady and
on the spot. Melbourne’s 2 for 113
(Keith Rigg 64 not out) looks healthy.
Adelaide’s final day was barren of
play; rain the cause. West Torrens are
premiers, Sturt runners-up and Ken-
sington third.
Miscellaneous
Administrative wrangles and playing-
field accidents, to say nothing of the war,
presage an unprosperous season for the
Sydney Rugby League, whose premier-
ship matches begin on April 25. Eastern
Suburbs, of the hefty pack, had been
looking forward to Dave Brown, once
their magic centre, swinging the backs
into glittering goal-line raids. In a trial
match, East v. West, Dave had a collar-
bone broken, and, until it mends, East
will be confronted with a centre-three-
quarter problem that beat it before Dave
Brown returned from Warrington.
* * * *
Haberfield crews won the Senior
Eights and the Junior Fours at the St.
Ignatius’ College regatta on the Parra-
matta. Three G.P.S. eights competed
in the senior event, and the representa-
tives of St. Joseph’s College were second
to Haberfield, beating North Shore and
Balmain. This suggests that G.P.S.
standards are higher this year, for “Joeys”
are not thought to be the strongest crew.
They are certainly not the weightiest;
“Shore” will boat a crew averaging over
12st.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide’s veteran bowls match
this year found only one player over 90:
Alfred Vaughan, father of a former S.A.
Premier ; opposed to him was James Hall
(84), chairman of the A.R.C. The first
rink of eight totalled 690 years, all the
first eight rinks averaged 82, and in the 14
rinks there was nobody under 77, 80 men
of 72 and over having been shut out.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
hEh]
pSS3I It fcs
'MI
Jm
3L
■llll
mwaHSI
IMBMiMIg
&
40
‘A
-o
w*
V
a
i
Jei
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
■Manager W. G. Bulfrn
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Jury” and “Pirates”
The Gilsullivan co. at Sydney Royal,
vaudeville at the Tiv., an occasional
amateur show, and the sort of thing
they’re doing at night at the Minerva,
and for the rest talkies, and there you
have the theatre, April, 1940, in this
huge city.
The Gilsullivan outbreak is a bright
oasis in this dark desert. At the moment
the co. is mesmerising addicts with the
charms and graces, humor and rollicking
choruses of “The Pirates of Penzance”
and making them grin and gurgle over
the satire of the traditional curtain-raiser.
It adds up to the richest evening’s enter-
tainment within Big Bertha range of the
Harbor.
And that somewhat puts the brake on
criticism. It strikes the present onlooker
that the whole Gilsullivan presentation
is due for an overhaul, and that, among
other things, Mr. Ivan Menzies, who
should be the inspiration of these per-
formances, has become too subdued and
is lacking fire. But, after all, what good
purpose is there in being closely critical
about what, after everything is said, is
still the most outstanding and engaging
theatrical fare on offer?
Since this time he is not the learned
Judge in “Trial by Jury,” Mr. Menzies,
as the Major-General, doesn’t appear
until about half-way through the night’s
bill. Despite the hold he now seems to
keep on himself, he is still the accom-
plished Gilsullivan artist, with more
polish on his performance than on any
modern major-general’s bootees.
Bernard Manning gives a grand per-
formance as the Pirate King. He is sing-
ing splendidly, and, more than anybody
else, he puts vigor and vitality into the
show. Len Gotting abets him well as
his lieutenant; Maxwell Oldaker does a
competent job as Frederic, though per-
haps without giving the gallery girls much
of a flutter ; Richard Watson makes a
good, solid job of the Sergeant of Police.
The ladies —Viola Wilson, a Scotch lass,
as Mabel; Evelyn Gardiner as Ruth;
Sara Gregory, Jeanne Battye and Elva
Blair as Edith, Kate and Isabel —would
decorate a romantic’s dream of paradise,
and their voices must be a solace to any
set of ears suffering from the assaults of
talkies and radio. The chorus singing
is at times magnificent; dressing, ex-
quisite.
The learned Judge of “Trial by Jury”
is this time Richard Watson, with Sara
Gregory the Plaintiff, Gregory Stroud
her Counsel, Vincent McMurray the De-
fendant, and Bernard Manning the Usher.
Unlike much of Gilbert’s satire, that in
this piece is as biting today as ever it
was.
:{C 5fC l{C
Contrast at Sydney Minerva
By night at Sydney Minerva singers
who can’t sing and chorus girls who
aren’t chorus girls and can’t dance are
singing and dancing in a revue that the
average school concert would knock into
a cocked hat. Entitled “Let’s Be Inti-
mate,” it’s an attempt to exploit the
backstage personalities of the Minerva
players, and it would come off only if the
players were as widely known as Gladys
Moncrieff or George Wallace. Frank
Bradley is funny as a plumber, Nola
Reed does a good series of mask dances,
there is a “round” about the Bloody
Tower that would get a laugh anywhere
because of the repeated thunder of the
adjective. The rest is rubbish.
In the afternoon at Sydney Minerva
actors who can act are playing Shakspeare
to schoolgirls. “Twelfth Night,” the first
of the series, isn’t brilliant, but it is done
well enough to indicate that when they
get on to “The Merchant of Venice” and
the more solid plays they should be worth
seeing. One of Shakspeare’s potboilers,
“Twelfth Night” isn’t much of a play
at any time; a flimsy little comedy, with
hardly a moment of poetry except for
Orsino’s piece about music and the bit
about “Patience on a monument.”
With only mildly funny dialogue, it is
chiefly a vehicle for fooling, and because
of the veneration in which Shakspeare’s
text is held it is not easy to fool success-
fully within the framework of an Eliza-
bethan play. There’s a temptation—to
which the Minerva players succumbed —
to make the thing merely a quaint his-
torical spectacle, but Shakspeare meant
it to be lively and topical.
Was the Elizabethan fop so different
from the contemporary effeminate
that Edward Finn’s Sir Andrew Ague-
cheek should have to scream in an un-
intelligible falsetto (making only the
schoolgirls laugh), whereas Lloyd
Lamble, acting an effeminate painter in
a sketch in “Let’s Be Intimate,” was able
to make everybody laugh with the well-
known simple mannerisms? Was the
Elizabethan drunk so different from the
modern that Augustus Neville’s Sir Toby
Belch should have to go through the
dullest and most laborious clowning,
whereas George Wallace at Sydney Tivoli
last week could be funny as a drunk
without half the effort? Wallace is a
Shakspearean clown; Augustus Neville
and Edward Finn were faithful interpre-
ters of a bad tradition of caricature.
The Bowdlerising of the dialogue—
presumably in the interests of the school-
children —didn’t help the performance.
Shakspeare’s original audiences probably
“PIRATES OF PENZANCE.”
Bernard Manning and Evelyn Gardiner menace Brig.-Gen. Ivan Menzies under
the eye of the constable whose lot is not a happy one, at Sydney Royal.
got their biggest laughs out of the re-
marks that were not made at the
Minerva.
With its faults allowed for, it was still
so good a play that it’s hard to under-
stand how “Let’s Be Intimate” could be
staged in the same theatre. Lloyd Lamble
stood out as Malvolio ; Charles Kilburn
and Norman Maxwell were satisfying as
the duke and the Fool. Aileen Britton
and Beulah Mayhew interpreted Olivia
and Maria with spirit. Hilda Scurr’s
Viola was competent, but marred by a
tendency to coo like Norma Shearer.
* * * *
Wales, Look You!
Adelaide Repertory’s latest three
evenings in the big Tivoli —is the Welsh
drama “The Com Is Green,” with a
strong-minded middle-aged woman pluck-
ing an unwashed boy of promise from
a Welsh mining village, and finally send-
ing him to Oxford.
Emlyn Williams, the author, played the
lead in London with Sybil Thorndike,
and the work here was finely done by
Robert Matthews and Phyllis Simpson,
rising to great heights at the end, where
the condition of her adopting his child, and
thus leaving him free to rise to a career,
is that he shall not see either of them
again. Vivienne Oldfield was almost un-
comfortably convincing as the little
Cockney who had literally seduced him
from the path of virtue.
Muriel Marks, the producer, dressed
the play as a costume-piece, of about
1900, with Kenneth Robertson, Meta Mc-
Caffery, and Bettie Dickson supplying
clever humorous relief.
* * * *
“Just Married.”
This opus, which opened at Melbourne
Princess last week, is a companion piece
to the previous “Giving the Bride Away,”
which was a companion piece to all the
bedroom farces that ever existed.
The only difference in the present ex-
ample is that the doors that are banged
off their hinges belong to staterooms on
an ocean liner. This device is not so
blindingly original as to conceal the fact
that the play is as empty as a drum and
depends for its humor, like all the genus,
on the degrees of repression of its audi-
ence.
As a dissolute young bachelor who
gets put to bed in the same stateroom
with another man’s fiancee, Charles Nor-
man plays a drunk role as if he had never
been drunk in his life and when sober
acts in his usual restless manner, but
succeeds in extracting laughs from his
audience far beyond the deserts of the
authors. Gwenyth Izzard is tedious as a
stock comic French character, but Bruce
Carroll, as a disillusioned middle-aged
husband with an unsoured sense of
humor, has points about him.
v * * *
First celebrity concert of the season
ended with a bang at Melbourne Town
Hall. Cause of the excitement was
Richard Strauss’s tone poem, “Don
Juan.” Schneevoigt drew out the manifold
beauties of the score with rare dexterity,
especially the “Disgust” motive. A
gentler rendering than the usual one was
given to the “Eroica,” and there was a
gay and lightsome concerto of Mozart
which brought out Ernest Llewellyn, the
y oun g Sydney violinist now attached to
Melbourne University Conservatorium.
j 0 exac ting solo passages of the
£ rst movemen t sounded somewhat dry,
t t j iat ma y have been the intention of
J
the composer. The second was ex-
quisitely tender, and the finale drew an
ovation from the crowd for the stern-
faced, square-jawed executant.
Elgar’s “Cockaigne” overture com-
pleted a programme of varied and en-
trancing music, with the orchestra keyed
up and all out under the Finn’s baton.
The Broadcasting Commission is
nothing if not revolutionary, and coffee
was served in the foyers at the intervals.
The next innovation, now that the public
is debarred from farewelling overseas
liners, ought to be streamers for the
audience to show its appreciation of the
performers.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Earl of Chicago”
The idea of a Chicago racketeer in-
heriting an English earldom and finding
himself surrounded by all the customs
and traditions accompanying that posi-
tion immediately suggests comedy, but
there is nothing of comedy about this
M.-G.-M. film at Sydney Liberty.
The gangster, whose mentality is sub-
normal to a point of idiocy, goes to
England only because he believes the title
is worth two million pounds, and because
he doesn’t know that all the wealth is
tied up as entailed estates. When his
manager double-crosses him and leaves
him broke except for his estates he shoots
him and goes to the scaffold.
A wild, fanciful sort of yarn, it’s lifted
well above ordinary by Robert Mont-
gomery’s acting. The character is imme-
diately reminiscent of Danny in “Night
Must Fall” and it is handled in much
the same manner.
Arthur sts.
Douglas Miller and Nicholas Suhr,
two young Melbourne water-colorists,
are showing at the Athenaeum. There is
nothing much to differentiate between
them. Both paint scenes that catch and
please the eye of the average citizen, and,
without going too deeply into the matter,
both succeed frequently in giving some-
thing of the freshness of Nature. They
are occasionally surprisingly adept at
catching an effect, Suhr amongst the
wharves and lower stretches of the Yarra
and Miller is the still upper reaches,
where the willow still continues to gaze
at its own reflection undisturbed by the
Public Works Department.
* * * *
The Miniature Camera Group’s ex-
hibition at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney, contains close on 200 prints, the
work of 29 members, and the general
standard, artistically and photographi-
cally, is equal to that attained anywhere
in the world. Outstanding are the studies
of sea and surf by such patient observers
as T. Jackson, J. S. Archer, John Nisbett
and J. M. Polak, and there is much
artistry in the landscapes of Eric W
Bierre, G. H. Chidgey, R. Dobinson and
J. W. Metcalfe. Henri Malland’s pictures
are all of a beautiful quality, and Ron
V. Benny, Laurence Le Guay and J.
Andriesse bring imagination to their aid
very successfully. Humor is rare —stern
souls, evidently, these cameramen —but
C. B. Young wins a grin for “Hard
Work,” one of those baby pictures that
happen only once in a blue moon.
* * * *
Isabel Mackenzie’s show of oils at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, demon-
strates a sound and judicious method of
impressionistic painting. The style is
broad but the effects are sure, and there
is continual variety of treatment in these
25 pictures. Mostly the color range is
very restrained, but in “Taxi Rank,
Orange,” a generous dash of reds, yel-
lows and greens makes a composition
that laughs gaily. “Coral Tree,” also
colorful, exploits a subject that most Aus-
tralian painters seem to be afraid to
tackle.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
Bsfaji
$4l.
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing-, nagging, fjalnFul
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature's chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, puffiness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you jpU.
A WOMANS
LETTER
“One hundred per cent, soldier in the
field. One hundred per cent, baby in
London,” an Australian general remarked
sympathetically of the lonely A.1.F.-er on
leave during 1914-18. Now there need
not be this sense of being alone in a big
city. The King George and Queen
Elizabeth Victoria League Club for over-
seas servicemen changes all that. To
raise a Sydney cheque to help the work
there’s to be a musical at Government
House one night in June. Hundreds and
thousands went to Monday morning’s
meeting in the Australia Hotel. Lady
Wakehurst presided. Mrs. Walter Swin-
son, who hatched the idea, was probably
thinking of her weekly party in London
for soldiers during the last war, and how
much the sense of companionship had
meant to the soldier from afar. Five
hundred pounds in hand and another
500 guineas at least from the party will
make a sweet total for the cause.
To walk down David Jones’s audi-
torium was to walk down a street of
adventure during the C.W.A. handi-
crafts show. The platform at the far
end of the room was as blazoned with
flags as a small pier this writer once
saw jutting out on the Lake of Geneva,
not far from the League of Nations
buildings. Probably there were even
more flags in this international flag dis-
play, arranged by the Queensland
branch. Who in Sydney had seen the
flag of Tibet, with its rising sun, its
raying blues and reds? Here were the
reds and greens of Portugal done in
knitted wool; Belgium’s red, yellow and
black appeared in suede. One flag was
in dyed sheepskin ; a very artistic red,
white and blue banner was completely
made of lacquered raffia flowers. But the
glittering Chinese dragon on a golden
ground was most ingenious of all. It
was entirely made of beer-bottle tops,
sometimes edged and sometimes flattened
out. The claws of the dragon were real
hawks’ claws. The effect was superb.
The tapestry upholstered chairs in the
middle of the room were lent by Mrs.
Neils Storaker, and many were the work
of her own clever needle. Here among
the Orange exhibits were some lovely
bits of lace lent by Mrs. Sam Whitmee
and Mrs. Paton. From Mittagong came
examples of exquisite petit-point even-
ing bags. The toys, too, were a delight.
There was among the company of don-
key, koala and platypus a magnificent
blue kangaroo. There was Italian quilting,
there were sheepskin vests, finest hand-
woven woollen materials suitable for
evening frocks, patchwork quilts. When
you realised that much of the fine
needlecraft came from the real outback
(some of it was done amid the blinding
duststorms hundreds of miles north of
Broken Hill) there was no doubt left
that the daughters of Australia have in-
herited that victory-over-circumstances
outlook of their pioneer grandmothers.
The wife of Admiral Crace opened
the exhibition, which opened the C.W.A.
conference. She made a speech; he
tried on the sheepskin vests, which the
C.W.A. will probably send to soldiers
fighting in Europe. He handled various
socks, too, but didn’t try them on. Mrs.
Stevenson, of Boorowa, made the sug-
gestion of sending the sheepskin vests to
soldiers. She had remembered that
19,000 of these comforting garments
were sent to troops during 1914-18. Mrs.
Wilson, of Oberon, her foot out of a
carpet slipper for the first time in weeks,
was one of the delegates. Mrs. Donaldson,
wife of the police magistrate at Orange,
was breezing about. Miss Kate Egan,
Mrs. Toby Browne, Mrs. H. C. Mcln-
tyre, Mrs. Ken Gordon from Burren
Junction, State president of the C.W.A.
Mrs. Beveridge, Mrs. Belmont Clark, of
Tasmania, Mrs. H. Sterne from Queens-
land, Mrs. D. Armit, of Victoria, Mary
Yeo from Yass, Mrs. A. J. Studdy and
Alice McKenzie, of Orange, were a few
of the interested in this movement, whose
conferrers came from every corner of the
State.
Preparations are speeding up for
Morna Mackenzie’s wedding to Phil
Ashton at Sutton Forest next Saturday.
This wedding will be a very vice-regal
one, as Morna has been social secretary
to Lady Wakehurst since Hermione
Llewellyn went back to England and
marriage with her earl. Last week Mrs.
John Hall and sister Claudia Beazley
gave a lunch at Elizabeth Bay House in
honor of the bride-to-be. One of the
guests brought news of her own brand-
new engagement. She was Jean Kennedy,
and her affianced is Lieut.-Commander
George Reynolds, R.N. Must have been
love at first sight, because the acquaint-
ance was only two or three weeks old
when the question was put and answered.
The Independent Theatre, which has
its headquarters at North Sydney, has
done a bit of swapping with the Chelsea
Book Club in the State Shopping Block.
The Independents will lend the Chelsea
group their theatre for the production
of the Chelsea group’s plays. In return
the Independents will have the use of
the Chelsea Club premises for a town
rendezvous, a dropping-in place for tea
and theatre gossip, and so on. At a
late-afternoon party at the Chelsea to
introduce the Independents to their new
social centre, there were about 60 sherry-
sippers. Doris Fitton hostessed, her ink-
blue frock wearing a jaunty white collar.
Mrs, R. G. Menzies, wife of Aus-
tralia’s Prime Minister, smiles at you
from this Norton Trevaire photograph.
In Sydney for the Easter scamper
were the Bill Haywards (she was one
of the Barr-Smiths), of Adelaide. They
stayed on for the opening of the academy
show. Sydney friends tell with bated
breath of the Hayward home in the hills
above Adelaide. Added to perfect
architecture, the Haywards had the
happy idea of transplanting an old Eng-
lish oak entrance hall and stairway to
their S’Australian home. Reminds one
of “The Ghost Goes West.”
When spoken to last week on the
matter of Academy of Art sales, Wal
Taylor, who is in charge of the show,
told that over £250-worth had been
snapped up by art-lovers. Norman
Carter’s lovely landscape with the hay-
rick in it has been bought by our
National Gallery—wide awake this time
anyway. Margaret Preston’s hanksia
nuts against an abo. shield design
goes off to Queensland’s gallery. Mrs.
Sidney Myer, from Melbourne, was a
visitor during last week; so were the
Charlie Lloyd Jones couple. His “Can-
berra Mail” is among the admired in
the show. Another visitor was a tall
captain of the R.N. who confessed that
in between battles and manoeuvres his
hobby is painting water-colors.
Friday was important in 1940 Red
Cross annals. At half-past ten the Cen-
tral Council began its meeting, to which
members had come from every State.'
These included Lady Gowrie, Lady
Wakehurst, Lady Dugan (wife of Vic-
toria’s Governor), Lady Muriel Barclay-
Harvey (her husband governors S’Aus-
tralia), and the Mitchell lady, whose
husband is Lieut.-Governor of Westralia.
Delegates were lunched by the N.S.W.
executive of the Red Cross during the
conclave, and at four o’clock the tea
tables at Orme, Darling Point, the home
of the D. J. Mackay Sims (he’s N. S.
Wales chairman), were called into action
as repositories for as many cups and
saucers as there were delegates, wives and
friends.
On Saturday a visit to Bodington at
Wentworth Falls occupied the day from
9.30 to five o’clock. Then followed a
late-afternoon party at Government
House. During the visit of the council-
lors Lady Gowrie gave several dinners
at Admiralty House.
. . .
The vice-regal influx was nicely acorn-
modated with bed and board in Govern-
ment House and Admiralty House. Sir
Leslie Wilson and his lady and the
Mitchell lady from the West stayed at
the Kirribilli Point address ; while Lady
Dugan, Lady Muriel Barclay-Harvey and
Dr. and Mrs. Hurley were guests at the
Macquarie-street abode.
. ....... . ,
A very distinguished woman in her
own country which was Holland, and
the head of the Grail movement in Aus-
tralia, Judith Bouwman is dead. With
a young companion she was motoring
up to the installation of Wagga s. new
Bishop Henschke when Death touched
her on the shoulder The Grail mow-
ment was introduced to Australia by
Waggas former Bishop Dwyer, and the
work of this little community, which
though a religious body, takes part 1
all social activities, has made wide appeal,
St. Mary’s Cathedral was crowded for
the services which preceded the funeral.
A colorful scene was presented by the
different Grail groups in their blue,
green, mauve and grey frocks, each group
carrying its special banner.
To aid the Ellen Desailly kindergarten
at Glebe, the Janero ensemble—Mary
Hosking, Linda Robinson and Hilda
Sutton-put on as pleasant an entertain-
ment as last week held. This was in the
Allot 3, where a room filled with sup-
porters of the kindergarten listened while
Mary who is aa .»! n , k n° w " for iar
elocution sang Hilda played her violin,
and Linda Robinson accompanied both
with her piano playing which is
scintillating and sympathetic Theres
something gay and gipsyish m the
Mrs! wore
ful. and very long skirts of flame organza
their talents, was brightness in black
velvet lit by a diamond or two. Mrs.
0 P .
Mary Hosking, clever actress, singer,
raconteur, is to play the principal part
in “The Corn Is Green.” This will be
the Independents’ next offering The
play is by Emlyn William , p
Mary will take was the original Sybil
Thorndike part The story is dramatic
and centres in the coalmines .
Photograph by Murcott. .
Dancing Sydney was all poised last
Friday for the arrival of Bob Lawrance.
Bob, Australian born, and when just a
small boy a singer at the old Tivoli,
is now one of London s leading dance-
band conductors. Admirers claim he is
England’s rival to Bing Crosby. Bob
didn’t get here on Friday; his flying-
ship was delayed, and the lunch prepared
to welcome him to Romano’s had to be
postponed till Monday. Bob is slim,
dark, has a flashing smile, sings and
plays the violin, too. He tickled Lon-
don’s ear by setting Australian songs to
“swing” tempo. His orchestra has played
these on 8.8. C. programmes. Bob will
lead Romano’s dance orchestra.
A wet night and a mixed bill did not
„jj to fhp rhanee of nro-
add to tne gaiety OI tne cnange or pro
gramme at the Minerva last week.
Among the audience was sculptor Loma
Lailtour, who had made the masks tor
Pat McDonald and Ron Randall in their
“Broken DOII number. is.aue lowers
was a well-known out front: so was Prin-
cess Radziwill in grey Chiltons, on ner
head a crownless turban of jade green.
Two of the night's belles were Mrs. A.
E. Grace in blue and silver, and Mrs.
c CnioMoot* n tnunh f tpa rncp in
E. Salenger, a touch OI tea- O P n in
the front of her black crepe frock. Fair
rlorirrMr*,- Rcirhfirn wiK buttoned uo in a
daughter Barbara was Duuoneu up in a
sweeping coat of blue velvet. Mrs.
Harald Bowden’s black velvets were a
nice contrast to her clear complexion. A
Maoriland visitor was Mrs. Williamson.
If the luck was with you last Saturday
you went out to Canterbury and backed
Rimveil. For five bob one glad girl
scooped in thirty-five. The course has
been smartened up no end, and well-
known race regulars turned out in good
form. Most pleased people on the hori-
zon were the S. Buckleys, who own
Rimveil.
All the cynical, fascinating absurdities
of “Trial by Jury” and “The Pirates of
Penzance” were welcomed by bursts of
joy in the Theatre Royal last Saturday.
Major-General Ivan Menzies must have
had a pretty bill to foot, for his innumer-
able daughters were freshly and gaily
clad, both on the pirates’ beach and in
the chapel of his ancestors-by-purchase.
A crowded audience; however, displayed
not very gay or gaudy raiment. A nice
bit of color was Roslyn Bowman’s
bright-blue feather cape. Mrs. Edmund
Playfair, Mrs. Strath Playfair and Betsy
Robertson were an attractive family
group. Ruby Adams had a dash of
ermine with her black frock and pearls.
Mrs. Salenger and Patricia Salenger were
true to their first-night principles. All
in shades of pink was Judy Melville.
Mrs. F. J. Davy, Mrs. Ernest Lashmar,
Mrs. Doris Olding and Admiral Feakes
and his wife were there.
Soon Erskineville Park will have ail
added incentive to home-makers. It will
be the Lady Gowrie Child Centre, which,
sufficiency of bricks permitting, will arise
in three months’ time. Lady Gowrie laid
the foundation-stone on Saturday, and
one sentence she spoke is still ringing in
the ear: “We are building for the future
and for peace.” Knight Sam Cohen,
chairman of the Kindergarten Union,
was one of the interested at the cere-
mony, and made a neat little speech. The
Centre, one of six to be built and main-
tained by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, will be under the direction of the
Kindergarten Union. Two Melbourne
visitors keenly interested in child-welfare
movements were Mrs. H. F. Creswick
and Mrs. T. a’Beckett. Included in the
building will be a large hall for use of
the parents and the older children of the
district. One of the prettiest things on
Saturday was to see the confiding way in
which the children clustered around the
platform and the visitors.
A fortnight’s holiday camp for boys
will be opened at Furlough House,
Narrabeen, on April 19. The success of
the two previous camps, and the fact that
letters are still being received from the
boys who attended them, have encouraged
the committee of the A.I.F. Wives and
Children’s Holiday Association to hold
one this year.
On this occasion the sons of men of
the Second A.I.F. will be included. The
age of admittance is from nine to four-
teen years, and preference is being given
to lads from inland country districts and
those who have never had an opportunity
of visiting Sydney before. The lads will
occupy Furlough House under the direct
care of Matron Villers and staff. Mrs.
I. Johnston, the organising secretary,
hopes that about 100 boys will receive
a holiday. Each day will have its par-
ticular entertainments. These include
visits to the Zoo and other points of in-
terest.
The 1940 Legacy Ball is under way.
It got a good send-off at a meeting in
the Carlton last week. Already 16 com-
mittees work in the care of more than
700 children whose soldier fathers have
died, leaving their children’s destiny in
the hands of Legacy. The Legacy Club
is composed of ex-servicemen, is non-
sectarian and non-political. It is a vol-
untary organisation, and does not re-
ceive financial assistance from any
Government. The ball is to raise funds
for its work.


Personal and Missing Friends.
DAKIN, William, deceased. —The next of kin
of William Dakin, who was born about 1876,
probably in England, and who died on 11th
January, 1939, at Nap Nap Station, Maude,
near Hay, kindly communicate with the Public
Trustee, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and
state details of relationship claimed.
OLIVER GORDON MOORE, died Malcolm,
West Australia, about 1905. —Executor, Widow
or Daughter, please communicate with R. E.
Lewis & Son, Solicitors, 414 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 377 of 1939.
BETWEEN FLORENCE VICTORIA GOD-
WIN Petitioner
And CEDRIC CECIL GODWIN Re-
spondent.
TO CEDRIC CECIL GODWIN late of Tyring-
ham.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
VICTORIA GODWIN has commenced a suit
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the twenty-eighth day of June next
and in the event of you not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this twenty-ninth day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
MACKENZIE & BIDDULPH, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Bradley Street, Guyra; by their
Agents, Biddulph & Salenger, Solicitors, Sel-
borne Chambers, 174 Phillip Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO ROGER CONNOLLY last heard of on
the Steamship “Ascanius” at Melbourne
in Victoria Seaman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has filed a
Petition for Divorce against you on the ground
of desertion.
If you wish to defend the matter you must
enter an appearance at the Supreme Court
Hobart by the Fifteenth day of May 1940.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Garden Week is surpassing all its pre-
decessors. Deserting its place under the
galvanised-iron dome of Wirth’s Olympia
the 1940 show comes out into the open
in the perfect setting of the Alexandra
Gardens —there are marquees, but they
don’t keep out fresh air and glimpses of
blue sky and green trees. Business is
brisk. While the nurserymen are filling
their books with orders, customers wait
their turn to choose their fancies in
plants, ferns, bulbs, etc. The gardeners
have gone to their usual amount of
trouble in transporting growing plants
by the thousand to make formal gardens
and temporary displays.
Among the rustic furniture this year
are birdcages which fit happily into a
woodland picture. There should be a
field ahead in garden ornaments for our
sculptors, for there’s so much choice in
color and quality of rock at hand which
can be had for the trouble of collecting
it on any afternoon in the country.
Work upon man-made cement or even
in brick lacks the charm given to stone
by the caressing hand of Mother Nature.
Garden City lacked window-boxes,
which are such a joy to dwellers in flats. So
far, the nurserymen haven’t exploited this
field—maybe such small orders would
not be worth seeking. Two showy moun-
tains of color in one tent were made up
of green and yellow gourds, both
lacquered and unlacquered. The latter
may be planted by the inquisitive
experimenter or used as a deco-
ration. A bowl of half a dozen
which should last many months costs
only 3s. 9d. The Apple and Pear Asso-
ciation’s show made onlookers long to
sink their teeth into the fresh, rosy fruit.
Handed around free was a recipe-book
with a decorative cover—this year the
apples and pears upon it are all little
soldiers in khaki.
Those who attended the Red Cross
Society’s lecture-demonstration in the
University’s public lecture hall on the
subject of blood transfusion in war-time
gathered some interesting information,
and came away appreciative of the re-
search and preparation necessary for this
important war-time problem. Dr. Lucy
Bryce, who dealt with the laboratory and
civil organisation side, mentioned in pass-
ing the violent opposition to blood trans-
fusion that was rampant in the eighteenth
century.
Other lecturers were medicoes Wallace
Ross, lan Wood and E. V. Keogh. Dr.
Keogh is a panther-in-a-cage talker, step-
ping a rhythmic three paces to the right
and three to the left throughout his dis-
course. Dr. Graeme Robertson presented
an interesting color film of transfusion
from and to soldiers, which provided a
moment of unintended comedy when the
patient glared at the audience and
snatched his reviver, a cup of tea. Miss
F. Williams brought along some labora-
tory apparatus from the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute. Her demonstration gave
onlookers an inkling of the valuable work
on the subject that has been accomplished
at the Institute Afterwards there was an
adjournment to the quadrangle for an
inspection of the two vehicles of the
mobile transfusion unit. One is a system
of storage containers built upon a
specially-designed lorry. The other is a
travelling surgery and sterilising outfit
of ingenious design.
The Prahran Patriotic Society, to which
the Chevron Auxiliary has affianced itself,
has taken to its bosom'the welfare of the
feminine section of the A.I.F. The little
band of Chevron workers, of which Mrs.
Piers Kelly is president, have raised on
an average £lOO per month since last
October for the Red Cross and the Com-
forts Fund. Their latest undertaking was
to provide £45 for the cost of crockery
for the 92 nurses and other women who
will leave for overseas with the Southern
Command. No sooner was the idea con-
ceived than the deed was executed. The
new purchases were in the ordnance
room a few hours after the meeting at
which the Chevron people were told of
the nurses’ dilemma. As Matron Sage
chose the unbreakable crockery and
strong glassware she felt a load slipping
from her mind. Up till that moment
she had visioned herself and her con-
freres eating all meals from the minimum
mug, plate, spoon, fork and knife which
are part of their kit.
A new hotel has opened at 61 Bala-
clava-road, East St. Kilda, but its staff
is never worried over the uninvited
visits of the police; there are no liquor
licenses to pay, and the bar is free, for
the guests are all babies or toddlers.
Thelma Douglas, whose project this is,
has reason to believe that she will have
plenty of bookings for her cribs and cots.
The youngest guest who has been in
residence up to date is Graham Parkin-
son, of Wiluna (W.A.), who is so sociable
with strangers that he’s known as the
hotel flirt. Graham, who is aged six
months, is in good hands while his
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Parkin-
son, are enjoying a much appreciated
holiday in Victoria and N. S. Wales.
Miss Douglas is an attractive brunette
who trained at the Tweddle Baby Hos-
pital in Melbourne. She has accommo-
dation for eight little people in dormi-
tories for toddlers and babies, and there
is plenty of room in her own large airy
bedroom for an occasional visit from a
restless, crying child. The house is
charmingly furnished, and includes a sun-
room, lawns and a garden. The idea
is new to Melbourne, but Miss Douglas
found it well established in England.
While abroad she took the opportunity
of doing a refresher course at the Violet
Melchett Home in Chelsea, where she
afterwards became a staff nurse. She
was also on the staff of Stonefield Mater-
nity Hospital in Blackheath, a fine in-
stitution run by two doctors with the
unbelievable names of Pink and White.
As funds mount for patriotic purposes
so the problems of local charities be-
come more serious. That of the new
Melbourne Hospital presents figures
which, like the national debt, dazzle the
eye and paralyse the brain. The hos-
pital auxiliaries are keeping up their good
work, but their efforts seem like drops in
the ocean of the overdraft. Those who
would like to help a little will be wel-
comed to the Australia on the afternoon
of April 22 to a cafe chantant. Harold
Elvins is arranging the musical pro-
gramme. The ticket secretaries are Mrs.
Wesley Ince, Mrs. Byram Gowan, Mrs.
Ray Bruhn and her sister Betty Kelly.
Miss Kelly’s photograph from Broothorn.
A young people’s wedding was that of
Clare Fellows and Stewart Catomore.
A few days before the ceremonial date
Mrs. H. H. Fellows invited friends and
relatives of the parents’ generation to a
party at her home, where she had assist-
ance from three of her daughters, the
bride-to-be and her two elder sisters,
Mrs. Harold Ward and Mrs. Jack Cord-
ner. At the reception at No. 9 Darling-
street which followed the evening wed-
ding in St. John’s everybody was young
enough to dance till the early hours of
the morn. The bride and ’groom
enjoyed the swing music as much as
anybody, and as the evening proceeded
became adept at the management of the
bride’s trained georgette gown and water-
fall of tulle veil.
Her choice for going away was a
dinner frock and little bolero of shell-
pink lace, over which she wore a trous-
seau acquisition of silver foxes. Attend-
ants were a particularly personable
couple, the bride’s younger sister Tim,
who is tall and fair, and the ’groom’s pal
from Corowa, Rod Strong, who is tall and
dark. The newly-married pair left for
Sydney for their honeymoon, part of
which will be spent at the Lapstone. Golf
clubs and tennis racquets accompanied
them. On their return they hope to con-
clude negotiations for the purchase of
a house at Toorak.
The fruit of his labors backstage, in
the wings and out front in an empty
theatre during rehearsals has come to
light with Roy Hodgkinson’s exhibition
of ballet drawings in the foyer of His
Majesty’s. Col. de Basil declared the
show open with the minimum number of
words, perhaps a dozen, to the distant
sound of music from a rehearsal within
the theatre. Some of the stars of the
ballet were at the exhibition, but they
didn’t stay long, being hard-working
people. Mrs. Hodgkinson was present,
looking spruce in a navy-blue boleroed
ensemble with white facings and acces-
sories of bag, gloves and shoes. Men
were in the minority, but a few did drag
themselves away from their artistic pur-
suits or their jobs in hand. Petroff was
there; also Jasinsky, hand-in-hand with
Osato.
Mrs. Clive Stephen and Marjorie
Rankin thought alike in the matter of
oatmeal suits and also shared relish for
the pleasant fact that Flag Day was
behind and not ahead of them. Mrs.
Guthrie Plante, in a snappy bit of head
apparel with wide ribbon danglers, ac-
companied Mrs. E. F. Bilson. Mrs. Tom
Hudson wore a lightweight woollen coat
over a figured frock. Mrs. Russell Grim-
wade was there ; also Mrs. Raynes Dick-
son, in a tweed suit, with her fair hair
uncovered. The Hylton Dales studied the
pictures with knowledgeable eyes. Mrs.
Dale, in all black, had one white flower
adjusted to her fur. Mrs. W. H. Tregear
and Mrs. Thurlow Smith had time for
a spot of chat after they had seen the
show. Keith Mackartney looked in wear-
ing one of his many red ties covered with
animals —these appeared to be cockers,
but in the dim light they may have
been just mongs.
The Hodgkinson drawings are persuad-
ing the stalls to climb the stairs to the
foyer during intervals at the ballet. On
Friday night Nemtchinova, who had the
week off, joined the spectators, sporting
black and saucy little shoes with inch-
wide straps around the ankles. In the
audience were the Pat Cahills with
daughter Elizabeth and Mrs. D. S. Rolls,
also with a lass who is growing fast, her
granddaughter, Honour Furze-Morrish.
In the stalls was Marjorie Stedeford,
wearing a strawberry lame coat.
Norman Brookes sat between his
wife and politician-with-staying-power
Mrs. Clarence Weber. Major and
Mrs. Scrivenor were with midship-
man son Bob, whom they see about
twice a year. Watching Verchinina
in “Les Presages” with great interest
was Tamara Tchinarova, remembered
for her interpretation of “Action” in
the same ballet during the 1938 season.
Toumanova’s mother in green coat and
headpiece was noticed enjoying some
fresh air and a cigarette out on the foot-
path during the intervals. A visitor from
Perth was Mrs. Bob Robinson (who used
to be Audrey Fink). She was with her
mother-in-law, Mrs. R. T. Robinson.
In Broothorn’s photograph is Elaine
Vial, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. N.
Browning Vial, of Hawthorn, who re-
cently became engaged to Captain Allan
Baniford, 2/7 Battalion, A.1.F., Pucka-
punyal.
The 1940 concert season opened with
a full box plan—there was very little left
for the general public when last year’s
subscribers had passed in their cheques.
For the first concert of the series crowds
were swarming up the marble steps long
before the orchestra assembled upon the
stage for the opening number, Elgar’s
“Cockaigne.” The capacity house greeted
Daddy Schneevoigt as an old friend.
Passed on from Sydney came the idea of
coffee in the foyer, which went over well
at this first concert. It might be some-
thing of a football scrum when the
weather gets cold. Also it will be a
stimulant of A -plus value for the people
who can’t digest their music in large doses
and who would doze off after the interval
if they dared.
Dressing at the concert was quiet.
While the ballet audiences come forth in
all their war paint the musical people
haVe their senses tuned to the acoustic
rather than the ocular. But Mrs. Hugh
Wallace Smith, who was accompanied by
her husband, was a picture pleasing to
any eyes. She wore black, silver foxes,
jewel-green gloves and uplifted coiffure.
The John Howse couple were there, ob-
viously happy in one another’s company.
Mrs. Howse’s navy and white ribbon
ensemble had its stripes running diago-
nally upon the bolero and widening hori-
zontally upon the skirt.
Another newly-wedded pair were
Mr. and Mrs. David Hyams, she in
one of the most attractive woollen
evening coats seen this season. Of
Air Force-blue cloth it had a bustle
bow effect at the back and clusters
of embroidered flowers upon the front
panels. Equal inspiration in wear-more-
wool apparel was achieved by Mrs.
Monty Grover’s coat. Of black facecloth,
it showed traceries of a chenille thread
pattern and a light sprinkling of diamente.
With its jade-green pipings, Nancy
Gardner’s coat of banana-colored satin
matched her hair ribbon. Mrs. Sidney
Dalrymple’s wrap of apricot velvet was
collared with Arctic fox. Hilary Hay
was concerned only with keeping her
shoulders warm in a little white fur cape
over a lame frock.
Two friends with numerous ideas in
common who are at present in Mel-
bourne are Nina Verchinina, of the De
Basil Ballet, and Zelia Raye, dancer,
author and teacher, and vice-president of
the stage branch of the Imperial School
of Dancing in London. Both these
artistic specialists are in a way radicals —
for, although the diehards may weep to
hear it, they both love tap-dancing.
The blonde Nina, noted for being the
first exponent of “Action” in “Les Pre-
sages,” is also a choreographer. She
trained first in classical and then in
modern schools. Through the modern
dance she has discovered the joys and
possibilities of tap, an evolution with a
future very far removed from the “hoof-
ing” of a few years ago. Miss Raye
also sings the praises of tap, and among
the interesting pictures in her collection
(some of which were taken by herself)
she has studies of Paul Draper, nephew
of Ruth Draper, in a dance of his own
creation which is a mixture of ballet,
acrobatics and tap.
She mentions the interest taken in
tap by Alicia Markova and by Balan-
chine, and quotes the latter as say-
ing “the tap-dance will be brought
very close to ballet, and each form will
exercise a mutual influence upon the
other.” Miss Raye, who is giving Aus-
tralian dancing teachers refresher lessons,
believes that a dance, a school or a
method must not be allowed to stagnate ;
syllabuses must be evolved to meet the
requirements of a modern world and
modern music. She says that a dancing
teacher must have tolerance and an open
mind, or the art of the dance will degen-
erate through lack of professional
material.


SECTIONAL BOILERS
for Hot Water or Low
Pressure Steam. Sections
may be added as more
hot water is required.
HOT WATER SUPPLY
at the right low price for Hotels, Homes,
Colleges, Hospitals and Large Blocks of
Flats is a necessity, and is copiously and
constantly supplied by
WHITE ROSE
C.I. (Eng.) BOILERS JMFjjl
(Plain or Rustless)
48 GALLONS FROM
91b. OF COKE
2 HOT BATHS FOR f
ONE PENNY. *
I >
B
JUJU
'
A type of Radiator 4
for domestic, hospital,
church or public
building use.
;r
CENTRAL HEAT-
ING with PALL
MALL (ENG.)
RADIATORS
IS CHEAPER AND
CLEANER.
Connected with
“White Rose” Boilers
these radiators heat
averaged-sized rooms
for about twopence
per room for 24 hours.
’PHONE: M 6505 (18 LINES). LATE SHOPPING FRIDAY, 8.30 P.M.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS. DISTRIBUTORS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
JOHN DANKS«n°SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED i incorporated in victoria!
324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Thirtieth Week.
“Ente Marid”: The thirtieth week of
the war was mainly one of words and
reorganisation.
French Cabinet reorganisation was fol-
lowed by changes in the British Cabinet.
The Co-ordination of Defence portfolio,
held by Lord Chatfield, “lapsed,” and
Mr. Churchill was named chairman of
a committee of service Ministers. Sir
Samuel Hoare was appointed to the Air
Ministry ; Sir Kingsley Wood —probably
a tired man, since he has borne the whole
brunt of the reorganisation of the R.A.F.
—becomes Lord Privy Seal. Other changes
affect Mr. W. S. Morrison, Lord Woolton,
Earl de la Warr, Sir Victor Warrender,
Mr. Ramsbotham, Mr. Shakespeare, Mr.
Hudson, Mr. Tryon and Sir Edward
Grigg.
At sea, the blockade is being tightened,
especially in respect of the Scandinavian
Peninsula, though it is denied that the
Allies propose to enter Norwegian
waters. Germany has countermanded all
rail shipments of iron ore from Sweden
to the Norwegian port of Narvik.
Britain’s ships are taking large quanti-
ties of ore from the port, but German
shipments have been dwindling for some
time.
There is continued talk of invasions, but
so far it is all talk. A lightning attack on
Sweden by Germany is suggested as a
possibility. German ships are said to
be preparing to make a dash from Dutch
East Indian ports to Vladivostok, giving
rise to the suggestion that Germany may
be contemplating an attack on Holland.
Americans in Belgium have again been
warned by the representative of their
nation at Brussels to quit. According to
Mr. Churchill, there are still a million
German soldiers on the Dutch-Belgian
frontiers.
At sea, U-boat activity is at a mini-
mum. The Germans are believed to have
been losing boats at such a rate that they
find difficulty in replacing them, and a
week’s sinkings of both British and
neutral shipping were the lowest this
year. Several more U-boats are said to
have been sunk recently. And the mag-
netic-mine menace seems to have been
overcome.
Both Britain and France are building
new warships as fast as rivets can be
driven and plates welded. France is lay-
ing down 200,000 tons ; Britain’s quota
—doubtless much larger—is a secret. A
couple of years of war are likely to see
the doubling of the R.N. outside capital
ships, of which several are in process of
being added to the fleets.
In the Northern Pacific there is still
speculation about the possibility of a
German base at Whale Bay, near Vladi-
vostok. A Japanese naval spokesman
has “warned Britain not to establish a
blockade of ships entering the Japan Sea,”
which is regarded in Tokio as a
Japanese lake. The British reply is that
Britain “has no intention of committing
any illegal act, and desires, as far as
possible, to pay attention to Japanese
sensibilities.” At the same time, the R.N.
“will exercise its full legal rights as a belli-
gerent to extend the blockade to Japanese
waters if the occasion calls for such
action.” Meanwhile, negotiations for a
better Anglo-Japanese understanding
proceed.
Huge U.S.A. naval manoeuvres are in
progress in the Pacific. They are re-
garded by Japanese as “brandishing the
sword near Japan and liable to inflame
Japanese sentiment.”
The possibility of a campaign in the
Middle East, though Allied forces in
Palestine and surrounding areas are in-
creasing every week, is at present remote.
An important definition of Turkey’s atti-
tude has been made by a Government
spokesman at Istanbul, who said “Turkey
is persevering with her decision to remain
outside the war, and does not intend to
enter on a war against Russia” ; is, in
fact, “determined to live peacefully and
to work for the maintenance of peace.”
This was in reply to a speech by Molo-
tov, who is plainly scared.
The Allies in the Middle East are not
likely to attack anybody unless attacked
or threatened with attack. Nevertheless,
they are ready for anything ; and their
soldiers, Australians and Maorilanders,
will have done a good job if they never
fire a shot at a foeman.
Goring declares that the decisive blow
must be struck in the west, that he “will
give battle to our enemies when the right
moment comes” ; that if everybody stays
at his post Germany is “certain of vic-
tory.”
Mr. Chamberlain and Mr. Churchill
are equally certain that there will be an
Anglo-French victory ; and so is General
Ironside. Mr. Chamberlain said:
I feel after seven months of war 10
times as confident as in the beginning.
I do not base my confidence on wishful
thinking, which is pleasing, but dangerous;
1 base it on fact. We have beaten off all
attempts to starve us out by raiders or
secret weapons... .Those seven months
have enabled us to remove weaknesses and
so enormously to add to our fighting
strength that the future can be faced with
a calm and steady mind....l put my
faith in the courage and tenacity of the
race.
“We would welcome an attack,” said
General Ironside ; “we are sure of our-
selves and have no fears. If the Germans
had launched a full attack at the very
start, when we were unprepared, they
might possibly have got us. It is too late
now.”
New A.I.F. Commands.
“Ek D.”: The names of new A.I.F.
commanders and staff men will revive
many memories of the last war.
Colonel H. C. H. Robertson, to com-
mand the 19th Brigade, was on Gallipoli,
a young Duntroon captain from Western
Victoria. In the assault on Hill 60 he
commanded the Trench 2 Squadron,
which went into the fight cheering. He
afterwards served with the A.L.H. in
Palestine. Colonel Robertson established
and has since commanded the Darwin
Mobile Force.
Command of the 20th Brigade goes to
Brigadier H. H. Murray, who hails from
Mosman (N.S.W.). He is remembered
for his work at Fromelles, and came
home with a D.S.O. and an M.C. Com-
mander of the 9th Brigade, N.S.W., he
has been in control of coast defences.
Lieut.-Colonel J. E. S. Stevens, com-
manding 6th Division Signals, takes
over the 21st Brigade. He is a lean, wiry
soldier, popular and a splendid judge of
men, with a sound fighting record.
GSOI on the headquarters staff is
Colonel S. F. Rowell, who was with the
A.L.H. in Palestine, in the forefront of
Chauvel’s organisers. He had a Dun-
troon training, has been through the Im-
perial Defence College, and was right-
hand man to the late Lieut.-General
Squires.
Major-General Wynter, one of the out-
standing C.M.F. staff men, becomes
head of the A.l.F.’s Adjutant-General
and Q.M.G. branch. Wynter instituted
the staff and command school at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney. His position makes
him the senior administrative officer of
the corps.
And Brigadier C. A. Clowes will hold
the Corps Artillery command. He hails
from Warwick (Q.), was trained at Dun-
troon, and in 1914 went away with the
original A.I.F. in the 2nd Battery Field
Artillery. Clowes was on the parapet
at Russell’s Top with Brand helping to
direct the fire of Queen Elizabeth during
the second Turkish counter-attack on
Gallipoli. While acting as observing
officer for H.M.S. Triumph on May 19,
1915, he was knocked down by a Turkish
salvo.
The long list of the rest of the staff
reads like a roll of history. The name
of every second man among the seniors
appears in Bean’s books or the volume
written by Gullett.
“H”: If the old Digger was a hard
case the new one is carrying on the
tradition. A man in camp was put on
picket from 6 p.m. to ‘‘lights out to
patrol the huts and prevent gambling.
During his tour of duty he won 7s. at
two-up. He is all-Australian, too ; his
ancestors reached Thursday Island long
before Captain Cook.
Around the Army.
XXII.
THE MILLS BROTHERS.
When things are pretty “chronic ’ they
regard it as a tonic
To pluck ihe pin and fling the bomb
on high.
As it bursts on its objective there ll be
heard some choice invective :
“Cop that, y’ scangy blanks !” will he
the cry.
With “ bo-koo” ammunition for a throw-
ing competition
They’re set. No “Look out, Dig.! or
“By your leave!”
They’ll toss it straight at Otto, firm
believers in the motto :
“It’s better far to give than to receive.”
The great brotherhood of Mills bomb-
throwers get their initiation into the mys-
teries of the weapon during their infan-
try training, usually from an old-time
sergeant. He has repeated his sing-song
formula about 10,000 times, and can get
it pat off his chest while he is mentally
calculating how much he’ll have left over
from his pay after he’s fixed up his mess
bill, paid sundry debts and his missus.
He takes a deep breath, and with a far-
away look in his eye begins: —
“Y’ wold the bomb in y’r right ’and,
thumb pressed along the edge an’ fingers
’oldin’ the lever down —so ; feet well
apart an’ at right angle to the orbject y re
aimin’ at. With y’r left ’and y’ whips
the pin out so —there ain’t any need to be
alarmed, for I’ve still got the lever ’eld
down, see? —but once y’ let the lever up
y’ve on’y got six seconds before she goes
orf—it’s that that sets the meganism goin’,
not the pin. Now, ’old it at full arm’s
length be’ind y’, puttin’ y’ weight on y’r
right foot —if y’re a kacky-’ander, on y’r
left foot. When y’re ready to throw it
transfer y’r weight on to y’r front foot,
at. the same time bringin’ y’r arm up
in a circular movement. When y r ’and’s
up to the top o’ the arc thus created v’
let the bomb go. If y’ do it correct the
detonation an’ the arrival at its desti-
nation should be sim-ul-taneyus! ”
“But how do you get on if you don’t
happen to have a watch on you, or you
can’t count up to six, sarge?”
Questions such as this by seemingly
earnest seekers after information usually
bring the sergeant out of his trance and
back to vigorous profanity.
Particularly long - suffering is the
platoon which numbers in its ranks
several grade cricketers, for they are for
ever testing out their theories. Long
after the rest of the mob have slung their
last bomb they will be devising new
means of getting length or spin into their
shots.
“See those two coves who just ducked
behind *that sap, Tommo? You watch
me lob one at their feet. I’ll float this
one with a low trajectory. There’s a
tricky cross-wind blowing across the pit —
er —across the wire. You watch!”
“Ar! You’ll get a glass arm shottin
like that!” And his fellow-cricketer, who
fields on the boundary at home, will keep
his hand in by seeing if he can land one
back in the enemy supports. The biggest
nuisance, though, is the fellow who rather
likes himself as a fast bowler, and un-
winds himself with a paralysing burst up
the communication trench prior to let-
ting it fly. It must be the beautiful grip
on its pineapple-like surface that holds
so irresistible an attraction; it simply
asks to be thrown.
To the reinforcement whose training
with it has been but sketchy, the Mills
bomb is something to be handled as you
would half a dozen open blade razors
or a very live tiger-snake. In the line
for the first time, and preparatory to
undergoing his baptism by slinging it at
a live target, he gets a stranglehold grip
on the lever and hurls it with the hope
of putting as great a distance as possible
between it and himself when it goes off.
When it doesn’t go off he wonders—until
it comes back towards him, this time with
the pin out.
To the old-stager who has been tossing
’em nonchalantly for months, a Mills
bomb, singular, is just something he stuffs
in odd pockets of his tunic against the
time he needs it, and which gets mixed
up with his tobacco. On his way out
of the line he dumps the collection, which
by then is considerable, owing to the
multiplicity of pockets in a uniform, into
the nearest shellhole. As he remarks,
there’s plenty more where they came
from.
A great number of bombs, though, is a
pain in the neck to him, probably be-
cause he makes a habit of using a sugar-
bag full of them as a pillow when hes
curled up in his bit of a dugout. After
all, he’d get a stiffer neck if he parked
his head on his boots or equipment.
S. W.K.


When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and Iasi
of vigour. 621 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
TO-OAY
CHEMIST, George street, Sydney
“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The Bulletin” Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
m
LONDON BUSES Being Towed
By Producer Gas Unit.
Already, overseas, thousands of vehicles
are being operated by producer gas in-
stead of petrol, as instanced by the London
bus illustrated above. The “Herald,”
18/12/’39, said:
“The Commonwealth Government is
urging operators of trucks, vans and
tractors, especially in the country, to make
use of this cheaper method of running
C Producer Gas).” Since then Sir Frederick
Stewart has announced that the Govern-
ment itself has decided to accept tenders
for the manufacture of 400 Producer Gas
units.
Authorities agree that before the end of
1940 Producer Gas units will be in
general use throughout the Commonwealth
to a degree previously undreamed of and
that petrol for trucks, tractors, etc., may
be almost entirely replaced.
Learn
PRODUCER
MANUFACTURE
C O NVERS IO N
AND SERVICE
GAS 5
The simplified Producer Gas home study course of
the Kingsford Smith Colleges makes it possible to
gain a thorough knowledge of Producer Gas
engines in your spare time at home. The course
covers all phases of the subject, manufacture, con-
version of engines from petrol or oil, service, and
the preparation of the charcoal which produces the
gas. There will be a wonderful opportunity in
every district to make good money for those who
learn about Producer Gas engines early. Whether
you intend to get into the business of Producer
Gas manufacture, conversion or service or require
to learn
HOW TO CONVERT AND
MAINTAIN YOUR OWN VEHICLES
the Kingsford Smith Course is the quickest and most
efficient method of obtaining the knowledge you
need. Everything is made clear by simple, easily
followed diagrams and instruction sheets, and the
course includes coaching by Producer Gas experts
to suit the individual requirements of every student.
A practical course for practical men! An essential
for every truck and tractor owner, garage man and
service station owner! No big cash outlay. Post
coupon immediately. (The College can supply the
necessary conversion parts, if required.)
BIG MONEY FOR
THOSE WHO GET
IN EARLY.
Those who get in to producer
gas engineering early will
make big money, so get par-
ticulars NOW.
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES,
Department 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please Send me Particulars of your Producer Gas Course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B, 10/4/40.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Birds Stretch Their Wings.
“D.8.K.”: April, the month of cirrus
clouds and showers in Northern Europe,
has brought a respite from sitting aloft
in sub-zero temperatures for hours at
a stretch, and the birds on both sides
have been stretching their wings.
Daily there are clashes over the
Western Front, and the Air Ministry
reported a bag of six MElo9’s and four
110’s in a week. And German raiders
are flying over the English coast at
more points than hitherto; a French
official wireless spokesman said that
England had 15 visitations on April 2.
At dusk on the same day there was a
tip-and-run raid over Scapa Flow. It
lasted 10 minutes, and the bombs found
no targets, though three civilians were
hurt by A.A. shell splinters. One raider
was seen to fall into the sea, and others
were so badly damaged they could not
be expected to reach their roosts. A
German allegation that
warships were hit (“one
developed a heavy list and
smoke and flames were
seen to come from an-
other”) was explicitly de-
nied. Also on April 2, a
British convoy was
bombed, but again no hits
were recorded and no
casualties.
There was a score for a
Blenheim bomber on the
same eventful day. Re-
turning after a search for
German warships, the
crew spotted a German
’plane of the latest bomber
type emerging from the clouds. It was
a Junkers 88, a type about which there
has been much speculation. British
bursts riddled a wing and the fuselage,
and the Junkers was trailing black smoke
when it disappeared in a cloudbank.
Smoke pouring from a ’plane after
machine-gun fire may seem fairly con-
clusive evidence of serious damage, but
it cannot be taken as final. In some
cases it may be just a trick. ‘ ’Planes on
both sides have ostensibly become
“flamers,” but the men in them have
managed to get to safety.
April 3 was an unsuccessful day for
the enemy. After an attack on a
convoy a Nazi bomber crashed in the
Kattegat, the crew reaching internment
by rubber raft. A flying-boat of the
Short Sunderland class got into a run-
ning scrap with six of the latest Junkers
88’s. The tail gunner made good use
of his four turret guns, and the leading
Junkers went down in flames into the
sea. The others broke off the fight, one
landing in Norway, where the crew burnt
it before giving themselves up. Off the
Yorkshire coast a Spitfire ran across a
Heinkel, and reported the fight by radio-
phone. First the pilot announced briefly
that he had shot the Heinkel down and
seen it crash into the sea. A minute or
so later he mentioned casually that his
craft also was in trouble and was coming
down on fire. Actually, he was trapped
in the cockpit under water, and had a
dreadful time breaking loose. However,
he and his enemies were picked up safely
and brought ashore.
“Aldis”: It has been revealed that 79
of the 100 Lockheed Hudsons ordered
from the U.S.A. have reached Australia ;
N.S.W. has 63 and Victoria 16. Four
made an inspiriting flight from Richmond
(N.S.W.) to Pearce (W.A.), with one stop
for refuelling. At the controls were
Flight-Lieuts. Purvis, Barlow, Ryland and
Flying-Officer Cook, all experienced air-
line men. High headwinds and a rain-
storm reduced average speed to 180
m.p.h., and the bad weather kept the
machines out of sight of each other most
of the way, but radio inter-communica-
tion was maintained throughout.
* * * *
“Bofors”: Until recently the merchant
vessel attacked by enemy bombers could
do nothing in its own defence, as was
shown when the British India liner
Domala struggled into port on fire and
with more than 100 dead Indians aboard.
Now even trawlers can put up a fight,
and the British steamer Jedmoor, attacked
when in convoy, gave more than she got.
The raider encountered a fierce curtain
of fire, and was driven off, obviously
damaged. There is apparently nothing
“ ’Bout time some cow woke up 'n' called a halt.”
secret about the means adopted, the sur-
prise being in the application to the
defence of merchant ships.
* * * *
“Don”: An R.A.F. rigger went for a
forced joy-ride when a Spitfire on which
he was working took off unexpectedly.
He was astride the fuselage making
adjustments when the pilot opened the
throttle and got under way. Finding the
machine tail-heavy, the pilot landed after
one circuit of the ’drome, and all was
well. The precariousness of a hand-hold
on the fuselage of a 350-m.p.h. fighter
is better imagined than experienced. I
witnessed a somewhat similar affair in
1917 at Cranwell, England. A Parseval
VI semi-rigid airship broke away from
the mooring party and took three men
to a few thousand feet, clinging to the
hand-ropes. They didn’t last long, poor
devils.
* * * *
“Aldis”: Frozen petrol may be used
in ’planes of the near future if a process
now under investigation in U.S.A. is
successful. The idea is to eliminate the
fire hazard of high-test aviation petrol
by freezing it solid in the tanks. A
device is supposed to thaw out the fuel
only as needed by the power units.
Frozen petrol will not burn or explode,
and theoretically, at least, war ’planes so
equipped would be comparatively un-
affected by incendiary machine-gun fire.
* * * *
“Querex”: An ingenious device to
help glider pilots has been named the
“thermal sniffer.” Intended to locate
thermals, it is known technically as a
thermal gradiometer. With egg-shaped
devices installed on the wing-tips, the
“sniffer” records the difference in tem-
perature between the wing-tips, recording
accurately to within one-tenth of one
degree. The pilot merely notes the differ-
ence and can tell when he is approaching
a warm air current.
* * H= #
“Brasso”: An engine of unorthodox
type, known as the Alfaro, has been de-
signed in U.S.A. It is a two-stroke using
the principle of the swash-plate. The
four cylinders are arranged around the
driving shaft, with axes parallel to it, and
each cylinder has opposed pistons like
the German Junker-Jumo Diesel engine.
The Alfaro is a spark-ignition engine
with fuel injection. The two swash-
plates are integral with the driving shaft,
and piston thrust is transmitted to them
by roller-bearings. The snag with the
design appears to be non-adaptability to
air-cooling, the presence of the swash-
plates preventing all chance of air being
led down the centre.
* * * *
“Ex-R.A,F.”: As a result doubtless
of the fiasco in which the papers of
would-be R.A.A.F. ratings were “lost”
in Sydney, a new plan to speed up
recruiting was put into operation on
April 2. Accepted men who cannot be
enlisted at once are placed on the re-
serve and given a badge and number.
That should mean that there will be a
check on them unless somebody suffers
a memory lapse again. Men so attested
will not be able to enlist in either of
the other services without getting an
R.A.A.F. discharge. Under the old un-
satisfactory scheme applicants had to
wait indefinitely for a call-up for medical
examination and other tests.
* * * *
“Powerplus”: A new type of aero
engine, stated to be of 3000 h.p., is under
development in Michigan (U.S.A.).
Design incorporates all-steel construc-
tion and 24-cylinder layout. A pro-
peller can be fitted at each end so that
the engine axis is at right angles to the
fuselage axis.
The Air War Day by Day.
April 1: Increased air reconnaissance
from both sides on Western Front.
Many air combats reported. R.A.F.
’planes bomb German patrol vessels
in North Sea, and wreck a Junkers
’plane. One R.A.F. plane missing;
Germans say they shot down a Blen-
heim, which disappeared in the sea.
April 2: German ’planes again attack
Scapa Flow, many bombs being
dropped but no hits scored. Three
people injured by A.A. shell splinters.
German report alleges “several war-
ships hit; one on fire.” R.A.F. com-
munique “Six Messerschmitt 109’s
and four 110’s brought down in France
within a week; three other enemy
’planes considered ‘possibles.’ ”
April 3: Enemy aircraft attack convoy
in North Sea, dropping 15 bombs with-
out doing any harm. German claim
to have damaged a destroyer and
other vessels denied by Admiralty. An
enemy ’plane, damaged by A.A. fire
from the convoy, made a forced land-
ing in the Kattegat. Second con-
voy attacked by a Heinkel, which was
driven off by Fleet Air Arm ’planes.
Running fight over North Sea between
Coastal Command flying-boat and six
Junkers 88’s Tail gunner shoots one
down in flames; the others break off
the engagement and one comes down
in Norway —crew interned. First
British fighter, a Spitfire, lost in com-
bat off English coast. Opposing
Heinkel shot down; Spitfire, afire,
forced to descend in the sea. Crews
rescued.
April 4: British ’planes bomb warships
near Wilhelmshaven; return safe.
Enemy denies damage. French get two
Dorniers over Western Front.


THE ENGLISH TYPEWRITER IS LESS EXPENSIVE
Inspect the
Imperial
QUIET, STANDARD, PORTABLE
Save Foreign Exchange and Customs Duty and
BUY BETTER VALUE.
BRISBANE L. Dobell 6c Co. Pty., Ltd., 43 Creek Street
SYDNEY Dobell Pty., Limited, 107 Pitt Street
MELBOURNE Geo. Raitt' 6c Co., Ltd., 467 Collins Street
ADELAIDE Holdsworth 6c Co., 5 1 Grenfell Street
PERTH Burridge 6c Warren, Ltd., 69 King Street
HOBART J. C. McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street
. . . . IMPERIAL is the ENGLISH Typewriter
MAKE NO MISTAKE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
And Now It’s Darwin
“X.T.”: Darwin is threatened with
another of the Red-bred strikes which
have blasted the town again and again.
N.A.W.U. members, now under “radi-
cal control,” refused to unload coal for
defence purposes from freighters unless
they were paid 4d. a ton extra as a
“noxious cargo” rate.
Military and naval men unloaded the
ships. Thereupon an all-in strike was
threatened.
Someone in a union deputation to
Administrator Abbott referred to the
naval ratings as a “pack of scabs.” Mr.
Abbott, a mild man, promptly sent the
deputation about its business.
Britain manages these things better.
Once and once only during the general
strike in 1926 did the strike committee
threaten to hold up actual Government
effort.
It declared that it would not allow the
123 ships with cargoes—some perishable
—lying in the Thames to be unloaded.
The Government, which had arranged
a civil, force to do its unloading, changed
its plans. It sent a brigade of Guards in
tin hats and khaki in solemn procession
through the streets of London. The
Guards cleaned every hold to the bottom
without a finger being lifted by the
threat-mongers, and moderate Labor
opinion approved.
Australia obviously needs a special
service battalion ready to go anywhere
and do anything that the national in-
terest demands.
Corns, are active in N.Q. A Towns-
ville Labor Council motion:
In view of the fact that this council
is disintegrating into an active disseminator
and propagandist of Communistic propa-
ganda, contrary to the constitution, that
all unions be circularised requesting their
confirmation or otherwise of their affilia-
tion with the council.
It was lost, the voting being 15 to 14.
The secretary, who had lodged it, asked
if one of the delegates was present as
a Com. or as a member of the A.R.U.
The delegate replied: “I attend here as
the delegate of the A.R.U. They elected
me knowing I am a member of the Com-
munist party.” There must be a lot of
Digger railwaymen who have no say in
such elections.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Darwin is asking for more
doctors. The population has more than
doubled over the last five years. Seasonal
rains make for a good deal of sickness,
and country calls often take medicoes
hurriedly away from town. At present
there are four, but two are wholly
occupied with quarantine and other
special duties, leaving two to look after
a civil population of 3500. There should
be a good opportunity for a couple more
good men. It is common at present
for one man to see 50 patients in a day.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: For the 21 seats in the
Greater Brisbane Council there are 73
candidates, and five gentlemen are willing
to become Lord Mayor. Alf Jones is
seeking a third term —he won by 5000-
odd votes last time. His most dangerous
opponent is J. B. Chandler, representing
the Citizens’ Municipal party.
“Philp”: A Darwin soldier has had
some trouble with his store teeth. They
went down with a mouthful and stuck
in "his windpipe. He was in a bad way
when a doctor arrived, but the medico, a
resourceful fellow, stuck his fingers down
the throat and moved the teeth suffi-
ciently to allow him to breathe. An
operation was necessary; the hospital
was two miles away ; and, though there
was a motor-truck handy, there was no
one to drive it. The doctor, by some
dexterous manipulation, got the patient
into the truck and drove it to the hospital
with one hand, using the fingers of the
other to keep the offending molars from
suffocating the patient. Everyone re-
covered.
* * * *
“Erda”: Nature is an unbalanced
arrangement. While the South is as dry
as a State Parliamentary debate, the
bright lads of the North are holding a
sweepstake on new rain records as be-
tween towns. Tully will take some beat-
ing. For the first three months of last
year the celestial water output was 124.83
inches; for the first quarter of this
year it was 127.99 inches. It is eight
years since they had what they call a
“Snip the wires, Ma, an' save us a trip to the corner gate."
drought in Tully ; in the parched season
of 1932 a mere 78 inches fell. At the
week-end there was another cyclone fol-
lowed by “terrific rains” and floods.
H*
“Gain”: Another entry has been made
on the long list of Papuans who have
been committed to the calaboose for
attempted assaults on European women.
This time the sentence was five years.
As an effective punishment, prison, with
all its comforts, is a joke to Brown
Brother. That it is no deterrent is shown
by the continuing offences. It is time
somebody thought up a drastic punish-
ment which will disgrace the culprit in
the eyes of his own people, and make
others feel that the game is not worth
the candle. A short course in Nether-
Indian methods of native control might
provide a solution.
* * * *
“Cardwell”: Though fearsome yarns
are told about the croc., an attack on a
man in the Mossman (N.Q.) district was
the exception rather than the rule. About
that area men have been camping on
rivers, wading through rivers and fishing
out of small boats ever since there was
settlement, yet only two persons have
been grabbed in half a century. In the
first case, a white man was seized in the
Daintree. He was rescued by a Rotumah
boy, who gouged out the saurian’s eyes
with his fingers. Like the recent victim,
he lived to tell the tale. Horses are
sometimes taken and dogs are regarded
as a titbit. But a croc, has to be pretty
hungry before he will tackle human
flesh ; and he is a lazy beast.
* * * *
“Kyabra”: It takes the Queensland
west to show the patriotic societies of
the big cities how to do it. At Quilpie,
a little western railway terminus beyond
Charleville, where the temperature is
sometimes 100 and over for days to-
gether, a handful of graziers formed a
“patriotic race club.” Their first meet-
ing has been held. Expenses totted up
to £2OO-odd, and the reckoning left £4lB
to be handed over to the Red Cross
and the Comforts Fund. The money
came from a population of 700.
* * * *
“Norther”: Around Charleville there
has been a bit of sheep-stealing, and
graziers have asked for more police pro-
tection. A kangaroo-shooter pleaded
guilty to shooting 19 sheep on Myendetta
for their skins. A wild story of “rustlers”
has now broken out in Brisbane and
spread to the southern dailies. The gang
backs big motor-trucks against boundary
fences and hand-loads sheep aboard;
armed parties of squatters ride the scrub
by night; a “rustler” was caught and
horsewhipped and ordered to leave the
country; police and blacktrackers
found 1455 wethers one night but not
the “rustlers” ; station-hands gallop
wildly through the scrub after mar-
auders ; graziers are asking for a flying
squad of police and bushmen aided by
blacktrackers —and so forth. Apparently
it has all been going on for months,
though nothing was heard of it until
the kangaroo-shooter appeared in court.
Somewhere in a hidden gulch, perhaps,
the chief of the rustlers is discussing
with his band the chances of a raid on
the Charleville goat herds.
* * * *
Figures obtained from the Government
Statistician and published in the “Jour-
nal of Commerce” show that Queens-
land manufactures are increasing, though
not so much as they should —and would
if State taxation, especially on companies,
were not so stiff. During the year to
June 30, 1939, there were 3088 factories
in operation, up 25 ; and value of goods
produced and work done was £63,584,639
—£3,945,236 greater than the output in
1937-38. Value of production (i.e., excess
of output over materials used, fuel con-
sumed, repairs, etc.) was £19,301,308 —an
increase of £698,350. The 3088 factories
employed on an average 54,965 persons,
including working proprietors; 44,704
were males and 10,261 females in-
creases, 1638 males and 449 females.
Salaries and wages paid (including draw-
ings by working proprietors) amounted
to £11,581,431, up £778,237. After de-
ducting salaries and wages from value
of production there remained £7,719,877
to cover interest, profit, depreciation,
advertising, insurance and the like ; the
1937-38 figure was £7,799,764. Machinery
and plant were valued at £18,144,594 ;
land and buildings at £12,326,689.
* * * *
“Centre”: “Pegasus” (B. 14/2/’4O)
has flown wide of the mark concerning
the colored shirt. It’s over 40 years since
I bought in Brisbane—and wore, with-
out being considered freakish —my first,
and that was long before Hollywood
had started to spread its blight over the
world. The shirting from which my
garments were made came from Lanca-
shire, and was fairly popular throughout
England then.
* * * *
Brisbane’s Queen-street has lost an old
friend with the death of “Charley,” who
for 27 years sold newspapers from a
wheeled chair in front of Allan and
Stark’s shop, and gave with them a cheery
Aussie philosophy. Charles Henry Jones
was crushed in a mining accident at
Charters Towers (N.Q.) in 1912, and an
irreparably damaged spine condemned
him to wheel-chair life ever after. But
it didn’t crush Charley’s spirit. He was
always ready to maintain that, what with
the interesting sights and people, the
money to be earned and the easy life,
his accident was the best thing that had
ever happened to him. “Take corns,”
he’d say with a twinkle. “I was a fair
martyr to corns at the Towers. Ain’t
had one since I come to Brisbane.”
* * * *
“Tilton”: I have yet to meet the man
who can walk under several feet of water
without some sort of sinker. Along W.A.’s
north-west-coast I have seen Koepangers
do it for show, but they always carried
a stone as big as their heads. Knew
only one white capable of competing with
them. He could walk about 75 yards
completely submerged, but not without
a sinker. For choice he liked to carry
someone, preferably a lady, on his shoul-
ders, this keeping him footffirm on the
bottom. Otherwise he would have floated
to the surface. That’s the point: any
living body free from an overplus of
swallowed water floats, unless possessed
of some counterbalance.
* * * *
“K.”: On a Territory station some
years ago the mother of a fine eight-
year-old youngster gave birth to another
child. It vanished the first night. Next
morning the father told me: “Tm bin
’ave sore pfeller bingey, boss, and
pinish.” That was all right, but some 18
months later the lady had another picca-
ninny and this, too, was reported dead.
An old buck told me both children had
been killed so that the first-born could
still be suckled by his mother. I
reported it in the proper quarter.
Authority smiled and said, “That often
occurs. What’s the use, anyhow, of
doing anything, for it’s a tribal custom
and I don’t interfere with them if I
can help it?”
* * * *
“Marsh”: Queensland Binghi doesn’t
indulge in the primitive methods of his
forefathers when he wants a meal of wild
duck: he uses rabbit-traps. Noting where
the birds wade out to dry land about
swamps and lagoons, the abo. sets a few
traps near the edge, just beneath the sur-
face. Hiding some distance away, he
waits patiently until a commotion tens
of a catch. But at odd times Binghi is
fooled, and he’s prone to curse a bit
when instead of a duck a swan puts its
feet on the trap-plate. Before he can
get on the scene the swan is aloft, and
as Binghi sadly watches the bird flying
above the treetops he not the
loss of the “good-pfeller tuckout but his
vanished trap.


BE INDEPENDENT/
INSTALL an AGA COOKER
STOP PRESS.
We can supply
fuel to last
6 months with
every AG A
cooker sold
during the
coal strike.
m
I TON i TON 1
12 MONTHS’
FUEL
Mm ■
■ H
H
K
v
■;>' i
The AGA heat storage
cooker ensures a
means of continuous
cooking, completely
independent of outside
power supplies. It is
self-contained. Burn-
ing night and day, the
model illustrated
cannot burn more than
£3 worth of coke (at
30/- a ton) in a whole
year!
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
7horiaml7katSirrm
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
JHE AGA Cooker makes for independence in
other ways, too. It is always instantly ready
for any cooking need no waiting for a hot oven,
no watching, no basting or turning of joints. You
can, in fact, leave a whole dinner to cook by itself,
without fear of spoiling even if you do not arrive
home as early as intended.
The AGA has dozens of amazing features you
can’t imagine how truly wonderful it is. To
country folk it is a boon; to city folk a blessing.
Not only will it' save you money, but also time,
temper and digestion. For the AGA is the most
efficient and carefree cooker ever invented. There
are over 40,000 AGA Cookers in daily use through-
out the world.
LEVIN & Co. Ltd.
(Inc. in N.Z.). Est. 1852.
45 King St., Sydney.
Permit us to send you full par-
ticulars—ask for booklet RJf or
see the AGA in operation at our
showrooms.
432 Bourke St.,
S.A. Agents: Colton
Tasmanian Agents:
Melbourne; and Wellington, N.Z.
, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
After a day’s business or pleasure, you will
find perfect rest and relaxation in the quiet
seclusion of your room at the Victoria.
Located in Melbourne’s city centre, but away
from the noise of city traffic, up to 900 guests,
like yourself, find their rooms at the Victoria
a veritable “haven of rest.”
“ROOM ONLY” DAILY
TARIFFS:
Singles —s'- to 10
Doubles—B'- to 18'6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
MELBOURNE’S LEADING HOTEL
Next Town Hall Little Collins Street
S. D. Horne—Manager
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
L.P.R.: Its sole merit is its brevity
H.P.W.: There might be “a germ of promise
concealed therein,” but it’s successfully con-
cealed T. 8.: Set to some monotonous tune,
it would make an ideal torture C.F.G.8.:
Only a work-shy soul would call that “the
fruits of many weeks’ labor” L.F.C.: Ama-
teurish, but not without merit; come again.
J.L.E.: “£ s. d.” W.p.b H.T.F.: No
interest for anyone outside the circle it deals
with G.R.S.: You’re a bit early with
“Spring Idyll” C.D.Y.: Station abos. are
rarely, if ever, sorry to return from their walk-
abouts 8.T.0’M.: Sensitive, but too senti-
mental F.H.: Gave “An Aussie in N’Yark”
his fare home... .8.R.L.: Cut it and try a
daily P.S.G.: There’s a chance, but steer
clear of droughts and thirst-crazed prospectors.
J.S.: It may be true, but that doesn’t
make a yarn of it V. 5.1.: Don’t like un-
explained mysteries, particularly about ghosts.
H.C.: You might get top marks for it in
the fourth grade H.F.D.: We’re always out
to that con. man N.R.: An improvement,
but it’s still stodgy F.D.D.: Not bad as
light sketches go, but they’re off our beat
B. : “Explosion” only a fizzle... .P.S.W.:
Humor doesn’t appear to be in your line
L.D.L.: For flappers only K.R.: The sport-
ing editor is considering “Joe Smith’s System.”
B.E.: We published something very similar
a few weeks ago C.R.D.: The Favorite
is beaten in that manner about twice every
week C.8.C.: It was an “Unwelcome
Guest” all right E.A.S.: As before....
P.E.R.: You forget that we elected the poli-
ticians 1.L.: Can’t imagine the ghost of
Oscar Wilde saying “Pray, where is Pan?”
G.M.: It follows the original too closely.
T.L.S.: There’s never an original phrase
to lift them out of the ruck... .H.E.H.: All
right as a song E.W.R.: Have no more
liking for “a tear on his bier” than for a tear
in our beer... .J.H.: Harrowing H.MacF. :
Might suit the children’s page of a daily....
C. : Drought poems always make us pray
for rain... .Tomo: Laid “Old Men” gently
to rest... .H.D.: Send us a par. about it....
GJ. and R.B. (England): Close... .1.M.G.:
They need working into shape F.J.8.: The
verbal juggling spoils them E. 8.: Try else-
where P.K.: “Ditched” is.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.M.K.: You managed the cart somehow,
but made a dreadful mess of the driver and
the horse... .L.R.: No cheque for the draw-
ing, not even 7s. 6d. for the gag M.T.:
Wait until you know something about the game
before submitting again T.J.W.: They don’t
live up to the praise you gave them in the
covering letter A.M.8.: Blots, smudges,
half-concealed erasures and jagged linework
M.B.: Some day you will thank us for
keeping your first effort out of print N.C.:
Others have depicted the old girl who thought
Queen Victoria was still on the throne
M.A.: That kind of work is so easy to do
and always looks dull F.T.P.: Give us
pictures with some life and action in them.
C.A.: A gag that requires a long letter
explaining its meaning is no gag at all
E.P.: Next time you feel inclined to put pen
to paper go for a long walk instead
W.C.H.: Jest is as cheering as an inscription
on a tombstone P.C.: The lad shows defi-
nite promise, but needs a few years at an
art school... .G.D.: Journey between editor’s
desk and w.p.b. occupied precisely one second.
N.S.: We prefer a freer style than
that... .M.B. J.: Five of them are forced puns,
and the sixth is mouldy... .B.B.: You don’t
improve... .V.L.: Show cartoon arrived long
after the show had finished... .A.F.D.: It
came a cropper G.S.W.: Your friends are
easily amused F.T.8.: Caricatures need to
be of notabilities J.G.: Cluttered up with
labels, signposts, inscribed balloons and writ-
ings in the sky 8.5.: Few are as hopeless.
. ...D.A.: Neat and tidy, but somewhat out
of fashion.
A MIXED GRILL
Under the new import-restrictions
measures, Canberra has listed many
things for total or partial prohibition,
but all “religious, learned scientific and
learned technical publications” will be
admitted under license. As Speed
Gorgon and co. are not mentioned, no
doubt they are classified under the first
heading.
* * * *
There was a law in the United States
in 1812 condemning to 30 strokes of the
cat anyone teaching a Virginian negro
to read. Perhaps there were daily news-
papers in those days and radio profes-
sors to write for them, and the Gov-
ernment wanted to do the niggers a good
turn.
* * * *
Methodists in N. S. Wales chose a
Manning River native, Rev. Percy L.
Black, as their president for the current
year. From Newington College he
entered the ministry in 1908. He has
written graceful verse, and a couple of his
hymns can be found in the Australasian
section of the Methodist hymn book.
* * * *
In London today there’s a computing
service that provides valuable help for all
who deal in figures. An expert staff with
machines does computations in a day
that would take months by ordinary
methods. Head of this concern is Maori-
lander Dr. L. J. Comrie. Educated in
Auckland, Comrie early showed an apti-
tude for figures. He later became
Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac
Office, and there saw to the wholesale
mechanisation of the work.
* * Jjc ;Jc
“Adelaide”: A strange accident at
Waikerie (S.A.), among the Murray vine-
yards. An employee had just poured
spirit into a tank for fortifying purposes
when another approached with a hurri-
cane-lamp. An explosion at once fol-
lowed, wrecking eight 150-gallon vats
of wine.
* * * *
After having written a heap of Aus-
tralian novels, Bernard Cronin has struck
out in a new line—Shakspearean “de-
visals.” A devisal is an endeavor to give
the highlights of a play, with the Bard
shown in the act of creating his drama.
By monologue his first conception of the
plot is exhibited, characters and events
are flashed before the eye until the first
big scene forces itself upon the conscious-
ness of the dramatist and audience alike.
It tall order, but “Twelfth Night”
and “The Merchant,” presented by actors
Mayne Lynton and Lorna Forbes, were
given at Melbourne Grammar to a
rapt audience of boys and pedagogues,
and were so successful that there is a
likelihood of a season in a city theatre
to include works of Sheridan and others.
Ten examples of “devisals” are on the
way to English and American publishers.
Cronin is one of the numerous band of
writers who have found a niche in the
military censorship.
*l*
“P.’s Devil”: A. E. Pratt, now man-
aging-editor of Sydney “Daily News,”
came frae Aberdeen to Melbourne as a
bairn, and was educated at Scotch Col-
lege and the University, where he studied
law. He took up a cadetship on the
“Age,” went to London for A.P.A.
and travelled throughout Britain and the
Continent. Later he visited China and
Japan to gather material for a book.
Two days after arrival at Hong
Kong he became editor of that city’s
“Daily Press.” 111-health sent him back
to Australia. The death of his father
(shortly after coming from Buckley and
Nunn’s to manage Murdoch’s in Sydney)
caused an alteration of plans, and Pratt
went lecturing for Chinese relief com-
mittees, became a Kew alderman, and
was mentioned as a probable opponent
for Menzies in Kooyong. He has three
books to his credit —essays, a sociological
study and a biography —is 37, and a
bachelor.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The very first proposal
for the use of poison gas in the Great
War was made by an Australian, Major
Morton, on Gallipoli. I struck a refer-
ence to it during a spell of post-Armis-
tice work, precising war diaries. Mor-
ton’s suggestion was to roll heavier-than-
air gas clouds down on the Turks in
lower positions. The suggestion was for-
warded to the higher command. It came
back with the comment that Britain
would never sanction the employment of
such methods, which were inhumane and
against the rules of war. A year later
poison gas was in general use on both
sides.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: I sympathise with Wang
Ching-wei, the “puppet” ruler of China.
He is not recognised by Britain or the
U.S.A., which still regard Chiang Kai-
shek as the official President of China.
Nor will his position with regard to the
Japanese themselves be any better. If the
army likes him the navy will dislike him,
and vice versa, and as the sea and land
forces of Nippon are equally balanced
in their hold on the occupied provinces,
there being waterways crisscrossing all
their territory, the traditional jealousy of
the rival services has to be considered,
Moreover, Wang is suspect to most
patriotic Chinamen, having changed his
political views with exceptional fre-
quency, even for a Chinese statesman. He
is in a more difficult position than was
Pu Yi when Pu Yi was a dispossessed
Child of Heaven living under Chinese
protection in the Forbidden City. On
one occasion an ambitious bandit general
plucked P.Y. out of retirement and placed
him back on the throne of his ancestors,
He was only a baby, and he sat there
sucking his dummy for a fortnight until
the revolution collapsed; after which his
Republican enemies gently put him back
in his cradle, not even stopping the pay-
ment of his pension.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask vour chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South A\ ales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \Yoild, this
Bank°offers the fullest facilities, for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Competent businessman (ex.-A.I.F.) seeks
temporary position with firm inconvenienced
by militia or A.I.F. enlistments. —6697.
Financial partner to assist in developing new
invention. (New-type steam generator suitable
for steam cars, etc.). —6698.
Gentleman, Sydney, invalid, excellent typist,
urgently needs typing work. —6670.
To buy second-hand copy of How to Listen
to Music, by Kriehbiel. —6643.
To buy, borrow, or exchange for books old
numbers of “La Vie Parisienne.”—6673.
To buy Australian Short Stories, edited by
George Mackaness, and An Australian Story
Book, edited by Nettie Palmer—6552.
Printed matter containing the story of Ibsen s
drama “Peer Gynt.”—6605.
To get in touch with anyone in Sydney
interested in Pauline chronology.—6657.
To get in touch with anyone well versed in
the early history of Phillip Island (Vic.). —
6649.
Lonely reader would like to hear from an-
other lonely reader, 50 to 58, anywhere.—6664.
Words of verse containing the line “With
his foot on the rail in the bar.” —6659.
Words of poem entitled “Boko.” —6603.
Information Sought.
Particulars concerning the Treaty of Locarno ?
—6658. T ,
The treaty was concluded on November 16,
1925, between France, Great Britain, Germany,
Italy and Belgium. Germany, France and
Belgium undertook to maintain their present
mutual frontiers and to abstain from the use
of force against each other. Germany recog-
nised the demilitarisation of the Rhineland.
Britain and Italy guaranteed the pact, and
mutual assistance was provided for in the event
of violation. The pact was ended by Hitler
in 1936 through the reoccupation of the Rhine-
land, but Britain’s obligation to France and
British and French obligations to Belgium were
renewed by special agreements subsequently.
* * * *
Some details regarding the Ku Klux Klan ?
—6730. ; ' . . ,
It is an American secret society. The original
Ku Klux Klan was founded in the Southern
States after the Civil War with a view to keep-
ing down the emancipated negroes. It was dis-
solved in 1869. A new Ku Klux Klan was
founded in Georgia in 1915 with a programme
of fostering “100 per cent.” Americanism and
became a nation-wide organisation in subse-
quent years. It exercised its spite on negroes,
Jews and Catholics, and exerted considerable
power, especially in some States of the West
and Middle West. Members held gatherings
in white robes and masks. One of the leaders
was convicted of murder in 1925, and a series
of scandals followed. This caused a recession
of the organisation, and today its membership
is hardly 20,000. It has no longer any influ-
ence.
* * * *
(1) Racial composition of the British Em-
pire ? (2) Religions of members of the British
Empire ? —6741.
(1) The estimated white population in 1932
was 70,000,000, mainly British, but partly
French, Dutch and Spanish. The remaining
430,000,000 include 360,000,000 of the native
races of India and Ceylon, 40,000,000 black
races, 6,000,000 Arabs, 6,000,000 Malays,
1,000,000 Chinese, and 1,000,000 Polynesians,
Melanesians, Australian aboriginals, and vari-
ous other elements, including 100,000 “Red
Indians” in Canada. (2) Of the total population
over 210,000,000 are Hindus, 100,000,000
Mohammedans, 80,000,000 Christians (67,000,000
Protestants and 13,000,000 Roman Catholics),
12,000,000 Buddhists, 12,000,000 Animists,
4,000,000 Sikhs, Jains and Parsees, 750,000 Jews,
and the remainder tribal religions.
* * * *
From whom are the Papal Guards recruited ?
—6335. . , ■ .
There are three kinds of Papal Guards. The
Pope’s bodyguard is the Noble Guard, consist-
ing of about 90 Roman patricians. The Palatine
Guard, numbering about 400, is recruited from
middle-class Italian families, and keeps order
at church ceremonies. Admission to the Swiss
Guard is limited . to German-speaking Swiss
Catholic youth. To qualify, a young man must
be unmarried, physically perfect, between 19
and 25, and of impeccable family. The pur-
pose of the Swiss Guard is to stand sentry
duty at the Vatican’s great bronze gates, in
the Pope’s apartment, or near the barracks.
* * * *
A stray horse has been running in my prop-
erty for about 10 weeks. Efforts to keep him
out have failed, and he has smashed several
panels of fence. I have advertised to no avail.
Can 1 make any move to recover cost of
grazing the animal, also cost of advertising ?
—6609.
You should capture the horse on your
premises and impound him. Any damage done
by him or cost of forage may be recovered
from the owner in a competent court.
# * # *
Would the unmarried children of a deceased
first wife who can support themselves have
any claim on any portion of their father’s
estate in N.S.W. should he die and leave his
estate to his third wife, there being no children
of the second or third wife? —6669.
The N. S. Wales Testator’s Family Main-
tenance Act provides that, if any person dying
has disposed of his property either wholly or
partly by will in such a manner that his
children or any of them are left without
adequate provision for “their proper main-
tenance, education, or advancement in life,”
the Court may order provision to be made
for them out of his estate. Application for
such provision should be made within 12
months of the grant of probate of the will.
This provision does not apply to children
capable of adequately maintaining themselves.
* * * *
At what speed must motor-cars approach
and cross an unattended railway level crossing
in New South Wales? —6676.
Not exceeding 15 miles an hour.
Jjc H« * *
(1) What persons are eligible for election to
the N.S.W. Legislative Council ? (2) For what
reasons are seats of members declared vacant ?
—6724.
(1) Any man or woman who is entitled to
vote at the election of members of the Legis-
lative Assembly, and has been resident for at
least three years in Australia, is eligible for
election, except that members of the Legislative
Assembly are debarred. Membership of the
Council is rendered void by the acceptance of
any office of profit under the Crown, or of
any pension from the Crown; but persons in
receipt of pay, half-pay or pension by virtue
of service in the Defence Forces, or office of
profit in those services,- together with holders
of certain offices created by Act of Parliament
as an office of the Executive Government, re-
main eligible for membership. (2) The seats
of members are rendered vacant by death,
resignation, absence, acceptance of foreign
allegiance, bankruptcy, acceptance of public
contracts, or by criminal conviction.
* * * *
What is the position of an unmarried tax-
payer with dependants, in regard to S.A. State
taxation ? —6711.
Where the taxpayer had a parent or a
brother or sister under. 16 years of age resi-
dent in Australia at the commencement of the
year of income wholly or mainly dependent upon
him, the rates of tax are the same as those
imposed on the income of a married taxpayer.
# , * * *
A wife who made a will before marriage
now desires to make her estate over to her
husband. As there are no solicitors in her
district, what do you advise? —6418.
The wife might write to a solicitor in the
nearest or most convenient town, telling him
that she wishes to convey the property to her
husband and asking to be supplied with a list
of the information he would require in order
to draw up the conveyance. When this was
fully and accurately supplied to him, he would
have a basis on which to draw up the deed.
When drawn up it could be forwarded to the
wife, with necessary instructions'for-signature,
etc. As to the wife’s previous .will, it is now
of no effect, having been automatically annulled
by her marriage. If the wife’s object is to
provide for her husband’s future in the event
of her death by leaving the property to him
solely, then, if due care is observed in follow-
ing instructions, a new will could be made by
her on a will form usually to be purchased
in any well-stocked country store, and consider-
able expense be thus saved. If, however, she
wishes to go beyond this simple provision, the
will*should, be drafted by a solicitor.
* * * *
(1) Number of plays produced by the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission in the main
evening national and State programmes last
year ? ' (2) Names of some of the more notable
plays written by Australian authors? —6718.
(1) 307 periods were devoted to plays for
the year ending June 30, 1939. Of these, 198
were filled by plays by Australian writers and
109 by overseas scripts. (2) “Pointless Design”
by Richard Lane, “Red Sky at Morning” by
Dymphna Cusack, “All Is. Made Manifest” by
Fitzmaurice Hill, “Exit Socrates,” “The Flying
Swan,” and “The Empty Shrine” by Catherine
Shepherd, “Santa Claus of Christmas Creek”
by Ernestine Hill, “Job” by Edmund Barclay,
“Whistle When You’re Happy” and “Five
White Fingers” by Max Afford, “Storm Over
Everest” by Gordon Ireland, and “There Are
Three Sisters” by - Maxwell Dunn.
* * * *
Which is correct, “1 should like” or “1 would
like” ? —6544.
According to the dictionary, “should” is
used (1) in indirect discourse to express simple
futurity, from the standpoint of past time; and
(2) in a conditional or subjunctive sense, the
idea of past time being ignored. “Should”
also suggests obligation, though in milder form
than ought, as in “I should like spinach, but
I can’t.” “Would” expresses desire, conditional
assertion or determined action. Conditional
assertion: “I would like spinach if it were
not so gritty.”
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Victor J.
Daley, the Australian poet ? —6787.
Born at Navan in Ireland on September 5,
1858, he lost his father in infancy and lived
with his grandparents in County Armagh while
a child, and was sent to school at Devonport
in England. In 1874 he entered the employ
of the Great Western Railway, but migrated
to Australia in 1878, and found work in Adel-
aide. He drifted to Melbourne, became a free-
lance journalist, and during four years in Syd-
ney contributed to “Sydney Punch” and The
Bulletin. In 1885 he went back to Mel-
bourne, and for the next 13 years earned a
precarious living by journalistic work, largely
poetical. In 1898 a volume of verse by him,
At Dawn and Dusk, was published in Sydney,
and the N.S.W. Government was induced to
give him a clerkship, but he could not endure
the routine, and disappeared from the office
to resume his freelancing. In 1902 his health
failed, and friends arranged for him a voyage
to the South Seas in 1903. On December 29,
1905, he died from tuberculosis at Waitara,
near Sydney. A second volume, Wine and
Roses, was published posthumously in 1911.
* * * *
(1) For what purpose is the new Georges
River ( Sydney ;) feeder road being built ? is it
purely for scenic purposes ? (2) What will it
cost ? —6696.
(1) The road, is being built to link Forest-
road (Main Road No. 168) with Woodville-road
(State Highway No. 13), and while it will have
scenic value it will form part of a circumferen-
tial route through the outer metropolitan area.
(2) The work was commenced initially for re-
lieving unemployment and is being carried out
in sections. The Department of Main Roads
states that it is unable to make available the
estimated cost of the work.
* * * *
(1) Are there kaolin deposits in N.S.W. ?
(2) In Australia? (3) Would extensive deposits
within 200 miles of seaport and with coal on
top be worth exploitation ? (4) Nantes of
individuals or firms likely to be interested.
—6537.
(1) “Kaolin” is a term now loosely used
to include white- and nearly-white-burning
clays and even white filler clays, though
strictly speaking it should be reserved for
white-burning clays derived from the weather-
ing of granite. There are fairly extensive
deposits in N. S. Wales producing more than
10,000 tons per annum. (2) The only im-
portant producing State other than N.S.W. is
Victoria. (3) Many of the clays worked in
N.S.W. are 200 miles or more from Sydney.
It would be more profitable to sell the clay
in Sydney or Melbourne than to pay freight
on the manufactured article. (4) The principal
consumers in Sydney are R. Fowler, Ltd.,
Fitzroy-street, Marrickville; Bakewell Bros.,
Mitchell-road, Erskineville; Wunderlich, Ltd.,
Baptist-street, Redfern; and Lion Tile Co.,
Liverpool-road, Enfield.
* * * *
Conditions of the Blackwell Prize? —6699.
The Blackwell Prize is of approximately £3O
and is administered by the Aberdeen Uni.,
Scotland. The prize is open to unrestricted
competition. It is awarded in alternate years,
and a different subject is selected each time.
The next award will be made in 1941, the
subject of the essay being “Must Representa-
tion on the Cinema Be More Superficial Than
on the Stage.” Essays, which must bear a
nom de plume only and be accompanied by
a sealed envelope bearing the same nom de
plume and the writer’s full name and address,
must be lodged with the secretary to the
University not later than January 1, 1941. The
subject of the essay for 1943 will not be
announced until after the award of the prize
for 1941.
* * * *
(1) Are naked lights used in all coalmines ?
(2) If not, which mines use naked lights and
which mines use safety or covered lights?
(3) What types of safety lights are used? (4)
For what distance is coal hauled underground
in the State mine, Lithgow, N.S. Wales? (5)
How many' men will the cage hold at this
mine? ; (6) How are horses taken into the
mine ? —6531.
(1) No. (2) Generally speaking, safety lamps
are used in mines in which inflammable gas is
found and naked lights in other mines. (3)
Flame-type safety lamps are used by officials
for inspection purposes in connection with
the state of ventilation, presence of inflammable
and noxious gases, etc. In most instances
electric-type safety lamps are used by the other
employees, although in a few of the smaller
mines flame-type oil safety lamps are still in
use. (4) 3| to 4} miles from face to pit
bottom. (5) The maximum number of persons
permitted to ride in the double cage is 24.
(6) The horses are taken down the shaft in
the cage.
* * * *
Are wireless receivers of the 1.4 -volt type,
powered by dry cells, reliable ? Are they as
cheap as electric current ? —6654.
The modern dry cell type receiver is per-
fectly reliable in every way, and as cheap to
operate as those designed for A.C. or D.C.
mains. The 1.4 volt valve receiver is intended
for use ■ mainly where the location is isolated
from other means of power supply. The port-
able type is completely self-contained.
i* * *
(1) Quantity of materials required for making
concrete bricks? How many bricks per day
can two men (2) make and (3) lay ? (4) Weight
of. bricks? —6709.
(1) One cubic yard of gravel and four 941 b.
bags of cement will give the following number
of bricks: 100 bricks 18in. by 6in. by 3iin„
140 bricks 18in. by 6in. by 2|in. (2) Two men
can average 200 bricks per day, using two
moulds; this includes hand-mixing, watering,
covering and stacking. (3) A bricklayer and
laborer can lay 250 bricks per day. (4) 18m.
by 6in. by 3Un. bricks weigh approximately
281 b.; 18in. by 6in. by 24in. bricks weigh
approximately 181 b.
* * * *
Who were the children of King Edward VII,
and the dates of their births and deaths ?
6707.
Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and
Avondale and Earl of Athlone, born Jan. 8,
1864, died Jan. 14, 1892; King George V,
born June 3, 1865, died Jan. 20, 1936; Princess
Louise, born Feb. 20, 1867, died Jan. 4, 1931;
Princess Victoria, born July 6, 1868, died Dec.
2, 1935 ; Princess Maud (later Queen of Nor-
way), born Nov. 26, 1869, died Nov. 20, 1938;
Prince John, born April 6, died April 7, 1871.
* * * *
(1) Did Martin Denny fight Young Griffo
four draws? (2) Are present-day boxers as
well trained as the old-timers were ? —6421.
(1) According to Griffo’s record, Denny only
fought him twice —a 20-rounds draw in 1889
and a 25-rounds draw in 1892. (2) Old-time
boxers were much hardier than those of to-day,
hence their ability to fight 20 rounds and
longer. They trained more thoroughly, too, as
they invariably prepared for contests away
from the cities (where most modern boxers
train) in plenty of fresh air, and did many
more miles roadwork than those of to-day do.
Does Anybody Know?
Formula for casein glue suitable for wood
work? —6527.
Meaning of abo. word “Goorabul . 6635.
Brief Answers.
A J.M.1.: Ground Water, by C. F. Tolman,
48s E.W.: (1) Ronald Colman is English,
born in Richmond, Surrey. (2) 1920. the
Dauntless Three” was his first mm.
(4) He played opposite Lillian Gish in, ine
White Sister” and later made “Romola with
the same star. (5) No, so far as is known in
Sydney... .J.J.C.: The National Security (Fair
Rents) Regulations are dated September 27,
1939, and copies may be obtained from the
Commonwealth Government Printer, Canberra.
They were proclaimed by a proclamation dated
November 9, 1939, and published *in the Queens-
land “Government Gazette” of November 11,
1939, and rules were made and published in
the same issue. The “Gazette” may be obtained
from the Government Printer, Brisbane. While
the notice you gave was probably legal, there
seems to be no reason why the tenant cannot
take the proceedings he has threatened....
T. 8.: The information in regard to the agree-
ment between the Australian Wheat Board and
the licensed receivers is obtainable from the
Australian Wheat Board, 515 Collins-street,
Melbourne... .F.W.8.: The correct method ot
repairing a leak such as you mention is to
cut out a short length, say lOin. (?r 12in., ot
the iin. pipe, including the defective portion,
and insert a connector. A temporary repair
can be effected by using a galvanised iron
hose clip tightened by means of a nut and
bolt, using a small piece of rubber or rubber
insertion between the clip and the holed part
of the pipe. Not aware of any paint or
mixture that would make a satisfactory repair
of a water service which is under varying
pressures... . D.M.K.: In many parts of Gipps-
land artesian dr sub-artesian water of good
quality is found under brown coal, where the
coal rests on bedrock. Flows of water in the
alternating sands and clays overlying brown
coal are frequently brackish, but are more
readily located. Continuation of a bore m
bedrock will yield rock water which is always
mineralised. If geological conditions continue
uniformly, the prospects of striking water will
be favorable in the bore you are putting down.
....N.C.: The base rate of the sawmillers
State award at Baradine (N.S.W.) is £3 13s.
per week, to which must be added the margins
and allowances provided for in the award. As
the class of work being performed is not
stated, marginal rate cannot be stated.
Obtain a copy of the award from
the Department of Labor and Industry
at a cost of Bd., posted. There is also a
Federal award operating in the industry, and
should the employer be cited as a respondent
the employees would be governed by that award.
Application for this publication should be
directed to the Deputy Industrial Registrar,
Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
Arbitration, Court House, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
H M.O’R.: (1) Nominal rate, 6.8 p.c.;
effective rate, 12.8 p.c. (2) You would be
billed for £72 principal, £lB interest 8.G.K.:
Herr is the German, Signor is the Italian and
Monsieur is the French equivalent of the Eng-
lish “Mister”.... S.R.H.: (1) Approach the
Mines Department in each State regarding the
royalty on gold. (2) There were two Military
Service referenda, one on October 28, 1916,
and the other on December 20, 1917 R.M.:
There is no record of your being mentioned
in dispatches during the Gallipoli campaign.
D.L.: Full details of bonus shares received
must be included in shareholders’ returns of
income C. 1.8.: The Unanderra-Moss Vale
railway line was constructed to connect the
southern railway line with Port Kembla. It
has achieved a considerable measure of de-
centralisation. The ruling gradient between
Moss Vale and Summit Tank is 1 in 75 (com-
pensated) and between Summit Tank and
Unanderra 1 in 30 (compensated) falling.
The minimum curve is of 10 chains radius. Ay!
classes of locomotives with the exception ot
the 34, 35, 36 and 57 types are allowed to
work on the line J.L.M.: Chapman and
Sherack, Clara-street, Erskineville (N.S.W.), will
be pleased to forward working plans of 16ft.
open and cabin type launches suitable for
Chapman marine engines. This service is
gratis R. 8.: The “Esq.” comes first....
R.M.: See A Book of Grey Owl, being pages
from the writings of Wa-Sha-Quon-Asm,
edited by E. R. Reynolds (9s. 6d.)... .E.HJ. •
See Julian’s Dictionary of Hymnology M.R.:
(1) The ship was under Admiralty orders. (2)
There was no shortage of food F.E.C.: The
use of sea water or sea sand does not affect the
strength or durability of the concrete, but does
tend to the development of a white efflorescence
on the surface, not detrimental other than
from the point of view of appearance....
A.8.J.: Verse beginning “Fellers of Australier,
blokes an’ coves an’ coots,” was written by
C. J. Dennis and appeared on the Red Page
of The Bulletin for December 12, 1912....
L.F.G.: (1) By submitting the work to a pub-
lisher, who, if the work is suitable, will publish
at his own risk. (2) By submitting to news-
papers that publish serials. (3) By submitting
to a film-producing firm. (4) Author should
reserve serial and film rights. (5) Varies con-
siderably and depends upon a dozen different
factors. (6) Try Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or New Century
Press, The Arches, 3 York-street, Sydney....
F.C.G.M.: Write Under-Secretary, Department
of Labor and Industry, Sydney
(1) Typed. (2) Double-spaced. (3) Simply
address to the firm you have selected. (
Generally on a royalty basis of 10 p.c. on
retail price. (5) Depends on the class ot work.
8.8.: Price offered is reasonable and it
is doubtful whether you would receive a higher
bid M.R.: Question too vague to enable
reply to be given... .H.F.M.: Too long to
quote here. See the Encyclopcedia Bntannica,
available most public libraries... .G.W.U..
Attendance at a school would be better, other-
wise you could avail yourself of the help o
any of the widely advertised correspondence
schools. They will at least teach you the
rudiments... .H.W.8.: Only way to learn is
by obtaining a position in the trade....
R.M.D.: Angus Murray was hanged on April
14, 1924, at the old Melbourne Gaol, now
demolished....F.C.M.: No N.SW. State
award governing such work. Hours ana
general working conditions are a matter or
private arrangement... .L.M.: Details ot in-
ternment are secret for an obvious reason.


Where autumn grass is parched feed
giL-Cki- o*- 0 *-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to supply just those minerals that the scorched pastures lack,
and so enable stock to make the most of the fodders.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having a
guaranteed minimum of 32.5% phosphoric acid and 40%
lime —it is the most economical and reliable form of calcium
phosphate for all stock feeding. Improve production with
Tri-cal-os.
Folders and all information from —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne, Victoria.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
%
m
o
x
£
3Sf£PQj^
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
W.A. on the Warpath.
“Ghanam”: Woolgrowers are on the
warpath about wool prices, and the
Australian Wool Producers’ Federation,
which came into being last year through
a split in the Australian Wool Council,
is determined to seek a better price next
season.
Heart of the movement is in W.A.,
where the Primary Producers’ Associa-
tion is strongly supporting it. It is
pointed out that, though Mr. Menzies
may talk of “never consenting to
profiteer at the expense of our flesh and
blood in Great Britain,” the issue price
of wool in Britain, according to Dr.
Clunies Ross, has already risen 60 p.c.
since the Australian acquisition. The
P.P.A. remarks that growers have fared
badly:
The Government disagrees, but the
Government is the defendant in the case.
The Australian Woolgrowers’ Council,
of course, asks for an increase in price
—but merely to cover any increased
costs, though “strangely enough the
council originally asked for \l\d. for
a war-duration contract or 15jd. for
one year’s purchase.”
The council furthermore is satisfied
with growers’ representation three in
ten —on the Central Wool Committee ;
the Federation demands majority control.
There is a lot to be said for the
Federation’s viewpoint. The whole con-
tract needs top-to-bottom overhaul be-
fore the new season.
Unshrinkable Wool.
“Ghanam”: Several processes for
making wool unshrinkable have been
tried overseas, but all of them are slow,
call for fairly expensive plant and in-
volve the use of noxious chemicals.
R. Freney and M. Lipson, of the Mc-
Master Laboratory, Sydney, have now
invented a simple process which calls for
only cheap .plant and uses chemicals
which don’t give off fumes.
The wool is soaked for a minute in a
methylated spirit-potassium hydroxide
bath and squeezed out. It then goes
through a sulphuric acid-methylated spirit
bath to neutralise excess potassium
hydroxide. After that, a thorough rinse
in water and drying complete the job.
The idea can be applied to piece goods
as well as tops.
So far about two tons of wool has
been handled on a semi-commercial scale
with complete success, and it is estimated
that the cost of treatment will work out
at about 3d. per pound.
Drought-feeding Stock.
“Bungaree”: A wide variety of fodders
and artificials is being used in N.S.W.
for drought feeding.
Sometimes the choice is governed by
cheapness which does not necessarily
mean economy.
Handfeeding should be based on
quantity and quality, and be designed to
make up the difference between normal
green feed and paddock feed now avail-
able.
Between natural feed and full drought
feeding lies a phase in which supple-
ments are needed.
Start feeding before stock show signs
of falling away. Sheep may seem in fair
condition where feed is scarce ; but they
dvdl § ° n their leserves, and poor
“f short woo and losses from disease
Wld 1 the tale - .
When grass dries off it loses protein
and minerals. Protein makes for growth,
wool, milk-flow and breeding. Dry grass
lacks lime, phosphorus and other
minerals, but the two former are the
only ones to worry about,
Mineral deficiency is easily cured with
roc k sa j t or or dj nar y CO arse stock salt
dicalcic phosphate or bonemeal.
u^^rnotfoodT 01 mmCral
,cks J ar 1 ds ‘
When to start feeding depends on the
tYP e °f dry feed available and on the
class of sheep. Dry trefoil with plenty
of burr has much higher feed value than
"We 'ad better keep an eye out for the Johns. I ain't renooed me license."
dry native grasses. Dry stock will hold
their condition on dry feed, but young
sheep and breeding ewes particularly
ewes in lamb or with young lambs need
more protein to balance the extra de-
mands made on them.
A sheep’s digestive system demands
bulk as well as concentrates. In straight-
out drought, where neither grass nor
scrub is available, animals will do well
on a sole ration of grain or sheep nuts,
but not for long.
If there is no natural roughage it must
be supplied as hay, chaff or silage. The
protein can be added as grain, nuts, bran,
meatmeal or bloodmeal.
In protein value lib. good oaten hay
is as good as Boz. wheat or oats, or 9oz.
maize or lylb. wheaten hay. To com-
pare it with the more highly-concentrated
protein foods, lib. oaten hay equals 6oz.
bran or soz. linseed meal, or less than
11b. of lucerne hay, or lioz. meatmeal.
In drought, the daily needs of a ewe
carrying a lamb are roughly lib. lucerne
hay and 11b. oats.
t , , ~ ,
Wheaten and oaten hay should be
chaffed, and a fair ration would be 111 b.
chaff with 6oz. to Boz. oats and 2oz
meatmeal or bloodmeal. Cost naturally
must be studied in handfeeding, but study
should begin when seasons are good.
If a storekeeper refuses to carry any
farmer or grazier who makes no pro-
vision to conserve fodder, his principle
may seem harsh, but is just. Haystacks
and filled silos are a much truer sign
of security than new motor-cars.
c ,.11 . , , „
Some think that, because sheep eat one
type of artificial fodder more readily
than another, the former must be the
better. Low-grade grain offals, ground-
up husks and a lot of salt blended with
molasses will tempt sheep to consume
too much salt and make feeding ex-
pensive. *
Meatmeal and bloodmeal—so to 60
p.c. protein—are unattractive to stock,
and, as a rule, there is trouble in getting
them to take them. Concentrates should
be introduced gradually.
Generally, however, mineral licks and
protein foods should be fed separately.
N.S.W. Harvest.
“Ben C.”: N.S.W. produced 76,551,000
bushels of the estimated 213,000,000-
bushel Commonwealth crop this year.
For years past the State average
acre yield has been regarded as 12.4
bushels, but this may have to be revised,
this year’s average being 17.4 and that
for the past ten seasons working out at
13.8. Even the 17.4 average for this
season is not a true index of the actual
yield, for of the 4,392,000 acres sown
for grain 130,500 acres failed entirely.
The crop is the State’s second-highest,
the record being 78,870,000 bushels in
1932-33, and it was short by .4 bushels
of the highest average yield, established
in 1920-21.
Lovers of the horse will find satisfac-
tion in the fact that tractors worked only
56 per cent., or slightly more than half,
the total area. Artificial fertiliser was
heaviest in the south, nearly as heavy in
the centre, but very light in the north,
ab 9 two-thirds of the whole crop being
aSsi - !,tfcd ,n tkis manne y-
Added }° last V ear . s wk f at and fl °V r
surplus the crop gives N.S.W. nearly
83) 3 00)0 oo bushels, of which about
57934,000 will be available for export,
mostly abroad, inter-State demands sel-
dom exceeding 4,000,000 bushels,
xhe State Government, as a gesture of
; ts kind heart—or with an eye on the
cocky vote—will pay those growers who
delivered to bulkheads and bulk grain-
sheds the difference between the bulk
ar *d bagged first advance made by the
Australian Wheat Board,
. e ‘ d ’ State Minister tor Agriculture,
is concerned at the passage of time and
the , ack of shipping F to g * t the big crop
before the next comes in.
B roomhall is out with more advice
aga j ns t acreage restriction. He points
ou t ba j i arge surpluses can quickly dis-
appear in a three years’ war, apart from
lbe e ft ect 0 f bad weather. Possibly this
authority is influenced by the American
winter wheat position, which was not
good at latest advices, though he doesn’t
say so.
The Australian Whcatgrowers’ Federa-
tion wants restriction of production to
known local and overseas requirements,
Unless it rains very shortly in s.-e. Aus-
tralian wheat areas, nature will do all
the restricting necessary.
Champion Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Fedweb I, Sydney Show
champion (B. 3/4/’4O), is practically 100
p.c. resistant to stem rust. The exhibit
was grown by W. E. Tonkin, Palla-
mallawa (N.S.W.), on B|in. rainfall dur-
ing the growing period.
It is a cross between Federation and
Webster, an American rust-resistant
variety, by Dr. Waterhouse, and is a
white grain of medium strong class,
yielding flour of good baking quality.
Fedweb I is the best of several varieties
evolved by Dr. Waterhouse in a search
for rust-resistant types. In the three
years it has oeen grown in north-west
N.S.W. it has given consistently satis-
factory results as a late-maturer. In
tests at Wagga (Riverina) it yielded well,


For all External Livestock Diseases
"CARBOX"
A Wonderful Healer .... A Super Cleanser
A Powerful Antiseptic.
“CARBOX” is an Australian product for Australian conditions. , .
“CARBOX” embodies only the finest materials in its ingredients, providing not
only a surehealer of the highest quality, but a superlative cleansing ointment,
and has well earned its place as the farmers friend.
Note these few uses for “CARBOX”: —
HORSES. —For sore shoulders, itch, cracked and greasy heels, strangles, douche
after foaling, sprains, swellings, cuts and abrasions, etc.
CATTLE. —For contagious abortion, douche after calving, mammitis, milk fever,
sore teats, foot rot, etc.
SHEEP. —For maggot and fly, shearing cuts, foot rot, crow peck, tailing, an
marking, etc.
PIGS. —For lice and scale, sore mouth, body wash, etc.
DOGS. —For distemper, mange, douche after pupping, grass seed abscesses,„ crac e
pads, fleas and dog lice, etc.
“CARBOX” is an essential on the farm.
“CARBOX” is not Good for Parasites —It Kills Them!
Packed in 3-gallon drums, 1-gallon, and tins
Full particulars obtainable from: —
HENRY BERRY & CO. (Australasia) LTD.
Australasian Distributors:
515 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Houses in All Spates. When writing mention “The Bulletin.”
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations »
Sheep bought »» 20
Wire netting » 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 1 2
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., X LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Do your feet
Hurt?
So many people to-day suffer
from tired and aching feet
because their Shoes are badly
shaped or fitted.
If your feet hurt, try Abbey
Orthopsedic Shoes. They re
natural shaped, and their true-
to-nature fit will give you life-
long comfort.
1. —Six different fittings to every
size.
2. —True-to-nature shape.
3. —Special support in Arch.
4. —Moulded “snug-fit” backs.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY
ORTHOPAEDIC SHOES
316 George St. '224 Pitt St.
53 Castlereagh St.
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: Abbey Boots, Sydney.
indicating possibilities of wide-range use-
fulness.
Sub.-clover Development.
“E.D.”: Sub. clover, having now a
fair start, is spreading like wildfire,
and many N. S. Wales farmers in
southern districts, like the Westralians,
are this year making a nice penny out
of seed.
Harvesting is simple. Dry growth is
mown or sometimes merely raked into
windrows and put through a header
used as a thresher. Better results, how-
ever, can be obtained with special
threshers. The seed afterwards needs
to be carefully cleaned with shaker
riddles.
A Temora farmer who sowed s.c. in
1934 to control skeleton weed has this
season obtained £3O per acre for seed.
Originally sown with a 10-bag wheat
crop, the s.c. got a dressing of |cwt.
super, each year, and the seed yield
is about nine 62|lb. bushels to the acre,
which sells at Is. 6d. per pound. Also,
the skeleton weed has gone, having been
tackled before it got a good hold.
There is still a lot to be done in
evolving types suitable for various dis-
tricts in which s.c. has not been estab-
lished. There is great scope for the
right strain on the Queensland coast;
and it should be worth introducing into
parts of the N.T. along the rivers, and
into those highlands of mainland New
Guinea described by the Taylor patrol
as suitable for cattle.
“Yarrunga”: H. S. Henley, of Cowra
(N.S.W.), demonstrated the essential
points of the ideal export lamb in prize-
winning exhibits at Sydney R.A.S. He
won first, second and third places with
Southdown x Romney-merinos. Carcasses,
j n refrigerated glass cabinets, showed
A.M.B. and Smithfield needs at a glance,
The three which won the M.I.C. Golden
Lamb trophy dropped only one point
j n 90 for suitability for export. The
301 b. nine-weeks-old end-of-June suckers
had been in cold store for 31 weeks with-
out much loss of bloom. The early
maturity and development Henley attri-
butes largely to feeding methods. The
lambs were topped off on sown pastures
—sub. clover and Wimmera rye —and
rape. The latter he considers unequalled
f or both ewes and lambs, and- as the best
fodder rotation crop for wheatgrowers
i n suitable districts
.. Baldies .> : w Mcllrath ' s Sydney
champion Hereford bull, Windsor Purity,
a f ineal descendant on the maternal
sid f Puri , whjch won su reme
championship tor Pe Reynolds at
s d in 1876 Th / S d( / inherenl
c £ arad ; er and quality pe rsist i n the
jq eie f orc j
~ ~ .
. . / e "° H ? m , : W- f. Bassett Oak-
leiB/ Canowindra (N.S.W.), has had good
Pasture results from 100 acres of light
f' 1 " h ‘ cd had S r ° wn wliea < for /'al-
J n ~? wed a mlxtul f -,?u u’
lucerne, 21b. Wimmcia lye and 21b. sua.
clover ( halt ea rly strain, half mid-season)
P er . acre > w« h a ? ov « °t wheat.
Spring conditions in 1936 were so bad
tdat most ° £ , the lu “™ d ‘ ed , out aad
the rye and clover seeded poorly. The
following year was dry, grasshoppers
were bad in 1937 and 1938, and with
more than 1000 sheep and 12 cattle on
a property of 1076 acres, 200 acres of
which grew wheat each year, the im-
proved pastures had to bear heavy
grazing. In March, 1939, the pasture
was deeply scarified and was topdressed
with 901 b. of super, per acre in May.
The paddock was stocked heavily in
autumn, winter and early spring, and
then closed to encourage seeding, which
was profuse. A second paddock of 100
acres was sown with a similar mixture,
which, owing to drought conditions,
appeared to be a total failure. It was
reploughed and sown with of
lucerne per acre in August, 1938. There
was a profuse growth of Wimmera rye
in 1939. Following heavy autumn and
winter grazing the paddock was spelled
during September and early October,
and was then stocked with 650 crossbred
ewes and 530 lambs, which were carried
until Christmas. Early strain of sub.
clover proved superior to mid-season,
and Wimmera rye thrived best with an
occasional scarifying.
Outback Occupations.
No. XIII.
Valeting Pigs (1).
No farmer could have failed to have
heard of what is called the “great scope
for pig-raising in Australia.” In the
agricultural journals and in man-on-the-
land sessions on the radio, people who
have seen plenty of pigs in show pens or
illustrated papers constantly urge the
farmer to go in for pigs. Theirs is the
vision splendid of the great open spaces
of the Commonwealth filled with a grunt-
ing, rooting, squealing population.
“In N.S.W. alone,” they will tell you,
“far from sufficient pigs are produced to
meet the needs of the local market, and
they produce figures to show how the
inhabitants of the U.S.A. or Canada or
Britain consume so much more pig than
ourselves. So far as our reading oi
literature from the United States is a
guide we had long believed Americans
to be great consumers of tripe. In
Britain, as a careful study of “Punch”
shows, most of the pigs killed become
ham sandwiches, which are then used for
making jokes about railway refreshment
rooms. As our own r.r. rooms have long
been past a joke, we see no future for
ham in this direction in Australia.
Pigs lose their identity after they die.
After death a cat is merely a dead cat,
or a dog or horse merely a dead dog or
dead horse, though sometimes the latter
has been known to acquire the title of a
pound of sausages, but a pig becomes
ham or pork or bacon. Many people
associate the Irish and pigs, but this
seems to be another of the injustices done
the Green Isle by the English, who them-
selves have so high a regard for dead
pig that some of their great men have
been called Bacon, and considerable pig-
lovers have even dared to assert that a
diet of bacon was the real source of most
of Shakspeare’s work.
Of course, most people know that the
reason why dead pig is called three dif-
ferent names is because some of it has
been cured, though of what nobody seems
to know. Pork is really fresh dead pig,
while ham or bacon is stale dead pig,
some being staler than other.
Practically no part of the pig is wasted
when it is killed. What doesn’t become
pork, ham or bacon might become any-
thing from fritz sausage to the interior
of a football, the skin very often is seen
galloping about Randwick (N.S.W.) or
Belmont Park (W.A.) between the
wither of a racehorse and the jockey,
portions of the feet will often be found
scattered in a small heap near a tram
stop or sly-groggery, there is the popular
industry of making silk purses out of
sows’ ears, and even the dying wails of
the slaughtered pigs are used to enliven
the proceedings at Maryborough (Vic.)
on New Year’s Day, and at other spots
where men with bare knees and a ten-
dency to say “Och aye” gather from
time to time.
The pig is no new development, like
the Corriedale sheep or the green elephants
found in wine shanties. Even before
Mr. H. G. Wells moulded world history
into a shape invented and patented by
H. G. Wells a bloke named Ulysses or
Odysseus, a big-gun sea captain of the
old sailing days, discovered pigs on an
island called JEea. The farm was run
by a good-looking sort, Circe, who
appears to have been a daughter of
Houdini or some other juggler ; anyhow,
she had these pigs running about the
place, and the old skipper, a bit of a
bucko with women, got the idea that
she’d worked the oracle and changed his
crew into pigs. It might be fair dinkum
or just another of those Hollywood angles
on history, but the fact remains that
many a skipper has been suspicious that
his crew were a lot of swine ever since.
Even Venus, a pretty good-looker but
a bit crazy on the boys, had good cause
to dislike pigs; one old boar having
busted up a young coot named Adonis
just when Ve. thought she could land
him. And as Venus lived so long ago
that she could remember the time when
women wore enough clothes, it just shows
how long the pig has been with us.
Of course, the pigs of today are much
different from those early animals. The
art of the breeder had not been de-
veloped, because no export standards had
been set and importing countries just
took their pigs as they came. But as
people got finicky about their pig meat
breeders started out to cater to taste and
by crossing various types produced
several different varieties, each of which
is superior to the other varieties. It is
said that a man out from Longreach
(Q.) almost gave the world the ideal pig
by crossing a Tamworth sow with an
Artesian bore, but got into so much
hot water over it that he sold the idea
to Jack Moses, who has been using it
ever since to persuade country show sec-
retaries to let him in free.
The question might well be asked why,
in articles such as these, which are de-
signed to assist the man on the land
and to aid Australia’s great war work
of increasing her primary production,
such details as the foregoing should be
published. The truth is that, before
taking up pigs, every farmer should learn
all there is to know about them ; and if,
after we have drawn on our experience
and published all we know, the farmer
still knows nothing, the blame can
scarcely be laid on the pigs.
For instance, the item about Circe is
valuable, for, forearmed with that
knowledge, any farmer who finds his
pigs sailing round on the dam in a
square-rigged log trough will know their
line of descent and can breed up accord-
ingly, though whether they will kill out
well as salt pork depends largely on the
percentage of throw-backs.
That money can be made from pigs
is proved by the case of Mr. Walt Dis-
ney, an American who, with only three
pigs, and little ones at that, has made
enough to enable him to have beer with
his porridge every morning.
In a further article more valuable in-
formation on pigs will be released, sub-
ject to the Censorship, the National
Security and Lunacy Acts, and the
financial position of the Swine Com-
pensation Fund.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per fine. . . , ,
For dealing in a constructive spirit with the thorny refugee question, a soldier
is awarded double rates.
These Refugees
There are plenty of reasons in favor
of admitting a number of European
refugees, but the conditions of entry
need revision. I suggest, for one thing,
that they should not be allowed full
naturalisation for seven years.
Give them conditional landing permits,
one condition being that they should not
settle within 50 miles of certain specified
areas. The Commonwealth Parliament,
subject to Parliament’s direction, would
have to decide the areas in which a
further increase of foreign population is
undesirable; Sydney, Melbourne and
parts of the N.Q. coast suggest them-
selves. Any breach of this condition
should lead to deportation.
Many of the refugees admitted to Aus-
tralia seem to have ideas worth money.
Some have the money. If they had to
settle in country towns the industrial de-
velopment of those towns would gain a
much-needed impetus. England owed
much of her early industrial development
to craftsmen who fled to her hospitable
shores from persecution in France, Flan-
ders and elsewhere. And Rome grew to
power as the “great asylum.”
At the beginning the fugitives would
tend to employ only their compatriots.
If this tendency went too far in a par-
ticular town, that town might be barred
to further refugee immigration.
When a man’s seven years were up and
he became a full citizen, he would, as a
rule, be settled in his home, business or
trade and pretty well Australianised.
Then King’s Cross would not be likely
to lure him away. As the immigrants
themselves died out and their children
grew up 100 per cent Australian in a
predominantly Australian environment,
closed areas might be reopened.— Heres-
ONE (N.S.W.).
“Heresone” is a Second A.I.F. gunner
at Ingleburn (N.S.W.).
Scandinavian Migrants .
If, following on the open invitation of
the popular press, there’s an influx of
Finnish refugees here, residents might be
in for a surprise. The Finns more than
any other people are a nation of knive-
carriers—every boy longs for the day
when he’s promoted to long pants and
can sport a stout blade stuck through his
belt, for there’s none of that tucking his
weapon out of sight in his waistcoa.t
pocket.
Apart from that, the Finn is also pretty
handy with his fists, and, like all Scan-
dinavians, noted for his fine physique,
super-strength and general toughness,
but he’s inclined to be a difficult man
to cross.
The Swedes are self-assertive, so make
sound businessmen, but are apt to stick
to industrial areas, and from that point
of view they are hardly ideal settlers for
a country in need of men for the out-
back. The Norwegians, on the other
hand, are more like the average Aus-
tralian than any other nation on earth
hard-working but easygoing, casual in
the extreme, hard-drinkers and scarcely
to be bothered with the conventions, but
lovers of simple home life. They should
do well here, as they are bred to the out-
door life—the land and the sea —and are
ready to sink their nationality in the
adopted country, even to the extent of
speaking the language when among
themselves.
A few Norwegian tradesmen would be
an asset to this country, as they have
been to America. The Norwegian youth
pays a stiff fee to be apprenticed, and
at the end of his training, whether he
hopes merely to have his own small busi-
ness, seek a job as a farm manager or
qualify as a butcher or baker, he must
pass a pretty stiff efficiency examination.
A Norwegian thus graduated can stand
with any tradesman in the world.—
Norge (N.S.W.).
Folly of Oppression
Already we are hearing talk of smash-
ing Germany insensible in order to
achieve the future peace of Europe.
Surely all our knowledge and experience
point to the futility of attempting to
annihilate whole nations of people. Back
as far as we can read in history, we have
always found that the spark of national
life lives even in people who have been
virtually decimated. We have found, too,
that inevitably the oppression of a nation
produces for it the man who becomes
its liberator.
In our own history we found Robert
the Bruce as one of the fruits of English
oppression of Scotland; Joan of Arc
the product of English tyranny in France.
More recently we found the emergence
of the Czechs to independence after 300
years of oblivion. The Czechs were de-
stroyed at the battle of the White Moun-
tain in 1620. Until Masaryk, who was
born in slavery, they bore their yoke.
Masaryk schemed against the Hapsburgs
in Europe, and during the war convinced
Woodrow Wilson that the Czechs must
live again. They lived again, for a brief
time, and became notable in twentieth-
century Europe.
The Poles were suppressed for genera-
tions, too. But fierce old Pilsudski and
his secret legions arose to free their
country. Like the Czechs, they too have
lived again for but a short time.
The triumphant history of Finland is
another living example of this doctrine
of the resurgence of peoples. Perhaps
Russia had reason to fear the handful
of athletes and farmers at her front door.
Leningrad is built on Finnish soil. It
was built by Finnish labor. Perhaps
Stalin, too, has been reading history and
knows that some day the tide may turn
again, sweeping back across the Russian
plains, as once the Finns fled seeking only
peace and the right to tend their deer-
herds without fighting.— Benn (Q.).
Other World Wars
Peace-loving citizens who bemoan the
fact of war believe that the 1914-18 con-
flict was unique, that never before
had mankind witnessed such universal
combat. Reading Mahan’s The Influence
of Sea Power on History, I learn that
such an idea is erroneous, and that many
times before Europe had seen an all-in
conflict.
During such wars Englishmen, French-
men, Spaniards, Dutchmen fought on
spots as far apart as America and India,
with sideshows in Egypt and other odd
places. And through it all the British
Isles were invasion-proof by virtue of the
sometimes deplorably neglected navy.
Many times during those centuries
England was divided, there being strife
between king and people, between reli-
gion and religion. This war sees her
united as never before, Throne and
people animated by mutual respect, her
warriors uniting both courage and
humanity. And we British, like some
of the nations referred to in the Old
Testament, are a stiff-necked people.
W. C. (W.A.).
Message Bearers
“Plain Bill” (B. 27/3/’4O) confuses two
issues when he says that the Smiths, the
Browns, the Joneses and the rest of the
“common herd” effect all the world s
major progressions, and the Cromwells, the
Napoleons and the Hitlers retard them.
Was it the Smiths, the Browns and the
Joneses, all solemnly sitting down in com-
mittee, who thought about the law of
gravitation, or was it a man named New-
ton? Was it the collective Smiths and
Browns of Athens who asked certain
questions which modern philosophers find
themselves no nearer answering, or was
it a bloke named Plato? Did the Smiths
and the Browns of Amsterdam paint the
“Night Watch,” or was it a cove named
Rembrandt? All that the Smiths and
Browns did was to kick him out because
they thought his picture was rotten, and
then let him die in obscurity, an undis-
charged bankrupt.
“Plain Bill” says that humanity would
plod along all right if the “leaders” would
let it. He has got the matter topsy-
turvy because of his rather poor selec
tion of heroes. Nothing in the nature of
a major progression can be expected
from a leader like Hitler, but the Ger-
man Smiths and Browns can only blame
themselves if they get such a leader.
M. G. S. (Vic.).
Drink amd' the Soldier
If drink has as detrimental an effect on
the efficiency of the soldier as “Ex-
Imperial Officer” claims (B. 27 /3 / *4O),
how is it that in the past, when the Eng-
lishman was a far heavier drinker than
is the case today, his military record was
so high?
The modern Tommy is a worthy suc-
cessor to the British soldier of former
times, but he is certainly not his superior
as regards either fighting qualities or
powers of endurance. He has to face
far less physical hardships and enjoys
infinitely better food and medical atten-
tion. The sailor in the days of “the
wooden walls” was in an even worse
position compared with his modern suc-
cessor than was the contemporary sol-
dier. He was cooped up in a small ship,
often for months at a time without a
spell in port; his food was mainly salt
junk and biscuits, more often than not
weevily. If he was wounded and an
operation was necessary, it was per-
formed in an airless and crowded cock-
pit without anaesthetics. Yet thousands
of men retained their health after living
this life for years, and many survived
more than one such operation.
Drinking was the main recreation of
both soldier and sailor in those days.
Also, pioneers, not only in Australia but
elsewhere, drank heavily, but there was
nothing wrong with their stamina. —D. A.
(N.S.W.).
War and Progress
That war and progress should travel
cheek by jowl is one of the most unfor-
tunate paradoxes in our history, for it
presupposes that progress may be pur-
chased only at the cost of millions of
human lives and broken homes.
The earliest inhabitants of the Nile
Valley were savages until, in 5000 b.c.,
the New Stone Age people came and
slaughtered them, and then taught what
was left of them how to build brick and
wood houses. After the Aryans had
invaded and conquered the dark-skinned
Dravidians of India, they taught them
how to grow digestible food.
Terrible was the slaughter during the
Crusades, and the only thing of real
value that Christians got out of them was
to have had their minds broadened in
science and art and their trade encour-
aged. The very paper upon which this
par. is printed was made possible in the
first place by a war between the Chinese
and the Arabs.
Nearly every major scientific or artistic
movement in history had its birth in the
conflict between race and race, for only
in war was it possible in those times for
nation to meet nation and exchange
blows and ideas.
If there is any moral here for the poli-
tical student it is that it is no longer
necessary to burn down the cottage in
order to have roast pig. If the much-
talked-of Commonwealth of Nations
comes to anything, and national barriers
are rendered less formidable, then this
will provide an opportunity for the men
of all nations to rub shoulders, exchange
ideas and generally assist in the spread
of learning—without having to kill each
other in the process.— Celt (N.S.W.).
Distress Circle
Reports that starving dingoes are pur-
suing hordes of rats on a 14-mile front
in South Australia remind me that
myriads of fleas are daily attacking
patron’s in Sydney city and suburban
theatres.
If it is an offence to serve cockroaches
with soup in public restaurants, surely it
is also an offence to provide other
forms of vermin with entertainment. —
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Mr. Lang and the Reds
After the notorious Easter “Labor”
Conference, which he did not attend,
Mr. Lang protested that the Labor
“citadel” was in “the hands of the
enemy.” Who has done more than Mr.
Lang to place the “enemy” in control?
In 1924 Mr. Lang said “Every sane
man knows I would not attempt any-
thing so idiotic as the socialisation of
industry. It could only be done by con-
fiscation and the use of force, and Labor
stands for neither.” But in 1931 Mr.
Lang was heard shouting to the A.L.P.
Conference that “we must press on to
our objective, and do it quickly” :
You must get out among the people;
you must point out to them the benefit of
socialisation; you must make them ready
to receive it. Nobody is keener on our
objective than I am, but how can we do
it in Parliament to-day when the greatest
obstruction is met in our own ranks? The
plan we have placed before the people is
a step towards our objective A nominee
Upper House, a nominee Governor, a
Federal Labor Government have all com-
bined to defeat even that small step along
the road to socialisation.
He sat by while a “three-year plan of
social transition” was adopted.
For years before and afterwards Mr.
Lang acquiesced while the same elements
which are today calling for “Hands Off
Russia” were playing the same game!
So far from being discouraged or re-
pudiated by Mr. Lang, they were his
backers and his associates.
After the 1927 A.L.P. conference, Mr.
H. E. Boote, of the “Worker,” summed
up the position:
Mr. Lang has crossed the Rubicon
beyond all doubt. He is now one of the
militants, the industrialists, the minority
A.L.P., the “Reds.” He has been wel-
comed into the section which is the head
of the Australian Communist party, con-
spiring to sovietise the Labor party.
Neither Mr. Lang nor any of tho
other so-called N. S. Wales State leaders
of Labor is a real leader. They lead
nobody, not even themselves. But neither
they nor the Red cliques could exist in
public life if Australia were a nation
instead of a jumble of six States and a
Commonwealth, and if the party were
not divided accordingly. The section,
the group, the cell are the weak points
through which the “Reds” penetrate
Labor organisation.— Zedo (N.S.W.).
Workers and Unions
Before trade-unionism reached its
present strength, the working man recog-
nised that he alone had the responsibility
of making his way in the world. If he felt
he could do better things than the work
he was engaged in, or wanted more
security for his family, he was prepared
to work harder, study and save to reach
his chosen goal, whether it was just a
more responsible job or a business of
his own. This meant giving up a lot of
pleasure and living well within his
income, but it was considered well worth
while, and the only way to achieve any-
thing.
If it has accomplished much for the
worker, the trade-union has nevertheless
done him an ill service by holding up
ideals very different from those of dili-
gence, thrift and self-help. For the union-
ist today, getting better conditions means
getting them through the union—
through higher wages awards and factory
regulations. Since the union officials
are paid to press for these advantages,
the average worker does not need to put
himself out about them ; he sits back
and waits, and sooner or later gets what
he wants —more or less. And he has a
hearty contempt for the man who is not
satisfied with sitting back and letting the
union do everything, the man who is
prepared to work himself into a salaried
job if it takes him 10 years to do it. He
is considered disloyal to his fellow-union-
ists, and, if he is successful, he is looked
upon as a thieving capitalist.
It’s time the unions woke up to plain
facts. Hard work and self-sacrifice are
the only things that will secure substan-
tial and lasting advantages for anybody.
To discourage those who are prepared to
practise such old-fashioned virtues is to
hinder the progressive individual and to
put the brakes on national progress.—
D. J. G. (Vic.).
Marriage and Divorce
W. Lynch, who attacks our divorce
laws because they do not permit divorce
by mutual consent (B. 27 /3 / ’4O), refers
to those unhappily married couples who
are “forced to commit adultery or sling
saucepans at each other before they are
legally entitled to separation.” Such a
statement is utter nonsense. Married
couples are not forced to live together.
If they “find that their married life is
intolerable” they may obtain separation
simply by separating. The law’s only care
is to see that the husband shall continue
to support his dependent wife and chil-
dren. Divorce is not a prerequisite of
separation.
“W.L.,” however, obviously is con-
cerned not so much for those unfor-
tunates who desire to escape marriage
altogether as for those who desire to
continue in the married state —but with
different partners. These couples, he
claims, are forced into adultery in order
to obtain divorce. The truth is, of
course, that most of these couples seek
divorce in order that they may sub-
sequently obtain a rather blown-on legal
sanction to their adultery. In other
words, having scratched themselves more
or less severely in one briary bush, they
are determined to take a flying leap into
another.
Whether or not society has the right
to impede maladjusted individuals in
their efforts to take such leaps is the
question at issue. Most of us concede
society that right. Rebels such as
“W.L.” are all for individual freedom,
and generally base their arguments on


biological grounds. While the strength
of the biological urge is admitted, human
ideals of development are not only bio-
logical, but have religious, ethical and
social aspects. It is these aspects that
make civilisation what it is—a discipline
forced on the individual' by corporate
humanity. Remove that discipline and
you have chaos. Marriage, with its in-
sistence on the permanence of the union,
is one of the most vital disciplinary safe-
guards.
The Scandinavian example quoted by
“W.L.” doesn’t carry any weight. For
one thing, no figures are given to show
what effect the sanctioning of “W.L.’s”
make-and-break marriages has had. For
another, the real effects of such a revo-
lutionary change will not be shown in
this generation or the next, but in the
ultimate attitude of the whole people
towards marriage and family life.
Finally, “W.L.” might remember that
adultery is not a crime, but a sin, and
if his easy divorces were granted those
who remarried would still be breaking
the moral law and so would still be in
the position he deplores. —C. G. Salis
(N.S.W.).
Overemphasis on the sexual side of
married life is the chief cause of un-
happy marriages, according to my
observations in many years of writing
down divorce evidence. Where the
parties find themselves before the Court
washing their dirty matrimonial linen
there is generally this quality of ultra-
sexual life, at least on one side and
frequently on both, together with an
absence of that domesticity which is
expressed by the million in church
bazaars, flower shows, local government
movements, literary institutes and other
adjuncts to the hearth and home.
Flats, s.p. betting, cocktail cabinets,
poker, dancing in the dawn and other
contributory causes of divorce are un-
able to cross the threshold where Father
plays bowls in white pants and brilliant
blazer on Saturday afternoons, whi.to
Mother is chief wrangler for her side
at the parents and citizens’ association.
The fault lies in the vision of the sexual
life, which fades quickly, instead of the
more solid advantages of the marriage
tie. This is so well understood by
the nations against which “W.L.” kicks
that they prefer to allow the few misfits
to suffer while trusting to the majority
to make the best of a bad bargain if
they cannot do better over their life
contract. — Father’s Voice (N.S.W.).
Divorce by mutual consent certainly
would make divorce too much of a
round-the-corner. business. Marriage is
a sacred contract, and entering into it
with the thought of easy release and a
try-anything-once attitude would invari-
ably have disastrous results for the con-
tracting parties, the family itself, and
national welfare.
Despite poverty, men and women have
managed to live happily together, and
wealth alone can never make a marriage
successful. Children of the union in
which the husband and wife are eternally
quarrelling may have their chances in
life seriously marred, but hardly less
seriously than children of divorcees, who
may become unwanted stepchildren or
lack the needed affection and guidance
of one parent or the other.
In order to encourage family life
divorce should always be discouraged,
and whatever the faults of our “anti-
quated” divorce laws they are at least
exercising some restraint on parties so
disposed.— Petermac (N.S.W.).
When W. Lynch complains that
under our divorce laws “men and women
cannot come honestly out and admit a
mistake has been made and ask for an-
other chance to be happy” he is open to
criticism. How many husbands or wives
admit they have made a mistake? The
customary procedure is for each to blame
the other.
Now that the divorce laws have been
loosened, people get married and de-
married with greater ease than in the
days of Queen Victoria, but “W.L.”
would be hard put to it to prove that
these additional chances to be happy
have led to any increase in happiness.
There is a problem in marriage, but
divorce laws can’t solve it. —C. Q. (Vic.).
Flow and Ebb
An all-wise Government department
recently made another of its unpremedi-
tated decisions. It decided that, with
the increase in the cost of living, an
extra shilling per week was necessary for
a man to maintain his standards.
Before the rise went on, a man earn-
ing £4 3s. per week (less than £4 45.) was
not subject to wages tax if he had one
or more dependants. He was allowed to
enjoy the whole of his £4 3s.
Now, since he earns £4 45., the same
man becomes subject to a wages tax of
2s. 7d. He now has only £4 Is. sd. to
cone with the increased cost of living.—
J. A. Y. (N.S.W.).
An Empire Currency
Now, as never before, there is need
for closer bonds between the countries
which constitute the British Common-
wealth of Nations. Trade between
Empire countries is restricted, however,
by unnecessary obstacles, although each
unit would benefit if the restrictions were
abolished.
It is ridiculous and appalling that
Maoriland currency should not be nego-
tiable in Australia, the Dominion’s near-
est neighbor. The high rate of exchange
between Empire countries may be advan-
tageous in some ways, but it hampers
trade in the long run and prevents many
people from “buying British,” as it forces
prices up to prohibitive heights in some
instances.
It is time that a uniform currency for
the whole of the Empire was adopted.
The disparity which now exists in the
currency systems of the various Empire
countries hampers the development of
inter-Empire trade, to the disadvantage
of all concerned. A uniform system
would strengthen the Empire both in
peace and war. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Victoria’s Housing Commission
The objections to the Housing Com-
mission’s dwellings in Melbourne (B.
6 / 3 / ’4O) arise from a snobbery-complex
in the matter of residences that has
grown up in Melbourne in the past 20
years or so. Many people live in houses
they cannot properly afford, because it
has become fashionable to live in a
fashionable house set on a fashionable
block of land. Others live in the slums.
The reason is that the intermediate class
—the decent cottage—is scarce now as it
is not fashionable to build them. The
Housing Commission is filling the gap,
and when it succeeds it will have done a
good job. The howls are probably
coming from the owners and/or builders
of the fashionable houses, whose valua-
tions will certainly go down, as they
should.—P. M. (Vic.).
Pine Plantations
Pine sales in the Blue Mountains have
proved profitable. A similar thing was
ascertained by one Davidson, of Dun-
edin, who planted pines on almost
worthless ground, and in 30 years
reaped a rich harvest. And didn’t
the E. Ballarat municipality utilise
its worth-little lands for a plantation of
pines, and didn’t it eventually sell the
lot at a price which would have
more than equalled a similar area under
wheat at top prices over the whole
period? And the harvesting was with-
out the annual cost of planting and crop-
ping wheat.
A chap with brains proposed to the
Westralian Government Lands Depart-
ment about 1924 that the Lands or
Forestry should offer the public pines
in a plantation, controlled by the Gov-
ernment, at so much per acre and an
annual charge for fire insurance till the
period of cropping came round. His
suggestion was that the public put in for
as many acres as each member wanted,
and pay in advance for the planting, etc.
The idea was that unemployed men
might be employed in the planting season,
which coincided with the worst period for
unemployment.
The department would have none of
the scheme, and at a later date the N.Z.
Forests collected from W.A. £240,000.
A little foresight would have saved this
money for W.A. employment.—F. T. C.
(W.A.).
Trams v. Buses
“Ex-Loco” strikes a timely warning (B.
27/3/’4O) against the scrapping of the
tramway system in favor of buses.
A point that most people overlook is
that, whether we like it or not, the
tramway system in every city in Aus-
tralia represents a huge capital outlay on
which interest is still being paid, and
much of which has still to be redeemed.
To replace the tramway system in one
iconoclastic sweep would be to pile up
two capital debts for one community
service—and that is something even debt-
ridden and overgoverned Australians
cannot afford. It is too much to have
to pay twice for one service as well as
seven times for government. — Ford (Q.).
Wanted, a Great Australian
A close-up view of Australian history
shows that so far we have been singu-
larly unsuccessful in producing a single
man who is in the least deserving of the
title of “great.” Study of history in other
countries suggests that the way to the
abolition of surplus Parliaments might
be through the energetic lead and inspi-
ration of a man-sized statesman.
The United States produced George
Washington within 150 years of foun-
dation, and he brought them their inde-
pendence. Within less than 100 years
afterwards, Abraham Lincoln arose to
give to the loosely bound and over-
governed States a closer unity and
federal strength. It is quite clear that,
when Lincoln bound the American Union
as closely as he did, he gave to Ameri-
cans a concept of American life, not of
State life.
Fridtjof Nansen, by his leadership and
ability, was able to bring to the Scandi-
navian countries a unity just as strong
though vastly different. Until Nansen
won Norwegian freedom, Norway was
a dangerous cancer in Scandinavia. Nan-
sen, the Norwegian, by his own strength
removed that cancer and made Norway
an important and powerful sector of
Scandinavian society.
Australia, with a man like Washington,
Lincoln or Nansen, could strike off
some of the ties of overgovernment and
achieve a real Union. —B. (Q.).
Canberra the Capital ?
Despite the fact that a city has been
built for their use at enormous cost,
members of the Federal Government
seem to do their utmost to keep away
from it. Cabinet meets in Canberra
barely four months in the year, any
excuse being enough for a meeting in
Sydney or Melbourne.
The spectacle of politicians fleeing
from its palatial dignity to seek the at-
tractions of the State capitals is not likely
to convince the people of the necessity
of its existence. If Canberra is to be-
come the heart of the nation it will have
to function properly as the seat of gov-
ernment as well as a home for civil ser-
vants. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Waste of Paper
Daily newspapers descant on the
shortage of newsprint and the methods
they have adopted or will have to adopt
for conserving their stocks. One would
imagine that the first economies would be
directed towards cutting out those sec-
tions of the newspapers that interest the
smallest number of people, but it seems
that the opposite has been done.
For instance, many dailies would find
it hard to exist if racing and sport ceased,
yet we find them cutting down the space
devoted to racing and other sports, and
even the racing supplements have been
either greatly reduced or abolished alto-
gether. On the other hand, we still find
pages devoted to society gossip and
society photographs that are of interest
to a mere handful of people. You’ll find
pages of photos, of women and what
they wore to the races, photos, of cock-
tail parties and columns devoted to such
items as “Mrs. Brown-Smith-Brown has
returned from her holiday at Palm Beach
and is staying for a while with the Smith-
Jones-Smiths,”
Tons of newsprint are used by weeklies
in printing condensed versions of novels
which are given “free” with the publi-
cation. The author is generally an
American; therefore the publication of
these novels is doing nothing to help the
dollar exchange business, and, as I be-
lieve that only about one in ten is read,
it seems to be a shocking waste of news-
print. Good Australian articles, stories
and photographs might well be substi-
tuted for these importations. These
would be read, and there would there-
fore be no actual waste of newsprint. —
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Take Art to the Country
Like everyone else, our artists appear
to be imbued with the idea that every-
thing is centred in the capital cities. That
idea has made the capitals all-important,
and there is a tendency to forget the
rest of Australia. One never hears of
a leading artist or artists staging an
exhibition in some of the larger country
towns and cities, yet artists often com-
plain that their work is not appreciated.
In every country centre of any im-
portance are prosperous business and
professional people, and in the district
are often wealthy landowners who only
need the encouragement to become
patrons of the arts. In fact, some of
them are numbered already among the
strongest supporters of Australian artists,
but they have to go to the cities to give
that support.
If the artists showed any business sense
they would decentralise art, and take
their work to the country. With wise
publicity, they would find that an appre-
ciation of art was being developed in the
country, and that exhibitions would be
successful.
Some years ago a littleffcnown Italian
artist opened an exhibition of his paint-
ings in a country town. He sold practi-
cally every picture exhibited, and was urged
to open an art school. He did so, and
was amazed at the support he received.
There was an awakening of the appre-
ciation of art in that town, and an annual
exhibition became a regular feature.
Paintings, etchings and drawings, some of
which were bought at more than average
prices, are now to be found in homes in
that district, and they are still being
bought.
If the country knows little about art
and shows no appreciation of it* only the
artists are to blame. They, like others,
should drop the Big City complex.—
Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Solitude
Modern methods of self-development
and progress seem to aim at preventing
people from knowing and enjoying soli-
tude. From an early age until late in
life they are encouraged to have a team
spirit and to belong to clubs and societies
that will ensure plenty of congenial com-
pany, employment or entertainment. So
insistent do the demands of such organi-
sations become that those connected with
them are perpetually on the move or
everlastingly carrying out duties and joys
under supervision and rules.
In moderation this is excellent, but it is
inclined to kill all desire for solitude and
to result in people being miserable and
quite lost unless surrounded by their
fellow-beings. This is a pity, for solitude
is just as necessary for development as
is a reasonable amount of social life. It
refreshes the mind, develops the imagina-
tion and helps us to see things in their
correct perspective. Great ideas or works
are rarely if ever carried out in com-
pany and distractions, but in the sooth-
ing, inspiring, invigorating atmosphere of
solitude.
Unfortunately, a love of solitude is too
often regarded by restless moderns as a
queer trait, as a peculiarity to be ashamed
of, whereas, in reality, those who are in-
telligent enough to hanker for it are
generally of a finer and better type than
those who fear and shun it. —P. Radwon
(Vic.).
Canvassers
Canvassers are becoming so numerous
in Sydney that in some of the suburbs
housewives are answering the door five
to ten times a day. No canvasser will
take “No” right away, and it usually
means a couple of minutes persuading
the caller that one is not interested in
the remarkable brand of goods on offer.
Remembering that the ranks of the can-
vassers are swelling from week to week,
it is not difficult to forecast what the
position will be if unchecked within the
next few months.
The fault is not with the canvasser,
who is only out to make a living, nor
with the firm that employs him, which
feels itself as much at liberty to exploit
a particular district as any of its com-
petitors. If some form of licensing
were to be instituted whereby each
suburb could be canvassed only by a
limited number of firms the practice
would be kept in check, and there would
be a great saving in patience and boot
leather. — Judge (N.S.W.).
Night Trotting in N.S.W.
Those behind the proposal claim that
it would assist the breeding of horses,
as it would bring more support to trot-
ting, thus enabling clubs to pay larger
prizes. The trotter, however, is of little,
if any, more value than tin-hare dogs.
It is contended that trotters make good
army remounts, but ask any Light Horse-
man who served in the last war about
that. The trotter, until he learns to
canter and gallop, which few ever do
successfully, is about the world’s worst
saddle horse. Trotters which fail at
racing or are retired from the sport
are usually found pulling tradesmens
carts about towns and cities, which is
about all they are useful for. Some
of the heavier types can be used for
farm work, but few of them can stand
up to that job.
Trotters may have been valuable be-
fore the motor-car pushed the buggy
and sulky off the roads, but they are
not sufficiently important to warrant any
concessions nowadays. The Parlia-
mentary seldct committee, however, has
had a trip to Westralia.
About the only people who benefit from
night trotting with betting are book-
makers and those who get a living from
training the horses. If the concession is
granted in N.S.W. the trotter will be on
the same plane as the useless greyhound
and the useless State Parliament that is
wasting both time and money in its in-
vestigation.—Cow Time (N.S.W.).


Treat CAU SE
hot !k: Symptom
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
FOR
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found a
medicine that by acting on the Liver and Bowels corrects the
everyday little ills of life. For Biliousness, Constipation, Sick
Headaches, and such complaints arising from Imperfect Digestion
and Sluggish Liver they are unexcelled.
Dr. Morse*
*
jy
THEY MAKE YOU LOOK AND FEEL BRIGHTER
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn.—When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired F4et.—Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving.—A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack ol
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot" Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
free.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
4P
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
py
$y
S®
yy~ av
</V‘
o°
v*o®^
0? eC
/
rM
.* * •* ’ A e o > \5 vV
.- ■■■ rf «>sS


RLL* AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
WAR AT AH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OK GALVANIZED
WAR ATAH
yfou. IfLetUna
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FUAT JT
"WAR AT AH
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
* WAR AT AH"
StMIT-MbcUiaTW
LIGHT and STRONG f
WARATAH
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
* WAR AT AH"
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN DATE
AN INVITATION IS EXTENDED TO CUSTOMERS
TO VISIT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE
m
i
MM
■
m
m
ST6EI
IRON
a h
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
r 1 !
■ •;<*
'•/> y - '-
1
.
■
P*
1 1
m
*
a
iw
ES
BYLANDS BROS, (adst.) PTY. LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Rylands stand behind their products
42
ms.tmPn.
WCASTLe-v
