

Mr. PETER DAWSON
the world-famous baritone
USES AND RECOMMENDS
W££NZa
AH
the wonderful money-saving remedy for
INFLU
117 A
CATARRH
BRONCHITIS
•:.
mm
;< •••si®
%■
HEENZO
is good and safe for
CHILDREN
and
ADULTS
SORE THROATS
WHOOPING
COUGH
HEENZO
BABY’S
WILL NOT UPSET EVEN A
DIGESTION—NICE TO TAKE.
Mr. PETER DAWSON,
the world’s famous baritone, writes:—
“A few doses of HEENZO quickly
dispelled a cold that had troubled me
for some weeks.”
Save lots of money by simply, in your own
honie, adding a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water,
thus making ONE PINT of the world’s best
family remedy, equally good and safe for
children and adults, as a speedy and pleasant
cure for chest, nose and throat ailments.
By taking mademp HEENZO internally
you quickly soothe and banish COUGHS,
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA. Experiments have proved
that the most effective and economical
treatment for CATARRH and COLDS IN
THE HEAD is placing a few drops of
made-up HEENZO up each nostril, night
and morning. To gain instant relief from
SORE and SMOKERS’ THROATS, gargle
with made-up HEENZO whenever the
irritation in felt. HEENZO being pure, and
free from poisons or harsh drugs, cannot
upset the digestion of even the youngest
baby. You can also rely on HEENZO as a
safeguard against catching the ills of winter
chills by taking a dose before venturing out
into crowds, or cold, wet, and windy weather.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
m
m
WIAUB
IN YOUR
oys/N 0 ys/N HOME
for all chest
AILMENTS—TAKE
HEENZO INTERNALLY.
IN AUSTRALIA
SELL HEENZO
GARGLE^
SORE THROATS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
MADE UP
IN YOU*
OWN HOMF
Also COLDS in HEAD. Place
a few drops of made-up
HEENZO up each nostril —
night and morning.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 61. —No. 3132.
Wednesday, February 21, 1940.
Mr. Lawson Leases a Horse
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HandwitM
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 140
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
KRIVITSKY—STALIN'S
AGENT.
No writer of Ruritanian novels eve
produced anything to compare in melo
dramatic ingredients with W. G. Krivit
sky’s 1 Was Stalin’s Agent, the “Saturda
Evening Post” articles by the ex-Chie
of the Soviet Military Intelligence i
Western Europe, now published in boo
form by Hamish Hamilton, London.
Resemblance to the more fantastic sor
of fiction is inherent in Krivitsky’s sub
jeer. Only recently self-exposed, th
“Great Soviet Union,” the “Mighty
Soviet,” the “Workers’ Paradise” ha
been a deception all along under any o
those and its other superlative fictiona
masquerades, and it has always been run
on Ruritanian lines.
Maybe its fictional nature explains why
so many clever people have been gullec
by it. There's something childlike abou
the ultra-clever. Perhaps it is that
always inhibited, the child in them i
therefore extra-strong. The child mind
has its own peculiar reaction to brutalitj
in all its forms. It isn’t a sadistic re
action, but merely one of open-eyet
wonder and admiration. It is neve
shocked, as alarmed parents, forgetting
their own childhood, suppose. To be
upset about, say, Mr. Shaw and the Dean
of Canterbury contemplating with appa
rent equanimity the unparalleled brutali
ties of Soviet Russian history—the mas*
executions, the secret prison murder
without trial, the shooting-in-the-back-of
the-head method, the starving to death
of peasants by the million —is to take
paternal attitude. If the life span per
mitted the Dean and Mr. Shaw to have
parents, the parents’ attitude would be
the same as that of any normal paren
who cannot understand the quite natura
if somewhat shocking—reaction of any
average child to commonplace brutalities.
The inhibited child forcing to the sur
face in Mr. Shaw and the Dean hungers
for its quota of penny-dreadful horrors
quota duly supplied in proportions tha
would have surfeited the suckling Gar-
gantua, the adult Dean and adult Mr
Shaw are satisfied, and are made forgiving
out of natural gratitude.
At all events, the foregoing is perhaps
a possible theory in explanation, where
some sort of explanation certainly seems
to be required.
Mr. Shaw and the Dean are here men-
tioned purely as examples. They are
really representative of millions whose
ability hitherto to reconcile the known
wholesale brutalities of the Soviet with
their conception of it as a Lilywhite
Utopia is otherwise astounding.
The brutal element —that prime essen-
tial of good fairy talesr—is, of course, not
the only penny-dreadful characteristic of
the Soviet. As the “Post” pointed out
when Communists, under instruction from
Moscow, allegedly ‘-exposed” Krivitsky,
and Moscow followed them up by deny-
ing his existence, only a place like Soviet
Russia could have resorted to the childish
expedient of denying the existence of
one who for about 20 years was a lead-
ing Bolshevik. Only a place run on pure
Ruritanian lines could have adopted the
counterfeiting of money as official prac-
tice, and sent agents abroad to pass the
brum, notes on. Only Ruritania could
have sponsored the naive intrigues that
make some of Krivitsky’s most engaging
chapters.
The main lines of Krivitsky’s exposure
of the Soviet Ruritania will be known to
Bulletin readers through “Uncabled
Additions.” Some good sub-editing has
been done on the articles since they ap-
peared in the “Post”; they have been
tightened up, and now give their infor-
mation more directly. A chapter on the
O.G.P.U. seems to be new.
Other chapters include “Stalin Ap-
peases Hitler,” in which Krivitsky, at a
time when Communists and their multi-
udinous Parlor Pink dupes were insisting
that the mere thought of such a thing
was an insult to the “Great”
Stalin, forecast the Nazi-
Soviet agreement months in
advance, explaining Stalin’s
attitude towards Germany
as one of fright. In
Stalin’s Hand in Spain” Krivitsky ex-
poses what was sedulously hidden at the
time of the Spanish civil war, and par-
ticularly exposes such well-remembered
heroes of cables and propaganda
news as the “Great” Negrin. “When
Stalin Counterfeited Dollars” provides a
sublime glimpse of the Soviet Ruritania.
Another chapter explains the so-called
confessions” at the purge trials, and a
further chapter explains why Stalin shot
his generals.
There is also an introduction, in which
Krivitsky calls on certain named Soviet
dupes of other countries to speak up
now, state how they were gulled and con-
fess how they helped in spreading the
Soviet Fairy Tales. One of them is
Romain Rolland. “The help that this
renowned author gave to totalitarianism
by covering the horrors of Stalin’s dic-
tatorship with the mantle of his great
prestige is incalculable.” Krivitsky would
also like to hear on the same lines from
Benes: —
When Tukhachevsky and the Red Army
chiefs were executed in June, 1937, the
shock to Europe was so great, the disbelief
in their guilt so stubborn, that Stalin was
forced to seek a channel to convince
Western democratic Governments that the
conqueror of Kolchak and Denikin was a
Nazi spy. At Stalin’s direction the Ogpu,
in collaboration with the Intelligence Ser-
vice of the Red Army, prepared a dossier
of the alleged evidence against the Red
Generals for transmission to the Czech
Government. Eduard Benes seems to have
felt that he was not in a position to
examine this evidence, particularly at a
time when he was hoping for Stalin’s aid
for Czechoslovakia. Let Benes now recall
and re-examine, in the light of present
events, the character of the “evidence” pre-
pared by the experts of the Ogpu and
decide whether he is free to remain silent.
O. Henry Walks Again.
It’s not quite fair to modern humorists
for O. Henry, having been comfortably
deceased for so long, to break out with a
new book, but he’s done it, and it’s glad
news for readers. O. Henry Encore
(Hodder and Stoughton; Angus and
Robertson) is something not to be missed.
It’s a book of O. Henry writings—
mainly stories —that have never before
been published in book form. When he
was W. S. Porter and before he had had
his little brush with the law and had
found time in prison to perfect the tech-
nique of the trick-ending, O. Henry was
a columnist on the Houston “Post.” Most
of his writings for the newspaper have
been published in a book called Post-
scripts, but when Mary Sunlocks Harrell,
who edits the present book, was explor-
ing the “Post” files she discovered that
O. Henry’s column hadn’t appeared regu-
larly, and it occurred to her to search for
other work he may have written in its
place. She found he had drawn sketches
and caricatures, written light verse,
articles and stories, and O. Henry Encore,
with samples of each, is the result of her
brainwave. The proofs of O. Henry’s
authorship seem satisfactory.
Only to O. Henry’s most ardent devo-
tees is it of much importance that he
drew fairly amusingly, wrote rather bright
articles about Christmas and Thanks-
giving Day, and composed moderately
funny light verse, but the new stories that
fill 200 of the book’s 285 pages are a
delight.
They are as fresh today as when they
were written. A. P. Herbert or P. G.
Wodehouse or Robert Benchley would
have their work cut out to equal the
hilarious satire of “Led Astray,” the story
of the Irishman who was led into evil
ways by the sinister secretary of the
Y.M.C.A.
Fergus O’Hollihan—“he could drink
more whisky, tell funnier jokes and sing
The Wearin’ of the Green’ so you could
hear it farther on a still night than could
any other young man of their acquaint-
ance”—was due to marry the laughing
Kathleen O’Malley, but one day the
horrified girl saw him slinking down the
street with the “low-browed, shifty snake”
who was secretary of the Y.M.C.A. The
two men sneaked into the clubroom. The
secretary had long since fallen from
grace. One night, just as it was happen-
ing to Fergus, he had been tempted into
the Y.M.CA. quarters and the worst had
happened:—
After taking a bath and joining in the
singing of a hymn, he was led into a
game of checkers by some smooth-talking
young man, and finally threw all reserve to
the winds and, without a thought of his
mother or his home, sank back into an
armchair and began to read the editorials
m a religious newspaper.
Fergus fell likewise. He developed a
taste for water. It became such a craving
that he had to sip the perilous fluid all
day long. He sank so low that one day
when he saw a piece of ice fall from an
ice-wagon he snatched it up and sucked
at it feverishly, with bloodshot eyes and
trembling hands. Kathleen was broken-
hearted. On the wedding night, while
her father cleaned his shotgun, Fergus
sat in the clubroom, drinking glass after
glass of water. In the end, conquered by
the love of a pure girl, he came back to
the paths of rectitude and whisky, but it
was a narrow squeak.
That is the method of the best of these
skits. The O. Henry trick-ending crops
up from time to time, but it is the satire
that is important. There is a priceless
story of an innocent governess in the pas-
sionate South—how Aubrey de Vere
made violent love to her, how she re-
mained faithful to her little Cyrus to
whom she had been engaged for 15 years,
and how, after Aubrey had blown him-
self up with a keg of gunpowder, she kept
his big toe in a bottle of alcohol on her
writing desk in memory of a gallant
gentleman. “How Willie Saved Father”
is another gem of the same sort.
In addition to the satires, there are a
few of the stories of down-and-out
humanity one expects from O. Henry, but
he’s not at his best in these early efforts.
There’s an opium-taking tramp who
thinks he is 241 years old, a hypocritical
parson, a sick small boy, none of them
in any way remarkable. The humorous
stories are remarkable, and the more so
in that they were written by a young, un-
known columnist for the purely local
audience of the Houston “Post” readers.
Caveman,.
In the Ariege district of France, near
the Spanish border, there is an abyss
1566 ft. deep, and there isn’t a better
’ole in the country. M. Norbert Casteret
ought to know, for in addition to four
years in the trenches he has had—and
written Ten Years Under the Earth
(Dent).
Down the abyss he found a world of
flowers:
We were inside a precious stone; it was
a palace of crystal. In color and delicacy
the formations surpassed the most gor-
geous formations of nature: milky, red,
black, green. There were microscopic
stalactites and flawlessly transparent giant
crystals; huge needles, as fine as cobwebs,
which trembled and broke at a breath,
and silver strings with the brilliance of silk
yarn which dangled from the roof and
walls. I suddenly seemed to be kneedeep in
bushes. It was indeed a bush, but a bush
of crystal, the loveliest and most delicate
in the cavern.
Ten Years Under the Earth is a book
of marvels. M. Casteret has spent his
life exploring the caverns of France, and
his adventures are as thrilling as any
Jules Verne romance. Hidden chasms,
falls of rock, labyrinthine passages, and
sudden floods in the underground streams
make it perilous work, and crawling half-
naked or naked through the muddy
tunnels or up the icy cataracts, aware all
the time of the loneliness of the black
silence and the sense of oppression from
the rock overhead, is a grimmer sport
than tennis, but it is fascinating to fol-
low him in print.
He describes “talking grottoes” where
subterranean winds or rivers sound like
human voices, reminiscent of the howling
in the cave of the Cumaean sibyl; there
is the phenomenon he calls the “magic
flute,” occurring when drops of water,
falling to the clay floor of a cave, hollow
a deep, narrow tube from which, as the
drops keep falling, come notes of music ;
hollow "stalactites that sound like a bell
when struck; terrifying thunders made
by the wings of a solitary bat in a close
tunnel; a hollow stalagmite floor that
acted as an amplifier, so that the beating
of a companion’s heart, as he crawled
behind him, seemed to make the floor
and the air tremble ; a meadow of albino
grass, 326 ft. underground, tenanted by
a solitary toad; jackdaws that nest far
down narrow shafts, so that the young
birds are prisoners until they gain the
strength to fly vertically; bats that
migrate from the French winter all the
way to Japan ; the creatures of the caves
—blind fish, the blind salamander, a
blind rat.
Most interesting of all are his dis-
coveries of the bones of prehistoric
animals and the relics and drawings of
the cavemen. He gives a chapter to the
cave bear, another each to the hyena, the
bison and the mammoth: “The size of
the mammoth, like that of most pre-
historic animals and of primitive man,
has been exaggerated ; all the skeletons
show that the mammoth was no taller
than the modern elephant.” In the
“Grotte de Montespan” in the Pyrenees
M. Casteret claims to have discovered
the oldest statues in the world, clay
modellings of the bear and the lion. He
holds the theory that the practice of
“sympathetic magic,” rather than any
purely artistic impulse, was responsible
for the drawings and statuary, and quotes
as evidence the fact that many of them
had been riddled with javelins.
Like Fabre of the insect book, M.
Casteret is half a poet, and both in
matter and in approach this is a book
of unusual quality. To do it full justice
in a review you’d have to quote it in
full.
A French Detective.
The Patience of Maigret, by Georges
Simenon, translated by Geoffrey Sains-
bury (Angus and Robertson), introduces
the French mystery-fiction detective In-
spector Maigret. He’s an interesting
newcomer. Big, quiet, kindly-condescend-
ing, he unravels a crime tangle with caln
deliberateness, smiles as if bored, anc
moves on to the next.
This book contains two short novels,
each complete, told briefly and clearly,
yet with insistence on significant detail.
The emphasis is on character: criminals,
suspects, policemen, innkeepers, serving
girls, journalists, a small-town mayor,
men-about-town, the cocktail-drinking
clique who frequent American bars in
Paris are all deftly built up into living
people. Maigret comes to life not as a
superman, but as some ordinary being
placed in a position where he can look
down on it all. Descriptions are crisp
and fresh.
“A Battle of Nerves” has Maigret,
having already secured an arrest and
conviction on a murder charge, arranging
for the escape of the prisoner, whom he
now considers innocent. Led to a new
suspect, he quite openly sets out to
observe him, sitting beside him in cafds,
following him about Paris only a few
paces behind, listening to his talk, always
there. The strain tells.
In “A Face for a Crime” Maigret is
in a small fishing village in the south of
France engaged on a mystifying attempt
at murder.
Simenon’s novels have now been trans-
lated into 18 languages. Sains bury does
an admirable job with the transfer into
English.
Wet Canteen: Harley Matthews
(Viking Press, Sydney). Stories of the
Diggers in France and Gallipoli. Com-
radeship and the lighter side of war.
Both the atmosphere and the characteri-
sation are authentic.
James Bonwick: Edward E. Pescott
(H. A. Evans, Ltd., Melbourne). Memoir
of the pioneer historian and writer of
school books, with a bibliography listing
108 publications. Bonwick “left an in-
delible stamp on Victorian history and
Tasmanian anthropology.” Limited to
250 copies ; price 10s. 6d.
Kelly Pencarrow: Nelle Scanlan
(Hale). Further Pencarrow family doings
faithfully recorded by the Maoriland lady
novelist.
Poems: Christopher Caudwell (Bodley
Head). A Communist killed in Spain,
but his verse is more Elizabethan than
Marxist, frankly influenced by Donne.
“Twenty Sonnets of Wm. Smith” recall,
and perhaps outdo, Aldington’s “Songs
for Puritans”:
Come live with me and be my love.
Let us love’s bourgeois pleasures prove
Where grasses’ homely knitting spreads
Antimacassars for the hill’s heads
Or landlady, shrill-rattled snake,
Glides through the aspidistran brake.
King Penguins. —Two beautiful little
books introduce the “King Penguins”;
board covers; sixteen exquisite color
plates in each. The plates in British
Birds are after the originals in John
Gould’s The Birds of Great Britain, with
descriptive text by Phyllis Barclay-Smith,
and biographical note on Gould. Those
in A Book of Roses are after the originals
in Redoute’s Roses, with text by J.
Ramsbottom. Most graceful little tomes.
Pelicans. Latest additions to these
handy paperbacks include Julian Huxley’s
Essays of a Biologist; Belief and Action,
by Viscount Samuel; Working-class
Wives: Their Health and Conditions, by
Margery Spring Rice; Great English
Short Stories, selected by John Hamp-
den ; The Stars in Their Courses, by Sir
James Jeans; The Eighteen Nineties, bv
Holbrook Jackson; Philosophy and
Living (two vols.), specially written for
the series by Olaf Stapledon, author of
First and Last Men; vol. 2 of The
Letters of Gertrude Bell, edited by Ladv
Bell; History of the English People
(Epilogue: 1895-1905, Book 2), by Elie
Halevy.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —and in every act .
"THE SENIOR STORE"
**pt/
/Zs*.
MI
m
1r
ly*rs/
0
"«r
n
a*
l-
>
/
/
V
as
mi
m-.
A
y
ALL WOOL SUITINGS
5 to 10 Gns.
DINNER SUITS
6 to 12 Gns.
DRESS SUITS
8 to 14 Gns.
Dress to look your best in a Suit cut and tailored to your individual measurements. In Anthony Horderns 5 Guinea ui ,
made to measure, you get quality all wool suitings in the latest colours and designs. It is tailored in our own wor rooms.
Linings and interlinings are guaranteed to wear. The style, cut and tailoring assure satisfaction. SUITS. An or JY or e
Prices sto 10 gns. DINNER SUITS Prices 6to 12 gns. DRESS SUITS (Tails), Prices yto gns>
è
KEVERIP" OVERALLS
Australian Cotton Drills. Khaki,
Navy or White. Heavyweight
cloth, double sewn, strong fit-
vn
tings, all strain points re-inforced. Sizes include
regular, longs and stouts, up to 48 waist. (Larger
a little extra.) At Anthony Horderns' . . 10/6
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S. W. and seaports
in the Commonwealth.
RELIABLE WORKING CLOTHES
MADE FROM STRONG MATERIALS
i
OILSKIN COATS
Oilskins at pre-war prices that
are guaranteed by us. Hurry,
stocks are limited!
m
Walking Slicker, 48 to 58 inches in
Prices 22/6, 33/6, 39/6, 49/6,
Riding Coats. Prices 37/6, 55/-, 65/-
length.
, 59/6
, 79/6
STRONG WORK TROUSERS
Strong Australian Cotton Tweeds, cut and made
as only Anthony Horderns' know how. Strong
pockets, thread sewn seams, extra full cut.
30 x 46 inch waists. (Larger a little extra.)
811
At Anthony Horderns', Pair
8/11
RIDING TWIST TROUSERS
Trousers for hard country wear. Riding twists
made by Anthony Horderns'. Well cut and avail-
able with side or X pockets, belt loop, hip strap,
m
plain or cuffed bottom. 30 to 46 in. waists (larger a
little extra). Woollen twists recommended for hard wear
with the best appearance.
At Anthony Horderns' . .
22/6, 27/6, 35/-
ANTHONY
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


TANKSINKERS
BY FRANK DALBY DAVISON
IT was about nine in the
evening. 1 was at the tank-
sinkers’ camp with Hughie,
who handled the big scoop,
and Peter, the horsetailer. Don,
who drove the twelve-horse team that was hooked to
the scoop, had received word at midday on the pre-
vious day that two of his children had been injured.
From down the line his wife had telephoned through
to the construction camp at the railhead, "Would
somebody please get word to Don Crake that Alma
and Reggie had been hurt and were being taken to
hospital at Wilgatown —and would he come at once?”
Tom Ferral, the carrier, had sent his lad with the
message. ‘Naturally, Don had dropped work, saddled
up and started for home at once. He had left word
for me that he would be back the following night
unless things were too bad for him to leave his wife.
Our train, one-day-up-and-one-day-down, was at
the wrong end of the line for him. To Wilgatown and
back was a hundred and twenty-eight miles. He’d
be able to get four changes of horses. From noon
the previous day to, say, midnight thirty-six hours
later: a stiffish ride. While we waited in camp he was
pushing the miles behind him somewhere on the road
back ; unless, of course, he was being kept in Wilga-
town. We reckoned he’d have got word to us in that
case —though there was still a strong chance that it
would be a messenger, and not Don, who would ride
into camp. Hughie and Peter were sitting up with
me waiting for him.
THE accident had interrupted work on. the tank at
a critical time. The weather was breaking and
the tank wanted four or five days’ work to finish.
I’d been away for two days, looking over some cattle
at Mount Springsure, and as I rode home over the
Saddleback in late dusk I had watched the sheet light-
ning throbbing in the sky above the range, each pul-
sation dimly lighting the country below. It looked
ominous. If rain came before the tanksinkers finished
I’d be in a bad jam. There’d been a fall of rain at
Aramac, only a hundred miles off. It was my bad
luck that I hadn’t been able to get the tanksinkers on
to my place earlier in the dry part of the year. Fear
of the weather breaking had been nagging my mind
for weeks. As Peter, who loved rounding up your
ideas for you, had put it, “You’re hoping for dry
weather, and the rest of the cockies are down on their
knees praying for rain.”
When I had reached home and lit the kerosene-
lamp, there had been a note lying for me on the table,
“Come down to the camp—Hughie.” I knew then that
something was torn ; but bad news would keep. I
was tired and hungry, so I put a meal together and
ate. Signs of rain were all about. As well as the
swarms of moths and beetles that flicked against my
face and fell down the lamp chimney, there was a
furious jangle of bells from down on the flat. The
tanksinkers’ horses —about sixty head—instead of
making off toward the range, were evidently grazing in
the smoke of green-wood fires that had been lit to
protect them from mosquitoes. The bell of the mare
I had been riding had rapidly dwindled off in the
direction of the smudge fires as soon as I turned her
loose.
When 1 reached the camp —only a couple of hun-
dred yards down the slope from the homestead —it
seemed strange to see Peter and Hughie still up. Their
camp was usually in darkness and silence by eight
o'clock. That night they were squatting near a small
smouldering cow-dung smudge, with camp and working
gear looming darkly behind them, a jangle of hidden
bells issuing from the night beyond, only their faces
and hands dimly visible in the faint glow, and their
tobacco smoke mingling with the acrid fumes of-the
smudge.
After he had told me about Don and given me his
message, Hughie mentioned that he and Peter had
been “scratching around a bit” in the tank during the
day, an acknowledgment that they realised the serious-
ness of the position, and were doing all they could
about it. In literal truth, it probably meant that they
had put in a back-breaking day under exasperating
conditions.
They were doing the best possible for me, and
now they were waiting up for news of a mate. They
drifted into talk about a deal in horses —horses I didn’t
know about —and I was left for a while to my own
thoughts.
A break in the weather might mean a succession
of rainfalls at short intervals —and the beginning of a
long dry spell just as we had battled the job through
to a finish. I was anxious ; but it was of no use
sweating my mind over what was in the hands of
fate, no use just sitting brooding. In any case, Don
had a claim on my thoughts, and they turned to him.
Of the three he was a special cobber of mine. I
hadn’t spoken to any of them until the day I con-
tracted with them, on Dave Macdonald’s place ; but
Don and I had clicked at once. I had one earlier recol-
lection of him. Some months before, happening to be
at the railway ballast pit near noon, I had glimpsed
him in a gap between tanksinking contracts with
Hughie. Someone among the line of men slinging
gravel into the truck had said “Your missus, Don.”
A slim woman, sun-wrinkled but rather pretty, wear-
ing a fresh apron over a faded print dress, had come
up, carrying a billy and a parcel of lunch in a cloth,
and holding a small child by the hand. A tall man
left his shovel standing in the gravel and went up to
her. They looked a nice couple, the kind you’d like
for neighbors ; and they seemed a bit shy of each
other, as if they felt a sort of nakedness at their
domesticity being revealed to casual eyes.
Don drove the team. To handle twelve horses
abreast calls for strong arms and an even temper.
Take in, too, the unevenness of the ground worked
over: down the slope of the tank, letting the scoop
slither to where it will be easiest for Hughie to scoop
“Y e s, sir, a woman drove me to drink."
"Same ’ ere—Cod bless 'em!”
it full from the earth that has
been ploughed loose at the
bottom; then up the slope,
full; across the twenty-foot
surround of level ground ; then
up on to the bank to where Hughie will want, logi-
cally, to empty out in the process of building the
banks ; then down again, but not letting the horses
rush too fast, not with Hughie having to hang back
on the handles of the empty scoop.
Twelve horses turning continually in a space as
confined as that, scarcely ever all on even ground at
once, with tight and slack traces alternately, would
tread each other’s hooves off under an unskilful
driver. They would knock themselves up in the first
hour of a shift under a man who didn’t know exactly
what to demand of them. Then there are the continual
heat, the dust, the slope that grows toilsome to a man’s
legs ; the stupid—or tricky —horse that keeps getting
his leg over the traces ; the little horse that needs the
long end of the swingletree ; the big fellow that can
take the short end; the one whose shoulders are
tender ; the one whose collar fits badly and will have
to be changed next shift —and Hughie, who would be
quite surprised if the scoop wasn’t put exactly where
he has a right to expect it at the tank bottom and on
top of the bank. Don was never in difficulties, rarely
irritated ; scrambling up or jolting down a minimum
of paces within the encircling swing of his team, he
was worth watching, and could get more done for less
distress all around than could most. Hughie and Peter
—or myself —“scratching around” in combination
would be an entirely different performance ; aside
from Peter, in any case, having his hands full tailing
the spare horses.
“T” HE night’s cooling off a bit.” It was Hughie
l who spoke, breaking a silence that had fallen
between him and Peter when they exhausted the con-
versational possibilities of the projected horse deal.
It was cooler, and the song of the mosquitoes had died
down. Peter lifted away the unburnt dung and began
making a wood fire. “We’ll have a little light on the
subjick,” as he put it, and the rising flames dispersed
the theatrical gloom in which we were crouched. The
ringing of horse bells had died down, too ; not because
the horses had made off toward the range, but because
they had found themselves a fill-up of grass near at
hand and had settled down for the night. It was Peter,
very naturally, who first noticed their continued pres-
ence near the camp. “The horses are sticking around,’ -
he remarked.
“That’ll do you out of something in the morning,
Peter,” said Hughie.
It was Peter’s job, as horsetailer, to be mounted
and away in the dark each morning, while the others
were getting breakfast and laying out gear. He had
to find the horses where they had planted themselves
in the gullies and get them down to the camp yard by
the time Don and Hughie were ready. About ten
square, miles of broken and scrubby country and a
liberal sprinkling of old-stagers who knew every
dodge in the matter of hiding out gave Peter scope
for all he had of tracking ability, honest observation
and low cunning. The horses —they were only grass-
fed —worked half a day and rested a day and a half.
They had plenty of time to lose themselves. Peter’s
job was not only to get a succession of teams together,
but, within reasonable limits, only horses that had had
their full rest. Hughie’s good-natured thrust was
directed at his always having a little epic to tell of
how he found the horses.
“I turns up the long gully. It was breaking day
then and I could just see the ground. I cuts across
the Bald Hill. I’d seen that ol’ chestnut of Don’s mak-
ing up there, leading a little mob that thinks he knows
the game, day b’fore yisterd’y, and I thinks to mesilf
‘l’ll know where to lay hands on you, me lad!’ Sure
enough, I finds ’em well tucked away in a little dry
gully with the opening screened b’some scrubby belahs.
Very surprised they was to see me whin I comes down
on ’em from the ridge ’stid of up from where they
expicted me. ‘Good morning,’ I says, and starts ’em
orf down the flat, with a couple of good whipcracks
behind their backsides to encourage ’em along. Then
I digs the hooks in and starts up the ironbark ridge.
I was looking for that bible-backed mare of yours,
Hughie....”
It was. usually a good story that Peter had to tell,
and Hughie and Don, so I had gathered, were pre-
pared to indulge him by hearing him out about twice
a week. More often than that and he was considered
to be imposing upon their good nature. In addition to
getting in the morning team, he had to hold the mid-
day change where he could put a hand on them, get
the midday and evening meals, patch and mend work-
ing gear and look after sick or galled horses. His
was a busy life.
I had asked Don and Hughie about Peter, but,
although he had often worked for Hughie, they didn’t
know much more than that he had come originally
from the Monaro and had been knocking around our
district for years. I once tried to draw him out on


the subject of himself, and got nothing; not because
he was secretive— far from it—but because he had
scarcely the vestige of philosophy, no regrets, no
complaints, no troubling hopes. He saw much more
of the world of the immediate moment than most,
more of the little things; his awareness took
in everything happening near him, and occa-
sionally he would draw attention to things in that
special range of consciousness. “There’s bin one
of them praying mantises trying to git across the
track of them little black ants on that carbeen log f’r
the last half-hour; the little blokes have got him
bluffed.” “There’s them three crows fighting agin up
on the ridge. That third bloke don’t belong there, but
he come over and chivvied the other two a couple of
times last week. He belongs across on the edge of the
little plain.” “Your watch has stopped, Don; you
must have forgot to wind it last night.” The watch
was in Don’s waistcoat, hanging about four feet from
Peter’s head.
IT was close up to eleven o’clock, and still no sign
of Don. Hughie and Peter had been discussing
plans for the projected lay-up after my job was done.
Don, they knew, had work he wanted to do at home ;
Peter would be at a loose end. Hughie had offered him
a job fencing on his place. Something for Peter, some-
thing for Hughie. Then silence had fallen between
them again. Peter nudged me to draw my attention
to Hughie. With his arms clasped round his knees he
was dozing, his head nodding quite low.
“Getting up in years, you know,” Said Peter to
me with unnecessary loudness. “Soon misses his
sleep.”
But Hughie, sleeping or waking, was not to be
caught so easily as that. He must have heard Peter
speak as from a great distance, but he raised his head,
as if from being plunged in serious thought, and came
straight back at him. “I was just wondering, Peter, if
it wouldn’t be better, instead of putting that new
fence across the ridgy paddock, for you to sucker the
creek paddock for me.”
Hughie felt for his tobacco, found his tin empty
and got up to walk around a little.
“Chris’ll probably have a horse and some tucker
out on the road waiting for Don,” he said. “He’ll
know by telephone whether he’s coming or staying in
Wilgatown.”
Chris was Hughie’s brother. His place, about
half-way to Wilgatown, was a couple of miles back
from the road. Hughie’s place was still further back.
The Pentons, Chris and Hughie, were noted breeders
of saddle-horses ; they had taken over that line from
their father, one of the first settlers in the district. An
Arab stallion had been the foundation of their small-
ish but hardy stock. There were a lot of their horses
about. It was Penton blood that would carry Don
on every mile of his journey.
Hughie was a good deal better off than most of
the men for whom he put down tanks. The Penton
brothers had done well; extended their properties by
buying other men out. If Chris, whom I had never
seen, was anything like Hughie, their success was
because they were men of simple good sense within the
limited and practical range of their interests. Hughie
was making steady progress—it struck me in studying
him —because in the first place he thoroughly under-
stood the country, and in the second place because
he couldn’t think of anything better to do.
“ LJOW about giving him until midnight?” Hughie
' * asked suddenly. As the hours had lengthened
the possibility of the children having been badly hurt
seemed to have grown stronger. There was really no
reason for our sitting up at all. We could all have gone
to bed, and if Don turned up Hughie and Peter could
have got out to hear the news and get him a feed. That
was plain sense ; but our blood was against letting
him ride into a dark camp. We preferred to wait
up, even if he didn’t come.
The stillness of midnight was on the bush, broken
not even by the occasional stroke of a horse bell, talk
had died away, and the embers of the fire were begin-
ning to fall, when Peter, without looking up, said,
“There’s someone coming.”
,1 looked up, half-left, in the direction of the main
track.
“No, it’s from the Store Creek road,” said Peter ;
“it’s a bit shorter, if anything.”
I looked half-right, but could hear nothing. As
soon as Peter spoke Hughie, unquestioningly, had
reached behind him for the billy, put it among the
embers and dropped some small wood around it.
“He’s riding that creamy mare of Chris’s whoever
it is,” said Peter as I caught the sound of hoof-falls
for the first time. And then, “She’s tired.” I knew
that much myself. She was pecking, stumbling a
little, every thirty or forty paces.
There was a shrill whinny from the dark as the
mare caught scent of other horses or saw our fire. A
moment later, with a “What ho, there!” Don rode
into the rim of the firelight and swung rather stiffly
from the saddle. Peter went across to him to take his
horse ; Hughie, to the tucker-box. The mare was
streaked with dried sweat, but still carrying herself
gamely. She hadn’t travelled an extraordinary dis-
tance, of course ; thirty-odd miles, like the three that
had carried the same saddle before her, but she had
been asked to crack on pace. She was snorting and
fidgety as Peter unsaddled her, staring about, eyes like
great jewels reflecting the firelight.
Peter had taken the mare to water —she would
find her own way to grass and the companionship of
the other horses. He had returned. Don had a cold
leed and a pannikin of hot tea between his knees, and
while eating was giving us the strength of things at
Wilgatown. The quack said they’d both be all right
in a day or two. “Alma was sitting up in bed telling
me all about it. She’s a game little warrior, that
one! ”
It happened through the pony they usually drove
to school in the sulky getting staked with a dead
sandalwood stick. Reg had persuaded his mother to
let him put a half-wild thing between the shafts.
“Reg’ll take on anything, you know!” Half-way, the
pony had begun to play up. “It was my fault; I
shouldn’t have had the damn’ thing around the place.
I knew it wasn’t properly broken.”
Don had finished eating and was standing up
enjoying a smoke. He had taken more out of him-
self than he knew. His face was pale and drawn under
the caked dust, and his eyes were deep-sunk. He had
had a few hours’ rest at home the night before, but
there had been a lot to fit in between the two journeys.
The second, the wearier of the two, had been made with
a mind at rest, but with a body sustained only by
the thought of faithfulness to a job and his promise to
another man.
“You must be feeling knocked up, Don.”
He smiled faintly. “I could do with a bit of
shut-eye,” he admitted.
There’d be a latish start next day; but, still, he
was back on the job!
I got up to go. Peter, who had been staring
drowsily at the embers, tugging at the dark ringlets in
front of his ears, attempted a last word. “Horse-and-
cart accidents are mostly not as bad as you think at
first.”
SCRAPS
BY G.C.B.
OLD Carter ’ad always boasted that anyone
could look through the kitchen of ’is Hygienic
Caf6 any time ; but he must ’ave been sorry
he spoke when Mr. Armstrong, the ’Ealth
Inspector, accepts the invitation unexpected and warns
’im severe about some scraps on the floor, and points
out wot the garbage-tin is for. Then when Old Carter
starts talkin’ nasty about the council’s garbage service
wot only empties the tins twice a week, Mr. Arm-
strong gets wot he calls a brilliant idea.
“Useless, Mr. Armstrong,” I ses definite when
he tells me about it. “Cheese is wot I might call the
lifeblood of ratcatchin’, and Mr. Carter’s scraps can’t
take its place.”
“You’ll find they can, Raggles,” he ses sharp.
“And you’ll start gettin’ ’em next Monday mornin’.
It’ll save the council the three shillin’s a week you gets
for cheese, and also stop Mr. Carter’s complaints.
Killin’ two birds with one stone.”
“It’s rats I’m tryin’ to kill, Mr. Armstrong,” I
ses, “and as one wot’s studied their diet for years”
He breaks in then, and starts talkin’ so silly about
knowin’ ’ow well I looks after me breadwinners that
I walks off in disgust.
All the same I complains regular every time I
sees ’im, pointin’ out ’ow awkward it is to bait traps
with mutton bones and the like, but he wouldn’t even
talk to me, until one evenin’ when he comes ’ome
while I’m payin’ a professional visit to ’is ’ouse.
I was under the ’ouse at the time, wonderin’ ’ow
to fix a lump of apple-pie in me trap secure, and
when he roars out to me bad-tempered I crawls out
wonderin’ wot’s wrong.
“Wot do you mean by it?” he ses, ’oldin’ ’is
’andkerchief to ’is face with one hand, and pointin’
to me bag with the other. “Carryin’ dead rats around
like that?”
“Dead rats!” I ses, starin’. “You’d better not let
Mr. Carter ’ear you say that, Mr. Armstrong, con-
siderin’ that me bag only ’as ’is scraps in it.”
At first he wouldn’t believe me, but when I in-
vited ’im to examine me bag he says he’ll take me
word for it and starts talkin’ severe about Old Carter.
It wasn’t till after I ’ad left ’im that it dawns on me
that p’r’aps I should've told ’im ’ow long I d ’ad some
of them scraps ; but I consoles meself with the thought
that there must’ve been somethin’ wrong with them
in the first place for ’em to go like that in a bit over
a week.
Matter of fact, I thought it might make ’im see
eye to eye with me about not usin’ them scraps ; but
I didn’t like the look in ’is eye when he stops me as
I comes out of the Hygienic Cafe two mornin’s later
and asks to ’ave a look in the parcel I’d just got.
“Certainly, Mr. Armstrong,” I ses obligin’. “I’m
very glad of the chance to show you the miserable
bit Mr. Carter gives me wot ain’t enough to feed a
’ealthy growin’ mouse. He’s been terrible fussy this
mornin’ for some reason, pickin’ them scraps over as
careful as if they was for a weddin’ breakfast”
“All right, all right,” snaps Mr. Armstrong. “I
just want to see ’em, that’s all.”
He seemed to be in a bad temper over somethin’,
but he was in a worse one when in me ’urry I spills
the contents of that parcel complete, and while I’m
tryin’ to explain that it’s a accident Old Carter ’imself
comes out, and after lookin’ at them scraps all over
’is front step he starts abusin’ me as well. Then, after
I ’ad cleaned ’em all up, Mr. Armstrong walks up
the street with me a bit and ’as some more to say.
“I inspected Mr. Carter’s kitchen yesterday,” he
ses, “and it’s perfectly clean and sweet, and so is them
scraps he’s just given you. I don’t know wot gar-
bage-tin you emptied for that other vile-smellin’ stuff,
but if ever you tries to make a fool of me again you’ll
be emptying garbage-tins regular instead of ratcatchin .
Just think over that.”
I did think over it, and after strugglin’ along with
them useless scraps a bit longer I would’ve took on
that garbage* job voluntary if it ’adn’t been for the
thought of ’ow the town’s ’ealth would suffer if I did.
Wot makes it ’arder was the miserable few scraps
Old Carter gives me to choose from, them parcels
seemin’ to get smaller and smaller each day. And then
one mornin’ when he ’ands me a very light parcel 1
looks in it, and after closin’ it up again quick I asks
’im if he’d mind me usin’ ’is ’phone. For a minute
he ’esitates, then he nods and takes me into ’is office,
and after closin’ the door very careful I rings Mr.
Armstrong and explains that I ain’t left the cafd since
I’ve been given me parcels of scraps and asks im to
come and examine the evidence in it urgent.
Old Carter, who was bendin’ over ’is stove and
frownin’ as though he’s tryin’ to remember somethin’,
looks up when I comes back and says that he’s just
found a few more scraps wot he’ll put in me parcel;
and he ’olds ’is ’and out for it so eager that I begins
to wonder if he ’adn’t been bendin’ somewhere else
than over ’is stove while I was ringin’ up.
“If it’s all the same to you, Mr. Carter,” I ses,
“I’ll keep this parcel and you can make up another
one. I ’ave a reason for ’angin’ on to this one for
a while.”
He seemed more anxious than ever to get that
parcel thon, arguin’ and followin’ me around the
kitchen and makin’ snatches at it; and at last he loses
’is temper complete and makes a rush at me.
The Hygienic Cafe kitchen is pretty big, but for
the next ten minutes it wasn’t ’arf big enough ; and
wot with crockery and dishes of food gettin’ in the
way, and Old Carter not noticin’ once ow close
behind ’im the stove was, the noise and mess was
tremenjous. But I was still clutchin’ me precious
parcel when Mr. Armstrong pushes ’is way through
the crowd wot ’ad gathered at the kitchen-door.
“Just take a look in this parcel wot he’s been
tryin’ to get from me, Mr. Armstrong,” I gasps,
breakin’ away. “You’ll find the evidence wot”
I stops. All I was clutchin’ was a bit of crushed
paper. All the scraps was scattered about the kitchen,
mixed up ’opeless with the rest of the food.
“Get out!” pants Old Carter. “Get out, the pair
of you before I gets the police, you —you’
“Wot’s the meanin’ of this, Mr. Carter?” ses Mr.
Armstrong, starin’.
“You know, you —you mealy-mouthed hypo-
crite ! ” yells Old Carter, findin’ ’is voice again. “A
fine ’Ealth Inspector you are, ’avin’ this —this dirty,
sneakin’ old schemer spyin’ on me!”
“Wot?” ses Mr. Armstrong. “If Raggles ’as
been”
“Don’t deny it!” shoves in Old Carter, ’arf
cryin’ with temper. “I sees it all now —’im snoopin
around me kitchen every mornin’ and you examinin’
every scrap wot comes out of it. ’Ealth Inspector!
Ratcatcher! It’s the likes of you pair wot’s keepin’
the town poor.”
“Is that so?” ses Mr. Armstrong, white with bad
temper. “Well, I’d like to know why you was so
anxious to get that parcel before I seen it.”
I steps forward to tell ’im that I ’ad only wanted
’im to see wot a miserable few scraps I was expected
to use for baits, but me voice was lost complete, as
the sayin’ is, in the noise them two was makin They
was talkin’ so disgustin’ and personal that I didn’t wait
to listen—that is, after I ’ad ’eard Old Carter say wot
would ’appen to me if ever I comes angin around
’is kitchen for scraps again.
That’s ’ow it is I’m able to do justice to me job
through usin’ cheese exclusive—except for the few
useful scraps I gets from me own kitchen, payin’
meself out of me cheese money.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ffbit ‘'Mm ofWie mellcwneJ&widJmiq/mi
In a part of that enormous
Italianesque block of buildings on
the right-hand side of Whitehall,
“next after” Downing Street, de-
signed by Sir Gilbert Scott, is located
the Foreign Office, ever an important
instrumentality of government, but
since 1914, for reasons not requiring
further reference, in some senses the
“most important.” The Foreign
Office is no place for the “tripper.”
Its atmosphere is something of itself,
a thing apart, fully in keeping with
the involved work so frequently
engaging the attention of the exceed-
ingly able gentlemen whose province
is to be associated with it. The grand
staircase, magnificent, but cold and
forbidding, provides a fitting coun-
terpart, as it were, to that silent and
complicated piece of machinery
labelled “Diplomacy,” that is never
idle in other apartments to which the
stairway provides access. Occasion-
ally at the Foreign Office receptions
are held to mark the presence in
London of some important foreign
ruler or statesman, when, super-
ficially at least, a brighter atmosphere
prevails, and socially for the moment
the highest in the land assemble.
The staircase then presents an almost
bewildering display of gorgeous uni-
forms, eclipsed, however, by the
dresses, jewels and personal beauty
of the ladies attending. The visitor
to London can without difficulty
view this superb “entrance hall,” but
that is about as much of the Foreign
Office he or she will ever see.
Grand Staircase at the Foreign Office.


WELL MET.
“Hail, son of the Dink-um!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252138; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch 04ms.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
0
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
LABOR AT WAR.
Several courses are open to Australian Labor with
the Empire at war. There is the responsible course
adopted alike by Labor in Opposition in Britain and
Labor as the Government in Maoriland ; there is the
Gilbertian course of empty-minded irresponsibility pre-
scribed for Australia by Mr. Lang and Mr. Beasley ;
there is downright opposition to the war, which, in all
the circumstances, would stink of Moscow but could
conceivably be honest, though suicidal idiocy whatever
its inspiration ; and there is the course which in fact
has been adopted by Australian Labor and enunciated
by Mr. Curtin. This course amounts to a confused
amalgam of all the others.
Labor in Opposition in Britain is as loud in de-
nunciation of Nazism as the Government itself; if
anything, louder. Accepting the war as an enforced
challenge to the continuance of the British democratic
way of life, it stands pledged by official conference de-
cisions and the forthright statements of its leaders to
give its full and unswerving support to the general
policy of prosecuting the war efficiently to a successful
conclusion.
Critical of Government performance and of any
unnecessary encroachments on democratic freedom,
British Labor has for the time being cancelled the
practice of opposing merely because it occupies the
Opposition benches. Its stand adds up to a solid pic-
ture of responsible Opposition in the finest British
Parliamentary tradition.
Labor as the Government in Maoriland has a war
policy as forthright and clear-cut as that of both the
Government and the Labor Opposition in Britain and
a war effort unexcelled in efficiency and proportionate
performance by any part of the Empire, Britain in-
cluded. Like its counterpart in Opposition in Britain,
Maoriland Labor has the honesty to accept that half-
measures in war are imbecile ; that sitting back and
waiting for the war to be brought to its own doorstep,
while holding that its war effort should stop at con-
tributing some cargoes of its best dairy butter, would
be criminal madness.
Maoriland Labor realises —which even Mr. Men-
zies evidently does not —that entirely different stand-
ards from those of peace-time operate during war ;
that all deliberate efforts to sabotage the country’s
war effort —whether they are inspired by honest, if
foolish, conviction or ordered by Moscow —must be
scotched, even though this may suspend some of the
minor superficial conveniences of democratic peace-
time life. Its whole war-effort performance to date
has given Australians, from a distance, a freshly-
awakened appreciation of the possibilities inherent in
Labor as the governing body in a democracy; an
appreciation, too, of the strength and direct control in-
herent in the one-Parliament system, compared with
the diffusion of legislative strength and the confusion
of control under their own anachronistic apology for a
system.
Our Mr. Lang and Mr. Beasley profess to believe
that there is a conscription issue, and whenever they
can find a platform are up bellowing their professed
opposition. There could not be cheaper soapbox
tactics. There is no conscription issue. Mr. Menzies
has reiterated as often as the subject has been broached
that the Government is pledged not to institute con-
scription for service abroad. As far as overseas ser-
vice goes, the only conscription issue that exists is in
the minds of Mr. Lang and Mr. Beasley and in those
of their Communist enemies.
As far as home service goes, their professions are
equally false and hollow. Here “conscription” is their
term for compulsory national service, which they
oppose. On the one hand, they try to base their oppo-
sition to sending troops overseas —even volunteers —on
the ground that Australia’s position is precarious
because of direct threat of invasion, every available
man being needed here to face that danger. On the
other hand, they oppose national-service training of
the available man-power for the terrific task which
they profess to believe lies positively ahead. In lieu of
national-service training to prepare Australians for
what, if it came, would be a herculean job, Mr. Lang
generously offers Mr. Lang in person.
If anyone tried to violate Australia, I would be in
the front rank and ask you to come with me.
Mr. Lang is 63. In the firing-line, instead of an asset,
he would be a hampering liability on the unfortu-
nates who had to fight beside him. To send even
young men untrained into modern war is murder; to
send untrained old men would be criminal, and not to
the old men only. Physically, Mr. Lang would hardly
last two days. Passed back as a broken-down crock
for medical attention, he would still be a liability,
occupying hospital space and the time of doctors and
nurses. His shortcomings through age would be un-
fortunate, but no discredit to him. His lack of train-
ing would be every bit as unfortunate ; being some-
thing that could, and should, have been remedied, it
would be an unmitigated curse. His offer can be dis-
missed, with sympathy. As a soldier he would not be
worth an informal vote.
Mr. Curtin laid down what has been extravagantly
described as “Labor’s war policy” in firing official
Labor’s first shot in the Corio by-election cam-
paign. If the only casualty of that shot does not turn
out to have been the official Labor candidate, Mr.
Dedman will surprisingly belie his name.
Mr. Curtin delivered the blundering, confused, in-
definite speech of a leader without a policy. In parts
the text of it was pitiful. He quoted “American maga-
zines and newspapers” as authorities that “made clear
that the relationships between the nations might be
very different from what people in Australia supposed.”
As if the leader of the Opposition has no better sources
of information than the sensational and jaundiced
press of the U.S.A.! It would be a poor resort even
for a Sydney Domain orator.
But there was scarcely a glimmer of anything better
in the speech. The signpost to it as an enunciation of
war-effort policy was Mr. Curtin’s reference to what
he professes—with Mr. Lang —to see as a conscription
issue. There might even be some excuse for Mr. Lang,
who, after all, is only a disrated provincial politician.
Mr. Curtin must know as well as anybody in Australia
that the conscription issue is purely imaginary. He
must know that for 36 years “all male inhabitants
of Australia between the ages of 18 and 60 years” have
been “liable to serve in the defence forces in time of
war.” He must know, therefore, that labelling com-
pulsory national service conscription, while sedulously
refraining from ever calling it national service, is quack
dialectical trickery that would be laughed down in
undergraduate debate.
Official Labor, under Fisher, in 1911 made Aus-
tralia the first English-speaking country in which the
manhood of the nation became liable to compulsory
military training in peace-time. Official Labor, under
Mr. Scullin, in 1929 suspended national service in the
romantic belief that a cackle-house situated at a lake-
side in Switzerland constituted sufficient defence for
Australia down here in the Pacific. The effect of the
Fisher legislation is a bright chapter in the history
of Australia’s 1914 war effort. It made possible the
raising of 20,000 men in less than a month. The
effect of the Scullin Government’s action was still being
felt when the present war broke out. Its instant effect
was that the militia force dropped away to a possible
15,000 men, trained 16 days per annum when money
was found for camps. The recruiting ability and great
driving force of Mr. Hughes had only partly rectified
that hopeless Labor-produced position when the war
came.
Despite all this very recent history, Mr. Curtin
and his following, with this country at war and a con-
tingent already in Palestine, would now again abolish
national service ; not because —if any of them have the
faintest claims to statesmanship—they fail to grasp how
disastrous that might be to their country before this
war is all over, but wholly because they —lumping
themselves in with Mr. Lang and Mr. Beasley—are
“opposed to compulsion of any kind” —though they
are not opposed to compulsory unionism, compulsory
education or any of the scores of other compulsions
without which this democratic society could not
function.
Even open opposition to Australia’s making
any war effort would, at any rate, have definiteness.
Not wishing that —in fact, Mr. Curtin repeated his
enunciation of “Labor’s loyalty to the cause of free-
dom and to the campaign of the Allies” —but unable
to muster the courage to face up to realities or the
common honesty of Labor in Opposition in Britain
and Labor as the Government in M.L., these politicians
lack all purpose and direction.
They profess themselves opposed to the sending
away of conscripted troops —a petty fabricated issue,
since all Australia is opposed to that. They pro-
fess to fear the invasion of this country in the near
future; yet they are opposed to national-service
training. Almost anything would be preferable from
official Labor in Australia to such a cheapjack mas-
querade of a war-effort policy. If it is so internally
confused that it can be nothing else, Australians —
looking across the Tasman to honest Labor in action
—would prefer to a man that it should at the least
be honest.
Mr. Curtin protests that at Geelong he “said
definitely that a Labor Government would not allow
the Second A.I.F. to be absorbed by another army,”
and “would provide adequately so that the voluntary
principle would maintain it.” He has also “said
definitely” that “there is a fundamental difference be-
tween the Government and the Labor party on the
matter of expeditionary forces: we oppose that policy”
—so what is his promise worth? And would Mr.
Curtin’s party enforce the withdrawal of Australia from
the Empire air scheme? Is its voiced opposition to
national service to be regarded as its pledge that if
returned to power it would at once set about abolishing
national service? It professes to fear invasion: would
it, despite that fear, wreck the basis of Australia’s weak
enough military defence by abolishing the present
organisation and returning to the conditions brought
about by the Scullin Government’s similar action?
In short, has official Labor in Australia the faint-
est glimmer of a war-effort policy? Would it —could
it —act very differently from the present Government if
returned to power? Are not all its current professions
merely so much out-of-office noise, and is not the
remedy it is badly in need of a small injection of
plain commonsense?
Mr. Lawson Leases a Horse.
Mr. John Norman Lawson, the Minister for Trade
and Customs, played right into the hands of the
enemies of his Government when he arranged with
Mr. W. J. Smith, managing director of A.C.I. (late
Australian Glass), to lease one of Mr. Smith’s race-
horses at the close of the negotiations which resulted
in Mr. Smith landing a five-year contract for the manu-
facture of motor-engines and chassis, with guarantees
of bounties on “engine units,” “substantial” Govern-
ment purchases and immunity from competition by a
Government ban on “capital issues.” Mr. Lawson was
doubly indiscreet because of the circumstances which
preceded the granting of the contract, which he
announced himself.
In 1936, the Government of the day decided to
encourage motor manufacture. A tax of 0.16. per
pound was imposed on imported chassis to furnish
funds for a bounty on “engine units.” When Mr.
Menzies took office on April 26, 1939, he interested
himself in the matter. Other members were interested,
and frequent questions were asked in Parliament.
On May 17 Mr. Menzies stated in the House that
the Government had “definitely decided” that “motor-
vehicle engines and chassis” should be manufactured
in Australia with “no undue delay,” “defence pre-
paredness, conservation of overseas funds, immi-
gration, employment and utilisation of Australian
materials” being “among the principal reasons under-
lying this decision.” Then he said:
The Commonwealth Government is not able to grant
a manufacturing monopoly to any single company.
On December 6, Mr. Lawson introduced the
Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty Bill, quoting the Prime
Minister’s statement without mentioning point 3 : “The
Commonwealth Government is not able to grant a
manufacturing monopoly to any single company.” The
measure provided for bounties of £3O per “engine
unit” (15 h.p. or over) on the first 20,000, £25 per
unit on the second 20,000 and £2O per unit on the third
20,000; “£1,500,000 for the first 60,000.” In reply to
questions, he said that the Government had conducted
“extensive investigations” and received “proposals.” He
made various references to “a company claiming
bounty,” “a well-equipped company” and “an Austra-
lian company” and to the time it would take “the
company” to “enter into large-scale production”
(“probably 18 months”), but did not mention Mr.
Smith or A.C.I.
The bill was an appropriation bill, and it went
through flying. Objections were confined to the
Country party and two Victorian U.A.P. members, Mr.
Hutchinson and Mr. Scholfield. Mr. Cameron pointed
out that the Tariff Board had condemned “the very
proposal which the Government is now submitting”
and moved an amendment that “the proposal be sub-
mitted to the Tariff Board for consideration and report
in the light of present world conditions.” The amend-
ment was defeated by 46 votes to 11, and “the bill was
passed through its remaining stages without amend-
ment or debate” four hours or so before the business
of the session was concluded. The Senate disposed of
the thing in three-quarters of an hour, Senator Col-
lings, the Labor leader, taking one minute to say that
the “Opposition rejoices to see that the Government is
making this move.... and gives to the bill its blessing. '
That was on December 8. On the 22nd details of
the amazing arrangement with A.C.I. were handed to
the press by Mr. Lawson, and were published in the
Sydney “Morning Herald” of December 23. That
same afternoon a mare called Billie, by Beau Pere-
Slack Line, trained (according to the book) by E. H. J.
Shaw for “Gordon Rodney,” won the Encourage
Handicap at Randwick. “Gordon Rodney” was Mr.
Lawson.
Billie is a sprinter, and her speed had been demon-
strated at Newcastle a month before when, trained by
E. H. J. Shaw for W. J. Smith, she dead-heated for
first in a division of the Novice Handicap. The date
was November 23. On the previous day Mr. Smith
had written to Mr. Lawson undertaking “to form a
company with a nominal capital of £1,000,000 and
an initial subscribed capital of £250,000 to manufac-
ture motor-vehicle engines and chassis, the whole of
this money” to be “subscribed by Australian Con-
solidated Industries.” On December 19 Mr. Menzies
wrote accepting the offer and giving the “assurances
outlined in Mr. Lawson’s communication to the news-
papers published on December 23, to which was added
a promise of duty-free imports of machinery and parts
mutually agreed to be necessary.
The Prime Minister gave the newspapers copies
of Mr. Smith’s letter and his own for publication on
February 1, together with an important statement—
“the whole transaction will be submitted to Parliament
for ratification when Parliament reassembles.”
This will mean that, pending ratification, the opera-
tion of the contract will be suspended, and that Parlia-
ment will have the fullest opportunity of discussing the
matter in all its aspects.
The contract was suspended because the Prime
Minister had learned of Mr. Lawson’s deal in horse-
flesh with the obliging contractor; but this Mr. Men-
zies did not admit until Mr. Curtin had made the
transaction public at Geelong in a speech supporting
the Labor candidate for Corio. Then Mr. Menzies—
also speaking at Geelong to the electors of
said he had been told of the affair “early this year :
that, according to Mr. Lawson’s account, the yount
gentleman had “very foolishly” asked Mr. Smith a:
lunch to lease him “a horse” and had got a lease ol
Billie, stipulating that if the mare won any race for


. , r Smith had nominated her Mr. Smith
would draw the prize-money, which Mr. Smith did. “It
was a great blunder on Mr. Lawson s part, as Mr.
w : ? hac i told him, and as he himself had acknow-
ledged bv cancelling the lease ; but Mr. Menzies had
no doubt about “the honesty of my colleague,” and
was “not prepared to destroy his reputation and rum
his career because he simply made a blunder.”
Mr Lawson, for his part, states that the prize-
monev went to Mr. Smith, who is now in the U.S.A. He
also declares that “the lease was entirely regular and
in the form usual in such transactions” (it is not
mentioned in the A.J.C. “Racing Calendar” for
December, January or February); that “I made a mis-
take and accept the entire responsibility” ; that “imme-
diately I learned of the cruelly sinister interpretations
that were being placed on my action I took steps to
canceT the lease," and that “it was in no sense an
unusual transaction for Mr. Smith.
It was in every sense an unusual transaction for
a Cabinet Minister who had just been a party to nego-
tiations involving, among other things, £1,500,000 of
tax-money. So very unusual that neither Parliament
nor the people could possibly regard the Minister with
the benignity shown by his chief. There was nothing
benign in the attitude of Mr. Curtin, of Mr. Cameron
—who demanded Mr. Lawson’s resignation, the sum-
moning of Parliament and a strict inquiry—or of Dr.
Page (“a nurse should be in charge of Mr. Lawson
rather than that he should be in charge of the
Customs”). On his own showing, and that of Mr. Men-
zies, Mr. Lawson is too great a burden for any Gov-
ernment to carry ; and the Menzies Government is
without a majority in either Chamber.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stunt Press or Soldiers?
“Do not be amazed. The announcement made yester-
day [Feb. 12] of the safe arrival of the A.I.F. overseas
referred to something that happened eighteen days
ago.” Thus the Sydney “Sun” in an article attacking
“the brasshats overseas.” In the same issue the
“Sun” mentioned that “a new generation of Australian
Diggers set out for war from Sydney on January 10” ;
so, borne on the wings of “Sun” fancy or something,
they travelled from Sydney to Suez in 15 days. Readers
of the “Sun” must have been “amazed.”
Nobody loves a censorship, but everybody who is
not disloyal or imbecile or financially interested in
catchtwopenny publications realises the need for con-
cealment of facts so useful to an active enemy with
pocket battleships, subs., minelayers and bombers as
the time and place of the departure of large bodies of
troops on a long ocean voyage. Early in the last war,
a Victorian daily came out with a photograph of sol-
diers embarking from Melbourne. In the eleventh
volume of the Official History, published only three
years ago, the late Ernest Scott wrote: —
The Naval Board was seriously perturbed. The
publication of any account of the embarkation of
troops, whether by picture or in type, meant playing
with the lives of the 30,000 men who were afloat at
that moment... .The fleet conveying these troops
covered something like from eight to 10 square miles
of ocean; the ships were crowded with men; they were
not armored vessels, but merchantmen, which a few
enemy shells would crumple up as if they were paper.
So for a week all mails for Java, the East Indies,
Singapore and the Philippines were stopped; for a
fortnight no newspaper was allowed to leave Australia,
and for three weeks the publication of any other pic-
ture illustrating the embarkation of soldiers was for-
bidden.
That incident and the consequences should be
always in the minds of conductors of catchtwopenny
sheets, especially as the pertinent extracts from Scott’s
book have been widely reprinted. Nevertheless, the
“Sun” is evidently of opinion that because hundreds of
thousands of people saw N.S.W. soldiers march
through the streets of Sydney weeks before the
departure, and because tens of thousands saw them
aboard their troopships, it should have been at liberty
to disclose when they actually left Sydney to join
their companions from other States and Maoriland.
What other interpretation may be placed on this de-
nunciation of “the brasshats overseas”?
First, they ordered the departure in a way that
made it impossible for the whole Australian world,
including spies and neutrals, not to know all about
it. Then they put up a paling fence between the press
and the public in the belief that this would safely
smother the news from the enemy.
The troops had taken part in a farewell parade... .
Their departure had been announced “early in January,”
the only detail not being made public being the date.
Everybody in Sydney who could get down to the
waterfront saw them go. Everybody in N. S. Wales
knew they had gone..
Then “Mumbling Minnie” stepped in. The depar-
ture must, of course, be kept secret, so news that was
already no secret was forbidden publication in Australia.
And it was very properly forbidden. For the
most part Australian newspapers recognised that the
prohibition was necessary and played the game. The
“Sun” got round it by publishing a January 10 car-
toon showing three apes, squatted on a harbor head-
land, bridge arch in the background, in rapt contem-
plation of Something. Below one animal were the
words “See Everything” ; below the second, “Hear
Everything”; below the third—sporting an eyeshade,
and with pen stuck behind ear —“Write Nothing.”
With consummate impudence the “Sun” republished
the thing on February 13 as “the cartoon which
made a continent laugh.” Had a Deutschland or a
U-boat got among the troopships it would have been
no laughing matter for the “Sun.”
Australia puts up with a lot from the Stunt Press,
but it will not suffer any section of it to subject Aus-
tralian or Maoriland soldiers to undue perils for the
sake of blatant sensationalism. It would see great
organisations, with millions of pounds of plant (and
unlimited etfrontery), shattered to fragments first.
One More Oracle.
To the mounting staff of the Department of Informa-
tion there has been added a “director of broadcasting
activities.” The director of broadcasting activities is
Mr. W. Macmahon Ball, a Melbourne University lec-
turer, who does a lot of A.B.C. work.
On August 30 Mr. Macmahon Ball’s voice was
heard over the air to the effect that “there is only one
thing German workers will not do for Hitler, and that
is go to war for him.” After this triumph of discern-
ment, Mr. Macmahon Ball, an A.B.C. “commentator”
previously, was named “A.B.C. talks director,” on
leave from the university.
In the previous July Mr. Macmahon Ball was
heard in a 8.8. C. monologue, “Australian Foreign
Policy,” and his wisdom was printed in the “Listener ’:
The principle of collective security, of resistance to
aggression in the East as in the West, is the only
principle that can give a firm and consistent basis for
unity of policy between Britain, Australia and America.
Such a policy should also bring the co-operation of the
Soviet Union.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Macmahon Ball has
improved as a prophet and as an exponent of foreign
policy.
Why All This Gloom ?
Why does the Menzies Government consider it neces-
sary to make so many alarmist speeches on the war ?
No other associated Government goes in for gloomy
warnings and sepulchral prophecies, but every week
something of the sort issues from Mr. Gullett. The
Germans are in superior force on the Western Front ;
in number of men and machines their air force has
a decided advantage ; and the most appalling scries of
attacks that the sad old world has ever seen will rage
presently, if not sooner. Thus Mr. Gullett, and thus
Mr. Casey, too, when Mr. Casey was available ; and
now it is Mr. Fairbairn.
Colonel Reitz, the South African Minister, has
seen more of war than any member of the Menzies
Government and must know as much about what is
going on as any of them. Visiting Britain and France
on behalf of his Government, he was shown and told
everything. Returning to Cape Town, he expressed
the opinion that there would be no fighting in France
in this war because the Allies had completely check-
mated German invasion plans” ; and he went on to
give particulars of the French and British deiences.
As for the war in the air, “the Germans had not
launched an offensive against Britain and France
because of the fear of retaliation on the industries
of the Ruhr, and also because the German air com-
mand had made a capital blunder in building an enor-
mous fleet of bombers, not realising that fighter escorts
were essential for mass attacks on Britain. That was
published in Australia on Feb. 3.
February 12 brought a sturdy speech from Mr
Kingsley Wood, the British Air Minister. “Never in
any great conflict in our history, he said, has this
country been so united, so resolute. We must and shall
win the war.” Then he said “The toll our airmen
take is often heavier than can be officially revealed.
Many damaged enemy machines do not reach Ger-
many.” . .
With February 15 came a newspaper interview
with Australia’s Air Marshal Williams, who has had
an important post in the R.A.F. Coastal Command,
and who arrived with Air Chief Marshal Burnett. Air
Marshal Williams said, among other things:
Our losses have been far smaller than those of the
enemy, and we have accomplished a great deal more
reconnaissance, convoy and coastal patrol work, the
eight-gun fighter has proved its worth beyond doubt.
In the drive against U-boats Short Sunderland flying
boats, by reason of their long range and effective striking
power, have proved a most deadly weapon. The U-boats
have been driven further and further away from busy
shipping areas It is reasonable to suppose that many
more German aeroplanes and submarines have been
destroyed than the official list of victories shows.
Britain’s reserves, built up with methodical speed,
have now achieved mammoth proportions. 1 he striking
power of the Air Force will be tremendous, it it, is
ever called upon.
On the following day Mr. Fairbairn was heard at
the Millions Club, Sydney, on the subject of the
Empire air-training scheme. He said it was necessary
—the necessity nobody doubts —because Britain s
geographical shortcomings” were such that it could
train no more than four-ninths of the air crews re-
quired “to secure the Allies against defeat.”
We are faced with the fact that the German air force
is enormously stronger in numbers than the British and
French air forces combined, and, although our machines
and crews have proved themselves remarkably efficient,
that is not to say that the German machines and crews
are not efficient. . ,
The enemy’s bombers and reconnaissance aircrait
are magnificent machines, and they possess the addi-
tional advantage that they are equipped with sell -
sealing petrol tanks, which will stand penetration by
five to 20 bullets without letting the petrol escape.
It means that Britain’s fighting machines are confronted
by tremendous odds. For these reasons, the Allies aie
facing a very real danger, especially from the German
tactics of bombing merchant ships from the air.
Mr. Fairbairn was an intrepid airman in the last war,
and is an active Minister whose heart is in the Empire
air-training scheme. All the same, his account of the
situation and probabilities differs materially from those
of Colonel Reitz and Air Marshal Williams ; and he
and the gloomy Mr. Gullett should endeavor to con-
ceive the possibility of their being wrong.
A Magician Arrives.
Mr. Roy Gollan was manager in India for the Aus-
tralian “National” Travel Association, the concern
responsible for the tremendous influx of wealthy
Indian and Anglo-Indian tourists and settlers which
statisticians so obtusely fail to record. A grateful
Government appointed him Commonwealth Tiade
Commissioner in India, and the first-fruits of the
change are a trip for the Trade Commissioner. ?
Mr. Gollan is back in Australia on a two
visit to “confer with manufacturers in every State.”
Disgruntled taxpayers have been heard to say that he
could have had all necessary information sent by mail,
but disgruntled taxpayers are always with us, and if
Governments ever listened to them there would be an
end to the public services of such personages as Mr.
Gollan.
Skipping out of the flying-boat, Mr. Gollan made
a revelation which suggests that he would be an orna-
ment to the Federated Union of Indian Magicians.
His first words were: “A market worth at least
£10,000,000 stg. a year is open to the Commonwealth
in India.”
For the year 1937-38, Australian exports to India
were valued at £A 1,104,600. Zinc, wool and tallow were
three main items, others being silver, horses, coal,
jams and jellies, butter, meats and wheat—though
wheat sales are rare. Mr. Gollan, by making the
Indians eat more jam or persuading Australian fac-
tories to sell them buttons, biscuits or beer whether
they like it or not, is going to step that export total
up by more than ten. No other living magician could
do that!
The Country Party.
An old supporter’s survey:
When the Country party first emerged as a force
in Commonwealth and State politics it had a clear-cut
mission. Previously Government and Opposition were cither
Labor or anti-Labor, and it was felt that the rights and needs
of the man on the land fell somewhere between the two and
were lost sight of in the general party turmoil.
But success went to the heads of Country party leaders,
and they began to have dreams of occupying the 1 reasury
benches themselves. This was fundamentally absurd in States
where half or more than half of the. population dwelt in big
cities and another large proportion in towns. According to
the 1933 census, the Country party represented just on 550,000
persons getting a living from agricultural, pastoral and dairy-
ing industries —about one-twelfth of the Australian people.
So long as the Country party remained independent it
had a distinct influence on the course of events. Prom the
moment it fused with another party its power declined. This
was particularly the case with its association in Common-
wealth politics with the Lyons U.A.P. party. Now the
Federal Country party sits between the U.A.P. and the Labor
Opposition. Asa result of the Lawson affair it is likely to
stay there, at least till the electors decide between Mr.
Menzies and Mr. Curtin. It has a forceful leader in Mr.
Cameron, and he may achieve something on the cross
benches; on the Treasury benches he could be swallowed up.
In N.S.W. Mr. Bruxner and his Country party formed a
coalition with the U.A.P. under Mr. Stevens. The record
of the Stevens Government need not be recounted, but it is
doubtful if N. S. Wales would have got into the state it did
get into had Mr. Bruxner and his following refused office.
And though the N.S.W. farmer may still vote for the
C.P. candidate, he knows that he is voting for U.A.P. against
Labor. His Country party has almost lost its identity as
well as its purpose. . , TT An
In Victoria, after accepting office in the Argyle U.A.I.
Government, Mr. Dunstan snapped at the chance of power
when Labor promised to support his Country party. The
record of his Administration is not a proud one. In the end
he fell out with the leaders of the party organisation, and
he finds it expedient to hold an unwanted election on the
question of whether or not he did right to scrape his former
pal Mr. Hocking off the State Savings Bank board.
While his voting power is so small, the Australian farmer
can never successfully put his own party in office. It means
government by minority; in Victoria it has meant a
humiliating dependence on Labor, which has shirked its own
responsibilities to its supporters. The farmer no doubt
feels that neither U.A.P. nor Labor—obsessed with the
Big City electorates as they are —can ever legislate to give
him entire satisfaction. But the Country party can serve
him well so long as it retains its entity, and so long as it
refuses to support any other party for a share in the spoils.
While it persists in so selling its favors, its fate will be to
drag along in the wake of the dominating party, its high
sentiments draggled, its purpose prostituted for political plums.
Teachers Militant.
“Wester”: During the early part of the Christmas-
New Year holidays, while N.S.W. Government school-
teachers were disporting themselves by the seaside or
on the mountains, their Federation executive had an
unseemly wrangle with their Minister, Mr. Drummond.
Both parties to the dispute got hot under the collar
over nothing, and it was suggested that teachers’ votes
should be regimented to kick the Mair Government
out.
In January there began another strike of fettlers
on the Ivanhoe-Broken Hill section of the Sydney-
Barrier railway, this time in contempt of arbitration.
Again traffic between Ivanhoe and the Hill ceased.
Since all N. S. Wales knew that anyone travelling to
the Hill from Sydney could not get beyond Ivanhoe
by rail, teachers returning there from their six weeks’
holiday on full pay must have known it.
From Ivanhoe they were taken on to Broken Hill
by private motor service, at 255. for the 300-miles
journey. The charge seems reasonable ; nevertheless
the Federation began fulminating against both the
Education and Railway Departments, demanding
“compensation” for the teachers on some score or
other.
The public is dead tired of these shrieks and
whines. Plenty of other travellers have had to hire
motor transport to get to Broken Hill, and few of
them were returning from a six weeks’ holiday on full
pay with the certainty that more paid holidays were
coming at Easter, in May and in September. Any
number of people would willingly walk to the Hill for
a job so full of holidays as that.
It is necessary for Government schoolteachers to
have an organisation, and no doubt it has done a lot of
good. But its recent antics indicate a deplorable lack of
commonsense. Unless the main body of the teachers
exercise some corrective influence on the hotheads,
there will be a serious loss of that public sympathy to
which so many appeals are made. The Federation
that gets so excited about small beer would be far
better occupied in drawing up a case for placing edu-
cation under national control, and in concentrating on
that.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“0.T.”: Perhaps with a notion of gin-
gering up the war, Sydney’s “Sunday Sun”
“Keep on the lookout for magnetic mines , Mum.”
came out with a photograph of a fellow
in uniform described as a “Nazi Butcher:
This brown-shirted bully is a living
example of that Nazi arrogance the Allies
are pledged to destroy.” The man is
standing as anyone might stand who is
getting his picture taken, and he might be
an extra in a Hollywood picture for all
anybody knows. Indeed, if a sample of
authenticity put over by “Pix,” issued
from the same office, is any criterion, he
is. Just before Christmas “Pix,” under
one of its horror pictures, printed the
statement that it portrayed the execution
of a spy in France: “This man is about
to die by a French firing squad ” The
identical picture was published m
firing 3 quad wa Red Mexican “and the
vietto an engineer, Jurado, whom
Mexican Catholics hailed as a martyr,
But little things like that don't worry
publishers of tripe
publisners ot tripe. # *
“D.E.”: London flapper-papers are
going into raptures over the good looks
of Australian airmen, soldiers, actors
and—yes—cricketers. Granted as to the
airmen, soldiers and actors—that is, if
there are any left—and, having been dis-
tantly acquainted with two generations
of Australian birdmen, I can well be-
lieve that the 200 reported on by the
“Graphic” are “the best-looking men in
London.” But I can’t swallow that
reference to cricketers. Though there
have been splendid-looking fellows in the
teams that have played at Lord’s and the
Oval —Ruskin said of Bonnor that he
was the most magnificent specimen of
manhood that ever trod English earth —
the last team we sent was, with two or
three exceptions, the homeliest-looking
lot that ever crossed the Line. And of
one of the exceptions I have heard a
bathing-pool lass protest that he didn’t
strip well. Asked to be more explicit,
she said he had lolly legs.
* * * *
“Ming”: That Melbourne restaurateur
(B. 14/2/’4O) who labelled his crockery
was following in the steps of a Maori-
land bibliophile who allowed all and
sundry to borrow his tomes. He suf-
fered, as all bookmen do, from the bad
memory of borrowers, and in desperation
had a novel sort of bookplate pasted in
all his books. It said in black, clear
type: “This book belongs to John Blank.
An honest man will return it. A thief
will keep it.” But I doubt if it saved
him many books.
* * * *
“King’s X”: It’s true that in our
part of Sydney people don’t concern
themselves with others’ worries, particu-
larly the matrimonial variety. I was get-
ting home at 11 the other night when
an urchin accosted me. “There’s a lydy
down the jetty wot’s goin’ to drown her-
self,” he reported. “She come runnin’
down screamin’ an’ sayin’ ‘You’ll never
see me no more, Harry.’ She’s sittin’
there now with her feet in the water.”
“And did you see anything of Harry?
I asked breathlessly. “Oh, yes,” was the
reply. “He come down an’ shouted
‘Where’s the sodawater?’ an’ she said
‘Damn the sodawater,’ an’ he went away.”
My informant waited hopefully for me
to say I’d look into things, but I walked
on. As I passed our corner shop I
beheld a young man with a siphon of
sodawater, and, clinging to his arm, a
dampish-looking damsel in shorts and a
blue kim. They seemed on excellent
terms. Most of our upheavals end like
that.
* * * *
“ Crank ”. since the C ry is for economy
and newspa p ers are bewailing the short-
af of Wf' has anybody thought of
he waste of space, time and mk in pub-
hshmg the full names of many Aus-
Indian country towns? The inhabitants
of such P laces as Condobolm, Coota-
mundra and Tumbarumba (N.S.W.),
Yackandandah, Wangaratta and Tally-
garoopna (Vic.), Peterborough, Tailem
Bend and Orroroo (S.A.), seldom call
them anything else but Condo, Coota,
Tumba, Yack, Wang, Tally, the Borough,
the Bend and the Roo. Even big places
like Ballarat and Broken Hill are locally
known as the Rat and the Hill. The enor-
mous saving if all Australia adopted the
practice can well be imagined. Telegraph
operators would find it a boon, and wire-
less announcers would not make near so
many mistakes in pronunciation. A start
could be made with Victoria, with its
Croajingalong, Tangambalanga, Boomah-
noomoonah, Tarrawingee, Patchewollock,
Buckrabanyuie and Chillingollah, to men-
tion only a few.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Among a wealth of items
about Lord Tweedsmuir I read that he
was particularly proud of being the first
Scot to become Governor-General of
Canada. But surely this isn’t so. In
good Queen Victoria’s golden days, didn’t
the Marquis of Lome (the Duke of
Argyll-to-be) fill the job? And could
anyone be more Scottish than a Mac-
Call um More?
* * * *
“H.”: For their camp the Girl Guides
chose a nice flat alongside a creek. Upon
a near-by hillside was the camp of a
party of telephone linesmen, whose boss
strolled down to proffer some advice.
“We require neither advice nor assist-
ance, thank you,” said the G.G. leader,
a city feminist. Dutiful giggles followed
from her satellites, and the old linesman
left with a grunt. But rain softened that
flat until it was like putty ; a high wind
followed ; up came pegs and down went
tents. The line foreman came again,
this time ignoring the leader. “Look
here, girls,’ he said, “you’re wast-
ing your time those tents will blow
down again as fast as you put them up.
Get up to those tents of ours until
this rain Stops, and then my mates
and I will put yours where they
ought’ve been in the first place—up on
that sand ridge where the pegs’d hold if
it snowed saucepans.” Carrying bundles
of damp blankets and other gear, the
youngsters raced up to the shelter of the
line party’s tents; for about a minute
their leader stood in solitary grandeur
. . , ,
among the ruins of her camp, then she
followed. Knowing that line foreman, I
reminded him of the incident. *ou
missed the best part of it, he told me.
“Mac, our camp cook, was giving em
lessons in cooking before the show was
over ' ” _ „
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A modern version of the
graveyard ghoul has been attracting at-
fention in Melbourne. He haunts ceme-
teries, and as these are public places
there is no means, legal or otherwise, of
stopping him. Armed with a card or
merely an ingratiating manner, he ap-
proaches the widow who has come to
place flowers on her husband’s grave
with an offer to keep it in good order
for a consideration, payment being in
advance and service guaranteed. A
couple who visited the Fawkner Ceme-
tery to see their daughter’s grave were
accosted by four of these individuals,
As all cemetery authorities provide this
service for a small annual fee, private
enterprise is superfluous, but in the
absence of any law to suppress him the
gravevard tout has a good spin.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: What obscure psycho-
logical processes are breaking down the
maidenly reserve we all admired so pro-
foundly in the Old Lady of Hunter-
street 9 I picked up my Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald” and saw over my toast the
sprightly headline “Afternoon Tea in a
Sewer.” It was no harrowing story of
impoverished swaggies boiling the billy
in the last privacy offered by a mechani-
cal civilisation ; nobody was hiding from
an air raid ; the Old Girl was there her-
self, partaking of “crab sandwiches, tea
and fruit” with the engineers of the
Water Board in the board s new
£2,500,000 sewer. What goings on!
* * * *
“Whoso List”: Where did “Cauboy”
(B. 31/1/ ’4O) get the inside information
that it was only “after a frightful spiritual
struggle with itself,” in respect of front-
page news, that Melbourne “Argus
“took the fateful step under managing-
editor Knox”? Actually there was
nothing either frightful or spiritual about
the enterprise ; the new board of direc-
tors went into the matter on a business
basis, and invited the whole staff to put
forward suggestions. I know, because I
was one of scores who responded. And
the front-page idea didn’t come from
Sydney with E. G. Knox. The decision
was made by the board months before
Knox was engaged, and all the dummies
were in hand prior to his arrival.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: As in the 1914-18 period
Australia is running short of some sorts
of pharmaceutical necessities. In the
last war two St. Kilda chemists were
struck with the idea of making aspirin,
which had hitherto been a German
monopoly. They called their product
Aspro, and made a fortune out of it.
One has since built himself amongst
the Dandenongs a garden which is
one of the show places in Victoria.
Miles of roadway wind through a dense
thicket containing almost every tree and
shrub known to science, and the road ;s
lined throughout with traffic lights. An-
other brother built an equally remark-
able garden in Toorak, and two of the
family have married into the musical
Menuhin family. A similar imposing
destiny seems to be promised for anyone
who can find a way of producing sali-
cyclic acid and other important coal-tar
derivatives here, or who will reintroduce
the growing of opium in Australia to
counter the shortage of morphia, or
cultivate cinchona.
* * * *
“F.S.”: An impression in oils of Tra-
falgar-square in midwinter by Streeton
was sold by auction in Melbourne for
450 guineas. It was painted in 1906,
and the painter got 100 guineas for it.
If, for some reason or other, Streeton
had given up painting and gone in for
stockbroking, or gone off in his art, or
made a lot of money and spent his days
sunbaking on the beaches, or retired ort
an invalid pension, the picture now would
probably be worth less than nothing.
Having stuck unremittingly to his easel
he has put some unknown individual or
succession of individuals in the way of
making upwards of 400 p.c. profit on the
original transaction. They order these
things differently in France, where every
time a picture changes hands at an en-
hanced value the author or his heirs get
a substantial rakeoff.
* * * *
“Sykol”: An English prof, advances
. the theory that the “haw-haw” accent is
' caused by a determination to preserve a
dignified face at all costs. That’s the
psychology of it. It starts at the old
school, where prefects have to “canal-
ise” all their forces in order to remain
dignified and composed. If they said a
real mouthful their faces might slip and
become all unauthoritative. From the
old school the habit is carried to the ser-
vices, and especially to India, where the
sahibs must preserve a frosty mug at all
costs. That’s the “haw-haw” accent or
Mayfair twitter. I daresay the “hee-
haw” (or Oxford) accent is caused also
by fear of facial disintegration, but what
causes the Australian accent God alone
knows.
* * * *
“Valerin”: There’s more than one way
to give a reference. An inefficient shed-
hand applied to our station boss for one.
This is what he got: “To whom it may
concern, —This is Charlie Jones. I’ve
had him. You try him.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The word “rape,” in the
sense ordinarily attached to it, is exceed-
ingly obnoxious, I admit. But why it
should be assailed in a recent Bulletin
paragraph as something absolutely unfit
for ears polite when used in figurative
phrases such as “The Rape of Czecho-
slovakia” or (nearer home) “The Rape
of Circular Quay” is more than I can
understand. The same objection might
be applied to a dozen other words whose
meaning has narrowed down to some-
thing sinister. When I was a schoolboy,
assimilating what I could of early Roman
history, our master would tell us of the
“Sabine Rape” without the slightest em-
barrassment ; it signified no more than
“forcible seizure.” And I never heard
it held against Pope that he titled one
of his best-known poems “The Rape of
the Lock.”
CAESAR’S WIFE.
“Every Minister must be, like Caesar’s wife, above
suspicion.”— Mr. Cameron.
“It is a sound political doctrine that the conduct
of a Minister must be, like that of Caesar’s wife,”
etc. — “S. M. Herald.”
I wish they’d give a rest to Caesar’s wife.
One reason that provokes my discontent
Is that he had so many in his life,
1 never know for certain which is meant.
Ev’n if the dame was not beyond the reach
Of scandal from some gimlet-eyed cabal,
Why is she still employed to point a speech
Or decorate an editorial?
This was the sum of her offence, I ween,
For all the arrows that against her whiz:
She was no better than she oughter been—
And, when you come to think of it, who is?
I’m tired of Hobson’s choice and Buckley’s
chance
And lots of other metaphoric guff
We’re sure to get when politicians prance
Around, and leader-writers do their stuff;
But these are minor ills. For all we know,
This lady, whosoe’er she was, although
Suspect, may well have been as pure as snow,
Whatever calumnies were round her rife.
And even if she wasn’t strictly so,
After some twenty centuries ago
It’s time to give a rest to Caesar’s wife.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


w
on being “a Latin island in a Slav sea.”
“Rumania” —I quote from the invaluable
Whitaker —“is not a Balkan State. She
took no part in the military operations
of the Balkan League against Turkey in
1912-13” —though she didn't lose the
chance of grabbing a bit of Bulgaria
when the other Leaguers had turned on
their original asso-
ciate. And what
about the Turk?
Time was when, as
a change from being
called “The Un-
speakable” (G 1a d-
stone’s epithet, I
think), he was
dubbed by more
lenient critics “The
Gentleman of the
Balkans.” But nowa-
days, with less than
10,000 square miles
of Europe to be
gentlemanly in, he
can hardly rank as
a Balkan Power.
* *
“Bohemian”: One
of the reasons ad-
vance and by the
Waikato Maoris for
not taking part in
the Waitangi Treaty
celebrations
(B. 14/2/’4O) is that
their king, Koroki,
has been compelled
to pay social secu-
rity tax. King Mahutu also con-
sidered that he should be exempted from
taxation. After Mahutu had made his
entente cordiale with the Maoriland Gov-
ernment he entertained the pakehas at
a big open-ai; demonstration. Mahutu
provided the waipiro, which he got on
credit. Seddon introduced the potentate
to the representatives of the Inky Way.
Mahutu seemed to know pressmen ; any-
way, he pointed to a tent in a remote
corner of the meeting-place, remarking
“The waipiro’s over there.” Afterwards
he sent the booze bill to the Govern-
ment. Seddon blinked twice and then
marked it “Correct —R.J.S.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The charge of being on
premises without lawful excuse has taken
a comic turn in Adelaide. A man, at a
late stage of a festive supper in a friend’s
home, was found in a bedroom, where,
the host said, he had no right to
be. The visitor pleaded simply that he
was in the house by invitation; and
where did hospitality draw the line? The
P.M. felt a doubt, and gave the strayed
reveller the benefit of it.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Victoria’s South-street
competitions are in danger of war-time
suspension, the decision being in the
hands of Ballarat’s ratepayers. The
competitions, which helped to bring
out Austral, Brownlee, Dawson and
Marjorie Lawrence, and in which a
mort of lesser lights got their first
impetus, had their genesis in the South-
street Society, which confined itself
originally to debating. From debating
“Any soap, camphor, scent or bootlaces, sir?"
"'E must've bin Workin' on this recipe. It says ‘Beat till stiff.'"
it took to elocution, and by a natural
development to singing. Meetings were
held in the Colosseum, but it was burnt
down, and a transfer was made to the
Alfred Hall. The Alfred Hall is now
declared to be an unsafe fire risk, ano
there is no other hall in Ballarat big
enough to provide the proper acoustics
for Australia’s potential prima donnas.
Ratepayers have been asked to decide
whether a new hall is to be built on the
site of the Alfred. The first competi-
tions were held in 1897, and they re-
sponded to a national need so completely
that by 1907 the secretary was able to
report that two tons of letters had passed
through the mails concerning that year’s
fixture, £2OOO had been paid for special
trains and 5000 elocuters, singers and
musicians had come before the judges.
H= * *
“X.S.”: There will be fine pick-
ings for lawyers in a case that
has begun its tortuous career before
Justice Lowe in the Third Civil
Court. It concerns the taking over by
the State Electricity Commission of the
old Melbourne Electrical Supply Co.’s
property a long, long time ago. The
price included an amount to cover over-
seas loans, and in those days there was no
exchange factor to worry about. Now
exchange amounts to £167,000. Whether
the Government is under an implied
obligation to pay it is the subject of the
litigation. Most of the principals in-
volved have been gathered to their
fathers, and the documents to be in-
spected would fill a large library. There
was a licking of legal chops when ’Sonah
was informed that the hearing would
occupy weeks and possibly months.
*i* *l*
“S. Nighter”: It’s come at last. The
long succession of display advertisements
featuring feminine beauties in baths,
under showers, towelling themselves, etc.,
to prove the advantage of somebody’s
soap or powder having begun to pall, the
brilliant minds behind these displays have
fallen back on man. Now a Sydney
flapper paper carries a large advt. depict-
ing a handsome lad with a chest like a
barmaid standing under the shower and
crying the praise of a certain breed of
soap. That ought to get the darlings.
$ * * *
“Cooramin”: Old-time dispensers of
suds scorned not the Muse in drawing
the attention of patrons to the virtues of
their hostelries. The corner of Lane
Cove-road and West-street, North Sydney,
now occupied by a large modern struc-
ture, was the site of the Union Inn, for
many years a landmark on that road.
One of the gables was partly covered
with verse pertaining to the merits of
the accommodation “for men and their
horses” ; and on a blackboard behind the
counter these lines were painted:
The liquors I sell are delicious and pure;
If you’re down in the dumps they’re a
magical cure;
My measures are just, you can drink till
you bust,
But pay as you go, for I never give trust.
The old Green Gate Inn at Orange used
to have a green-painted gate on its sign-
board, with this couplet under it:
This gate hangs well and hinges none,
Refresh and pay and travel on.
Another N.S.W. country inn was The
Bull, on the sign of which was painted:
This bull is tame, so fear it not
As long as you can pay your shot.
When money’s done and credit’s bad,
That is the time the bull goes mad!
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A Sydney magis-
trate was astonished when a publican
witness told him he had been on the
water-wagon for two years; but there
are others. Furlong, who ran The Oaks
on the Military-road, Neutral Bay,
was a teetotaller, and he had two teetotal
sons who ran pubs, too. When Furlong,
senior, aged 68, won the old buffers’ race
at a Licensed Victuallers’ picnic he
proudly claimed that his prowess was
due to abstinence from booze.
SHOULD GERMANY WIN.
Should Germany win, we should have to restore
Her all that she paid as the price of the war
Wherein she was walloped —and very much
more
Ere the settling was done.
Whate’er of earth’s surface she erstwhile
possessed
She would clasp once again to her bellicose
breast,
Mandated New Guinea, of course, with the
rest —
If Germany won
Should Germany win, we should have to
deplore
Gibraltar and Malta and eke Singapore
Being handed to —whoever owned them before
Our rule was begun.
While Eire and India, Berlin has decreed,
And the Cape would be perfectly free to secede
From Britain whenever they featured the need,
If Germany won.
And you, shoddy patriots, who smugly declare
That guarding Australia’s our urgent affair,
And for other arenas we oughtn’t to spare
A man or a gun,
While you fashion your plausible arguments
thus,
Do you never have time to reflect or discuss
As to what would be likely to happen to us
If Germany won?
ANDREE HAYWARD.


m
m
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 for 9d 20 for 1/6
%
3014
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Advice to Cabinet Ministers: Never
look a leased horse in the mouth in case
it bites.
No by-election speech was ever so
badly timed as Curtin’s at Geelong,
though it wasn’t the poor man's fault.
He had prepared elaborate arguments
against the sending of Australian troops
abroad and, by a cruel stroke of mis-
fortune, he had to deliver them while
Australia was ringing with the news that
its soldiers and Maoriland’s had arrived
in Egypt. By a great effort, leader and
candidate (unfortunately named Dedman)
prevented their internal misery mounting
to the features they turned on the audi-
ence, whose thoughts were ten thousand
miles away.
Egged on by the “Age” (no egging on
was necessary), Dunstan has induced the
Governor of Victoria to grant him a
dissolution eight months before the
Assembly would normally expire by
effluxion of time, and all because of his
private fight with Hocking. The wrangle
is of no consequence to 99.9 p.c. of the
Victorian electors, and Hocking is not
even in Parliament. With Labor’s sup-
port, the Government has a substantial
majority in the Assembly, and on the
question of Hocking’s “omission” from
the Savings Bank Board it had a majority
in both Houses. A flimsier pretext for
a premature election has never been put
forward. That it was swallowed by his
Excellency adds to the accumulation of
proofs that State Parliaments, State Gov-
ernments and State Governors are alike
superfluous.
Apropos of a car - manufacture
monopoly (gone west) and a brief back-
to-the-horse movement:
May 17. —“The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is not able to grant a manufacturing
monopoly to any single company.”—P.M.
Nov. 22.—W. J. Smith writes to J. N.
Lawson undertaking to form a company
for the manufacture of chassis and car
engines.
Nov. 23.—Racing mare Billie, owned by
W. J. Smith, dead-heats for first in a race
at Newcastle.
Dec. 7-B.—Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty
Bill introduced by Minister J. N. Lawson,
and rapidly passed.
Dec. 19. —Government accepts offer of
W. J. Smith, and guarantees a five years’
monopoly, £1,500,000 in bounties, substan-
n tial Government purchases and other con-
cessions.
Dec. 23. —Racing mare Billie wins at
Randwick for “Gordon Rodney.”
Jan. (no dates): J. N. Lawson owns up
to being “Gordon Rodney.” Reproved by
astonished P.M., he says Billie prize-money
went to W. J. Smith, and undertakes to
cancel his lease of the mare.
Feb. I.—P.M. publishes details of con-
tract and announces that it stands sus-
pended till Parliament decides.
Feb. 12. —Labor-leader Curtin makes
first public disclosure of lease of Billie by
W. J. Smith to J. N. Lawson, alias
“Gordon Rodney.”
Feb. 13.—P.M. admits that contract was
suspended because of J. N. Lawson’s
“great blunder,” and defends his refusal
to ask for “my colleague’s resignation.”
J. N. Lawson protests that “owning
and racing horses is probably the most
costly of all recreations,” and suggests that
“Mr. Curtin should acquire a horse.”
Feb. 14,. —Dr. Page suggests that J. N.
Lawson should be “under the care of a
nurse.”
Everybody left talking except W. J.
Smith. W. J. Smith is Somewhere-in-
America.
In August, and for years previously,
Communists in the Miners’ Federation,
the Waterside Workers’ Federation,
metal-trade unions and other organisa-
tions represented on the Sydney Labor
Co.uncil couldn’t find terms bad enough
for Hitler, Goring and Goebbels. They
were “thugs,” “Jew-baiters,” “Fascist
murderers” and “drug-addicts”— at least,
Goring was. Now the Miners’ Fed. Reds
are qualifying for an issue of iron crosses
on account of the beautiful coal strike
they are arranging, to which German
radio blatherskites are referring with
the utmost appreciation. Perhaps, since
their new friends seem to be rather short
of iron, the crosses will be made of
leathei.
By a great effort the N.S.W. deficit for
the current financial year was reduced
in January—to £5,566,000, roughly about
£2 per head of population. But at the end
of the month the position was still
£2,422,300 worse than after seven months
of 1938-39, and that year closed with a
deficit of £2,448,000. At least, Richard-
son, Stevens’s hapless successor, said it
was that, amidst loud laughter, which
was immediately suppressed.
Bruxner, who leads the N.S.W. Coun-
try party, pronounced abolition of State
Parliaments impracticable because West-
ralia, South Australia and the Speck
would never agree to it. Next month the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association, which
supports the Country party, will hold
its annual conference in Sydney, and
“The disclosure that A.I.F. troopships and war-station camps have wet canteens led to
a revival of the demand for wet canteens in Australia, A.I.F. padres and C.P. leader Cameron
joining in it.”
“Arguments for wet canteens, Mr. Menzies ? Here’s one day’s issue.”
10 branches have prepared resolutions
in favor of abolition.
After two months the A.B.C. “Weakly”
“estimates” that it sold 300,000 copies
of its first issue; and on its own show-
ing 40,000 copies were a war-time waste.
For reasons which the “Weakly” would
doubtless consider good, and the public
bad, “estimated sales” of other Decem-
ber issues are not given, and details of
the January circulation are jealously
guarded. A.B.C. is now almost the
“Weakly’s” only advertiser, and women
canvassers are making house-to-house
appeals for orders, the first of four
copies to be free. There has been no
greater flop in the history of Australian
journalism, and in one way or another
the listener, who pays a guinea a year
for a service worth fully 10s. 6d., has
to stand the racket.
Commonwealth and State Governments
will collect duties on £242,507 from the
Joseph Nathan estate. Joseph was one
of the Melbourne Nathans who, over a
term of years, forgot to mention a trifle
of £921,197 in their Commonwealth in-
come-tax returns. Joseph’s omission
amounted to £205,421, and for his forget-
fulness he was fined £38,872.
Gallivanting along the N.S.W. North
Coast, the .blundering Mair told the
Casino people that if the voluntary-con-
tributions scheme failed there would have
to be a compulsory levy for hospitals,
adding that hospitals should not have to
depend on the buoyancy of State
revenues. What buoyancy?
Premier Playford having referred com-
placently to the buoyancy of the State’s
revenue, Richards, leader of the Oppo-
sition, replied cynically that it was due
simply to the death of Langdon Bony-
thon. The old newspaper-owner left two
♦millions in South Australia alone, and
about £320,000 is being collected in duty.
N.S.W. Premier Mair has come out
with a plan (plans are in the fashion)
to establish a State electricity commis-
sion like the one in Victoria, with cen-
tral control of the sale of current and
power to local authorities. Victoria’s
scheme works well, partly because it was
put on its feet by Monash, and chiefly
because Victoria is a small place. It
might be a different story in N.S.W.,
where vast distances separate outer dis-
tricts from the capital. Mair unfolded
his plan to N.S.W. North Coast people.
They would fight any attempt by Sydney
politicians to gain control of their Nym-
boida scheme, and don’t want any of
these Mair’s nests.
In October, 1937, Labor won the three
Senate seats in Victoria, polling 473,664
No. 1 votes, whereas the U.A.P. got
389,294 and the Dunstan Country party
only 66,481. In all probability Labor’s
strength in the constituencies has since
increased. Yet Cain and his associates
have meekly kept the Dunstans in office,
and seem content to go on doing so,
though Dunstan himself admits that his
Government represents a mere 2 p.c. of
the electors; anyway, Cain abjectly
approves of Dunstan’s “reasons” for
going to the country and accepts even
more abjectly a distribution of seats
which gives office to 2 p.c. and denies
it to 52 p.c. or more. It is a gross
betrayal of the majority, and for that
majority u.nion under one Parliament,
with equal or nearly-equal electorates, is
the only hope.
People who ought to know better have
queer notions of the time it takes to
transport troops from Sydney to Suez.
Curtin asserted at Geelong that the Sixth
Division men had completed their voyage
days before the announcement was made,
and that the Government had withheld
the news to produce an effect in Corio.
Sydney “Sun’s” fantastic idea, published
in its first issue on Feb. 13, was that the
lads had landed 19 days before. Menzies
curtly replied that they had arrived on
Monday, Feb. 12, “at approximately 4
p.m.” Australian standard time, and that
he had made the fact known 80 minutes
afterwards.
Canberra has decided to restrict the
export of fossils. N.S.W. Premier Mair
is wondering whether it is now possible
for him to appoint another Agent-
General.
Bushfires have broken out again in
Victoria, but there is unlikely to be a
repetition of the havoc and loss of life
which prompted Premier Dunstan, speak-
ing a year ago in a burnt-out township,
to exclaim passionately, “This shall never
happen again.” The summer has been
cool and the winter was very wet; more-
over, scattered about the State are camps
of soldiers who give useful help when
help is needed. All the same, a year
elapsed before the Government took steps
to make the building of dugouts at saw-
mills compulsory, and there is as yet no
central and single authority to co-ordi-
nate the efforts of the departments which
the 1939 disaster found in conflict.
When Amour, one
of Lang’s four-A
Senators, reached
Canberra in July,
1938, he couldn’t
talk of anything but
the Sydney suburb
of Bankstown and
its wonderful muni-
cipal council, of
which he was —and
is—a member. Sena-
tors from other
States stood it as
long as they could;
but when the twen-
tieth panegyric on
Bankstown was be-
ginning they gave
the panegyrist the
Senatorial equivalent
of “the bird.” Now
he is getting “the
bird,” served with
•raspberry sauce,
from Bankstown.
Because of Spooner
loan works and
aldermanic extrava-
gance rates in Banks-
town have gone sky-high, and rate-
payers are holding protest meetings.
The Senator swarmed in to defend the
council and was howled down. He has
been reduced to arguing with the oppo-
sition through a friendly newspaper, and
hasn’t improved its temper by asserting
that protest meetings were packed.
Moved by complaints that State Gov-
ernment employees have been taking the
bread out of the mouths of people not
in steady jobs, the Adelaide Government
has notified the departments that full-
time employees are not to do outside
work, “except with express permission
of the Minister.” The instruction is aimed
particularly at men who take jobs as
tote clerks; there was already a ban on
“the acceptance of employment as a
bookmaker’s clerk or assistant.”
“C.Q.”: The 1933 census-takers found
992,000 people in Melbourne. In the
centenary year, 1934, the population
passed the million, and the Great Wen
is now estimated to shelter 1,046,750.
What would happen if the foe put Mel-
bourne out of action? More than half
the population of Victoria would be with-
out a home, and —because other ports
have been neglected—nearly the whole
population without a harbor.


HOUNDED.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
BUSINESS—AS USUAL, OR BETTER, OR WORSE?
WAR, INDUSTRY AND TAXATION
FACTS, FIGURES AND COMMENT ON THE
MONTH’S FINANCIAL HAPPENINGS.
February Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty„ Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEM S
No Air Minister has had more ex-
perience of flying than J. V. Fair-
bairn. He learnt to use the joystick in
the R.F.C. during the 1914-18 war, and
when he returned to civil life, having
bought a station at Mount Elephant in
the Vic. Western District, he took to
transporting himself by air between his
country home and his home in Mel-
bourne. He made a remarkable survey
flight to New Guinea just before the
present outbreak, and a great deal of his
political campaigning has been done in
his own machine. The other day he
tried the resources of a Wirraway in a
300-m.p.h. power-dive.
Gordon McKenzie, who will succeed
Ross Thomas as Director of Edu-
cation in N. S. Wales, has worked
his way up through all grades in
the service, latest stages being High
School headmaster, inspector and
deputy-chief inspector. His short term
as Director of the Child Welfare De-
partment gave him experience in dealing
with social questions which should prove
useful to him in his new office—pro-
visionally he’s to be Acting Director of
Education. He saw service in the 1914-
18 war.
With the retirement of G. Ross
Thomas from his job of Director of
Education, N.S.W. will be paying pen-
sions to three ex-directors, the others being
Peter Board and S. H. Smith. Labor
gave Board a blank cheque to develop
education, and he used it to some pur-
pose ; S. H. Smith arrived at a more
restricted period, and Ross Thomas had
to battle through the depression. Before
Labor reached power there was no re-
tiring-age limit, and Board’s predecessor
died in harness.
Alexander Melrose, recently appointed
chairman of the board of governors of
the Adelaide National Art Gallery, is a
76-year-old lawyer who comes of one
of the State’s pioneer families —it is a
hundred years since the first Melrose
MELROSE.
settled in S.A. to take up sheep-farming.
The new chairman has been a member
of the board previously, and his interest
in his duties was proved by a gift of
£lO,OOO towards the building of the new
western wing of the gallery, which is
named in his honor.
Arthur Clifton Wilkinson, g.m. of the
Globe Worsted Mills at Marrickville,
Sydney, has spent most of his life in
woollen manufacture. When he left
Sydney Grammar to earn his own living
he started with John Vicars and Co.,
Marrickville. After some experience he
went to England and finished his edu-
cation at Leeds Uni. Returning, he
A.C. WILKINSON.
joined Australian Woollen Mills, Ltd.,
also at Marrickville, and was manager
before he was 30. His recreations are
golf and surfing.
Garnsey Potts, who is to attend to
air-recruiting publicity, is a Victorian
from the Kelly country, son of a
former head of Hawkesbury College
(N.S.W.). He was trained as an electrical
engineer and went to the 1914-18 war
in his teens. Afterwards he was in one
of the four machines which attempted
to fly to Australia—the Blackburn Kan-
garoo in which Val Rendle and D. R.
Williams were pilots, Hubert Wilkins
navigator and Potts the engineer. They
made a gallant attempt, but came down
in Crete, while Ross and Keith Smith
went on to succeed. Since then Potts has
seen most of Australia, including Cape
York, and latterly has had charge of
Qantas and Imperial Airways publicity
in Sydney.
“Cauboy”: William G. James, the
A.B.C.’s quiet little Controller of Music,
has returned from the U.S.A. with some
startling information. He found that in
that wondrous land prima donnas are
made by machinery. For example,
Jeannette MacDonald sings her songs
phrase by phrase, each of which is
recorded half a dozen times; the best
pieces of each phrase are selected and the
whole slung together to make a cinema-
goer’s holiday. James was born in
Ballarat, was trained at the Melbourne
University Conservatorium, went to
London in 1914 and soon after was play-
ing at the Queen’s Hall and Albert Hall
special concerts. After the 1914-18 war
he played to large London audiences in
khaki. He has been a prolific composer,
and a ballet of his was produced at the
Savoy. His “Songs of the Australian
Bush” are miles and away the best work
done in that field to date.
Some pointed questions having been
asked of the Dunstan Government, J. C.
Jessop, the new Works Board chairman
in Melbourne, will glean a bare £l5OO
p.a. for a term of four years, and will
get £2OO a year for life if he retires dur-
ing the period, with pension increases up
to £5OO if he sticks it, but will have
to make a contribution of £lOO a year
for 12 years to a pension fund. This is
a considerable come-down from the con-
ditions enjoyed by David Bell, the just-
retired chairman. Jessop is managing
director of a home-building and finance
co. in Heidelberg; he must dispose of
all outside business interests before he
occupies his new position. Aged 47, he
has been chairman of Heidelberg City
Council’s finance committee since 1930,
and was Mayor of the town before it
became a city.
Port Pirie, S.A., gets a clever young
man as organiser and conductor of adult
education in Dr. G. S. Plant. He took
his M.A. degree at Melbourne Uni., then
went to London, where he sat under
Prof. Laski, of London Uni., and made
a name for himself in philosophy. He
has been Extension Board lecturer and
tutor in political institutions at Mel-
bourne Uni.
Dr. Michael Kelly had a 90th birth-
day party last week, and Sydney and the
State sent along their representatives to
do honor to the Archbishop. His
flock’s birthday gift was an undertaking
by the united parishes to assume liability
for the debt of £50,000 on St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Archbishop Duhig, of Bris-
bane, said that Dr. Kelly had lived under
six popes, one queen and four kings, and,
he added, “he has been loyal to them
all.” Dr. Kelly was consecrated a priest
in his native Ireland 63 years ago, and
was rector of the Irish College in Rome
when he was transferred to Sydney to be
Coadjutor Archbishop in 1901. He be-
came Archbishop in 1911. He has not
yet attained the record of longevity for
a Catholic bishop held by Archbishop
Redwood, of Wellington, M.L., who died
in 1935 aged 93, but may exceed it.
Despite a recent illness he was able to
thank his well-wishers in a feeling speech.
Robert D. Fitz Gerald, who has been
awarded the gold medal of the Australian
Literature Society, Melbourne, for the
best book published by an Australian
author in 1938, is the first writer to
carry off the prize with a book of poems.
The book was Moonlight Acre, which
contains “Essay on Memory,” the long
piece which won the sesquicentenary prize
poem competition. Previous awards have
all been for novels, winners being
Martin Boyd, Henry Handel Richard-
son, Vance Palmer, Frank Dalby
Davison, Leonard Mann, G. B. Lan-
caster, Eleanor Dark, Winifred Bir-
kett and Seaforth Mackenzie. Fitz-
Gerald, who is a tall, sunburned fellow
in his late thirties, is a Hunter’s Hill
(N.S.W.) native, and still lives there.
Educated at Sydney Grammar School
and Sydney Uni., he is a surveyor,
and has a job with the Ryde Muni-
cipal Council. His first book of
poems, The Greater Apollo: Seven
Metaphysical Songs, was privately
printed and distributed among friends,
his second was To Meet the Sun. He has
contributed verse to The Bulletin for
nearly 20 years.
Alfred Hart, M.A., M.Sc., secretary of
Melbourne Shakspeare Society, will
shortly be able to add a few more letters
to his name, his thesis on stolen and sur-
reptitious copies of the Bard’s works
having been passed by Melbourne Uni.
for the degree of LL.D. Hart has done
more patient delving into the dustheap
of Shakspearean origins than any other
local savant, and has contributed a
couple of works already to the thou-
sands of tomes that have been written
about the plays. He was born of Eng-
lish parents in U.S.A., was educated at
Melbourne Model School, and has been
head of the department of mathematics
and physics at the Technical School since
1908.
S. F. Edge, dead in England at 71,
was born in Sydney. He cut a figure in the
cycling world of the ’nineties, being the
winner of many classic races; later he
was g.m. successively of the New Howe,
Rudge and Dunlop concerns. In 1896 he
went into the motor business, dealing
in De Dion Bouton, Gladiator and
Napier cars. As a racing driver he had
many successes. He held the 24-hours
record (1581 miles) for 17 years, and was
the only Britisher to win the Gordon
Bennett race. Driving motor-boats he
won the Harmsworth trophy and the
Monaco “Championship of the Sea.” He
sold his business to Napier and Son in
1912 and went in for pig-breeding. Re-
entered the motor trade to introduce farm
tractors to Britain. For the last 10 years
or so he had been governing director
of A.C. Motors.
Dr. lan Wark, of the C.S. and 1.R.,
recently elected a Fellow of the Aus-
tralian Chemical Institute, used to be
research chemist for a group of mining
cos. and is now to take charge of chemi-
cal investigations in the secondary indus-
tries field. He was for two years hon.
sec. of the Vic. branch of the Institute.
His doctorate in science comes from
Melbourne Uni., his doctorate in philo-
sophy from London.
“Sandpatch”: A reference (B.
31/1/ ’4O) to Archdeacon Neild reminds
me of a demonstration of his great
strength in the bank I managed. A mus-
cular member of the staff picked up a
1000-folio bank ledger and, holding it
at arm’s length, gripped between the
fingers and thumb of his right hand,
asked the Archdeacon if he could do
likewise. “Lay it on the floor,” said Arch-
deacon Neild. He then stooped down,
and with one hand picked it up and,
describing an arc, held it above his head.
Like most of the clergy who pioneered
the back country, the Archdeacon hated
ecclesiastical frills and furbelows. A young
assistant who arrayed himself in a very
abbreviated surplice, adorned with yards
of lace, abruptly removed it when his chiej
icily requested him to wear a proper
ecclesiastical garment, and not his little
sister’s petticoat.
N. S. Wales Minister for Justice
Vernon Haddon Treatt let out his first
lusty bawl in 1897 at Singleton (N.S.W.).
He learned his three R’s at the Church
N.S.W. MINISTER FOR JUSTICE.
of England Grammar School, North Syd-
ney, and then moved on to St. Paul’s
College at Sydney Uni., where he took
his 8.A., the Pitt-Cobbett Prize for Con-
stitutional Law and the Wigram-Allen
Scholarship for Roman and Constitu-
tional Law. The war interrupted his
course, and he served in France with the
Australian Field Artillery and came home
with a Military Medal. In 1920 the
N. S. Wales Rhodes Scholarship took
him to Oxford, where he acquired his
M.A. and B.C.L. He was sub-warden at
St. Paul’s, Sydney Uni., until 1928, when
he took office as Crown Prosecutor and
held that job until he resigned in 1938 to
stand for Woollahra. He’s author of
Workers’ Compensation Law in N.S.W.,
is a great reader, played football, tennis
and swims.


'NO THAN®
Id rather have a Red Capt^
a
sxl
Kjz'n
r
%
'J , '<>/>S
I ?
G
;-SL\
v--
••••'%
Time f
Joe Jonsson, famous "Smith s
Weekly" artist, gives us this im-
pression of his favourite phrase
—"No, thanks. I'd rather have a
Red Capstan."
CAPSTAN
they re blended better
RfP
10 for B Dmm 20 far I'
ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES AND HUNDREDS
Capstan Special Mild Red Packs
Capstan Medium Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength .. Brovm Packs
CAPSTANS
40 lE-1.40


ABORIGINALITIES
“Turoar”: “Me an’ Tarry Tom’s ’ad
some queer ’appenin’s with fish,” said
Old Bob: “but the funniest thing wus
when we’re in a boat on the Murray
after cod. Tarry’s got a big spinner out
an’ I’m featherin’ the blades. All at
wunst somethink grabs the spinner.
Tarry’s just got time ter whip the line
around a seat or ’e’d ’a’ lost it alter-
gether. Cripes, it must’ve bin the biggest
cod ever bin known, for wot does ’e
do but pull us backward up the river
an’ me rowin’ like ’ell all the time. Yer
never seen nothink like it. Soon we’re
whackin’ erlong erbout twenty-five mile
a nour with the water pourin’ over the
stern like as if we’re a derstroyer flat out.
I wants ter cut the line, but Tarry—
blarst ’im! —says no. All uv a suddin
the cod loops the loop an’ keeps doin’
it until the knots in the line make it
on’y ’alf its proper length. Then it dives
back down the river. The suddin jerk
’urls the boat ’ead over ’eels, an’ me
an’ Tarry goes flyin’ through the air.
When we swims ter the bank an’ looks
round, we finds we got just 20 notes ter
ante up ter the bloke ownin’ the boat.
Yair, that blasted cod clears out with it
an’ we never seen it agin.”
* * * *
“Bogan Villa”: The Bush Brother
called at the station during the drought
when everything was dry and dusty and
most of the sheep were being fed. After
much persuasion Alf at last consented
to come to service in the dining-room.
“Well, Alf,” said the boss after it was
over, “what did you think of the ser-
vice?” “Well, boss,” replied Alf, “I
thought it was all fair dinkum till he
asked us all to pray for rain, with me
makin’ good wages cuttin’ scrub.”
% * * *
“H.A.E.”: Dalby (Q.) is recognised
among bagmen as a hard town for a
camp. A bunch of them were taking
things as easy as circumstances would
permit in a pig-pen at the stockyard. Re-
minders of its recent occupants were very
forcible, especially when the sun shone
at a certain angle, and activity among the
minute life that finds existence on such
fare was great. Then their idle gossip
was interrupted by an apologetic gent.
“I’m sorry, but I’ll have to ask you
blokes to shift,” he volunteered. “I’ve
got to clean this place out for some pigs
cornin’ in here this arvo!”
* * * *
“Flight”: Though he’s a bit of a nark
with other birds, the willie-wagtail has a
friendliness for Homo sapiens which is
proverbial, and for man’s four-footed
friends he also demonstrates affection.
But even when he perches perkily on the
back of Dobbin or Strawberry, they re-
gard his advances with cold indifference.
The frustrated cat hates him. It isn’t alone
in its hatred of that cheeky bird, however,
for the abos. share it. Over nearly
the whole of Queensland they regard Bill
as a fowl of ill omen, a teller of tales, a
pal of Old Nick, a bringer of cyclones
and other calamities. The blacks, and
particularly the gins, wage a constant war
on him —perhaps the gins hated him as
a teller of tales.
“B. A. Ker”: Every bird in the bush
knows the kookaburra for a cannibal
and nest-robber, and they’ll all have him
on if he is seen loitering in suspicious cir-
cumstances. But the feathered humorist
will fly from the smallest rather than
show fight. When the situation is re-
versed, however, it is a different story.
Jacko bars no weight and draws no
color-line. Recently saw a five-foot
goanna scale a tree to escape from a belli-
gerent cattle-dog. Before it had ascended
10 feet there was a flurry of wings and
an irate Jacko planted a stiff peck right
on the go.’s nose. The reptile took the
hint; like lightning, it spiralled down the
tree and streaked to a handy burrow, get-
ting the tip of its tail chewed by the mong
as it vanished. Apparently it preferred
the risk of teeth to beak.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “S. M. Herald” claims
that the sundowner is as extinct as the
dodo, but m the next breath discovers
one all wool and a yard wide:
The last sundowner of the old type that
I saw was tramping along the Murrum-
bidgee. His swag was carried in the tradi-
tional fashion —with the familiar blue
blanket rolled on the outside. He camped
at nightfall under a tree, alongside a
fence....He wore a rather wide-brimmed
felt hat, suspended from the brim of which
was a row of quandong seeds. He argued
that they looked neater than corks. He
had fashioned a pipe from a piece of
blackfellow’s-bread. To make his tobacco
last longer and give it a better flavor, he
mixed an equal quantity of wild musk
leaves with it. His tobacco was kept in a
snakeskin pouch. His hatband, belt, braces
and bowyangs were all made of snake-
skin.
Well, I hate to destroy Granny’s illu-
sions, but what she discovered was a
freak. In the first place, no ’Bidgee
bogger would be silly enough to roll his
blanket on the outside of the knot, where
it would collect burrs and bindi-eyes every
time he dropped it. He’d have an old
canvas, oilcloth or chaffbag cover over
his roll. Nor would he camp under a
tree, Riverina trees being notorious for
their habit of cracking off on a hot night
“A nice little titbit for you, puss, puss!”
and com j n g down with a loud thud. The
quandong decoration on the hat can be
dismissed, but I’d like to see anyone
srnoke a pjp e ma de from that odorous
f un g us and survive. The musk leaves
mixed with the tobacco give further proof
0 £ j nsan j t y and the snakeskin appurten-
anceg fir / all reveal the who f e p i ot .
Gr has put over a snake yarn or
had one £ yer h j dunno which .
* K # * *
. ~ T ~ u r „
, Karme . In the matter of sme the
thorn-apple (.Datum), wrongly named
castor-oil plant on the Downs (Q.), is a
Jekyll and Hyde. It throws off a nauseat-
ing odor in the heat of the day, and chop-
ping the stuff out is a vile job. At sun-
down the revolting leaf smell fades, and
the white trumpet flower sends out a deh-
cate perfume. Its cloying night sweet-
ness is more easily understood when one
remembers that the fragrant exotic Brug-
manasia is a near relative.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “Ar!” scoffed old
Larry. Youse blokes don t know what
boggy country is. I’m workin on Mulga
Downs when the big floods was on in
’ B7 - Y ’ §>t nine foot o’ black soil there
in pl aces - Well, one day when I’m ridin’
alon § a blt of hi e h ground I seen a good
sort a hat lyin’ in the bog. Me own
cady wa§ about settled? SQ j rgckoned rd
get it, an’, leavin’ me horse, I ploughs in
through the muck. When I picks up the
hat I nearly turned a back-’un when I
seen a bloke’s head stickin’ outa the mud.
‘Just as well yer come along, mate,’ he
says, ‘l’ve been here two days an’ I’m
nearly all in ; give us a pull out.’ I grabs
him by the neck right away an’ starts
yankin’ like mad. But he don’t budge an
inch. ‘Jest hold on a minute, mate,’ he
says ; ‘p’raps it’ll be easier for y’ if I take
me feet outa the stirrups!’”
****
"Wang": “I wus mates once with a
young chap who wus alwus readm books
of the bloodcurdlin sort” related Dan.
“He useter give me the Joes, wakin’ up
in the middle of the night yellin’ with
fright after a go of his fav’rite author.
It got too much fer me, so I decides t’
put a stop to it. One night when young
Joe had gone t’ sleep I sneaked out of
the hut an’ ligged meself up in a get-up
Ed prepared—a long black gown with a
skelington painted with phosphorus, what
the boss kept for makin’ poison-baits, on
the front of it. I opens the hut door
an’ gives a coupla holler groans. Joe
wakes up, looks across at where I’m
standin’, gives a yell an’ flops back on
his bunk, an’ lies still. When I get back
he’s lyin’ there breathin’ soft an’ easy,
sleepin’ with a contented look on his
dial. That had stopped his gallop, I
reckoned. But, strike me lucky, had it!
Next mornin’ Joe ses t’ me he’d had a
glorious dream the previous night. Reck-
oned he’d dreamt the ghost skelington of
The Abbot of the Moated Grange, the
book he’d been readin’ when he fell
asleep, had appeared t’ him. ‘Plain as I see
you now, Dan,’ he ses t’ me. ‘l’m gettin’
a bonzer book t’ read t’night,’ he goes
on ; ‘it’s called The Murdered Mechanic.
Cripes, I might see him t’night if I’m as
lucky as I was larst night; an’ t’morrer
I’m gettin’ the loan of The Laughin’
Corpse. I might see’ Strike me
han’some, that wus too much fer me.
I couldn’t act them sorter characters, so
I shifted me camp inter the loose box
in the stable.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: One of the commonest
pictures in Australian fiction is the snake
in multitudes, slithering frantically before
the advancing bushfire. My experience
with Joe is that, on the average, he hasn’t
sufficient sense to do that. Recently
explored a wide thicket of burnt West-
ralian poison box, fired expressly to out
the multitude of wrigglers in its depths.
Came on scores of snakes —roasted. And
most of them were up the burnt box
shrubs. That had been their idea of a
refuge when the flames came along—not
to run but to climb.
* * * *
“Leso”: Spicer’s pet wallaroo doe
Nell spent a nine days’ holiday every
year among wild mates on Ophir
Common, 12 miles from her home. While
there she would always come to Jimmy’s
hut at sundown for a bit of tucker. Jimmy
wanted to see Spicer, but there was no
mail, so on the eighth night of Nell’s visit
he wrote a note and put it carefully into
her pouch. She got an extra bit of cheese
that night. Sure enough, three days later
Spicer arrived. He told us that old Nell
hopped straight up to him at his back-
door, put both her paws into her pouch
and emptied out the note at his feet. We
couldn’t always believe all Spicer said,
but, anyhow, he got the note.
Hi % % *
" Trev dec": What is the longest rail
jo a fa , sh has made be£ore being
, , \ , . Y. , a or-v,,-r.rr ,tc
slaughtered immediately upon reaching ffs
destination? Once heard of some jum-
bucks being carried for 500 mi es in
l° r tbe sole purpose of ge ing
{h eir throats slit; but Westralia s^ err, s 0
be creeping up close to a record. e-
cently 600 tat merino wethers were trans-
EP rte d If Kingoonya to Parkes on
line) to become pait o li-
goorlie s meat diet. The distance is
mil es.
t ** * * ,
Cape Voltaire’: I ell C. York (B.
24/1/’4O) that I heard about those Dam-
Icy Island Japs dipping into 45 fathoms
way back in 1911. They were said then
to stay only four minutes on the bottom,
grabbing what shell they could. Two dips
a day was their limit—eight minutes of
actual working time. Their alleged ex-
ploits stirred Broome pearlers to deri-
sion. Now they dive with only head-
piece and corselet! How do they with-
stand the cold, soaked to the skin and
exposed to enormous pressure? Suit-
divers wear canvas waterproofs, not so
much for the “protective cushion” of
air as to keep dry and warm. A leaky
suit is anathema to the average diver.
Under the waterproof Broome divers —
Jap, Koepanger or white—always wear
thick flannel underclothes, leg-length
flannel drawers taped around the ankles.
Some men wear up to three such suits
merely to keep warm. Below 20 fathoms
cold becomes intense—at 45 fathoms it
must be blood-chilling. Maybe those
Darnley Island Japs really get down to
45 fathoms, or perhaps it is only the
blah-blah of pleasure-cruise journalists
kidding southern city-dwellers about the
wonders of the North. Not long ago
one solemnly told of a Jap out from
Darwin who perished in 35 fathoms be-
cause he would persist in removing his
helmet at that depth—to obtain a drink,
presumably. Anyway, ashore from The
Graveyard of King Sound, W.A., is a
neat little cemetery filled with Nip-
ponese who ventured below 30 fathoms
in those enticing but treacherous depths.
And many of them were dead when
hauled up, some crushed.
* * * *
“Humper”: Some of the tricks used by
pad-floggers to grab free transport on
the country’s railway systems are pretty
clever, but it looks as though the prize
must go to the bloke who was caught
greasing the rails to slow down the train
for his convenience.
RAFFERTY RIDES AGAIN.
There’s a road outback that becomes a track
Where the hills dip down to the plain;
And on misty moonlit nights up there
The old inhabitants all declare
On his big black stallion (or was it a mare?)
Rafferty rides again.
A bushranger bold in the days of old,
’Twas an evil name that he bore,
Till they shot him down from behind a tree —•
At least that’s the yarn they told to me
When I asked who this Rafferty bloke might
be,
And what he was riding for.
And it now appears, after all the years
That low in his grave he has lain,
That o’er the hills, in the same old way,
Dashing and debonair, bold and gay,
On his chestnut charger (or was it a bay?)
Rafferty rides again.
I have waited long the old hills among,
But my vigils have been in vain;
I’ve perched all night in a towering tree,
But devil a ride he’d ride for me,
Though I would have given the world to see
Rafferty ride again.
But the tale is true that I’m telling you,
Though it’s ages since he was slain;
To all the folk in the hills ’tis known
That, bony and spectral, and all alone,
On his snow-white courser (or was it a roan?)
Rafferty rides again.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


“Kerys”: Old Sam had been on a
bender at Gum Tree Creek for nearly a
fortnight, and the pub was somewhat
fed up with his presence. When the
lorry from Gum Tree station came in
to collect supplies sent by rail, Bung
decided to send Sam home on it to his
camp 20 miles away. It was late after-
noon when Sam, oblivious, was hoisted
into the back of the lorry and placed
on a couple of sacks. The cold air and
the jolting soon bumped him into semi-
consciousness, and he began to take an
interest in things around him. Beside
him lay a peculiar-looking object encased
in canvas. Sam gingerly lifted a corner
of the covering and looked at it. For
a few awful seconds he gazed at the
golden frame and the strings, then realisa-
tion came, and with an unearthly yell
he leapt from the lorry. When the driver
and his offsider lit out after him Sam
was legging it breathlessly back to the
township. “Giddout,” he shouted, hear-
ing his pursuers in the background. “I
tell yer I’m not dead. An’ even, if I am
I ain’t goin’t’ play no harp f’ nobody.”
With that he staggered on afresh, and
the driver and his mate returned to the
lorry, where the big harp imported by
the station-owner’s musical daughter had
the back of the vehicle to itself for the
rest of the journey.
* * * *
“Rus”: “Coral’s” par. (B. 10/1/’4O)
on the disposal of defunct Binghi heroes
reminds me of the occasion on which I
inspected the burial cave of Sobia and
Waiaia, two storied stalwarts of Torres
Strait island song and dance. I noticed
that only the bare outer shell of the
two skulls remained, and hazarded the
suggestion that probably ants or goannas
had eaten the interior bone linings.
Piously Jacobo Baira, descendant of
one of the warriors, explained that all
the interior of the skull of a deceased
hero was scraped with pearlshell knives
to extricate the brain and its housing,
and these were dealt out parsimoniously
to as many warriors as possible in the
belief that the consumers would inherit
the military prowess of the departed.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: One of the sights of the
North Australian bush is the green tree-
ant busy establishing a communal home
or extending the old one. Any sort of
tree, practically any sort of leaf, serves.
Starting with a footing on the founda-
tion leaf, a team of grabbers and holders
will reach out for the next leaf, haul it
in and hold it fast. Meanwhile the
weavers are off down to the nursery.
Back they come, each with an undevel-
oped baiby carried daintily in the man-
dibles. These babies in some peculiar
way secrete a kind of silk, a function
quite alien to the mature ant. Skilfully
pinched, they pour out a tiny spray of
viscous fluid, which dries almost in-
stantly. To and fro across the junction
of the two leaves the weavers swing with
their living shuttles; as fast as one is
emptied another standing by takes its
place. Up to a dozen pupae may be
emptied before a stubborn leaf is con-
sidered fixed. The hauling gang then
goes for the next leaf. This may be
beyond reach. So a living chain will be
formed, mandibles gripping on to
abdomens, legs gripping anywhere, and
up to half a dozen trapeze artists will
swing out. Sometimes a dozen such
chains will be needed, but the leaf will
“Must be shock troops, mum.”
finally be hauled in and sewn into place.
So leaf after leaf, until the completed
nest is the size of a big football, firmly
held together with silk. And safe, a
home for perhaps a thousand individuals,
high and dry above any inundation that
the “wet” season may bring.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: An amazing sight is
the nesting of magpie geese in Arnhem
Land. I travelled for 10 or 12 miles
over a flooded plain with hundreds of
thousands of geese waving their heads
and necks around me like a vast
assemblage of snakes waiting to strike.
The plain was covered with a heavy ac-
cumulation of coarse, dry, partly-rotten
grass, and the birds had settled closely on
this without attempting to make regular
nests. Incidentally, these geese were the
noisiest fowl I ever met. When the birds
arrive on the breeding ground they come
in such multitudes that they darken the
sky like a thundercloud. They arrive in
exceptionally fine condition, and for a
time “the goose hangs high” for Black
Brother, who later varies the menu with
eggs, preferably those containing imma-
ture goslings. When the hatching season
is over the birds are very thin and lousy,
many of them being unable to fly, but
they soon gain sufficient strength to carry
them back to their regular feeding
grounds.
* * * *
“Golive”: Mention of gidyas and
coolabahs in Henry G. Lamond’s short
story “Choice” (B. 17/1/’4O) places the
scene of the dingo’s mating in either
western N.S.W. or Queensland ; therefore
the statement that the mating season
starts with “the first keen touch of
winter” is due for correction ; neither do
dingo packs split up at that season. At
the beginning of winter dingoes form into
packs and leave the rough country to pad
in numbers along netting fences. What
bushman has not heard the dingo mob
howling on a cold, frosty night in the
dead of winter? Another part I question
is that in which the dingo bitch is sup-
posed to look on while her new mate
does all the killing. A dingo bitch would
not forgo the pleasure (to her) of a kill
“Sentry’ll be back in a jiff, Warder!”
for all the dogs ever
whelped. Again, din-
goes do not fight breast
to breast, their style
being to sidestep and
snap at the same time,
the snap taking the
piece bitten clean out
with hardly a sign of
a rip. The usual mat-
ing-time for dingoes is
towards the end of
June. Pups are born
about 60 days after-
wards, being lanky
enough around Christ-
mas-time to run in
numbers according to
the litter in which they
are born, taking their
places in the larger
packs late in April.
* >l=
“Stanous”: I like
“Colbun’s” tribute to
tin (B. 24/1/’4O), so
recite a few more vir-
tues. Mix tin with
inert lead, and you have
the most wonderful
alloy ever discovered —
common solder. Civil-
ised man has long ago
grown blase at the
magical properties of that simple
alloy. Yet applied with a copper bolt,
heated in a wood fire, solder will firmly
unite sheets of every commercial metal
save aluminium. Thus solder only a
decade ago promoted the fabrication of
quite half the implements and utensils of
domestic life. Consider what solder did
for Australia. Without it there had been
no cheap billies. The pioneer and the
swaggie would have been forced to rely
on copper, four times more costly and
also liable to develop poisons if used as
a container for strong black tea or
stewed rabbit over extended periods, ser-
vices which the tin billy, made water-
tight with solder, performed without
harm. Solder also made possible the
first canning of foodstuffs, while tin itself
made the thin sheet-iron container rust-
proof. Tinned food enabled man to open
up remote quarters of the globe which
otherwise might still have remained un-
explored. Then tinned kerosene, bring-
ing cheap illuminant to countless millions
and handy utensils to numberless thou-
sands. Without tinplate and solder the
early transport of kero, would have been
impossible. Again, at the other end of
the scale, mix phosphorus with molten
tin, add the mixture in definite quanti-
ties to molten copper, and you have the
world's supreme bearing metal —the
metal that carries the tailshafts of almost
every vessel, from the harbor tug to the
Queen Mary.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Recuperating in Egypt
in 1916 I partook regularly of a dish
which I believed to be stewed horse. It
was dark-colored, short-grained meat,
devoid of fat, rather sweetish and not un-
savory. Still, that wasn’t the same thing
as eating horseflesh, certified by the Q.M.
as such. It may have been carnel or
donkey. Most Australians are by no
means partial to old worn-out working
bullock or billygoat. Even prime, lucerne-
fed Suffolk Punch filly marketed (if that
were feasible) at 3d. a pound would not
(I venture to affirm) appeal to my coun-
trymen’s palates —and I’m here to tell
them why. It is because the prad, unlike
the ox, the sheep and the hog, sweats
through the pores of the skin.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Those Torres Strait
abos. (B. 24/1/’4O) must have learned
the art of sequestration from dinkum
Aussies of the old school. I well remem-
ber my old man telling of flogging the
storekeeper’s sacks in order that the
teamster’s own flour supply might hang
out. They were 200-pounders in those
days, and the jute was more loosely
woven, so it was quite easy. Sugar, too,
was easily tapped. It came in matting
bags from Java and elsewhere, A pointed
stick worked in through the coarse pan-
danus strands readily set the crystal
grains running. Rice came in the same
way—and was as easily ullaged. But
the really fine work was done when
carrying liquor. Everyone knows about
boring a gimlet hole, to be later plugged
up. And of the table-knife worked in
between the staves. But there was a way
to sample the bottled stuff without open-
ing the case. First a spread tarpaulin
or other waterproof, and a clean, solid
block of wood set in the centre. A few
good bumps with a corner of the case
on the wood, and, lo! liquor poured
forth much as Moses striking the rock
in the wilderness. French cognac was
the favorite —it came in bottles thin as
eggshell. Naturally there would be a mild
flavor of tarpaulin and straw. “Roads
rougher than the hobs of hell,” would be
the answer to a consignee’s complaint.
THE SEARCH.
IVe dropped me swag in many camps
r west t’ Boulder,
Andrade all sorts o’ outback champs.
A a . many a title-holder. .
But thSeh I’ve heard the episode
Re drover told, an’ dogger
1 Who^beat (
There lives the man outslept the toad—
A champeen blanket-flogger
Rut he is not the bloke who rode
B The big white bull through Wagga.
The cove that hung up Bogan Gate
Once called me in a hurry 5)
T* buy drinks f’r his China plate,
The bloke that dug the Murray
An’ though down south of Beechworth-road
| met Big Bob the Frogger,
Pve still t’ meet the bloke who rode
The big white bull through Wagga.
The man who steered the kangaroo
From Cue t’ Daly Waters;
The cove who niccd the emu, too,
T* win three sQuatters daughters,
I know the fellow moved the load
That stopped the Richmond logger;
But still 1 want the bloke who rode
The big white bull through Wagga.
But some fine day I’ll run him down,
An’ stop his flamin’ skitin’.
I’ll punch him on his lyin’ crown,
Or go down gamely fightin’.
For I'm the bloke t’ whom is owed
What’s paid that limelight-hogger.
I’d love t’ meet that bloke who rode
The big white bull through Wagga.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
II THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman), Orwell Phillips (Deputy
Chairman), Robert J. A. Massie, Geoffrey F. Hughes,
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D.
General' Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES THROUGHOUT
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.B.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 6199 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041 2250 Nil 6.483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 5580 26,487
1933.. 8,049 2082 2500 Nil 4007 22,420
1934.. 3,6G9 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5809 12,920
1937.. 10,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4,950 5011 3,008
This co. is in the highly-competitive
men’s - wear manufacturing business,
shirts, collars and pyjamas being the
chief lines. Slump ushered in a run of
bad luck a decade ago, and for the nine
years to the close of accounts in 1938
the ords. went hungry. But the dead
horse of accumulated pref. divs. has now
been worked off, and the ords. are back
in the picture again with 3 p.c. Sub-
ject to economic and industrial develop-
ments, their chances of receiving a bit
more are encouraging, though no harm
will be done if the div. is kept at a rela-
tively low rate and both the prop for
capital and the financial position
strengthened.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the effects of drought
and bushfires in some parts, and of low
prices for exports and rising costs, were
largely offset by easy-money conditions
and a high level of employment. Then,
following the outbreak pf war, the
rationing of overseas credit, control of
imports and dislocation of shipping made
delivery of the co.’s raw materials from
overseas uncertain for a while. How-
ever, substantial stocks were held, and,
the board says, “so far as we can see,
our manufacturing programme is not
likely to be affected by lack of raw
materials, as shipments from England are
now arriving regularly.”
Despite the difficulties, gross earnings
(£104,557) improved by £16,837. Includ-
ing something for taxation and bad
debts, exes. (£83,515) took £12,885
of the increase, leaving the net result
£3952 better at £21,042, the best show-
ing for over a decade. The £21,042 was
enough to pay a full year’s pref. divs.
(together £6581) and show 8.7 p.c. on
ord. capital. Actually, the firsts got
7 p.c., the seconds 18 p.c. (9 p.c. was the
last of arrears) and the ords. 3 p.c. When
the accounts were ruled off, the whole
of the capital and £3608 besides were rep-
resented by tangibles in the books—good-
will (£10,000) has not been treated as an
asset herein—-and that leaves out of the
reckoning provision for taxation (£8983,
up £4650),
The £244,736 of capital is in 29,736 A
7 p.c. and 50.000 B 9 p.c. cum. prefs,,
all of £1 each, and 330,000 10s. ords.:
1936. 1937. 1938. 1939'.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 133,714 102,524 95,201 70,073
Premises . . 109.707 108,969 107,880 102,890
Plant, etc. . . 52,005 50.020 49,167 48,050
Book debts . . 95,313 89,949 79,006 118.685
Stock. . . . 104,129 93,305 115,221 68,588
Cash, etc. . . 16,605 12,685 2,707 5,221
Last term £25,128 was clipped off the
outside debt, reducing the overdraft to
£51,152, and £39,679 was added to
debtors’ balances, now higher than at
any time since the boom burst. Stocks
were reduced by £46,633. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£122,421) was £20,688.
As for the current term, it is doubtful
whether much, if any, further increase
in sales can be expected, and costs, in-
cluding taxation, are on the up-grade.
Alive to its problems, the management
has sent executives overseas to keep
abreast of modern developments and
review sources of raw-material supplies.
On ’Change the ords. fetch 7s. 6d. —
ss. 3d. a year ago—to return 4 p.c. The
Bs at 30s. yield 6 p.c. The As seldom
come on to the market. The net tangible
cover is £8 7s. Id. As, £4 7s. sd. Bs and
10s. 2d. ords.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To lie- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Oft. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 12,569 20 p.c. = 10,500 2303 12,904
1930.. 5,257 10 ~ „ 5,250 3055 9,850
Loss.
1931.. 1,018 Nil <1958 6,280
Profit.
1932.. 201 Nil 201 0,541
1933.. '1,087 ' Nil 1087 7,028
1934.. 3,700 0 p.c. = 3,150 550 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 „ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1930.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 \ . „
Stall' bonus, £1720 .. . . J ’
1937.. 8,859 12 p.c. = 0,300 { Iflnn
Staff bonus, £1559 .. . . ) luuu
mS.. ! 1,376 12 pc = 0,300 - l 307(i 16 206
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. .. J ’
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 153 15,359
The earnings of this real-estate agency
business reflect the vicissitudes of the
metropolitan property market. In the
1920’5, when high prices were obtained
for wool, wheat and other products, and
when overseas borrowing was the key-
note of the Government’s financial policy,
promiscuous speculation in city and sub-
urban freeholds —properties changed
hands two and three times a year—drove
values to highly-inflated levels; and this
meant fat profits for R. and W. and
others in the business.
But those days have gone and aren’t likely
to return. With the arrival of slump and
Langism, the early 1930’s saw destruction
of confidence in the future of property
as an investment. With the restoration
of better government and more stable
economic conditions, confidence slowly
returned, as the following comparison of
Sydney property sales shows:
City. Suburbs.
1924 .. .. £2,100,000 £3,500,000
1920 .. .. 7,000,000 3,750,000
1928 .. .. 2,750,000 4,810,024
1930 .. .. 098,575 1,339,977
1931 .. .. 304,420 484,528
1932 .. .. 660,695 580,782
1933- .. .. 780,385 793,852
1934 . . . . 850,904 1,563,503
1935 .. .. 1,238,0.58 2,338,785
1930 .. .. 1,174,431 2,993,843
1937 .. .. 887,034 4,307,877
] 938 .. .. 1.185,105 5,083,589
1939 . . . . 575,082 4,925,390
Last year a dry spell in the back-coun-
try, low prices for wool and wheat, a
series of international crises, followed by
war, and the belief that the economic
barometer might soon begin to fall
caused buyers of city properties to go
into their shell. Sales (down £610,083)
were the lowest since 1931, the trough
of the depression. Home-building, stimu-
lated by the State Government bank, kept
the sale of suburban properties (down
£158,193) relatively high.
R and W.’s turnover (£890,360) fell
away £459,552. Gross earnings (£27,197)
were £5512 lighter, while exes. (£21,268)
were reduced by only £65, leaving the net
result (down £5448) at 11.2 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 21.6, 16.8, 17.9, 8.9, 7 and
a shade over 2 p.c. back to 1933. A
point was taken off the div., reducing
it to 11 p.c.
Assuming that advances are readily
realisable, practically the whole of the
co.’s assets are liquid:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. . . £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities. . . . 17,230 25,956 15,279 10,720
Advances . . . . 48,040 34,227 30,302 27,361
Cash, etc... .. 25,382 55,304 51,079 49.221
Odds and ends . . 3,571 3,770 3.885 2,809
Sundry debtors .. 4,413 4,266 5,202 4,338
The position is obviously comfortable,
the outside debt being nearly five times
covered by cash, etc., alone.
The f.-p 15s. shares, covered by 19s. 4d.
in net tangibles, are closely held. No
sales have been recorded on ’Change this
year.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1929 .. 101,680 Nil _ 77,122
1930 .. 35.570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,003 Nil 3,003 109,029
1932 .. 3,902 Nil 3,902 105,727
1933 .. 230 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 10,113 65,535
1930 .. 44,080 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.0,, „ 28,389 17,123 28,065
1938 . . 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,970
1939 . . 29,098 10 p.c. = 24,334 5,304 19,012
For the investor, scrip in this class of
business is a question of average rather
than immediate returns. The co.’s runs
are out west in N. S. Wales and over
the border in Queensland. The big
gamble is seasons and prices, and far
too seldom is there a favorable combina-
tion of the two. When such a happy
state of affairs does occur very satis-
factory returns are won, as in ’36 and
’37, and to a less extent last term.
For 23 years to the close of accounts
in 1923 divs. averaged 4\ p.c. Then half
the capital was jettisoned to cover amor-
tisation of leases. On the other half
(£146,002) an average of 20.7 p.c. was
paid for the five years to the end of
1928. Next, £275,000 of fresh share
capital was gathered to buy Quantam-
bone, near Brewarrina (N.S.W.). Drought
followed, a loss of £101,680 showed up
in ’29 and another of £35,570 in ’3O, and
the co. went to its bankers for £151,000-
odd to save the breeding ewes, rams and
young wethers. For the next three years
slump and seasonal conditions made it
difficult to squeeze much in the way of
profit out of the business. But things
have looked up since, and shareholders
have had an average of a wink under
7 p.c. over the last five years, of which
’3B was a lean one, owing to drought
and low prices.
Last term Nature was kind. Early
rains were followed by good falls during
the winter months. Recordings on the
co.’s five properties compare as follows
over the last two years:
1938. 1939.
Thurulgoona .. .. 10.30 in. 14.38 in.
Noorama .. .. 11.30 in. 21.55 in.
Bundaleen .. . . 9.02 in. 18.34 in.
Quantambone .. . . 9.00 in. 19.24 in.
Bundabulla . . . . 10.15 in. 21.25 in.
An extra 20,707 sheep passed over the
board, and the clip (an extra 1116 bales)
averaged £2 10s. Bd. per bale more than
the previous year’s:
, Sh eep N
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1928.. 82,507 176,747 1887 £43,856 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 15/4/10
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25.300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3826 44.081 11/10/4
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4026 55,719 12/0/11
1933.. 173,200 137,904 3820 74,274 19/8/10
1934.. 155,935 184,409 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 148,091 4086 09,075 16/18/
1936.. 131,167 100,344 3912 70,769 19/12/5
1937.. 116,690 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/5
1939.. 95,212 125,508 2958 48,381 16/7/1
The wool cheque was £22,926 better
than the previous year’s, sale of sheep, etc.,
turned in £22,458 (up £4343) and £1668
was received in interest, etc. Exes.
(£42,809) were only £577 heavier, leaving
the net result £26,609 better at 12.2 p.c.
on capital.
Shareholders got 10 p.c., and prospects
of that rate being repeated during the
current term are encouraging. There is
a good body of dry feed on the runs, and
stock are expected to do well during the
summer months, while a satisfactory
price for the clip is assured by Britain’s
purchase of it.
The f.-p. 30s. shares, covered by
275. 7d. in net tangibles, fetch 225. in
the market to return 13.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities . . 7,332 1,179 318 323
Stations, plant,
etc. .125,141 107,718 102,019 97,517
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 75,599 02,132 51,500 00,134
Wool unsold.. 1,317 10,207 223
Cash, etc. .. 3,189 81,012 75,054 102,518
Outstanding feature last year was the
improvement of £26,864 in the cash, etc.,
position, now more comfortable than it
has been for years.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To lie- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929 . . 8540 10 p.c. = 7930 010 19,081
1930 .. 0032 74 „ „ 5947 85 19,768
1931 .. 1484 0i „ „ 4758 16,492
1932 .. 5028 7 „ „ 6551 15,969
1933 .. 0257 7 „ „ 5651 700 16,675
1934 .. 4477 SJ„ „ 43G2 115 16,790
1935 .. 4247 5 ~ „ 3905 282 17,072
1936 . . 5957 74 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 . . 712 G 8 ~ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 . . 0592 7J ~ „ 5947 045 18,509
1939 . . 5027 7 „ „ 5551 70 18,585
The belting and other leather products
which this co. manufactures are sold all
over Australia, and strong connections
have been established in Maoriland and
East Asia, where the Sino-Jap conflict
has lately interfered with earnings. Con-
sidering the keenness of competition,
fluctuation in the price of hides, which
are the co.’s chief raw material, and the
upward trend of costs and other difficulties
in the path, the slip of £965 in last year's
profit was less than might have been
expected.
Some former channels of lucrative
trade turned in less, but good progress
was made in other directions, and turn-
over began to improve as the year ad-
vanced. The £5627 of profit claimed was
a wink over 7 p.c. on capital as against
8.3, 9, 7.5, 5.3, 5.6, 7.8 and 6.3 p.c. back
to 1932. Half a point was cut off
the div., reducing it to 7 p.c. But the
final was at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., making
the average over the last decade 6.8 p.c.
During the slump the co. never failed
to make an annual distribution, the
lowest being 5 p.c. in 1935.
The board anticipates that the recent
“betterment in the position will be sus-
tained while hostilities continue.” Pro-
duction costs and taxation can, however,
be expected to keep improvement in
earnings within a narrow limit.
The market, uncertain as to what the
future holds, prices the pound shares,
covered by 245. Bd. in net tangibles, at
par or thereabouts. Considering the his-
tory of the business and its performances
to date, the shares appear to be worth
consideration at their present price.
There is nothing much to worry about
in the co.’s finances:
1 Qor: 1007 1 qoq I Q3-Q
Capital .. . . £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities.. .. 32,740 13,914 31,926 26,027
Freeholds . . .. 50.881 50,881 58,477 58,978
Plant, etc. . . 6,895 5,859 7,191 8,301
Stocks . . . . 53,658 42,892 54,452 42.275
Book debts . . 18,398 13,037 10.903 16,225
Cash, etc. . . 2,177 2,498 2,404 2,219
Of the £26,027 (down £5899) of liabili-
ties, £22,569 is coming to the co.’s
bankers. But more or less liquids ex-
ceeded liabilities by £36,692 (down £1141)
when the books closed. Stocks, one of
the vulnerable points in the co.’s armor,
were £12,177 lower than at the previous
balance. Further substantial additions
are to be made to plant (up £lllO net
last term), which is reported well main-
tained and in good order; and much
depends upon that.
{“The Wild Cat Column” continued on
page 20.)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C. ;
Win. White; Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLI.ISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt,
GOLD
WHERE AND HOW
TO FIND IT
Two practical new books by
lON L. IDRIESS
PROSPECTING FOR GOLD
The Likeliest Country to Try—Dishing, Banjoing
and Cradling—Water Power and Boxing—Hand
Sluicing and More Power—Sluicing and Cleaning
Up—Gold Saving and Dam Building—How to Make
Water Work—River Work: Osmiridium: Platinum—
S'ccrets of Alluvial Gold—Dry-stacking—Wet Season
Claims—Prospecting for Old River-beds—Hydraulic
Sluicing—Elevators—Dry-blowing and Nuggets—
Prospecting for Reefs—Erecting a Battery—Amalga-
mation—Cyanide Process—Opal Mining—Prospecting
for Oil.
Price 5/- (post 3d.)
CYANIDING FOR GOLD
Sampling Sand and Slime Dumps—Treating Sand by
Leaching—Treatment of Slime—Care of Zinc Box:
Cleaning Up—Bullion: Fluxes: Direct Smelting—
Apparatus for Solution Testing—Testing Solutions:
Free Cyanide and Protective Alkalinity—Air-slaked
Lime Discovery—Acids in Material: “Cyanicides”—
Copper Troubles—Treatment of Concentrates—Diffi-
culties—Amalgamation—Assaying—'Flotation—Simple
Chemistry—Testing for Minerals.
Price 10/- (post 5d.)
POST ORDER NOW
Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the book(s) I have marked.
Enclosed is £ : :
PROSPECTING FOR GOLD
CYANIDING FOR GOLD.
Name
Address
B. 21/2/’4O.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT.
IN the matter of GOLD MINES OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED
And in the matter of the COMPANIES
ACT 1938.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Order of the Supreme Court dated the Ist day
of February 1940 confirming the reduction of
the capital of the abovenamed Company from
£500,000 (divided into 1,000,000 shares of 10/-
each) to £125,000 (divided into 1,000,000 shares
of 2/6 each) by (a) cancelling paid-up share
capital to the extent of £77,283/15/-, which
capital has been lost or is unrepresented by
available assets; (b) paying off paid-up share
capital to the extent of £79,372/10/-, which
capital is in excess of the wants of the said
Company (such paying off being effected by the
distribution among the holders of the 417,750
issued shares in the capital of the said Com-
pany of certain shares held by the said Com-
pany in Morning Star (G.M.A.) Mines No
Liability, Triton Gold Mines No Liability, and
Victoria Gold Dredging Company No Lia-
bility ; and (c) reducing the nominal amount of
all the 1,000,000 shares in the capital of the
said company from 10/- per share to 2/6 per
share, and the Minute approved by the
Supreme Court showing with respect to the
capital of the said Company as altered the
several particulars required by the above Statute
were registered by the Registrar-General on
the 16th day of February 1940 AND
FURTHER that the said Minute is in the
words and figures following:
“The capital of Gold Mines of Australia
Limited henceforth is £125,000 divided into
1,000,000 shares of 2/6 each instead of the
original capital of £500,000 divided into
1,000,000 shares of 10/- each and at the
time of registration of this Minute 417,750
of the said shares numbered 1 to 417,750
both inclusive are issued and have been and
are to be deemed fully paid up. The residue
of the said shares namely 582,250 are un-
issued.”
DATED the 17th day of February 1940.
ARTHUR ROBINSON & CO., 360 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the above-
named Company.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL. . .
But even with approx* £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry * . .
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Bricks and Mortar (Sydney)
Dr Towards
Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
June, 1 ‘° nl - £ £ £
. Prelil t8 ry e Bp.c. = o'’ 0 '’ 651 71 17 111
I 330 I’M
1 Added ’intangibles, £55 • • ■ ■ l- B ' 7
1939 .. 4,085 504 1 ’ 373
With W R R° ss > who receives a com_
mission of 3 p,c. on properties acquired
as managing director this co kicked off
in 1936 with a capital of £l6OO. The
figure is now £60,155, and Treasury
approval has been obtained to bring the
issue up to £BO,OOO.
The co. is an incorporated landlord,
not a speculator, investing in quick-
letting residences, mainly terraces and
flats in the nearer Sydney suburbs. Here
is the record of three years’ expansion:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid captal .. •• £15.267 £37,500 £54,288
.. 6,387 26,115 42,789
Moitgages • • « 9 794 9 947
Other liabilities .. 6.422 -,V24 y , y * ‘
Pmporties .. •• 27,227 63,539 104,695
Kief •• •• 412 2,330 2,960
It is intended to offer the capital-increase
sanctioned in small amounts. Some
£BOOO is wanted to complete a flat-
building programme on the co.’s own
freeholds at North Sydney and Gordon,
£5OOO for renovations of a capital nature,
and £7OOO for debt-reduction, including
repayment of shareholders’ loans (£5200)
and cutting-back of the mortgage debt
to 40 p.c. of the book value of proper-
ties ; at present the secured debt amounts
to 44 p.c.
Including £195 profit on a property
deal, declared net earnings sprang £1435
last term, reaching 9.1 p.c. on average
capital. That was after capitalising £55
commission on £16,788 of new share-
money gathered. Quarterly divs. were
maintained at 8 p.c., the balance of £504
reducing the amount of capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books to £1373.
Increased taxation has lately brought
a cut in the div. rate to 7 p.c., which the
board hopes to maintain. Visibly, the
management has not yet been able to
accumulate anything in the way of re-
serves, but much depends on the amount
(not disclosed) charged to earnings for
repairs, etc., before striking profits, and
on what inner strength may exist in book
values. Well-bought property should
prove a satisfactory buffer against any
war-time monetary inflation, and the
falling-off in home-building should help
to keep vacancies low. Management so
far appears to have been economical
and conservative.
During the week to Feb. 14 Table-
land Tin, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), won 8|
tons of tin concentrates —a highly
profitable result. Since then the dredge
has been recovering a ton a day. Under
the new price-fixing arrangement the
co. is getting £2OO a ton net for its con-
centrates, the smelting, etc., charges
being £3l a ton. Some of the steel for
the big dredge has arrived at Evans,
Deakin’s workshops. B.H.P. has taken
up leases in the Mt. Garnet area, and
Tableland’s sponsor, Alluvial Prospec-
tors, is running the rule over an area at
Smith’s Creek. Tliere seems to be a
big area of tin-bearing alluvium around
the creeks in the Mt. Garnet district.
* * * *
New Gympie Mines, on the famous
goldfield, has had a cruel spin. It pros-
pected and found the reefs underground,
reefs that would have provided the pro-
verbial jewellers’ shops down on the
Monkland. But the country is too grey
north of the Lady Mary crosscourse,
and seemingly nothing will make it
black plumbago. The last 75 tons ore
yielded only 15oz. Shades of former
days, when divs. had been paid on a
50-ton crushing and managers had to
have a safe underground for specimens!
Mt. Clearview, Pentland (N.Q.), was
once thought to be a possible goldmine.
Bob Little, who discovered it during the
last war, has been faithful to it for 25
years, though he has got precious little
out of it yet. It has produced 700 tons
in the last few years at a shade over an
ounce standard gold per ton. It is a
big lode, the main reef being 6ft. to
9ft. wide, but the bulk of it is on
the low side where values are concerned.
The average of over loz. has come from
picked stuff mainly. When attempts
were made to work it on a big scale
values dropped to half. Because of its
size it has possibilities as a low-grade
proposition, but there are several hurdles
to be got over, and reserve capital is
wanted for testing it to at least 500 ft.
In the deepest workings the 7ft. lode
assayed only 3dwt.
* * * *
Following on the nomination of
Ralph E. May, a Melbourne share-
broker, and two others, for elec-
tion to the board of New Occidental
(N.S.W.) —G. H. Blakemore, W. H. C.
Chappie and T. G. Murray, M.L.C., are
the retiring members —J. Malcolm New-
man, well-known mining engineer, has
also nominated. He objects to share-
brokers being mining co. directors, and,
in a circular to shareholders, says, among
other things:
As a member of the shareholders’ com-
mittee of three who last year investigated
all phases of the company’s affairs and
its management, 1 am greatly perturbed to
find that the present policy and manage-
ment of your company may once again be
disturbed
I unhesitatingly recommend shareholders
to re-elect the three retiring directors; but
I am so seized of the importance of keep-
ing the control of this important mine out
of the hands of sharebrokers or groups
associated with them that I have decided to
give you an additional choice, and, actu-
ated only by a sense of duty, I intend to
nominate as a candidate for election to
your board
Mining is a complicated, practical, tech-
nical and administrative business, and from
my long experience in mining affairs in this
and other countries 1 realise only too well
that it is essential to its success that it be
directed by men thoroughly experienced in
its peculiar requirements....
Newman is chiefly known for his work
in Malayan tin-dredging, but he is on
the board of Mt. Morgan, as well as
being extensively interested in Australian
and Maoriland dredging shows —Table-
land Tin, Arahura Gold Dredging,
Ngahere Gold, etc.
* * * *
Progress of Taramakau Dredging, near
Kumara (M.L.), the Sydney Prattens’
latest gold venture, will be keenly
watched following the success of Kanieri
and Arahura. On the strength of a
record working surplus for January
(£10,700, bringing the six months’ total to
£42,200), Arahura f.-p. pound shares have
lifted from 31s. 6d. to 365. in the share-
market since the beginning of the month.
February returns should read even better,
13400 z. gold being won in the first half
of the month, at an average of 3.5 gr. per
c.y. They are encouraging results, but
the cautious investor will assess pros-
pects on average, not individual, returns.
* * * *
In November the “Wild Cat” suggested
that Barrytown (M.L.) pound ords. at
13s. 6d. looked undervalued; in the
absence of further areas being acquired,
the market now appears to have swung to
the other extreme in pricing them at 265.
Certainly the dredge is at present having
its best run yet, recovery does not appear
the problem it was, and the div. stage
should not be for off —an operating sur-
plus of £A44,360 has shown up for 10
months of the current term. But, on the
basis of the original boring, the property
will be worked out in little over eight
years at the present rate of digging ; to
repay present market alone over that
period would call for divs. of 3s. or so
per share (£30,000) p.a.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) is getting
near the bottom of the old Associated
dumps, but has bought 2\ million tons
of old Trafalgar tailings for re-treatment
by the same plant. Another 4,000,000
tons contained in the Chaffers-Lake View
piles is expected to return £40,000 to
£50,000 p.a. net over five years after
allowing for cost of the new plant now
being installed there. Last term sands-
retreatment —nearly 700,000 tons, of
which roughly a fifth was purchased
from North Kal. —added £109,226 stg. to
the gold yield; percentage recovery was
47.4.
* * * *
For 1939 Boulder Perseverance (W.A.)
showed a surplus on working account of
£A 171,640, of which £95,920 (a monthly
average of nearly £16,000) was earned in
the second half of the year. Last two
admitted surpluses, however, have been
down to £11,038 and £10,628 respectively,
or approx. £130,000 p.a., despite main-
tenance of crushings at 10,000 tons. A
similar trend is recorded in the returns
of the subsidiary Enterprise mine, where
throughput has now reached 6000 tons a
month. * *
Yankee-controlled Big Bell (W.A.) flew
the Stars and Stripes and cakewalked to
“The Star-Spangled Banner” the other
day in celebration of reaching the million
tons ore-treatment mark and the pro-
duction of gold worth a million and a
quarter in Aust. currency. Average
grade of ore treated was 3.007dwt. Ore
reserves exceed 3,000,000 tons, containing
3.7dwt. a ton. Last year’s output was
worth £500,000.
He * * *
Wiluna reports that 137,966 tons was
treated during the December quarter for
21,4940 z. gold, valued, after the Federal
tax has been chipped off, at £A209,567.
Working surplus was £61,658. Apart
from the Happy Jack section, develop-
ment exposures were not encouraging.
Surplus for the January-March quarter
will be substantially higher, as the co.,
believing that the life of the mine is defi-
nitely limited, is cutting all expenditure
to the bone and concentrating on treat-
ing existing ore reserves at the greatest
possible profit.
* * * *
Small but steadily-expanding p ra
Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) has just
declared another threepenny dividend.
Four were paid in 1939, and shareholders
will get as much if not more this year.
Reserves are now about 18 months ahead
of th£ mill. Recent development work
included deepening the shaft from No. 4
to No. 5 level and opening up the gold-
carrier at the latter point.
He * * *
Nevoria Gold Mines, Ltd., which holds
a large low-grade goldmining area near
Southern Cross (W.A.), and which “needs
£lOO,OOO to make it one of the biggest
auriferous propositions in the State,” has
got exemption for an indefinite period.
Co. says that the money required is avail-
able in London, but is being withheld
pending the receipt of the required assent
of the Treasury.
* * * *
Central Norseman (W.A.) has adopted
colored safety measures in its Phoenix
mine, and claims to be the first co. in the
West to do so. Ore chutes are painted
orange, rail parts green and electrical
equipment red. By the use of such colors
the management hopes to increase the
margin of safety in underground work.
Another measure is the use of stimsonite
reflectors, which are installed at selected
spots on the main haulage ways to reflect
warning lights to approaching traffic.
Safety apparel galore is available to
underground workers, all of whom are
equipped with electric helmet lamps.
* * * *
Several Westralian goldmining centres
are clamoring for a share of the Com-
monwealth mining grant of £250,000
which the State Government is hopeful
of getting, and which it suggests should
come out of the million in gold tax which
local producers will pay in the aggre-
gate this year. Phillips River, which in-
cludes Kundip and Ravensthorpe, wants
a modern treatment plant to extract
wealth from its refractory sulphide ores ;
Meekatharra says it badly needs finan-
cial help to keep mines on its main
(Paddy’s Flat) line of lode alive ; while
other fields reckon that they could do
a lot with new capital. Efforts to raise
it in Australia and London have mostly
failed.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Our First Ships
THE very first Australian vessel of
British design was built in Sydney
Cove at the end of 1879. She was
a ten-ton sailing craft of such mas-
sive construction that she was popularly
known as “The Lump.” For several
years she carried passengers and supplies
between Sydney and Parramatta. In 1798
the Norfolk was built at Norfolk Island,
and was subsequently used by Bass and
Flinders to circumnavigate Van Diemen’s
Land. The Cumberland, of 28 tons, was
launched at the Government dockyard in
Sydney in 1800, and it was not long
before the yard began to turn out bigger
ships, such as the brig Portland, of 160
tons, and the sloop Integrity, of 59. The
keel of the Elizabeth Henrietta was laid
down there in 1800, but she was not
set afloat until Governor Macquarie
blessed and christened her in 1816.
Towards the end of the eighteenth cen-
tury James Underwood, a pioneer Syd-
ney merchant, established a private dock-
yard behind Lower and
there the sloop Contest, of 44 tons, took
the water in 1804. Shipbuilding must
have had something of a boom about
this time, for a return of the same year
shows that there were 21 colonially-built
vessels registered in Port Jackson, 16 of
which had been launched at Sydney and
five on the Hawkesbury. The largest of
these was a 38-tonner, and they were
employed in trading between Sydney and
the Hawkesbury and Hunter rivers and
in the Bass Strait sealing industry.
John Grono, a retired naval petty-
officer, was the principal pioneer of the
Hawkesbury shipbuilding, and from his
dockyard below Windsor were launched
after 1821 such comparatively large craft
as the Elizabeth (130 tons), the Industry
and Australia, of 300 tons, and the Gover-
nor Bourke, of 240. The Glory was built
at Richmond in 1819, and about an-
other dozen vessels between that year
and 1843. A great many craft of vari-
ous sorts were built on Brisbane Water,
near the mouth of the Hawkesbury, a
century ago, and in 1895 from Davis's
yard near Woy Woy the 120th vessel
built there was launched.
As settlement extended along the
north coast of N.S.W. shipbuilding be-
came one of its principal features. Mar-
shall and Lowe built the William the
Fourth Australia’s first home-made
steamship —at Clarence Town, on the
Williams River, in 1831, and the Ceres
in ’35. The Kangaroo, used for many
years as a ferry between Port Melbourne
and Williamstown, was built at Raymond
Terrace on the Hunter in 1840. In 1839
Captain Newton began shipbuilding on
the Manning, and for more than 40
years turned out a veritable fleet of
ocean-going sailing craft. William
Nicholson built ships there too, and the
brig Triton, from his yards, was still
trading between Cardiff in Wales and
Belfast in Ireland in 1907. Every North
Coast river had its shipbuilding yards
for many years, and so had the South
Coast, but the timbers of the latter dis-
tricts were not so suitable for ship con-
struction as those of the north.
In later years the name of Thomas
Chowne was famous in Sydney as that
of a leading shipwright, and so was that
of Lawrence Corcoran, of Darling Har-
bor. John Cuthbert took over the latter’s
business in the early ’fifties, and in ’55
launched the Spitfire, the first warship
built in Australia—a ketch of 60 tons,
armed with a 32-pounder gun mounted
on a traversing carriage. Later on he built
for the Royal Navy the five schooners
Alacrity, Beagle, Conflict, Renard and
Sandfly, to be used for patrol work in
the South Sea islands.
Founders of Melbourne
IT was curious the time and trouble
it took to establish Melbourne.
David Collins went to Port Phillip
in 1803, shirked the job, and retired
across Bass Strait to found Hobart. It
was not until 32 years later that John
Batman, that enterprising lad from Parra-
matta, came over from the island with his
friends and gave Victoria a start by trying
to grab 600,000 acres from the natives
for a small quantity of trade goods.
On June 8, 1835, Batman went up the
Yarra and landed a little below the
present Prince’s Bridge, remarking, “This
will be the place for a village.” Then
he went back to Tasmania to try to
regularise his land deal with the black-
fellows, which he was never able to do.
Even in those days there were a few—a
very few—people who had rudimentary
ideas as to some sort of justice being due
to the real Australians.
In the meantime, another party of
pilgrims headed by John Pascoe Fawkner
arrived in Port Phillip from Launceston
and anchored in Hobson’s Bay. First of
all they went up the Saltwater River, but,
not finding land to suit them there,
looked elsewhere and discovered a fine
site for a settlement at the falls on the
Yarra where Batman had been before
them. They promptly squatted there,
and built themselves a hut, going one
better than Batman by simply occupying
the land, without attempting to compen-
sate its rightful owners in any way at all.
When Batman returned he found his
claim jumped.
This double colonisation was the source
of many quarrels. Fawkner was a towns-
man, not an agriculturist and grazier
like Batman. He had been a sort of
lawyer in Launceston, had run a hotel
and published a newspaper. So it natu-
rally came about that he founded a town,
whilst Batman and his people devoted
themselves to pastoral enterprise and
eventually spread their flocks over the
country towards Geelong. Melbourne
was the merest village in those days, and
the residents could hardly get sufficient
supplies from Launceston to keep them
going, since every ship from across the
water was loaded with livestock, which
paid better than other cargo.
It was long before any rights were
accorded to these pioneers by either
Sydney or Downing-street, and Governor
Bourke even went to the length of de-
nouncing all the settlers as trespassers. But
eventually it was decided that they might
remain in occupation of the country—
though Batman’s great “steal” was dis-
countenanced —under the direction of
magistrates and other officials. Captain
Lonsdale was appointed the first Admin-
istrator of the Port Phillip Territory.
Batman died in 1839 after suffering a
good deal of harsh treatment at official
hands, but his rival Fawkner lived to see
the tiny village on the Yarra grow into
the proudest city in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
Fawkner landed on the bailk of
the Yarra on October 10, 1835, and be-
fore the end of the year opened a general
store and drinking shanty, which later
developed into a hotel of some preten-
tiousness. Then he started a MS. news-
paper, which ran through nine weekly
issues. The tenth was set up in type,
but was immediately suppressed for not
complying with colonial press regula-
tions. However, on February 6, 1839,
he issued the first number of the “Port
Phillip Patriot,” which survived until
1843. On November 22, 1840, he brought
out the “Geelong Advertiser,” which still
exists, and in December, 1842, was
elected to the first town council, but was
ejected from it in the following year.
As he grew older, Fawkner grew
tamer, and began to be recognised as a
leader in the community. In 1851 he
was appointed to the goldfield discovery
committee and elected a member of the
first Legislative Council. In 1856 he was
elected to the new Council, and con-
tinued a member of it almost to the date
of his death in 1869. In these later years,
though he always fought the squatting
interests, he was something of a Conser-
vative, even opposing the introduction of
the ballot and the reduction of the prop-
erty qualification for members of the
Legislative Council and its electors.
Macquarie’s Police
WHEN Lachlan Macquarie took
on the Governorship of N.S.W.
at the end of 1809 he set about
correcting the immorality,
drunkenness and criminality he found in
his seat of government.
For the Sydney of the day was pretty
hot. There wasn’t any respectability at
all few people took the trouble to
marry and everything was disorderly.
Robberies and violent assaults at night
were mere commonplaces, and most
people got drunk habitually. Rum was
still the principal currency, in which
wages were paid at a fixed value per
gallon, and even important public con-
tracts, such as the building of Sydney
Hospital, were arranged on such a basis.
Everywhere in Sydney, Parramatta and
the Hawkesbury district taverns and
boozing dens abounded and were under
no control. The colony badly needed
straightening up, and Macquarie was
quite aware that the man to do it had
arrived.
Hitherto all police duties had been in
the hands of the military garrison—
sentries were posted everywhere, and the
only check upon disorder was provided
by pickets and patrols. So he set about
creating a civil police force and divided
the capital up into five districts, each
with its watch-house and lockup. D’Arcy
Wentworth, the Acting Principal Sur-
geon of the colony, was put in charge
of the force and appointed Police Magis-
trate, with most extraordinary and far-
reaching powers, such as are today hardly
within the scope of a Supreme Court
Judge.
Wentworth undertook the duties with-
out a salary, though Macquarie after-
wards requested the Colonial Office to
reward him with £2OO per annum. The
new constabulary numbered about 40
members. There was a Chief Constable
with five District Constables under him,
and each district had six ordinary con-
stables. They wore a blue jacket, a flat cap
with a peak, and white’canvas trousers,
and were equipped with a navy cutlass and
a watchman’s rattle. There was a pro-
portion of old soldiers and sailors in the
force, but for the most part it consisted
of emancipated prisoners, and even of
men who were still actually serving sen-
tences themselves.
Macquarie’s regulations for the guid-
ance of the “New Police” were very
comprehensive, and neglected hardly any
possible contingency. A couple of
sections cover the widest ground and
detail how the policemen were expected
to call out the time of night during every
half-hour of their patrol through their
districts; how they were to examine
anybody whom they might find in the
streets after gunfire at 9 p.m., and if
they had any suspicions were to take
him to the watch-house ; how they were
to look up assigned prisoners and quell
riots ; how they were to raise an alarm
in any emergency, see to the good be-
havior of licensed victuallers, and keep
a strict eye upon houses of ill-fame ; how
they should apprehend drunks, suspects,
felons and sly-grog sellers ; and how on
Sundays they were to deal sternly with
all whom they might find “breaking or
profaning the Sabbath day.”
The Superintendent’s powers as Police
Magistrate were almost unlimited. He
might deal with the very slightest offences
in a way that would almost induce a
belief that such irregularities must have
immediately ceased to exist after his
court began to function. Three of the
regulations give some idea of their drastic
nature. A man might get as much as
50 lashes and 30 days’ gaol for being
drunk in the street, for being found in
the streets without a pass after 9 p.m.,
or for going slow on his job. If he were
deemed to be a rogue and a vagabond
he might get 50 lashes and six months'.
And if he were proved to be an incor-
rigible rogue he might get as much as
12 months’ imprisonment, with such flog-
gings at intervals during that period as
the P.M. might reckon good for the cause
of his reformation. But the most extra-
ordinary feature of these terrible rules
is that they might be applied to free
men equally with those who were serving
sentences or were on ticket-of-leave.
You had to mind your p’s and q’s in
Sydney in the days of Macquarie, whether
you were bond or free.
The Currency Lads
SURGEON PETER CUNNING-
HAM, R.N., was a singularly
gifted, highly intelligent and very
observant visitor to Australia in
the eighteen-twenties. He made four
voyages to New South Wales as surgeon-
superintendent of convict transports, and
put up the remarkable record of bringing
out to this country some 600 male and
female prisoners without losing a single
one of them during any of his voyages
a record which could seldom have been
rivalled in the passages of the free-
emigrant ships of later years. In 182/
he published a book about Australia and
Australians as he knew them —Two Years
in New South Wales —which is one of
the most valuable and readable and
pleasant of all the records of this par-
ticular period kept by individual ob-
servers that have come down to us. Par-
ticularly interesting and useful are the
impressions which this sane and generous
observer formed of the youthful “Corn-
stalks” of his day—the Currency Lads
and Lasses who were the great-great-
grandparents of the present generation
of the native-born with early-Australian
ancestry.
“Our colonial-born brethren,’’ he says,
“are best known here by the name of ‘Cur-
rency’ in contradistinction to ‘sterling,’ or
those born in the Mother Country. The
name was originally given by a facetious
paymaster of the 73rd Regiment quar-
tered here —the pound currency being at
the time inferior to the pound sterling.
Our currency lads and lasses are a fine
interesting rate, and do honor to the
country whence they originated. The
name is sufficient passport to esteem with
all the well-informed and right-feeling
portion of our population ; but it is most
laughable to see the capers which some
of our drunken old sterling madonnas
will occasionally cut over their currency
adversaries in a quarrel. It is then ‘You
saucy baggage, how dare you set up your
currency crest at me? I am sterling, and
that I’ll let you know.’
“To all acquainted with the open,
manly simplicity of the character dis-
played by this part of our population,
its members are the theme of universal
praise ; and, indeed, what more can be
said in their favor than that they are little
tainted with the vices so prominent
amongst their parents? Drunkenness is
almost unknown with them, and honesty
proverbial; the few of them that have
been convicted having acted under the
bad auspices of their parents or rela-
tives. .. .The Currencies grow up tall and
slender, like the Americans, and are gen-
erally remarkable for that Gothic
peculiarity of fair hair and blue eyes
which has been noticed by other writers.
Their complexions when young are of a
reddish-yellow, and they are, for the most
part, easily distinguishable—even in more
advanced years—from those born in Eng-
land. Cherry cheeks are not accompani-
ments of our climate, any more than that
of America, where a blooming com-
plexion will speedily draw upon you the
observation, ‘You are from the Old
Country, I see?’....‘The Currency Lad’
is now a popular standing toast, since it
was given by Major Goulburn at the
Agricultural dinner, while ‘The Currency
Lasses’ gives name to one of our most
favorite tunes.
“... .The men of low rank are fonder
of binding themselves to trades or going
to sea than passing into the employ of
the settlers as regular farm servants. This,
no doubt, arises partly from their un-
willingness to mix with the convicts so
universally employed on farms, partly
from a sense of pride; for, owing co
convicts being hitherto almost the sole
agricultural laborers, they naturally look
upon that vocation as degrading, in the
same manner as white men in slave
colonies regard work of any kind, seeing
that none but slaves do work. . . .
“ The young girls are of a mild-
tempered, modest disposition, possessing
much simplicity of character ; and, like
all children of Nature, credulous and
easily led into error. The lower classes
are anxious to get into respectable service
from a laudable wish to be independent
and escape from the tutelage of their
often profligate parents; and, like the
‘braw’ Scotch lasses, love to display their
pretty curly locks, tucked up with tor-
toiseshell combs, and slipshod or bare-
footed trip it merrily a10ng.... They do
not commonly appear to class chastity as
the very first of virtues, which circum-
stance arises partly from their never
being tutored by their parents so to con-
sider it, but more especially from never
perceiving its violation to retard mar-
riage. They are all fond of frolicking in
the water, and those living near the sea
can usually swim and dive like water-
hens.”


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
m
mil
i! II
ill
iill
Hr
mi*
Hi
i?sp
m m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
• —Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
4*
“Stalin’s Good Trial.” — Racing note.
But he was no good at the Finnish.
+ 4* 4*
“The man who wrote ‘The Prisoner’s Song’
was not an inmate of a prison.
—Musical magazine.
Then he should have been.
4* 4* 4*
“Charcoal is likely to supplant petrol as
the national fuel.” — Motoring column.
Married men will be able to drive to
the office on two rounds of toast.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man who has his own business need
never be servile no matter how humble his call-
ing. If it’s only a fish-barrow he can hold
his head high.”— Extract from article.
Especially during the summer months.
•I*
“Once the whole of Australia was a vast
inland sea.” — Wireless talk.
That was the year we went camping.
4" 4* 4* 4*
“When a gentleman is walking with a lady he
takes the outside position.”— Women’s mag.
Also when talking.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. and Mrs. Wonders have nine children,
seven being sons.” —“ Daily News."
Will Wonders never cease?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cricket team of teetotallers.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
No long hops for them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Olive Oil Pool.”
—“II Giornale Italiano” (Sydney).
That would be a slippery dip!
•J* *l*
“There are 168,573,000 miles of telephone
wire in the world.”
Multiply by three for the number of
wrong numbers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Most C.Os. vary their punishment to fit
the individual case.”
Surely this doesn’t mean that lead-
swingers are either swung or filled full
of lead! '
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mickey Rooney gave a startling impersona-
tion of Charles Laughton at a near-by candy
store, fillied with people.” — “Truth.”
Naturally people like that would give
him the horselaugh.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“All necessary arrangements have been made
to warn shipping, also all birds and rabbits,
etc., to vacate the range on the 24th February,
otherwise they stop at their own risk.”
—Kiama ( N.S.W .) “Reporter.”
The Bird Lovers’ League and the
Society for the Protection of Rabbits
acknowledge with gratitude this cour-
teous gesture.
“’Op it, Joe —some silly cow stuck a white
feather in Johnson's 'at.”
“Track work suggests Cigarette will win.”
—Racing gossip.
Unless of course it gets puffed.
4* 4* 4*
And how about Dan? Sent into town
for a left-handed screw-wrench, he
stopped half-way and came back. “Y'
can’t fool me,” he said ; “there isn’t a
molly-dooked man in the camp!”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If the mare could be relied on to run two
races alive she would be hard to beat.”
—Sporting column.
On the other hand, if she were to run
them “dead” she would be easy to beat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A.B.C. denies that the voices of any of its
announcers are affected.”
Is A.B.C. DEF?
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Retaliation.
“Were through for good!” she fiercely
said,
And flung the ring back at his head.
Upon the sofa then he placed
His number eights, which he unlaced.
“ What's this?” she thought. “He’s gone
half-witted!”
Then he removed the socks she’d knitted.
SIMON SCRAWLER.
Courage.
“Yes, I am the Minister for Chemical
Research. I see your name is Smith.
H’m! That doesn’t sound very foreign.
But as you are applying for the position
of Chief Inspecting Chemist, I suppose
ydu have just arrived from the Old
Country?
“What! You are an Australian!
Surely there must be some mistake, Mr.
Smith. Good heavens, my dear fellow,
you should know that Australia doesn’t
give important positions like this to an
Australian. That would never do.
“Quite, quite. I’ve no doubt you have
a number of extraordinary university
degrees. But, my good man, you have
no English accent. I’m frightfully sorry
and all that, but, dash it all, you’re
more or less a social leper.
“Now if only your name were Schmidt.
No foreign blood, I suppose?
“Even your grandparents Australian-
born. Dear me, things seem to have be-
come hopeless.
“Just a moment, Mr. Smith. I admire
your courage in applying for this posi-
tion, when you must have been aware
of the tremendous disadvantages with
which you had to contend. In view of
your spirit I think I may, perhaps, be
able to arrange a job for you as a cleaner
at our research laboratory!”
Hoots Awa\
Ordeal.
The heat whipped about her in its
scorching intensity. Voices and hurry-
ing footsteps could be heard in the
corridors, but no one came to her. How
long had she been in this inferno?
Minutes passed, seeming an eternity.
The increasing heat closed in on her,
threatening to engulf her in unconscious-
ness. With a superhuman effort she
steeled herself to remain calm, to guard
against hysteria. Someone must come.
But perhaps they had forgotten her!
Yet she did not dare move from this
place that had become a cell of torture.
Footsteps came near, and she saw in
the mirror the reflection of the white-
clad figure, felt the touch of the cool
fingers on her burning head, heard the
snap of a switch and the cool, cool voice:
“I think Madam’s hair is right now,”
and the dryer was raised and wheeled
away.
K.D.E.
Memories.
“And here, listeners, is Mr. Jitters, who
is 106 years old today, to give us a few
peeps at the past. You’ve seen Sydney
spread out, Mr. Jitters?”
“Yuss, mister, when we ’ad free beer
and free fights turned on at elections I
seed nearly all Sydney spread out. Great
beer it was in them”
“I —er —referred to the expansion of
buildings, Mr. Jitters.”
“Oh, yuss. We built a pub on every
corner in them days, an’ when we run
out of corners we built more corners.
Great beer it”
“H’m. Do you remember Henry
Parkes, Mr. Jitters?”
“ ’Enery Parkes? Wot pub did ’e
keep?”
“Er, perhaps you remember the Duke
of Edinburgh at Clontarf?”
“You’re a blame liar, mister. The
Dook of Edinburgh was on the corner
of”
“Were you ever held up by bush-
rangers, Mr. Jitters?”
“Blast y’r ’ide! I could always carry
me likker like a gentleman and stand on
me own feet. Great beer it”
“Yes, yes, yes; but can’t you recollect
something " important something like
Sydney’s first corporation?”
“You ask damfool questions, mister.
When beer was thrippenoe a pint we all
’ad corporations. Great beer it”
“We are afraid, listeners, that time will
not permit any more peeps at the past.
Good-night, Mr. Jitters, thank you, good-
night.”
D. McM.
No Response.
“Who named coins?” ( >(
— Correspondent, “D.T.’’
They call our money varied names;
A “quid” or “zack” is often drawled.
But cash would show more interest
If only it would come when called.
ELM.
w
E.
A Regrettable Failing.
“Amateur gardeners appreciate too little the
truth that plants can suffer from overdrinking.’
—Horticultural journal.
While many gardeners, especially those
who come of stout blue-ribbon stock,
meticulously discourage drinking of any
kind among plants or shrubs, it is a
deplorable fact that others of coarser
fibre are only too willing to encourage
in their leafy friends one of man’s most
vicious weaknesses. Some of them even
insist on joining in their potations. Can
there be a more depraved sight than
that of a gardener and his port-wine
magnolia hitting the pinkie together?
For my own part, I have ever striven
to instil into the members of my garden
a sense of moderation in their drinking.
I well recall the shock I received the
day I discovered my old and gnarled
frangipanni—l had had it from a mere
slip of a thing—completely sozzled. The
shock was greater because I had always
regarded it as a model of temperance.
It fell from grace in a peculiar way.
My back lawn had, by some curious
mischance, grown so high that the pas-
palum with which it was liberally studded
soaked the wife to the armpits when one
morning, following a night’s heavy dew,
she went to hang out some clothes. The
question naturally arose as to the cutting
of it, and by a majority vote —Euphemia
and her mother constituting the majority
—it was left for me to arrange.
Now, I have an affection for old-
fashioned institutions, and that of the
working bee is a favorite. Collective toil,
voluntarily given in a good cause, I deem
one of man’s really ennobling character-
istics. I got some pals along, and 1
rigged up a “nine” on a stand in the
shade of the big frangipanni. I then
arranged a series of sweepstakes on who
could take most grass off with one cir-
cular sweep of the scythe.
It was later in the day, after we had
with some difficulty revived one of the
chaps, who had pulled the keg over on
himself when tipping it up to get the
dregs, that, while on my hands and knees
leaning over to smell one of the bunches
of cream-and-white blooms, I distinctly
heard the frangipanni hiccup. Amazed,
I listened again, and the hiccup was
repeated, so often and so violently that
soon the whole shrub shook. In fact,
it actually started spinning round.
I realised then that the plant had been
overdrinking. Evidently it had been
greedily soaking up the spillings from the
keg—and, having had no fertiliser or
humus for some time, it had been drink-
ing on an empty stomach!
I suspected, too, that the spillings it
had avidly imbibed had not been all
accidental, but that with devilish
ingenuity it had with its flailing leaves
knocked over the jug we had put under
the bung, for several times we had been
puzzled to find it
lying on its side.
There was a collar
of foam around
the plant’s stem,
and as I got to my
feet it leered bibu-
lously at me and
gave off a beery
whiff.
So great was my
shock that I stag-
gered insi d e
Euphemia and her
mother had gone
out —and helped myself to a stiff whisky.
On top of the bookcase, inside which
I always keep a bottle secreted, stood an
aspidistra, a stunted spindly thing which
my wife pampered. This pot-plant, for
which I had a special hatred, was a
hopeless drink addict. The way it used
to lap up the bumpers of cocktails, beer
and even stout that were, by reason of
its handiness, tossed into it was a dis-
grace to the plant world.
As I passed the whisky out into a glass
a strange thing happened. Suddenly I
felt my arm grasped savagely in the
aspidistra’s green tentacles, and the next
instant it was lashing into the whisky.
This was too much. With a roar of
righteous rage I grasped it around the
throat, and in a trice we were on the
floor in a life-and-death struggle. Finally,
after a terrific effort, I yanked it out of
its pot and hurled it against the wall,
shattering it against the photo, of
Euphemia’s mother.
When Euphemia came home there
was the devil to pay. She stormed,
and. woman-like, disbelieved me. But
l know, and I account it a good deed
that I stilled for ever the cravings of a
root-bound dipsomaniac.
BO.


.
/
:
fl
Mm
- y ? * *
. .. ••
Enjji) i
.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY BRISBANE. MELBOURNE ADELAIDE VRE MANTLE
- S‘4:
&•••
• . . What’s he after? . . ,
What’s the thrill?
Haven’t you heard?
He has . . . just heard about
the most stirring ring event
that he’ll ever see at the Royal
Easter Show . . . and he’s not
going to miss it! It’s the most
breath-taking spectacle ever to
be shown at Show or Rodeo
. . . America’s most spectacular
present-day ring event . .
The Riding of Wild Brahma Bulls
They’re cunning . . . notoriously
wild . . . speedy and dangerous
. . . see the International
Brahma Bull contests at this
year’s “Royal.”
WATCH FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MARCH 18 TO 27
10 DAYS - - 8 NIGHTS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Money in the Bank
Strange, perhaps, but true nevertheless:
some people even these days have credit
balances with their bankers. They pro-
vide most of the money that the banks
lend. And to people of moderate means
fixed deposits and current accounts are
not entirely worry-free investments since
war broke out. Depositors are con-
cerned about whether money is a good
form in which to conserve capital in
view of the changing financial conditions
that a war always seems to bring about.
In a big war the nations concerned
strive towards utmost production. Mili-
tary requirements prevail over domestic
welfare, and the tendency is to spend
money regardless of consequences so
long as the eventual result is a beaten
enemy. With huge consumers in the
shape of the fighting forces competing
with the civil population for the nation’s
goods and materials, the usual result is
that prices for many classes of products
rise. Wages also may rise ; in fact, in
Australia our arbitration system makes
wage-inflation an inevitable result of
price-inflation. The wage-earner may
thus be protected against depreciating
money so long as he has a job and so
long as arbitration works in his favor,
but the person with savings in the bank
automatically loses capital as prices and
costs rise. The holder of public securities
is in much the same shape.
That is a summing-up of the position
ordinarily resulting from a war that
represents a supreme national struggle.
So far the present war hasn’t flared up
to the size of the Great War, though
overcoming arrears of defence equipment
is costing this country a mint of money.
Also, elaborate arrangements are being
made to circumvent the ordinary pro-
cess of war-time inflation —in other
words, to prevent profiteering, to keep
money stable, and to protect the person
who assists the country by investing in
Consols. By protecting the holder of
Consols the authorities also protect to
some extent the person with bank de-
posits.
Price-fixing has been in operation in
Australia since soon after the outbreak
of hostilities. This has damped down
any sudden inflation in prices, especially
those of goods made within the country.
Including imported goods, the rise in the
cost of living has not been marked so
far. After five months of war there
has been little or no increase in wage
rates. Coming more directly to money
itself, the tendency is to deflate by forcing
interest rates down, thus improving prices
for fixed-interest securities. The aim of
all this management of our economic
system is to preserve the value of money
and Government credit and to prevent
that disorganisation of the nation’s in-
dustries, either during or after the war,
which would result from any pronounced
inflation in prices and costs.
The owner of money in the bank thus
has the Government working for him
to maintain his money’s value, while all
the time the stress and strain of war
are working against him. But, as we
said before, for us this war so far isn’t
a tremendous one. Our productive capa-
city isn’t taxed as yet, except in the case
of neglected industries, such as cotton tex-
tiles. Right from the outset the financial
authorities, especially the Commonwealth
Bank board, have been determined to
avoid as far as possible those mistakes
oi 1914-18 and after which disorganised
world trade for nearly 15 years.
Australia has some other circumstances
to be thankful for. It is getting a
reasonable, though not high, price for
wool, metals, butter, etc., and an im-
proved return for wheat. Foreign ex-
change is being doled, and luxury spend-
ing restricted. So long as we are able
to buy overseas at prices that aren’t in-
flated we shall have more national in-
come to divert to war purposes. And
if we acknowledge the truth that Aus-
tralia and its seven millions of people
have a maximum capacity beyond
which the increasing of prices would fail
to bring forth any further production of
goods, then there is no sound reason why
an increased national income should be
allowed to encourage higher prices
within Australia. Tho Prices Commis-
sioner seems already to have done a
good job, and his work is still going on.
An obvious protection of money
against war-time inflation was the buy-
ing of ordinary shares in Australian fac-
tories at the low prices prevailing in the
first nine months of 1939. But since
then the value of such shares has in-
flated, in terms of money, and buyers in
particular cases are now running a risk.
Holders who bought during the 18
months before war broke out are still
sitting comfortably, of course.
This is a strange war in many ways,
and it may not be worth while in the
long run for a bank depositor to pay a
high premium for the privilege of turn-
ing his money into shares now “popular.”
It is in the public interest to maintain
the value of money during the war, and
the fact has been recognised from the
first shot.
When metal prices within Australia
were limited to a maximum toward the
end of last year under the war-time regu-
lations, The Bulletin pointed out that
copper and tin were likely to be snags,
as they both represented industries with
only a small margin between profit and
loss. The inequitable nature of a maxi-
mum price without a minimum was also
indicated. Already there has been diffi-
culty at Mt. Lyell, Australia’s chief
Coppermine, where miners felt that
they were being unfairly deprived of
their copper-price bonus, resulting in a
visit to the mine by Professor Copland,
the Prices Commissioner (B. 14/2/’4O).
Last week there was a lift in the price
of copper from £63 17s. 6d. to £76 a
ton, and there was a development that
particularly affected tin: it was reported
Irom Canberra that the Government was
considering allowing minimum prices to
be fixed under the National Emergency
Regulations, and that a special arrange-
ment had been made with regard to tin.
.Some of the difficulties were men-
tioned in B. 7/2/'4O. Now an agree-
ment has been reached “between pro-
ducers of tin ore and smelters to stabi-
lise the industry during the war.” Fluc-
tuations in prices are to be cushioned,
and a basic price for tin ingots has been
fixed at £306 a ton —the maximum price
for tin declared last year was £299. Pro-
fessor Copland’s price-fixing formula is
reputed to take into account the Aus-
tralian price for ingots, the daily London
tin quotes, the cost of smelting and of
shipping, and the ratio of exports to local
consumption. The fact that between a
third and a half of Australia’s tin is ex-
ported, for sale at world parity, has
hitherto confused the issue as between
miner and smelter.
* * * *
Following Professor Copland’s visit
to Mt. Lyell, Tas., the price of
electrolytic copper in Australia has
been fixed at £76 Aust. a ton, approxi-
mately equal to the English price now
ruling, against the previously fixed price
of £63 17s. 6d. Aust. Mt. Lyell and
Mt. Morgan (Q.) have agreed to set aside
the proceeds above £72 a ton for the
luither development of coDpermining.
Australia’s present output of ‘l 8,500 tons
of copper a year is used in the Common-
wealth, and a shortage of the metal is
threatened. The increased price should
encourage production, and it will entitle
Mt. Lyell miners to the price bonus that
they have been asking for.
* * * *
At Scone (N.S.W.) Police Court last
Thursday W. C. Mulroy, of Sydney, was
fined £5O for offering for subscription
shares in British Australian Pulp and
Paper Co., Ltd. The charge was made
under the sharehawking provisions of the
N. S. Wales Companies Act. Mulroy
announced an intention to appeal against
the conviction.
* * * *
Since 1940 opened Port Jackson Steam
has reduced its div. from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c.
p.a., Permewan, Wright’s has dropped
from 10 p.c. to 2 p.c., Hydraulic Power’s
from 7 p.c. to p.c., Fresh Food and
Ice’s from 6 p.c. to 4| p.c., Bradford Cot-
ton’s interim from p.c. p.a. to 10 p.c.
p.a., and Adelaide Steam’s interim has
fallen from 3| p.c. to 3 p.c. Yellow Cabs
has increased its interim, though this may
be to equalise interim and final dis-
tributions (12 p.c. p.a.). Carlton Brewery
has shown improved profits as a result
of the operations of Carlton and United,
but it hasn’t lifted the div. rate. Gas
cos. are being squeezed by higher costs.
* * * *
Feminist bodies have been complain-
ing about the price of gas in N. S. Wales,
“profiteering” being mentioned. If there
is one industry in the State that is likely
to find profiteering difficult it is that one
which extracts gas from coal and re-
ticulates it round the suburbs. Sydney
gas cos. have their divs. limited to 6 p.c.
by Act of Parliament. There may be a
lift in the price of gas soon, but it will
be made to maintain the 6 p.c. div.,
not to raise it. At the annual meeting
of North Shore Gas last week the chair-
man mentioned dearer coal and heavier
taxes. In meeting competition from the
County Council’s, electricity undertaking,
which pays no Commonwealth or State
taxes, the gas co. pays 5.84 d. a thousand
cubic feet, compared with 2.95 d. a
thousand 10 years ago.
Australian Gas, with £210,000 more
capital at work, showed a profit £49,230
lower for 1939. Earnings were £55,304
short of the 6 p.c. div. requirements, and
reserves were drawn on.
General Motors-Holden’s opened its
new £270,000 motor-assembly plant at
Pagewood (Sydney) last Thursday, the
Prime Minister pressing the button. A
hundred cars can be turned off the line
daily. Apart from the awe-inspiring
spectacle of what has come to be called
“flow” in the turning out of thousands
of cars a month, most arresting feature
of the new plant—it replaces the old
factory at Marrickville, now taken over
by Davis, Coop—is the obvious atten-
tion that has been devoted to the welfare
of employees.
* * * *
Profits of Woolworths, the big Aus-
tralasian chain-store concern that had
a precarious beginning in Sydney in 1924
but which over the last decade has been
a horn of plenty for shareholders, for
the first time in 10 years show only a
nominal increase from £271,693 to
£272,922. Net earnings were arrived at
after providing £44;000 for taxation,
against £32,000. The figures issued by
the co. last week were preliminary, and
didn t state how earnings of the co.'s
large subsidiaries compared with pre-
ceding years. Until they are known a
lull view of the parent’s earnings as a
shareholder during 1939 will not be
possible. A 17-|- p.c. div. is maintained
by the holding co., and the sharemarket
pays 225. 6d. for the ss. ords.
* * * *
Though Melbourne Steam maintained
its interim div., Adelaide Steam, also in
the inter-State trade, has dropped its
mid-term distribution from 32 p.c. to
3 p.c. The Adelaide co.’s fleet has been
more disorganised by war than has the
Melbourne co.’s, which has only one
passenger vessel, the Duntroon, and
that is still running. Of the Adel-
aide co.’s liners in the inter-State
passenger service only the Manunda
is advertised these days. The co.
will, of course be entitled to com-
pensation. How compensation will com-
pare with loss of profits is a matter for
conjecture. Ihe co. should be capable
of looking after itself,'however, and the
drop in the interim div. shouldn’t greatlv
worry shareholders. Last year a final of
4 p.c. made 7-’ p.c. for the year. Adel-
aide scrip has dropped 2s. (to 345.), and
Melbourne Steam also weakened last
week.
* * * *
Uncertainty about the future of
taxation was given as a reason for the
reduction in Bradford Cotton’s interim
div. The paid ord. shares, after drop-
ping by about Is., steadied at 365. 3d.,
then moved down to 355. 6d., yielding
5.5 p.c. on the new div. basis. The co.’s
share register has swollen greatly over
the past year as a result of business
expansion.
* * * *
Tin recovered in London last week,
selling at £242 sterling. During January
world sales of the metal exceeded pro-
duction, and the month closed with a
strengthened statistical position.


ẁ
ẃ
e
è
UMj
BY MAIL
ii *r*\
—*-
From the early days of settlement the Bank of New South
Wales has pushed forward with the pioneers, bringing them
the benefits of a progressive banking service. To-day, the
Bank; still carries on this tradition, offering ready service to
outlying parts. Those who are unable to visit the Bank s nearest
branch may open an account, operate on it, and transact
any other banking business, entirely by mail,
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
526 A
"Peanuts or chocs.!”
London Funds
Australia’s funds in London on June
30 last totalled £44,575,000 sterling, down
£18,699,000 sterling for the year, and
£26,645,000 lower than two years earlier.
These funds included £39,648,000 belong-
ing to the Note-issue Department of the
Commonwealth Bank, established largely
by the export of our gold reserves during
the depression. The following table gives
a comparison of funds and movements,
as well as details of Note-issue funds
included with overseas reserves, over the
past 12 years:
Available Note Issue
London Annual Funds
Funds. Movement. Included.
June 30, £Stg.ooo. £Stg.ooo. £Stg.ooo.
1928 .. 106,401 5,721
1929 .. 87.863 -18,538 6,981
1930 .. 36,539 -51,324 21,046
1931 .. 27,186 -9,353 25,865
1932 .. 39,759 +12,573 30,678
1933 .. 46,163 +6,404 49,809
1934 .. 66,474 +20,311 48,560
1935 .. 46,523 -19,951 45,111
1936 .. 46,277 - 246 42,647
1937 .. 71,220 +24,943 42,646
1938 .. 63,274 -7,946 42,647
1939 .. 44,575 -18,699 39,648
At June 30 last we were within £5,000,000
of drawing on our London note-issue
reserves —or else raising a London loan.
Particulars of Australia’s London funds
are nowadays made available, in accord-
ance with the recommendation of the
Banking Commission, six months after
date of calculation. The method of cal-
culation is explained by the Common-
wealth Statistician as follows:
“Visible reserves” of international cur-
rency [£69,185,000 stg. at June 30, 1939]
consist of the visible stocks of gold held
in Australia, together with the short-term
investments in London of the Common-
wealth Bank and the trading banks, and
the net oversea assets of the Note Issue
Department. The total visible reserves as
thus defined are not freely available, how-
ever, for meeting any deficiency in the
balance of payments. The figures as re-
corded include small amounts representing
Australian Government and municipal
securities, which may not always be readily
marketable, and they also include large
blocks of short-term obligations of the
Australian Governments. In the early years
of the depression, moreover, British banks
and the British public held a considerable
volume of Australian short-term securities
and overdrafts. These amounts, less the
fluctuating credit balances of the Australian
Governments held in banks abroad, must
be deducted from the total visible reserves
in order to arrive at the “available re-
serves” of international currency —or, more
shortly, the effective gold and London
funds which could be freely called upon in
case of need.
As thus defined, Australia’s net inter-
national currency reserves amounted at the
end of June, 1939, to £44,575,000 in English
sterling, or £55,830,000 in terms of Aus-
tralian currency.
Our overseas funds continued to decline
for some months after June 30 last.
Lately they have been added to by a
more favorable balance of trade.
The case of Finland makes a lesson
for Australia. For that small country
to put up such a fight against such vast
weight of men and munitions it must oe
united and efficient to a point almost
unknown among the other democ-
racies. The deathly effect of muddle,
red-tape, inertia, opportunism and
expediency all too evident in over-
governed Australia seems to be absent
in Finland. To put it plainly and simply,
Australia is not making intelligent use
of its man-power, talent and resources.
“Pull devil, pull baker,” seems to be the
result, if not the aim, of many a national
effort in this land. At the present minute
there is growing resentment among some
employers and employees because one
and all are to be asked, if not already
requested, to contribute to the cost of
our war with Germany, and are not being
permitted to pass the buck to someone
else. We had better give up wasting time
in planning how to beat our other fellow-
Australians. “Produce! Produce —intelli-
gently!” is a variation of an old and
discredited catchcry that might rehabili-
tate itself under present conditions. To
make up for the waste of materials and
effort in this war we shall have to in-
crease our production or else go short
of many things. There will be no in-
crease in production if selfishness and
stupidity result in labor deadlocks, or if
greed and opportunism start inflation in
prices.
In the final summing-up a nation con-
sists of animals possessing hands, legs
and brains —all with or without a
national spirit or national intelligence.
Although Australia possesses an abun-
dant national spirit, its national intelli-
gence is frequently lacking. It may be no
worse in that regard than similar coun-
tries at a similar age, but an excuse of
that kind shouldn’t satisfy us. We have
sold ourselves many a pup in the Gov-
ernment line, and have paid dearly for
gilded illusions. But we mustn’t permit
ourselves to have any illusions about the
seriousness of this war. There must be
no “easy money” in it for anyone, be-
cause money that comes easily is invari-
ably taken out of someone else’s pocket—
someone who is usually a good citizen
and a hard worker, not sharp-witted
enough to retaliate. We are laying out
a large sum on this war, and we had
better come to regard it as a contribution
of part of our own labor, savings and
comforts rather than just “Government
money.” We all have to pay.
* * * *
Globe Worsted Mills, the Sydney sub-
sidiary of Yarra Falls, had a strike or
its hands last week. Spinners, number
ing about 500, objected to “the appoint-
ment of a production supervisor,” as it
“meant that they would have to acceler-
ate their work. More than half the
strikers are girls.” It is reported also
that “the co. recently completed impor-
tant defence contracts, and more defence
work is expected.” Each case has to be
considered on its merits, of course, but
it is strange the number of strikes that
have occurred since war broke out.
Militant unionists may be expected to
demand a 40-hour week any day now so
that Australia will be able to do its bit
towards- defeating Hitler’s regimented
labor.
* * * *
Masters, officers, engineers and wire-
less-men on inter-State ships are to
be granted a war-risk increase in their
pay of 12| p.c. ; other ratings go up
10 p.c. On intra-State vessels an increase
of 5 p.c. has been allowed. The rises
date back to Dec. 15. Beeby, the Arbi-
tration Court C.J., in his judgment men-
tioned that “for the time being” the war
risks attached to shipping services on
the Australian coast and in the Pacific
were “not very serious.”
* * * *
The confident market for Loloma
shares has had something to do with the
revival in Emperor scrip. Though on
the same field, they are very different
propositions, Loloma having come nearer
to expectations down below than Em-
peror right through the piece. Again,
Loloma’s is a high-grade ore, Emperor’s
medium- to low-grade. In one respect
ore has been similar, especially in the
sulphide zone; elaborate treatment
methods have been necessary, in
Loloma’s case particularly. Loloma has
had to roast its ore, and milling costs
alone were nearly 275. a ton last year.
Though Emperor’s oxides were a com-
paratively simple problem, and it hasn’t
been thought necessary to roast the
sulphides, the latter are to be tackled
by primary cyanidation followed by
flotation of residues, the gold from con-
centrates to be extracted by fine-grinding
and prolonged cyanidation and the tail-
ings submitted to re-flotation. Though
perhaps not as complicated as it sounds,
the method is more involved than
ordinary cyanidation, and alterations to
plant are estimated to cost at least
£30,000, with a rise of 3s. a ton in mill-
ing expenditure. Emperor will be lucky
to do the job for an extra 3s. a ton.
Its new mill is hoped to be operating
by April—flotation equipment has arrived
at the mine—and the next accounts may
have preliminary figures to show. Em-
peror’s future largely depends on the
cost of milling its sulphide ore. It is
in this zone that most of its gold exists.
Loloma has an issue of 825,000 shares.
At 365. a share the market valued the
mine at £1,485,000. This is consider-
ably above the profit in sight last bal-
ance day. Though quotations became
erratic following publication of the de-
velopment report last week, speculators
are still obviously speculating on
development producing considerably
more ore. During the last term about
30,000 tons of ore was developed, against
27,767 tons milled, reserves standing at
141,549 tons on Sept. 6. Gold content
of the ore (175,8620 z.) was nearly
2000 oz. lower than a year earlier.
Though Loloma has turned out to be
a good mine for its size, the speculator
at 345. is depending on his prayers a
good deal for his profits.
Taking costs at 3s. higher than last
year and recoveries at 90 p.c., supporters
of Emperor shares at 15s. each allow a
margin of about 2s. 6d. a share to cover
unexpected increases in milling costs,
recovery difficulties, mistakes in ore
estimates and the other trials and tribu-
lations of every goldmine. For their
profits they look to future development,
which, though looking brighter for the
moment, is uncertain.
* * * *
Mt. Kasi, Fiji (B. 14/2/’4O), declared
its first div. (of 3d.) last week.
* * * *
Queensland’s return for its sugar crop
this season will be in the vicinity of
£13,600,000, a record. Last season's
cheque was £11,736,000. Production for
the latest season was 891,000 tons, against
the previous year’s record of 776,810
tons, and the additional production came
at a most opportune time —the Empire
at war, and export sugar worth £lO a
ton, against £8 4s. 3d. last season. No. 1
pool sugar, which benefits from the Aus-
tralian home-consumption price, is esti-
mated to return £l6 10s. a ton, against
£l6 19s. Id.
vSince the war Britain has been buying
our export raw sugar at 7s. 6d. sterling a
hundredweight c.i.f., plus 3s. 9d.
preferential duty; allowing for freight
at 355. 6d. a ton (Britain pays any excess)
and insurance, there is a surplus of about
£8 sterling a ton coming to Queensland
mills, equal to roughly £lO Australian.
The Australian home-consumption price
is more than twice that. In Britain
crystallised sugar is selling at over £4O
(sterling) a ton. It has nearly doubled
in price since the outbreak of war.
* * * *
Tipped to yield about 153,000,000
bushels in the preliminary stages, Aus-
tralia’s wheat harvest for 1939-40 has
now been measured up at 210,450,000
bushels. Only 3,500,000 bushels below
the record 1932-33 result of Parker
Moloney’s “Grow More Wheat” cam-
paign, it has confounded the Pool
authorilies and overwhelmed storage
accommodation. The shortage of bags
—a result of the war-time demand for
sandbags has added to the problem.
Still, a near-record wheat crop combined
with a record wool clip and a record
sugar crop isn’t a bad sign when the
Empire is at war and foreign exchange
is precious. Just now the coming season
doesn’t look so promising in N. S. Wales,
dry weather being unbroken in most
parts of the State. Victoria is in better
shape, and there has been rain in
Queensland after a hot, dry spell.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
[Since the news of the arrival of their men at war
stations thereabout, Australia and Maoriland have a
particular interest in what is called the Middle East.
In the article here condensed from “Great Britain and
the East Kenneth Williams surveys war chances there.
* he subject was also dealt with in an earlier “Uncabled
Additions” article, 7/2/’4o.]
There are those who fear that, if Moscow can
emerge from the Finnish imbroglio with some sort of
settlement, a military campaign will be waged else-
where ; that Russia is but waiting for the arrival of
spring weather to try to serve the cause of Germany.
Some of these anxious observers predict a descent
upon Bessarabia, some upon various points in the
Middle East.
With any invading move in a southerly direction
by the U.S.S.R. Turkey is closely concerned. Turkey
is not only the pillar of the Balkan Entente, but also,
in the military sense, the heart of the Saadabad group
of States no step to disturb the status quo in the
Middle East which did not envisage the defeat of the
Turkish nation could be undertaken.
That either Afghanistan or Iran would be attacked
for the sake of invading India, what time the rest of
the Middle East was left severely alone, is almost un-
thinkable. It is Turkey, then, which is the bastion of
the Middle East, and, in a very real sense, a bastion
of India also.
Since the subject is being so widely canvassed,
especially on the Continent, the conceivable ways in
which Turkey might be attacked by a Russia that had
become a fast partner with Germany are worth con-
sidering. Attempted invasion might come from Europe,
or from the Caucasus or the Black Sea, or from the
east, through Iran.
The position of Iran is particularly interesting. It
is often alleged that, if Iran were invaded from the
north, the real purpose of the attack would be the cap-
ture of the oilfields of the south. Southwards from
the Caspian, it has been suggested, the enemy might
sweep on over the low-lying provinces, and then ?
Then comes the rub.
Actually, Iran has incomparable natural defences.
The great Elburz range confronts the invader from
the north. Iran could easily be subdued only if there
were millions of Iranians willing to sell their country
to the invader, and to attach themselves to his side.
Iranians, however, are charged with a proud national-
ism which, if called upon, would stubbornly contest
every inch of the soil which they, whose patriotism is
not a mushroom growth, love so well.
No, if an attack on Iran were made at all, the
probability is that it would be designed as an attack on
Turkey in the rear. The onslaught, in other words,
might come via Azerbaijan, with a victorious invader
—supposing that he were victorious —turning thence
westwards. Tabriz, in short, is a much more prob-
able centre of covetousness than is Teheran.
Yet all such speculation is very hypothetical. It
presupposes factors which have not yet arisen. Iran is
not on bad terms with her northern neighbor; the
authorities in Teheran have done nothing, and will do
nothing, to provoke a crisis ; they perceive well the
delicacy of the situation, and are aware that any
attempt on the integrity of Turkey might have grave
implications for them.
If members of the Saadabad Pact are invaded,
they well know how to defend themselves, from the
armed tribesman of Afghanistan to the disciplined
soldier of Turkey. True, they are not bound by that
pact to defend each other in case of attack from out-
side, but the world has so moved during the last few
months that, in the event of war in the Middle East,
the pact might well assume a new significance.
Afghanistan, Iran an I Irak alike perceive the
dangers to themselves if Turkey were heavily handled,
and their sense of enlightened self-interest would not
be likely to fail in that contingency. As for Turkey
herself, always supremely realistic, she has seen clearly
the desirability of a strong Middle Eastern bloc.
Nor, be it added, would the Turks, Iraqis, Iranians
and Afghans be left alone to fight their own battles.
There are others, from distant lands, ready to spring
to their aid, if aid should be required.
*****
o Condensed from an article by Professor L. F. Rushbrook
Williams in “Great Britain and the East.”)
For the moment Russia seems to have her hands
full; but the German propagandists, who do nothing
without a reason, have for some time been darkly
hinting at the illimitable power and resources of
Russia in the Middle East, and speculating as to the
fate which awaits India and other countries so ill-
advised as to remain on friendly terms with the Allies.
Just lately the henchmen of Dr. Goebbels have changed
their tune, and have accused the Allies of gathering
great armaments in the Middle East in order to spread
the plague of war in this area. But those who re-
member the care with which the Nazis prepare for a
new enterprise by accusing their enemies of first
doing what they purpose to do themselves will attach
little face-value to this modification.
Is the “Russian menace” a reality to India? It is
worth while examining briefly how much or how
little substance lies behind the Nazi attempt to make
our flesh creep. Czarist Russia from time to time
stretched out claws towards India ; but both in the
war with Japan and in the Great War hitherto
unsuspected weaknesses in Russia’s military organisa-
tion became apparent. Have these been made good
under the Communist regime? The problem of Rus-
sian internal communications has never been properly
tackled, and serious shortcomings, particularly of rail-
ways, go far to offset all the elaborate military
window-dressing of parachute-jumpers, tanks, artillery
and aircraft —a window-dressing somewhat disturbed
by the Finns.
This weakness of internal communications
becomes of great importance in estimating the serious-
ness of the Russian menace —assuming, for the pur-
poses of argument, that Russia has designs upon India.
For modern armies cannot “live on the country”—
their requirements in ammunition, petrol and repair
facilities make this quite impossible. Nor can they
“sweep across Asia” as some people would have us
imagine. They can move fast over comparatively
limited distances, but thereafter there must be long
pauses. Here adequate communications are vital. We
may say at once that nothing like a “sudden swoop”
upon India is at all within the bounds of possibility.
India’s natural defences make the task of an in-
vader extremely hazardous. There is a possible route
through Meshed and Duzdap in Iran towards Quetta.
But this presents great difficulties. It means an ad-
vance of 800 miles through Iran —where presumably
opposition from Iranian forces would be encountered —
and thence another 400 miles through desert country,
in the teeth of the Army and Air Force of India. A
route of 1200 miles in all —and the main battle to be
fought 800 miles from railhead. Has Russia the bril-
liantly efficient troops and the superlative transport
system that would make it practicable? Let Finland
answer!
There remains the historic route through Afghani-
stan —either from Termez on the Oxus, or from Kushk
Post. Railways serve both these places from Russia—
but they are Russian railways! And beyond these are
only indifferent roads or tracks to be pursued in the
face of the Afghan regular forces, backed by some-
thing like 300,000 well-armed tribesmen, imbued with
the fanatical spirit of enmity against an invader.
Guaranteed Rumania.
(Condensed from an article by London “Daily Express”
military correspondent.)
Great Britain and France have guaranteed
Rumania ; Turkey has guaranteed her against aggres-
-“It Trovaso delle Idee,” Rome.
UNCLE SAM’S CASH STORE.
An Italian view of neutral U.S.A.
sion by any European Power except Russia ; Count
Ciano and Count Csaky offered a guarantee on behalf
of Italy and Hungary.
Yet Rumania is in the most dangerous position in
which any State can be—she is richer than she is
strong. She is adjoined by one Great Power—Russia
—and within the sphere of influence of another—
Germany. And both have designs against her.
Bessarabia, now a Rumanian province, belonged
to Russia until the Revolution of 1917. A quarter of
the population of Bessarabia is Russian.
Germany’s interest in Rumania is even more acute
than Russia’s. Rumania produces seven million tons
of crude oil a year. Control of Rumania’s oil would
make a vast improvement in Germany’s position. At
present, though she sends three-fifths of her total
exports to Germany, Rumania sends her only 1,500,000
tons of oil, one-third of her total exports. Control
of Rumania’s cereals and timber, too, would not come
amiss to Germany.
Germany having no common frontier with
Rumania, German troops would have to cross Hun-
gary or Russian Poland before they could enter
Rumania. It is difficult to say whether most
Rumanians dread a German or a Russian occupation
the more. Probably the richer classes fear the Rus-
sians the more, the poorer the Germans. But the
majority of Rumanians would wish to resist either.
Rumania holds the former Hungarian province of
Transylvania, which she received as a reward for com-
ing in on the side of the Allies in the last war. Hun-
gary’s price for a guarantee is the return of three-
quarters of this territory, and if Rumania refuses to
pay Hungary might invade Transylvania the moment
Russia invaded Bessarabia. So Rumania may fall
between two stools.
Mussolini wishes to possess a dominant influence
in the Balkans. He does not want to see Russia en-
croaching upon his neighbors. It is his desire and his
interest to see the Balkan countries unified instead of
bickering. Rumania is Italy’s first line of defence
against Russia.
Rumania possesses a province on the Black Sea
called Dobrudja. This previously belonged to Bulgaria,
so Bulgaria has a grievance.
Rumania would have the will to resist. Would
it possess the means? It has a population of about
19,000,000. Two-thirds of these have Rumanian as
their native tongue. The remaining third comes from
very diverse origins. There are nearly 2,000,000 Hun-
garians, about 1,000,000 Russians and 800,000 Ger-
mans. For the rest, there are Bulgars, Turks, Jews,
miscellaneous Slavs and a few Poles. Some of these
do not matter. But Hungarians, Russians, Germans
and Bulgars must be accounted elements of weakness,
especially the Germans, who have the typical Nazi
organisation, with every member ready to betray the
country for the sake of pan-Germanism should Hitler
decide to strike.
Rumania could put into the field an army of
1,500,000 men. But these men would not all be equally
valuable as soldiers. There would be great differences
in the quantity and quality of their equipment. Vast
sums —in proportion to the national Budget —have
been spent in recent years on armaments and equip-
ment, but Rumania’s army remains similar in type to
Poland’s rather than to the armies of Germany or the
Western democracies. Her air force, recently rein-
forced by British bombers, numbers about 600
machines.
Rumania, too, resembles Poland in being an agri-
cultural rather than an industrial country. She is not
sufficiently industrialised to produce adequate arms and
equipment for her forces. She must depend to a large
extent on outside supplies, and without them she
would be helpless against vast mechanised attacks.
Her resistance, if attacked, must depend on how the
British and French guarantees are fulfilled. To give
her direct military assistance would be extremely diffi-
cult, but extremely valuable.
Soviet Oil for Germany.
[lnformation given in the article here condensed
from London “Economist” supplements that given in
an “Uncabled Additions” article last week, in which
the question of transport was considered in more detail.
Last week’s article was a general survey of the possi-
bilities of Russia supplying Germany with the essential
products needed for war purposes; the present article
deals more fully with the most important of those essen-
tials —oil.]
There is no single point in Germany’s war organi-
sation at which she is more vulnerable than in oil sup-
plies ; and there is no single point at which the Soviets
can be of more use to Germany if they have the will.
Germany’s petroleum production is about half a
million tons annually, while her peace-time consump-
tion is something like twelve times that amount. The
accompanying table, which gives the figures for several
of the world’s main producers, shows that Russia
accounted for only about 11 per cent, of world pro-
duction in 1938. The table also shows the rapid in-
crease in Soviet production in recent years, which
would suggest that a considerable advance in the
future is still possible:
Annual Petroleum Production in Thousands of Tons.
Country. 1913. 1921. 1929. 1932. 1935. 1938.
U.S.A. .. 34,030 64,716 138,104 107,645 134,880 173,000*
U.S.S.R. .. 9,234 13,809 22,318 29,199 f 30,300
Venezuela 218 20,402 17,085 21,990 27,000*
Rumania.. 1,848 1,168 4,837 7,348 8,385 7,200*
Iran .. 248 2,223 5,549 6,549 7,607 10,200*
Mexico .. 3,838 28,978 6,700 4,842 5,871 6,600*
t 1936. * 1937.
But the relevant question is—how quickly can
Russia expand her production to a sufficiently high
level to enable her to give effective aid to Germany?
Seventy-five per cent, of Soviet oil comes from
Baku. Before the last war the oil of the Baku region
was developed largely by British capital and British
engineers. Two pipelines connect Baku with the Black
Sea port of Batum, thus making possible the transfer
of Baku oil to the sea without the use of railways.
The second-largest Soviet oil source is Grozny, also
in the Caucasus. Then there is the so-called “second
Baku” between the Volga River and the Urals.
Whereas Baku boasts only about 29 per cent, of the
deposits of the Soviet Union, the “second Baku” has
about 32 per cent, and is the most extensive and
richest known source in the country. It is right in the
middle of the biggest country in the world. Moreover,
it is near the big agricultural districts of central and
southern Russia and the Ukraine, the largest
petroleum-consuming sections of the country. The
planned production for this field in 1942 is seven mil-
lion tons. Whether or not extensive technical help is
obtained from Germany or elsewhere, the region will
become more and more important as time goes on,
and may well become one of the world’s most pro-
ductive fields. The oil is very rich, containing up to
30 per cent, benzine against 5-6 per cent, in the Baku
and 10 per cent, in the Grozny fields.
In 1938 Russia exported some 1,200,000 tons of
oil petroleum products. The Russians could send all
their normal export to Germany without disrupting
their own internal economy provided it could be trans"
ported and paid for, but it would still fall far short of
satisfying Germany’s needs. What, then, can be
achieved by a deliberate attempt to expand Russia’s
exports regardless of Russian domestic needs? In
1931, when Russia was straining every muscle to build
heavy industry and exporting everything that could
possibly be spared in order to buy machinery abroad,
5,224,302 tons was exported ; and this was at a time
when production was only 20 million tons, or two-
thirds what it is now. Now, with a production of 30
million tons, it would appear possible that some seven
million tons could be sent to Germany, if the Rus-
sians really wanted to do it.
There are, however, numerous factors which indi-
cate that the Soviets will not export anywhere near
as much oil as they did in 1931. In the first place, the
Soviet Union has today only about 48 per cent, of
the horses which she had in 1916. In the meantime she
has acquired a fleet of half a million tractors. Today
tractors and tractor fuel are not luxuries in Soviet
agriculture—they are necessities.
In the second place it is perfectly certain that the
effort of the early ’thirties cannot be repeated. It in-
volved tremendous suffering for the people, and serious


Nice Work!
From a report by London “Times” special
correspondent in Finland:—
/ have returned from the front lines, where
I investigated a persistent report that the
enemy were now sending civilians in from
of their tanks to find out if there are traps and
to explode any mines, just as the French, it
was said, used pigs in the early days of the war
in the West.
Whatever may be true elsewhere, in the
particular section of the front I investigated
the enemy does not send groups, but two
persons on foot in front of each tank. Whether
they are civilians or soldiers it is impossible to
say as none has ever reached the Finnish posi-
tions. They have not the slightest chance of
escaping death. They are armed only with
iron bars, with which they prod the ground for
traps and mines 10 or 20 paces ahead of the
tanks, while the tanks maintain a regular fire-
over their heads, sometimes supported by their
own artillery, and Finnish anti-tank guns reply.
political difficulties. The chance was taken, and the
price was paid at that time, because it was felt by
the directors of the Soviet economy that the speedy
development of Soviet heavy industry was absolutely
vital to the country, and was worth almost any price.
Moreover, and most important, Russia needs oil in
arcat quantities for her own war in the north. It
seems unlikely that Russia will strain herself to send
to Germany large quantities of oil or anything else
which she needs badly herself.
Finally, there is the transport problem. Russia’s
transport system is inadequate and inefficient. Such
as it is, it is designed for domestic uses, and no more
fitted for a large export traffic than, by the Finnish
experience, it is suited to serve an external war. There
are not enough trucks or tank wagons to supply Ger-
many’s needs, and, even if the Reich could spare
some of her scarce rolling stock, it would be useless
because of differences in gauge.
There is much oil in Russia that could in theory
be exported to Germany —perhaps two million tons a
year. But the export of between five and ten million
tons of oil from a country where petrol has been
rationed in the capital for years, and which is now at
war, is very unlikely. Germany could perhaps go on
fighting on five million tons a year, but she certainly
could not win the war with an annual consumption of
less than ten million tons. The Soviets could prob-
ably keep Germany supplied with oil for an indefinite
period in sufficient quantities so long as the war is not
waged full scale. But Russia can give no militarily
decisive aid in oil to the Reich without at least 10
years of intensive effort deliberately directed to this
single end.
Aircraft from U.S.A.
(From a report by London “Times” New York
correspondent .)
Taking his figures from authoritative sources,
Major George Fielding Eliot, the American military
expert, estimates the prospective deliveries of fighting
types of aeroplanes to Great Britain and France by
the end of 1940 at 3190 —1530 to Great Britain and
1660 to France. This estimate takes into account the
pre-war orders now in delivery, and war-time orders
and contracts pending. The prospective deliveries in
1940 of basic and advanced training aeroplanes he
estimates at 1185, 815 of which would go to Britain
and 370 to France.
Major Eliot notes, however, that there is enough
extra plant capacity for export purposes to swell the
totals of possible deliveries before the end of 1940 to
5310 fighting and 2685 training machines. He observes
further that many of the training machines could be
diverted to serve as fighters, and says that, while the
defence needs of the United States will always be given
priority over foreign war orders, it is possible it may
be found that the defence services of the United States
are in greater immediate need of trained personnel
than of additional aeroplanes ; and the President has
the power to release some additional aeroplanes for
export.
Major Eliot makes the further observation that
the high quality of American machines will count for
something extra when it comes to matching the Allied
with the German Air Force. He considers that Ger-
many’s only chance of winning the war by fighting
lies in her immediate air superiority (in numbers) over
the Allies. She cannot hope to win if this superiority
is converted into an inferiority. American aeroplane
production cannot so convert it by this spring, but it
will begin to do so by the end of 1940. By the spring
of 1941 the United States will be turning out aero-
planes of fighting type for foreign delivery at a rate
approaching 1000 a month. This, in addition to the
Allies’ own production at that time, he says, will be
sufficient to be decisive.
“Therefore it clearly appears,” Major Eliot writes,
“that whether by sea or by land or by air, or by all
three combined, any German stroke for victory with
any reasonable hope of success must be made by the
spring of 1940, or not at all. After that, American
aeroplane production for the Allies will increase at
such a rate that Germany will be hopelessly out-
distanced in the air, and hence defeated on the surface
of the earth.”
Europe’s Uneasy Heads.
(From a London “Daily Herald” article by Ronald
Matthews.)
The 10 uneasiest heads on the Continent —the 10
neutral monarchs —cannot but be thinking how the last
war ended with crowns fluttering down. They must be
asking themselves uncertainly how it will fare with
them and their lands when today’s tremendous storm
has blown by.
Gustav of Sweden, with his 81 years, is the world s
oldest king. Over his country’s northern border looms
the shadow of Soviet Russia ; south of the Baltic shrill
the alarms of the Nazi hosts. Every year Gustav has
visited the Riviera for tennis. Was his latest trip, he
must ask himself now, the last he will ever make as a
reigning king?
Haakon of Norway broods on the future in Oslo.
He has reigned for 35 years, but possibly it would not
be such a shock to him if tomorrow were to leave him
once more without a throne. For he never expected
one as a boy; he was only the younger son of
Frederick VIII. of Denmark. Had not Norway re-
volted from Sweden in 1905 and offered him the crown
he would have been still today the honor-
able but obscure royalty that history
might make him tomorrow.
Half-past seven any morning of the
year will see a lone horseman, 6ft. sin.
tall, riding thoughtfully through the
streets of Copenhagen. It will be King
Christian of Denmark, King Haakon’s
brother. If any king knows the anxieties
of his subjects it should be Christian.
Twice a month the doors of his palace
are flung open for a levee, to which any
Dane who wants can go. He knows just
what they think of Germany’s mines,
Finland’s plight, Britain’s contraband
control.
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland has a
serious air as she sets out on her bicycle
—her example of war-time economy —to
pay her morning visits. Little chance
this year, she must think, of the moun-
tain holiday on which she can take
refuge from cares with her favorite paint-
box and easel. But, then, forms of State
are not eternal, even German Empires.
Wilhelmina has received two famous
exiled rulers into Holland in her long
reign—Kruger in 1901, the in
1918. May there not yet be a third?
Young Leopold of Belgium—kings
are still young at 39 —shares Wilhelmina’s
anxieties, for he has not only twice
appealed for peace with her; he has
promised to come to her aid if she is
attacked. And he has seen war ; he left
his English school at the age of 13 to
join the Belgian Army in the last.
Little King Emmanuel of Italy—he
has long grown used to jokes about his
size—bends ever his coin cabinets and
wonders. Will the year see him with a third new crown
—there have been Abyssinia and Albania, and now
they talk of Hungary —or will it see him finally with-
out one? Coins are a restful subject; he has written
more than a dozen books on them.
King Peter of Yugoslavia will be 17 this year,
almost old enough to handle the £6OO a day fortune
the royal estates provide. For the moment he must
be content with a little pocket-money. His father’s
assassination put him, still a schoolboy, on the throne.
Boris of Bulgaria asks himself uneasily whether he
shall accept the patronage of Stalin. He is a good
deal of a dictator himself, and so he has no desire
to put up with dictation. What do the workers think?
He flatters himself that he knows them, for he is an
enthusiastic locomotive driver and a paying member
of the Bulgarian railwaymen’s union.
King George of Greece has no particular desire
to go on his travels again. But, then, he would not be
so inconvenienced as some exiles. He speaks five lan-
guages perfectly. Still, two exiles, in 1917 and 1922,
are quite sufficient.
King Carol of Rumania is unlikely to be leaving
his desk before midnight any evening now. In Eng-
land the ruler who ousted his own son from the
throne is still regarded as a playboy. Not in Rumania,
where he is the shrewdest politician in the country.
When he relaxes, it is not in Bucharest’s glaring night-
haunts, but over the keys of his piano ; sometimes he
plays duets with Crown Prince Michael. Russian
armies gather on his north: Hungary raises claims to
the west. Perils call the king to play the part of a
leader. “But that is a part I must play solo,” thinks
King Carol.
American 300-mile Safety Zone.
[The Panama Congress on October 3 declared a “300-
mile safety zone” as existing around American coasts
—a belt wherein was claimed the “undisputable right”
to see that no belligerent act occurred. Britain promptly
issued a statement of general policy which significantly
concluded: “The width of the belt of territorial waters
is now widely accepted as being three miles. Great
Britain, in common with many other countries, has
long refused to recognise claims to a territorial belt of
great width.” Before Britain could officially reply to the
declaration the Graf Spee naval encounter occurred well
within the zone. With the preamble only omitted, the
full text of the reply eventually returned by Britain is
here given—a model of diplomatic correspondence on
the lines of the reasoned answer that turneth away
wrath.]
It will be apparent, in the first place, that the pro-
posal, involving as it does the abandonment by the
belligerents of certain legitimate belligerent rights, is
not one which on any basis of international law can
be imposed upon them by unilateral action, and that
its adoption requires their specific assent.
The acceptance by his Majesty’s Government of
the suggestion that the belligerents should forgo their
rights in the Zone must clearly be dependent upon
their being satisfied that the adoption of the Zone pro-
posal would not provide German warships and supply
ships with a vast sanctuary from which they could
emerge to attack Allied and neutral shipping, to which
they could return to avoid being brought to action, and
in which acts of unneutral service might be performed
by non-German ships—for example, by the use of
wireless communications. It would also be necessary
to ensure that German warships and supply ships
would not be enabled to pass with impunity from one
ocean to another through the Zone, or German mer-
chant ships to take part in inter-American trade and
earn foreign exchange which might be used in attempts
to promote subversion and sabotage abroad and to
procure supplies for the prolongation of the war, thus
depriving the Allies of the fruits of their superiority
at sea.
Moreover, the acceptance of the Zone proposal
would have to be on the basis that it should not con-
stitute a precedent for a far-reaching alteration in the
existing laws of maritime neutrality.
Unless these points are adequately safeguarded,
the Zone proposal might only lead to the accumulation
“De Groene,” Amsterdam.
SLIPPERY EUROPE.
A Dutch summing-up of current affairs.
of belligerent ships in the Zone. This in turn might
well bring the risk of war nearer to the American
States and lead to friction between on the one hand
the Allies, pursuing their legitimate belligerent activi-
ties, and on the other the American Republics,
endeavoring to make this new policy prevail.
The risk of such friction, which his Majesty’s
Government would be the first to deplore, would be
increased by the application of sanctions. His
Majesty’s Government must emphatically repudiate
any suggestion that his Majesty’s ships have acted, or
would act, in any way that would justify the adoption
by neutrals of punitive measures which do not spring
from the accepted canons of neutral rights and obliga-
tions. If, therefore, the American States were to adopt
a scheme of sanctions for the enforcement of the
Zone proposal, they would, in effect, be offering a
sanctuary to German warships, within which his
Majesty’s ships would be confronted with the invidious
choice of having either to refrain from engaging their
enemy or laying themselves open to penalties in
American ports and waters.
Up to the present it does not appear that means
have been found by which the disadvantages of the
Zone proposal could be eliminated. That this is the
case was shown by the operations in the Zone of the
warship Admiral Graf Spee and the supply ship
Tacoma. With regard to the specific incidents of which
mention is made in the communication under reply,
his Majesty’s Government must observe that the legi-
timate activities of his Majesty’s ships can in no way
imperil, but must rather contribute to, the security of
the American continent, the protection of which was
the object of the framers of the Declaration of Panama.
His Majesty’s Government cannot admit that there is
any foundation for a claim that such activities have in
any way exposed them to justifiable reproach, seeing
that the Zone proposal has not been made effective and
belligerent assent has not yet been given to its
operation.
In view of the difficulties described above, it
appears to his Majesty’s Government that the only
effective method of achieving the American object of
preventing belligerent acts within the Zone would be
first to ensure that the German Government would
send no more warships into it. Secondly, there are
obvious difficulties in applying the Zone proposal at
this stage of the war, when so much German shipping
has already taken refuge in American waters. If the
Allies are to be asked to forgo the opportunity of cap-
turing these vessels, it would also seem to be neces-
sary that they should be laid up under Pan-American
control for the duration of the war.
In the view' of his Majesty’s Government, it would
only be by means such as those indicated that the wish
of the American Governments to keep war away from
their coasts could be realised in a truly effective and
equitable manner. Until his Majesty’s Government
are able to feel assured that the scheme will operate
satisfactorily they must, anxious as they are for the
fulfilment of American hopes, necessarily reserve their
full belligerent rights in order to fight the menace pre-
sented by German action and policy, and to defend
that conception of law and that way of life which they
believe to be as dear to the peoples and Governments
of America as they are to the peoples and Governments
of the British Commonwealth of Nations.


msm
K
a £2O/-/-
£29/13/6
£43/5/
EXCEPTIONAL
£l2/10/
DIAMOND
.OU can now obtain genuine wholesale
prices on Diamond Rings, Diamond-Set
Watches and loose Diamonds from W. G. Jira,
Diamond Importers and Wholesalers here for
nearly half a century, and the only Wholesale
House in Australia specialising in Diamonds
exclusively from which you may buy direct.
Comparison of values is welcomed.
Offices in Antwerp, Belgium, buyers on the
Diamond Exchanges and recent heavy pre-
war imports enable W. G. Jira to offer
Diamonds to the public at prices which were,
until recently, available only to the Trade.
All Jira Diamond Rings are modem hand-
made creations of solid platinum or 18 carat
white or yellow gold, fully guaranteed.
You can visit the Jira Showrooms any day
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturdays 9 a.m. to 12
p.m., or Friday evenings by appointment.
J
LOOSE/ DIAMONDS
Dl AMONDSf TO E WELLE RY-
Established 1894
SUITE 408, THE GRACE BUILDING, CNR. KING
AND YORK STREETS, SYDNEY (MA3561) 1>
62 RUE DU PELICAN, ANTWERP, BELGIUM,
£B7/10/
m
iVU-l
EIO/-/-
£l2B/-/-
100 KIN
1C
m
m
m
m
m
#
HEATING
fortauMrif Homes
"ROC KGAS,"
is a private gas
supply for cook-
ing, lighting,
and heating in
homes beyond
the reach of
town gas. It
is absolut eI y
safe, extremely
economical to
use. NO WOOD
CHOPPING
NO STOKING
NO WICK
TRIMMING
NO PUMPING—NO OILY FUMES—NO TANKS TO FILL
and NO PREHEATING. Rockgas lights instantly at the
touch of a match.
ALL SHOW VISITORS WELCOME TO OUR
NEW SHOWROOMS.
ROCKGAS DISTRIBUTORS
(Northern Blue Ray Gas Co.),
207 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82846.
Note New Address.
Please forward me particulars of "Rockgas" for Cooking ( )
Lighting ( ) Water Heating ( ) Refrigeration ( ) Laboratory ( )
Ironing ( ) Space Heating ( ).
(Mark with X items of interest.)
Name
Address
For More Productive Weed-free Land
USE A
HOE-TRAC
9 Small but Powerful— 1 h.p. Air Cooled, Auto Type, Petrol Engine.
9 Motorises Garden Work — Seeds, Cultivates, Weeds, Hoes, Hills and
Discs.
9 Motorises Lawn Mowing— Does your lawn mowing and garden faster.
9 Portable Power —Drive it to the job—power take-off runs separator,
washing machine, etc.
Commercial Growers,
Farmers and Nurserymen
will find the “Hoe-Trac”
a very handy machine —
designed for growing crops
at a profit.
It hoes, hills or furrows,
seeds, cultivates and weeds.
The attachments are easily
changed. Powered by a
dust-protected single-
cyUnder motor developing
1 h.p. at 2600 r.p.m.
Quickly and easily started
—runs for 1 hour on less
than 1 pint of petrol. A
Hand Throttle governs
speed from \ to 3 m.p.h.
Motorises backbreaking
Handtool Jobs.
e
Cash
Price
(Complete)
£79'l O'-
Tools supplied with Hoe-Trac are : Disc Gang with 3 7in. Blades, Weeding
Hoes, Furrow Opener, Filling Blades and Cultivators. The one-row
Automatic Seeder (as illustrated) sows in rows, hills, continuous or spaced
4,5, 6,8, 12 or 24 inches apart, opens furrow, drops seed, closes furrow,
packs earth and marks next row —all in one operation. Hopper holds 1 pint
of seed.
Motorises Backbreaking Handtool Jobs,
Write for Illustrated Leaflet giving complete details.
NOCKS KIRBUTD
Postal Address... BOX 4250 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY
EXCLUSIVE CARS
FOR DISCRIMINATING BUYERS
wmm
"’’"li.l.l.Ww
S.S. Jaguar 3$ litre.
Latest series Drophead Coupe Foursome, has never been registered in
Australia and the tyres are new. Has only done a small mileage and is in
absolutely new car condition. It is ducoed ivory with chrome and is finished
in tan leather. A thoroughbred car for the discriminating owner. Perform-
ance in excess of 95 m.p.h.
è
2 Litre Dolomite.
DOLOMITE TRIUMPH 6
cylinder, 2 litre, latest series
saloon with imported coachwork
and ducoed blue with leather to
match, in new car condition
throughout, sunshine roof, etc.
1939 CHRYSLER ROYAL SEDAN, mileage under 6000, cannot be dis-
tinguished from new, ducoed black, leather upholstery. A car you will be
proud to own.
1938 PACKARD 8-CYLINDER SEDAN, ducoed black, red leather
upholstery, mileage under 8000, new car appearance, mechanically perfect
and one that will be the envy of your friends,
ALSO WE OFFER FOR SALE THE FOLLOWING:
LAGONDA RAPIER sports coupe, 4-seater, foursome.
B.S.A. SCOUT, series 4, 1937 roadster.
STANDARD 10 1938 dual-purpose roadster.
PONTIAC 6 1936 de luxe sedan.
DODGE 1934 de luxe imported body coupe.
FORD V 8 1932 sports roadster
AND MANY OTHERS.
WORKSHOP. Apart from being the importers of B.S.A. Scout cars and
specialists in high-grade slightly-used cars, we also cater for the repairs and
service of quality cars, and our workshop, which is fully equipped with all
modern service appliances and skilled mechanics, can look after all motoring
requirements. Country Clients consult us when in Sydney.
FREE SERVICE up to 1500 miles on all cars over £125 ensures absolute
satisfaction.
STAN HILL, MOGINIE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
150-154 PALMER STREET, SYDNEY
FA3537 (Just off William Street). FAIBO6
Sole N.S.W. Distributors for B.S.A. SCOUT Cars.
OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS TILE 8.30 P.AI.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Ajax is not yet a spent force, despite
his defeats by High Caste in the C. F.
Orr Stakes at Williamstown and the St.
George Stales at Caulfield. Continually
excusing Ajax savors of sentimentality
towards a dethroned champion, but any
one of three horses —High Caste, Ajax
and Reading —might have won Satur-
day’s race had it been re-run. *Luck
played its part in High Caste’s win, and
it might be advisable to give Ajax one
more chance before concluding that he
has slipped. That opportunity comes
next Saturday in the Futurity Stakes, a
race he won in 1938 and again last year.
Had Ajax not veered out in the
straight, an unfortunate trait of his at
Caulfield, High Caste could not have
come round and beaten him in the St.
George Stakes. Riding tactics had a lot
to do with the result. Badger on Ajax
was at a disadvantage in that his mount
seems to have lost some of his former
early brilliance, but he was out-
manoeuvred by Bartle on High Caste later
in the race. Bartle was not perturbed at
the rush tactics adopted by Badger in
taking Ajax from about a length and a
half behind High Caste between the five
and four furlongs to almost three
lengths ahead of him beginning the bend.
He was content to wait for the last run,
and, sensing that Ajax would hang in the
straight, stuck to the rails until the open-
ing presented itself. That saving of
ground enabled High Caste to win by a
head, but right at the finish he was not
doing any better than Ajax, who battled
on gamely under the whip. Each will
carry an additional 171 b. in the Futurity
Stakes, in which the luck of the race
may again be a deciding factor.
High Caste’s win increased his earn-
ings to £18,500, while Ajax, with win-
nings of £32,800, is now £5262 10s.
behind the amount won by his sire,
Heroic. Heroic is fifth and Ajax ninth
on the list of winning Australian horses.
Reading impressed quite as much as
High Caste and Ajax. Beaten a head
and a neck by those horses, he recorded
a splendid performance. Misfortune at
the start prejudiced his chance, and at
the half-mile he was a fair way out of
his ground in sixth position. Even then
he would have gone close to winning had
he not veered in suddenly when he got
within half a length of Ajax in the
straight. Rider Fred Shean declares that
he attempted to savage Ajax, and the in-
cident meant that Shean had to check
Reading and lose valuable ground at a
critical stage. Reading was doing better
than the first and second horses right on
the post, and, while he might not beat
them over the shorter journey of the
Futurity Stakes, I am quite prepared to
see him outstay High Caste in the V.R.C.
St. Leger, just as he did in both Derbys.
Unishak’s Oakleigh Plate win was a
striking form reversal as compared with
his display in the Marine Handicap at
Williamstown a week earlier. Although
a squeeze at the start affected his chance
at the seaside course, his customary dash
was completely missing, and, never closer
than fifth, he finished sixth. Betting indi-
cated that he was expected to do better on
Saturday. Whereas his price eased from
fours to sevens at Williamstown, he was
backed from 8 to 1 down to 11 to 2 for
the Oakleigh Plate, and, in front after
going about a furlong and a half, was
not afterwards headed. Two or three flat
patrons voiced their disapproval of the
improvement made by the South Austra-
lian-owned gelding, now trained by Frank
Godby, but they subsided for lack of
support. Unishak’s success was the cul-
mination of plans laid a year ago by his
owner, A. J. McCawley. After Unishak’s
third to Aurie’s Star and Pamelus in the
corresponding race 12 months ago
McCawley decided to concentrate on this
year’s race, and Unishak was good
enough to see the job through.
Unishak will attempt to equal the
record of Aurie’s Star, last horse to land
the Oakleigh Plate-Newmarket double,
but he has become liable to a penalty,
which will not be announced until later,
and it is doubtful whether he will appre-
ciate the straight-six as much as he does
a race round a turn. Chatsbury, though
beaten for second money by Pamelus, was
most impressive of the Newmarket candi-
dates which ran in the Oakleigh. But
for a squeeze at the turn he might have
finished closer, and in the Newmarket he
will meet Pamelus 21b. better. Being the
younger horse he is liable to more im-
provement, and he has already proved
his ability up the straight-six.
Pamelus wears remarkably well. Now
in his ninth year, he momentarily looked
like winning his second Oakleigh Plate
when he made a dash at Unishak in the
straight, but the latter, with an advantage
of four years in age and 221 b. in weight,
was going away from him again at the
finish. Pamelus’s Oakleigh record is a
win and two seconds, and he did much
better than his year-younger rival Aurie’s
Star, who was attempting to win the race
for the third time. A wide barrier posi-
tion, however, prevented Aurie s Star
from getting across to the rails, and he
lost considerable ground on the turn.
Manrico’s Newmarket prospects
slumped a trifle after his expensive failure
in the Oakleigh, but bookmakers, recog-
nising that he is a champion up the
straight-six, a course on which he has
never been beaten, decline to take much
risk with him. Manrico has never won
at Caulfield. His Oakleigh Plate showing
justified the fears of trainer Jack Holt,
who expressed the opinion before the race
that his horse might be run off his legs in
the early stages. Manrico, though the
fastest horse in Melbourne, is not the
fastest beginner. It takes him about half
a furlong to wind up properly, and over
the 5i furlongs on Saturday several of
the lightweights soon had him in trouble.
Holt, though naturally disappointed that
Manrico did not do better, has made no
secret of his belief that Manrico would
be a better Newmarket than Oakleigh
Plate proposition.
Trainer W. O’Dwyer, who has won
several races recently with fancied New-
market candidate Magic Circle, never
overrates his horses. Following Plymouth
Hoe’s success in the Bond Handicap,
many backers wondered why he had with-
drawn that horse from the Australian
Cup soon after the declaration of weights.
Plymouth Hoe is a great weight-carrier
and a much improved stayer, but
O’Dwyer did not relish the idea of ask-
ing him to carry 9.0 over 2} miles. There
are more suitable races for him at Flem-
ington, and he will be a runner for the
Centenary Cup (If miles) on the first day
of the V.R.C. carnival.
He may have been a trifle lucky to win
the Bond Handicap. Just as Gladstone,
with 271 b. the better of the weights,
seemed to have a good chance of worry-
ing him out of first money, he made a
sudden dive at Plymouth Hoe in an
attempt to savage him. Gladstone missed,
but the incident meant that he had to be
checked, and the ground lost thereby was
probably more than the half-neck by
which he was beaten. Plymouth Hoe, a
five-year-old entire by Drake-Tampa
Bay, has been a wonderful proposition
for bookmaker-owner Vic Newhouse,
who bought him for 325 guineas.
From an Australian Cup viewpoint,
the Bond Handicap was not very infor-
mative. Neither Plymouth Hoe nor the
third horse, Royal Jubilee, is engaged in
the long race, nor is Mildura, who was
something in the nature of a good thing
beaten. Mildura, who started favorite,
experienced an interrupted passage almost
from the start, and, considering that the
race was as good as over by the time he
extricated himself from trouble, his
fourth was a good performance. Glad-
stone, unless his attempt to bite Plymouth
Hoe indicates that he is turning sour, is a
possibility with only 6.12, as there is room
for further improvement in him, but the
South Australians Indignity and Val-
miki, who finished first and second respec-
tively in the Port Adelaide Cup, were
disappointing. They, with the Perth Cup
winner Tomito, were among the last
home. Adelaide racing men declared
that Valmiki had lightened off a good
deal.
Outstanding among Cup candidates
was the Caulfield and Melbourne Cup
winner Rivette. In fourth position, she
was over four lengths behind High Caste
at the finish of the St. George Stakes,
but she made up a good deal of ground
over the concluding stages, and looked as
if she would be all the better for the
race. Cup horses defeated by her were
Actor, Round Up, Seven Fifty, Pageant
and Elanage. With the exception of
Actor, who did not appear to pull up
well, she met those horses better than
Flemington terms. Pageant also created
a favorable impression in the St. George
Stakes. He weakened after moving up
second to Ajax at the turn, but was hay-
ing his first race since he went amiss in
the spring, and lacked the necessary con-
dition to carry on. He met Rivette 121 b.
worse than Cup terms, and, provided he
stands, must be conceded a chance of
winning the long race for the second year
in succession.
Times do not always form a safe basis
for comparison, but Linkboy (The Night
Patrol-Casilda) won the second division
of the Federal Stakes in a second and a
quarter faster time than occupied by the
beautifully-made Adelaide filly Plana
(Salatis-Lady Nalpa) in winning the first
division. Linkboy, backed from 8 to 1
down to favoritism at 7 to 2, hit the front
near the three furlongs, cleared away to
win by five lengths, and, on that form,
comes into Sires’ Produce Stakes
reckonings. He met Trueness 151 b.
better than will be the case in the Sires’
Produce Stakes, but, even allowing that
the Sydney filly was having her first race
since the spring and was forced to race
wide all the way, Linkboy beat her
almost seven lengths, Trueness finishing
fourth. Already winner of three races,
Linkboy has been a fine purchase for
owner Andy Morrow, who paid 500
guineas for him as a yearling.
Broadcaster missed a place in the
slower division of the Federal Stakes
won by Plana, but, in addition to
suffering several checks during the race,
was having his first run since his success
in the Maribyrnong Plate. He conceded
weight to all his opponents, who were
more forward in condition, will derive
considerable benefit from the outing, and
will be better suited by the larger Flem-
ington track.
Backers of Atticus and Winterset at
Werribee last Wednesday wondered if all
was well with their eyesight when they
saw those horses win their respective divi-
sions of the Salisbury Welter on Satur-
day. Atticus had been left at the post and
taken no part in the Werribee race, and
at Moonee Valley two days earlier he
had finished last in a mile welter after
moving up to the leaders at the turn. It
was hard to have him on Saturday, but,
starting at 20 to 1, he put up a remark-
able performance. Left several lengths
and a long way out of his ground at the
half-mile, he battled on gamely in the
straight and upset a plunge on Lanarus.
whom he defeated a head. Winterset,
owned by Sol Green, was outstayed by
Hopewyn in a moderate middle-distance
field at Werribee, but he appreciated the
shorter journey on Saturday* and, getting
to the front near the three furlongs, was
not afterwards headed to win from
Alarm, a first acceptor for the Aus-
tralian Cup, and Courage. Well-backed
Historian, who, like Lanarus, is owned
by Darcy Eccles, was beaten into fourth
position. He should do better at his next
appearance.
* * * *
Ascot is not exactly one of Sydney s
show racecourses, but it generally re-
ceives a fair share of patronage, and
with the prize-money a little over £ 1353
Saturday’s attendance was deserved. The
quality of the competitors was not
superior to that which we are accus-
tomed at mid-week meetings, or, for that
matter, many other Saturday suburban
meetings.
The Two-year-old Trial Handicap was
run in three divisions. Betting pointed
to the first being little more than a match
between Black Art and Two Ton I ony.
It was, but from the top of the straight
Black Art was much too good for Two
Ton Tony, who shifted about at the
finish. The winner is a Dunnottar filly,
and is trained by F. T. Cush, who has a
remarkable record with two-year-olds
this season. Jean Melfort was third, but
of those behind the first two nothing
took my fancy more than The Chef, a
Portofino colt trained by Payten.
The second division went to Merry
Monarch, who outstayed Lady Lustre
after the latter had taken charge in the
straight. There was little between them
from the turn, and a protest entered on
behalf of Lady Lustre for interference
was dismissed. The winner did hang out,
and in consequence Coutts had to take
hold of him a couple of times. If that
had not happened Merry Monarch would
have won comfortably. He is one of
T. Murray’s team, and is by El Cacique
from Wedding Feast, a Polymestor
mare, who won several races, and was
also third in an Adrian Knox Stakes.
The winner is of the real El Cacique
type ' ......
That sire was also represented by Wed-
ding Belle, who ran third. She is trained
by G. Price, and is out of Crystal Wed-
ding, a half-sister to Silver King. En-
chantment, a Sion filly, was expected to
run well, but never got in it. Radasca
(by Madagascar) and Minnabel (by Pan-
theon) started promisingly.
Peter Pan’s sister Phoebe was supposed
to have a mortgage on the third divi-
sion. Drawn wide out, she commenced
well, but failed to hold her position. She
completely settled her chance by run-
ning out very wide entering the straight.
Over a longer distance she will do better.
The winner, Gonfala, who was always
one of the leaders, is a natty filly by El
Cacique from Blue Gown (dam of Happy
Dinah). Zue (Air Balloon-Zuleika) made
a fair showing, and Parnassus (half-
brother by Phaleron Bay to Royal Chief)
improved a little on his previous efforts.
Rex won the Welter Mile for E. D.
Lawson’s stable, but luck was on his
side. He was always well placed, while
Sign On, who ran him to a head, was
squeezed out at the start, and was ahead
of very few runners when the field settled
down. Exactor was the early leader, and
Good One was always prominent, as was
Black Fern. The course evidently did
not suit Numeral, the pace he showed
in the race won by Lucullus Lad at Vic-
toria Park being missing. Flamari and
Lockray also ran badly. It was the
same with Magsman, but as he is again
commencing to look well he may fare
better in something at a provincial
meeting.
Tarn likes Ascot, and running pasi
Brazandt after going a little over a fur-
long in the Flying Handicap did not
leave the result in doubt, second
place going to Rummage, who met with
interference. Huntsman was a close
third, succeeded by Melrose, who was
second at the turn, but found the task
of chasing Tarn and Brazandt in the
early part too much for her. Outpaced
in the first half of the trip King Pyrrhus
made up ground in the straight, but never
quite looked a place-getter ; while Hamu-
rah is still a long way from her best.
Tarn, though far from a big mare, is
more robust now than at any previous
period.
Easily-won races were the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap and the Four-
teen-two Handicap. Inquiry led through-
out the former, Royal Routine being the
only other runner that ever looked like
troubling her. However, he ran greenly
along the back and down the straight,
FOR CAULFIELD.
(By “SENTRY.”)
St. Clair Trial: Marengo, 1 ;
Rose Princess, 2 ; Swettenham, 3.
Alma Stakes: Broadcaster, 1 ;
Linkboy, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
Woodcliffe Handicap: Mildura,
1 ; Rivette, 2 ; Alarm, 3.
Caulfield Futurity Stakes: Ajax,
1 ; High Caste, 2 ; Reading, 3.
Stanley Steeplechase: Nevizes, 1 ;
Dornford, 2; Great Bear, 3.
Hawksburn Handicap: Amiable,
1 ; Magic Circle, 2 ; Rex Felt, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
By “PILOT.”
Three-year-old Handicap: Beau
Mari, 1 ; Asnazu, 2.; Novice, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Columbus,
1 ; Dawn Mary, 2; Welcome
News, 3.
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Gymkhana,
1 ; Linklet, 2 ; Bogan Boy, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Breeze, 1 ;
Tickle, 2 ; Rival Hit, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Astound-
ing, 1 ; Hedonic, 2 ; Hilarious, 3.
Flying Welter: Merry Smile, 1 ;
Table Talk, 2 ; Spear Arrow, 3.


The Name you should remember
for Ihe suit you should buy!
é
If SERGE SUIT is more useful for more
““ occasions—than any suit in your ward-
robe. Whether for business or social wear,
daytime or evening, you are always quite
correct in a serge. And, when the suit is made
of GOLD MEDAL SERGE you will be wearing
a cloth that is the equal of anything in the
world.
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is made from Australian
Pure Merino—the finest wool the world pro-
duces. The cloth is the strongest weave and
dyed with the famous Crusader Fadeless Indigo
Dye.
Awarded Cold Medal
at Rouhaix, France
It was a great triumph for Australian Manufac-
ture that an Australian Cloth was awarded the
Gold medal at this great French Cloth Ex-
hibition in competition with the world's
products . . . Appreciation of GOLD MEDAL
SERGE in its own land is proved by the fact
that, in 1939, nearly 38,000 suits were sold.
And, each year the number increases.
GOLD MEDAL SERGE is a CRUSADER CLOTH—MONARCH Quality. The
name is branded in gold upon every three yards of cloth. . . . The price
for a suit of GOLD MEDAL SERGE is usually from £7/7/- to £lO/10/-.
Differences in price are determined by superior cut, workmanship and trimmings.
GRUSADER CLOTH is available also in GREY MIXTURES; PLAIN and FANCY GREYS; NAVY, BLACK,
BROWN and ROYAL FANCY SUITINGS; TROPICAL SUITINGS and DRESS SUITINGS.
(Trusafrer Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
and will do better. Apart from the first
two there was nothing of account in the
form of the others.
Mag was in charge from the first fur-
long of the Fourteen-two Handicap, Be
Aero being her only opponent capable
of getting within striking distance.
Ilatheon was solidly backed, but was left
several lengths at barrier-rise. She made
up sufficient leeway to suggest that with
ordinary luck at the start she would at
least have run second. The winner is a
thick-set Magpie mare, and looks a
weight-carrier.
The Blizzard finished gamely to defeat
Legion Bird in the last few strides of
the Ascot Handicap, but Astounding, in
third place, seemed to me an unlucky
loser. He ran into trouble soon after
leaving the straight, and after that was
unable to get a clear run until a win
for him was almost impossible. He
gained 31b. through an allowance for
an apprentice rider, but a stronger jockey
would have advantaged him to a greater
extent. However, as Astounding was
never better than at present, he will not
be long in atoning for last week’s defeat.
Apart from the three mentioned, no-
thing gave greater promise of an early
win than Bonnie L., whose last success
was in a seven-furlongs handicap at
Randwick over a year ago. On that occa-
sion those behind her included Bush Bee,
Radio Queen, Diamond Wedding, Leif
and June. A return to that form would
put her a long way in a mile race at a
mid-week or ordinary Saturday meeting.
* * * *
The Futurity Stakes has lost nothing of
its interest by Ajax’s defeat in the St.
George Stakes. The chestnut ran much
better than in the C. F. Orr Stakes, and
his fault of occasionally hanging out
gave Bartle his opportunity on High
Caste. They will again meet on the same
terms, but it cannot be overlooked that
Ajax may be affected to a greater extent
by his rise from 9.2 to 10.5 than High
Caste by his advance from 8.3 to 9.6.
Ajax won last year with 10.6, but in
High Caste he will be meeting a high-class
weight - carrying three - year - old, who
should be right at the top of his form on
Saturday next. Reading is bound to run
well, but, as opposed to High Caste and
Ajax, the distance is likely to be short
for him. With a view to place-money
the owner of Pamelus is possibly sorry
that his horse is not again engaged. He
was second to Ajax last year.
A field of eight for the Futurity Stakes
will be the third-smallest since its incep-
tion in 1898. Six ran in 1899, and seven
last year, while seven times it got down
to nine. The largest field was 21 in 1909,
Soultline winning from Irishman and
King Berry. Few real outsiders have
won the race, the last being Waranton
at 25 to 1. He beat the 5-to-2 favorite
Valicare by a head. When Ajax won in
1938 he was a 2-to-l favorite, while when
he scored again last year he was at
9 to 4 on.
Maltster has had greater success than
any other sire in the Futurity Stakes,
Popinjay, Brattle and Gold Tie winning
for him. He is not far ahead of Heroic,
for whom Ajax has won twice, and an-
other son, Heros, scored a dead-heat
with Synagogue.
* * * *
Accounts of the race suggest that the
leading division went a little too fast for
Chatsbury in the early part of the Oak-
leigh Plate, but, as he ran a fair third,
his Newmarket chance remains as good
as prior to last week’s rate. He will get
21b. more from Pamelus, and though
figures actually give the latter the advan-
tage I think Chatsbury will find the Flem-
ington straight more to his liking than
Caulfield. The last minor place-getter in
the Oakleigh Plate to win the Newmarket
the same year was St. Ardent, who ran
third in the former with 7.6, and won the
latter with 7.4. That was in 1929, and
St. Ardent was a three-year-old. His
l.lOj is still the record for the New-
market.
* * * *
In running fourth in the St. George
Stakes with 8.13, Rivette did really well,
but still 1 do not take kindly to her
chance of winning the Australian Cup
with 9.2. In racing it is generally wise
to be guided to some extent by prece-
dent, and in the last 30 years there have
been only two winners with over 9st. —
Pilliewinkie (9.6) and Spearfelt (9.13). A
mare has yet to win with anything
approaching 9.0, Amalia’s 8.3 being the
record for the sex. Lemina was second
with 8.12 in 1926, and Mira Donna was
similarly placed with 8.7 in 1932.
* * * *
In the Bond Cup several Australian
Cup horses discounted their prospects, as
did runners in some other races. Actor’s
early backers have no cause to be on
good terms with themselves. The nine
furlongs of the St. George Stakes did not
suit him, but the unsoundness which
affected him when previously trained in
Australia may again tell against him.
“One of the best horses I ever had” I
heard J. T. Jamieson say of Actor when
he trained him in Sydney, but though he
showed to great advantage for a time in
his work he could not stand up to it when
a little extra was asked of him. Tomito,
Valmiki and Mac Rob were others that
might reasonably have been expected to
do better in the Bond Cup with only 21b..
41b. and 21b. more respectively than they
have to carry in the Australian Cup.
There was nothing specially attractive in
the form of Round Up or Seven Fifty
in the St. George Stakes. Neither did as
well as Pageant, though they met him
better than Cup terms, and he has 8.7
against the 7.8 he carried when he beat
Dark David half a length a year ago.
The latter, who did not run in anything
last Saturday, has 21b. more than last
year.
* * * *
It may be counted against Gladstone by
some racing men that he is out of a
very old mare, but he made such a
good bid for the Bond Cup with 7.3 that
a Newmarket and Cup double ending
with him might not be a bad investment.
He has to be taken on trust at two and
a quarter miles, but as he is only four
years old and has shaped well at the
longest distance at which he has raced he
may be a potential stayer. His sire,
Liberal (son of Windbag), was a Victoria
Derby winner, and his dam, Arrasene,
threw Raith, who ran second in a Caul-
field Cup. Arrasene is by The Welkin
from Chenille, by Bobadil from Chintz,
who was a good stayer. In the last 20
years there have been two Australian Cup
winners, with less than 7st. —Answer 6.8
and Sea Money 6.10. It seems to me that
Gladstone has a reasonable chance of
adding to the number.
* * * *
Broadcaster and Trueness ran well in
their respective divisions of the Federal
Stakes at Caulfield, the former with 9.5
and the latter with 9.1. P. Riddle is re-
ported as being very pleased with Broad-
caster, who did not have the best of luck.
Whether his showing was really better
than that of Trueness is best known to
those who saw them race, but it is worth
noting that, while Trueness was fourth in
59£, Broadcaster was seventh in I.o£.
Trueness’s division was, however, easily
won by five lengths by Linkboy (The
Night Patrol-Casilda), a 500gns. yearling.
Neither Trueness nor Broadcaster may be
good enough for the V.R.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, but of the two my prefer-
ence is for the filly.
* * * *
Royal Chief has had two trips from
Maoriland to Australia, and each has
been payable. He will be here again
early next month, and as his latest form
in his own country shows he has not
deteriorated he can be relied upon to
add further to his credit account —if only
in place-money— at Randwick. Up to
the present his Sydney and Melbourne
earnings are as follows:
1938.
Third, Warwick Stakes £3O
First, Chelmsford Stakes 750
First, Colin Stephen Stakes .. .. 1125
First, A.J.C. Metropolitan 3800
Second, Moonee Valley Cox Plate .. 100
Second, Mackinnon Stakes 200
Second, Fisher Plate 200
1939.
Third, Chelmsford Stakes 125
Second, Rosehill Hill Stakes .. .. 70
Dead-heat for first with Mosaic, Colin
Stephen Stakes 687
First, Randwick Plate 625
Total £7712
* * * *
Owner P. H. Osborne and trainer B.
Payten are well pleased with Burhan
Ali. As he is thoroughly sound it is
anticipated there will not be any difficulty
in training him. He started only once
in England, and if he is not a marked
success as a racehorse out here his
breeding gives him stud possibilities. By
Umidwar (son of Blandford) from that
great mare Teresina sounds well. On
the day Burhan Ali was sold for 610gns.
at Newmarket his yearling half-brother
Alabhai, by Hyperion, made 3200gns.
* * * *
Melbourne has such strong numerical
representation in this year’s Sydney Cup
that the winner may be a southerner.
That would be nothing new, even though
they have not been successful of recent
years. The Dimmer was the last win-
ning visitor, but at that time he was
a West Australian. Some of the Mel-
bourne horses will be at the advantage
of having raced over a distance at the
V.R.C. meeting, while the Warwick Farm
Cup, at a mile and a half, is the longest
handicap to be run in Sydney between
now and the decision of the Sydney Cup.
* * * *
Tales told by Turf advisers are often
amusing. “I put a backer on to three
successive winners,” said one of the
fraternity in chatting about his experi-
ences, “and after the third I gave my
punting acquaintance a hint that it was
time I was remembered. ‘You, why
you?’ he replied. ‘You told me each
was “a moral,” and none won by more
than a head.’ ” Evidently the backer
reckoned that the closeness of the


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6% per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
J. Harrison, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
BE A MAGICIAN.
SEND 5/- for a course sufficient to entertain
for 30 minutes and make the apparatus yourself.
Also 20th century silks, where a white silk
is made to appear between a blue and a red
silk that have been tied together previously ;
price 2/6. Learn how to pick out any nomi-
nated card when they are all face down and
side by side on a table; price 2/-, with cards
4/-. Write for other tricks to FRANK A.
CARTER, 105 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie, W.A.
WALTHER *, STEVEHSOM E?I.
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY
174
BRONCHO SADDLE
£2O
The seat and cantle are, in one
piece of solid leather and the bastos
are lined with woolly sheepskin.
It is three-quarter rigged with cord
cincha and wood stirrups. The
saddle is made in special dark brown
leather attractively ornamented with
basket stamping.
N.S.W. rail freight on saddles paid
for cash with order.
finishes and the resultant anxiety dis-
posed of any possible obligation to his
adviser. ....
This brought from another the com-
ment, “I put a fellow on to a few win-
ners, but though he landed some good
bets’ he did not ‘come up.’ The next
time he came to me at a meeting I
thought I’d ‘give him one,’ and told him
to bet solidly on a horse I did not think
could possibly win. It won, and he gave
me a substantial cut. We have been the
best of friends ever since, and I never
attempt to pick a loser for him now.”
* * * *
Jockeys are kept even busier in
America than in England. Last year
D. Meade had 1284 mounts, and headed
the winning list with 255 firsts, 221
seconds and 180 thirds. J. Longden was
second with 209 wins from 983 mounts,
while, in addition to Meade, jockeys in
the leading dozen who had over 1000
rides were W. L. Taylor 1033, P. Kelper
1047, P. Milligan 1046 and and C. Charl-
ton 1001. The American record is that
of Walter Miller, with 388 wins from
1308 mounts in 1908. Miller subsequently
rode in Australia, but had then reached
a weight that precluded him from getting
many mounts. At the same time enough
was seen of him to show that at his best
he must have been a great horseman.
# * * *
The main object of most yearling
buyers is naturally an early monetary
return. It often happens that those
paying high prices are disappointed by
their youngsters’ two-year-old form. No-
where does this happen more frequently
than in England, where, over a long
period, comparatively few high-priced
yearlings have repaid their cost either
at two or three years.
In this connection the two-year-old
deeds of yearlings disposed of in Eng-
land in 1938 are interesting. Thirteen
sold at prices ranging from 13,000gns.
down to 3000gns. Of the 13 only one
won a race last year, this being The
Druid (Bahram-Trustful), for whom Mr.
J. V. Rank gave 13,000gns. His success
was in a £132 Maiden Plate. Mr. Rank
also scored two seconds with the Sir
Cosmo-Happy Climax colt Dignity, who
cost him 4000gns.
Four of those heading the price list
did not start, these including the Pharos-
Rosy Legend colt, for whom Lord
Glanely gave 7800gns., and the Blen-
heim-Racla colt, for whom Miss D. Paget
paid 7500gns. Altogether the 13 cost
£71,505, and one win, of £132, was the
best of their first season’s deeds.
As was only to be expected, the war
caused a slump in prices last year, the
most paid for any youngster at auction
being the 4600gns. Sir Abe Bailey gave
for the Hyperion-Sister Stella colt. Nine
made 3000gns. or more, and 31 reached
four figures, compared with 86 in 1938.
Those figures give a fair idea of the
extent to which the war has already hit
English thoroughbred breeders.
* * * *
At William Inglis and Son’s yearling
sales at Randwick next month imported
sires represented for the first time are
Conspirator (Blandford-Comedy Star),
Double Remove (Felstead-Quick Rise),
J. R. Smith (Gainsborough-Inscription),
Piccadilly (Fairway-Pick and Choose)
and Brueghel (Pharos - Bunworry).
Double Remove and Piccadilly are owned
by P. Miller, J. R. Smith by H. S.
Thompson, Brueghel by A. W. Thomp-
son and Conspirator by the E. A. Flaley
Pty. Conspirator, J. R. Smith and Picca-
dilly were winners in England. Picca-
dilly and J. R. Smith were sucessful at a
mile and a half, and Conspirator’s minor
placings include second in a two-mile
handicap at Newmarket. Brueghel was
very successful in Italy.
5jC *
Early Bird’s joint owners must have
an idea she is going to develop into a
stayer. Her engagements at Flemington
include the Centenary Cup, 1| miles;
Autumn Handicap, \\ miles ; and King’s
Plate, 1| miles (w.f.a.). Amiable is a
C. M. Lloyd Plate entrant, which sug-
gests her owner and trainer think she is
bound to do well in the Newmarket with
8.9. Dark David is an unexpected entry
for the King’s Plate, but probably he
was put in that race more with a view
to a solid winding-up gallop for the
Australian Cup than any belief he had
the slightest possible chance of defeating
Ajax, High Caste and Reading, among
others.
* * * *
Australian horses had a good innings
at Calcutta on Jan. 6. Let Slip and The
Cork, who were raced in Sydney by
Hunter White, each won, and the princi-
pal event, the Carmichael Cup, of
approximately £1250 to the winner, was
taken by Certus Devitae (Heroic-
Desdemona), better known in Australia
as Othello. At the commencement of the
year the Cooch Behar Cup, at Calcutta,
was won by Kingdom (Thracian-Queen
Consort). It carried £1250 and a £lOO
cup for first.
* * * *
Count Cavour, winner of the 1926 New
Zealand and Dunedin Cups, died recently
in Maoriland. He made five attempts
to win the Auckland Cup, the outcome
being three seconds, a third and a fourth.
In prize-money he won the late J. S.
Barrett £15,000. Count Cavour ran in
Sydney in the spring of 1926 and autumn
of 1927, and won a Hawkesbury Spring
Handicap with 9.2. He was unplaced
in that season’s Metropolitan and Sydney
Cup, and also failed to do any good in
weight-for-age races at Randwick.
* * * *
Among the J. R. Smith yearlings to
be offered at next month’s sales at Rand-
wick are half-sisters to June, Cigarette,
Our Barney, Royal Step and Fan Dancer,
and a half-brother to Othello, who has
been doing well in India. Piccadilly’s
representatives include half-brothers to
Avenger, Panto, Nightguard, Carry On,
Bimilla and Delight, and half-sisters to
Talking and Feminist. Half-brothers to
Mohican, Panax, Lochlee and Cardinal
Puff are among those representing Brue-
ghel ; and Double Remove’s lot include
a half-brother to Light Dragoon, and
half-sisters to Stylish and Much to Say.
* * * *
There is evidently more hard work
and unpleasantness than honor in being
the president of some Queensland racing
clubs. At the annual general meeting
of the Innisfail T.C. the president, M. A.
Vandeleur, spoke of retirement. He said he
had to clash with bookmakers, the stipen-
diary steward and others, and was tired
of hearing he was antagonistic to certain
individuals, favored others and had been
mixed up in some of the “good jokes.”
Several speakers urged Vandeleur not
to retire, and he decided to continue for
a few months.
* * * *
Reading did so well in the St. George
Stakes that he is bound to be solidly
backed against High Caste in the St.
Leger. As the former outstayed High
Caste in both Derbies, it is only natural
J. T. Cush should be rather sanguine as
to the result at an extra quarter mile.
As nothing else appears to have the
slightest chance, the race seems likely
to be a battle of tactics between Bartle
(High Caste) and Munro (Reading).
Bartle will wish to avoid a very fast pace
in the early part, and Munro is sure to
be equally keen that it is not too slow.
It is bound to be a most interesting
tussle, with Bartle waiting as long as
possible for a final run on High Caste.
Phar Lap was the last winner of both
Derbies and St. Legers. Hall Mark won
both Derbies, dead-heated Limarch in
the V.R.C. St. Leger, and ran third to
Limarch and Blixten in the A.J.C. St.
Leger.
* * * *
Bonny Loch and Gold Spark have
been coupled in a substantial double
for the Doncaster Handicap and Sydney
Cup by their immediate connections. The
amount obtained was surprising, and
evidently the owner and trainer have
worked out to their own satisfaction the
weights the two are likely to receive.
They have certainly given the handi-
capper a hint not to be over-lenient.
Gold Spark’s form is so recent that com-
ment is scarcely needed, but Bonny Loch
has not started since he was unplaced
in the A.J.C. Derby. A few weeks earlier
he won the Canterbury Guineas by half
a head from Marengo, with Dashing
Cavalier third, and Tel Asur one of the
unplaced runners. Earlier in the season
he was third in a Rosehill Flying Handi-
cap won by Rodborough, and a good
third in the Hobartville Stakes won by
High Caste. It is on the cards for
Bonny Loch to shine at a mile. At two
years he twice won at Randwick, the
second time with 9.5 at six furlongs.
Distribution of prize-money in
America in 1939 was greater than in
any previous year. The total was
$15,312,180, which, reckoning at the rate
of $4 to £1 Australian, would represent
a little over £A3,828,000. The principal
contributor to that amount was Santa
Anita Park, with £A253,000, next coming
Narragansett Park £A 198,000.
Betting throughout America was also
heavier than in any previous year. Con-
tinuing to reckon at $4 to £l, the amount
that went through the pari-mutuel in
16 States was approximately £74,209,000.
California led with £A 18,843,000 for 272
days’ racing. This was an advance of
£A2,250,000 on last year. This season,
or next, with the pari-mutuel established
in the State of New York, the turnover
for America will probably exceed a
hundred million pounds.
In California the State gets 4 p.c. of
the pari-mutuel turnover, and it received
£A750,000 last year, which was a greater
revenue than that collected by any other
State.
* * * *
Cooranga has been sent to Melbourne
for the Australian Cup, in which she has
8.5 against the 7.13 she carried in the
Melbourne Cup. She ran fairly well in
the latter, but, though the Australian Cup
is, as a rule, easier to win, a 61b. rise is
substantial. However, she has shown she
can handle over Bst. and is in first-class
condition.
* * * *
There were only two runners for the
1938 V.R.C. St. Leger —Hua and Pan-
toon. Things may not be quite so bad
this year, though the odds are against
there being more than four starters. High
Caste and Reading stand too far out for
any of the others to count, but those left
in after first acceptances last week in-
cluded Lusson, Mac Rob, Valmiki,
Marengo and Gold Salute. Of that lot
Lusson and Valmiki may be most likely
to run. Third money of £l5O is useful
in covering expenses.
* * * *
Despite Manrico’s failure in the Oak-
leigh Plate, J. Holt has said he is still
hopeful regarding that horse’s Newmarket
chance. Manrico has certainly shown
his best form at Flemington, but when
he won there he was not carrying any-
thing near 10.0. There is no time to
ease a horse during the running of a
Newmarket, and Manrico will be made
feel his big weight almost from start to
finish. Greenline won with 10.2, and
was third with 10.6, while last year
Aurie’s Star was second with 9.13.
Whether Manrico is as good a weight-
carrier as either of those remains to be
proved, and 10.2 undoubtedly bothered
him at the finish of the Oakleigh Plate.
* * * *
El Chico (John P. Grier-La Chica),
who was the champion two-year-old of
America in 1938, was recently destroyed,
consequent on fracturing the sesamoid
bones in his near foreleg. Costing
£A675 as a yearling, he was undefeated
at two years, winning seven races of a
total value of £A21,000. At three years
he did not live up to his two-year-old
form, winning only two of the eleven
races in which he started, and they were
of comparatively small value.
* * * *
A few weeks ago the English Jockey
Club handicapper, Mr. Fawcett, issued
his weights for the Free Handicap Sweep-
stakes, for two-year-olds, seven furlongs,
and for three-year-olds, 1| miles. In
the two-year-old race he put Tant Mieux
on top with 9.7, the Rose of England colt
and Stardust getting a pound less. As
eight others ranged from 9.0 to 9.5, Mr.
Fawcett is evidently of opinion that no
two-year-old was really outstanding last
year. The race is to be run on April 18
at Newmarket.
* * * *
Petrol-saving is the order of the day
in some parts of Maoriland. In Auck-
land the Transport Licensing Authority
has placed a restriction on the use of
floats for the conveyance of horses to
race meetings. It has been ruled that the
transport of horses from the Auckland
districts must definitely stop at a certain
point, and that two floats must not travel
from one area to a race meeting when
one would convey all the horses requir-
ing transport. This looks like forcing
float-owners to work in together. Which
reminds me that I recently heard an
owner complain of the free use of floats
made by some Sydney trainers. “Why,”
he said, “if they have to send something
from one track to do a gallop at another
only a short distance away, they must
have a float, though it wouldn’t do the
horse any harm to walk. It swells the
bills, I can tell you.”
* * * *
In the early days of racing they were
quite as particular as at present in seeing
that horses were not late in arriving at
the starting-post. One rule of the Aus-
tralian Jockey Club read as follows:
“Every groom shall have his horse at the
post ready to start within five minutes
of the time appointed by the stewards ;
and every jockey is to be there ready to
start within the same time, and every
groom and jockey making default herein
shall, if required by the stewards, pay a
fine of two sovereigns to the race fund.”
What a terrible shock it would be to the
self-importance of some present-day
trainers to be described as “grooms” in
any racing rule. At the same time the
term “horse-minders” would fit some
better than “trainers.”
* * * *
The Illinois State Racing Commission
recently decided that a license should not
be granted to any race track offering a
daily distribution averaging less than
£AI7OO. This is considerably more than
a couple of Illinois clubs averaged last
season. Arlington Park (Chicago) was
an easy first in that State, with a daily
average of £3134.
* * * *
Apprentices are repeatedly blamed for
trouble that occurs in races. Owing to
lack of experience they are occasionally
in fault, but sometimes their mistakes are
due to a “trick of the trade” being put
over them by an older hand. However,
I do not suppose the stewards lose sight
of that fact at inquiries, even though a
youngster may be desirous of. shielding
the real offender.
* * * *
Despite his two months’ suspension
the odds are still in favor of E. Mc-
Menamin being Sydney’s most successful
rider this season. He had such a sub-
stantial lead when he struck trouble
that any other jockey will need more
than his share of luck to bridge the gap
during the period of McMenamin’s re-
tirement.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Australian and Negro Scrappers
Ron Richards is a fine fighter with a
wonderful right hand ; Fred Henneberry
is always dangerous in a scrap against
any opposition. Outside of them, what is
the state of the Noble Art in Australia
at the moment? The present scribe sees
no reason for answering this question by
defaming the material he sees getting into
the various rings every week. The
material, taking it all round, is pretty
good. Seen fighting among themselves,
plenty of the local lads put up splendid
fights. Some of the little chaps especially
look material that might be shaped into
dandy fighters.
Yet almost any American negro can
come here and look like a champion.
They’re probably nothing out of the
box, most of them; Stewart, for ex-
ample, was as stiff as a statue ; so some
explanation seems called for.
Take last week’s Westbury-Hutchinson
encounter. Sydney Stadium bills West-
bury as the welter champion. Hutchin-
son, a lightweight, gave Westbury 9ylb.
and such a hopelessly one-sided doing
that the scrap had to be stopped after
six rounds. Mostly Westbury missed


ê
NEEDS
YOU !
YOUNG MAN—EARN REAL MONEY!!
cU s °?MUOT a m“a n C SOTtoTOU. trlCal ‘ Urn °' mlnd> °" e ° f theSe '° Ur
No. 1 Motor Car Engineering No. 3 Diesel Engineering
No. 2 Electrical Engineering No. 4 Engine Driving
(Working Outfit Free)
A GIFT PRICE FOR A MONTH!
These Correspondence Courses are being offered at a really gift price for
one month.
WRITE NOW to our Engineering Director. Re will show YOU the way.
The Job —
and the Pay !
£6 to £8
PER WEEK
SECURE YOUR FUTURE!
Many students have written, thanking us for
what we have done for them. Here are a
few extracts from letters:—
1. “I must thank you for helping me. Since
getting my Diesel Certificate my wages
have been over £8 per week.”
2. “It was your Diploma that placed me in
a good position as a Motor Mechanic. It
was my best day’s work when I under-
took your Course.”
3. “I am pleased with the Course and recom-
mend it to anyone wishing to learn Engine
Driving.”
4. “I thank you for putting me where I am
to-day. I am receiving £6/6/- per week.”
5 - “Owing to having taken up your Diesel
Engineering Course I have secured a
position driving Diesel Engines on a boring
plant.”
GET
TMIJ
*U
*Bou r
fAC TO,
H YOUR SPARE
pREE
BOOK
rr mis you how
YOU CAN LEARN
ALL ABOUT MOTORS
TIME AT HOME...
Post This Coupon for FREE BOOK j
The Chief Engineer, (E-B-240).
I Australian Technical School.*,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson St., Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your
FREE BOOK, advice, particulars, and special
offer about your course.
dealing with
Name
imm
lIS THE
POWER
OF TO-DAY
Occupation Age
Address
the bobbing and weaving negro head by
anything up to a foot. The Newcastle
lad went well for a couple of rounds;
after that, when he did connect, it was
with a waved movement of the arm,
rather than a punch. He fought in
spasms, whereas the negro never stopped
hitting. There were forked lightning and
dynamite in the black arms. The aim
was true, neither hits nor energy wasted,
the weight of a well-balanced and well-
muscled frame behind clean, swift
punches. It made Westbury look fat
and awkward. Altogether, a depressing
spectacle, leading to a choice of gloomy
conclusions.
(1) The biological theory that a violent
vein of fighting quality is running high
in the American negro race at the
moment. It has been classified and
labelled Black Dynamite. Joe Louis and
Henry Armstrong are the outstanding
examples in support of this theory.
(2) The circumstantial theory that
teaching the Noble Art has been brought
to a high pitch of perfection in the
United .States. These negroes look
finished tradesmen. They have been
taught how to carry themselves in a fight,
how to use their feet, and, above all,
how to hit with power. Along with this
theory, of course, must run the counter-
theory that the teaching of the Noble
Art has become a lost art in Australia.
Richards is a heavy puncher; Henne-
berry can punch with power—the bulk
of present Australians outside that pair
either shove the glove or tap with it.
Stance and balance are mostly pitiful
to witness. It is the commonest of sights
to see the advanced left foot placed in
such a way as to render the delivering of
a straight left physically impossible ; be-
cause of the body’s structure, it can’t
help taking on a curve. By the cut of
them the bulk of Australian scrappers
have never been taught at all ; at the
best they have merely been trained.
Stacked up against tradesmen who look
as if they’ve had to learn the whole trade
step by step, all but one or two of them
look mugs. Supporting this good teach-
ing theory is the fact that most imports
from U.S.A.—black, white or brindle —
fight in much the same style and manner.
(3) The well-supported theory that
most that’s written about our scrappers
today is the same ballyhoo that’s given
to wrestlers. It’s become the fashion
to exaggerate their ability in fulsome
advance notices, and jazz up dull exhi-
bitions. Then along comes yet another
American negro and makes nonsense of
the lot of it, though few of them have
been able to put a glove on Richards or
could have touched Carroll, both these
happening to possess fighting genius,
which evolves its own style and methods.
There are other theories, one being
that, whereas for a number of reasons—
the racial one especially—the ring re-
mains the Mecca of the American negro,
Australians nowadays cotton better to a
host of other sports, including some their
rude ancestors considered a bit ciss.
However it is, more negroes are being
imported than there are local lads cap-
able of giving them a run for the money,
and the major worry of the importers
must be thinking up matches for them.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
C Open and Amateur Champion of Australia .)
A player can possess a faulty back-
swing and yet have a chance to hit the
ball reasonably well, because on the
downswing he is, to a certain extent,
able to overcome his mistake and get
the ball away. On the other hand, many
golfers who have sound backswings spoil
their good work by commencing the
downswing incorrectly.
Most of the trouble lies in the fact
that the average player knows little of
what he is doing throughout the shot.
Unable to tell just how he is going dur-
ing any part of the swing, he finds it
difficult to know what occurs just when
the downswing is beginning. Slow-
motion photographs show that the first
movement in the downswing of nearly
every leading golfer is that the left heel,
which rises off the ground by the time
the top of the swing has been reached,
immediately drops back to the turf, en-
suring a firm grip and a good foundation.
A great deal can happen at the top of
the backswing if any liberties are taken.
Much trouble commences from a tiny
fault at the beginning of the downswing.
Once such a fault appears the handicap
player usually finds it hard to eradicate.
If one watches a good golfer in action
the whole swing appears to be a most
natural and comfortable movement com-
pared with that of the average player,
who seems stiff and awkward in his play.
The downswing should be a leisurely
affair. Never allow the hands to rush
the club down toward the ball. Once
the club is in the hitting position at the
top of the swing it should be “unwound”
in a smooth way, gradually gaining speed
until the impact, when the clubhead must
be travelling at its fastest rate.
Not so very long ago I had a game
with a young golfer who had been play-
ing for only two years. The first 18
months had seen him make remarkable
progress, reducing his handicap to 14,
but since then his game had gone back.
He developed a nasty slice, and in addi-
tion to losing much length from the tees
became very uncertain with all his shots.
Watching him having a practice swing,
I saw little the matter with him, but it
was a different swing from that which
he used when he drove off. After swing-
ing back and getting into a good
position, his troubles began. His first
move on the downswing was to bring
his weight back from the left foot to
the right, at the same time swaying his
body back away from the ball. This
caused him to lose balance and bring
his club down outside the line and cut
across the ball sharply. Instead of fol-
lowing up his good backswing by return-
ing his left foot to the ground and keep-
ing his head perfectly still, he kept his
weight back and swayed his head and
shoulders away from the correct posi-
tion.
The right hand is also able to spoil
the downswing. By overpowering the left
hand and taking away its guidance, it
can take the club outside its usual groove
and cause a pull or slice. It is very dif-
ficult for anyone not well acquainted
with the game to correct a fault in mid-
swing by direct action ; he can visualise
only fixed poses.
He knows what he should look like
at the top of the backswing and also at
the end of the forward swing, but what
goes on in between is in the lap of the
gods. Only by careful thought and
practice can he begin to “feel out” his
swing and gain added knowledge. If the
backswing is not hurried the player has
a chance to sense what his hands are
doing at various points going back and
when they reach the top. He should, too,
be able to feel his hands commence to
bring the club down and know that both
his feet are firmly on the ground ready to
take the shot. Only when the impact is
being reached does that feeling become
a little less vague. At this stage my
thought is to keep that clubhead on the
line and push it well through.
It was Walter Hagen’s boast that he
knew exactly at any point of the swing
just what his clubhead and hands were
doing. The harder the hitter the less
sure he feels, but if a player who has a
sound swing wishes to punch one away a
little harder, he can do so knowing that
he has the groove to swing in and has
merely to add speed to his downswing
to gain increased length. The average
player is best advised to concentrate upon
“feeling” his hands more at the top of
the swing than he does now, but this
can be obtained only by slowing down
his swing slightly and endeavoring to take
the club away more smoothly. The more
“feel” that can be acquired, the better
chance one has of swinging down to the
ball correctly.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
{Formerly of the “Referee”)
Bradman’s 209 n.o. and 135 against
Western Australia bring his centuries to
92, 35 over the 200 mark. The cham-
pion has no favorite ground ; they have
been made anywhere and everywhere.
Some of the Westralian batsmen got
runs so consistently that if Bradman had
been looking-on they must have been
in the running for a win. Inverarity
notched 57 and 52, Lovelock 40 n.o. and
45, Zimbulis 42 n. 0., 24 n.o. and 33, and
C. McGill 78 and 11. Inverarity headed
the W.A. aggregates last season with 659
runs at 54 per innings. He hit up 38
and 68 n.o. against Victoria.
Klose was admirably accurate in the
Westrafians’ last innings, his figures being
21 overs, 12 maidens, 24 runs, two
wickets. Ward’s 21 overs cost 97 for
one wicket; Waite’s 17 overs 43 runs
without recompense.
* * * *
The crowds still show an interest in
Sydney club matches. St. George and
Randwick packed Kensington Oval, and
the house-full sign was out at Marrick-
ville, where Petersham met the home
team. Opening for Petes Barnes fol-
lowed his 163 n.o. against Gordon with
187 again not out (in about three hours,
with 4 sixes and 23 fours).
Colin McCool, who made 117 in two
hours for Paddington v. Balmain, has
been run out three times in succession.
His sharp running between wickets with
Ron James is carried too far. James,
who scored 72, is now a better batsman
than when he played for N.S.W. last
season: he hits the ball with power on
the off.
St. George, leading for the premiership,
has found its batting anything but re-
liable. N. Fisher, a 16-year-old school-
boy who came into the eleven recently
to make 150 for three times out, saved
Saints on Saturday with 42 not out. A
right-hander, he steps in for the drive and
clips the ball very crisply. He doesn’t
“tie himself up” by exaggerated defence
as so many youngsters do on first getting
to the top grade. The bowlers have given
O’Reilly grand support. E. J. Green’s
slow legbreaks have captured 36 wickets
and R. Longbottom has a bag of 30. H.
Stapleton, a left-hander from Lismore,
has had success with the new ball: he
took 4 for 9 against Randwick on Satur-
day, but after breaking down the early
batsmen was not tried again.
*i ft ft o: «:
Randwick’s J. Chegwyn can count him-
self unlucky not to have appeared regu-
larly for the State. Last season he made
three centuries and 726 runs, besides a
century against Victoria’s second eleven.
This season he has already made over 600
at something like 70 per innings. He
got 73 out of 139 against St. George —
in first and out last.
* * * *
Melbourne Colts’ opening bowlers, who
broke up the South Melbourne batting
in the first innings (closed at 8 for 25),
were on the mark again on Saturday. Lee
and Hassett were out for one run apiece,
and, though Miller (43) and Johnson (55)
made a good recovery, Colts won by 10
wickets. Jack Ryder, 50 now, captains
the Colts. He brought off a very fine
catch at mid-on to dismiss Miller.
H. Zachariah took 7 for 76 for St.
Kilda v. Essendon. Lisle Nagel finished
with 6 for 88 for Melbourne v. Rich-
mond. At one stage his figures were
none for 56.
# * * *
Cook, continuing the good form he
showed in Queensland’s home matches,
made 89 (out of 194) for West Brisbane v.
East. Slow-bowler K. Govan, who tosses
them into the skies, gathered in 7 for 79.
F. Gough with 90 and C. Leeton 71 for
North Brisbane got among the Uni-
versity bowlers. Biggest innings in Bris-
bane on Saturday was J. Hickey’s 125
not out for South Brisbane (381).
* * * *
W. F. Ives, who played cricket and
Rugby football for N.S.W., is taking a
bunch of cricketers to North Queensland.
Sydney, Adelaide and Queensland players
will be in the party. McCabe and
O’Reilly, on present arrangements, are to
be among them, though the latter’s in-
terest in St. George and the Sydney pre-
miership may keep him back a little later.
The Westralian trotting people had
great crowds for their inter-Dominion
championships at Gloucester Park, Perth,
among the visitors being a party of poli-
ticians from Sydney, bent on “investi-
gating” the subject of night trotting.
Little Logan Derby from Tasmania, a
great pet in Perth, won a division of the
mile and a half, and at the end of the
series he was hailed as “grand cham-
pion,” the issue being decided on places
and times. Logan Derby had 18 points,
Our Globe (Tas.) 13£, Grand Mogul
(Maoriland) 13 1-3, Main Derby (Vic.)
12 and Master Dixie (N.S.W.) 10>-.
Moreica with 8 5-6 was the best of the
Westralian lot, Will o’ the Wisp, thought
to be much superior, proving a dreadful
disappointment.
The prize-money was magnificent :
£3OOO, plus a 100-guinea gold cup. That
goes to A. Barnes, the owner of Logan
Derby, who in his first race paced a
mile in 2.5}. Grand Mogul won the
Grand Final from Master Dixie and
Moreica. All started from scratch.
Logan Derby was the back-marker.
* * * *
Gerald Backhouse was hard put to it
to hold his Victorian mile title at Mel-
bourne’s Olympic Park. Barry-Brown, a
clubmate, led to within 30 yards of the
finishing line and was beaten only by a
yard and a half ; time, 4min. 20 2-10 sec.
Another St. Stephen’s man, Hansen, was
third. The University sprinter J. R. Watt
did 9 7-10 sec. for the “hundred,” but
wind assisted.
* * * *
Walking a mile at Sydney Sports
Ground, A. J. Stubbs clipped 2.2 sec. off
his own world’s record time, reducing it
to 6min. 15.4 sec. Stubbs is 29, and has
been in the heel-and-toe game for seven
years.
* * *
After initial reverses, the N.S.W.
rowing eight won the champion eights
at Maoriland’s centennial regatta. The
Wanganui Aramohu Union crew was
second.
* * * *
Thanks to Percy Oliver, the Kiernan
Shield, which is to swimming what the
Sheffield Shield is to cricket, goes back
to Westralia. Oliver was first in each of
the freestyle events, collecting seven
titles; in Adelaide he wound up with
wins in the 1650 yards and the 330 yards
medley. The W. F. Corbett Shield for
women went to N. S. Wales, though
Westralian girl Dorothy Green won the
last event, the 880 yards freestyle, by
over a lap from Gwen Millard (N.S.W.).
Miss Millard, swimming backstroke,
covered 110 yards in lmin. 20.45ec.,
22sec. better than the South Australian
record for women.
Oliver was a pupil of Sheedy, the
A.S.U. secretary. Sheedy scored at every
point in his controversy with Duff,
president of the N.S.W. Association.
Duff’s nomination as delegate to the
A.S.U. having been refused, he “with-
drew” it the other day, voluble to the
last.


O-CJLTKS^
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daily -2 JS~Q
TIVOLI
T
“SPICE OF LIFE,” VARIETY REVUE.
Bigr New Company. Oversea Stars.
liEA SONIA, EDWIN STYLES,
o CLEVERES, GEO. WALLACE.
WIIX MAHONEY,
EVIE HAYES and New Oversea Stai
in the Variety Kevue,
“THE HAT TRICK.”
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Tony Draws a Horse”
The point about the horse that Tony
drew was that it was not the sort of
horse you’d like to have in the drawing-
room. He drew it on the wall outside
his father’s consulting-room. His mother
thought that, besides showing acute ob-
servation of nature, the drawing indi-
cated a great career as a painter, and
was another proof of the rightness of
her theories of bringing up the young,
allowing them the elementary Right to
Self-expression. The father thought it
was low.
And with the improper horse that
Tony drew leering invisibly behind the
scenes at Sydney Minerva, the play blew
up from that point into the wittiest little
domestic comedy that has yet been seen
at that address.
Tony’s appalling horse was sufficient
excuse for a first-class husband-and-wife
row; for wife to go home to mother ;
to find herself stranded in France with
sister’s nice young man ; to cause such
commotion in the home that mother’s
henpecked husband went off on a fright-
ful jag and ended in gaol without his pants.
Now that the mother-in-law joke is in
its two-millionth year, it might be taken
for granted that it’s not funny ; and the
same for henpecked husbands, especially
when they lose their trousers; and the
same for innocent people forced to spend
the night together. Yet this play con-
trives to be extremely funny. There are
three reasons for its success: first, it’s
a beautifully-constructed piece, compact
and swift; second, the dialogue is bril-
liant ; third, it was splendidly acted.
For highlights, one could pick out the
moment when Leslie Victor was the hen-
pecked husband standing up at last for
the rights of man; or when Yvonne
Banvard, the henpecker, disappointed in
her hope that the pecked would get a
knighthood, dropped a hint that she
had already “accidentally” been calling
herself Lady Parsons in the shops ; or
when Frank Bradley, the wicked grand-
parent, started to read out the news of
a trunk murder; or when Letty Cray-
don, the horrible maidservant, said
“Ow! ” ; or when —but there’s no end
to the list. Others in the cast, all call-
ing for mention, were Erna Living, John
Wood, Pat McDonald, Lloyd Lamble,
Megan Edwards and Ron Randall.
Only one scene —a difficult one —was
mishandled. That was when Pat Mc-
Donald and John Wood were drunk in
a cafe in France. First they were so
confused at being drunk that they forgot
their lines, and then they were so con-
fused at forgetting their lines that they
forgot to be drunk. But that was only
a brief lapse ; and, unless one had had
outside experience, it would be hard to
become convincingly alcoholic in the
short time Minerva players get for
rehearsal.
* * * *
Harold Williams
In the eight years since Sydney last
heard him, Australian-born baritone
Harold Williams, who lifted his voice
in the Town Hall last week under A.B.C.
auspices, has gained ease and confidence.
He has so little trouble with the
mechanics of voice production that he
can give more attention to enunciation
than most singers can spare. He holds
to the Fran?on Davies theory that the
words are masters of the music, which
accounts for his successes in opera.
At his first recital he opened with
Handel —“Arm, Arm, Ye Brave” from
“Maccabeus,” “Silent Worship,” and
“Love That’s True Will Live Forever,”
and pleased in each of the three widely-
varying moods. Dramatic excursions
were “I Have Attained the Power” and
the death scene from Moussorgsky’s
“Boris Godounov” —impressive because
so free from any forcing of emotion.
Gay Italian songs and a splendid render-
ing of Australian W. G. James’s “Sun
God” rounded off a recital that left the
singer as fresh as when he stepped on
to the platform.
Dorcas McClean, violinist, played a
Handel sonata and the Saint-Saens
“Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso.”
She produces a fine tone and phrases
gracefully.
Accompanist John Hannell had a hard
row to hoe on the opening night, par-
ticularly with the Moussorgsky tran-
scriptions, but gave his soloists fair
backing.
* * * *
Forced Landing at the Ballet
Symbolised on the pink backdrop by
a jovial mosquito staggering ta the
heavens, Icarus took off like a bird and
then (alas!) fell down a toboggan slide
on his ear, and for this extraordinary
performance was awarded roars of ap-
proval from the multitude and a pile of
laurel wreaths as big as a haystack.
This, to the accompaniment of con-
tinuous anti-aircraft fire from the artil-
lery, was Serge Lifar’s much-publicised
new ballet at Sydney Royal. The trouble
was that, like Icarus, it tried to do too
much. The orchestra, using only percus-
sion instruments, set out to create an
atmosphere of violent drama: it did at
times create excitement, but its effects
“The Burgomaster’s Wife and the Burgomaster’s Friend,” by Norman Lindsay,
from the exhibition of his works opening today at the Jamieson Gallery, Sydney.
were too startling; when a sudden bang-
bang-bang makes you jump out of your
seat you’re tempted to laugh. Lifar’s
dancing had moments of brilliance, but
his facial contortions didn’t help it, and
the toboggan ruined it.
The decor and costuming, aiming at
the perfection of “Protee,” were remark-
able only for a lapse of taste. The back-
drop, with outhouse and mosquito, was
obviously intended to be “modern.” The
costumes were Grecian. Either Lifar
should have worn a helmet and goggles
to go with the setting, or else the setting
should have been classic to go with Lifar.
An ambitious ballet, but it just didn’t
come off.
Fortunately the gorgeous “Le Coq
d’Or,” with Riabouchinska in splendid
form, was on the same programme. Olga
Morosova gave a spirited and attractive
interpretation of the Queen. “Papillons”
and “Prince Igor” were the other ballets
presented.
* * * *
Melbourne War Concerts
A.B.C. and the Melbourne City Coun-
cil have embarked on a series of con-
certs for war charities to be held once a
month at the Town Hall. Reception
up to date does not augur well for the
charities. The first concert was not very
well attended, and the second, held last
week, was even less so.
Lawrence Power, the returned Aus-
tralian singer, sang the well-worn “On
with the Motley” from “Pagliacci” with
strong dramatic emphasis, and his wife,
Annunciata Garrotto, displayed a fine
colorful voice, well-trained in the Italian
manner, in “Ah! fors e lui” from
“Traviata.” The Metropolitan Choralists
invited invidious comparison with the
Philharmonic Society in “Messiah” by
singing a piece by Stanford Robinson
called “Polly-wolly-doodle.”
Henri Penn, another returned Aus-
tralian and a very competent concert
performer, played some pianoforte pieces
so brilliantly that one would have liked
to hear him in some more ambitious
items; and the A.B.C. orchestra was con-
ducted with vim by Joseph Post through
the charming “Sursum Corda” of Elgar.
But there was nothing during the even-
ing which struck the imagination with
any impact.
* * * *
China in the Air
Adelaide Royal has aroused from its
summer picture-sleep with the acrobatic
Lau Fu Chung troupe from North China,
which will soon be showing in the eastern
States. This critic has seen pretty much
all that is to be done in the acrobatic
and balancing line; but these people,
some of them very young, have several
points that seem to top all predecossors.
And they have a pleasant way of show-
ing how easy a feat is ; as where the
usual high human pyramid is formed,
but with a woman at the base as the
weight-carrier; or, when several men
have daringly dived through a ring of
dagger-points, another casually does the
same thing while holding three china
bowls in each hand and one in his
mouth.
The variety half of the show is on
broad modern lines of humor, with re-
markable singing by Herbert Young, a
self-possessed 12-year-old from China,
and first-class work by Royston, an
English ventriloquist.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Amazing Mr. Williams”
More crime plus humor. Current
offering at Sydney State, this film mixes
several murders, a busted romance and
other ingredients into hilarious comedy.
The most amazing thing about it all
is that the amazing Mr. Melvyn Douglas,
as pride of the plainclothes men, should
walk out on Miss Joan Blondell at least
half a dozen times to go sleuthing down
the latest murderer. Looking at Miss
Blondell, it’s difficult to understand why
any man in his right senses should do
that.
Otherwise the film is quite logical—
comparatively speaking, that is. There
are three separate murders, three separ-
ate detections, and three separate stories,
but they’re all linked together well enough
by Miss Blondell butting in throughout
and trying to put her thumb on Mr.
Douglas.
* # * *
“The Defence Rests,” at Sydney
Lyceum. Prosecuting attorney in a sleepy
hamlet deliberately loses the State’s case
against a racketeer because r. holds in-
formation which would sully the fair
name of attorney’s adopted daughter.
Compensation is made in a spectacular,
if incredible, fashion. Edward Ellis the
lawyer, Anita Louise his daughter, and
Harold Huber the bad lad.
* * * *
“The Spider,” at Sydney Lyceum, has
murders, jewel thieves, Scotland Yard and
the theatrical world all mixed up with-
out getting anywhere in particular. Act-
ing reeks of the amateur stage, but the
scene is good, particularly when a fair
stretch of action takes place on the
north-bound express.
* * * *
“The Outsider,” going the rounds,
presents the story of an unqualified prac-
titioner who begins where doctors leave
off and performs “miracles” in giving
cripples the use of their limbs again. He
answers the abuse and criticisms of quali-
fied men by curing the daughter of a
famous Harley-street surgeon after she
has been given up as hopeless. An Eng-
lish film, it’s well made and capably-
acted by George Sanders and Aus-
tralienne Mary Maguire, whatever may
be thought of its lauding of the unquali-
fied practitioner.
Artbursts.
New Gallery’s Lindsay Show
Sydney’s latest art gallery has as its
highly aesthetic setting Feltex House, the
modernistic, very comfortably appointed
building that rears its pink fa?ade over
the way from The Bulletin office.
It’s not very big—just about the right
amount of wall space for a one-man
show—and has a nice easterly light from
a huge window. The floor-covering is
the sort the foot sinks into ankle-deep.
Proprietors are Bruce Glad and his wife,
a daughter of Norman Lindsay.
The new art gallery, the Jamieson,
kicks off to-day with a fine show of
Norman Lindsay water-colors.
Nudes, of course, predominate—
nymphs and satyrs, bathing girls, beau-
ties of the harem, captives of buccaneers
and the like, and there are one or two
excursions into pure phantasy in a
vein that only Norman Lindsay indulges.
Among these “Ravished,” a pageant ol
figures flying through the air, draughted
with a gusto reminiscent of Michelangelo,
and “Wonders for Mariners,” which
exploits mermaids and other shapely sea-
denizens whose flesh is green-tinted.
Gorgeous bursts of color are ‘ Filibus-
ter’s Heaven” and “The Burgomaster’s
Wife and the Burgomaster’s Friepd” (re-
produced on this page). There are some
attractive costume pieces. This critic has
always thought that the sparkle and
brilliance N.L. gets into these decorative
essays couldn’t be enhanced, but he’s
discovered a new brand of paper (the
same sort Russell Flint uses) which gives
even more piquancy to his vivid designs.
* * * *
Students of the art department of East
Sydney Tech, have an interesting show
at the Education Department’s Galleries,
Sydney. The tradition of this school has
always been to foster originality and the
individual outlook, and its exhibitions are
never dull.
The curriculum seems to cover the
whole field of pure and applied art. Some
of the best work in the show is intended
for catalogue illustrations or kindred
forms of advertising, showing sound
technique in wash and in pen-and-ink.
Fashion drawings also show aptitude, and
there’s a stout display of book-jackets.
Some of the posters and murals are
splendid. There’s a design by Janine Tayt
(one of the few that are signed) that
glows with rich color, and there’s a
student who signs herself “Yvonne” who
can put a hundred figures in a com-
position and make each one interesting.
Fabric designs —in some cases the
actual weaves are on show —are all very
attractive and seem much more likely to
fit in with well-planned schemes of in-
terior decoration than imported prints.
Sculpture continues to flourish. Among
signed work that catches the eye are
clever pieces by Annis Laeubli, Anita
Aarons and Margaret Beaumont.
The life classes are doing well. The
students have learned to paint flesh, and
some of the ten-minute sketches in line
have both strength and grace.
The few etchers know their medium
and are good draughtsmen.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
: v
J-
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8477 A.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Theatre Royal last Saturday was
the place to see everybody you know.
From about half-past seven the foyer
buzzed with programme-sellers, flower-
sellers, buyers of both programme and
flower, photographers, people of the
audience who were pressing straight to
their destined places, and people of the
audience who were determined to stand
about till the entrance of the vice-regals.
For this was the night of the gala per-
formance in response to Lady Gowrie’s
appeal for the Red Cross. Among the
flower-sellers and committeewomen white
and' pale-blue frocks occurred with great
frequency. The white were probably an
aftermath of last season’s White Ball.
Nearly all the wearers of white had a
suntan, brown as a nut and smooth as
cherry skin —very attractive. Mrs. Ernest
Watt, who had had much to do with the
flowers and the posters, was among the
company of Snow Whites. Jade green
and silver were Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones’s
satins.
By the time the party from Govern-
ment House had arrived (there had been
a dinner party there, at which the Gover-
nor-General and Lady Gowrie and Lord
and Lady Willingdon had been guests)
the pavement outside the theatre was
crowded with onlookers. Into the door-
way the vice-regals came and were
greeted by members of, the committee,
among whom Mrs. Alan McGregor, in
her softly-gathered Romany striped
taffetas, was notable. Lady Gowrie
passed, a gleam of blue and silver.
Cyclamen and blue were Lady Willing-
don’s color scheme. A frock of rose-
white with sparkling dew points of
diamonds at ear and throat suited the
slim erectness of our State Governor’s
wife..
The Hon. Henrietta Loder’s green and
silver, Mrs. Hugh Poate’s black laces,
Rada Penfold-Hyland’s white chiffons,
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s exquisite lace scarf
and Mrs. Clement Chapman’s pleated
frock of light lilac with its bolero of
deeper tone were attractive wears.
Green as a Granny Smith were the satins
worn by Faith Macarthur Onslow. The
glitter of diamonds, the lucent beauty of
pearls, a flower-decked circle and boxes,
every man wearing a carnation bought
from a guinea or so down, marked the
occasion. Lord Gowrie, Lord Willing-
don, Lord Wakehurst and Hugh Brassey
were added bits of dazzle.
Archbishop Kelly spent the evening of
his ninetieth birthday in the midst of
his people—as many thousands of them
as could squeeze into the Town Hall. The
function has been called a conversazione,
but with all the guests seated closely on
blocks of chairs facing one another the
length of the hall conversation was
limited to one’s immediate neighbor.
However, there was a constant ripple
of excitement with Consuls and other
well-knowns arriving and being shown
to seats around the dais. On this stood
the green-and-gold-draped throne on
which Archbishop Kelly sat throughout
the evening. Green and gold satin
ribbons were looped on the balconies,
and the papal coat of arms was in relief
at the back of the throne.
Every man’s and every woman’s heart
warmed to the groups of small boys, each
representing a decade of Dr. Kelly’s life.
Carefully, precisely, they stepped up the
long way from vestibule to the dais —
altar boys, Ireland’s youth of the early
’eighties, the seminary students, the
bishops, the archbishops (aged from four
to seven), they bowed from the waist
down to the Archbishop, and were the
hit of the evening.
Archbishop Kelly’s own speech was
the best of the night. While Dr. Veech
kept his eye on him, the prelate told the
story of his life. Everybody liked the
bits where he owned up to having, just
like most other little boys, wandered
away and been lost, and then been found
under the counter of a big store, eating
a slice of bread and butter. And the
bit where he owned up to having wanted
*o be a sailor (his father was a sea cap-
tain). Attorney-General Manning, Arch-
bishop Duhig and Sydney’s Mayor were
other speakers. Amid the thousands
were glimpsed knight John Peden, Jus-
tice McTiernan, the Joe Coens, the
Walter Burfitts, Miss Kate Egan, Dr.
Constance D’Arcy, Mrs. Norris, the
D’Apices, Joe Coates, M.L.C., the Lane
Mullinses, Archbishop Gilroy’s mother
and sisters, Redfern’s Mayor Gilmore
and his ex-mayor brother.
Mrs. E. H. Salenger, just back from
Tasmania, reports that the island is one
long stretch of beauty. A flower show
in Hobart showed gladioli of surpassing
height and color. Particularly taken with
one group, the Sydney visitor gave an
order for some. On the morning of her
departure the grower arrived (from five
miles away) with a great armful. But
he firmly declined payment. “I couldn’t
take money for flowers,” he said. That
is the prettiest story of the week. It
makes one want to rush off to a spot
that produces such natures and such
flowers. Mrs. Salenger also brought back
a cargo of red currants and greengages
and suchlike cold-country fruits, and
immediately sent off presents of them to
all her friends.
Portia Holman has inherited brains
both from her clever father, William
Holman, who was so long Premier of
this State, and from her novelist mother.
Portia, abroad for many years, continues
to garner academic honors, the latest
being a medical degree (London). She
was already an M.A., and held degrees
in economics (Cambridge) and psycho-
logy (the latter gained at the Sor-
bonne). During the Spanish war
Portia did her bit in Spain. She has also
a first-hand knowledge of Russia. Like
her father, she is a gifted linguist. At
the moment, as relaxation, she is writing
a book on child psychology.
First A.B.C. concert of the season was
given by Harold Williams in the Town
Hall. While turning an ear to father’s
singing everybody kept an eye out for
the twins. Veronica and Vernita wore
bouffant frocks of white tulle. Each
wore a posy of red rosebuds at the waist
and a flower in the hair. Silver and
lilac lame glittered on Mrs. Williams,
a color combination almost as English
as many of her husband’s songs. Decided
once again that Vaughan Williams’s
music does not meet the mood of the
pictures called up by R. L. Stevenson’s
Roadside Fire. The Alexander Gordon
lady arrived after a busy day selling
art-union tickets for the Red Cross race-
horse. Well, if she herself doesn’t draw
the prize she had drawn a winner in her
pink-and-gold lame frock with its trig
bolero.
A romantic frock was the snow-white
hroderie anglaise worn by Mrs. John
Holm. It had just the right fullness, ft
had a bolero, and against its whiteness
one of those almost-black red roses
burned. In the vestibule were grouped
Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. McCartney,
Marie Burke, the writer of Borzoi with
a tall ballerina, all in flowing white,
Strella Wilson, Neville Smith and Mrs.
Salenger, her complexion glowing from
the cold breath of Tasmania. A.B.C.
chairman Cleary was there with his
daughter Betty, now quite recovered
from her accident. Another daughter,
he told, had recently had a slight argu-
ment with the windscreen of a car, and
with Mrs. Cleary was away holidaying in
the country. Mrs. Alexander Gordon
and Mrs. Shannon were among the
smart.
The Parents’ Association of Cranbrook
saw that their popular headmaster,
General Mackay, was not allowed to
leave for private life without a great
send-off. This was a late-afternoon party
at Elizabeth Bay House, and Mrs. Mac-
kay has never looked prettier than in her
black sheers, her black hat wearing a
sideways halo of pale-pink and lilac blos-
som. Daughter Mrs. Bill Travers, whose
almost-new lieutenant-husband is wher-
ever the Second A.I.F. is, was there, in
navy and white stripes and a page-boy
bob. Lieutenant Iven Mackay, son of
the house, arrived in uniform. Duty
was calling him directly after the party.
Eulogy and a cheque were tendered to
the General by the president of the
Parents and Friends’ Association,
J. Anderson. His wife, by the way, was
smart in navy and white, and the wife
of the association’s secretary showed her
clear-cut profile under a black hat with
upswept brim Mrs. Hugh Poate’s
pleated frock was in mist-blue. Blue
frock and rose-trimmed hat were brought
by Mrs. Bruxner. Camouflage would
best describe the many-color stripes of
one guest’s frock. Now the tumult has
died down, the General and Mrs. Mac-
kay intend to live in quietude at
Vaucluse.
This Letter discovered last week that
the wife of Priminister Menzies is even
better-looking than her photographs. She
is an attractive slim brunette, and she
wore blue with great effect at the after-
noon party called together in her honor
by Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones. This filled
the long drawing-room at Rosemont
with many of Sydney’s best-dressed and
best-looking women, and under both
these headings please place the hostess.
Two new paintings by Charles Lloyd
Jones were commented on with admira-
tion ; so was the hostess’s collection of
chiaa.
After the fifteenth this Letter lost
count of the curtain-calls which kept
Serge Lifar and his conspirators in the
new ballet “Icare” galloping on to bow
before the storm of applause. There is
something clean-washed of unessentials
about this work that appeals to the dra-
matic mind. This is no powder-puff stuff.
Serge Lifar conveyed all the poetry of
the desire for achievement, the glory
of success and the tragedy of failure.
Sidney Nolan, the Melbourne artist,
painted the scene and designed the cos-
tumes. A good-looking onlooker, dressed
in twilight-blue sheer, was Mrs. Doris
Olding. Carrie Moore’s bright smile
helped light up the dress circle. The
Harold Williams couple, with daughters
Vernita and Veronica, were there. Pat
Salenger was with her just-out-of-camp
fiance. Largest party was brought by
France’s Consul - General Tremoulet.
Prime Minister Menzies and his pretty
dark yvife were among his guests. Supper
at Prince’s followed, when Serge Lifar,
Tatiana Riabouchinska, Tamara Tou-
manova, Vera Nemtchinova joined the
party.
If you haven’t heard baritone Harold
Williams in his Boris Godounov num-
bers, don’t let his concert season in the
Town Hall go by without remedying the
omission. When you go you will see
in the audience the subject of this Peter
Pan photograph, the singer’s wife.
Sydney, being what it is, dashed off to
the Minerva the other night, believing
that Tony had drawn a horse in a sweep-
stake. But the horse was an artistic effort
rather than a lottery success. Laughs
long and loud showed that the audience
was having a good time ; and the pre-
miere debs, enjoyed the jokes, too, as
shown by their bright eyes. These pre-
miere debs, form a group to help Scarba,
and in the cause they will attend all the
first nights of the season. John Wood’s
(Tim Shields) friends, Mrs. Pope and
her sisters, the three Grant-Coopers,
brought a large party. Rada Penfold-
Hyland was in the audience, big
black spots scattered on her pink chif-
fons. Betty Coller’s red-gold hair shone
brightly in contrast to her frock of mul-
berry sheer. Mrs. Florence Taylor and
sister Annis Parsons looked in to pack
a spare laugh or two for their trip to
Kosciusko. Mrs. Salenger brought two
of her daughters. And who that has seen
him all this Minerva season will ever
forget the gallery of characters Frank
Bradley is creating?
There will be a “naval occasion” on
March 9 in Narrabri in aid of comforts
for sailors. Organiser Mrs. Herbert
Wheelen so far claims that Narrabri is
the only inland town to be working for
sailors as well as soldiers. There will be
cooking competitions, knitting competi-
tions, stunt stalls, afternoon tea and leico-
graph photographers.
Novelist Mary Kelaher is going to
watch only daughter Paddy, a pretty dark
colleen, enter into matrimony with cousin
Teddy Masman on Thursday (22nd). The
couple will afterwards trek to the Banana
State and make their home at Roma.
Mary, who was wed herself at 16, has
written several serials and two novels ; the
first, The Green Years, caught L. A. G.
Strong’s admiring eye, and was duly
commended. Besides this, she has also
produced a family of three, and her
second boy, Kelly (18), has recently-
joined the R.A.F.
This Letter says “Farewell, happy jour-
ney!” to Lord Tweedsmuir, who died
last week while still Governor-General
of Canada. Memory recalls a pleasant
morning in an English summer about
five years ago and a meeting with Lord
Tweedsmuir, who was then John Buchan,
and to whose enchanted pen this writer
was and still is in thrall. The occasion
was the opening of a summer school at
Oxford. Or, at any rate, that’s the
nearest to describe the ten days of lec-
tures and explorations of this fascinating
place. John Buchan gave an address on
Empire that opened up as many vistas of
romance as did his novels. Later on,
following him out of the hall, he was seen
posing beside a sundial for a photo-
graph. In the few seconds’ conversation
with him, he proved to have the true
writer’s look, half-shy, wholly penetrating.
The Roland Fosters came back to
Sydney last week-end after their Maori-
land honeymoon. Most of the time was
spent in the North Island, and both
took the baths and the waters at the
famous Hamilton springs. Mrs. Foster
hadn’t remembered that grass could ne
so green, and the wonders of Rotorua
are still causing her eyelashes to blink.
The two gave a concert in Auckland
before they returned. Four or five of
Roland’s former pupils were on the pro-
gramme, and Roland himself gave several
numbers.
One of the nicest things about the
soldier hut being run in the grounds of
St. Mary’s Cathedral is the array of easy
cane chairs along the verandah. This has
a vista of the Domain, and looks out on
a grassy slope adorned by shady trees.
The hut is roomy, its windows are cur-
tained in blue, there will be a magazine
corner, and there are facilities for writ-
ing letters. Pride of the place is the gas
refrigerator. Next come the coffee and
tea urns. City firms have been very
generous, and have either given fittings
outright or have made great reductions
in price. Service is to be almost, but
not quite, free. If the lads in uniform
want anything more than tea and biscuits
they pay a penny or so.
An idea of the peaceful life in Italy
is given in a letter from Jessica Lee,
formerly of Sydney, now resident in
London, where she has been doing can-
teen work:
I have just spent one of the most enjoyable
Christmastides of my life in this villa over-
looking Florence and all its beauty. The
garden is a picture even at this time of the
year, and everything is peaceful and everyone
going about their business as usual. The
shops are crowded with smart goods, reason-
ably priced. There is plenty of good, well-
cooked food, coal and coffee being the only
things that are hard to get. I am holidaying
with a friend, a lady of 84, who always winters
in Florence and would not be put off. To get
over the coffee difficulty we have written to
friends in England to send presents of fresh
coffee beans. The duty is less that way. I have
visited the Blue Nuns up at Fiesole, and met
the Mother Superior, formerly Miss D’Arcy, of
Sydney. She was charming and gave me a
wonderful afternoon tea, and showed me all
over the hospital, which is most up to date
She tells me that she trained at Lewisham,
and was in charge of a military hospital at
Malta during the 1914-18 war.
Last week the Frank Alberts enter-
tained at Boomerang naval officers
who entered the Royal Australian Naval
College at Geelong at the same time as
their late elder son, Cadet-midshipman
Otto Albert. Officers and their wives
present were Captain and Mrs. H. A.
Showers, Commander and Mrs. O. F.
McMahon, Commander and Mrs. R. V.
Wheatley, Commander and Mrs. J. C. D.
Esdaile, Lieut.-Commander and Mrs. N.
K. Calder, D.N.0., Lieut.-Commander
and Mrs. W. L. Reilly, K.M., Lieut.-Com-
mander and Mrs. W. H. Thurlby, Mrs.
H. B. Farncomb and Lieut.-Commander
and Mrs. Alexis Albert. With the excep-
tion of those away in their ships, every-
body who was invited was able to come.


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going Into middle age note 3
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action ofl
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, If passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t waitl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are ai
special remedy for the kidneys and will giva
quick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
9X<?
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin ” production -
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 220 of 1940.
BETWEEN VALDA AILEEN VICKERS Peti-
tioner
And CHARLES WILLIAM ALBERT
VICKERS Respondent.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM ALBERT VICKERS
formerly of Murwillumbah and Newcastle
in New South Wales and of Renmark in
South Australia and of Red Cliffs in Vic-
toria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VALDA
AILEEN VICKERS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are requested
to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Seventh day of May One
thousand nine hundred and forty and in
the event of you not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this Ninth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and forty.
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
W. S. DAVIES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
RE GEOFFREY O’SULLIVAN.—Any person
who has any information respecting the present
whereabouts or death of Geoffrey O’Sullivan,
a son of Geoffrey O’Sullivan and Katherine
O’Sullivan (nee Moloney), who was born in
Melbourne and was last heard of when dis-
charged from the ketch “Clamin” at Geelong
in 1929, is requested to communicate such in-
formation to the undersigned.
McKENNA & TALBOT, Solicitors,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ANNIE RIORDAN {nee Waddington).
IT IS DESIRED that the abovenamed, who
married John Riordan at Hawthorn on 21st
November, 1893, or, if deceased, her children
or legal representative shall communicate im-
mediately with P. J. RIDGEWAY, Solicitor, of
379 Collins Street, Melbourne, with reference
to Annie Riordan’s interest in a deceased estate.
P. J. RIDGEWAY, Solicitor,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Madame Crivelli, French by birth,
Australian by adoption, is picking up the
threads in a patriotic service to which
she thought she had said good-bye m
1918. After having been out of the public
eye for years and years, Madame has
emerged from domestic retirement to
muster volunteers for the French Red
Cross She seems just as eager for work
today as when she helped to rope in
thousands for the same cause a quaitei
of a century ago. When General Joffre
visited Melbourne the French Red Cross
presented him with a cheque for £lOO,OOO,
representing one month s contribution.
Some of the workers who stood by the
French Cross in those days have re-
enlisted, among them being Madame
Gay, Rita Watson and Ella Guthrie. Ella
at an early date hopes to give a prac-
tical demonstration of her interest by
staging an entertainment at her new home
in Upper Macedon, on the site where
the Misses Ryan dispensed hospitality
in earlier days. When the call comes
to don official dress Madame Gay can
pin a decoration on the gala frock—the
silver medal of the Reconnaissance Fran-
bestowed by the French Govern-
ment for war-time service.
Madame came to Australia with her
parents as a small child, married a medico
of her own nationality and settled down
to domesticity in Melbourne. In her
mind’s eye she has many pleasant pic-
tures of her beloved France, but none has
effaced the memory of poppies swaying
in the wheatfields of Chateaudun, which,
she glimpsed as a toddler. One of her
sons, Dr. Louis Crivelli, who married a
daughter of France, is holding down a
war-time job in Paris.
Mary Lormer’s wooing has not been
long a-doing. News of her marriage has
followed quickly upon the announcement
of her engagement to John Davidson
Briggs, eldest son of Canon and Mrs.
Briggs, of Worcester, England. Any day
the young man may be called to the
colors, and that will be the signal for
Mary to get into a white velvet frock
for the knot-tying at Worcester Cathe-
dral. Mr. and Mrs. Lormer will be there
for the ceremony. Mary’s education did
not finish with her school-leaving. From
Merton Hall she gained an entrance
scholarship to Cambridge about four
years ago, and became a student at Gir-
ton College, where she carried off
second-class honors in the mathematical
tripos. Wanting to go still further, she
next sat for a patents examination, what-
ever that may be.
Anyhow, Romance came along and
diverted her thoughts to John, who has
also captivated Mary’s father and
mother. They heard him sing as soloist
in the King’s College Chapel at Cam-
bridge at Christmas-time, and were
amazed at the lovely quality of his voice.
George Lormer, Mary’s father, is a figure
in Melbourne’s financial world. Although
an intellectual, Mary is not above taking
on a practical job. She is one of the
war workers at the petrol office in Lon-
don. It will be easy to forget the ration-
ing of petrol when she slips into her
luxurious fur coat, dad’s wedding gift.
Lillie Bryer, who made her stage debut
in Melbourne nearly 70 years ago, is not
as well as she might be. Never hale and
hearty, she has grown less resistant to
the ills that undermine health with the
passing of the years, and these days is
struggling to regain strength after escap-
ing the surgeon’s knife by a cat’s whisker.
Seven Oaks, the Bryer old home in
Moor-street, Fitzroy, is a theatrical land-
mark, for it was here that Mrs. Avins,
Melbourne’s first actress (and Lillie’s
aunt), settled in 1840, calling her new
home Seven Oaks after the Kentish vil-
lage from which she came. As a child-
actress, Lillie supported all the stars who
came to Australia in the early days.
When William Creswick played the part
of William Tell, she was the youngster
who stood to have the apple snicked off
her baby head.
This Australian has faced the foot-
lights in a variety of roles, embracing
characters in drama, opera and comedy.
Although she is not the oldest actress in
the British Empire, Lillie can boast that
the date of her first appearance goes
further back than that of any other
actress alive today. Miss Bryer has pre-
served the theatrical wardrobe of her
mother, Mrs. Edouin Bryer. Some of
the velvets, brocades, embroidered satins,
ottoman silks, wigs, stage crowns, silken
tights and mock-gems are as fresh today
as when their owner trod the boards in
the ’eighties.
Here is a picture of Mrs. Eugene
Gorman. In the last week Mrs. Gorman
has grown tired of answering the same
old question presented in various ways,
but all leading to the same point: how
does she regard the idea of her husband
becoming Victoria’s Overseas Commis-
sioner of the Australian Comforts Fund?
Being a Frenchwoman, she is puzzled at
the way the women of this country are
expected to take their place by their hus-
bands’ side in public life. This is not so
in her country, where women have no
part in their husbands’ public careers.
When pressed for an answer she con-
fides that she is a little sad at heart, and
wishes she were as brave about the de-
parture as Mrs. Gorman, senior, of
Rochester, who is thrilled about the
whole business.
Eugene’s only son Pierre is as proud
as grandma about dad’s going. Pierre
has made up his mind to settle on the
land, but before taking to the plough
he will dabble in agricultural science re-
search at the Uni. This study of Mrs.
Gorman in pensive mood is from the
Broothorn studio.
Mrs. Gorman’s war-time service is
taking the form of carrying out the sec-
retarial duties for a new branch of the
Australian Comforts Fund formed by a
group of Frenchwomen married to Aus-
tralians, whose aim is to raise comforts
for the French soldiers fighting in the
front line. They call themselves Lcs
Madelons, after a figure in a topical song
as popular with the French soldiers in
the last war as “Tipperary” was with
the English. On March 14 Les Madelons
will kill two birds with one stone at a
bridge party at the Hotel Alexander.
They will wish bon voyage and bon
retour to Mr. Gorman, who was their
president at the outset, and at the same
time augment the Comforts Fund.
Ola Cohn, the Melbourne sculptress,
is working on a colossal figure which
will be one of the glories of a garden
which Adelaide women are dedicating to
the memory of other women whose self-
less service gleams as a bright light in
the history of South Australia’s pioneers.
Ola has had more than the hewing, chip-
ping and carving to combat in evolving a
feminine figure out of this three-ton block
of limestone. The sculptress had to bear
in mind that the feet of her large lady
must not cover the crypt, forming a vital
part of the monument, and she had to
remember also that the figure must be
kept in her place, and not allowed to
cast a shadow across the sundial worked
into the scheme to symbolise the passing
of time, a significant note in a memorial
erected to the memory of those who have
gone before.
In the midst of the excitement of be-
coming a flight-leader in the Women’s
Air Training Corps, which began activi-
ties this week, Claire Thompson managed
to find time to become engaged to some-
one whose feet are planted firmly on the
earth. Her young man, Kenneth Austin
Embling, who owns a sheep station at
Trawalla, has never sampled what it
feels like to fly through space, but with
a fiancee and a future sister-in-law so
keen on flying how can the lad escape
becoming airminded? Claire’s sister
Freda is one of Victoria’s distinguished
aviators, and has been appointed Com-
mandant of this new scheme for training
young women to be a help to the air
service.
These volunteers will not go soaring.
This was a blow to some of the young
things, who pictured themselves garbed
becomingly in leather, sitting in the pilot
seat. The corps will be engaged as
mechanics or on the secretarial and trans-
port side. Two thousand answered the
call, but the Commandant decided that
500 would be enough to go on with.
Claire Thompson, pictured here by Broo-
thorn, is the younger daughter of the
late Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Thompson,
of Fulham-avenue, South Yarra. Ken-
neth is the second son of Mr. and Mrs.
H. A. Austin Embling, Williams-road,
Toorak.
Old-fashioned houses in rambling gar-
dens rarely appeal to young people setting
up housekeeping today. The modern
bride is all for air-conditioning, power
points, hot-water taps and Mickey the
Mouse kitchens. They can have all that
on their own as far as Norma Freame
is concerned. When she and Keith John-
ston wed in a few weeks’ time, they will
begin life together in one of those old-
world homes which have dodged the auc-
tioneer’s hammer, set in a spacious gar-
den. This house they have chosen over-
looks the Yarra as it meanders under
the old willow-trees near Hawthorn
Bridge. Such a setting demands mellow
furniture, and the young couple have
collected some charming antiques to
beautify their home.
Undaunted at being defeated twice at
the poll, Mrs. P. J. Jones, of Caulfield,
intends to do her best to unseat Colonel
Harold Cohen in the forthcoming State
elections. More Employment and Better
Housing will be the main themes of her
election speeches, most of which will be
given over the air. She is not afraid
of the public platform, but has little
faith in the drawing power of political
meetings. “I cannot promise the sun,
moon and stars,” declared this woman
candidate, “but I can pledge myself to
work steadfastly for the abolition of un-
employment and better homes for the
small-wage earners.”
Mrs. Jones favors a scheme by which
the workers would be encouraged to
move from congested areas and squalid
houses to the outer suburbs, with reduced
railway fares offering further enticement,
backing up the suggestion with a re-
minder that many of Melbourne’s thriv-
ing suburbs owe their progress to the
free railway passes issued to workers in
the early days of their settlement. For
20 years Mrs. Jones has been busy look-
ing after a home and rearing a family,
but now her apron strings are free she
feels she can do a good job in the out-
side world. Before her marriage she
went through the arts course at Mel-
bourne University and began her career
as a teacher. For her life-partner she
picked one of her own profession. Mrs.
Jones is a daughter of the late Detective
Sullivan, long a figure in Melbourne
C.I.D.


THE SERVICE MAN
On the Wallaby with the
A.I.F.
“Ente Marid”: The first brigades of
the new generation of Anzacs have gone
into camp in “the Middle East” after
a voyage splendidly conceived and carried
out, but in other respects very different
from that of the original Anzacs. There
was no old-time Euripides leading the
line; no ill-fated Tahiti —she’s at the
bottom of the Pacific—tailing the convoy .
The boys did not become familiar with
the four funnels of the Ibuki, belching
black smoke, while the Sydney and Mel-
bourne played round on the horizon. And
there was no need to adjust the speed of
the convoy to that of the old Southern,
which could do only 10+ knots.
The 1940 troopships were luxury liners
of 20,000 to 25,000 tons, and with speeds
round 20 knots. The escorts included
warships far more powerful than Mel-
bourne, Sydney or Ibuki, and there was
no second Emden to be encountered—
fortunately for second Emden.
The troops disembarked at Suez. The
old town at the head of the Red Sea has
seen many a landing of soldiers of the
King since the
Napoleonic wars. In
1801 came a force from
India commanded by
David Baird—when the
Mysoreans took him
prisoner and ankled him
to another captive, his
mother exclaimed “God
help the mon wha’s
chained tae oor
Davie!” Governor
Macquarie was its adju-
tant-general, and many
officers who became
the ancestors of A.I.F.
men were in that
army. One was young
Henry Colden Antill,
who had carried Baird’s
colors into the breach
at Seringapatam in
1799. One of Antill’s
descendants was with
the First Anzacs—a
Light Horse brigade
major who became
Brigadier - General
“Bull” Antill.
The landing of the
Second A.I.F. was
almost a jubilee celebration. They
stepped ashore a trifle over 25 years
after the arrival of the first con-
tingents destined for Gallipoli. It must
have been an inspiring affair. Tommies,
Indians, Egyptians were brigaded all the
way along the Canal, on the verge of
which, on the African side, a railway runs
through beautiful Ismailia.
At Kantara another line crosses it.
Until a few months ago you could have
boarded a train on that line at Khartoum
and ended up in Calais or Berlin.
They left trains at Kantara and clam-
bered on others for a five-hour journey
to the north-east.
All this country is history. Israelites
and Pharaohs, Egyptians, Romans and
French went this way. Jogging along for
a few miles, the new Anzacs would find
themselves on the verges of the Serbonian
Lake or Bog—miles of it. It is named
after a king of Jerusalem who died there
on his way home after harrying the Egyp-
tians. Whole armies are said to have
been engulfed in it, and Typhon, the
hundred-headed giant, father of Gorgon,
whose topknots reached the skies, lay
upon its bed. Milton celebrated it:
A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog,
Betwixt Damaiata and Mount Cassius old,
Where armies whole have sunk.
But two names written on railway
stations near its margins would excite
them more than all the mythology of
the district. They would see Romani,
then El Arish. Fathers, uncles and elder
brothers of many of them lie there.
On past sand and sea coast and date
palms, out of Sinai into Palestine, at
Rafa. Here gnarled and ancient olive
trees nestle against the bases of bare
hills. To the left, sandhills ; to the right,
the high outlines of the mountains of
Judaea. Away there to the right is
Beersheba, where many more Australian
dead lie, and the Dead Sea and Hebron.
To the north-east, where the mountains
rear more Steeply, Bethlehem and
Jerusalem.
There are little fields which would
ma ke Queenslanders chuckle—they are
fenced with prickly pear, locally called
caclus - The sea is very close, shut off
bv rearin „ sand dunes A inn* flat
plain whidt, seen in the eariy mornfng
be f ore the features are quite clear, might
beat* of the country east of Lake Eyre
opens up. The soldiers are leaving Gaza,
another hallowed name in A.L.H. history.
Where the y are camped nobody has
been lold . but the dispatches of the Cor-
respondents with the force come from
Jaff thc t o£ oranges and of Jeru .
salem. Ramlch and Nablus (Napoleon
knew itf are near by. Jericho directly
inland behind it.
A little to the north lies Haifa. Here
the B reat Anglo-Iranian oil pipeline
comes in, which thousands of troops are
guarding, and which our lads, too, will
protect. It snakes away across the fringes
0 f French Syria to Mosul and the oil-
fields.
Here, too, is a bit of Australian tradi-
tion. Australia draws 21 per cent, of its
petrol from the Anglo-Iranian fields,
Those fields were opened up through
Now , will you tell listeners why you joined the A.I.F., Mr. Smith ?”
the initiative of a man known in
Australian mining industry —W. K.
D’Arcy, of Mt. Morgan, who married
a Queensland girl. And this is no foreign
asset. The refineries which deal with
the oil in the Commonwealth are a
national institution—C.O.R. —in which
the Commonwealth Government holds
a controlling interest.
And as the troops look round they
will find Australians and Maorilanders
everywhere. Not far away, they wili
discover a couple of Maorilanders, the
Nairn brothers, toting passengers across
the desert from Damascus to Bagdad in
the largest motor-bus in the world.
Just now they will be deeply interested
in the weather. There will still be a bit
of snow on the mountains not so far
to the north, but by Anzac Day the heat
will have begun.
By June they will wish they were back
in Innamincka, even though they are
near the sea coast and in a northern lati-
tude which corresponds to Taree (N.S.W.)
in the south.
More Horror at Sea.
“Nobby II.”: As another sign that
spring is coming, the Germans have de-
clared a closer blockade of Britain —if
blockade it can be called. In the last
war, Britain was officially blockaded on
February 18, 1915. A few days before
the 25th anniversary all U-boat com-
manders were ordered to sink on sight all
neutral ships whose courses suggest that
they will put into a British coastal sta-
tion before reaching the port to which
they are bound.
The order was immediately carried out
ruthlessly. In two days two Norwegian,
two Danish, a Dutch, a Swedish and
an Italian ship were sunk.
The new system of sinking calls for no
preliminaries. Papers need not be
examined. The countries which will
suffer most are the small ones around
the North Sea, which depend for their
existence on seaborne trade. Every Dutch,
Danish, Norwegian or Swedish ship sunk
is one step nearer towards placing these
countries at the mercy of Germany and
Russia. This may be the guiding factor
in the policy. What Germany is trying to
enforce on neutrals is not the “neutrality”
which is formally demanded, but submis-
sion.
All the northern neutrals have suffered
heavily. Their losses in man-power have
been nearly as great as those on the
Western Front —Norway alone has lost
47 ships and 309 seamen.
The Dutch have demanded compensa-
tion for the sinking of the Burgerdijk off
the west coast of England. The Scandi-
navian press is flaying the Germans for
their brutality, particularly in machine-
gunning men from torpedoed ships while
in lifeboats. And “Aftenposten,” the
Oslo evening newspaper, points out that
Norway is trading peacefully with Ger-
many as with other nations, and that
the sinking of Norwegian ships cannot be
allowed to continue.
If the little countries really get their
backs up, they can make things very awk-
ward at this stage for their powerful
neighbor, which draws huge quantities of
foodstuffs and metals from them and uses
them as channels of export and import
which can never be fully closed while
they are prepared to deal with Germany.
They may, too, institute convoys.
The U.S.A. is affected. American ships
are included, and the new order has the
cynical air of a gesture of contempt, com-
ing at a moment when Mr. Roosevelt has
sent Mr. Welles to Europe to explore the
prospects of peace. Mr. Roosevelt him-
self is abroad on the cruiser Tuscaloosa,
and at the time of writing nobody knows
precisely where he is, though 10,000 in-
genious reporters are doing their best.
The most he will say is that he is com-
bining business with pleasure. Some-
body ventures the thought that he has
gone to meet Mussolini. It will be diffi-
cult for Mussolini to leave Italy without
somebody finding out.
The one official statement from the
U.S.A. Executive comes from Mr. Cordell
Hull, the Secretary of State, who says
that United States ships have been
ordered to keep out of British convoys.
Senator Key Pittman, chairman of the
Foreign Relations Committee of the
Senate, declares: —-
If Germany sinks U.S. ships, it would
be a brutal act and excite the country to
an extreme point, but I do not believe we
wo>>ld declare war on Germany because
of it.
He calls the German procedure “un-
justifiable and inhuman,” but adds that
“Britain can remove this grave danger
by ceasing the practice of forcing our
ships into her ports for examination.”
The British procedure is legal under inter-
national law. Since Senator Pittman says
the German scheme is “violent and
illegal,” he might think of a better way.,
Americans forced into British convoys
come home alive with their ships, which
are United States property.
Twenty-four neutral ships fell to Ger-
man torpedoes within a week, as well as
a number of British, including Vesteys’
Sultan Star, whose brilliant colored
funnel has often been a feature of Syd-
ney Harbor, anchored off Kirribilli Point.
Other neutral ships have been saved by
British naval intervention. The enemy
paid dearly: from Friday to Friday five
U-boats were bagged by the R.N.
Meanwhile, Britain will not meet bar-
barity with barbarity and murder with
murder.
Around the Army.
XV.
THE TANK CORPS.
Though the terrain may be hilly
And they’re tossing willy-nilly
In their iron steed like peas inside a pot.
As they lumber o’er the scenery
'Mid the thundering machinery
They feel comfy as an infant in its cot.
In the sweat and grime and bustle
They are each a ball of muscle ;
They’re not worried by “Quick march ! ’
or “Halt !” or “ ’Shun !”
In their berets they look dandy
And they dress like Mr. Gandhi
When in action, but they get a lot of
fun.
Phlegm is a necessary ingredient of a
successful “tanker,” and to make sure
that he possesses it the recruit is sub-
jected to mild tests. He is tossed about
in a captive stunt aeroplafie device and
sprayed with carbon monoxide gas in a
darkened room, while about 50 riveting
machines and pneumatic hammers are
going simultaneously. Should he emerge
an hour after without signs of a greenish
tint about the gills he may be accepted.
Hairy-chested men are rigidly excluded.
Because of the heat inside a moving tank
the crew dispense with superfluous cloth-
ing. It follows that, should the tank
be climbing a tree or falling into a trap,
a hirsute fellow, slung against the
mechanism, might be drawn into the cogs
by his chest mat and chewed up. No
modern army can run the risk of spoiling
cogs.
Even without their berets members of
the tank corps can be recognised imme-
diately while on leave by their manner
of greeting. One will go up to another
and, putting his mouth about half an
inch off the other’s lug, roar in a sten-
torian voice “Howaboutapotasuds, Nug-
get?” The one addressed will reverse
the process and bellow back “Betcha,
Blue.” Force of habit.
But the terrific racket of a tank in
action has its advantages. The driver
who disagrees with his commander’s idea
of the objective he is to make for can
use his full vocabulary in telling-off the
officer at the top of his voice.
The tank corps is one of the few units
whose work enables its members to in-
dulge the Aussie passion for a gamble,
even during a battle. Thus, should there
be a distant machine-gun nest to smash
or a bunch of fleeing “squids” to mop
up, the commander of one tank will get
a call on the radiophone.
“Hey, Robbo, we’ve got fifty onks
here to say we can beat you to that
redoubt over there where the m.gs. are.”
“Make it a hundred and we’ll have you
cows on.”
The furious race that follows may
cause a few more kidneys to break away
from their moorings, but at least the
destination of the disputed “onks” will
give the necessary spice to an otherwise
boresome task. But they will conscien-
tiously wait until the last squarehead has
been splathered over the landscape and
the m.g. nest is a heap of scrap iron before
setting any private dispute as to dead-
heats or protests about the jockeying
tactics indulged in by their rivals.
The tank man, when he goes on leave,
wouldn’t think of putting in his time
mucking about theatres and kindred
means of entertainment. That would
make him so soft that when he rejoined
his unit the first real bump he got would
have him black and blue. That is why
it is no uncommon sight to see a beret-
topped figure hurling itself against the
corner of the bar, or on getting bounced
out through the swing doors by the
chucker-out coming back happily for
more. This determination to keep fit
has often been misinterpreted by the
A.P.M.’s cohorts, by whom the tank man
is unjustly harried.
When they are not doing this they will
get a small dinghy if the sea is sufficiently
stormy —they always make for a seaside
resort for this reason—and row out where
they can bob up and down and pitch and
roll. They take a few pieces of greasy
pork to induce the mal de mer they wish
to fight off, and some petrol liberally
splashed about the craft gives the right
flavor.
Occasionally, in police barracks, will
be seen a lone figure—all his fellow-cops
have wisely disappeared—shooting wildlv
at the target on the miniature range, and
hitting everything from the wireless mast
to the barrack building behind him. That
will be an ex-tank-gunner, trying to forget
that he isn’t behind the sights when his
steed is bucking and pivoting while doing
40 m.p.h., and adjusting his marksmam
ship to civvy life again.
S.W.K.


Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
TNB\O2
xm.
GUM
m
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
ENGLISH VEST-POCKET
suitable Bov Scouts, etc., 3/9 each. Post Free.
Apply I. M. BLACKWOOD, Box 3861 T,
G.P.0., Sydney.
(rut-
Radiotrons stand out in
popularity with radio
owners and broadcasting
engineers as the most de-
pendable and best known
radio valve.
RADIOT
VALVES
•k SCALED FOR
YOUR PROTECTION
Advt. of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co.
Pty. Ltd.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Air Chief Marshal Charles Burnett, who
was an R.A.F. inspector-general till he
was appointed head of the R.A.A.F., has
arrived in Australia with Air Vice-
Marshal R. E. Williams, formerly Aus-
tralian inspector-general, and Squadron-
Leader M. O. Watson. He said on arrival
that he had “no particular ideas about
organisation” until he had seen Aus-
tralian conditions. A lean, concise Scots-
man who saw his first war service in
S’Africa, he has fought in Europe, Irak
and Persia, served two years as deputy-
chief of the British Air Staff, and dur-
ing the crucial three years before the last
war was in command of R.A.F. train-
ing in Britain, after a sojourn in charge
of the busy Irak headquarters. What-
ever the rights or wrongs of policy in-
volved in the appointment of an English-
man, there is no doubt that the R.A.A.F.
should benefit by his experience of train-
ing methods, of European air forces and
modern machine technique.
* * * *
“D.H.4”: A statement of the Prime
Minister adds to the argument for keep-
ing the new R.A.A.F. separate from other
units. He says the Dominions’ main con-
tribution to the Empire war effort will
be in the air ; more than half the Empire
air personnel will have to come from the
Dominions, principally Australia and
Canada. In addition, Australia will have
to “assume responsibility for aircraft pro-
duction on a huge scale, not only to
supply her own forces, but also to main-
tain supplies of machines to British forces
in some theatres of war.” It looks as
if the incorporation of Dominion air units
in the R.A.F. may be a case of the tail
wagging the dog.
* * * *
“Don”: Under the Empire Air Train-
ing schedule service pilots will have a
wealth of experience in the air before
they get their wings. They will need
that experience because of the big
changes in the design of aircraft, for
one thing. In the last war pilots with
well under 20 hours’ solo in Sopwith
Camels or SEs’s were flying over the
enemy lines. One doesn’t in these days
step from soloing in a trainer into the
“office” of a Hurricane or Spitfire. There
is a long intermediate period to be gone
through, involving many hours aloft in
machines of the Miles Master breed.
They, by reason of their design, high
power, speed and manoeuvrability, are
the stepping-stone to the 400-m.p.h.
fighters. Advanced trainers such as the
Miles Master have a 550-h.p. Rolls-
Royce Kestrel engine and a turn of
speed around 270 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Aileron”: One of the Lockheed-
Hudson bombers ordered in U.S.A.
landed at Mascot (N.S.W.) last week
after a flight from Richmond with a test
pilot at the controls. The machine re-
sembles the Lockheed 14, made familiar
by the Dutch Line and Guinea Airways.
Nothing as big or as fast in the air-
fighting line has been seen in the Com-
monwealth, and when the first batch
are in service they will constitute a
powerful series of defensive squadrons.
They are said to be not so easy to fly
as British machines of the same calibre
—the Blenheim and Beaufort, for in-
stance. Their armament is not revealed,
but at effective cruising heights they can
top 250 m.p.h.
* He H= H=
“Ailo”: The job of the 1940 fighter
pilot is very different from that of his
predecessor in 1917. Then, controls other
than flying controls involved two gun-
triggers and the Constantinesco inter-
rupter gear handle. Now the fighter pilot
has charge of eight guns, and his flying
controls include a maze of instruments,
radio, landing flaps, retractable under-
carriage, constant-speed propeller, over-
ride on the throttle, boost gauge and a
few other things. No wonder medical
and intelligence exams, are iso strict.
What is wanted is not just somebody
who can fly an aeroplane, but a pilot
with a full knowledge of aircraft and
skill.
* * * *
“D. 8.”: The slow, lumbering type of
reconnaissance ’plane used for army co-
operation work is about the most dif-
ficult of all for a fighter to tackle. Reason
is that the fighter craft of today can’t
“ Cripes , sir, l didn't know 'e Was cleaning the thing."
slow down enough to keep a target in
the sights for any length of time. A
fleeting impression of the quarry is about
all that is seen, and by then the fighter
has to recover itself, like a hound out-
running a hare. Normally the slow ’plane
would have little chance against the high-
speed fighter, but invariably artillery
observation machines are protected by
fighters; hence an attacking fighter has
his work cut out to keep the speed mer-
chants of the enemy off his tail. There’s
another vital aspect about the super-speed
fighter, and that is momentary blackout
as the centrifugal forces drive the blood
from the retinae of the eyes. A fighter
pilot attacking on a fast dive from the
rear of the enemy is carried some thou-
sands of feet below his target, and he
has to face the inevitable blackout as
he levels out to climb again to the height
necessary for a second attack. Under
such conditions, the speedy circling, close
turning and so-called “Immelmanns”
which made up dogfighting tactics in
1917-18 become impossible.
* * * *
“Aldis”: Contributed to a British ser-
vice publication:
American machines are now being used
at training schools throughout England.
They are not easy to fly, and are respon-
sible for many casualties in dirty weather,
but they provide excellent practice for the
faster machines to which war necessity is
driving us.
The reference is probably to the Ameri-
can Harvard low-wing trainer, of which
the R.A.F. is using numbers. It is not
unlike the Wirraway in appearance and
performance. Casualties in the process
of making war pilots are inevitable,
although in these times, with preliminary
ground tests by means of such apparatus
as the Link Trainer, much of the uncer-
tainty is removed. If a man simply does
not possess air-sense the deficiencies show
up in the Link Trainer, an ingenious
affair which puts embryo pilots through
rigorous air paces without leaving the
ground. Nevertheless, no ground scheme
can remove the supreme test of the first
solo flight.
“Brasso”: Before the air war is
finished more will be heard of the auto-
gyro, for this type is likely to find a
particular use in convoy work. An un-
usual patent has been taken out in
U.S.A. for a sustaining rotor for air-
craft. It is a form of rotor which may-
be said to resemble those devices used
at ballroom dances in which air blown
in at one end causes a coiled tube to
unwind itself and form a straight arm.
The rotor blades of the suggested auto-
gyro coil themselves up on drums per-
manently located adjacent to the axis of
the rotating wing system. The blade is
hinged at several points along its span
so as to allow for the coiling process.
Only snag seems to be the possibility of
premature coiling at an awkward
moment.
* * * *
“Enno”: Radio control of model air-
craft for A.A. gun practice has been
brought to a fine art in U.S.A. The
type of model used has a 12ft. wing
span, and as it is about one-third the
size of a fighter and simulates to some
extent the movements of the full-sized
’plane, it is a useful target. Service
ceiling is limited to 5000 ft., and it flies at
a modest speed. A single petrol engine
drives two tractor airscrews to keep the
model in flight, but for take-off it is
launched by a catapult. Safe landing
is effected on the tricycle undercarriage
by means of a small parachute. For
launching the model is placed on the
catapult and the engine set to take-off
revs. Catapulted into the air, the thing
is manoeuvred by a radio control similar
to an automatic telephone dial, used by
an officer on the ground. When gunfire
ceases the model is directed over a land-
ing area, and then, also by radio control,
the engine is stopped and the parachute
is opened.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Queensland maple, one of
the most beautiful of furniture woods,
has achieved a triumph as a material
for aeroplane propellers. Heavier ’planes
normally have metal propellers, but
wooden air-screws are still in extensive
use, and hundreds are made from the
northern maple, which is now adjudged
probably the best wood in the world for
the purpose. It works easily and cleanly,
takes glue well, is tough and strong, un-
responsive to changes of temperature and
humidity and is not over-heavy. The
greatest drawback to wooden screws at
present is that they cannot be built with
a variable pitch, but research workers
are on the way to turning out serviceable
“improved” wooden screws of the largest
sizes used in commerce. They have an
advantage in weight over metal screws.
The Air War Day by Day.
Feb. 13: R.A.F. ’planes on reconnais-
sance over north-west Germany pur-
sued by enemy ’planes. No losses.
Two German ’planes near the Orkneys.
No bombs dropped. Three Spitfires
attacked a Heinkel over the Thames
Estuary. Enemy escaped in the fading
light after several bursts of fire had
taken effect.
Feb. 18. —British Coastal Command ’plane
bombs disappearing U-boat at point
of disappearance. Oil-patches and
bubbles appear; U-boat believed to
have been destroyed. R.A.F. ’plane
fails to return from reconnaissance
flight; Germans report Bristol-Blen-
heim bomber shot down in Heligo-
land Bight and crew drowned.
“Nobby II.” on a thrilling bit of work:
The rescue of 300 Graf Spee prisoners from
the 12,000-ton German ship Altmark had the
Nelson touch.
Half-starved and half-frozen, the prisoners
were confined in everything from tanks to holds.
Everyone knew they were aboard the Altmark.
She was armed with pompoms and machine-
guns fore and aft, and was therefore an auxiliary
armed ship—international law allows mer-
chant ships only defensive guns which shopt
astern —and she had been sneaking home in
the darkness of an Arctic winter, ducking from
fiord to fiprd and from port to port. At
Bergen, the Norwegian port for Newcastle-on-
Tyne, she had been visited but not searched
by Norwegian naval officers. Her captain
assured them that there were no prisoners
aboard —he had started the winches and put
the hoses on the captives to prevent shouts
being heard.
The Altmark was anchored in pitch black-
ness in a small fiord between Bergen and
Stavanger when a British flotilla-leader, the
Cossack, one of the newest of the Tribal
class, turned up with some mates. A Nor-
wegian destroyer intervened. Her captain
refused a proposal that the Altmark should be
taken to Bergen under joint British-Norwegian
guard, but agreed to come aboard the Altmark
to test the British statement that there were
prisoners aboard.
Suddenly the Altmark cut her chains,
broke out of the ice, and tried to ram the
Cossack. The Cossack went alongside with
grappling irons, being unable to use any of
her guns for fear of hitting the prisoners.
Bluejackets swarmed up the side. An
officer took a flying Bft. leap on to the
deck. The German captain was pushed
off the bridge, amid shots from booby traps
and otherwise; the Altmark’s armed naval
guard took to the ice, and some of them fell
through it and had to be rescued by the
British. The remainder opened fire from the
Norwegian shore.
Then a voice was heard in the holds:
“Any Englishmen here?” “Yes.” “Well,
the Navy’s here, boys.”
Cossack and prisoners
went off in triumph to
a great reception in
Leith, 400 miles away.
Most of the prisoners
are now in hospital. In
the combat four Ger-
mans were killed and
five seriously wounded;
there was one British
casualty.
Under the Hague
Conventions the Nor-
wegians were bound to
release the prisoners
when found. Their
failure gave the R.N.
an unquestionable right to rescue the men, and
the job was magnificently done.


Only Imperial can give you
ŵ
all these features
• Automatic KEYSET Tabulator.
• Stencil-cutting Switch.
• 88-character Keyboard.
• Automatic Ribbon Reverse.
• Full Length Ribbon.
£ s £’s £’s cheaper than similar NON-ENGLISH typewriters
THE MOST MODERN PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
WEIGHS EVERY Standard Typewriter Feature
Write or call at your nearest agent.
L DobeU & Co. Pty. Ltd., 4J Creek Street, BRISBANE; Jackson & O’Sullivan. Queen Street,
BRISBANE. Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Roneo Co., Ltd., 21 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY. Johnson and Hey, 3i Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Raitt & Co., Ltd., 407
Collins Street, MELBOURNE; John Withers & Sons, 210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Holdsworth & Co., Ltd., 51 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE. Burridge & Warren. Ltd.. 09 King
Street, PERTH. J. Waleh & Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie Street, HOBART; J. C. McPhee Pty..
•HI r*«lUna Sili-00l MOHAW'r J
Ltd.
99 Collins Street, HOBART.
IMPERIAL TYPEWRITERS ARE MADE IN ENGLAND.
BRANDALERS
m
XV,
r*'*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENO
{tt.V
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Uncle Sam Does Some Annexing
“Motu”: Time Britain woke up to the
value of a lot of small islands which
are being annexed by Uncle Sam.
Till recently, when Australians showed
that the Pacific could be flown, they were
of little use to anybody, but the develop-
ment of air routes has made them com-
mercially and strategically important.
A suit filed in the Federal Court of
the United States in Honolulu declares
that Palmyra, which lies half-way be-
tween Hawaii and Fiji, is part of Roose-
velt’s own country. Certainly a U.S.A.
citizen has been in possession for some
time, but the British flag was hoisted on
it in 1889 by Commander Nichols, of
H.M.S. Cormorant.
Other islands which are being calmly
annexed after the same fashion are Wash-
ington, Christmas, Starbuck and Malden.
The first two have been administered as
part of the Gilbert and Ellis Group for
donkey’s years; the others are isolated
and deserted ; so are Vostock, Flint and
Caroline. Penrhyn, Rakahanga, Nassau,
Danger and Suwarrow are in the same
category with Washington and Christmas
—they have long been administered as
part of the Cook Islands, which are ruled
by- a Maoriland Resident.
Till flying came into fashion, Uncle
Sam never showed the slightest interest
in any of these islets. John Bull and
the -Commonwealth had better wake up
or they may find the Stars and Stripes
flying from some of the more isolated
Bismarcks and Solomons.
If lack of development and occupation
is a criterion, the U.S.A. might even lay
claim to islands along • the Australian
coast.
Blair, C.J.
“Clayfield”: Queensland’s Chief Jus-
tice, J. W. Blair, is to retire in May. He
has been on the Bench since 1922, and
C.J. since 1927, when he had the curious
experience of succeeding his former
private secretary, the late T. W. Mc-
Cawley. Called to the Bar at 24, he
was Attorney-General at 32.
Jimmy Blair in his day was one of
the brightest minds in Queensland
politics. He was the most resourceful of
cariipaigners, and his white flower (“for
a blameless life”) was only equalled as
a drawcard by his slogan (“Give Jimmy
a Vote”). He was in the first flight
of Australian public speakers when com-
petition was keen.
With the decline of the Liberal party
he returned to private practice, to appear
again on the Bench. He was Deputy-
Governor of Queensland in 1933, and
has been Lieutenant-Governor since
1933. And he has been one of the only
two men to receive titles since Forgan
Smith took office, having been made a
K.C.M.G. in 1935. He was a pioneer
motorist, and his 70-h.p. Panhard was a
feature of Brisbane streets for years—
he took it through Central and Western
Queensland in 1908, giving a lot of out-
backers their first sight of a petrol bus.
The new C.J. may be A. D. McGill,
K.C., leader of the Bar and the Cale-
donian Society, or T. W. Webb, who
presides over the Industrial Court.
Binghi in the N.T.
“D.P.”: Sydney “Sun,” which occasion-
ally evinces a mild interest in the N.T.,
has discovered that Darwin has an abori-
ginal problem. “Many men who are un-
doubtedly the scum of Australia have
gravitated to Darwin” ; the native is get-
ting more liquor than ever ; he hires out
his lubra to the bad white ; and so on.
As Queensland realised long ago, the
worst fate that can befall Binghi is to
idle his life away about a town. But
Binghi doesn’t recognise that, and he
won’t stay away of his own accord ; he
must be kept away. Yet, despite that,
and despite the fact that “during the
year complaints were received from in-
terested persons that aboriginals were
migrating from the various reserves to
Darwin,” a compound that cost
£38,000 was built within a mile or two
of Darwin. It was designed to “facilitate
control of the present aboriginal popula-
tion” and assist in the repatriation of
“I'll cut that dead limb orf , Ma—it might fall on some passer-by .”
others to their reserves. But “the present
aboriginal population” should not be
anywhere near Darwin, and “repatria-
tion” is no excuse for a £38,000 com-
pound within a few miles of the town.
Binghi’s place is in the bush. If he is
still in his tribal state every effort should
be made to keep him there, and tribal
areas should be efficiently patrolled. If
detribalised, he should be on an abo-
riginal settlement well away from
towns and labor agreements should be
strict and enforced to the letter.
“In relation to industries generally,”
the Payne committee wrote, “the abo
riginal problem has got completely out
of perspective. There is a most undesir-
able tendency to make all industries re-
volve around the aboriginal problem.”
Unless something is done soon the Gov-
ernment will have more than an “abo-
riginal problem” on its hands.
“Scat”: Vesteys’ meatworks at Darwin
have been desolate for 23 years. Now
machinery valued at £250,000 is being
dismantled preparatory to being shifted
to other Vestey plants. A minimum of
equipment will remain in Darwin. Ves-
teys started to erect their w'orks in 1914,
began killing operations in 1917, slaugh-
tered 69,792 cattle in three years, and
were job-controlled in 1919. Since then,
except for boiling-down a few cattle in
1925, the works have remained idle. To-
day there are soldiers billeted there, the
concrete is crumbling, the iron chutes
are rusting away and white-ants have
accounted for the insulation in the stor-
age chambers and for a good deal of the
woodwork. The works cost £900,000.
* * * *
“Dip”: That “vigorous developmental
programme of road and stock-route con-
struction” (B. 14/2/’4O) was remembered
with laughter when the 1939-40 Estimates
were published. Under “additions, new
works, buildings, etc.,” £36,000 was
written down for “construction of water
supplies, roads and stock routes for
pastoral purposes.” At first Territorians
thought that might mean a few improve-
ments in the cattle country, but turning
back to the usual Territory vote we found
that under “developmental services” only
£26,000 was allowed for “maintenance of
water supplies, roads, and stock routes
for pastoral purposes and freight conces-
sions.” On these services £60,000 or so
was spent last year and about the same
in 1937-38. It is economy of the wrong
sort.
* * * *
“X.T.”: As a memorial to Patrick
Leslie, founder of pastoral Queens-
land, it is proposed to erect an obelisk
on Mt. Dumaresq, about 12 miles from
Warwick, which Leslie helped to found.
A better idea might be a scholarship in
pastoral history, which is so inaccurately
written that much of it is pure fiction.
One learned gentleman makes more than
a dozen mistakes in a single page of a
book which deals with the foundations
of the wool industry.
* * * *
“Norther”: Is the horse finished?
Mrs. Wright, of Mt. Oxide, a spot out
north-west of Cloncurry (Q.), had to get
her six-year-old son to a doctor. The
whole countryside was flooded. She
saddled a nag, got herself and the boy
aboard, and set out for the railhead at
Dobbyn, 85 miles away, where her hus-
band and daughter were marooned by
the floods. Heaven knows what woman,
boy and horse went through, but three
days later the game beast staggered into
Dobbyn in time to put the boy on the
train, and Mrs. Wright collapsed as she
reached her husband. The boy is now
doing well in Cloncurry. No motor
vehicle would have got through.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: A peculiar position exists in
New Guinea, where an aerial survey is
being carried out by Fairchild Aerial
Surveys, a United States concern, in
collaboration with the Dutch K.N.I.L.M.
The main bases are at Moresby (Papua)
and Wau (N. Guinea). Anybody know
of any country except Australia which
allows foreign companies to make aerial
surveys of its territory? Of course, the
Americans and the Dutch are our
friends, but once a survey has been made
and goes out of the country, we have
no control over it.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: The wave of juvenile
violence continues in Queensland, and
youngsters who indulge in it are luckier
than they would be in some other coun-
tries. One lad of 17 has been sentenced
for an unprovoked assault on a girl near
Clermont (C.Q.). He climbed in through
a bedroom window and struck her so
hard with a piece of iron pipe that she
spent over a month in hospital. No
evidence was called for the defence, and
the young man’s solicitor asked the Judge
to take into consideration that he had
been in gaol waiting trial for 20 weeks.
He got two years.
* * * *
“Emperor”: The N.T. Administration
evidently believes that the pioneer spirit
thrives best under canvas. Over a period
of years, the contract teamster at Victoria
River Downs spent a small fortune on
this material, because he was unable to
get a block of ground on which to erect
a shed. Married drovers have to live
at Katherine, 200 miles away. There
are no homestead blocks available be-
tween the O.T. line and the W.A. border.
A saddler who opened a store on the
Wickham River, V.R.D., was compelled
to move to Westralia, although this was
the only public store on a 500-mile mail
route. Is it any wonder that the succes-
sive commissions and Ministerial parties
which “investigate the problems of the
Territory” are merely sources of ridicule
to Territorians?
* * * *
“Link”: A Townsville (Q.) fisherman
never goes out of port without at least
half a dozen reliable homer pigeons.
These he uses to send messages to his wife
as to his catch, and when to expect him
home. She then makes arrangements for
the sale or storage of the fish. Also in
bad weather, or in the event of engine
trouble, he can thus advise the position
of his boat and the necessary equipment
needed, and thereby save days of valu-
able time waiting for a passing boat or
making for the shore to send a message
to town.
* * * *
“Mark A.”: “Dip’s” jumping frogs of
Darwin (B. 31/1/ ’4O) may have sprung
from Mark Twain’s “Celebrated Jumping
Frog of Calaveras County.” This parti-
cular frog—Dan’l Webster by name —lost
his master a wager. It was nothing so
elaborate as a battery that did the dam-
age, merely a spoonful of quail-shot that
the opponent’s sponsor thoughtfully
ladled down Dan’l’s throat before the
contest.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
STO P Mi ni
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent paa-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
ot trifling cost —and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day I
£9/9/.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
* BIG SIX
ELFCTRIC FENCE CHARGER
Wr/h
m
The Neiv and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
AU S T R. A L I A N
WOMAN'S MIRROR
— A ''Bulletin" production -
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
ANSWER TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No rotice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
° ’wvne and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
h A • Dad and his monkey glands are caper-
ing home . • .W.M.S.: Nearly. 8.1. W.:
Don’t like the bee’s qualms.. . .P.C.: Genuine,
but bumpy...-M.M.: Material for an essay,
but it doesn’t begin to be a poem... .E.P..
What’s the good of saying you pass unheed-
ing by” when you’ve stopped to write a poem ?
B KJ S ' Can’t share your affection for
Rimert ’ .S.E.: No harm in trying, but why
send a Choom with whiskers? H.W.: If
vou can begin a poem with the line “You evi-
dently have that knowledge which, you evi-
dently haven’t that knowledge which leads to
publication....P.K.M.: Even if they do have
bagpipes in Arcady it’s a long way from Aus-
tralia ..G.W.: Just a nice jingle....
ES : It keeps dropping into doggerel.
.L.E.G.: “Just Whistle Your Favorite
Song” made th% office boy blow his head off.
C.L.S. (Los Angeles): It’s a long way to
send a verse that rhymes “bores” with “cause.”
F.A.D.: It sounds youthful... .G.O’C.: A
pity it’s a parody....M.W.: Worth trying else-
where M.E.8.: It doesn’t quite get there.
A.S.McD.: You’d do better if you got away
from that four-line stanza... .H.V.: “The en-
closed poem may be of use to you as a fill-up.”
Only for our pipe... .B J.K.: “l likes a little
burblin’ creek.” But we don’t like a little
burbling poem... .W.McK.: We’re rapidly for-
getting our Gaelic, but it looks all right....
D.M.: Orpheus and Apollo are odd company
for Australian birds... .J.A.N.: Harbor poems
damping J.M.: You’ve a long way to go.
L.E.: Platitudinous... .J.C.B. and D.A.S.:
They should encourage recruiting... .P.A.D.:
This is no place for “The Cub’s Revenge”....
ẁ
A MIXED GRILL.
“F.S.”: Three years ago, after a tour of
inspection of the dismal slums of Mel-
bourne the then newly-appointed Slum
Abolition Board expressed its “horror
and amazement at the deplorable con-
ditions under which thousands of men,
”, umj
women and children are compelled to
exist. Apparently amazement an
horror are not enough. After 13 months
effort the Housing Commission has
accommodated eight families at Fisher-
men’s Bend, and it promises to house a
dozen more within a month in new homes
11! ;! or ‘ h ™\ sub “ rb s. A aftar
he Melbourne board expressed its feel-
ings so eloquently the Maonland Govern-
ment tackled its housing problem. In
two years it has completed 7000 homes,
started on 1281 others and let contracts
for another 2000.
* * * *
“Two Wells”: Some difficulty is being
encountered by writers who find that the
popular term “pre-war” will no longer
do" seeing that a new war has broken
out Some of them seem to be content
with “pre-last war,” but that makes
clumsy reading. “Pre-1914” appears to
offer hone &
p '
* * * *
Eugene Gorman, K.C., who has been
appointed honorary commissioner of the
Australian Comforts Fund, and is giving
up a practice worth £6OOO p.a., is as well
known on the turf as he is at the Bar.
Owner of John Wilkes, he is one of the
most vigorous personalities in Victorian
racing circles. Although a leading bar-
rister, he is one of the most trenchant
critics of the law when the law is a
manifest hass, and his forensic skill
has always been available on the
public platform in defence of unpopular
causes. He went to the last war as a
private, rose to captain, was wounded
three times and gained the Military
Cross for conspicuous bravery.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Under the Victorian Mar-
riage Act a man may marry his deceased
wife’s sister, but he may not marry his
deceased brother’s widow. Even a lawyer
would find it difficult to explain the
reason for the distinction. In both cases
the woman is his sister-in-law, not his
sister, so there is no question of con-
sanguinity. Nor would there be any
more complications with regard to the
children of the banned union in one case
than there would be in the other—they
would be stepbrothers and -sisters, and
their parents would be stepfather and
stepmother, as the case might be. Why
don't the Commonwealth legislators pass
uniform marriage and divorce laws?
* * * *
Ted Grayndler, re-elected general
secretary of the A.W.U., began his con-
nection with the old union as an organiser
45 years ago, and, except for a short
break, has worked for it ever since.
Native-born, he was a bushworker as
a youth, and was active in the shearing
strike of the ’9o’s. After that he realised
that settlement of industrial disputes was
best achieved by arbitration, a principle
that has been his guiding star ever since.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: During the 1938-39
fiscal year the Queensland fishing indus-
try employed 2079 men with 983 boats.
Total catch was 4099 tons of edible fish
valued at £171,718, the greater part being
sea-mullet netted during the autumnal
migration. Other principal species were
whiting, bream, tailer and mackerel.
Values worked out at an average weekly
return of £1 11s. sd. per man employed,
without allowing for gear, ice, fuel or
other outgoings. Except f° r
some thousands of poun s in l
for men and boats, £-63 m n
breaches of the Fish and Oyster acis,
heavy marketing charges at Brisbane,
and high rail freights, the only interest
in the industry shown by the Govern-
ment was the construction of a fisher-
, . .. . T<>limc ,,;ii- f ,l nrlc rame
men’s jetty at Townsville-funds came
from the Federal transport s y-
Queensland’s share of Australian tm-
ported fish for the year was nearly
£27,000 more than the gross value ot
the home-produced article.
# * *
,
The death of Dr. S. G. Owen, the
Latin scholar, snaps a link with Maori-
land’s first Premier. Dr. Owen’s mother
Hanahtpr nf
was Mary Ellen Sewell daughter ot
Henry Sewell. H.S. was rather an aggres-
sive politician. Once a member named
Mackay refused to remove his hat.
Sewell hauled off and punched him in
the ribs. Dr. Owen made new transla-
tions of Ovid, Virgil and Catullus,
* * * *
« M , g Mate „ ob j ects ; _
Australian daily newspapers imbued with a
peculiar desire to brood over the alleged
wrongs su g erec j by foreigners in this country
f, ave taken to featuring the attempts of aliens
to join Australia’s fighting forces. It is par-
ticularly noticeable with regard to the R.A.A.F.,
and all a publicity-seeking alien has to do is
°ff er himself, and, after the inevitable rejection,
newspaperj when can
sure at j east a half-column under black
heads in the next edition,
p or man y years Australia’s fighting services,
as well as its civil service, have been barred
to any but British subjects, and it’s about time
the newspapers stopped wasting space on aliens
who should know they v/on’t be accepted be-
fore t h ey volunteer. Plenty of good Aus-
tralians are being turned down by the ser-
vice;., but no headlines are wasted on them.
Attitude of the papers concerned seems to be
navy> army and air force should we] .
come all-comers, no matter of what nation-
ajjty C r intention. War is a business in which
no such risks can be taken.


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
ACORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
k nil vou need Ask your chemist for A CORN
SILK Faded by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genrraß Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 141 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A big help
*SS."TVS" ?
draw), Successful students from IS to over SO year,
Jse* 5 * ' Include man i leading advertising esMutrvMsOwt-j
1 standing success m public examinations. Comptete
interesting, practical training. (Evening classes o*
individual postal tuition). Classes s.art Feb.. June..
n <or°big 56-page book, free to thoss^
: iD r scTKool d of
36 Grosvenor St., Sydney ' 192%
Our Service Department
Pa ° v is set apait for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free aii u . , •
sS£&«.“kx •"*"*. ** wsris Vs?
must T be a Tonh C n o ed t ?o°Sn l e n s fi u l bjlct and SearCh ’ CVery inquiry
“Wanted to^Sell”^or S^‘T^^ n . rejection is reserved.
wanted or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
wants typing work; used to handling manu-
scripts, neat and accurate. —6228.
To buy early volumes ,of Historical Records
of the Commonwealth and also Historical
Records of N. S. Wales —6203.
To get in touch with anyone who can help
in obtaining a photograph of General Plumer.
Also to hear from any Canadians who fought
around Ypres. Information needed for his-
torian.—624l.
Information Sought.
(1) Is rhe name of Count de Strzelecki, the
Polish explorer who discovered the Snowy
Range and named Mount Kosciusko, perpetu-
ated by any place-names in Australia ?. (2)
It is said that Dickens based a character in one
of his novels on Strzelecki. Is that correct ?
6256.
(1) His name was given to a range in Victoria
which he discovered, to a township in the
same State, to a peak on Three Hummock
Island in Bass Strait, and to a creek con-
necting Lake Blanche with Cooper’s Creek
in the north-east 9f South Australia. (2) There
is reason-to believe he was the original of
Count Smorltork, who graced Mrs. Leo Hunter’s
breakfast party in Pickwick.
* * * *
What were (1) the Dawes Plan, and (2) the
Young Plan? —6261.
(1) A plan to ensure German reparation pay-
ments to Allied countries by balancing the
Budget and stabilising the currency of Germany,
devised and put into force in 1924 and having
as special features a five-year sliding scale' of
reparation payments up to 2,500,000,000 marks,
covered by a mortgage on German industries,
an immediate foreign loan, a bank issue, an
international organisation of control, with-
drawal of France and Belgium from occupied
territory, and use 'of a prosperity index to
determine future payments—so called after
Gen. Charles G. Dawes, of U.S.A., chairman
of the Reparation Commission Committee which
formulated it. (2) A plan, devised by a com-
mittee under the chairmanship of Owen D.
Young, of U.S.A., providing a method for the
payment of German reparations to the Allies.
It fixed the total amount of reparations, pro-
vided for the payment of annuities for 59 years
and for their allocation, and freed Germany
from foreign financial supervision. It went
into effect on September 1, 1929.
jjt V
(1) What is the rule for finding Easter Day
without considering the date of the full moon ?
(2) What is the earliest date on which Easter
can occur, and also the latest date? (3) When
did Easter last fall on the earliest and latest
dates respectively, and when will these occur-
rences happen again ? —6202.
(1) A method depending on tables and too
intricate to describe is given in the C. of. E.
Book of Common Prayer and in most an-
nuaries. (2) March 22 to April 25. (3) March
22 in 1818, April 25 in 1886. No recurrence
of March 22 in this century, April 25 in 1943.
* * * *
Some biographical details concerning Charles
Harpur, an early Australian poet? —6229.
He was born at Windsor (N.S.W.) on Janu-
ary 23, 1813, and spent most of his early years
in the bush, but was for a short time
accountant in the Sydney post office and so
had an opportunity of meetirlg the few literary
men of those days. In 1843 he took up farm-
ing on the Hunter River, and from 1850 on-
wards owned a small sheep station; but by
1858 he was glad to accept the jx>st of gold
commissioner at Araluen. Concurrently 'with
this work he farmed land at Eurobodalla, but
unsuccessfully; in 1866 his commissionership
was abolished; in 1867 he lost his second son
by a gun accident, and' during "the ■ winter of
that year his farm was almost destroyed by
floods. Sinking beneath these misfortunes, he
died on June 10, 1868.
* * * * •
There is a test used in U.S.A. and on the
Continent whereby it is possible for a criminal
investigator to tell whether or not a pistol or
revolver was fired by the suspect. The test is
carried out on the hand of the suspect, indicat-
ing the presence <of burnt powder or residue
from escaping gases. What is the name of this
test, how is it carried .out, how long after the
shot has been fired would it be effective and
what effect washing the hands prior to the test
would have? —5932.
The test consists of taking a wax mould ot
the hand and applying .to this mould a solution
known as Lunge’s reagent. Any particles of
gunpowder upon the hand would be picked
up by the wax mould and their presence, even
though only a minute particle, would be re-
vealed, bright blue spots being' formed. ’Wash-
ing of-the hands prior to test would not, pre-
vent test from being effective, and the test is
reported to have been effective after the lapse
of several days.
* * * *
Is there any law which can force a wife
to look after her husband, a returned totally
incapacitated soldier, not receiving a war
pension ? If she ccin tbe foiced to toke him
into her home, can she be forced to contribute
towards his support in his parents’ home ? In-
J h , ree s °ns and her share of hus-
ahntt tn ld P e aswn (as wife ) amounts to
about £7 per week. —6ls7.
ng l‘ s h legislation on which Aus-
Pmnprtv A e * founded their Married Women’s
thp t CtS p a pro X ,sion was contained for
fnr thp b ty - °t f a marned woman .to the parish
fhat Wf P amte .o an ce of her husband as well as
nmin l m^ er t C^ ren ' No P rov ision in any way
FncrliJii a t° tbat contained In the original
K* sh Act was embodied in Australian legis-
,that the Position under such legisla-
tion is that the wife is not required by law to
laintain her husband out of her separate estate.
* * * *
(1) Many years ago the owner of land adjoin-
ing mine agreed with me to do a half-share in
fencing. My share of the fence was done with
good material and workmanship; his with bad
matct lal and workmanship. A. new owner has
come into occupation of my former neighbor’s
property and has erected a new fence and has
also netted the entire boundary . He claims half
the cost from me. Can he legally do so ? (2)
rrho has jurisdiction over these matters ?—6222
(1) Cannot, on the facts stated, see that he
has any legitimate claim against you. If you
have already contributed to the cost of the
dividing fence and it is now in sound condition
you cannot be required to contribute to the
cost of a new fence erected by the adjoining
owner without reference to you or notice given
in accordance with the Act. (2) Breaches of
the Act are dealt with by the local Court of
Petty Sessions, and differences on disputes as to
the necessity for or sufficiency of any dividing
fence may be referred to arbitration.
\** * • *
What is a breeches buoy ?— 6266.
It is used in lifesaving services, and is a
pair of canvas short-legged breeches depend-
ing from an annular or beltlike lifebuoy, usually
of cork. This contrivance, enclosing the person
to be rescued, is hung by short ropes from a
block which runs from a hawser- stretched
from the ship to the shore and is drawn to
the land by hauling lines.
* * * *
• Can sea-anemones move from spot to spot
or are they permanently attached to one place ?
—6254.
Although usually attached (by means of a
sticky secretion) to rocks, shells, etc., sea-
anemones can shift their positions by slow,
gliding movements of the lower extremity; more
rarely locomotion is effected by means of the
tentacles, which are used as feet. In aquaria,
tracks half an inch wide and about nine inches
in length have betrayed the sea-anemones’
movements during the night. While, most sea-
anemones are temporarily attached by the
base, some forms usually live partly buried in
the sand; others again (such as Peachia ) live
an active, free life. A species of Peachia found
on the coast of N.S.W. passes the early stage
of its development within the large jellyfish
Cramberra, common in landlocked harbors
along the coast. Among other species con-
stantly taken in association with other marine
animals is one ( Adamsia ) always found on a
shell inhabited by a hermit-crab.
* * * *
I am considering taking a course to qualify
as a'town or shire clerk in N. S. Wales. What
are the prospects of employment for a person
holding the Local Government Certificate in
this respect ? —6 111.
There are 158 municipal councils and 139
shire councils in the State, and ,as vacancies
occur in the positions of town arid shire clerk
they are filled by certificated persons. In a
number of cases councils require deputy town
and shire clerks to be certificated, and also
in the larger councils certain senior members
of the staff. As in most other avenues, the
supply is larger than the demand, and prospects
depend largely upon the qualifications of the
person concerned. Competition for positions
is keen, but a good man with practical experi-
ence should find an opening for himself.
* * * *
What is the difference, if any, in N. S. Wales,
between “perpetual lease” and “lease in per-
petuity” ? —6167.
So 'far as the land tenures administered by
the N.S.W. Lands Department are concerned
“perpetual lease” is a term sometimes given
to tenures carrying the statutory title of “lease
in perpetuity.”
* * * *
Translation of Latin phrase “Quidvis rede
factum quamvis humile prceclarum,” which is
the motto of a Rolls-Royce aircraft? —6237.
“Whatever is correctly made, however trivial,
is excellent,” or “Whatever is faithfully con-
structed, however slight, is excellent.”
* * * *
A few details concerning the first postage
stamps issued in Tasmania? —6260.
In 1853 Tasmania issued postage stamps,
two plates for values of Id. and 4d. being en-
graved on copper by C. W. Coard, and printed
at the Hobart “Town Courier” office on un-
watermarked paper. These were quaint designs,
having a small profile of the Queen in the
centre, surrounded by the name “Van Diemen’s
Land” and the value in words. The Id. was
rectangular, with hollowed corners, the 4d.
octagonal. Of the higher value two plates
were engraved, differing slightly in detail. All
three plates contained 24 types which are easily
placeable.
*sc if: # afc
A few particulars concerning the muskrat-
kangaroo?—62sB.
The head and body together are about lOin.
long, the tail about 6fin. The hind legs are
not specially developed, as are those of other
members of the family, for leaping progress.
The hind limbs are also remarkable because
the first toe (which in other Macropodidce is
aborted) is well developed though clawless, and
can be opposed to the other toes, and the fourth
toe does not greatly predominate in size over
the others, as it does in kangaroos and wal-
labies. The tail is naked and scaly. The
muskrat-kangaroo has been found hitherto only
in the dense and damp scrubs of the Herbert
River district of Queensland. Chiefly diurnal,
it procures its food by turning over debris in
search of insects, worms and tuberous roots,
and frequently eats palm berries. The nest is
round and formed of leaves.
•T* 'i l s»»
How many goshawks are there in Australia?
Are the grey and white goshawks distinct
species ? —6230.
Australia has two goshawks, one of which is
remarkable because it exists in two distinct
color-forms, grey and white. The latter form
is more widespread, being found in Tas. and
n.-w. Australia, where the grey bird is unknown.
In northern and eastern Australia, where the
two forms occur together, they frequently inter-
breed, but some authorities still consider them
distinct species, calling the grey bird Astur
clams and the white bird Astur novcehollandice.
* * * *
Is there a good biography of Archbishop
Vaughan, R.C. Archbishop of Sydney from
, 1877 to 1883 6264.
No biography of him has been published.
For his early life Snead-Cox’s Life of Cardinal
Vaughan (the archbishop’s brother) is useful;
see also Dom Birt’s Benedictine Pioneers in
Australia; a memoir in the “Downside Review”
for 1884, Johns's Australian Biographical Dic-
tionary and article in Vol. II of the Australian
Encyclopedia.
* * * *
Information regarding Tullio Carminati, stage
and screen actor? —6101.
His full name is Count Tullio Carminati di
Bramilla, and he was born at Zara, Dalmatia,
in (1892. He left home at 15 to join the stage
troupe of Ermete Novelli, and when 19 was
one of the most famous juveniles in Italy. He
was leading man to Eleanora Duse for about
three.years, and his first film appeared in 1918.
Formed his own stage company in 1920. Went
to Hollywood in 1925 and appeared in “silents”
with Constance Talmadge, Pola Negri, Florence
Vidor and Virginia Valli. When talkies arrived
he. returned to the Italian and French stages
because he didn’t speak English. He mastered
the language and returned to Hollywood in
1932 to play important parts in “Gallant Lady”
(with Ann Harding), “One Night of Love”
and “Let’s Live Tonight.” He has also
appeared in notable English films.
* * * *
(1) How many times did the late Les Darcy
, meet Eddie MaGoorty? (2) Also Jimmy
Clabby? (3) What has become of Dave Smith,
i who fought Darcy, McGoorty and Clabby? —
6162.
(1) Twice, at the Sydney Stadium in 1915.
Darcy knocked the American out in both bouts.
(2) In 1915 and again in 1916. Both contests
lasted the limit of 20 rounds, but Darcy won
them decisively on points. (3) Smith, for years
a storekeeper at the Sydney suburb of Bal-
moral, is now conducting a guest-house at
Katoomba (N.S.W.).
* * * *
(1) How many times did Jack Dempsey fight
Gene Tunney ? (2) Where and when did the
' contests take place, and how did they result ?
—6191.
(1) Twice. (2) In Philadelphia on September
23, 1926, when Tunney won Dempsey’s heavy-
' weight championship of the world by outpoint-
ing him over 10 rounds. Tunney also out-
pointed Dempsey in their second contest, an-
other 10-rounder, at Chicago on September
22, 1927.
* * * *
(1) If the fourth and last day’s play in the
Sheffield Shield- match N.S.W. v. Vic. had
concluded with Vic. scoring 9-326 at stumps,
N.S.W. would 'have won the match on the
first innings, leaving N.S.W. and S.A. even in
the point score. What averages would have
determined the holders? (2) How are points
computed ? (3) Who would have won the
Shield?— 6lB2.
(1) This is covered by Sheffield Shield Rule
No. 5, which states as follows: “In the event
of two or more States gaining the same number
of points, their relative positions shall be de-
termined by averages. For the purpose of ascer-
taining averages,, the following system shall be
adopted: The batting average for a State shall
be obtained by dividing the total number of
runs scored by the total number of wickets lost.
The batting average against such State shall
be- obtained by dividing the total number of
runs against it by the total number of
wickets taken. The former shall be divided by
the latter. The State having the higher quotient
shall be considered to have the better per-
formance.” (2)- This is covered by Sheffield
Shield Rule No. 3a, as follows: “In all
matches points shall be scored as follows: For
an outright win-five points, for a win on first
innings three points, for a draw or tie two
points, for a loss on first innings one point,
in the event of a match being abandoned two
points to each team. (3) N. S. Wales.
* * * *
How to mix a durable whitewash for out-
door use? —6132.
Obtain large pieces of fresh lump lime, place
them in a very large bucket or other suitable
container, and into this pour hot water. The
lime will start to boil and break up. Keep it
covered all the time with about half an inch
of water. Before the lime commences to boil
fiercely, add tallow or common fat in the pro-
portion of about lib. to 141 b. of lump lime.
If desired, a little yellow ochre may also be
added, which will give a cream or buff tint,
according to the quantity used. When the lime
is thoroughly slaked it should be stirred and
sufficient water added to make it a little heavier
than milk, after which it should be strained.
If desired, this wash may be applied whilst hot.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. word “Bengarralong”?—
6205.
Brief Answers.
J.E.C.: Write Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .J.C.W.: There is a sufficiency or
labor in those parts, and it would be unwise
to go there without first securing a j0b....
T.P.C.: By making application to the Old Age
and Invalid Pensions office, Melbourne....
A.P.: Write Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne. . .
N.F.C.: Correspondence lessons are an aid.
but they would not carry her very far. Sug-
gest that she forward some of her work for
criticism... .A. W.: (1) and (2) A redistribution
of the State electoral districts of N.S.W. ha
just been completed. The quotas used for the
electorates in the several areas of the State
were as follows: Newcastle area, 22,067 elec-
tors; Sydney area, 20,449 electors; country
area, 14,508 electors. (3) The foregoing quotas
were arrived at in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Parliamentary Electorates and Elec-
tions Act. If through movement of population
a disparity of numbers occurs in the electo-
rates a redistribution may be directed by the
Governor.. . .C. 8.: (1) The Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers (N.S.W.) meets every Sunday
evening at its clubrooms, 38 Clarence-street,
Sydney. (2) Open to all writers; subscription,
ss. p.a. (3) From the secretary, Box 3448 R.
G.P.0., Sydney J.M.H.: The Daily Mail
Year-Book, 1940, published price Is E.N.:
Interview lecturer-in-charge, Art Department,
East Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst.
. ...D.H.W.: Carramar is a N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning “shade of trees”.... E.D.:
Heavyweight champions of England since Frank
Goddard have been Phil Scott (retired) 1932,
Reggie Mern 1932-33, Jack Petersen 1933, Len
Harvey 1934-35, Jack Petersen 1936, Ben Foord
1937-39 and Tommy Farr (present champion).
. George Belcher, the artist, is 64.
He was educated at King Edward VI. School
at Berkhamsted (Eng.), and studied art at the
• School of Art, Gloucester, lie specialises in
drawings of London life, and his charwomen
are familiar to “Punch” readers. He was
elected A.R.A. in 1931 5.8.: In exceptional
circumstances, and with very conclusive evidence
before it, a Court of Equity might admit such
a copy... .C.A.G.: If you were in Tas. you
might be able to do so, but as things stand your
best course would be to place the matter in
the hands of a Sydney solicitor and let hi
Tas. agent attend to it M. 8.: The general
rule is put very clearly by Anson in his Law
of Contract. “A takes a sixpenny book from
X’s bookstall. Xin displaying his wares says
in act though not in words ‘Will you buy my
goods at my price?’ and A, taking a book witn
X’s cognisance, says in act ‘I will,’ thus com-
pleting the contract.” The essentials in law
of a contract arc an offer and an acceptance
of that offer... .H. 8.: No particulars in Syd-
ney ; make inquiries in Hobart... .J.M. : There
is a full account of her life in the Encyclo-
pcedia Britannica, which should be available at
your local library; other standard encyclopaedias
would contain lengthy references... .A.N.D.:
The Bulletin ran a competition for Australian
Nursery Rhymes in 1917, and . a selection .of
the best were printed on the Red Page on
October 18, 1917. About 15 of them were
reprinted in book form, but the book has long
been out of print.... P.M.: (1) The League
of Nations came into existence, on January 10,
1920. (2) English and French. (3)
Geneva, Switzerland... .V.C.8.: Sec Australian
Aboriginal Place-Names, by James Tyrrell (2s. I
. ...F.Y.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89
: Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .H.C.P.: Appa-
rently you wish to draw a distinction between
■ “pure music” and music dependent for its
interpretation on some exterior consideration —
what you call “programme music.” But if you
disqualify all “programme music” (in your defi-
nition) from being classical, you’ll have to exclude
the songs of Schubert, Brahms and other great
lieder-writers, all operatic works, including those
of Mozart, Handel, Beethoven and Wagner, and,
generally, all the specifically titled works of
all composers, ancient and modern. The line
can’t be drawn so tightly. A better definition
of a classic is a work that endures by reason
of merit A.8.C.: According to the repoit
of the Commissioner of Taxation for the year
ended June 30, 1938, the amount of Federal
estate duty payable during that period on assets
situate in N.S.W. was £748,849. The amount
of collections for the year ended June 30, 1939,
is not yet available... .D.V.F.: All That
Swagger, by Stella Miles Franklin, dealt with
Australian life. You probably have in mind
Promenade, by G. B. Lancaster, which con-
cerned itself with early settlement in Maori-
land. Both works were printed as serials in
The Bulletin, were later published in
book form, and are obtainable from all lead-
ing booksellers E.R.8.W.: Communicate
with the Registrar, University of London.
London, W.C.I, who will probably be able
to issue you with a duplicate certificate
A.D.: Get in touch with the secretary, Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research, 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne.... J.J.W.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Mines, Brisbane....
P.G.: Apply direct to the military authorities
E.O.F.: “Cavalcade” was first shown as a
talkie in Sydney at the* State Theatre in April.
1933. Principal players in the film were Diana
Wynyard, Clive Brook, Ursula Jeans, Herbert
Mundin, Una O’Connor, Merle Tottenham.
Irene Browne, Beryl Mercer, Frank Lawton and
John Warburton. The director was Frank
Lloyd M.M.D.: (1) Queensland authorities
have no knowledge of a metal or mineral being
won from the mud and sea water of the
Thames River, England. (2) Samples of
minerals found in Queensland may be sub-
mitted to the Mines Dept., Brisbane, for iden-
tification free of charge... .L.P.: The damage
done to the horse’s eye by the glacial acetic
acid which was put in by mistake will prob-
ably be permanent, as the tissue of the eye
has been burnt, and the resultant scar would
be difficult to remove. The eye should be
examined by a vet. to ascertain whether removal
of this scar is possible... .D.S.: (1) No law on
the subject. Some stencil designs are im-
proved by shading effects. (2) Very difficult.
Soak in methylated spirit for half an hour, then
lay material, pattern side over, on clean cloth
and sponge with spirit till marks are absorbed
by the cloth. Process isn’t always successful.


Sts
lys
PROOF.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
A \iWmMM
■ «
hi II ' |
P j|p,M ~
mm
M* ■.
'
•" - ••:
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S"
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Sales for the North?
“Ghanam”: North Queensland wool-
men are asking that there be an appraise-
ment centre at Townsville. Many a
grower who wants to see his Wool sold
has to travel 1250 miles or more to
Brisbane. Under war-time conditions,
too, sea freights on wool are up con-
siderably. The yield which passes
through Townsville in an average season
is more than 100,000 bales—more than
is handled at Albury (N.S.W.) sales, and
double the whole of the Tasmanian sales.
It should certainly be easier to take
the appraisers 800 miles by ’plane to
Townsville than to load 100,000 bales
of wool on to ships, unload it again at
Brisbane and reload it for export. The
Townsville estimate is that the saving
through northern auctions would be
7s. 6d. to 10s. a bale once stores were
erected.
Feeding Calves.
“Mookau”: As with all other animals,
balance is the thing that counts in the
“COMIN’, DAD!"
ration for calves. The best feed is whole
milk — that has everything the new-born
youngster needs. Give it nothing else for
the first fortnight: three feeds a day for
the first week, then two. Weigh the
animal at intervals. Feed one gallon per
hundredweight liveweight, with a trifle
over for luck. At the end of a fortnight,
start breaking down the whole milk to
skim, at the same time adding a little
maizemeal.
Maizemeal replaces the fats which
are lacking in skim with easily-digested
carbohydrates. By the end of the third
week the youngsters should be wholly
on skim and maizemeal. At the end of
a month the maize ration should be
about |lb. of meal. From then onward
the calf should be picking a little grass.
Now work down the milk ration,
gradually replacing it with water and
added meal. At two months old the diet
should be up to about 21b. daily of meal
mixture—say 351 b. linseed meal and 651 b.
grain meal (bran and pollard not more
than half, the rest ground maize or
crushed oats or barley). Add 11b. salt
and 21b. sterilised bone.
From then onward artificial-feed
ration should be tapered off and the
youngster encouraged to graze. At six
months it should be self-feeding, if the
paddocks are right.
The Young Pig.
“Canbelego”: When they are a month
old begin feeding your pigs on the
creep system. Place across one corner
of the pen a hurdle with openings that
will admit the youngsters but exclude
the sow. Start with a light ration of skim
milk and pollard. When they can handle
that, give them mixtures of cracked grain,
pollard and skim milk two or three times
a day.
At eight weeks old, well-managed
litters are ready for weaning. Take them
from the sow and put them in a securely-
fenced yard containing a shelter shed
and ample bedding. Turn the sow in
with them the next day for an hour or
so, and again the following day. A very
heavy milker may need to be turned in
three, or possibly four, times,
Give the young pigs the run of fresh
pasture, and feed them on crushed grain,
pollard and skim milk, with lucerne,
rape or barley as green feeds. Pumpkins
and roots such as mangolds, artichokes
and sweet potatoes are good. Place
wood ashes, cinders and rock salt in
the yards. As they grow, grade and feed
the pigs into lots according to size to
ensure that they make the most of their
ration,
- *
__ , , ...
Dundee s Defects,
“A.A.D.”: Dundee, the outstanding
N. S. Wales wheat, is again being chal-
lenged because of several recognised
weaknesses accentuated by weather con-
ditions in the recent harvest,
Mottling, more noticeable in the dark-
colored grain, was fairly prevalent, and
millers declare that it so reduced gluten
content as to render flour of inferior
baking quality. Dundee, too, suffered
greater loss this season from stem rust
than did any other variety. It also
appeared to be particularly liable to frost
damage of the stem. Nevertheless,
farmers are not disposed to condemn a
proven bag-filler of the desired medium-
strong class.
Last season Dundee (816,000 acres) was
second only to Ford (994,000 acres) in
area in N.S.W. and was among leading
varieties in Victoria.
Red Clover Rotation.
“Dun”: The results of a 12-years’
series of crop-rotation experiments at
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) State Farm have
been gathered together. There were five
sections of two- and three-year rotations
in which maize, spring- and autumn-sown
oats were varied, with and without clover
for comparison. The work is to continue
on the same systemised plan, and the
maintenance of soil fertility will also
be investigated.
It was found that greater acre yields,
greater period production and increased
profits were secured with less labor and
expense from the inclusion of red clover
grazed with sheep. Typical of the higher
yields were average acre increases of
33| bushels to 521 bushels of maize and
23|cwt. to 39cwt. of oaten hay. The
influence of the clover was very marked
upon the succeeding crop, whether of
maize or oats, and there was some in-
fluence on the second crop removed.
With three-course rotation there was
the added value of the extra period of
clover grazing, having an annual carry-
ing capacity of at least three sheep to
the acre The experimenters also con-
sider that for practical purposes it might
be better to maintain the pasture for two
years instead of one, as in these trials,
The general results have a wide adapt-
ability to the highland areas of N.S.W.
from New England to Monaro.
Phalaris Tuberosa in M.L.
» mi ■ ♦ /
its stan on he New England (N.S.W),
where old hands knew it as Too—
grass, is gaining in popularity in Maori-
land, where it is proving its adaptability.
Failures early were largely due to growers
expecting to get results too quickly.
It is wrong to expect much from Ph.
tuber in the first year. It should be sown
early’in autumn to give a clear start
before the cold months. Only certified
seed should be used, and it needs a firm,
fine seedbed. It should not be grazed the
first year.
Phalaris is not a grass to mix with
others; but every M.L. farm could do
with a paddock of it as a reserve for
winter grazing. It will stand heavy eat-
ing down, and when once established
there is no shifting it. Also, when not
needed for grazing, it makes a sound hay.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: Ordinary precautions might
have saved numbers of sheep burnt in
recent fires. Where grass is long, harrow
or disk an acre, preferably near shade.
Sheep will soon make a camp for them-
selves. Should a fire come leave them
alone. Many bushfire sheep losses are
caused by trying to rush sheep to safety.
When sheep panic, they won’t move for
anything.
“Sheepo”: When inspecting lambs on
their mothers for taking delivery as
weaners, it’s advisable to catch a few
ewes and test them for milk supply.
Lambs checked in the early stages never
grow as they might, and unless the ewes
have a good milk supply stunted lambs
are the result. Most sellers offer a 5 p.c.
rejection ; press for 10 p.c.
“Goulburn”: If you can’t afford a
tower silo on the dairy farm, try a pit —
not the type used for indefinite storage
of fodder, but one from which silage can
be taken in the same way as from a tower.
Near the feed stall dig a square or round
hole of the required dimensions, lining
it, if possible, with bricks or planks. Cover
it wifh a roof 10ft. to 12ft. above ground
level. Chaff the maize, saccaline, lucerne
or other material into the pit, and cover
it well when filled. It will keep silage in
good condition.
“Yarrunga”: To protect wheat, maize,
peas, beans and other seeds subject to
attack by weevil, dust with air-slacked
or ground carbonate of lime, in the pro-
portion of lib. to 1001 b. grain. No
need to cover every grain; just mix
the lime through the mass
and stack in bags or keep
in tin containers. This
method is not applicable
to large bulk quantities.
If high yields
are to be maintained fresh
seed-wheat must be intro-
duced at least every other
year. Wheat varieties —the
result of crossbreeding and
elimination—-revert to type
rapidly if the same seed
is used season after season.
Get a small supply of
pedigree seed each year to provide a crop
from which seed could be obtained for
the following year’s sowing.
“0.W.W.”: The back edge of a dis-
carded shearing machine cutter makes a
useful knife sharpener. Drive it well
into a post or tree near the meat safe
or killing-block.
“Wundi”: Mice threaten to overrun
wheat districts in southern N. S.
Wales. They have been reported in thou-
sands round the Lockhart-Henty area,
where the last plague started. Round
Wyalong, they have appeared, too. The
Victorian Chamber of Agriculture is
urging the Wheat Board to prepare, but it
is private preparation that counts most.
The last plague —in 1917 —was at its
height in the winter, and anybody who
saw it is not anxious to see it repeated.
Stacks should be protected at once, but
effective measures call for large-scale
preparation.
“N. King”: The Westralian favorite
wheat, Bencubbin, came out on top roun,d
Dubbo (N.S.W.) this season. Other
varieties that did well were Gular, Bald-
min, Gluford, Totadgin, Sword, Ranee
and the new Eureka. Fertiliser tests
showed that an average application of
561 b. of superphosphate stepped the yield
up by 5j bushels.
“Ben C.”: T. H. Bath, chairman of
W.A. Co-operative Wheat Pool, isn’t


LARGE PURCHASE IN
Black Calf Oxford Shoes
22/6 PER PAIR
We bought a large quantity of
Black Leather before the price
rise and are passing the saving
on to you.
Black Calf Oxford Shoes made
from good quality Box Calf at
only 22/6 per pair.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“Abbey Boots, Sydney.”
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
The Bulletin has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’Account Book
(Price £1),
including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations 15
Sheep bought (J 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1940 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
yllelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
enamored of the wheat prospect. He sug-
gests that before forecasting what farmers
are to get it should be remembered that
neutral shipowners are asking 105 s. a ton
to carry Argentine wheat to Europe —
about five times the pre-war rate. He
adds that freight from Australia is diffi-
cult to arrange, and its cost is steadily
mounting, that the country is choked with
wheat, and that the world has plenty of
it on hand.
“Liop”: Between February 1 and 12
the Wheat Board got rid of another
1,888,000 bushels. Some was sold to Singa-
pore for army use at the same price paid
by Britain for half the 63,000,000 bushels
bought in January, and the rest made
from 3s. 10|d. to 4s. 2|d.
"Murphy”: Trial potato crops in the
Ohakune-Raetihi district (M.L.) gave sur-
prising yields this year. The favorite
spud in most M.L. districts is the Auck-
lander Short Top, which turns out fine
tubers and is notably resistant to blight.
When perfect, it is an attractive potato
for marketing, but its skin is thin and
clear and the mildest trace of scab shows
up. A number of varieties were tried,
and the A.S.T. came down badly in yield
beside some others. Majestic, an eco-
nomical, well-shaped tuber, sound-eyed,
turned out 13.2 tons per acre, including
seed. Inverness Favorite, a fine market-
able potato, got to 14.8 tons. Iron Duke
ran out at 12.2 tons—it is a poor, irregu-
lar potato compared with the others. And
the standard A.S.T. yielded 10.8 tons.
The departmental judges rated American
Wonder —not a heavy yielder in the trials
—and Majestic as superior to the A.S.T.
in evenness and cleanness of appearance.
The other high-yielders compared favor-
ably with the best in the tests, though
Invernesses showed more variation in size
and shape.
Yarrunga ’: The beef trade, local and
export, nowadays limits the desirable age
of fat bullocks to four years. The
grower who carries them much beyond
that period loses on the extra cost of
production. This was evidenced in recent
sales of prime-conditioned drafts of Short-
horn steers and bullocks at Homebush
(N.S.W.). Top price was £l7 Bs. for a
line of six- to eight-year-olds from Moree
district, averaging £l7 6s. 6d., for esti-
mated dressed weight of 11751 b. In con-
trast, nine steers from Mandurama, rang-
ing to two years nine months, estimated
at 9801 b. to 10001 b. dressed, made to £l7
35., averaging £l6 13s. 9d. Improved
pastures were a factor in the early de-
velopment of these pure-bred Shorthorns
from the stud and herd of R. J. Fagan
and Sons, in which only high-class bulls,
mainly of Milton Park blood, have been
used.
“Walkabout”: Out here in the n.-w.
Riverina fences, yards and watering-
troughs are buried feet deep with sand
18. 3/l/’4O), and I know of one case
where a new yard has been erected over
the original. In places third fences exist;
it was more economical to build up than
to scoop away the sand piled up against
the first and second fences. Tanks and
dams that a few years ago gave a swim
to a horse now rarely contain three feet
of water when full. Drought and over-
stocking have been main contributors to
the trouble, and, although it’s not likely
sand-creep from the Centralian desert
will reach the eastern seaboard, the start-
ling fact remains that the desert sands
are taking heavy toll cf hundreds of
square miles of pastoral country out
west. It’s a race against time to sec
whether man can defeat the march of
the desert.
‘‘Kyamba”: A new medic-seed har-
vester tested at Roseworthy College, S.A.,
gave excellent results. The paddock
treated was covered with a good mat of
barrel medic. The harvester sweeps the
medic stems to one side with a side-
delivery rake and broom, while the seed
pods which drop off the plant at maturity
are lifted from the ground into a hollow
wheel connected by an elevator with a
winnowing plant. Recovery was high,
and the plants, instead of being rendered
useless, as is the case with the harrow
and roller-covered-with-sheepskin method,
remain useful stock fodder. Where sub.
clover seeds badly medics are useful soil-
enrichers, but until now seed-harvesting
has been uneconomic. Barrel medic has
given best results. Burr medic, though
it has a high feed value, clutters the wool
up with burrs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.')
(1) How does sulphate of ammonia affect
lettuce, cabbage, cauliflower, beans, potatoes,
melons, rockmelons, cucumbers, pumpkins,
radish and tree-tomato ? (2) How should it
be applied? (3) Which soils and vegetables
should receive super.? —6oB3.
(If Lettuce, cabbage, beans, potatoes, cauli-
flowers, melons and cucumbers on sandy soil
will be helped in growth. It helps tomatoes
in late stages of growth. (2) Best applied with
super, and blood and bone, (3) All soils.
Outback Occupations.
No. VI.
Buying a Car.
Anyone who argues that this isn’t an
occupation has never been in the coun-
try. It begins when you are in the town
some Saturday night standing outside the
store with neighbors, and Bill Nonny, the
agent, comes up and says, “My word,
you've got a bonzer crop, Jack ; oughter
go ten bags easy!”
“Yair,” you say, non-committally,
being a bit suspicious of Nonny because
the last time he slapped you on the back
was when he unloaded on you some
wethers you didn’t want.
“Too right,” he breezes. “I reckon
you’ll be buying a car after harvest.”
Well, he isn’t a car agent, so you grin
and say, “Y’ never know y’ luck.”
Time passes, the wheat ripens and is
harvested, the carting done. You look
forward to that little pause of rest before
the next season’s work begins. One day
a big, glittering car sweeps through the
gate, across Ihe paddock and up to the
house. Out gets a jolly-looking fellow
in city clothes. Wondering whether he’s
lost his way or he’s the State Governor
got loose or a bloke selling tea, you greet
him, and the following conversation takes
place:
“G’day.”
“Ah, good day, Mister—er—Nabawa.
My word, a fine place you’ve got here,
a line place.”
“Aw, it’s not too bad.”
“Yes. Well, now, let’s get to business.
Nothing like getting to the point, eh,
Mister—er—Nabawa, ha, ha?”
You back away a bit,, digging your
toes in.
“Of course,” he goes on, “you intend
to have the best. That’s why I brought this
model out. Look at her: streamlined,
four-wheel brakes, reverse water system,
syncopated torque tubes, ankle aciion—
why, there isn’t a finer car at the price
anywhere. Anywhere!”
You back a bit further away and say,
“But I”
“Now, look” —he jumps at you and
seizes your shoulder, gazing deep
into your eyes—“look, don’t pass judg-
ment at a glance. Come on, hop in and
we’ll take a spin down the road ; that’ll
show you what”
He goes on talking, and you try f o
pull away, but he fairly drags you into
the front seat; and before you can do
anything the car is through the gate and
racing down the road.
Without a word he hurtles it along
the road at 60 for a good 20 miles or
so, then slows down and pulls olf the
road.
“What do you think of that, Mister
—er —Nabawa?”
You get back your breath, gaze at the
country and realise you are 23 miles
from, home, that you have been kid-
napped, that the fellow is trying to bull-
doze ransom out of you in the shape of
a purchase agreement, that that's far
enough, and you are a man in your own
right.
So you put on a grim look, carelessly
thrust a brown and sinewy arm out so
that he' can’t miss it, and say, “Mister, I
don’t know you, an’ I don’t want to. An'
I don’t want a cajf. An’ if you don’t get
me back to my place as y’ got me here
there’ll be something doing!”
He isn’t dismayed. “Ha, ha, Mister—
er —Nabawa. Have I rushed you a bit,
eh? Well, believe me, It was because
I”
After a bit he pauses for breath. You
stare grimly ahead. He tries again. You
ignore him. Eventually he starts the
car and drives slowly back to your gate,
talking all the time. You get out and
walk towards the house, leaving him talk-
ing. Well, you think, that settles him.
But in succeeding days you realise your
mistake. Wherever you go that fellow
and the car appear. At all hours, walk-
ing along the road to visit a neighbor,
strolling about the town on a Saturday,
working the paddock beside the road, he
bobs up.
Through the mail come shoals of pam-
phlets and invitations to try out the car.
He calls you on the 'phone. In the town
the storekeeper suddenly starts telling you
about this make of car, and how it will
do anything from go to the city in one
day to climbing Mt. Buffalo in top gear.
You start sending one of the boys to the
store.
At the saleyards Bill Nonny draws you
to one side and tells you about that car.
Your copy of the local paper carries a
printed slip inserted—it’s all about the
car. That same car, or something sus-
piciously like it, passes your farm on an
average of iwice a day, or you find it
parked just in front of your old buggy
at church, it swings out of crossroads
without warning. You begin to dream
about it, especially after you hear the
boys discussing what it can do.
Suddenly all is quiet. Nothing comes
through the mail; you see the car no
more ; nobody talks about it. Well, you
think, that settles him !
Somehow, though, you have a feeling
that you’re being watched.
One Sunday you leave early in the
morning to go over and have a day with
old Samson, a mate of years ago. You
get back about five in the. afternoon.
The place is deserted. While you’re won-
dering, there is a hunting call from the
gate, and in sweeps that car. It dis-
gorges your wife and the boys. That
fellow gives you a cheerful wave, and
drives off before you can reach your
shotgun.
Nobody wants to know about your
visit to old Samson. At tea the boys and
their mother talk of nothing but the car
and the “gorgeous” run they had. You
sit silent, thinking hard, for you know
that the enemy has found a weak spot
in your defence system. That night in
bed your wife babbles on about the car
and that nice man, and how easy the
payments are, and why shouldn’t we have
one, and the Mcßoyds have a car, and
it would save time and —somehow, you
sleep.
You get up early, get your own break-
fast and clear off to the back paddock.
One of the boys brings out your lunch
and casually mentions the car did 30
miles to the gallon. You kick him and
send him home.
That night at tea the wife tells you
she’s been thinking, and feels satisfied
that a car would You stamp silenth
off to bed and pretend to be asleep when
she comes in and starts again.
This dodging goes on for a week. On
the Saturday, when you’re ready for
town, that confounded car arrives, col-
lects the family and whisks them away,
and you are left to drive in alone. You
take refuge in the pub, drink too much,
roll round to the local garage and call
it for everything.
Suddenly you are at the police station
and a man is arranging bail. He leads
you out and helps you into a seat. The
vehicle moves. When the rush of air
sobers you you find yourself sitting be-
side ah outraged wife in a big, glittering
car, and hear a voice assuring her that
few owners of cars would do any-
thing so risky as get drunk. You’re
home. Vaguely you understand one of
the boys is riding the old horse home,
having sold the buggy because you won :
want it any more. Worn out and long-
ing for a drink, you sign up.
Later, as you stand on the verandah
watching the car disappear, you grin.
Well, you think, that settles him !


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
For an informative little account of the Maoriland housing scheme, written from
personal experience, an Auckland man will be paid double rates.
State Houses in M.L.
Nearly £10,000,000 has already been
spent on State houses in Maoriland, and
there are contracts for £10,000,000 more.
It is a large undertaking, and before the
end of the century the State may be the
only landlord letting houses to private
tenants. In spite of the war constructon
is proceeding.
The policy and the actual houses have
been the subject of much criticism—not
well-informed generally. The houses,
judging by those I have seen and the one
i live in, are well planned, well con-
structed and properly finished and deco-
rated. My house has two bedrooms, a
sitting-room, kitchen, wash-house, bath-
room and separate w.c. The kitchen has
an electric stove, plenty of roomy cup-
boards, hot and cold water and a sink set
in M.L. marble.
The bathroom has an excellent bath,
hot and cold shower, basin and shaving
cabinet. The sitting-room is L-shaped,
with the long wall about 21 feet and
nearly all windows. Windows and light
are a feature of these State houses —
there are 13 windows in the sitting-room,
two of them large ones which can be run
right out. The careful construction is
seen in the provision of rubber rings
screwed in wherever a door might hit a
wall.
The rents are “economic” and the State
is getting a good return on the cost of
the houses. Rent of this house is 30s. a
week, subject to a small discount. —J. D.
(Auckland, M.L.).
Communism
Australia’s experience of Communism
does not suggest that it “breeds in empty
stomachs and slums” (B. 31/1/’4O). Com-
munism here seems to have more ad-
herents in powerful trade unions, in the
teaching profession and among the intel-
ligentsia in general than among the very
poor.
In England the position is much the
same. Several years ago, Christopher
Dawson pointed out that it is “left-wing
peers and bourgeois intellectuals who are
the leading admirers of and apologists for
the Soviet regime.” Others have spoken
similarly. The latest to do so is H. W. J.
Edwards, a young English Tory who has
devoted much time to study of the poli-
tical trends of the younger generation of
Englishmen, and recently embodied his
researches in his book Young England.
Edwards pronounces the English Com-
munist party to be “run by a set of the
bourgeois.” Of late years it has recruited
many of its members from the young of
well-to-do tradesmen, Mosley ism having
proved more attractive to proletarian
youth. High Tories have also won many
young working men. Some of the most
searching criticism of Communists that
Edwards has heard has come from young
out-of-works.— Tom (N.S.W.).
|
Modem Temples
I went into a bank the other day and,
awaiting my slow turn to receive atten-
tion, was surprised to realise how like a
temple the building was. There were
tall pillars and high, dim roofs, plenty
of sacrificial altars with sleek-looking
high priests in shirt-sleeves with pens and
pencils. Everywhere men moved with
the solemnity of servants of some Greek
deity at “some priestlike task.”
It occurred to me then that so
thoroughly have we come to worship
Mammon that we have built his banking
houses in the shape of temples and have
invoked the religious architecture of the
Greeks and early Romans in so doing.
Perhaps, some day, one of these fine
places will stand, and some future delver
into the past will find one and divine
that here was the abode of some statue
of a golden god worshipped in far-off
days before men knew wisdom. —J. B.
(Q.).
Democracy
I read that certain young gentlemen of
Harrow and Eton behaved like a pack of
hooligans on the occasion of a recent
annual cricket match. Toppers were
bashed in with abandon and respectable
“Old Boys” publicly de-bagged. Author-
ity gently chided the young gentlemen
and let it go at that. But when the foot-
ball followers of Carlton and Richmond
(Vic. Football League) disputed the merits
of their respective teams in the “outer”
in time-honored fashion, the P.M. called
it a “vulgar brawl” and gave two of the
participants 14 days.
I read also of Unity Freeman-Mitford,
who boasted of friendship with Hitler
and publicly paraded his emblem around
London. When she arrived home re-
cently the press played her up as a mis-
guided little girl who had been suitably
punished for her foolishness, and wrung
a measure of synthetic sympathy from the
hearts of a gullible public. But the press
took a different view when Springbok
Hertzog sided with Germany in recent
statements, though his remarks were
neither as blatant nor as offensive to the
Empire as Miss Freeman-Mitford’s
actions.
I recently heard a Sydney radio an-
nouncer describe the film “Mayerling”
as “one of the noblest romances the
world has known.” Were that affair
transferred to the present day, with a
basic-wage earner and his girl friend sub-
stituted for the royal participant and his
mistress, it would have been merely a
“disgusting liaison.”
And democracy, so I’m told, means
equality among the classes. — lay (Vic.).
Came to the Wrong Country
The unwisdom of pitchforking into
the Legislative Council migrants from
overseas, men incapable of winning a
seat in the popularly-elected Assembly,
was made painfully apparent by the
utterance of Mr. Donald Grant, M.L.C.,
according to “S. M. Herald’s” report of
a Labor meeting in the Sydney Domain.
This M.L.C. is reported to have said:
“If America wanted to take Australia
it would not be worth the loss of one
life to stop her.” Obviously that one
life would not be Donald Grant’s.
If Mr. Grant had been an Australian
or had made himself conversant with
Australian sentiment he would have
known that the 700,000 men of military
age in the Commonwealth (amongst
them many thousands of the best fighting
material on earth) value the indepen-
dence of Australia as they value their
lives and would fight to the death to pre-
vent any foreign country “taking” Aus-
tralia.
It seems rather a pity this gentleman
did not direct his wandering steps to
America in place of to this country; but
of course the United States immigration
laws are much more strict than ours. —•
Arthur Griffith (N.S.W.).
They’ll Roll in Now
I venture to prophesy that those
O.F.M. scribes who have inveighed against
the “recruiting apathy” and against the
reluctance of the Government to dis-
seminate military information will soon
be silenced.
Is there any better proof of the value
and wisdom of strict censorship than the
successful transportation of the Austra-
lian and M.L. troops from their homes to
Egypt? I feel like moving a vote of
thanks to the naval and military authori-
ties, not omitting the Governments.
As for recruiting, just watch the rush
now that the story has been told in word
and picture. That spectacular send-off,
the touching farewells, the laughing
fraternity of soldiers on shipboard, their
welcome in Egypt and Palestine—they
stir the blood. I don’t think there’ll be
much more “recruiting apathy.”— Scat
(N.S.W.).
Churchill
Asa South African veteran who knew
something of Mr. Winston Churchill
when he was a Boer War correspondent,
I feel that Bulletin criticism of him is
about right. Asa very young man with-
out any technical training he had the
audacity to dictate to and criticise men
like Lord Roberts, Kitchener and other
distinguished soldiers who had won their
spurs over and over again. Unfortunately,
through his influence socially in England,
he was listened to more than he deserved.
Churchill was a typical know-all from
youth, and, to use an Australian saying,
could ride them to a standstill from the
top rail of a stockyard fence. Team-
work is not in his vocabulary, and, unless
he has profited by his failures in the
past, he might very easily be more of an
advantage than a disadvantage to the
enemy. Lord Fisher’s summing up of
Churchill (“he changes his opinions as
he changes his shirt”) was accurate. —
N. H. Calder (N.S.W.).
Hate
“Soe” (B. 31/1/ ’4O) chides me for ad-
vocating an honest hatred of our enemies.
In place of stuff with a punch in it he
hands out flapdoodle about the German
people and their leaders being of different
inclinations.
That German-leader stuff cannot be
accepted, in the light of recent history.
Three times in the last 70 years the Ger-
mans have upset civilisation. Half a
dozen hefty policemen could arrest the
leaders, if they alone were to blaifie. But
1 can’t understand how leaders can hold
that position unless they ha,ve fol-
lowers.
“Soe” indulges in a lot of platitudes
about hate engendering fear, introducing
atrocities and other things. Why spring
that twaddle when we read of civilians
being bombed, of harmless ships being
sunk, of other and many atrocities? To
date we have not retaliated with an honest
hatred. When we do and when the
others know it, we will begin to sepa-
rate the common people from the so-
called leaders. — Splodger (Q.).
Education of Girls
Has it ever occurred to C. Halbert (B.
7/2/’4O) that the intermediate and leaving
certificate examinations do include in
their syllabus needlecraft and garment
construction, home economics, physiology,
domestic hygiene, etc.?
The idea that a woman who embarks
on a career in preference to matrimony
must become frustrated is valid only if
she fails as a careerist. There can be no
frustration where there is the true satis-
faction of success. Further, the idea that
all women are suited for matrimony is
entirely erroneous. Most marriages fail
because of the possessive attitude of the
average ignorant male, but many fail
because the woman is both tempera-
mentally and morally unfitted for a life
of virtual domestic slavery.
It is not the women only who bring
a “whopping neurosis” to the altar, for
far more men are sub-par as marriage-
able specimens than are women. The
frustrated male is just as common a
phenomenon as the frustrated female, and
there are just as many frustrations in
marriage on the male side as on the
female.
A clever woman may not be missed by
the general average of moronic males,
but an intelligent woman is appreciated
always in enlightened circles. And, as a
matter of fact, there is far more stress-
ing of emotional values than of intellec-
tual values today, and this has played
havoc with the average male. — Diana
Dustbin (N.S.W.).
Dogs, Cars or Children?
As the father of six hefty young Aus-
tralians, my vote, after more than 20
years’ experience, goes for ditching the
poms, cars and other “luxuries” (B.
7/2/’4O) in favor of human souls.
We started with little more than the
basic wage, and for each child born we
had to increase our income by increased
output of labor and thought. But we
managed, until today, with six to pro-
vide for, our income is bigger three times
over and our margin of savings greater
still than when we started with only two
to keep and the delusion that two can
live more cheaply than one.
We could have had a yapping pom, a
rattling car, a chattering cocktail coterie
and the rest, but we were brought up
in the bush where human beings are
scarce and appreciated. So we hung on
to the cash until it was needed for the
steadily expanding education, clothing
and other expenses, and now that the
eldest is nearing his twenties and the
youngest has started school —each child
as sound as a bell and as happy as a lark
—we would not swap for Henry Ford’s
factory.
Prior to settling down I had tasted
most of the excitements, dangers and
sedatives of life, so I know what I am
talking about when I prefer a family.
That I have long been in the income-tax
class I owe to the fact that I had to get
ẃ


is in favor of compulsory national train-
ing (True-False). The Country party
seeks a general reduction of tariffs (True-
False).”
The word in the bracket which is not
applicable to the statement is to be re-
moved by the voter, and a required
number of correct answers should be at-
tained before the vote registered on the
paper becomes valid. The statements
used on the ballot-paper could be com-
piled, under bond of secrecy, by authori-
tative members of the parties concerned.
Three advantages resulting from the
use of this method are obvious. Those
who desire to record an effective vote
would take an intelligent interest in the
election campaign and the politics of
their country, while the votes of the
“don’t-care” type would be eliminated ;
the real electors of the rulers would be
those who were capable of at least
elementary understanding and reason-
ing ; and publication of the correct
answers after the election would con-
stitute a record against which the per-
formances of the party in power could
be checked and the value of their
promises assessed. —D. J. N. (Vic.).
Political Favorites
Reading of some Governmental nabob
being given a free trip round the world,
with a wife and several secretaries en
suite, or perhaps granted a retiring allow-
ance of a thousand or so a year, I often
wonder if we free and enlightened
citizens of Australia are any less ex-
ploited than the benighted inhabitants
of Germany, Italy or even Russia. The
utterly ruthless way in which politicians
vote money for such things marks them
as quite without national compassion.
Another thing has often puzzled me.
If Herbert, Tom or Dick takes a few
weeks off from his job there’s the very
dickens to pay —business hung up, works
held up, bosses in despair. Yet when any
of these magnificently-paid nabobs go
on world tours things go on without a
ripple of confusion. They, apparently,
could stay away for ever and never be
missed. Yet, at the biddance of poli-
ticians, we pay such persons thousands
a year, at the same time shouting at
unemployed youths to get off and save
the world for democracy. W. C. C.
(W.A.).
The Australian G.-G.
The Australian-born Governor-General
who “W.P.T.” claims was the best we
ever had was presumably Isaac Isaacs
(B. 7/2/’4O). If so, I beg to differ.
Isaac Isaacs did not prove superior to
most of his predecessors, nor to his suc-
cessor, Lord Gowrie. Politically he had
an easy time. He was never faced by a
problem that demanded a personal de-
cision, as was his contemporary in N. S.
Wales, Sir Phillip Game. If he had had to
cope with the difficult situation that con-
fronted the latter, it is by no means cer-
tain that he would have been equal to it.
And events have made ridiculous his
demand for an alliance with Soviet
Russia and his defence of the gang that
disrupted shipping at Port Kembla be-
cause the B.H.P. would not discontinue
pig-iron shipments to Japan.—A. D.
(N.S.W.).
“They Never Mention It”
“The honest fact of the matter is that
alcohol and venereal disease are twins,”
says “Ex-Imperial Officer” (B. 7 / 2 / ’4O).
I disagree. Alcohol can be a good thing
as well as a bad ; venereal disease can
never be a good thing.
All that alcohol can do is momentarily
to lift the repression on the desire by
narcotising the intellect. Remove the
alcohol and you don’t remove the desire,
and there are a hundred other things that
can momentarily lift the repression be-
sides alcohol. The thought that he may
be killed tomorrow can narcotise a man
— i.e., make him indifferent to con-
sequences—much more effectively than
a pot of beer. An ordinary citizen can
go into a pub and have a drink. If he
puts on a uniform to defend his country
he is debarred from this most ordinary
of a citizen’s privileges. Won’t this give
him an extra grouch? So all you do when
you take away a soldiers beer is to take
away something that tends to make him
feel friendly and companionable and give
him a grouch, and a man with a grouch
is narcotised by his grouch just as much
as he can be by alcohol.
Hence, to attack alcohol is not to attack
venereal disease. “Ex-Imperial Officer”
asks me what proportion of the army
would be likely to contract the disease if
the army were teetotal. I don’t know,
and no more does he. But I do know
that the Government, the authorities and
the press have one attitude to one of the
twins and an entirely different one to
the other. They avoid all discussion of
the ugly one as if they wished to protect
it from the public gaze, but they discuss
the more handsome one ad lib. Why?
In the last war the French Academy
of Medicine advised its Government to
make a substantial increase in the wine
ration of the troops in the interests of
their health and efficiency. The poilu’s
affectionate nickname for his ration was
Le Pinard, and an army saying was
“General Pinard won the war.” But no
academy of medicine has yet suggested
that an increase in venereal disease in
an army would be in the interests of its
health and efficiency.— Pawang (Vic.).
Parnassus and the A.B.C.
If the art of poetry is not to die out
altogether, something will have to be
done about effecting a renaissance. Since
the average Australian publisher hur-
riedly steers clear of anything that looks
like a rhyme, or is a rhyme, the poet
must reach his or her public in the same
manner as that practised by the old
French troubadours—by word of mouth.
Any institution that claims to func-
tion in the interests of public enlighten-
ment —such as the newspapers and the
A.B.C. —should make an effort to redeem
the dying art of poetry. The radio, being
the only disseminator of the spoken
word, could play an important part here.
Given a rich, poetic voice for its inter-
pretation, poetry would soon cease to be
what has been called “a keen minority
interest.” Poetry, especially of the ballad
type, in which Australia is particularly
rich, would appeal to the sensibilities of
a large listening public.
To state that the public has no appre-
ciation of poetry is merely to voice the
complaint, and that should be the very
reason for the A.B.C. to make an effort
to revive that appreciation before it is
too late. They do it in barbaric Russia,
where during recent years a poet sold
over two million copies of his book.
The constant broadcasting of good
poetry would have the double effect of
leaving no room for the pseudo-cultur-
ists that flock to the microphone and of
showing the people what good poetry
really is. “This,” says Milton, “would
soon make them perceive what despicable
creatures our common rhymers and play-
writers be.”—W. Lynch (N.S.W.).
Book Critics
This discussion of book critics in Aus-
tralia makes me laugh. My experience
of editors of large provincial dailies is
that they hand out all the review copies
they do not want for their own shelves
to members of the staff to read in leisure
hours and review in office hours. Gener-
ally the journalist has his own ideas of
what he will do in his leisure time, so
he dips in here and there and reads the
blurb. Then if the author is Australian
he may get a good paragraph, written
on the principle that an Australian de-
serves a boost anyway.
In case it should be thought that the
larger provincial dailies’ reviews do not
count with the metropolitan press notices,
I refer you to any published list of
reviews of anew book. Provincial re-
views are in the majority of those quoted.
Of course, there are competent re-
viewers on provincial dailies, and, if the
author is lucky enough to fluke one who
likes his book well enough to give up his
week-end to reading it, he can expect
something worth while, but such cases are
rare. My invariable method is to praise
an Australian job and play safe with all
others, but what use is that to authors,
publishers or readers? — Alfred O’Toole
(N.S.W.).
Revolutions
“D.A.” (B. 31/1/ ’4O) is to be thanked
for his helpful bibliography on the above
subject, but what does he mean by
“debunking”? A close study of all revo-
lutions shows that the same causes have
produced the same tragic effects. The
privileged classes, having more wealth
than they can use, indulge in ridiculous
schemes of self-aggrandisement. The
poor, overtaxed, overworked or un-
employed, become more and more soured
until jealousy turns to hatred. Bread
and circuses keep them quiet for a time.
Then a self-elected leader translates their
anger into lawless words and deeds.
Carlyle’s French Revolution tells of
“the burning of all the gigs in the
world.” The Rolls Royce is the modern
edition of the gig, which used to be the
acme of swank. Canberra is a fair sub-
stitute for the Palace of Versailles.
Bureaucrats ape the ways of the aristo-
crats. The dole stands for the bread.
Gubernatorial grandeur is part of the
circus. Huge salaries, marble halls,
monopolies, sinecures, wasteful expen-
diture, are largely condoned by a com-
plaisant press, but they are condemned
by thousands of have-nots who have not
a press.
Our Parliamentary system has lost the
respect of the people by its salary-
grabbing, squandering, quarrelsome in-
efficiency. In times of peace it was an
expensive comedy ; now it is a national
danger and a tragedy. There is still time
to avert disaster by reform and evolu-
tion, but there are no signs that any steps
are being taken to prevent the otherwise
inevitable revolution.
A war, a possible drought, a certain
depression if those three evil stars
appear in conjunction in our sky, it may
be too late to appoint a royal com-
mission to “investigate every avenue”
for saving the remnants of democracy
still left to us. —Pessimist (S.A.).
A.J.A. and Syndication
Australian journalists and artists
should be more concerned than anyone
else about the importation of syndicated
matter by newspapers and magazines.
Every article, every picture imported
means so much less money for an Aus-
tralian writer or artist. The organisation
which should be fighting a strong battle
against imported “features” is the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association, but
beyond some talk its efforts to date
have been nil.
Prospects of success were never more
favorable than they are at present —the
war makes it necessary for the Com-
monwealth to conserve its overseas
credits as part of the war effort, and
prohibition of imported matter for news-
papers would be one means of effecting
that conservation.
By no stretch of the imagination can
yards of tripe about film stars, dope
from “special correspondents,” and de-
praved comic strips be called “sinews
of war.” The journalists would be doing
both themselves and the nation a good
turn if they demanded that the Federal
Government prohibit the importation of
the trash that is served up to us now. —
Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Shark Tragedies
Recent shark deaths make one won-
der why people will continue to swim
in unprotected areas. At Neilsen Park,
Sydney, where there is an adequate shark-
proof enclosure, it is common to see
young people and mothers with little
children bathing outside the shark-proof
net.
Newcastle beach has been the scene
of some shocking “accidents,” and when
the ringing of a bell warns the people
that there is a shark cruising around the
crowd will quickly leave the water and
scramble for safety. But how long do
they remain there? In five minutes they
will be back in the surf, recklessly splash-
ing about.
Is it any wonder we have shark attacks
with consequent loss of life? — Fay
Brandt (N.S.W.).
Pine Plantations
Pine-trees planted on the Blue Moun-
tains (N.S.W.) many years ago have been
bought by boxmakers at high prices, and
when the trees were cut down many pro-
tests were made about destroying the
beauty of the countryside. It’s a pity
that the trees should go, but it is a greater
pity that there are not more of them.
Many splendid pines are growing on
old properties. “Experts” say that it
is unprofitable to grow pines in this
country. Owners of the Blue Mountain
pines, however, are convinced that pine-
trees are worth good money. A pine-
planting programme 30 years ago would
be paying dividends today, provided suc-
cessive plantings were made to maintain
continuity of supply.
It is not too late to begin now—we
may find softwoods difficult to obtain 20
years hence. The N. S. Wales Forestry
Commission has abandoned its pine-
planting policy, although the forests
already established appear to be doing
well.
Pine-growing need not be left to the
Government. Landowners who wish to
get together assets for their old age, or
for their children, should find an answer
in afforestation. —Cow Time (N.S.W.).
An Australian Fur Industry
Large quantities of valuable furs are
imported into this country annually, and
there is no doubt that many of them
could be produced here. Tasmania, parts
of Southern Monaro in N. S. Wales, and
parts of Victoria should be ideal for
breeding silver foxes. Other types of
foxes could also be bred here, as well
as other fur-bearing animals.
Even the rabbit industry could be
established for the production of both
skins and meat. Rabbits of a type that
would not become a pest, even if they
did escape from the rabbit farms, could
be bred under ideal conditions to pro-
duce fur for felt hats, skins for making
all those ladies’ coats that are marketed
under a variety of names, and carcasses
to be used for meat.
Some time ago a rabbit-canning fac-
tory was established on the N.S.W. South
Coast, and, though only common wild
rabbits were canned, the product was an
excellent one. With properly bred rabbits
we could produce a carcass that would
prove of high food value and as accept-
able to the average person as chicken.
The industry only needs a start and
it could grow into something very big.
Certainly it was tried on a small scale
close to Sydney, but I doubt if it ever
had a real chance. — Thorn (N.S.W.).
An Australian Film
About the time I read W. Lynchs
attack on Australian films (B. 31/1/ ’4O),
I received a letter from Stoke-upon-Trent
which contained the following: “Have
just seen an Australian picture called
‘The Rudd Family Come to Town.’ It
is very funny and the actors are good.
—Adsum (W.A.).
Patching Up
How much money must be wasted in
a decade in Australia because of our
“patching-up” methods?
A railway official, newly arrived in our
district, is having £3OO or so of good
borrowed money spent on his house. A
few years ago his predecessor had an
even larger sum spent on alterations.
The building, erected by convicts, has
served as barracks, resident M.O.’s and
railwaymen’s quarters. These tenants
pay the department a fixed rental
which should be sufficient to ensure
a reasonably modern home for them
instead of an ancient ramshackle periodi-
cally swallowing good money for main-
tenance.
The same attitude shows itself in thou-
sands of other ways. Instead of taking
a bold and far-sighted step and “doing
the job properly” Government and local
municipal bodies paddle around with
makeshifts.
Patching up costs too much, especially
with a war on and seven Parliaments to
keep.—R. H. A. (W.A.).
Scrapping “Scrap”
Reading every day in the newspapers
that other countries are buying so much
scrap iron makes one wonder why similar
measures are not adopted in this country.
Looking round some of the rubbish
dumps on outback stations, I have been
amazed at the amount of lead,
iron and other metals literally going to
waste. Motor-cars, farming machinery,
engines and all sorts of implements are
lying there rusting away. Our lordly
democratic extravagance! Dinky Di
(Q-).
Counterfeit Coins
The Bulletin a short while ago made
some trenchant comment on the
absurdly light sentences imposed upon
counterfeiters. Since then, a man con-
victed of having 55 spurious florins in
his possession has been sentenced to six
months’ imprisonment.
Counterfeiting is one of the worst
crimes. People who have little enough
to live on are being robbed wholesale
through it. An aspect which should
not be overlooked by Judges is the
far-reaching dishonesty it creates. Many
persons when they find themselves tricked
with these coins pass them on to others
This sort of thing goes on and on, and
the Courts, through their ineptitude, are
morally to blame— Fitzjay (Vic.).
Truth in Advertising
Recent amendments to the U.S.A
Federal Trade Commission Act provide
punishment for advertising that deceives
the public. Section 12 says “It is unlaw-
ful to disseminate any false statement bv
the U.S. mail or in commerce which is
likely to induce directly or indirectly the
purchase of food, drugs, devices or cos-
metics.” This means that anyone who
makes a false statement in an advertise-
ment in a newspaper distributed through
the post can be brought before the Court
which will issue a cease-and-desist orde.
preventing further publication ; penaltv.
a heavy fine. The law is made to include
misleading pictures in advertisements a ;
well as letterpress, and other thing;
barred include “limited time offers
(unless they are genuine), “reduced-
prices (unless they are reduced), and shar;
“liquidations of stock.”
Similar legislation here would be bene-
ficial both to the public and to decent
business firms. The American law is re-
ported to have done more than all the
appeals and protests of “Better Business
Bureaux” and the like. —D. J. G. (Vic.).


Mainly Mail-Order
FOR ACTIVE SERVICE
Waterproof
Shockproof
Dustproof
>4
m
Non-magnetic
Automatic
Winding
No winding.
Just wear it.
Guaranteed.
£6/15/-
POSJ
FREE.
Send for free illustrated catalogue.
DIAMOND
&. WATCH
SPECIALISTS
ijiWz^otd^
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVID JONES
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ẅ
The latest invention of Hr.
L. Barrere is the result of 10
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
Hi: upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day foi
FREE LITERATURE.
ACTS
\ LIKE THE HfMD
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27D), 35 TITT ST., SYDNEY.
ŵ
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794
A REAL
VEST POCKET TELESCOPE
3 Brass Slides. Nicely Nickel-plated and
Finished. Good Lenses, Well Fitted.
1J inches in circumference, $ inch diameter,
2 inches long- closed and 4 inches extended.
We have had this telescope made for us with
the express intention of producing a glass with
the greatest possible magnifying power and the
smallest pos-
sible compass.
It can be as
easily carried
ẁ
as a peii or pencil and yet it is a genuine
Telescope, useful for many purposes to many
persons at an extremely lovi price within the
reach of everybody. Only One Shilling and
Threepence, post paid.
Union Manufacturing and Agency Co.
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
DEAF
ẃ
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid —
The VIBRAPHONE
No Cords. No Batteries.
30 DAYS’ HOM E TRIAL
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 6018, City Mutual
Bldg., cnr. Hunter and
Bligh Sts., Sydney.
MEmoris Wh easE
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
A
*2
“Help! Submarines /”
tm
No Increase
in Price.
ẅ
New
Ship-
ment
Just
r Arrived.
Goods sent
c.o.d. if
desired.
Till* “Ideal” Cigarette-making: Machine and
Combination Tobacco Box. Usual Price, 6/C.
“Bulletin” Headers 3 /"
Send (id. in Stamps for liberal sample ot
“Lovysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.
worth 10/- lb.—for Cigarette or Pipe.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 do*.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
f or 17/6 Honest Value, 30/-
<2 11 Tobacconist. Est. 39 Years.
Levy, 713 George Street. Sydney.
/>.;T
TTi
A
SLASHES FENCING COSTS 80%. Save time,
money and labour with the Challenger. Keeps
toughest fence-breakers in check —holds horses,
cattle, sheep and pigs. Only single wire on light
stakes. HARMLESS —operates from harmless 6-
volt battery. Send for folder “B.”
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.ITD.
[6B G EOR6 E ST. SYDNEY
MUSHROOMS
“PERFECTION”
100% pure culture
spawn.
Made in Australia
and is developed
under skilled super-
vision, Enough to
grow 401 b., 4/6 post
free.
But first send 2d. for
«
FREE
giving full instructions as to preparation of
compost, method of growing, etc.
T. TAYNTON, SPAWN SPECIALIST,
84 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LAMBS SAVED
w
By Using the
DAROUX ( Bloodless )
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY & CO.,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be aisle to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
ini rABTT.TfiRFIAfiH STREET. SYDNEY
IT’S HERE—WORLD'S SMALLEST 1940
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
ŵ
M/'-N TUBES OR
INLJ BATTERIES
FITS YOUR POCKET,
WEIGHS ONLY 3 OZS. Lone
distance over 100 miles clear,
natural tone; superior per-
formance. No crystal to ad-
just; no upkeep. Anyone can
use in Hotels, Boats, Beds,
etc.; takes few seconds to
connect. Guaranteed 5 years' satisfaction or money
refunded. Pay postman 42/-, or Wire, Write, Call.
RE-NU LTD. (Est. 1932), opp. Richmond Stn.,
Melb. 75 other lines. Agents required. Employ-
ment offers. For full' particulars and free samples
send 10d. in stamps, refundable with first order.
W ireless Statics Aerial Eliminator, connects to
any Wireless. Price 15/6. Weighs 3oz. Midget
Broadcaster, operates thru your own radio.
Do your own Broadcasting. Price, £l/1/-.
MM
ANYWHERE
ANYTIME
MPLI
HOME POWER UNITS
8» MIGGS t STRATTON
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £35/15/-
Write for comprehen-
sive Bulletin No. 79.
ẁ
For Home Lighting.
Battery Charging.
Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
Runs 12 hours on
IgaL of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
‘ 54 Common
Errors in English”
The lip-perfect method
of correction by imitation,
repetition and reasoning.
The training corrects the errors so
definitely and conclusively that the
pupil speaks correctly without thought
and without self-consciousness. The
chapter “Easy Speaking” shows how to
find the proper pitch and how to im-
prove intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post. Particu-
lars from E. H. Welford, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
GREENMORE ELECTRIC ROASTER
s *«e*
-■*°**iii*"
57/6
Plug in just like
your Iron.
It. roasts, toasts,
grills, makes your
scones and boils on
top. Oven size
Him wide, din.
deep, Gin. high—
very low running
cost. Richly
enamelled mottled
Green, Blue or
Cream. Complete
with flex and plug.
From all Good
Stores, or direct from the Manufacturers:
GREENMORE PRODUCTS,
11 Stewart St., Richmond, Victoria.
DEAF?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDIi, 1i.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney,
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
I JVJNOUSUR
ẃ
SKATES
13/6—lB/6
COWLES
and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SrOPvoiffißuptiire
Worries/
ẅ
comfort.
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—-
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
mmm.
■v
|®a|«
®w£
.viva
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
*21121’40 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.....
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


85,000
Another 1,500 TRIAL
TREATMENTS
To be distributed this Month!
NEW
w
Grown in TWO MONTHS
Stupendous Success of Marvellous
New Treatment!
Was Bald for 16 Years,
HAIR NOW GROWING
"Hair has started to grow over parts which
have been bald for 16 years. **
G. L. HORTON, 0., S.A.
NEVER THOUGHT HAIR WOULD
GROW AGAIN
“My hair is growing very nicely on top of my
head, and is also starting in front. 1 had thought
that my hair would never grow again, hut you have
proved this to be a fallacy. I never realised how
badly 1 must have suffered from dandruff, but now,
thanks to you, all signs of it have disappeared.”
—E. ROBERTS, N., N.S.W.
WONDERFUL RESULTS
“I have been using your hair treatment for
one month with wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It has stopped falling
out, and all the dandruff has disappeared, also the
itchy scalp. Where it used to be short and thin,
it has grown much longer and thicker. My hair
seems as. though It has new life in it, thanks to
you. I think your course wonderful, and so easy
to do.”—MISS M. BAUMANN/ M., N.S.W.
'Y'HE secret causes of hair decay and a wonder-
ful new treatment have been discovered by
a well-known Hair Specialist, who has spent 1 5
years in practice. The Kelso Murchison treat-
ment has established a sound reputation in this
special sphere of work; many hundreds of volun-
tary testimonials from grateful users of this
treatment more than bear this out.
In one case treated recently it is estimated that
the treatment has grown fully 85,000 new hairs
in less than two months. The average head of
dark hair contains 110,000 hairs, the average
head of fair hair 1 50,000; in this case the person
who was using the treatment was practically
totally bald. In less than two months he had a
head of strong, healthy hair—after being bald
for 1 6 years! It will be seen, therefore, that this
estimate is well within the mark.
GREAT DISTRIBUTION of HAIR TREATMENTS!
NOW you can test, it yourself—try
this famous treatment in your
own home—under any conditions
you like, and if it doesn’t grow new
hair, rid you of dandruff or any
other hair trouble you suffer from
within 30 days, it COSTS YOU
NOTHING! —not one penny! But
you must hurry; this offer may
never be repeated. It places you
under no obligation; all you have
to do is to post that coupon NOW!
What Murchison Discovered
About Hair
IT does not matter if your Hair is
falling out or if you are fast
going bald—or what you have tried.
You have not used the RIGHT
method. Murchison’s own hair fell
out in handfuls, until he fast began
to go bald. He tried everything;
but now has a thick, lustrous
growth of hair—thanks to the im-
portant discovery that—
Tonics Will Never Grow
Hair
THEY never have —because it is
impossible. There is one under-
lying principle that stimulates New
Hair Growth —that principle is in-
volved in the new Kelso Murchison
Treatment. It’s a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It
approaches baldness, falling: hair,
etc., from a new angle. With it
you can stop your hair troubles
overnight.
“Don’t waste more time and money
on worthless ‘tonics’ and ‘hair re-
storers,’ but. accept my great offer
and watch your hair grow! Get this
special offer coupon in the post
to-day.”
This OFFer Expires Shortly!
SEND this COUPONS
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. 94, 5
Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney. 2
NAME :
ADDRESS j
*2*l/2/MO. ■
It Does Not Matter
IT does not matter how long-stand-
ing your hair or scalp troubles
may be; it does not matter what
you have tried —Kelso Murchison is
prepared to TROVE to you beyond
all doubt and without you risking
one penny that YOU CAN DEFI-
NITELY GROW NEW HAlR—if you
send the coupon below NOW!
THE FIRST SIGNS OF
HAIR DISORDERS
See if these Conditions apply
to YOU!
'HE hair shows the first signs of
disorders in different ways. It
may even be there and not be appa-
rent to the subject, though usually
the hair warns you that all is not
well with it. The cause of all hair
trouble is neglect, although other
factors bring about hair troubles,
such as nervousness, severe fright,
etc. Nobody desires hair trouble,
but Nature is just rather than
merciful, and whether it is through
carelessness or ignorance of the laws
of Nature, if the hair does not re-
ceive its proper attention, then, just
as night follows day, trouble with
the hair will follow and take its
toll. Does your hair fall out con-
siderably? Do you, for instance,
get a lot of combings? Is your
hair split and broken? Does it
hurt to pull gently? Have you
much dandruff on your scalp? Is
the scalp itchy or painful in
patches? Is your hair very dry or
too oily ? Is your
hair changing
colour? Are the
roots falling when
you comb ? What
state is your hair
at the crown ? The
answers to these
simple questions
will tell you if
you have the first
signs of hair dis-
orders; and, if so,
take the warning
that is given you
by Nature.
Read this Convincing Proof
Grateful Men and Women
e
1,. Phillips, of
Dunoon, says:
“H air Has
Grown Twice as
Thick.”
“After the first
night’s treatment
the dandruff
began to dis-
appear ; at the
end of three
days was
completely
gone. New
hair was growing at the temples
and crown of the head at the end
of 30 days, and in a very short
period all my hair and scalp troubles
were over for good. My hair has
also grown twice as thick. Anybody
suffering from any of the hair dis-
orders I have had and desiring to
get rid of them for all time and
obtain a good head of hair, just
write to J. Kelso Murchison.”
—L. PHILLIPS, D.
Mrs. Annita Burgess, of Beau-
maris, says: “Course a Blessing!”
“I am writing to thank you for
the wonderful results received from
your hair treatment. I was in des-
m
è
Mrs. Annita Burgess. eon r s e.
Well I can
really say it has been a bless-
ing to me, as my hair now looks
really better than I have ever
known it to be. Yon will agree that
the photograph speaks for itself.”
W ONDERFIJE RESULTS!
“I have been using your hair
treatment for one month, with won-
derful results. My hair is no longer
Ihin and scraggy. It has stopped
falling out, and all the dandruff
has disappeared, also the itchy
scalp. Where it used to be short
and thin it has grown much longer
and thicker. My hair seems as
though it has new life in it, thanks
to you. I think your course won-
derful and so easy to do.”
—MISS M. DATT MANN, M.
FRIENDS REMARK UPON
IMPROVEMENT!
“My hair has grown beyond all
expectations, and I have practically
a new head of hair. When I used
to brush my hair before the treat-
ment there was a distinct bald patch
on the crown of my head, but now
it is thick and strong all over,
thanks to you. My mates have been
telling me what, a great improve-
ment it has made.”
—lt. SALISBURY, T.
BALD PATCHES GROWING HAIR.
‘‘Before I
started to
use your
hair treat-
ment m y
hair was
falling out
that much
that I
thought I
would b e
bald in a
short time.
Thanks to
your won-
é
derful treatment 1 the bald
patches on my scalp are
growing hair very rapidly,
and I would recommend
your hair treatment as the
best in the world; it has
cured m,y dandruff, and my
hair is 100 per cent, better.”
—W. A. Pearson, P.
J: KELSO MURCHISON
Dept. 94, Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
30 Days AMAZING TRIAL Offer!
Dormant hair root.
The papillae are no
longer giving suffi-
cient nourishment to
the hair bulb. Ordi-
nary measures fail
to improve condition
of undernourished
papillae.
Hair root takes on
new strength and
vitality to function
normally after the
J. Kelso Murchison
treatment.
m
The J. Kelso Mur-
chison Method is to
send new blood into
papillae, enabling
bulbs to be fed.
w
The ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more
strikingly de-
picted than in
this picture.
